Inflammation and fibrosis are pathological mechanisms that are partially regulated by cell signalling through the p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway. Elements of the diabetic milieu such as high glucose and advanced glycation end-products induce activation of this pathway in renal cells. Therefore, we examined whether p38 MAPK signalling is associated with the development of human and experimental diabetic nephropathy.
Immunostaining identified phosphorylated (active) p38 MAPK in human biopsies with no abnormality ( n=6) and with Type 2 diabetic nephropathy ( n=12). Changes in kidney levels of phosphorylated p38 were assessed by immunostaining and western blotting in mice with streptozotocin-induced Type 1 diabetes that had been killed after 0.5, 2, 3, 4 and 8 months, and in Type 2 diabetic db/db mice at 2, 4, 6 and 8 months of age.
Phosphorylated p38 was detected in some intrinsic cells in normal human kidney, including podocytes, cortical tubules and occasional interstitial cells. Greater numbers of these phosphorylated p38+ cells were observed in diabetic patients, and phosphorylated p38 was identified in accumulating interstitial macrophages and myofibroblasts. A similar pattern of p38 activation was observed in both mouse models of diabetes. In mice, kidney levels of phosphorylated p38 increased (2-6 fold) following the onset of Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes. In both mouse models, interstitial phosphorylated p38+ cells were associated with hyperglycaemia, increased HbA(1)c levels and albuminuria. Further assessment of streptozotocin-induced diabetic nephropathy showed that interstitial phosphorylated p38+ cells correlated with interstitial fibrosis (myofibroblasts, collagen).
Increased p38 MAPK signalling is a feature of human and experimental diabetic nephropathy. Time course studies in mouse models suggest that phosphorylation of p38 plays a pathological role, particularly in the development of interstitial fibrosis.
In the 2003 European Society of Hypertension-European Society of Cardiology (ESH-ESC) guidelines, it is concluded that the major classes of antihypertensive agents are suitable for the initiation and maintenance of antihypertensive therapy. The aim of this study was to compare the cost-effectiveness of each one of the major antihypertensive agents as monotherapy in the management of mild-to-moderate hypertension in Greece, when following the 2003 ESH-ESC guidelines.
We performed a cost-effectiveness analysis based on numbers needed to treat. A decision analysis model was developed to compare chlorthalidone, propranolol, amlodipine, enalapril and losartan. Clinical inputs were derived from a meta-analysis and randomized controlled trials and cost data from public sources. The evaluation of the cost of managing hypertension includes the cost of drug therapy, monitoring, treating side effects, poor compliance and switching. All costs were calculated from a public insurance system perspective, in 2004 Euros. Future costs and clinical benefits were discounted at 5%. The time frame was 5 years. Extensive sensitivity analyses were also performed.
The cost (in Euros) of uncomplicated hypertension treatment for 5 years was 485.87, 567.66, 851.44, 607.45, and 1279.88 for chlorthalidone, propranolol, amlodipine, enalapril, and losartan, respectively. The estimated total cost (in Euros) to prevent one death was 60230.71, 70369.96, 105596.72, 75301.40, and 158659.35, respectively.
In mild-to-moderate uncomplicated hypertension chlorthalidone is the most cost-effective agent. If it was the drug of choice to initiate treatment of uncomplicated hypertension, it would probably save the public insurance system organizations a great amount of expenses for benefit of the insured patients.
Cocaine use is common and is associated with gastrointestinal complications that can present as a surgical abdomen. We report a case of a previously healthy 25-year-old man who presented to the Emergency Department with severe abdominal pain and vomiting after using IV cocaine. Exploratory celiotomy revealed massive free intraperitoneal (IP) clotted blood with no evidence of underlying pathology. This unusual case underscores the possibility of life-threatening hemorrhage in cocaine consumers.
Twenty-nine patients with active rheumatoid arthritis receiving long-term oral weekly methotrexate (MTX) therapy were studied to determine the extent of their hepatic architectural changes. Liver biopsies (n = 101) were performed in all patients before the initiation of MTX therapy, after 2 years, and annually thereafter (mean duration of therapy 53 months). The hepatic histologic grade (5-point scale) in 25 patients increased (worsened) (mean +/- SEM change 0.84 +/- 1.02; P = 0.001). Fibrosis, confirmed by trichrome staining, developed in 14 of 27 patients (52%). A history of alcohol consumption prior to starting MTX correlated significantly with subsequent worsening of the liver biopsy grade (r = 0.55, P = 0.0054). Alcohol intake prior to study entry, elevated weight at MTX initiation, and dose and duration of MTX were significantly associated with the development of fibrosis. Elevations in serum aspartate aminotransferase levels at 29-53 months of therapy correlated with the increase in hepatic histologic grade at the 3-year biopsy (r = 0.50, P = 0.04) and 4-year biopsy (r = 0.58, P = 0.03). We conclude that long-term MTX therapy in rheumatoid arthritis patients results in a statistically significant worsening in hepatic histologic grade, with common development of mild fibrosis. We do not consider these changes to be clinically significant at present.
Streptozotocin-induced hyperglycemia accompanied by a chronic decrease in the nociceptive threshold is considered a useful model of experimental hyperalgesia. We examined (1) the effect of the opioid receptor agonists and (2) the effect of the magnesium ions (Mg(2+)) on the antinociceptive action of opioid agonists in a diabetic neuropathic pain model. When administered alone, opioid agonists like morphine (5 mg/kg i.p.) and fentanyl (0.0625 mg/kg i.p.), as well as the partial agonist buprenorphine (0.075 mg/kg) had only little effect on streptozotocin-induced hyperalgesia. However, pretreatment with Mg(2+) at a dose of 40 mg magnesium sulfate/kg i.p. markedly enhanced the analgesic activity of all three investigated opioids. Practical aspects of co-administration of magnesium and opioids in diabetic neuropathy are discussed.
We recently reported that scopolamine pretreated mice fasted for 48 h developed clonic convulsions soon after they were allowed to eat ad libidum. Pretreatment with MK-801, the non-competitive NMDA antagonist, decreased the incidence of these convulsions. We suggested that a possible scopolamine-induced glutamatergic hyperactivity could account for these convulsions. Using alpha2-agonists, clonidine, which has been shown to inhibit glutamate release, and tizanidine, the present study was performed to find some additional data for the role of glutamate in the underlying mechanism of scopolamine-induced convulsions in food given fasted mice. Animals fasted for 48 h and pretreated (i.p.) with saline, clonidine (0.05, 0.10, 1 mg/kg) or tizanidine (0.10, 0.15, 0.30, 0.45 mg/kg) were treated (i.p.) with either saline or scopolamine (3 mg/kg). Then 20 min later, they were allowed to eat ad libidum and were observed for 30 min for the incidence and onset of clonic convulsions. All doses of clonidine pretreatment completely suppressed (0%) scopolamine-induced clonic convulsions (75%). On the other hand, only 0.15 mg/kg tizanidine pretreatment significantly decreased (15%) the incidence of convulsions; however as well as 0.15 mg/kg, both 0.30 and 0.45 mg/kg tizanidine pretreatments significantly increased latency to the onset of convulsions.
Migraine is a common disorder that causes significant morbidity in those afflicted. Many novel antimigraine compounds are in clinical development, yet full characterization of each one's pharmacodynamic behavior is a formidable task due to the difficulty in studying a migraineur during an attack. Nitroglycerin (NTG) administration commonly causes a headache with some features similar to those of a migraine. As such, NTG has been used as a model of vascular headaches, including migraine. The pharmacodynamic effects of nitroglycerin and sumatriptan on middle cerebral artery blood flow velocity (MCAv) and headache scores were studied in 10 healthy male volunteers. An intravenous infusion of NTG titrated to 0.5 mcg/kg/min over 30 minutes resulted in a median reduction from baseline in MCAv of 27% (range: 16.4%-37.3%). Nine of the subjects developed a headache with a median verbal score of 3.5 of 10 (range: 0-5). Subjects received sumatriptan either 2 mg intravenously or 6 mg subcutaneously, which abated clinical headache in 9 of the 10 subjects (p = 0.030). A median sumatriptan-induced increase in MCAv of 21% (p = 0.054) suggested a constricting effect on the NTG-induced dilated MCA. A two-compartment pharmacokinetic/indirect-effects pharmacodynamic model was fit to the sumatriptan concentration and MCAv data using iterative two-stage analysis. This model was unbiased and fit the concentration (r2 = 0.98) and the MCAv (r2 = 0.79) data well. These results suggest that NTG-induced headache and the development of pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic models could serve as a useful method for exploring the mechanisms of abortive migraine drugs.
Human endometrium, a steroid hormone-dependent tissue, displays complex cellular regulation mediated by nuclear receptors (NRs). The NRs interact with histone-modifying and DNA-methylating/-demethylating enzymes in the transcriptional complex. We investigated NRs, their coregulators, and associated signaling pathways in endometrium across the normal menstrual cycle and in endometriosis, an estrogen-dependent, progesterone-resistant disorder. Endometrial tissue was processed for analysis of 84 genes using NR and coregulator polymerase chain reaction (PCR) arrays. Select genes were validated by immunohistochemistry. Ingenuity pathway analysis identified DNA methylation and transcriptional repression signaling as the most affected pathway in endometrium in women with versus without endometriosis, regardless of cycle phase. Thyroid hormone receptor (THR) and vitamin D receptor (VDR) pathways were also regulated in normal and disease endometrium by activation of TH or vitamin D regulated genes. These data support the involvement of the epigenome in steroid hormone response of normal endometrium throughout the cycle and abnormalities in endometrium in women with endometriosis.
We evaluated the presence and degree of hypokalemia associated with ticarcillin disodium (ticarcillin) therapy in 16 patients. Four of these patients who received less than 10 grams of ticarcillin did not develop significant hypokalemia, but this condition developed in 6 of 9 patients receiving a daily dose of greater than 18 grams of this drug, and the mean urinary potassium was elevated in this group (mean = 78 mEq/24 hrs). The degree of hypokalemia was correlated with the volume status of the patient as judged by the serum urea nitrogen: creatinine ratio. A positive correlation (r = 0.66, p less than 0.05) was obtained between the two parameters. Hypokalemia did not develop in three patients with the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of anti-diuretic hormone who were receiving more than 18 grams of ticarcillin daily, indicating the absence of a stimulus for sodium conservation. Aggressive potassium and fluid replacement should be considered in patients with hypokalemia associated with ticarcillin therapy.
To assess the nature and the time-course of the cellular component of airway inflammation induced by isocyanates, we examined nine subjects with occupational asthma induced by toluene- or methylene diphenyl-diisocyanate (TDI, MDI) and four control subjects never exposed to isocyanates. Sputum was induced by inhalation of ultrasonically nebulized hypertonic saline (3-4% NaCl) before and 8, 24, 48 h after inhalation challenge with TDI or MDI. Expectorated samples were incubated with dithiothreitol, washed and cytocentrifuged. Differential cell counts were obtained on slides stained with May-Grünwald-Giemsa. Metachromatic cells (mast cells and basophils) were counted on slides stained with toluidine blue at pH 0.1. One occupational asthmatic exhibited a dual reaction to TDI, two exhibited a single early asthmatic reaction to MDI, six exhibited a late asthmatic reaction to TDI (n = 5) or MDI (n = 1), whereas no reactions were observed in control subjects after TDI challenge. In sensitized subjects eosinophils increased from a median value (interquartile range) of 5 (15)% before challenge to 29 (29)% (P = 0.014) and to 30 (31)% (P = 0.031) 8 and 24 h after TDI/MDI challenges, respectively. Sputum eosinophilia was observed both in early and late reactors and declined to near to baseline values 48 hr after challenge. Percentages of eosinophils in control subjects did not exceed 7% during the study.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), mol. wt 105,000 is a potent mitogen for hepatocytes. HGF is strongly associated with compensatory regeneration in the liver after two-thirds partial hepatectomy and carbon tetrachloride administration. Plasma levels of HGF increase markedly during early stages of compensatory hyperplasia caused by these treatments. This is followed by an increase in HGF mRNA in the liver. This is in contrast to other growth factors for liver (epidermal growth factor, transforming growth factor alpha and acidic fibroblast growth factor) whose levels in plasma remain virtually undetectable during compensatory hyperplasia. We have shown that during augmentative hyperplasia caused by the tumor promoters alpha-hexachlorocyclohexane, phenobarbital and ciprofibrate, plasma levels of HGF also increase. This increase of HGF occurs during the transient wave of DNA synthesis caused by administration of these xenobiotics, providing further support for HGF as being the stimulator of DNA synthesis during both augmentative and compensatory hyperplasia.
Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition has shown promising results in diabetic nephropathy, but long-term results on survival are not available. In a cohort of patients receiving antihypertensive treatment predominantly consisting of beta blockers in combination with diuretics, support for an improved survival has been presented. Addition of ACE inhibition to such a combination treatment may be favorable both due to the suggested renoprotective effects of ACE inhibitors and because diuretics activate the renin-angiotensin system. In 10 insulin-dependent diabetic patients with early diabetic nephropathy [urinary albumin excretion rate (UAE) less than 100o micrograms/min], who were receiving continuous therapy with metoprolol and bendroflumethiazide, a double-blind crossover study with four months addition of ramipril 5 mg (Ramace) and placebo was conducted. UAE (radioimmunoassay) and fractional albumin excretion were significantly reduced after the four months of ramipril administration [UAE: 114.1 x/divided by 1.3 (geometric mean x/divided by confidence factor] versus 174.6 x/divided by 1.2 micrograms/min, 2P less than 0.005). Renal plasma flow (clearance of 131I-hippuran) tended to increase [497 +/- 25 (mean +/- SE) vs. 464 +/- 28 ml/min/1.73 m2, 2P = 0.08], while GFR (125I-iothalamate) stayed unchanged (121 +/- 8 vs. 120 +/- 9 ml/min/1.73 m2). Mean arterial pressure during clearance studies fell moderately (95 +/- 3 vs. 101 +/- 1 mm Hg, 2P less than 0.05) and renal resistance was decreased (2P less than 0.03). ACE activity was suppressed in all patients. Twenty-four-hour ambulatory blood pressure measurements were not significantly different after the two periods (daytime averages: 91 +/- 2 vs. 93 +/- 2, nighttime 80 +/- 2 vs. 84 +/- 3 mm Hg).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
beta(2)-Adrenoceptor agonists are the most effective bronchodilators currently available, and are used for symptom management in asthmatics. However, whether beta(2)-agonists are also antitussive is controversial. Identifying an antitussive role for beta(2)-agonists and dissecting the possible mechanism of action may help to explain the inconsistencies in the clinical literature and lead to the development of novel therapeutic agents. The aim of the present study was to determine whether or not beta(2)-agonists attenuate the tussive response in guinea pig and human models, and, if so, to identify the mechanism(s) involved. Depolarisation of vagal sensory nerves (human and guinea pig) was assessed as an indicator of sensory nerve activity. Cough was measured in a conscious guinea pig model. A beta(2)-agonist, terbutaline, dose-dependently inhibited the cough response to tussive agents in conscious guinea pigs. Terbutaline and another beta(2)-agonist, fenoterol, blocked sensory nerve activation in vitro. Using these mechanistic models, it was established that beta(2)-agonists suppress the tussive response via a nonclassical cyclic adenosine monosphosphate-dependent pathway that involves the activation of protein kinase G and, subsequently, the opening of large-conductance calcium-activated potassium channels. In conclusion, beta(2)-adrenoceptor agonists are antitussive, and this property occurs due to a direct inhibition of sensory nerve activation. These findings may help to explain the confusion that exists in the clinical literature, and could be exploited to identify novel therapies for the treatment of cough, which is a significant unmet medical need.
The purpose of this study was to determine whether there are differences in the restoration of endothelial function by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition based on the severity of hypertension. Forearm blood flow (FBF) was measured in 69 patients with essential hypertension (mild, n = 23; moderate, n = 29; and severe, n = 17 randomly assigned to treatment with either imidapril or amlodipine for 24 weeks in a double-blind fashion during reactive hyperemia and after sublingual administration of nitroglycerin. Imidapril augmented the FBF response to reactive hyperemia after 24 weeks of treatment in the mild and moderate hypertensive groups, but not in the severe hypertensive group. The augmentation of the FBF response to reactive hyperemia induced by imidapril was significantly greater in the moderate hypertensive group than in the mild hypertensive group. Amlodipine did not alter the FBF response to reactive hyperemia. The increase in FBF after the sublingually administered nitroglycerin was similar in all groups. The infusion of NG-monomethyl-l-arginine, a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, abolished the enhancement of reactive hyperemia in the mild and moderate hypertensive groups treated with imidapril. These findings suggest that the effects of imidapril on endothelial function are affected by the severity of hypertension and that angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor-induced augmentation of reactive hyperemia may be due to increased nitric oxide production.
To identify the modulation of Tandem of P-domains in a weak inwardly rectifying K(+) channel (TWIK)-related acid-sensitive K(+) (TASK)-2 channel expressions in epilepsy, we conducted a comparative analysis of TASK-2 channel immunoreactivity in the hippocampus of a pilocarpine-induced rat epilepsy model.
We performed and immunohistochemical study for TASK-2 and double immunofluorescent staining for TASK-2 and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) in the rat hippocampus of pilocarpine-induced epilepsy models.
In control animals, TASK-2 immunoreactivity was strongly detected in CA1-3 pyramidal layers and dentate granule cell layer. After status epilepticus (SE), TASK-2 immunoreactivity was increased in dentate granule cell layer and CA3 pyramidal cell layer, whereas its immunoreactivity was reduced in CA1 pyramidal cell layer. In addition, TASK-2 immunoreactivity is gradually increased in perivascular regions following SE. Double immunofluorescent study revealed that the enhancement of TASK-2 immunoreactivity in perivascular regions is caused by increase in the number of TASK-2 immunoreactive endfeet of perivascular astrocytes.
Our findings suggest that elevated TASK-2 immunoreactivity in neurons may contribute to rapid adaptive responses (presumably for extracellular alkalinization), which result in hyperpolarization and regulate seizure activity. In contrast, upregulated TASK-2 immunoreactivity in perivascular regions may be involved in abnormalities of blood flow regulation or brain-blood barrier impairment. These changes may contribute to acquisition of the properties of the epileptic hippocampus.
8-alpha-amino-ergoline (CU 32-085) is a dopamine receptor agonist that should have fewer side effects than most other dopamine agonists. We studied the effect of this drug in 19 parkinsonian patients. In untreated or levodopa-treated patients, there was considerable improvement of akinesia, rigidity, and tremor; on-off symptoms also improved in the levodopa-treated patients. In patients pretreated with levodopa/bromocriptine, about half the dose of CU 32-085 was necessary to obtain the same therapeutic results, but there was no further improvement of on-off symptoms. Side effects were less pronounced than with bromocriptine; no circulatory disturbances and no psychotic episodes were observed.
Hydroquinone (HQ) is a potential human carcinogen to which many people are exposed. HQ generally tests negative in standard mutagenicity assays, making it a "nongenotoxic" carcinogen whose mechanism of action remains unknown. HQ is metabolized to 2,3,5-tris(glutathion-S-yl)HQ (TGHQ), a potent toxic and redox active compound. To determine if TGHQ is a carcinogen in the kidney, TGHQ was administered to Eker rats (2 months of age) for 4 or 10 months. Eker rats carry a germline mutation in the tuberous sclerosis 2 (Tsc-2) tumor suppressor gene, which makes them highly susceptible to the development of renal tumors. As early as 4 months after the initiation of treatment (2.5 micromol/kg, i.p.), TGHQ-treated rats developed numerous toxic tubular dysplasias of a form rarely present in vehicle-treated rats. These preneoplastic lesions are believed to represent early transformation within tubules undergoing regeneration after injury by TGHQ, and adenomas subsequently arose within these lesions. After treatment for 10 months (2.5 micromol/kg for 4 months followed by 3.5 micromol/kg for 6 months), there were 6-, 7-, and 10-fold more basophilic dysplasias, adenomas, and renal cell carcinomas, respectively, in TGHQ-treated animals than in controls. Most of these lesions were in the region of TGHQ-induced acute renal injury, the outer stripe of the outer medulla. Loss of heterozygosity (LOH) at the Tsc-2 locus was demonstrated in both the toxic tubular dysplasias and tumors from rats treated with TGHQ for 10 months, consistent with TGHQ-induced loss of tumor suppressor function of the Tsc-2 gene. Thus, although HQ is generally considered a nongenotoxic carcinogen, our data suggest that HQ nephrocarcinogenesis is probably mediated by the formation of the quantitatively minor yet potent nephrotoxic metabolite TGHQ, which induces sustained regenerative hyperplasia, loss of tumor suppressor gene function, and the subsequent formation of renal adenomas and carcinomas. In addition, our data demonstrate that assumptions regarding mechanisms of action of nongenotoxic carcinogens should be considered carefully in the absence of data on the profiles of metabolites generated by these compounds in specific target organs for tumor induction.
Pulmonary fibrosis is characterized by alterations in fibroblast phenotypes resulting in excessive extracellular matrix accumulation and anatomic remodeling. Current therapies for this condition are largely ineffective. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma) is a member of the nuclear hormone receptor superfamily, the activation of which produces a number of biological effects, including alterations in metabolic and inflammatory responses. The role of PPAR-gamma as a potential therapeutic target for fibrotic lung diseases remains undefined. In the present study, we show expression of PPAR-gamma in fibroblasts obtained from normal human lungs and lungs of patients with idiopathic interstitial pneumonias. Treatment of lung fibroblasts and myofibroblasts with PPAR-gamma agonists results in inhibition of proliferative responses and induces cell cycle arrest. In addition, PPAR-gamma agonists, including a constitutively active PPAR-gamma construct (VP16-PPAR-gamma), inhibit the ability of transforming growth factor-beta1 to induce myofibroblast differentiation and collagen secretion. PPAR-gamma agonists also inhibit fibrosis in a murine model, even when administration is delayed until after the initial inflammation has largely resolved. These observations indicate that PPAR-gamma is an important regulator of fibroblast/myofibroblast activation and suggest a role for PPAR-gamma ligands as novel therapeutic agents for fibrotic lung diseases.
Good results of the treatment of mood disturbances and psychoses induced with steroid administration are in agreement with the fact described in literature of serotonin release reduction caused by steroids and possible relationship between depressive and psychotic manifestations and low seretonin level in cerebrospinal fluid. The patient had no head trauma in the past. He denied any loss of consciousness. The patient at the age of six years had type C virus hepatitis which changed into chronic hepatitis with a slight autoimmune component. He received six months oral steroid (prednisone) treatment in 20 mg daily dose resulting in symptomatic depression. The patient was treated by the author with sertraline from low doses up to 150 mg daily. A remission of the depressive illness and OCD was obtained. The author decided to treat the patient with sertraline in view of its high safety in somatic diseases and good tolerance.
Nisoldipine, a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker with strong coronary dilatative action, is commonly used in the treatment of myocardial ischaemia; its beneficial effect on effort angina has been demonstrated by several previous reports. Infusion of dipyridamole in doses sufficient to provoke myocardial ischaemia in patients with significant coronary artery disease is used safely in imaging studies for diagnostic purposes.
To evaluate the potential effect of nisoldipine on dipyridamole-induced ischaemia and to compare the results with the effect of nisoldipine on exercise-induced ischaemia.
Twelve patients (10 men and two women, mean age 62 +/- 8 years) with significant coronary artery disease (at least 70% lumen reduction in at least one major coronary vessel) were selected for inclusion in the study. In accordance with the inclusion criteria, the patients exhibited an ischaemic diagnostic response to a multistage exercise electrocardiography stress test (> 0.15 mV ST segment depression compared with the resting electrocardiographic tracing) and to a dipyridamole-echocardiography test (transient left ventricular dyssynergy of contraction during infusion of dipyridamole up to 0.84 mg/kg over 10 min), after 3 days' cessation of antianginal treatment. After treatment with oral nisoldipine (10 mg twice daily) was introduced, the patients repeated the two tests, within 18 days of the first evaluation.
The dipyridamole-echocardiography test was positive for ischaemia in 12 patients who were not receiving nisoldipine and in eight patients who were receiving the drug (100% and 67% respectively, P < 0.05). In the eight patients who gave positive dipyridamole-echocardiography tests both with and without treatment, dipyridamole time (time to onset of dyssynergy during the test) increased from 7.9 +/- 2.9 min to 10.2 +/- 3.1 min (P < 0.01). In these patients, no significant changes were observed, at ischaemia, in the severity and extent of induced dyssynergy, evaluated as wall motion score index (each of 16 left ventricular segments scored from 1 = normal to 4 = dyskinetic) after treatment (score variations from baseline to ischaemia: 0.20 +/- 0.11 without nisoldipine and 0.16 +/- 0.06 with nisoldipine; NS). Variations in dipyridamole time (arbitrarily considered to be 15 min in the negative dipyridamole-echocardiography test) were significantly correlated with variations in exercise time (duration of exercise to exhaustion or diagnostic positive response on the electrocardiogram): r = 0.75 (P < 0.01). No significant differences were recorded in rate-pressure product (beats/min x mmHg x 100) at peak ischaemia between patients who were or were not receiving nisoldipine, during either the exercise electrocardiography stress test (233 +/- 36 with nisoldipine and 244 +/- 39 without nisoldipine; NS) or the dipyridamole-echocardiography test (147 +/- 21 with nisoldipine and 133 +/- 30 without nisoldipine; NS).
Nisoldipine treatment can protect from dipyridamole-induced ischaemia, being associated with a longer stress time, and completely preventing the development of ischaemia in some patients. The therapy-induced changes in ischaemic threshold during the dipyridamole-echocardiography test correlate with variations in exercise tolerance.
Urticarian vasculitis (UV) is an anatomoclinical disorder characterized by the association of urticarian papules lasting for more than 24 hours with histological cutaneous vasculitis. Several etiologies are associated with the disease. We report the case of a 30-year-old woman with a-two-month history of urticarial purpuric and necrotic cutaneous lesions of the low limbs. These lesions occurred after oral sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprime ingestion, 2 weeks before the skin eruption. Histological examination revealed a leucocytoclasic vasculitis and direct immunofluorescence showed a perivascular IgG and C3 deposits. Immunological, allergological and radiological investigations were normal. The pharmacological enquiry confirmed the imputability of sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprime in the onset of skin eruption. Mild cutaneous improvement was observed after 3 months of treatment with prednisone 0,5 mg/Kg/day. Drug induced urticaria constitutes a rare etiology of UV. Sulfaminthoxazole-trimethoprime imputability has not been reported before among the drug responsible for UV. Management of patients is difficult and improvement usually occurs after several months because of the resistance of the skin lesions.
A case-control study was designed to investigate a possible genetic susceptibility of the MTHFR C677T polymorphism and assess whether the genetic polymorphism could be a predictor of levodopa-induced adverse effects in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) of Chinese descent living in Taiwan. There were 94 sporadic PD patients with levodopa therapy at least for five years and 146 control subjects, matched by sex and gender, in this study. Results revealed that there were no differences of the allelic and genotypic frequencies of the MTHFR C677T polymorphism between PD patients and the controls. Analysis of age at onset stratified by MTHFR C677T polymorphism showed a trend of early age at onset in the PD patients carrying with T allele. The genetic influence was particularly significant in late-onset PD (onset age at or older than 60 years) with an early age at onset for 3.4 years. However, the MTHFR C677T polymorphism was not associated with the risk to develop dyskinesia, motor fluctuation and psychosis induced by levodopa in PD patients. In conclusion, results of the study revealed that the MTHFR C677T polymorphism could significantly influence age at onset of PD in Chinese population, but neither as a genetic susceptibility nor as a predictor of levodopa-induced adverse effects in PD.
Inflammatory cells are postulated to mediate some of the brain damage following ischemic stroke. Intracerebral hemorrhage is associated with more inflammation than ischemic stroke. We tested the sulfated polysaccharide fucoidan, which has been reported to reduce inflammatory brain damage, in a rat model of intracerebral hemorrhage induced by injection of bacterial collagenase into the caudate nucleus. Rats were treated with seven day intravenous infusion of fucoidan (30 micrograms h-1) or vehicle. The hematoma was assessed in vivo by magnetic resonance imaging. Motor behavior, passive avoidance, and skilled forelimb function were tested repeatedly for six weeks. Fucoidan-treated rats exhibited evidence of impaired blood clotting and hemodilution, had larger hematomas, and tended to have less inflammation in the vicinity of the hematoma after three days. They showed significantly more rapid improvement of motor function in the first week following hemorrhage and better memory retention in the passive avoidance test. Acute white matter edema and eventual neuronal loss in the striatum adjacent to the hematoma did not differ between the two groups. Investigation of more specific anti-inflammatory agents and hemodiluting agents are warranted in intracerebral hemorrhage.
The teratogenic properties of phenytoin, including cardiac malformations, have been previously documented. We report one patient with foetal hydantoin syndrome and atrioventricular septal defect with common atrioventricular junction but separate right and left atrioventricular valves, an association that has not been described, to the best of our knowledge.
Gustatory hyperhidrosis is facial sweating usually associated with the eating of hot spicy food or even smelling this food. Current options of treatment include oral anticholinergic drugs, the topical application of anticholinergics or aluminum chloride, and the injection of botulinum toxin. Thirteen patients have been treated to date with 1.5% or 2% topical glycopyrrolate. All patients had gustatory hyperhidrosis, which interfered with their social activities, after transthroacic endoscopic sympathectomy, and which was associated with compensatory focal hyperhidrosis. After applying topical glycopyrrolate, the subjective effect was excellent (no sweating after eating hot spicy food) in 10 patients (77%), and fair (clearly reduced sweating) in 3 patients (23%). All had reported incidents of being very embarrassed whilst eating hot spicy foods. Adverse effects included a mildly dry mouth and a sore throat in 2 patients (2% glycopyrrolate), a light headache in 1 patient (1.5% glycopyrrolate). The topical application of a glycopyrrolate pad appeared to be safe, efficacious, well tolerated, and a convenient method of treatment for moderate to severe symptoms of gustatory hyperhidrosis in post transthoracic endoscopic sympathectomy or sympathicotomy patients, with few side effects.
1. A local cutaneous injury can produce primary hyperalgesia within the injured area and secondary hyperalgesia in the normal surrounding skin. An intradermal injection of capsaicin in humans causes intense pain and hyperalgesia to heat and to mechanical stimuli in the surrounding skin. Psychophysical studies in humans supported the conclusions that the hyperalgesia was predominantly the secondary type and depended on one set of neurons sensitizing another ("neurogenic hyperalgesia") and that the latter set of neurons is located in the central and not the peripheral nervous system. To further test this hypothesis and to search for peripheral neural mechanisms contributing to the pain and neurogenic hyperalgesia from a local injury, we performed neurophysiological experiments in the monkey (Macaca fascicularis) and recorded the responses of cutaneous primary afferent fibers to an intradermal injection of capsaicin and to mechanical and heat stimuli delivered before and after the injection. 2. Most C- and A-fiber mechanoheat-sensitive nociceptive afferent fibers (CMHs and AMHs, respectively) responded too weakly or transiently to capsaicin to account quantitatively for the magnitude of capsaicin pain. Of the known primary afferents tested with capsaicin injections, only the responses of heat-selective nociceptors could potentially account for the pain measured psychophysically in the human. In addition, a novel type of primary afferent--tentatively termed "chemonociceptive"--may have contributed as well. 3. Nociceptive fibers did not become sensitized to either mechanical or heat stimulation after an injection of capsaicin either outside, adjacent to, or inside the receptive field (RF); any changes that occurred could not explain the hyperalgesia to mechanical or heat stimuli observed in humans. 4. The depressed responsiveness ("desensitization") of both myelinated and unmyelinated nociceptive fibers in the monkey to heat and/or mechanical stimulation of the injection site after capsaicin was injected inside their RFs correlated with the analgesia observed at the capsaicin injection site in the human. 5. Capsaicin, topically applied to the RF in a vehicle of dimethyl sulfoxide or alcohol, excited CMHs and AMHs and enhanced the responses of some of these fibers to heat and/or to stroking the skin. In some cases, similar results were produced by the vehicle alone. However, capsaicin and not the vehicle lowered the thresholds of some CMHs to heat. Thus the sensitization of CMHs contributes to the primary hyperalgesia known to occur within the area of skin directly exposed to topically applied capsaicin.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Presented is a case of a 27-year-old male with Graves' disease on long-term propylthiouracil treatment who, when changed to carbimazole, rapidly developed a petechial and purpuric eruption on the legs, which subsequently flared on treatment with radioiodine. The clinical diagnosis of leucocytoclastic vasculitis was confirmed on skin biopsy. High-titre antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies in a perinuclear pattern (P-ANCA) were identified. No anti-myeloperoxidase activity was noted; therefore, the P-ANCA were classified in the atypical group. The target antigens, as determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, were lysozyme, lactoferrin and bactericidal/permeability increasing protein. Propylthiouracil and carbimazole are chemically related antithyroid drugs. There are reports of typical and atypical P-ANCA-positive cutaneous vasculitis due to propylthiouracil. Cutaneous vasculitis associated with atypical P-ANCA has not been noted previously to be temporally related to carbimazole use. The consideration of thionamides as possible aetiological agents in cases of P-ANCA-positive drug-induced vasculitis is suggested.
Administration of bezafibrate in rats significantly reduced the levels of plasma thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) in comparison with those obtained in rats fed a soy or lard chow. Moreover, an elevation of in vitro conjugated diene production and linoleic acid levels in the high-density lipoproteins and low-density lipoproteins induced by a soy or lard chow, was reduced by bezafibrate administration. In addition, the liver Cu2+, Zn2+-superoxide dismutase (SOD) gene expression showed a significant positive correlation with the liver peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha) mRNA level (R=0.769, p<0.0001). This unique characteristic of bezafibrate, which possesses both a hypolipidemic effect and antioxidant activity, may be beneficial in preventing vascular complications in hyperlipidemia.
