Use of sulphasalazine in ulcerative colitis patients is hampered by a variety of side-effects, including male infertility. 5-aminosalicylic acid is better tolerated and has been increasingly used to treat patients intolerant/allergic to sulphasalazine but it may also be associated with side-effects.
To evaluate tolerance of long-term treatment with sulphasalazine and 5-aminosalicylic acid in ulcerative colitis.
Side-effects to sulphasalazine (2-3 g/day) and 5-aminosalicylic acid (1.2-2.4 g/day) were recorded in 685 patients: 410 patients received only sulphasalazine, 130 only 5-aminosalicylic acid, and 145 both drugs. In patients with side-effects to sulphasalazine, a desensitisation protocol (rechallenge) was attempted to improve tolerance, and patients still presenting side-effects after desensitisation were switched to 5-aminosalicylic acid. Male fertility was also assessed in 42 males on sulphasalazine and on 5-aminosalicylic acid.
Side-effects were observed in 110/555 patients (20%) on sulphasalazine and in 18/275 patients (6.5%) on 5-aminosalicylic acid during a median period of follow-up of 7 and 5 years, respectively. Desensitisation was achieved in 40% of patients intolerant to sulphasalazine. 5-aminosalicylic acid intake induced side-effects in 2/130 patients (1.5%) who had not taken sulphasalazine before versus 4/91 patients (4%) tolerating sulphasalazine and 12/54 patients (22%) intolerant/allergic to sulphasalazine, the difference in incidence of side-effects in the two latter groups being statistically significant (4.4% vs 20.8%, p=0. 001). Fertility was found to be affected in all patients on sulphasalazine but improved when put onto 5-aminosalicylic acid.
5-aminosalicylic acid should be considered the drug of choice in the treatment of ulcerative colitis bearing in mind that intolerance or allergy may occur in a few patients also on this drug.
The sera of 131 patients with anti-liver-kidney microsome antibodies (anti-LKM) detected between 1973 and 1979 in two different laboratories were re-examined. (1) Eighty-six anti-LKM corresponded to the description given by Rizzetto, Swana & Doniach (1973), with a pattern of fluorescence predominating on the 3rd portion of the proximal tubules (P3). This group comprised 45 cases of idiopathic chronic hepatitis or idiopathic cirrhosis and one case of halothane-induced hepatitis. (2) Forty-five anti-LKM gave a different pattern on male mouse liver and male rat kidney: (a) fluorescence was greater on centrolobular than on periportal hepatocytes; (b) the first and second portions of proximal tubules (P1 and P2) predominated over P3; (c) P1 fluorescence was equally intense as P2 and (d) P3 cells were heterogeneous with one cell out of 20 more positive than the rest. Absorption tests confirmed that the corresponding antigen was also present in the liver microsomal fraction. A retrospective clinical study discovered tienilic acid-induced hepatitis in all cases. We suggest naming this new antibody 'anti-LKM2'.
Chenodeoxycholic acid is an important drug for the treatment of cholesterol cholelithiasis in man. Although no toxicity has been demostrated in man, liver lesions develop in rhesus monkeys treated with chenodeoxycholic acid. To elucidate the mechanism of toxicity, chenodeoxycholic acid. To elucidate the mechanism of toxicity, chenodeoxycholic acid was fed daily to three groups of 6 animals each at the following dose: 10, 40, and 100 mg per kg; 2 separate animals were not treated and served as controls. After 1 month, the animals were killed. During the treatment period, most blood tests (e.g., blood count, blood urea nitrogen, albumin, SGOT, lactate dehydrogenase) remained within normal limits, but there was a significant dose-related increase in serum leucine aminopeptidase levels. The percentage of lithochlic acid, the 7-dehydroxylated bacterial metabolite of chenodeoxycholic acid, rose from 1% in the control animal to almost 14% in the 100 mg per kg-treated group. Liver biopsies obtained before treatment and at necropsy showed no significant changes. Thus, exposure of the liver to increased amounts of lithocholic acid during chenodeoxycholic acid treatment might result in elevation of serum leucine aminopeptidase activity.
Acute exacerbations of chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection occur after withdrawal of lamivudine therapy in approximately 16% of patients and are considered of little clinical significance. We observed "lamivudine withdrawal hepatitis" accompanied by jaundice and incipient liver failure, but also followed by complete recovery and viral clearance. To investigate the incidence, severity, timing, and virologic characteristics of "lamivudine withdrawal hepatitis" we monitored 41 patients for at least 6 months after discontinuation of nucleoside analogue therapy. The incidence of hepatitis flares was estimated to be 7 of 41 (17%); in 2 of 41 cases (5%), hepatitis flares were associated with jaundice and incipient liver failure. A noticeable feature of the "lamivudine withdrawal hepatitis" flares were the high HBV-DNA levels at the time of the alanine transaminase (ALT) peak. All were wild-type HBV, even the one that emerged from a lamivudine-resistant strain during therapy. To minimize the risk of liver failure and to enhance the elimination of HBV following flares, lamivudine therapy was reinstituted in an icteric patient. Clinical and biochemical remission ensued, followed by loss of HBV DNA and hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) seroconversion. Such a virologic response did not occur in 5 other patients with a nonicteric "lamivudine withdrawal hepatitis," who were not retreated with lamivudine. Hepatitis after withdrawal of lamivudine resembles acute hepatitis B with a predominance of anicteric flares within a time frame of 6 months. Active management of hepatitis flares following withdrawal of nucleoside analogue therapy should be investigated further.
Between January 1999 and May 2000, the Netherlands Pharmacovigilance Foundation LAREB received five reports of patients with clozapine intoxication attributed to inflammation. The reports all concerned men with schizophrenia, aged 63, 54, 41, 45 en 42 years. The occurrence of increased clozapine levels during inflammation, and normalisation after recovery, strongly suggest a causal relationship. No other possible explanations were found. A three to five-fold increase occurred in most instances, but one patient experienced a ten-fold increase compared with the basal levels of clozapine. Three of the patients developed a delirium as an intoxication symptom, probably due to anticholinergic effects on the central nervous system. In case of an inflammatory reaction in patients on clozapine treatment, the physician should be aware of the possibility of clozapine intoxication and delirium. Measuring clozapine levels during infection and dosing based on these levels can minimise the adverse effects of clozapine intoxication.
Cardiac sympathetic nerve stimulation ( CSNS ) can induce vasoconstriction distal to severe coronary stenoses by activation of vascular alpha 2-adrenoceptors. Whether nifedipine can antagonize this CSNS -induced vasoconstriction was tested in 11 anesthetized, vagotomized dogs. CSNS decreased the end-diastolic resistance of intact coronary arteries from 0.76 +/- 0.07 to 0.56 +/- 0.05 mm Hg x min x 100 g/ml (p less than 0.05). In contrast, the resistance distal to severe stenoses, which were defined by a reduction of the postocclusive reactive hyperemia to almost zero, was increased during CSNS from 0.52 +/- 0.06 to 0.87 +/- 0.14 mm Hg x min x 100 g/ml (p less than 0.05). This increase in resistance was associated with severe ischemia, as indicated by a net lactate production of the circumflex-perfused myocardium and a decrease in systolic segment shortening from 8.4 +/- 0.7 to 7.0 +/- 0.7% (p less than 0.05). Both intracoronary (10 micrograms) and intravenous (10 micrograms/kg) administration of nifedipine did not change the poststenotic resistance at rest, but did prevent the CSNS -induced increase in resistance, the decrease in regional contraction, and the net lactate production. We conclude that nifedipine can prevent the deleterious role of alpha-adrenoceptor-mediated vasoconstriction in the genesis of myocardial ischemia.
Tacrolimus (FK506), an immunosuppressant, has been associated with mutism in adults after liver transplant. Speech arrest, agitation, tremor, ataxia, and downward gaze deviation in a 5-year-old female 13 days after orthotopic liver transplant are reported. FK506, which began to be administered 12 days earlier, rose to a level of 44 ng/mL (normal range, 10-20 ng/mL) 1 day before neurologic abnormalities began. FK506 dose level was maintained and then reduced. Three days later the patient could say a few single words and extra-ocular movement returned to normal. Four months later, she continued to exhibit decreased fluency and dysarthria with ataxia. One year later, decreased fluency and mild ataxia persists. Rapid identification of speech loss linked to FK506 may be important because reduction or cessation of the drug may be associated with reverse of speech loss.
Bezafibrate has effects on lipid metabolism and haemostatic function. We undertook a double-blind, placebo-controlled intervention trial, the Bezafibrate Coronary Atherosclerosis Intervention Trial (BECAIT), to establish whether bezafibrate (200 mg three times daily) could retard or prevent the progression of atherosclerotic lesions in dyslipidaemic male survivors of myocardial infarction who were younger than 45 years at the time of the event.
92 patients completed an initial 3-month period of dietary intervention and were randomly assigned to treatment with bezafibrate or placebo. Dietary intervention continued throughout the trial. Coronary angiography was done at baseline and after 2 and 5 years. 81 patients (42 bezafibrate treated and 39 placebo treated) who underwent baseline angiography and at least one post-treatment angiogram were included in the efficacy analysis. The primary endpoint was change in mean minimum lumen diameter.
The mean minimum lumen diameter decreased from baseline to the last angiographic assessment (2 or 5 years) by 0.06 mm (95% CI 0.15 reduction to 0.01 increase) in the bezafibrate group and by 0.17 mm (0.33 reduction to 0.09 increase) in the placebo group. The treatment effect was therefore 0.13 mm (95% CI 0.10 to 0.15; p=0.049). Parallel treatment effects, although not statistically significant, were observed for the secondary angiographic endpoints (mean segment diameter 0.02 mm [0.01-0.04] and percentage stenosis -3.41% [-4.00 to -2.98]). The cumulative coronary event rate was significantly lower among bezafibrate-treated than among placebo-treated patients (three vs 11 patients; p=0.02). There were significant treatment effects of bezafibrate for serum concentrations of cholesterol (-9%; p<0.001), very-low-density-lipoprotein (VLDL) cholesterol (-35%; p<0.001), serum triglycerides (-31%; p<0.001), VLDL triglycerides (-37%; p<0.001), and plasma fibrinogen (-12%; p=0.001), whereas low-density (LDL) cholesterol concentrations did not change. High density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol increased significantly with bezafibrate (9%; p=0.02).
The results show that bezfibrate improves dyslipidaemia, lowers plasma fibrinogen, slows the progression of focal coronary atherosclerosis, and reduces coronary events in young survivors of myocardial infarction.
Prior to this investigation, there was no approach to compare both the potency of local anesthetics and their time course of action in a reproducible nociceptive system in humans. We tested whether the vascularly isolated vein segment is appropriate for such an approach.
In six healthy men, a hand vein segment was vascularly isolated and intraluminally stimulated with electropulses of constant current intensity. The subjects rated pain between threshold and maximally tolerable pain on a visual analogue scale. For determining minimal blocking concentrations (a measure of potency), the vein segment was continuously perfused with Tyrode's solution with increasing concentrations of bupivacaine or procaine for at least 10 minutes each until pain was completely blocked. Subsequently, the respective local anesthetic was rinsed off with Tyrode's solution to determine the time course of recovery.
Both bupivacaine and procaine blocked pain in a concentration-related fashion, the minimal blocking concentrations being 1.6 (0.6-1.9; median and range) mmol/L for bupivacaine and 15.0 (7.5-22.5) mmol/L for procaine. Whereas the onset of block (time of 50% block) did not differ significantly between bupivacaine and procaine [43 s (range, 3-80) vs 53 s (range, 30-115)], local anesthesia lasted significantly longer after application of bupivacaine [278 s (range, 215-325)] than after procaine [183 s (range, 125-225)].
The vascularly isolated vein segment is well suited to compare in vivo the properties of local anesthetics with a minimally invasive approach at a reproducible nociceptive system in humans.
1. The aim of the present studies was to determine the role of proANP (1-30) in the regulation of arterial pressure. It was hypothesized that blocking endogenous proANP (1-30) would exacerbate the hypertension in susceptible animal models. 2. Pentobarbital-anaesthetized spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) were pretreated i.v. with 1.2 mL rabbit serum containing an antibody directed specifically against rat proANP (1-30) (SHR-AB group; n = 7) or an equal volume of normal rabbit serum as a control (SHR-NRS group; n = 5). 3. Following a 1 h equilibration period and two 30 min baseline periods, rats were volume expanded with 3 mL of 6% albumin in Krebs' solution and observed for an additional 3 h to determine the effects of the anti-proANP on arterial pressure. 4. Arterial pressure increased in both groups compared with their own baselines with volume expansion, but was significantly greater in the anti-proANP SHR group compared with the SHR-NRS group throughout the volume expansion period. A maximum difference of 21 mmHg between the anti-proANP SHR group and the NRS-SHR group was observed at 150 min of the study (183 +/- 5 vs 162 +/- 3 mmHg, respectively; P < 0.005. 5. These results suggest a protective role for proANP (1-30) in the SHR model of hypertension.
We report on 4 new cases of valvular heart disease in Parkinson's disease patients treated with the ergot derivative dopamine agonists pergolide and cabergoline. Noninflammatory fibrotic degeneration of cardiac valves has been reported to occur in patients with carcinoid syndrome and to occasionally complicate therapies with the anti-migraine ergot alkaloid ergotamine and methysergide and with the appetite suppressants fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine. In these cases, the pathogenesis is suspected to involve serotonin-mediated abnormal fibrogenesis by means of the 5-HT2B receptors, which are expressed in the fibroblasts of heart valves. Based on strikingly similar echocardiographic and histopathological features, we strongly suspect that ergot-derived dopamine agonists may cause a valvular heart disease nearly identical to that seen in those conditions. These cases add to a rapidly growing and worrying list of similar published reports, suggesting that we may well be facing a novel, yet unrecognized, complication of this class of agents, which are widely used not only in Parkinson's disease but also in restless legs syndrome and various common endocrine dysfunctions. Therefore, until more is known about the true prevalence of this side effect, we propose that an assessment of cardiac function be performed before and in the course of a long-term therapy with ergot derivative dopamine agonists.
Scalp infiltration with epinephrine-containing lidocaine solution can elicit significant hypotension before craniotomy under general anesthesia. A prospective randomized controlled study was designed to observe whether a lighter depth of general anesthesia could prevent the unintentional hypotension induced by the epinephrine scalp infiltration during neurosurgery or not. Fifty patients undergoing scheduled neurosurgery involving craniotomy were randomly allocated into 2 groups. After anesthesia induction, anesthesia was maintained with propofol 2 mug/mL and rimifentanil 2 ng/mL by target-controlled infusion in group 1, and propofol 4 microg/mL and rimifentanil 4 ng/mL in group 2 (control group), respectively. All the patients received epinephrine scalp infiltration with 1% lidocaine 16 mL containing epinephrine 5 microg/mL. Mean arterial pressure (MAP) and heart rate were recorded at 30-second interval from the baseline to 5 minutes after the beginning of local infiltration. Bispectral index readings indicated group 1 had the lighter general anesthesia than group 2 (P<0.05). MAP was higher (P<0.05) and heart rate was lower (P<0.05) at 1.5 minutes time point in group 1 than group 2. The mean percentage of maximal decrease in MAP was group 1 (13%) <group 2 (24%) (P<0.05). The mean percentage of maximal increase in MAP was group 1 (10%)> group 2 (4%) without significant difference (P>0.05). The results implied that keeping a lighter general anesthesia caused less decrease in arterial blood pressure and was a relative effective method to prevent hypotension episode induced by epinephrine scalp infiltration.
The early colocalization of T cells and the potent immunostimulatory cytokine IFN-gamma to atherosclerotic lesions suggest that the immune system contributes to atherogenesis. Since mice with a targeted disruption of the apoE gene (apoE 0 mice) develop profound atherosclerosis, we examined the role of IFN-gamma in this process. First, the presence of CD4(+) and CD8(+) cells, which secrete lesional IFN-gamma, was documented in apoE 0 atheromata. Then, the apoE 0 mice were crossed with IFN-gamma receptor (IFNgammaR) 0 mice to generate apoE 0/IFNgammaR 0 mice. Compared to the apoE 0 mice, the compound knock-out mice exhibited a substantial reduction in atherosclerotic lesion size, a 60% reduction in lesion lipid accumulation, a decrease in lesion cellularity, but a marked increase in lesion collagen content. Evaluation of the plasma lipoproteins showed that the compound knockout mice had a marked increase in potentially atheroprotective phospholipid/apoA-IV rich particles as well. This correlated with an induction of hepatic apoA-IV transcripts. These observations suggest that IFN-gamma promotes and modifies atherosclerosis through both local effects in the arterial wall as well as a systemic effect on plasma lipoproteins. Therefore, therapeutic inhibition of IFN-gamma signaling may lead to the formation of more lipid-poor and stable atheromata.
In this randomized, double-blinded, parallel-group study, we compared the efficacy of tramadol and morphine administered IV for the management of pain in trauma patients in the prehospital situation. One-hundred-five patients were randomly allocated to receive tramadol (Group T) or morphine (Group M). The initial dose was 100 mg tramadol in Group T and 5 mg morphine (body weight < or = 70 kg) or 10 mg morphine (body weight >70 kg) in Group M; this could be increased to 200 mg in Group T and 15 or 20 mg in Group M if necessary. Pain intensity was assessed with four-point verbal rating scales. Sedation, physiologic data, and adverse events were also recorded. Analgesia was similar in both groups; the 95% confidence interval for the difference between the decrease in pain intensity observed with tramadol or morphine was -0.26 to 0.30, which was within the predefined equivalence range (-0.50 to 0.50). Neither sedation scores nor physiologic data differed between groups. Tramadol is an acceptable alternative to morphine in the prehospital trauma setting.
A 4-year-old Airedale Terrier that had developed estrogen-induced aplastic anemia had a complete recovery after supportive treatment and weekly administrations of nandrolone decanoate. The anemia was induced iatrogenically by administration of estradiol cypionate (2 mg, IM each time) at 48- to 72-hour intervals. Clinical signs included lethargy, anorexia, and weakness; hemoglobin was 6.8 g/dl, PCV was 21%, and WBC was 1,500/dl. Supportive treatment included blood transfusions and administration of antibiotics, corticosteroids, and vitamins. Hematologic values returned to normal by day 81, and the dog has remained healthy for one year after treatment.
A 76-year-old female patient who had been taking vitamin D2 100,000 U/day for more than 14 years due to hypoparathyroidism following total throidectomy was admitted because of protracted hypercalcemia. On admission, the levels of serum vitamin D2 (99.8 ng/ml) and 25-OHD2 (356 ng/ml) were very high, and 1,25-(OH)2D2 was low (4.0-18.7 pg/ml). Serum D3' 25-OHD3 and 1,25-(OH)2D3 were below the normal range. Despite intensive hydration with saline, intravenous hyperalimentation with phosphate- and calcium-free nutrients, and administration of glucocorticoid and calcitonin, the hypercalcemia persisted, accompanied by hypoproteinemia, edema, pleural effusion and congestive heart failure. The serum D2 and 25-OHD2 concentrations remained high and were accompanied by a gradual increase in 1,25-(OH)2D2 (121 pg/ml), which further increased after the administration of bisphosphonate (pamidronate) to 183 pg/ml. Seventeen months later, serum calcium and 1,25-(OH)2D2 were normalized but serum D2 and 25-OHD2 remained high. The serum 24,25-(OH)2D2/25-OHD2 ratio was relatively constant throughout her clinical course, whereas the low serum 1,25-(OH)2D2/25-OHD2 ratio at admission gradually increased during admission, suggesting that the increase in serum 1,25-(OH)2D2 is due to increased production rather than decreased degradation. The administration of pamidronate further increased serum 1,25-(OH)2D2. These features of the clinical course demonstrate that the 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D concentration in hypercalcemic patients with protracted vitamin D intoxication may be decreased, normal or increased. Possible factors responsible for a protracted increase in serum 1,25-(OH)2D2 are body weight loss, hypoproteinemia, and phosphate depletion. In addition, some bisphosphonates would certainly promote PTH-independent production of 1,25-(OH)2D2.
Performance of combined rest/stress MR perfusion studies and the analysis of qualitative signal intensity parameters in comparison with 99mTc-SestaMIBI SPECT in patients with known coronary artery disease (CAD).
Sixteen patients with CAD underwent MR myocardial perfusion assessment at rest and after dipyridamole-induced hyperemia. Qualitative parameters (SI increase, SI upslope) of the SI time-curves were evaluated and characteristics of normal, reversible and persistent hypoperfused myocardium as assessed by 99mTc-SestaMIBI SPECT were compared.
Compared with the rest values, normal myocardium showed a significant increase of the SI upslope during hyperemia (P < 0.001), whereas persistent (P = 0.07) and reversible (P = 0.15) hypo-perfusions showed only minor changes. SI increase over baseline also showed a significant increase only in normal myocardium (P < 0.001). At rest, reversible ischemic areas showed no significant differences from normal myocardium, whereas during hyperemia SI increase was significantly lower (P = 0.02).
Qualitative SI parameters of a combined rest/stress MR myocardial perfusion study allow to differentiate normal from reversibly or persistently hypoperfused myocardium.
Poncirus trifoliata fruit (PTF) affects the digestive and cardiovascular systems, and kidney function. The authors studied the effects of ethyl acetate (EtOAc) extract of PTF on the activities of osteoblasts and in an animal model. The main compounds of the EtOAc extract, naringin and poncirin have been confi rmed by HPLC and NMR analysis. Effects of osteoblastic differentiation were mea-sured by alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity, osteopontin (OPN) protein expression and osteoprotegerin (OPG) mRNA expression in MC3T3-E1 cells. Also, osteoclast differentiation was measured by multinucleated cells (MNCs) formation through tartrate resistance acid phosphatase (TRAP)-positive staining. Bone mineral density (BMD) was measured before and after treatment with EtOAc extract of PTF in prednisolone-induced osteoporotic mice. Dexamethasone (DEX) decreased OPN and OPG expression level in MC3T3-E1 cells and ALP activity was decreased by DEX dose-dependently. EtOAc extract of PTF recovered the levels of ALP activity, and the expression of OPN and OPG in MC3T3-E1 cells treated with DEX. In osteoclast differentiation, multinucleated TRAP-positive cell formation was significantly suppressed by the EtOAc extract of PTF. Total body BMD was restored by EtOAc extract of PTF in prednisolone-induced osteoporotic mice. In conclusion, EtOAc extract of PTF recovered DEX-mediated deteriorations in osteoblastic and osteoclastic functions, and increased BMD in glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis.
Sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) is a significant neurologic morbidity in survivors of neonatal congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH), with a reported incidence of up to 60%. In a historical cohort study of 37 neonates with CDH, we investigated the use of pancuronium bromide (PB) and common ototoxic drugs during the neonatal period and their relationship to SNHL in childhood survivors. Survivors with SNHL (n = 23) had significantly higher cumulative dose of PB administered during the neonatal illness than survivors without SNHL (n = 14). The cumulative dose and duration of PB use significantly correlated (r = 0.66-0.81) and independently predicted (adjusted r (2) = 0.42-0.64) the greatest intensity (in decibels) and the widest band (lowest frequency in hertz) loss of SNHL. No differences were identified between survivors with and without SNHL regarding demographic and neonatal characteristics (including oxygenation and ventilation variables and the cumulative dose and duration of therapy with aminoglycosides, vancomycin, and furosemide), although survivors with SNHL had received a modestly higher cumulative dose of ethacrynic acid than survivors without SNHL. Although we show that prolonged administration of PB during the neonatal period is associated with SNHL in childhood survivors of CDH, further multicenter studies are required to investigate the possible etiologies of SNHL in this high-risk population.
Osteoporosis is a reduction in skeletal mass due to an imbalance between bone resorption and bone formation. Bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) plays important roles in osteoblastic differentiation and bone formation. Therefore, components involved in BMP activation are good targets for the development of anti-osteoporosis drugs. In this study, naringin a polymethoxylated flavonoid, was shown to enhance alkaline phosphatase activity, osteocalcin level, osteopontin synthesis and cell proliferation in primary cultured osteoblasts. Naringin increased mRNA and protein levels of BMP-2 using Western blot, ELISA and RT-PCR assay. In addition, naringin also prevented the decreasing of BMP-2 and bone loss inducing by ovariectomy in vivo. The transcriptional regulation of BMP-2 by naringin was mediated by phosphorylation of Akt and activation of the activator protein-1 (AP-1) components c-Fos and c-Jun. The binding of c-Fos and c-Jun to the AP-1 element on the BMP-2 promoter was enhanced by naringin. Transfection with dominant-negative mutant of p85 and Akt or c-Fos and c-Jun antisense oligonucleotide inhibited the potentiating action of naringin on BMP-2 production. Taken together, our results provide evidence that naringin increase BMP-2 expression and enhance osteogenic response via the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K), Akt, c-Fos/c-Jun and AP-1-dependent signaling pathway.
A human-human oligodendroglial cell line MO3.13 was chosen in this study to model the loss of oligodendrocytes that occurs during episodes of multiple sclerosis. The influence of mercuric chloride (HgCl(2)) upon cell viability specifically the mode of cell death, whether by an active apoptotic mechanism or passive necrosis was determined by morphological and biochemical analysis. Mitochondrial dehydrogenase activity MTT assay showed that HgCl(2) had toxic effects on MO3.13 cells at levels of (5-25 microM) with approximately 50% cell death observed at 58 microM. Death of cells was dependent on both time and concentrations of HgCl(2). Differentiated MO3.13 cells exposed to low concentrations (25 microM) of HgCl(2) exhibited features of apoptotic cell death, including cell shrinkage and chromatin condensation. High doses of HgCl(2) (>100 microM) induced death with characteristics of necrosis. Biochemical analysis showed that HgCl(2) activated the caspase family of proteases. This was measured directly by cleavage of fluorescent substrates and by immunoblotting assay of caspase substrate proteins; alpha-fodrin, lamin B and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP). These results indicate that HgCl(2) is toxic at low concentrations for oligodendroglial cells and that the MO3.13 cell line dies in an apoptotic manner when exposed to low concentrations of HgCl(2). However, blood mercury concentrations in vivo in a normal population with amalgam restorations are lower by a factor of some 500 times than those causing toxicity in vitro suggesting a good safety margin in respect of environmental uptake.
This study describes the effects of melatonin on cocaine-induced anxiety-like behavior and nucleus accumbens (NAc) cAMP levels in rats. Animals drinking a solution of melatonin (200 ng/ml) at night, either during repeated cocaine administration (15 mg/kg i.p., twice a day for 9 days) or during its withdrawal, showed less anxiety-like behavior in a defensive withdrawal paradigm 48 h after the last injection of cocaine. Melatonin did not alter behavior in control rats treated with saline. Animals exposed for 1 week to unrestricted free-choice oral melatonin self-administration (200 ng/ml) did not show preference for the drinking solution containing melatonin. Pretreatment with melatonin (200 ng/kg i.p. or 200 ng/ml orally) significantly attenuated the augmentation of cAMP levels in NAc following acute cocaine administration (15 mg/kg i.p.). Taken together, these results suggest that a low-dose night-time melatonin treatment results in anxiolytic-like effects in rats withdrawn from repeated cocaine administration, can antagonize cocaine-induced activation of NAc cAMP levels and has low dependence liability.
To evaluate the response during insulin-induced hypoglycemia, diabetics treated with relatively selective or nonselective beta-adrenergic blocking agents were studied. Placebo, atenolol (100 mg/day), and propranolol (80 mg b.i.d.) were administered to 12 insulin-treated diabetics for 1 week in a double-blind, randomized, crossover fashion with a 2-week washout between treatments. Sufficient intravenous insulin (0.2-0.6 units/kg) was administered to decrease plasma glucose 68% from the basal level or to less than 60 mg/dl within 90 minutes. Blood pressure changes at the nadir of plasma glucose were +15.2/-9.9 mm Hg for placebo, +27.9/0 mm Hg for atenolol, and +38.8/+14.3 mm Hg for propranolol. Diastolic blood pressure changes induced by propranolol were significantly different from those induced by atenolol (p less than 0.01) and placebo (p less than 0.01), and systolic pressure changes were significantly different (p less than 0.02) between propranolol and atenolol. Mild seizures developed in two patients treated with propranolol. Their blood pressure changes at the plasma glucose nadir were +56/+22 and +86/+31 mm Hg. Other symptoms of hypoglycemia were more frequent during beta-blocker than during placebo treatment. Differences in response may be related to the relatively selective adrenergic blocking effect of these drugs.
This study was to demonstrate by histological grading whether soy protein protects against dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA) -induced breast tumors in female rats. At 25 days of age, rats were fed diets containing either casein or soy protein. After 25 days on diets, a single dose of DMBA in sesame oil (80 mg/kg) was administered by gavage. All tumors were detected by palpation. The number of tumors per rat was less in soy group than that in casein group at any time point up to 122 days after DMBA administration. Incidence of tumors was less in soy protein group than that in casein group. Casein group had 20% grade I, 60% grade II, and 20% grade III adenocarcinoma. However, the soy group had 100% grade I adenocarcinoma and no aggressive grade II or grade III tumor. There was a delay in the development of tumor in the soy protein group in comparison to the casein group. Again, unlike casein, the soy group had cessation of angiogenesis at several sites of tumor, and reduced levels of angiogenic markers, VEGF and bFGF. Immunohistochemical analysis of the breast tissues did not show any CD-31 positive stain in soy protein group, whereas some CD-31 positive stain was revealed in casein group, which further suggests that soy protein controls angiogenesis. Furthermore, proliferative index as assessed by Ki-67 staining was less in soy protein group than that in casein group. These findings suggest that the soy protein may protect against the development of a more aggressive breast carcinoma.
Six cases of cauda equina syndrome with varying severity were reported to the Swedish Pharmaceutical Insurance during the period 1993-1997. All were associated with spinal anaesthesia using hyperbaric 5% lignocaine. Five cases had single-shot spinal anaesthesia and one had a repeat spinal anaesthetic due to inadequate block. The dose of hyperbaric 5% lignocaine administered ranged from 60 to 120 mg. Three of the cases were most likely caused by direct neurotoxicity of hyperbaric 5% lignocaine. In the other 3 cases, direct neurotoxicity was also probable, but unfortunately radiological investigations were not done to definitely exclude a compressive aetiology. All cases sustained permanent neurological deficits. We recommend that hyperbaric lignocaine should be administered in concentrations not greater than 2% and at a total dose preferably not exceeding 60 mg.
The mechanisms underlying phenacetin-induced toxicity and carcinogenicity are not clear. In particular, it is not known whether these effects are mediated by metabolic activation of the drug. CYP1A2 is known to metabolize phenacetin in vitro. To determine the role of this enzyme in vivo, the toxicity and carcinogenicity of phenacetin was examined in Cyp1a2-null mice (that lack CYP1A2). Six- to 8-week-old wild type (+/+) or null (-/-) mice were fed either a control diet, or one containing 1.25% phenacetin, ad libitum for up to 67 weeks. Representative groups of mice were examined for phenacetin-induced toxicity and carcinogenicity after 36, 48, 58, or 67 weeks of feeding. Consistent with the known role of CYP1A2 in phenacetin metabolism, plasma levels of phenacetin were higher and acetaminophen levels lower in the (-/-) mice fed phenacetin compared to phenacetin-fed (+/+) controls. Weight gain was significantly depressed in both groups of phenacetin-fed mice after 4 weeks of feeding, and continued to be lower for the remainder of the experiment, compared to controls. Hepatomegaly and splenomegaly were more severe in (-/-) mice but present in both genotypes fed phenacetin at all time points assessed. Histological analysis of liver, kidney, spleen, and urogenital tract also revealed a differential response in the (-/-) mice fed phenacetin compared to (+/+) mice fed the same diet. Further, mortality was the most severe in the (-/-) mice fed phenacetin than in all other groups. Despite significant toxicity in (-/-) mice fed phenacetin, only one renal carcinoma was found among them. Results from this work demonstrate that, in the absence of CYP1A2, phenacetin is more toxic than in controls. This provides evidence that metabolism of phenacetin by CYP1A2 alters toxicity in vivo, and suggests that alternate CYP1A2-independent metabolic pathways contribute to its toxicity.
We have investigated the relationships among the concentration of total serum polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), various PCB congener groupings, and three pesticides to total serum lipids in humans with and without self-reported cardiovascular disease. Blood samples were obtained from 335 adult Akwesasne Mohawks, and were analyzed for 101 PCB congeners, mirex, dichloro-diphenyl-dichloro-ethylene (DDE), and hexachlorobenzene (HCB), as well as serum triglycerides and cholesterol. Structural equation modeling, following the definition of latent variables by means of confirmatory factor analysis, was used to analyze the relationships between serum lipids with PCBs and heart disease. There were significant associations among PCBs, lipids, age, and body mass index (BMI), a fact which justified the application of the structural equation model. Gender of the participant was unrelated to any of the remaining study variables. The results of this study are consistent with a model in which age is considered as both an exogenous explanatory variable and a biological driving mechanism for the acquisition of PCBs. Moreover, the results of this study are consistent with the conclusion that PCBs, acting through P450 enzymes, are directly responsible for increased synthesis of cholesterol and triglycerides, substances known to be major risk factors for cardiovascular disease.
