Rett syndrome (RTT) is an autism spectrum developmental disorder caused by mutations in the X-linked methyl-CpG binding protein 2 (MECP2) gene. Excellent RTT mouse models have been created to study the disease mechanisms, leading to many important findings with potential therapeutic implications. These include the identification of many MeCP2 target genes, better understanding of the neurobiological consequences of the loss- or mis-function of MeCP2, and drug testing in RTT mice and clinical trials in human RTT patients. However, because of potential differences in the underlying biology between humans and common research animals, there is a need to establish cell culture-based human models for studying disease mechanisms to validate and expand the knowledge acquired in animal models. Taking advantage of the nonrandom pattern of X chromosome inactivation in female induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSC), we have generated isogenic pairs of wild type and mutant iPSC lines from several female RTT patients with common and rare RTT mutations. R294X (arginine 294 to stop codon) is a common mutation carried by 5-6% of RTT patients. iPSCs carrying the R294X mutation has not been studied. We differentiated three R294X iPSC lines and their isogenic wild type control iPSC into neurons with high efficiency and consistency, and observed characteristic RTT pathology in R294X neurons. These isogenic iPSC lines provide unique resources to the RTT research community for studying disease pathology, screening for novel drugs, and testing toxicology.
Cyclophosphamide (CP) as a widely used antineoplastic drug causes hemorrhagic cystitis (HC) mainly via induction of oxidative stress. Regarding established antioxidant potential of Satureja khuzestanica (Lamiaceae) essential oil (SKEO), we aimed to investigate its protective effects in a subchronic rat model of CP-induced HC. CP (6mg/kg/day) and SKEO (225mg/kg/day) were administered alone or in combination by gavage for 28 days. Histopathological changes were investigated by light microscopy. Plasma samples were assayed for lipid peroxidation and total antioxidant power as biomarkers of toxic stress. In the CP-treated animals, irregular mucus layer, severe hemorrhage and edema, infiltration of inflammatory cells, and accumulation of mast cells were observed. In the CP+SKEO group, a relatively normal urothelial topography with decreased number of mucosal mast cells and inflammatory cells were observed. Increased lipid peroxidation along with decreased total antioxidant capacity resulting from CP treatment was significantly recovered by SKEO co-treatment. It is concluded that SKEO protects rats from CP-induced HC by reduction of free radical-induced toxic stress. It is strongly recommended to examine SKEO in the clinic to approve its benefit in patients undertaking CP.
The clinical usefulness of anthracycline antineoplastic drugs is limited by their cardiotoxicity. Its mechanisms have not been fully understood, although the induction of oxidative stress is widely believed to play the principal role. Glutathione is the dominant cellular antioxidant, while glutathione peroxidase (GPx) together with glutathione reductase (GR) constitutes the major enzymatic system protecting the cardiac cells from oxidative damage. Therefore, this study aimed to assess their roles in anthracycline cardiotoxicity. Ten-week intravenous administration of daunorubicin (DAU, 3 mg/kg weekly) to rabbits induced heart failure, which was evident from decreased left ventricular ejection fraction and release of cardiac troponins to circulation. However, no significant changes in either total or oxidized glutathione contents or GR activity were detected in left ventricular tissue of DAU-treated rabbits when compared with control animals. GPx activity in the cardiac tissue significantly increased. In H9c2 rat cardiac cells, 24-h DAU exposure (0.1-10 μM) induced significant dose-dependent toxicity. Cellular content of reduced glutathione was insignificantly decreased, oxidized glutathione and GR activity were unaffected, and GPx activity was significantly increased. Neither buthionine sulfoximine (BSO, glutathione biosynthesis inhibitor) nor 2-oxo-4-thiazolidine-carboxylic acid (OTC, glutathione biosynthetic precursor) had significant effects on DAU cytotoxicity. This contrasted with model oxidative injury induced by hydrogen peroxide, which cytotoxicity was increased by BSO and decreased by OTC. In conclusion, our results suggest that the dysfunction of glutathione antioxidant system does not play a causative role in anthracycline cardiotoxicity.
Neuropsychiatric side effects have been reported with various systemic betablockers. Data submitted to the National Registry of Drug-Induced Ocular Side Effects appear to indicate similar adverse reactions secondary to topical ophthalmic timolol. One hundred sixty-three of 369 central nervous system cases (44%) reported depression, psychosis, confusion, and hallucinations following topical ophthalmic timolol administration. The psychiatric community should be aware that sudden changes in mental status or onset of common psychiatric conditions, such as depression, may be due to topical ocular timolol. Withdrawal of the drug usually results in disappearance of these effects in 1 to 7 days.
Infusion of 0.75 μ g/kgbw/min norepinephrine (NE), for 40 minutes, into one renal artery in anesthetized dogs, induced acute renal failure (ARF). Subsequently there was nearly complete reversal of function within 8 weeks. Isotonic saline volume expansion, or renal vasodilation plus diuresis by acetylcholine (into renal artery: 20 μg/min) did not protect against this type of ARF. Volume expansion with either 5 or 20 percent mannitol partly prevented the fall of GFR 3 hours after NE, this protection being correlated with the magnitude of the osmolar clearance at the time of the insult. IV furosemide (10 mg/kg + 10 mg/kg/h; fluid losses replaced) afforded an even better protection. Proximal tubular necrosis in the "protected" kidneys was as severe as in non-protected kidneys. Glomerular cell morphology (scanning electron microscopy) was not altered by the 40-minute NE infusions. Functional "protection" appeared to depend on solute diuresis at the time of insult.
Ipsapirone (TVX Q 7821, 2-(4-(4-(2-pyrimidinyl)-1-piperazinyl)butyl)-1,2-benzisothiazol-3- (2H)one-1, 1-dioxidehydrochloride), a new anxiolytic drug in respect of the evaluation of its effect on central 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), noradrenaline and dopamine functions was studied. It was found that ipsapirone inhibits induced by 8-OH-DPAT and 5-methoxydimethyltryptamine (agonists of 5-HT1A receptors) behavioural effects (flat body posture and forepaw treading) in normal and reserpinized rats. Ipsapirone partly inhibited in rats but not in mice the 8-OH-DPAT-induced hypothermia. Ipsapirone, administered at high doses, decreased the body temperature in rats and mice, inhibited the 5-hydroxytryptophan-induced head twitches in mice and the tryptamine-induced convulsions and tremor in rats. In the hind limb flexor reflex preparation of the spinal rat only high doses of the drug inhibited stimulation induced by quipazine, m-chlorphenylpiperazine, 8-OH-DPAT and St 587 (an agonist of alpha 1-adrenoceptors). Ipsapirone did not block the fenfluramine- and m-chlorphenylpiperazine-induced hyperthermia in rats at an ambient temperature of 28 degrees C. The drug did not affect clonidine-induced sedation and inconsiderably attenuated clonidine-induced hypothermia in mice. It attenuated the d-amphetamine-induced locomotor hyperactivity in mice and rats but, given alone, decreased the locomotor activity. The obtained results indicate that ipsapirone exhibits 5-HT1A antagonistic effect, and only at high doses it can also produce an inhibitory effect on 5-HT2 and the alpha 1-adrenergic function.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) are a nuclear receptor family of ligand-inducible transcription factors, which have three different isoforms: PPARα, δ and γ. It has been demonstrated that PPARα and γ agonists have renoprotective effects in proteinuric kidney diseases; however, the role of PPARδ agonists in kidney diseases remains unclear. Thus, we examined the renoprotective effect of GW501516, a PPARδ agonist, in a protein-overload mouse nephropathy model and identified its molecular mechanism. Mice fed with a control diet or GW501516-containing diet were intraperitoneally injected with free fatty acid (FFA)-bound albumin or PBS(-). In the control group, protein overload caused tubular damages, macrophage infiltration and increased mRNA expression of MCP-1 and TNFα. These effects were prevented by GW501516 treatment. In proteinuric kidney diseases, excess exposure of proximal tubular cells to albumin, FFA bound to albumin or cytokines such as TNFα is detrimental. In vitro studies using cultured proximal tubular cells showed that GW501516 attenuated both TNFα- and FFA (palmitate)-induced, but not albumin-induced, MCP-1 expression via direct inhibition of the TGF-β activated kinase 1 (TAK1)-NFκB pathway, a common downstream signaling pathway to TNFα receptor and toll-like receptor-4. In conclusion, we demonstrate that GW501516 has an anti-inflammatory effect in renal tubular cells and may serve as a therapeutic candidate to attenuate tubulointerstitial lesions in proteinuric kidney diseases.
Anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA) are typically associated with small vessel vasculitides. They are also found in situations where other autoantibodies are common, sometimes after infections and possibly in individuals who have received multiple blood transfusions.
The aim of this study was to determine the incidence of ANCA in a variety of haematological disorders, where these predisposing factors may be at work.
Sera from patients with myelodysplasia (n = 26), acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) (n = 3), and myeloproliferative (n = 25) or lymphoproliferative syndromes (n = 16) were screened for ANCA using a crude neutrophil cytoplasmic extract ELISA and indirect immunofluorescent examination of normal peripheral blood neutrophils. Positive results were confirmed by ELISAs for anti-proteinase 3, anti-myeloperoxidase or anti-elastase antibodies.
ANCA were demonstrated in two patients with myelodysplasia, both with chronic myelomonocytic leukaemia and greater than 5% blasts in the bone marrow. Both of these individuals were infected at the time that ANCA were demonstrated and other autoantibodies were present. One of these individuals had never had evidence of any vasculitis; the other probably developed myelodysplasia after treatment with cyclophosphamide for Wegener's granulomatosis. ANCA were demonstrated in one individual with AML secondary to myelodysplasia. ANCA were also found in a patient with lymphoma in whom autoantibodies against red cells and platelets were already noted. ANCA were demonstrated in one further individual with lymphomatoid granulomatosis, a condition that resembles Wegener's granulomatosis clinically and histologically, but which is treated as a lymphoma. No ANCA were present in any of the patients with myeloproliferative syndromes.
ANCA probably occur secondary to immune dysregulation in myelodysplasia and the lymphoproliferative conditions and they are not necessarily associated with the presence of a vasculitis.
Dichlorvos-impregnated resin strips (DDVP pest strips) are among the few organophosphate products still available for indoor residential use. The residential uses for most other organophosphate products, including most DDVP products, were canceled because they posed unreasonable risks to children. DDVP pest strips act by inhibiting acetylcholinesterase activity in the brain and nerves of insect pests and are designed to gradually release DDVP vapor for up to 4 months. Acute illnesses in humans associated with nonlethal acute exposures usually resolve completely, but recovery is not always rapid. To assess the frequency of acute illnesses associated with DDVP pest strips, cases from 2000 through June 2013 were sought from the 12 states that participate in the Sentinel Event Notification System for Occupational Risks (SENSOR)-Pesticides Program, the National Pesticide Information Center (NPIC), and Health Canada.* A total of 31 acute DDVP pest strip-related illness cases were identified in seven U.S. states and Canada. The majority of these illnesses resulted from use of the product in commonly occupied living areas (e.g., kitchens and bedrooms), in violation of label directions. Although 26 of the 31 cases involved mild health effects of short duration, five persons had moderate health effects. Illnesses caused by excess exposure to DDVP pest strips can be reduced by educating the public about the proper usage of DDVP pest strips and with improvements in label directions.
Twenty-four patients with psoriasis completed a double-blind trial of benoxaprofen for their cutaneous lesions. Six out of thirteen on the active drug showed very marked improvement. It is believed that benoxaprofen acts by interfering with the migration of polymorphs into the skin through inhibition of leukotriene B4 synthesis.
A 27-year-old man, HIV-positive for 4 years, developed ventricular fibrillation and cardiac arrest during treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia with intravenous pentamidine isethionate. The dosage was 4 mg/kg/day for 18 days. Nephrotoxicity occurred and raised serum potassium. The plasma concentration of pentamidine was 580 nmol/l. Careful monitoring of renal and cardiac functions is recommended during intravenous therapy with pentamidine isethionate.
ERΔ3 transgenic mice expressing a dominant negative estrogen receptor α (ERα) variant lacking the second zinc finger in the DNA binding domain were developed to examine its potential to inhibit estrogen action in vivo. To investigate if ERΔ3 expression influences uterine carcinogenesis, ERΔ3 transgenic mice were exposed to diethylstilbestrol (DES) on post-natal days 1-5. Neonatal DES treatment induced uterine adenocarcinomas in 81% of 8-month-old ERΔ3 mice compared to 49% of wild-type females (p<0.016). ERΔ3 did not inhibit the expression of the estrogen-responsive progesterone receptor and lactoferrin genes in the presence of ERα or modify their expression in ERα knockout (αERKO) mice. Higher circulating 17β-estradiol levels and non-classical signaling by ERΔ3 may be related to the earlier incidence of uterine cancer. These findings indicate that expression of this ERα variant can influence determining events in uterine cancer development and its natural occurrence in the human uterus would unlikely be protective.
The fungicide for corn PF-70 contains 21% of sulphur, 8.4% of mancozeb, and 0.6% of triadimefon . The aim of the study was to determine the effect of the fungicide on the gastric mucosa electrolyte barrier in rats. Mucosa lesion is known to be one of the risk factors of chronic peptic ulcer disease. The experiments were carried out on 80 rats of Wistar strain. The animals were divided into 5 groups--males and females, separately. The fungicide was given for 13 weeks, at the following doses: 100, 400, 1600, and 6400 mg of active substance per 1 kg of fodder. The gastric mucosa electrolyte barrier was examined by determining the transmural electric potential differences (PD) in mucosa before and after treatment with 150 mmlo of hydrochloric acid and 40 mmol of acetylsalicylic acid solutions. No changes in general condition of the animals were observed. An increase in fodder consumption was observed in males receiving the fungicide at doses of 1600 and 6400 mg per 1 kg of fodder. Females exhibited a decrease in body mass after intoxication at concentration of 6400 mg/kg fodder. A decrease in PD was found in all groups intoxicated with the fungicide, irrespective of the animal sex.
The influence of contrast media on thrombus formation during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty was assessed in 124 consecutive patients undergoing coronary angioplasty and receiving either ionic (n = 57) (Group I) or nonionic (n = 67) (Group II) contrast medium. The presence of thrombus was assessed by qualitative analysis of angiograms in identical pre- and postangioplasty projections by four observers who had no knowledge of other data. Quantitation of stenosis severity before and after angioplasty and qualitative analysis of lesion eccentricity and complexity and of the presence of dissection were also performed. Although the baseline clinical characteristics of the two groups (including presenting syndromes and procedural and angiographic variables) did not differ, more patients in Group II than Group I developed new thrombus during coronary angioplasty (18% vs. 4%, p less than 0.02). In particular, patients with a presenting syndrome of recent myocardial infarction or rest angina, or both, and patients with an eccentric coronary plaque were more likely to develop new thrombus if they received nonionic than if they received ionic contrast medium (p less than 0.05). Patients with new thrombus formation and patients with thrombus present both before and after angioplasty had a high incidence of acute procedural complications (36% and 23%, respectively). Patients in Groups I and II had a similar incidence of ischemic events during follow-up.
We report a patient who developed persistent nephrogenic diabetes insipidus associated with renal tubular acidosis, renal resistance to parathyroid hormone, aminoaciduria and proximal tubule pattern proteinuria in the presence of a reduced glomerular filtration rate (19-24 ml/min). A review of the previous reports of persistent nephrogenic diabetes insipidus revealed that in all patients the glomerular filtration rate had been less than 60 ml/min at presentation. Chronic renal failure may therefore predispose to the development of persistent nephrogenic diabetes insipidus in patients receiving lithium.
Bee venom (BV) has a long tradition of use for the control of pain and inflammation in various chronic diseases. Carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) is known to induce hepatotoxicity after being metabolized to the highly reactive trichloromethyl free radical and its peroxy radical. The purpose of the current study was to examine whether BV regulates the pro-inflammation and fibrosis related genes against a mouse model of hepatic fibrosis induced by CCl4 and ethanol-treated hepatocytes (ETH). Test mice were administered with CCl4 (2 ml/mg) and hepatocytes were treated with 25 mM ethanol. BV was added to the final concentration of 0.05-0.5 mg/kg and 1-100 ng/ml for in vivo and in vitro testing, respectively. Fibrotic livers and ETH were used for the measurement of hepatocyte necrosis, pro-inflammatory cytokines and fibrogenic genes. BV suppressed CCl4-induced hepatocyte necrosis markers of serum aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT). It also inhibited the secretion of interleukin (IL)-1beta and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha. Moreover, BV inhibited CCl4-induced expression of transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1, alpha-smooth muscle actin (SMA) and fibronectin. Similarly, ETH exhibited significant suppression of IL-1beta, TNF-alpha, TGF-beta1 and fibronectin when cultured with BV. These results suggest that BV possesses anti-fibrogenic properties that are mediated by the suppression of pro-inflammatory cytokines and fibrogenic gene expression. BV has substantial therapeutic potential for the treatment of fibrotic diseases.
The association between testosterone-replacement therapy and cardiovascular risk remains unclear with most reports suggesting a neutral or possibly beneficial effect of the hormone in men and women. However, several cardiovascular complications including hypertension, cardiomyopathy, stroke, pulmonary embolism, fatal and nonfatal arrhythmias, and myocardial infarction have been reported with supraphysiologic doses of anabolic steroids. We report a case of an acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction in a patient with traditional cardiac risk factors using supraphysiologic doses of supplemental, intramuscular testosterone. In addition, this patient also had polycythemia, likely secondary to high-dose testosterone. The patient underwent successful percutaneous intervention of the right coronary artery. Phlebotomy was used to treat the polycythemia acutely. We suggest that the chronic and recent "stacked" use of intramuscular testosterone as well as the resultant polycythemia and likely increased plasma viscosity may have been contributing factors to this cardiovascular event, in addition to traditional coronary risk factors. Physicians and patients should be aware of the clinical consequences of anabolic steroid abuse.
To evaluate the possible role of cytokines in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-associated muscular disorders, we performed immunocytochemistry for interleukin-1 alpha, -1 beta, and -6 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha on frozen muscle biopsy specimens from HIV-infected patients with various myopathies (HIV polymyositis in 5, HIV-wasting syndrome in 5, zidovudine myopathy in 10) and from seronegative individuals (normal muscle in 2, mitochondrial cytopathies in 10). The HIV-infected patients showed positive reactivities in vessels (interleukin-1) and in inflammatory cells (mainly interleukin-1 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha), including perivascular hemosiderin-laden macrophages in 5 patients. In zidovudine myopathy, a majority of AZT fibers (i.e., ragged-red fibers with marked myofibrillar changes) showed mild to marked expression of interleukin-1. Expression of interleukin-1 in the other mitochondrial myopathies was much weaker. Interleukin-1 beta messenger RNA was demonstrated in muscle fibers by in situ hybridization, implying that interleukin-1 was produced in muscle cells. Immunoelectron microscopy showed that interleukin-1 alpha was mainly bound to mitochondrial membranes in AZT fibers. Proinflammatory and destructive effects of the studied cytokines might be responsible for several myopathological changes observed in HIV-infected patients, including inflammation and hemosiderin deposits in muscle tissue, and prominent myofibrillar breakdown in AZT fibers.
A 49-year-old woman with chronic renal failure was given gemfibrozil for hyperlipidemia. She developed gemfibrozil-induced myositis which precipitated an acute compartment syndrome, necessitating emergency fasciotomy. The muscle biopsy showed prominent degeneration of the skeletal muscle fibers, associated with moderate chronic inflammatory infiltration. Electron microscopy revealed myofibrillary fragmentation and mitochondrial disorganization. The clinicopathologic features of gemfibrozil-induced myositis appear to be distinct from those of clofibrate-induced muscular syndrome. Extreme caution should be exercised in the use of gemfibrozil in patients with impaired renal function.
Methotrexate (MTX) is now widely used for the treatment of acute leukemia and non-Hodgkin lymphoma in the pediatric oncology field and is thought to be one of the key drugs for this treatment. A regimen utilizing high dose MTX (HD-MTX) with leucovorin rescue is being investigated as effective chemotherapy in the patients with these kinds of cancer. Relatively large amounts of MTX (225 mg/m2) are given to such outpatients by intravenous push as a course of maintenance therapy. It is said that those amounts will infuse safely. However, we experienced two serious cases-patients T.H. and M.Y.--which developed into severe side effects after this treatment. Both patients showed acute renal failure, severe myelosuppression, erosion around the oral and anal region, and continuous diarrhea. Judging from the serum concentration of MTX, patient T. H. was exposed to more than the maximum allowance serum MTX level for 9.6 days, patient M. Y. for 6.5 days. This suggests physicians must pay attention to the clinical symptoms even after treatment using MTX without HD-MTX.
Although both intravenous dipyridamole and adenosine have been used to produce coronary vasodilation during cardiac imaging, the relative potency of the commonly administered doses of these agents has not been evaluated. Accordingly, the coronary and systemic hemodynamic effects of intravenous adenosine (140 micrograms/kg per min) and intravenous dipyridamole (0.56 mg/kg over 4 min) were compared with a maximally dilating dose of intracoronary papaverine in 15 patients. Coronary blood flow responses were assessed using a Doppler catheter in a nonstenotic coronary artery. The protocol was discontinued in two patients because of transient asymptomatic atrioventricular (AV) block during adenosine infusion. The mean heart rate increased more with adenosine (11 +/- 9 beats/min) and dipyridamole (11 +/- 7 beats/min) than with papaverine (4 +/- 3 beats/min, p less than 0.05 vs. adenosine and papaverine). The mean arterial pressure decreased less with dipyridamole (-10 +/- 3 mm Hg) and papaverine (-9 +/- 4 mm Hg) than with adenosine (-16 +/- 5 mm Hg, p less than 0.01 vs. dipyridamole and papaverine). The peak/rest coronary blood flow velocity ratio was greater with papaverine (3.9 +/- 1.1) than with adenosine (3.4 +/- 1.2, p less than or equal to 0.05 vs. papaverine) or dipyridamole (3.1 +/- 1.2, p less than 0.01 vs. papaverine). A larger decrease in coronary resistance as measured by the coronary vascular resistance index occurred with papaverine (0.25 +/- 0.06) and adenosine (0.26 +/- 0.09) than with dipyridamole (0.31 +/- 0.10, p less than 0.01 vs. papaverine, p less than 0.05 vs. adenosine).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Indomethacin (Ind), an inhibitor of prostaglandin synthesis, was previously shown to increase the thermosensitivity of murine tumors. The potency of drug to modify the thermal response of murine skin has been evaluated in mice heated in water bath at 44 degrees C for 30, 60 and 90 min. Ind was administered subcutaneously (s.c.) at dose of 5 mg/kg body weight (b.w.) 1.5 h before heating. The mouse foot skin reactions (FSR) were assessed using the scoring system of Urano et al (1979). The severity of skin thermal damage was decreased markedly by Ind. At the time when heating of the control group at 44 degrees C for 60 min resulted in the irreversible FSR in some mice, pretreatment with Ind before heating lead to the complete recovery from the heat damage in all mice. Similarly, after heating at 44 degrees C for 90 min, the degree of FSR was diminished by Ind from score 4.5 to score 2. It is concluded that Ind selectively protected normal skin during the hyperthermic treatment. Further clinical study is warranted.
To describe a patient with probable choledochal sphincter spasm after preoperative morphine, and to suggest a history of cholecystectomy as a predisposing factor.
A 60 yr old man for femoral-popliteal artery bypass grafting developed right upper quadrant abdominal pain after preoperative morphine and scopolamine. He had a previous cholecystectomy. His pain was relieved with naloxone.
Choledochal sphincter spasm should be part of a differential diagnosis in right upper quadrant pain after sedative doses of morphine, especially if there is a previous cholecystectomy.
Twenty-three staff members serving in a hemodialysis unit were exposed accidentally to needlestick contaminated with blood containing hepatitis B surface antigen and hepatitis B e antigen, as well as high levels of DNA polymerase activity (greater than 100 cpm). They received hepatitis B vaccine (20 micrograms) simultaneously with hepatitis B immune globulin (5 ml, 200 IU per ml) within 48 hr after the exposure, and the vaccination was repeated at 1 and 3 months. The protective efficacy was compared with that in a past study in the same unit in which 33 members were given hepatitis B immune globulin alone within 48 hr after the exposure to blood with similarly high levels of DNA polymerase activity. No differences were noted in age or sex between the staff members who were vaccinated and those who were not, nor were there any differences between their inocula in the titers of hepatitis B virus markers. During 12 months after the accident, only one (4%) of the 23 vaccinated members contracted hepatitis B virus infection, at a frequency significantly lower than 11 (33%) of the 33 members who did not receive vaccine (p less than 0.02). These results indicate that hepatitis B vaccine, when given in combination with hepatitis B immune globulin, is efficacious for postexposure immunoprophylaxis of accidental infection.
Ethambutol hydrochloride is one of the routinely used drugs as the first line of antitubercular agents. The delayed onset of ocular toxicity is usually thought to be reversible following rapid withdrawal of the drug. We collected ten consecutive patients with severe visual defects due to ethambutol toxicity, and these patients had received presumably safe ethambutol dosages. Although ethambutol was stopped immediately in all cases, only five patients (50%) experienced visual improvement after a period of 12 months to 3 years follow-up. The other five patients (50%) had permanent visual impairment without recovery. There were no predisposing or risk factors to contribute to poor visual outcome. In the group over 60 years old, only 20% (1/5) experienced visual improvement; in the group less than 60 years old, 80% (4/5) had some visual recovery, the difference between these two age groups being statistically significant. We need more patient collections to answer whether the older patients with ethambutol optic neuropathy have poor prognoses. Ethambutol optic neuropathy, in our follow-up study, is not always reversible, especially in the older population. It may cause permanent visual disability. There is no so-called "safe-dosage". We suggest reconsideration regarding the use of ethambutol as one of the first-line antitubercular drugs, especially in older patients.
Functional (nonulcer) dyspepsia refers to upper abdominal pain or discomfort with or without symptoms of early satiety, nausea, or vomiting with no definable organic cause. The current Rome II criteria help to diagnose functional dyspepsia and avoid misdiagnosis of gastroesophageal reflux disease and irritable bowel syndrome as functional dyspepsia. Assessment of gastric emptying with scintigraphy or breath testing may be useful in identifying delayed gastric emptying in patients with dyspeptic symptoms and may be helpful in patient management. Electrogastrography is a noninvasive test that evaluates for gastric dysrhythmias. Satiety testing is being evaluated as an indirect test for impaired fundic relaxation and visceral hypersensitivity. The symptom response to Helicobacter pylori therapy in patients with functional dyspepsia and a negative endoscopy examination but a positive H. pylori test is marginal. Lifestyle modifications often are suggested for initial treatment of functional dyspepsia. Dietary changes such as frequent small meals, low-fat diet, and avoidance of certain aggravating foods may improve symptoms. Additional measures include cessation of smoking, avoiding excess alcohol intake, and minimizing coffee intake. Antacids and over-the-counter histamine type 2 receptor antagonists may be helpful as an "on-demand" therapy for intermittent symptoms. They are safe and relatively inexpensive. Different subgroups of functional dyspepsia are based on the predominant symptom and may help in choosing an appropriate drug to initiate therapy. If the predominant symptom is epigastric pain (ulcer-like functional dyspepsia), histamine-2 receptor antagonists or proton pump inhibitors are the initial treatment of choice. If fullness, bloating, early satiety or nausea is the predominant complaint (dysmotility-like functional dyspepsia), a prokinetic agent may help. Metoclopramide is the only available effective prokinetic agent at present. If metoclopramide is used, short-term treatment and discussion of possible side effects with the patient are advised. If there is no response to these initial treatments, switching therapy from proton pump inhibitor to prokinetic or vice versa can be tried. If these treatment options fail, patient re-evaluation for other disorders (including other functional bowel disorders) is advised. A low-dose tricyclic antidepressant at bedtime may be helpful for treatment of visceral hypersensitivity.
