Non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist administration induces a syndrome indistinguishable from schizophrenia including positive and negative symptoms and cognitive deficits. Concordantly, augmentation of the NMDA receptor function by glycine-site agonists such as D-serine and D-cycloserine has been reported to improve negative symptoms and some cognitive deficits in schizophrenia patients when added to conventional antipsychotic treatment, although they appear less effective when combined with clozapine specifically. In contrast, administration of the AMPAkine CX-516 (which positively modulate the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) receptor) as an adjuvant to clozapine, has been shown to exert some beneficial action on the negative symptoms and cognitive deficits in schizophrenia. In the rat, selective suppression of conditioned avoidance response (CAR) behaviour has been widely reported to be a test with high predictive validity for antipsychotic efficacy. We found that D-serine and CX-516, at doses ineffective by themselves, significantly potentiated the suppression of CAR induced by threshold doses of risperidone (0.16 mg/kg, s.c.), olanzapine (0.63 mg/kg, s.c.) and clozapine (1.3 mg/kg, s.c.) without causing additional motor disturbances. Thus, the adjunct enhancement of NMDA or AMPA receptor function observed clinically, appears reflected in the present rat CAR study. Consequently, our data lend further support to the potential use of the CAR test in the investigation of augmentation strategies involving the addition of non-dopaminergic target compounds to existing atypical antipsychotics.
Intravenous midazolam is used as an in vivo biomarker of hepatic cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A activity. Midazolam is a central nervous system depressant and can produce cognitive impairment. The purpose of this study was 2-fold: (1) to determine whether administration of intravenous flumazenil given before intravenous midazolam minimizes cognitive impairment and (2) to determine whether flumazenil pretreatment has an effect on midazolam pharmacokinetics during hepatic CYP3A phenotyping.
Eleven healthy subjects (8 men) received intravenous flumazenil (0.005 mg/kg) or placebo followed 7 minutes later by intravenous midazolam (0.025 mg/kg) in a randomized, double-blind crossover study. Plasma midazolam concentrations were obtained before dosing and at 5, 30, 60, 120, 240, 300, and 360 minutes after dosing and were assayed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Midazolam pharmacokinetics were determined by noncompartmental methods. The two 1-sided tests procedure was used to compare area under the curve (AUC) between study phases. Data were log-transformed before analysis, and bioequivalence criteria were applied. Digit symbol substitution tests, performed before dosing and at 5, 30, 60, 120, 240, 300, and 360 minutes after dosing, were used to measure cognition. General linear modeling was used to compare scores between study phases.
Midazolam AUC extrapolated to infinity [AUC(0-infinity)] between phases was bioequivalent. The AUC ratio (flumazenil plus midazolam/midazolam) was 0.99, with a 90% confidence interval of 0.98 to 1.00. Statistically significant differences(P <or=.05) in digit symbol substitution test scores between phases were determined relative to time and a phase-by-time interaction.
Flumazenil minimizes midazolam-induced cognitive impairment without influencing midazolam pharmacokinetics. However, the risk of side effects (ie, panic attack) caused by flumazenil should be thoroughly considered before implementation of this drug combination during phenotyping in healthy subjects.
A single case is described of congenital leukaemia with 11q23/MLL rearrangement in a preterm female newborn. Because of arachnophobia, the mother had heavily abused aerosolised permethrin, a widely used household insecticide. Permethrin is considered comparatively safe, but, in view of the mother's history, its potential to induce cleavage of the MLL gene in cell culture was tested. Incubation of the BV173 cell line with 50 micro M permethrin readily induced MLL cleavage.
Netilmicin and gentamicin were compared in a multicenter clinical trial in 12 study locations. The two aminoglycosides were randomly assigned to hospitalized adult patients with systemic infections, and were administered by i.m. injection or slow i.v. infusion in divided doses generally calculated to deliver either 4-6.5 mg/kg per day of netilmicin, or 3-5 mg/kg per day of gentamicin. Lower dosages were given to patients with impaired renal function. Data from 210 patients receiving netilmicin and 212 receiving gentamicin were analyzed for efficacy. Favorable bacteriologic responses occurred in 95.5% (255/267) of the netilmicin-treated sites and in 90.1% (247/274) of the gentamicin-treated sites (p = 0.05). Netilmicin eliminated or reduced 95.6% (283/296) of all pathogens isolated from all infection sites compared with 89.5% (289/323) for gentamicin (p = 0.012). Favorable clinical responses were observed in 94.2% (275/292) of the netilmicin-treated patients and 89.5% (289/323) of the gentamicin-treated patients. Data from 377 netilmicin-treated patients and 378 gentamicin-treated patients were analyzed for safety. Evidence of nephrotoxicity probably related to treatment was observed in 8 of the netilmicin-treated patients and 14 of the gentamicin-treated patients. Audiometrically documented hearing loss probably related to treatment was observed in one gentamicin-treated patient. In one netilmicin-treated patient there were transient auditory and vestibular effects. Local tolerance to parenteral administration of the two drugs was excellent.
Loss-of-function mutations in the PARK2 gene are the major cause of early onset familial Parkinson's disease. The gene product, parkin, is an E3 ligase of the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway involved in protein degradation. Dopaminergic neuron loss may result from the toxic accumulation of parkin substrates, suggesting a key role for parkin in dopaminergic neuron survival. In this study, we have investigated the neuroprotective capacity of parkin in the 6-OHDA rat model for Parkinson's disease. 6-OHDA induces the generation of reactive oxygen species leading to the degeneration of catecholaminergic neurons, but may also impair proteasome activity. Lentiviral vectors encoding human wild-type parkin or green fluorescent protein were stereotactically injected into the substantia nigra 2 weeks prior to a striatal 6-OHDA lesion. Histological analysis 1 and 3 weeks after lesioning showed a significant preservation of dopaminergic cell bodies and nerve terminals. Moreover, lesioned rats overexpressing parkin displayed a corresponding behavioral improvement as measured by the amphetamine-induced rotation test and the cylinder test. The improved performance in the amphetamine-induced rotation test lasted until 20 weeks after lesioning. Our results demonstrate that parkin acts as a potent neuroprotective agent in vivo against 6-OHDA toxic insults. These data support the therapeutic potential of parkin for the treatment of not only familial but also sporadic Parkinson's disease.
After decades of stagnation, recent therapeutic advances in melanoma seem on the horizon. The discovery of the genetic underpinnings of this historically refractory disease has exposed potential targets for therapy, BRAF mutations being principal among them. In the 8 years following the discovery of BRAF mutations in 50-60% of advanced melanomas, only recently have potent and selective inhibitors of this intracellular signaling molecule shown efficacy from early clinical testing. Vemurafenib (PLX4032) and GSK2118436, two orally available and well tolerated agents are on the verge of transforming the landscape of melanoma therapy based on the promising results of their respective phase I, II, and III trials.
The Na,K-ATPase contains a binding site for cardiac glycosides, such as ouabain, digoxin, and digitoxin, which is highly conserved among species ranging from Drosophila to humans. Although advantage has been taken of this site to treat congestive heart failure with drugs such as digoxin, it is unknown whether this site has a natural function in vivo. Here we show that this site plays an important role in the regulation of blood pressure, and it specifically mediates adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH)-induced hypertension in mice. We used genetically engineered mice in which the Na,K-ATPase alpha2 isoform, which is normally sensitive to cardiac glycosides, was made resistant to these compounds. Chronic administration of ACTH caused hypertension in WT mice but not in mice with an ouabain-resistant alpha2 isoform of Na,K-ATPase. This finding demonstrates that the cardiac glycoside binding site of the Na,K-ATPase plays an important role in blood pressure regulation, most likely by responding to a naturally occurring ligand. Because the alpha1 isoform is sensitive to cardiac glycosides in humans, we developed mice in which the naturally occurring ouabain-resistant alpha1 isoform was made ouabain-sensitive. Mice with the ouabain-sensitive "human-like" alpha1 isoform and an ouabain-resistant alpha2 isoform developed ACTH-induced hypertension to greater extent than WT animals. This result indicates that the cardiac glycoside binding site of the alpha1 isoform can also mediate ACTH-induced hypertension. Taken together these results demonstrate that the cardiac glycoside binding site of the alpha isoforms of the Na,K-ATPase have a physiological function and supports the hypothesis for a role of the endogenous cardiac glycosides.
Sixty-two mechanically ventilated patients were randomized into three study groups to compare the efficacy of sucralfate vs cimetidine and antacid regimens for the prevention of upper gastrointestinal tract bleeding. Only five study patients (8%) developed bright-red blood per nasogastric tube; four patients received the antacid regimen and one received cimetidine. None of the patients receiving sucralfate developed acute upper gastrointestinal tract bleeding. Bleeding was not severe enough in any patient to require endoscopy or surgery. There were no significant differences in the three groups when several major risk factors for gastrointestinal tract bleeding were analyzed, including sepsis, hypotension, steroid use, adult respiratory distress syndrome, gastric pH of 4 or less, previous peptic ulcer disease, peritonitis, and jaundice. A significantly higher incidence of acute renal failure was noted in the antacid-treated group when compared with the cimetidine and sucralfate groups. We find preliminary evidence that sucralfate is as efficacious as and more cost-effective than either cimetidine or antacids for prophylaxis of stress-related gastrointestinal tract bleeding in the critically ill ventilator-dependent patient.
In patients with various catabolic conditions, glucocorticoid excess induces skeletal muscle wasting by accelerating protein degradation via the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. Although the transcriptional coactivator p300 has been implicated in this pathological process, regulatory mechanisms and molecular targets of its action remain unclear. Here we show that CREB-binding protein (CBP)/p300-interacting transactivator with ED-rich tail 2 (Cited2), which binds to the cysteine-histidine-rich region 1 of p300 and CBP, regulates muscle mass in vitro. Adenovirus-mediated overexpression of wild-type Cited2 significantly blocked morphological alterations of C2C12 myotubes with a concomitant decrease in myosin heavy chain protein in response to synthetic glucocorticoid dexamethasone, which were attributable to the reduced induction of atrophy-related ubiquitin ligases MuRF1 and MAFbx. These myotube-sparing effects were less pronounced, however, with a carboxyl-terminally truncated mutant of Cited2 that lacked the ability to bind p300. These results suggest that the gain of Cited2 function counteracts glucocorticoid-induced muscle atrophy through inhibition of proteolysis mediated by p300-dependent gene transcription.
Doxorubicin and cisplatin have activity in endometrial carcinoma and at initiation of this study ranked as the most active agents. This trial of stage III, IV, or recurrent disease evaluated whether combining these agents increases response rate (RR) and prolongs progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) over doxorubicin alone.
Of 299 patients registered, 281 (94%) were eligible. Regimens were doxorubicin 60 mg/m(2) intravenously or doxorubicin 60 mg/m(2) plus cisplatin 50 mg/m(2) every 3 weeks until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or a total of 500 mg/m(2) doxorubicin.
There were 12 (8%) complete (CR) and 26 (17%) partial responses (PR) among 150 patients receiving doxorubicin versus 25 (19%) CRs and 30 (23%) PRs among patients receiving the combination. The overall response rate was higher among patients receiving the combination (42%) compared with patients receiving doxorubicin (25%; P =.004). Median PFS was 5.7 and 3.8 months, respectively, for the combination and single agent. The PFS hazard ratio was 0.736 (95% CI, 0.577 to 0.939; P =.014). Median OS was 9.0 and 9.2 months, respectively, for the combination and single agent. Overall death rates were similar in the two groups (hazard ratio, 0.928; 95% CI, 0.727 to 1.185). Nausea, vomiting, and hematologic toxicities were common. The combination produced more grade 3 to 4 leukopenia (62% v 40%), thrombocytopenia (14% v 2%), anemia (22% v 4%), and nausea/vomiting (13% v 3%).
Adding cisplatin to doxorubicin in advanced endometrial carcinoma improves RR and PFS with a negligible impact on OS and produces increased toxicity. These results have served as a building block for subsequent phase III trials in patients with disseminated and high-risk limited endometrial carcinoma.
We present the case of a 60 year old C6 complete tetraplegic patient who developed profound hypotension following initiation of the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor lisinopril to control blood pressure. Other causes of hypotension, such as myocardial infarction and sepsis was ruled out. Inhibition of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system was the probable cause of hypotension. This case demonstrates the critical importance of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone axis in the maintenance of blood pressure in tetraplegic patients, who may lack input from the brain to sympathetic neurons, and therefore have increased reliance on the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone axis for the maintenance of blood pressure. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors should be avoided in tetraplegic patients, unless other treatment modalities are ineffective.
Previously, we developed a 30-day transformation assay (focus inhibition, FIA) of rat tracheal epithelial (RTE) cells to identify cancer preventive agents. This study reports nuclear density (ND) as a morphometric biomarker for efficacy evaluation of at an early stage before transformed foci appear. Positive (oltipraz, D-carvone, fumaric acid, and 2-amino-4-methylpyridine or 2-A-MPR) and negative agents (myristoleic acid, anethole trithione, hydrocortisone, and 3'-hydroxyflavanone), identified from FIA, were tested for their effect on ND. RTE cells plated for 24 h were treated with a carcinogen, benzo[a] pyrene (B[a]P) or plus a test agent. The data based on the number of nuclei in agent-treated and control cells at day 14 showed that all FIA-positive agents inhibited ND from 23-66% at 0.3-1000.0 microM and except for myristoleic acid, all of the FIA-negative compounds were also negative in the morphometry assay. As there is strong correlation between the FIA and morphometry data, morphometry analysis is useful for rapid screening of potential chemopreventive agents.
To investigate associations of Parkinson's disease (PD) and parkinsonian syndromes with polymorphic genes that influence metabolism of either foreign chemical substances or dopamine and to seek evidence of gene-environment interaction effects that modify risk.
A case-control study of 959 prevalent cases of parkinsonism (767 with PD) and 1989 controls across five European centres. Occupational hygienists estimated the average annual intensity of exposure to solvents, pesticides and metals, (iron, copper, manganese), blind to disease status. CYP2D6, PON1, GSTM1, GSTT1, GSTM3, GSTP1, NQO1, CYP1B1, MAO-A, MAO-B, SOD 2, EPHX, DAT1, DRD2 and NAT2 were genotyped. Results were analysed using multiple logistic regression adjusting for key confounders.
There was a modest but significant association between MAO-A polymorphism in males and disease risk (G vs T, OR 1.30, 95% CI 1.02 to 1.66, adjusted). The majority of gene-environment analyses did not show significant interaction effects. There were possible interaction effects between GSTM1 null genotype and solvent exposure (which were stronger when limited to PD cases only).
Many small studies have reported associations between genetic polymorphisms and PD. Fewer have examined gene-environment interactions. This large study was sufficiently powered to examine these aspects. GSTM1 null subjects heavily exposed to solvents appear to be at increased risk of PD. There was insufficient evidence that the other gene-environment combinations investigated modified disease risk, suggesting they contribute little to the burden of PD.
Interictal spikes have been implicated in epileptogenesis and cognitive dysfunction in epilepsy. Unfortunately, antiepileptic drugs have shown poor efficacy in suppressing interictal discharges; novel therapies are needed. Surface charge on neuronal membranes provides a novel target for abolishing interictal spikes. This property can be modulated through the use of neuraminidase, an enzyme that decreases the amount of negatively charged sialic acid. In the present report we determined whether applying neuraminidase to brains of rats with a history of status epilepticus would reduce number of interictal discharges. Following pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus, rats received intrahippocampal injections of neuraminidase, which significantly decreased the number of interictal spikes recorded in the CA1 region. This study provides evidence that sialic acid degradation can reduce the number of interictal spikes. Furthermore, the results suggest that modifying surface charge created by negatively charged sialic acid may provide new opportunities for reducing aberrant epileptiform events in epilepsy.
CHD7 gene mutations were identified in 17 (71%) of 24 children clinically diagnosed to have CHARGE syndrome (C, coloboma of the iris or retina; H, heart defects; A, atresia of the choanae; R, retardation of growth and/or development; G, genital anomalies; and E, ear abnormalities). Colobomata, hearing loss, laryngomalacia, and vestibulo-cochlear defect were prevalent. Molecular testing for CHD7 enables an accurate diagnosis and provides health anticipatory guidance and genetic counseling to families with CHARGE syndrome.
Calcineurin inhibitor-related renal toxicity affects patient and graft survival in transplant recipients. This study aimed to determine whether sirolimus is effective and safe in treating renal insufficiency related to tacrolimus after liver transplantation.
Tacrolimus for primary immunosuppression was used in 16 patients after liver transplantation. Patients with a creatinine level higher than 132.6 micromol/L were eligible for conversion to sirolimus. Simultaneously, the dose of tacrolimus was decreased to half. Blood urea nitrogen, creatinine, tacrolimus level, liver function and rejection episodes were monitored dynamically.
All patients showed improvement of renal function after conversion to sirolimus. Blood creatinine level was reduced from 146.8+/-92.4 to 105.3+/-71.3 micromol/L (P<0.05). One patient had an acute rejection episode that was successfully treated with pulsed corticosteroids and low-dose tacrolimus. The side-effects of sirolimus included hyperlipidemia (4 patients) and leukocytopenia (2).
Sirolimus can be safely used in liver transplant recipients suffering from tacrolimus-related renal insufficiency.
To evaluate feeding difficulties and maternal behaviour during a feeding session with 1 month old infants prenatally exposed to cocaine and/or opiates.
The study is part of the maternal lifestyle study, which recruited 11 811 subjects at four urban hospitals, then followed 1388 from 1 to 36 months of age. Exposure to cocaine and opiates was determined by maternal interview and meconium assay. At the 1 month clinic visit, biological mothers were videotaped while bottle feeding their infants. This sample included 364 exposed to cocaine, 45 exposed to opiates, 31 exposed to both drugs, and 588 matched comparison infants. Mothers were mostly black, high school educated, and on public assistance. Videotapes were coded without knowledge of exposure status for frequency, duration and quality of infant sucking, arousal, feeding problems, and maternal feeding activity and interaction.
No cocaine effects were found on infant feeding measures, but cocaine-using mothers were less flexible (6.29 v 6.50), less engaged (5.77 v 6.22), and had shorter feeding sessions (638 v 683 seconds). Opiate exposed infants showed prolonged sucking bursts (29 v 20 seconds), fewer pauses (1.6 v 2.2 per minute), more feeding problems (0.55 v 0.38), and increased arousal (2.59 v 2.39). Their mothers showed increased activity (30 v 22), independent of their infants' feeding problems.
Previous concerns about feeding behaviour in cocaine exposed infants may reflect the quality of the feeding interaction rather than infant feeding problems related to prenatal exposure. However, opiate exposed infants and their mothers both contributed to increased arousal and heightened feeding behaviour.
Female ACI rats were exposed to diethylstilbestrol (DES) transplacentally and followed to 10 months of age to assess the effect of the drug on mammary development and tumorigenesis. Pregnant rats were given injections of vehicle (sesame oil) or DES (total dose, 0.8 micrograms = low DES or 8.0 micrograms = high DES) on days 15 and 18 of gestation. Pellets containing 2.5 mg DES + 17.5 mg cholesterol (DES pellet) or 20 mg cholesterol (chol pellet) were implanted s.c. into 12-week-old female offspring, creating 6 experimental groups: vehicle exposure + chol pellet (1) or + DES pellet (2); low DES exposure + chol pellet (3) or + DES pellet (4); high DES exposure + chol pellet (5) or + DES pellet (6). At sacrifice, representative mammary tissue and all palpable mammary tumors were removed for histopathological analysis. Each of the 6 experimental groups contained a minimum of 32 rats from at least 14 litters. In computation of data, the unit of analysis was the litter. Groups which had received any DES (prenatally or postnatally) were found to have elongated nipples and enlarged pituitaries. The mammary gland whole mounts from all rats in groups 4 and 6 displayed extensive lobuloalveolar proliferation comparable to that seen in DES pellet controls (group 2). Mammary glands of approximately 75% of rats in groups 3 and 5 were categorized as showing the lowest grade of differentiation while this undifferentiated condition was seen in only 36% of group I controls. No palpable mammary tumors were found in rats exposed to vehicle in utero (group 1). But in group 5, a total of 6 tumors in 5 animals derived from 4 different litters were obtained, a difference shown to be statistically significant. Group 3 had 1 rat with 8 tumors. Among rats bearing the DES pellet, tumor latency was shortened significantly in both groups exposed to DES in utero. By 22 weeks after pellet implantation, 100% of the DES-exposed litters (groups 4 and 6) contained at least 1 tumor-bearing rat compared to about 50% of the tumor-bearing litters in group 2. Tumor multiplicity at sacrifice was increased significantly in the group exposed prenatally to the higher dose of DES. Histologically, the overwhelming majority of palpable mammary tumors from all tumor-bearing treatment groups were classified as adenocarcinomas. Prenatal exposure to DES did not alter the ratio of malignant to benign lesions observed, nor did it affect the degree of differentiation noted in the adenocarcinomas.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Hidradenocarcinomas are rare, aggressive adnexal tumors of sweat gland origin that demonstrate a high potential for local recurrence, metastasis and poor outcome. These neoplasms can derive from preexisting clear cell hidradenomas, but more commonly appear de novo with the molecular events responsible for the pathogenesis currently unknown. Molecular markers of pathogenesis as well as effective forms of adjuvant chemotherapy are missing due to the lack of accurate diagnosis, paucity of cases and confusion with other visceral solid tumors. Here, we report a 37-year-old man who presented with a rapidly growing, painful palpable mass located in the right inguinal area. The patient was a nonsmoker, did not consume alcohol and had a medical history remarkable only for a lower abdominal superficial skin lesion in the same area that had been excised 11 years earlier. Although initially slow growing, the lesion eventually expanded, was surgically excised and was diagnosed as a hidradenoma. There was no family history of malignancy and the patient had not experienced any constitutional symptoms. We probed the immunohistochemical status and detected negative staining for the estrogen, progesterone and Her2 receptors, while strong, diffuse nuclear staining was seen in the majority of cells consistent with p53 overexpression. Similarly, strong nuclear reactivity was seen with p63 and p73 antibodies. The p63 gene contains 2 separate promoters which express at least 6 major transcripts that lead to 2 fundamentally different classes of proteins; 3 isoforms (TAp63alpha, beta and gamma) encode proteins that induce apoptosis, whereas the other 3 isoforms (DeltaNp63alpha, beta and gamma) may exert inhibitory effects on p53. Interest in p63 stems from this 'two genes in one'-concept. Importantly, the nuclear presence of DeltaNp63 was detected widespread throughout the tumor. We have identified a subtype of hidradenocarcinomas that express DeltaNp63 and uncovered an unforeseen commonality with triple-negative breast tumors. To our knowledge, this is the first report of a sweat gland tumor that displayed expression of both DeltaNp63 and p73 and demonstrated a triple-negative receptor status. Such a link between 2 seemingly disparate tumor types indicates a mutual pathway of tumorigenesis and suggests the potential for common therapeutic regimens.
Cardiac glycosides induce cardiomyocyte hypertrophy via yet to be defined mechanisms. These hypertrophic effects are likely related to changes in intracellular signalling secondary to Na(+)-K(+) ATPase (NKA) inhibition which would produce elevations in intracellular sodium concentrations. Sodium-hydrogen exchanger isoform 1 (NHE-1) also contributes to intracellular sodium regulation. Accordingly, we determined the contribution of NHE-1 to cardiac glycoside-induced hypertrophy.
The majority of the experiments were performed on cultured neonatal rat ventricular myocytes exposed to either ouabain (100 microM) or digoxin (40 microM) for 24 h, although additional experiments were also done using adult left ventricular myocytes with 30 microM of either glycoside. Both glycosides increased cell surface area by 30% and atrial natriuretic peptide gene expression by two- to three-fold (P < 0.05 for both). These effects were associated with a significant reduction in the expression of two NKA isoforms, alpha(2) and alpha(3), whereas the alpha(1) isoform was unaffected. Conversely, both glycosides increased NHE-1 expression in cardiomyocytes by approximately two-fold and significantly increased intracellular sodium concentrations by more than 60% (P < 0.05). Both ouabain and digoxin were also found to significantly increase phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinases. All these effect were prevented when identical experiments were carried out in the presence of the NHE-1 inhibitors EMD 87580 or AVE 4890. Identical results were obtained using adult myocytes, although this was associated with downregulation of all three NKA isoforms. Glycoside-induced increase in cell shortening or intracellular Ca(2+) transients was not significantly affected by NHE-1 inhibition.
When taken together, these studies show that NHE-1 inhibition attenuates the hypertrophic effect of cardiac glycosides without affecting inotropic parameters and suggest a possible approach to limiting glycoside-induced hypertrophic responses while preserving therapeutic, i.e. inotropic, actions.
The Ca(2+) regulatory proteins in the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) play a key role in the pathogenesis of heart failure. In the present study the effect of chronic beta-receptor-stimulation on cardiac and SR functions was assessed, with or without angiotensin-II receptor antagonist treatment recently reported to have anti-beta-adrenergic activity.
Rats were treated with isoproterenol with (+) or without (-) candesartan (CAN) and then SR vesicles were isolated from the left ventricular muscle. Both Ca(2+)-uptake and the amount of SR Ca(2+)-ATPase were significantly lower in the CAN (-) group than in the shams, but those were almost normally restored in the CAN (+). Although the level of the protein kinase A (PKA)-phosphorylation of the SR Ca(2+) release channel, known as the ryanodine receptor (RyR2), was elevated in the CAN (-), no Ca(2+)-leak was detected. However, SIN-1 (O(2) (-) donor) induced Ca(2+)-leak in the CAN (-) at a 10-fold lower dose than in the sham and CAN (+). In cardiomyocytes, SIN-1 decreased cell shortening and the peak Ca(2+) transient and prolonged time from peak to 70% decline in CAN (-), again at 10-fold lower dose than in the sham and CAN (+).
Chronic beta-receptor-stimulation did not induce any Ca(2+)-leak from the SR, whereas Ca(2+)-leak was easily induced when oxidative stress was applied to the PKA-phosphorylated RyR2. Candesartan not only improved Ca(2+)-uptake, but also prevented PKA-phosphorylation, rendering the SR less susceptible to Ca(2+)-leak.
Tissue Doppler echocardiography was investigated for its applicability in detecting subtle myocardial involvement in multiple sclerosis patients receiving a low dose of mitoxantrone.
Twenty Caucasian patients with multiple sclerosis (mean age 43.9+/-9.3 years, 12 males and 8 females) treated with mitoxantrone (mean cumulative dose 35.4+/-21.6 mg/m(2)), were compared to 20 healthy subjects (mean age 45.4+/-15.3 years, 11 males and 9 females) matched for age and gender. All subjects underwent conventional and Tissue Doppler echocardiography. Patients with heart failure, life-threatening arrhythmias, and other prominent manifestations of heart disease were excluded. No differences were observed in blood pressure, heart rate, and conventional systolic and diastolic echocardiographic parameters. At Tissue Doppler echocardiography, patients with multiple sclerosis showed differences of the systolic mechanic expressed by a significant lower S-wave peak velocity at the lateral site of mitral annulus (11.4+/-2.5 cm/sec vs. 15.0+/-4.1 cm/sec, P < 0.02). Such S-wave peak velocity significantly correlated with a cumulative dose of mitoxantrone (r =-0.37, P < 0.05).
Tissue Doppler echocardiography suggests an early involvement of the systolic myocardial function at the low dose of mitoxantrone. Therefore, Tissue Doppler echocardiography may be used as a noninvasive method for monitoring subclinical cardiotoxicity in multiple sclerosis patients receiving mitoxantrone.
A 75-year-old man underwent elective posterior lumbar interbody fusion due to canal stenosis. Anesthesia was induced with fentanyl 100 microg, propofol 65 mg (0.95 mg x kg(-1)) and vecronium 7 mg. Bag and mask ventilation was easy and end-tidal sevoflurane reached 3% but arterial blood pressure (ABP) and heart rate (HR) increased to 180-200/90-110 mmHg and 90-110 beats x min(-1) respectively. Additional fentanyl 100 microg and propofol 70 mg were not effective. N2O was started and fentanyl 50 microg and landiolol 5 mg were administerd. Twenty-five minutes after initiation of anesthesia, ABP and HR decreased to 123/76 mmHg and 83 beats x min(-1), respectively. When right ureteral dilatation was undertaken due to obstruction on POD 7, thiamylal 300 mg for anesthetic induction did not increase ABP and HR. Hypertension with tachycardia during induction of general anesthesia can be usually caused by pain, hypoventilation, intracranial hemorrhage and myocardial ischemia etc but all of them were denied in this clinical course. Previous reports had shown that a small amount of propofol itself induced vasoconstriction and we concluded that a low dose of propofol to avoid hypotension during induction could cause hypertension with tachycardia.
A 21-year-old man developed idiopathic trigeminal neuralgia, and was admitted to our hospital. Although neuralgia was promptly resolved after oral carbamazepine (CBZ) administration, he developed arterial hypertension (from 110/60 mmHg to 170/126 mmHg) followed by consciousness disturbance several days after the initiation of carbamazepine. MRI T2-weighted, FLAIR and ADC images demonstrated transient hyperintense lesions of the bilateral fronto-parieto-occipital subcortical white matter. These lesions showed isointensity on diffusion-weighted images. Since these alterations suggested the presence of vasogenic edema induced by hypertension, we diagnosed him as having reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome (RPLS) induced by hypertension. Persistent hypertension despite the administration of various anti-hypertension drugs finally improved after oral CBZ therapy was discontinued. Therefore, we considered that hypertension was induced by oral CBZ therapy. This is a rare case in which high blood pressure was caused by CBZ. There is no previous report of RPLS induced by CBZ administration. Further investigation to determine whether CBZ is capable of causing arterial hypertension is warranted.
