Autism is characterized as one of the pervasive developmental disorders, a spectrum of often severe behavioral and cognitive disturbances of early development. The high heritability of autism has driven multiple efforts to identify genetic variation that increases autism susceptibility. Numerous studies have suggested that variation in peripheral and central metabolism of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine) may play a role in the pathophysiology of autism. We screened 403 autism families for 45 single nucleotide polymorphisms in ten serotonin pathway candidate genes. Although genome-wide linkage scans in autism have provided support for linkage to various loci located within the serotonin pathway, our study does not provide strong evidence for linkage to any specific gene within the pathway. The most significant association (p = 0.0002; p = 0.02 after correcting for multiple comparisons) was found at rs1150220 (HTR3A) located on chromosome 11 ( approximately 113 Mb). To test specifically for multilocus effects, multifactor dimensionality reduction was employed, and a significant two-way interaction (p value = 0.01) was found between rs10830962, near MTNR1B (chromosome11; 92,338,075 bp), and rs1007631, near SLC7A5 (chromosome16; 86,413,596 bp). These data suggest that variation within genes on the serotonin pathway, particularly HTR3A, may have modest effects on autism risk.
Soluble forms of vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1), intracellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) and E-Selectin play a role in the regulation of blood-brain barrier damage and represent markers of the clinical course of multiple sclerosis (MS) and magnetic resonance imaging activity. We determined sICAM, sVCAM and sE-Selectin concentrations in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and serum of patients with remitting-relapsing multiple sclerosis before and after cladribine treatment as well as in a control group.
We examined 17 patients diagnosed according to McDonald's criteria. Thirteen healthy age-matched subjects served as controls. The ELISA method was used to measure sICAM-1, sVCAM-1 and sE-Selectin.
The concentration of sICAM and sE-Selectin decreased in sera (difference between patients and controls was statistically significant, in the former P < 0.04, in the latter P < 0.0003) but not in the CSF of MS patients after cladribine treatment.
The reduction in sICAM and sE-Selectin concentrations after cladribine treatment indicates an immuno-suppressive effect of the drug. The changes in levels of sICAM and sE-Selectin after cladribine treatment reflect disease activity and indicate a reduction in the inflammatory reaction.
To evaluate the role of endogenous opioid peptides in regulating the blood pressure of hypertensive individuals, we administered the opiate antagonist, naloxone. One individual developed a severe hypertensive response, mean arterial pressure rising from a baseline of 107 mmHg to 147 mmHg 145 min after naloxone injection and infusion. After stopping naloxone, his blood pressure rapidly returned to baseline. Re-challenge with naloxone and clonidine resulted in a modest reduction of blood pressure in contrast to the profound hypotension induced by clonidine alone during a third session. Thus, endogenous opioids appear to regulate blood pressure in some hypertensive patients and opiate antagonists must be administered with caution to these individuals.
Clonidine hydrochloride is an alpha(2)-adrenergic agonist commonly prescribed as an antihypertensive agent. It is also useful in ameliorating symptoms associated with opiate withdrawal and is frequently used in the detoxification setting. We report an episode in which 3 normotensive patients each ingested a single 0.1-mg clonidine patch in a detoxification unit.
A boy presenting for oesophagoscopy developed myoglobinuria during convalescence from the procedure. A susceptibility to malignant hyperpyerexia was considered in the differential diagnosis but was felt to be unlikely on the basis of in vitro testing of muscle biopsy specimens. A review of relevant papers suggests that rhabdomyolysis of significant degree following suxamethonium administration may be more common than generally appreciated, particularly in children.
Intravascular injection of local anesthetics carries the risk of cardiovascular (CV) and central nervous system (CNS) toxicity. Amitriptyline, a tricyclic antidepressant, has local anesthetic potency that is more than that of bupivacaine. In this study, we compared the CV and CNS toxicity of the local anesthetics bupivacaine and levobupivacaine with that of amitriptyline. Twenty-nine Sprague-Dawley rats had their right external jugular vein and carotid artery cannulated under general anesthesia. On Day 2, rats were sedated with midazolam (0.375 mg/kg intraperitoneally) and received rapid infusions of either 1) bupivacaine, levobupivacaine, or amitriptyline at 2 mg x kg(-1) x min(-1) (5 mg/mL concentration) or 2) normal saline (400 micro L x kg(-1) x min(-1)) through an external jugular vein cannula. Electrocardiogram and arterial blood pressure were measured until the dose to cause impending death was reached (heart rate 50 bpm/asystole or apnea for >30 s). The mean dose required to cause apnea and impending death was significantly larger for amitriptyline (74.0 +/- 21 mg/kg and 74.5 +/- 21 mg/kg, respectively) than for levobupivacaine (32.2 +/- 20 mg/kg and 33.9 +/- 22 mg/kg, respectively) or bupivacaine (21.5 +/- 7 mg/kg and 22.7 +/- 7 mg/kg, respectively) (P < 0.05). A significantly larger dose of amitriptyline, given by rapid infusion, is required to cause CV and CNS toxicity in rats, when compared with bupivacaine and levobupivacaine.
Amitriptyline, a tricyclic antidepressant, has local anesthetic properties and is more potent than bupivacaine. Significantly larger doses of amitriptyline, given by rapid infusion, are required to cause cardiovascular and central nervous system toxicity in rats, when compared with bupivacaine and levobupivacaine.
The central nervous pathways of angina pectoris have never been identified in vivo in man. We used positron emission tomography to examine the changes in regional cerebral blood flow associated with angina pectoris. Dynamic positron emission tomography with 15O-labelled water was used in 12 patients with angina and angiographically proven coronary artery disease to measure regional cerebral blood flow changes during angina induced by intravenous dobutamine. All subjects had typical retrosternal chest pain accompanied by ischaemic electrocardiographic changes during dobutamine infusion. Compared to the resting state, angina was associated with increased regional cerebral blood flow in the hypothalamus (percentage change in regional cerebral blood flow +6.5 and Z score 7.2) periaquaductal grey (+2.6 and 4.0), bilaterally in the thalamus (left: +2.7 and 4.3; right +3.7 and 4.7) and lateral prefrontal cortex (left +11.5 and 7.6; right +8.5 and 7.8) and left inferior anterocaudal cingulate cortex (+9.4 and 6.6). In contrast, it was reduced bilaterally in the mid-rostrocaudal cingulate cortex (left -3.7 and 6.3; right -4.7 and 4.6) and fusiform gyrus (left -3.2 and 4.0; right -3.3 and 3.7), right posterior cingulate (-3.9 and 5.8) and left parietal cortices (-4.8 and 6.3). Several minutes after stopping dobutamine infusion, when the patients no longer experienced angina and the electrocardiographic changes had resolved, thalamic, but not cortical activation could be seen. We propose that the central structures activated constitute the pathways for perception of anginal pain and that the thalamus may act as a gate to afferent pain signals, with cortical activation being necessary for the sensation of pain. This method of investigation may form a basis for research into anomalies of visceral pain perception such as silent myocardial ischaemia.
Paraquat (PQ) has been demonstrated that the main target organ for the toxicity is the lung. This study aimed to investigate the potential protective effect of PDTC on the PQ-induced pulmonary damage. Fifty-four rats were divided into control, PQ-treated and PQ+PDTC-treated groups. Rats in the PQ group were administrated 40 mg/kg PQ by gastric gavage, and PDTC group with 40 mg/kg PQ followed by injection of 120 mg/kg PDTC (IP). On the days 3, 7, 14 and 21 after treatments, the activities of GSH-Px, SOD, MDA level and the content of HYP were measured. TGF-beta1 mRNA and protein were assayed by RT-PCR and ELISA. MDA level in plasma and BALF was increased and the activities of GSH-Px and SOD were decreased significantly in the PQ-treated groups (P < .05) compared with control group. While the activities of GSH-Px and SOD in the PQ+PDTC-treated groups was markedly higher than that of PQ-treated groups (P < .05), and in contrast, MDA level was lower. TGF-beta1 mRNA and protein were significantly lower in the PQ+PDTC-treated groups than that of PQ-treated groups (P < .05). The histopathological changes in the PQ+PDTC-treated groups were milder than those of PQ groups. Our results suggested that PDTC treatment significantly attenuated paraquat-induced pulmonary damage.
To assess changes in rod and cone visual functions in a mouse model of Fundus albipunctatus with disrupted 11-cis-retinol dehydrogenase (RDH) genes after pharmacologic treatment with an artificial retinal chromophore.
Retinoid levels and photoreceptor functions of Rdh5-/-Rdh11-/- mice at a variety of light intensities were analyzed with normal-phase HPLC and ERG techniques. Production of 11-cis-retinal, the visual pigment chromophore, was suppressed with a potent inhibitor of the retinoid cycle, all-trans-retinylamine (Ret-NH2). The chromophore was replaced by a functional geometric isomer, 9-cis-retinal, delivered by oral gavage.
Aberrant cone responses were detected in 12-month-old Rdh5-/-Rdh11-/- mice raised in a 12-hour light/12-hour dark cycle. This cone defect was exacerbated in conditions of low levels of 11-cis-retinal. Administration of 9-cis-retinal increased the rate of dark adaptation and improved cone function in Rdh5-/-Rdh11-/- mice.
Disruption of 11-cis-RDHs causes a slowly developing cone dystrophy caused by inefficient cone pigment regeneration. Rod and cone visual function improved significantly in the mouse model of F. albipunctatus after treatment with 9-cis-retinal, suggesting a potential approach to slow the progression of cone dystrophy in affected humans.
Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) has been associated with adverse developmental outcome, including embryonic resorption, fetal death and growth retardation, and preterm delivery. In the present study, we showed that an ip injection with LPS daily from gestational day (gd) 8 to gd 12 resulted in the incidence of external malformations. The highest incidence of malformed fetuses was observed in fetuses from dams exposed to 20 microg/kg LPS, in which 34.9% of fetuses per litter were externally malformed. In addition, 17.4% of fetuses per litter in 30 microg/kg group and 12.5% of fetuses per litter in 10 microg/kg group were externally malformed. Importantly, external malformations were also observed in fetuses from dams exposed to only two doses of LPS (20 microg/kg, ip) on gd 8, in which 76.5% (13/17) of litters and 39.1% of fetuses per litter were affected. LPS-induced teratogenicity seemed to be associated with oxidative stress in fetal environment, measured by lipid peroxidation, nitrotyrosine residues, and glutathione (GSH) depletion in maternal liver, embryo, and placenta. alpha-Phenyl-N-t-butylnitrone (PBN, 100 mg/kg, ip), a free radical spin-trapping agent, abolished LPS-induced lipid peroxidation, nitrotyrosine residues, and GSH depletion. Consistent with its antioxidant effects, PBN decreased the incidence of external malformations. Taken together, these results suggest that reactive oxygen species might be, at least partially, involved in LPS-induced teratogenesis.
A 34-year-old female patient with a three year history of generalized granuloma annulare was treated systemically with dapsone (DADPS). Six weeks after the onset of treatment, the patient developed an extensive tonsillitis of the base of the tongue with fever and malaise. Routine laboratory work showed a leukocytopenia with agranulocytosis. Further investigation revealed a marked decrease of the enzyme activity of N-acetyltransferase 2, which plays an important role in dapsone metabolism. Treatment included the cessation of dapsone, antibiotic coverage, and G-CSF leading to the rapid improvement of symptoms and normalization of leukocyte counts. Dapsone-induced angina agranulocytotica is a rare event and is interpreted as an idiosyncratic reaction. Depending on genetic polymorphisms of various enzymes, dapsone can be metabolized to immunologically or toxicologically relevant intermediates. Because of the risk of severe hematologic reactions, dapsone should only be employed for solid indications and with appropriate monitoring.
Lamivudine [beta-L-(-)-2',3'-dideoxy-3'-thiacytidine] is a potent inhibitor of hepadnavirus replication and is used both to treat chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infections and to prevent reinfection of transplanted livers. Unfortunately, lamivudine-resistant HBV variants do arise during prolonged therapy, indicating a need for additional antiviral drugs. Replication-competent HBV constructs containing the reverse transcriptase domain L180M/M204V and M204I (rtL180M/M204V and rtM204I) mutations associated with lamivudine resistance were used to produce stable cell lines that express the resistant virus. These cell lines contain stable integrations of HBV sequences and produce both intracellular and extracellular virus. HBV produced by these cell lines was shown to have a marked decrease in sensitivity to lamivudine, with 450- and 3,000-fold shifts in the 50% inhibitory concentrations for the rtM204I and rtL180M/M204V viruses, respectively, compared to that for the wild-type virus. Drug assays indicated that the lamivudine-resistant virus exhibited reduced sensitivity to penciclovir [9-(4-hydroxy-3-hydroxymethyl-but-1-yl) guanine] but was still inhibited by the nucleoside analogues CDG (carbocyclic 2'-deoxyguanosine) and abacavir ([1S,4R]-4-[2-amino-6-(cyclopropylamino)-9H-purin-9-yl]-2-cyclopentene-1-methanol). Screening for antiviral compounds active against the lamivudine-resistant HBV can now be done with relative ease.
Perinatal opioid exposure has a negative effect on neurogenesis and produces neurological consequences. However, its mechanisms of action are incompletely understood. Buprenorphine, a mixed opioid agonist/antagonist, is an alternative medication for managing pregnant opioid addicts. This study provides evidence of decreased neurogenesis and depression-like consequences following prenatal exposure to buprenorphine and sheds light on mechanisms of action in a rat model involving administration of intraperitoneal injection to pregnant rats starting from gestation day 7 and lasting for 14 days and a cultured neurosphere model. Results of forced swimming test and tail suspension test showed that pups at postnatal day 21 had worse parameters of depression-like neurobehaviors, independent of gender. Neurobehavioral changes were accompanied by reduction of neuronal composition, biochemical parameters of neural stem/progenitor cells, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression, tropomyosin-related kinase receptor type B phosphorylation, protein kinase A (PKA) activity, and cAMP response element-binding protein phosphorylation. Results of parallel cell studies further demonstrated a negative impact of buprenorphine on cultured neurospheres, including proliferation, differentiation, BDNF expression and signaling, and PKA activity. Taken together, our results suggest that prenatal exposure to buprenorphine might result in depression-like phenotypes associated with impaired BDNF action and decreased neurogenesis in the developing brain of weanlings.
The means by which muscle function modulates bone homeostasis is poorly understood. To begin to address this issue, we have developed a novel murine model of unilateral transient hindlimb muscle paralysis using botulinum toxin A (Botox). Female C57BL/6 mice (16 weeks) received IM injections of either saline or Botox (n = 10 each) in both the quadriceps and calf muscles of the right hindleg. Gait dysfunction was assessed by multi-observer inventory, muscle alterations were determined by wet mass, and bone alterations were assessed by micro-CT imaging at the distal femur, proximal tibia, and tibia mid-diaphysis. Profound degradation of both muscle and bone was observed within 21 days despite significant restoration of weight bearing function by 14 days. The muscle mass of the injected quadriceps and calf muscles was diminished -47.3% and -59.7%, respectively, vs. saline mice (both P < 0.001). The ratio of bone volume to tissue volume (BV/TV) within the distal femoral epiphysis and proximal tibial metaphysis of Botox injected limbs was reduced -43.2% and -54.3%, respectively, while tibia cortical bone volume was reduced -14.6% (all P < 0.001). Comparison of the contralateral non-injected limbs indicated the presence of moderate systemic effects in the model that were most probably associated with diminished activity following muscle paralysis. Taken as a whole, the micro-CT data implied that trabecular and cortical bone loss was primarily achieved by bone resorption. These data confirm the decisive role of neuromuscular function in mediating bone homeostasis and establish a model with unique potential to explore the mechanisms underlying this relation. Given the rapidly expanding use of neuromuscular inhibitors for indications such as pain reduction, these data also raise the critical need to monitor bone loss in these patients.
3,3',4,4',5'-Pentachlorobiphenyl (PCB126) is a carcinogenic environmental pollutant and its toxicity is mediated through binding with aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR). Earlier, we found that PCB126 treated F344 rats had 110-400 times higher PCB126 concentration in the liver than in the fat. Protein binding was suspected to be a major factor for the high liver concentration of PCB126 despite its high lipophilicity. In this research, we conducted a combined pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic study in male F344 rats. In addition to blood and tissue pharmacokinetics, we use the development of hepatic preneoplastic foci (glutathione-S-transferase placental form [GSTP]) as a pharmacodynamic endpoint. Experimental data were utilized for building a physiologically based pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PBPK/PD) model. PBPK/PD modeling was consistent with the experimental PK and PD data. Salient features of this model include: (1) bindings between PCB126 and hepatic proteins, particularly the multidrug resistance-associated protein (Mrp2), a protein transporter; (2) Mrp2-mediated excretion; and (3) a relationship between area under the curve of PCB126 in the livers and % volume of GSTP foci. Mrp2 involvement in PCB126 pharmacokinetics is supported by computational chemistry calculation using a three-dimensional quantitative structure-activity relationship model of Mrp2 developed by S. Hirono et al. (2005, Pharm. Res. 22, 260-269). This work, for the first time, provided a plausible role of a versatile hepatic transporter for drugs, Mrp2, in the disposition of an important environmental pollutant, PCB126.
Peri-event averaging of the sympathetic nerve discharge was done to measure the magnitude of the sympatholytic effect of the anti-hypertensive drug clonidine during three different phases of the respiratory cycle (inspiration, I; postinspiration, post-I; late expiration, pre-I). Arterial pressure (AP) and discharges of splanchnic sympathetic (SND) and phrenic nerves (PND, onset used for peri-event averaging) were recorded in urethane-anesthetized, vagotomized, aortic deafferentated, paralyzed and artificially ventilated Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 7). During control periods (mean AP 106 +/- 10 mmHg) SND was distributed equally throughout the three selected respiratory periods, though two brief peaks were noted during the I and post-I periods. Low doses of clonidine (15-30 micrograms/kg i.v.) produced brief hypertension (< 30 s, 150 +/- 9 mmHg at peak) followed by moderate hypotension (89 +/- 3 mmHg) and a reduction in mean SND (-63 +/- 11% from control value). High doses of clonidine (200-250 micrograms/kg i.v.) produced sustained hypertension (> 10 min, 173 +/- 3 mmHg) and silence of SND. During this sustained hypertension, lowering AP by i.v. nitroprusside retrieved a component of SND that was barosensitive but insensitive to clonidine. During those hypotensive periods (spontaneous after a low dose of clonidine, and induced by nitroprusside after a high dose of clonidine), SND was most attenuated during the pre-I period and least during the I period. The I component of SND was significantly less attenuated than the post-I component by clonidine and, in most cases (6 out of 7), SND showed a single inspiratory peak following clonidine administration. It is concluded that (i) the pre-I component of SND is the most sensitive to clonidine and (ii) the I component of SND is the most resistant to the drug.
Female rats, with and without maternal experience, received limbic seizure-inducing (SC) injections of lithium and pilocarpine. Following the subsequent parturitions, these rats displayed a complete absence of maternal behavior. Rats that did not display seizures after receiving the lithium/pilocarpine injections displayed behaviors that were comparable to normal controls. Although the multifocal limbic, thalamic, and cingulate damage abolished maternal care, there was no evidence of aberrant effects upon fecundity, litter size, or mammary function; infanticide was negligible. The pattern of brain damage involves the evolutionarily more recent thalamocingulate system of mammals and supports MacLean's theory that these pathways are required for normal mother-offspring interaction.
Mononeuropathy multiplex is a rare complication during the course of chronic hepatitis B, despite various neuropathies following acute hepatitis B having been reported previously.
A 30-year-old man presented with sensorimotor symptoms in multiple peripheral nerves. The serological tests for hepatitis were consistent with chronic active hepatitis B. After treatment with oral prednisone combined with an antiviral agent, the sensory and motor symptoms improved and hepatitis B virus replication was reduced.
We suggest that chronic immune-mediated neuropathy associated with hepatitis B virus infection should be considered in the differential diagnosis of patients with hepatitis B.
The main component of classical contraceptives, 17α-ethinylestradiol (EE2), has high estrogenic activity even at environmentally relevant concentrations. Although estrogenic endocrine disrupting compounds are assumed to contribute to the worldwide decline of amphibian populations by adverse effects on sexual differentiation, evidence for EE2 affecting amphibian mating behaviour is lacking. In this study, we demonstrate that EE2 exposure at five different concentrations (0.296 ng/L, 2.96 ng/L, 29.64 ng/L, 2.96 µg/L and 296.4 µg/L) can disrupt the mating behavior of adult male Xenopus laevis. EE2 exposure at all concentrations lowered male sexual arousal, indicated by decreased proportions of advertisement calls and increased proportions of the call type rasping, which characterizes a sexually unaroused state of a male. Additionally, EE2 at all tested concentrations affected temporal and spectral parameters of the advertisement calls, respectively. The classical and highly sensitive biomarker vitellogenin, on the other hand, was only induced at concentrations equal or higher than 2.96 µg/L. If kept under control conditions after a 96 h EE2 exposure (2.96 µg/L), alterations of male advertisement calls vanish gradually within 6 weeks and result in a lower sexual attractiveness of EE2 exposed males toward females as demonstrated by female choice experiments. These findings indicate that exposure to environmentally relevant EE2 concentrations can directly disrupt male mate calling behavior of X. laevis and can indirectly affect the mating behavior of females. The results suggest the possibility that EE2 exposure could reduce the reproductive success of EE2 exposed animals and these effects might contribute to the global problem of amphibian decline.
The present study was undertaken to clarify the participation of the GABA-ergic system in epileptogenic activity induced by teicoplanin.
Under pentobarbital anesthesia, mice were fixed to a stereotaxic apparatus, and stainless steel electrodes were implanted into the frontal cortex (FCOR), hippocampus (HPC) and amygdala (AMG). Behavioral and electroencephalographic (EEG) changes were observed for 60min following teicoplanin intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection.
I.c.v. injection of teicoplanin caused dose-related behavioral and EEG seizures. MK-801 (N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors antagonist) had no significant influence on either behavioral or EEG seizures induced by teicoplanin (500microg, i.c.v.). On the other hand, NNC-711 (GABA transporters inhibitor) dose-dependently antagonized behavioral and EEG seizures induced by teicoplanin (500microg, i.c.v.). The inhibitory effect of NNC-711 (10mg/kg, i.p.) on teicoplanin-induced epileptogenic activity was antagonized by bicuculline (GABA(A) receptor antagonist) but not by TPMPA (GABA(C) receptor antagonist).
It is reasonable to presume that teicoplanin-induced epileptogenic seizures are closely related with GABA-ergic mechanisms through GABA(A) receptors rather than GABA(C) receptors.
Several case reports and a single epidemiologic study indicate that use of statins occasionally may have a deleterious effect on the peripheral nervous system. The authors therefore performed a population-based study to estimate the relative risk of idiopathic polyneuropathy in users of statins.
The authors used a population-based patient registry to identify first-time-ever cases of idiopathic polyneuropathy registered in the 5-year period 1994 to 1998. For each case, validated according to predefined criteria, 25 control subjects were randomly selected among subjects from the background population matched for age, sex, and calendar time. The authors used a prescription register to assess exposure to drugs and estimated the odds ratio of use of statins (ever and current use) in cases of idiopathic polyneuropathy compared with control subjects.
The authors verified a diagnosis of idiopathic polyneuropathy in 166 cases. The cases were classified as definite (35), probable (54), or possible (77). The odds ratio linking idiopathic polyneuropathy with statin use was 3.7 (95% CI 1.8 to 7.6) for all cases and 14.2 (5.3 to 38.0) for definite cases. The corresponding odds ratios in current users were 4.6 (2.1 to 10.0) for all cases and 16.1 (5.7 to 45.4) for definite cases. For patients treated with statins for 2 or more years the odds ratio of definite idiopathic polyneuropathy was 26.4 (7.8 to 45.4).
Long-term exposure to statins may substantially increase the risk of polyneuropathy.
Angiotensin II, via the angiotensin II type 1 (AT1) receptor, may mediate myocardial fibrosis and myocyte hypertrophy seen in hypertensive left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy through production of transforming growth factor beta1 (TGF-beta1); AT1-receptor antagonists reverse these changes. The TGF-beta1 G + 915C polymorphism is associated with interindividual variation in TGF-beta1 production. No study has yet determined the impact of this polymorphism on the response to antihypertensive treatment.
We aimed to determine whether the TGF-beta1 G + 915C polymorphism was related to change in LV mass during antihypertensive treatment with either an AT1-receptor antagonists or a beta1-adrenoceptor blocker. The polymorphism was hypothesized to have an impact mainly on the irbesartan group.
We determined the association between the TGF-beta1 genotype and regression of LV mass in 90 patients with essential hypertension and echocardiographically diagnosed LV hypertrophy, randomized in a double-blind study to receive treatment for 48 weeks with either the AT1-receptor antagonist irbesartan or the beta1-adrenoceptor blocker atenolol.
Irbesartan-treated patients who were carriers of the C-allele, which is associated with low expression of TGF-beta1, responded with a markedly greater decrease in LV mass index (LVMI) than subjects with the G/G genotype (adjusted mean change in LVMI -44.7 g/m2 vs. -22.2 g/m2, p = 0.007), independent of blood pressure reduction. No association between genotype and change in LVMI was observed in the atenolol group.
The TGF-beta1 G + 915C polymorphism is related to the change in LVMI in response to antihypertensive treatment with the AT1-receptor antagonist irbesartan.
Sixty-one patients receiving isoniazid (INH) for chemotherapy or chemoprophylaxis were assessed by the lymphocyte-transformation test (LTT) shortly after starting treatment. Thirty-eight per cent exhibited stimulation with INH, isonicotinic acid (INA) or human-serum albumin conjugates of these haptens. In the LTT-positive group, liver dysfunction subsequently developed in 58.8%, as compared to 22.7% in the LTT-negative group (P less than 0.01). The difference was not accountable on the basis of age, ethnic background, sex or chemotherapy vs chemoprophylaxis. Although there was an excess of alcohol abusers in the LTT-positive group, the probability of developing liver dysfunction amongst alcohol abusers in that group was twice as great as for LTT-negative alcohol abusers. The specificity of the LTT in predicting liver damage was 83-90% (depending upon the criteria used for determining positivity), while the sensitivity of the test was only 50%.
Long-term antiepileptic drug (AED) use causes multiple abnormalities in calcium and bone metabolism that have been most extensively described in institutionalized patients. The objective is to determine the effect of AED on vitamin D levels and bone density in ambulatory patients and to compare the effects of enzyme-inducing and -noninducing AED and of single vs multiple therapy on bone density.
A cross-sectional evaluation was conducted of 71 patients (42 adults and 29 children/adolescents) on anticonvulsant therapy for at least 6 months who presented to neurologists at a tertiary referral center. Bone mineral density (BMD) as well as serum 25 hydroxy-vitamin D (25-OHD) levels were measured. A detailed questionnaire assessing calcium intake as well as previous and current intake of antiepileptic medications was administered to all patients.
Over 50% of adults and children/adolescents had low 25-OHD levels, but this finding did not correlate with BMD. Antiepileptic therapy decreased BMD in adults. Generalized seizures, duration of epilepsy, and polypharmacy were significant determinants of BMD, more so at skeletal sites enriched in cortical bone. Subjects on enzyme-inducing drugs such as phenytoin, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, and primidone tended to have lower BMD than those on noninducers such as valproic acid, lamotrigine, clonazepam, gabapentin, topamirate, and ethosuximide.
Epilepsy and its therapy, including the newer drugs, are risk factors for low bone density, irrespective of vitamin D levels. Skeletal monitoring with the institution of appropriate therapy is indicated in patients on chronic antiepileptic therapy.
