The potential protective role of aminoguanidine (AG), gadolinium chloride (GdCl(3)) and oleanolic acid (OA) in acetaminophen (APAP)-induced hepatotoxicity and nephrotoxicity was investigated in rats. Pretreatment of rats with AG (50mg/kg) orally, GdCl(3) (10mg/kg) intramuscularly or OA (25mg/kg) intramuscularly protected markedly against hepatotoxicity and nephrotoxicity induced by an acute oral toxic dose of APAP (2.5g/kg) as assessed by biochemical measurements and by histopathological examination. None of AG-, GdCl(3)- or OA-pretreated animals died by the acute toxic dose of APAP. Concomitantly, pretreatment of rats with these agents suppressed the profound elevation of nitric oxide (NO) production and obvious reduction of intracellular reduced glutathione (GSH) levels in liver and kidney induced by the acute toxic dose of APAP. Similarly, daily treatment of rats with a smaller dose of AG (10mg/kg), GdCl(3) (3mg/kg) or OA (5mg/kg) concurrently with a smaller toxic dose of APAP (750mg/kg) for 1 week protected against APAP-induced hepatotoxicity and nephrotoxicity. This treatment also completely prevented APAP-induced mortality and markedly inhibited APAP-induced NO overproduction as well as hepatic and renal intracellular GSH levels reduction. These results provide evidence that inhibition of NO overproduction and consequently maintenance of intracellular GSH levels may play a pivotal role in the protective effects of AG, GdCl(3) and OA against APAP-induced hepatic and renal damages.
Excessive stimulation of serotonin 5HT1A receptors causes a syndrome of serotonin excess that consists of shivering, muscle rigidity, salivation, confusion, agitation and hyperthermia. The most common cause of this syndrome is an interaction between a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) and a specific serotonin reuptake inhibitor. Venlafaxine is a new antidepressant agent that inhibits the reuptake of serotonin and norepinephrine. We report a venlafaxine-MAOI interaction that resulted in the serotonin syndrome in a 23-y-old male who was taking tranylcypromine for depression. He had been well until the morning of presentation when he took 1/2 tab of venlafaxine. Within 2 h he became confused with jerking movements of his extremities, tremors and rigidity. He was brought directly to a hospital where he was found to be agitated and confused with shivering, myoclonic jerks, rigidity, salivation and diaphoresis. His pupils were 7 mm and sluggishly reactive to light. Vital signs were: blood pressure 120/67 mm Hg, heart rate 127/min, respiratory rate 28/min, and temperature 97 F. After 180 mg of diazepam i.v. he remained tremulous with muscle rigidity and clenched jaws. He was intubated for airway protection and because of hypoventilation, and was paralyzed to control muscle rigidity. His subsequent course was remarkable for non-immune thrombocytopenia which resolved. The patient's maximal temperature was 101.2 F and his CPK remained < 500 units/L with no other evidence of rhabdomyolysis. His mental status normalized and he was transferred to a psychiatry ward. This patient survived without sequelae due to the aggressive sedation and neuromuscular paralysis.
Diabetes mellitus is the most common metabolic disorder in humans. Diabetic encephalopathy is characterized by cognitive and memory impairments, which have been associated with changes in the hippocampus, but the mechanisms underlying those impairments triggered by diabetes, are far from being elucidated. The disruption of axonal transport is associated with several neurodegenerative diseases and might also play a role in diabetes-associated disorders affecting nervous system. We investigated the effect of diabetes (2 and 8 weeks duration) on KIF1A, KIF5B and dynein motor proteins, which are important for axonal transport, in the hippocampus. The mRNA expression of motor proteins was assessed by qRT-PCR, and also their protein levels by immunohistochemistry in hippocampal slices and immunoblotting in total extracts of hippocampus from streptozotocin-induced diabetic and age-matched control animals. Diabetes increased the expression and immunoreactivity of KIF1A and KIF5B in the hippocampus, but no alterations in dynein were detected. Since hyperglycemia is considered a major player in diabetic complications, the effect of a prolonged exposure to high glucose on motor proteins, mitochondria and synaptic proteins in hippocampal neurons was also studied, giving particular attention to changes in axons. Hippocampal cell cultures were exposed to high glucose (50 mM) or mannitol (osmotic control; 25 mM plus 25 mM glucose) for 7 days. In hippocampal cultures incubated with high glucose no changes were detected in the fluorescence intensity or number of accumulations related with mitochondria in the axons of hippocampal neurons. Nevertheless, high glucose increased the number of fluorescent accumulations of KIF1A and synaptotagmin-1 and decreased KIF5B, SNAP-25 and synaptophysin immunoreactivity specifically in axons of hippocampal neurons. These changes suggest that anterograde axonal transport mediated by these kinesins may be impaired in hippocampal neurons, which may lead to changes in synaptic proteins, thus contributing to changes in hippocampal neurotransmission and to cognitive and memory impairments.
The consumption of foods containing resveratrol produces significant health benefits. Resveratrol inhibits cancer by reducing cell proliferation and metastasis and by inducing apoptosis. These actions could be explained by its ability to inhibit (ERK-1/2), Akt and suppressing the levels of estrogen and insulin growth factor -1 (IGF-1) receptor. How these processes are manifested into the antitumor actions of resveratrol is not clear. Using microarray studies, we show that resveratrol reduced the expression of various prostate-tumor associated microRNAs (miRs) including miR-21 in androgen-receptor negative and highly aggressive human prostate cancer cells, PC-3M-MM2. This effect of resveratrol was associated with reduced cell viability, migration and invasiveness. Additionally, resveratrol increased the expression of tumor suppressors, PDCD4 and maspin, which are negatively regulated by miR-21. Short interfering (si) RNA against PDCD4 attenuated resveratrol's effect on prostate cancer cells, and similar effects were observed following over expression of miR-21 with pre-miR-21 oligonucleotides. PC-3M-MM2 cells also exhibited high levels of phospho-Akt (pAkt), which were reduced by both resveratrol and LY294002 (a PI3-kinase inhibitor). MiR-21 expression in these cells appeared to be dependent on Akt, as LY294002 reduced the levels of miR-21 along with a concurrent increase in PDCD4 expression. These in vitro findings were further corroborated in a severe combined immunodeficient (SCID) mouse xenograft model of prostate cancer. Oral administration of resveratrol not only inhibited the tumor growth but also decreased the incidence and number of metastatic lung lesions. These tumor- and metastatic-suppressive effects of resveratrol were associated with reduced miR-21 and pAkt, and elevated PDCD4 levels. Similar anti-tumor effects of resveratrol were observed in DU145 and LNCaP prostate cancer cells which were associated with suppression of Akt and PDCD4, but independent of miR-21.These data suggest that resveratrol's anti-tumor actions in prostate cancer could be explained, in part, through inhibition of Akt/miR-21 signaling pathway.
Intestinal pseudo-obstruction (Ogilvie's syndrome) has previously been reported in 2 patients with theophylline toxicity treated with activated charcoal (AC), mechanical ventilation and opioid induced sedation. We report a case of Ogilvie's syndrome in a theophylline toxic patient treated with AC. A 45-y-old male with severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease presented with vomiting and multifocal atrial tachycardia after an intentional theophylline overdose. His initial potassium concentration was 2.7 mEq/L and his theophylline was 191 mg/L (1060 mumol/L). The patient was hemodialyzed and given a total of 1,000 g of AC without cathartics during the first hospital day. He also received iv potassium replacement. On the second hospital day he required mechanical ventilation for respiratory acidosis. Clindamycin was given for purulent sputum and fever. Haloperidol was given to treat agitation. No other anticholinergic agents or opioids were given. The patient's potassium rose to 6.5 mEq/L and he was given kayexalate. During the third hospital day the patient developed abdominal distention, tenderness and leukocytosis. Abdominal radiographs revealed a distended cecum. In the operating room the cecum was found dilated to 16 cm with no distal obstruction. A cecostomy tube drained AC and pill fragments. A 6 cm charcoal bezoar was found in the stomach. The patient recovered uneventfully.
ABSTRACT Sustained high levels of circulating catecholamines may induce cardiotoxicity through oxidative mechanisms. Isoproterenol is a synthetic catecholamine with increasing attention owing to this application in cardiology. The aim of the present study was to investigate the cardioprotective effects of ursolic acid against isoproterenol-induced myocardial ischemia. Normal Wistar strain rats were pretreated with UA (20, 40, and 60 mg/kg, s.c.) for 7 days and then intoxicated with isoproterenol (ISO, 85 mg/kg, s.c. for 2 consecutive days). Hearts were excised from the experimental animals and assessed for the activities of cardiac markers [alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), and creatine phosphokinase (CPK)], the levels of lipid peroxide products [thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), lipid hydroperoxides (HPs), and conjugated dienes (CDs)], myeloperoxidase (MPO), lipid profiles [total cholesterol (TC), free cholesterol, ester cholesterol, triglycerides (TG), free fatty acids (FFAs), and phospholipids (PLs)], and membrane-bound enzymes (total ATPase, Na(+)K(+)ATPase, Ca(2+)ATPase, and Mg(2+)ATPase). In ISO-treated group, shrinkage of cardiac markers and elevated lipid peroxidation with compromised lipid profiles in the heart where accompanied by the decreased activities of membrane-bound enzymes. The prior administration of UA significantly (p < 0.05) prevented the isoproterenol-induced alterations and restored the enzymes to near normal. These findings indicate the cardioprotective activities of UA during isoproterenol-induced myocardial ischemia.
The antihypertensive effect of felodipine and hydrochlorothiazide, both given in addition to beta-blockers, were compared in this double-blind multicenter study in 103 patients. To all patients concluding the study (n = 92), felodipine was given openly, and the antihypertensive effect and tolerability was studied for 1 year. Patients with a diastolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 100 mmHg, despite beta-blocker treatment, were randomized to treatment with felodipine 5 mg twice daily (n = 51) or hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg (n = 52) once daily for 4 weeks. The dose was then doubled in all patients for a second 4-week period. During open follow-up, all patients were given felodipine 5-15 mg (starting dose 5 mg) twice daily in addition to the beta-blocker. Hydrochlorothiazide could also be added. Reductions in systolic and diastolic blood pressure were significantly greater with felodipine than with hydrochlorothiazide at both the low and high dose levels. There were significantly more responders (diastolic blood pressure less than or equal to 90 mmHg or fall of greater than or equal to 10 mmHg) in the felodipine group. Felodipine and hydrochlorothiazide were both well tolerated. Hydrochlorothiazide treatment was accompanied by a decrease in serum potassium and an increase in serum uric acid. One year of treatment felodipine therapy resulted in a blood pressure fall from baseline of 34/23 mmHg. The most commonly reported adverse event was ankle edema. No clinically important changes in blood tests were seen during felodipine treatment.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To investigate the effect of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition with perindopril on the binding density of [125I]-rat amylin in the renal cortex in normotensive Sprague-Dawley rats, renally ablated hypertensive rats and spontaneously hypertensive rats.
Sprague-Dawley rats, renally ablated hypertensive rats and spontaneously hypertensive rats were administered either the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor perindopril or no treatment.
The density of [125I]-rat amylin binding was measured in the renal cortex using autoradiography in vitro. The systolic blood pressure was measured by indirect tail-cuff plethysmography. The plasma renin activity was measured by radioimmunoassay.
The density of [125I]-amylin binding was reduced by approximately 50% in Sprague-Dawley and subtotally nephrectomized Sprague-Dawley rats after treatment with perindopril. These changes were associated with a reduction in systolic blood pressure and an increase in plasma renin activity. In contrast, amylin binding in the perindopril-treated spontaneously hypertensive rats was not reduced, despite the prevention of a rise in systolic blood pressure and an increase in plasma renin activity.
These findings provide further evidence for the hypothesis that there is an association among renal amylin binding, the renin-angiotensin system and blood pressure for rats of the Sprague-Dawley strain. In contrast, the lack of an effect of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition on renal amylin binding for rats of the spontaneously hypertensive rat strain is consistent with previous findings that the changes in amylin binding in rats of this strain are not linked directly to the prevailing systemic blood pressure but may be associated with a developmental abnormality in the kidney of these rats.
13 healthy volunteers participated in a double-blind, four-period, cross-over study. In each period, the trial drugs (placebo, zimeldine, amitriptyline and mianserin) were given in fixed dosages for 8 days; amitriptyline 10-50 mg twice daily, mianserin 10-30 mg twice daily and zimeldine 200 mg once daily. Ethanol 1 g/kg bodyweight was drunk 2 hours after drug intake on Days 1 and 8 of each period, the latter being separated by a 2 week wash-out period. Ratings of subjective feelings and side effects, and performance tests were done on Days 1 and 8 of each period before, 1.5, 3 and 4.5 h after drug intake, i.e. 2 of the tests were performed under the influence of ethanol. Mianserin decreased critical flicker frequency, slowed reactions under discriminative stimulation and tended to cause nystagmus, but only on Day 1 (after the first 10 mg dose). Amitriptyline impaired coordination on Days 1 (after the initial 10 mg dose) and 8, and lowered the flicker threshold on Day 8 at "steady state" (after the 50 mg morning dose). Both these antidepressants were felt to be sedative, especially in the initial phase of the treatment, and they interacted additively with ethanol. No impairment of psychomotor skills was associated with zimeldine, only a subjective sedative effect of the 200 mg dose was seen on Day 1. Zimeldine did not enhance the effects of ethanol; it even showed some antagonism of ethanol-induced body sway in the standing steadiness test. In contrast to amitriptyline and mianserin, zimeldine was regarded as not harming psychomotor skills, and as not having any observable interaction with ethanol.
Palivizumab (Synagis [Abbot Laboratories, Kent, United Kingdom]) is recommended for the prevention of severe lower respiratory tract infections caused by respiratory syncytial virus in infants at high risk. These injections are very painful, and currently the use of analgesics is not systematic. The objective of this study was to compare the efficacy of EMLA with premixed 50% nitrous oxide/oxygen, used alone or combined with EMLA, for pain alleviation during palivizumab injections.
This randomized, double-blind, multicenter study included children who were younger than 24 months. Each child randomly received during the first 3 monthly injections 3 different analgesic interventions: (1) EMLA: application of EMLA plus air inhalation; (2) nitrous oxide/oxygen: inhalation of 50/50 nitrous oxide/oxygen plus application of a placebo cream; and (3) nitrous oxide/oxygen plus EMLA: inhalation of 50/50 nitrous oxide/oxygen plus application of EMLA. Each child was his or her own control. Procedural pain was assessed through videotapes with the Modified Behavioral Pain Scale. The procedure itself was subdivided in 2 periods: (1) injection and (2) recovery (first 30 seconds after the removal of the needle). Modified Behavioral Pain Scale scores over time (injection and recovery periods) and among treatments were compared by repeated-measures analysis of variance.
Fifty-five children were included. Mean +/- SD Modified Behavioral Pain Scale pain scores for EMLA, nitrous oxide/oxygen, and nitrous oxide/oxygen plus EMLA were, respectively, 9.3 +/- 1.0, 8.8 +/- 1.2, and 8.2 +/- 1.8 during the injection and 7.8 +/- 1.7, 7.4 +/- 1.9, and 6.9 +/- 2.4 during the recovery period. A significant time and treatment effect in favor of the combined nitrous oxide/oxygen plus EMLA was observed.
The administration of 50/50 nitrous oxide/oxygen to infants and young children is effective in decreasing the pain associated with palivizumab intramuscular injections. The combined nitrous oxide/oxygen plus EMLA cream was more effective than either EMLA cream or nitrous oxide/oxygen alone.
Recent epidemiologic studies have associated chronic inorganic arsenic ((i)As) exposure with an increase in the prevalence of diabetes mellitus. Currently, the diabetogenic mechanism caused by (i)As exposure is unclear. However, it is recognized that (i)As contributes to oxidative stress in several organs and systems through generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). ROS can function as signaling molecules to activate a number of cellular stress-sensitive pathways linked to insulin resistance and decreased insulin secretion. Male Wistar rats were administered sodium arsenite at 1.7 mg/kg (12 h), or water (controls) orally for 90 days. At the end of the 90 days of (i)As exposure hyperglycemia, hyperinsulinemia and low insulin sensitivity, evaluated by the homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance, was observed. Arsenicals in pancreas of rats exposed to (i)As were significantly higher than the control group, being dimethyl and trimethyl metabolites the predominant arsenic species. The activity of pancreatic thioredoxin reductase was lower than the control group. Also, the levels of total glutathione and lipoperoxidation in pancreas increased significantly relative to the control group indicating the presence of stress and oxidative damage, respectively. These results represent an attempt to establish an animal model for in vivo studies of diabetogenic effects of chronic arsenic exposure.
Rats with experimental congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) have heart hypoplasia and conotruncal and great vessel malformations that are likely related to disturbed neural crest developmental control. Neural crest cells communicate through intercellular gap junctions whose main protein is Connexin 43 (Cx43). The migration and participation of neural crest cells in heart development is likely influenced by this protein which might be also directly involved in myocardial development. Vitamin A is beneficial for heart hypoplasia in CDH rats. The aims of this study were to examine the status of Cx43 in the heart of embryonal rats exposed to nitrofen and to assess if vitamin A reverts these effects. Pregnant rats received either 100 mg nitrofen or olive oil on E9.5. Each group was divided into two subgroups according to the subsequent treatment with intragastric vitamin A (15,000 i.u.) or vehicle on E10.5 and E11.5. The pups were recovered on E13, E15, and E21 and the hearts were dissected out and pooled. Cx43 mRNA expression was determined by quantitative real-time PCR. Comparisons among groups were made with ANOVA and Bonferroni post hoc tests with a threshold of significance of P<0.05. In control rats Cx43 mRNA was minimally expressed on E13 and E15 and fully expressed on E21. Nitrofen significantly increased Cx43 mRNA on E15. Additional treatment with vitamin A tended to moderate this increase on E15. Cx43 was overexpressed in the hearts of nitrofen-exposed embryonal rats on day E15 of gestation. Vitamin A tended to normalize this expression. The mechanism of action of Cx43 deserves further investigation.
Ferulic acid is one of the most ubiquitous phenolic compounds in nature, which has antioxidant and anticancer activities. However, ferulic acid derivatives, such as ferulamide have never been reported.
(2E)-N,N-dibutyl-3-(4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenyl)acrylamide (compound 8), a ferulamide derivative was synthesized in our laboratory. In this study, HL-60 cells were treated with various concentrations of compound 8, and its effects on cell growth, cell cycle, apoptosis and related measurements were investigated.
Compound 8 inhibited cell growth in a concentration- and time-dependent manner with significant cytotoxicity, and the concentration required to inhibit growth by 50% (IC50) was 8.2 microM for 24 h. The cell cycle analysis indicated that compound 8 treated cells were arrested in the G2/M-phase and followed by apoptosis. Microscopic examination showed that treatment with compound 8 displayed typical morphological features of apoptotic cells, with cell shrinking and formation of apoptotic bodies. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT- PCR) analysis showed a dramatic induction of CDK inhibitor p21, which inhibited the expression of cyclin B1, thereby resulting in G2/M phase arrest. After G2/M-phase arrest, cells underwent apoptosis via significant down-regulation of Bcl-2 expression.
These results enhance our understanding of the mechanisms of action of compound 8-mediated anticancer effects.
Previous epidemiologic studies have suggested that exposure to pesticides in utero and during early childhood may increase the risk for development of childhood cancer, including Wilms tumor, a childhood kidney tumor.
In this analysis we evaluated the role of residential pesticide exposure in relation to the risk of Wilms tumor in children using data from a North American case-control study.
The National Wilms Tumor Study Group (NWTSG) collected information on exposure to residential pesticides from the month before pregnancy through the diagnosis reference date using detailed phone interviews from 523 case mothers and 517 controls frequency matched on child's age and geographic region and identified by list-assisted random digit dialing. Pesticides were grouped according to type of pesticide and where they were used.
A slightly increased risk of Wilms tumor was found among children of mothers who reported insecticide use [odds ratio (OR) = 1.4, 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.0-1.8; adjusted for education, income, and the matching variables]. Results from all other categories of pesticides were generally close to the null.
This study is the largest case-control study of Wilms tumor to date. We were unable to confirm earlier reports of an increased risk for Wilms tumor among those exposed to residential pesticides during pregnancy through early childhood.
In this study we compared neurobehavioral development in Ecuadoran children living in two communities with high potential for exposure to organophosphate (OP) and carbamate pesticides to that of children living in a community with low potential for exposure.
Women residing in the study communities who had a child 3-61 months of age completed a questionnaire about maternal and child health and sociodemographic characteristics. The Ages and Stages Questionnaire (ASQ) was administered to each child (n = 283). Growth measurements and a hemoglobin finger-prick blood test were obtained. We used multiple linear regressions to evaluate associations between community of residence and delayed development, adjusting for child health status and other characteristics of the home environment.
Children 3-23 months of age who resided in high-exposure communities scored lower on gross motor (p = 0.002), fine motor (p = 0.06), and socioindividual (p-value = 0.02) skills, compared with children in the low-exposure community. The effect of residence in a high-exposure community on gross motor skill development was greater for stunted children compared with non-stunted children (p = < 0.001) in the same age group of 3-23 months. Children 24-61 months of age residing in the high-exposure communities scored significantly lower on gross motor skills compared with children of similar ages residing in the low-exposure community (p = 0.06).
Residence in communities with high potential for exposure to OP and carbamate pesticides was associated with poorer neurobehavioral development of the child even after controlling for major determinants of delayed development. Malnourished populations may be particularly vulnerable to neurobehavioral effects of pesticide exposure.
1. Although lithium neurotoxicity and EEG disturbances are known to be associated with toxic plasma lithium levels, it may also be paradoxically manifested when plasma lithium levels are within the therapeutic range. 2. Plasma and RBC lithium and electrolytes levels were measured in 50 patients with affective disorders during the course of lithium therapy. Seventeen of them suffered from lithium neurotoxicity. 3. It is suggested that in the course of lithium treatment, in the manic and depressed phases as well as during prophylaxis, lithium ratio is a better correlate of lithium neurotoxicity than plasma lithium alone, even when the plasma lithium levels are within the therapeutic range. 4. In addition, an increase in the intra-erythrocyte sodium/potassium ratio was observed in toxic patients in comparison to non-toxic patients.
Exposure to 4,4'-diaminodiphenylmethane (DAPM) has been linked to jaundice, toxic hepatitis, cholangitis, and cholestasis. In rodents, DAPM initially injures biliary epithelial cells, and toxicity is greater in female than male rats. Our goal was to determine if gender differences in DAPM toxicity were due to differences in biliary excretion or covalent binding of DAPM metabolites in the liver. Bile duct-cannulated female and male Sprague-Dawley rats were gavaged with vehicle or with 25 or 50 mg [14C]DAPM/kg, and bile was collected for 6 h. Serum and bile indicators of hepatobiliary toxicity were assessed, and radioactivity was measured in bile, serum, urine, and liver. At the 25 mg/kg dose, serum parameters were elevated only in female rats, while increases in serum parameters were observed in both genders at the 50 mg/kg dose. In males rats, biliary constituents altered by DAPM [inorganic phosphate (Pi), glucose, gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT)] showed time- and dose-dependent responses. In female rats, however, biliary constituents showed either minimal dose-response effects (glucose), were increased equivalently at both doses (Pi), or were not altered by DAPM treatment (GGT). At the 50 mg/kg dose, liver alkaline phosphatase decreased in female but not male rats. Gender also affected the disposition of DAPM metabolites. At 25 mg DAPM/ kg, male rats had greater amounts of DAPM/metabolite in bile and liver, while females had greater amounts in serum and urine. These studies thus confirm that (1) DAPM is more toxic in female than male rats, and (2) gender has a significant effect on the disposition and biliary excretion of DAPM metabolites.
Chronic UV skin exposure leads to epidermal differentiation defects in humans that can be largely restored by pharmacological doses of nicotinic acid. Nicotinic acid has been identified as a ligand for the human G-protein-coupled receptors GPR109A and GPR109B that signal through G(i)-mediated inhibition of adenylyl cyclase. We have examined the expression, cellular distribution, and functionality of GPR109A/B in human skin and skin derived epidermal cells.
Nicotinic acid increases epidermal differentiation in photodamaged human skin as judged by the terminal differentiation markers caspase 14 and filaggrin. Both GPR109A and GPR109B genes are transcribed in human skin and in epidermal keratinocytes, but expression in dermal fibroblasts is below limits of detection. Receptor transcripts are greatly over-expressed in squamous cell cancers. Receptor protein in normal skin is prominent from the basal through granular layers of the epidermis, with cellular localization more dispersive in the basal layer but predominantly localized at the plasma membrane in more differentiated epidermal layers. In normal human primary and immortalized keratinocytes, nicotinic acid receptors show plasma membrane localization and functional G(i)-mediated signaling. In contrast, in a squamous cell carcinoma derived cell line, receptor protein shows a more diffuse cellular localization and the receptors are nearly non-functional.
The results of these studies justify future genetic and pharmacological intervention studies to define possible specific role(s) of nicotinic acid receptors in human skin homeostasis.
The emetic and catalepsy-inducing actions of buflomedil were studied in dog and mice. Oral administration of buflomedil (10-30 mg/kg) dose-dependently induced vomiting in dogs. On the other hand, the buflomedil-induced vomiting was inhibited by the pretreatment with domperidone (1 mg/kg, p.o.). A high dose of buflomedil (120-360 mg/kg, p.o.) induced catalepsy in mice, while a low dose of this agent (30-120 mg/kg, p.o.) had no enhancing effect on haloperidol-induced catalepsy. It was also found that the buflomedil-induced catalepsy was inhibited by the pretreatments with L-DOPA (300 mg/kg, i.p.) and bromocriptine (5 mg/kg, i.p.), respectively. These results suggest that buflomedil may induce emetic action as a dopamine agonist at a low dose, whereas it acts as a dopamine antagonist and a catalepsy inducer at a high concentration.
Methadone is associated with prolongation of the corrected QT interval (QTc) and torsade de pointes in case series, cross sectional studies, a prospective cohort study, and one randomized trial. It has recently been suggested that methadone promoted sudden cardiac death based on the absence of structural heart disease in an autopsy cohort. Given increasing data linking methadone to arrhythmia, clinicians must understand whether the relationship is causal, and if so, anticipate the expected frequency of QTc interval prolongation in their patients. To date has not been well characterized. To assess the impact of methadone on the QTc interval, electrocardiography at baseline and 6 months after methadone induction was evaluated from a previously published prospective cohort study of heroin addicts. Absolute increases above categorical QTc thresholds and the proportion with QTc interval increases exceeding 30 and 60 msec were tabulated. Among 151 subjects, 76% experienced an increase in QTc, whereas 24% had no change or a decrease. The proportion exceeding 450 msec increased from 7% at baseline to 19% at 6 months; those exceeding 500 msec increased from 0% to 2%. Although 18% of subjects had an increase in QTc of 30 msec, only 3% had an increase exceeding 60 msec. Most methadone-treated patients develop QTc prolongation. However, critical QTc prolongation (exceeding 500 msec or increases exceeding 60 msec) occurred infrequently. This highlights the heterogeneity of QTc interval changes and measurement variability but also implies that electrocardiography screening among opioid dependent patients would only occasionally require methadone discontinuation.
Following 10 daily pairings of multiple conditioned stimuli with injection of cocaine (15 mg/kg), the presentation of the stimuli alone elicited behaviors in rats similar to those induced by cocaine. The behaviors included increased duration or frequency of rearing, sniffing, head bobbing, and horizontal locomotor activity (crossing). The level of the conditioned response for several of these behaviors approximated that induced by the drug itself. The conditioned drug effect showed decay over 15 days but little extinction during 4 daily trials. Brain concentrations of the dopamine metabolites, homovanillic acid and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, were similar in the conditioned and pseudoconditioned control groups in both the caudate and mesolimbic areas. The behavioral results demonstrate that, in a classical conditioning paradigm, previously neutral stimuli can elicit behaviors similar to those induced by cocaine and that certain conditioned responses show time related decline. This agrees with the reported conditioning of amphetamine's behavioral effects but differs in terms of the action on brain dopamine turnover.
Enalapril maleate (MK-421) is a new non-sulfhydryl-containing converting-enzyme inhibitor that has been shown to be effective and well tolerated in patients with essential hypertension. Data on its effectiveness and safety in patients with renovascular hypertension are limited and have involved predominantly short-term observations. This is particularly true with respect to the long-term effects of enalapril on renal function. We report our experience using the combination of enalapril and hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) in a group of nine patients with moderate to severe hypertension associated with renal artery stenosis. The enalapril-HCTZ combination successfully controlled blood pressure in seven patients during a six-week period of study. Adverse effects were not noted, and detailed renal hemodynamic studies did not reveal any significant changes of renal plasma flow and glomerular filtration rate during this time interval. Five patients were continued on this regimen for a period of six to 18 months. In this group of patients, the regimen continued to be well tolerated and to provide excellent blood pressure control: glomerular filtration rate was maintained in two patients and variable grades of decrease were noted in three. The mechanism of this delayed renal dysfunction as well as its relationship to enalapril treatment remain unclear. The long-term impact of converting-enzyme inhibition on renal function requires further study.
Chronic hepatitis C-therapy is limited to the combined use of PEG-ylated interferons and ribavirin. Side effects of this therapy include retinal changes that manifest with bleeding, cotton wool spots and/or thrombosis.
A 51-year-old man presented with a sudden decrease of visual acuity. Chronic hepatitis C was known for the duration of 6 months and treated for 3 months with a combined therapy of PEG-interferon alpha2B and ribavirin. A sudden visual loss occurred in the right eye and bilateral visual field defects were detected. Ophthalmoscopic examination revealed bilateral papilloedema. After withdrawal of PEG-interferon alpha2B and ribavirin, a standard haemodilution therapy was started without functional improvement. After papilloedema regression, a beginning secondary atrophy of the optic nerve was diagnosed bilaterally. Vision did not improve.
The ocular side effects of combined hepatitis C therapy with PEG-interferon alpha2B and ribavirin range from mild retinal changes to severely impaired vision. Treatment should be carried out in co-operation with an ophthalmologist. With respect to the uncertain effectiveness of hepatitis C therapy with interferon alpha2B and ribavirin, therapy should be stopped as soon as severe ophthalmological complications occur.
This is the first prospective clinical trial in which patients with acute bacterial exacerbation of chronic bronchitis have been stratified by degree of underlying illness. Uncomplicated patients were randomised to levofloxacin 750 mg once daily (q.d.) for 3 days or azithromycin q.d. for 5 days. Complicated patients were randomised to levofloxacin 750 mg q.d. for 5 days or amoxicillin 875 mg/clavulanate 125 mg twice daily for 10 days. Regardless of therapy, complicated patients demonstrated lower clinical and microbiological success than uncomplicated patients. Clinical success for clinically evaluable patients was similar for levofloxacin and azithromycin (93.0 versus 90.1%, respectively), and levofloxacin and amoxicillin/clavulanate (79.2 versus 81.7%, respectively). For microbiologically evaluable patients, clinical response to levofloxacin for 3 days was superior to azithromycin for 5 days (96.3 versus 87.4%, respectively), and levofloxacin for 5 days was similar to amoxicillin/clavulanate for 10 days (81.4 versus 80.9%, respectively). Microbiological eradication was superior for levofloxacin for 3 days compared with azithromycin for 5 days (93.8 versus 82.8%, respectively), and similar for levofloxacin and amoxicillin/clavulanate for 10 days (81.4 versus 79.8%, respectively). In conclusion, levofloxacin 750 mg for 3 days was comparable to azithromycin for 5 days for uncomplicated patients with acute bacterial exacerbation of chronic bronchitis, while 5 days of 750 mg levofloxacin was comparable to 10 days of amoxicillin/clavulanate for complicated acute bacterial exacerbation of chronic bronchitis.
