Fifty-one patients with moderate (11/51) and severe (40/51) cancer pain were given a new non-narcotic analgesic -Tromadol HCL capsule (THC). In 42 of these patients, partial relief was obtained with an average relief time (ART) of 4.1 hours. The average starting time was 58 minutes. Pain relief rate (PRR) in moderate and severe pain was 82% (P = 0.945), and the ARTs were 7.4 hr. and 3.2 hr., respectively (P = 0.005). In 43 patients who were entered into a randomized study with control drugs of AT-237 (36 cases) or Anfendein (7 cases), the PRR was 60.4% (26/43), ART was 1.3 hours. The PRR and ART of THC and control drugs were statistically significant (P less than 0.001 and P = 0.023). Within adequate dose range, increase of THC dose could improve its analgesic effect (P = 0.011). The main side-effects were: somnolence (37.3%), nausea (35.3%), dizziness (33.3%), palpitation and anorexia (25.5%) and constipation (9.8%) which did not necessitate the suspension of THC administration.
The temporal relationship between convulsive seizures and the administration of beta-lactams has long been recognized. A specific form of seizures, nonconvulsive status epilepticus, is less common and is often manifested by alterations in mental status without associated seizures. It is most commonly encountered in uremic patients and poses a diagnostic challenge because of its nonspecific clinical manifestations. In this report, we describe a child with chronic renal failure who developed nonconvulsive status epilepticus on two separate occasions after administration of a third-generation cephalosporin. Awareness of this potentially treatable condition is crucial to ensure appropriate and prompt medical therapy. To our knowledge, this is the first report of cephalosporin-induced nonconvulsive status epilepticus in a child with chronic renal failure.
The secondary thrombocytopenia to heparin is not infrequently seen; nevertheless, the heparin-induced thrombocytopenia-thrombosis is much less frequent and associated to high mortality. We show one heparin induced thrombocytopenia-thrombosis syndrome with developed thrombi in the cardiac cavities. Its physiopathologic mechanism was reviewed, the importance of clinic suspicion in the presence of: thrombi in a rather unusual place, thrombi resistant to the common anticoagulant therapy, thrombosis repetition or thrombosis in a person with anticoagulant therapy by heparin. The complexity of its treatment, as well as the transesophageal echocardiography utility in diagnostics of thrombus on cardiac cavities, and its relationship with the reaction to the treatment, is discussed.
Coronary flow reserve (CFR) measurements have been widely used in assessing the functional significance of coronary artery stenosis because they are more sensitive in predicting major cardiac events than angiographically detected reductions of coronary arteries. Myocardial blood flow can be determined by measuring coronary sinus (CS) flow with velocity-encoded cine magnetic resonance imaging (VEC-MRI). The purpose of this study was to compare global myocardial blood flow (MBF) and CFR measured using VEC-MRI with MBF and CFR measured using positron emission tomography (PET). We measured MBF at baseline and after dipyridamole-induced hyperemia in 12 male volunteers with VEC-MRI and PET. With VEC-MRI, MBF was 0.64 +/- 0.09 (ml/min/g) at baseline and 1.59 +/- 0.79 (ml/min/g) at hyperemia, which yielded an average CFR of 2.51 +/- 1.29. With PET, MBF was 0.65 +/- 0.20 (ml/min/g) at baseline and 1.78 +/- 0.72 (ml/min/g) at hyperemia, which yielded an average CFR of 2.79 +/- 0.97. The correlation of MBFs between these two methods was good (r = 0.82, P < 0.001). The CFRs measured by MRI correlated well with those measured using PET (r = 0.76, P < 0.004). These results suggest that MRI is a useful and accurate method to measure global MBF and CFR. Therefore, it would be suitable for studying risk factor modifications of vascular function at an early stage in healthy volunteers.
Cochlear pathology resulting from neonatal administration of the aminoglycoside antibiotic, neomycin sulfate, was studied in young kittens at 15-24 days postnatal. Hearing thresholds showed severe to profound hearing loss in all but one animal. Scanning electron microscopy demonstrated that initial hair cell degeneration occurred in the extreme base (hook region) of the cochlea and sequentially progressed to the basal, middle, then the apical coil of the cochlea. The first row of outer hair cells degenerated first, followed by row 2, then row 3; the last cells to degenerate in a given region were the inner hair cells. This pattern of hair cell degeneration is similar to that seen in adults with neomycin ototoxicity. In contrast, the spiral ganglion exhibited a different pattern of degeneration with initial cell loss occurring in the middle of the cochlea, about 40-60% from the base (approximately 2.8-8 kHz). Thus, neuronal degeneration apparently is not secondary to sensory cell loss, but rather comprises an independent process in these neonatal animals. Taken together, the findings suggest that the spiral ganglion cell loss in the middle cochlear turn results from increased aminoglycoside sensitivity associated with an earlier initial onset of function in these neurons as compared to other cochlear regions.
The effect of 24,25(OH)2D3 on 1,25(OH)2D3-induced hypercalcemia was studied in normal rats. Serum (S) levels and urinary excretion of Ca2+ (UCaV) were measured in (a) control rats, (b) rats receiving a daily sc injection of 54 ng 1,25(OH)2D3, (c) rats receiving 24,25(OH)2D3 in the same dose and same manner, and (d) rats receiving 1,25(OH)2D3 + 24,25(OH)2D3. The animals were housed in metabolic cages and 24-hr urine specimens were collected. After 24 hr SCa2+ increased similarly with 1,25(OH)2D3 and with 1,25(OH)2D3 + 24,25(OH)2D3, while 24,25(OH)2D3 alone did not change SCa2+. UCaV after 24 hr increased significantly less (P less than 0.025) with 1,25(OH)2D3 + 24,25(OH)2D3 than with 1,25(OH)2D3 alone. After 5 days of 1,25(OH)2D3, SCa2+ rose from 5.1 +/- 0.15 to 6.29 +/- 0.08 whereas 1,25(OH)2D3 + 24,25(OH)2D3 effected a greater increase in SCa2+ up to 6.63 +/- 0.09 (P less than 0.01). 24,25(OH)2D3 alone did not change SCa2+. UCaV after 5 days of treatment rose similarly with 1,25(OH)2D3 and with 1,25(OH)2D3 + 24,25(OH)2D3. After 10 days of 1,25(OH)2D3 SCa2+ was 6.17 +/- 0.15 meq/liter while with the combination SCa2+ rose to 6.74 +/- 0.2 (P less than 0.025). 24,25(OH)2D3 alone did not change SCa2+. These results show that (a) 24,25(OH)2D3 alone does not alter SCa2+ in normal rats, (b) combined administration of 1,25(OH)2D3 + 24,25(OH)2D3 enhances the hypercalcemic response to 1,25(OH)2D3 without a parallel increase in UCaV, and (c) it is suggested that the effect of 24,25(OH)2D3 on serum Ca2+ level, at least partly, may result from its hypocalciuric effect.
There are occasional reports from Europe and North America of disulfiram-linked psychosis. But there are rare reports from Japan, because disulfiram and cyanamide are used as antidipsotropic agent in clinical practice and the former is not administered so frequently as the latter in Japan. The authors described delirium in a patient who was a 50-year-old male alcoholic. He gradually showed memory impairment, disorientation, impaired judgment and delusion. One month prior to his delirium, disulfiram 200 mg/day was administered. The clinical symptoms of delirium and slowing of the EEG in the diffuse region resolved 20 days after discontinuation of disulfiram.
A 44-year-old man with treated neurosyphilis presented with subclinical status epilepticus (SE) refractory to intravenous high-dose lorazepam, phenytoin, and valproic acid over 4 days. Ketamine infusion was instituted after low-dose propofol sedation with gradual control of electrographic seizures over 72h. Reevaluation 3 months later revealed diffuse cerebellar and worsened cerebral atrophy, consistent with animal models of N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist-mediated neurotoxicity. Animal studies of prolonged ketamine therapy are required before widespread human use in SE.
Cisplatin (CP) is a well-known chemotherapeutic drug that displays dose-limiting nephrotoxicity. In this study, tannic acid (TA), a naturally occurring plant polyphenol, was evaluated for its antioxidant and antigenotoxicity potential against the CP-induced renal oxidative stress and genotoxicity in Swiss albino mice. The mice were given a prophylactic treatment of TA orally at a dose of 40 and 80 mg/kg body weight (b wt) for 7 consecutive days before the administration of a single intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of CP at 7 mg/kg b wt. The modulatory effects of TA on CP-induced nephrotoxicity and genotoxicity were investigated by assaying oxidative stress biomarkers, serum kidney toxicity markers, DNA fragmentation, alkaline unwinding, micronuclei assay, and by histopathological examination of kidney architecture. CP administration altered the antioxidant levels, enhanced lipid peroxidation, induced DNA strand breaks, and altered the levels of micronuclei among polychromatic erythrocytes (PCEs) significantly (p < 0.001). Pretreatment of TA in mice showed significant (p < 0.001) recovery in antioxidant status, viz., reduced glutathione content and its dependent enzymes, quinone reductase and γ-glutamyl transpeptidase. TA significantly (p < 0.001) reinstated the normal serum levels of blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and creatinine. TA showed strongly inhibited (p < 0.001) micronuclei induction, DNA strand breaks, and DNA fragmentation. Thus, TA as a phytochemical protects kidneys through its antigenotoxic activity and antioxidant potential.
Rats treated with bezafibrate, a PPAR activator, gain less body weight and increase daily food intake. Previously, we have related these changes to a shift of thermogenesis from brown adipose tissue to white adipose tissue attributable to bezafibrate, which induces uncoupling proteins (UCP), UCP-1 and UCP-3, in rat white adipocytes. Nevertheless, UCP induction was weak, implying additional mechanisms in the change of energy homeostasis produced by bezafibrate. Here we show that bezafibrate, in addition to inducing UCPs, modifies energy homeostasis by directly inducing aco gene expression and peroxisomal fatty acid beta-oxidation in white adipose tissue. Further, bezafibrate significantly reduced plasma triglyceride and leptin concentrations, without modifying the levels of PPARgamma or ob gene in white adipose tissue. These results indicate that bezafibrate reduces the amount of fatty acids available for triglyceride synthesis in white adipose tissue.
MRXS5 or Pettigrew syndrome was described 20 years ago in a four generation family including nine affected individuals presenting with facial dysmorphism, intellectual disability, Dandy-Walker malformation and inconstant choreoathetosis. Four individuals had iron deposition in the basal ganglia seen on MRI or at autopsy. The mutation causing Pettigrew has remained elusive since the initial description of the condition. We report the identification of a mutation in the X-linked AP1S2 gene in the original Pettigrew syndrome family using X-chromosome exome sequencing. We report additional phenotype details for several of the affected individuals, allowing us to further refine the phenotype corresponding to this X-linked intellectual disability syndrome. The AP1S2 c.426+1 G>T mutation segregates with the disease in the Pettigrew syndrome family and results in loss of 46 amino acids in the clathrin adaptor complex small chain domain that spans most of the AP1S2 protein sequence. The mutation reported here in AP1S2 is the first mutation that is not predicted to cause a premature termination of the coding sequence or absence of the AP1S2 protein. Although most of the families affected by a mutation in AP1S2 were initially described as having different disorders assigned to at least three different OMIM numbers (MIM 300629, 300630 and 304340), our analysis of the phenotype shows that they are all the same syndrome with recognition complicated by highly variable expressivity that is seen within as well as between families and is probably not explained by differences in mutation severity.
Temocillin is a beta-lactamase-stable penicillin with a selective. Gram-negative spectrum of activity and a long half-life. Previous studies in adult patients have demonstrated its efficacy and safety in the treatment of Gram-negative infections. The aim of the study was to evaluate the clinical and bacteriological efficacy and safety of temocillin in children with complicated urinary tract infections. Twenty-two children, aged 3 months to 13 years (mean 5.8 years) were treated with temocillin i.v. at a dose of 25 mg/kg 12 hourly for a mean period of 5.9 days (range 3-12 days). Acute pyelonephritis was diagnosed in 21 patients (one case associated with septicaemia); one patient presented recurrent bacteriuria due to a multiresistant pathogen. Some 20/22 children presented an underlying condition complicating the urinary tract infection (UTl). The causative pathogens, isolated from the urine, were: E. coli (17), Proteus mirabilis (3), Enterobacter cloacae (1), enterococcus (1). The enterococcus and one Proteus mirabilis were found to be resistant to temocillin. Clinical improvement was obtained after 24-36 h in all children with temocillin-sensitive organisms. Bacteriological cure was obtained in all patients with temocillin-sensitive organisms. The two patients with temocillin-resistant pathogens were treated with another antibiotic. Follow-up treatment was given per os during +/- 2 weeks. No adverse reactions or abnormal laboratory values were noted. In the authors' limited experience temocillin proved to be effective and safe in the treatment of pyelonephritis often due to ampicillin-resistant strains in children.
The efficacy, renal effects and nephrotoxicity of a short course of treatment with azthreonam were evaluated in 11 adult patients with urinary tract infection. Azthreonam was administered for 5 days at a daily dose adjusted to the residual renal function of the patients. In the pre-treatment period, during treatment and 10 days after completion of therapy, urine cultures, urinalysis and routine renal function tests (clearance of creatinine, urea and uric acid) were performed and urinary enzymes (alanine-aminopeptidase, gamma-glutamyl-transpeptidase, N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase, lysozyme) were determined. Renal haemodynamics (glomerular filtration rate and effective renal plasma flow) were measured in the pretreatment period and on the 5th day of therapy. The results confirm the efficacy of azthreonam for treatment of urinary tract infection. Results of renal function tests and measurements of urinary enzymes remained unchanged during and after treatment with azthreonam. These data support the conclusion that azthreonam is an effective antimicrobial agent which does not influence renal function or cause nephrotoxic effects.
To evaluate the cysticidal effect of polyhexamethylene biguanide (PHMB) and chlorhexidine on Acanthamoeba and its toxic effect on cultured human keratocytes.
Each well of a twofold-diluted Acanthamoeba cyst-containing suspension of 5 x 10(4) cysts/mL was treated with PHMB and chlorhexidine for 8, 24, and 48 hours to determine the minimal cysticidal concentration (MCC) of each disinfectant. Human corneal keratocytes (5 x 10(4) cells/mL) were exposed to PHMB and chlorhexidine for the same time to determine the survival rate of keratocytes. Inverted phase-contrast and electron microscopy were used to observe the morphologic changes.
The mean MCC of PHMB for 8, 24, and 48 hours was 9.42, 5.62, and 2.37 microg/mL, respectively. The mean MCC of chlorhexidine for 8, 24, and 48 hours was 24.32, 10.02, and 7.02 microg/mL, respectively. The respective survival rate of keratocytes at the MCC was 91.7%, 64.6%, and 49.7% for PHMB and 95.7%, 90.6%, and 78.1% for chlorhexidine, respectively. The cysts and keratocytes showed more damaged appearances after treatment with PHMB than chlorhexidine.
PHMB and chlorhexidine showed a similar amoebicidal efficacy. However, PHMB seemed to be more toxic to keratocytes than chlorhexidine.
To review the more significant herbal and nutritional agents of clinical importance to ophthalmologists and describe the ocular side effects for each. World Health Organization (WHO) classification and guidelines for clinicians are provided.
Retrospective observational case series.
A retrospective observational case series of reports of ocular side effects or systemic side effects from medications used for the eye from herbal medicines and nutritional supplements. Cases were collected from spontaneous reports submitted to the WHO, the Food and Drug Administration, and the National Registry of Drug-Induced Ocular Side Effects. A review of the world's literature was performed to obtain additional case reports and insight into adverse ocular reactions. Data were collected on age, gender, duration of therapy, concomitant medications, dosage, and dechallenge and rechallenge results.
The National Registry of Drug-Induced Ocular Side Effects received 263 spontaneous reports, in addition to 60 case reports from the literature. Canthaxanthine, chamomile, Datura, Echinacea purpurea, Ginkgo biloba, licorice, niacin, and vitamin A are all associated with clinically significant ocular side effects.
Herbal medicines and nutritional supplements can cause ocular side effects. Clinicians need to recognize these adverse events, because a large segment of the population uses them, many times without the treating physician's knowledge.
Left ventricular hypertrophy involves growth of cardiomyocytes, as well as remodeling of extracellular matrix proteins (ECMPs). Several metabolic abnormalities may be triggered secondary to hyperglycemia in diabetes. The effects of combined supravalvular aortic banding and diabetes mellitus on the rat heart were investigated in order to detect possible synergistic effects of these two conditions. Moreover, this study focused on the impact of beta-adrenoceptor blockade with carvedilol (C) on the expression of ECMPs.
Sixty male Wistar rats were allocated to six groups: control (CON), CON+C, streptozotocin (65 mg/kg iv)-induced diabetes (D), D+C, aortic stenosis (AS)+D and AS+D+C. Follow-up was 6 weeks.
Relative left ventricular weight was elevated and body weight was decreased in D, AS+D and AS+D+C rats (P<.05 vs. CON). Diabetes elevated cardiomyocyte widths, perivascular/interstitial fibrosis (P<.01 each), as well as ECMPs: collagen I/fibronectin/laminin were 3.4-fold/4.1-fold/1.5-fold elevated in D rats and further increased (4.6-fold/5.9-fold/1.9-fold) in AS+D rats (P<.01 vs. CON). Heart rate and blood pressure decreased in D and AS+D rats (P<.05 vs. CON). Carvedilol application attenuated the overexpression of ECMPs.
Beta-adrenoceptor blockade results in regression of the hypertrophic phenotype and in decrease of ECMP in rats with experimental diabetes and in animals with combined chronic pressure overload and hyperglycemia. These results represent a new mechanism of carvedilol that may contribute to the observed beneficial effects in heart failure.
Keloids are benign dermal fibrotic tumors arising during the wound healing process. The mechanisms of keloid formation and development still remain unknown, and no effective treatment is available. Resveratrol, a dietary compound, has anticancer properties and, from recent studies, it has been suggested that resveratrol may have an antifibrogenic effect on organs such as the liver and kidney. Based on this idea, we investigated its effect on the regulation of extracellular matrix expression, proliferation, and apoptosis of keloid fibroblasts. Type I collagen, α-smooth muscle actin, and heat shock protein 47 expression decreased in resveratrol-treated keloid fibroblasts in a dose-dependent manner. In addition, resveratrol diminished transforming growth factor-β1 production by keloid fibroblasts. We also demonstrated that it suppressed their proliferation and induced apoptosis of the fibroblasts. Conversely, resveratrol did not decrease type I collagen, α-smooth muscle actin, and heat shock protein 47 mRNA expression in normal skin fibroblasts and barely suppressed cell proliferation. Our data indicate that resveratrol may have an antifibrogenic effect on keloid fibroblasts without any adversely effects on normal skin fibroblasts, suggesting the potential application of resveratrol for the treatment of keloids.
A 68-year-old man diagnosed with primary plasma-cell leukemia was given thalidomide maintenance treatment for his disease. He had previously failed induction therapy with cyclophosphamide, vincristine, adriamycin, and dexamethasone, but achieved complete remission after melphalan therapy. Multiple syncopal episodes started to occur during thalidomide treatment, and a Holter electrocardiogram showed multiple abnormalities, with an episode of sustained ventricular tachycardia.
Blood tests, peripheral blood smear, bone-marrow biopsy and aspirate, Holter electrocardiogram.
Sustained ventricular tachycardia possibly owing to thalidomide treatment.
Thalidomide withdrawal, dexamethasone maintenance therapy, monthly oral courses of combined melphalan and prednisone, salvage therapy with bortezomib.
Recent findings on the inhibition of angiogenesis and vascular endothelial cell proliferation by anthracycline antibiotics, which contain a quinone moiety, make this type of compound a very promising lead in cancer research/therapy. We have reported that a new cannabinoid anticancer quinone, cannabidiol hydroxyquinone (HU-331), is highly effective against tumor xenografts in nude mice. For evaluation of the antiangiogenic action of cannabinoid quinones, collagen-embedded rat aortic ring assay was used. The ability of cannabinoids to cause endothelial cell apoptosis was assayed by TUNEL staining and flow cytometry analysis. To examine the genes and pathways targeted by HU-331 in vascular endothelial cells, human cDNA microarrays and polymerase chain reaction were used. Immunostaining with anti-CD31 of tumors grown in nude mice served to indicate inhibition of tumor angiogenesis. HU-331 was found to be strongly antiangiogenic, significantly inhibiting angiogenesis at concentrations as low as 300 nM. HU-331 inhibited angiogenesis by directly inducing apoptosis of vascular endothelial cells without changing the expression of pro- and antiangiogenic cytokines and their receptors. A significant decrease in the total area occupied by vessels in HU-331-treated tumors was also observed. These data lead us to consider HU-331 to have high potential as a new antiangiogenic and anticancer drug.
Carbon disulfide (CS2) may lead to spontaneous abortion and very early pregnancy loss in women exposed in the workplace, but the mechanism remains unclear. We designed an animal model in which gestating Kunming strain mice were exposed to CS2 via i.p. on gestational day 4 (GD4). We found that the number of implanted blastocysts on GD8 was significantly reduced by each dose of 0.1 LD50 (157.85 mg/kg), 0.2 LD50 (315.7 mg/kg) and 0.4 LD50 (631.4 mg/kg). In addition, both the level of DNA damage and apoptosis rates of endometrial cells on GD4.5 were increased, showed definite dose-response relationships, and inversely related to the number of implanted blastocysts. The expressions of mRNA and protein for the Bax and caspase-3 genes in the uterine tissues on GD4.5 were up-regulated, while the expressions of mRNA and protein for the Bcl-2 gene were dose-dependently down-regulated. Our results indicated that DNA damage and apoptosis of endometrial cells were important reasons for the loss of implanted blastocysts induced by CS2.
Chronic morphine leads to dependence, tolerance, and neural apoptosis. Vitamin C inhibits the withdrawal syndrome in morphine-dependent subjects and prevents apoptosis in experimental models. Sodium-dependent vitamin C transporter (SVCT) type-2 is the main transporter for carrying vitamin C into the brain and neural cells. The mechanism(s) by which vitamin C inhibits morphine dependence in not understood. SVCT activity determines the vitamin C availably within the nervous system. We have examined the alterations in the expression of SVCT1, SVCT2, and its splice variants in morphine-tolerant rats. Morphine (20 mg/kg) was injected twice/day to male rats for either 7 or 14 days. The development of analgesic tolerance was assessed using tail-flick test. Lumbar spinal cord and the hippocampus were isolated for RNA extraction. Semiquantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction method was used to assess the levels of gene expression. Administration of morphine for 7 or 14 days reduced the expression level of SVCT2 in both hippocampus and dorsal lumbar spinal cord of rats. SVCT2 expression was reduced in vitamin C-, and vitamin C combined with morphine-treated animals. Results did not show SVCT2 splice variation. SVCT1 did not express in control or morphine-treated rats. It seems that reduced expression level of SVCT2 might be involved in the development of morphine side effects such as tolerance and dependency.
A 41-year-old-man without previous ischemic heart disease, developed a severe anaphylactic reaction. After administration of epinephrine (0.5 mg) the patient complained of chest pain. The electrocardiogram showed an elevation of ST segment in inferior leads. Myocardial necrosis was ruled out. Coronary arteriography disclosed normal coronary arteries. Eight months later, the patient developed severe chest pain during physical activity. ST elevation was again seen in inferior leads. ECG changes disappeared, when sublingual nitroglycerin was administered. A diagnosis of vasospastic angina was made. Exercise test was negative, during treatment with calcium-blocking agents. The patient subsequently remain free of symptoms taking medication. The physiological mechanisms of vasospastic angina and precipitating factors are discussed.
This study was aimed to investigate the effects and the mechanism of mangiferin on chronic myeloid leukemia cell lines K562 cells in vitro. The antiproliferation effects of mangiferin on K562 leukemia cells were tested by tetrazolium salt (MTT) method; the apoptosis induced by mangiferin on K562 cell line was explored by means of cell morphology, DNA gel electrophoresis and flow cytometry. The changes in bcr/abl gene expression was detected by using reverse transcriptase (RT)-PCR. The results showed that five different concentrations of mangiferin (25 - 200 micromol/L) dose-dependently and time-dependently inhibited the proliferation of K562 cells, and induced apoptosis in K562 cell line. RT-PCR revealed that bcr/abl gene expression was down-regulated when K562 cells had been treated with different concentrations of mangiferin. In conclusion, mangiferin remarkably inhibits the proliferation of K562 leukemia cells in vitro, and induces apoptosis in K562 cell line probably through down-regulation of bcr/abl gene expression.
I have encountered 50 patients with clinical thrombophlebitis involving the lower extremites, with or without associated edema and pulmonary embolism, in whom longstanding self-medication with large amounts of vitamin E appeared to be a significant factor. The majority improved following cessation of vitamin E. In view of the epidemic nature of thrombophlebitis and deep vein thrombosis in the United States, the presumed innocuousness of vitamin E therapy requires reevaluation. Other clinical side effects also have been noted in patients receiving large doses of vitamin E. They include breast tenderness, elevation of blood pressure, a fatigue syndrome, myopathy, intestinal cramps, urticaria, and the possible aggravation of diabetes mellitus. The influence of concomitant metabolic, endocrine, and cardiovascular disorders on the thrombogenic potential of vitamin E is raised, and several possible mechanisms conducive to thrombophlebitis are reviewed.
Pyomyositis is a purulent infection of skeletal muscle characterized by fever, localized muscle pain and stiffness, swelling and tenderness. Hematological disorder is one of the predisposing conditions for the development of pyomyositis. A 54-year-old man developed methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus pyomyositis during drug-induced pancytopenia. Debridement of the infection foci combined with antimicrobial agents proved effective even in the advanced stage of the disease. In patients with hematological disorders, pyomyositis should be considered when evaluating local myalgia and high fever because this disease can be very difficult to identify and can become rapidly progressive under a myelosuppressive condition.
The effect of certain amino acids and amino acid derivatives on cell proliferation have been studied in the author's Institute for more than 25 years. The optically active forms of arginine, lysine, aspartic acid and glutamic acid influence the growth of transplantable rat tumors. L-arginine, D-lysine, L-aspartic acid and D-glutamic acid promoted; D-aspartic acid, L-glutamic acid, D-arginine and L-lysine inhibited tumour growth. E-amino trimethyl-lysine (TML) stimulated cell proliferation in various cell systems (bone marrow, small intestine, cultured lymphocytes). When administered simultaneously with high doses of Cyclophosphamide, Vincristin or Doxorubicin to tumour-bearing mice, TML decreased the toxicity of the antitumour drugs, resulting in a higher rate of survivors. L-leucine methyl ester caused cell death of mouse peritoneal macrophages by inducing disruption of macrophages.
