We determine the rate of adverse effects associated with the use of intravenous (IV) epinephrine by infusion for the treatment of severe asthma in the emergency department (ED).
This retrospective, structured, medical record review included adult patients who presented to the ED of Western Hospital between 1998 and 2003 and who were triaged as category 1, 2, or 3, had a discharge diagnosis of asthma, and were administered IV epinephrine in the ED. Patients were excluded if they were older than 55 years or if a diagnosis of asthma was not confirmed. The primary outcome measures were occurrence of cardiac arrhythmia or ischemia, local tissue ischemia, hypotension or hypertension, neurologic injury, or death related to epinephrine infusion.
Two hundred twenty episodes of care met the inclusion criteria. Adverse events occurred in 67 episodes (30.5%; 95% confidence interval [CI] 24.5% to 37.1%); however, most were minor and self-limiting. There were no deaths. Major adverse events occurred in 3.6% of cases (8/220; 95% CI 1.7% to 7.3%), including 2 cases of supraventricular tachycardia, 1 case of chest pain with ECG changes, 1 case of incidental elevated troponin, and 4 cases of hypotension requiring intervention.
IV epinephrine is associated with a low rate of major and a moderate rate of minor adverse events in patients with severe asthma; however, a causal relationship has not been established. Further research investigating effectiveness, as well as safety, is warranted.
Environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) has adverse effects on the health of asthmatics, however the harmful consequences of ETS in relation to asthma severity are unknown.
In a multicenter study of severe asthma, we assessed the impact of ETS exposure on morbidity, health care utilization and lung functions; and activity of systemic superoxide dismutase (SOD), a potential oxidative target of ETS that is negatively associated with asthma severity.
From 2002-2006, 654 asthmatics (non-severe 366, severe 288) were enrolled, among whom 109 non-severe and 67 severe asthmatics were routinely exposed to ETS as ascertained by history and validated by urine cotinine levels. ETS-exposure was associated with lower quality of life scores; greater rescue inhaler use; lower lung function; greater bronchodilator responsiveness; and greater risk for emergency room visits, hospitalization and intensive care unit admission. ETS-exposure was associated with lower levels of serum SOD activity, particularly in asthmatic women of African heritage.
ETS-exposure of asthmatic individuals is associated with worse lung function, higher acuity of exacerbations, more health care utilization, and greater bronchial hyperreactivity. The association of diminished systemic SOD activity to ETS exposure provides for the first time a specific oxidant mechanism by which ETS may adversely affect patients with asthma.
A severe motor and a minor sensory neuropathy developed in a man being treated with dapsone (4,4'-diaminodiphenylsulfone) for dermatitis herpetiformis. He had received dapsone for 16 years before any signs of neurotoxicity became evident. Electrodiagnostic and clinical features were consistent with an axonal neuropathy. Clinical characteristics of dapsone-induced neuropathy include a motor neuropathy affecting the extremities, usual onset within five years after the initiation of dapsone therapy, dapsone dosage usually equal to or greater than 300 mg/day, and, almost always, complete recovery from the neuropathy after dapsone-dose reduction or withdrawal. The patient was found to be a slow acetylator of sulfamethazine, and therefore is a slow acetylator of dapsone. An HLA typing was done on the patient. New cases of dapsone-induced neuropathy should be HLA typed and have acetylation profiles in an attempt to identify future high-risk patients. This case is noteworthy for the length of time of dapsone usage (16 years) and the low daily dosage of dapsone (100 mg) taken prior to the development of neuropathy.
Metabolic bioactivation, glutathione depletion, and covalent binding are the early hallmark events after acetaminophen (APAP) overdose. However, the subsequent metabolic consequences contributing to APAP-induced hepatic necrosis and apoptosis have not been fully elucidated. In this study, serum metabolomes of control and APAP-treated wild-type and Cyp2e1-null mice were examined by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) and multivariate data analysis. A dose-response study showed that the accumulation of long-chain acylcarnitines in serum contributes to the separation of wild-type mice undergoing APAP-induced hepatotoxicity from other mouse groups in a multivariate model. This observation, in conjunction with the increase of triglycerides and free fatty acids in the serum of APAP-treated wild-type mice, suggested that APAP treatment can disrupt fatty acid beta-oxidation. A time-course study further indicated that both wild-type and Cyp2e1-null mice had their serum acylcarnitine levels markedly elevated within the early hours of APAP treatment. While remaining high in wild-type mice, serum acylcarnitine levels gradually returned to normal in Cyp2e1-null mice at the end of the 24 h treatment. Distinct from serum aminotransferase activity and hepatic glutathione levels, the pattern of serum acylcarnitine accumulation suggested that acylcarnitines can function as complementary biomarkers for monitoring the APAP-induced hepatotoxicity. An essential role for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha) in the regulation of serum acylcarnitine levels was established by comparing the metabolomic responses of wild-type and Ppara-null mice to a fasting challenge. The upregulation of PPARalpha activity following APAP treatment was transient in wild-type mice but was much more prolonged in Cyp2e1-null mice. Overall, serum metabolomics of APAP-induced hepatotoxicity revealed that the CYP2E1-mediated metabolic activation and oxidative stress following APAP treatment can cause irreversible inhibition of fatty acid oxidation, potentially through suppression of PPARalpha-regulated pathways.
To examine the association between pesticide use during pregnancy and gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) among wives of licensed pesticide applicators.
Using data from the Agricultural Health Study (AHS), we estimated the association between self-reported pesticide-related activities during the first trimester of the most recent pregnancy and GDM among 11,273 women whose pregnancy occurred within 25 years of enrollment.
A total of 506 (4.5%) women reported having had GDM. Women who reported agricultural pesticide exposure (mixing or applying pesticides to crops or repairing pesticide application equipment) during pregnancy were more likely to report GDM (odds ratio [OR] 2.2 [95% CI 1.5-3.3]). We saw no association between residential pesticide exposure (applying pesticides in the home and garden during pregnancy) and GDM (1.0 [0.8-1.3]). Among women who reported agricultural exposure during pregnancy, risk of GDM was associated with ever-use of four herbicides (2,4,5-T; 2,4,5-TP; atrazine; or butylate) and three insecticides (diazinon, phorate, or carbofuran).
These findings suggest that activities involving exposure to agricultural pesticides during the first trimester of pregnancy may increase the risk of GDM.
It is reported that the most abundant polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) in weathered crude oils are cardiotoxic. However, the action mechanism of PAHs on vertebrate cardiovascular development and disease is unclear. In the present study, the cardiac morphology and functioning of zebrafish embryos exposed to benzo[a]pyrene [B(a)P], as a high-ring PAHs, for 72 h were observed and determined. The results showed that B(a)P exposure resulted in cardiac developmental defects in zebrafish embryos. Significant changes in expression level of multiple genes potentially critical for regulating the B(a)P-induced cardiovascular developmental defects were also found. A gene network regulating cardiac development perturbed by B(a)P exposure was identified and established by computational analysis and employment of some databases. The information from the network could provide a clue for further mechanistic studies explaining molecular events regulating B(a)P-mediated cardiovascular defects and consequences.
Epidemiological studies suggest that dietary n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) may protect against dry eye. This study aimed to evaluate whether a dietary deficiency in n-3 PUFAs may increase the severity of the pathology in a scopolamine-induced model of dry eye in the rat.
Lewis rats of three consecutive generations were bred under a balanced diet or a diet deprived of n-3 PUFAs. Dry eye was experimentally induced by continuous scopolamine delivery in female animals from the third generation of both groups. After 10 days of treatment, the clinical signs of ocular dryness were evaluated in vivo using fluorescein staining. MHC II and the rat mucin rMuc5AC were immunostained on ocular sphere cryosections. The transcript levels of the pro-inflammatory cytokines interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α and interferon (IFN)-γ were quantified in the exorbital lacrimal glands (LG) and in the conjunctiva using reverse transcription followed by polymerase chain reaction. Lipids were extracted from the exorbital LG for fatty acid analysis of the phospholipids using gas chromatography.
When compared to control animals, the scopolamine treatment induced an increase in the cornea fluorescein staining score (from 0.5 ± 0.0 to 2.5 ± 1.0 arbitrary units (AU) for the balanced diet and from 1.2 ± 0.8 to 2.6 ± 0.5 AU for the n-3 PUFA-deficient diet); a decrease in rMuc5AC immunostaining in the conjunctival epithelium (-34% for the balanced diet and -23% for the n-3 PUFA-deficient diet); an increase in the LG transcript levels of TNF-α for the balanced diet and of TNF-α and IFN-γ for the deficient diet; an increase in the conjunctival transcript levels of IL-1β and IL-6 for the deficient diet; an increase in arachidonic acid (AA) and in the ∆5-desaturase index (ratio of AA to dihomo-gamma-linolenic acid) in the exorbital LG for both diets. When compared to the balanced diet, the n-3 PUFA-deficient diet induced an increase in the LG transcript levels of IL-6 for the control animals and of TNF-α for the control and dry eye animals as well as an increase in the conjunctival transcript levels of IL-6 for the dry eye animals. There was no significant diet difference in fluorescein staining, rMuc5AC, and MHC II immunostaining scores.
Our data suggest that an n-3 PUFA deficiency does not increase the severity of dry eye in a rat model of dry eye.
We report a case of restless legs syndrome that improved after intravenous magnesium sulfate administration. A 34-year-old gravida 1 para 0 woman, with a 13-year history of restless legs syndrome, was prescribed bed rest due to pre-term labor at 26 weeks. While at rest, the subject experienced severe restless legs syndrome. The subject was later admitted to the hospital for pre-term labor. Treatment for pre-term labor included intravenous magnesium sulfate. RLS symptoms completely resolved during treatment, beginning the first day of administration. Studies involving intravenous magnesium treatment for restless legs syndrome have not included pregnant women. The authors propose that intravenous magnesium sulfate may alleviate restless legs syndrome in some pregnant women.
The risk of toxic effects on the heart of bupivacaine following several kinds of locoregional anaesthesia has been investigated in the dog in situ heart by determining conduction time and effective refractory period in the various parts of the conduction system and the ventricular muscle, as well as the discharge rate of the sinus node. Bupivacaine, i.v. infused at 3 rates, 0.2, 0.3 and 0.4 mg X kg-1 X min-1, proved to have depressant effects on conduction, automatism and excitability. It slows down conduction in all the parts of the myocardium, considerably at high stimulation frequencies, but always much more in the His-Purkinje system and the ventricular contractile fibres than in the atrioventricular node, because it tends to block the sodium rather than the calcium or potassium channel. Its effect remain more moderate, indeed, on sinus automatism and atrial and mainly ventricular refractoriness. Its danger lies, therefore, in the inhibition of conduction, with atrioventricular or His bundle branch block, but more frequently reentrant arrhythmias, likely to result in ventricular fibrillation. However: these alterations are observed with very high plasma levels (about 4 to 9 micrograms X ml-1), much higher than usual peak concentrations following spinal anaesthesia (0.10 micrograms X ml-1) or even epidural anaesthesia or brachial plexus block (1.20 micrograms X ml-1); reversal of these alterations occurs rapidly (reduction by 50% within 30 min for instance), when they have not led to ventricular fibrillation or they have not been associated with circulatory collapse.
Symptomatic hyperlactataemia and lactic acidosis (SHLA) are potentially life-threatening complications associated with stavudine (d4T), an antiretroviral therapy (ART) drug widely used in developing countries.
Cases comprised all symptomatic patients with measured lactates >or= 5 mmol/L referred to a South African hospital between August 2003 and November 2005. Matched controls were selected according to facility and duration on ART.
Seventy-one cases and 142 controls were included in the study. The majority of cases presented between 6 and 18 months on ART. Female sex [adjusted odds ratio (AOR) 23.4; 95% confidence interval (CI) 4.0-136.6], a baseline weight between 60 and 75 kg (AOR 4.5; 95% CI 1.4-14.1) or, in particular, >or= 75 kg (AOR 19.4; 95% CI 4.1-82.5) at ART initiation and gaining >or= 6 kg in the first 3 months on therapy (AOR 3.5; 95% CI 1.3-9.5) were independent risk factors identifying patients who may subsequently develop SHLA. Weight loss of >or= 2 kg (AOR 6.1; 95% CI 2.0-18.3), a rise in alanine aminotransferase (ALT) >or= 10 U/L (AOR 3.1; 95% CI 1.1-8.9), the presence of at least one of three major symptoms (vomiting, nausea and abdominal pains) of SHLA (AOR 12.6; 95% CI 3.3-47.2) and peripheral neuropathy (AOR 3.4; 95% CI 1.1-9.8) were the clinical parameters that were most able to identify patients with early manifestations of SHLA.
This is the first case-control study for SHLA in Southern Africa. Given these findings, we advise that stavudine is avoided in overweight women. Weight loss, a rise in ALT, peripheral neuropathy and/or gastrointestinal symptoms should prompt healthcare workers to assess for SHLA, especially at between 6 and 18 months on ART.
Propofol is associated with a high incidence of injection pain in children, even if given together with lidocaine. A new lipid formulation of etomidate (Etomidate-Lipuro) has been found in adults to cause very little discomfort during i.v. injection. The aim of the present prospective, double-blind, randomized trial was to compare the incidence of injection pain during i.v. induction of anaesthesia between propofol with added lidocaine (previous standard) and this new etomidate formulation in paediatric patients.
A total of 110 paediatric patients, aged 2-16 years, scheduled for outpatient surgery were planned to be included in the study. The primary end point of the study was the incidence of injection pain during induction of anaesthesia as assessed by a four-point scale as described previously. The occurrence of myoclonic muscular activity was registered as a secondary end point (four-point scale). An interim analysis after 80 patients was requested by the Ethics' Committee.
The study was stopped after the inclusion of 80 patients. A significantly lower incidence of injection pain was found in the Etomidate-Lipuro group as compared with the propofol-lidocaine group (5.0% vs 47.5%, P<0.001). The use of etomidate was associated with a significantly higher incidence of myoclonic activity compared with propofol-lidocaine (85.0% vs 15%, P<0.001).
The use of a new lipid formulation of etomidate is associated with significantly less injection pain than propofol with added lidocaine in children. This finding may warrant a change in clinical practice in order to avoid unnecessary pain in children.
The biochemical effect of S-1,3-butanediol on streptozotocin induced diabetic rats was studied. Rats were made diabetic by the intraperitoneal injection of 40 mg/kg body weight streptozotocin in sodium citrate buffer. A dosage of 25 mmol/kg body weight of S-1,3-butanediol was injected intraperitoneally for treatment. The streptozotocin induced diabetic rats showed a marked increase in blood glucose level, and significant increase in the level of cholesterol, triglycerides and free fatty acids. The glycogen levels in liver and kidney were greatly decreased in diabetic rats. Treatment with butanediol normalised the glucose and glycogen level but had no significant effect on protein and lipid levels.
This study examined the hypothesis that headache after general anesthesia is related to a caffeine withdrawal state. Two hundred eighty-seven patients undergoing minor elective procedures under general anesthesia were studied. Four to six hours after anesthesia each patient completed a questionnaire assessing his or her own alcohol, tobacco, and caffeine consumption, and the occurrence of postoperative side effects. A highly significant difference was found between the caffeine consumption of patients with and without preoperative (P = 0.0035) and postoperative (P less than 0.0001) headache. Logistic regression analysis of trend between headache and caffeine consumption suggested that with each 100-mg increase in caffeine consumption, there was a 12% increase in the odds of headache developing in the immediate preoperative period (P less than 0.0066) and a 16% increase in the odds of postoperative headache developing (P less than 0.0001). No relationship was found between headache and the patients' age, sex, usual frequency of headache, consumption of alcohol or nicotine, or the anesthetic agents or adjuvants used. It is concluded that postoperative headache is related to caffeine intake and that this relationship is explained, at least in part, by a perioperative caffeine withdrawal syndrome.
Tacrolimus inhibits T-lymphocyte activation and dermal Langerhans' cells, without the side-effects of corticosteroids. The safety profile of tacrolimus makes it a promising therapeutic option for dermatitis affecting the delicate periorbital skin.
To access the efficacy and tolerability of tacrolimus ointment 0.1% in the treatment of allergic contact eyelid dermatitis.
Twenty adults (16 women, 4 men) with eyelid dermatitis and with at least one positive patch test reaction to relevant contact allergens were treated with topical tacrolimus in a prospective, open-label, non-comparative clinical study. Dermatitis was graded at baseline, at day 30 and day 60, using a 4-point grading system for the following parameters: erythema, oedema, scaling, lichenification, fissuring (investigator assessment) and burning/stinging and pruritus (patient assessment).
All patients completed the study. Erythema, oedema, scaling and lichenification showed improvement from baseline to 30 days of treatment ( P < 0.001), but fissuring was not significantly affected. At 60 days, no further improvement of these investigator parameters was observed. Patient parameters improved significantly by day 30 ( P < 0.004) and there was a trend for further improvement at the end of 60 days (for burning, P = 0.046; for pruritus, P = 0.059). Ten per cent of patients mentioned burning and itching, at the application site, during the first days of treatment. No other adverse events were observed.
Topical tacrolimus is a promising alternative in patients with allergic contact eyelid dermatitis. Therapy was effective by 1 month and was well tolerated. These preliminary results merit a larger, controlled, study.
Genetic hemochromatosis is one of the most common genetic disorders, with progressive tissue iron overload leading to severe clinical complications. In Northern European populations, genetic hemochromatosis is usually caused by homozygosity for the C282Y mutation in the HFE protein. However, penetrance of this mutation is incomplete, suggesting that other genetic and environmental factors contribute to its differential biologic or clinical expression.
To identify genes modifying iron homeostasis, we screened the 27 recombinant congenic strains of the C3H/DiSnA-C57BL/10ScSnA/Dem series for tissue and serum iron indices and genotyped 18 microsatellite markers in (C3H/DiSnA x HcB-2) F2 hybrid mice.
We identified 1 locus encompassing the Ceruloplasmin (Cp) gene with a strong linkage with liver iron, serum iron, and transferrin levels but not with spleen iron. Sequencing of Cp showed an R435X nonsense mutation in exon 7 in C3H/DiSnA mice. To evaluate whether Cp might act as a modifier gene of genetic hemochromatosis, we intercrossed C3H Hfe(-/-) and C3HDiSnA Cp(R435X/R435X) mice. As expected, we found that double-mutant mice deposited more iron in the liver than mice defective for either one or both genes. In contrast, Hfe(-/-) x Cp(R435/R435X) or Cp(R435X/R435X) x Hfe(+/-) showed 30% decrease in liver iron when compared with single mutant mice.
This study highlights the existence of complex interactions between Cp and HFE and represents the first example of a modifier gene with a protective effect, in which heterozygosity reduces the iron load in the context of HFE deficiency.
The use of prophylactic phenobarbital to reduce motor activity and intraventricular hemorrhage was investigated in a controlled exploratory trial with 19 low birthweight premature infants with respiratory disease. Although phenobarbital significantly suppressed movement, it was associated with an increased incidence of intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH). Phenobarbital-treated infants were over eight times more likely to experience IVH than were untreated infants. These data indicate that inhibition of motor activity by phenobarbital may not alleviate the key pathogenetic factors in IVH.
The present study was performed to understand the characteristics of septal kindling in rats, especially the efficacies of antiepileptic drugs in comparison with amygdala kindling.
Under pentobarbital anesthesia, rats were fixed to a stereotaxic apparatus, and electrodes were implanted into the right frontal cortex, the hippocampus, the lateral septal and the amygdala. Electrodes were connected to a miniature receptacle, which was embedded in the skull with dental cement. Bipolar stimulation was applied to the lateral septal or the amygdala every day until a generalized seizure was obtained. Carbamazepine (CBZ), zonisamide (ZNS) and clobazam (CLB) were orally administered to fully kindled rats.
A considerable number of stimulations was required to establish septal-kindled seizures. In addition, wet dog shakes were observed during the septal kindling procedure, different from amygdala kindling. The oral administration of CBZ, ZNS and CLB caused a dose-dependent inhibition both of seizure stage and after-discharge (AD) duration of septal-kindled seizures. CBZ and ZNS caused a more potent inhibition of septal-kindled seizures than amygdala kindled seizures, whereas CLB inhibited both septal and amygdala kindled seizures to almost the same extent.
Septal kindling was confirmed to possess some characteristics, which were evidently different from that of amygdala kindling. In addition, it was demonstrated that septal kindling was also available as a model for the evaluation of antiepileptic drugs.
In order to obtain the additional benefit of anti-diabetic activity and protective effects of liver injury for diabetes, the anti-diabetic effect and acute oral toxicity of a combination of chromium(III) malate complex (Cr(2)(LMA)(3)) and propolis were assessed. The anti-diabetic activity of the combination of the Cr(2)LMA(3) and propolis was compared with Cr(2)(LMA)(3) and propolis alone in alloxan-induced diabetic mice by daily oral gavage for a period of 2 weeks. Acute oral toxicity of the combination of the Cr(2)LMA(3) and propolis was tested using ICR mice at the dose of 1.0-5.0 g/kg body mass by a single oral gavage and observed for a period of 2 weeks. The results of the anti-diabetic activity of the combination from the aspects of blood glucose level, liver glycogen level, and the activities of aspartate transaminase, alanine transaminase, and alkaline phosphatase indicated that the increased anti-diabetic activity and the protective efficacy of liver injury for diabetes were observed. In acute toxicity study, LD(50) (median lethal dose) value for the combination was greater than 5.0 g/kg body mass. The combination of Cr(2)LMA(3) and propolis might represent the nutritional supplement with potential therapeutic value to control blood glucose and exhibit protective efficacy of liver injury for diabetes and non-toxicity in acute toxicity.
Intravenous ketamine dissociation anesthesia combined with epinephrine solution infiltration may provoke serious tachyarrhythmias despite diazepam premedication and the use of minimal doses of both drugs. We use a dose of 0.5 mg of ketamine per kilogram of body weight to induce a short period of amnesia and analgesia, which enables us to infiltrate the operative field with lidocaine and epinephrine solution in a 1:200,000 or 1:400,000 concentration. In about 20% of the patients we encountered significant transient tachycardia and elevation of blood pressure, which required no treatment; however, in 2 of our patients, serious arrhythmias occurred that required drug conversions. Such a problem was not encountered with the use of epinephrine alone in patients without a predisposing condition, nor when ketamine in these small doses was used in other large series.
Perinatal transmission of hepatitis B can be interrupted by the administration of hepatitis B vaccine and hepatitis B globulin to the infants of carrier mothers. Universal screening of pregnant women makes this strategy possible.
To evaluate the implementation of universal hepatitis B surface antigen screening of women giving birth at Kings County Hospital Center during 1988, we reviewed laboratory records to find all women with a positive test result who might give birth. We also randomly reviewed records of women who gave birth to live infants to determine the percentage of screening in the population. Infants' charts were reviewed for documentation of maternal hepatitis B surface antigen status and administration of hepatitis B immune globulin and vaccine.
Sixty infants who lived long enough to receive antihepatitis B prophylaxis were distinguished out of a total of 5146 births. Screening was done for from 66.8% to 80.4% (95% confidence interval) of the mothers of these infants. Although 44 of 60 infants received hepatitis B immune globulin and 39 of 60 infants received vaccine, only 27 of 60 received vaccine within 12 hours in combination with immune globulin (Centers for Disease Control-recommended therapy).
Documentation of hepatitis B surface antigen in the infant's delivery room record was present in 23 of 60 infants. Those infants all received hepatitis B immune globulin and vaccine; 21 received hepatitis B immune globulin within 12 hours. Hepatitis B immune globulin was given within 12 hours to 8 of 37 infants who lacked documentation of hepatitis B surface antigen status on the delivery room record. These differences were highly significant (p less than 0.001) even when only the 40 patients who had documented prenatal screening at Kings County Hospital Center (21/23 vs 4/17). Prenatal care did not have any effect on outcome.
Congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) is an anomaly associated with pulmonary hypoplasia and pulmonary hypertension (PH). The limited efficacy of current approaches to treat PH in CDH, including inhaled nitric oxide (NO), drives the search for other therapies. Phosphodiesterases (PDEs) degrade cyclic nucleotide second messenger cAMP and cGMP downstream of NO thereby limiting the vasodilatory response to NO.
To identify therapeutic targets by cataloguing the expression and function of PDE isoforms in the pulmonary vasculature in nitrofen-induced CDH in fetal rats.
Quantitative RT-PCR revealed PDE1-5 and PDE9 mRNA expression in pulmonary arteries (PAs) of control and nitrofen-induced CDH term fetal rats. In this order of potency, the PDE inhibitors Sildenafil (PDE5) > EHNA (PDE2) > Rolipram (PDE4) > Cilostamide (PDE3) all dilated isolated third generation PA after pre-constriction with the thromboxane analog U46619. Hyperoxic pre-incubation of PAs significantly attenuated vasodilatation induced by the PDE5 inhibitor Sildenafil (65% vs. 33%, P < 0.004). CDH PAs dilated significantly less to PDE2 inhibitor EHNA compared to control (51% vs. 72%, P < 0.05). Subsequently PDE2 protein expression was higher in PAs of CDH animals.
Most PDE isoforms exist in the PAs of fetal rats and their inhibition causes pulmonary vasodilatation. PDE5 inhibition was the most potent vasodilator, however, there were no differences between groups. PDE5-induced vasodilatation was attenuated by hyperoxic pre-incubation. PDE inhibitors might be considered therapeutic targets in combination with iNO in neonates with CDH.
Apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease (Ap endo) is a key DNA repair activity that confers resistance to radiation- and alkylator-induced cytotoxic abasic sites in human cells. We assayed apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease activity in medulloblastomas and primitive neuroectodermal tumors (PNET) to establish correlates with tumor and patient characteristics and with response to adjuvant radiation plus multiagent chemotherapy.
Ap endo activity was assayed in 52 medulloblastomas and 10 PNETs from patients 0.4 to 21 years old. Ape1/Ref-1, the predominant human Ap endo activity, was measured in 42 medulloblastomas by immunostaining. Cox proportional hazards regression models were used to analyze the association of activity with time to tumor progression (TTP).
Tumor Ap endo activity varied 180-fold and was significantly associated with age and gender. Tumor Ape1/Ref-1 was detected almost exclusively in nuclei. In a multivariate model, with Ap endo activity entered as a continuous variable, the hazard ratio for progression after adjuvant treatment in 46 medulloblastomas and four PNETs increased by a factor of 1.073 for every 0.01 unit increase in activity (P < or = 0.001) and was independent of age and gender. Suppressing Ap endo activity in a human medulloblastoma cell line significantly increased sensitivity to 1,3-bis(2-chlororethyl)-1-nitrosourea and temozolomide, suggesting that the association of tumor activity with TTP reflected, at least in part, abasic site repair.
Our data (a) suggest that Ap endo activity promotes resistance to radiation plus chemotherapy in medulloblastomas/PNETs, (b) provide a potential marker of treatment outcome, and (c) suggest clinical use of Ap endo inhibitors to overcome resistance.
Nonsteroidal, anti-inflammatory drugs have been implicated in causing acute renal failure of several distinct patterns. We report a case of reversible acute renal failure associated with indomethacin therapy. Renal function recovered upon cessation of indomethacin treatment. Renal biopsy disclosed the presence of tubulointerstitial nephritis which was thought to have been responsible for the acute renal failure in this patient. Following presentation of this unusual side effect within the wide spectrum of renal and electrolyte disorders related to nonsteroidal, anti-inflammatory agents, we recommend that kidney function indices should be frequently tested in patients receiving indomethacin.
Stroke is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in major industrial countries. Many factors contribute to the cellular damage resulting from ischemia-reperfusion (I-R). Growing evidence indicates that reactive oxygen species (ROS) contribute significantly to this process, though their exact mechanism of action is mostly unknown. We have examined the mechanism of protection against I-R injury in transgenic mice that overexpress human glutathione peroxidase (hGPx1), using a focal cerebral I-R model. In this model, transgenic animals show significant reduction of necrotic as well as apoptotic cell death in vulnerable brain regions as demonstrated by TUNEL staining, DNA laddering and ELISA assays. We also observed decreased astrocytic and microglial activation in ischemic brains of animals overexpressing hGPx1. In wild-type mice, neuronal cell death was accompanied with compromise of vascular integrity, edema and neutrophil infiltration, whereas GPx1 mice revealed significant preservation of tissue structure and decreased infiltration of acute inflammatory cells. These results indicate that glutathione peroxidase-sensitive ROS play an important role in regulation of cell death during cerebral I-R as well as in brain inflammatory reactions.
Treatment with cyclosporine may be associated with adverse central nervous system (CNS) effects as well as with the potentiation of effects of certain other drugs. In particular, theophylline-induced seizures, which are often fatal and occur unpredictably over a wide range of serum theophylline concentrations, may be precipitated. To study this interaction, adult rats that were injected with cyclosporine or placebo (50 mg/kg in a single dose or on each of four consecutive days) received a constant infusion of theophylline (2 mg/min iv) until the onset of maximal seizures. At that time, blood, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and brain tissue samples were obtained for theophylline concentration determinations by HPLC, as well as for measurement of several biochemical parameters in the serum. Consecutive cyclosporine administration (but not a single dose) reduced serum protein levels. There was a small increase in theophylline sensitivity after a single dose of cyclosporine. The CSF theophylline concentrations at the onset of seizures were 215 +/- 10 vs 202 +/- 5 mg/L (P < 0.04); however, sequential cyclosporine treatment resulted in significant lowering of the CSF theophylline concentrations required to produce convulsions (231 +/- 8 vs 191 +/- 10, P < 0.001). Likewise, the drug concentrations at the onset of convulsions in both the brain and serum were significantly lower in cyclosporine-treated rats than in control animals. Thus, cyclosporine treatment may be a predisposing factor for theophylline toxicity and increase the risk for generalized seizures.
To evaluate 1) the hemorrheologic and hemodynamic effects of glyceryl trinitrate in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and 2) the influence of antioxidants on these effects.
Case-control study.
University hospital clinic.
40 patients with diabetes and no evidence of cardiovascular complications and 40 controls matched for demographic variables and body habitus.
Sublingual glyceryl trinitrate (0.3 mg) and transdermal glyceryl trinitrate patches (10 mg/d). Vitamin E, 300 mg/d orally for 7 days, and glutathione, 600 mg intravenously or intramuscularly, were given to test the effects of antioxidant supplementation.
Systolic, diastolic, and mean arterial pressure and heart rate; left ventricular ejection fraction; platelet aggregation, blood viscosity, and blood filterability in vitro and ex vivo.
Compared with controls, patients with diabetes had increased platelet aggregation to adenosine diphosphate (P < 0.005), increased blood viscosity (P < 0.001), and decreased blood filterability (P = 0.041) at baseline; blood pressure, heart rate, and ejection fraction were similar in the two groups. In controls, both sublingual glyceryl trinitrate and transdermal glyceryl trinitrate patches significantly reduced platelet aggregation (-38%; 95% CI, -49% to -27%) and blood viscosity (-8%; CI, -11% to -5%) and increased blood filterability (10%; CI, 7.0% to 13.1%). Slight but significant decreases in blood pressure and ejection fraction and an increase in heart rate were also seen in controls after administration of glyceryl trinitrate (both preparations). In patients with diabetes, glyceryl trinitrate paradoxically increased platelet aggregation (24%; CI, 15% to 33%) and blood viscosity (6%; CI, 2.9% to 8.8%) and decreased blood filterability (-7%; CI, -9.5% to -4.4%); hemodynamic values did not change significantly. In both groups, rheologic responses to glyceryl trinitrate (end concentration, 100 and 200 ng/mL) in vitro were similar to those seen in ex vivo studies. Vitamin E and glutathione normalized rheologic responses to glyceryl trinitrate in patients with diabetes.
Organic nitrates have beneficial effects on blood rheology in controls but not in patients with diabetes, in whom a paradoxical deterioration is seen. Antioxidant supplementation can normalize primary tolerance to the rheologic effects of nitrates in diabetes.
Glomerulosclerosis and tubulointerstitial fibrosis are the hallmarks of chronic renal diseases. In the present study, we have investigated the potential involvement of various proteinases in these alterations in the model of puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) nephrosis. Two groups of male Wistar rats were given either three or seven injections of PAN (2.0 mg/100 g body weight) over a 4- and 12-week period, respectively. The two control groups received saline injections. Activities of cathepsins (B, H and L) were determined in isolated glomeruli and proximal tubules. Moreover, collagenase-like and gelatinase-like activities were analyzed in isolated glomeruli. Three weeks after weekly PAN injection, the rats developed heavy proteinuria (140.8+/-22.0 vs. 13.5+/-3.29 mg/day; p<0.001), and at week 11 protein excretion reached 606.6+/-23.00 vs. 22.8+/-1.5 mg/day. Renal morphology revealed minimal glomerular mesangial changes at the 4th week after PAN administration. At the 12th week a marked mesangial matrix accumulation as well as severe tubulointerstitial infiltration and fibrosis associated with tubular dilation and atrophy were observed. Glomerular cathepsins B, H, and L and gelatinase-like activities decreased at the 4th week after the first PAN injection and remained at this low level throughout the entire study period. Glomerular collagenase-like activity decreased at the 4th week (p<0.05) and was still mildly lower than that of the control group at the 12th week, but without significance. In the isolated proximal tubules, the activities of cathepsins B, H, and L showed the same pattern of decreases as those found in the glomeruli over the whole experimental period. Taken together, our data in the model of chronic PAN nephrosis suggest that the suppressed activities of cathepsins as well as the decreased gelatinase- and collagenase-like activities participate in the accumulation of extracellular matrix and thereby may contribute to the development of glomerulosclerosis and tubulointerstitial fibrosis.
