The p40 subunit of IL-12 (IL-12p40), but not the heterodimeric form IL-12p70, is secreted during the development of silica-induced lung fibrosis in C57BL/6 mice. To delineate the contribution of IL-12p40 to the lung inflammatory and fibrotic processes, we compared the pulmonary responses with silica particles of IL-12p35-deficient mice (IL-12p35(-/-), able to produce IL-12p40) and IL-12p40-deficient mice (IL-12p40(-/-)). IL-12p35(-/-) and IL-12p40(-/-) animals developed strikingly contrasting responses to silica in comparison with wild-type C57BL/6 mice. Although the IL-12p40(-/-) mice exhibited limited inflammatory and fibrotic reactions, the IL-12p35(-/-) mice presented a robust and well-developed pulmonary inflammation and fibrosis. Furthermore, the silica-induced increase in lung IL-12p40 content was significantly higher in IL-12p35(-/-) mice than in wild-type controls, and was associated with extensive lung fibrosis and pulmonary macrophage infiltration. The contrasting responses observed between these two IL-12 subunit-deficient murine strains were not accompanied by a strict type 1 or type 2 polarization as estimated by the measurements of lung IFN-gamma/IgG2a and IL-4/IgG1 content. In vitro proliferation, type I collagen expression, as well as myofibroblast differentiation of purified pulmonary fibroblasts were not affected by treatment with exogenous rIL-12p40. In vivo, supplementation with rIL-12p40 restored the impaired pulmonary fibrotic response and macrophage accumulation in silica-treated IL-12p40(-/-) mice, and also promoted fibrosis and macrophage influx in wild-type mice. Together, our data suggest that IL-12p40 plays an important role in silica-induced pulmonary inflammation and fibrosis, possibly by exacerbating macrophage recruitment.
Macroautophagy is an essential degradative pathway that can be induced to clear aggregated proteins, such as those found in Parkinson's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies, a form of Parkinsonism. This study found that both LC3-II and beclin were significantly increased in brains from humans with Dementia with Lewy bodies and transgenic mice overexpressing mutant alpha-synuclein, as compared with respective controls, suggesting that macroautophagy is induced to remove alpha-syn, particularly oligomeric or mutant forms. Aged mutant animals had higher autophagy biomarker levels relative to younger animals, suggesting that with aging, autophagy is less efficient and requires more stimulation to achieve the same outcome. Disruption of autophagy by RNA interference significantly increased alpha-syn oligomer accumulation in vitro, confirming the significance of autophagy in alpha-syn clearance. Finally, rotenone-induced alpha-syn aggregates were cleared following rapamycin stimulation of autophagy. Chronic rotenone exposure and commensurate reduction of metabolic activity limited the efficacy of rapamycin to promote autophagy, suggesting that cellular metabolism is critical for determining autophagic activity. Cumulatively, these findings support the concept that neuronal autophagy is essential for protein homeostasis and, in our system, reduction of autophagy increased the accumulation of potentially pathogenic alpha-synuclein oligomers. Aging and metabolic state were identified as important determinants of autophagic activity. This study provides therapeutic and pathological implications for both synucleinopathy and Parkinson's disease, identifying conditions in which autophagy may be insufficient to degrade alpha-syn aggregates.
A 62-year-old man visited our clinic for dental implantation under intravenous sedation. He demonstrated increased psychomotor activity and incomprehensible verbal contact during intravenous sedation. Although delirium caused by midazolam or propofol in different patients has been reported, the present case represents a delirium that developed from both drugs in the same patient, possibly because of the patient's smaller tolerance to midazolam and propofol.
The induction characteristics of propofol 2.0-2.5 mg kg-1 were compared with those of thiopentone 4-5 mg kg-1 in 60 fit children aged between 3 and 16 yr. All patients received i.m. premedication with papaveretum 0.4 mg kg-1 (maximum dose 15 mg) and hyoscine 0.008 mg kg-1 (maximum dose 0.3 mg). Seven children (24%) complained of pain after injection with propofol, compared with three (10%) after thiopentone. No child in either group complained of severe pain. Excitatory effects were observed in 10 children (33%) receiving propofol as opposed to five children (16%) after thiopentone, but these were transient and minor and all occurred after completion of injection. Apnoea lasting longer than 30 s occurred in only four children (13%) in each group despite the use of opioid premedication. The mean duration of apnoea was similar in both groups. Propofol caused greater decreases in arterial pressures (systolic, diastolic, mean) than thiopentone, but only the difference in systolic arterial pressure achieved significance. There was a significant difference in heart rate, which did not change after propofol, but increased with thiopentone. The overall quality of induction was assessed as being good in all children receiving thiopentone compared with 20 (66%) of those receiving propofol.
Renal failure and hepatic failure are important risk factors for persistent effects of vecuronium. We report a case in which vecuronium therapy after cardiac arrest led to prolonged paralysis due to severe renal and hepatic dysfunction not apparent until after vecuronium therapy. Biochemical and electrophysiologic examinations confirmed that neuromuscular blockade due to accumulation of one active metabolite of vecuronium was the primary cause of the patient's paralysis. This case highlights the importance of recognizing progressive renal and hepatic dysfunction after cardiac arrest when contemplating treatment with vecuronium.
Oxidative stress plays an important role in the progression of diabetes complications. The aim of the present study was to investigate the beneficial effect of oral administration of mangiferin in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats by measuring the oxidative indicators in liver and kidney as well as the ameliorative properties. Administration of mangiferin to diabetic rats significantly decreased blood glucose and increased plasma insulin levels. The activities of antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and level of reduced glutathione (GSH) were significantly (P < 0.05) decreased while increases in the levels of lipidperoxidation (LPO) markers were observed in liver and kidney tissues of diabetic control rats as compared to normal control rats. Oral treatment with mangiferin (40 mg/kg b.wt/day) for a period of 30 days showed significant ameliorative effects on all the biochemical and oxidative parameters studied. Diabetic rats treated with mangiferin restored almost normal architecture of liver and kidney tissues, which was confirmed by histopathological examination. These results indicated that mangiferin has potential ameliorative effects in addition to its antidiabetic effect in experimentally induced diabetic rats.
The purpose of this study is to assess the independent effect of epidural chloroprocaine on morphine used for pain relief after cesarean delivery.
We used a randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled trial.
The study took place at the labor and delivery ward of an academic medical center.
Forty pregnant women undergoing elective cesarean delivery under spinal-epidural anesthesia.
Patients were randomized to receive either 150 mg of 3% chloroprocaine or placebo, followed by 3 mg of epidural morphine.
The primary outcome for this investigation was the duration of pain relief after morphine administration, defined as the time at first use of supplemental opioids for analgesia. Secondary outcomes included pain scores, blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate, anesthetic sensory level, nausea and vomiting, pruritus, supplemental use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications, and satisfaction.
The groups were similar in demographics and duration of spinal anesthesia. Using Kaplan-Meier survival analysis of the duration of morphine analgesia, we found no difference between the groups (chloroprocaine, 1191 minutes, vs placebo, 1267 minutes, P = 0.52). There was no difference in pain scores or the need for supplemental analgesics. Side effects of epidural morphine were similar between the groups.
We found that epidural chloroprocaine did not reduce the duration or effectiveness of postoperative analgesia from epidural morphine.
A case of rhabdomyolysis-induced acute renal failure secondary to overdosage with the beta 2-adrenoceptor agonist terbutaline is described. This is a previously undocumented association. We propose that the hyperkinetic effects of intense beta-receptor stimulation may induce rhabdomyolysis.
Exposure to aluminum (Al) produces neurotoxic effects in humans. However, the molecular mechanism of Al neurotoxicity remains unknown. Al interferes with glutamatergic neurotransmission and impairs the neuronal glutamate-nitric oxide-cyclic GMP (cGMP) pathway, especially in rats prenatally exposed to Al. The aim of this work was to assess whether Al interferes with processes associated with activation of NMDA receptors and to study the molecular basis for the Al-induced impairment of the glutamate-nitric oxide-cGMP pathway. We used primary cultures of cerebellar neurons prepared from control rats or from rats prenatally exposed to Al. Prenatal exposure to Al prevented glutamate-induced proteolysis of the microtubule-associated protein-2, disaggregation of microtubules, and neuronal death, indicating an impairment of NMDA receptor-associated signal transduction pathways. Prenatal exposure to Al reduced significantly the content of nitric oxide synthase and guanylate cyclase and increased the content of calmodulin both in cultured neurons and in the whole cerebellum. This effect was selective for proteins of the glutamate-nitric oxide-cGMP pathway as the content of mitogen-activated protein kinase and the synthesis of most proteins were not affected by prenatal exposure to Al. The alterations in the expression of proteins of the glutamate-nitric oxide-cGMP pathway could be responsible for some of the neurotoxic effects of Al.
Anabolic androgenic steroids are used by some bodybuilders to enhance performance. While the cardiovascular implications of supraphysiological androgen levels requires further clarification, use is associated with sudden death, left ventricular hypertrophy, thrombo-embolism and cerebro-vascular events.
To further understand the effect of androgenic anabolic steroid abuse on vascular function, this study assessed vascular stiffness (pulse-wave analysis) and cardiovascular risk factors in 28 male, bodybuilding subjects, of whom ten were actively receiving anabolic agents (group A; 26.4 +/- 7.2 years) and eight had undergone a 3-month "wash-out" period (group B; 32.1 +/- 7.1 years). The remaining ten bodybuilding subjects (group C; 24.4 +/- 4.4 years) denied any past use of anabolic steroids or other performance enhancing drugs. Comparisons were made with ten sedentary male controls (group D, 29.3 +/- 4.7 years).
Endothelial independent dilatation in response to glycerol trinitrate was significantly impaired in the group currently using anabolic steroids (group A) compared with the other three groups [A (5.63 +/- 3.24%) versus; B (11.10 +/- 4.91%), C (17.88 +/- 9.2%) and D (14.46 +/- 3.9%), P < 0.0005, respectively], whereas no significant differences in endothelial-dependent dilatation were detected between the groups [A (5.0 +/- 3.0%), B (7.4 +/- 3.4%), C (9.6 +/- 4.5%) and D (8.2 +/- 3.3%), P < 0.059, respectively].
Previous studies described a decline in vascular reactivity occurring in bodybuilding subjects which is independent of anabolic steroid use and may result from smooth muscle hypertrophy with increased vascular stiffness. This study revealed impaired vascular reactivity associated with anabolic agents and that improvement in vascular function may occur following their discontinuation.
We describe a male patient who developed systemic sclerosis following orchiectomy, radiotherapy and anti-androgenic treatment for prostatic adenocarcinoma. This case appears interesting as it further supports the possibility of a relationship between neoplasia and systemic sclerosis. The concurrence of scleroderma and iatrogenic hypoandrogenism suggests that hormonal influences may also play a role in the pathogenesis of this connective tissue disorder.
DIG-MSK (demycarosyl-3D-β-D-digitoxosyl-mithramycin SK) is a recently isolated compound of the mithramycin family of antitumor antibiotics, which includes mithramycin A (MTA) and mithramycin SK (MSK). Here, we present evidence that the binding of DIG-MSK to DNA shares the general features of other mithramycins such as the preference for C/G-rich tracts, but there are some differences in the strength of binding and the DNA sequence preferentially recognized by DIG-MSK. We aimed at gaining further insights into the DIG-MSK mechanism of action by direct comparison with the effects of the parental MTA. Similar to MTA, MSK and DIG-MSK accumulated rapidly in A2780, IGROV1 and OVCAR3 human ovarian cancer cell lines, and DIG-MSK was a potent inhibitor of both basal and induced expression of an Sp1-driven luciferase vector. This inhibitory activity was confirmed for the endogenous Sp1 gene and a set of Sp-responsive genes, and compared to that of MTA and MSK. Furthermore, DIG-MSK was stronger than MTA as inhibitor of Sp3-driven transcription and endogenous Sp3 gene expression. Differences in the effects of MTA, MSK and DIG-MSK on gene expression may have a large influence on their biological activities.
Autism is a severe neurodevelopmental disorder with potential genetic and environmental causes. Cerebellar pathology including Purkinje cell atrophy has been demonstrated previously. We hypothesized that cell migration and apoptotic mechanisms may account for observed Purkinje cell abnormalities. Reelin is an important secretory glycoprotein responsible for normal layering of the brain. Bcl-2 is a regulatory protein responsible for control of programmed cell death in the brain. Autistic and normal control cerebellar corteces matched for age, sex, and post-mortem interval (PMI) were prepared for SDS-gel electrophoresis and Western blotting using specific anti-Reelin and anti-Bcl-2 antibodies. Quantification of Reelin bands showed 43%, 44%, and 44% reductions in autistic cerebellum (mean optical density +/- SD per 30 microg protein 4.05 +/- 4.0, 1.98 +/- 2.0, 13.88 +/- 11.9 for 410 kDa, 330 kDa, and 180 kDa bands, respectively; N = 5) compared with controls (mean optical density +/- SD per 30 microg protein, 7.1 +/- 1.6, 3.5 +/- 1.0, 24.7 +/- 5.0; N = 8, p < 0.0402 for 180 kDa band). Quantification of Bcl-2 levels showed a 34% to 51% reduction in autistic cerebellum (M +/- SD per 75 microg protein 0.29 +/- 0.08; N = 5) compared with controls (M +/- SD per 75 microg protein 0.59 +/- 0.31; N = 8, p < 0.0451). Measurement of beta-actin (M +/- SD for controls 7.3 +/- 2.9; for autistics 6.77 +/- 0.66) in the same homogenates did not differ significantly between groups. These results demonstrate for the first time that dysregulation of Reelin and Bcl-2 may be responsible for some of the brain structural and behavioral abnormalities observed in autism.
Symptoms of cognitive impairment during smoking withdrawal can be ameliorated by nicotine replacement. To define brain mechanisms contributing to this therapeutic effect, we conducted a functional connectivity analysis of resting-state fMRI in 17 abstinent smokers following nicotine replacement in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover design. We found that individual differences in cognitive withdrawal symptom improvements after nicotine replacement were associated with increased inverse coupling between executive control and default mode brain networks. Furthermore, improvements in withdrawal symptoms were negatively correlated with altered functional connectivity within the default mode network, and with connectivity between the executive control network and regions implicated in reward processing. These findings demonstrate that nicotine administration in abstinent smokers modulates dynamic interactions between large-scale cognitive brain networks in the resting state. We specifically highlight the role of midline and prefrontal network regions in the neurocognitive response to nicotine pharmacotherapy and suggest that altered functional connectivity patterns of these networks reflect their engagement in reward and salience processing during smoking withdrawal. Individual differences in resting brain functional connectivity may predict therapeutic outcomes in nicotine addiction and other conditions associated with cognitive impairments.
Autism is a neurodevelopmental disability characterized by deficits in verbal communications, impairments in social interactions, and repetitive behaviors. Several studies have indicated strong involvement of multigenic components in the etiology of autism. Linkage analyses and candidate gene search approaches so far have not identified any reliable susceptibility genes. We are using a proteomic approach to identify protein abnormalities due to aberrant gene expression in autopsied autism brains. In four of eight autism brains, we have found an increase in polarity (more acidic) of glyoxalase I (Glo1) by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. To identify the molecular change resulting in the shift of Glo1 polarity, we undertook sequencing of GLO1 gene. Direct sequencing of GLO1 gene/mRNA in these brains, has identified a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), C419A. The SNP causes an Ala111Glu change in the protein sequence. Population genetics of GLO1 C419A SNP studied in autism (71 samples) and normal and neurological controls (49 samples) showed significantly higher frequency for the A419 (allele frequency 0.6 in autism and 0.4 in controls, one-tailed Fisher's test P < 0.0079). Biochemical measurements have revealed a 38% decrease in Glo1 enzyme activity in autism brains (one-tailed t-test P < 0.026). Western blot analysis has also shown accumulation of advanced glycation end products (AGE's) in autism brains. These data suggest that homozygosity for A419 GLO1 resulting in Glu111 is a predisposing factor in the etiology of autism.
The 5-HT1A receptor site has been demonstrated to be an important pharmacological target in the modulation of unconditioned behavioral effects induced by cocaine. In this study, separate groups of rats (n=7) received a series of the 5-HT1A agonist treatments, 8-OHDPAT (0.2,0.4 mg/kg) in combination with saline or cocaine (10 mg/kg). Using a crossover design, the treatments were subsequently switched to the 5-HT1A antagonist, WAY 100635 (0.4,0.8 mg/kg) and then, switched back again to 8-OHDPAT (0.2,0.4 mg/kg). When the 8-OHDPAT was given in combination with cocaine, locomotion was substantially enhanced but when the treatment was switched to WAY 100635, the cocaine induced locomotion was suppressed. Neither the 8-OHDPAT or WAY 100635 given with saline affected locomotion as compared to saline treated animals. These findings indicated a reciprocal facilitatory/inhibitory influence of 5-HT1A agonists/antagonists upon cocaine induced locomotion. The 8-OHDPAT treatments, however, did not enhance all cocaine behavioral responses. Initially, 8-OHDPAT suppressed cocaine induced rearing and central zone entry, but with repeated treatments, these response suppression effects subsided. As a consequence, the facilitative influence of 8-OHDPAT upon cocaine induced locomotion could not be attributed to response redistribution effects. While WAY 100635 markedly reduced cocaine induced locomotion and rearing to nearly saline response levels, the same WAY 100635 treatments did not modify locomotor stimulant effects induced by caffeine (10 mg/kg). In that caffeine stimulant effects are not directly linked to serotonergic mechanisms, the absence of an influence of WAY 100635 upon caffeine induced locomotor stimulation lent further support to the proposition that the 5-HT1A receptor site contributes to locomotor behavior in situations where the serotonergic system is pharmacologically activated by drugs such as cocaine. These findings point to a potential role for 5-HT1A antagonists in treatment of cocaine abuse.
Idiosyncratic adverse drug reactions (IADRs) occur in a small subset of patients, are unrelated to the pharmacological action of the drug, and occur without an obvious relationship to dose or duration of drug exposure. The liver is often the target of these reactions. Why they occur is unknown. One possibility is that episodic inflammatory stress interacts with the drug to precipitate a toxic response. We set out to determine if lipopolysaccharide (LPS) renders mice sensitive to trovafloxacin (TVX), a fluoroquinolone antibiotic linked to idiosyncratic hepatotoxicity in humans and if the cytokine tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha) is involved in the development of liver injury. Male mice were treated with a nontoxic dose of TVX followed 3 h later by a nonhepatotoxic dose of LPS. Coexposure to TVX and LPS led to a significant increase in liver injury as determined by plasma alanine aminotransferase activity and histopathological examination. In contrast, coexposure of mice to LPS and levofloxacin (LVX), a fluoroquinolone without liability for causing IADRs in humans, was not hepatotoxic. Measurements of TNFalpha concentration in the plasma revealed a significant, selective increase in TVX/LPS-treated mice at times prior to and at the onset of liver injury. Treatment with either pentoxifylline to inhibit TNFalpha transcription or etanercept to inhibit TNFalpha activity significantly reduced TVX/LPS-induced liver injury. The results suggest that the model in mice is able to distinguish between drugs with and without the propensity to cause idiosyncratic liver injury and that the hepatotoxicity is dependent on TNFalpha.
Opioids are known to induce respiratory depression. We aimed to characterize in rats the effects of four opioids on arterial blood gases and plethysmography after intraperitoneal administration at 80% of their LD(50) in order to identify opioid molecule-specific patterns and classify response severity. Opioid-receptor (OR) antagonists, including intravenous 10 mg kg(-1)-naloxonazine at 5 min [mu-OR antagonist], subcutaneous 30 mg kg(-1)-naloxonazine at 24 h [mu1-OR antagonist], subcutaneous 3 mg kg(-1)-naltrindole at 45 min [delta-OR antagonist], and subcutaneous 5 mg kg(-1)-Nor-binaltorphimine at 6 h [kappa-OR antagonist] were pre-administered to test the role of each OR. Methadone, morphine, and fentanyl significantly decreased PaO(2) (P<0.001) and increased PaCO(2) (P<0.05), while buprenorphine only decreased PaO(2) (P<0.05). While all opioids significantly increased inspiratory time (T(I), P<0.001), methadone and fentanyl also increased expiratory time (T(E), P<0.05). Intravenous 10 mg kg(-1)-naloxonazine at 5 min completely reversed opioid-related effects on PaO(2) (P<0.05), PaCO(2) (P<0.001), T(I) (P<0.05), and T(E) (P<0.01) except in buprenorphine. Subcutaneous 30 mg kg(-1)-naloxonazine at 24 h completely reversed effects on PaCO(2) (P<0.01) and T(E) (P<0.001), partially reversed effects on T(I) (P<0.001), and did not reverse effects on PaO(2). Naltrindole reversed methadone-induced T(E) increases (P<0.01) but worsened fentanyl's effect on PaCO(2) (P<0.05) and T(I) (P<0.05). Nor-binaltorphimine reversed morphine- and buprenorphine-induced T(I) increases (P<0.001) but worsened methadone's effect on PaO(2) (P<0.05) and morphine (P<0.001) and buprenorphine's (P<0.01) effects on pH. In conclusion, opioid-related respiratory patterns are not uniform. Opioid-induced hypoxemia as well as increases in T(I) and T(E) are caused by mu-OR, while delta and kappa-OR roles appear limited, depending on the specific opioid. Regarding severity of opioid-induced respiratory effects at 80% of their LD(50), all drugs increased T(I). Methadone and fentanyl induced hypoxemia, hypercapnia, and T(E) increases, morphine caused both hypoxemia and hypercapnia while buprenorphine caused only hypoxemia.
4-demethoxy-3'-deamino-3'-aziridinyl-4'-methylsulphonyl-daunorubicin (PNU-159548) belongs to a novel class of antitumor compounds (termed alkycyclines) and is currently undergoing Phase II clinical trial. In the present study, we investigated the in vitro and in vivo antitumor activity, the pharmacokinetics, and the toxicological profile of this compound. PNU-159548 showed good cytotoxic activity in murine and human cancer cells growing in vitro, with an average concentration for 50% growth inhibition of 15.8 ng/ml. The drug showed strong antitumor efficacy in vivo after i.v. and p.o. administration against rapidly proliferating murine leukemias and slowly growing transplantable human xenografts. At non-toxic doses, PNU-159548 produced complete regression and cures in ovarian, breast, and human small cell lung carcinomas. Fourteen of 16 models studied, including colon, pancreatic, gastric, and renal carcinomas, astrocytoma and melanoma, were found to be sensitive to PNU-159548. In addition, PNU-159548 was effective against intracranially implanted tumors. Toxicological studies revealed myelosuppression as the main toxicity in both mice and dogs. The maximum tolerated doses, after a single administration, were 2.5 mg/kg of body weight in mice, 1.6 mg/kg in rats, and 0.3 mg/kg in dogs. In the cyclic studies, the maximum tolerated doses were 0.18 mg/kg/day (cumulative dose/cycle: 0.54 mg/kg) in rats and 0.05 mg/kg/day (cumulative dose/cycle: 0.15 mg/kg) in dogs. PNU-159548 showed minimal cardiotoxicity, when compared with doxorubicin in the chronic rat model at a dose level inducing similar myelotoxicity. Animal pharmacokinetics, carried out in mice, rats, and dogs, was characterized by high volumes of distribution, plasma clearance of the same order of the hepatic blood flow, and short terminal half-life. These findings support the conclusion that PNU-159548 is an excellent candidate for clinical trials in the treatment of cancer.
Dietary administration of 0.1, 0.05, or 0.025% 2-amino-3-methylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (IQ) for two weeks combined with partial hepatectomy at the end of the first week and followed by long-term treatment with phenobarbital (PB) or 3'-methyl-4-dimethylaminoazobenzene (3'-Me-DAB) from week 3 to week 86 resulted in dose-dependent development of liver and thyroid neoplastic and preneoplastic lesions. Quantitation of glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P)-positive hepatocellular focal populations revealed a significant correlation of IQ concentration with lesion area, with a yield approximately equal to that generated by a similar dose of 2-acetylaminofluorene. The fact that IQ was less toxic therefore allowed greater yields of hepatocellular carcinomas to be induced. The development of thyroid tumors initiated by the IQ treatment was significantly enhanced by the administration of PB, whereas Zymbal gland tumors induced by IQ did not show any correlation with either PB or 3'-Me-DAB treatment.
To date, no in vitro test is suitable for routine diagnosis of contact allergy. The aim of our study was to establish improved in vitro test protocol for the detection of antigen-specific responses of lymphocytes from patients with allergic contact dermatitis to nickel (Ni-ACD). Blood leucocytes from 14 Ni-ACD patients and 14 controls were cultured in the presence of 'cytokine cocktails' skewing lymphocytes towards 'type 1' [interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma)-secreting] or 'type 2' [interleukin (IL)-5 and IL-13-secreting] phenotypes. The cocktails consisted of IL-7 and, respectively, either IL-12 or IL-4. Cell responses to nickel were measured with enzyme-linked immunospot assay (ELISpot), enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), and lymphocyte proliferation test (LPT). Significant differences between patients with Ni-ACD and controls were found for the 'type 2' cytokines IL-13 and IL-5, with further increase of allergen-specific responses occurring when cultures were supplemented with IL-7 and IL-4. No significant differences were found for IFN-gamma. The best correlate to clinical diagnosis was LPT with 'type 2' skewing (r= 0.739, P < 0.001), followed by IL-13 ELISpot with 'type 2' skewing (r= 0.654, P < 0.001). The non-radioactive method that correlated best with LPT was IL-2 ELISpot (r= 0.809, P < 0.001). Overall, we conclude that combining ELISpot assay with proposed modifications of culture conditions improves detection of specific lymphocyte responses in contact allergy to nickel.
To examine the recent evidence that marijuana and other cannabinoids have therapeutic potential.
Literature published since 1997 was searched using the following terms: cannabinoid, marijuana, THC, analgesia, cachexia, glaucoma, movement, multiple sclerosis, neurological, pain, Parkinson, trial, vomiting. Qualifying clinical studies were randomized, double-blind, and placebo-controlled. Selected open-label studies and surveys are also discussed.
A total of 15 independent, qualifying clinical trials were identified, of which only three had more than 100 patients each. Two large trials found that cannabinoids were significantly better than placebo in managing spasticity in multiple sclerosis. Patients self-reported greater sense of motor improvement in multiple sclerosis than could be confirmed objectively. In smaller qualifying trials, cannabinoids produced significant objective improvement of tics in Tourette's disease, and neuropathic pain. A new, non-psychotropic cannabinoid also has analgesic activity in neuropathic pain. No significant improvement was found in levodopa-induced dyskinesia in Parkinson's Disease or post-operative pain. No difference from active placebo was found for management of cachexia in a large trial. Some immune system parameters changed in HIV-1 and multiple sclerosis patients treated with cannabinoids, but the clinical significance is unknown. Quality of life assessments were made in only three of 15 qualifying clinical trials.
Cannabinoids may be useful for conditions that currently lack effective treatment, such as spasticity, tics and neuropathic pain. New delivery systems for cannabinoids and cannabis-based medicinal extracts, as well as new cannabinoid derivatives expand the options for cannabinoid therapy. More well-controlled, large clinical tests are needed, especially with active placebo.
Rhesus monkeys that received 15 daily injections of methadone (2 mg/kg i.m.) exhibited a characteristic opiate withdrawal syndrome after injection of naloxone (0.5 mg/kg i.m.) on the 16th day. In comparison, injection of naloxone (0.5 mg/kg i.m.) once every 2 days during a similar 15 day methadone treatment period in these same monkeys significantly attenuated the severity of the opiate withdrawal syndrome exhibited after naloxone injection on the 16th day. Each naloxone administration during the 15 day methadone treatment period elicited an opiate withdrawal syndrome that did not significantly differ on each of the 7 days it was given and was less severe than the syndrome precipitated by naloxone following 15 days of methadone without intermittent naloxone. The lack of increments in the withdrawal response to the seven naloxone injections during the 15 days of methadone treatment and the attenuation of the withdrawal response to naloxone on day 16 after intermittent naloxone administration during the 15 day methadone treatment period support the hypothesis that naloxone modifies opiate receptor mechanisms so that they revert to an agonist-naive state following antagonist exposure. These findings suggest that various agonist and antagonist opiate drug combinations or mixed agonist-antagonist drug could be clinically useful in the management of situations where physical dependence on opiates is a problem.
Oxidative and carbonyl stress is increased in lungs of smokers and patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), as well as in cigarette smoke (CS)-exposed rodent lungs. We previously showed that sirtuin1 (SIRT1), an antiaging protein, is reduced in lungs of CS-exposed mice and patients with COPD and that SIRT1 attenuates CS-induced lung inflammation and injury. It is not clear whether SIRT1 protects against CS-induced lung oxidative stress. Therefore, we determined the effect of SIRT1 on lung oxidative stress and antioxidants in response to CS exposure using loss- and gain-of-function approaches, as well as a pharmacological SIRT1 activation by SRT1720. We found that CS exposure increased protein oxidation and lipid peroxidation in lungs of wild-type (WT) mice, which was further augmented in SIRT1-deficient mice. Furthermore, both SIRT1 genetic overexpression and SRT1720 treatment significantly decreased oxidative stress induced by CS exposure. FOXO3 deletion augmented lipid peroxidation products but reduced antioxidants in response to CS exposure, which was not affected by SRT1720. Interestingly, SRT1720 treatment exhibited a similar effect on lipid peroxidation and antioxidants (i.e., manganese superoxide dismutase, heme oxygenase-1, and NADPH quinone oxidoreductase-1) in WT and nuclear factor (erythroid-derived 2)-like 2 (Nrf2)-deficient mice in response to CS exposure. This indicates that SIRT1 protects against CS-induced oxidative stress, which is mediated by FOXO3, but is independent of Nrf2. Overall, these findings reveal a novel function of SIRT1, which is to reduce CS-induced oxidative stress, and this may contribute to its protective effects against lung inflammation and subsequent development of COPD.
Exposure to low doses of gamma irradiation results in the modification of both the antinociceptive properties of morphine and the severity of naloxone-precipitated withdrawal in morphine-dependent rats. To better define the interactions between gamma irradiation and these opiate-mediated phenomena, dose-response studies were undertaken of the effect of irradiation on morphine-induced antinociception, and on the naloxone-precipitated withdrawal syndrome of morphine-dependent rats. In addition, electrophysiologic studies were conducted in rats after irradiation exposure and morphine treatment correlating with the behavioral studies. The observations obtained demonstrated that the antinociceptive effects of morphine as well as naloxone-precipitated withdrawal were modified in a dose-dependent manner by irradiation exposure. In addition, irradiation-induced changes in the evoked responses obtained from four different brain regions demonstrated transient alterations in both baseline and morphine-treated responses that may reflect the alterations observed in the behavioral paradigms. These results suggest that the effects of irradiation on opiate activities resulted from physiologic alterations of central endogenous opioid systems due to alterations manifested within peripheral targets.
The case of a 40-year-old HIV-positive man who had multiple episodes of torsade de pointes is presented. The patient's history was pertinent for the use of inhaled pentamidine the day before admission. His episodes of torsade de pointes were refractory to the usual therapy. His presentation, laboratory work, echocardiography, computed tomography scan, and treatment are reviewed. Physicians should be aware of the association of pentamidine with torsade de pointes.
Little information is available on the effect of second cytotoxic therapy in steroid-dependent children with minimal change nephrotic syndrome (MCNS).
Response to second cytotoxic therapy and side effects were reviewed in 33 steroid-dependent and cyclophosphamide-resistant children with MCNS who received chlorambucil (n=11, group 1) or cyclophosphamide (n=22, group 2).
Age at onset of nephrosis, beginning of first and second therapy, sex ratio, duration of nephrosis before first cytotoxic therapy, interval between first and second cytotoxic therapy, number of relapses, cumulative doses of steroids and length of remission off steroids before second therapy were similar between groups. Four patients (36.4%, p<0.05) in group 1 remained in remission for a median 34.0 months, whereas only 1 patient (4.5%) in group 2 did for 53.0 months. Two patients in group 1 and 1 patient in group 2 became infrequent relapsers. Total number of nonrelapsers and infrequent relapsers was higher in group 1 (54.5%, p<0.05) than in group 2 (9.1%). Number of relapses and cumulative doses of steroids were reduced and length of remission off steroids was longer in group 1 than in group 2 (p<0.05). There was no difference between groups in frequency of side effects, and none had serious toxicity. However, the short period of follow-up in our study does not exclude the risk of azoospermia.
Our data suggest a superior effect of chlorambucil over cyclophosphamide in steroid-dependent and cyclophosphamide-resistant children with MCNS. A future randomized controlled clinical trial is required to confirm our findings.
Antisense oligonucleotides (oligos) against transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha; MR(1)) and its binding site, the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR; MR(2)), have proven efficacious against PC-3 and LNCaP prostate tumors when evaluated in both in vitro and in vivo models. To enhance their activity, and also to introduce a significantly different type of multifunctional agent into this field, "bispecific" oligos were constructed containing truncated sequences (derived from MR(1) and MR(2)) recognizing both TGF-alpha and EGFR mRNA internal binding sites, located about their respective AUG initiation codons. Two bispecifics were constructed, each having complementary sequences for TGF-alpha and EGFR mRNA, but differing in their 5' to 3' tandem orientation (TGF-alpha/EGFR [MR(12)] and EGFR/TGF-alpha [MR(21)] sequences). These bispecifics were tested in an in vitro system against PC-3 and LNCaP prostate tumor cells, with comparisons made to the original monospecific oligos from which they were derived. Efficacy was also compared when administered either alone or in combination with conventional chemotherapeutic agents. The purpose of this study was: 1) to validate the concept that these newly developed bispecific oligos have antitumor activity; 2) to enhance their efficacy through combination therapy; 3) to identify differences in effectiveness dependent upon binding site orientation; 4) identification of a dominant binding site that can be used to design other bispecifics that target additional tumor regulatory pathways. When fully evaluated against PC-3 cells in a series of experiments, newly developed bispecific oligos are at least as effective as their monospecific counterparts from which they were derived, and the bispecific with the MR(21) orientation is notably more effective than the MR(1) monospecific by 64% (p = 0.014 by Student t-test and p = 0.068 by the more stringent Mann-Whitney U test). Bispecifics were more effective when administered with chemotherapeutics (producing inhibition of 52.1% and 61.2% for MR(12) and MR(21), respectively, with Cytoxan (cyclophosphamide) inhibition of 59.0% and 65.1% for MR(12) and MR(21), respectively, with Taxol (paclitaxel) and 63.0% and 69.4% for MR(12) and MR(21), respectively, with DES [diethylstilbestrol]). Increasing the oligo concentration above 6.25 microM with cyclophosphamide had no additional effect. The sequence directed against EGFR was dominant and contributed most to bispecific activity, particularly when inserted 5' to the TGF-alpha binding sequence (MR(21) orientation). Bispecific oligos are a significant advance in the design of antisense compounds and could play a role in treating prostate cancer, particularly when they are administered with traditional chemotherapeutics. The truncated portion of the MR(2) oligo used here should be included when constructing second-generation bispecifics that target proteins associated with other regulatory pathways, such as apoptosis.
