The effect of CB-1 and CB-2 receptor agonists, as well as an influence of a non-selective inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase (NOS), L-NOArg, and an inhibitor acting preferentially on cyclooxygenase-1 (COX-1), indomethacin, on the action of cannabinoid receptor agonists in a streptozotocin (STZ)-induced neuropathic model was investigated. When administered alone, a non-selective cannabinoid receptor agonist, WIN 55,212-2, a potentially selective CB-1 cannabinoid receptor agonist, Met-F-AEA, and a selective CB-2 cannabinoid receptor agonist, AM1241, dose-dependently reduced STZ-induced hyperalgesia. The results of the present study also demonstrated that inhibitors of COX and NOS increase antihyperalgesic activity of low doses of CB-1 and CB-2 receptor agonists. Hypothetical consequences of this phenomenon are discussed.
To investigate the effect of two oral contraceptives containing 0.02 mg ethinylestradiol and 0.1 mg levonorgestrel (Formulation A, Leios), and the other containing 0.03 mg ethinylestradiol and 0.15 mg levonorgestrel (Formulation B, Stediril 30) on the serum and urinary concentrations of various markers reflecting the status of vascular tone and development of atherosclerosis. The adhesion molecules E-selectin, inter-cellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1), and homocysteine were included as serum markers and cGMP, prostacyclin and its antagonist thromboxane as urinary markers.
In a comparative, double-blind, randomized, parallel group study, 34 women received formulation A and 33 women formulation B. Serum samples were collected before treatment and after 3, 6 and 12 cycles. Nocturnal urine was collected before treatment and during cyclic treatment after 3 and 12 cycles. Serum and urinary markers were measured by enzyme immunoassays.
E-selectin levels were significantly reduced by both contraceptives after 3, 6 and 12 months compared to pretreatment levels. A slight increase in ICAM concentrations was observed for both contraceptives after 6 cycles, but this fell to pretreatment levels after 12 cycles. VCAM values were significantly lowered after 3, 6 and 12 months by both contraceptives. No significant changes were found in serum levels of homocysteine. No significant differences were found between treatment groups for the serum markers. Both contraceptives significantly enhanced urinary cGMP excretion after 12 cycles. The prostacyclin metabolite remained unchanged in the case of both formulations, but the excretion of the thromboxane metabolite was significantly decreased after 12 cycles. Thus, the ratio of prostacyclin to thromboxane, decisive for the resulting effect on vascular tone, increased significantly.
These results indicate that the low-dose oral contraceptives can reduce the production of adhesion molecules which play a crucial role in the early stages of atherosclerosis. In addition, these contraceptives can shift the balance of vascular tone towards dominance of vasodilatory substances after 12 cycles of treatment. Thus, the positive influence of these contraceptives on the various markers investigated may improve vascular tone and impede development of atherosclerosis.
Drug-induced liver injury (DILI) is an important clinical problem. Here, we used a genomics approach to in detail investigate the hypothesis that critical drug-induced toxicity pathways act in synergy with the pro-inflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα) to cause cell death of liver HepG2 cells. Transcriptomics of the cell injury stress response pathways initiated by two hepatoxicants, diclofenac and carbamazepine, revealed the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress/translational initiation signaling and nuclear factor-erythroid 2 (NF-E2)-related factor 2 (Nrf2) antioxidant signaling as two major affected pathways, which was similar to that observed for the majority of ∼80 DILI compounds in primary human hepatocytes. Compounds displaying weak or no TNFα synergism, namely ketoconazole, nefazodone, and methotrexate, failed to synchronously induce both pathways. The ER stress induced was primarily related to protein kinase R-like ER kinase (PERK) and activating transcription factor 4 (ATF4) activation and subsequent expression of C/EBP homologous protein (CHOP), which was all independent of TNFα signaling. Identical ATF4 dependent transcriptional programs were observed in primary human hepatocytes as well as primary precision-cut human liver slices. Targeted RNA interference studies revealed that whereas ER stress signaling through inositol-requiring enzyme 1α (IRE1α) and activating transcription factor 6 (ATF6) acted cytoprotective, activation of the ER stress protein kinase PERK and subsequent expression of CHOP was pivotal for the onset of drug/TNFα-induced apoptosis. Whereas inhibition of the Nrf2-dependent adaptive oxidative stress response enhanced the drug/TNFα cytotoxicity, Nrf2 signaling did not affect CHOP expression. Both hepatotoxic drugs enhanced expression of the translational initiation factor EIF4A1, which was essential for CHOP expression and drug/TNFα-mediated cell killing. Our data support a model in which enhanced drug-induced translation initiates PERK-mediated CHOP signaling in an EIF4A1 dependent manner, thereby sensitizing toward caspase-8-dependent TNFα-induced apoptosis.
In one case of a urinary lithiasis, termed "uric lithiasis" on biochemical examination, the authors describe the symptomatology of a child with a complete deficit in adenine phosphoribosyl transferase. After more intensive investigation the calculi have been found to be composed of a new clinical compound: 2,8-hydroxyadenine.
Clinical and histological signs of small nodular liver cirrhosis with portal hypertension were present in a 36-year-old man, three-and-a-half years after a seven-week course of treatment of psoriasis vulgaris with high doses of vitamin a (70 X 10(6) IU orally). Although there is no increase in serum level of vitamin A now, increased deposits of vitamin A in the perisinusoidal lipid storage cells (Ito cells) are still demonstrated by fluorescencespectrophotometry and under the electron microscope. Fundectomy with resection of the terminal oesophagus was necessary because of bleeding from oesophageal varices.
Cholesterol crystal embolisation is a rare complication of anticoagulant treatment of ulcerative atheromatosis to the great arteries. The embolisation is susceptible to affect both, the somatic and the visceral territory; clinical diagnosis is difficult, mainly because of the similarity between the embolisation symptoms and those produced by a complication of primary disease. The diagnosis is certain when the pathological examination reveal the presence of cholesterol crystal in arteriolar lumen, surrounded by inflammatory- cellular reaction (foreign-body reaction). This paper presents three cases in which we noticed clinical manifestation suggestive for cholesterol crystal embolisation, at patients in treatment with low-molecular weight heparins. The complications which were reported in case of cholesterol crystal embolisation could be extremely severe, specially visceral embolisation, they may lead to patient's death.
Treatment of neuroblastoma cell lines with 13-cis-retinoic acid (cis-RA) can cause sustained inhibition of proliferation. Since cis-RA has demonstrated clinical responses in neuroblastoma patients, it may be effective in preventing relapse after cytotoxic therapy. This phase I trial was designed to determine the maximal-tolerated dosage (MTD), toxicities, and pharmacokinetics of cis-RA administered on an intermittent schedule in children with neuroblastoma following bone marrow transplantation (BMT).
Fifty-one assessable patients, 2 to 12 years of age, were treated with oral cis-RA administered in two equally divided doses daily for 2 weeks, followed by a 2-week rest period, for up to 12 courses. The dose was escalated from 100 to 200 mg/m2/d until dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) was observed. A single intrapatient dose escalation was permitted.
The MTD of cis-RA was 160 mg/m2/d. Dose-limiting toxicities in six of nine patients at 200 mg/m2/d included hypercalcemia (n = 3), rash (n = 2), and anemia/thrombocytopenia/emesis/rash (n = 1). All toxicities resolved after cis-RA was discontinued. Three complete responses were observed in marrow metastases. Serum levels of 7.4 +/- 3.0 mumol/L (peak) and 4.0 +/- 2.8 mumol/L (trough) at the MTD were maintained during 14 days of therapy. The DLT correlated with serum levels > or = 10 mumol/L.
The MTD of cis-RA given on this intermittent schedule was 160 mg/m2/d. Serum levels known to be effective against neuroblastoma in vitro were achieved at this dose. The DLT included hypercalcemia, and may be predicted by serum cis-RA levels. Monitoring of serum calcium and cis-RA levels is indicated in future trials.
In order to clarify the effect of methamphetamine (MA) on myocardium, histological, immunohistochemical and electron microscopic changes in the myocardium of rats were examined following daily intraperitoneal administration of MA at a dose of 1 mg per kg body weight for 4, 8, and 12 weeks before sacrifice. Normal saline (NS) was similarly injected for the same period before sacrifice to constitute a control group. Light microscopic changes found in the myocardium of the MA-treated group included atrophy, hypertrophy, patchy cellular infiltration, eosinophilic degeneration and disarray, edema myolysis, fibrosis, and the appearance of vacuoles. Ultrastructurally, nuclei and normal mitochondria had various shapes and there were dilated T tubules and sarcoplasmic reticulum, the accumulation of glycogen granules and fat droplets. Intra- and extra-cellular edema and intramyocytic vacuoles were often found. Withdrawal of MA at the twelfth week in another group of rats evidenced gradual recovery of the myocardial changes, commencing at 3 weeks after withdrawal. Optimism is therefore generated about the possibility of the affected hearts in MA-abuse patients returning towards the normal state if they give up the drug.
Cutaneous microvascular occlusion syndromes (MOS) present with noninflammatory retiform purpura with variable outcomes that are dependent on the severity, duration, and specific underlying cause. Transient cases are often associated with few sequelae, while severe forms such as symmetrical peripheral gangrene may be associated with amputation and death.
A middle-aged man developed MOS after exposure to phenylephrine hydrochloride and experienced complete resolution when treatment with the vasopressor was discontinued. Further evaluation detected a previously subclinical heterozygous factor V Leiden mutation.
We propose that phenylephrine-mediated vasoconstriction superimposed on an underlying thrombotic predisposition precipitated the transient MOS. The role of vasopressors in the development of cutaneous MOS is well documented in the critical care literature; however, it is underrepresented in the dermatologic literature, and, to our knowledge, there are no reports of phenylephrine use inducing MOS. We hope to raise awareness of the potential role of vasopressor medications in causing MOS.
1. Injection of 0.5-2.0 units of vasopressin or 25-100 mug of adrenaline into the peritoneal cavity of pregnant rats produced a transient slowing of the foetal heart. The bradycardia could be induced in foetuses after 15-21 days of gestation. Foetal heart rates dropped from normal values of 140-180 beats/min, often to less than 20 beats/minute. The period of bradycardia was dose dependent and ranged from 30 to 65 minutes.2. Maternal injection of the hormones produced a fall in foetal blood pressure from an average of 54, often to less than 20 mm of water, in 17-day foetuses. Direct injection of the hormones into the pericardial sac of the foetuses had the opposite effect and pressures rose an average of 15 mm of water 1 min after the injection.3. During the period of bradycardia, the potassium concentrations in foetal serum rose from an average value of 8.9 mequiv/1. to an average of 17.3 mequiv/litre. Concentrations of serum sodium fell from 126.2 to 121.4 mequiv/1. during the bradycardia. No changes were detected in the concentrations of either calcium or chloride. Foetal P(O2) levels fell from 25 to 15, P(CO2) rose from 61 to 89 or more, and pH fell from 7.19 to 6.86 during the bradycardia.4. Maternal death and uterine clamping caused foetal bradycardia and a rise in foetal serum potassium to an average of 20.2 mequiv/litre.5. It is concluded that interruption of normal uterine blood flow by vasoconstruction (adrenaline or vasopressin) or direct blockage (uterine clamping) results in a transient hypoxia, bradycardia, and serum ion changes in foetuses.
We have examined the effect of systemic administration of ketamine and lidocaine on brush-evoked (dynamic) pain and punctate-evoked (static) hyperalgesia induced by capsaicin. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study, we studied 12 volunteers in three experiments. Capsaicin 100 micrograms was injected intradermally on the volar forearm followed by an i.v. infusion of ketamine (bolus 0.1 mg kg-1 over 10 min followed by infusion of 7 micrograms kg-1 min-1), lidocaine 5 mg kg-1 or saline for 50 min. Infusion started 15 min after injection of capsaicin. The following were measured: spontaneous pain, pain evoked by punctate and brush stimuli (VAS), and areas of brush-evoked and punctate-evoked hyperalgesia. Ketamine reduced both the area of brush-evoked and punctate-evoked hyperalgesia significantly and it tended to reduce brush-evoked pain. Lidocaine reduced the area of punctate-evoked hyperalgesia significantly. It tended to reduce VAS scores of spontaneous pain but had no effect on evoked pain. The differential effects of ketamine and lidocaine on static and dynamic hyperalgesia suggest that the two types of hyperalgesia are mediated by separate mechanisms and have a distinct pharmacology.
Hypercholesterolaemia is a major risk factor for atherosclerosis and coronary heart disease. Treatment with lipid lowering agents reduces the risk of vascular events. Colesevelam is a novel bile acid sequestrant (BAS) indicated for the treatment of hypercholesterolaemia, either as monotherapy or in combination with statins.
This article reviews the efficacy, tolerability and safety of colesevelam in clinical practice. The literature search was based on a PubMed search up to January 2008.
Colesevelam, used alone or in combination with other hypolipidaemic agents (statins, ezetimibe and fenofibrate), has an overall favourable effect on lipid profile. Specifically, colesevelam reduces total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and apolipoprotein B levels and increases high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and apolipoprotein AI. However, colesevelam may slightly raise triglyceride levels. Colesevelam can improve glycaemic control in diabetic patients. Moreover, it may have anti-inflammatory properties, as it can reduce high sensitivity C-reactive protein concentration. Colesevelam almost lacks the intense side effects of previously used BASs, thus resulting in better patient compliance. However, the dose regimen consisting of up to 7 tablets/day and high cost may limit its use.
Colesevelam is a safe alternative for those intolerant to other lipid lowering medication. This BAS also provides an option for patients who do not reach their LDL-C goal despite treatment with a statin.
Cocaine dependence is characterized by stress system dysregulation, including elevated cortisol activity, emotional negativity, and behavioral disinhibition. High levels of stress and glucocorticoids are also known to affect learning, memory and executive function. Therefore, we examined the relationships between chronic cocaine use, elevated distress and learning and memory dysfunction in abstinent cocaine dependent (CD) individuals, and whether these measures were associated with cocaine relapse outcomes.
Stress was assessed in 36 inpatient treatment engaged CD individuals and 36 demographically matched healthy control (HC) participants using the Perceived Stress Scale (PSS) and repeated morning salivary cortisol levels over three consecutive days. The Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test (RAVLT) was conducted to measure verbal learning, memory, and executive function. Prospective assessment of cocaine use outcomes during 90 days following discharge from inpatient treatment was also conducted.
CD patients showed higher levels of distress compared to controls in PSS scores and cortisol levels. They also demonstrated a significantly reduced learning curve, and fewer correct responses and more errors on recognition. Elevated cortisol was significantly associated with worse RAVLT performance in CD patients. Poor memory scores, but not distress measures, were significantly associated with greater cocaine use after inpatient treatment.
These findings are the first to demonstrate that learning and memory deficits in CD individuals are associated with enhanced cortisol and with cocaine use outcomes after inpatient treatment. The findings are consistent with recent addiction models suggesting that chronic cocaine-related neuroadaptations affects learning and memory function, which in turn, influences drug use outcomes.
Cisplatin is an effective chemotherapeutic agent that displays dose-limiting nephrotoxicity. In the present study the wistar rats were subjected to concurrent prophylactic oral treatment of rutin (75 and 150 mg/kgb.wt.) against the nephrotoxicity induced by intraperitoneal administration of cisplatin (7 mg/kgb.wt.). Efficacy of rutin against the nephrotoxicity was evaluated in terms of biochemical estimation of antioxidant enzyme activities, histopathological changes and expression levels of molecular markers of inflammation and apoptosis. Rutin pretreatment prevented deteriorative effects induced by cisplatin through a protective mechanism that involved reduction of increased oxidative stress as well as caspase-3, TNF-α and NFκB protein expression levels. We found that the beneficial effect of rutin pretreatment is mediated partially by its inhibitory effect on NFκB and TNF-α pathway mediated inflammation, caspase-3 mediated-tubular cell apoptosis, as well as by restoration of histopathological changes against cisplatin administration.
Manganese is an essential nutrient for humans that has to be maintained at proper levels for normal brain functioning. However, manganese also acts as a toxicant to the brain, and several studies have linked exposure to excessive manganese to neurotoxicity in adults. A recent report has suggested that ingesting high doses of manganese via drinking water can impede intellectual functions in children. It is known that during development, the nervous system is particularly vulnerable to different types of injuries and toxicants. Neural stem cells (NSCs) play an essential role in both the developing nervous system and the adult brain where the capacity for self-renewal may be important. In the present study, we have used NSCs to investigate the molecular mechanisms involved in manganese developmental neurotoxicity. The results show that primary cultures of rat embryonic cortical NSCs as well as the murine-derived multipotent NSC line C17.2 undergo apoptotic cell death via a mitochondrial-mediated pathway in response to manganese. Exposed cells exhibit typical apoptotic features, such as chromatin condensation and cell shrinkage, mitochondrial cytochrome c release, activation of caspase-3, and caspase-specific cleavage of the endogenous substrate poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase. In addition, our data also show that reactive oxygen species formation plays a role in the onset of manganese toxicity in NSCs.
Macrophages are crucial in hepatic fibrogenesis. In acute hepatic necrosis induced in rats by a single injection of 300 mg/kg body weight (BW) of thioacetamide (TAA), macrophage properties were investigated using single or double immunohistochemistry. Macrophages reacting with anti-CD68, anti-CD163, or major histocompatibility complex (anti-MHC) class II antibody appeared in injured centrilobular areas on days 1-5 after injection. Increased expression of CD68 and CD163 reflect phagocytosis and production of pro-inflammatory factors, respectively. There were also macrophages double-positive to CD68/CD163, CD68/MHC class II, or CD163/MHC class II; of these, macrophages double-positive to CD68/MHC class II were most frequent, indicating that macrophages with enhanced phagocytic activity came to express MHC class II. The appearance of these macrophages corresponded to increased expression of mRNAs of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), a chemokine, on day 1, and TGF-beta1, a fibrogenic factor, on day 3. Some hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) in injured areas reacted with anti-MCP-1 antibody. To investigate the effects of MCP-1, we added MCP-1 to HS-P, a rat macrophage line. Addition of MCP-1 increased immunoexpression for CD68 and CD163 and up-regulated TGF-beta1 mRNA expression. Collectively, macrophages in acute hepatic necrosis may express different properties such as phagocytosis, MHC class II expression, and TGF-beta1 production; such expression may be influenced by MCP-1 produced by HSCs.
We examined neuroadaptive changes in gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)(B) receptor binding following cocaine self-administration and its withdrawal in several rat brain structures using a "yoked" procedure and a quantitative autoradiographic analysis. In order to estimate the distribution of GABA(B) receptors in several brain areas, we used ([S-(R,R)]-[3-[[1-(3,4-diclorophenyl)ethyl]amino]-2-hydroxypropyl]([3,4-(3)H]-cyclohexylmethyl) phosphinic acid) ([(3)H]CGP 54626), a GABA(B) receptor antagonist. The binding of [(3)H]CGP 54626 in the nucleus accumbens subareas and the amygdala was decreased by ca. 20% in rats that actively self-administered cocaine. Similar decreases in the nucleus accumbens were seen in the animals passively receiving cocaine. These animals also showed a reduction in GABA(B) receptor binding in the prefrontal and frontal cortices, septum and dorsal striatum. The [(3)H]CGP 54626 binding in several rat brain areas was decreased after 10-day withdrawal from self-administered cocaine. In summary, the decreases in the GABA(B) receptor binding seem to reflect the effects of chronic administration of cocaine per se and not the motivated process of reinforced responding. Furthermore, withdrawal from cocaine self-administration evoked changes in the GABA(B) receptor binding in several rat brain areas that may indicate neurobiological adaptations.
Breast cancer is estimated as one of the most common causes of cancer death among women. In particular, triple negative breast cancers (TNBCs), which do not express the genes for estrogen/progesterone receptors (ER/PR) and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2), have been associated with poor prognosis and metastasis. Chalcones, the biosynthetic precursors of flavonoids present in edible plants, exert cytotoxic and chemopreventive activities. Although mounting evidence suggests the anticancer properties of chalcones, limited information is available regarding the inhibitory effects of chalcones on the aggressiveness of breast cancer cells. The present study aimed to investigate the effects of chalcone and its derivatives on the growth and the invasiveness of TNBC cells. Here, we showed that treatment with chalcone, 2-hydroxychalcone, and xanthohumol for 24h inhibited the growth of MDA-MB-231 cells with IC50 values of 18.1, 4.6, and 6.7 μM, respectively. Similarly, Chalcone, 2-hydroxychalcone, and xanthohumol also exerted cytotoxicity in another TNBC cell line, Hs578T. Neohesperidin dihydrochalcone, 4-methoxychalcone, and hesperidin methylchalcone did not show the cytotoxicity on the MDA-MB-231 cells. Xanthohumol and 2-hydroxychalcone induced apoptosis by Bcl-2 downregulation. Importantly, 2-hydroxychalcone and xanthohumol exerted more potent inhibitory effects on the proliferation, MMP-9 expression and invasive phenotype of MDA-MB-231 than chalcone. These results suggest a potential application of these chalcones as anticancer agents that can alleviate malignant progression of TNBC.
Citronellyl acetate (CAT), a monoterpene product of the secondary metabolism of plants, has been shown in the literature to possess several different biological activities. However, no antinociceptive abilities have yet been discussed. Here, we used acute pain animal models to describe the antinociceptive action of CAT.
The acetic acid-induced writhing test and the paw-licking test, in which paw licking was induced by glutamate and formalin, were performed to evaluate the antinociceptive action of CAT and to determine the involvement of PKC, PKA, TRPV1, TRPA1, TRPM8 and ASIC in its antinociceptive mechanism. To do so, we induced paw-linking using agonists.
CAT was administered intragastrically (25, 50, 75, 100 and 200 mg/kg), and the two higher doses caused antinociceptive effects in the acetic acid model; the highest dose reduced pain for 4h after it was administered (200 mg/kg). In the formalin test, two doses of CAT promoted antinociception in both the early and later phases of the test. The glutamate test showed that its receptors are involved in the antinociceptive mechanism of CAT. Pretreatment with CAT did not alter locomotor activity or motor coordination. In an investigation into the participation of TRP channels and ASICs in CAT's antinociceptive mechanism, we used capsaicin (2.2 μg/paw), cinnamaldehyde (10 mmol/paw), menthol (1.2 mmol/paw) and acidified saline (2% acetic acid, pH 1.98). The results showed that TRPV1, TRPM8 and ASIC, but not TRPA1, are involved in the antinociceptive mechanism. Finally, the involvement of PKC and PKA was also studied, and we showed that both play a role in the antinociceptive mechanism of CAT.
The results of this work contribute information regarding the antinociceptive properties of CAT on acute pain and show that, at least in part, TRPV1, TRPM8, ASIC, glutamate receptors, PKC and PKA participate in CAT's antinociceptive mechanism.
The antioxidative action of melatonin on iron-induced neurodegeneration in the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system was evaluated in vivo. Intranigral infusion of iron chronically degenerated the dopaminergic transmission of the nigrostriatal system. An increase in lipid peroxidation in the infused substantia nigra and reductions in dopamine levels and dopaminergic terminals in the ipsilateral striatum were observed 7 d after iron infusion. Whereas local infusion of melatonin (60 microg/microl, 1 microl) alone did not alter dopaminergic transmission, coinfusion of melatonin with iron suppressed iron-induced oxidative damages. Systemic infusion of melatonin via osmotic pumps had no effect on iron-induced neurodegeneration. However, repetitive intraperitoneal injections of melatonin (10 mg/kg) prevented iron-induced oxidative injuries. The ratio of glutathione (GSH)/oxidized glutathione (GSSG) was moderately increased in the lesioned substantia nigra of the melatonin-treated rats compared to that of the lesioned group in control rats. The antioxidative effect of melatonin was verified in cortical homogenates. Melatonin dose-dependently suppressed autoxidation and iron-induced lipid peroxidation. Melatonin was as effective as GSH and was less effective than Trolox (a water-soluble analogue of vitamin E) in inhibiting iron-elevated lipid peroxidation of brain homogenates. Our data suggest that melatonin is capable of at least partially preventing the iron-induced neurodegeneration in the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system.
Compared to healthy subjects, individuals with allergic airway disease (e.g., asthma, allergic rhinitis) have enhanced inflammatory responses to inhaled ozone. We created a rodent model of ozone-enhanced allergic nasal responses in Brown Norway rats to test the therapeutic effects of the dietary supplement gamma-tocopherol (gammaT). Ovalbumin (OVA)-sensitized rats were intranasally challenged with 0% or 0.5% OVA (in saline) on Days 1 and 2, and then exposed to 0 or 1 ppm ozone (eight hours/day) on Days 4 and 5. Rats were also given 0 or 100 mg/kg gammaT (p.o., in corn oil) on days 2 through 5, beginning twelve hours after the last OVA challenge. On Day 6, nasal tissues were collected for histological evaluation and morphometric analyses of intraepithelial mucosubstances (IM) and eosinophilic inflammation. Nasal septal tissue was microdissected and analyzed by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) for mucin glycoprotein 5AC (MUC5AC) expression levels. Histological analysis revealed mild to moderate eosinophil influx in the mucosa lining the nasal airways and maxillary sinus of OVA-challenged rats (eosinophilic rhinosinusitis). Ozone exposure of allergic rats further increased eosinophils in the maxillary sinus (400%), nasolacrimal duct (250%), and proximal midseptum (150%). Storage of intraepithelial mucosubstances (IM) was not significantly affected by OVA challenge in filtered air-exposed rats, but it was increased by ozone in the septum (45%) and maxillary sinus (55%) of allergic compared to control rats. Treatment with gammaT attenuated the ozone/ OVA-induced synergistic increases in IM and mucosal eosinophils in both nasal and paranasal airways. gamma-Tocopherol also blocked OVA and ozone-induced MUC5AC gene expression. Together, these data describe a unique model of ozone enhancement of allergic rhinosinusitis and the novel therapeutic efficacy of a common supplement, gammaT, to inhibit ozone exacerbation of allergic airway responses.
Three patients with metastatic breast cancer responded to diethylstilbestrol (DES) therapy, but later they developed endometrial carcinoma. Evidence is presented to support the hypothesis that endometrial carcinoma can occur in breast cancer patients receiving diethylstilbestrol therapy.
The present study was performed to characterize molecular expression levels of preneoplastic and neoplastic lesions induced by beta-naphthoflavone (BNF), an aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) agonist in rat hepatocarcinogenesis. Male F344 rats were initiated with an intraperitoneal injection of 200 mg/kg N-diethylnitrosamine, and two weeks later, they were fed a diet containing 0% or 1% BNF for twenty-eight weeks. All animals were subjected to a two-thirds partial hepatectomy at week 3 and sacrificed at week 30. Histopathologically, BNF increased the incidence and multiplicity of altered foci (1.7-fold and 3.3-fold) and hepatocellular adenomas (HCAs) (4.0-fold and 4.7-fold). Immunohistochemically, BNF increased the number of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA)-positive cells in altered foci (2.3-fold) and HCAs (6.7-fold) compared with the surrounding tissue and decreased the staining of cell cycle regulators (P21, C/EBPalpha). In addition, loss of reactivity for AhR-regulated (CYP1A1, CYP1B1) molecules and increased reactivity of Nrf-2-regulated (AKR7, GPX2) molecules were also observed in proliferative lesions. Furthermore, increased staining of histone deacetylase (HDAC1) in the nucleus was prominent in HCAs. The differential expression patterns were confirmed at mRNA levels by real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis. These results suggest that enhanced cell proliferation and protection against oxidative stress play an important role in BNF-induced hepatocarcinogenesis in rats.
Invasive prolactinomas are more likely to be resistant to drug therapy but the mechanism of this is still unknown. The objective of this study was to analyze the different expression of ERmRNA and D2RmRNA isoforms in prolactinomas responsive and resistant to dopamine agonist (DA), and to discuss the correlation of such gene expression with tumor biological behavior. A prospective study of 20 consecutive patients who harbored prolactinomas was designed. Patients were classified as responsive (14 cases) or resistant (six cases) according to their clinical and biochemical response to bromocriptine. Tumor tissue samples were examined by means of QRT-PCR analysis. Median D2SmRNA expression in responsive patients was about 2.5-fold that in resistant ones (13.5 +/- 10.4 and 5.4 +/- 2.4, respectively, P = 0.09). No significant difference was found between D2LmRNA expression levels (P = 0.77). However, there was a significant difference between D2S/D2LmRNA ratios for responsive and resistant tumors (P = 0.012). A significant difference was not found between these two groups in levels of ERalphamRNA and ERbetamRNA expression (P = 0.20 and 0.06, respectively). D2SmRNA expression was significantly different for invasive and noninvasive tumors (6.2 +/- 3.6 vs. 17.0 +/- 11.2, respectively, P = 0.02). The D2S/D2L ratio is related to the responsiveness of prolactinomas to DA medication, in which D2SmRNA plays an important role. Lower expression of D2SmRNA in invasive tumor patients suggests that invasive prolactinomas may be more likely to be resistant to DA medication.
The aim of this study was to define prognostic factors that might be predictive for response to thalidomide (Thal) in progressive multiple myeloma (n = 54). We examined the concentration of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), two potent heparin-binding mediators of angiogenesis in peripheral blood (PB; PB-VEGF and PB-bFGF) and bone marrow (BM; BM-VEGF and BM-bFGF), in combination with well-characterized predictors for response and survival to chemotherapy. After a median follow-up time of 15 months (range, 0.3-20), 29 patients (pts.) showed at least a minimal response to Thal therapy, whereas 25 pts. were nonresponsive. As shown by univariate analysis, responsive pts. had statistically significant higher concentrations of PB-bFGF (P = 0.009) and beta2-microglobulin (P = 0.03) before therapy, as well as lower hemoglobin (P = 0.008) and albumin (P = 0.02) levels, whereas no statistically significant difference was found for PB-VEGF (P = 0.93). When a multiple logistic regression analysis was performed, PB-bFGF was the only statistically significant predictor for response to therapy (P = 0.01). None of these variables was associated with a prolonged progression-free survival. In conclusion, our findings indicate that high pretreatment plasma bFGF levels in pts. with progressive multiple myeloma are associated with unfavorable parameters of response and survival but nevertheless predict for response to Thal therapy.
Statins, a family of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl CoA (HMG CoA) reductase inhibitors, are being investigated for the therapy and prevention of cancers. Here we aimed to investigate the effects of simvastatin on chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) cells in vitro and in vivo, and to elucidate the mechanisms.
Cell proliferation and cell cycle were measured after K562 cells were incubated with simvastatin, and differentially expressed genes were determined by oligonucleotide microarray. Changes of 2 genes obtained by oligonucleotide microarray were validated by real-time RT-PCR, and immunohistochemistry was performed to determine expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA). Finally, a xenograft tumor model was constructed to evaluate the effects of simvastatin in vivo.
Simvastatin could inhibit K562 cell proliferation, and the inhibition rate was approximately 30% after treatment with 20 mumol/l simvastatin for 48 h. Cell cycle was arrested in G(1) phase, as shown by flow cytometry results. Fifteen downregulated, 9 upregulated cell cycle-related genes and decreased PCNA protein were observed in the presence of simvastatin. Furthermore, simvastatin exhibited impairment of xenograft tumor growth in nude mice and also blocked cell cycle in G(1) phase.
Simvastatin can inhibit CML cell proliferation in vitro and in vivo, and its mechanisms might be involved in cell cycle regulation.
