In this study, we used ob/ob mice as a model to investigate the effects of long-term estradiol administration on insulin sensitivity and to explore the mechanisms that underlie the antidiabetic effects of estrogen on mouse liver. Female ob/ob mice were randomly divided into two groups and given estradiol (100 microg/kg.d) or vehicle alone for 4 wk. Estrogen administration improved glucose tolerance and insulin response to glucose in ob/ob mice. Moreover, insulin resistance and liver triglyceride levels were decreased in response to estrogen administration. Microarray analysis revealed that expression of genes involved in hepatic lipid biosynthesis was decreased in ob/ob mouse livers after estradiol treatment. Further searches for direct estrogen target genes revealed increased hepatic mRNA expression of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (Stat3) and several known Stat3 target genes in ob/ob livers after long-term estradiol treatment. Furthermore, Stat3 and phosphorylated Stat3 protein is induced in ob/ob mouse liver after long-term estrogen treatment. We also present data showing that Stat3 is rapidly induced by estradiol in mouse livers. This, together with data showing recruitment of ERalpha to the promoter of Stat3 in vivo, suggests that Stat3 is a direct target gene for estradiol. In conclusion, estradiol treatment improves glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity in ob/ob mice. We propose that this may be mediated, at least partially, via estrogen stimulation of the hepatic expression of Stat3, leading to decreased expression of hepatic lipogenic genes, and thereby to antidiabetic effects.
To determine the cardiovascular and coronary risk thresholds at which aspirin for primary prevention of coronary heart disease is safe and worthwhile.
Meta-analysis of four randomised controlled trials of aspirin for primary prevention. The benefit and harm from aspirin treatment were examined to determine: (1) the cardiovascular and coronary risk threshold at which benefit in prevention of myocardial infarction exceeds harm from significant bleeding; and (2) the absolute benefit expressed as number needed to treat (NNT) for aspirin net of cerebral haemorrhage and other bleeding complications at different levels of coronary risk.
Benefit from aspirin, expressed as reduction in cardiovascular events, myocardial infarctions, strokes, and total mortality; harm caused by aspirin in relation to significant bleeds and major haemorrhages.
Aspirin for primary prevention significantly reduced all cardiovascular events by 15% (95% confidence interval (CI) 6% to 22%) and myocardial infarctions by 30% (95% CI 21% to 38%), and non-significantly reduced all deaths by 6% (95% CI -4% to 15%). Aspirin non-significantly increased strokes by 6% (95% CI -24% to 9%) and significantly increased bleeding complications by 69% (95% CI 38% to 107%). The risk of major bleeding balanced the reduction in cardiovascular events when cardiovascular event risk was 0.22%/year. The upper 95% CI for this estimate suggests that harm from aspirin is unlikely to outweigh benefit provided the cardiovascular event risk is 0.8%/year, equivalent to a coronary risk of 0.6%/year. At coronary event risk 1.5%/year, the five year NNT was 44 to prevent a myocardial infarction, and 77 to prevent a myocardial infarction net of any important bleeding complication. At coronary event risk 1%/year the NNT was 67 to prevent a myocardial infarction, and 182 to prevent a myocardial infarction net of important bleeding.
Aspirin treatment for primary prevention is safe and worthwhile at coronary event risk >/= 1.5%/year; safe but of limited value at coronary risk 1%/year; and unsafe at coronary event risk 0.5%/year. Advice on aspirin for primary prevention requires formal accurate estimation of absolute coronary event risk.
To assess in a prospective randomised study the association between motor block resulting from high and low dose epidural infusions of bupivacaine in labour and the incidence of long term backache after childbirth, and to compare the incidence of backache in women not receiving epidural analgesia.
Women requesting epidural analgesia in labour between October 1991 and March 1994 were randomised to receive infusions of either bupivacaine alone or low dose bupivacaine with opioid. Data were collected during labour and the immediate postpartum period from these women and from women recruited at random over the same time from those who had laboured without epidural analgesia. A postal questionnaire about symptoms was sent three months after childbirth to all women. Further data were collected one year after childbirth from those who had reported new backache at three months.
St Thomas's Hospital, London.
599 women were recruited, of whom 450 (75%) replied to a follow up questionnaire.
152 women (33.8% of responders) reported backache lasting three months after delivery and, of these, 33 (7.3%) had not previously suffered with backache. There were no significant differences between the treatment groups in the incidence of postnatal backache overall or of new backache or any symptoms after childbirth. Among all demographic, obstetric, and epidural variables examined the only factors significantly associated with backache after childbirth were backache before and during pregnancy.
The incidence of new long term backache was not significantly increased in women who received epidural analgesia in labour. Motor block resulting from epidural local anaesthetic administration was not a significant factor in the development of backache.
Neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation (NBIA) is etiologically, clinically, and by imaging a heterogeneous group including NBIA types 1 [pantothenate kinase-associated neurodegeneration (PKAN)] and 2 (PLA2G6-associated neurodegeneration), neuroferritinopathy, and aceruloplasminaemia. Data on genetically defined Indian-subcontinent NBIA cases are limited. We report 6 patients from the Indian-subcontinent with a movement disorder and MRI basal ganglia iron deposition, compatible with diagnosis of an NBIA syndrome. All patients were screened for abnormalities in serum ceruloplasmin and ferritin levels and mutations in NBIA-associated genes [pantothenate kinase 2 (PANK2), PLA2G6 and ferritin light chain (exon 4)]. We present clinical, imaging and genetic data correlating phenotype-genotype relations. Four patients carried PANK2 mutations, two of these were novel. The clinical phenotype was mainly dystonic with generalized dystonia and marked orobulbar features in the 4 adolescent-onset cases. One of the four had a late-onset (age 37) unilateral jerky postural tremor. His mutation, c.1379C>T, appears associated with a milder phenotype. Interestingly, he developed the eye-of-the-tiger sign only 10 years after onset. Two of the six presented with adult-onset levodopa (L-dopa)-responsive asymmetric re-emergent rest tremor, developing L-dopa-induced dyskinesias, and good benefit to deep brain stimulation (in one), thus resembling Parkinson's disease (PD). Both had an eye-of-the-tiger sign on MRI but were negative for known NBIA-associated genes, suggesting the existence of further genetic or sporadic forms of NBIA syndromes. In conclusion, genetically determined NBIA cases from the Indian subcontinent suggest presence of unusual phenotypes of PANK2 and novel mutations. The phenotype of NBIA of unknown cause includes a PD-like presentation.
To compare the efficacy of 2% lidocaine "timing" on alleviation of pain upon induction using propofol or etomidate.
Prospective, randomized, double-blinded study.
Academic teaching hospital.
80 adult, ASA physical status I, II, and III patients scheduled for elective outpatient or inpatient surgery with an intravenous induction agent.
Patients were randomly assigned to two groups. Group A received preemptive saline 4 mL and lidocaine 4 mL mixed with either propofol 20 mL (n = 20) or etomidate 20 mL (n = 20). Group B received preemptive lidocaine 4 mL and saline 4 mL mixed with either propofol 20 mL (n = 20) or etomidate 20 mL (n = 20). The 4 mL dose of preemptive drug dwelled for three minutes.
The induction drug mixture was injected over 60 seconds while the patient was assessed for pain using a 4-point scale (0 = no pain,1 = mild, 2 = moderate, and 3 = severe).
Mean induction pain scores were 1.0 (SD = 0.89) for propofol and 0.9 (SD = 0.90) for etomidate, representing mild induction pain. Mean induction pain scores were 0.93 (SD = 0.92) for the simultaneous treatment groups and 0.98 (SD = 0.87) for the preemptive treatment groups. The observed differences in pain scores between the techniques were not statistically (P > 0.62) or clinically meaningful.
Alleviation and intensity of post-injection pain were not significantly influenced by the "timing" of administration of lidocaine 80 mg or by the specific induction drug. Pre-lidocaine and "simultaneous" lidocaine with either propofol or etomidate prevented severe pain in 95% of patients.
A controlled laboratory study was conducted to evaluate the efficacy of four commercial products administered as a single treatment for the prevention of heartworm disease caused by Dirofilaria immitis in dogs. Forty-four commercially sourced Beagle dogs, 6-7 months of age, were received at the test site (Auburn University, Department of Pathobiology) on Study Day (SD) -72 to begin acclimation. On SD -30, each dog was inoculated subcutaneously with 100 infective, third-stage D. immitis larvae (MP3 strain, TRS Laboratories, Inc., Athens, GA). On SD -1, 40 dogs weighing 18.2-25.3 lbs were ranked by decreasing body weight and randomized to five groups of eight dogs each. On SD 0, the dogs assigned to Group 1 were treated orally with ivermectin/pyrantel pamoate chewable tablets, Group 2 dogs were treated orally with milbemycin oxime flavored tablets, Group 3 dogs were treated with selamectin topical solution, and Group 4 dogs were treated with imidacloprid/moxidectin topical solution. Group 5 dogs remained nontreated. Dosages for dogs in Groups 1-4 were based on the individual body weight of each dog and current labeled dose banding for each commercial product. All dogs were fasted overnight prior to treatment. Food was returned four hours after treatment. Animals were observed for abnormal clinical signs involving eyes, feces, respiration, behavioral attitude, locomotion/musculature, or skin conditions at prescribed intervals immediately after treatment and at twice daily intervals thereafter. On SD 90, whole blood was collected and tested for adult heartworm antigen. On SDs 119/120, the dogs were euthanized and subjected to necropsy examination for recovery of adult D. immitis and/or worm fragments. At necropsy, all 8 dogs in the nontreated group were infected with adult D. immitis (34-70 worms/dog, geometric mean (GM)=51.6 worms/dog). One or more adult D. immitis and/or worm fragments were recovered from 7 of 8 of the dogs each in Groups 1-3 (87.5% were heartworm positive). The respective GM worm burdens/dog for Groups 1-3 was 2.3, 2.4, and 2.3 which resulted in 95.6, 95.4 and 95.5% efficacy, respectively. No worms were recovered from any of the 8 dogs in Group 4 resulting in 100% efficacy.
In two of 15 patients coinfected with HIV and hepatitis C virus who received interferon-alpha plus ribavirin in addition to HAART, we observed multiorgan dysfunction and lactic acidaemia. As ribavirin is a nucleoside analogue, an increased risk of mitochondrial toxicity can be induced in HIV-infected patients already treated with nucleoside analogues, leading to clinical deterioration in some cases.
High doses of morphine produce a state of behavioural inactivity and muscular rigidity. This type of 'catalepsy' is clearly different from the state which is produced by the administration of neuroleptics, e.g. haloperidol. While haloperidol-induced catalepsy can easily be antagonised by NMDA receptor antagonists, there has been a report that the non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d] cyclohepten-5,10-imine (MK-801) potentiates morphine-induced catalepsy. The aim of this study was to further examine the role of glutamate receptors in the mediation of morphine-induced catalepsy. To this end we coadministered morphine (20, 40, 60 mg/kg i.p.) with MK-801 (0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg i.p.), the competitive NMDA receptor antagonist DL-(E)-2-amino-4-methyl-5-phosphono-3-pentoic acid (CGP 37849) (2 and 6 mg/kg i.p.), or 1-(4-aminophenyl)-4-methyl-7,8-methylen-dioxy-5H-2,3- benzodiazepine (GYKI 52466) (2 and 4 mg/kg), an antagonist of the AMPA type of glutamate receptors, respectively. The degree of catalepsy was assessed using two different methods, the 'bar/podium/grid' test which is commonly used to measure neuroleptic-induced catalepsy, and a test for the presence or absence of righting reflexes after turning the animals into a supine position. It was found that in the 'bar/podium/grid' test coadministration of both NMDA receptor antagonists significantly and dose-dependently augmented morphine-induced catalepsy. The results using the AMPA receptor antagonist were less clear since the lower dose of GYKI 52466 tended to attenuate the morphine effect whereas the higher dose augmented morphine-induced catalepsy in some cases. While placing the animals on the bar and on the podium produced essentially the same results, the grid was found to be inapplicable for the measurement of morphine-induced catalepsy since the animals did not cling to the grid and fell off almost immediately after being released from the experimenter's hand. With respect to the righting reflexes it was found that the number of animals not showing these responses increased when MK-801 or CGP 37849 was coadministered with morphine. In contrast, most of the animals treated with GYKI 52466 and morphine displayed intact righting reflexes. It is concluded that glutamatergic transmission plays an important role in the mediation of morphine-induced catalepsy, though different to that of haloperidol-induced catalepsy, and that NMDA and AMPA receptors are differentially involved in different aspects of the associated behavioural state.
In the apomorphine-induced climbing mouse assay, the potencies of the selective adenosine A1 receptor agonist, N6-cyclohexyladenosine (CHA), and the selective A2A adenosine receptor agonist, 2-p-(2-carboxyethyl) phenethylamino 5'-N-ethyl-carboxamidoadenosine (CGS 21680), and various dopamine receptor antagonists were as follows: SCH 23390 = haloperidol > raclopride > CHA = CGS 21680. While in catalepsy, their potencies were SCH 23390 > haloperidol > raclopride > CGS 21680. CHA failed to induce catalepsy due to significant sedation/ataxia. The combined administration of the ED15 dose of CHA failed to potentiate the ED50 value of SCH 23390, raclopride, or haloperidol in the apomorphine-induced climbing mouse assay. However, the combined administration of the ED15 dose of CGS 21680 significantly decreased the ED50 of raclopride by 8.0-fold and haloperidol by 35-fold. The adenosine A2A receptor antagonist, 1,3,7-trimethyl-8-(3-chlorostyryl)xanthine (CSC), significantly decreased catalepsy induced by raclopride and haloperidol, while the adenosine A1 receptor antagonist, 1,3-dimethyl-8-phenylxanthine (8-PT), was ineffective. The present results show that in behavioral assays predictive for antipsychotic activity, adenosine receptor agonists block behaviors in a similar manner to dopamine receptor antagonists.
Ten nonobese, healthy elderly adults (M = 73.3 years) were monitored polygraphically during sleep for sleep state changes, breathing, and the development of cardiac arrhythmias. All participated in 2 baseline nights and 1 night of flurazepam 30 mg ingestion; six underwent 1 night of sleep deprivation; four received ethyl alcohol (.6 mg/kg); and four whose apnea worsened significantly with flurazepam 30 mg were pretreated for 3 days with acetazolamide, taking acetazolamide and flurazepam 30 mg on the fourth night. Elderly adults with an Apnea Index (the number of apneas per sleep hour) between 5 and 7 at baseline experienced a worsening of their apnea with each manipulation. Acetazolamide did not protect individuals whose Apnea Index increased after flurazepam ingestion. One person developed premature ventricular contractions in conjunction with an increased Apnea Index after each manipulation.
Although linezolid has good in vitro activity against Mycobacterium tuberculosis, its long-term use in the treatment of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) may be limited by its cost and serious adverse reactions. We therefore evaluated the efficacy and tolerability of a reduced dose of linezolid, in combination with other anti-TB drugs, in patients with intractable or extensive MDR-TB.
MDR-TB patients unresponsive to at least three cycles of treatment were treated with daily-half doses of linezolid (600 mg once per day) plus at least four companion drugs.
As of March 2006, eight patients, all HIV-negative, had been treated with linezolid for 3-18 months. Cultures became negative in all patients in an average of 82 days. Four patients developed peripheral neuropathy, two developed optic neuropathy and one developed anaemia. Although optic neuropathy resolved after cessation of linezolid therapy, peripheral neuropathy continued. One patient completed 18 months of linezolid therapy. Two patients, who have taken linezolid for 15-17 months, are still on treatment and remain in culture conversion. Three patients stopped linezolid after 7-9 months, two because of side effects and one for economic reasons, but remain on treatment with other second-line drugs with culture conversion. Two patients died from severe respiratory failure, but both previously had shown culture conversion.
Although daily-half doses of linezolid were effective in patients with intractable or extensive MDR-TB, this dosage regimen did not reduce long-term use-related side effects, such as peripheral and optic neuropathy.
Thirty-eight patients with histologically proven recurrent cervical cancer were treated with epirubicin, an analogue of anthracycline. There were eight complete responders and ten partial responders. The overall response rate was 47.8%. The survival duration of the responders was significantly longer than that of the nonresponders. The optimal dose of epirubicin has yet to be determined. The dosage of 120 mg/m2 was well tolerated. The role of epirubicin as an adjuvant chemotherapeutic agent in the treatment of cervical cancer was discussed.
Studies using exogenous high-dosage testosterone (T) or a combination regimen of physiologic T plus high-dosage levonorgestrel (LNG) administration in normal men have shown that oligoazoospermia (<3 million/mL) or azoospermia can be achieved in the majority of the men. However, these hormonal regimens have been associated with significant weight gain and suppression of serum high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol levels. We hypothesized that a combination of physiologic exogenous testosterone and lower dosage LNG would result in uniform severe oligoazoospermia or azoospermia in normal men but would cause fewer adverse metabolic side effects. We conducted a randomized, placebo-controlled, single-blind trial comparing 6 months of T enanthate (100 mg IM, weekly) plus LNG, 125 microg by mouth, daily (LNG 125; n = 18) or LNG, 250 microg by mouth, daily (LNG 250; n = 18) and compared these regimens with our previous study of the same dosage of T enanthate combined with placebo LNG (LNG 0; n = 18) or with 500 mg of LNG (LNG= 500; n = 18). All three combination regimens of T enanthate and LNG suppressed spermatogenesis more rapidly and resulted in significantly more uniform severe oligoazoospermia (<1 million/mL) than the T-alone regimen. Severe oligoazoospermia was achieved in 89% of the LNG 125, 89% of the LNG 250, and 78% of the LNG 500 groups, respectively, versus 56% of the men in LNG 0 (P < 0.05 for the combination groups vs. LNG 0), but there were no significant differences between the combination regimens (P = NS). All four groups gained significant weight compared with their baselines, although the gain tended to be greater as the dosage of LNG increased (2.0+/-0.9, 2.9+/-1.1, 3.6+/-1.0, and 5.4+/-1.0 kg gained, compared with baseline in the LNG 0, 125, 250, and 500 groups respectively; P < 0.05 compared with baseline). Serum levels of HDL cholesterol decreased in all of the groups, but the effect was larger as the dosage of LNG increased (4+/-4% vs. 13+/-4%, 20+/-3%, and 22+/-4% decrease in HDL levels from baseline in the LNG 0, LNG 125, LNG 250, and LNG 500 groups respectively; P = 0.06 for LNG 125 compared with LNG 0, and P < 0.05 for LNG 250 and LNG 500 compared with LNG 0). We conclude that 1) the combination of physiologic exogenous T enanthate and LNG suppresses spermatogenesis more effectively than T enanthate alone and that 2) the combination regimen of T enanthate plus lower dosage LNG suppresses sperm production comparably to T enanthate plus higher dosage LNG, while causing less weight gain and HDL cholesterol suppression. A combination regimen of physiologic testosterone plus a low dosage of levonorgestrel offers great promise as a safe and effective male contraceptive regimen.
We evaluated self-reported hearing loss and pesticide exposure in licensed private pesticide applicators enrolled in the Agricultural Health Study in 1993 to 1997 in Iowa and North Carolina.
Among 14,229 white male applicators in 1999 to 2003, 4926 reported hearing loss (35%). Logistic regression was performed with adjustment for state, age, and noise, solvents, and metals. We classified pesticides by lifetime days of use.
Compared with no exposure, the odds ratio (95% confidence interval) for the highest quartile of exposure was 1.19 (1.04 to 1.35) for insecticides and 1.17 (1.03 to 1.31) for organophosphate insecticides. Odds of hearing loss were elevated for high pesticide exposure events (1.38, 1.25 to 1.54), pesticide-related doctor visits (1.38, 1.17 to 1.62) or hospitalization (1.81, 1.25 to 2.62), and diagnosed pesticide poisoning (1.75, 1.36 to 2.26).
Although control for exposure to noise or other neurotoxicants was limited, this study extends previous reports suggesting that organophosphate exposure increases risk of hearing loss.
This experiment was designed to explore the possible mechanism of the brain injury caused by ketamine.
Thirty-five adult SD rats randomly divided into a control group and 6 experiment groups were given intrapertioneal injections of normal saline, 20.0, 40.0, 60.0, 80.0, 100.0, 120.0 mg/kg of ketamine respectively. Another 35 SD rats at 0-10, 11-20, 21-30, 31-45, 46-60, 61-90, 91-120 days old were allocated to 7 corresponding age groups and were given intrapertioneal injection of ketamine 80.0 mg/kg. Immunocytochemistry was used to detect HSP70 expression in rat hippocampus, and MIAS-2000 photography analytic software was chosen to analyze HSP70 expression.
Ketamine induced HSP70 expression in adult rat hippocampus. Below the dose of 80.0 mg/kg, ketamine induced higher level of HSP70 expression as the dose increased; however, above the dose of 80.0 mg/kg, ketamine induced lower level of HSP70 expression as the dose increased. Ketamine did not induce HSP70 expression in the rats under 20 days of age; it induced the same HSP70 expression in rats of 90 days and over; and analyses of the rats of 20-90 days revealed that the elder the rat is, the higher the HSP70 expression will be.
Ketamine injures the neurons of rat hippocampus and induces the expression of HSP70, and the higher the dose is given, the more serious the injury is seen; and ketamine induces higher level of HSP70 expression in adult rats than in infant rats.
Memantine, a noncompetitive NMDA receptor blocker, has been demonstrated to be neuroprotective against various neurotoxins. Aluminum, a well-known neurotoxin, has been suggested to be a contributing factor in Alzheimer's disease. In this study we investigated the possible effect of memantine on aluminum-induced cognitive impairment in rats. Rats were exposed to aluminum chloride (100mg/kg/day) and memantine (5, 10 and 20mg/kg/day) for 60 days. Cognitive functions were evaluated using three tests: Morris water maze, radial arm maze and passive avoidance tests. Results showed that memantine failed at low doses to have any significant influence on aluminum-induced memory deficit, but the 20mg/kg dose was found to cause significant enhancement of memory in the aluminum-exposed rats. This is the first study to demonstrate the protective role of memantine against aluminum-induced neuronal dysfunction. Biochemical and histological investigations are highly indicated to clarify the possible pharmacodynamic basis.
We report the case of a patient who developed jaundice after receiving cyproheptadine for 29 days. Complete recovery occurred within 3 months after cyproheptadine withdrawal. Analysis of 3 previously reported cases and this observation shows that cyproheptadine-induced hepatitis is uncommon. Hepatitis occurs within the first month of treatment and is of the cytolytic or mixed-pattern type. Jaundice is constant. Most often, recovery occurs quickly after the discontinuation of cyproheptadine. However, acute hepatitis can be followed by prolonged anicteric cholestasis.
In this study, we evaluated the anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory activities of the medicinal plant, Vernonia cinerea L (Asteraceae) using in vitro as well as in vivo models. Methanolic extract of Vernonia cinerea was found to scavenge the hydroxyl radical generated by Fenton reaction (IC(50)130 microg/ml), Superoxide generated by photo reduction of riboflavin (IC(50)190 microg/ml) and inhibited lipid peroxidation significantly (IC(50)130.5 microg/ml). The drug also scavenged nitric oxide (IC(50)210 microg/ml). Intraperitoneal administration of Vernonia cinerea was found to inhibit the PMA induced Superoxide generation in mice peritoneal macrophages. The administration of Vernonia cinerea to mice significantly increased the levels of catalase, superoxide dismutase, glutathione, glutathione peroxidase and glutathione-S transferase in blood and liver, whereas lipid peroxidation activity was significantly decreased. It was also found that Vernonia cinerea extract significantly inhibited carrageenan induced inflammation, compared with control models. Down regulation of pro-inflammatory cytokine level and gene expression were also support the above result.
The clinical details of 100 cases of histologically confirmed Parkinson's disease were examined and correlated with pathologic findings. Age at disease onset (mean, 62.4 years), disease duration (mean, 13.1 years), and age at death (mean, 75.5 years) were similar to those in previous smaller series. Asymmetric, tremulous onset was most common, although 23% of patients had no rest tremor. Motor fluctuations and dyskinesias occurred in 60% of levodopa-treated patients. All patients had clinical parkinsonism; however, 12 had atypical clinical features of Parkinson's disease, including severe early dementia, fluctuating confusional states, no response to levodopa, and early marked autonomic disturbance. Neuropathologic examination found coexistent Alzheimer-type change in 17 cases and striatal abnormality--mainly vascular--in 34 cases. Cortical Lewy bodies were present in all cases, but only four satisfied proposed criteria for diffuse Lewy body disease. Dementia occurred in 44% of cases; 29% had Alzheimer's disease, 10% had numerous cortical Lewy bodies, and 6% had a possible vascular cause; in 55% no definite pathologic cause was found. Nigral cell loss correlated with disease duration and severity. Although the general pattern of disease conformed to traditional descriptions, the findings broaden the present clinical and pathologic spectrum of Parkinson's disease.
We present a patient with acromesomelic chondrodysplasia and genital anomalies caused by a novel homozygous mutation in BMPR1B, the gene coding for bone morphogenetic protein receptor 1B. The 16 year old girl, the offspring of a multiconsanguinous family, showed a severe form of limb malformation consisting of aplasia of the fibula, severe brachydactyly, ulnar deviation of the hands, and fusion of carpal/tarsal bones. In addition, she presented with hypoplasia of the uterus and ovarian dysfunction resulting in hypergonadotrophic hypogonadism. Mutation analysis of BMPR1B revealed a homozygous 8 bp deletion (del359-366). This mutation is expected to result in a loss of function and is thus different from the heterozygous missense mutations in BMPR1B recently shown to cause brachydactyly type A2 through a dominant negative effect. The patient's skeletal phenotype shows an overlap with the clinical spectrum of the acromesomelic chondrodysplasias of the Grebe, Hunter-Thompson, and DuPan types caused by homozygous mutations in the gene coding for growth differentiation factor 5 (GDF5) which is a high-affinity ligand to BMPR1B. However, the phenotype described here differs from GDF5 associated chondrodysplasias because of the additional presence of genital anomalies and the distinct limb phenotype.
The genetic aetiology of autism remains elusive. Occasionally, individuals with Cowden syndrome (a cancer syndrome) and other related hamartoma disorders such as Bannayan-Riley-Ruvalcaba syndrome, Proteus syndrome, and Proteus-like conditions, are characterised by germline PTEN mutations, and may have neurobehavioural features resembling autism as well as overgrowth and macrocephaly. Therefore, we undertook PTEN gene mutation analysis in 18 subjects mainly prospectively ascertained with autism spectrum disorder and macrocephaly. Of these 18 autistic subjects (13 males and five females; ages 3.1-18.4 years) with a head circumference range from 2.5 to 8.0 standard deviations above the mean, three males (17%) carried germline PTEN mutations. These three probands had previously undescribed PTEN mutations: H93R (exon 4), D252G (exon 7), and F241S (exon 7). They had the larger head circumference measurements amongst all our study subjects. The three residues altered in our patients were highly evolutionarily conserved. We suggest that PTEN gene testing be considered for patients with autistic behaviour and extreme macrocephaly. The gene findings may impact on recurrence risks as well as medical management for the patient.
Two patients with advanced Huntington's disease manifested a marked increase in irritability and aggressiveness when treated with amantadine during an epidemic of influenza. Amantadine should be used with caution in patients with Huntington's disease.
Thirty-four patients with analgesic nephropathy were followed at intervals of 1 to 3 months with measurements of creatinine clearance and serum concentration of acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) for a total of 105 patient-years. Diagnostic criteria included total consumption of at least 2 kg of phenacetin and 3 kg of ASA, compatible tissue abnormality on biopsy and evidence of papillary necrosis on an intravenous pyelogram. Nephropathy was induced by the same compound analgesic containing ASA, pehnacetin, caffeine and codeine (APC&C) in 30. Phenacetin was removed from this preparation in 1970 and replaced by an approximately equal amount of ASA (ACC). Creatinine clearance remained unchanged or improved in 11 of 15 patients who stopped taking analgesics containing phenacetin or ASA and in 10 of 11 of those who continued to take the ACC preparation. In contrast, renal function deteriorated in seven of eight patients who continued to abuse APC&C analgesics. The results suggest that phenacetin is necessary for the major nephrotoxic effect of this APC&C combination, but that ASA is not absolved of some nephrotoxicity.
To assess the need for, and the suitability of, alfentanil for pain relief during tracheal suction used in assisted ventilation in newborn infants.
In a randomised, controlled, double blind, crossover trial, placebo (10 micrograms/kg) and 20 micrograms/kg alfentanil were infused in random order two minutes before three separate endotracheal suctions, at least six hours apart, to 10 infants. Measurements were made of physiological variables, behaviour, and stress hormones.
After placebo infusion heart rate significantly increased (median 14; interquartile range 12-16 beats/minute) as did behavioural pain score (5; 3-5). Alfentanil (20 micrograms/kg) attenuated the heart rate increase, normalised the pain score, and caused a decrease in plasma adrenaline activity (0.3; 0.2-0.7 nmol/l). Noradrenaline concentration showed a nonsignificant decreasing trend with increasing alfentanil dose and beta endorphin was unchanged. Rigidity was noted in the placebo (n = 2), 10 micrograms/kg (n = 2), and 20 micrograms/kg (n = 5) alfentanil groups, respectively.
Tracheal suction is a painful procedure. The dose of alfentanil required for pain relief (20 micrograms/kg) causes a high incidence of rigidity and thus should be used only with muscle relaxant.
Levofloxacin (LVFX), a fluoroquinolone agent, has a broad spectrum that covers Gram-positive and -negative bacteria and atypical pathogens. It demonstrates good clinical efficacy in the treatment of various infections, including lower respiratory tract infections (LRTIs) and urinary tract infections (UTIs). To evaluate the efficacy and safety of oral LVFX 500 mg once daily, a large open-label clinical trial was conducted in 1266 patients (899 with LRTIs and 367 with UTIs) at 32 centers in China. In the per-protocol population, the clinical efficacy rate (cure or improvement) at 7 to 14 days after the end of treatment was 96.4% (666/691) for LRTIs and 95.7% (267/279) for UTIs. In 53 patients diagnosed with atypical pneumonia the treatment was effective. The bacteriological efficacy rate was 96.6% (256/265) for LRTIs and 93.3% (126/135) for UTIs. The eradication rate of the causative pathogens was 100% (33/33) for Haemophilus influenzae and 96.0% (24/25) for Streptococcus pneumoniae in LRTIs, and 94.1% (80/85) for Escherichia coli in UTIs. The overall efficacy rates were 89.3% (617/691) for LRTIs and 87.8% (245/279) for UTIs. The incidence of drug-related adverse events (ADRs) was 17.3% (215/1245), and the incidence of drug-related laboratory abnormalities was 15.7% (191/1213). Common ADRs were dizziness, nausea, and insomnia. Common laboratory abnormalities included "WBC decreased", "alanine aminotransferase (ALT) increased", "aspartate aminotransferase (AST) increased", and "lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) increased". All of these events were mentioned in the package inserts of fluoroquinolones including LVFX, and most events were mild and transient. Thirty-four patients (2.7%) were withdrawn from the study because of the ADRs. No new ADRs were found. This study concluded that the dosage regimen of LVFX 500 mg once daily was effective and tolerable for the treatment of LRTIs and UTIs.
Half of all men with prolactin (PRL)-producing macroadenomas present with hypogonadism, decreased libido and impotence, and therefore require testosterone replacement. However, very little is known about the effect of testosterone on prolactinomas. We report a case of an 18-year-old obese man who presented with hypogonadism and hyperprolactinaemia and underwent a transphenoidal hypophysectomy after a computer tomography scan showed the presence of a suprasellar macroadenoma. On separate occasions, we documented a rise in PRL when testosterone replacement was started and a fall in PRL when testosterone replacement was stopped (r = 0.6090, P = 0.0095). Furthermore, imaging studies suggested the possibility of tumour re-growth after testosterone therapy. We hypothesize that the exogenous testosterone was aromatized to oestradiol, which stimulated the release of PRL by the anterior pituitary. This was supported by the increase in oestradiol levels after testosterone replacement, although statistical significance was not achieved due to the availability of only a few data points. This case highlights the need to be aware of testosterone-replacement-induced hyperprolactinaemia, an under-recognized complication of androgen replacement in this setting. The use of aromatase inhibitors together with testosterone-replacement therapy or the use of non-aromatizable androgens might be indicated in such patients. Taken together, this report and previous studies show that dopamine agonists apparently do not suppress the hyperprolactinaemia induced by testosterone replacement.
