A major focus in attempts to ameliorate homocystinuria and neural tube defects is supplementation of the diet with B vitamins. The metabolic defect in these cases may be due in part to a deficiency of methyl groups. B vitamin supplementation supports the need for enzyme cofactors but cannot provide substrate in the form of methyl groups. l-Methionine is an essential amino acid and is required for protein synthesis, but it also plays a unique role in metabolism as S-adenosylmethionine, which is the primary methyl donor in metabolism. The observation that l-homocysteine, which is produced in the metabolism of l-methionine, is remethylated 2-4 times before it is destroyed is key to understanding the possibility of a methyl group deficiency. This suggests that the requirement for methyl groups (ie, S-adenosylmethionine) may be 2-4 times that for methionine in support of protein synthesis. l-Homocysteine can be remethylated to form l-methionine by betaine or N(5)-methyltetrahydrofolate. Betaine and one-carbon sources that lead to the production of N(5)-methyltetrahydrofolate and the remethylation of l-homocysteine to form l-methionine should be considered along with B vitamin supplementation in the treatment of homocystinuria and neural tube defects.
There is growing concern of permanent damage to the endocrine and nervous systems after developmental exposure to endocrine disrupting chemicals. In this study the permanent reproductive and neurobehavioral effects of combined exposure to five endocrine disrupting pesticides, epoxiconazole, mancozeb, prochloraz, tebuconazole and procymidone, were examined. Pregnant and lactating rat dams were dosed with a mixture of the five pesticides at three different doses, or with the individual pesticides at one of two doses. Adverse effects were observed in young and adult male offspring from the group exposed to the highest dose of the mixture. These included reduced prostate and epididymis weights, increased testes weights, altered prostate histopathology, increased density of mammary glands, reduced sperm counts, and decreased spatial learning. As no significant effects were seen following single compound exposure at the doses included in the highest mixture dose, these results indicate cumulative adverse effects of the pesticide mixture.
Nonalcoholic steatosis/steatohepatitis is the most common cause for abnormal liver chemistries. Apart from metabolic syndrome, drugs may also lead to development of steatohepatitis that may, rarely, progress to cirrhosis and portal hypertension. We discuss a case of amiodarone-induced steatohepatitis with advanced fibrosis, presenting with hepatic decompensation and portal hypertension manifesting as ascites and recurrent esophageal variceal hemorrhage. Amiodarone is a lipophilic drug that concentrates in the liver and usually, over a period of time, leads to toxicity related to drug accumulation. There is marked histological similarity between amiodarone-induced liver disease and alcoholic and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. The clinical manifestations of amiodarone-induced hepatotoxicity and the mechanism of toxicity are also discussed.
Cocaine abuse causes myocardial dysfunction and induces oxidative stress. However, the reversibility of these effects is unknown. We evaluated myocardial function and oxidative stress after cocaine withdrawal, in a rat model of chronic cocaine exposure. Standard echocardiography and Doppler tissue imaging were performed after 4 weeks (W4) of cocaine administration (2 x 7.5 mg/kg/d, i.p.) and 4 weeks after interruption (W8). At these time points, redox state (reduced glutathione GSH, oxidized glutathione GSH, and GSH/GSSG) as well as activities of GSH peroxidase (GPX), superoxide dismutase (SOD), and catalase were determined in the left ventricle (LV). At W4, LV fractional shortening, posterior wall thickening, systolic myocardial ventricular gradient (SMVG), dP/dt(max), and dp/dt(min) were decreased, compared with control values while LV myocardial thickness was increased. At W8, even though dP/dtmax and dp/dt(min) were restored, myocardial function was still impaired as demonstrated by the decrease in posterior wall thickening, and systolic myocardial velocity gradient. At W4, CAT and GPX activities as well as GSH/GSSG ratio were reduced while SOD activity was increased. Antioxidant markers and redox ratio remained altered 4 weeks after the last injection. Thus, these data demonstrate the persistence of LV dysfunction after cocaine withdrawal, which occurs in a context of a deficit in antioxidant defenses.
The possible anxiogenic effects of fluoroquinolones, namely ciprofloxacin and norfloxacin, were investigated in adult Charles Foster albino rats of either sex, weighing 150-200 g.
The drugs were given orally, in doses of 50 mg/kg for five consecutive days and the experiments were performed on the fifth day. The tests included open-field exploratory behaviour, elevated plus maze and elevated zero maze, social interaction and novelty-suppressed feeding latency behaviour.
The results indicate that ciprofloxacin- and norfloxacin-treated rats showed anxious behaviour in comparison to control rats in all the parameters studied. However, ciprofloxacin- and norfloxacin-treated rats did not differ significantly from each other in various behavioural parameters.
The present experimental findings substantiate the clinically observed anxiogenic potential of ciprofloxacin and norfloxacin.
A sensitive and reliable LC-ESI-MS procedure for the simultaneous determination of MDMA and its five metabolites including 4-hydroxy-3-methoxymethamphetamine (HMMA) conjugates has been established following the synthesis of two HMMA conjugates, 4-hydroxy-3-methoxymethamphetamine-glucuronide (HMMA-Glu) and 4-hydroxy-3-methoxymethamphetamine-sulfate (HMMA-Sul). Pretreatment of urine samples with methanol and LC-MS employing a C(18) semi-micro column with a gradient elution program provided the successful separations and MS determinations of these analytes within 20 min. Upon applying the method to MDMA users' urine specimens, HMMA-Glu and HMMA-Sul have been directly determined, suggesting the superiority of sulfation to glucuronidation in the HMMA phase II metabolism.
The learning processes underlying the formation of drug-cue associations involve changes in synaptic transmission mediated by AMPA receptors. Here, we examine the consequences of targeted deletion of the gene encoding GluR1 subunits of AMPA receptors (gria1 knockouts (KO)) on cocaine self-administration and on the ability of cocaine-paired cues to affect cocaine-seeking in mice. Cocaine self-administration was unaffected by gria1 deletion, as was the ability of a cocaine-paired cue to reinstate responding following extinction, following either a 3 or a 66 day delay. However, gria1 KOs over-responded during extinction. The KOs were unable initially to learn a new response to access a cue previously conditioned to cocaine (conditioned reinforcement (CR)), although a second test 2 months later revealed that this was a transient deficit. These studies indicate that GluR1-containing AMPA-receptors are not involved in cocaine self-administration, cue-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking, or incubation of the cocaine seeking response. In order to understand the specificity of the deficits in CR responding, a parallel study was performed with food reward. As with cocaine, there were no effects of gria1 deletion on food self-administration or cue-induced reinstatement, and KOs over-responded during extinction. However, even immediately after instrumental training for food, KO mice demonstrated responding for CR, suggesting that the CR deficit observed with a cocaine cue is specific to drug reward. These data indicate that GluR1-containing AMPA receptors are important in stimulus reward learning, though the method of cue-reward association formation, the reward class, and the behavioral end point are critical variables in determining their involvement.
Amiodarone has been implicated in the pathogenesis of optic neuropathy in several cases. However, that relationship is unclear, as subjects placed on amiodarone represent a high-risk group for various vasoocclusive accidents. In order to investigate the effect of amiodarone on the optic nerve, we examined histopathologically sections of the retrobulbar optic nerve obtained from an asymptomatic subject taking amiodarone. Lamellar inclusions were selectively found in the large axons. Amiodarone may have a chronic neurotoxic effect on the optic nerve via a drug-induced lipidosis. This neurotoxicity may be related to some of the acute forms of optic neuropathy described in the literature.
Diuron, a substituted urea herbicide, is carcinogenic to the urinary bladder of rats at high dietary levels. Its proposed carcinogenic mode of action (MOA) includes urothelial cytotoxicity and necrosis followed by regenerative cell proliferation and sustained urothelial hyperplasia. Cytotoxicity could be induced either by urinary solids or by chemical toxicity by diuron and/or metabolites excreted in the urine. Diuron was not genotoxic in a previous single-cell gel (comet) assay, but possible cross-linking activity remained to be evaluated. The present study explored the MOA of diuron and the effect of urinary acidification on the development of urothelial lesions. Male Wistar rats were fed diuron (2500 ppm, about 130 mg/kg of body weight) either with or without NH(4)Cl 10,000 ppm to acidify the urine. Reversibility of urothelial changes was also examined. The animals were euthanized after 15, 25, or 30 weeks. Diuron-fed rats had urinary amorphous precipitate and magnesium ammonium phosphate crystals similar to control animals. Groups treated with diuron + NH(4)Cl showed decreased urinary pH and reduced amounts of urinary crystals and precipitate. Urothelial necrosis and simple hyperplasia were observed by light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy both in diuron- and in diuron + NH(4)Cl-treated groups. Cytotoxicity and proliferative changes were mostly reversible. A modified comet assay developed in vitro with Chinese hamster ovary cells showed that diuron did not induce DNA cross-links. These data suggest that cytotoxicity with consequent regenerative cell proliferation is the predominant MOA for diuron rat urothelial carcinogenesis, the cytotoxicity being chemically induced and not due to urinary solids.
Short-acting nifedipine (SA-NIF) is widely prescribed for acute hypertension (HTN) in children despite reports of ischemic complications in adults. We describe two children with neurologic events caused by rebound hypertension following SA-NIF use.
Patient 1 is a 7-year-old with acute nephritis and blood pressure (BP) of 185/130. She received SA-NIF which decreased BP to 114/79. When BP rebounded to 160/103, she developed severe cortical visual impairment. Head CT demonstrated edema and petechial hemorrhages in the watershed region. Patient 2 is a 10-year-old renal transplant recipient who received SA-NIF for a BP of 155/98, which resulted in a prompt decrease to 114/74. Two hours later he developed aphasia and right-sided neglect. His BP increased to 168/88 and he developed partial complex seizures. Brain MRI showed high signal intensity in the watershed areas with early gadolinium enhancement.
The temporal association of the neurologic events with the rebound increase in BP suggests a possible role for the SA-NIF, consistent with its pharmacokinetic profile. Although the adult literature has focused on the unpredictable decline in BP after SA-NIF treatment, these cases suggest that rapid increases in BP following the maximal SA-NIF effect may be associated with impaired cerebral autoregulation and encephalopathy in children. These cases underscore the need for frequent blood pressure determinations and therapy to prevent rebound hypertension.
Cancer cells are typically characterized by apoptosis deficiency. In order to investigate a possible role for the anti-apoptotic livin gene in renal cell cancer (RCC), we analyzed its expression in tumor tissue samples and in RCC-derived cell lines. In addition, we studied the contribution of livin to the apoptotic resistance of RCC cells by RNA interference (RNAi). Livin gene expression was detected in a significant portion of RCC tumor tissue specimens (13/14, 92.9%) and tumor-derived cell lines (12/15, 80.0%). Moreover, targeted inhibition of livin by RNAi markedly sensitized RCC cells towards proapoptotic stimuli, such as UV irradiation or the chemotherapeutic drugs etoposide, 5-fluorouracil, and vinblastine. These effects were specific for livin expressing tumor cells. We conclude that livin can contribute significantly to the apoptosis resistance of RCC cells. Targeted inhibition of livin could represent a novel therapeutic strategy to increase the sensitivity of renal cancers towards pro-apoptotic agents.
Cerebellar toxicity is a rare adverse event in patients treated with metronidazole. Here, we present a patient who developed cerebellar toxicity accompanied by objective abnormalities on magnetic resonance imaging, and review the literature on this unusual reaction. Discontinuation of metronidazole almost always results in resolution of symptoms and structural lesions.
To understand the molecular mechanisms underlying compound-induced hemangiosarcomas in mice, and therefore, their human relevance, a systems biology approach was undertaken using transcriptomics and Causal Network Modeling from mice treated with 2-butoxyethanol (2-BE). 2-BE is a hemolytic agent that induces hemangiosarcomas in mice. We hypothesized that the hemolysis induced by 2-BE would result in local tissue hypoxia, a well-documented trigger for endothelial cell proliferation leading to hemangiosarcoma. Gene expression data from bone marrow (BM), liver, and spleen of mice exposed to a single dose (4 h) or seven daily doses of 2-BE were used to develop a mechanistic model of hemangiosarcoma. The resulting mechanistic model confirms previous work proposing that 2-BE induces macrophage activation and inflammation in the liver. In addition, the model supports local tissue hypoxia in the liver and spleen, coupled with increased erythropoeitin signaling and erythropoiesis in the spleen and BM, and suppression of mechanisms that contribute to genomic stability, events that could be contributing factors to hemangiosarcoma formation. Finally, an immunohistochemistry method (Hypoxyprobe) demonstrated that tissue hypoxia was present in the spleen and BM. Together, the results of this study identify molecular mechanisms that initiate hemangiosarcoma, a key step in understanding safety concerns that can impact drug decision processes, and identified hypoxia as a possible contributing factor for 2-BE-induced hemangiosarcoma in mice.
Chronic exposure to manganese (Mn) produces a neurodegenerative disorder affecting the basal ganglia characterized by reactive gliosis and expression of neuroinflammatory genes including inducible nitric oxide synthase (NOS2). Induction of NOS2 in glial cells causes overproduction of nitric oxide (NO) and injury to neurons that is associated with parkinsonian-like motor deficits. Inflammatory activation of glia is believed to be an early event in Mn neurotoxicity, but specific responses of microglia and astrocytes to Mn during development remain poorly understood. In this study, we investigated the effect of juvenile exposure to Mn on the activation of glia and production of NO in C57Bl/6J mice, postulating that developmental Mn exposure would lead to heightened sensitivity to gliosis and increased expression of NOS2 in adult mice exposed again later in life. Immunohistochemical analysis indicated that Mn exposure caused increased activation of both microglia and astrocytes in the striatum (St), globus pallidus (Gp), and substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNpr) of treated mice compared with controls. More robust activation of microglia was observed in juveniles, whereas astrogliosis was more prominent in adult mice preexposed during development. Co-immunofluorescence studies demonstrated increased expression of NOS2 in glia located in the Gp and SNpr. Additionally, greater increases in the level of 3-nitrotyrosine protein adducts were detected in dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein-32-positive neurons of the St of Mn-treated adult mice preexposed as juveniles. These data indicate that subchronic exposure to Mn during development leads to temporally distinct patterns of glial activation that result in elevated nitrosative stress in distinct populations of basal ganglia neurons.
We prospectively assessed serum lactate and plasma HIV viral load in 20 patients with stavudine-related nucleoside neuropathy, 10 with HIV-related distal sensory polyneuropathy (DSPN), 20 receiving stavudine but without neuropathy and 23 not receiving stavudine and without neuropathy. Raised serum lactate levels discriminated between stavudine nucleoside neuropathy and DSPN with 90% sensitivity and 90% specificity (P = 0.001). DSPN occurred despite an undetectable viral load, making it a poor discriminator.
Clofibrate has been reported to prevent the development of hypertension in Dahl S rats, but its mechanism of action remains to be determined. The present study examined the effects of clofibrate on renal P4504A activity and the pressure natriuresis relationship in Dahl S rats. Dahl S and R rats fed a low-salt diet (0.4% NaCl) were given either clofibrate (240 mg/kg/d) or vehicle (20 mmol/L Na2CO3) in their drinking water for 1 week and then switched to a high salt diet (8% NaCl) while continuing drug treatment. After 3 weeks, mean arterial pressure in ketamine-Inactin anesthetized rats averaged 121+/-2 (n=8) in Dahl R, 173+/-8 (n=6) in Dahl S, and 139+/-4 mm Hg (n=7) in clofibrate-treated Dahl S rats. Increasing renal perfusion pressure (RPP) from 100 to 150 mm Hg in Dahl R rats increased sodium excretion (U(Na)V) from 2.9+/-0.7 to 9.7+/-3.2 micromol/min/g kwt. In contrast, the pressure natriuresis relation was blunted in Dahl S rats and U(Na)V only increased from 2.7+/-0.9 to 6.1+/-1.3 micromol/min/g kwt. The pressure natriuresis relation was improved in clofibrate-treated Dahl S rats and U(Na)V increased from 5.1+/-1.3 to 16.7+/-2.6 micromol/min/g kwt. At similar levels of RPP, the fractional excretion of sodium tended to be higher in clofibrate-treated than in vehicle-treated Dahl S rats, but not significantly. Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) was 40% higher in clofibrate- compared to vehicle-treated Dahl S rats (0.9+/-0.2 versus 0.6+/-0.2 mL/min/g kwt), and was not significantly different from the values seen in Dahl R rats (0.9+/-0.1 mL/min/g kwt). Clofibrate induced the expression of P4504A protein in the renal cortex and outer medulla of Dahl S rats. These data suggest that induction of renal P4504A activity with clofibrate improves the pressure natriuresis relation in Dahl S rats by primarily increasing GFR.
Chlordimeform, 4-chloro-o-toluidine and o-toluidine have all been found to have carcinogenic properties. Due to an empirical link between such properties and alteration of some biotransformation enzymes, the abilities of these three chemicals to affect cytochrome P-450 mediated biotransformation, epoxide hydrolase and glutathione S-transferase have been examined. Chlordimeform had no effect on the cytochrome P-450 content, aniline p-hydroxylase or glutathione S-transferase activities, but induced ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase, ethoxycoumarin-O-deethylase and epoxide hydrolase activities and decreased aldrin epoxidase and aminopyrine N-demethylase activities. The metabolite 4-chloro-o-toluidine increased cytochrome P-450, ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase, ethoxycoumarin-O-deethylase, glutathione S-transferase and epoxide hydrolase activities. o-Toluidine induced cytochrome P-450, ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase, ethoxycoumarin-O-deethylase, and aldrin epoxidase activities. Ethoxy-resorufin-O-deethylase activity was induced approximately eight times by chlordimeform and 18 times by 4-chloro-o-toluidine and o-toluidine. Induction was seen at 50 mg/kg with chlordimeform and at 10 mg/kg with the other treatments. Chlordimeform increased the 7 alpha and 16 alpha androstenedione hydroxylase pathways. 4-Chloro-o-toluidine increased the 7 alpha, 16 beta and 16 alpha hydroxylase pathways, while o-toluidine increased the 7 alpha, 6 beta, 16 beta and 16 alpha hydroxylase pathways. All three chemicals marginally decreased the testosterone pathways. SDS-PAGE of rat microsomes revealed an increase in a protein band of MW c54,000 for the chlordimeform and 4-chloro-o-toluidine treated groups. Taken together with the increase in ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase activity these observations are consistent with the induction of hepatic isozyme P-450d. Thus each chemical has been shown to induce various pathways of biotransformation with increases in the P-450c and P-450d specific substrate ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase being a consistent finding.
Early onset "juvenile type" Parkinson's disease is commonly associated with disabling bilateral levodopa-induced dyskinesias. We report here a successful contemporaneous bilateral postero-ventral pallidotomy performed on a 46-year-old male with juvenile type Parkinson's and associated levodopa incited symmetric dyskinesias. A comparison of various surgical alternatives is included. Preoperative and postoperative evaluation, operative method and posteroventral pallidotomy's therapeutic mechanism are presented.
The aim of the PIMICS project was to create, for the first time in Switzerland, a registry of data concerning epidemiology and therapy in patients hospitalised for acute myocardial infarction covering all regions of the country. During 1995/96 73 Swiss hospitals of all categories took part in the PIMICS project. The ratio between males and females in the 3877 registered patients was 2.6:1 (2791 men vs. 1086 women). Female patients were significantly older than males (70.4 +/- 12.0 years vs. 63.4 +/- 12.6 years; p < 0.0001). The prevalence of risk factors differed between men and women: significantly more women had hypertension or diabetes, whereas smoking was more prevalent in males. The median delay between onset of symptoms and arrival at the hospital was 5.5 hours. Thrombolysis and primary angioplasty were more frequently performed in men (40.4% vs. 31.2% in women, p < 0.0001, and 5.7% in men vs. 3.5% in women, p = 0.005 respectively). During the acute phase males were treated more frequently with betablockers. The overall in-hospital mortality was 9.1%. It was significantly higher in female patients (13.5% vs. 7.4% in men; p < 0.0001) and in patients with reinfarction (14.5% vs. 7.1%; p < 0.0001). The mean hospital stay was 12.6 +/- 5.3 days. Only 7.7% of all patients with acute myocardial infarction were discharged within 6 days. At discharge, 51.7% were treated with betablockers and 69.3% with aspirin; 44.8% received ACE-inhibitors and only 13.8% lipid-lowering drugs. Follow-up measures such as coronary angiography and/or angioplasty or bypass surgery were performed significantly more often in males (45.0% vs. 32.9%; p < 0.0001). Likewise, men were more frequently assigned to a rehabilitation program than women (38.2% vs. 32.9%; p = 0.0004). The pre-hospital delay in patients with acute myocardial infarction remains too long. Primary and secondary prevention should be intensified in high risk groups, particularly in females. Thrombolysis and primary angioplasty as mainstays of treatment in acute myocardial infarction are generally used too sparingly, especially in women. With such measures the hospital stay could be shortened further.
Chronic exposure to manganese (Mn) produces a spectrum of cognitive and behavioral deficits associated with a neurodegenerative disorder resembling Parkinson's disease. The effects of high-dose exposure to Mn in occupational cohorts and in adult rodent models of the disease are well described but much less is known about the behavioral and neurochemical effects of Mn in the developing brain. We therefore exposed C57Bl/6 mice to Mn by intragastric gavage as juveniles, adults, or both, postulating that mice exposed as juveniles and then again as adults would exhibit greater neurological and neurochemical dysfunction than mice not preexposed as juveniles. Age- and sex-dependent vulnerability to changes in locomotor function was detected, with juvenile male mice displaying the greatest sensitivity, characterized by a selective increase in novelty-seeking and hyperactive behaviors. Adult male mice preexposed as juveniles had a decrease in total movement and novelty-seeking behavior, and no behavioral changes were detected in female mice. Striatal dopamine levels were increased in juvenile mice but were decreased in adult preexposed as juveniles. Levels of Mn, Fe, and Cu were determined by inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry, with the greatest accumulation of Mn detected in juvenile mice in the striatum, substantia nigra (SN), and cortex. Only modest changes in Fe and Cu were detected in Mn-treated mice, primarily in the SN. These results reveal that developing mice are more sensitive to Mn than adult animals and that Mn exposure during development enhances behavioral and neurochemical dysfunction relative to adult animals without juvenile exposure.
It is hypothesized that the increasing incidence of childhood leukemia may be due to in utero exposure to environmental pollutants, such as benzene, but the mechanisms involved remain unknown. We hypothesize that reactive oxygen species (ROS) contribute to the deregulation of fetal hematopoiesis caused by in utero benzene exposure. To evaluate this hypothesis, pregnant C57Bl/6N mice were exposed to benzene or polyethylene glycol-conjugated catalase (PEG-catalase) (antioxidative enzyme) and benzene. Colony formation assays on fetal liver cells were performed to measure erythroid and myeloid progenitor cell growth potential. The presence of ROS in CD117(+) fetal liver cells was measured by flow cytometric analysis. Oxidative cellular damage was assessed by Western blot analysis of 4-hydroxynonenol (4-HNE) and nitrotyrosine products, as well as reduced to oxidized glutathione ratios. Alterations in the redox-sensitive signaling pathway nuclear factor-kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-kappaB) were measured by Western blot analysis of Inhibitor of NF-kB-alpha (IkappaB-alpha) protein levels in fetal liver tissue. In utero exposure to benzene caused a significant increase in ROS production and significantly altered fetal liver erythroid and myeloid colony numbers but did not increase the levels of 4-HNE or nitrotyrosine products or alter reduced to oxidized glutathione ratios. However, in utero exposure to benzene did cause a significant decrease in fetal liver IkappaB-alpha protein levels, suggesting activation of the NF-kappaB pathway. Benzene-induced ROS formation, abnormal colony growth, and decreased IkappaB-alpha levels were all abrogated by pretreatment with PEG-catalase. These results suggest that ROS play a key role in the development of in utero-initiated benzene toxicity potentially through disruption of hematopoietic cell signaling pathways.
Three penicillin-allergic patients with life-endangering infections requiring beta-lactam antibiotic therapy were desensitized by means of increasing oral then parenteral doses and were treated with full doses of beta-lactam agents. Malignant otitis externa caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa, osteomyelitis caused by Staphylococcus aureus, and bacterial endocarditis caused by an enterococcus were treated with carbenicillin, nafcillin, and benzylpenicillin G, respectively. No acute allergic reactions occurred during desensitization or within 1 wk of the onset of therapy. Immediate wheal and flare skin-test reactions to beta-lactam determinants diminished or became negative after the desensitization procedure in each patient. Wheal and flare responses provoked by histamine, compound 48/80, and environmental antigens were not affected by the desensitization procedure or continued beta-lactam drug therapy. Mild urticaria appeared after 15 days of penicillin therapy in one patient and after 23 days of carbenicillin therapy in another patient. Skin-test reactions to penicillin reagents had reverted to positive at the time of the urticarial reactions. One patient developed a severe immune hemolytic anemia after 10 days of therapy with nafcillin. The results of this study indicate that acute clinical desensitization of these three penicillin-allergic patients was associated with antigen-specific desensitization of tissue mast cells.
The mechanism of increased sensitivity to etoposide (VP-16) in a human bladder cancer cell line (J82/MMC-2), which is >9-fold more resistant to mitomycin C (MMC) compared with parental cells (J82/WT), was investigated. Colony formation assays, following 1 hr drug exposure, revealed that about a 2.2-fold higher concentration of VP-16 was required to kill 50% of the J82/WT cell line compared with J82/MMC-2. The MTT assays, following continuous drug exposure, also showed that the J82/MMC-2 cell line was significantly more sensitive to VP-16 compared with J82/WT. Accumulation of VP-16 was significantly higher in the J82/MMC-2 cell line compared with J82/WT at every drug concentration tested. Likewise, intracellular VP-16 retention was significantly higher in the J82/MMC-2 cell line compared with J82/WT when drug uptake was measured as a function of varying incubation time and at a fixed VP-16 concentration. The efflux of VP-16 from the J82/MMC-2 cell line was equivalent to that from J82/WT. In agreement with the results of drug uptake studies, the levels of VP-16-induced protein-DNA complexes were markedly higher in the J82/MMC-2 cell line compared with J82/WT. The catalytic activity of topoisomerase II (topo II) in 0.35 M NaCl nuclear extract of J82/WT cells was equivalent to that of J82/MMC-2. The levels of topo II mRNA were also comparable in these cells. Our results suggest that the mechanism responsible for the collateral sensitivity of the J82/MMC-2 cell line to VP-16 may be attributable to a relatively higher drug accumulation in this cell line compared with parental cells.
Chronic inflammation and oxidative stress are prevalent in hemodialysis (HD) patients. We evaluated the long-term effect of a vitamin E-coated cellulose acetate (CAE) membrane on oxidative stress and inflammation.
Nine patients were switched to CAE membrane for 3 months and then changed back to polysulfone (PS) membrane again for 6 months. Reactive oxygen metabolites and derivatives (d-ROMs), total antioxidant capacity (TAC) and superoxide dismutase (SOD) (oxidative stress biomarkers), high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (Hs-CRP), and interleukin-6 (IL-6) (inflammation biomarkers) were measured.
d-ROMs decreased and TAC rose significantly at the end of the study, whereas SOD increased rapidly and immediately after the end of CAE treatment. Hs-CRP and IL-6 levels were significantly lowered at the end of the study.
Vitamin E supplementation by vitamin E-coated CAE dialysis membrane suppresses oxidative stress and inflammation.
Inhaled nitric oxide is a potent vasodilator in acute severe pulmonary hypertension and is increasingly used as rescue treatment in intensive care algorithms aiming at reducing severe hypoxaemia in neonates and children. Although the immediate effects may seem impressive, long-term outcome regarding residual pulmonary hypertension and other sequelae has been studied in only a very few patients. The aim of the present study was to evaluate residual pulmonary hypertension, cardiopulmonary or neurological symptoms in children after treatment with inhaled nitric oxide in severely hypoxaemic and/or pulmonary hypertensive mechanically ventilated children. The study was performed in four paediatric intensive care units in university hospitals in Sweden, Norway and Australia. Patients who had received inhaled nitric oxide as part of their intensive care treatment for severe hypoxaemia and/or pulmonary hypertension, and in whom 6 mo had elapsed since treatment, were included for evaluation. Thus 36 paediatric or neonatal patients were examined for circulatory, respiratory or neurological disorders with clinical examination, echocardiography, chest X-ray and a capillary blood sample. Four patients with congenital heart disease had residual pulmonary hypertension. Nine patients were receiving bronchodilators. Sixteen patients had minor (n = 15) or moderate (n = 1) changes on a chest X-ray. One patient had a possible delay in psychomotor development.
In spite of the severity of their primary illness, we found that the overwhelming majority of the surviving children were asymptomatic and doing well. The few residual circulatory and respiratory symptoms could be related to the initial condition.
A dextromethorphan (3-methoxy-17-methylmorphinan) analog, dimemorfan (3-methyl-N-methylmorphinan) that is not metabolized to dextrorphan [3-hydroxy-17-methylmorphinan, which induces phencyclidine (PCP)-like behavioral effects], attenuates maximal electroshock seizures. However, the pharmacological mechanism of action of dimemorfan remains to be determined. In this study, we assessed the locomotor activity mediated by these morphinans. Circling behavior was pronounced in mice treated with PCP or dextrorphan, while animals treated with dextromethorphan exhibited moderate behaviors. Dimemorfan did not show any significant behavioral effects. We used BAY k-8644 (an L-type Ca2+ channel agonist in the dihydropyridine class) to explore the effects of dextromethorphan and dimemorfan on the convulsant activity regulated by calcium channels. Intracerebroventricular injection of BAY k-8644 (37.5 microg) significantly induced seizures in mice. As with dextromethorphan (6.25 or 12.5 mg/kg), dimemorfan (6.25 or 12.5 mg/kg) pretreatment significantly attenuated BAY k-8644-induced seizures in a dose-dependent manner. BAY k-8644-induced seizure activity paralleled increased expression of c-fos and c-jun, AP-1 DNA binding activity, and fos-related antigen immunoreactivity. Pretreatment with dextromethorphan or dimemorfan significantly attenuated the expression induced by BAY k-8644. Therefore, our results suggest that the anticonvulsant effects of dextromethorphan and dimemorfan are mediated, at least in part, via L-type calcium channel, and that dimemorfan is equipotent to dextromethorphan in preventing BAY k-8644-induced seizures, while it lacks behavioral side effects related to psychotomimetic reactions.
