This study was designed to use the H2 antagonist cimetidine and the H1 antagonist diphenhydramine alone and in combination to clarify the role of histamine in the development of endotoxin shock. The jugular vein and the carotid artery of male Sprague-Dawley rats were cannulated during enflurane anesthesia. After recovery, blood pressure, heart rate, and respiration rate were continuously monitored. Animals were pretreated with saline, a combination of the H1 and H2 receptor antagonists diphenhydramine (20 mg/kg) and cimetidine (80 mg/kg), or individual doses of diphenhydramine or cimetidine. After pretreatment an endotoxin bolus (40 mg/kg) was given. Arterial blood samples (0.35 ml) were taken before endotoxin and after endotoxin at 60 and 240 min for measurement of pH, PO2, PCO2, hematocrit, glucose, and lactate. Pathological examinations were made at 240 min. Four additional groups of animals (N = 10) were studied for the effect of each of the treatment modes on 24-hr survival rate. Treatment with cimetidine plus diphenhydramine prevented the endotoxin-induced blood pressure fall, increase in heart rate, and hypoglycemia; increased the 24-hr survival rate from 10 to 60%; and inhibited the small intestinal pathology found in control rats. Treatment with diphenhydramine alone produced similar results except that there was a gradual blood pressure decrease later in shock. The results obtained from the cimetidine-treated groups were much the same but there was a slight, transient decrease in blood pressure early after endotoxin and the survival rate was increased to 90%. These results demonstrate that in the conscious rat antagonism of the H1 and/or H2 receptors modifies hemodynamic and metabolic responses and the subsequent pathology, altering the course of endotoxin shock and survival. This study provides substantial evidence to implicate histamine as one of the key vasoactive mediators in the development of endotoxin shock.
To describe a case of hydrocortisone-responsive hypotension and critical illness-related corticosteroid insufficiency (CIRCI) in a dog with septic shock.
A dog with aspiration pneumonia developed septic shock with pressor-refractory hypotension. A standard ACTH stimulation test was performed that showed a blunted cortisol response consistent with CIRCI. Reversal of shock was achieved within 2 hours of hydrocortisone administration, and complete weaning from pressors was accomplished over the subsequent 8 hours. The patient recovered and was discharged from the hospital. An ACTH stimulation test performed 1 month after hospital discharge showed normal adrenal responsiveness consistent with resolution of CIRCI.
This case is the first published report of hydrocortisone-responsive hypotension and transient CIRCI associated with naturally occurring septic shock in a dog.
Mechanisms whereby gene-environment interactions mediate chronic, progressive neurodegenerative processes in Parkinson's disease (PD)-the second most common neurodegenerative disease-remain elusive.
We created a two-hit [neuroinflammation and mutant α-synuclein (α-syn) overexpression] animal model to investigate mechanisms through which mutant α-syn and inflammation work in concert to mediate chronic PD neurodegeneration.
We used an intraperitoneal injection of the inflammogen lipopolysaccharide (LPS; 3 × 106 EU/kg) to initiate systemic and brain inflammation in wild-type (WT) mice and transgenic (Tg) mice overexpressing human A53T mutant α-syn. We then evaluated nigral dopaminergic neurodegeneration, α-syn pathology, and neuroinflammation.
After LPS injection, both WT and Tg mice initially displayed indistinguishable acute neuroinflammation; however, only Tg mice developed persistent neuroinflammation, chronic progressive degeneration of the nigrostriatal dopamine pathway, accumulation of aggregated, nitrated α-syn, and formation of Lewy body-like inclusions in nigral neurons. Further mechanistic studies indicated that 4-week infusion of two inhibitors of inducible nitric oxide synthase and NADPH oxidase, major free radical-generating enzymes in activated microglia, blocked nigral α-syn pathology and neurodegeneration in LPS-injected Tg mice.
Microglia-derived oxidative stress bridged neuroinflammation and α-syn pathogenic alteration in mediating chronic PD progression. Our two-hit animal model involving both a genetic lesion and an environmental trigger reproduced key features of PD and demonstrated synergistic effects of genetic predisposition and environmental exposures in the development of PD. The chronic progressive nature of dopaminergic neurodegeneration, which is absent in most existing PD models, makes this new model invaluable for the study of mechanisms of PD progression.
Of the many palmoplantar keratoderma (PPK) conditions, only Papillon-Lefèvre syndrome (PLS) and Haim-Munk syndrome (HMS) are associated with premature periodontal destruction. Although both PLS and HMS share the cardinal features of PPK and severe periodontitis, a number of additional findings are reported in HMS including arachnodactyly, acro-osteolysis, atrophic changes of the nails, and a radiographic deformity of the fingers. While PLS cases have been identified throughout the world, HMS has only been described among descendants of a religious isolate originally from Cochin, India. Parental consanguinity is a characteristic of many cases of both conditions. Although autosomal recessive transmission of PLS is evident, a more "complex" autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance with phenotypic influences from a closely linked modifying locus has been hypothesised for HMS. Recently, mutations of the cathepsin C gene have been identified as the underlying genetic defect in PLS. To determine if a cathepsin C mutation is also responsible for HMS, we sequenced the gene in affected and unaffected subjects from the Cochin isolate in which both the PLS and HMS phenotypes appear. Here we report identification of a mutation of cathepsin C (exon 6, 2127A--> G) that changes a highly conserved amino acid in the cathepsin C peptide. This mutation segregates with HMS in four nuclear families. Additionally, the existence of a shared common haplotype for genetic loci flanking the cathepsin C gene suggests that affected subjects descended from the Cochin isolate are homozygous for a mutation inherited "identical by descent" from a common ancestor. This finding supports simple autosomal recessive inheritance for HMS in these families. We also report a mutation of the same exon 6 CTSC codon (2126C-->T) in a Turkish family with classical PLS. These findings provide evidence that PLS and HMS are allelic variants of cathepsin C gene mutations.
The aim of the experiments was to assess the toxicity of minoxidil, a potent vasodilator, in marmosets. The animals were treated either at escalating doses from 2 to 40 mg/kg, escalating doses from 40 to 200 mg/kg or single doses of 150 mg/kg or 200 mg/kg. ECG recording and echocardiographic examination were conducted before and 1h after treatment. Necropsy and histopathology were performed 24h after the last dose. The treatment with minoxidil induced myocardial necrosis, coronary arteriopathy and degeneration of renal tubules in animals treated with 150 mg/kg or 200 mg/kg. Myocardial necrosis associated with fibrosis in some animals was located mainly in the left and right ventricles (including papillary muscles), but also in the right atrium, left atrium and/or interventricular septum. Arteriopathy was observed in small coronary arteries of the right or left atrium. ECG and echocardiographic examinations showed that in animals treated with 150 mg/kg or 200 mg/kg, there were positive chronotropic and inotropic effects that compensated for the hypotensive effect of the drug and were considered to have played a key role in the pathogenesis of the cardiovascular lesions. The cardiotoxicity of minoxidil in marmosets was similar to that described in dogs, but occurred at much higher doses. In conclusion minoxidil produced cardiovascular toxicity in the marmoset, which was probably due to the marked changes in the cardiac function associated with exaggerated pharmacological effects of the compound. The marmosets were found to be less sensitive than dogs to the cardiotoxicity of minoxidil.
Trifluralin, an herbicide, has been reported to cause a significant increase in thyroid follicular cell tumors in male Fischer 344 rats. This study was designed to determine the mechanism of thyroid hyperactivity after trifluralin exposure. A group of 15 male Fischer 344 rats were exposed to trifluralin-fortified (6500 ppm) diet for 2 weeks. The time weighted average daily intake of trifluralin was 441+/-77 mg/kg/day. Ten rats of the group were sacrificed and the sera analyzed for T3, T4, and TSH levels. The livers were also analyzed for selected T4-specific UGT gene expression and total UGT enzyme activity. In the trifluralin treated rats, the serum T3 and T4 levels decreased by 17% and 90%, respectively and TSH increased by 37% more than the control rats. Trifluralin-induced total hepatic UGT enzymes (2.4-fold) and mRNA expression of selected hepatic UGT isozymes (UGT1A1, 1.4-fold; UGT1A6, 6.4-fold; UGT2B1, 3.7-fold). For the remaining 5 rats in the group, bile was collected for 2 h and analyzed for free and conjugated T3 and T4. The total amount of T4 in bile more than doubled in trifluralin treated rats. Trifluralin treatment increased bile flow, caused a 3.2-fold increase in biliary elimination of conjugated T4 and 63% increase in conjugated T3. Based on these data, the decrease in total serum T3 and T4 levels in the trifluralin treated rats was due to enhanced peripheral metabolism and an increase in bile flow that results in a compensatory increase in TSH synthesis and secretion. The increased levels of TSH with chronic exposure to trifluralin would exert a continuous stimulation of the thyroid gland leading to cellular hypertrophy and proliferation predisposing to the development of follicular cell tumors in rats.
The combination of cisplatin and 96-hour infusion of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) was evaluated in 30 patients with recurrent (local and regional) and disseminated histologically proven epidermoid cancer of the head and neck who failed surgery and radiotherapy. Cisplatin 100 mg/M2 intravenous (IV) bolus was given on day 1 with hydration and mannitol diuresis; 5-FU 1000 mg/M2 per day for 96-hour infusion was started immediately after cisplatin on day 1. All patients had measurable lesions. Eight (27%) patients achieved complete response (CR), and 13 (43%) had partial response (PR). Overall response rate was 70% (8 of 30 CR and 13 of 30 PR). Response rate in patients with recurrent local and regional disease was 89% (17/19) with median survival of 32 weeks, while response in patients with disseminated disease was 36% (4/11) with median survival of 24 weeks. Patients with good performance status (PS) (greater than or equal to 70%) had a response rate of 79% (19/24), while those with poor PS (less than 70%) had a response rate of 33% (2/6). Seven patients with recurrent disease who had a response to this chemotherapy went to further salvage surgical procedures. It is concluded that the combination of cisplatin and 5-FU is very effective and well tolerated in these patients, and leads to further salvage in some patients with improved longevity and quality of life.
The protective activity of the bisdioxopiperazine ICRF-187 against the cardiotoxicity of doxorubicin was evaluated in the rat using both functional and histological assays. Animals that had received a single i.v. dose of doxorubicin (4 mg/kg) alone were compared with those that had been pretreated with a single i.v. injection of saline or ICRF-187 (40 or 60 mg/kg). All rats showed a transient reduction in body weight during the first 3 weeks after drug administration. The greatest reduction (approximately 16%) was observed in animals that had received a combination of ICRF-187 (40 or 60 mg/kg) and doxorubicin. Deaths related to cardiotoxicity were observed only in rats that had received doxorubicin alone and in those treated with saline; most of the deaths occurred at between 8 and 13 weeks after drug administration. Sequential assessments of heart function showed a persistent depression of cardiac output in animals that had received doxorubicin, with or without pretreatment with ICRF-187. The reduction in cardiac output observed in rats that had been pretreated with ICRF-187 (40 or 60 mg/kg) amounted to approximately 15% and approximately 30% after 12 and 20 weeks, respectively, indicating that cardioprotection was only partial. Nevertheless, this represented a marked improvement as compared with the approximately 35% reduction in cardiac output measured at 12 weeks in animals that had received doxorubicin but without pretreatment with ICRF-187. Histological examination of animals that had died during the course of the study and had received doxorubicin after pretreatment with saline revealed severe myocardial lesions typical of doxorubicin-induced damage. In contrast, animals that had been pretreated with ICRF-187 and survived for up to 20 weeks after treatment showed a marked amelioration of these lesions. The present findings may be interpreted as a true cardioprotection or a delay in the onset of the cardiotoxicity of doxorubicin resulting from pretreatment with the bisdioxopiperazine ICRF-187. Although prior and ongoing clinical trials clearly indicate that ICRF-187 protects patients well against doxorubicin-induced heart damage, further investigations are required before high doses of ICRF-187 can be used as a means of increasing the protective activity of this drug against doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity.
To examine the efficacy and tolerability of antimuscarinic therapy in women with urge-predominant mixed incontinence.
This was a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial comprising 854 women with urge-predominant mixed incontinence, including urge incontinence (five or more episodes per week), urinary frequency (eight or more micturitions on average in 24 hours), and urgency in combination with stress incontinence. Women received 8 weeks of treatment with tolterodine tartrate extended-release (ER) 4 mg or placebo once daily. The outcome measures included urge incontinence episodes per week, stress incontinence episodes per week, micturition frequency per 24 hours, urgency episodes per 24 hours, volume voided per micturition, patient perception of bladder condition, and assessment of treatment benefit.
After 8 weeks, tolterodine ER produced a statistically significant decrease in the weekly urge incontinence episodes compared with placebo (-12.3 versus -8.0; P <0.0001). Other micturition variables improved significantly more with tolterodine ER. No difference was found between treatment groups regarding the change in the number of stress incontinence episodes. A significantly greater proportion of patients receiving tolterodine ER than those receiving placebo reported improvement in bladder condition (61% versus 46%; P <0.001) and treatment benefit (76% versus 55%; P <0.001). After 8 weeks, the tolterodine ER group had experienced statistically significant improvements compared with the placebo group in 9 of 10 quality-of-life domains. The frequency of adverse events was similar between treatment groups.
Tolterodine ER is an effective treatment of urge urinary incontinence, frequency, and urgency in women with concomitant stress urinary incontinence. The efficacy of tolterodine ER in reducing urge incontinence episodes was unaffected by the presence of stress incontinence. The results of this study support the first-line use of antimuscarinic therapy to treat the urge incontinence component of urge-predominant mixed incontinence.
p-Hydroxybenzyl alcohol (HBA), an aglycone of gastrodin, is an active ingredient of Gastrodia elata BLUME. In this study, we investigated the action of HBA on acquisition of an inhibitory avoidance response in rats and used piracetam as a positive control. The results indicated that scopolamine, a cholinergic receptor antagonist, injected before training impaired retention. HBA did not attenuate the scopolamine-induced impairment, but piracetam did. p-Chloroamphetamine, a serotonin releaser, injected before training impaired retention. HBA at 5 mg/kg and piracetam at 100 mg/kg could counteract the p-chloroamphetamine-induced deficit. Apomorphine, a dopaminergic receptor agonist, also impaired retention. HBA at 5 mg/kg and piracetam at 300 mg/kg could ameliorate the apomorphine-induced amnesia. The above results indicated that HBA, different from piracetam, can attenuate impairments induced by p-chloroamphetamine and apomorphine, but had no effect on impairment induced by scopolamine in an inhibitory avoidance task in rats. Such findings suggest that HBA may act through suppressing dopaminergic and serotonergic activities and thus improves learning.
Thirty-five patients received liver transplants using liver donors who had positive test results for the hepatitis B core antibody (HBcAb). In the same time frame, 195 patients received HBcAb-negative liver donors. Mean follow up for patients receiving HBcAb-positive donors was 25 months. All patients receiving HBcAb-positive donors were monitored for recurrence of hepatitis B (HBV) with HBV DNA assays. There was no de novo HBV in recipients of HBcAb-negative grafts. In the group of patients receiving HBcAb-positive donors, 4 of 35 patients died within 3 months after transplant with no evidence of HBV recurrence at time of death. Four patients were transplanted for HBV-related disease and were postoperatively placed on lamivudine and hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG). HBV recurrence was seen in one of these patients. Of the remaining 27 patients, three of three mismatched patients (HBcAb-positive donor to HBcAb-negative recipient) developed de novo HBV (100%). Of 24 matched patients (HBcAb-positive donor to HBcAb-positive recipient), only two (7%) developed recurrent HBV allograft reinfection. All de novo and recurrent HBV infections were successfully managed with HBIG and lamivudine therapy. Survival for this subgroup of patients receiving HBcAb-positive donors for non-HBV-related liver disease was 100%. We conclude that the judicious use of HBcAb-positive donors is reasonably safe and associated with low morbidity and mortality, with the appropriate follow-up protocols. Additionally, lamivudine use can be reserved for those cases with de novo or recurrent HBV in the liver allograft, or, selectively, as prophylaxis in those recipients patients who are naïve to HBV and receive an HBcAb-positive donor.
Intracranial hemorrhage, either spontaneous or traumatic is a well-known and potentially lethal complication of Warfarin treatment. Patients with Warfarin-related intracranial hemorrhage need urgent reversal of anticoagulation that must be especially rapid if surgical intervention is indicated. The traditional treatment with fresh frozen plasma (FFP) and vitamin K often fails to achieve the desired correction of coagulopathy in urgent neurosurgical settings.
In the present case Recombinant Coagulation Factor VIIa (rFVIIa) was used for preoperative reversal of Warfarin-related coagulopathy. The patient was a fifty two years old man, mechanic valve recipient with Warfarin-induced coagulopathy: International Normalization Ratio (INR) of 6.39, who suffered from acute subdural hematoma and needed urgent neurosurgical intervention. He received a single dose of rFVIIa 120 mg/kg and immediately underwent craniotomy and evacuation of the hematoma. Appropriate hemostasis was achieved during surgery and coagulation test taken two hours after rFVIIa injection revealed INR of 1.25. The INR remained normalized for additional 14 hours. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report on the use of rFVIIa in the preoperative management of Warfarin-induced intracranial hemorrhage.
Recombinant Coagulation Factor VIIa provides rapid correction of coagulation to a level that allows safe neurosurgical intervention without significant delay. This agent is safe and effective; and should be considered for reversal of Warfarin-induced coagulopathy in cases of intracranial hemorrhage, especially when urgent surgical intervention is required.
Administration of [ring-U-14C]propanil (3,4-dichloropropionanilide) to male Sprague-Dawley rats (30, 100, and 300 mg/kg, ip) increased the formation of methemoglobin at the two highest doses. Following a propanil dose of 100 mg/kg, methemoglobin formation attained a maximum level of 5% by 1.5 hr and declined to normal levels (approximately 2.5%) by 12 hr. Hemoglobin binding attained a maximum level of 50 pmol/mg protein by 12 hr, and remained constant for 24 hr. Following a propanil dose of 300 mg/kg, methemoglobin formation attained a maximum level of 24% by 4.5 hr, and declined to a level of 5% by 24 hr. Hemoglobin binding attained a maximum level of 425 pmol/mg protein by 12 hr, and remained constant for 24 hr. Hemoglobin binding was also detected at the lowest propanil dose (10 pmol/mg protein) even though methemoglobin formation was not observed. HPLC analysis of alkaline-treated hemoglobin from propanil-treated rats indicated the presence of one radiolabeled compound with the same HPLC retention time as 3,4-dichloraniline. These data are consistent with the concept that propanil is converted to N-hydroxy-3,4-dichloroaniline in the liver. Subsequently, this metabolite enters the erythrocyte and is oxidized by hemoglobin to 3,4-dichloronitrosobenzene with concomitant conversion of oxyhemoglobin to methemoglobin. The 3,4-dichloronitrosobenzene binds to cysteine residues on hemoglobin as the corresponding sulfinic acid amide adduct. These data suggest that human exposure to propanil may be monitored in the absence of observable toxicity by the analysis of propanil metabolites bound to hemoglobin.
Carcinogenesis was initiated in female rat liver by a single dose of N-nitrosomorpholine; subsequently phenobarbital (PB) was administered via the diet at a daily dose of 50 mg/kg body weight for up to 49 weeks. Subgroups of rats were left untreated after 10 or 28 weeks on PB. PB produced the following changes: (a) accelerated appearance of neoplastic nodules and hepatocellular carcinoma (from 28 weeks onwards); (b) phenotypic changes in altered foci such as a shift from clear to eosinophilic appearance, enhanced expression of gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase and other markers, and more distinct borders from surrounding liver; (c) an increase in foci number; and (d) accelerated foci enlargement. The increase in foci number was found to be due to increased phenotypic expression of foci. DNA synthesis was measured by [3H]thymidine labeling at multiple time points. The rate of DNA synthesis was always approximately 10-fold higher in foci than in surrounding liver tissue. Despite this, after N-nitrosomorpholine alone foci grew little before 18-24 weeks. Continuous treatment with PB did not produce a persistent further increase of DNA synthesis in foci, although it accelerated foci growth. Furthermore, at early stages small and larger foci showed similar DNA synthesis activity. These findings indicate that the rate of cell replication as measured by DNA synthesis is not the only determinant of the growth rate of foci. Further studies showed that foci with indistinct borders (reflecting weak expression of the altered phenotype) grew much less than foci with distinct borders; this was at least in part due to an increased rate of cell death by apoptosis found in foci with indistinct borders. In conclusion, besides cell replication, apoptosis and the extent of phenotypic expression (remodeling) determine the growth rate of foci. Foci with weak phenotypic expression predominated after N-nitrosomorpholine alone; in these, a high incidence of apoptosis counterbalanced cell replication. In contrast, during PB treatment foci with strong phenotypic expression predominated; in these, apoptotic activity was lower and the high replicative activity could manifest itself. Finally, all effects of PB on foci were largely although not completely reversible upon cessation of treatment; as a result phenotypic expression declined, and "remodeling" foci with high apoptotic activity predominated again.
The arsenic compounds in traditional Chinese medicine have been recorded to have therapeutic effects on the treatment of psoriasis, syphilis, rheumatosis and a number of malignant tumours. Recent studies showed that arsenic trioxide can induce clinical remission in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia, including those who have relapsed after retinoic acid treatment. however, the mechanism of how arsenic trioxide targets tumour cells is not clearly understood. We have examined the effects of arsenic trioxide on oesophageal carcinoma cell line EC8712. Our results demonstrated that the growth and survival of tumour cells were markedly inhibited by arsenic trioxide. The half dose effect (ED50) was at the concentration of 1 microM. Electron microscopic study demonstrated that EC8712 tumour cells treated with arsenic trioxide display a typical morphological appearance of apoptosis, including chromatin condensation and fragmentation of the nuclei. In contrast, no apoptotic features were observed in tumour cells without arsenic trioxide treatment. TUNEL assay also showed the biological features of apoptosis in cells treated with arsenic trioxide. Flow cytometry analyses showed that apoptotic peak was identified in arsenic trioxide treated cells but not in the control. Apoptotic cells in arsenic trioxide treated group account for 35% of total cell populations after three days treatment at a dose of 3 microM. In short, our results suggested that the anticancer effect of arsenic trioxide is due, at least in part, to the induction of apoptosis in cancer cells.
Sotalol is an antiarrhythmic agent with combined beta-blocking and class III antiarrhythmic properties. This study was designed to assess the safety and efficacy of sotalol in terminating supraventricular tachycardia (SVT), atrial fibrillation (AFib), and atrial flutter (AFl). Ninety-three patients with spontaneous or induced SVT (n = 45) or AF (AFib or AFl; n = 48) with a ventricular rate of > or = 120 beats/min were studied. In the first phase, the double-blind phase, patients were randomly assigned to receive placebo or intravenous (i.v.) sotalol, 1.0 or 1.5 mg/kg. If SVT or AF did not convert to sinus rhythm or if the ventricular rate did not slow to < 100 beats/min within 30 minutes, patients then entered the second phase, the open-label phase, which also lasted 30 minutes, and were given 1.5 mg/kg iv sotalol. In the SVT group, during the double-blind phase conversion to sinus rhythm occurred in 2 (14%) of 14 of patients who received placebo, 10 (67%) of 15 who received sotalol, 1.0 mg/kg (p < 0.05 vs placebo), and 10 (67%) of 15 who received 1.5 mg/kg sotalol (p < 0.05 vs placebo); during the open-label phase, 1.5 mg/kg i.v. sotalol converted 7 (41%) of 17 of patients. In the AF group, during the double-blind phase conversion to sinus rhythm occurred in 2 (14%) of 14 of patients who received placebo, 2 (11%) of 18 who received 1.0 mg/kg sotalol (p not significant [NS] vs placebo), and 2 (13%) of 16 who received 1.5 mg/kg sotalol (p = NS vs placebo); in these groups, a > 20% reduction of ventricular rate without conversion to sinus rhythm occurred in 0 (0%) of 14, 13 (72%) of 18 (p < 0.05 vs placebo), and 12 (75%) of 16 of patients (p < 0.05 vs placebo), respectively; during the open-label phase, 1.5 mg/kg i.v. sotalol converted 7 (30%) of 23 of patients. The most common adverse events were hypotension and dyspnea. During the double-blind phase they occurred in 10% of patients who received placebo, 9% of those who received 1.0 mg/kg i.v. sotalol (p = NS vs placebo), and 10% of those who received 1.5 mg/kg i.v. sotalol (p = NS vs placebo). Most of these events were mild to moderate, but all were transient and clinically manageable.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
SIM010603, a promising multi-targeted receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) inhibitor, is now being considered for evaluation in phase clinical trial. In this work, the subchronic toxicity of SIM010603 in SD rats and beagle dogs have been characterized. Rats and dogs received SIM010603 orally (0-20 and 0-10mg/kg/day, respectively) on a consecutive daily dosing schedule for 28 days following a 14 days recovery period. Sunitinib was used as a positive control. The No Observed Adverse Effect Level (NOAEL) of SIM010603 was 5mg/kg/day for rats, and undefined for dogs. The treatment resulted in unscheduled mortality in dogs receiving 10mg/kg of SIM010603 or Sunitinib. The adverse effects of SIM010603 on rats and dogs mainly included gastrointestinal toxicity, skeletal toxicity, myelosuppression, thymus atrophy, bronchopneumonia, cardiovascular dysfunction, and pancreatic toxicity. Similar observations have also been noted with this class of RTK signaling inhibitors and are consistent with pharmacologic perturbations of physiologic/angiogenic processes associated with the intended molecular targets. Most treatment-induced effects were reversible or showed ongoing recovery upon discontinuation of treatment. SIM010603 has shown comparable toxicity effect on beagle dogs, while better tolerability on SD rats when compared to Sunitinib.
Atypical manifestations of pulmonary toxicity and previously unreported autonomic nervous system dysfunction complicating amiodarone therapy were observed in a patient being treated for sustained ventricular tachycardia. Pulmonary and hepatic nodules on computed tomographic scan masquerading as metastatic carcinoma were initially noted. Focal infiltrates and a large left pleural effusion mimicking infection, malignant neoplasm, or collagen vascular disease became manifest at a later stage. Autonomic dysfunction presented as incapacitating orthostatic hypotension and persisted for six weeks after amiodarone withdrawal. The pleuropulmonary toxic effects were reversible on discontinuation of amiodarone therapy, and resolution was hastened by short-course steroid treatment.
Lithium augmentation of antidepressant treatment is a commonly used strategy for treatment-resistant cases of depression. Two cases are described in which significant neurotoxicity developed in elderly patients despite therapeutic doses of antidepressant and lithium.
We report the case of a man who developed anosmia while taking doxycycline tablets for a skin disorder. Two other cases of parosmia occurring in association with doxycycline have been reported to the Adverse Drug Reactions Advisory Committee of the Commonwealth Department of Community Services and Health since 1972. Disturbances of taste but not olfaction have been reported with tetracycline use in the past.
A large proportion of human cancers result from exposure of individuals to environmental or occupational carcinogens. The early detection of carcinogen-induced mutations is a prerequisite for the identification of individuals at risk for developing cancer. Short G-rich repetitive sequences have been previously identified as hot-spots for frameshift mutagenesis induced by a large variety of carcinogens belonging to several families of widespread environmental pollutants. In order to test if these sequences, when mutated, might serve as biomarkers for carcinogen exposure, we designed a sensitive PCR-based strategy that allows the detection of rare mutational events within a whole genome. 2-Amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo(4,5-b)pyridine (PhIP), the most abundant carcinogenic heterocyclic amine generated in cooked meat, induces mammary and colon carcinoma in F344 rats. About 25% of male rats exposed to 400 p.p.m. PhIP in the diet for >43 weeks present colon tumors with specific -1G mutations within 5'-GGGA-3' sequences of the APC: gene. Using our PCR assay we have assessed the occurrence of such specific events in rats exposed to PhIP for only 1, 2, 4 and 6 weeks. A specific amplification signal was already observed in the 1 week-treated population and increases in a treatment time-dependent manner. These data validate this approach for the early detection of mutations and demonstrate its usefulness for molecular epidemiology and early diagnosis.
We describe a case of isolated adrenocorticotropic hormone deficiency that showed ventricular fibrillation associated with QT prolongation. A 72-year-old man was admitted because of consciousness disorder caused by severe hypoglycemia. On the second hospital day, QT intervals were unexpectedly prolonged and ventricular fibrillation occurred. Electrical defibrillation was performed and restored hemodynamically stable condition without neurologic deficits. He was diagnosed with endocrine tests as having isolated adrenocorticotropic hormone deficiency. QT prolongation was improved after hydrocortisone replacement therapy. We considered the QT prolongation was caused by corticosteroid insufficiency. We should be aware that corticosteroid insufficiency may provoke QT prolongation responsible for sudden cardiac death.
This study examined different types of violence (i.e. 'expressed' towards others and 'received' from others) across different relationship types (i.e. 'partners' and 'non-partners') among men and women in substance abuse treatment, and during a 2-year follow-up period. For received violence, participants were divided into three groups: no-violence before or after treatment, violence before treatment only, and violence both before and after treatment. Similarly, participants also were divided into three groups based on expressed violence: no-violence before or after treatment, violence before treatment only, and violence both before and after treatment. Both expressed and received violence (either before or after treatment) was associated with younger age. Unique demographic markers of received violence included being female, reporting less income and greater unemployment. For both received and expressed violence, several problem severity indicators (e.g. drug consequences, psychological distress) and psychosocial relapse risk indicators (e.g. resource needs, substance-using leisure activities) differentiated those who reported violence (either before or after treatment) and those who did not report violence. In addition, received violence was related to greater exposure to substances whereas expressed violence was related to greater cocaine use and craving. Continued received and expressed violence post-treatment was related to substance use during the follow-up, recruitment from inpatient treatment, and baseline psychological distress (expressed violence only). The results are consistent with contemporary models of violence specifying the impact of substance use, social/contextual and individual difference factors, and highlight risk factors that could be targeted during treatment to potentially reduce post-treatment substance use and violence.
