This study was designed to evaluate the efficacy of intravenous quinaprilat in maintaining blood pressure control and to assess the safety of directly switching from oral angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors to intravenous quinaprilate.
Following an initial 1-day open-label phase, patients with essential mild to moderate hypertension controlled by ACE inhibitor monotherapy were randomly assigned to treatment with intravenous quinaprilate (n = 36) or oral quinapril (n = 19) for a 3-day double-blind period. Quinaprilate (2.5, 5, or 10 mg BID) and quinapril (10, 20, or 40 mg OD) dosages were based on the patient's previous ACE inhibitor doses. The intravenously used dosages were half the dosages of orally administered enalapril, lisinopril and quinapril. Patients returned to their previous ACE inhibitor therapy during a second 1-day open-label phase.
Quinaprilate and quinapril maintained diastolic blood pressure control at levels comparable to those during the initial open-label ACE inhibitor treatment. The mean difference between quinaprilate and quinapril treatment groups in diastolic blood pressure showed no clinically relevant differences between treatment groups with regard to mean changes from baseline. Mean reductions in systolic blood pressure were similar to those of diastolic blood pressure.
Quinaprilate, at half the dose of quinapril, administered BID maintains blood pressure control, is well tolerated, and allows for safe conversion from previously applied oral ACE inhibitors. This finding is important for the antihypertensive treatment of patients in intensive care units or peri/post-operatively who cannot swallow orally administered drugs.
To investigate visual field loss in patients on long-term treatment with the antiepileptic drug vigabatrin, recently reported to cause visual disturbances.
Eighteen patients taking vigabatrin for 0.5-9.5 years were examined with automated perimetry up to 60 degrees from fixation using the Humphrey Field Analyser. Five patients with epilepsy receiving other medications served as controls. Patients found to have a visual field defect underwent ophthalmologic examination.
Among the 18 patients in the vigabatrin group, visual field defects categorised as mild were revealed in 6 right eyes (33%) and 8 left eyes (44.4%), while defects categorised as severe were found in 9 right eyes (50%) and 8 left eyes (44.4%). The majority of the defects (66.7% in the right eye) were peripheral constriction with nasal predominance. The location of the defects was confirmed in 8 patients also tested with Kowa AP340 perimetry.
According to our results, visual field defects among the patients on vigabatrin therapy may occur more frequently than previously recognised.
Researchers used transgenic mice expressing enhanced-green fluorescent protein (eGFP) driven by either the glycine transporter-2 gene promoter to specifically visualize glycinergic interneurons or the homeobox-9 (Hb9) gene promoter to visualize motoneurons for assessing their vulnerabilities to excitotoxins in vivo. Stereotaxic excitotoxic lesions were made in adult male and female mouse lumbar spinal cord with the specific N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor agonist quinolinic acid (QA) and the non-NMDA ion channel glutamate receptor agonist kainic acid (KA). QA and KA induced large-scale degeneration of glycinergic interneurons in spinal cord. Glycinergic interneurons were more sensitive than motoneurons to NMDA receptor-mediated and non-NMDA glutamate receptor-mediated excitotoxicity. Outcome after spinal cord excitotoxicity was gender-dependent, with males showing greater sensitivity than females. Excitotoxic degeneration of spinal interneurons resembled apoptosis, while motoneuron degeneration appeared non-apoptotic. Perikaryal mitochondrial accumulation was antecedent to both NMDA and non-NMDA receptor-mediated excitotoxic stimulation of interneurons and motoneurons. Genetic ablation of cyclophilin D, a regulator of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore (mPTP), protected both interneurons and motoneurons from excitotoxicity. The results demonstrate in adult mouse spinal cord that glycinergic interneurons are more sensitive than motoneurons to excitotoxicity that stimulates mitochondrial accumulation, and that the mPTP has pro-death functions mediating apoptotic and non-apoptotic neuronal degeneration in vivo.
Although D-penicillamine has been used effectively in the management of a variety of diseases such as cystinuria, Wilson's disease, rheumatoid arthritis, and progressive systemic sclerosis, several toxic drug reactions have been observed with prolonged administration of this agent. One of the most serious side effects is the renal changes that occur following several months of use. We now report two patients with scleroderma who developed serologic evidence of lupus and crescentic glomerulonephritis during treatment with D-penicillamine. Both patients responded to pulse methylprednisolone and subsequent daily steroids. We also review the current information available on the variety of penicillamine nephropathies.
We studied 125 patients with primary dysmenorrhea in a prospective randomized double-blind crossover study. After an admission pretreatment period without medication, the patients completed three consecutive randomized treatment phases with lysine clonixinate 125 mg plus propinox 10 mg or paracetamol 500 mg plus hyoscine N-butylbromide 10 mg or placebo, according to a fixed-dose schedule of 1 tablet every 6 h, 3 days before onset of menses and for 5 days thereafter. Changes in menstrual pain intensity and duration, amount of bleeding measured according to the number of daily pads used and concomitant symptoms were assessed on the fifth day of each cycle. Every night, the patients recorded the average intensity of menstrual pain during the first 4 days of menstruation in a diary The follow-up visit carried out at day 5 showed significant reduction in pain intensity with both active treatments vs. the other two phases: baseline: 2.72 +/- 0.61; placebo: 1.85 +/- 0.87; lysine clonixinate plus propinox 1.36 +/- 0.81, and paracetamol plus hyosine N-butylbromide: 1.45 +/- 0.87. The patients' diaries showed increasingly lower pain intensities starting from day 1 with the three treatments. Active treatments revealed significantly higher analgesic efficacy from the outset compared with baseline and placebo; however, only the lysine clonixinate plus propinox combination reached a statistically significant difference by days 3 and 4. No changes in duration or intensity of menstrual bleeding or in the incidence of adverse effects were observed during the four study periods.
We report on a 6-month-old patient with a right bundle, superior axis tachycardia at 197 beats per minute. The tachycardia was unresponsive to adenosine, propranolol, flecainide, or amiodarone, or synchronized cardioversion. Overdrive atrial pacing terminated the tachycardia and since initiating verapamil, no recurrences of his tachycardia have occurred.
If an infant presents with a right bundle, superior axis ventricular tachycardia unresponsive to multiple antiarrhythmic medications and synchronized cardioversion, but responsive to overdrive atrial pacing, one must consider verapamil-sensitive ventricular tachycardia and initiate appropriate therapy.
We assessed whether split dosing with the methylating agent DTIC is an effective strategy for inactivating the DNA repair protein O6-alkylguanine DNA-ATase in order to decrease tumour resistance to BCNU. ATase levels in PBMCs were used as a surrogate for tumour ATase depletion to determine whether this correlated with either the pharmacokinetics of DTIC and its major metabolite AIC or other clinical sequelae. Two 1 hr infusions of DTIC (400 mg/m(2)) 4 hr apart followed another 4 hr later by BCNU (75 mg/m(2)) were administered every 6 weeks in 7 patients with heavily pretreated advanced breast cancer. The extent and kinetics of ATase depletion and recovery in PBMCs varied not only between patients but also between cycles in the same patient. Serial FNAs showed heterogeneity in tumour ATase expression but no clear pattern of change in ATase activity. DTIC and AIC exhibited biphasic clearance from the blood, consistent with a 2-compartment pharmacokinetic model. The AUC of AIC was strongly correlated with the percentage decrease in PBMC ATase levels. There were no clinical responses, and toxicity in neutrophils and platelets was marked. Split-dose DTIC therefore does not appear to be a clinically effective approach to overcome O(6)-alkylating agent resistance in advanced breast cancer.
To describe the association between morphine administration in preterm infants, hydronephrosis, and renal dysfunction.
The findings were based on serial ultrasound examinations and blood studies.
Two preterm infants had bladder distension and hydronephrosis after they received intravenous morphine for analgesia. Morphine was used at a low dose. Each patient had a normal urine output and normal serum creatinine before the signs and symptoms of urinary retention were observed. Within 24 h of morphine administration, each infant concurrently developed oliguria and elevation of the serum creatinine. Cessation of morphine and urinary drainage resulted in rapid and complete resolution of the hydronephrosis and the elevated creatinine.
Morphine, even at low dosages, can be associated with hydronephrosis in hospitalized preterm infants.
We investigated whether certain drugs with alpha-adrenergic antagonist activity display anti-arrhythmic effects in hypertensive animals subjected to acute coronary artery ligation. The left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) was ligated in open-chest pentobarbital-anesthetized spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR); arrhythmias were subsequently recorded for 30 min. Drugs were administered intravenously, (i.v.) 5 min before ligation. The effects of yohimbine and idazoxan were compared with those of prazosin. Prazosin (100 mu g/kg) increased the occurrence of ventricular tachycardia (VT). In contrast, yohimbine 1.6 mg/kg decreased both the occurrence and the duration of VT and the occurrence and the duration of ventricular fibrillation, (VF). The results obtained with idazoxan 1 mg/kg were similar to those with yohimbine. The ECG alterations induced by coronary artery ligation in rats treated with yohimbine and idazoxan were more pronounced than in controls and in rats treated with prazosin, suggesting that the antiarrhythmic effects observed were not mediated by antiischemic activity. The protective effects against ligation-induced arrhythmias were preceded by a hypotensive effect and a decrease in the rate-pressure product in yohimbine-treated but not in idazoxan-treated animals. In rats treated with prazosin, more arrhythmic events were observed, although hemodynamics were similar to those in rats treated with yohimbine. Our results suggest that the yohimbine-induced antiarrhythmic action is not due to an alteration of conduction or repolarization rates. In this model, yohimbine and idazoxan appear to protect against ligation-induced arrhythmias. These data suggest that drugs with alpha-adrenergic properties might influence the nervous drive to the heart in SHR with cardiac ischemia. However, further investigations are needed to ascertain whether the alpha-adrenoceptor blockade participates in this effect.
Rhenium-188 (beta- = 2.2 MeV; gamma = 155 keV; T1/2 16.9 hours) is an attractive therapeutic radioisotope which is produced from decay of the reactor-produced tungsten-188 parent (T1/2 69 days) and thus conveniently obtained on demand by elution from the alumina-based tungsten-188 /rhenium-188 generator system. The rhenium-188 is obtained as sodium perrhenate by elution of the generator with 0.9% saline. The post elution use of disposable tandem, ion-exchange columns is a simple method for the concentration of rhenium-188 saline solutions with specific volumes > 500 mCi/ml. This method can also extend the useful shelf-life of the generator, which can be as long as one year. The long useful shelf-life of the generator is expected to provide rhenium-188 at very reasonable costs for routine preparation of a variety of radiopharmaceuticals for the treatment of a variety of cancers including breast cancer. We are evaluating two types of Re-188-labeled agents under investigation which have potential for the treatment of breast cancer. Rhenium-188-labeled hydroxyethylidenediphosphonate (HEDP) and Re-188-dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA) are being applied for palliative treatment of pain associated with skeletal metastases, and the Re-188-RC-160 somatostatin analogue [cyclic NH2-(D)-Phe-Cys-Try-(D)-Trp-Lys-Val-Cys-Trp-NH2] for somatostatin-receptor-positive tumors. The results of initial clinical studies with the two bone pain agents demonstrate good targeting to skeletal metastases, and use of Re-188-HEDP has resulted in pain palliation with minimal bone marrow suppression in the initial patient studies. While these initial studies have been conducted in patients with prostate cancer, similar results are expected in planned studies in breast cancer patients. In animal studies, Re-188-RC-160 has been successfully used for the local/regional treatment of experimental breast cancer and other cancers. Re-188-RC-160 binds to somatostatin-receptor-positive cells both in vitro and in vivo, including breast cancer cells (ZR-75-1 breast carcinoma and NCI-H69 human small cell ling carcinoma), but not to binding-negative cells (Raji, Burkitt's lymphoma). A structurally similar Re-188-cyclic peptide with different binding specificity (CTOP [cyclic NH2-(D)-Phe-Cys-Try-(D)-Trp-Orn-Thr-Pen-Thr-ol]; an opiate-receptor antagonist) did not bind to target cells. Both gentisic acid and ascorbic acid are present in the Re-188-HEDP and Re-188-RC-160 formulations, and have been found to also significantly reduce radiolytic degradation of the somatostatin peptide analogues, and may have general application in the stabilization of Re-188-labeled radio-pharmaceuticals.
Occupational medicamentosa-like dermatitis induced by trichloroethylene (OMLDT) is an autoimmune disease and it has become a serious occupational health hazard. In the present study, we collected fasting blood samples from patients with OMLDT (n=18) and healthy volunteers (n=33) to explore serum peptidome patterns. Peptides in sera were purified using weak cation exchange magnetic beads (MB-WCX), and analyzed by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight-mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF-MS) and ClinProTools bioinformatics software. The intensities of thirty protein/peptide peaks were significantly different between the healthy control and OMLDT patients. A pattern of three peaks (m/z 2106.3, 2134.5, and 3263.67) was selected for supervised neural network (SNN) model building to separate the OMLDT patients from the healthy controls with a sensitivity of 95.5% and a specificity of 73.8%. Furthermore, two peptide peaks of m/z 4091.61 and 4281.69 were identified as fragments of ATP-binding cassette transporter family A member 12 (ABCA12), and cationic trypsinogen (PRRS1), respectively. Our findings not only show that specific proteomic fingerprints in the sera of OMLDT patients can be served as a differentiated tool of OMLDT patients with high sensitivity and high specificity, but also reveal the novel correlation between OMLDT with ABC transports and PRRS1, which will be of potential value for clinical and mechanistic studies of OMLDT.
Prunetin is an O-methylated isoflavone, which is found in Prunus yedoensis. To date no report has been published on anti-inflammatory activities of prunetin. In the present study, the anti-inflammatory effect of prunetin on LPS-stimulated RAW 264.7 macrophage and LPS-induced septic shock model were investigated. Inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and interleukin-1β (IL-1β) expressions were determined by western blot and or realtime-PCR (RT-PCR). To elucidate its underlying mechanism, nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κb) activation and its downstream pathways were investigated by NF-κB transcription factor assay, reporter gene expression, and western blot. In vivo anti-inflammatory effects of prunetin were evaluated in LPS-induced endotoxemia. Promoter assay revealed that prunetin inhibits LPS-induced nitric oxide and prostaglandin E2 production through the suppression of iNOS and COX-2 at the transcriptional level. In addition, prunetin inhibits NF-κB-dependent inflammatory responses by modulating IκB kinase (IKK)-inhibitor κBα (IκBα)-NF-κB signaling. Consistent with these results, prunetin significantly reduced serum levels of inflammatory cytokines and mortality in mice challenged with lipopolysaccharide. These findings offer a potential mechanism for the anti-inflammatory activity of prunetin.
We report here on an eight-year-old boy who first developed acute intravascular hemolysis following therapy with amphotericin B (AmB) and subsequently a delayed hemolytic transfusion reaction due to alloantibodies. Although there is as yet no evidence for metabolism of AmB in vivo, the hemolysis appeared to be the result of sensitization against a degradation product of the drug. The patient's serum contained a hemagglutinating IgM antibody that reacted with all red blood cells (RBC) tested in the presence of plasma obtained from patients receiving AmB (ex vivo antigen), but not in the presence of their urine, AmB itself, or with AmB-pretreated RBC. These findings indicate that the antibody was directed against a degradation product of AmB, presumably a trace metabolite, that has not yet been identified.
This prospective study assessed the long-term effects of self-injection of papaverine hydrochloride and phentolamine mesylate along several critical domains for 42 men and 26 partners. Over the course of one year, men were, on average, injecting themselves five times monthly, with 84% of these injections producing satisfactory erections. Treatment resulted in statistically significant improvements in quality of erection, sexual satisfaction, frequency of intercourse, and coital orgasm. The women also demonstrated significant improvement in sexual satisfaction, arousal, frequency of intercourse, and coital orgasm. Decreases in general psychiatric symptomatology were apparent for men but not for partners. The dropout rate was 57%. The common side effects of treatment were development of fibrotic nodules (26%), abnormal liver function values (30%), and bruising (19%). We conclude that self-injection should be considered among the accepted treatments for erectile dysfunction. It does appear to enhance the sexual lives of men and women when the treatment is efficacious and the couple is motivated to utilize it.
With the recent approval of buprenorphine for the treatment of opiate dependence in the United States it has become important to develop an understanding of the factors that influence the likelihood of successful treatment outcomes when using buprenorphine. This study examined, in a convenience sample, the relationship between novelty-seeking behaviors, as determined by Cloninger's Tridimensional Personality Questionnaire (TPQ), and attendance variables during participation in a buprenorphine-based treatment program for 21 heroin-dependent cocaine users that took place in the late 1990s. Approximately two-thirds of the participants were male and primarily African-American. About half of them were employed and had at least a high school education. Approximately one-third of them were married or cohabitating and they all resided in the greater Detroit, Michigan area of the United States. The Tridimensional Personality Questionnaire (TPQ) was administered to the participants prior to entering the treatment program. Demographic variables, psychiatric distress, and substance use severity were also evaluated. Variables with significant bivariate relationships with poor attendance measures were entered into a regression analysis predicting attendance measures. Participants who scored high on the TPQ Novelty Seeking Scale attended significantly fewer regularly scheduled visits, had a greater overall number of missed visits, and shorter treatment retention times. Demographics, substance use severity, and psychiatric distress did not have significant relationships with these attendance measures.
A double-blind study comparing the effects of carbidopa and levodopa combined in a single tablet with levodopa alone was undertaken in 50 patients with Parkinson's disease. After 6 months, there was a statistically significant improvement over baseline in total score, rigidity, and tremor only in the patients randomized to carbidopa/levodopa. In addition, 40 percent of the patients treated with carbidopa/levodopa showed obvious clinical improvement (a greater than 50 percent reduction in their total score) over treatment with levodopa alone. However, after 2 years, only 20 percent continued to show this improvement. Nausea, vomiting, and anorexia developed in 56 percent of patients on levodopa but in only 27 percent of patients on carbidopa/levodopa. However, abnormal involuntary movements, observed in 48 percent of patients on levodopa, were present in 77 percent of patients on carbidopa/levodopa. Despite the increase in abnormal involuntary movements, carbidopa/levodopa is more effective than levodopa.
To determine whether limiting intraoperative sedation depth during spinal anesthesia for hip fracture repair in elderly patients can decrease the prevalence of postoperative delirium.
We performed a double-blind, randomized controlled trial at an academic medical center of elderly patients (>or=65 years) without preoperative delirium or severe dementia who underwent hip fracture repair under spinal anesthesia with propofol sedation. Sedation depth was titrated using processed electroencephalography with the bispectral index (BIS), and patients were randomized to receive either deep (BIS, approximately 50) or light (BIS, >or=80) sedation. Postoperative delirium was assessed as defined by Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (Third Edition Revised) criteria using the Confusion Assessment Method beginning at any time from the second day after surgery.
From April 2, 2005, through October 30, 2008, a total of 114 patients were randomized. The prevalence of postoperative delirium was significantly lower in the light sedation group (11/57 [19%] vs 23/57 [40%] in the deep sedation group; P=.02), indicating that 1 incident of delirium will be prevented for every 4.7 patients treated with light sedation. The mean +/- SD number of days of delirium during hospitalization was lower in the light sedation group than in the deep sedation group (0.5+/-1.5 days vs 1.4+/-4.0 days; P=.01).
The use of light propofol sedation decreased the prevalence of postoperative delirium by 50% compared with deep sedation. Limiting depth of sedation during spinal anesthesia is a simple, safe, and cost-effective intervention for preventing postoperative delirium in elderly patients that could be widely and readily adopted.
Anaphylactoid shock, disseminated intravascular coagulation, and anuric renal failure requiring dialysis occurred in a patient receiving zomepirac sodium for toothache. Although renal function showed gradual improvement after seven days of anuria, the recovery was slow and incomplete. Renal biopsy three weeks after the onset of renal failure revealed evidence of focal renal cortical necrosis. Association of zomepirac administration with renal cortical necrosis is not known to have been previously demonstrated. This observation adds another dimension to the previously reported renal complications of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents, especially zomepirac. The proportions of lymphocyte subsets, as defined with monoclonal antibodies, and the proliferative response to mitogens were normal. The patient's lymphocytes showed no proliferative response to zomepirac. Serum complement components and immunoglobulin levels were within normal limits, and radioallergosorbent testing gave negative results. The mechanism of anaphylactoid reaction to zomepirac in this case, therefore, remains unclear.
Maternal exposure to di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (DEHP) is associated with adverse effects on offspring, and the metabolites are agonists of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) α, which exhibits species differences in expression and function. This study aimed to clarify the mechanism of DEHP-induced adverse effects on offspring in relation to maternal mouse and human PPARα. Male and female Sv/129 wild-type (mPPARα), Pparα-null and humanized PPARα (hPPARα) mice were treated with diets containing 0%, 0.01%, 0.05% (medium) or 0.1% (high) DEHP. After 4 weeks, males and females were mated. Dams were killed on gestational day 18 and postnatal day (PND) 2. High-dose DEHP decreased the number of total and live fetuses, and increased resorptions in mPPARα mice. In hPPARα mice, resorptions were increased above the medium dose, and the number of births was decreased at the high dose. The number of live pups on PND2 was decreased over the medium dose in mPPARα and at the high dose in hPPARα mice. No such findings were observed in Pparα-null mice. High-dose DEHP decreased plasma triglyceride in pregnant mPPARα mice, but not in Pparα-null and hPPARα ones. Above the medium dose in mPPARα mice significantly reduced hepatic microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTP) expression. Medium- and/or high-dose DEHP increased the levels of maternal PPARα target genes in mPPARα and hPPARα mice. Taken together, PPARα expression is required for the toxicity of DEHP in fetuses and pups and altered plasma triglyceride levels, through regulation of MTP may be important in mPPARα mice and not in hPPARα mice.
Bupropion is an atypical antidepressant that is currently used as a smoking cessation aid. Bupropion interferes with monoamine reuptake and is potentially neurotoxic, although this is yet to be confirmed. In this study, we evaluated the cytotoxicity of bupropion using SH-SY5Y human catecholaminergic cells as the in vitro model. Exposure of the cells to bupropion for 24h reduced their viability in a concentration-dependent manner. Treatment of the cells with a toxic concentration of bupropion (100μg/mL) induced the phosphorylation of eukaryotic initiation factor alpha (EIF-2α), c-JUN N-terminal kinase (JNK), and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) within 1h, which later declined to baseline levels. However, bupropion failed to splice X-box binding protein 1 (XBP1) mRNA. Bupropion caused mitochondrial cytochrome c release and activated caspases 9, 8, and 3 in a time-dependent manner. The reduction in cell viability was significantly inhibited by a caspase 3 inhibitor. Bupropion also induced the mRNA expression of the death receptors DR4 (TRAILR1) and DR5 (TRAILR2). However, bupropion did not increase the level of cellular oxidative stress. Taken together, our data indicate that bupropion activates caspase 3 through the induction of endoplasmic reticulum stress responses and activation of JNK, and consequently induces apoptotic cell death in SH-SY5Y cells.
We describe a case of bilateral linezolid-associated optic neuropathy in a patient with ocular sarcoidosis.
A 70-year-old woman with sarcoidosis noted foggy vision in both eyes. Best-corrected visual acuity was 0.5 in the right eye and 0.9 in the left. No abnormality other than slight optic disc hyperemia was visible in either eye. A central scotoma in both eyes and enlargement of the blind spot in the right eye were detected by Goldmann perimetry examination, and magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated an edematous optic nerve in the right eye. Therefore, retrobulbar optic neuritis resulting from sarcoidosis was initially suspected. Sub-Tenon's capsule injection of triamcinolone acetonide along with steroid pulse therapy was given; however, best-corrected visual acuity worsened to 0.06 in the right eye and 0.08 in the left. Pulse therapy was discontinued on day 1, and the possibility of linezolid-associated optic neuropathy was speculated because linezolid had been given for methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus osteomyelitis 2 years before by an orthopedist. After discontinuation of linezolid, best-corrected visual acuity improved to 0.8 in the right eye and 0.9 in the left, and the optic disc hyperemia in both eyes disappeared.
Our findings demonstrate that it is important for ophthalmologists as well as physicians and orthopedists to consider the possibility of optic neuropathy caused by long-term use of linezolid.
Five twin pregnant women were studied during treatment of preterm labor with ritodrine. Maternal pulmonary capillary pressure (PCP) and cardiac function were measured by noninvasive simultaneous recordings of the indirect carotid pulse, electrocardiography, phonocardiography, and M-mode echocardiography. Pulmonary capillary pressure significantly increased from the control value of 9 +/- 3.0 to 18 +/- 2.2 mmHg during the infusion period of therapy. Cardiac index and preejection period to left ventricular ejection time ratio were also increased during treatment with ritodrine. Our findings suggest that noninvasive measurement of PCP and cardiac function may be useful in monitoring twin pregnancies that develop cardiovascular side effects during tocolytic therapy.
To investigate the influence of protein concentration in the anterior chamber, measured by laser flare meter, on pain sensation after phenylephrine instillation in patients with iridocyclitis.
Twenty-five consecutive patients with iridocyclitis were included. Patients with cataract, exfoliation syndrome, diabetes mellitus, glaucoma or any other previous ocular diseases or ocular surgery were excluded. Patients were divided into two groups: Group 1--without fibrinoid reaction (FR) in the anterior chamber (18 patients), and Group 2--with FR (7 patients). Protein concentration in the anterior chamber was measured with laser flare meter (FC 500, Kowa Co., Japan). Pupil size was measured by Alcon Tilo Scale, and pain sensation was estimated by Visual Analogue Scale (VAS, Kabi Pharmacia). All measurements were done before and 1 hour after topical instillation of 10% phenylephrine hydrochloride into the subconjunctival sac of the inflamed eyes.
Eyes with iridocyclitis and fibrinoid reaction (FR) have a higher flare intensity compared to those without FR (p<0.05). Pupil size was significantly increased after phenylephrine instillation in both study groups (Wilcoxon test, p<0.05). The VAS pain and flare intensity were significantly decreased in group without FR after phenylephrine instillation (Group 1) compared to values before treatment (Wilcoxon test, p<0.05). In eyes with FR (Group 2), no significant influence of phenylephrine instillation was found on VAS pain and flare intensity.
After phenylephrine instillation, flare intensity and pain were significantly decreased only in eyes with iridocyclitis and without FR. The decreasing level of flare intensity, and paralysis of the pupil after phenylephrine instillation seem to alleviate pain in those eyes.
A well-documented (by ECG as well as autopsy) case of fatal ventricular asystole secondary to intravenous administration of sodium diphenylhydantoin is presented. The possible role of ventricular conduction disturbances, hypoxemia, and metabolic abnormalities as precipitating factors are discussed.
