Blood coagulation is thought to be initiated by plasma protease factor VIIa in complex with the membrane protein tissue factor. In contrast, coagulation factor XII (FXII)-mediated fibrin formation is not believed to play an important role for coagulation in vivo. We used FXII-deficient mice to study the contributions of FXII to thrombus formation in vivo. Intravital fluorescence microscopy and blood flow measurements in three distinct arterial beds revealed a severe defect in the formation and stabilization of platelet-rich occlusive thrombi. Although FXII-deficient mice do not experience spontaneous or excessive injury-related bleeding, they are protected against collagen- and epinephrine-induced thromboembolism. Infusion of human FXII into FXII-null mice restored injury-induced thrombus formation. These unexpected findings change the long-standing concept that the FXII-induced intrinsic coagulation pathway is not important for clotting in vivo. The results establish FXII as essential for thrombus formation, and identify FXII as a novel target for antithrombotic therapy.
The main aim of this work was to analyse the cellular and molecular mechanisms involved in retinal and optic nerve development, and the consequences of methamphetamine "ice" (MA) or alcohol (EtOH) abuse during pregnancy on the developing visual system.
Wistar rats were exposed to MA or EtOH during gestation and lactation and their offspring studied. Control isocaloric rats were maintained in parallel. The eyes and optic nerves from pups (at 7, 14 and 21 postnatal days) were processed using morphologic, morphometric and western blot approaches using antibodies against glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), myelin basic protein (MBP) and neurofilament protein (NFP).
Statistically significant differences were observed between the methamphetamine-exposed and the alcohol-exposed rats, as compared to the controls. The optic nerve cross-sectional area was smaller in the drug or alcohol-exposed animals. The expression of developmental protein markers (GFAP and MBP) in the retina and optic nerve displayed striking alterations related to drug or alcohol abuse during gestation and lactation.
Psychostimulant and alcohol exposure alters the development of the retina and optic nerve.
Intralesional treatment of giant cell tumour (GCT) of the bone may result in a high rate of local recurrence. The introduction of local adjuvant therapy, such as cementation or phenolization, has lead to a significant reduction in recurrence rates. Due to the combined use of phenol and cementation in most studies, the effect of phenol alone is described in this study.
Twenty primary and nine recurrent surgical procedures in 26 patients with GCT of the bone with a median follow-up of 61 months were reviewed retrospectively. The mean age was 33.5 years (range 13.5-76.5 years). Eighteen curettages and 11 resections were performed. For the curettages, a large bone window was cut followed by high speed burring and bone graft reconstruction. In 11 of 18 curettages and three of 12 resections, phenol was additionally applied.
Four patients showed pulmonary metastasis. Three of these four cases also experienced local recurrences. Three patients died due to metastatic disease. In total, five patients developed local recurrence (17.2%); three in the first 2 years and one after 4 years. Four of 18 curettages recurred (22.2%), compared to one of 11 resections (9.1%). Only one of 11 patients (9.1%) treated with curettage and adjuvant phenol recurred, whereas three of seven patients (42.9%) treated with curettage alone recurred.
Phenolization is an effective and safe local adjuvant therapy for GCT. We did not observe any significant differences in recurrence rates for curettage, phenolization and bone grafting compared to most published results using cryosurgery or cementation alone. We recommend adjuvant phenolization in the treatment of GCT of the bone after careful curettage in applicable cases, regardless of whether additional cementation is used.
A 49-year-old woman with rheumatoid arthritis developed a motor polyneuropathy and nystagmus after 5 months' treatment with chloroquine phosphate. The peripheral neuropathy resolved after the chloroquine was discontinued.
A patient treated for hypertension with labetalol developed left ventricular failure. When the drug was withdrawn and the BP controlled with 2 other agents, the signs of heart failure regressed. The ill effects in this case could have been because the beta-blocking effects of labetalol are 4 to 6 times greater than the alpha-blocking effects. Caution should be exercised when prescribing this drug for patients with heart failure or with previous symptoms.
To determine the safety, effectiveness, and dosing of dexmedetomidine in intensive care infants and children who require sedation, and the rationale for patient selection.
Prospective observational study.
Eleven-bed pediatric intensive care unit in a university-affiliated children's hospital.
Seventeen infants and children who received dexmedetomidine consecutively between May 4, 2005, and May 4, 2006.
Data were collected on demographics, blood pressure and heart rate measurements, and adverse effects. The rationale for dexmedetomidine use, its dosing, use of other sedatives, and treatment duration were also recorded. Twenty treatment courses in 17 patients (median age 5 mo, range 1 mo-17 yrs) were evaluated. Ten patients (59%) had chronic neurologic impairments (including Down syndrome in nine [53%]). Thirteen (76%) had undergone cardiac surgery, two (12%) had respiratory failure, one (6%) had endocarditis, and one (6%) had undergone scoliosis repair. In 15 (75%) of 20 cases, dexmedetomidine was started to minimize the use of midazolam before extubation; in 13 (87%) of these cases, the patients were extubated within 24 hours. The remaining patients could not tolerate midazolam, and dexmedetomidine was used as an alternative. No loading doses were given. The mean +/- SD starting dose was 0.2 +/- 0.2 microg/kg/hour, with a maximum of 0.5 +/- 0.2 microg/kg/hour. Mean +/- SD duration was 32 +/- 21 hours (range 3-75 hrs); 10 courses exceeded 24 hours. Mean arterial pressures before and after starting treatment were not significantly different (p=0.76), nor were values at discontinuation (p=0.31) or 12 hours later (p=0.29). No significant differences were noted in heart rate at the start (p=0.09), at discontinuation (p=0.06), or 12 hours later (p=0.17). One patient (6%) developed hypotension; no other adverse effects were noted.
With careful patient selection and a conservative approach to dosing, dexmedetomidine was a useful sedative in children requiring mechanical ventilation. It allowed for a reduction or elimination of other sedatives, and it was particularly useful in children with chronic neurologic impairments. Dexmedetomidine was well tolerated, with no clinically significant effects on blood pressure or heart rate.
The immune response in Leishmania infected BALB/c mice is associated with a Th2 type cellular response, which has been characterized by the absence of interleukin (IL)-12, interferon (IFN)-gamma, and nitric oxide (NO) and the presence of IL-10 and IL-4. Prostaglandins (PGs) can modulate the immune response inhibiting the development of Th1 response and enhancing the development of Th2 response. We investigated the production of PGs and their effects on cytokine and NO production by spleen cells from Leishmania mexicana infected BALB/c and C57BL/6 mice. Increased production of PGs was noted as early as 1 week after infection in BALB/c mice, whereas in infected C57BL/6 mice PGs were not detected. In vitro administration of indomethacin (INDO), a specific inhibitor of PGs synthesis, reduced PGs production at normal levels, and increased IL-12, IFN-gamma, and NO production in infected BALB/c mice. Whereas, IL-10 and IL-4 were not affected. Moreover, INDO did not modulate cytokine and NO production in infected C57BL/6. INDO addition induced the intracellular killing of parasites in infected BALB/c mice. Together, these results suggest that suppression of PGs by INDO may promote the development of a protective Th1 type response in susceptible mice by a mechanism, which involves an enhancement of IL-12, IFN-gamma and NO production. These findings were confirmed by smaller lesions in BALB/c mice, when treated with INDO.
Oxidative stress, as determined by increased lipid peroxidation, has been implicated in the pathology of myotoxicity. As a model system to study the response of muscle to oxidative insults, we have studied the effects of diisopropylphosphorofluoridate (DFP)-induced muscle hyperactivity on levels of nitric oxide (NO) and energy metabolites in rat skeletal muscles. In in vivo experiments, citrulline levels as indicators of NO and NO synthase (NOS), and ATP and phosphocreatine (PCr) as indicators of mitochondrial dysfunction, were determined using HPLC methods 15 min, 30 min, 60 min, 2 h, and 24 h after intoxication. Within 15 min of DFP exposure, with onset of fasciculations, citrulline levels were significantly elevated in all three muscles [soleus, extensor digitorum longus (EDL), and diaphragm]. Maximum increases in citrulline (272-288%) were noted 60 min after DFP injection. At this time point, acetylcholinesterase activity was reduced by 90-96% (soleus < diaphragm < EDL). The levels of ATP and PCr were maximally reduced (30-43%), and total adenine nucleotides, and total creatine compounds showed declines. The findings revealed that the increase in NOS activity and NO was greater than the decrease of ATP and PCr. Since memantine (MEM) has been shown to reduce nerve and muscle hyperactivity, we have studied the possible protective effect of MEM on the DFP-induced biochemical changes. Pretreatment with MEM (18 mg/kg s.c.) and atropine sulfate (16 mg/kg s.c.), 60 min and 15 min, respectively, before DFP injection prevented the increase in citrulline and muscle hyperactivity and the decrease in ATP and PCr. These data suggest that free radical reactions by depleting high-energy phosphates may be initiating the cascade of events leading to myotoxicity during DFP-induced muscle hyperactivity.
We studied the effects of urapidil on bronchospasm, myocardial hypoxia and postural hypotension in experimental animals. Urapidil dose-dependently inhibited bronchospasm induced by histamine in anaesthetized guinea pigs and the contraction of isolated trachea induced by noradrenaline or phenylephrine. Urapidil markedly delayed the appearance of severe dyspnoea induced by histamine aerosol in guinea pigs. Further, urapidil inhibited isoproterenol-induced ST depression in rats and inhibited histamine-induced ST depression in rabbits. The postural hypotension induced by prazosin was greater than that induced by urapidil in equihypotensive doses in conscious rabbits. Urapidil induced a lesser alpha-blockade in the vein than in the artery compared with prazosin. These combined properties of urapidil suggest that the drug is worth investigation in hypertensive patients with bronchial asthma or ischaemic heart disease.
HCFC-123 (2,2-dichloro-1,1,1-trifluoroethane), a substitute for the banned chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), is a structural analogue of the well-known hepatotoxicant halothane. The objectives of these experiments were to investigate (1) whether, like halothane, multiple exposure increases the risk of HCFC-123-induced liver toxicity, and (2) whether ethanol, a potent CYP2E1 inducer, potentiates the liver toxicity of HCFC-123. In experiment 1, male Hartley guinea-pigs were exposed twice a week to 5000 ppm HCFC-123 (4 h) during 3 weeks followed by 2 weeks recovery, and then re-exposed or not during 4 h to 5000 ppm HCFC-123. A group with a single exposure to 5000 ppm HCFC-123 and a control group were also included. In experiment 2, guinea-pigs received 5 or 10% ethanol in drinking water during 12 days before a single 4-h exposure to 5000 ppm HCFC-123. A group receiving 10% only, a group exposed once to 5000 ppm HCFC-123 but not pre-treated with ethanol and a control group were also included. In both experiments, the liver toxicity was assessed, 24 h post-exposure, by the serum activities of alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and isocitrate dehydrogenase (ICDH) as well as by histopathology. In experiment 2 the urinary excretion rate of the main metabolites trifluoroacetic acid (TFA) and chlorodifluoroacetic acid (CDFA) was assessed and CYP2E1 activity was measured by the chlorzoxazone metabolic ratio. Multiple exposure to 5000 ppm HCFC-123 did not cause greater liver damage than a single exposure (ALT, ICDH 3-fold control values). At this level of exposure the liver lesions were totally reversible within two weeks. Ethanol consumption produced CYP2E1 induction, increased urinary excretion of both HCFC-123 metabolites (more than 2-fold the rate measured in the non-induced group) and markedly increased the liver toxicity of HCFC-123 as shown by the serum liver enzyme activities (ALT 8.5-fold increase, ICDH 13-fold increase), and the histopathology. The necrosis was predominantly localised in the intermediate zone of the hepatic lobules with vacuolisation of the centrilobular zones. The effects associated with 10% ethanol pre-treatment were less marked than those observed with ethanol 5% and could be explained by the remaining blood ethanol levels causing an inhibition of HCFC-123 biotransformation. Significant correlations were obtained between the serum enzyme activities, the histopathology, the excretion rate of the metabolites and CYP2E1 activity. It can be concluded that (1) multiple exposure to HCFC-123 did not increase the liver toxicity of HCFC-123 in this experimental model, and (2) chronic ethanol consumption, known to be CYP2E1 inducer, strongly enhanced the biotransformation of HCFC-123 and its liver toxicity.
Resistance to chemotherapy is a major hurdle in the treatment of malignant melanoma. Histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors have been shown to have antitumor activity in different tumor types, including melanoma, and to reverse epigenetic repression of tumor suppressor genes, such as retinoic acid receptor beta (RARbeta). In this study, we tested the antitumor effect of the HDAC inhibitor LAQ824 in combination with 13-cis-retinoic acid (CRA) on two human melanoma cell lines both in vitro and in vivo. Treatment of LAQ824 showed a dose-dependent inhibitory effect on A2058 and HMV-I cell lines in a clonogenic assay. These cell lines were relatively resistance to CRA. On treatment with combination of LAQ824 and CRA, a greater inhibitory effect (up to 98%) was achieved compared with single agents. Lack of RARbeta2 gene expression was associated with histone acetylation and gene methylation at the promoter level. Treatment with LAQ824 restored retinoid sensitivity by reverting RARbeta2 epigenetic silencing. The biological effect of LAQ824 was associated with p21 induction in both cell lines but G(2) cell cycle arrest in A2058 and apoptosis in HMV-I cell line. The induction of apoptosis by LAQ824 was associated with increased reactive oxygen species and induction of SM22 gene expression in HMV-I but not in A2058 cell line. Administration of the free radical scavenger l-N-acetylcysteine blocked LAQ824 + CRA-mediated apoptosis in HMV-I cells, suggesting a primary role for reactive oxygen species generation in LAQ824 + CRA-associated lethality. Combination treatment showed 61% and 82% growth inhibition in A2058 and HMV-I tumors, respectively. Greater induction of in vivo apoptosis was observed in the HMV-I but not in the A2058 tumors treated with combination therapy compared with single agents. These results suggest that the HDAC inhibitor LAQ824 has a greater antitumor activity in combination with CRA in melanoma tumors but the degree of induced apoptosis may vary. Combination of HDAC inhibitors and retinoids represents a novel therapeutic approach for malignant melanoma that warrants clinical testing.
Mossy fiber sprouting (MFS), a common feature of human temporal lobe epilepsy and many epilepsy animal models, contributes to hippocampal hyperexcitability. The molecular events responsible for MFS are not well understood, although the growth-associated protein GAP-43 has been implicated in rats. Here, we focus on the hyaluronan receptor CD44, which is involved in routing of retinal axons during development and is upregulated after injury in many tissues including brain. After pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE) in mice most hilar neurons died and neuropeptide Y (NPY) immunoreactivity appeared in the dentate inner molecular layer (IML) after 10-31 days indicative of MFS. Strong CD44 immunoreactivity appeared in the IML 3 days after pilocarpine, then declined over the next 4 weeks. Conversely, GAP-43 immunoreactivity was decreased in the IML at 3-10 days after pilocarpine-induced SE. After SE induced by repeated kainate injections, mice did not show any hilar cell loss or changes in CD44 or GAP-43 expression in the IML, and MFS was absent at 20-35 days. Thus, after SE in mice, early loss of GAP-43 and strong CD44 induction in the IML correlated with hilar cell loss and subsequent MFS. CD44 is one of the earliest proteins upregulated in the IML and coincides with early sprouting of mossy fibers, although its function is still unknown. We hypothesize that CD44 is involved in the response to axon terminal degeneration and/or neuronal reorganization preceding MFS.
A case control study on the association between maternal epilepsy, anticonvulsants use during pregnancy and birth defects was carried out in the Italian Multicentric Registry of Birth Defects (IPIMC). In the period 1980-1983, 7,607 malformed babies out of 439,717 total births (still + live) were registered. Fourty-one malformed babies with maternal epilepsy were identified (5.39 X 1,000). The overall relative risk of having a malformed baby among pregnant epileptic women was 1.87. Spina Bifida, Congenital Heart Defects, Clefts, Diaphragmatic Hernia and Trisomy 18 were more frequent than expected among babies with maternal epilepsy. The different therapeutic regimens were also tested to identify the possible independent teratogenic effect of anticonvulsants. A statistically significant association between Spina Bifida and Valproic Acid (odds ratio 22.7; Fisher p value = 0.0364) was observed: no other anticonvulsant tested showed any association with any type of malformation.
Immunosuppressive pharmacologic agents are associated with a diverse array of adverse drug reactions. One of these agents, mycophenolate mofetil, is indicated for prevention of allogeneic organ transplant rejection and has recently been evaluated for treatment of autoimmune disease states, including myasthenia gravis. Although the prescribing information for mycophenolate mofetil reports depression as an adverse event, no descriptions of the onset or manifestation of this idiosyncratic reaction have been published. This case report describes a 64-year-old woman with myasthenia gravis who received mycophenolate mofetil and developed a severe depressive disorder requiring hospitalization 4 days after the start of therapy. The drug was discontinued, and she was treated with sertraline, quetiapine, and clonazepam. Within 2 days after mycophenolate mofetil discontinuation, the patient's depressive symptoms had markedly improved. Eight days later, mycophenolate mofetil was reintroduced under direct observation. After day 2 of this rechallenge, the patient reported a substantial increase in her depressive symptoms. Treatment was discontinued again, with improvement in the patient's symptoms within 2 days. Use of the Naranjo adverse drug reaction probability scale indicated a probable relationship between the patient's development of depression and mycophenolate mofetil therapy. Future evaluations of mycophenolate mofetil should include an assessment of psychological adverse effects. In addition, postmarketing surveillance should be encouraged to further delineate the association between depression and mycophenolate mofetil therapy.
Soft tissue sarcomas are mesenchymal tumors which respond poorly to systemic therapy. Recent studies suggest a higher response rate with an increased doxorubicin dosage. However, this was parallel with a profound hematotoxicity in 75% of patients. Transfer of the human multidrug resistance 1 (MDR1) gene to normal hematopoietic stem cells and transplantation may significantly reduce the hematotoxicity of anthracyclin-based chemotherapy. To test this concept of supportive gene therapy in advance of a clinical study, we transduced mobilized peripheral blood progenitor cells (PBPC) with the retroviral vector SF91m3 containing the human MDR1 gene, transplanted these cells to immune-deficient mice, allowed 6 weeks for engraftment to occur and treated the animals with MDR1-based chemotherapy. In the MDR1-transduced group the human leukocytes were significantly protected from the toxicity of chemotherapy (p < 0.05). While the gene transfer rate was in the range of 10% and thus comparable to recent clinical trials, the gene expression was 59% of transduced cells and thus significantly higher than previously reported for less-advanced vectors. On the other hand, ifosfamide, a drug which has been used successfully for stem cell mobilization, is active in soft tissue sarcoma. Due to these favorable characteristics sarcoma is an attractive target to test the efficacy of MDR1 gene therapy in a clinical setting. Gene therapeutic strategies may also be used to directly target sarcoma cells, e.g. by transfer of suicide genes. We found that adenoassociated virus 2 (AAV-2) vectors efficiently transduce human HS-1 and HT1080 sarcoma cells (>90%) while other tumor cell lines and primary human PBPC were less susceptible. The thymidine kinase (TK) suicide gene was cloned into an AAV-2 vector and a complete kill of TK-transduced HS-1 and HT1080 cells was observed following exposure to aciclovir or ganciclovir (GCV), while >90% of mock-transduced HS-1 cells survived at these dosages. Transplantation of those sarcoma cells to nonobese diabetic (NOD)/LtSz-severe-combined immunodeficient (scid)/scid (NOD/SCID) mice resulted in a survival of >5 months in the AAV-TK-transduced/GCV-treated group, while the mice in the mock-transduced/GCV-treated group had died after 3 weeks. These data show that soft tissue sarcomas are a particularly suitable model system for the development and clinical testing of new gene therapeutic concepts.
The persistent environmental contaminant, 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is an ovarian toxicant. These studies were designed to characterize the actions of TCDD on steroidogenesis and growth of intact mouse antral follicles in vitro. Specifically, these studies tested the hypothesis that TCDD exposure leads to decreased sex hormone production/secretion by antral follicles as well as decreased growth of antral follicles in vitro. Since TCDD acts through binding to the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR), and the AHR has been identified as an important factor in ovarian function, we also conducted experiments to confirm the presence and activation of the AHR in our tissue culture system. To do so, we exposed mouse antral follicles for 96 h to a series of TCDD doses previously shown to have effects on ovarian tissues and cells in culture, which also encompass environmentally relevant and pharmacological exposures (0.1-100 nM), to determine a dose response for TCDD in our culture system for growth, hormone production, and expression of the Ahr and Cyp1b1. The results indicate that TCDD decreases progesterone, androstenedione, testosterone, and estradiol levels in a non-monotonic dose response manner without altering growth of antral follicles. The addition of pregnenolone substrate (10 μM) restores hormone levels to control levels. Additionally, Cyp1b1 levels were increased by 3-4 fold regardless of the dose of TCDD exposure, evidence of AHR activation. Overall, these data indicate that TCDD may act prior to pregnenolone formation and through AHR transcriptional control of Cyp1b1, leading to decreased hormone levels without affecting growth of antral follicles.
Reproductive disorders that are common/increasing in prevalence in human males may arise because of deficient androgen production/action during a fetal 'masculinization programming window'. We identify a potentially important role for Chicken Ovalbumin Upstream Promoter-Transcription Factor II (COUP-TFII) in Leydig cell (LC) steroidogenesis that may partly explain this. In rats, fetal LC size and intratesticular testosterone (ITT) increased ~3-fold between e15.5-e21.5 which associated with a progressive decrease in the percentage of LC expressing COUP-TFII. Exposure of fetuses to dibutyl phthalate (DBP), which induces masculinization disorders, dose-dependently prevented the age-related decrease in LC COUP-TFII expression and the normal increases in LC size and ITT. We show that nuclear COUP-TFII expression in fetal rat LC relates inversely to LC expression of steroidogenic factor-1 (SF-1)-dependent genes (StAR, Cyp11a1, Cyp17a1) with overlapping binding sites for SF-1 and COUP-TFII in their promoter regions, but does not affect an SF-1 dependent LC gene (3β-HSD) without overlapping sites. We also show that once COUP-TFII expression in LC has switched off, it is re-induced by DBP exposure, coincident with suppression of ITT. Furthermore, other treatments that reduce fetal ITT in rats (dexamethasone, diethylstilbestrol (DES)) also maintain/induce LC nuclear expression of COUP-TFII. In contrast to rats, in mice DBP neither causes persistence of fetal LC COUP-TFII nor reduces ITT, whereas DES-exposure of mice maintains COUP-TFII expression in fetal LC and decreases ITT, as in rats. These findings suggest that lifting of repression by COUP-TFII may be an important mechanism that promotes increased testosterone production by fetal LC to drive masculinization. As we also show an age-related decline in expression of COUP-TFII in human fetal LC, this mechanism may also be functional in humans, and its susceptibility to disruption by environmental chemicals, stress and pregnancy hormones could explain the origin of some human male reproductive disorders.
Twelve patients with levodopa-induced dyskinesias were treated with continuous subcutaneous apomorphine. A markedly significant reduction in peak dose dyskinesias occurred over a two-year follow-up.
Levodopa-induced ocular dyskinesias are very uncommon. Usually they occur simultaneously with limb peak-dose choreatic dyskinesias. We report on a patient with leftward and upward deviations of gaze during the peak effect of levodopa, and hypothesize that a severe dopaminergic denervation in the caudate nucleus is needed for the appearance of these levodopa-induce ocular dyskinesias.
Cranioectodermal dysplasia (CED) is a disorder characterized by craniofacial, skeletal, and ectodermal abnormalities. Most cases reported to date are sporadic, but a few familial cases support an autosomal-recessive inheritance pattern. Aiming at the elucidation of the genetic basis of CED, we collected 13 patients with CED symptoms from 12 independent families. In one family with consanguineous parents two siblings were affected, permitting linkage analysis and homozygosity mapping. This revealed a single region of homozygosity with a significant LOD score (3.57) on chromosome 3q21-3q24. By sequencing candidate genes from this interval we found a homozygous missense mutation in the IFT122 (WDR10) gene that cosegregated with the disease. Examination of IFT122 in our patient cohort revealed one additional homozygous missense change in the patient from a second consanguineous family. In addition, we found compound heterozygosity for a donor splice-site change and a missense change in one sporadic patient. All mutations were absent in 340 control chromosomes. Because IFT122 plays an important role in the assembly and maintenance of eukaryotic cilia, we investigated patient fibroblasts and found significantly reduced frequency and length of primary cilia as compared to controls. Furthermore, we transiently knocked down ift122 in zebrafish embryos and observed the typical phenotype found in other models of ciliopathies. Because not all of our patients harbored mutations in IFT122, CED seems to be genetically heterogeneous. Still, by identifying CED as a ciliary disorder, our study suggests that the causative mutations in the unresolved cases most likely affect primary cilia function too.
To explore change of ryanodine receptor (RyR) in junior mouse with heart failure (HF) and the effect of β-adrenoreceptor blocker and Radix astragali on RyR in HF in this experiment.
The animal model of congestive heart failure was established by coarctation of abdominal aorta. Five weeks old mice were randomly divided into 4 groups: (1) HF group without treatment (n = 30); (2) HF group treated with carvedilol (n = 30); (3) HF group treated with carvedilol and Radix astragali(n = 30); (4) Sham-operated group (n = 30). Carvedilol and Radix astragali were administered through direct gastric gavage. After 4 weeks of treatment the high frequency ultrasound was performed. Myocardial sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) was fractionated with ultra centrifugation. The time courses of Ca(2+) uptake and leak were determined by fluorescent spectrophotometry. The levels of expression of RyR2 in the 4 groups were detected by semi-quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction.
Compared with the sham-operated group, left ventricular diastolic dimension (LVEDD) (P < 0.05), left ventricular systolic dimension (LVESD), interventricular septal thickness at end-diastole (IVSTd), interventricular septal thickness at end-systole (IVSTs), left ventricular posterior wall thickness at end-diastole (LVPWTd), and left ventricular posterior wall thickness at endsystole (LVPWTs) were all significantly increased (P < 0.01), ejection fraction (EF)(%) (HF group without treatment 51.60 ± 1.15, HF treated with carvedilol 72.06 ± 1.39, HF treated with carvedilol and Radix astragali 79.06 ± 1.09, sham-operated group 85.86 ± 1.45) and fractional shortening (FS) (HF group without treatment 44.55 ± 1.20, HF treated with carvedilol 44.55 ± 1.20, HF treated with carvedilol and Radix astragali 53.58 ± 1.30, sham-operated group 59.03 ± 1.67) were decreased (P < 0.01) in HF group without treatment. LVEDD (P < 0.05), LVESD, IVSTd, IVSTs, LVPWTd and LVPWTs were all significantly decreased (P < 0.01), EF and FS were increased (P < 0.01) in the cases with HF treated with carvedilol and carvedilol and Radix astragali when compared with HF group without treatment. EF and FS were much more increased in the group treated with carvedilol and Radix astragali than in those treated with carvedilol (P < 0.05). After adding thapsigargin to the buffer including SR of the four groups, there were fewer Ca(2+) leak (%) in sham-operated group (11.5 ± 4.3), HF group treated with carvedilol (15.6 ± 5.8) and treated with carvedilol and Radix astragali (13.6 ± 4.8) than that of HF group without treatment (65.6 ± 6.2) (P < 0.01), while after adding FK506 and thapsigargin together to the buffer including SR of four groups, there were marked Ca(2+) leak in sham-operated group (60.6 ± 7.8), HF group treated with carvedilol (66.2 ± 4.5)and those treated with carvedilol and Radix astragali (70.2 ± 5.5, P < 0.01). However, there was no additional increase in Ca(2+) leak in HF group (67.3 ± 7.5) compared with that of the group where only thapsigargin was added (P > 0.05). The levels of expression of RyR2 were significantly decreased in HF group and increased in the group treated with carvedilol and the group treated with carvedilol and Radix astragali.
There was more cardiac Ca(2+) leak and the expression of RyR2 mRNA decreased in HF. Carvedilol and Radix astragali can increase expression of RyR2 mRNA and inhibit Ca(2+) leak by restoring the binding of FKBP12.6 back to RyR in HF to improve cardiac function and prevent left ventricle from remodeling.
To evaluate the clinical and virological impact of the prolonged use of lamivudine in 94 patients with HBe antigen-negative chronic hepatitis B.
Initial virological and biochemical responses were obtained in 84 (89%) and in 83 (88%) patients respectively.
The virological response peaked within the first 12 months, but diminished to 39% at 48 months because of drug resistance. Overall a virological breakthrough developed in 44 patients (52.4%). After virological breakthrough, the actuarial probability of maintaining biochemical remission diminished to 15% at 24 months and 0% at 29 months. There was no response in 10.6%. Polymerase gene mutations were observed in 82.5% of virological breakthroughs but also in 75% of the non-responders. Overall 7.4% of patients developed a hepatocellular carcinoma.
Almost 90% of patients responded initially to lamivudine but the emergence of drug resistance progressively reduced the rate of virological remission to 39% at the fourth year of therapy. YMDD mutants explained the 75% of lamivudine resistances and were also selected very early in non-responders. Although the biochemical response is invariably lost within 29 months of the YMDD mutant's duration, the clinical outcome was benign despite severe postvirological breakthrough hepatitic flares in about 12% of cases.
Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) is a key rate-limiting enzyme that converts arachidonic acid into pro-inflammatory prostaglandins. COX-2 expression is strongly correlated with increased tumor microvasculature density and plays an important role in inhibiting apoptosis, stimulating angiogenesis and promoting tumor cell metastasis and invasion. However, little is known about the role that sequence variation of the COX-2 gene contributes to prostate cancer. Thus, we searched for polymorphisms in the promoter region of the COX-2 gene using denaturing high-performance liquid chromatography. Four single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), -1285A/G, -1265G/A, -899G/C and -297C/G, were detected and confirmed by direct sequencing. Three of the SNPs in the promoter region of COX-2 gene create at least three putative transcription factor binding sites and eliminate CCAAT/enhancer binding protein alpha (C/EBP alpha) and NF-kappa B binding sites. A case-control study of the four SNPs in African American (n = 288), Bini Nigerian (n = 264) and European American (n = 184) prostate cancer cases and age-matched controls revealed that SNP -297G was associated with a decreased risk for prostate cancer [odds ratio (OR) = 0.49; CI = 0.2-0.9; P = 0.01]. The effect on risk was observed in both African Americans (OR = 0.51; CI = 0.2-0.9; P = 0.01) and European Americans (OR = 0.33; CI = 0.1-0.9; P = 0.02). In addition, SNPs -1265A and -899C were associated with increased prostate cancer risk in African Americans (OR = 2.72; CI = 1.3-5.8; P = 0.007 and OR = 3.67; CI = 1.4-9.9; P = 0.007, respectively). Haplotype analyses revealed modest effects on susceptibility to prostate cancer across populations. Haplotype GGCC conferred increased risk in the African American and Nigerian populations. Conversely, haplotype AGGG exhibited a negative association with prostate cancer risk in African Americans (OR = 0.4; CI = 0.1-0.9; P = 0.02) and European Americans (OR = 0.2; CI = 0.1-0.9; P = 0.03). These data suggest that variation of the COX-2 promoter may influence the risk and development of prostate cancer.
2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is a ubiquitously distributed endocrine-disrupting chemical and reproductive toxicant. In order to elucidate low-dose TCDD-mediated effects on reproductive or endocrine functions, female Sprague-Dawley rats were orally administered various concentrations (20, 50, or 125 ng/kg once weekly) TCDD for 29 wk. A proteomic analysis of the ovaries by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) tandem mass spectrometry showed distinct changes in the levels of several proteins that are relevant markers of TCDD toxicity. Serum estradiol (E2) levels of TCDD-treated animals were markedly lower than control. There were no significant differences in bone mineral density (BMD) of femurs. The body weight of the 125-ng/kg TCDD group was significantly decreased relative to control and there was also a significant reduction in absolute and relative ovarian weights. Expressions of selenium binding protein 2, glutathione S-transferase mu type 3, Lrpap1 protein, NADPH, and peptidylprolyl isomerase D were upregulated, while prohibitin and N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor expression levels were downregulated. Data provide further insight into the mechanisms by which TCDD disrupts ovarian function by indicating which differential protein expressions following low-dose TCDD exposure.
An elderly man was seen with hemolytic anemia due to the urinary tract analgesic, phenazopyridine hydrochloride. The mechanisms underlying this toxic reaction are presented. Cautious use of this drug in elderly patients and in those with renal insufficiency is emphasized.
The combination of a neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist, dexamethasone, and a 5-HT(3) receptor antagonist is currently the standard antiemetic treatment in patients receiving cisplatin-based high emetogenic chemotherapy (HEC). The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of a combination of palonosetron, a unique second-generation 5-HT(3) receptor antagonist, aprepitant, the only approved neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist, and dexamethasone as antiemetic prophylaxis in patients receiving HEC (cisplatin ≥50 mg/mq).
Chemotherapy-naïve adult patients, receiving cisplatin-based HEC, were treated with palonosetron 0.25 mg/i.v., dexamethasone 20 mg/i.v., and aprepitant 125 mg/p.o., 1-h before chemotherapy. Aprepitant 80 mg/p.o. and dexamethasone 4 mg p.o. were administered on days 2-3. Primary end point was complete response (CR; no vomiting and no use of rescue medication), during the overall study period (0-120 h). Secondary end points were complete control (CR and no more than mild nausea), emesis-free rate, and nausea-free rate during the acute (0-24 h), delayed (24-120 h), and overall (0-120 h) periods. Safety was also evaluated.
A total of 222 patients were included in the study. Median age was 62 years, 76.6% were male and 23.4% female, and most common tumors were lung (66.7%) and head and neck (15.8%); 70.3% of patients achieved CR during the overall study period. Complete control, emesis-free rate, and nausea-free rate were 70.3%, 92.8%, and 59.9%, respectively, during the overall phase. The most commonly reported side effects were constipation (39% of patients) and headache (5%).
This study shows that palonosetron in combination with aprepitant and dexamethasone is effective to prevent chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting in patients treated with cisplatin-based HEC.
