Electroencephalographic changes occurring in patients with migraine have received much attention. Although in migraineurs a number of studies have been done after nitroglycerin-induced attacks, there is no reported EEG study before and after nitroglycerin-induced sumatriptan-treated attacks. We, therefore, studied the EEG topographic frequency analysis in 19 symptom-free, otherwise healthy, unmedicated patients with common migraine and in 19 age- and sex-matched controls before nitroglycerin, at the time of maximum pain, and 30 minutes after sumatriptan. During headache attacks, an increase of slow rhythmic activity of the theta and delta range and a decrease of activity in the alpha and beta range were observed. These abnormalities disappeared 30 minutes after a sumatriptan injection. This suggests that common migraine is associated with disturbances of cortical electrogenesis and may provide insight into the causes of migraine and aid in the development of effective therapies.
Four N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]-Formamide (FANFT)-induced mouse bladder tumor (MBT) lines were tested for their ability to form colonies in a tumor stem cell assay. Anticancer drug testing was done using this assay to determine whether reproducible colony survival curves could be be produced. All four cell lines produced colonies at 10--14 days, whether taken from culture or murine tumor. Cloning efficiencies ranged from 0.29% to 1.93% from culture and from 0.005% to 0.05% from the murine source. Growth characteristics were described. Cells from colonies were histologically similar to the original cells plated. A linear relationship existed between the number of cells plated and the number of colonies produced. In vitro drug studies were reproducible and correlated with in vivo data. Therefore, MBT lines can be used for in vitro drug testing in a tumor stem cell assay and may be useful in selecting active chemotherapeutic agents in the murine tumor model.
We have previously reported a changed mitochondrial (mt) gene expression in brain from patients with schizophrenia [Schizophr. Res. 14 (1995) 203]; now, we describe the distribution in the mtDNA from lymphocytes of a heteroplasmic sequence variation that was originally found in the mtDNA from the postmortem brain of a patient with schizophrenia. The variant is m.12027T>C and results in the change from isoleucine to threonine at position 423 of the ND4 subunit of NADH-ubiquinone reductase. Using a PCR-RFLP method, we have determined the heteroplasmy as the ratio of variant to total (variant ratio) at m.12027 in 184 controls and 181 patients with schizophrenia as well as 24 postmortem brain samples. The distribution of variants is bimodal having peaks at variant ratios of 0.262 and 0.732. The variant-rich fraction is very significantly associated with schizophrenia in males (47%), while there is only 18% in control males. There are significantly more variant-rich control females (36%) than control males (18%), suggesting that the female population is less sensitive to the presence of a variant in terms of liability to schizophrenia. In variant-rich samples from postmortem brain originating from both sexes, there is an increased superoxide production, suggesting that the variation contributes to oxidative stress. Antioxidant glycosides, such as quercetin rutoside, quench the superoxide production without (in contrast to neuroleptic drugs) interfering with the electron transfer activity of the reductase.
A twenty-six-year male who presented with a consciousness disturbance induced by the ingestion of an estimated 7g of hydroxyzine. He demonstrated bipolar symptoms which consisted of both stupor and excitement, and both an increase in muscle tension and apnea, however, these symptoms improved after the infusion of diazepam. He was diagnosed to demonstrate catatonia. After treatment composing three days of mechanical ventilation in combination with the administration of sedatives and muscle relaxatants, his symptoms improved. Hydroxyzine is thus considered to be able to induce catatonia and this mechanism of this condition is discussed.
The memory effects of citicholine (CCh) and piracetam (Pc) were tested in experiments on mice using the training method with passive avoidance and negative reinforcement (step-through). In single doses of 25, 50, 100 and 500 mg/kg, CCh applied one hour prior to training enhanced to the same degree and statistically significantly the retention of the memory traces in tests both 24 h and 7 days after the training session; Pc in a dose of 500 mg/kg improved the retention in memory tests 24 h after training, but had no significant effect during the tests 7 days after the training. Combined application of CCh and Pc in doses which are ineffective with respect to the memory process (CCh--10 mg/kg and Pc--200 mg/kg) caused a significant enhancement of the retention during the tests both 24 h and 7 days after the training. Scopolamine (2 mg/kg i.p.), applied 30 min prior to the training, manifested a marked amnestic effect during the tests 24 h after the training, but this effect was totally prevented if either CCh in a dose of 50 mg/kg or Pc in a dose of 500 mg/kg were applied before scopolamine. Citicholine in a dose of 100 mg/kg, as well as the combination of 50 mg/kg CCh and 500 mg/kg PC, not only completely prevented the scopolamine-induced amnesia, but they also significantly increased the retention of the memory traces in the scopolamine-treated mice compared with the retention observed in the control animals.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We describe a 19-year-old woman with haemolytic anaemia and thrombocytopenia as the initial manifestation of Wilson disease (WD). There are two reasons for reporting such an improbable case. First, it emphasizes the importance of recognizing atypical clinical presentations of potentially lethal recessive traits for which therapy is available. Second, it shows that, even in a monogenic disorder like WD, the phenotype cannot be extrapolated from the mutated genotype in a simple fashion; this patient had a relatively late-onset form of WD despite homozygosity for a genetic lesion leading to an apparent complete loss of function of the WD copper transporter.
The EGFR gene has been demonstrated to be an important factor influencing treatment response for various cancers, and its expression has been shown to be modified by the polymorphic CA repeat length at the 5'-regulatory sequence in intron 1. We investigated whether this EGFR polymorphism is associated with prognosis in patients with esophageal cancer after concurrent chemoradiotherapy (CCRT) and esophagectomy.
A cohort of 148 patients with esophageal cancer received cisplatin-based CCRT (concurrently combined with 40 Gy irradiation) and subsequent esophagectomy. Their EGFR genotypes were determined by polymerase chain reaction from leukocyte DNA, which was obtained before treatment and was correlated with patient survival.
Patients with the homozygous short allele (<20 CA) of the EGFR gene in intron 1 were more likely to have a shorter duration of survival after CCRT and surgery than those with the homozygous long allele [adjusted hazard ratio (HR) (95% confidence interval [CI]) of death: 1.88 (1.02-3.49); P = 0.045]. This unfavorable prognostic effect of EGFR homozygous short CA repeat was mainly manifested in patients with good response to CCRT [adjusted HR (95% CI) of death 3.40 (1.06-10.89); P = 0.039]; it was less evident in those with poor response to CCRT [adjusted HR (95% CI) 1.40 (0.65-3.02); P = 0.384].
The EGFR CA repeat genetic polymorphism may act as a valuable molecular predictor of clinical outcome of esophageal cancer after CCRT and esophagectomy, especially in those with good response to CCRT.
To establish a practical and reproducible animal model of human acute-on-chronic liver failure for further study of the pathophysiological mechanism of acute-on-chronic liver failure and for drug screening and evaluation in its treatment.
Immunological hepatic fibrosis was induced by human serum albumin in Wistar rats. In rats with early-stage cirrhosis (fibrosis stage IV), D-galactosamine and lipopolysaccharide were administered. Mortality and survival time were recorded in 20 rats. Ten rats were sacrificed at 4, 8, and 12 hours. Liver function tests and plasma cytokine levels were measured after D-galactosamine/lipopolysaccharide administration and liver pathology was studied. Cell apoptosis was detected by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling assay.
Most of the rats treated with human albumin developed cirrhosis and fibrosis, and 90% of them died from acute liver failure after administration of D-galactosamine/lipopolysaccharide, with a mean survival time of (16.1+/-3.7) hours. Liver histopathology showed massive or submassive necrosis of the regenerated nodules, while fibrosis septa were intact. Liver function tests were compatible with massive necrosis of hepatocytes. Plasma level of TNFalpha increased significantly, parallel with the degree of the hepatocytes apoptosis. Plasma IL-10 levels increased similarly as seen in patients with acute-on-chronic liver failure.
We established an animal model of acute-on-chronic liver failure by treating rats with human serum albumin and later with D-galactosamine and lipopolysaccharide. TNFalpha-mediated liver cell apoptoses plays a very important role in the pathogenesis of acute liver failure.
The carcinogens 2-amino-3-methylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (IQ) and 1,2-dimethylhydrazine (DMH) induce colon tumors in the rat that contain mutations in beta-catenin, but the mutation pattern can be influenced by exposure to dietary phytochemicals, such as the water-soluble derivative of chlorophyll called chlorophyllin. Whereas chlorophyllin is an effective blocking agent during the initiation phase, post-initiation responses depend upon the exposure protocol, and can be influenced by the initiating agent and the concentration of chlorophyllin. Post-initiation treatment with 0.001% chlorophyllin (w/v) in the drinking water promoted colon carcinogenesis in the rat, but much higher concentrations (1.0% chlorophyllin) led to suppression. Bromodeoxyuridine and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated nick end labeling (TUNEL) indices revealed that the promotional concentration of 0.001% chlorophyllin increased the ratio of cell proliferation to apoptosis in the colonic crypts, whereas concentrations in the range 0.0l-1.0% chlorophyllin modestly reduced this ratio. Molecular studies showed that the spectrum of beta-catenin mutations was markedly different in chlorophyllin-promoted colon tumors--many of the mutations led to direct substitutions of critical Ser/Thr residues within the glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta) region, whereas in all other groups, including DMH and IQ controls, the mutations typically affected amino acids adjacent to Ser(33). Substitution of critical Ser/Thr residues caused beta-catenin and c-Jun proteins to be markedly over-expressed compared with tumors in which the mutations substituted amino acid residues flanking these critical Ser/Thr sites. In a separate study, rats were exposed to IQ or azoxymethane (AOM), a metabolite of DMH, and they were treated post-initiation with chlorophyllin, chlorophyll, copper, or phytol in the diet. Natural chlorophyll (0.08%) suppressed AOM- and IQ-induced aberrant crypt foci (ACF), whereas chlorophyllin had no effect and copper promoted the number of small ACF induced by IQ. The results suggest that further investigation of the dose-response for suppression versus promotion by chlorophyll and chlorophyllin is warranted, including studies of the beta-catenin/Tcf signaling pathway and its influence on cell proliferation and apoptosis in the colonic crypt.
The effects of oral flupenthixol and intramuscular (i.m.) flupenthixol decanoate in combination with intravenous (i.v.) cocaine were evaluated in male cocaine abusers. Participants resided at an inpatient research unit for 27 days followed by an 11-day outpatient period. Oral flupenthixol (2.5 or 5.0 mg; p.o.) followed by flupenthixol decanoate (10 or 20 mg; i.m.) and placebo were investigated in individuals who were randomly assigned to one of three groups under double-blind conditions (placebo, low or high dose flupenthixol). During the inpatient period, participants had four fixed cocaine dosing sessions; each session they were administered four doses of i.v. cocaine (approx. 48 mg/70 kg), spaced 14 min apart. These sessions occurred once before medication (baseline phase), once following oral medication (oral phase), and twice following intramuscular medication (IM phase). Out of 23 participants, 18 completed the study; 4 of the 5 non-completers were in the high dose flupenthixol group. Overall, there were few subjective, cardiovascular, or cocaine pharmacokinetic differences between the placebo group and the low dose flupenthixol group, indicating that the low dose of flupenthixol was well tolerated, but ineffective. In the high dose flupenthixol group, two out of seven individuals (29%) experienced a dystonic reaction following oral flupenthixol and were medically discharged. Taken together, these findings indicate that flupenthixol is not a good candidate for treating cocaine abusers.
A case of malformations of the fetal central nervous system following hypervitaminosis A in early pregnancy is reported. The mother was treated with 150 000 IU vitamin A daily during gestation days 19 to 40. Determination of urinary oestriol carried out in the 42nd week of pregnancy revealed a very low excretion (4.2-6.6) mumol/24 h). Induced delivery resulted in a microcephalic child who died after 18 min. The child had multiple malformations of the central nervous system and very small adrenal glands (1.5 g; normal 11 +/- 4 g). The very low urinary oestriol excretion is well explained by the hypoplastic adrenals, which in turn can be related to insufficient ACTH stimulation, a condition similar to anencephaly. The malformations shown in the present case are considered to be related to the high doses of vitamin A given to the mother, and the authors wish to warn against uncritical use of high doses of vitamin A in whomen of childbearing age.
In the present study we characterized two labor-induced genes, DSCR1 (Down syndrome candidate region 1) and TCTE1L (murine t-complex like), which were identified by suppression subtractive hybridization in the pregnant ovine myometrium. DSCR1 and TCTE1L cDNA sequences were retrieved from a custom-made labor-myometrial cDNA library by hybridization screening. The characterized cDNA sequences include 5'-untranslated region (UTR), coding region and 3'-UTR, which are 12 bp, 351 bp and 1716 bp for TCTE1L, and 64 bp, 594 bp and 1539 bp for DSCR1 respectively. The two cDNA sequences encode proteins of 116 and 197 amino acids for TCTE1L and DSCR1 respectively. Northern analysis further confirmed the significant increases of myometrial DSCR1 and TCTE1L mRNA associated with spontaneous term labor (n=6) compared with gestation-matched controls not in labor (n=6). The abundance of DSCR1 and TCTE1L mRNA was attenuated when myometrial contraction was inhibited by Nimesulide (n=6), a specific prostaglandin H synthase 2 inhibitor. Fetal occupancy greatly upregulated DSCR1 and TCTE1L mRNA in the gravid horn during betamethasone-induced premature labor (n=6) compared with the non-gravid horn not in labor (n=3). Estradiol upregulated TCTE1L mRNA, but had no effect on DSCR1 mRNA expression in the non-pregnant sheep myometrium. Progesterone alone had no effect on both DSCR1 and TCTE1L mRNA expression, however progesterone antagonized estradiol's stimulating effect on myometrial TCTE1L mRNA expression in ovariectomized non-pregnant sheep. Upregulation of DSCR1 and TCTE1L in both betamethasone-induced premature labor and spontaneous term labor and inhibition of their expression by Nimesulide suggest a functional role of these two genes in myometrial activation associated with onset of labor. Mechanical stretch, labor and steroids differentially regulated DSCR1 and TCTE1L mRNA in the pregnant and non-pregnant sheep myometrium.
This review summarizes the present knowledge on melatonin in several areas on physiology and discusses various prospects of its clinical utilization. Ever increasing evidence indicates that melatonin has an immuno-hematopoietic role. In animal studies, melatonin provided protection against gram-negative septic shock, prevented stress-induced immunodepression, and restored immune function after a hemorrhagic shock. In human studies, melatonin amplified the antitumoral activity of interleukin-2. Melatonin has been proven as a powerful cytostatic drug in vitro as well as in vivo. In the human clinical field, melatonin appears to be a promising agent either as a diagnostic or prognostic marker of neoplastic diseases or as a compound used either alone or in combination with the standard cancer treatment. Utilization of melatonin for treatment of rhythm disorders, such as those manifested in jet lag, shift work or blindness, is one of the oldest and the most successful clinical application of this chemical. Low doses of melatonin applied in controlled-release preparation were very effective in improving the sleep latency, increasing the sleep efficiency and rising sleep quality scores in elderly, melatonin-deficient insomniacs. In the cardiovascular system, melatonin seems to regulate the tone of cerebral arteries; melatonin receptors in vascular beds appear to participate in the regulation of body temperature. Heat loss may be the principal mechanism in the initiation of sleepiness caused by melatonin. The role of melatonin in the development of migraine headaches is at present uncertain but more research could result in new ways of treatment. Melatonin is the major messenger of light-dependent periodicity, implicated in the seasonal reproduction of animals and pubertal development in humans. Multiple receptor sites detected in brain and gonadal tissues of birds and mammals of both sexes indicate that melatonin exerts a direct effect on the vertebrate reproductive organs. In a clinical study, melatonin has been used successfully as an effective female contraceptive with little side effects. Melatonin is one of the most powerful scavengers of free radicals. Because it easily penetrates the blood-brain barrier, this antioxidant may, in the future, be used for the treatment of Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, stroke, nitric oxide, neurotoxicity and hyperbaric oxygen exposure. In the digestive tract, melatonin reduced the incidence and severity of gastric ulcers and prevented severe symptoms of colitis, such as mucosal lesions and diarrhea.
The gene ATP7B responsible for Wilson's disease (WD) produces a protein which is predicted to be a copper-binding P-type ATPase, homologous to the Menkes disease gene (ATP7A). Various mutations of ATP7B have been identified. This study aimed to detect disease-causing mutations, to clarify their frequency and distribution, to determine whether genotype correlates with phenotype, and to determine the rate of abnormal findings in heterozygotes for the WD gene. We analyzed 41 unrelated Japanese WD families, including 47 patients. Twenty-one mutations, including nine novel ones, were identified. 2871delC (15.9%), 1708-5T-->G (11. 0%), and Arg778Leu (13.4%) were the most common mutations. 2871delC was detected mainly in eastern Japan and 1708-5T-->G in western Japan. The homozygotes for the 1708-5T-->G, 2871delC, or Arg778Leu mutations did not show a correlation with their phenotypes. Ceruloplasmin and copper levels were abnormally low in 28.6% and 35. 0% of heterozygotes, respectively. When patients and their families are screened for WD, a high rate of abnormal laboratory data in heterozygotes must be taken into account.
Acute myocardial infarction after artificially induced abortion is an uncommon event because such patients are usually young females and are not usually subject to atherosclerosis. This report describes two premenopausal females who developed acute myocardial infarction after administration of ergot derivatives which were used following abortion. Coronary arteries in both cases were angiographically normal. Both patients were smokers. We concluded that the ischemic event was caused by coronary vasospasm which was precipitated by the acute administration of ergot derivatives.
mTOR inhibitors (imTOR) are immunosuppressive drugs that have a concentration-related effects on hematopoiesis, potentially resulting in anemia. The reason is uncertain, but a pathogenic link between sirolimus-induced anemia and the appearance of an inflammatory state was recently suggested. Because inflammation-related anemia is characterized by a functional iron deficiency, we studied whether everolimus influenced iron homeostasis.
We studied iron homeostasis in 43 patients after late introduction of everolimus into the immunosuppressive treatment. Thirty-seven patients (86%) were receiving mycophenolate. Hemoglobin concentration, red blood cell count, mean corpuscular volume, serum iron, ferritin, C-reactive protein levels, and transferrin saturation were evaluated 3 months before and 1, 3, and 6 months after the switch.
The percentage of anemic patients preconversion was 18.6% and it was 34.9% at 3 months and 18.6% at 6 months. We did not observe a significant reduction in hemoglobin, but there was increased red blood cell count after everolimus introduction, with a significant reduction in mean corpuscular volume. Serum iron and transferrin saturation levels were also markedly reduced after the switch, while ferritin serum concentrations remained stable. An improvement in renal function was observed.
The anemia caused by everolimus--microcytosis, low serum iron, despite high ferritinemia, and elevated C-reactive protein levels--was consistent with the anemia of a chronic inflammatory state. This alteration occurred within the first months postconversion and disappeared at 6 months. The combination of mycophenolate and everolimus seemed to be useful without significant secondary effects.
Ecological studies in Taiwan, Chile, Argentina, Bangladesh, and Mexico have confirmed significant dose-dependent associations between ingestion of arsenic-contaminated drinking water and the risk of various human malignancies. The FHIT and WWOX genes are active in common fragile sites FRA3B and FRA16D, respectively. Reduced expression of FHIT or WWOX is known to be an early indicator of carcinogen-induced cancers. However, the effect of arsenite on the expressions and molecular mechanisms of these markers is still unclear. The aims of this study were (i) to observe the expression of ATR, WWOX and FHIT proteins in urothelial carcinoma (UC) between endemic and non-endemic areas of blackfoot disease (BFD) by immunohistochemical analyses; (ii) to compare expression of these genes between arsenite-treated SV-HUC-1 human epithelial cells and rat uroepithelial cells; and (iii) to determine the role of DNMT and MEK inhibitors on expressions of WWOX and FHIT in response to arsenite in SV-HUC-1. The experiments revealed that expressions of ATR, WWOX and FHIT in UC significantly differed between BFD areas and non-BFD areas (p=0.003, 0.009 and 0.021, respectively). In fact, the results for the arsenite-treated groups showed that ATR, WWOX and FHIT are downregulated by arsenite in SV-HUC-1. However, the inhibitors suppressed the effects of arsenite on WWOX and FHIT proteins and mRNA expression. In conclusion, arsenite decreased expressions of ATR, WWOX and FHIT via ERK1/2 activation in SV-HUC-1 cells. These findings confirm that dysregulations of these markers may contribute to arsenite-induced carcinogenesis.
The association between coal tar-derived substances, a complex mixture of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, and cancer is well established. However, the specific aetiological agents are unknown.
To compare the dose-response relationships for two common measures of coal tar-derived substances, benzene-soluble material (BSM) and benzo(a)pyrene (BaP), and to evaluate which among these is more strongly related to the health outcomes.
The study population consisted of 6423 men with > or =3 years of work experience at an aluminium smelter (1954-97). Three health outcomes identified from national mortality and cancer databases were evaluated: incidence of bladder cancer (n = 90), incidence of lung cancer (n = 147) and mortality due to acute myocardial infarction (AMI, n = 184). The shape, magnitude and precision of the dose-response relationships and cumulative exposure levels for BSM and BaP were evaluated. Two model structures were assessed, where 1n(relative risk) increased with cumulative exposure (log-linear model) or with log-transformed cumulative exposure (log-log model).
The BaP and BSM cumulative exposure metrics were highly correlated (r = 0.94). The increase in model precision using BaP over BSM was 14% for bladder cancer and 5% for lung cancer; no difference was observed for AMI. The log-linear BaP model provided the best fit for bladder cancer. The log-log dose-response models, where risk of disease plateaus at high exposure levels, were the best-fitting models for lung cancer and AMI.
BaP and BSM were both strongly associated with bladder and lung cancer and modestly associated with AMI. Similar conclusions regarding the associations could be made regardless of the exposure metric.
Propranolol decreases portal pressure by reducing portal blood inflow. Studies in rats with prehepatic portal hypertension due to portal vein stenosis (a model with extensive portosystemic shunting) have shown that propranolol increases the portocollateral resistance, which hinders the fall in portal pressure. The present study examined the effects of propranolol on splanchnic and systemic hemodynamics in rats with portal hypertension due to cirrhosis of the liver, a model which is characterized by mild portosystemic shunting. Two groups of rats with CCl4-induced cirrhosis were studied: the propranolol group (n = 8), which received a propranolol infusion of 2 mg per 15 min, and controls (n = 9), which received a placebo (saline) infusion. Hemodynamic measurements were done using radiolabeled microspheres. Propranolol-treated rats had significantly lower cardiac output (-31%) and heart rate (-26%) than controls (p less than 0.001). Hepatic artery flow was not modified by propranolol. Propranolol caused splanchnic vasoconstriction, manifested by increased splanchnic resistance (+57%) and by a significant fall in portal blood inflow (4.8 +/- 0.4 vs. 6.3 +/- 0.5 ml per min.100 gm in controls, p less than 0.05). In contrast with rats with prehepatic portal hypertension, propranolol did not increase portal resistance in cirrhotic rats [2.0 +/- 0.2 vs. 2.0 +/- 0.1 mmHg per ml per min.100 gm body weight (not significant)]. Hence, the fall in portal pressure (-19%) was expected from the decrease in portal inflow (-24%). These results suggest that increased portal resistance in rats with prehepatic portal hypertension may represent an intrinsic effect of propranolol on the portocollateral vessels, since beta-blockade does not modify portal vascular resistance in cirrhosis.
To evaluate, in compliant patients, the pharmaceutical costs of treating obesity with fenfluramine/mazindol, fenfluramine/phentermine, caffeine/ephedrine, or mazindol relative to the pharmaceutical costs of treating obesity-related comorbid conditions and reducing cardiovascular risk.
Subjects were between 18 and 60 years of age with a BMI of >30 kg/m2. Pharmaceutical costs were evaluated in 73 of 220 subjects taking medications for diabetes, hyperlipidemia, or hypertension before and after treatment using fenfluramine with mazindol or phentermine. The pharmaceutical cost of weight loss, cardiac risk reduction, and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol reduction was calculated for fenfluramine with mazindol or phentermine, caffeine with ephedrine, or mazindol alone, and compared to approved lipid-lowering medications.
Losses of 6% to 10% of initial body weight reduced pharmacy costs $122.64/month for insulin treated diabetes, $42.92/month for sulfonylurea-treated diabetes, $61.07/month for hyperlipidemia treated with medication, and $0.20/month for hypertension treated with medication. Blood pressure and laboratory evidence of insulin resistance improved in all medication groups. Caffeine/ephedrine was most cost-effective of the three treatments in reducing weight, cardiac risk, and LDL cholesterol.
Obesity medications produced a substantial weight loss in compliant patients and resulted in a net pharmaceutical cost savings compared to treating obesity related comorbid conditions.
Available studies on prevalence of nutritional anemia in India show that 65% infant and toddlers, 60% 1-6 years of age, 88% adolescent girls (3.3% had hemoglobin < 7.0 g/dl; severe anemia) and 85% pregnant women (9.9% having severe anemia) were anemic. The prevalence of anemia was marginally higher in lactating women as compared to pregnancy. The commonest is iron deficiency anemia. National programmes to control and prevent anemia have not been successful. Experiences from other countries in controlling moderately-severe anemia guide to adopt long-term measures i.e. fortification of food items like milk, cereal, sugar, salt with iron. Use of iron utensils in boiling milk, cooking vegetables etc may contribute significant amount of dietary iron. Nutrition education to improve dietary intakes in family for receiving needed macro/micro nutrients as protein, iron and vitamins like folic acid, B12, A and C etc. for hemoglobin synthesis is important. As an immediate measure medicinal iron is necessary to control anemia. Addition of folate with iron controls anemia and is neuroprotective. Evidence in early childhood suggests vitamin B12 deficiency anemia; thus it may also be given along with iron and folate.
We report a 71-year-old woman with tactile hallucinations induced by trihexyphenidyl. Six and a half months after starting trihexyphenidyl, this patient with Parkinson's disease complained of tactile hallucinations, mainly on her feet, at night while in bed. Four days after stopping the medication, the sensations disappeared. Although tactile hallucinations induced by trihexyphenidyl are rare, it should be noted that the condition can be induced by anti-Parkinson's disease drugs.
Myelotoxicity is a well-known adverse effect of azathioprine, leading mainly to leukopenia. Other azathioprine associated hematological adverse effects are uncommon.
We report a 49-year-old woman with rheumatoid arthritis and acquired hemophilia, who presented a severe myelosuppression occurring 3 weeks after an increase of her azathioprine regimen (at a daily dose of 150 mg). The patient had a heterozygous mutation of the thiopurine S-methyltransferase gene (TPMT*3A). Azathioprine therapy was discontinued and she recovered at 3 weeks. The patient had no relapse of pancytopenia after a 1 year follow-up.
Routine measurement of TPMT activity or determination of TPMT variant allele may be useful tests, in order to identify the subgroup of patients who are at risk to develop azathioprine induced severe myelosuppression.
To assess myocardial cell damage due to doxorubicin cardiotoxicity, we prospectively studied 30 patients with sarcomas who were receiving chemotherapy, including doxorubicin. Sixteen patients were treated by continuous infusion over 72 hr and 14 patients were treated by bolus injection. Antimyosin studies and left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) measurements were performed before chemotherapy and at intermediate and maximal cumulative doses. Myocardial antimyosin uptake was quantified by a heart-to-lung ratio (HLR). Myocardial antimyosin uptake was observed in all patients at 240-300 mg/m2 when ejection fraction was still maintained. Seven patients presented with a decrease of > or = 10% in absolute ejection fraction units at 420-600 mg/m2. Five of these patients had mild congestive heart failure. All patients who presented with a decrease in LVEF > or = 10% at 420-600 mg/m2 had increased antimyosin uptake with HLR > or = 1.90 at a cumulative dose of 240-300 mg/m2. Patients who were treated with continuous infusion had less antimyosin uptake than those who were treated with bolus administration (mean HLR of 1.70 +/- 0.09 versus HLR of 2.01 +/- 0.16 at a cumulative dose of 240-300 mg/m2, p < 0.01; HLR of 1.86 +/- 0.12 versus HLR of 2.32 +/- 0.34 at a cumulative dose of 420-600 mg/m2, p < 0.01). Two of 16 patients treated by continuous infusion and 5 of 14 patients treated by bolus injection presented with a decrease in ejection fraction > or = 10%. LVEF after chemotherapy in the infusion group was 56% +/- 5% and 48% +/- 8% (p < 0.05) in the bolus group. Antimyosin studies are helpful in the assessment of doxorubicin cardiotoxicity. Intense antimyosin uptake at intermediate cumulative doses identifies patients at risk of cardiotoxicity before ejection fraction deteriorates. Patients with sarcomas treated by continuous infusion present with less antimyosin uptake than those treated with bolus injection, indicating less severe cardiotoxicity.
Crl:CD rats were exposed (whole body) to mancozeb by inhalation at 0, 1, 17, 55, 110, 890, or 1890/500 mg/m3 for 6 hr/day from Day 6 through 15 of gestation (sperm-positive vaginal smear considered Day 1). Dams were killed 1 day prior to natural delivery and fetuses were examined externally, viscerally, and skeletally for any alterations. Maternal toxicity, as evidenced by significantly decreased body weight gain, hindlimb paralysis, general debilitation, and death or termination in extremis, was noted among rats exposed to mancozeb at concentrations of 500 to 1890 mg/m3. Dams from the 55 and 110 mg/m3 groups exhibited decreased body weight gain and hindlimb weakness. There was no maternal toxicity for dams exposed at a concentration of 17 mg/m3. Embryofetal toxicity, as evidenced by a significantly increased incidence of totally resorbed litters, external hemorrhage, and wavy ribs, was noted at concentrations of 55 mg/m3 and above. The embryofetal toxicity occurred only at concentrations toxic to the dam. Among the groups exposed to mancozeb, the incidence of major malformations was not dose related. Hence, under the test conditions of this study, mancozeb was not found to be teratogenic and produced no toxicity unique to the conceptus.
Methamphetamine (MA) is well known as a potent CNS stimulant, which produces strong rewarding and behavioral sensitization after repeated administration. In the present study, we investigated whether co-administration of dextromethorphan (DM) with MA could suppress these effects induced by acute and chronic MA treatment. The conditioned place preference (CPP) test was used to examine the rewarding/drug seeking effects and locomotor and stereotypic activities were measured to investigate behavioral sensitization induced by chronic MA. Our results revealed that co-administration of DM (20 mg/kg, ip) with MA (2 mg/kg, ip) almost completely abolished the MA-induced CPP and behavioral sensitization. Furthermore, both of the acute and chronic MA could result in an increase of dopamine (DA) turnover rate in the NAc and mPFC. The acute effects of MA on DA turnover rate could be attenuated by the co-administration of DM in both regions. The chronic effect of MA on DA turnover rate in the mPFC was also attenuated by the co-administration of DM. These results suggest that the effect of DM on blocking MA-induced rewarding and behavioral sensitization may be related to its effect on inhibiting the activity of DA neurons projected to mPFC and/or NAc.
