Night blindness is an early symptom of retinitis pigmentosa. The rod photoreceptors are responsible for night vision and use rhodopsin as the photosensitive pigment.
We found three mutations in the human rhodopsin gene; each occurred exclusively in the affected members of some families with autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa. Two mutations were C-to-T transitions involving separate nucleotides of codon 347; the third was a C-to-G transversion in codon 58. Each mutation corresponded to a change in one amino acid residue in the rhodopsin molecule. None of these mutations were found in 106 unrelated normal subjects who served as controls. When the incidence of these three mutations was added to that of a previously reported mutation involving codon 23, 27 of 150 unrelated patients with autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa (18 percent) were found to carry one of these four defects in the rhodopsin gene. All 27 patients had abnormal rod function on monitoring of their electroretinograms. It appears that patients with the mutation involving codon 23 probably descend from a single ancestor.
In some patients with autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa, the disease is caused by one of a variety of mutations of the rhodopsin gene.
A biochemical method for assessing the chemically induced neurotoxicity of misonidazole (MISO) in the rat has been used to assess whether the concurrent administration of thiamine, thiamine pyrophosphate (TPP) or vitamin E (Vit.E) could afford protection against the neurotoxic side effects of the drug. The tissues analysed were distal sections of the sciatic/posterior tibial nerve (SPTN), trigeminal ganglia and cerebellum. MISO was administered i.p. to Wistar rats at a dose of 400 mg/kg per day for 7 consecutive days to produce the maximal measurable enzyme changes after 4 weeks. The concurrent i.p. and i.m. dosing of thiamine (0.1-100 mg/kg) for 15 consecutive days did not abate the subsequent PNS and CNS enzyme changes. However, with concurrent i.m. dosing of 1.0 mg/kg TPP or p.o. dosing of vitamin E (30 mg/kg) afforded some protection against both the PNS and CNS MISO-induced neurotoxic side effects as measured biochemically.
Alpha 1 antitrypsin is a highly polymorphic anti-elastase enzyme, especially active in the protection of alveoli and liver. Here we studied the distribution of two deficient alleles Pi*Z and Pi* S, in 194 asbestos workers, of whom 100 were asbestosis cases, and 94 were controls without disease (exposed controls, EC). A second group of controls without asbestos exposure (non-exposed controls, NEC; n=122) was also included. Multivariate analysis adjusted by age and smoking habit showed ninefold risk for asbestosis in Pi*Z heterozygous individuals and 5.9-fold risk for Pi*S homozygous although differences were only significant in the first case (cases vs. EC: OR 8.9; p=0.04). Considering both genotypes (Pi*Z heterozygous, Pi*S homozygous) we obtained an OR of 8 (p=0.01). Our results suggest that the alpha 1 antitrypsin polymorphisms, especially Pi*Z, could help to predict asbestosis risk and confirm the high prevalence of the Pi*S allele in Spain.
A toxicogenomics study was performed in the mouse liver after treatment of a bile-duct-damaging chemical, 4,4'-methylene dianiline (MDA), across multiple doses and sampling times in an acute phase using the AB Expression Array System. Imprinting control region (ICR) mice were given a single oral administration of a low (10 mg/kg b.w.) or high (100 mg/kg b.w.) dose of MDA. Mice were sacrificed six, twenty-four, and seventy-two hours after treatment for serum chemistry, histopathology, and mRNA preparation from liver samples. Treatment with MDA increased liver-toxicity-related enzymes in blood and induced bile-duct cell injury, followed by regeneration. To explore potential biomarker gene profiles, the altered genes were categorized into four expression patterns depending on dose and time. Numerous functionally defined and unclassified genes in each category were up- or down-regulated throughout the period from cellular injury to the recovery phase, verified by RT-PCR. Many genes associated with liver toxicity and diseases belonged to one of these categories. The chemokine-mediated Th1 pathway was implicated in the inflammatory process. The genes associated with oxidative stress, apoptosis, and cell-cycle regulation were also dynamically responsive to MDA treatment. The Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway was likely responsible for the reconstitution process of the MDA-injured liver.
Epidemiological studies have demonstrated that the peripheral blood leukocyte count could be used as a marker of the progression of atherosclerosis. Few data exist regarding the relationship between inhibition of the progression of coronary atherosclerosis and the anti-inflammatory effects of statins, especially the drugs' effects on the leukocyte count in patients with coronary artery disease. A 6-month prospective study was, therefore, conducted in 50 patients treated with pravastatin. The plaque volume, as assessed by volumetric analysis using intravascular ultrasound, reduced significantly by 14% (p<0.0001, vs. baseline) following the treatment, furthermore, a corresponding decrease of the leukocyte count (8.9%, p<0.01, vs. baseline) was also seen. No correlation was found between the change in the leukocyte count and any of the changes in the lipid levels; changes in either of these are known to be associated with the rate of progression of atherosclerosis. A multivariate regression analysis using other traditional risk factors and medications as covariates revealed that the decrease in the leukocyte count was an independent predictor of inhibition of the progression of coronary atherosclerosis. In conclusion, a reduction of the leukocyte count as one of the non-lipid-lowering effects of pravastatin may be a novel marker of regression of coronary atherosclerosis.
In this study ibuprofen (50.0 mg/kg, i.p.), rofecoxib (10.0 mg/kg, i.p.) and thalidomide (50.0 mg/kg, oral) were shown to prevent vincristine-induced mechanical hyperalgesia. Sprague-Dawley rats were injected every other day with vincristine (0.1 mg/kg) over 13 days. The animals were cotreated daily with vehicle (saline), ibuprofen, rofecoxib or thalidomide throughout the period of vincristine treatment. Mechanical withdrawal threshold to punctuate and radiant heat stimuli were determined prior to and then on alternate days throughout the treatment period. Vincristine vehicle-treated animals developed marked mechanical hyperalgesia from day 5 of chemotherapy and this lasted until the end of the experiment. Thermal thresholds were not altered by the administration of vincristine vehicle. Animals in the vincristine vehicle group neither gained nor lost weight during the treatment period. All three active drugs showed an antihyperalgesic effect on the responses to mechanical stimulation of the hind paw that was significant from day 5 for ibuprofen and thalidomide and from day 7 for rofecoxib. Thermal thresholds increased after the administration of both the NSAIDs and thalidomide. Rofecoxib was the only drug to show any beneficial effect in protecting the animals from failure to gain body weight.
Vinorelbine (VRL) has been shown to be active in hormone-refractory prostate cancer (HRPC) in phase II studies, alone or in combination. Its moderate toxicity profile is well tolerated in elderly patients.
Patients with metastatic prostate cancer, progressive after primary hormonal therapy, were randomised to receive intravenous VRL 30 mg/m2 on days 1 and 8 every 3 weeks, and hydrocortisone 40 mg/day or hydrocortisone alone until disease progression. Centres could choose to add aminoglutethimide 1000 mg/day to hydrocortisone as second-line hormone therapy (HT) for all their patients. Randomisation was stratified by centre. Further chemotherapy was allowed after progression. The primary end point was progression-free survival (PFS). The final analysis was performed on a total of 414 patients. Reported results were all based on intention-to-treat analyses. All progressions and responses were reviewed by an independent panel.
PFS was significantly prolonged in the VRL plus HT arm compared with the HT alone arm, according to the statistical hypothesis of the protocol (P=0.055 in the two-sided log-rank test with a pre-specified significance level of 10%). The 6-month PFS rates were 33.2% versus 22.8%, and the median durations of PFS were 3.7 versus 2.8 months. In the multivariate Cox analysis, which included age, Karnofsky performance status (PS), haemoglobin, alkaline phosphatase at study entry and number of prior hormonal treatments, the P value was decreased to 0.005. The prostate-specific antigen (PSA) response rate (> or =50% decline sustained for at least 6 weeks) was significantly higher for VRL plus HT compared with HT (30.1% versus 19.2%; P=0.01). Clinical benefit, defined as a decrease in pain intensity or analgesic consumption or an improvement of Karnofsky PS for at least 9 weeks, and at least stable assessment in the other two, was also more frequently observed in patients who received VRL plus HT versus HT alone (30.6% and 19.2%; P=0.008). There was no statistical difference in overall survival. Forty-three per cent of patients in the HT arm received at least one line of further chemotherapy after progression, compared with 28% of patients in the VRL-based arm. Aminoglutethimide did not seem to result in better efficacy for either arm. VRL plus HT was well tolerated, with a median administered relative dose intensity of 90%; grade 4 neutropenia occurred in 6.5% of patients and non-haematological toxicity was rare.
The combination of VRL and hydrocortisone compared with hydrocortisone alone resulted in improved clinical benefit, PFS and PSA response rate. This therapeutic gain is similar to that previously reported with mitoxantrone in combination with low-dose corticosteroids. There was no gain in survival; however, the combination is well tolerated in this elderly group of patients, who often present cardiac co-morbidities, and therefore offers an active and safe therapeutic option for patients with hormone-refractory prostate cancer.
Human cocaine research is predicated on data from the clinical practice of otolaryngology that are more than 25 years old and predate both the cocaine epidemic and the first reported association between cocaine use and myocardial infarction. The authors' objective was to reassess the epidemiology and toxicity of medicinal cocaine use among otolaryngologists and to compare current trends in usage and safety data with previously reported data.
An anonymous closed-question survey replicating the methodology of a previous study was used.
The survey was mailed to active members of the American Academy of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery. The survey used a closed-question format asking about the use of cocaine, safety measures taken, and adverse outcomes and included information about practice type and location. Results were compared with previously published data using a chi test with P < .05 considered significant.
In all, 7815 surveys were mailed. Four thousand seventeen otolaryngologists returned the survey, representing a 54% response rate. Of the respondents, only 50% had used cocaine in their practice during the previous year. Physicians who had been in practice for less than 10 years were less likely to have used cocaine than those who had been in practice for more than 10 years (78% vs. 93% [P < .001]). Compared with the data reported in 1977, fewer physicians reported ever using cocaine in their practice (88% vs. 92% [P < .001]), fewer physicians had used cocaine in their practice at any time in the previous 10 years (68% vs. 92% [P < .001]), and a greater number of adverse reactions were reported by current respondents (26% vs. 22% [P < .001]). Tachycardia and hypertension were the most commonly reported adverse effects. Other important adverse events included 14 deaths, survivable cardiac arrest, ventricular tachycardia, and seizures.
The clinical use of cocaine in otolaryngology has decreased significantly in the past 25 years as a result of discontinuation of use by physicians who had previously used cocaine and an increasing number of otolaryngologists who have never used it. This decline may reflect a better understanding of its potential toxicities, problems associated with storing and dispensing of a tightly controlled substance, increased availability of safer alternative medications, or a combination of these.
The goal of study was directed to investigate the effects of resveratrol (RES) pretreatment on the enhancing action of D-galactosamine (D-GalN; 800 mg/kg) on lipopolysaccharide (LPS; 0.5 microg/kg) inducing liver failure in rats. Liver function was assessed by determination of plasma alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alpha-glutathione S-transferase (alpha GST) and bilirubin (BILI). Plasma NO(2)(-) was assessed by NO(2)(-)/NO(3)(-) colorimetric kit. The estimation of nonenzymatic and enzymatic antioxidants (glutathione and catalase) was performed in plasma and liver homogenate. Lipid peroxidation was evaluated by the thiobarbituric acid reacting substances (TBARS) and the conjugated dienes (CD). Morphological examinations using light and electron microscopy were performed. Observations related to pharmacological increases of inducible nitric oxide synthase (NOS-2)/nitric oxide (NO) and inducible heme oxygenase (HO-1) in fulminant hepatic failure and modulation by resveratrol were followed up by real-time reverse transcription PCR (RT-PCR) in liver tissue. In the present study we found that among the mechanisms responsible for the hepatoprotective effect of resveratrol in the LPS/D-GalN liver toxicity model are reduction in NO, downregulation of NOS-2, modification of oxidative stress parameters and modulation of HO-1 which led to overall improvement in hepatotoxic markers and morphology after the hepatic insult.
As Benzodiazepines are known to produce amnesia by involvement of the GABAergic system, we examined Bacopa monniera, an herb known for memory enhancement for reversal of memory deficits caused by diazepam.
The objective of the study was to study the effect of standardized extract of B. monniera on diazepam-induced amnesia in mice using Morris water maze.
We used the rota rod test as a screening measure for muscle incoordination followed by the Morris water maze scale to evaluate the effect of B. monniera on amnesia. The index of acquisition and retrieval was recorded with varying doses of Bacopa.
The results revealed antiamnesic effects of B. monniera (120 mg kg(-1) oral) on diazepam (1.75 mg kg(-1) intraperitoneal)-induced amnesia. The degree of reversal by Bacopa was significant as it progressively reduced escape latency time when mice treated with diazepam were subjected to acquisition trials.
The antiamnesic effects of Bacopa suggest likely a gamma-aminobutyric acid-benzodiazepine pathway possibly affecting long-term potentiation.
Approximately 50% of glioblastomas (GBMs) are characterized by overexpression of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and EGFR gene amplification. In approximately 25% of instances, constitutively activated EGFR mutants are present. These observations make EGFR-inhibiting drugs a logical approach for trials in recurrent GBM.
In a randomized, controlled, phase II trial, 110 patients with progressive GBM after prior radiotherapy were randomly assigned to either erlotinib or a control arm that received treatment with either temozolomide or carmustine (BCNU). The primary end point was 6-month progression-free survival (PFS). Tumor specimens obtained at first surgery were investigated for EGFR expression; EGFRvIII mutants; EGFR amplification; EGFR mutations in exons 18, 19, and 21; and pAkt. These results were correlated with outcome. Pharmacokinetic analysis was part of the study. RESULTS; Treatment was well tolerated in general; skin toxicity was the most frequent adverse effect of erlotinib. The 6-month PFS rate in the erlotinib arm was 11.4% (95% CI, 4.6% to 21.5%), and it was 24% in the control arm. Of all explored biomarkers, only low pAkt expression appeared to be of borderline significance to an improved outcome. None of the eight patients who had tumors with EGFRvIII mutant presence and PTEN expression had 6-month PFS. The use of enzyme-inducing anticonvulsants significantly increased erlotinib clearance, but pharmacokinetic findings were not related to outcome.
Erlotinib has insufficient single-agent activity in unselected GBM. No clear biomarker associated with improved outcome to erlotinib was identified.
This study quantitatively determined the effect of salbutamol (1 microgram kg-1), a beta 2-adrenoceptor agonist, on the perfusion of the brain microvasculature, cerebral O2 consumption, O2 extraction and cerebral blood flow (CBF) in conscious rat. Indices of arteriolar and capillary structure and the percentage of the total cerebral microvascular volume/mm3 (% Vv) and number/mm2 (% Na) perfused were determined. These parameters were obtained from the perfused microvessels, identified by the presence of fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC) - dextran, and compared with the entire microvascular bed, identified by alkaline phosphatase stain. Cerebral O2 extraction was determined microspectrophotometrically and CBF was determined using 14[C]iodoantipyrine in another group of salbutamol-treated rats. The acute administration of salbutamol did not alter systemic arterial blood pressure. Significant tachycardia was noted in the salbutamol-treated rats. Salbutamol resulted in a significant increase in the percentage of arterioles perfused. Average percentage perfused capillary Na increased significantly from 46 +/- 2 to 88 +/- 1%; %Vv increased significantly and similarly in the arteriolar and capillary beds in all brain regions examined. Average cerebral O2 consumption increased significantly from 3.0 +/- 0.2 to 7.4 +/- 0.7 ml O2 min-1 100 g-1 with salbutamol, while cerebral O2 extraction was unchanged. Average CBF increased from 50 +/- 2 to 142 +/- 9 ml min-1 100 g-1 with salbutamol. Salbutamol may increase the perfusion of the regional microvasculature by increasing cerebral O2 consumption (metabolic vasodilation) and CBF and microvascular perfusion secondarily, although a direct effect of salbutamol on cerebral microvessels cannot be ruled out.
Chronic established pain, especially that following nerve injury, is difficult to treat and represents a largely unmet therapeutic need. New insights are urgently required, and we reasoned that endogenous processes such as cooling-induced analgesia may point the way to novel strategies for intervention. Molecular receptors for cooling have been identified in sensory nerves, and we demonstrate here how activation of one of these, TRPM8, produces profound, mechanistically novel analgesia in chronic pain states.
We show that activation of TRPM8 in a subpopulation of sensory afferents (by either cutaneous or intrathecal application of specific pharmacological agents or by modest cooling) elicits analgesia in neuropathic and other chronic pain models in rats, thereby inhibiting the characteristic sensitization of dorsal-horn neurons and behavioral-reflex facilitation. TRPM8 expression was increased in a subset of sensory neurons after nerve injury. The essential role of TRPM8 in suppression of sensitized pain responses was corroborated by specific knockdown of its expression after intrathecal application of an antisense oligonucleotide. We further show that the analgesic effect of TRPM8 activation is centrally mediated and relies on Group II/III metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs), but not opioid receptors. We propose a scheme in which Group II/III mGluRs would respond to glutamate released from TRPM8-containing afferents to exert an inhibitory gate control over nociceptive inputs.
TRPM8 and its central downstream mediators, as elements of endogenous-cooling-induced analgesia, represent a novel analgesic axis that can be exploited in chronic sensitized pain states.
We report the case of a 65-year-old man treated with intravenous acyclovir and amoxicilline for meningoencephalitis. Six days later, he suddenly developed acute renal failure, associated with central nervous system symptoms. The high acyclovir concentration in plasma and spinal fluid confirmed the hypothesis of acyclovir toxicity. Continuous haemofiltration resulted in a rapid amendment of neurologic and renal symptoms. Despite the high therapeutic index of acyclovir, manifestations of neurotoxicity and nephrotoxicity are not a rare event. The risk is increased in the elderly and in patients with renal insufficiency. Rapid intravenous injections are contraindicated. Continuous haemofiltration is rapidly efficient. The value of acyclovir concentration determination in plasma and spinal fluid are stressed.
Chronic L-dopa administration is associated with development of dyskinesias. The molecular mechanisms of these side-effects, however, remain elusive. Dopamine (DA) receptors interact with other receptors to form highly organized complexes where their activity is finely tuned by several proteins. The DA D1R forms a heteromeric complex with the NMDA receptor (NMDAR) and this interaction influences the trafficking of both receptors. Using the 6-hydroxydopamine rat model of Parkinson's disease, we report a correlation between the development of L-dopa-induced dyskinesias and changes in synaptic D1R/NMDAR complexes.
Continuous parenteral hydromorphone is used to treat pain in palliative care. Case reports have suggested that neuroexcitatory symptoms, such as agitation, myoclonic activity, and even seizures may occur during administration. However, little information exists on the incidence of these side effects or their relationship to the dose or duration of parenteral hydromorphone. A retrospective chart review was performed on 48 terminally ill hospice patients who received continuous parenteral hydromorphone for pain control. Chart reviews were conducted searching for three neuroexcitatory symptoms: agitation, myoclonus, and seizures; the incidence and relationship of these symptoms were statistically compared to the maximal dose and number of days on continuous parenteral hydromorphone. We found that agitation, myoclonus, and seizures were not associated with the patients gender, age, or diagnosis but found that agitation was associated (p < 0.01) in patients with known metastatic disease. Agitation, myoclonus, and seizures were independently associated with the maximal dose (p < 0.05, p < 0.001, and p < 0.05) and with the duration (p < 0.01, p < 0.05, and p < 0.01) of continuous parenteral hydromorphone A possible mechanism for these findings is hydromorphone-3-glucoronide, a metabolic product of hydromorphone, which has been implicated in neuroexcitatory symptoms in laboratory investigations.
This study compared the ability of telavancin to the ability of cefazolin and vancomycin to eliminate staphylococci from peritoneal dialysis fluid by using a static in vitro model to simulate the conditions of peritoneal dialysis. The results showed that telavancin exhibited statistically significantly better kill (P < 0.05) against both methicillin-susceptible and methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus.
Fluctuations and dyskinesias are the 2 main motor complications associated with chronic levodopa therapy. Striatal denervation following degeneration of the substantia nigra dopaminergic projections is probably the major pathophysiologic mechanism underlying motor fluctuations. In addition, pathologic modification of striatal receptors, partially related to the nonphysiologic delivery of levodopa in a discontinuous pulsatile mode, may be responsible for the various types of dyskinesias and sudden "off" episodes. Drugs capable of providing a stable dopaminergic stimulation should be particularly useful for preventing the development of motor complications in patients not yet treated. At the other end of the clinical spectrum, patients with complex fluctuations are the least likely to improve with slow-release levodopa preparations.
The peripheral venous plasma levels of 6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha (6-keto-PGF1 alpha) were determined by radioimmunoassay in 23 control subjects, 14 patients with essential hypertension, 19 patients with cerebrovascular disease (CVD) not taking aspirin, 12 patients with DVD taking aspirin, and 12 patients with Takayasu's arteritis. There was no significant difference in 6-keto-PGF1 alpha levels between the control subjects and hypertensive patients. In CVD patients and patients with Takayasu's arteritis, the plasma 6-keto-PGF1 alpha levels were significantly lower than those in control subjects. The internal jugular venous and femoral arterial plasma levels of 6-keto-PGF1 alpha and thromboxane B2 (TxB2) were measured in 10 CVD patients not taking aspirin. The patients with occlusive lesions of major arteries exhibited higher TxB2/6-keto-PGF1 alpha ratios in the internal jugular venous plasma.
Adenovirus-mediated gene transfer into the brain is associated with significant inflammation and activation of anti-vector and anti-transgene immune responses that curtail the gene delivery of adenoviruses and therapeutic efficacy. Elucidating the molecular mediators of inflammatory and immune responses to adenoviruses injected into the brain should allow us to inhibit their inflammatory actions, thereby reducing vector clearance and enhance adenoviral-mediated gene transfer into the CNS. Cytokines are primary mediators of the immune response and are released during inflammation. Here we report for the first time that injection of replication-deficient adenovirus vectors into the cerebral ventricles of rats causes a rapid increase in body temperature. This fever response precedes any vector-encoded transgene expression and occurs with vectors encoding no transgene, as well as with vectors encoding a therapeutic transgene i.e., HSV1-thymidine kinase. No fever is detected after infection of the striatum, an important brain target in studies on neurodegeneration. After infection of the brain ventricles, CSF levels of immunoreactive tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and interleukin (IL)-1beta increase significantly (up to 300-fold). In the hypothalamus, the locus of thermoregulation in the brain, only IL-1beta and IL-6 are significantly elevated. A neutralizing TNF-alpha antibody has no effect on adenovirus-induced fever. However, pretreatment with either the IL-1 receptor antagonist or the cyclooxygenase inhibitor flurbiprofen completely abolishes adenovirus-induced fever, suggesting that IL-1 and prostaglandins are direct mediators of this response. These results are the first to demonstrate that IL-1, but not TNF-alpha, is the main mediator of a very early inflammatory response to adenovirus in the brain.
Paracetamol overdose (POD) is a major clinical problem as the commonest cause of fulminant hepatic failure (FHF) in the UK and the USA. While the main loss of liver mass occurs following hepatocyte necrosis, hepatocyte apoptosis has also been reported to occur during paracetamol toxicity in murine liver. Hepatocyte apoptosis has not previously been identified in human liver and the significance of apoptosis in paracetamol toxicity is not known. In this study of paracetamol toxicity in human liver after POD, hepatocyte apoptosis was identified at time of liver transplantation or death and was associated with striking regenerative activity. The biological significance of apoptosis is unclear but the rates of apoptosis found (0.6%) could account for a significant loss of hepatic parenchyma. The stimulus for apoptosis is not known but it is unlikely to be induced directly by paracetamol since it is absent from serum at this time. The possibility that apoptosis may be induced by Kupffer cell activation with cytokine production is raised. Patients who develop FHF after POD have a poor prognosis, with few therapeutic options apart from liver transplantation; an understanding of the dynamics of liver regeneration and ongoing cell loss by apoptosis may allow the development of new therapies in these patients.
In this double-blind, placebo-controlled study of 4 weeks of benzodiazepine treatment followed by 3 weeks of abrupt or gradual drug withdrawal, 16 patients whose benzodiazepine was withdrawn abruptly were worse (p less than .05) than 13 who had received placebo in terms of change in mean anxiety scores from the pretreatment level. The scores of seven patients (44%) whose benzodiazepine was withdrawn abruptly increased 10% or more on both the Hamilton Rating Scale for Anxiety and the Self Rating Symptom Scale. There were no cases of rebound anxiety in 14 patients whose benzodiazepine was withdrawn gradually; fewer cases of rebound anxiety were seen with a benzodiazepine that had a long half-life.
