The study of a homogeneous series of 215 cases of prostatic cancer, 175 of which received first-line treatment with diethylstilbestrol (DES) clearly demonstrated that: 1. practically all well differentiated prostatic cancers, regardless of their stage, responded remarkably well to first-line treatment with sufficient doses of DES, as, when correctly monitored, practically none of these cancers escaped and early stages of escape can be salvaged. 2. true escape occurs all the earlier and evolves all the more rapidly for advanced, poorly differentiated cancers, but this is not constant. 3. to our knowledge, confirmed true metastatic escape to effective doses of DES cannot be salvaged by another treatment, while DES has been successfully used as salvage therapy in several cases of escape to LHRH agonists. 4. the thromboembolic risks must be thoroughly evaluated and prevented by associated anticoagulant treatment. They do not constitute a formal contraindication to treatment when it is closely monitored. However, the best treatment for these cases, when accepted by the patient, appears to be a combination of castration with a daily dose of 1 to 2 mg of DES. 5. The low cost of this treatment must also be taken into account in the assessment of this treatment modality.
Benzo[a]pyrene (B[a]P) is a ligand for the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (Ahr). After binding ligand, Ahr dimerizes with the aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (Arnt) protein, and the dimer upregulates the transcription of Cyp1a1, Cyp1b1 and other enzymes involved in the metabolic activation of B[a]P. Arnt null mice die in utero. Mice in which Arnt deletion occurs constitutively in the epidermis die perinatally. In the current study, mice were developed in which the Arnt gene could be deleted specifically in adult skin epidermis. This deletion had no overt pathological effect. Homozygosity for a null reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (phosphate): quinone oxidoreductase allele was introduced into the above mouse strain to render it more susceptible to tumor initiation by B[a]P. Deletion of Arnt in the epidermis of this strain completely prevented the induction of skin tumors in a tumor initiation-promotion protocol in which a single topical application of B[a]P acted as the tumor-initiating event, and tumor promotion was provided by repeated topical applications of 12-O-tetradecanoyl phorbol-13-acetate (TPA). In contrast, deletion of Arnt did not prevent the induction of skin tumors in a protocol also using TPA as the promoter but using as the initiator N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine, whose activity is unlikely to be affected by the activity of Ahr, Arnt or their target genes. These observations demonstrate that Arnt is required for tumor initiation by B[a]P in this system.
This study records a comprehensive clinical protocol developed to assess seizure control and unwanted effects in 19 patients treated with sodium valproate (VPA). The assessment is based on six parameters individually ranked: seizure frequency, seizure duration, EEG comparisons, intellectual and cognitive function tests, sociological profile, and unwanted effects. Each parameter was ranked from one to five, and the mean was used to assess the overall patient state. Using this technique, this study assesses the therapeutic efficacy of VPA and the benefits of individualization of therapy as predicted by the use of pharmacokinetic parameters in a controlled trial.
The frequency of muscle pain following suxamethonium was studied in 50 pregnant (8-13 weeks' gestation) and 100 non-pregnant women, undergoing laparoscopic tubal ligation. The incidence of muscle pain in the non-pregnant group was 42%, but only 20% in the pregnant women. The intensity of fasciculation was less in the pregnant patients. It appears that pregnancy protects the patient from suxamethonium pains, even during the first trimester.
To investigate whether sodium-hydrogen exchanger isoform-1 (NHE-1) inhibition attenuates myocardial injury during resuscitation from ventricular fibrillation through effects on energy metabolism, using an open-chest pig model in which coronary perfusion was controlled by extracorporeal circulation.
Randomized controlled animal study.
University research laboratory.
Male domestic pigs.
Ventricular fibrillation was electrically induced and left untreated for 8 mins, after which extracorporeal circulation was started and its flow adjusted to maintain a coronary perfusion pressure of 10 mm Hg. After 10 mins of extracorporeal circulation, restoration of spontaneous circulation was attempted by epicardial defibrillation and gradual reduction in extracorporeal flow. Two groups of eight pigs each were randomized to receive the NHE-1 inhibitor zoniporide (3 mg.kg-1) or vehicle control immediately before starting extracorporeal circulation.
Identical extracorporeal flows (approximately = 9% of baseline cardiac index) were required in zoniporide and control groups to attain the target coronary perfusion pressure, resulting in comparable left anterior descending coronary artery blood flow (9 +/- 1 and 10 +/- 1 mL.min-1) and resistance (0.10 +/- 0.01 and 0.10 +/- 0.01 dyne.sec.cm(-5)). Yet zoniporide prevented reductions in left ventricular volume and wall thickening while favoring higher myocardial creatine phosphate to creatine ratios (0.14 +/- 0.03 vs. 0.06 +/- 0.01, p < .05), lower myocardial adenosine (0.7 +/- 0.1 vs. 1.3 +/- 0.2, p < .05), and lower myocardial lactate (80 +/- 9 vs. 125 +/- 6 mmol.kg-1, p < .001). Postresuscitation, zoniporide-treated pigs had higher left ventricular ejection fraction (0.57 +/- 0.07 vs. 0.29 +/- 0.05, p < .05) and higher cardiac index (4.8 +/- 0.4 vs. 3.4 +/- 0.2 L.min-1.m-2, p < .05).
Zoniporide ameliorated myocardial injury during resuscitation from ventricular fibrillation through beneficial effects on energy metabolism without effects on coronary vascular resistance and coronary blood flow.
A rate of 14C-amino acids incorporation into mitochondrial proteins was studied during necrosis of myocardium developed after intraperitoneal injection of (-)isoproterenol to 1-, 3- and 6 months old rats. The rate of label incorporation into the outer membranes fraction was decreased in all the age groups studied, whereas incorporation of the label into the fraction of inner membranes was increased in myocardium of 1 month old rats and decreased in other age groups. Proteins of mitochondrial inner membrane were fractionated by means of electrophoresis in 10% polyacrylamide gel. In the group of 3 months old animals 23 fractions were detected, while only 18 fractions were found in 1- and 6 months old rats.
Synovial sarcoma with pulmonary metastases appeared to be sensitive to multiagent chemotherapy of Pirarubicin, Ifosfamide, and Vincristine Sulfate. However, this chemotherapy regimen could not be continued because of severe hemorrhagic cystitis due to the toxicity of Ifosfamide. Even in the advanced stage, this multiagent chemotherapy would be useful for the treatment of synovial sarcoma, if hemorrhagic cystitis could be prevented.
Mercuric chloride (HgCl2) has contrasting effects on different rat strains: susceptible strains, e.g. Brown Norway (BN) develop polyclonal B cell activation, multiple autoantibodies and widespread tissue injury. Lewis (LEW) rats are resistant: no autoimmune response occurs after HgCl2; instead, there is immunosuppression. We have previously shown, by fully quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR), up-regulation of interleukin-4 (IL-4) gene expression in HgCl2-treated BN rats, implicating Th2 cells in the autoimmune syndrome. Involvement of the reciprocal Th1 subset, producing interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), in resistance of LEW rats to HgCl2 has been suggested. We now report extensive analysis of Th1 and Th2 cytokine gene expression in spleen and lymph nodes of susceptible (BN) and resistant (LEW) rats after HgCl2. IL-4 and IFN-gamma were analyzed by quantitative PCR, other cytokines were assessed using semiquantitative PCR: the relative merits of these two techniques are discussed. We show pronounced up-regulation of IL-4 and more modest up-regulation of IFN-gamma in BN rats, but no up-regulation of either in LEW rats. Baseline levels of IFN-gamma were higher in Lew rats. Semiquantitative PCR showed increased expression of IL-2, IL-6 and IL-10 in BN; in LEW rats only IL-10 was increased. There was no marked change in IL-5, IL-13 or transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) in either strain. These data further support the key role of IL-4 in HgCl2-induced autoimmunity, and suggest that failure of up-regulation of IL-4, together with higher baseline IFN-gamma expression, accounts for resistance of LEW rats to HgCl2. However, neither IFN-gamma nor TGF-beta can be implicated in HgCl2-induced immunosuppression in the LEW rat in vivo: our data suggest a role for IL-10 in this phenomenon.
Substance dependence is associated with executive function deficits, but the nature of these executive defects and the effect that different drugs and sex have on these defects have not been fully clarified. Therefore, we compared the performance of alcohol- (n = 33; 18 women), cocaine- (n = 27; 14 women), and methamphetamine-dependent individuals (n = 38; 25 women) with sex-matched healthy comparisons (n = 36; 17 women) on complex decision making as measured with the Iowa Gambling Task, working memory, cognitive flexibility, and response inhibition. Cocaine- and methamphetamine-dependent individuals were impaired on complex decision making, working memory, and cognitive flexibility, but not on response inhibition. The deficits in working memory and cognitive flexibility were milder than the decision-making deficits and did not change as a function of memory load or task switching. Interestingly, decision making was significantly more impaired in women addicted to cocaine or methamphetamine than in men addicted to these drugs. Together, these findings suggest that drug of choice and sex have different effects on executive functioning, which, if replicated, may help tailor intervention.
Ethylbenzene is an important industrial chemical that has recently been classified as a possible human carcinogen (International Agency of Research on Cancer class 2B), but the available data do not support the genotoxic mechanism of ethylbenzene-induced tumors in kidney. We investigated the effects of ethylbenzene on renal ultrastructure and explored the nongenotoxic mechanism of mitochondria-mediated apoptosis pathway. Forty male Sprague-Dawley rats were used as a vivo model with ethylbenzene inhalation for 13 weeks, and the metabolites of ethylbenzene, mandelic acid (MA), and phenylglyoxylic acid (PGA) in urine were examined by high-performance liquid chromatography. Meanwhile, the ultrastructure of renal tubular epithelial cells was observed, and cell apoptosis was detected via terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling assay. Furthermore, we investigated the expression levels of messenger RNA (mRNA) and protein of bax, bcl-2, cytochrome c, caspase-9, and caspase-3 in rat kidney. With respect to levels of MA, PGA, and MA + PGA, a significant dose-dependent increase was observed in 4335 and 6500 mg/m(3) ethylbenzene-treated groups against the control group. The mitochondria of renal tubular epithelial cells became a compact and vacuolar structure in 6500 mg/m(3) ethylbenzene-treated group, and ethylbenzene induced a significant increase in the number of apoptotic cells as compared to the control group. In addition, enhanced mRNA and protein expression levels of all measured genes were observed in various ethylbenzene-treated groups except the decreased bcl-2 expression levels. Our results indicated that ethylbenzene may induce apoptosis of renal tubular epithelial cells via mitochondria-mediated apoptotic pathways. MA and PGA in urine might be a parameter of biological dose in vivo after ethylbenzene inhalation.
Hydrochlorothiazide, administered at 1, 3 and 9 mg/kg/day p.o. for 4 days, produced a dose-dependent lowering of plasma potassium and an elevation in plasma renin activity in unanesthetized dogs. When plasma renin activity was suppressed in diuretic-treated dogs by the potent beta-adrenergic receptor-blocking drug, timolol (0.5, 2 mg/kg/day p.o. for 4 days), the hypokalemia and hyperreninemia were significantly less pronounced. The data suggest that beta-adrenergic blocking drugs can be used to antagonize these side effects of diuretics.
Suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid (SAHA) has been studied in adult solid and hematologic malignancies. However, little information has been reported on the effects of SAHA on central nervous system (CNS) tumors including medulloblastoma, the most common malignant brain tumor in children. We investigated SAHA in preclinical medulloblastoma models to determine its anti-cancer efficacy as well as its ability to affect intracranial lesions when administered systemically.
Tissue culture studies were performed treating primary human fibroblasts, established medulloblastoma cell lines, and primary human medulloblastoma tumors with SAHA. At 10 microM concentration, SAHA had little effect on normal fibroblasts but caused >90% apoptosis in cultured medulloblastoma cells. Primary medulloblastomas from patients were sensitive to SAHA compared to vehicle alone in ex vivo studies. In athymic mice with medulloblastoma xenograft tumors, oral SAHA resulted in apoptosis of tumor tissue and significantly slowed tumor growth. In the ND2:Smo transgenic mouse medulloblastoma model, SAHA treatment caused significant apoptosis in these cerebellar tumors.
SAHA effectively induces cell death in established medulloblastoma cell lines, human patient primary tumor cultures, medulloblastoma xenografts and intracranial spontaneous medulloblastomas. Fibroblasts in culture and mice treated with SAHA did not reveal prohibitive toxicity profiles. These findings support the advancement of SAHA to pediatric clinical trials.
Nine patients with the unusual combination of renal failure, nephrotic-range proteinuria, and biopsy-proved interstitial nephritis are described. Six of these patients had received nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents (three fenoprofen, one ibuprofen, one zomepirac, and one tolmetin). The remaining three patients had no history of exposure to drugs known to cause interstitial nephritis. Immunologic characterization of the infiltrating cells with monoclonal antibodies showed that the majority of cells in most cases were cytotoxic T cells, although some B cells were present in all cases. Giant collecting duct cells were seen in half the patients with drug exposure but in none of the others. Otherwise, there were no conspicuous morphologic differences between patients with and without drug exposure. Many of the patients had associated glomerular abnormalities. Only the zomepirac and tolmetin recipients showed pure interstitial disease. The three fenoprofen recipients and the zomepirac and tolmetin recipients regained normal renal function after the drug was discontinued. The combination of renal failure, nephrotic range proteinuria, and interstitial nephritis is one form of nephrotoxicity observed in patients treated with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents. However, this lesion, which may be mediated by cytotoxic T cells, may also be seen rarely in patients with no apparent drug exposure.
The objective of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of blonanserin for the treatment of Korean patients with schizophrenia using a double-blind risperidone-compared design.
Patients aged 18 to 65 years with schizophrenia were randomly assigned to blonanserin or risperidone treatment for 8 weeks. The efficacy was assessed using the mean change in Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale score total scores from baseline to week 8. Safety assessments included monitoring of vital signs, a physical examination, laboratory tests, and adverse events.
Of 206 randomly enrolled patients, 103 receiving blonanserin and 103 receiving risperidone were included in the analysis. In this study, noninferiority between blonanserin and risperidone was demonstrated. The mean change in the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale total score at the final evaluation time point was -23.48 +/- 19.73 for the blonanserin group and -25.40 +/- 18.38 for the risperidone group. Adverse events, which occurred less frequently in the blonanserin than in the risperidone group, included dysarthria (P = 0.0288), dizziness (P = 0.0139), increased alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase (P = 0.0095 and P = 0.0032, respectively), and increased level blood prolactin (P = 0.0012). On the other hand, the adverse events that occurred more frequently in the blonanserin than in the risperidone group was hand tremor (P = 0.0006).
Blonanserin was effective in the treatment of Korean patients with schizophrenia compared with risperidone and was more tolerable with a better safety profile, particularly with respect to prolactin elevation. These findings suggest that blonanserin is useful in the treatment of schizophrenia.
To evaluate the hypothesis that activation of somatodendritic 5-HT(1A) autoreceptors in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) produces the anti-emetic/anti-nausea effects of cannabidiol (CBD), a primary non-psychoactive cannabinoid found in cannabis.
The potential of systemic and intra-DRN administration of 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonists, WAY100135 or WAY100635, to prevent the anti-emetic effect of CBD in shrews (Suncus murinus) and the anti-nausea-like effects of CBD (conditioned gaping) in rats were evaluated. Also, the ability of intra-DRN administration of CBD to produce anti-nausea-like effects (and reversal by systemic WAY100635) was assessed. In vitro studies evaluated the potential of CBD to directly target 5-HT(1A) receptors and to modify the ability of the 5-HT(1A) agonist, 8-OH-DPAT, to stimulate [(35) S]GTPγS binding in rat brainstem membranes.
CBD suppressed nicotine-, lithium chloride (LiCl)- and cisplatin (20 mg·kg(-1) , but not 40 mg·kg(-1) )-induced vomiting in the S. murinus and LiCl-induced conditioned gaping in rats. Anti-emetic and anti-nausea-like effects of CBD were suppressed by WAY100135 and the latter by WAY100635. When administered to the DRN: (i) WAY100635 reversed anti-nausea-like effects of systemic CBD, and (ii) CBD suppressed nausea-like effects, an effect that was reversed by systemic WAY100635. CBD also displayed significant potency (in a bell-shaped dose-response curve) at enhancing the ability of 8-OH-DPAT to stimulate [(35) S]GTPγS binding to rat brainstem membranes in vitro. Systemically administered CBD and 8-OH-DPAT synergistically suppressed LiCl-induced conditioned gaping.
These results suggest that CBD produced its anti-emetic/anti-nausea effects by indirect activation of the somatodendritic 5-HT(1A) autoreceptors in the DRN.
This article is part of a themed section on Cannabinoids in Biology and Medicine. To view the other articles in this section visit http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/bph.2012.165.issue-8. To view Part I of Cannabinoids in Biology and Medicine visit http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/bph.2011.163.issue-7.
Phenobarbital sodium has been used in anticonvulsant concentrations (15 to 40 micrograms/mL serum) in premature newborns in attempts to prevent periventricular and intraventricular hemorrhages. Although its clinical usefulness in this regard is controversial, phenobarbital treatment has been shown to reduce periventricular and intraventricular hemorrhages after hypertensive insult in newborn beagles. In this study cerebral blood flow values in steady state and during phenylephrine-induced hypertension with and without phenobarbital pretreatment were measured in newborn beagles. At anticonvulsant dosage, phenobarbital sodium decreased mean arterial blood pressure transiently during steady state and significantly reduced total cerebral blood flow during phenylephrine-induced hypertension without reducing mean arterial blood pressure. This phenobarbital sodium effect on cerebral blood flow was not as great in the presence of acidosis, and the initial hypotensive effect of phenobarbital sodium was sustained for a longer period of time during acidosis. Phenobarbital sodium may reduce the incidence of hemorrhages in the newborn brain by providing protection against isolated hemodynamic stresses characterized by acute increases in cerebral blood flow, with or without increased mean arterial blood pressure.
In the past 15 years 450 girls have been seen because of concern about tall stature: 168 of them have been treated with stilbestrol to control the growth rate. Of the latter group 87 have been followed after treatment for a sufficiently long time to be sure growth had ceased and to provide the data for this report. At the onset of treatment the following data (mean values) were recorded: chronologic age, 13.0 years; skeletal age, 13.2 years; height, 172.9 cm; estimated mature height 180.2 cm; and growth potential, 7.3 cm. At the end of treatment data of interest (mean values) were: reduction in final height, 3.5 cm; duration of therapy, 2.1 years; amount of stilbestrol given, 2.3 gm; age of last visit, 17.6 years. Side effects were minimal, though two girls developed parovarian cysts that required surgery during treatment. Not included in the series of 87, one additional girl was seen with a serous cystadenoma of the ovary, and one girl developed superficial venous thrombosis of the calf. Long-term follow-up has revealed no late complications. It is concluded that estrogen can reduce significantly the growth rate of almost all tall girls, but treatment must be carried out under very careful supervision, bearing in mind possible side effects.
The primary objective was to determine whether occupational exposure to organic solvents is related to an increased risk of systemic sclerosis (SSc; scleroderma).
Occupational histories were obtained from 178 SSc patients and 200 controls. Exposure scores were computed for each individual using job exposure matrices, which were validated by an industrial expert.
Among men, those with SSc were more likely than controls to have a high cumulative intensity score (odds ratio [OR] 2.9, 95% confidence interval [95% CI] 1.1-7.6) and a high maximum intensity score (OR 2.9, 95% CI 1.2-7.1) for any solvent exposure. They were also more likely than controls to have a high maximum intensity score for trichloroethylene exposure (OR 3.3, 95% CI 1.0-10.3). Among men and women, significant solvent-disease associations were observed among SSc patients who tested positive for the anti-Scl-70 autoantibody; these trends were not observed among the men and women who tested negative for anti-Scl-70.
These results provide evidence that occupational solvent exposure may be associated with an increased risk of SSc.
Propafenone is an effective antiarrhythmic drug used widely for the treatment of supraventricular and ventricular arrhythmias. Although it is generally well tolerated, 30 to 45% of patients may experience adverse cardiac effects. In 15 to 20% of patients, adverse effects may involve other organ systems. A wide variety of adverse central nervous system effects have been reported in association with propafenone; dizziness is the most common. Ataxia caused by propafenone has been reported to the pharmaceutical companies and drug monitoring agencies, but has not been well described or emphasized in the medical literature. We describe 3 elderly patients with moderate to severe ataxia that occurred while they were taking propafenone.
The role of low penetrance genes and environmental factors in the etiology of prostate cancer (PCa) is unclear. Most procarcinogens require metabolic activation by CYP4501A1, whereas microsomal epoxide hydrolase (mEH) is involved in the detoxification. In our case-control study, we assessed whether CYP1A1 and mEH susceptibility genotypes, tobacco use, and age factors contribute to PCa risk. One hundred thirty patients with PCa and 140 control subjects were analyzed by polymerase chain reaction/restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR/RFLP) method from genomic DNA samples. Binary logistic regression model was used for assessing differences in genotype prevalence and their association between patient and the control group. T/C polymorphism of CYP1A1 gene revealed significant association with the tobacco users (p < 0.005) for PCa risk. Our results demonstrated significant association with exon 3 variant genotypes of the mEH alone or in combination with tobacco users (p < 0.005), whereas in exon 4 genotypes, no association was observed. Haplotype analysis projected significant associations with very slow haplotypes of mEH gene (OR = 2.48, 95% CI = 1.41-4.38, p = 0.002). In conclusion, our study demonstrated that exon 3 of mEH and CYP1A1 T/C gene polymorphism are predisposing risk factors for susceptibility of sporadic PCa in northern India. It also suggests that a combination of smoking plays a significant role in modified PCa risk on the study population, which means that smokers carrying susceptible genotypes may be subjected to higher risk than those carrying nonsusceptible genotypes.
To determine the effect of metoprolol on dobutamine stress testing with technetium-99m sestamibi single-photon emission computed tomography imaging and ST-segment monitoring, and to assess the impact of intravenous glucagon on metoprolol's effects.
Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
Community hospital.
Twenty-two patients with known reversible perfusion defects.
Patients underwent dobutamine stress tests per standard protocol. Before dobutamine was begun, no therapy was given during the first visit, and patients were randomized on subsequent visits to receive metoprolol or metoprolol plus glucagon 1 mg. Metoprolol was dosed to achieve a resting predobutamine heart rate below 65 beats/minute or a total intravenous dose of 20 mg.
Metoprolol reduced maximum heart rate 31%, summed stress scores 29%, and summed difference scores 43% versus control. Metoprolol plus glucagon also reduced the maximum heart rate 29% versus control. Summed stress and summed difference scores were not significantly reduced, although they were 18% and 30% lower, respectively, than control. No significant differences were found in any parameter between metoprolol and metoprolol-glucagon.
During dobutamine stress testing, metoprolol attenuates or eliminates evidence of myocardial ischemia. Glucagon 1 mg, although somewhat effective, does not correct this effect to the extent that it can be administered clinically.
One hundred and three children with proved typhoid fever were treated with trimethoprim-sulphamethoxazole, and the results compared with those of a further 40 children treated with chloramphenicol. The bacteriological response to trimethoprim-sulphamethoxazole was unsatisfactory. From this study it seems that at present chloramphenicol is still the treatment of choice for typhoid fever. In view of the haematological changes occurring during therapy with trimethoprim-sulphamethoxazole caution is necessary and monitoring of the blood picture advisable, even at the recommended dose.
The catabolism of haemoglobin-haptoglobin complexes was studied in four patients with increased vascular haemolysis as part of acute or subacute haemolytic uraemic syndromes. The apparent volumic substance elimination rates for haemoglobin (Fe) bound to haptoglobin in plasma were 1.1 mumol/h/l and 2.9 mumol/h/l in two patients suffering from sublimate and hydrochloric acid poisoning, respectively. This is estimated to correspond to a normal catabolism, when the increased haptoglobin synthesis is taken into account. In the other two patients suffering from serum-sickness there was reduced clearance and thereby an accumulation of haemoglobin-haptoglobin complexes in plasma during penicillin administration. When the offending drug was withdrawn the plasma concentration of haemoglobin bound to haptoglobin remained high for about three days and then fell rapidly (approximately with 3.8 mumol/l/h and 1.9 mumol/l/h). Thus, also in these patients the clearance capacity could be normalized after discontinuation of the drug.
