Hexabromocyclododecane (HBCD) is one of the most widely used brominated flame retardants. In the present study, zebrafish embryos were exposed to HBCD at the low concentrations of 0, 2, 20 and 200 nM. The results showed HBCD exposure resulted in an increase in heart rate and cardiac arrhythmia after exposure for 72 h, though the survival rate and the whole malformation rate were not significantly affected. These results demonstrated that the heart might be a target of HBCD. Low-level HBCD exposure may not share the same mechanisms as exposure to high concentrations, since no obvious increase of apoptotic cells around the heart was observed in the HBCD-treated groups. It was observed that the expression of Tbx5 and Nkx2.5 was significantly elevated by HBCD treatment in a dose-dependent manner using real-time quantitative PCR, which may be mainly responsible for the alteration of heart rate, given that Tbx5 and Nkx2.5 are two factors regulating ventricle conduction. The mRNA expression of RyR2 and Atp2a2b (SERCA2a) was up-regulated in the exposure group, which may be one of reasons to affect the normal heart rate, since SERCA2a and RyR2 play an important role in calcium ion transport of cadiomyocytes. However, HBCD exposure did not significantly change the expression of Actc1l, Tnnt2, and Myh6, which are mainly muscle contractile genes that play key roles in the formation of cardiac structure. These results were consistent with the lack of effect seen on the other measurements of cardiac function, end diastolic volume, end-systolic volume, stroke volume, and cardiac output.
The Food and Drugs Administration has approved a health claim for soy based on clinical trials and epidemiological data indicating that high soy consumption is associated with a lower risk of coronary artery disease. Soy products contain a group of compounds called isoflavones, with genistein and daidzein being the most abundant. A number of cardioprotective benefits have been attributed to dietary isoflavones including a reduction in LDL cholesterol, an inhibition of pro-inflammatory cytokines, cell adhesion proteins and inducible nitric oxide production, potential reduction in the susceptibility of the LDL particle to oxidation, inhibition of platelet aggregation and an improvement in vascular reactivity. There is increasing interest in the use of nutrigenomic methods to understand the mechanisms by which isoflavones induce these changes, and in the use of nutrigenetics to understand why the effects vary between individuals. Nutrigenomics is a rapidly growing field making use of molecular biology methodologies, such as microarray technology and proteomics, to study how specific nutrients or diets affect gene expression and cellular protein levels. The analysis of differential gene expression and protein levels in endothelial cells, macrophages and smooth muscle cells is critical to elucidating the sequence of events leading to the formation of atherosclerotic lesions, and to understanding the potential anti-atherogenic properties of soy isoflavones. An increasing number of studies demonstrate a significant impact of genetic variation on changes in cardiovascular risk factors in response to dietary intervention. Nutrigenetic effects of this type have recently been reported for dietary isoflavones, and may help to explain some of the disparities in the current literature concerning isoflavones and cardiovascular health.
To determine if there is a relationship between low serum ferritin and sleep disturbance in children with autism spectrum disorder, an 8-week open-label treatment trial with oral iron supplementation was conducted as a pilot study. At baseline and posttreatment visits, parents completed a Sleep Disturbance Scale for Children and a Food Record. Blood samples were obtained. Thirty-three children completed the study. Seventy-seven percent had restless sleep at baseline, which improved significantly with iron therapy, suggesting a relationship between sleep disturbance and iron deficiency in children with autism spectrum disorder. Sixty-nine percent of preschoolers and 35% of school-aged children had insufficient dietary iron intake. Mean ferritin increased significantly (16 microg/L to 29 microg/L), as did mean corpuscular volume and hemoglobin, suggesting that low ferritin in this patient group resulted from insufficient iron intake. Similar prevalence of low ferritin at school age as preschool age indicates that children with autism spectrum disorder require ongoing screening for iron deficiency.
Glucocorticoid-induced hypertension is associated with increased oxidative stress. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of aspirin, a potent antioxidant, on adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and dexamethasone (Dex)-induced hypertension.
Male Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were treated with saline, ACTH (0.2 mg/kg/d subcutaneously) or Dex (10 mug/rat/d subcutaneously). Aspirin (100 mg/kg/d in drinking water) was given 4 days before and during glucocorticoid-treatment (prevention studies). In reversal studies, saline, ACTH, or Dex was administered for 13 days and at day 8 (T8), rats were co-administered aspirin for 5 days. Systolic blood pressure (BP) was measured by the tail-cuff method. Thymus wet weight was measured as a marker of glucocorticoid activity and lucigenin-enhanced chemiluminescence as a marker of aortic superoxide production.
Saline or aspirin alone did not change systolic BP. Systolic BP was increased by ACTH (mean +/- SEM; from 99 +/- 2 to 133 +/- 4 mm Hg, n = 10, P < .001) and Dex (from 102 +/- 3 to 125 +/- 5 mm Hg, n = 10, P < .001). Aspirin prevented the development of hypertension caused by ACTH (P' < .01) and tended to prevent Dex-induced hypertension (P' = .07). ACTH- but not Dex-induced hypertension was partially reversed by aspirin. Both ACTH and Dex decreased thymus weight. Aspirin had no effect on thymus weight. ACTH tended to increase lucigenin-enhanced chemiluminescence (P' = .07). Aspirin had no effect on this marker of tissue superoxide production.
Aspirin prevented and partially reversed ACTH-induced hypertension in the SD rats.
While CD8 subsets activate hepatic fibrosis, natural killer (NK) cells exhibit antifibrotic activity. Glatiramer acetate (GA) is an immune modulator for multiple sclerosis. We assessed the potential impact of GA on mouse hepatic fibrogenesis. Hepatic fibrosis was induced in C57BL/6 mice by intraperitoneal administration of carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)) for 6 wk. During the last 2 wk, animals were also treated with either GA (200 mu/day ip) or medium and compared with naive and fibrotic mice (8 animals/group). GA markedly attenuated fibrosis without altering reactive oxygen species production. By morphometric measurement of Sirius red-stained tissue sections, the relative fibrosis area decreased from 5.28 +/- 0.32% (mean +/- SE) in the untreated CCl(4) group to 2.01 +/- 0.28% in CCl(4)+GA-treated animals, compared with 0.38 +/- 0.07% in naive mice. alpha-Smooth muscle actin immunoblotting and mRNA expression revealed a similar pattern. Serum aminotransferase and Ishak-Knodell necroinflammatory score were markedly elevated, to the same extent, in both CCl(4)-treated groups. Fibrosis induction was associated with significant increase in CD8 subsets and decrease in CD4 T cells. After GA treatment, however, NK content, CD4(+)CD25(+)FoxP3(+) cells, hepatic expression of tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL), and apoptosis of hepatic stellate cells were all increased. Serum interleukin (IL)-10 levels markedly rose, whereas IL-4 fell. In vitro activation of human hepatic stellate cells cocultured with hepatitis C virus-derived peripheral blood lymphocytes decreased when lymphocytes were preincubated with GA before coculture. In an animal model of hepatic fibrosis, GA has an antifibrotic effect associated with decreased CD8 cells and reduced serum IL-4 levels and increased NK cells, CD4(+)CD25(+)FoxP3(+) cells, TRAIL, and elevated serum IL-10 levels.
Genetic studies have provided evidence for an autism susceptibility locus (AUTS1) on chromosome 7q. Screening for mutations in six genes mapping to 7q, CUTL1, SRPK2, SYPL, LAMB1, NRCAM and PTPRZ1 in 48 unrelated individuals with autism led to the identification of several new coding variants in the genes CUTL1, LAMB1 and PTPRZ1. Analysis of genetic variants provided evidence for association with autism for one of the new missense changes identified in LAMB1; this effect was stronger in a subgroup of affected male sibling pair families, implying a possible specific sex-related effect for this variant. Association was also detected for several polymorphisms in the promoter and untranslated region of NRCAM, suggesting that alterations in expression of this gene may be linked to autism susceptibility.
Retinoids are well recognized as promising antitumor agents in humans. However, there have only been a few reports about the effect of retinoids in canine cancers. To investigate the antitumor effect of retinoids on mast cell tumors (MCT), inhibitory effect on cell growth and induction of apoptosis were examined in vitro. Although sensitivity of these cells differed among the cells, the growth of three MCT cell lines (CoMS, CM-MC and VI-MC) were inhibited dose dependently when they were treated with retinoids. FACS analysis of PI-stained nuclei revealed an apoptotic fraction in CM-MC cells about 30% when treated with retinoids, while those of control cells were less than 5%. Caspase-3 activation was observed after retinoid treatment in CM-MC cells. This was confirmed by inhibiting the retinoid-induced apoptosis using the pan-caspase inhibitor, ZVAD-FMK. Both retinoid receptors, RARs and RXRs, were detected by immunoprecipitation followed by western blot analysis in all the three MCT cells. These data suggests that retinoids inhibit the growth of MCTs partly through apoptosis, and this growth inhibition by retinoids may be mediated by RARs and RXRs. We conclude that retinoid may be a potential adjunctive chemotherapeutic agent for the treatment of canine MCT.
Antiviral prophylaxis with lamivudine appears to reduce hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection after liver transplantation, although recurrence of infection occurs in at least 20% of the patients because of the development of drug resistance. Treatment for HBV reinfection with lamivudine pretransplantation and posttransplantation together with hepatitis B immunoglobulin could abolish recurrence of HBV infections following liver transplantation. We report the experience at our center in which lamivudine has been used in combination with low doses of immunoglobulin. Lamivudine (100 mg/d) was administered to liver transplant candidates for at least 4 weeks before transplantation and was continued posttransplantation indefinitely. Immunoglobulin was administered intramuscularly (10,000 IU at time of liver transplantation; 1,000 IU for 1 week; 1,000 IU weekly the first month; and 1,000 IU monthly thereafter). Lamivudine and low-dose immunoglobulin administration prevents posttransplantation recurrence of hepatitis B with 100% efficiency; it is well tolerated and is less cost-effective than high-dose immunoglobulin regimens.
Current therapies for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection do not eliminate viral replication once therapy is stopped, resulting in a rapid rebound of viremia in a majority of patients. Prolonged therapy results in emergence of resistant virus, which is a major clinical concern. The appearance of resistant HBV is associated with decreased seroconversion rates as well as worse liver histology. Adefovir dipivoxil, a nucleotide analogue with potent antiviral activity against HBV and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), has shown in vivo and in vitro to have activity against lamivudine-resistant HBV. We present a series of 6 patients with chronic HBV infection and lamivudine-resistant HBV treated with adefovir dipivoxil. The viremia decreased in all patients; in 4 of them, serum HBV DNA was negative by chain reaction (PCR) in a mean period of 10 months from beginning of treatment. Resistance to adefovir after 12 months of treatment has not been detected. Alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels decreased in all patients and, at this moment, 5 of 6 patients present normal levels. There were no toxic side effects due to adefovir treatment. The data confirm that adefovir treatment has efficacy against HBV lamivudine-resistant forms.
A case of acute renal failure occurring during treatment with carbamazepine is reported. The clinical signs and biological abnormalities strongly supported the diagnosis of acute interstitial nephritis of immunoallergic origin. The outcome was favourable after drug withdrawal. We review the cases of carbamazepine-induced acute renal failure.
Levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LID) in Parkinson's disease (PD) have remained a clinical challenge. We evaluated the feasibility of neural networks to detect LID and to quantify their severity in 16 patients with PD at rest and during various activities of daily living. The movements of the patients were measured using four pairs of accelerometers mounted on the wrist, upper arm, trunk, and leg on the most affected side. Using parameters obtained from the accelerometer signals, neural networks were trained to detect and to classify LID corresponding to the modified Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale. Important parameters for classification appeared to be the mean segment velocity and the cross-correlation between accelerometers on the arm, trunk, and leg. Neural networks were able to distinguish voluntary movements from LID and to assess the severity of LID in various activities. Based on the results in this study, we conclude that neural networks are a valid and reliable method to detect and to assess the severity of LID corresponding to the modified Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale.
A phase I study of a new fluorinated pyrimidine, 1-hexylcarbamoyl-5-fluorouracil (HCFU), was performed by a multi-institutional clinical study group using a total of 111 patients with histologically proven malignancies. The characteristic toxic effects were a transient hot sensation and pollakiuria, which occurred 15-120 minutes after oral administration of the drug, continued for 30 minutes to 4 hours, and subsided spontaneously. Gastrointestinal disturbances such as nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and anorexia, which are common with 5-FU administration, also occurred with HCFU but did so less frequently. The maximum tolerated dose for a single oral administration was estimated to be between 12 and 15 mg/kg and the optimal daily dose for continuous administration was considered to be between 9 and 18 mg/kg, with divided daily administration. Fifty-seven patients received 5-19 mg/kg/day of HCFU for > 4 weeks, including 31 patients with > 60 days' treatment. Cumulative doses were from 9.5 to 166.2 g, with a mean of 26.3 g. Hematopoietic toxicity was slight and hepatic toxicity was questionable. No renal or other cumulative toxicity was observed. In ten of the 57 patients, favorable clinical effects were seen: an active decrease in the size of the solid tumor (three patients), the disappearance of ascites (six), and the improvement of intestinal obstruction due to peritoneal carcinomatosis (one).
To test the novel nonimidazole histamine H3 receptor antagonist 5-[(3-cyclobutyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazapin-7-yl)oxy]-N-methyl-2-pyrazinecarboxamide (GSK207040) in a series of behavioral and neurochemical paradigms designed to evaluate its antipsychotic potential.
Acute orally administered GSK207040 was investigated for its capacity to reverse a 24-h-induced deficit in novel object recognition memory, deficits in prepulse inhibition (PPI) induced by isolation rearing, and hyperlocomotor activity induced by amphetamine. The acute neurochemical effects of GSK207040 were explored by analyzing rat anterior cingulate cortex microdialysates for levels of dopamine, noradrenaline, and acetylcholine and by c-fos immunohistochemistry. The potential for interaction with the antipsychotic dopamine D2 receptor antagonist haloperidol was explored behaviorally (spontaneous locomotor activity and catalepsy), biochemically (plasma prolactin), and via ex vivo receptor occupancy determinations.
GSK207040 significantly enhanced object recognition memory (3 mg/kg) and attenuated isolation rearing-induced deficits in PPI (1.0 and 3.2 mg/kg) but did not reverse amphetamine-induced increases in locomotor activity. There was no evidence of an interaction of GSK207040 with haloperidol. GSK207040 (3.2 mg/kg) raised extracellular concentrations of dopamine, noradrenaline, and acetylcholine in the anterior cingulate cortex and c-fos expression in the core of the nucleus accumbens was increased at doses of 3.2 and 10.0 mg/kg.
The behavioral and neurochemical profile of GSK207040 supports the potential of histamine H3 receptor antagonism to treat the cognitive and sensory gating deficits of schizophrenia. However, the failure of GSK207040 to reverse amphetamine-induced locomotor hyperactivity suggests that the therapeutic utility of histamine H(3) receptor antagonism versus positive symptoms is less likely, at least following acute administration.
In clinical transplantation, exposure of donors to gut-derived endotoxin occurs frequently and may adversely affect liver transplantation therapy. The aim of this study was to investigate: 1) whether brief exposure of rats to endotoxin before liver procurement aggravates the early phase of reperfusion injury of hepatic explants; and if so 2) whether Kupffer cell activation is a contributing factor to liver injury; and 3) whether heparin and pentoxifylline could minimize this effect.
Male Wistar rats were injected with 0.2-4.0 mg/kg of Escherichia coli lipopolysaccharide 2 h prior to liver harvest. After preservation in University of Wisconsin cold-storage solution, the livers were reperfused using a blood-free perfusion model. To inactivate Kupffer cells, some rats were pretreated with gadolinium chloride or liposome-encapsulated dichloromethylene-diphosphonate before lipopolysaccharide administration. The other rats received lipopolysaccharide with heparin or pentoxifylline.
In a dose-independent fashion, lipopolysaccharide impaired portal flow during graft reperfusion. In a dose-dependent way, lipopolysaccharide increased lactate dehydrogenase release into the perfusate and decreased bile flow and bromosulfophthalein excretion. Gadolinium chloride, liposomal dichloromethylene-diphosphonate, heparin, and pentoxifylline reduced lactate dehydrogenase release by 34%, 43%, 59%, and 64%, respectively, and improved functional parameters of the liver. A 52-fold increased neutrophil infiltration in the liver sinusoids after lipopolysaccharide exposure was not affected significantly by the drugs studied; however, heparin reduced markedly neutrophil activation.
The results of this investigation provide direct evidence that aggravation of preservation-reperfusion injury of rat liver by endotoxin is mediated by Kupffer cell-dependent mechanism(s) and it can be minimized by heparin and pentoxifylline.
This study examined the relationship between neurobehavioral changes and alterations in gene expression profiles in the brains of mice exposed to different levels of Hg(0) during postnatal development. Neonatal mice were repeatedly exposed to mercury vapor (Hg(0)) at a concentration of 0.057 mg/m(3) (low level), which was close to the current threshold value (TLV), and 0.197 mg/m(3) (high level) for 24 hr until the 20(th) day postpartum. Behavioral responses were evaluated based on changes in locomotor activity in the open field test (OPF), learning ability in the passive avoidance response test (PA), and spatial learning ability in the Morris water maze (MM) at 12 weeks of age. No significant differences were observed in the three behavioral measurements between mice exposed to the low level of Hg(0) and control mice. On the other hand, total locomotive activity in mice exposed to the high level of Hg(0) was significantly decreased and central locomotion was reduced in the OPF task. Mercury concentrations were approximately 0.4 μg/g and 1.9 μg/g in the brains of mice exposed to the low and high levels of Hg(0), respectively. Genomic analysis revealed that the expression of 2 genes was up-regulated and 18 genes was down-regulated in the low-level exposure group, while the expression of 3 genes was up-regulated and 70 genes was down-regulated in the high-level exposure group. Similar alterations in the expression of seven genes, six down-regulated genes and one up-regulated gene, were observed in both groups. The results indicate that an increase in the number of altered genes in the brain may be involved in the emergence of neurobehavioral effects, which may be associated with the concentration of mercury in the brain. Moreover, some of the commonly altered genes following exposure to both concentrations of Hg(0) with and without neurobehavioral effects may be candidates as sensitive biomarker genes for assessing behavioral effects in the early stages of development.
Application of cocaine or exposure to cocaine-related stimuli induces widespread activation of the cortex in neuroimaging studies with human subjects. In accordance to these findings, it was reported in previous microdialysis experiments that cocaine increased serotonin (5-HT) and dopamine in various cortical brain areas. The present series of studies set out to investigate the functional role of the observed increases in 5-HT in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), the entorhinal cortex (EC), and the occipital cortex (OccC) in the mediation of cocaine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) and hyperactivity.
To reduce 5-HTergic neurotransmission in circumscribed brain areas, bilateral local infusions of the serotonergic neurotoxin, 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT), were made into the mPFC, EC, or OccC. Two weeks following surgery, cocaine-induced (10 mg/kg; i.p.) CPP was measured in an unbiased design.
The 90% depletion of 5-HT in the mPFC significantly attenuated the preference for the cocaine-associated environment and the hyperlocomotor response to cocaine. A 61% depletion of 5-HT in the EC reduced conditioned place preference without modulation of hyperactivity, while a 78% 5-HT depletion of the OccC cortex had no effect on cocaine-induced CPP and hyperactivity. No lesion affected general activity, habituation learning, or visual stimulation-induced behavioral activation.
These results indicate an important role of cortical 5-HT in the mediation of cocaine-induced CPP and specify the region-dependent contribution of a neurochemical response to cocaine-mediated behavior.
The purpose of this study was to determine the effectiveness of intravenous ondansetron in preventing vomiting after the administration of intrathecal chemotherapy in children.
Twenty-six children (ages 18 mo to 15 y) receiving intrathecal chemotherapy with either methotrexate or the combination of methotrexate, hydrocortisone, and Ara-C for the prophylactic treatment of central nervous system leukemia were randomly assigned to receive an infusion of normal saline or ondansetron at one of two doses (0.15 or 0.45 mg/kg) 30 minutes before undergoing the procedure. One hundred forty-six infusions were administered (51 placebo, 47 at the lower ondansetron dose, and 48 at the higher dose). Each patient acted as his or her own control, and each patient was studied at least three times.
Twenty-three of 26 patients (88.5%) had postprocedural vomiting on at least one occasion. At least one episode of vomiting occurred during the 24 hours after the procedure in fifty-two of the procedures (35.6%). The incidence of vomiting was significantly greater after infusion of placebo than after either low-dose or high-dose ondansetron. The likelihood of severe vomiting was even more significantly reduced by the preadministration of ondansetron. Almost all of the intrathecal treatments associated with severe vomiting occurred after the infusion of placebo.
Vomiting induced by intrathecal chemotherapy can be greatly reduced by the intravenous administration of ondansetron before the procedure, and severe vomiting can be virtually eliminated.
Both GABAergic and glutamatergic neurons appear to be important modulators of the brain reward system and medications that affect GABA and glutamatergic neurotransmission may reduce the rewarding properties of cocaine and reduce cocaine craving. Topiramate, an anticonvulsant, raises cerebral GABA levels, facilitates GABAergic neurotransmission and inhibits glutametergic activity at AMPA/kainite receptors. Thus, it may be useful for treating cocaine dependence.
The efficacy of topiramate for cocaine dependence was tested in a 13-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled pilot trial (n = 40). Topiramate was titrated gradually over 8 weeks to a dose of 200 mg daily. The primary outcome measure was cocaine abstinence verified by twice weekly urine benzoylecgonine tests (UBT).
Eighty-two percent of subjects completed the trial. Analysis of the UBT using a GEE model showed that after week 8, when the dose titration was completed, topiramate-treated subjects were more likely to be abstinent from cocaine compared to placebo-treated subjects (Z = 2.67, P = 0.01). Topiramate-treated subjects were also more likely to attain 3 weeks of continuous abstinence from cocaine (chi2 = 3.9, d.f. = 1, P = 0.05).
Topiramate may be effective for the treatment of cocaine dependence.
Cocaine users have increased regional brain mu-opioid receptor (mOR) binding which correlates with cocaine craving. The relationship of mOR binding to relapse is unknown.
To evaluate regional brain mOR binding as a predictor of relapse to cocaine use is the objective of the study.
Fifteen nontreatment-seeking, adult cocaine users were housed on a closed research ward for 12 weeks of monitored abstinence and then followed for up to 1 year after discharge. Regional brain mOR binding was measured after 1 and 12 weeks using positron emission tomography (PET) with [11C]carfentanil (a selective mOR agonist). Time to first cocaine use (lapse) and to first two consecutive days of cocaine use (relapse) after discharge was based on self-report and urine toxicology.
A shorter interval before relapse was associated with increased mOR binding in frontal and temporal cortical regions at 1 and 12 weeks of abstinence (Ps < 0.001) and with a lesser decrease in binding between 1 and 12 weeks (Ps < 0.0008). There were significant positive correlations between mOR binding at 12 weeks and percent days of cocaine use during first month after relapse (Ps < 0.002). In multiple linear regression analysis, mOR binding contributed significantly to the prediction of time to relapse (R2= 0.79, P < 0.001), even after accounting for clinical variables.
Increased brain mOR binding in frontal and temporal cortical regions is a significant independent predictor of time to relapse to cocaine use, suggesting an important role for the brain endogenous opioid system in cocaine addiction.
Betel-quid use is associated with the risk of liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. The aim of the present work was to evaluate the impact of arecoline on human hepatic cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes in vitro and rat hepatic CYP enzymes, as well as the hepatic oxidative stress and liver injury of rats in vivo. The in vitro results indicated that arecoline hydrobromide (AH) has no significant effect on the activities of CYP2B, 2C9, 3A4, 1A2, 2E1 and 2D6 in human liver microsome (HLM). However, oral administration of AH at 4 and 20 mg/kg/d for seven consecutive days significantly increased the activities of rat hepatic CYP2B, 2E1, 2D, 3A, 2C and 1A2. In addition, AH at 100 mg/kg/d significantly increased the levels of ALT, AST and MDA, decreased the levels of SOD, CAT, GSH-Px and GSH, in rat liver. The in vivo induction of AH on rat hepatic CYP isoforms suggested that the high risk of metabolic interaction should be existed when the substrate drugs of the six kinds of CYP isoforms was administered in betel-quid use human. Furthermore, the in vivo results also suggested that AH-induced hepatoxicity should be associated with the induction of AH on rat hepatic CYP2E1 and 2B.
Human prostate is now considered a target for vitamin D receptor (VDR) ligands, such as BXL-628. Because BXL-628 inhibited prostate growth without interfering with androgen signaling, it represents a new option for benign prostate hyperplasia (BPH) therapy. However, BPH symptoms are related not only to prostate size, but also to compensatory bladder hypertrophy and eventual overactivity. We now report that human bladder expresses VDR (determined by real-time PCR immunohistochemistry and Western blot) and responds to VDR agonists, such as the natural ligand, calcitriol, and its synthetic and less hypercalcemic derivative, BXL-628. Experiments were conducted with stromal cells derived from human bladder neck obtained at surgery from BPH patients. BXL-628 counteracted keratinocyte growth factor (KGF) and androgen-induced cell proliferation and stimulated apoptosis with a parallel reduced expression of the survival oncoprotein Bcl-2. Prolonged serum starvation time-dependently pushed bladder stromal cells to express activated myofibroblast markers, such as desmin and smoothelin, without changing other contractile-related proteins and intermediate filaments, such as vimentin. Chronic exposure to BXL-628 prevented starvation-induced cell phenotype modification. Because hypertrophy and starvation-induced bladder remodeling are supposed to underlie bladder overactivity, it is possible that BXL-628 might be helpful in reducing not only cumbersome symptoms related to prostate overgrowth, but also those related to bladder irritation.
Serotonin (5-HT) function is altered in several psychiatric disorders, including cocaine dependence (CD), and its role in impulsive-aggressive behaviors has been widely studied. However, the relationship between psychopathological and behavioral dimensions and mechanisms of 5-HT alterations remains unclear. We investigated the relationship of a polymorphism in the 5' promoter region of the serotonin transporter gene (5-HTTLPR) with prolactin (PRL) response to meta-chlorophenylpiperazine (m-CPP) in a sample of 68 African-American individuals, 35 CD subjects and 33 controls. We also examined whether measures of impulsivity, hostility and sensation seeking influenced the relationship between the 5-HTTLPR polymorphism and PRL response to m-CPP in this sample. Individuals with the SS genotype showed significantly heightened PRL response to the challenge compared with the LL and LS genotypes. No influence of gender or substance abuse condition was observed. Hostility was associated with blunted PRL response in the total sample. Cocaine abuse was the most significant moderator of DeltaPRL (peak PRL-baseline PRL), and the interaction of genetic, behavioral and psychopathological measures helped predict most of the observed DeltaPRL (62.5%). Although these results need replication, variation in the 5-HTTLPR gene appears to influence measures of 5-HT function and interact with disease state and personality dimensions to account for 5-HT disturbances in African-American populations.
Antibodies associated with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia/ thrombosis (HITT) are now thought to be specific for complexes formed between heparin and platelet factor 4 (PF4), a basic protein found normally in platelet alpha granules. How these antibodies cause thrombocytopenia and, in some patients, thrombosis, is not fully understood, in part because purified antibodies that could be labeled and used as probes to characterize target epitopes have not been available. We developed a novel method for antibody purification involving binding to and elution from PF4 complexed to heparin immobilized by end-linkage (EL) to a solid phase. Isolated antibodies were functional and after biotinylation, reacted with heparin: PF4 complexes in the same manner as unlabeled antibodies. Using these probes, we found that antibodies from 11 patients with HITT recognized two, and probably three, distinct sites on heparin: PF4 complexes. The antibodies did not bind to PF4 complexed with heparin immobilized by multiple chemical cross-linkages, suggesting that the heparin molecule must be in a flexible, relatively unconstrained state to react with PF4 in such a way as to create sites for HITT antibody binding.
To study protective effects of verapamil on neurotoxicity induced by methamphetamine (MA) in rat cerebellar neuronal cells (R2 cells) and explore the possible mechanisms.
MA neurotoxicity to R2 cells was examined by MTT reduction and LDH leakage assays. Using flow cytometer and agarose gel electrophoresis, apoptosis induced by MA in R2 cells was observed. The effects of verapamil on neurotoxicity and apoptosis induced by MA in R2 cells were determined.
(1) Incubation of the R2 cells with MA (0.25-3.00 mmol/L) for 48 h or 60 h concentration-dependently increased the LDH content in the extra-cellular bathing medium by 48.2%-89.3% and 62.5%-97.3%, respectively. Exposure to MA elicited the apoptotic DNA peak of the R2 cells (i.e. sub-G1-peak) in a concentration- and time-dependent manner by the use of flow cytometer. Agarose gel electrophoresis showed a typical DNA laddering pattern. (2) Verapamil (0.5-5.0 micromol/L) reduced the number of dead cells and the LDH content in the extra-cellular bathing medium, ameliorated morphological changes, and inhibited apoptosis induced by MA in R2 cells.
These results suggest that verapamil has a neuroprotective effect on MA-induced apoptosis, and that L-type voltage dependent calcium channel may be involved in the neurotoxitic effect of MA.
Aspergillus species are an important cause of fungal infections in immuncompromised patients and also cause a variety of saprophytic conditions such as pulmonary aspergilloma. Surgical resection alone may be warranted for the treatment of pulmonary aspergilloma; in cases where medical therapy is necessary, the triazole antifungal agents itraconazole, voriconazole, and, presumably, posaconazole are thought to provide therapeutic benefit. The high potential for drug-drug interactions with the "azole" antifungal drugs, as well as the possibility for adverse events, while perhaps uncommon, can be problematic. This case describes a 68-year-old patient who developed a pulmonary aspergilloma in the air space of the location of a previous left-upper lobectomy performed five years earlier to treat lung cancer. The patient was initiated on voriconazole, but subsequently developed agitation and hallucinations. The patient was switched to itraconazole and subsequently developed worsening of congestive heart failure. Another switch was made to posaconazole. After an adjustment of his medication regimen for potential drug-drug interactions, the patient was discharged on posaconazole for three to six months, with regular follow-up of liver transaminase monitoring.
Mutations of the DNA methyltransferase 3B (DNMT3B) gene have been detected in patients with immunodeficiency, centromere instability, and facial anomalies (ICF) syndrome. Most of these mutations are clustered in its catalytic domain and thus lead to defective DNA methylation. Nevertheless, the S270P mutation in the N-terminal PWWP (Pro-Trp-Trp-Pro) domain of the DNMT3B gene has prompted questions as to how this mutation contributes to the development of ICF syndrome. In this study, we found that wild-type DNMT3B is SUMOylated through covalent modification, whereas the S270P mutant interacts with SUMO-1 via non-covalent interaction. The S270P mutation results in diffuse nucleus localization. Moreover, the S270P mutant fails to interact with PIAS1, a small ubiquitin-related modifier (SUMO) E3 ligase, and causes the constitutive activation of nuclear factor-kappa B, which induces the expression of interleukin 8. Collectively, our data demonstrate that the S270P mutation affects DNMT3B functions via specific, non-covalent interaction with SUMO-1.
Emphysema can be induced in animals by postnatal treatment with dexamethasone (Dex) and such models have been widely used for various research. However, it is not clear what are the effects of Dex on assembly of alveolar elastic fibers in the emphysema model in mice. This study compared the expression profile of genes related to alveolar development between Dex treated and control mice during the treatment from postnatal day 3 (P3) to P14 with a 2-day break. From morphological observation of lung sections on P42, we confirmed the induction of emphysema in the treated mice. The mRNA expression level of fibrillin-1, which consists of microfibrils as a scaffold to form elastic fibers, and fibulin-5, which is a key protein reinforcing the fibers, reached maximum on P7 in control mice. However, in the Dex group, expression levels both types of mRNA were much lower with no clear expression peak. On the other hand, mRNA expression of tropoelastin, the main component in elastic fibers, reached maximum on P5 in the Dex group, which was 9 days earlier than in the control group. At this time, the amount of microfibrils might not be enough for tropoelastin to be deposited completely in Dex treated mice. This imbalance in the expression of tropoelastin and microfibril might interfere with the efficient formation of elastic fibers.
The LIV-1 gene has been previously associated with oestrogen-positive breast cancer and its metastatic spread to the regional lymph nodes. We have investigated the protein product of this gene as a marker for disease progression of breast cancer. The protein sequence contains a potential metalloprotease motif (HEX P H E XGD), which fits the consensus sequence for the catalytic zinc-binding site motif of the zincin metalloproteases. This motif has identified a new subfamily of ZIP (Zrt-, Irt-like proteins) zinc transporters, which we have termed LZT (LIV-1 subfamily of ZIP zinc transporters). Expression of recombinant LIV-1 in Chinese-hamster ovary cells confirmed the prediction that LZT proteins can act as zinc-influx transporters. Zinc is essential for growth and zinc transporters have an important role in maintaining intracellular zinc homoeostasis, aberrations of which could lead to diseases such as cancer. This is the first report of the expression of a recombinant human LZT protein in mammalian cells. Recombinant LIV-1 locates to the plasma membrane, concentrated in lamellipodiae, similar to membrane-type metalloproteases. Examination of LIV-1 tissue expression located it mainly to hormonally controlled tissues with widespread expression in the brain. Interestingly, the LIV-1 sequence contains a strong PEST site and other potential degradation motifs, which, combined with our evidence that recombinant LIV-1 associates with ubiquitin, may explain the low-level expression of LIV-1. Combining the crucial role that zinc plays in cell growth and the proven role of metalloproteases in metastasis presents an exciting indication of how LIV-1 plays a role in breast cancer progression.
