Protein kinase (PK)Calpha, PKCbeta, and PKCgamma comprise the conventional PKC isoform subfamily, which is thought to regulate cardiac disease responsiveness. Indeed, mice lacking the gene for PKCalpha show enhanced cardiac contractility and reduced susceptibility to heart failure. Recent data also suggest that inhibition of conventional PKC isoforms with Ro-32-0432 or Ro-31-8220 enhances heart function and antagonizes failure, although the isoform responsible for these effects is unknown. Here, we investigated mice lacking PKCalpha, PKCbeta, and PKCgamma for effects on cardiac contractility and heart failure susceptibility. PKCalpha(-/-) mice, but not PKCbetagamma(-/-) mice, showed increased cardiac contractility, myocyte cellular contractility, Ca(2+) transients, and sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) load. PKCalpha(-/-) mice were less susceptible to heart failure following long-term pressure-overload stimulation or 4 weeks after myocardial infarction injury, whereas PKCbetagamma(-/-) mice showed more severe failure. Infusion of ruboxistaurin (LY333531), an orally available PKCalpha/beta/gamma inhibitor, increased cardiac contractility in wild-type and PKCbetagamma(-/-) mice, but not in PKCalpha(-/-) mice. More importantly, ruboxistaurin prevented death in wild-type mice throughout 10 weeks of pressure-overload stimulation, reduced ventricular dilation, enhanced ventricular performance, reduced fibrosis, and reduced pulmonary edema comparable to or better than metoprolol treatment. Ruboxistaurin was also administered to PKCbetagamma(-/-) mice subjected to pressure overload, resulting in less death and heart failure, implicating PKCalpha as the primary target of this drug in mitigating heart disease. As an aside, PKCalphabetagamma triple-null mice showed no defect in cardiac hypertrophy following pressure-overload stimulation. In conclusion, PKCalpha functions distinctly from PKCbeta and PKCgamma in regulating cardiac contractility and heart failure, and broad-acting PKC inhibitors such as ruboxistaurin could represent a novel therapeutic approach in treating human heart failure.
We describe a patient with Schizophrenia and secondary enuresis. The enuresis settled with resolution of his psychotic symptoms but later remerged after starting Clozapine. We explore the mechanisms of incontinence in Schizophrenia and those due to Clozapine. This case highlights the need to inquire about incontinence in patients with schizophrenia prior to prescribing clozapine.
To evaluate the safety and tolerability of olanzapine in the treatment of elderly patients with schizophrenia.
A total of 135 outpatients with schizophrenia > or =60 years of age were treated with olanzapine (n = 105) or another antipsychotic (n = 30) and followed up for 6 months. Safety measures included the recording of spontaneous adverse events and extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS). Clinical status and effectiveness of the medications were measured using the Clinical Global Impressions-Severity of Illness and the Global Assessment of Function (GAF) scales. Quality of life was assessed by means of the Spanish version of the EuroQol. The Awad scale was applied to evaluate patients' subjective attitude towards medication.
The incidence of overall adverse events and EPS was non-significantly lower in patients treated with olanzapine than in patients treated with other antipsychotics. The use of anticholinergic drugs was significantly lower (P = 0.04) in patients treated with olanzapine. Both groups of patients experienced similar improvements in Clinical Global Impressions-Severity and GAF scores. Non-significantly greater improvement in the acceptance of medication occurred at endpoint in olanzapine-treated patients than in control patients as measured by the Awad scale. The improvement in the EuroQol quality of life scale achieved at the end of study did not differ between both treatment groups.
Results from this naturalistic study showed that olanzapine was as safe and effective as other antipsychotic drugs in the treatment of elderly patients with schizophrenia.
Although effective in relieving symptoms of edema in congestive heart failure (CHF), diuretic-induced natriuresis may be associated with reductions in glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and effective renal plasma flow (ERPF), which subsequently may reduce the duration of natriuresis. Moreover, recent studies have reported that the preservation of GFR is an important predictor of survival in human CHF. We hypothesized that the acute detrimental renal hemodynamic and tubular responses to furosemide in symptomatic human CHF will be attenuated by AT(1) receptor blockade with losartan. We defined the renal hemodynamic and tubular actions and aldosterone responses to furosemide (40 mg, orally) in the presence of acute AT(1) receptor antagonism (losartan, MSD, 50 mg orally) vs. placebo in 10 subjects with CHF (New York Heart Association II-III) in a double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover study. Furosemide with placebo increased sodium excretion and reduced ERPF and GFR (P < 0.05 vs. baseline). After 4 h, sodium excretion compared with baseline was decreased (P < 0.05). In contrast, furosemide with losartan resulted in a greater increase in sodium excretion but without reductions in ERPF and GFR (P < 0.05 vs. placebo). After 4 h, sodium excretion was greater compared with the placebo group. Importantly, plasma aldosterone tended to increase in the placebo group, whereas it was decreased (P < 0.05 vs. baseline) only in the losartan group. These studies underscore the pathophysiological role of the AT(1) receptor in mediating detrimental renal and adrenal properties of diuretics in human CHF. AT(1) receptor antagonism preserves GFR and renal blood flow and enhances sodium excretion during acute diuretic therapy in addition to inhibiting aldosterone secretion. These findings support the use of AT(1) receptor blockade for human CHF requiring acute diuretics to improve renal hemodynamic and tubular function and to suppress aldosterone.
Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is the major cause of end-stage renal disease. Resveratrol has been shown to ameliorate hyperglycemia in diabetic rats. However, the effects of resveratrol on DN remain unknown. The aim of the present study is to investigate the effects of resveratrol on early-stage DN. Diabetes was induced by streptozotocin injection in male Wistar rats. The diabetic rats were treated with resveratrol at a dose of 20 mg/kg body weight for 8 weeks. Plasma glucose, creatinine, kidney/body weight ratio, and 24-h urinary protein were determined. The renal pathological changes were examined with periodic acid Schiff staining, and renal mesangial cells were cultured in high glucose concentrations with indicated concentrations of resveratrol (2.5, 5.0, and 10.0 μmol/L). The proliferation of mesangial cells was evaluated by methylthiazoletetrazolium assay. Expressions of glutathione S-transferases Mu (GSTM) and nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) were detected by western blot, and apoptosis was analyzed using a flow cytometer. Resveratrol reduced plasma glucose, creatinine, and urinary protein excretion, and attenuated renal hypertrophy. Moreover, resveratrol also reduced the expression of GSTM in diabetic rats. In vitro, resveratrol inhibited the proliferation of mesangial cells caused by high glucose and down-regulated GSTM and Nrf2 expressions in a dose-dependent manner. These findings suggest that resveratrol help prevent the progression of DN. The renoprotection by resveratrol is in part mediated through the inhibition of high glucose-induced rat mesangial cell proliferation and downregulation of GSTM expression.
This paper describes the case of a patient with HCV, without previous evidence of nephropathy, who following two well-tolerated cycles of treatment with interferon alone developed nephrotic syndrome after a third attempt with ribavirin associated with peginterferon alfa 2b. The patient exhibited a total remission when the antiviral treatment was discontinued.
Global gene expression profile was analyzed by microarray analysis of rat liver RNA after chronic carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)) administration. Rats received 0.5 ml CCl(4)/kg three times a week, and the liver samples were obtained after 0, 30, 60, and 90 days of injection. Histopathologic studies of liver tissues enabled the classification of the CCl(4) effect into mild and severe fatty liver/steatosis (30 and 60 days, respectively) and fibrosis/cirrhosis (90 days) stages. The expression levels of 4,900 clones on a custom rat gene microarray were analyzed and the results were confirmed by semi-quantitative RT-PCR. Four hundred thirty-eight clones were differentially expressed with more than a 1.625-fold difference (which equals 0.7 in log2 scale) at one or more time points. Multiple genes involved in lipid metabolism and ribosome biogenesis showed differential transcript levels upon chronic CCl(4) administration, which was previously seen in acute rat model as well. In addition, a total of 149 clones were identified as fibrosis/cirrhosis-specific genes by either fold changes or Significance Analysis of Microarrays. In conclusion, we report microarray analysis results in rat liver upon chronic CCl(4) administration with a full chronological profile that not only covered fatty liver/steatosis but also later points of fibrosis/cirrhosis. These data will provide the insight of specific gene expression profiles that is implicated in the multistep process of fatty liver/steatosis and fibrosis/cirrhosis after chronic hepatotoxin exposure.
HIT type II is one of the severe complications of heparin therapy. The antibody for the heparin-PF 4 complex, which causes thrombocytopenia of less than 100 x 10(3).microliter-1, thrombosis and DIC-like symptoms, is produced. We managed the patient with HIT type II, who underwent off-pump CABG using argatroban, a direct thrombin inhibitor, as an anticoagulant. Intraoperative activated coagulation time (ACT) was maintained above 250 sec with 5.0 micrograms.kg-1.min-1 of argatroban infusion and all the procedures were successful. We also investigated the platelet count in the 100 patients with heparin therapy in CCU. The incidence of the platelet depression after heparin administration was as high as 59%, and in 12% of the patients the platelet count dropped below 100 x 10(3).microliter-1. In conclusion, thrombocytopenia by heparin therapy is not rare, and argatroban as an anticoagulant during off-pump CABG is thought to be useful.
Ischemic cerebral infarction (CI) is a serious complication of acute myocardial infarction (MI). Little information exists on CI after thrombolytic therapy for MI.
Of 3924 MI patients treated with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) and heparin, 29 (0.7%) developed CI after treatment. All CI patients had detailed neurological evaluations, and 27 (93%) had CT scans centrally reviewed.
Age range was 40 to 74 years (mean, 60 years); 25 patients (86%) were men, and 22 (76%) were white. The electrocardiographic location of MI was anterior in 22 (76%) and nonanterior in 7 (24%). Five CIs occurred within 6 hours, 4 between 6 to 24 hours, 8 during the remainder of the first week, 10 during the second week, and 2 others distributed over the 4 weeks after study entry. Six of 29 CIs did not involve the cerebral cortex; 9 patients (31%) had multiple CIs. Of 28 CIs thought to be embolic in origin, 17 showed strong evidence for at least one cardiac abnormality (mural clot, wall-motion abnormality, aneurysm, or atrial fibrillation) known to be associated more specifically with embolism than MI. Eight of 27 CIs (30%) with CT scans had hemorrhagic transformation of varying degrees; 5 were symptomatic.
The time of occurrence and sites of CI after rt-PA and heparin therapy for acute MI are similar to those reported during the prethrombolytic era.
To clarify the association of Bendectin and other drugs used in early pregnancy with the occurrence of congenital heart disease, we interviewed 298 mothers of children with congenital heart disease and 738 mothers of healthy controls. Differential recall of drug use by mothers of affected children and mothers of controls was evaluated by comparison of information collected by interview with that recorded in the prenatal record. Data derived from maternal interviews were generally consistent with the record data. Reported Bendectin use was minimally associated with congenital heart disease (prevalence odds ratio, 1.1; 90 per cent confidence interval, 0.8 to 1.5). The data from this study were consistent with previously reported associations of other drugs with congenital heart disease. In particular, aspirin use in early pregnancy was associated with about a twofold increase in the frequency of defects in septation of the truncus arteriosus (prevalence odds ratio, 2.1; 90 per cent confidence interval, 1.1 to 3.9).
The selective serotonin1A receptor agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino) tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) was studied for its ability to reverse haloperidol-induced catalepsy in rats. Given subcutaneously 8-OH-DPAT (0.06-0.5 mg/kg), dose-dependently antagonized the catalepsy induced by 1 mg/kg of haloperidol. Intraventricular injection of the serotonin (5-HT) neurotoxin 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT), which caused marked depletion of 5-HT in brain, did not change haloperidol-induced catalepsy per se, but completely antagonized the anticataleptic effect of subcutaneously administered 8-OH-DPAT. When injected directly into the median or dorsal raphe nucleus, 8-OH-DPAT, in doses ranging from 0.2 to 5 micrograms/0.5 microliter, reduced the catalepsy induced by haloperidol. The results suggest that the activation of 5-HT1A receptors, probably those located presynaptically on 5-HT-containing cell bodies, reduces the catalepsy induced by haloperidol.
Patient 1 received carteolol and captopril for hypertension. Three days after a slow-release diltiazem preparation (300 mg) had been introduced, he developed cardiogenic shock and sinus bradycardia (heart rate: 30/mn) with acidosis and severe hyperkaliemia. He was successfully treated by temporary pacing and dobutamine. Patient 2 had received sotalol and captopril for several years. Twelve hours after slow release diltiazem had been added, he was found in cardiogenic shock and extreme bradycardia with wide QRS, acidosis and hyperkaliemia. He died one hour later despite intensive emergency treatment. Concomitant use of beta-blockers and calcium channel blockers has been reported in patients suffering of severe coronary heart disease. However, several adverse reactions similar to our cases have been described. Slow-release diltiazem should be avoided in hypertensive patients taking beta-blockers.
Elevated plasma total homocysteine (tHcy) appeared in levodopa/dopadecarcoxylase inhibitor (DDI) treated patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). One therapeutic approach for tHcy reduction is vitamine supplementation, since folic acid and cobalamine catalyse and enhance metabolism of tHcy to methionine. A further therapeutic alternative is inhibition of catechol-O-methyltransfrase (COMT) on a regular basis, when levodopa/DDI treatment is performed.
We measured the concentrations of S-adenosylmethionine (SAM), S-adenosylhomocysteine (SAH), tHcy, levodopa and 3-O-methyldopa in plasma of 13 levodopa treated PD patients before first drug intake at 0600 hours. Blood samples were taken before and after 2 days of additional application of the centrally acting catechol-O-methyltransferase inhibitor tolcapone 100 mg t.i.d.
Plasma levels of SAH [day 1: 48.32+/-22.52, 23.92-98.25 (mean+/-SD, range; micromol/l); day 3: 37.72+/-15.84, 23.4-61.89; p = 0.01] and tHcy (day 1: 13.88+/-5.62, 7.63-24.81; day 3: 11.38+/-4.44, 5.98-20.45; p = 0.04) significantly reduced. Plasma levels of levodopa did not significantly (p = 0.17) increase, whereas 3-OMD concentrations significantly (p = 0.0002) reduced after additional tolcapone intake. There was no significant change of SAM plasma levels (p = 0.22).
Our prospective trial shows, that COMT inhibition with tolcapone lowers tHcy synthesis. Tolcapone may also possess beside its proven, occasional, hepatotoxic potency also beneficial effects via decrease of SAH and tHcy. This may hypothetically reduce homocysteine mediated progress of neuronal degeneration and the risk for onset of dementia, vascular disease and polyneuropathy in levodopa treated PD patients in the long term.
Polymyositis occurring in patients treated with omeprazole has been signalled as a possible adverse drug reaction (ADR) by the New Zealand Intensive Medicines Monitoring Programme (IMMP) and the WHO Collaborating Centre for International Drug Monitoring: the Uppsala Monitoring Centre (UMC). Polymyositis and other myopathies have also been reported in post-marketing data and in the medical literature in association with proton pump inhibitor (PPI) use. We wished to follow-up these signals and investigate the evidence of causality for the association of polymyositis and other myopathy with PPI use.
Spontaneously reported ADRs from national monitoring centres are sent to the WHO ADR database (VigiBase). VigiBase was searched for case reports of the PPIs, omeprazole, pantoprazole, lansoprazole, esomeprazole and rabeprazole, with terms indicative of myopathy, and further information was elicited from the national centres to help establish causality. Literature sources were reviewed for the occurrence of the above terms in combination with PPIs.
In total, there were 292 reports of various myopathies with PPIs, excluding 868 cases of 'myalgia'. In this analysis, 69 patients recovered when the drug was withdrawn and, in 15 patients, the reaction re-occurred when the drug was reinstated. In one-third of the 292 cases, the PPI was the single administered drug, and the PPI was the single suspected drug by the reporter in 57% of reports where concomitant medication was used. In this analysis, three index cases are documented. One involves the same patient taking three different PPIs (lansoprazole, esomeprazole and rabeprazole) at different time periods, with myalgia and muscle weakness occurring with all three drugs. In the two other index cases, myopathies with esomeprazole and omeprazole were reported with positive rechallenge, and causality was assessed as 'possible' and 'certain' by the reporting centres. In 27 cases myositis or polymyositis was reported. Other myopathies were reported, including 35 cases with rhabdomyolysis. In 9 of these cases, the PPI was withdrawn and the reaction abated. The PPI was reinstated in one patient, but the reaction did not re-occur. Time to onset was given in 17 of the rhabdomyolysis cases, rhabdomyolysis occurred with the first week in 9 cases, and in 3 cases the reaction occurred between 14 days to 3 months of treatment. In 12 of these patients, an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) was taken concomitantly.
Case reports from the WHO ADR database, including index cases involving four out of five PPIs, along with evidence of a possible mechanism, provide compelling evidence that there is a causal association between members of the PPI drug class and myopathy including polymyositis. Evidence was also obtained to support the view that PPI use may be associated with occurrence of other myopathies, including the serious reaction rhabdomyolysis.
Integrin β1 facilitates cancer cell adhesion, migration and metastasis by activating intracellular signaling pathways including the ERK and PI3K signaling pathways. In previous studies, shikonin, an active naphthoquinone isolated from the Chinese medicine Zi Cao (gromwell), showed effective anticancer activity both in vivo and in vitro. However, the mechanisms underlying shikonin's anticancer activity are not fully elucidated. Increasing evidence indicates that shikonin inhibits tumor metastasis, but little is known about the effect of shikonin on lung cancer cells. To better understand the anti-metastatic role of shikonin in lung cancer, in this study we sought to investigate the effect of shikonin on lung cancer cell proliferation, adhesion to extracellular matrices (ECM), migration and invasion in non-small cell lung cancer A549 cells. We also sought to investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying shikonin's anticancer effects. Here we showed that when non-small cell lung cancer A549 cells were treated with shikonin for 24h, 8.0μM shikonin significantly inhibited cell proliferation, while cells treated with less than 2.0μM shikonin for 24h significantly suppressed cell adhesion to the ECM, invasion and migration in a dose-dependent manner. Moreover, real-time PCR and Western blot analysis showed that shikonin led to a reduction in the expression of integrin β1 at the mRNA and protein levels. Further elucidation of the mechanisms involved revealed that shikonin repressed the phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK1/2). Taken together, our findings provide new evidence that shikonin suppresses lung cancer invasion and metastasis by inhibiting integrin β1 expression and the ERK1/2 signaling pathway.
Sexual dysfunctions such as low libido, anorgasmia, genital anesthesia, and erectile dysfunction are very common in patients taking selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). It has been assumed that these side effects always resolve after discontinuing treatment, but recently, four cases were presented in which sexual function did not return to baseline. Here, we describe three more cases. Case #1: A 29-year-old with apparently permanent erectile dysfunction after taking fluoxetine 20 mg once daily for a 4-month period in 1996. Case #2: A 44-year-old male with persistent loss of libido, genital anesthesia, ejaculatory anhedonia, and erectile dysfunction after taking 20-mg once daily citalopram for 18 months. Case #3: A 28-year-old male with persistent loss of libido, genital anesthesia, and ejaculatory anhedonia since taking several different SSRIs over a 2-year period from 2003-2005.
No psychological issues related to sexuality were found in any of the three cases, and all common causes of sexual dysfunction such as decreased testosterone, increased prolactin or diabetes were ruled out. Erectile capacity is temporarily restored for Case #1 with injectable alprostadil, and for Case #2 with oral sildenafil, but their other symptoms remain. Case #3 has had some reversal of symptoms with extended-release methylphenidate, although it is not yet known if these prosexual effects will persist when the drug is discontinued.
SSRIs can cause long-term effects on all aspects of the sexual response cycle that may persist after they are discontinued. Mechanistic hypotheses including persistent endocrine and epigenetic gene expression alterations were briefly discussed.
Formaldehyde inhalation at 6 ppm and above causes nasal squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) in F344 rats. The human health implications of this effect are of significant interest since human exposure to environmental formaldehyde is widespread, though at lower concentrations than those that cause cancer in rats. In this article, which is part of a larger effort to predict the human cancer risks of inhaled formaldehyde, we describe biologically motivated quantitative modeling of the exposure-tumor response continuum in the rat. An anatomically realistic, three-dimensional fluid dynamics model of the F344 rat nasal airways was used to predict site-specific flux of formaldehyde from inhaled air into tissue, since both SCC and preneoplastic lesions develop in a characteristic site-specific pattern. Flux into tissue was used as a dose metric for two modes of action, direct mutagenicity and cytolethality-regenerative cellular proliferation (CRCP), which in turn were linked to key parameters of a two-stage clonal growth model. The direct mutagenicity mode of action was represented by a low dose linear dose-response model of DNA-protein cross-link (DPX) formation. An empirical J-shaped dose-response model and a threshold model fit to the empirical data were used for CRCP. In the clonal growth model, the probability of mutation per cell generation was a function of the tissue concentration of DPX while the rate of cell division was calculated from the CRCP data. Maximum likelihood methods were used to estimate parameter values. Survivor (a nontumor outcome) and tumor data for controls from the National Toxicology Program database and from two formaldehyde inhalation bioassays were used for likelihood calculations. The J-shaped dose-response for CRCP provided a better description of the SCC data than did the threshold model. Sensitivity analyses indicated that the rodent tumor response is due to the CRCP mode of action, with the directly mutagenic pathway having little, if any, influence. When evaluated in light of modeling and database uncertainties, particularly the specification of the clonal growth model and the dose-response data for CRCP, this work provides suggestive though not definitive evidence for a J-shaped dose-response for formaldehyde-mediated nasal SCC in the F344 rat.
A histopathological study was performed to examine the influence of propagermanium and germanium dioxide (GeO2) on chemically induced renal lesions in rats. Animals were treated with adriamycin or mercuric chloride to induce glomerular or proximal tubular damage, and then given drinking water containing propagermanium (480 or 2,400 ppm solution) or GeO2 (300 or 1,500 ppm solution: equivalent to propagermanium in terms of germanium contents). The distal tubular epithelium after 8 weeks dosage with the 1,500 ppm solution of GeO2 was characterized by vacuolization and deposits of PAS-positive material not only in adriamycin-treated rats, but also in normal rats. In contrast, propagermanium administration was not associated with any alternation in the changes induced by adriamycin or mercuric chloride. We previously clarified that propagermanium had no biochemical influence on the renal function of these renal injured rats. The histological demonstration that this compound does not exert renal toxicity, even when given at a high dosage to renal injured rats, further indicates that it would not exacerbate renal dysfunction already present. This confirms that propagermanium may be a safe compound for use in individuals with compromised kidneys.
Phosphorylation of tyrosine residue (Y1204) of rat nephrin by Fyn kinase allows Nck adaptor protein binding to nephrin motifs, which include the phosphorylated tyrosine. This phosphorylation-dependent switch induces actin polymerization in a cell culture system. Here, we generated an antibody recognizing phosphorylated nephrin at the Nck binding sites pY1204 and pY1228 to determine the phosphorylation status of nephrin using a rat model of puromycin aminonucleoside-induced nephrosis. Changes in globular actin (G-actin) and filamentous actin (F-actin) contents in isolated glomeruli were measured by western blot. Before experimental nephrosis, both Y1204 and Y1228 were phosphorylated, and most of the actin was filamentous. Before the onset of overt proteinuria, however, phosphorylation of both Y1204 and Y1228 rapidly decreased and became almost undetectable. During this period, the amount of F-actin in glomeruli began to decrease, whereas G-actin increased. Phosphorylation of nephrin at Y1228 in glomeruli of patients with minimal change nephrosis was significantly decreased compared with that in normal glomeruli. Our study suggests that tyrosine phosphorylation of nephrin by regulating F-actin formation may be important for the maintenance of normal podocyte morphology and function.
Anticonvulsant hypersensitivity syndrome is a severe idiosyncratic reaction to antiepileptic drugs. We report a case of a woman with lamotrigine-associated hepatitis who recovered spontaneously with supportive treatment.
A 43-year-old woman was being treated with oxcarbazepine for depression and was started on lamotrigine 2 weeks prior to her presentation. The patient then developed nausea and a generalized pruritic macular rash, and was found to have elevated liver enzymes, which peaked at AST, 6079 IU/L; ALT, 6900 IU/L; total bilirubin, 3.9 mg/dL(66.7 micromol/L); alkaline phosphatase, 149 IU/L; international normalized ration (INR), 1.9. The patient showed no signs of encephalopathy and her clinical examination was essentially normal except for very mild jaundice and a diffuse erythematous pruritic macular rash. The patient was hydrated and managed with supportive care. On the third day of hospitalization, her liver enzymes had improved substantially and she was discharged. At follow-up 1 month later the patient's liver enzymes were within the normal range.
We hypothesize that lamotrigine was directly responsible for the patient's rash and liver impairment given the time sequence of drug introduction and resolution of symptoms and liver enzyme abnormality once the drug was withdrawn. The patient suffered severe transaminitis when lamotrigine was added to oxcarbazepine, which resolved after termination of the medication and supportive management. We recommend monitoring the hepatic function in patients who have just been initiated on lamotrigine, especially if they develop jaundice.
A family with familial combined hyperlipidemia (multiple-lipoprotein type hyperlipidemia) was investigated with regard to mode of inheritance, phenotypic expression, presence of genetic markers, and biochemical parameters related to lipid metabolism. The family of 22 subjects (13 males, 9 females) was composed of 5 type IIa, 8 type IIb, 1 type IV hyperlipoproteinemias and 5 normolipidemics. The distribution of serum cholesterol and serum triglyceride concentration was bimodal. No relationship was observed between hyperlipidemia and blood groups or histocompatibility antigens. Subjects with high HLA 8 or W 15 had, on the average, higher lipid levels than others. However, these antigens were observed in normolipidemics too. The response to therapy with alufibrate (2g/day) was not uniform. Subjects with marked triglyceride lowering exhibited only moderate cholesterol lowering, and marked cholesterol lowering was associated with poor triglyceride lowering. The reduction in serum lipids was observed in unaffected family members as well. It is therefore concluded that alufibrate does not exert an effect on the defect in familial combined hyperlipidemia but on some unspecific sites probably on lipoprotein lipase. The familial combined hyperlipidemia appears to be transmitted in an autosomal dominant mode and very probably determined by more than one gene.
Various ventricular functions, as obtained by echocardiography (M-mode), were measured on 14 patients with solid tumours receiving adriamycin (mean total dosage 330 +/- 188 mg/m2 body surface area), the results being compared with those on 14 normal subjects of similar ages. There were statistically highly significant differences between the two groups. In those receiving the drug there was (1) a decrease in the percentage shortening fraction and (2) a reduction in the maximal velocity of endocardial circumferential fibre shortening, as expression of reduced contractility. The abnormal filling was characterized by a marked decrease in maximal velocity of endocardial fibre stretch, diminution of diameter increase during the rapid filling phase, and a shortened duration of the rapid filling phase. There was no electrocardiographic or radiological evidence of myocardial damage. The findings suggest that it will be possible by serial echocardiography to recognize a higher tolerance to the drug in some individuals and, at the same time, reveal abnormal contractility and filling due to adriamycin before irreversible heart failure has occurred.
A case report is presented giving the first detailed description of a benign common duct stricture occurring in a patient receiving hepatic artery infusion of FUDR for metastatic colon cancer. It is postulated that the stricture results from a combination of drug toxicity, and hypoxemia of the duct, with the lesion occurring more often than is recognized. A guide is given for the evaluation of the FUDR-infused patient with suspected nonmalignant duct stricture, and for the methods of alleviating extrahepatic blockage in these individuals.
