Recent studies have suggested resveratrol (RSV) as a new natural therapeutic agent to treat type 2 diabetes and lipid-induced insulin resistance. Here, we investigated whether RSV could reverse palmitate-induced insulin resistance in human primary muscle cells.
Myotubes obtained from six healthy men (54 ± 3 years (mean ± SE), BMI 25.0 ± 1.7 kg/m(2), fasting plasma glucose concentration (fP-glucose) 5.47 ± 0.09 mmol/l) were treated for 4 h with 100 μmol/l RSV and/or 0.2 mmol/l palmitate, and stimulated with or without 100 nmol/l insulin. Assays of glucose uptake, glycogen synthesis, palmitate oxidation, intracellular signalling and AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activity were performed.
RSV did not reverse palmitate-induced impairment of glucose metabolism. Surprisingly, RSV decreased glucose uptake and glycogen synthesis in human skeletal muscle cells. Palmitate oxidation and phosphorylation of AMPK and its downstream target acetyl-CoA carboxylase β (ACCβ) were inhibited by RSV, and RSV completely blocked the activity of AMPK isoform complexes α1/β2/γ1 and α2/β2/γ1 in in-vitro kinase activity assays. Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress was increased in response to RSV, as indicated by increased phosphorylation of eukaryotic initiation factor 2α (eIF2α) and increased expression of CCAAT/enhancer binding protein homologous protein (CHOP).
Acute exposure to RSV inhibits AMPK activity, fatty-acid oxidation and glucose metabolism in human myotubes.
Bites by Australian black snakes (Pseudechis spp.) do not cause neurotoxicity in human envenoming. This is unusual as in vitro neurotoxicity has been reported for all Pseudechis spp. venoms. The present study aimed to identify, isolate and characterise neurotoxins from the venoms of Pseudechis porphyriacus and Pseudechis colletti to elucidate the reason for the lack of neurotoxicity in humans. α-Elapitoxin-Ppr1 and α-elapitoxin-Pc1 were isolated from P. porphyriacus and P. colletti, respectively, using reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography. Each toxin consisted of 62 amino acids with molecular weights of 6746.5Da and 6759.6Da, respectively. α-Elapitoxin-Ppr1 and α-elapitoxin-Pc1 caused concentration-dependent (0.1-0.3μM) inhibition of indirect twitches in the chick biventer cervicis nerve-muscle preparation. Both toxins inhibited contractile responses to exogenous ACh and CCh, but not KCl, suggesting a post-synaptic mode of action at the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR). CCh concentration-response curves obtained in the presence or absence of α-elapitoxin-Ppr1 or α-elapitoxin-Pc1 indicated pA2 values of 6.97±0.03 and 7.04±0.07, respectively. Neither α-elapitoxin-Ppr1 (0.1μM) nor α-elapitoxin-Pc1 (0.1μM) had a significant effect on the electrically-induced twitches of the rat isolated phrenic nerve-diaphragm preparation. When the venom with the toxin removed (10μg/ml) was added to both the rat and chick preparations, the inhibition was significantly less than that caused by the intact whole venoms (10μg/ml). The current study shows that α-elapitoxin-Ppr1 and α-elapitoxin-Pc1 act as pseudo-irreversible antagonists at the nAChR of the skeletal neuromuscular junction and that the avian preparation is more sensitive to the neurotoxic effects of these toxins than the mammalian preparation.
Designer drugs are currently marketed as substitutes for stimulant drugs as cocaine, amphetamine, MDMA...Unlike compounds listed as narcotics, these new substances are deliberately synthesized to avoid anti-drug laws. Among them, mephedrone (4-methylmethcatinone) that belongs to cathinone family, has been recently introduced in France. Users report positive euphoric and entactogenic effects. They also describe negative effects such as increased dependence towards the drug itself and larger craving for tobacco and alcohol. The numerous and various described adverse effects include psychoactive, digestive, cardiovascular... effects. Some fatality cases have been reported in scientific literature or in press and attributed to mephedrone often in association with other substances. Mephedrone has been listed as narcotic in several European countries and more recently in France.
Paracetamol overdose is the commonest cause of acute liver failure in the UK, which has led to measures to restrict its sale. We aimed to establish whether changes in the referral of patients with paracetamol-induced acute liver failure have occurred since the introduction of legislation. We compared data from patients admitted to the Scottish Liver Transplantation Unit in 1992-98 with those admitted in 1998-2001. The incidence of paracetamol-induced liver failure, severity of patients' illness, and outcome did not differ between the groups. Patients with paracetamol-induced acute liver failure had higher Carstairs scores (1.99 [95% CI 1.33-2.65]; n=190) than patients with non-paracetamol acute liver failure (0.02 [-0.79 to 0.84]; n=68). We have shown an association between paracetamol-induced acute liver failure and social deprivation.
Attachment to the plasma membrane by linkage to a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor is a mode of protein expression highly conserved from protozoa to mammals. As a clinical entity, deficiency of GPI has been recognized as paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria, an acquired clonal disorder associated with somatic mutations of the X-linked PIGA gene in hematopoietic cells. We have identified a novel disease characterized by a propensity to venous thrombosis and seizures in which deficiency of GPI is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. In two unrelated kindreds, a point mutation (c --> g) at position -270 from the start codon of PIGM, a mannosyltransferase-encoding gene, disrupts binding of the transcription factor Sp1 to its cognate promoter motif. This mutation substantially reduces transcription of PIGM and blocks mannosylation of GPI, leading to partial but severe deficiency of GPI. These findings indicate that biosynthesis of GPI is essential to maintain homeostasis of blood coagulation and neurological function.
An 82-year-old man developed simultaneous stent thrombosis 11 days after the implantation of a sirolimus-eluting stent (SES) in the proximal left anterior descending artery (LAD) and the proximal right coronary artery (RCA). The patient immediately underwent percutaneous coronary intervention; however, his condition became critical due to the development of recurrent stent thrombosis, and emergent coronary artery bypass grafting with saphenous vein grafts was performed. Postoperative angiography showed good patency of both grafts; thrombus formation in the LAD and RCA was negative. Since the patient had a history of liver dysfunction due to ticlopidine administration, the thienopyridine derivative was not administered; this was believed to be the main cause of subacute stent thrombosis. He was administered aspirin, cilostazol, and sarpogrelate instead. A good postoperative course was achieved only using aspirin. This case demonstrates that simultaneous SES thrombosis in multivessel lesions poses a life-threatening situation.
We have previously described a large municipal obstetrical population in which the carriage rate of hepatitis B (HBV) is 1.2%. The present study was undertaken to determine the effectiveness of our immunoprophylaxis regimen (hepatitis B immune globulin at 36-72 h, hepatitis B vaccine at 36-72 h, 1 month and 6 months) in eliciting protective antibody to hepatitis B surface antigen (anti-HBs) in the infants of these women, the rate of perinatal transmission of HBV in this population prior to vaccination, the prevalence of anti-hepatitis delta antibody (anti-HD), and the prevalence of liver disease in our hepatitis B surface antigen-positive (HBsAg+) population. Four hundred eleven infants of HBsAg+ women were born during the 33-month study period. Of these, only 64 (15.6%) completed the vaccine series and returned for testing at 12 months. Sixty of the 64 had anti-HBs, and one (1.6%) had become HBsAg+. Eighty-nine older siblings of the immunized infants were tested, and 17 (19%) were HBsAg+. Of 54 mothers and eight siblings who were HBsAg+, none had anti-HD. Serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels were normal in 53 of 54 HBsAg+ mothers tested. These data demonstrate 1) reduction of perinatal transmission of HBV from 19% to 1.6% using our protocol, 2) absence of hepatitis delta infection in this population, and 3) high prevalence of asymptomatic carriage of HBV, rather than clinically significant liver disease, in this population. It is imperative to improve compliance in order to maximize the effectiveness of immunoprophylaxis for newborns of HBsAg+ mothers.
Niacin is an effective lipid-modifying therapy whose use has been limited by suboptimal tolerability. The adverse effect of flushing is due to prostaglandin D2 (PGD2)-mediated cutaneous vasodilation. Adjunctive treatment with the PGD2 receptor antagonist laropiprant significantly reduces the incidence and severity of niacin-induced flushing. The objective of this study was to assess the effect of aspirin pretreatment on flushing symptoms with extended-release (ER) niacin/laropiprant in healthy volunteers. A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover study compared patient-rated flushing following pretreatment with aspirin 325 mg versus placebo administered 30 minutes before ER niacin 2 g/laropiprant 40 mg. Flushing responses were assessed using participant-reported overall symptom severity score (OSSS), including individual characteristics of redness, warmth, tingling, or itching. The overall incidence and severity of flushing were comparable for participants receiving aspirin or placebo before ER niacin 2 g/laropiprant 40 mg. The difference in 3-day average OSSS between treatments was 0.2 (P=.180). Profiles of flushing severity, frequency, and bothersomeness were comparable for the aspirin/ER niacin/laropiprant and ER niacin/laropiprant regimens. All treatments were safe and well tolerated. Coadministration of aspirin 325 mg daily with ER niacin 2 g/laropiprant 40 mg does not further reduce residual flushing symptoms associated with ER niacin 2 g/laropiprant 40 mg alone.
The present study has investigated the effect of posttreatment of the nonspecific inhibitor of nitric oxide (NO) synthase (NOS), N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), on the anticonvulsant effect of phenobarbitone and diazepam on picrotoxin-induced convulsions in rats. Phenobarbitone, which is known to inhibit convulsions by potentiating gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) activity in the brain, did not inhibit the convulsive action of picrotoxin in L-NAME-posttreated animals. L-NAME produced no such interaction with diazepam, which inhibits convulsions through GABA potentiation as well as by a GABA-independent mechanism. L-arginine, the precursor of NO, increased the protective effect of both phenobarbitone and diazepam. These results suggest that a decreased synthesis of NO in the brain by the nonspecific inhibitors of NOS is likely to result in an impairment of the anticonvulsant effect of antiepileptics that inhibit convulsions solely by potentiating GABA activity in the brain.
Whole unfractionated heparin can modestly decrease tumor growth, but the dose of heparin is limited by its anticoagulant properties. To overcome this limitation, we modified the chemical structure of heparin and have prepared a heparin derivative by O-acylating low molecular weight heparin with butyric anhydride, producing a more potent antiproliferative compound, which is only weakly anticoagulant so that the dose may be escalated without threat of hemorrhage. In this study, we investigated the effect of this chemically modified heparin, butanoylated heparin, on the growth of lung cancer in vitro and in vivo. We found that butanoylated heparin a) significantly inhibited lung cancer cell proliferation in vitro and lung cancer growth in mice and rats; b) had very low anticoagulant effect; c) had no significant toxicity on heart, liver, kidney and lung; d) significantly although modestly induced apoptosis and decreased expression of the cell proliferation pathway consisting of mutant p53, phospho-Rb and E2F1 expression in the tumor tissues. We also found that butanoylated heparin significantly inhibited CXCL12 and CXCR4 expression, suggesting that CXCL12/CXCR4 axis may be involved in regulation of tumor growth inhibition by heparin. We concluded that chemically modified butanoylated heparin has potent antiproliferative activity against lung cancer and may represent a new chemical therapeutic agent for cancer patients.
Lipid peroxidation is the most important mechanism in the pathogenesis of acute liver damage with carbon tetrachloride (CCl4). L-carnitine may prevent lipid peroxidation and thus may protect against liver damage. In the present study we investigated the protective effect of L-carnitine in experimental acute liver damage induced by CCl4.
Fifty rats were allocated to five equal groups. The first group was the control (group 1), the second group received an intraperitoneal CCl4 injection for 3 days (group 2), and the third group received a 50 mg/kg subcutaneous L-carnitine injection for 4 days, beginning a day before CCl4 injection. The CCl4 injection was continued for 3 days in the concerned group (group 3). Group 4 was given a CCl4 injection for 7 days and group 5 received a 50 mg/kg subcutaneous L-carnitine injection for 8 days, beginning a day before CCl4 injection. This group continued to receive a CCl4 injection for 7 days. Rats in groups 2 and 3 were killed on the fifth day. Rats in groups 1, 4 and 5 were killed on the ninth day. Plasma and liver tissue malondialdehyde (MDA) levels, glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) activity and liver enzyme levels were studied. Histopathological investigations were conducted.
Liver tissue MDA levels decreased significantly in group 3 compared to group 2 (P<0.001). Liver tissue MDA levels in group 5 decreased significantly in comparison to those of group 4 (P<0.001). Liver tissue GSH-Px activity in group 5 was significantly lower than that in group 4 (P<0.05). There were no significant differences between groups 3 and 4 regarding GSH-Px activity (P>0.05). Steatosis, inflammation and necrosis in group 3 were significantly reduced when compared to group 2 (P<0.01). Fibrosis development was not identified in groups 2 and 3. Steatosis in group 5 was significantly lower than that in group 4 (P<0.05) and there were no significant differences between groups 4 and 5 with regards to inflammation and necrosis (P>0.05). Mild fibrosis development was identified in groups 4 and 5 but the difference between the groups was not significant.
It appears that L-carnitine has a protective effect in the early stage of experimental acute liver damage induced by CCl4. As the toxic effect or damage continues, its effect lessens.
Mortality remains high in chronic heart failure (CHF) because under ACE inhibitor treatment other neurohumoral systems remain/become (de)activated, such as the endothelin and atrial natriuretic peptide pathways. Dual endothelin-converting enzyme-neutral endopeptidase (ECE-NEP) inhibition exerts beneficial effects in experimental CHF, but whether "triple" ACE-ECE-NEP inhibition is superior to ACE or ECE-NEP inhibition is unknown. We compared, in rats with CHF, ACE-ECE-NEP to ACE or ECE-NEP inhibition in terms of left ventricular (LV) hemodynamics and remodeling. Benazepril (2 mg/kg/d) or the ECE-NEP inhibitor CGS26303 (10 mg/kg/d) were administered alone or in combination (subcutaneously for 28 days starting 7 days after coronary ligation). ACE-ECE-NEP inhibition reduced blood pressure more markedly than ACE or ECE-NEP inhibition. All treatments increased cardiac output to the same extent, but ACE-ECE-NEP inhibition reduced LV diameter and LV end-diastolic pressure more markedly than ACE or ECE-NEP inhibition. The reduction of LV weight and collagen accumulation in the "viable" myocardium was most pronounced after ACE-ECE-NEP inhibition. These results, obtained in experimental CHF, illustrate a further improvement of LV hemodynamics and structure after ACE-ECE-NEP inhibition compared with either ACE or ECE-NEP inhibition, but whether this is associated with a further improvement of exercise tolerance and/or survival remains to be determined.
Up to now 65 patients with erectile dysfunction were treated by means of corpus cavernosum-autoinjection-therapy (CAT). The only side effect observed were 6 prolonged erections, which could successfully be treated in 3 cases by puncture and aspiration of the corpora cavernosa. In another 3 cases prolonged erection subsided after an intracavernous injection of 2 mg metaraminol. Erection induced by CAT was immediately interrupted by metaraminol in 10 other patients.
Male B6C3F1 mice, 6 weeks of age, were fed diets or water containing di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) at 12,000 or 6000 ppm, acetaminophen (ACT) at 10,000 or 5000 ppm, sodium barbital (BBS) at 1000 ppm, or phenobarbital (PB) at 500 ppm for 40 weeks. Groups of six mice were terminated at 2, 8, 24, and 40 weeks for evaluation of liver and kidney weights, histopathology, and thymidine kinase (TK) activity in liver and kidney and levels of DNA synthesis, measured by tritiated thymidine [( 3H]T) autoradiography or bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) immunohistochemistry. Liver weights, as percentage of body weight, were significantly elevated at most time intervals for mice exposed to all chemicals at each dose. The hepatocyte labeling indices (LI) with [3H]T autoradiography or BrdU immunocytochemistry were significantly elevated in mice fed DEHP at 12,000 ppm at 24 and 40 weeks or BBS and ACT at 2 weeks. LI were not elevated in mice fed PB. Hepatic TK activity was significantly elevated in mice fed DEHP, BBS, or ACT at Weeks 2 and 8. Histopathologic hepatic lesions were associated with these elevations, while hepatic lesions were not associated with changes in TK activity in PB-treated mice. In contrast, only DEHP and BBS induced toxic renal lesions. Persistent or transient elevation of the renal LI and TK activity accompanied renal toxicity. Thus, the hepatic toxin DEHP induced chronic renal hyperplasia without evidence of renal carcinogenicity or tumor promotion in previous studies at the doses used. ACT, a hepatotoxin, produced transient chronic hepatic hyperplasia without evidence of carcinogenicity in B6C3F1 mice in earlier studies at the same doses used. Thus, persistent or transient hepatic or renal hyperplasia was associated with carcinogenic or tumor promoting activity of these chemicals in some cases but not in others.
Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is one of the most common childhood behavioral disorders. Genetic factors contribute to the underlying liability to develop ADHD. Reports implicate variants of genes important for the synthesis, uptake, transport and receptor binding of dopamine in the etiology of ADHD, including DRD4, DAT1, DRD2, and DRD5. In the present study, we genotyped a large multiplex sample of ADHD affected children and their parents for polymorphisms in genes previously reported to be associated with ADHD. Associations were tested by the transmission disequilibrium test (TDT). The sample is sufficient to detect genotype relative risks (GRRs) for putative risk alleles. The DRD4 gene 120-bp insertion/deletion promoter polymorphism displayed a significant bias in transmission of the insertion (chi(2)=7.58, P=0.006) as suggested by an analysis of a subset of these families. The seven repeat allele of the DRD4 48-bp repeat polymorphism (DRD4.7) was not significantly associated with ADHD in the large sample in contrast to our earlier findings in a smaller subset. We replicate an association of a dinucleotide repeat polymorphism near the DRD5 gene with ADHD by showing biased nontransmission of the 146-bp allele (P=0.02) and a trend toward excess transmission of the 148-bp allele (P=0.053). No evidence for an association was found for polymorphisms in DRD2 or DAT1 in this sample. The DRD5 146-bp (DRD5.146) allele and the DRD4 240-bp (DRD4.240) allele of the promoter polymorphism emerge as the two DNA variants showing a significant association in this large sample of predominantly multiplex families with ADHD, with estimated GRRs of 1.7 and 1.37, respectively.
Maternal tachycardic responses to the intravenous injection of epinephrine 15 micrograms were compared with tachycardic responses induced by the pain of labor in a double-blind, prospective study of 15 women in active labor. After placement of an epidural catheter, maternal heart rate was continuously recorded. Each patient received, in uterine diastole, two injections of a test dose (epinephrine 15 micrograms + lidocaine 45 mg) at 2-4 min intervals, once via the epidural catheter and once intravenously in a random fashion. From the maternal heart rate strips, the acceleratory phase (bpm) of epinephrine-induced tachycardic responses (EITRs) and contraction-associated tachycardic responses (CATRs) were calculated. The upper bound of the 99% confidence interval (CI) to discriminate between the two groups was estimated. The acceleratory phase of EITRs was 1.85 +/- 0.61 bpm. The acceleratory phase of CATRs was 0.69 +/- 0.49 (P < 0.0003). The upper bound of the 99% CI was 1.17 bpm. Using this value to discriminate between EITRs and CATRs, all EITRs would be correctly identified. We conclude that on-line analysis of maternal tachycardic responses might be used in laboring women to discriminate between EITRs and CATRs and further improve the accuracy of an epinephrine test dose during the performance of epidural analgesia.
The dopamine D4 receptor (D4R) is a candidate gene for attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) based on genetic studies reporting that particular polymorphisms are present at a higher frequency in affected children. However, the direct participation of the D4R in the onset or progression of ADHD has not been tested. Here, we generated a mouse model with high face value to screen candidate genes for the clinical disorder by neonatal disruption of central dopaminergic pathways with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA). The lesioned mice exhibited hyperactivity that waned after puberty, paradoxical hypolocomotor responses to amphetamine and methylphenidate, poor behavioral inhibition in approach/avoidance conflict tests and deficits in continuously performed motor coordination tasks. To determine whether the D4R plays a role in these behavioral phenotypes, we performed 6-OHDA lesions in neonatal mice lacking D4Rs (Drd4(-/-)). Although striatal dopamine contents and tyrosine hydroxylase-positive midbrain neurons were reduced to the same extent in both genotypes, Drd4(-/-) mice lesioned with 6-OHDA did not develop hyperactivity. Similarly, the D4R antagonist PNU-101387G prevented hyperactivity in wild-type 6-OHDA-lesioned mice. Furthermore, wild-type mice lesioned with 6-OHDA showed an absence of behavioral inhibition when tested in the open field or the elevated plus maze, while their Drd4(-/-) siblings exhibited normal avoidance for the unprotected areas of these mazes. Together, our results from a combination of genetic and pharmacological approaches demonstrate that D4R signaling is essential for the expression of juvenile hyperactivity and impaired behavioral inhibition, relevant features present in this ADHD-like mouse model.
Ceruloplasmin functions as a ferroxidase in iron metabolism. Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by an increase in brain iron. We postulated that lower circulating ceruloplasmin levels in PD would result in rapid brain iron accumulation and an earlier age of onset. Consecutive PD patients were separated into subgroups with younger (< or = 60 years, n = 62) and older ages of onset (> 60, n = 29), and compared to non-PD controls (n = 40). A one-way ANOVA comparing ceruloplasmin levels showed a very robust effect [F(2,128) = 46.4, p < 1e-99]. Post hoc analysis demonstrated that the younger-onset PD subgroup [22.0 mg/dl +/- 6.5 SD] had a lower mean ceruloplasmin level compared to the older-onset PD subgroup [35.7 +/- 10.4] and controls [35.6 +/- 8.4], whose levels did not differ from each other. Ceruloplasmin levels showed robust correlation with age of onset in all 91 PD patients [r = 0.56, r(2) = 0.31, p < 0.0001] but not in the non-PD controls [r = 0.16, r(2) = 0.03, not significant]. Mode of onset and duration of PD showed no relationship to ceruloplasmin. Serum copper and ferritin, available in most patients, did not differ between the PD subgroups. Younger-onset PD patients have significantly lower levels of serum ceruloplasmin compared to those with older-onset PD. Ceruloplasmin may play a role in the etiopathogenesis of younger-onset PD patients and merits further study.
We report a 26-month-old boy with Angelman syndrome associated with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome, who developed a rash and a persistent toxic hepatitis after lamotrigine was added to valproate therapy. The patient had typical findings of both Angelman and Lennox-Gastaut syndromes. Chromosome analysis performing by FISH analysis showed a deletion in chromosome 15 (q11.2 q11.2). Although some cases of Angelman syndrome associated with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome were reported in the literature, valproate and/or lamotrigine induced toxic hepatitis in Angelman syndrome has hitherto never been described. We conclude that VPA and LTG combination should be given with great caution or avoided in patients with Angelman syndrome.
This study determined the influence of pentobarbital anesthesia on the autonomic nervous system control of baroreceptor mediated reflex bradycardia in the rat. Reflex bradycardia was elicited by phenylephrine-induced hypertension in conscious and pentobarbital anesthetized (PA) rats before and after sympathetic blockade with the beta-1 receptor antagonist atenolol or parasympathetic blockade with the peripherally acting muscarinic receptor antagonist methyl-atropine. Reflex bradycardia was significantly decreased by pentobarbital anesthesia. Cardiosympathetic blockade produced equivalent relative decreases in baroreflex gain in conscious and PA rats. In contrast, parasympathetic nervous system blockade with methyl-atropine produced relatively less inhibition of baroreflex gain in the PA rat compared with the conscious rat. These results suggest that pentobarbital anesthesia decreases baroreflex gain by inhibiting vagally mediated reflex bradycardia.
Nociceptive behavior and its relationship with bladder dysfunction were investigated in two cystitis models, which were induced by intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of cyclophosphamide (CYP) or intravesical instillation of acetone, using freely moving, non-catheterized conscious rats.
Female Sprague-Dawley rats were used. Cystitis was induced by i.p. injection of CYP (100 and 200 mg/kg) or intravesical instillation of acetone (10%, 30%, and 50%) via a polyethylene catheter temporarily inserted into the bladder through the urethra. Then the incidence of nociceptive behavior (immobility with decreased breathing rates) was scored. Voided urine was collected simultaneously and continuously to measure bladder capacity. The plasma extravasation in the bladder was quantified by an Evans blue (EB) dye leakage technique.
CYP (100 mg/kg, i.p.) induced nociceptive behavior without affecting bladder capacity or EB concentration in the bladder. A higher dose of CYP (200 mg/kg, i.p.) decreased bladder capacity and increased EB levels as well as nociceptive behavior. In contrast, intravesical instillation of acetone (30%) decreased bladder capacity and increased EB levels, but evoked nociceptive behavior less frequently compared with CYP-treated animals. In capsaicin-pretreated rats, nociceptive behavior induced by CYP or acetone was reduced; however, the overall effects of CYP or acetone on bladder capacity and bladder EB levels were unaffected.
These results suggest that there is a difference in the induction process of nociceptive behavior and small bladder capacity after two different types of bladder irritation, and that C-fiber sensitization is more directly involved in pain sensation than reduced bladder capacity.
To report the occurrence of acute cytolytic hepatitis in a patient exposed to pulse itraconazole therapy for 24 weeks and provide a concise review of the literature on cases of itraconazole-induced hepatitis.
A 61-year-old woman with no apparent risk factors for liver injury developed acute hepatitis one week after the final dose of a long-term course of pulse itraconazole therapy (200 mg orally twice daily, 1 wk on, 3 wk off, for 24 wk) for onychomycosis. Monitoring of liver enzymes was not performed during the treatment period. Serologic evaluations on presentation ruled out infectious diseases or other etiological factors. Liver function tests showed alanine aminotransferase 3330 U/L, aspartate aminotransferase 3250 U/L, and bilirubin 21 mg/dL. Liver function continued to deteriorate, and the patient underwent liver transplantation 17 days after admission. Her liver displayed reduced volume and there was a mild accumulation of ascitic fluid in the retroperitoneal cavity. Histologic evaluation showed massive panlobular necrosis. Complications occurred after transplantation and a rejection crisis worsened the clinical picture until the patient died about 4 months later. Use of the Naranjo probability scale showed the relationship of itraconazole therapy and the occurrence of acute hepatitis as probable.
Itraconazole pulse therapy for onychomycosis appears to be at least as effective as and safer than a continuous treatment regimen, particularly from the perspective of potential liver damage. Only one case of severe symptomatic hepatitis occurring after pulse therapy with itraconazole for onychomycosis and requiring transplantation has been reported previously. In that case, as well as the one reported here, hepatitis symptoms occurred after completion of long-term treatment in patients who were asymptomatic both before and during therapy.
Prolonged exposure to itraconazole, administered either continuously or intermittently, may precipitate severe and irreversible hepatotoxic events. Accordingly, careful monitoring of liver function parameters should be performed both during and after treatment when onychomycosis requires prolonged itraconazole administration, even in asymptomatic patients lacking apparent risk factors of hepatic injury.
