Anticonvulsant hypersensitivity syndrome is an unpredictable, potentially fatal drug reaction to aromatic anticonvulsants such as carbamazepine, phenytoin and phenobarbital. The hallmark features include fever, eosinophilia, rash and involvement of one or more internal organs. Clearly established diagnostic criteria and treatment guidelines are lacking. A high index of suspicion is required to identify this syndrome, allowing early withdrawal of the drug and avoiding re-exposure. We report an illustrative case of anticonvulsant hypersensitivity syndrome and review the published literature.
Propofol produces anaesthesia with rapid recovery but also causes pain or discomfort on injection. The effect of remifentanil in prevention of propofol-induced injection pain has been demonstrated in earlier studies. However, sufentanil, an opioid analgesic, has not been evaluated as an agent for managing pain on injection of propofol. In this study we aimed to compare the efficacy of remifentanil and sufentanil for the prevention of propofol-induced pain.
This double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical study was carried out from July 2006 to February 2007, and included patients who were candidates for elective surgery in a university hospital. From 92 American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) status I-II adult patients, 80 were randomly assigned to four groups of 20 each. Patients received 2 mL of sufentanil 0.01 mg, 2 mL of remifentanil 0.01 mg, 2 mL of remifentanil 0.02 mg, or 2 mL of saline 60 seconds prior to administration of 5 mL of propofol 1%. Patients were asked prior to losing consciousness whether they felt any pain due to propofol injection, and their pain scores were evaluated on the four-point scale of Ambesh et al.
The incidence of pain was significantly lower in the remifentanil 0.02-mg group, remifentanil 0.01-mg group and sufentanil group compared with the saline group (40%, 70%, 75% and 100%, respectively, p < 0.05). Median pain intensity scores were significantly lower in the group receiving remifentanil 0.02 mg than in the sufentanil group (0 and 1 respectively, p < 0.05). The median intensity of propofol-induced pain was statistically similar between the groups receiving sufentanil or remifentanil 0.01 mg and the placebo group (1, 1 and 1, respectively, p > 0.05).
Remifentanil 0.02 mg administered over 60 seconds before propofol administration is more effective than sufentanil 0.01 mg, remifentanil 0.01 mg or placebo administered 1 minute prior to propofol in reducing the incidence and intensity of injection pain.
To investigate the dynamic expression and its relation of gelatinase A (MMP-2), its natural inhibitor (TIMP-2) and DNA index (DI) changes during carcinogenesis, invasion and metastasis in Wistar rats.
Squamous cell carcinoma of lung was induced with 3-methylcholanthrene (MCA) and diethyinitrosamine (DEN) in iodized oil by left intra-bronchial instillation in 80 Wistar rats. Immrno histochemistay (IHC) and in situ hybridigation were used in the monitor of MMP-2, TIMP-2 proteins and mRNA expression during invasion and metastasis of lung cancer in these rats, DNA index (DI) value was measured by guantitatove image analysis on feulgen stained sections.
Along with the carcinogenis, the average poritive MNP-2 and TIMP-2 expressions increased, with positive rates of 8.5% - 85.7% and 6.4% - 35.7%. DI value also underwent the same changes (1.47 +/- 0.54) - (2.87 +/- 0.55). The difference of MMP-2 expression in carcinoma in situ versus early carcinoma and early carcinoma versus metastatic carcinoma are statistically significant (P < 0.05). Companing lung carcinome, the contrel group and non-cancerous lesions, the elevation of MNP-2 and TIMP-2 expressions were also sigmificant (P < 0.01). The DI elevation in carcinoma in situ and dysplasia were obviously significant (P < 0.05). Meanwhile a negative relation was noted in TINP-2 and MMP-2 expressions during carcinogenesis. There was a positive relation between MMP-2 expression and DNA poikiloidy (P < 0.01), which was related to the close relationship between MMP-2 and metastasis in advanced rat lung carcinoma (P < 0.05).
The excess degradation and disruption of basement membranes by activated MMP-2 may be a key step in inducing lung cancer invasion and metastasis. The imbalance between MMP and TIMP may be a critical factor which affects biologic behavior of lung carcinogenesis, invasion and metastasis.
Epithelial cells of bladders from male Fischer 344 rats that had been treated with N-butyl-N-(4-hydroxybutyl)nitrosamine (BBN) or N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]formamide (FANFT) were cultured and examined for chromosomal changes, anchorage independence in vitro, and transplantability in vivo. Numerical but not structural changes of chromosomes were significantly greater in the FANFT group than in the BBN group. Urothelial cell lines that demonstrated prolonged life span and loss of anchorage dependency were established from 14 of these rats, but only nine of them demonstrated tumorigenicity in the nude mouse model. Two of these transplantable cell lines and R4909, a transplantable bladder cell line derived from a 3-methylcholanthrene-treated rat, have normal chromosomes. The present study demonstrates a carcinogen-related chromosome change in the urothelial cells, but the relationship between malignancy and specific chromosomal changes is not clear.
The tumour-promoting effects of beta-naphthoflavone (BNF), a novel aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) agonist, were investigated using a medium-term hepatocarcinogenesis model in rats. Six-week-old male F344 rats received an intraperitoneal injection of N-diethylnitrosamine (DEN) at a dose of 200mg/kg body weight and were fed a diet containing 0% (basal diet), 0.5% or 1% BNF for 6 weeks from 2 weeks after DEN treatment. All animals were subjected to two-thirds partial hepatectomy 1 week after the BNF treatment. The number and area of glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P) positive foci significantly increased in the livers of rats treated with BNF with concomitantly increased cell proliferation compared to those in the livers of the DEN alone group. Global gene expression analysis and subsequent quantitative real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction revealed that BNF induced not only the 'AhR gene battery'Cyp1a1, Cyp1a2, Cyp1b1, Nqo1, Aldh3a1 and Ugt1a6 but also the transcription factor NF-E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2)-regulated genes such as Gstm1, Gpx2, Akr7a3 and Yc2 (and also Nqo1), presumably due to the adaptive response against BNF-triggered oxidative stress responses. Reactive oxygen species production increased in microsomes isolated from the livers of BNF-treated rats, and this enhancement was suppressed by the P450 inhibitor SKF-525A. Furthermore, BNF enhanced oxidative DNA damage and lipid peroxidation, estimated by the levels of 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) and thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances. These results suggest that the administration of BNF at a high dose and over a long-term enhance oxidative stress responses which may contribute to its hepatocarcinogenic potential in rats.
A 20-year-old man with a germ cell tumor who experienced an ischemic stroke as a complication of cisplatin/etoposide/bleomycin based chemotherapy is reported. The previously reported cases are reviewed as well as the different physiopathologic mechanisms associated with vascular toxicity of this regimen.
New data suggest that glioma stem-like cells (GSCs) and neural stem/progenitor cells (NSCs) may share common origins. GSCs drive tumor proliferation and appear to be resistant to classic chemotherapy, while the effects of chemotherapy on NSCs are not well studied. As the role of NSCs in learning and memory is increasingly recognized, we need to identify drugs that reduce neurotoxicity but are still effective against glial tumors.
We treated 3 human NSC cultures and multiple low- and high-grade GSC cultures with the commonly used agents temozolomide (TMZ) and cisplatin (CIS), and with 2 newer, promising drugs: the proteasome inhibitor bortezomib (BTZ) and the epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor erlotinib (ERL). We measured cell survival, proliferation, cell death induction, and drug resistance markers.
TMZ decreased NSC viability, while minimally affecting GSCs. TMZ induced NSC death, which was partially compensated for by increased proliferation. CIS had similar effects. The NSC's sensitivity to TMZ and CIS correlated with low expression of the multidrug resistance gene ABCG2, but not of MGMT or MSH1/MLH2. BTZ caused an 80%decrease in GSCs, while minimally affecting NSCs. GSCs had lower proteasome levels and activity after BTZ treatment. ERL treatment also decreased GSC numbers, but not NSC viability, which correlated with low EGFR expression in NSCs compared to GSCs.
Newer chemotherapy agents ERL and BTZ are effective against GSCs yet produce minimal effects on NSCs, while the older drugs TMZ and CIS are more toxic for NSCs than for GSCs. The identification and testing of more selective drugs is clearly warranted.
The influence of host genetic background on the response of Leishmania donovani-infected mice to chemotherapy was studied using the H-2d and H-2b haplotypes on a BALB or a B10 genetic background. Animals were treated with free or liposomal sodium stibogluconate and parasite burdens in the liver, spleen and bone marrow were assessed. In all the mouse strains and their congenic derivatives examined, the liver responded best to therapy regardless of drug formulation, whilst the spleen and the bone marrow respectively were increasingly less responsive to chemotherapy. Treatment with free drug was more effective in congenic mice carrying the H-2b haplotype than in those carrying the H-2d haplotype and in mice carrying the same H-2 haplotype, animals from a BALB background were better responders than those from a B10 genetic background. Liposomal drug was more effective than free drug treatment in all four mouse strains and produced a similar significant suppression (> 99%, P < 0.001) in liver parasite burdens to that obtained using a six times greater free drug dose. This liposomal drug dose was more effective than free drug in reducing bone marrow parasite burdens in all four mouse strains and equally (BALB/c mice) or more effective (P < 0.01, BALB/B, B10 and B10.D2 strains) in reducing spleen parasite numbers. Liposomal dependent influences apparent using free sodium stibogluconate. These results are discussed in relation to the genetic factors which are known to control the course of L. donovani infection in mice.
Although the increased risk of venous thrombotic events with thalidomide in multiple myeloma (MM) has been well described, an association with an increased risk of arterial events is less well appreciated. We describe 5 unusual arterial thromboses in patients with MM shortly after beginning thalidomide-based therapies. The cases are remarkable for a paucity of risk factors and short latency. We also review the literature on arterial thromboembolic events in patients taking thalidomide. Care should be taken in future trials to document arterial events with both thalidomide and lenalidomide.
Preventive and therapeutic intraventricular administration of ubiquinone-10 to male rats with epinephrine-induced myocarditis increased the rate of oxidative phosphorylation, elevated the content of ATP, and inhibited lipid peroxidation in ischemic myocardium.
One hundred eleven newborn infants born of Spanish hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) carrier mothers were consecutively assigned to one of three treatment groups. Group A was treated with three or four doses of hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) in one of three different schedules. Group B received one dose of hepatitis B vaccine (Hevac-B, Pasteur) at birth and at 1, 2 and 12 months. Group C was treated with the same vaccination schedule as group B and in addition received a single dose of HBIG at birth. Comparisons were made in the 85 babies who had strictly completed the immunization schedule and had been followed for at least 12 months. The three immunization protocols were equally effective, since none of the children became a chronic HBsAg carrier or developed acute symptomatic infection. There were five transient and subclinical infections among children who received only HBIG (group A), one transient infection in group B, and one in group C. There seems to be some correlation between anti-HBs levels and degree of protection, since all transient infections in group A occurred in the subgroups who did not maintain protective antibodies during the first 6 months. Although the percentage of responders in the two vaccinated groups did not differ significantly, children who received only vaccine reached higher antibody levels than those who also received HBIG. Our results suggest that any immunization schedule able to maintain anti-HBs levels during the first 6 months of life would be useful to prevent mother-to-infant transmission of the hepatitis B virus in areas where most of the carrier women are expected to be anti-HBe positive and hence relatively less infectious.
Discovery of the progression-associated genes and pathways in lung adenocarcinoma (LAD) has important implications in understanding the molecular mechanism of tumor development. However, few studies had been performed to focus on the changes of pathways in lung adenocarcinoma development using microarray expression profile.
We performed a meta-analysis of 4 LAD microarray datasets encompassing 353 patients to reveal differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between normal lung tissues and LAD of different stages. Overall, 1 838 genes were found to be dys-regulated, and the adipogenesis, circadian rhythm, and Id pathways were significantly changed. Interestingly, most of the genes from the same gene family (such as Interleukin receptor, Matrix metallopeptidase, Histone cluster and Minichromosome maintenance complex component families) were found to be up-regulated (or down-regulated). Real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) was applied to validate the expression of randomly selected 18 DEGs in LAD cell lines. In the pathway analysis among stages, Oxidative stress, Glycolysis/Gluconeogenesis and Integrin-mediated cell adhesion pathways, which were involved in cancer cell proliferation and metastasis, were showed to be significantly regulated in stages other than IA.
Genes involved in adipogenesis and Id pathways might play important roles in development of LADs. The similar trend of expression of the gene family members suggested coordinate regulation in tumor progression. Three pathways (Oxidative stress, Glycolysis/Gluconeogenesis and Integrin-mediated cell adhesion pathways) significantly regulated in stages other than stage IA suggested that genes and pathways conferring invasive character might be activated in the preinvasive stage IB, while the Oxidative stress and the Glycolysis/Gluconeogenesis pathways might have strong connections to cisplatin-based chemotherapy. The insignificantly regulated three pathways in stage IA might be used in early-stage detection of LAD.
Subacute combined degeneration is an acquired myelopathy caused by vitamin B12 deficiency. Therapy with B12 leads to improvement in most but to complete recovery in only a few patients. Prognostic indicators in subacute combined degeneration are unknown; therefore, predicting complete recovery of neurologic deficits is challenging.
To identify potential correlates of outcome and to generate hypotheses concerning predictors of complete resolution of neurologic deficits in subacute combined degeneration.
We searched EMBASE (1974 to October 2005), MEDLINE (1968 to October 2005), and references from identified reports. REPORTS SELECTION: Reports of patients with subacute combined degeneration containing results of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and description of outcome and 1 patient treated by the authors.
We extracted data from 45 reports and 57 patients (36 males, 21 females; age range: 10 to 81) with a diagnosis of subacute combined degeneration, and estimated the strength of association between clinical, laboratory, and radiological factors and complete resolution of signs and symptoms.
Eight patients (14%) achieved clinical resolution and 49 (86%) improved with B12 therapy. The absence of sensory dermatomal deficit, Romberg, and Babinski signs were associated with a higher complete resolution rate. Patients with MRI lesions in < or = 7 segments and age less than 50 also appear to have higher rates of complete resolution.
B12 therapy is reported to stop progression and improve neurologic deficits in most patients with subacute combined degeneration. However, complete resolution only occurs in a small percentage of patients and appears to be associated with factors suggestive of less severe disease at the time of diagnosis.
A 35-year-old, 47 kg female presented for elective laparatomy, adhesiolysis and ileostomy formation. Pre-existing neurological problems precluded placement of an epidural and IV PCA was used for postoperative analgesia. A patient request for pethidine was allowed. Twenty-three hours postoperatively, a brief generalized seizure occurred without adverse sequelae. This had been immediately preceded by myoclonic-type jerking. The cumulative pethidine dose was 3,000 mg and the norpethidine level was 1.8 micrograms.ml-1. Avoidance of pethidine for IV PCA where large cumulative doses are anticipated is advised. Seizures associated with pethidine/norpethidine toxicity can occur early during pethidine usage, and there is considerable variation in measured norpethidine levels.
Hyperglycemia increases the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) from the mitochondrial electron transport chain in bovine endothelial cells. Because several studies have postulated a role for prostaglandins (PGs) in the glomerular hyperfiltration seen in early diabetes, we evaluated the effect of mitochondrial ROS on expression of the inducible isoform of cyclooxygenase (COX-2) in cultured human mesangial cells (HMCs). We first confirmed that incubation of HMC with 30 mmol/l glucose significantly increased COX-2 mRNA but not COX-1 mRNA, compared with 5.6 mmol/l glucose. Similarly, incubation of HMCs with 30 mmol/l glucose significantly increased mitochondrial membrane potential, intracellular ROS production, COX-2 protein expression, and PGE2 synthesis, and these events were completely suppressed by thenoyltrifluoroacetone or carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone, inhibitors of mitochondrial metabolism, or by overexpression of uncoupling protein-1 or manganese superoxide dismutase. Furthermore, increased expression of COX-2 mRNA and protein was confirmed in glomeruli of streptozotocin-induced diabetic mice. In addition, hyperglycemia induced activation of the COX-2 gene promoter, which was completely abrogated by mutation of two nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) binding sites in the promoter region. Our results suggest that hyperglycemia increases mitochondrial ROS production, resulting in NF-kappaB activation, COX-2 mRNA induction, COX-2 protein production, and PGE2 synthesis. This chain of events might contribute to the pathogenesis of diabetic nephropathy.
Thymidine phosphorylase (TP), orotate phosphoribosyltransferase (OPRT), and dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) are important enzymes related to the metabolism of 5-fluorouracil and its derivatives. In this study, we analyzed the expression of these enzymes and evaluated the association between the expression of these enzymes and clinicopathological features and prognosis in patients with pancreatic cancer.
TP, OPRT, and DPD mRNA expressions were detected using a real-time reverse transcriptional-polymerase chain reaction method or by immunohistochemistry, using surgical specimens obtained from 25 patients with pancreatic cancer.
TP mRNA expression was lower in cases with an alpha infiltration growth pattern than in cases with other infiltration growth patterns (P < 0.05). OPRT mRNA expression was higher in poorly differentiated-type cases than in differentiated type cases (P < 0.05). TP-, OPRT-, and DPD-positive stainings were found in 15 of 24 cases (63%), 10 of 19 cases (53%), and 14 of 21 cases (67%), respectively. There were significant correlations or trends between the mRNA and protein expressions of TP, OPRT, and DPD. Patients with a low TP/DPD ratio survived significantly longer than those with a high ratio (P < 0.05). Multivariate analysis demonstrated a significantly poorer outcome in patients with a high TP/DPD ratio compared with in patients with a low ratio (P < 0.05).
The TP/DPD ratio might be useful as a prognostic factor in patients with pancreatic cancer.
To report optical coherence tomography findings in nicotinic acid maculopathy.
Observational case report.
The patient was examined with ophthalmoscopy, fluorescein angiography, and optical coherence tomography.
A 71-year-old man presented with bilateral decreased visual acuity with metamorphopsia. Optical coherence tomography demonstrated cystoid spaces in the outer plexiform layer and inner nuclear layer. Fluorescein angiography did not show leakage. Two weeks after stopping the nicotinic acid, the cystoid spaces resolved.
Niacin maculopathy causes cystoid spaces in the inner nuclear and outer plexiform layers that resolve with discontinuation of the drug.
Renal failure due to mitomycin chemotherapy is a poorly appreciated entity often associated with microangiopathic hemolytic anemia. We describe a 45-year-old man in whom renal failure and anemia developed, without evidence of hemolysis, five months after beginning chemotherapy with mitomycin, fluorouracil, and doxorubicin hydrochloride. A biopsy specimen taken from the patient's kidney showed fibrin thrombi in two of 18 glomeruli and in several small arteries. The patient's condition required institution of maintenance dialysis. Similar reports from the literature are reviewed.
There is growing evidence that aldosterone plays an important role in the development of endorgan-damage e.g. vascular and cardiac fibrosis, remodeling and endothelial dysfunction. Aldosterone-antagonism has become a novel therapeutic principle beyond its sodium retention properties in the treatment of cardiovascular diseases. In patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction spironolactone could reduce death and hospitalisation. A new selective aldosterone antagonist, eplerenone, was effective in patients with left ventricular dysfunction after myocardial infarction added to optimal medical therapy.
Nickel oxide nanoparticles (NiONPs) toxicity has been evaluated in the human pulmonary epithelial cell lines: BEAS-2B and A549. The nanoparticles, used at the doses of 20, 40, 60, 80, 100 μg/ml, induced a significant reduction of cell viability and an increase of apoptotic and necrotic cells at 24h. A significant release of interleukin-6 and -8 was assessed after 24h of treatment, even intracellular ROS increased already at 45 min after exposure. The results obtained evidenced that the cytokines release was dependent on mitogen activated protein kinases (MAPK) cascade through the induction of NF-kB pathway. NiONPs induced cell cycle alteration in both the cell lines even in different phases and these modifications may be induced by the NPs genotoxic effect, suggested by the nuclear translocation of phospho-ATM and phospho-ATR. Our results confirm the cytotoxic and pro-inflammatory potential of NiONPs. Moreover their ability in inducing DNA damage responses has been demonstrated. Such effects were present in A549 cells which internalize the NPs and BEAS-2B cells in which endocytosis has not been observed.
We investigated whether sequential combinations of flavopiridol and docetaxel can increase apoptotic cell death and inhibit the growth of primary and metastatic prostate tumors in the Ggamma/T-15 transgenic mouse model of prostate cancer.
Transgenic males were treated and the weights of primary and metastatic prostate tumors determined. Immunohistochemistry and Western blot was performed to evaluate the differences in apoptosis, proliferation, and angiogenesis.
Docetaxel was slightly more effective than flavopiridol in inhibiting primary prostate tumors, but neither drug alone inhibited metastases. Single drug treatments decreased angiogenesis but did not increase apoptosis. Both sequential combinations resulted in greater inhibition of primary and metastatic prostate tumors, increased apoptosis, and decreased angiogenesis compared to control mice.
Flavopiridol and docetaxel sequence combinations were effective in inhibiting prostate tumors in the Ggamma/T-15 transgenic mice. An increase in apoptosis and a decrease in angiogenesis resulted in the greatest inhibition of prostate cancers.
This randomized, double-blind study on 79 patients reported the efficacy of ticlopidine-pentoxifylline combination in the treatment of atherosclerosis and the prevention of cerebrovascular accidents. Comparisons were made with aspirin-dipyridamole-buflomedil and buflomedil-placebo combinations as controls. Global symptoms, sensorimotor disorders and vertigo were improved in all treatment groups, although improvement tended to be more pronounced with ticlopidine-pentoxifylline. None of the groups showed any change in stenosis or vessel wall rigidity although ticlopidine-pentoxifylline reduced flow irregularity. This combination therapy also normalized the direction of flow in the ophthalmic artery in 46.2% of patients with retrograde flow prior to treatment, compared with 30.0% following aspirin-dipyridamole-buflomedil and 28.6% following buflomedil-placebo administration. Significantly fewer cerebrovascular accidents occurred after treatment with ticlopidine-pentoxifylline. In conclusion, ticlopidine-pentoxifylline showed good therapeutic efficacy against atherosclerosis and a preventative effect against new cerebrovascular accidents. This therapy was well tolerated.
