This is a follow-up study of male and female offspring of mothers who were part of a double-blind placebo controlled investigation during the years 1951-1952, originally aimed at determining the usefulness of DES administration in maintaining pregnancy. So far, 84 DES-exposed females, 43 female controls, 42 DES-exposed males and 37 male controls have been examined. Circumferential ridges of the vagina and cervix were seen in 39% of the DES-exposed females but in none of the controls. Colposcopy revealed vaginal epitheleal changes in 78% of the DES-exposed females 2% of the female controls. Cytology proved to be reliable as a screening test for vaginal epithelial changes in the DES-exposed female. Urine cytology was negative for tumor cells in all patients. The main abnormal finding in the DES-exposed males was that cysts in the epididymis were detected in 10%. No cases of cancer were observed in either the male or female offspring.
The original study conducted 22 years earlier at the Chicago Lying-in Hospital attempted to determine the value of diethylstilbestrol (DES) in maintaining pregnancy. The number completing the course of therapy was 840 in the DES group; there were 860 in a control group. Increasing doses were given beginning during the 7th week of pregnancy. The present study was to determine the level of risk of cancer and other anomalies in the female and male offspring of mothers who participated in the study. So far, 84 DES-exposed females, 43 female controls, 43 DES-exposed males, and 37 male controls have been examined. No cases of cancer have been found. The average age was 22 years. For female patients the medical history, a general physical examination, a gynecological examination, a colposcopic study, and laboratory tests were made. Laboratory tests consisted of cervical, endocervical, and 4 vaginal wall Pap smears, urine cytology, and follicle stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone determinations. Biopsies were performed when indicated. Progesterone and total estrogens were determined only in patients with irregular menstrual cycles. In male patients, a general physical examination, urologic studies, and laboratory work-up were done. Medical records of all the newborn infants were surveyed and pediatric records examined. No cases of congenital malformations were recorded. Minor differences in menstrual histories and in ability to conceive were noted. The differences appeared mainly at vaginal examinations. Circumferential ridges in the vagina and cervix were seen in 39% of the exposed females but in none of the controls. Erythroplakia of the cervix was seen in 67% of the exposed and in 53% of the controls. Colposcopic findings in the vagina revealed vaginal epithelial changes in 78% of the DES-exposed females and 2% of female controls. Iodine negative areas in the vagina were noted in 78% of the exposed females compared with 2% of the unexposed females. Iodine negative areas on the cervix were seen in 74% of the exposed and 58% of the unexposed. All dysplastic lesions were confirmed by histology. The cytology was negative in all. In the males abnormal findings were noted mainly in the DES-exposed group. An undersized penis was noted in 2, small testes in 2, varicocele in 1, and epididymal cysts in 4. Urine cy tology and prostatic fluid cytology did not reveal unusual findings. A more detailed analysis of findings will follow when material is larger and older.
The aims of this study were to investigate the effectiveness, safety, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of microemulsion propofol, Aquafol (Daewon Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd, Seoul, Republic of Korea).
In total, 288 patients were randomized to receive 1% Aquafol or 1% Diprivan (AstraZeneca, London, UK) (n=144, respectively). A 30 mg test dose of propofol was administered i.v. over 2 s for assessing injection pain. Subsequently, a bolus of propofol 2 mg kg(-1) (-30 mg) was administered. Anaesthesia was maintained with a variable rate infusion of propofol and a target-controlled infusion of remifentanil. Mean infusion rates of both formulations and times to loss of consciousness (LOC) and recovery of consciousness (ROC) were recorded. Adverse events and pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic characteristics were evaluated.
Mean infusion rate of Aquafol was not statistically different from that of Diprivan (median: 6.2 vs 6.3 mg kg(-1) h(-1)). Times to LOC and ROC were slightly prolonged in Aquafol (median: 21 vs 18 s, 12.3 vs 10.8 min). Aquafol showed similar incidence of adverse events to Diprivan. Aquafol (vs Diprivan caused more severe (median VAS: 72.0 vs 11.5 mm) and frequent (81.9 vs 29.2%) injection pain. The dose-normalized AUC(last) of Aquafol and Diprivan was 0.71 (0.19) and 0.74 (0.20) min litre(-1). The V(1) of both formulations were proportional to lean body mass. Sex was a significant covariate for k(12) and Ce(50) of Aquafol, and for k(e0) of Diprivan.
Aquafol was as effective and safe as Diprivan, but caused more severe and frequent injection pain. Aquafol demonstrated similar pharmacokinetics to Diprivan.
Benzbromarone (BBR) is a uricosuric agent that has been used as a treatment for chronic gout. Although never approved in the United States, BBR was recently withdrawn from European markets due to several clinical cases linking the drug to an idiosyncratic hepatotoxicity that is sometimes fatal. We report here a possible mechanism of toxicity that involves the bioactivation of BBR through sequential hydroxylation of the benzofuran ring to a catechol, which can then be further oxidized to a reactive quinone intermediate capable of adducting protein. NADPH-supplemented human liver microsomes generated a single metabolite that was identified as 6-OH BBR by comparison with the synthesized chemical standard. CYP2C9 was the major recombinant enzyme capable of catalyzing the formation of 6-OH BBR, although CYP2C19 also showed a lower degree of activity. Further oxidation of either 6-OH BBR or 5-OH BBR by human liver microsomes resulted in the formation of a dihydroxy metabolite with identical chromatographic and mass spectral properties. This product of sequential metabolism of BBR was identified as the catechol, 5,6-dihydroxybenzbromarone. Incubation of the catechol with liver microsomes, in the presence of glutathione, resulted in the formation of two glutathione adducts that could derive from a single ortho-quinone intermediate. Isoform profiling with recombinant human P450s suggested that CYP2C9 is primarily responsible for the formation of this reactive quinone intermediate.
In previous reports, changes in oxytocinase activity in human breast cancer tissue and in the serum of N-methyl-nitrosourea (NMU)-induced rat mammary tumors were described. Insulin-regulated aminopeptidase (IRAP) has been identified with oxytocinase and has also been referred to as placental leucine aminopeptidase (P-LAP).
The IRAP/P-LAP activity in rat serum was assayed to analyze the putative role that IRAP/P-LAP may play in regulating mammary gland carcinogenesis induced by NMU. Furthermore, as it has been recently described that IRAP/P-LAP is the angiotensin IV (Ang IV) receptor AT4, the activities of Ang IV-forming aminopeptidase N (APN) and aminopeptidase B (APB) were also assayed.
Changes in serum IRAP/P-LAP and Ang IV-forming APB activities were found in rats with mammary tumors induced by NMU. Both activities were greatly increased, although the Ang IV-forming APN activity was not modified.
These changes in aminopeptidase activities may reflect the local functional status of their substrates, which can be selectively activated or inhibited in the affected tissue as a result of specific conditions brought about by the tumor. Thus, these enzymatic activities may be involved in the promotion and progression of breast cancer through oxytocin (OT), vasopressin (AVP) and/or renin-angiotensin system (RAS) misregulation.
Activation of 5-HT1A receptors has been shown to attenuate catalepsy induced by typical antipsychotic compounds. Since mirtazapine (Remeron; Org 3770) has indirect 5-HT1A receptor stimulating properties as well as antagonist properties at alpha2-adrenoceptors and 5-HT2 receptors, it was of interest to investigate how the compound could modulate the effect of haloperidol on apomorphine-induced climbing behaviour in mice and haloperidol-induced catalepsy in rats. In the apomorphine climbing test, it was found that mirtazapine (2.2-22 mg/kg) did not change the climbing behaviour of mice induced by 1 mg/kg of apomorphine. However, when given as a co-treatment with haloperidol, mirtazapine (1 and 10 mg/kg) dose-dependently augmented the inhibiting effect of haloperidol on this climbing behaviour. Co-treatment with the 5-HT1A receptor agonist 8-OH-DPAT (0.1 mg/kg) also augmented the effect of haloperidol. Catalepsy induced by haloperidol (4.6 mg/kg) was attenuated by mirtazapine (2.2-22 mg/kg). The strongest effect was seen at 90 min after haloperidol treatment. The results obtained in these experiments suggest that co-treatment with mirtazapine may enhance the antipsychotic effect of haloperidol and reduce its extrapyramidal side effects, thereby widening its therapeutic window.
Alterations in the retinoblastoma pathway in germ cell tumors (GCTs) have been described. In the phase 1 trials of the selective cyclin-dependent kinase 4/6 inhibitor palbociclib, 3 patients with unresectable, growing, mature teratoma syndrome achieved prolonged disease stabilization. The authors conducted an open-label, phase 2 study to determine the efficacy and safety of palbociclib in patients with incurable, refractory, retinoblastoma protein (pRB)-expressing GCTs.
Patients who had incurable, refractory GCTs that demonstrated pRB expression by immunohistochemistry received oral palbociclib 125 mg daily for 21 days followed by a 7-day break. The primary endpoint was the 24-week progression-free survival (PFS) rate. A 24-week PFS rate ≥15% was considered promising, and a PFS rate ≤5% was not considered promising.
Thirty patients received treatment, and 29 were evaluable for the primary endpoint. The estimated 24-week PFS rate was 28% (90% exact confidence interval, 15%-44%). Patients who had teratoma and teratoma with malignant transformation had significantly better PFS than patients who had nonteratomatous GCTs. Toxicity was manageable and was principally hematologic.
Treatment with palbociclib was associated with a favorable 24-week PFS rate in patients with refractory, pRB-expressing GCTs. Benefit was mainly observed in patients who had unresectable teratomas and teratomas with malignant transformation. Cancer 2015;121:1463-1468. © 2014 American Cancer Society.
Coagulation changes and increased risk of thromboembolic disease may occur in association with estrogen administration. The puerperium is also a high-risk period for thromboembolism, and estrogen administration at this time may increase this risk. Patients with congenital deficiency of antithrombin III have recurrent venous thromboembolic disease, suggesting that low levels of this factor may be associated with "hypercoagulability" states. We studied 50 postpartum patients who received chlorotrianisene (Tace) or placebo for lactation suppression in a prospective, double-blind, randomized fashion. Antithrombin III values were significantly lower on the third day post partum in the treated group compared to the placebo group (p less than 0.05). In addition, our clinical data from a total of 99 patients support the previous evidence that estrogens delay rather than prevent breast engorgement. Thus, with questionable benefit and a possible increased thromboembolic risk, it would appear prudent to discontinue the practice of estrogen administration for lactation suppression.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are known to induce analgesia mainly via the inhibition of cyclo-oxygenase. Several reports suggest that chronic pain is mediated by central sensitization, an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-mediated phenomenon influenced by cyclo-oxygenase activity and nitric oxide (NO). In this double-blind study, we evaluated the effects of a preferential inhibitor of the inducible isoform of cyclo-oxygenase-2, nimesulide, on the spinal nociceptive flexion reflex (RIII reflex) before and after administration of an NO donor in healthy volunteers. Nimesulide caused a reduction of the RIII reflex area, which persisted after NO donor administration. Conversely, in the placebo group the RIII reflex area significantly increased following the administration of the NO donor. These data suggest a central effect for nimesulide, possibly related to a reduction of nociceptive activity at spinal level.
Lobelane, a minor alkaloid of Lobelia inflata and a synthetic, des-oxy analog of lobeline, has good affinity for the vesicular monoamine transporter and the dopamine transporter. The current study examined the ability of lobelane to specifically decrease methamphetamine self-administration. Rats were trained on a fixed ratio 5 schedule of reinforcement to self-administer methamphetamine (0.05 mg/kg/infusion, i.v.) or to respond for sucrose pellets. Upon reaching stable responding, rats were pretreated with lobelane (0.1, 1, 3, 5.6, or 10 mg/kg, s.c.) or saline, 15 min prior to the operant session. To assess the effect of repeated lobelane on methamphetamine self-administration, rats were pretreated with lobelane (5.6 or 10 mg/kg, s.c.) for 7 sessions. Behavioral specificity was further investigated by assessing the effects of lobelane (0.1, 1, 3, 5, or 10 mg/kg, s.c.) or saline on locomotor activity. Within the dose range tested, lobelane dose-dependently decreased methamphetamine self-administration, while having no effect on sucrose-maintained responding. Locomotor activity was decreased following only the highest dose of lobelane (10 mg/kg). Across repeated pretreatments, tolerance developed to the effect of lobelane on methamphetamine self-administration, demonstrating that the ability of lobelane to specifically decrease methamphetamine self-administration is a transient effect. Thus, taken together, the results show that although lobelane interacts with the pharmacological targets believed to be responsible for its ability to decrease methamphetamine self-administration, removal of the oxygen functionalities from the lobeline molecule may have afforded a compound with an altered pharmacokinetic and/or pharmacodynamic profile.
The goal of this study was to examine the morpho-physiologic changes in the dorsal subiculum network in the mouse model of temporal lobe epilepsy using extracellular recording, juxtacellular and immunofluorescence double labeling, and anterograde tracing methods. A significant loss of total dorsal subicular neurons, particularly calbindin, parvalbumin (PV) and immunopositive interneurons, was found at 2 months after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE). However, the sprouting of axons from lateral entorhinal cortex (LEnt) was observed to contact with surviving subicular neurons. These neurons had two predominant discharge patterns: bursting and fast irregular discharges. The bursting neurons were mainly pyramidal cells, and their dendritic spine density and bursting discharge rates were increased significantly in SE mice compared with the control group. Fast irregular discharge neurons were PV-immunopositive interneurons and had less dendritic spines in SE mice when compared with the control mice. When LEnt was stimulated, bursting and fast irregular discharge neurons had much shorter latency and stronger excitatory response in SE mice compared with the control group. Our results illustrate that morpho-physiologic changes in the dorsal subiculum could be part of a multilevel pathologic network that occurs simultaneously in many brain areas to contribute to the generation of epileptiform activity.
Preclinical studies in rats have demonstrated markedly different effects of intermittent and continuous levodopa administration on many biochemical and functional parameters yet the dose regimens employed have not been fully evaluated. In this study, rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine nigral lesions were administered levodopa (0-1200 mg/kg/day) and benserazide (25 mg/kg/day) subcutaneously via osmotic minipump and studied 20-22 h later for rotational behavior, striatal dopamine concentration, and regional cerebral glucose utilization (RCGU). Levodopa infusion at 100 mg/kg/day resulted in minimal rotation and minimal striatal dopamine replacement but did increase RCGU in the subthalamic nucleus and decrease RCGU in the lateral habenula, consistent with a selective inhibition of the striatopallidal GABAergic (indirect striatal output) pathway. Levodopa infusion at 100 mg/kg/day did not significantly increase RCGU in the entopeduncular nucleus (EP) and substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr), as does the acute injection of levodopa (25-50 mg/kg), indicating that this levodopa dose elicits only part of the spectrum of metabolic effects elicited by acute levodopa injection. Higher doses of levodopa (400-1200 mg/kg/day) resulted in moderate rates of rotation, dose-dependent increases in striatal dopamine, and increased RCGU in the EP and SNr, consistent with activation of the striatonigral GABAergic (direct striatal output) pathway. In the EP and SNr, the two major output nuclei of the basal ganglia, levodopa infusion at 800 and 1200 mg/kg/day reproduced the metabolic effects elicited by acute injection of levodopa. These results demonstrate, for the first time, dose-dependent effects of levodopa on distinct populations of striatal output neurons which may be relevant to the pathogenesis of levodopa-induced dyskinesias in Parkinson's disease. The minimal dopamine replacement and partial functional effects elicited by levodopa infusion at 100 mg/kg/day indicate the need for caution in the interpretation of prior studies of continuous levodopa infusion which employed this dose.
This pilot stuyd was made in order to search for the efficiency of an anticholinergic antiparkinsonian drug, orphenadrine, at high doses (300 to 500 mg/day, orally) in 10 depressed patients. This efficiency seems to be clear and appears quickly: with melancolic patients in particular, we observed 4 very good results in less than 5 days. Nevertheless, besides peripheral anticholinergic side-effects a transitory but very marked spatio-temporal disorganization, with increase of locomotor-activity and sometimes hallucinations, was observed in most patients. Nevertheless, it seems that this therapeutic should be carried on whenever other antidepressant therapeutics failed.
The role of inducible (iNOS) and neuronal nitric oxide (nNOS) synthases and of tachykinin NK1 receptors on the pathogenesis of cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced cystitis was investigated, in rats. CYP-induced cystitis was characterized by large increases in bladder-protein plasma extravasation (PPE), increases in the urinary excretion of nitric oxide (NO) metabolites and histological evidences of urothelial damage, edema, extensive white blood cell infiltrates and vascular congestion of the bladder. The specific iNOS inhibitor, S-methylthiourea (MITU), produced marked inhibition (>90%) of CYP-induced increases in PPE associated with amelioration of tissue inflammatory changes. Treatment with 7-nitroindazole (7-NI; 20, 40 and 80 mg/kg), a selective nNOS inhibitor, did not significantly reduce CYP-induced increases in PPE and failed to produce histological improvement. In addition, treatment with MITU, but not with 7-NI, inhibited the increases in the urinary excretion of NO metabolites induced by CYP treatment. WIN 51,708 (17-beta-hydroxy-17-alpha-ethynyl-androstano[3,2-b]pyrimido[1,2-a]benzimidazole; WIN), a selective NK1-receptor antagonist, reduced the increases in EPP and ameliorated the inflammatory changes in the bladder induced by CYP. However, the maximal degree of protection achieved with WIN was significantly less than that produced by MITU. Combined treatment with the iNOS inhibitor and the NK1 antagonist produced no greater effect than that produced by the iNOS inhibitor alone. Our results suggest that NO plays a fundamental role in the production of the cystitis associated with CYP treatment. The iNOS, and not nNOS, seems responsible for the inflammatory changes. Part of the increases in NO may due to activation of NK1 receptors by neuropeptides such as substance P possibly released from primary afferent fibers.
Pulmonary fibrosis is a common feature of systemic sclerosis (SSc) and a major cause of morbidity and mortality. Since alveolitis may be an essential step in the development of pulmonary fibrosis, we investigated the use of immunosuppressive drug therapy to improve pulmonary function in patients with SSc.
Eighteen patients with progressive pulmonary dysfunction, diminished vital capacity (VC), and/or decreased static lung compliance (Cst) were treated with cyclophosphamide and corticosteroids for 1 year. Eight patients had diffuse cutaneous SSc and 10 had limited cutaneous SSc. The median disease duration was 2.5 years (range 0.5-17 years).
VC increased in 14 of 18 patients and the median VC rose from 74% to 80% of predicted. Cst improved in 8 of 12 patients and the median Cst increased from 59% to 66% of predicted. Pulmonary nonfibrotic opacities disappeared in 9 of 12 patients. The erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) and serum concentrations of orosomucoid, C-reactive protein, and aminopropeptide type III collagen all improved. The patients were divided into 2 groups based on the presence or absence of elevations in acute-phase protein levels and ESR before therapy. Among the 12 patients with biochemical signs of inflammation, VC increased in 11, and Cst improved or was unchanged in 7 of the 8 who were tested. The median VC in this subgroup increased from 73% to 80% of predicted and the median Cst increased from 57% to 60% of predicted. In the group of 18 patients overall, the skin score decreased, while esophageal and renal function remained stable.
Cyclophosphamide may have a beneficial effect on pulmonary fibrosis in patients with SSc and elevated levels of acute-phase proteins. Controlled trials of cyclophosphamide in pulmonary SSc should be performed and should focus on such patients.
We investigated the relationship between the degeneration of spinal motor neurons and activation of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors after neuraxial morphine following a noninjurious interval of aortic occlusion in rats. Spinal cord ischemia was induced by aortic occlusion for 6 min with a balloon catheter. In a microdialysis study, 10 muL of saline (group C; n = 8) or 30 mug of morphine (group M; n = 8) was injected intrathecally (IT) 0.5 h after reflow, and 30 mug of morphine (group SM; n = 8) or 10 muL of saline (group SC; n = 8) was injected IT 0.5 h after sham operation. Microdialysis samples were collected preischemia, before IT injection, and at 2, 4, 8, 24, and 48 h of reperfusion (after IT injection). Second, we investigated the effect of IT MK-801 (30 mug) on the histopathologic changes in the spinal cord after morphine-induced spastic paraparesis. After IT morphine, the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) glutamate concentration was increased in group M relative to both baseline and group C (P < 0.05). This increase persisted for 8 hrs. IT MK-801 significantly reduced the number of dark-stained alpha-motoneurons after morphine-induced spastic paraparesis compared with the saline group. These data indicate that IT morphine induces spastic paraparesis with a concomitant increase in CSF glutamate, which is involved in NMDA receptor activation. We suggest that opioids may be neurotoxic in the setting of spinal cord ischemia via NMDA receptor activation.
Osteopontin (OPN) is a secreted, calcium-binding phosphorylated glycoprotein involved in several physiological and pathological events such as angiogenesis, apoptosis, inflammation, wound healing, vascular remodeling, calcification of mineralized tissues, and induction of cell proteases. There is growing interest in the role of OPN in breast cancer. In an attempt to obtain new insight into the pathogenesis of OPN-associated breast carcinomas, an immunohistochemical panel with 17 primary antibodies including cytokeratins and key regulators of the cell cycle was performed in 100 formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded samples of invasive breast carcinomas. OPN was expressed in 65% of tumors and was negatively correlated with estrogen (p=0.0350) and progesterone (p=0.0069) receptors, but not with the other markers and clinicopathological features evaluated including age, menstrual status, pathological grading, tumor size, and metastasis. There was no correlation between OPN expression and carcinomas of the basal-like phenotype (p=0.1615); however, OPN correlated positively with c-erbB-2 status (p=0.0286) and negatively with carcinomas of the luminal subtype (p=0.0353). It is well known that carcinomas overexpressing c-erbB-2 protein have a worse prognosis than luminal tumors. Here, we hypothesize that the differential expression of OPN in the first subtype of carcinomas may contribute to their more aggressive behavior.
We examined whether midazolam impairs short-term/working memory processes. We hypothesize that prior dissociations in midazolam's effects on short-term/working memory tasks and episodic memory tasks arise because midazolam has a larger effect on episodic memory processes than on short-term/working memory processes. To examine these issues, .03 mg/kg of participant's bodyweight of midazolam was administered in a double-blind placebo-controlled within-participant design. Performance on the digit span and category generation/recall tasks was examined. The results of Experiment 1 demonstrated that: (1) midazolam impaired performance on the digit span task; (2) midazolam did not impair performance on the category generation task; (3) midazolam impaired performance on the category recall task; and (4) midazolam's effect on category recall was four times as large as its effect on digit span. The results of Experiment 2 demonstrated that midazolam did not impair digit span performance when the digit span task was administered at a later time. These results suggest that midazolam can impair short-term/working memory processes, but these effects are substantially smaller than midazolam's effect on episodic memory processes. Moreover, they demonstrate that conscious awareness of materials during study is not sufficient to produce episodic memory.
Twenty-six patients with far-advanced, refractory breast cancer were treated iv with vindesine (DVA) at a dose of 3 mg/m2/week. In 21 evaluable patients there were six partial remissions. Four patients who did not respond after at least four doses of intermittent DVA received continuous-infusion DVA at a dose of 1.5 mg/m2/day X 2 every other week; none responded. Five of the six responders had had disease progression on other vinca alkaloids. Leukopenia and neuromuscular toxicity were dose-limiting.
Since behavioural symptoms (tremor, irritability, pilo-erection and shaking) induced by imidazole (IMID) in rats suggested an underlying modification of arousal and/or emotionality, further studies were performed in order to extend the range of behavioural influences of IMID. In the open-field test, IMID (37.5-300 mg/kg IP) inhibited crossing and rearing in a dose-dependent fashion, this effect being long lasting (about 3 h at 75 mg/kg). Yohimbine (YOH) (1, 5 and 10 mg/kg IP), described as anxiogenic and fear-inducing in animals and in man, when investigated in this same test, inhibited the activity of rats similarly to IMID. Since diazepam (0.5 and 1 mg/kg) but not clonidine (0.075 and 0.150 mg/kg IP) pretreatment reversed IMID- and YOH-induced hypomotility, the hypothesis that IMID effects in the open field might reflect an anxiety-like state was investigated by means of social interaction and x-maze, two tests considered highly specific for anxiety studies. The data obtained show that IMID depresses social interactions only at doses inhibiting motor activity; YOH, in our experimental conditions, produced a similar effect. In an elevated x-maze, with alternate open and closed arms, IMID (37.5 and 75 mg/kg) decreased the proportion of open-arm entries and the time spent in them, an effect prevented by diazepam pretreatment (1 mg/kg IP). Finally, mean arterial pressure (MAP) was assessed in anesthetized rats treated with IMID and YOH at doses equivalent as regards behavioural effects. MAP was increased by IMID whether IP or IV and decreased by YOH; moreover, YOH, as expected, antagonized clonidine-induced hypotension, while IMID was ineffective.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Erectile dysfunction is a common problem in aging men. The molecular mechanisms associated with aging erectile dysfunction are not completely understood. We hypothesized that apoptosis is a downstream event in erectile dysfunction, and pro-apoptotic (Bak and Bax) and anti-apoptotic (Bcl-2 and Bcl-x) factors are involved in the etiology of aging erectile dysfunction. To test this hypothesis intracavernous pressure in aging rats was measured to assess erectile function. Gene and protein expression of pro-apoptotic and anti-apoptotic factors was then analyzed in aging rat crura to assess its role in aging erectile dysfunction.
A total of 25 male Sprague-Dawley rats divided into 5 groups of 5 each based on age (6, 12, 18, 24 and 28 months old, respectively) were used in functional and apoptotic studies. In addition, 5, 3-month-old male Sprague-Dawley rats were used in the apoptotic study. The rats were anesthetized with pentobarbital. Erectile function was assessed by measuring intracavernous pressure after electrostimulation of the cavernous nerves. After completion of the functional study the penile crura were immediately harvested for histochemical and molecular studies. Gene expression of pro-apoptotic (Bak and Bax) and anti-apoptotic (Bcl-2 and Bcl-x) factors were then analyzed by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Protein expressions of these apoptotic factors were also analyzed by immunohistochemistry using specific antibodies.
Mean intracavernous pressure plus or minus SD in 18, 24 and 28-month-old rats was significantly lower than in 6-month-old rats (101.6 +/- 24.8, 77.7 +/- 24.5 and 45.7 +/- 7.3 versus 136.7 +/- 11.4 cm. water, respectively; p <0.05). The reduction in intracavernous pressure was an age dependent phenomenon. Gene and protein expression of the pro-apoptotic genes Bak and Bax was detected in the crura of all age groups but there was no significant difference in young and old rat crura. The anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 and Bcl-x genes were expressed in 3, 6 and 12-month-old crura, whereas this expression was lost at 18, 24 and 28 months. Anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 and Bcl-x proteins were also expressed in young rat crura, whereas this expression was lost in old rat crura.
The decline in intracavernous pressure correlated significantly with a loss of anti-apoptotic genes in aging rat crura. To our knowledge this is the first report to show the loss of anti-apoptotic factors in aging rat crura and suggest their role in the pathogenesis of aging erectile dysfunction.
The amphetamine isomer ratios (l-amphetamine/d-amphetamine) in 373 urine specimens submitted for analysis over a two-year period have been determined using a chiral derivatizing agent in conjunction with a gas chromatograph fitted with a nitrogen-specific detector. All of the specimens were collected from known or suspected amphetamine abusers, some of which were prescribed dexedrine for maintenance and detoxification. The mean (+/- 1 standard deviation [SD]) l/d-amphetamine isomer ratio for 147 specimens from compliant subjects prescribed dexedrine was 15.0% (+/- 4.9%). The mean (+/- 1 SD) l/d-amphetamine isomer ratio from 165 subjects abusing illicit amphetamine was 98.5 (+/- 27.5%). The calculation of l/d-amphetamine isomer ratios in urine has been found to be a rapid method for determining the compliance of subjects prescribed dexedrine and is therefore a useful technique for the continued management of amphetamine abusers. In addition, 17 specimens of illicit amphetamine powder (assumed to be a racemic mixture) were submitted to the laboratory for analysis. Using a combination of gas chromatography with and without chiral derivatization, the powders were found to have a mean l/d-amphetamine isomer ratio of 89.2% (range 72.2% to 98.3%) and mean purity (w/w) of 21.5% (range 3.4% to 71.0%) relative to pure dl-amphetamine substance.
Osteoporosis that is encountered frequently in postmenopausal women, may cause an increased incidence of vertebral and iliac fractures that are associated with excess morbidity. Raloxifene hydrochloride, a selective oestrogen receptor modulator, has been shown to increase bone mineral density and decrease biochemical markers of bone turnover in postmenopausal women, without stimulatory effects on breast or uterus. Levels of proinflammatory cytokines, including IL-6, and TNF-alpha and TGF-beta1 which are important cytokines involved in remodeling, have been evaluated previously in in vitro studies of osteoporosis. However, there seems to be a paucity of in vivo research concerned with changes in these cytokines in osteoporosis.
In this study, we evaluated the effects of raloxifene (Evista); Lilly Pharmaceutical Co. USA, 60 mg/day) on biochemical bone turnover markers, serum parathyroid hormone, and 25-OH vitamin D, as well as the serum levels of IL-6, TNF-alpha and TGF-beta1, in 22 postmenopausal, osteoporotic women before and after 12 weeks of raloxifene treatment.
Well-matched, postmenopausal, non-osteoporotic control subjects were also enrolled in the study. Serum levels of all the parameters were measured in postmenopausal, osteoporotic women at baseline and end of the study.
It was found that serum osteocalcin and parathyroid hormone, and urine deoxypyridinoline levels decreased to normal levels with treatment. Serum 25-OH vitamin D levels after treatment in the patient group were higher than those in the control group. Serum IL-6, TNF-alpha and TGF-beta1 levels did not change significantly with treatment. However, serum levels of IL-6 and TGF-beta1 in the patient group after treatment, decreased to levels lower than those found in the control group. Serum TNF-alpha levels in the patient group before and after treatment, were lower than those in the control group.
Raloxifene treatment reduces bone turnover biochemical markers, parathyroid hormone and induces 25-OH vitamin D in postmenopausal women. Moreover, it also affects some serum cytokine levels in the postmenopausal period.
To assess whether transcervical intrauterine topical instillation of a local anesthetic agent reduces pain at hysterosalpingography.
Prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
Department of reproductive medicine at a university teaching hospital.
One hundred ten women undergoing hysterosalpingography (HSG).
Subjects were randomized to receive either 2 mL of 2% plain lignocaine or 2 mL of 0.9% sodium chloride solution (placebo) topically into the uterine cavity before the HSG was performed.
The degree of lower abdominal pain experienced both during the injection of contrast media at HSG and 10 minutes after the procedure using a 20-cm visual analogue scale (VAS) and a four-point verbal descriptor scale (VDS).
There was no difference in pain scores between lignocaine and placebo during the HSG. However, at 10 minutes after the HSG, subjects receiving lignocaine experienced more pain than those on placebo.
Transcervical intrauterine topical instillation of 2 mL of 2% plain lignocaine does not reduce pain during HSG and may lead to increased pain immediately after the procedure.
