Prior work has shown that a high dose (20 mg/kg) of systemic morphine, required to produce significant analgesia in the acute phase of a contusion injury, undermines the long-term health of treated subjects and increases lesion size. Moreover, a single dose of systemic morphine in the early stage of injury (24 h post-injury) led to symptoms of neuropathic pain 3 weeks later, in the chronic phase. The present study examines the locus of the effects using intrathecal morphine administration. Subjects were treated with one of three doses (0, 30, or 90 microg) of intrathecal morphine 24 h after a moderate contusion injury. The 90-microg dose produced significant analgesia when subjects were exposed to noxious stimuli (thermal and incremented shock) below the level of injury. Yet, despite analgesic efficacy, intrathecal morphine significantly attenuated the recovery of locomotor function and increased lesion size rostral to the injury site. A single dose of 30 or 90 microg of intrathecal morphine also decreased weight gain, and more than doubled the incidence of mortality and autophagia when compared to vehicle-treated controls. Morphine is one of the most effective pharmacological agents for the treatment of neuropathic pain and, therefore, is indispensable for the spinally injured. Treatment can, however, adversely affect the recovery process. A morphine-induced attenuation of recovery may result from increases in immune cell activation and, subsequently, pro-inflammatory cytokine concentrations in the contused spinal cord.
Among phenylbutazone (PZ) and its related compounds, suxibuzone (SUX) caused the most extensive decrease in pyruvate kinase (PK) activity with lower toxicity. Therefore, we studied the effect of SUX on rat hepatocarcinogenesis to confirm our assumption that an agent which causes a prolonged decrease in PK activity in rat liver promotes hepatocarcinogenesis. For initiation rats were fed a diet containing 0.06% 3'-methyl-4-dimethylaminoazobenzene (3'-Me-DAB) for 4 weeks. At the end of 53 weeks of the experiment the incidences of liver tumors were 14.3 and 70.0% in the rats fed basal diet and in the rats fed 0.5% SUX diet, respectively, after the initiation. No tumors were observed in rats fed the SUX diet without the initiation. The result shows that SUX promotes hepatocarcinogenesis and supports the above assumption.
Many popular varieties of commercially sold fish, including tilefish, seabass, shark, and swordfish, contain enough mercury so that eating them once or twice a month can lead to high mercury body burdens. Wisconsin has issued mercury-based sport-fish consumption advice to people of all ages since 1985. Wisconsin's advisory was revised in 2000 to address all inland waters and again in 2004 to integrate information about sport-caught fish with advice for commercially sold fish. Because of the increased popularity of fish as a source of dietary protein, a significant percentage of the US population may be at risk of methylmercury-induced health problems. Although several studies have assessed mercury exposure among children and women of child-bearing age, very little is known about mercury body burdens among men or postmenopausal women. This article describes fish consumption and mercury exposure among 14 people who consumed fish twice a week or more and 1 person who ate no fish. Steady-state blood mercury levels available for 10 adults and 1 child ranged from <5 to 58 microg/L and correlated well with dietary mercury intake estimates. Three of these individuals reported vague, subclinical symptoms such as mental confusion, sleep difficulty, balance problems, or visual disturbances, which improved after their mercury levels returned to normal.
Somatosensory evoked potentials were measured prospectively in 38 children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia to evaluate the side effects of vincristine therapy on conduction of the peripheral nerves. Nineteen patients at standard risk received vincristine 12 mg/m2 during induction therapy and 19 patients at intermediate or high risk received 6 mg/m2 during induction therapy and an additional 6 mg/m2 during delayed intensification therapy. These latencies were compared with those of 38 age-, height-, and sex-matched controls. A prolongation in the peripheral conduction time of the posterior tibial nerve was found in the standard risk patients after induction compared with that of the controls, and a delay was found not only from the ankle to the popliteal fossa, but also from the popliteal fossa to the spinal cord (P < .01). The conduction times of the median nerve from the wrist to the plexus (P < .01) and from the wrist to the spinal cord (P < .01) were prolonged after delayed intensification therapy. There was a significant delay in the median and tibial nerve conduction between the intermediate and high risk patients and their controls after a total vincristine dose of 12 mg/m2. These delays were found along the entire length of the nerves, especially in the proximal part of the tibial nerve (P < .001).
Delineation of the receptor mechanisms underlying the behavioral effects of benzodiazepines should allow for the development of drugs with improved clinical utility and reduced side effects. OBJECTIVES. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the role of GABAA/alpha1 receptors in the sedative and motor-impairing effects of benzodiazepines.
Squirrel monkeys were tested with the GABAA/alpha1-preferring agonist zolpidem and the nonselective benzodiazepine agonist triazolam alone and in combination with the GABAA/alpha1-preferring antagonist beta-CCt and the nonselective benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil. During 30-min experimental sessions, all occurrences of normal behaviors like locomotion, environment- and self-directed behaviors, as well as side effects such as ataxia, rest and procumbent postures were scored.
Zolpidem and triazolam produced dose-dependent reductions in locomotion and environment-directed behavior and increased ataxia and procumbent posture. Triazolam, but not zolpidem, also engendered species-typical rest posture at some doses. Flumazenil antagonized all of the behavioral effects of zolpidem and triazolam, whereas beta-CCt antagonized only zolpidem- and triazolam-induced ataxia.
GABAA/alpha1 receptor mechanisms appear to play a key role in the ataxic effects of benzodiazepine agonists in squirrel monkeys, similar to recent results with transgenic mice. In contrast to the findings of these recent studies, GABAA mechanisms other than or in addition to those mediated at the alpha1 subunit may play a more important role in the sedative/hypnotic effects of benzodiazepines in squirrel monkeys.
Previous studies have found that HERG, a kind of K(+) channel protein, is expressed in some cancers, but its expression is weak or lost in normal tissues. This study was to investigate HERG expression in various cancer cell lines, its correlation with chemosensitivity of cancer cells to doxorubicin, and its biochemical modulation.
HERG expression in human colon carcinoma cell line HT-29, human breast carcinoma cell line MCF-7, human lung carcinoma cell line A549, and human high-metastatic giant cell lung carcinoma cell line PG was analyzed by Western blot. After transfection of herg gene, the cytotoxicity of doxorubicin, erythromycin (a HERG K+ channel blocker), or doxorubicin in combination with erythromycin to cancer cells was analyzed by MTT assay. Intracellular content of doxorubicin was observed under fluorescent microscope.
HERG protein level was higher in HT-29, MCF-7, and PG cells than in A549 cells. A549 cells were more sensitive to doxorubicin than HT-29 cells. The 50% inhibitory concentration (IC(50)) of doxorubicin was obviously higher in herg-transfected A549 cells than in parent A549 cells. Erythromycin obviously suppressed the growth of HT-29 cells, and showed synergic cytotoxicity with doxorubicin to HT-29 cells. There is no difference in intracellular doxorubicin content among herg-transfected A549 cells, pCDNA3.1-transfected A549 cells, and parent A549 cells.
HERG expression might negatively correlate with the chemosensitivity of tumor cells to doxorubicin. Erythromycin may act as a modulator, and has synergic effect with doxorubicin. HERG may serve as a molecular marker and modulating target for individualized cancer therapy.
p.C282Y mutation and rare variants in the HFE gene have been associated with hereditary hemochromatosis (HH). HH is also caused by mutations in other genes, such as the hemojuvelin (HJV), hepcidin (HAMP), transferrin receptor 2 (TFR2) and ferroportin (SLC40A1). The low rate homozygous p.C282Y mutation in Brazil is suggestive that mutations in non-HFE genes may be linked to HH phenotype.
To screen exon-by-exon DNA sequences of HFE, HJV, HAMP, TFR2 and SLC40A1 genes to characterize the molecular basis of HH in a sample of the Brazilian population.
Fifty-one patients with primary iron overload (transferrin saturation ≥50% in females and ≥60% in males) were selected. Subsequent bidirectional DNA sequencing of HFE, HJV, HAMP, TFR2 and SLC40A1 exons was performed.
Thirty-seven (72.5%) out of the 51 patients presented at least one HFE mutation. The most frequent genotype associated with HH was the homozygous p.C282Y mutation (n=11, 21.6%). In addition, heterozygous HFE p.S65C mutation was found in combination with p.H63D in two patients and homozygous HFE p.H63D was found in two patients as well. Sequencing in the HJV and HAMP genes revealed HJV p.E302K, HJV p.A310G, HJV p.G320V and HAMP p.R59G alterations. Molecular and clinical diagnosis of juvenile hemochromatosis (homozygous form for the HJV p.G320V) was described for the first time in Brazil. Three TFR2 polymorphisms (p.A75V, p.A617A and p.R752H) and six SLC40A1 polymorphisms (rs13008848, rs11568351, rs11568345, rs11568344, rs2304704, rs11568346) and the novel mutation SLC40A1 p.G204S were also found.
The HFE p.C282Y in homozygosity or in heterozygosity with p.H63D was the most frequent mutation associated with HH in this sample. The HJV p.E302K and HAMP p.R59G variants, and the novel SLC40A1 p.G204S mutation may also be linked to primary iron overload but their role in the pathophysiology of HH remain to be elucidated.
We report a case of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) occurring in a patient with Crohn's disease (CD) without chronic hepatitis or liver cirrhosis, and review the clinicopathological features of HCC in CD patients. A 37-year-old Japanese man with an 8-year history of CD and a medication history of azathioprine underwent resection of a liver tumor. The histopathology of the liver tumor was pseudoglandular type HCC. In the non-neoplastic liver, focal hepatocyte glycogenosis (FHG) was observed, however, there was no evidence of liver cirrhosis or primary sclerosing cholangitis. Only nine cases of HCC in CD patients have been reported previously in the English-language literature. Eight of 10 cases (including the present case) had received azathioprine treatment, and four of these cases also showed FHG, which is considered a preneoplastic liver lesion, within the non-neoplastic liver. Although the precise mechanism of the development of HCC in CD patients is controversial, these results suggest that azathioprine therapy and FHG in the non-neoplastic liver contribute to the development of HCC. These findings also indicate that it is important to survey CD patients treated with prolonged azathioprine therapy for potential liver tumors.
To clarify the effects of bromocriptine on prolactinoma cells in vivo, immunohistochemical, ultrastructural and morphometrical analyses were applied to estrogen-induced rat prolactinoma cells 1 h and 6 h after injection of bromocriptine (3 mg/kg of body weight). One h after treatment, serum prolactin levels decreased markedly. Electron microscopy disclosed many secretory granules, slightly distorted rough endoplasmic reticulum, and partially dilated Golgi cisternae in the prolactinoma cells. Morphometric analysis revealed that the volume density of secretory granules increased, while the volume density of cytoplasmic microtubules decreased. These findings suggest that lowered serum prolactin levels in the early phase of bromocriptine treatment may result from an impaired secretion of prolactin due to decreasing numbers of cytoplasmic microtubules. At 6 h after injection, serum prolactin levels were still considerably lower than in controls. The prolactinoma cells at this time were well granulated, with vesiculated rough endoplasmic reticulum and markedly dilated Golgi cisternae. Electron microscopical immunohistochemistry revealed positive reaction products noted on the secretory granules, Golgi cisternae, and endoplasmic reticulum of the untreated rat prolactinoma cells. However, only secretory granules showed the positive reaction products for prolactin 6 h after bromocriptine treatment of the adenoma cells. An increase in the volume density of secretory granules and a decrease in the volume densities of rough endoplasmic reticulum and microtubules was determined by morphometric analysis, suggesting that bromocriptine inhibits protein synthesis as well as bringing about a disturbance of the prolactin secretion.
A case of angioedema caused by enalapril, undiagnosed for 5 years was presented. Enhanced blood and tissue eosinophilia shown in nasal smear was observed. In addition increased activity of coagulation system was shown manifested by enhance of concentration of Hageman factor and cardiolipin antibodies IgM and IgA isotype. The role of coagulation, complement and fibrinolysis systems in pathogenesis of ACE-inhibitors induced angioedema was discussed. The influence of bradykinin on activity of eosinophils was analyzed.
As a reminder that thrombocytopenia may occur even with very small doses of heparin, the author describes the case of a 76-year-old man who was admitted for elective hip surgery and received "mini-dose" heparin prophylactically. Profound thrombocytopenia developed, followed by deep vein thrombosis and then arterial occlusion to the lower limb. Initially, the importance of the low platelet count was not recognized and a continuous infusion of heparin (35,000 units/d) was given. It was discontinued when the limb became cold, pulseless, paralysed and anesthetic, and an emergency aortogram demonstrated occlusion of the femoral artery. Removal of the thrombus, closed fasciotomies, infusion of Rheomacrodex in dextrose and administration of warfarin resulted in the patient's recovery of sensation and movement in the limb.
The ADP-ribosyltransferase (ADPRT) gene encodes a zinc-finger DNA-binding protein, poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1), that modifies various nuclear proteins by poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation and functions as a key enzyme in the base excision repair pathway. We have conducted two studies to test whether an amino acid substitution variant, ADPRT V762A (T2444C), is associated with prostate cancer (CaP) risk and decreased enzyme function. The first study used genomic DNA samples from an ongoing, clinic-based case-control study (488 cases and 524 controls) to show that a higher percentage of the CaP cases carried the ADPRT 762 AA genotype than controls (4% versus 2%). In Caucasians, the AA genotype was significantly associated with increased CaP risk [odds ratio (OR), 2.65; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.08-6.49], and the VA genotype was associated with a slight but not significantly increased CaP risk (OR, 1.18; 95% CI, 0.85-1.64) using VV as the referent group after adjustment for age, benign prostatic hyperplasia, and family history. Furthermore, this association was stronger in younger (<65) men (OR, 4.77; 95% CI, 1.01-22.44) than older (> or =65) men (OR, 1.78; 95% CI, 0.55-5.82). The second study used freshly isolated peripheral lymphocytes from 354 cancer-free subjects to demonstrate that the ADPRT 762 A allele contributed to significantly lower adenosine diphosphate ribosyl transferase (ADPRT)/PARP-1 activities in response to H2O2 in a gene dosage-dependent manner (P < 0.0001, test for linear trend). The PARP-1 activities (mean +/- SD dpm/10(6) cells) were 18,554 +/- 9,070 (n=257), 14,847 +/- 7,082 (n=86), and 12,155 +/- 6,334 (n=11) for VV, VA, and AA genotypes, respectively. This study is the first to provide evidence that the ADPRT V762A-genetic variant contributes to CaP susceptibility and altered ADPRT/PARP-1 enzyme function in response to oxidative damage.
Aripiprazole is a novel atypical neuroleptic used in the treatment of psychosis. A few recent studies have demonstrated an association between the use of aripiprazole and an exacerbation of Parkinsonism, although this relationship is poorly defined. To our knowledge, this is the first case series describing an onset of Parkinsonism in patients without prior history of Parkinson's disease following aripiprazole treatment.
We describe two patients, ages 69 and 58, who developed cardinal features of Parkinson's disease shortly after receiving aripiprazole. Both patients were male veterans with a history of bipolar disorder treated with aripiprazole. They initially presented with asymmetric arm tremor, and subsequently developed rigidity, bradykinesia, and postural instability. On examination, they were found to be at a Hoehn and Yahr stage of 2.5 for their Parkinsonism.
While aripiprazole has been associated with infrequent extrapyramidal side effects, these cases raise concerns that its chronic exposure may lead to D2 receptor hypersensitivity and/or dysfunction and subsequent development of a syndrome mimicking idiopathic Parkinson's disease. With the available atypical neuroleptics becoming widely used in treating psychotic symptoms associated with a broad range of disorders, we advise closer monitoring due to their potential for inducing Parkinsonism.
This is the case of a young man suffering from schizophrenia and treated with clozapine. He developed acute heart failure associated with pericardial effusion and midventricular dyskinesia with severe systolic dysfunction and left ventricular dilatation at echocardiogram, readily resolved after the suspension of clozapine therapy. The segmental wall motion abnormalities observed at echocardiogram in this case are peculiar and have never been described before. The possible cardiotoxic effects of clozapine have been reported previously in the literature. Because of its serious potential side effects this drug is not considered the first choice for treatment of schizophrenia. Before beginning treatment, patients should undergo a cardiac evaluation, and they should also be periodically followed up with echocardiograms.
X-rays, ECGs and echocardiograms of 35 children under Adriamycin (ADM)-treatment were evaluated. ECG voltage and cardiothoracic ratio showed no correlation to ADM-dose, whereas the mean LPEP/LVET quotient increased, mean shortening fraction and peak Vcf decreased with increasing ADM-dose. Only one child, receiving a total dose of 420 mg/m2, got a cardiomyopathy. Before clinical manifestation of congestive heart failure it showed a 30% decrease of QRS-voltage, an increased LPEP/LVET quotient and a decreased SF and peak Vcf. Single pathological parameters were found in other children, too: 6 children showed more than 30% decrease of QRS-voltage, 13 children increased LPEP/LVET quotients, 10 children a reduced SF and 5 children reduced peak Vcf. In spite of the anomalous parameters ADM-treatment was continued. No child developed a cardiomyopathy, Obviously none of these single parameters allows a reliable early detection of ADM-cardiomyopathy, whereas simultaneous evaluation of different parameters improves the reliability of prognosis.
Marijuana is known to have psychotropic effects in humans. In this study, we used rat models of sensorimotor gating, hyperactivity and stereotypy to explore whether CB(1) receptor stimulation or blockade induces behavioral changes consistent with psychotomimetic or antipsychotic agents, respectively.
We determined whether (a) the cannabinoid agonist CP 55940 decreased pre-pulse inhibition (PPI) as might be expected from a psychotomimetic agent, and (b) the selective CB(1) receptor antagonist, SR 141716A, had any effect on PPI on its own or following disruptions by psychotomimetic agents. In addition, we investigated the effects of SR 141716A on elevated levels of hyperactivity and stereotypy elicited by d-amphetamine.
These studies were conducted in rats using standard methodologies for determination of PPI following acoustic stimuli, and d-amphetamine-induced hyperactivity and stereotypies.
Decreased startle responses to 120 dB stimuli were observed in rats treated with CP 55940 (0.1 mg/kg IP) in the absence and presence of a 73 dB pre-pulse. These effects were reversed by SR 141716A (5 and 10 mg/kg, respectively). SR 141716A (0.1, 5, 10 mg/kg) had no effect on PPI on its own or following disruptions by apomorphine, d-amphetamine or MK-801. Conversely, in separate experiments different antipsychotic agents reversed disruptions in PPI induced by d-amphetamine (haloperidol), apomorphine (haloperidol or clozapine) or MK-801 (clozapine or olanzapine). In addition, unlike haloperidol, SR 141716A (5 mg/kg) did not reverse d-amphetamine-mediated increases in hyperactivity or stereotypy.
The CP 55940-mediated decreases in startle amplitude confound assessment of the effects of CB(1) receptor activation on PPI. The failure of SR 141716A to reverse disruptions in PPI, hyperactivity or stereotypy induced by non-cannabinoid psychotomimetic agents suggests that blockade of the CB(1) receptor on its own is not sufficient for antipsychotic therapy.
Thiazolidinediones exert anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidative roles and attenuate atherosclerosis by mechanisms partially independent of their metabolizing actions. High doses of angiotensin type 1 receptor (AT1R) blocker losartan (LST) seem to promote fat cell formation by preserving PPARgamma activity.
C57BL/6J diet-induced atherosclerotic susceptible mice randomly received a normal or a high-fat high-cholesterol (HFHC) diet and were treated with rosiglitazone (RG), LST or a vehicle for 12 weeks.
HFHC was associated with increased PPARgamma gene expression without an over regulation of PPARgamma responsive genes, whereas RG and LST treatments were found to maintain PPARgamma activity without resulting in increased PPARgamma gene expression. A better anti-inflammatory and antioxidant profile in mice treated with RG regarding LST was observed in spite of a similar PPARgamma preserved activity. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays revealed that animals under HFHC diet treated with RG showed a significant nuclear factor erythroid 2-like 2 (Nrf2)-dependent down-regulation of the expression of the CD36 gene.
The PPARgamma agonist RG exerts antioxidant properties that significantly reduced Nrf-2-dependent CD-36 up-regulation in mice under HFHC diet. Because LST treatment was also associated with a preserved PPARgamma activity, our data suggests that these RG antioxidant effects are partially independent of its PPARgamma metabolizing properties.
Lung cancer has a strong etiologic association with cigarette smoking. Nicotine, a major component in tobacco smoke, functions as a survival agonist that inhibits apoptosis following various stresses. However, the mechanism of action remains elusive. Mcl-1, a major antiapoptotic protein of the Bcl2 family, is extensively expressed in both small cell and non-small cell lung cancer cells, suggesting that Mcl-1 may be a therapeutic target of patients with lung cancer. Here, we found that nicotine induces Mcl-1 phosphorylation through activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 in association with increased chemoresistance of human lung cancer cells. Since nicotine stimulates Mcl-1 phosphorylation and survival in cells expressing wild-type but has no such effects in cells expressing T163A Mcl-1 mutant, this indicates that nicotine induces Mcl-1 phosphorylation exclusively at the T163 site and that phosphorylation of Mcl-1 at T163 is required for nicotine-induced survival. Mechanistically, nicotine-induced Mcl-1 phosphorylation significantly enhances the half-life of Mcl-1, which renders Mcl-1 a long-term survival activity. Specific depletion of Mcl-1 by RNA interference blocks nicotine-stimulated survival and enhances apoptotic cell death. Thus, nicotine-enhanced survival of lung cancer cells may occur through activation of Mcl-1 by phosphorylation at T163 site, which may contribute to development of human lung cancer and/or chemoresistance.
Urethane is a carcinogen to which there is widespread exposure through the consumption of fermented foods and alcoholic beverages. In this study, we have assessed the carcinogenicity of urethane in combination with ethanol. Male and female B6C3F(1) mice (48 mice per sex per group) were exposed to 0, 10, 30, or 90 ppm urethane in the presence of 0%, 2.5%, or 5% ethanol in drinking water ad libitum for two years, at which time the extent of tumorigenesis was assessed. Additional mice (four per sex per group) received the same doses for four weeks to assess serum levels of urethane and ethanol, DNA adduct formation, and the induction of microsomal cytochromes P450, cell proliferation, and apoptosis. Urethane decreased cell replication in the livers of female, but not male, mice, decreased cell replication in the lungs of both sexes, and induced cytochrome P450 2E1 in the livers of female mice. Hepatic levels of the DNA adduct 1,N(6)-ethenodeoxyadenosine were increased by exposure to urethane and decreased by treatment with ethanol. Animal weights and survival were not affected by ethanol; in contrast, urethane administration decreased body weights and survival. Urethane caused dose-dependent increases in liver, lung, and harderian gland adenoma or carcinoma and hemangiosarcoma of the liver and heart in both sexes, mammary gland and ovarian tumors in females, and squamous cell papilloma or carcinoma of the skin and forestomach in males. The increase in hepatocellular tumors occurred in a relatively linear manner and was attributed to the formation of 1,N(6)-ethenodeoxyadenosine in hepatic DNA coupled with an increase in cell replication. Hemangiosarcomas were observed only at the 90 ppm urethane dose and were probably a result of high-dose urethane-induced toxicity. Lung alveolar/bronchiolar and harderian gland adenoma or carcinoma increased in a relatively linear manner, suggestive of a genotoxic mechanism for tumor induction. Ethanol induced a dose-dependent trend in hepatocellular adenoma or carcinoma in male mice, with the incidence being marginally increased at the highest dose. In female mice administered 10 ppm and 90 ppm urethane, ethanol caused dose-related increases in alveolar/bronchiolar adenoma or carcinoma and hemangiosarcoma of the heart, respectively. This may be due to ethanol decreasing the first-pass clearance of urethane, thus, increasing systemic distribution. In male mice a different relationship was observed: ethanol caused a dose-related decrease in alveolar/bronchiolar and harderian gland adenoma or carcinoma in mice administered 30 ppm urethane.
Losartan is a prodrug type Angiotensin II (Ang II) AT1-receptor antagonist whose efficacy depends on the oxidase activity of individuals. In addition, losartan affects the normal blood pressure and can potentially cause orthostatic hypotension. In this report, we examined effects of TA-606 [(3-pentyloxy)carbonyloxymethyl-5-acetyl-2-n-propyl-3-[2'(1H -tetrazole-5-yl)biphenyl-4-yl]methyl-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro imidazo[4,5-c]pyridine-4-carboxylate hydrochloride], a prodrug type AT1-receptor antagonist, on the Ang II-induced pressor response and hypertension in a dog model, which is known to have lower oxidase activity than other species, and orthostatic hypotension in the rat tilting model. The results indicated that TA-606 was immediately converted to its active form, 606A, after oral administration, and it demonstrated potent inhibition of the Ang II-induced pressor response in conscious normotensive dogs (0.3-3 mg/kg, p.o.). It also had a potent hypotensive effect in conscious 2K,1C-renal hypertensive dogs (0.3-10 mg/kg, p.o.). These effects of TA-606 were 32 and 30 times more potent than those of losartan, respectively. In addition, EXP3174 (1, 10 mg/kg, i.v.), an active metabolite of losartan, but not 606A (1-30 mg/kg, i.v.) showed an orthostatic hypotensive effect in the rat tilting model. These results suggest that TA-606 is an effective Ang II receptor antagonist without the drawbacks of losartan.
The high mortality in congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) is mainly attributed to pulmonary hypoplasia. Recent studies suggest that retinoid signaling pathway (RSP) is inhibited in the nitrofen-induced hypoplastic lung. The insulin-like growth factor (IGF) system plays a crucial role in fetal lung development by interaction of IGFBP-3 and IGFBP-5 with RSP. We hypothesized that pulmonary IGFBP-3 and IGFBP-5 gene expression levels are downregulated in the nitrofen-induced pulmonary hypoplasia.
Pregnant rats were exposed to either olive oil or 100 mg nitrofen on day 9.5 (D9.5) of gestation. Fetal lungs were harvested on D18 and D21 and divided into control and nitrofen groups. IGFBP-3 and IGFBP-5 pulmonary gene and protein expression were determined using real-time RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry.
Relative levels of IGFBP-3 mRNA were significantly decreased in the nitrofen group (8.00 +/- 14.44) in D21 compared to controls (14.81 +/- 16.11; p < 0.05). Expression levels of IGFBP-5 mRNA were also significantly decreased in nitrofen group (10.66 +/- 4.83) on D18 compared to controls (17.92 +/- 4.77). Immunohistochemistry showed decreased IGFBP-3 expression on D21 and decreased IGFBP-5 immunoreactivity on D18 in hypoplastic lungs compared to controls.
Downregulation of IGFBP-3 and IGFBP-5 gene expression may cause pulmonary hypoplasia in the nitrofen-induced CDH model by interfering with retinoid signaling pathway.
Antihypertensive effects of three beta-adrenergic blocking drugs, acebutolol, propranolol, and practolol were studied for 11 weeks. Spontaneously (SHR); one-clip, two-kidney (CLIP); and deoxycorticosterone and salt (DOC) hypertensive rats were used. The drugs were given orally, 100 mg/kg per day, 5 days per week before development of hypertension. Propranolol inhibited blood pressure (BP) increase significantly in SHR. Acebutolol and practolol also lowered BP in SHR. Three drugs did not affect BP in CLIP, but an apparent inhibition was seen when the results were analyzed including the cases of which BP stayed below 150 mmHg. Either of three drugs did not show antihypertensive effects in DOC. Acebutolol rather increased BP more rapidly. Practolol also increased BP slightly more rapidly. Cerebral stroke was seen in DOC. The incidences of the stroke in the groups given the solvent, acebutolol, propranolol, and practolol were 3/6, 4/7, 2/6, and 3/6, respectively. Acebutolol seemed to cause stroke earlier with the more rapid BP elevation. Acebutolol, propranolol, and practolol decreased incidence of the vascular disease in CLIP. Propranolol also decreased it in DOC. Plasma renin activity was suppressed by these drugs in SHR and CLIP. The mechanisms of antihypertensive effects of beta-adrenergic blocking drugs are unknown. The present study denies those due to inhibition of cardiac function, or renin release from the kidney. A better experimental model is necessary to study this. The possibility that acebutolol and other beta-blockers might accelerate BP elevation and incidence of stroke must be reexamined.
The incidence of venous thrombosis associated with estrogen treatment in male-to-female (M-->F) transsexuals is considerably higher with administration of oral ethinyl estradiol (EE) than with transdermal (td) 17-beta-estradiol (E(2)). To find an explanation for the different thrombotic risks of oral EE and td E(2) use, we compared the effects of treatment of M-->F transsexuals with cyproterone acetate (CPA) only, and with CPA in combination with td E(2), oral EE, or oral E(2) on a number of hemostatic variables [activated protein C (APC) resistance and plasma levels of protein S, protein C, and prothombin], all of which are documented risk factors for venous thrombosis. APC resistance was determined by quantification of the effect of APC on the amount of thrombin generated during tissue factor-initiated coagulation; plasma levels of total and free protein S were determined by standard ELISA; and levels of prothrombin and protein C were determined with functional assays after complete activation of the zymogens with specific snake venom proteases. CPA-only, td-E(2)+CPA, or oral-E(2)+CPA treatment produced rather small effects on hemostatic variables, whereas oral EE treatment resulted in a large increase in APC resistance from 1.2 +/- 0.8 to 4.1 +/- 1 (P < 0.001), a moderate increase in plasma protein C (9%; P = 0.012), and a large decrease in both total and free plasma protein S (30%; P < 0.005). The large differential effect of oral EE and oral E(2) indicates that the prothrombotic effect of EE is due to its molecular structure rather than to a first-pass liver effect (which they share). Moreover, these differences may explain why M-->F transsexuals treated with oral EE are exposed to a higher thrombotic risk than transsexuals treated with td E(2). Testosterone administration to female-to-male transsexuals had an antithrombotic effect.
To describe an 11-year-old girl with symptomatic localization-related epilepsy and normal intelligence who developed reversible mental deterioration and pseudoatrophic brain changes while receiving valproate (VPA).
Assessment of mental function using Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-III (WISC) and Raven's Progressive Matrices (PM), EEG recordings while awake and asleep, and brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), were performed at the beginning of VPA therapy, after 2 years and 8 months of treatment and following VPA discontinuation.
After 2 years and 6 months on VPA (< or = 26 mg/kg/day) the girl insidiously developed mental deterioration (loss of 18 IQ points and drop in age-adjusted PM score from the 95th to the 50th percentile) associated with MRI-documented pseudoatrophy of the brain. Onset of severe cognitive impairment coincided with serum VPA concentrations near 100 microg/ml. There were no other manifestations of drug toxicity or hyperammonemia. Background EEG activity was normal. Reduction of VPA dosage and subsequent discontinuation 4 months later resulted in disappearance of clinical symptoms with a 20-point improvement at IQ testing and recovery of previous PM score. Repeat MRI showed disappearance of pseudoatrophic changes.
The striking cognitive improvement and reversal of pseudoatrophic brain changes following VPA discontinuation strongly suggest a drug-induced condition. Based on this and previous reports, the syndrome of VPA-associated mental deterioration and pseudoatrophy of the brain appears to encompass different but possibly related clinical entities, which include parkinsonism with cognitive deterioration, mental deterioration with signs of VPA-toxicity, and isolated mental deterioration, as seen in our patient. A drug-induced effect should be considered whenever cognitive deterioration and imaging findings of brain atrophy occur in VPA-treated patients.
Leukotrienes are important inflammatory mediators of bronchial asthma that cause bronchoconstriction, mucous secretion, and increased vascular permeability. Current guidelines recommend anti-leukotriene agents as alternative treatments for asthma; however, data on their anti-inflammatory effect is lacking.
The purpose of this study was to determine the anti-inflammatory effect of zafirlukast, a leukotriene antagonist, in patients with bronchial asthma. A total of 30 adult patients with mild persistent asthma received 6 weeks of zafirlukast treatment. Peak expiratory flow rate (PEFR) was determined before and after therapy to assess clinical efficacy. Both serum and sputum samples were collected before and after therapy and concentrations of eosinophil cationic protein (ECP), prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), and leukotriene E4 (LTE4) were measured.
A significant improvement in PEFR was found after zafirlukast therapy (p = 0.017). There was also a significant reduction in serum ECP concentration (13.6 +/- 2.4 micrograms/L vs 10.3 +/- 2.1 micrograms/L, p < 0.025) and a significant increase in sputum PGE2 concentration (112.7 +/- 14.0 pg/mL vs 176.8 +/- 32.1 pg/mL, p < 0.01). The percentage eosinophil count and the concentrations of ECP and LTE4 in the sputum were not significantly different after therapy.
This study found a significant reduction in serum ECP and a significant increase in sputum PGE2 concentrations in asthmatic patients after zafirlukast treatment, both of which were significantly associated with improvement in PEFR. The modulation of PGE2 and ECP production might occur through the anti-inflammatory effect of zafirlukast.
Oral budesonide in adult studies is a potent corticosteroid with decreased systemic bioavailability and an improved adverse effect profile in comparison with prednisone. It has recently been introduced for the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease in Europe, Canada, and Israel. Benign intracranial hypertension has rarely been associated with corticosteroid therapy but has not been reported in association with budesonide therapy. Three adolescents with Crohn's disease and poor nutritional status developed benign intracranial hypertension while receiving oral budesonide. All three patients had previously received multiple courses of prednisone during the course of their disease, without developing intracranial hypertension. Benign intracranial hypertension resolved after medication withdrawal and did not recur with subsequent use of prednisone. Evaluation for benign intracranial hypertension should be considered in patients with inflammatory bowel disease who develop headache while receiving oral budesonide. This side effect may be associated with poor nutritional status.
