Fish constitute an excellent model to understand the mechanistic aspects of metal toxicity vis-à-vis oxidative stress in aquatic ecosystems. Hexavalent chromium (Cr (VI)), due to its redox potential can induce oxidative stress (OS) in fish and impair their health. In the present investigation, we hypothesize that OS plays a key role in chromium induced toxicity in goldfish; leading to the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) such as O(.)(2), H(2)O(2), OH(.), and subsequent modulation of the activities of antioxidant enzymes such as catalase (CAT), superoxide dismutase (SOD), metallothioneins (MT), glutathione proxidase (GPx), genotoxicity and histopathology. To test this hypothesis, antioxidant enzymes, DNA damage and histopathology assays were performed in liver and kidney tissues of goldfish exposed to different concentrations of Cr (VI) (LC(12.5), LC(25) and LC(50)) following 96h static renewal bioassay. The results of this study clearly show that the fish experienced OS as characterized by significant modulation of enzyme activities, induction of DNA damage and microscopic morphological changes in the liver and kidney. In both tissues, CAT activity was decreased whereas SOD activity and hydroperoxide levels were increased. In addition, GPx activity also increased significantly in higher test concentrations, especially in the kidney. MT induction and DNA damage were observed in both tissues in a concentration dependent manner. Microscopic examination of organ morphology indicated degeneration of liver tissue and necrosis of central vein. Necrosis of kidney tubular epithelial cells and tubules was observed at higher Cr (VI) concentrations. Taking together the findings of this study are helpful in organ-specific risk assessment of Cr (VI)-induced oxidative stress, genotoxicity and histopathology in fish.
Isotretinoin ingestion during the first trimester of human pregnancy can induce malformations of the skull, ears, face, central nervous system, eyes, palate, lungs, circulatory system, limbs, and digits. A single oral dose of isotretinoin on day 8 of gestation in hamsters induces a similar syndrome of congenital malformation. The present study concerned scanning electron microscopic (SEM) observation of embryonic and fetal hamster craniofacial structures at 4, 8, 12, 24, 48, and 72 hr after administration of an oral dose of 50 mg/kg isotretinoin or an equivalent volume of the vehicle. The variability in development among control embryos recovered 4 hr after treatment precluded objective assessment of pathologic change by SEM at very early time points. Craniofacial damage was obvious within 8-12 hr of isotretinoin treatment, and it included hypoplasia of the maxillary and mandibular processes of the first branchial arch, a rudimentary second arch, and apparent collapse of the forebrain. Equivalent fusion between the lateral nasal process and the maxillary process and between the medial nasal process and the maxillary process in treated and control embryos accounts for the very low incidence of cleft lip observed in fetuses. The terminal microstomia was not associated with excessive merging or overgrowth of the first arch components. Hypoplasia of the first arch can account for retinoid-induced macrostomia and microstomia.
We studied the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics [red blood cell (RBC) cholinesterase (ChE) inhibition] of metrifonate (MTF) and its active anti-ChE metabolite, dichlorvos (DDVP) in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and normal controls after oral MTF. In Study I conducted for 6 h, 3 patients with prior MTF exposure received oral MTF (7.5 mg/kg). Plasma ChE inhibition peaked to 78.5 +/- 12.3% at 15 min, while maximum RBC ChE inhibition seen at 1 h was 61.0 +/- 11.0%. Plasma ChE inhibition was unchanged at 6 h, whereas RBC ChE recovered with a t1/2 of 7.0 +/- 3.5 h. In Study II, 6 patients and 6 controls with no prior MTF exposure were given oral MTF. Mean plasma t1/2 of MTF was 2.3 +/- 0.3 h with ChE recovery t1/2 of 9.0 +/- 3.3 (plasma) and 26.6 +/- 15.2 days (RBC) after 7.5 mg/kg MTF. The short drug t1/2, long ChE recovery t1/2 and the achievement of high ChE inhibition levels with minimal side effects suggest the potential use of this drug for Alzheimer therapy.
The potency of felbamate, an anti-convulsive drug, to influence dopamine D1 (SCH 23390) and D2 (haloperidol) receptor-mediated catalepsy (akinesia and bradykinesia) was studied in rats. In the catalepsy test, felbamate antagonized dopamine D2 receptor- but not D1 receptor-induced akinesia. Bradykinesia in the open field was never influenced. The results demonstrate that felbamate has similar anti-parkinsonian potential as glycine site antagonists blocking the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor complex.
Vinorelbine as single-agent has achieved an overall response rate of > 20% as second-line treatment and 40%-50% as first-line treatment. The aim of this study was to evaluate the activity and toxicity of the combination of vinorelbine and thiotepa as second-line treatment in patients with metastatic breast cancer.
Thirty-three patients (31: anthracycline-based chemotherapy, 16: high-dose epirubicin) were given vinorelbine 30 mg/m2 and thiotepa 12 mg/m2 d 1 and 8 every 21 days.
Among the 32 evaluable patients two complete responses and seven partial responses were observed, for an overall response rate of 28% (C.I. 12-44). The median duration of response was 9 months and the median time to progression 6 months. Significant toxicity was primarily leukopenia (72%); anemia was also frequent (48%) as well as local phlebitis (39%).
The present study has shown this combination to be active as second-line treatment, and its toxic effects have been well tolerated. It should be considered a reasonable option for patients with metastatic disease who have already been treated with anthracyclines.
We evaluated the prevalence of valvular regurgitation in patients who have taken anorectic medications. Two-dimensional echocardiograms with color flow Doppler were recorded in 200 consecutive patients referred to a major metropolitan hospital for evaluation of cardiac function because of a history of anorectic medication use. Each patient filled out a questionnaire at the time of the visit or through telephone contact. Each echocardiogram was reviewed by 2 observers. The degree of valvular regurgitation was graded by a consensus of both observers. Significant valvular regurgitation was defined as at least moderate mitral regurgitation (MR) or at least mild aortic regurgitation (AR), as recommended by the Food and Drug Administration and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. For all patients having taken anorectic drugs, there was a 5% prevalence of at least moderate MR, a 12% prevalence of at least mild AR, and a 16% prevalence of significant MR and/or AR. Patients with significant AR and/or MR were older than those without significant valvular regurgitation (49+/-12 vs 44+/-11 years, p = 0.03). Patients with significant MR and/or AR had a longer exposure duration (8 vs 6 months, p = 0.049) to anorectic drugs. There was no difference in weight loss between those with and without significant regurgitation (p = NS). The 2 largest subgroups were patients who took the fenfluramine-phentermine combination (n = 127) and those who took dexfenfluramine alone (n = 42). The prevalence of significant MR and AR was 5% and 9% for the fenfluramine-phentermine group and 0% and 14% for the dexfenfluramine group, respectively. There was also a high subthreshold level of MR and AR in these patients.
To elucidate the microvascular mechanisms of change in tumor blood flow due to vasopressors (angiotensin II, epinephrine, methoxamine), we analyzed the site of vascular resistance (VR) increased by each vasopressor. Arteriolar vessels within a transparent rat chamber were classified centripetally (a2-a5) according to Strahler's nomenclature. Vessels that feed into the tumor microcirculation were a2 modified by the tumor (starting vessels). Under angiotensin II (A II)-induced hypertension, the pressure of all arteriolar vessels increased roughly in proportion to the increase in mean arterial blood pressure. The greatest pressure drop and hence the most resistance due to A II occurred across the a2. During epinephrine-induced hypertension, there were major pressure drops between a4 and a3, and between a3 and a2. The amount of contraction of arteriolar vessels due to methoxamine was much smaller than that due to epinephrine, and the pressure increase in a4 and a3 was also small. From the facts described above, we may conclude as follows: A II creates greater vascular resistance of a2 vessels to blood flow and also greater perfusion pressure of a5-a3 vessels, resulting in increased blood inflow into a starting vessel which then becomes a passive vessel. Epinephrine causes an increase in the resistance of a3, a4 and probably upstream from a4 arterioles to blood flow. Thus, tissue blood flow in subcutis and tumor almost always decreases together. The fact that tissue blood flow in normal subcutis and tumor did not change significantly under methoxamine-induced hypertension is probably due to the results that methoxamine had little effects on the vascular resistance of smaller arterioles to blood flow.
We evaluated the effect of prone position on ICG excretion during normotensive and hypotensive isoflurane anesthesia. In supine position, either normotensive or hypotensive anesthesia produced no significant prolongation in ICG excretion. In prone position, however, both normotensive and hypotensive anesthesia caused a significant prolongation in the excretion. The results suggest that prone position decreases the hepatic blood flow or hepatic function during isoflurane anesthesia.
Neurotoxicity of methotrexate is a well-documented issue, but development of an intracerebral hematoma following administration of intrathecal methotrexate is an extremely rare entity. A 6-year-old male with the diagnosis of non-Hodgkin lymphoma was put on a treatment regimen, including intrathecal methotrexate. Six days following the last intrathecal methotrexate administration, the patient developed a deteriorating state of consciousness. There was no history of trauma. Coagulation studies and platelet count were normal. Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain demonstrated a large left frontoparietal hematoma. Intracerebral hematoma may be a very rare, but serious, complication of intrathecal methotrexate administration.
Few metabolic or degenerative ataxias can be treated pharmacologically. However ataxia due to vitamin E deficiency can be treated effectively with vitamin E supplementation if it is diagnosed early. We describe two ataxic patients with vitamin E deficiency where this was the definite or probable cause of the ataxia. Both polyneuropathy and cerebellar dysfunction were found. The deficiency was due to intestinal resection in one case, whereas the exact mechanism was unknown in the other case. In one of the patients there was a clear improvement of the ataxia after vitamin E supplementation, but this had to be taken for about six to 12 months. In the other patient the symptom progression was halted, but only slight improvement was observed. This patient therefore underwent leftsided stereotaxic thalamotomy, which markedly alleviated his rightsided ataxic symptoms. We stress the importance of testing for vitamin E (alpha-tocopherol) in all patients with ataxia where there is no other known cause.
Determine whether severe injury results in decreased plasma antithrombin (AT) activity and whether this decreased AT activity is associated with thromboembolic complications.
Prospective observational.
A total of 157 critically injured trauma patients.
Each patient underwent laboratory analysis on arrival to the emergency room at hours 8, 16, 24, and 48, and days 3, 4, 5, and 6. Laboratory analyses included AT, tissue factor pathway inhibitor, protein C, prothrombin fragment 1.2, thrombin-antithrombin complex, and D-dimer. Patients were followed for thromboembolic complications including: deep venous thrombosis (DVT), pulmonary embolus, disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) and adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS).
Mean Injury Severity Score was 23 (+/-11). AT activity fell below normal in 95 (61%) patients; AT activity rose to greater than normal in 51 (32%) patients. Nine (6%) patients developed DVT, two (1%) pulmonary embolus, 13 (8%) DIC and 26 (17%) ARDS. Using logistic regression analysis, low AT levels were a significant predictor of DVT, DIC, and ARDS (p < 0.05). Supranormal At levels were associated with closed head injury (p < 0.05). D-dimer levels were inversely correlated with AT (p < 0.05).
AT activity was depressed in critically injured patients. Patients with head injury developed supranormal AT activity. The risk factors for AT deficiency mimicked those for thromboembolism. Patients with decreased AT activity were at increased risk for thromboembolic complications. Given heparin's dependence on AT, these data call into question the use of unmonitored heparin thromboembolism prophylaxis.
A human choriocarcinoma was successfully adapted to grow in the brain of monkeys (Macaca mulatta), thus providing a model of tumor-induced brain edema. Four animals were given dexamethasone (3 mg/kg/day) during 3 to 5 days after the onset of clinical signs, and the other five received no treatment for the same period. Tissue water and electrolyte content of treated and untreated animals were compared in cortex and white matter at various distances from the edge of the tumor. In untreated animals, 67.9% and 23.6% swelling was detected in adjacent and remote white matter, respectively, but only 11.8% swelling was noted in adjacent cortex. In animals treated with dexamethasone these percentages of swelling were improved to 32.4% and 11.9% in the corresponding white matter, and to 4.9% in adjacent cortex. The electrolyte changes shown in edematous brain of control animals also demonstrated significant improvement in the dexamethasone-treated group. Tissue radioactivity of 3H-dexamethasone at 60 minutes after intravenous injection was high in the periphery of tumor, adjacent cortex, and white matter, but low in the center of tumor, remote cortex, and white matter. The sites with high concentrations of dexamethasone also showed significant improvement of brain edema after dexamethasone treatment, suggesting that dexamethasone may act directly at these loci.
A 52-year-old woman was admitted to the hospital because of polyarthralgia and dry coughing. A chest X-ray film showed bilateral diffuse reticulo-nodular shadows. A specimen obtained by transbronchial lung biopsy revealed alveolar septal thickening and infiltration by mononuclear cells. Interstitial pneumonia associated with rheumatoid arthritis was diagnosed. Interstitial pneumonia relapsed soon after the first pulse of corticosteroid therapy. Cyclophosphamide pulse therapy was given in addition to a second pulse of corticosteroid therapy; 700 mg of cyclophosphamide (500 mg/m2) was administered intravenously every month and the dose of steroids was gradually reduced. Cyclophosphamide pulse therapy was repeated three times and the dose of oral corticosteroids was reduced from 60 mg to 35 mg. There was no bone marrow suppression or hemorrhagic cystitis after the cyclophosphamide pulses. Eventually, corticosteroid therapy was stopped with no clinical deterioration. This case suggests that intermittent cyclophosphamide pulse therapy can be effective for treatment of interstitial pneumonia unresponsive to corticosteroids.
Aging can be viewed as a quasi-programmed phenomenon driven by the overactivation of the nutrient-sensing mTOR gerogene. mTOR-driven aging can be triggered or accelerated by a decline or loss of responsiveness to activation of the energy-sensing protein AMPK, a critical gerosuppressor of mTOR. The occurrence of age-related diseases, therefore, reflects the synergistic interaction between our evolutionary path to sedentarism, which chronically increases a number of mTOR activating gero-promoters (e.g., food, growth factors, cytokines and insulin) and the "defective design" of central metabolic integrators such as mTOR and AMPK. Our laboratories at the Bioactive Food Component Platform in Spain have initiated a systematic approach to molecularly elucidate and clinically explore whether the "xenohormesis hypothesis," which states that stress-induced synthesis of plant polyphenols and many other phytochemicals provides an environmental chemical signature that upregulates stress-resistance pathways in plant consumers, can be explained in terms of the reactivity of the AMPK/mTOR-axis to so-called xenohormetins. Here, we explore the AMPK/mTOR-xenohormetic nature of complex polyphenols naturally present in extra virgin olive oil (EVOO), a pivotal component of the Mediterranean style diet that has been repeatedly associated with a reduction in age-related morbid conditions and longer life expectancy. Using crude EVOO phenolic extracts highly enriched in the secoiridoids oleuropein aglycon and decarboxymethyl oleuropein aglycon, we show for the first time that (1) the anticancer activity of EVOO secoiridoids is related to the activation of anti-aging/cellular stress-like gene signatures, including endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and the unfolded protein response, spermidine and polyamine metabolism, sirtuin-1 (SIRT1) and NRF2 signaling; (2) EVOO secoiridoids activate AMPK and suppress crucial genes involved in the Warburg effect and the self-renewal capacity of "immortal" cancer stem cells; (3) EVOO secoiridoids prevent age-related changes in the cell size, morphological heterogeneity, arrayed cell arrangement and senescence-associated β-galactosidase staining of normal diploid human fibroblasts at the end of their proliferative lifespans. EVOO secoiridoids, which provide an effective defense against plant attack by herbivores and pathogens, are bona fide xenohormetins that are able to activate the gerosuppressor AMPK and trigger numerous resveratrol-like anti-aging transcriptomic signatures. As such, EVOO secoiridoids constitute a new family of plant-produced gerosuppressant agents that molecularly "repair" the aimless (and harmful) AMPK/mTOR-driven quasi-program that leads to aging and aging-related diseases, including cancer.
C3H/He and B6C3F1 show much higher liver cancer susceptibility than C57BL/6J mice. We studied the hypothesis that this difference might result from failure of apoptosis. Hepatocarcinogenesis was induced by a single dose of N-nitrosodiethylamine (NDEA), followed by phenobarbital (PB) for up to 90 weeks. We observed (1) earlier appearance of putative preneoplastic foci (PPF), hepatocellular adenoma (HCA), and carcinoma (HCC) in C3H/He than in C57Bl/6J mice and (2) an increase of hepatocellular DNA synthesis in C3H/He and C57Bl/6J mice, compared to normal liver, via PPF and HCA to HCC. PB enhanced DNA synthesis and growth of PPF, in the C3H/He strain only, and of HCA and HCC of both strains. Apoptoses were rare in unaltered livers as well as in preneoplastic lesions, but tended to increase in HCA and HCC of both strains. PB lowered apoptotic activity in PPF of C3H/He mice, but enhanced it in HCA and HCC of C57Bl/6J mice at late stages. In conclusion, the strain difference in growth rates of PPF and tumors is largely determined by higher rates of cell proliferation in C3H/He mice, with and without promotion by PB. Moreover, in C57Bl/6J mice the promoting effect of PB was restricted to HCA and HCC and was not seen in PPF. Apoptosis was generally low and was not a major cause of the strain difference in tumor susceptibility. In contrast with rat liver, inhibition of apoptosis appears to be a minor determinant of tumor promotion in mice.
We have studied the effect of induced hypotension on reduction in regional cerebral blood flow (CBF) during middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). Rats were anaesthetized with 2% isoflurane. MCAO was performed during four conditions: normotension (mean arterial pressure (MAP) 107 (SD 15) mm Hg); hypovolaemic hypotension (blood withdrawn to reduce MAP to 43 (2) mm Hg); nitroprusside (SNP) hypotension (MAP reduced to 45 (3) mm Hg); isoflurane hypotension (MAP reduced to 44 (3) mm Hg with 3.5 (0.48)% isoflurane). Hypotension was established before MCAO and was maintained for 10 min, at which time the dimension of the brain areas with zero CBF was determined autoradiographically. All hypotensive regimens were associated with significantly larger areas of extreme CBF reduction. In a coronal section at the centre of the MCA distribution, the area with zero CBF (expressed as a percentage of the area of the entire coronal section) was: normotension 4.7 (4.5)%; hypovolaemic hypotension 10.1 (2.8)%; nitroprusside hypotension 13.5 (2.0)%; and isoflurane hypotension 11.8 (3.9)%. There were no differences between the three hypotensive regimens. The data indicate that, when focal cerebral ischaemia occurs during hypotension (MAP 45 mm Hg) induced by any of the three regimens evaluated, extreme CBF reduction occurs over larger areas than are observed during normotension. These data confirm the importance of arterial pressure as a determinant of collateral flow during focal cerebral ischaemia.
Resveratrol, a natural polyphenolic phytochemical, has been reported to act as an antioxidant and provide anticancer activities. We hypothesized that resveratrol would exert a chemopreventive effect against prostate cancer via regulation of sex steroid receptor and growth factor signaling pathways. In the current study, Transgenic Adenocarcinoma Mouse Prostate males were fed resveratrol (625 mg resveratrol per kg AIN-76A diet) or phytoestrogen-free, control diet (AIN-76A) starting at 5 weeks of age. Mechanisms of action and histopathology studies were conducted at 12 and 28 weeks of age, respectively. Resveratrol in the diet significantly reduced the incidence of poorly differentiated prostatic adenocarcinoma by 7.7-fold. In the dorsolateral prostate, resveratrol significantly inhibited cell proliferation, increased androgen receptor, estrogen receptor-beta, and insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor, and significantly decreased insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1 and phospho-extracellular regulating kinase 1 (phospho-ERK 1). In the ventral prostate, resveratrol significantly reduced cell proliferation and phospho-ERKs 1 and 2, but did not significantly alter insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor and IGF-1. Serum total testosterone, free testosterone, estradiol, dihydrotestosterone and sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) concentrations and Simian Virus-40 large T antigen expression in the prostate were not altered in resveratrol-treated mice. Total resveratrol concentration in the blood serum of 12-week-old mice treated for 3 weeks with 625 mg resveratrol per kg diet was 52 +/- 18 nM. The decrease in cell proliferation and the potent growth factor, IGF-1, the down-regulation of downstream effectors, phospho-ERKs 1 and 2 and the increase in the putative tumor suppressor, estrogen receptor-beta, provide a biochemical basis for resveratrol suppressing prostate cancer development.
Chlorinated solvents, especially trichloroethylene, have been extensively used for metal degreasing since the beginning of this century. There have been case reports of cranial nerve damage and symptoms of acute and reversible encephalopathy. However, another issue during the last decade is the possible existence of a syndrome of chronic cerebral dysfunction. Our study deals with the risk of developing a state of psychoorganic syndrome after long-term exposure to solvents, mainly trichloroethylene. In this historical cohort study, 96 metal degreasers participated in a clinical medical and psychological examination. The risk of developing psychoorganic syndrome was proportional to the exposure duration, to increasing age, and to decreasing primary intellectual level. Using logistic regression analysis, there was a significantly increased risk of developing psychoorganic syndrome from solvent exposure. There was an odds ratio of 5.6 (0.93-34.3) for psychoorganic syndrome in the medium-exposed group. In the most highly exposed group, with a mean full-time exposure duration of 11 years, there was a significantly increased risk of psychoorganic syndrome, the adjusted odds ratio was 11.2 (1.9-66.6). None of four other potential confounders (arteriosclerotic disease, neurologic/psychiatric disease, alcohol abuse, and current solvent exposure) had any significant associations to psychoorganic syndrome.
Aortic medial calcification is a cellular-regulated process leading to arterial stiffness. Although epidemiological studies have suggested an association between the saturation of fatty acids (FA) and arterial stiffness, there is no evidence that saturated FA can induce arterial calcification. This study investigated the capacity of palmitic acid (PA) to induce medial calcification and the signaling pathway(s) implicated in this process.
Rat aortic segments and vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC) were exposed to calcification medium supplemented with PA. In vivo, rats were treated with warfarin to induce calcification and fed a PA-enriched diet.
In vitro and ex vivo, palmitate increases calcification and ROS production. Palmitate increases extracellular-signal-regulated kinase (ERK1/2) phosphorylation and osteogenic gene expression. Inhibition of NADPH oxidase with apocynin or an siRNA prevents these effects. ERK1/2 inhibition attenuates the amplification of osteogenic gene expression and calcification induced by palmitate. In vivo, a PA-enriched diet amplified medial calcification and pulse wave velocity (PWV). These effects are mediated by ROS production as indicated by the inhibition of calcification and PWV normalization in rats concomitantly treated with apocynin.
ROS induction by palmitate leads to ERK1/2 phosphorylation and subsequently induces the osteogenic differentiation of VSMC. © 2013 S. Karger AG, Basel.
Many autistic children have associated problems of inattention, impulsivity, and hyperactivity that limit the effectiveness of educational and behavioral interventions. Few controlled psychopharmacologic trials have been conducted in autistic children to determine which agents may be effective for these associated features. Eight male children (8.1 +/- 2.8 years) with autistic disorder, diagnosed by DSM-III-R criteria, completed a placebo-controlled, double-blind crossover trial of clonidine. Subjects were included in the study if they had inattention, impulsivity, and hyperactivity that was excessive for their developmental level. Subjects had not tolerated or responded to other psychopharmacologic treatments (neuroleptics, methylphenidate, or desipramine). Teacher ratings on the Aberrant Behavior Checklist irritability, stereotypy, hyperactivity, and inappropriate speech factors were lower during treatment with clonidine than during treatment with placebo. Attention deficit disorder with hyperactivity: Comprehensive Teacher's Rating Scale ratings were not significantly improved during the study, except for oppositional behavior. Parent Conners Abbreviated Parent-Teacher Questionnaire ratings significantly improved during clonidine treatment. Clonidine led to increased ratings of the side effects of drowsiness and decreased activity. Clinician ratings (Children's Psychiatric Rating Scale Autism, Hyperactivity, Anger and Speech Deviance factors; Children's Global Assessment Scale; Clinical Global Impressions efficacy) of videotaped sessions were not significantly different between clonidine and placebo. Clonidine was modestly effective in the short-term treatment of irritability and hyperactivity in some children with autistic disorder.
We evaluated the cardiovascular effects of YM430, a novel 1,4-dihydropyridine derivative with beta-adrenoceptor blocking activity, in dogs and rats. In anesthetized dogs, YM430 (0.01-0.3 mg/kg, i.v.) dose-dependently decreased mean blood pressure, total peripheral resistance and double product without increasing the heart rate. YM430 (0.01-0.3 mg/kg, i.v.) increased coronary artery as well as vertebral artery blood flow, whereas its effects on carotid, mesenteric, femoral and renal blood flow were small. At the same dose range as that which induced vasodilation effects, YM430 had little effect on the max. dp/dt or PQ-interval. In conscious dogs, YM430 (0.1-1 mg/kg, i.v.) produced dose-dependent hypotension with tachycardia. In conscious rats, oral dosing of YM430 (100 mg/kg p.o.) produced a long-lasting hypotensive effect with slight tachycardia. YM430 also inhibited isoproterenol (0.1 micrograms/kg i.v.)-induced tachycardia. These two effects of YM430 may be attributable to its calcium entry blocking and beta(1)-adrenoceptor blocking activity, respectively. The time course of the hypotensive (calcium entry blocking) effect of YM430 after oral dosing was very similar to that of its inhibition of isoproterenol-induced tachycardia (beta(1)-adrenoceptor blocking effect). These results indicate that the ratio of the two activities (calcium entry blocking and beta(1)-adrenoceptor blocking) of YM430 is constant after oral administration. In conclusion, YM430 could be both an antianginal and antihypertensive agent, because of its dual activities.
We have evaluated the toxicity of four glyphosate (G)-based herbicides in Roundup formulations, from 10(5) times dilutions, on three different human cell types. This dilution level is far below agricultural recommendations and corresponds to low levels of residues in food or feed. The formulations have been compared to G alone and with its main metabolite AMPA or with one known adjuvant of R formulations, POEA. HUVEC primary neonate umbilical cord vein cells have been tested with 293 embryonic kidney and JEG3 placental cell lines. All R formulations cause total cell death within 24 h, through an inhibition of the mitochondrial succinate dehydrogenase activity, and necrosis, by release of cytosolic adenylate kinase measuring membrane damage. They also induce apoptosis via activation of enzymatic caspases 3/7 activity. This is confirmed by characteristic DNA fragmentation, nuclear shrinkage (pyknosis), and nuclear fragmentation (karyorrhexis), which is demonstrated by DAPI in apoptotic round cells. G provokes only apoptosis, and HUVEC are 100 times more sensitive overall at this level. The deleterious effects are not proportional to G concentrations but rather depend on the nature of the adjuvants. AMPA and POEA separately and synergistically damage cell membranes like R but at different concentrations. Their mixtures are generally even more harmful with G. In conclusion, the R adjuvants like POEA change human cell permeability and amplify toxicity induced already by G, through apoptosis and necrosis. The real threshold of G toxicity must take into account the presence of adjuvants but also G metabolism and time-amplified effects or bioaccumulation. This should be discussed when analyzing the in vivo toxic actions of R. This work clearly confirms that the adjuvants in Roundup formulations are not inert. Moreover, the proprietary mixtures available on the market could cause cell damage and even death around residual levels to be expected, especially in food and feed derived from R formulation-treated crops.
Cyanocobalamin (vitamin B12) deficiency can cause polyneuropathy, myelopathy, blindness, confusion, psychosis and dementia. Nonetheless, its deficiency as the sole cause of dementia is infrequent. We report a 59 years old man with a 6 months history of progressive loss of memory, disorientation, apathy, paranoid delusions, gait difficulties with falls, and urinary incontinence. He had suffered a similar episode 3 years before, with a complete remission. On examination there was frontal type dementia with Korsakoff syndrome, a decrease in propioception and ataxic gait. Cerebrospinal fluid examination showed a protein of 0.42 g/L. Brain computed tomography showed sequelae of a frontal left trauma. Brain single photon computed tomography (SPECT) was normal. Complete blood count showed a macrocytic anemia with a hematocrit 29% and a mean corpuscular volume of 117 micron3. Plasma vitamin B12 levels were undetectable, erythrocyte folate levels were 3.9 ng/ml and plasma folate was normal. The myelogram showed megaloblastosis and the gastric biopsy showed atrophic gastritis. Treatment with parenteral B12 vitamin and folic acid reverted the symptoms, with normalization of the neuropsychological tests and reintegration to work.
