Diabetic nephropathy is a serious microvascular complication and one of the main causes of end-stage renal disease. Various studies have revealed that increased oxidative stress is a major pathophysiological mechanism which is involved in the etiology of diabetic nephropathy. Resveratrol, a polyphenolic phytoalexin present in red wine, is known to possess potent antioxidant properties and thus we aimed to examine its effect on renal function and oxidative stress in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats. Diabetes was induced by a single intraperitoneal injection of STZ (65 mg/kg) in rats. After 4 weeks of STZ injection, rats were divided into four groups: the control rats, diabetic rats and diabetic rats treated with resveratrol (5 and 10 mg/kg, orally) respectively from week 4 up till week 6. At the termination of the experiments, urine albumin excretion, urine output, serum creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, creatinine and urea clearance were measured. The levels of the renal oxidative stress markers malonaldehyde and glutathione and the antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase and catalase were measured in kidney homogenate. STZ-injected rats showed significant increases in blood glucose, polyuria, proteinuria and a decrease in body weight compared with age-matched control rats. After 6 weeks, diabetic rats exhibited renal dysfunction, as evidenced by reduced creatinine and urea clearance, and proteinuria along with a marked increase in oxidative stress, as determined by lipid peroxidation and activities of key antioxidant enzymes. Treatment with resveratrol significantly attenuated renal dysfunction and oxidative stress in diabetic rats. The present study reinforces the important role of oxidative stress in diabetic kidney and points towards the possible antioxidative mechanism being responsible for the renoprotective action of resveratrol.
The medicinal plants can be used in the prevention or treatment of many diseases. Several studies concerning the potential of bioactive components in plants and food products and their link to obesity and related metabolic disorders, have been gaining big interest. Diabetes is a serious metabolic syndrome. Searching for alternative natural bioactive molecules is considered main strategy to manage diabetes through weight management. In the present study, an edible halophyte Nitraria retusa was selected and in vivo experiment was conducted using db/db model mice. We orally administrated its ethanol extract (NRE) to BKS.Cg-Dock7(m)+/+ Lepr(db/)J mice model for a period of 4 weeks. The effect was evaluated on the body weight and adiposity changes and on the biochemical parameters of db/db NRE-treated mice. The molecular mechanism underlying the anti-obesity effect was investigated by testing the gene expression related to hepatic lipid metabolism. NRE was found to significantly supress increases in body and fat mass weight, decreases triglycerides and LDL-cholesterol levels and enhances gene expression related to lipid homeostasis in liver showing anti-obesity actions. Our findings, indicate that NRE possesses potential anti-obesity effects in BKS.Cg-Dock7(m)+/+ Lepr(db/)J model mice and may relieve obesity-related symptoms including hyperlipidemia through modulating the lipolysis-lipogenesis balance.
1. The effects of chronic lithium pretreatment (600 mg/l in drinking rats, 30 days) on penile erection (PE) induced by apomorphine were investigated in rats. This treatment resulted in a serum Li concentration after 30 days of 0.31 +/- 0.01 mmol/l. 2. Subcutaneous (s.c.) administration of mixed D1/D2 dopamine receptor agonist apomorphine (0.05-0.5 mg/kg) induced PE in a biphasic manner. The maximum effect was obtained with 0.1 mg/kg of the drug while the response decreased with increasing doses of apomorphine from 0.1 to 0.5 mg/kg. 3. Pretreatment of animals with 0.0125-0.1 mg/kg of D1 dopamine receptor antagonist SCH 23390 or D2 dopamine receptor antagonist sulpiride (12.5-100 mg/kg) decreased apomorphine-induced PE. Combination of SCH 23390 (0.025 mg/ kg) with sulpiride (12.5 mg/kg) caused a stronger inhibitory effect on apomorphine response. This indicates that both D1 and D2 dopamine receptors may be involved in PE induced by apomorphine. 4. The response induced by apomorphine (0.05-0.05 mg/kg) was decreased in animals pretreated with chronic lithium. The inhibitory effect of sulpiride on apomorphine response, increased in animals pretreated with lithium, in contrast the inhibitory effect of SCH 23390 did not change in this condition. However, a combination of SCH 23390 with sulpiride increased inhibitory effect on apomorphine response in lithium pretreated rats. 5. It is concluded that chronic lithium inhibits PE induced by dopaminergic mechanism(s).
Cisplatin, a platinum coordinated complex, is a widely used antineoplastic agent for the treatment of metastatic tumors of the testis, metastatic ovarian tumors, lung cancer, advanced bladder cancer and many other solid tumors. The cytotoxic action of the drug is often thought to be associated with its ability to bind DNA to form cisplatin-DNA adducts. The development of resistance to cisplatin during treatment is common and constitutes a major obstacle to the cure of sensitive tumors. Although to understand the clinically relevant mechanisms of resistance, many studies have been aimed at clarifying the biochemical/molecular alterations of cisplatin-resistance cells, these studies did not conclusively identify the basis of cellular resistance to cisplatin. In this review, cisplatin resistance was discussed in terms of the relevant transporters, such as copper transporters (CTRs), organic cation transporters (OCTs) and multi-drug resistance related transporters (MDRs). These transporters seem to be contributed to cisplatin resistance through the reduction of drug accumulation in the cell. Better understanding the mechanism of cisplatin resistance associated with transporters will provide the useful informations for overcoming the cisplatin resistance.
Various drugs, including amantadine, have been reported in the successful treatment of antidepressant-induced sexual dysfunction. Only a regular daily dosing schedule of amantadine has been used for the treatment of sexual dysfunction so far. This case demonstrates that an intermittent dose of amantadine at 100 mg five to six hours prior to coitus could be useful in the treatment of fluoxetine-induced anorgasmia.
Eighty cocaine-dependent individuals enrolled in outpatient treatment took part in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of ritanserin, a 5-HT(2) antagonist, as an adjunct therapy. Participants attended an outpatient day hospital therapy program each day and received tablets containing placebo or 10 mg ritanserin for a 4-week period. Primary outcome measures included retention in treatment, urine drug tests, and self-reports of craving. Secondary outcome measures were depression scores on the Beck and Hamilton inventories, negative mood as measured by the Profile of Mood States, and life functioning as measured by the Addiction Severity Index. Although participants showed improvement over the 4 weeks, there were no group differences on any of the measures. These results fail to support the use of ritanserin as a complement to outpatient psychosocial therapy for cocaine dependence.
In two studies of hypertensive patients the relationship between beta-blocker-induced CNS side-effects and the nightly urinary secretion of melatonin was analysed. In one group (n = 10) placebo, atenolol (mean dose 86 mg/day) or propranolol (mean dose 305 mg/day) were given in a double-blind, randomised design. In the other (n = 13) 100-400 mg metoprolol was given daily (mean dose 197 mg). After 4 weeks of treatment all beta-blockers reduced melatonin excretion, but the effect was significant only for metoprolol. Sleep disturbance records revealed more disturbed nights in the metoprolol group compared with the propranolol and the atenolol groups, even when the difference in age between the groups was controlled for. In the metoprolol group a significant relationship (p less than 0.05) was found between the fall in melatonin and the percentage of disturbed nights. Severe CNS side-effects, such as nightmares, occurred only in patients treated with metoprolol (21%), which in all cases were accompanied by low levels of melatonin. Our data suggest that the CNS side-effects during beta-blockade are related to a reduction of melatonin levels.
Blood plasma renin activity was studied by the radioimmune method in clino- and orthostatism in 36 males with hypertensive disease and in 15 healthy males before and after 3-day medication with furosemide in a daily dose of 120 mg under in-patient conditions. Renin activity proved to be higher in double stimulation (in orthostatism after furosemide intake) than in orthostatism before the intake of the drug. Diversity was revealed between patients with different stages of hypertensive disease. Stage IB of the disease was characterized by increased renin activity in orthostatism and marked reaction to stimulation with furosemide. In stage IIB, on the contrary, renin activity was low and the reaction to stimulation with furosemide weak. Hypotensive effect after intake of furosemide was observed in patients with IIB stage of hypertensive disease.
Copper levels are elevated in a variety of liver fibrosis conditions. Lowering copper to a certain level protects against fibrosis. However, whether severe copper deficiency is protective against liver fibrosis is not known. The purpose of the present study is to evaluate this question by inducing severe copper deficiency using the copper chelator, tetrathiomolybdate (TM), in a bile duct ligation (BDL) rat model. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into four groups: sham, sham plus TM, BDL, and BDL plus TM. TM was given in a daily dose of 10 mg/kg by body weight by means of intragastric gavage, beginning 5 days after BDL. All animals were killed 2 weeks after surgery. Severe copper deficiency was induced by TM overdose in either sham or BDL rats, as shown by decreased plasma ceruloplasmin activity. Liver injury and fibrosis were exacerbated in BDL rats with TM treatment, as illustrated by robustly increased plasma aspartate aminotransferase and hepatic collagen accumulation. Iron stores, as measured by plasma ferritin, were significantly increased in copper-deficient BDL rats. Moreover, hepatic heme oxygenase-1 expression was markedly down-regulated by copper deficiency in BDL rats. In addition, hepatic gene expression involving mitochondrial biogenesis and β-oxidation was significantly up-regulated in BDL rats, and this increase was abolished by copper deficiency. In summary, severe copper deficiency exacerbates BDL-induced liver injury and liver fibrosis, probably caused by increased iron overload and decreased antioxidant defenses and mitochondrial dysfunction.
Botulinum neurotoxin formulations are safe and effective agents for the treatment of facial rhytides.
A patient is described who complained of metallic taste after each treatment with botulinum toxin A (BTX-A).
The sensation of metallic taste diminished after successive treatments with BTX-A, despite adequate dosing for cosmetic purposes.
Metallic taste is associated with the use of numerous medications; however, the pathogenesis remains unclear. Alteration in zinc metabolism, which may occur with BTX-A administration, has been suggested as a possible mechanism. Although this is the first known report of dysgeusia after BTX-A, physicians and patients may be reassured that the taste alteration was self-limited and was not significantly problematic for the patient in our case.
A 97-year-old woman was provoked a convulsion after taking a new quinolone antibiotic drug Levofloxacin and a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug Loxoprofen. At a later time, she was suffered from severe chest pain. An electrocardiogram showed ST segment elevation in leads II, III and aVF, and T-wave inversion in leads V1 to V4. Coronary angiography demonstrated no organic stenosis, however biventriculography revealed apical ballooning akinesis and basal hyperkinesis. Positron emission tomography was also performed to assess the uptake of 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) after 75 g oral glucose loading for evaluating myocardial glucose metabolism at 10th day. Severely reduced uptake of FDG was observed in the apical ballooning region. Left ventriculography showed normal wall motion at 19th day. Thallium-201 myocardial single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) to determine the status of myocardial perfusion at the 20th hospital day showed normal perfusion. Iodine-123-beta-methyl-p-iodophenyl penta-decanoic acid myocardial SPECT to evaluate myocardial fatty acid metabolism at the 23rd day revealed severely reduced uptake in the apical ballooning region. These findings suggested that the coronary microcirculation was impaired in the apical ballooning region.
Acamprosate (calcium acetylhomotaurinate) is a glutamatergic neuromodulator used for the treatment of alcoholism, but its potential efficacy in the treatment of psychostimulant addiction has not been explored.
The purpose of this study was to assess the effects of acamprosate on cocaine-stimulated locomotor activity, cocaine self-administration, and cue- and cocaine-induced reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior.
All experiments utilized once-daily treatment for 5 consecutive days. First, the effects of saline or acamprosate (100, 300, or 500 mg/kg intraperitoneally) on body weight were examined. On the last day of treatment, locomotor activity was assessed before and after drug treatment, after which all animals received an acute challenge of cocaine (10 mg/kg). Next, a separate group of rats were trained to intravenously (IV) self-administer cocaine (0.6 mg/kg per infusion), subjected to extinction procedures, and then tested for effects of acamprosate on cue- or cocaine-induced reinstatement. A third group of rats was trained to self-administer cocaine as described above and were treated with saline or acamprosate before daily IV self-administration sessions.
Repeated administration of 500 mg/kg acamprosate but not lower doses produced reductions in both body weight and spontaneous locomotor activity, and thus this dose was not tested further. Acamprosate at 300 mg/kg but not 100 mg/kg attenuated both cocaine- and cue-induced reinstatement without altering baseline patterns of cocaine self-administration or cocaine-stimulated hyperlocomotion.
Acamprosate attenuates both drug- and cue-induced reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior, suggesting that this compound may serve as a potential treatment for preventing relapse in cocaine-addicted humans.
In a proportion of adults with steroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome (SRNS), intravenous cyclophosphamide therapy fails. Tacrolimus may be a promising alternative to cyclophosphamide for such patients.
Prospective observational study.
19 adults with SRNS (6 with minimal change nephropathy, 8 with focal segmental glomerulosclerosis [FSGS], and 5 with mesangioproliferative glomerulonephritis) that did not respond to intravenous cyclophosphamide therapy were studied from January 2003 to September 2006. Oral tacrolimus was administered (target trough levels, 5 to 10 ng/mL) for 24 weeks, then reduced doses were given (target trough level, 3 to 6 ng/mL) for another 24 weeks.
Histopathologic types: minimal change nephropathy (n = 6), FSGS (n = 8), and mesangioproliferative glomerulonephritis (n = 5).
