The use of the chemotherapeutic drug cisplatin is limited in part by nephrotoxicity. Cisplatin causes renal DNA adducts and oxidative stress in rodents. The transcription factor Nrf2 (nuclear factor E2-related factor 2) induces expression of cytoprotective genes, including Nqo1 (NADPH:quinone oxidoreductase 1), Ho-1 (heme oxygenase-1), and Gclc (glutamate cysteine ligase catalytic subunit), in response to electrophilic and oxidative stress. In the present study, plasma and kidneys from wild-type and Nrf2-null mice were collected after receiving cisplatin for evaluation of renal injury, inflammation, mRNA, and protein expression. Compared with wild types, more extensive nephrotoxicity was observed in Nrf2-null mice after cisplatin treatment. Kidneys from Nrf2-null mice treated with cisplatin had more neutrophil infiltration accompanied by increased p65 nuclear factor κB binding and elevated inflammatory mediator mRNA levels. Cisplatin increased renal mRNA and protein expression of cytoprotective genes (Nqo1, Ho-1, Gclc) and transporters Mrp2 and Mrp4 in wild-type but not in Nrf2-null mice. Lastly, the Nrf2 activator, CDDO-Im [2-cyano-3,12-dioxooleana-1,9-dien-28-oic imidazolide], increased Nrf2 signaling in kidneys from wild-type mice and protected them from cisplatin toxicity. Collectively, these data indicate that the absence of Nrf2 exacerbates cisplatin renal damage and that pharmacological activation of Nrf2 may represent a novel therapy to prevent kidney injury. Coordinated regulation of detoxification enzymes and drug transporters and suppression of inflammation by Nrf2 during cisplatin nephrotoxicity are probable defense mechanisms to eliminate toxic mediators and promote proximal tubule recovery.
ACC-9653, the disodium phosphate ester of 3-hydroxymethyl-5,5-diphenylhydantoin, is a prodrug of phenytoin with advantageous physicochemical properties. ACC-9653 is rapidly converted enzymatically to phenytoin in vivo. ACC-9653 and phenytoin sodium have equivalent anticonvulsant activity against seizures induced by maximal electroshock (MES) in mice following i.p., oral, or i.v. administration. The ED50 doses were 16 mg/kg for i.v. ACC-9653 and 8 mg/kg for i.v. phenytoin sodium. ACC-9653 and phenytoin sodium have similar antiarrhythmic activity against ouabain-induced ventricular tachycardia in anesthetized dogs. The total doses of ACC-9653 or phenytoin sodium necessary to convert the arrhythmia to a normal sinus rhythm were 24 +/- 6 and 14 +/- 3 mg/kg, respectively. Only phenytoin sodium displayed in vitro antiarrhythmic activity against strophanthidin-induced arrhythmias in guinea pig right atria. In anesthetized dogs, a high dose of ACC-9653 (31 mg/kg) was infused over 15, 20, and 30 min and the responses were compared to an equimolar dose of phenytoin sodium (21 mg/kg). The ACC-9653 and phenytoin sodium treatments produced similar marked reductions in diastolic blood pressure and contractile force (LVdP/dt). The maximum effects of each treatment occurred at the time of maximum phenytoin sodium levels. Acute toxicity studies of ACC-9653 and phenytoin sodium were carried out in mice, rats, rabbits, and dogs by i.v., i.m., and i.p. routes of administration. The systemic toxic signs of both agents were similar and occurred at approximately equivalent doses. Importantly, the local irritation of ACC-9653 was markedly less than phenytoin sodium following i.m. administration.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Anatomical evidence indicates that cholinergic and opioidergic systems are co-localized and acting on the same neuron. However, the regulatory mechanisms between cholinergic and opioidergic system have not been well characterized. In the present study, the potential involvement of mu-opioid receptors in mediating the changes of toxic signs and muscarinic receptor binding after administration of irreversible anti-acetylcholinesterase diisopropylfluorophosphate (DFP) was investigated. DFP (1 mg/kg/day, subcutaneous injection, s.c.)-induced tremors and chewing movements were monitored during the 28-day treatment period in mu-opioid receptor knockout and wild type mice. Autoradiographic studies of total, M1, and M2 muscarinic receptors were conducted using [(3)H]-quinuclidinyl benzilate, [(3)H]-pirenzepine, and [(3)H]-AF-DX384 as ligands, respectively. DFP-induced tremors in both mu-opioid receptor knockout and wild type mice showed tolerance development. However, DFP-induced tremors in mu-opioid receptor knockout mice showed delayed tolerance development than that of DFP-treated wild type controls. DFP-induced chewing movements in both mu-opioid receptor knockout and wild type mice failed to show development of tolerance after four weeks of treatment. M2 muscarinic receptor binding of DFP-treated mu-opioid receptor knockout mice was significantly decreased than that of the DFP-treated wild type controls in the striatum, but not in the cortex and hippocampus. However, there were no significant differences in total and M1 muscarinic receptor binding between DFP-treated mu-opioid receptor knockout and wild type mice in the cortex, striatum and hippocampus. These studies indicate that mu-opioid receptors play an important role through the striatal M2 muscarinic receptors to regulate the development of tolerance to DFP-induced tremors.
To evaluate BAL cells obtained from habitual users of alkaloidal ("crack") cocaine alone or in combination with tobacco, for evidence of cocaine-associated alveolar injury.
Prospective cohort study.
A total of 36 healthy men and women (mean age [SD], 37.5 [7.5] years), including 10 cocaine-only smokers (CS), 6 cocaine-plus-tobacco smokers (CTS), 10 tobacco smokers (TS), and 10 nonsmokers (NS), underwent fiberoptic bronchoscopy and BAL.
Cytospins were prepared from BAL cells and stained with Wright-Giemsa for cell differentials and Gomori's stain for detection of hemosiderin. Endothelin (ET)-1 levels were determined from lavage fluid by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.
None of the cocaine users reported episodes of hemoptysis or respiratory distress, and routine spirometry findings were within normal limits in all subjects. While there was little effect on total cell numbers or differential counts, the percentages of hemosiderin-positive alveolar macrophages (AMs) were markedly increased in CS (33.8 +/- 8.7% [SEM]) compared to TS and NS (< 2%; p < 0.05). The percentages of hemosiderin-laden AMs were also numerically increased in CTS (11.8 +/- 7.8%), but this value was not statistically significant from that of TS or NS. ET-1 levels were significantly increased in the fluid recovered from CS (6.2 +/- 0.8 pg/mL) when compared to NS (1.2 +/- 0.4 pg/mL) and TS (1.3 +/- 0.2 pg/mL) [p < 0.05], while ET-1 levels were elevated to a lesser extent in CTS (2.5 +/- 0.6 pg/mL). ET-1 levels correlated with the percentage of hemosiderin-positive AMs when CS were analyzed in conjunction with CTS (r = 0.64; p = 0.0004).
Clinically inapparent alveolar hemorrhage occurs frequently in otherwise healthy crack cocaine smokers and is associated with elevated levels of ET-1, indicative of cocaine-induced pulmonary microvascular injury.
A unique case of a 72-year-old man with chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML) who developed hepatic veno-occlusive disease (VOD) after treatment with a single dose of vincristine and standard doses of cytarabine is described. Unexpected peroneal nerve palsy suggestive of vincristine neurotoxicity occurred concurrently and pointed to vincristine as the most likely cause of the VOD. To the best of our knowledge, association between vincristine and hepatic VOD has not been previously described in chemotherapy-naive patients with CMML.
Stunting in school-age years may result in a decrease in adult size, and thus reduced work capacity and adverse reproductive outcomes. We have compared the mean intakes of energy, protein and selected growth-limiting nutrients in fifty-eight stunted children and 172 non-stunted controls drawn from 567 children aged 6-13 years attending ten rural schools in NE Thailand. Control children were selected randomly after stratifying children by age in each school. Dietary data were calculated from 24-h recalls using nutrient values from Thai food composition data and chemical analysis. Inter-relationships between stunting and sociodemographic, anthropometric and biochemical variables were also examined. Biochemical variables investigated were serum albumin, zinc, ferritin, transferrin receptor and retinol, and iodine in casual urine samples. Significantly more males than females were stunted (males, n 38, 65.5% v. females, n 20. 34.5%: P=0.025). Stunted males had lower mean intakes of energy, protein, calcium, phosphorus and zinc, and a lower mean (95% CI) serum zinc (9.19 (8.53, 9.84) v. 9.70 (8.53, 9.29) micromol/1) than non-stunted males; no other biochemical differences were noted. Stunted males also had a lower mean arm muscle area (P= 0.015), after adjusting for age, than non-stunted males. In conclusion, the lower dietary intakes of the stunted males compared to their non-stunted counterparts may be associated with anorexia and hypogeusia induced by zinc deficiency. Hence, zinc deficiency may be a factor limiting linear growth, especially among boys in NE Thailand, but more research is needed to establish whether other factors also play a role.
In our area, inhaling heroin mixed with cocaine vaporized on aluminum foil, known as rebujo, is becoming more and more common.
To define the prevalence and the characteristics of bronchial disease (wheezing, bronchial hyperreactivity [BHR], and asthma) present in subjects inhaling heroin mixed with cocaine vaporized on aluminum foil.
Ninety-one subjects who inhaled the drug mixture were included in the study: 62 subjects were from a drug rehabilitation center (INH-I group), and 29 subjects were among patients admitted to our hospital for a variety of reasons (INH-II group). A questionnaire was completed in both groups, as well as IgE determination and lung function tests (spirometry and methacholine challenge). The control group consisted of 122 individuals who did not inhale the drug mixture, and were chosen randomly from the general population (NO-INH group). All subjects were tobacco smokers.
In the INH-I group, there was a 41.9% prevalence of wheezing over the past 12 months, a 44.4% prevalence of BHR, and a 22.02% prevalence of asthma, defined as wheezing plus BHR. In the NO-INH group, these values were 32.78% (p = 0.22), 15.57% (p < 0.0001), and 8.19% (p < 0.01), respectively. Of the subjects who inhaled the drug mixture and denied having symptoms prior to the use of the drug mixture, 31.4% had wheezing develop after commencing use of the drug, following a mean latency of 4.09 months. Wheezing remitted in only 7.6% after discontinuation of the drug.
(1) There is a real increase in BHR in subjects who inhale heroin mixed with cocaine vaporized on aluminum foil; and (2) this BHR is associated with wheezing that develops after a variable period of latency, once drug inhalation begins, and persists despite discontinuation of the drug.
The intensity of symptoms of experimental anaemia significantly depended on the age of animals. It increased in elder rats after administration of substances with haemolytic potential (phenylhydrazine, phenacetin, 3-chloro-4-benzyloxyphenylacetic acid, nitrobenzene) whereas it decreased after cyclophosphamide-induced erythropoietic suppression.
Lindane (gamma-hexachlorocyclohexane) has been shown to produce hepatomas in some strains of mice but not in others. Genetic factors and/or altered metabolism may play a role in the susceptibility to lindane-induced hepatomas. This study reports the effect of age and obesity on the comparative metabolism and disposition of lindane in obese yellow Avy/a and in lean pseudoagouti Avy/a and black a/a phenotypes of (YS x VY) F1 hybrid female mice at 8, 17, 30, 56, and 86 wk of age. At 24 h prior to sacrifice the mice were dosed p.o. with 18 mg lindane (containing 55 microCi [U-14C]lindane/kg). Aging altered the biotransformation of lindane such that while the excretion of lindane and its metabolites declined, the proportion of conjugated and polar metabolites increased. Tissue storage was elevated in older animals. In the yellow Avy/a mice, which are known to have a predisposition to the formation of hepatomas, there was accelerated and prolonged growth, reduced metabolite excretion, a greater proportion of conjugated metabolites, and higher dechlorinase activity compared to that of their pseudoagouti Avy/a and black a/a siblings.
Impulsivity has been associated with drug abuse and relapse. As a measure of impulsivity, response inhibition in a stop signal task is impaired in substance abusers compared to healthy control subjects. However, cognitive processes besides response inhibition can affect performance in the stop signal task. Greater response readiness to the go signal increases stop signal reaction time (SSRT) and greater performance monitoring elicited by the stop signal decreases SSRT. Prolonged SSRT, therefore, may reflect differences in these other task-related cognitive processes rather than impaired response inhibition. Using a tracking stop-signal task, we compared 18 abstinent cocaine dependent patients with 41 age- and education-matched healthy controls. We computed SSRT for each individual subject on the basis of the horse race model. We also computed the fore-period (FP) effect to measure response readiness to the go signal and the post-signal slowing (PSS) effect to measure performance monitoring to the stop signal. Cocaine subjects showed increased SSRT and decreased PSS effect, compared to healthy controls. Covariance adjustment for the PSS effect eliminated the SSRT difference from healthy controls. These results suggest that diminished performance monitoring can be a critical cognitive mechanism underlying impaired response inhibition in cocaine dependent patients.
The new method described in this study was based on consecutive repeated measurements of the resistance of flexor and extensor muscles of the hind foot of the rat to forced flexions and extensions of the foot. Locomotor movements of the rat were restrained with a metaplex box which had a slot for the hind limb. The control muscle tone measured by this method was constant for more than 2 h, and amounted to approx. 25 g for flexor muscles, and approx. 45 g for extensors. Morphine (2.5, 5, 10, 20 mg/kg) enhanced dose-dependently the resistance of flexor muscles up to approx. 45 g, 70 g, 100 g and 140 g, respectively, and the resistance of extensors of the paw up to approx. 100 g, 140 g, 180 g and 240 g, respectively. Haloperidol (5 and 10 mg/kg) enhanced dose-dependently the resistance of flexor muscles up to approx. 45 g and 70 g, respectively, and that of extensors of the foot up to approx. 75 g and 120 g, respectively. Morphine rigidity, measured as resistance of respective muscles to forced movements, was almost completely inhibited by a consecutive injection of 0.2 mg/kg of naloxone. The new method seems to have considerable advantages in comparison with electromyographical (EMG) or other kinds of mechanographical measurements of the muscle tone.
A case is reported of pericardial fibrosis after busulfan treatment in a man with chronic myeloid leukaemia. In the absence of any other explanation, we assume that busulfan may have been the cause of pericardial fibrosis in this patient. Other drugs causing pericardial fibrosis are discussed.
Increased susceptibility to atherosclerosis increases the risk of mortality in type 2 diabetic patients. Leukocyte adhesion to the endothelium is a critical step in atherogenesis. In addition to its insulin-sensitizing effects, rosiglitazone (RSG) possesses anti-inflammatory properties. However, the effects of RSG on the initial phase of leukocyte recruitment (rolling, adhesion) have not been studied in vivo. This study tested the hypothesis that RSG treatment of Zucker diabetic fatty (ZDF) rats inhibits ischemia/reperfusion-induced leukocyte adhesion to the endothelium. Male ZDF rats (16 weeks) were treated with RSG (3 mg/kg/day, p.o.) 7 days before experimentation. Leukocyte-endothelial interactions in cremaster venules were recorded using intravital microscopy prior to 30 min of ischemia and during a 90-min reperfusion period. Although blood pressure, plasma glucose, and insulin were not different between treatment groups, RSG treatment was associated with reduced leukocyte rolling and inhibition of leukocyte adhesion throughout the reperfusion period (P < 0.01). Cremaster mRNA expression of vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) was reduced by 35% in RSG-treated animals (P < 0.01), whereas P- and E-selectin and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) were unchanged. Immunostaining for P-selectin, E-selectin, and VCAM-1 was reduced by 21, 61, and 50%, respectively (for all, P < 0.05), in RSG-treated animals. Inhibition of ischemia/reperfusion-induced leukocyte adhesion might contribute to the utility of RSG as a therapy for vascular disease.
Neuropsychiatric and behavioral symptoms are frequent and problematic components of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In two previously reported studies, metrifonate was shown to benefit behavioral symptoms as assessed by the Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI). In this post hoc analysis, detailed studies were completed to determine the effects of metrifonate on individual symptoms. This study was a retrospective analysis of pooled NPI data from two double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter 26-week studies of metrifonate that had achieved similar levels of cholinesterase inhibition. Mild-to-moderate probable AD patients received placebo (n = 222) or metrifonate (n = 450) 30 to 60 mg by weight or a 50-mg fixed dose once daily. At 26 weeks, metrifonate-treated patients had significantly reduced NPI total scores (P = .001) and fewer neuropsychiatric symptoms when compared with placebo-treated patients, including hallucinations (P = .004), agitation/aggression (P = .006), depression/dysphoria (P = .011), apathy (P = .019), and aberrant motor behavior (P = .008). Metrifonate reduced or stabilized neuropsychiatric disturbances in 60% of symptomatic patients. Almost 40% of metrifonate-treated patients had a clinically relevant reduction (> or = 30% decrease in NPI score) in their neuropsychiatric disturbances (P = .002). High proportions of metrifonate-treated patients manifested clinically relevant reductions in anxiety (58%, P = .009), apathy (51%, P = .020), and depression/dysphoria (50%, P = .021) compared to placebo. The metrifonate-associated reductions in NPI scores were evident by week 12 and were maintained for the 26-week study period. There was an overall effect size of metrifonate of approximately 15% on total NPI scores when compared to placebo. Metrifonate significantly reduced many of the psychiatric and behavioral symptoms of AD. The observations suggest that enhancement of cholinergic functions in AD has beneficial effects on behavior.
In vivo microvoltammetry was used to detect synaptic concentrations of dopamine (DA) and serotonin (5-HT) from nucleus accumbens (NAcc) in awake, freely moving, male, Sprague Dawley laboratory rats, while their locomotor behavior was monitored, simultaneously, in an open-field paradigm; the purpose was to evaluate the pharmacology of the D3-preferring, dopamine (DA) autoreceptor antagonist, (+)-AJ 76 [cis-(+)-1S, 2R-5-methoxy-1-methyl-2-(n-propylamino)-tetralin HCL] and its potential use as a pharmacotherapy for cocaine abuse. Results showed that (1). (+)-AJ 76 significantly increased synaptic concentration of DA above baseline (p < 0.001); a small but significant decrease in synaptic concentration of 5-HT was seen (p < 0.001), although a significant increase occurred during the time course, at the 20 minute mark (p < 0.05). Analysis of the two hour data also showed that both locomotor and central locomotor activity were not affected; however, temporally related increases in both behaviors were significant at 10, 20 and 30 minutes (p < 0.05). In a second and separate study, (2). cocaine increased synaptic concentrations of DA (p < 0.001) and 5-HT (p < 0.001), and locomotor activity (p < 0.001) above baseline, but central locomotion was not affected, except for specific temporal enhancements at 10, 20, 30, 50, 60 and 90 min. (p < 0.05). In a third and separate study, (3). an (+)-AJ 76/cocaine study, (+)-AJ 76 was administered five minutes before cocaine. The results showed that synaptic DA concentration was significantly increased over baseline values (p < 0.001) but that synaptic DA was lower than cocaine-induced synaptic DA (p < 0.001). No significant difference in synaptic 5-HT occurred after (+)-AJ 76/cocaine treatment, but temporally related increases over baseline occurred from 10 to 40 min. (p < 0.05). Synaptic 5-HT concentrations after (+)-AJ 76/cocaine were not significantly different from those induced by cocaine per se. (+)-AJ 76/cocaine treatment significantly increased locomotor activity (p < 0.001); central locomotor behavior was not affected, however, time course data showed significant increases at 10, 20, 40, 50 and 80 min. (p < 0.05). The major finding from the present studies, is that +(-) AJ 76/cocaine treatment produced synaptic concentrations of DA from NAcc which were lower than those due to cocaine per se, while no differential effect on synaptic 5-HT concentration, locomotor or central locomotor behavior occurred. Therefore, these data support the hypothesis that (+)-AJ 76 may be useful for the treatment of cocaine addiction or abuse.
In the Losartan Intervention For Endpoint reduction in hypertension (LIFE) study, the primary composite end point of cardiovascular death, stroke, and myocardial infarction was reduced by losartan versus atenolol in patients with hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. The objective of this post hoc analysis was to determine the influence of pulse pressure on outcome. Patients were divided into quartiles of baseline pulse pressure. Cox regression, including baseline Framingham risk score as a covariate, was used to compare risk in the quartiles. In the atenolol group, there were significantly higher risks in the highest versus lowest quartile for the composite end point 28% (confidence interval [CI], 2% to 62%; P=0.035), stroke 84% (CI, 32% to 157%; P<0.001), and total mortality 41% (CI, 7% to 84%; P=0.013). Risk for myocardial infarction was 44% higher (CI, -5% to 120%; P=0.089). The risks in the losartan group also increased with increasing quartile, but were lower than in the atenolol group, and differences between the highest and lowest quartiles were not significant: composite end point 12% (CI, -13% to 44%; P>0.2), stroke -5% (CI, -34% to 37%; P>0.2), myocardial infarction 30% (CI, -13% to 94%; P>0.2), and total mortality 32% (CI, -1% to 76%; P=0.062). In patients with hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy in the LIFE study, there were significantly higher risks, adjusted for the Framingham risk score, for the primary composite end point, stroke, and total mortality in the highest versus lowest quartile of pulse pressure with atenolol-based treatment. The risks in the losartan group also increased with increasing pulse pressure quartile, but were lower than those in the atenolol group, and were not significant.
A case of a 68-years-old female who was symptomatically treated with the codeine analog dextromethorphan because of a flu-like syndrome is herein reported. Five days later, she developed a cholestatic syndrome without fever or abdominal pain. Dextrometorphan was withdrawn and a rapid clinical improvement was observed, associated with decreasing levels of biochemical markers of cholestasis. Normal values were reached two months later. This type of adverse drug reaction, its potential pathogenic mechanisms and the therapeutic consequences are discussed.
Amiodarone is the most promising drug for the treatment of life-threatening tachyarrhythmias in patients with structural heart disease. The pharmacological effects of amiodarone on cardiac ion channels are complex and may differ for short-term and long-term administration.
The delayed rectifier K(+) current (I(K)) of ventricular myocytes isolated from rabbit hearts was recorded with the whole-cell voltage-clamp technique. I(K) was separated into 2 components by use of specific blockers for either I(Ks) (chromanol 293B, 30 micromol/L) or I(Kr) (E-4031, 10 micromol/L). Short-term application of amiodarone caused a concentration-dependent decrease in I(Kr) with an IC(50) of 2.8 micromol/L (n=8) but only a minimal reduction in I(Ks). The short-term effects of amiodarone were also determined in Xenopus oocytes expressing the cloned human channels that conduct I(Kr) and I(Ks) (HERG and KvLQT1/minK). HERG current in oocytes was reduced by amiodarone (IC(50)=38 micromol/L), whereas KvLQT1/minK current was unaffected by 300 micromol/L amiodarone. To study the effects of long-term drug administration, rabbits were treated for 4 weeks with oral amiodarone (100 mg. kg(-1). d(-1)) before cell isolation. Long-term administration of amiodarone decreased I(K) to 55% (n=10) in control rabbits and altered the relative density of I(Kr) and I(Ks). The majority (92%) of current was I(Kr). mRNA levels of rabbit ERG,KVLQT1, and minK in left ventricular myocardium did not differ between control and long-term amiodarone.
Amiodarone has differential effects on the 2 components of I(K), depending on the application period; short-term treatment inhibits primarily I(Kr), whereas long-term treatment reduces I(Ks).
Abstract The object of this study was to examine ovarian regulation of pulsatile luteinizing hormone (LH) secretion during early gestation. This was done primarily by analyzing pulsatile LH release in rats that were either sham ovariectomized (OVX) on Day 7 of pregnancy, implanted with empty Silastic capsules, and bled on Day 8, or OVX on Day 7, immediately implanted with Silastic capsules producing plasma levels of estradiol and/or progesterone characteristic of Day 7 to 8 of pregnancy, and bled on Day 8. In addition, the role of progesterone in regulating pulsatile LH secretion was also examined by administration of the progesterone receptor antagonist, RU486, on Day 7 and examining pulsatile LH release on Day 8 of pregnancy. OVX caused a marked increase in LH pulse amplitude and frequency within 24 h. Replacement with physiological plasma levels of estradiol or progesterone alone had no suppressive effect on this OVX-induced increase in pulsatile LH secretion. Restoration of physiological plasma levels of both estradiol and progesterone returned LH pulse amplitude to values seen in sham OVX controls, and prevented the OVX-induced increase in LH pulse frequency. The group mean LH pulse frequency tended to be less in estradiol + progesterone-treated rats than in sham OVX controls, but this difference was not statistically significant. RU486 blocked uterine progesterone receptors as evidenced by endometrial hemorrhaging. In agreement with the OVX + steroid replacement data, RU486 administration also resulted in increases in LH pulse amplitude and frequency. These data demonstrate that the frequency and amplitude of LH pulses on Day 8 of gestation are held in check by negative feedback signals coming from the ovary. Neither steroid alone exerts any suppressive influence over pulsatile LH secretion during early gestation, but both steroids acting together exert a prominent negative feedback regulation on the pulsatile LH release process.
Both systolic and diastolic cardiac dysfunction coexist in various degrees in the majority of patients with heart failure. Although ACE inhibitors are useful in the treatment of heart failure, the roles of bradykinin in the systolic and diastolic properties of left ventricular function under long-term treatment of ACE inhibitor have not been fully elucidated. We therefore evaluated the changes in left ventricular function, histomorphometry, and the expression of several failing heart related genes, by use of an orally active specific bradykinin type 2 receptor antagonist, FR173657 (0.3 mg/kg per day), with an ACE inhibitor, enalapril (1 mg/kg per day), in dogs with tachycardia-induced heart failure (270 ppm, 22 days) and compared the effects to enalapril alone. Although there were no differences observed in blood pressure, left ventricular dimension, and percentage of fractional shortening, FR173657 significantly increased left ventricular filling pressure (P<0.01), prolonged the time constant of relaxation (P<0.05), and suppressed the expression of endothelial NO synthase and sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase mRNA (P<0.05). FR173657 also upregulated collagen type I and III mRNA (P<0.05) and increased the total amount of cardiac collagen deposits (P<0.05) in left ventricle compared with that in the enalapril-treated group. In conclusion, endogenous bradykinin contributes to the cardioprotective effect of ACE inhibitor, improving left ventricular diastolic dysfunction rather than systolic dysfunction, via modification of NO release and Ca(2+) handling and suppression of collagen accumulation.
To determine whether the Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE) II system for the measurement of severity of illness is able to provide an accurate risk of hospital death in patients with acetaminophen-induced acute liver failure or identify those patients needing transfer for possible hepatic transplantation.
Data for admission (first 24 hrs) APACHE II scores and King's criteria for urgent transplantation were collected prospectively to compare the APACHE II system and the King's criteria for the prediction of death or need for transplantation.
A nine-bed specialist liver failure unit (LFU).
One hundred two consecutive patients admitted to the LFU with acetaminophen self-poisoning and a prolonged prothrombin time were studied.
None.
An APACHE II score of > 15 points was associated with a high mortality (13/20 patients, five of whom survived following hepatic transplantation). There was no relation between APACHE II risk and outcome (mean APACHE II risk of death 0.8%, actual hospital mortality 16%). An APACHE II score of > 15 had a similar power of prediction of death as the King's criteria (sensitivity 82% and 65%, respectively; specificity 98% and 99%, respectively), when considering those patients who were transplanted as "deaths." An APACHE II score of > 15 was able to identify four more patients than the King's criteria on the first day of admission to the LFU.
The crude admission APACHE II score correlated well with mortality in patients with acetaminophen-induced acute liver failure. However, the calculated APACHE II risk of death, using the original drug overdose coefficient, was poorly calibrated. Since specialist liver scores are unfamiliar in the general intensive care setting, the use of an APACHE II score might earlier identify more patients at risk of needing a liver transplant, and hence, expedite appropriate transfer to a specialist liver unit.
Chronic use of cocaine is associated with a reduced density of dopaminergic D2 receptors in the striatum, with negative consequences for cognitive control processes. Increasing evidence suggests that cognitive control is also affected in recreational cocaine consumers. This study aimed at linking these observations to dopaminergic malfunction by studying the spontaneous eyeblink rate (EBR), a marker of striatal dopaminergic functioning, in adult recreational users and a cocaine-free sample that was matched on age, race, gender, and personality traits. Correlation analyses show that EBR is significantly reduced in recreational users compared to cocaine-free controls, suggesting that cocaine use induces hypoactivity in the subcortical dopamine system.
1. The mechanism underlying the anticataleptic properties of the atypical neuroleptic agent, clozapine, has been investigated in the rat. 2.The close structural analogues of clozapine, loxapine (0.1 mg kg(-1) s.c.) and iso-clozapine (1 and 3 mg kg(-1) s.c.) induced catalepsy in rats. In contrast, clozapine and the regio-isomer of loxapine, iso-loxapine (up to 10 mg kg(-1) s.c.) did not produce catalepsy, but at a dose of 1 mg kg(-1) significantly inhibited catalepsy induced by loxapine (0.3 mg kg(-1) s.c.). 3. Radioligand binding assays showed that cataleptogenic potential was most clearly predicted by the D2/5-HT1A, D2/5-HT1B/1D and D2/alpha2-receptor affinity (KD) ratios: i.e. 30-100-fold higher ratios were calculated for loxapine and iso-clozapine, whereas the ratios were less than 1 for clozapine and iso-loxapine. The ratios of affinities for D2 to 5-HT2A, 5-HT2C or D1 did not reflect the grouping of cataleptic and non-cataleptic compounds. 4. Co-treatment with the alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonists, yohimbine (1-10 mg kg(-1) s.c.), RX 821002 (1-10 mg kg(-1) s.c.) and MK-912 (0.3 and 1 mg kg(-1) s.c.) dose-dependently inhibited the cataleptic response to loxapine (0.3 mg kg(-1)). Yohimbine (1-10 mg kg(-1) s.c.) also dose-dependently inhibited the cateleptic response to haloperidol (0.3 mg kg(-1) s.c.). The alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonists had no effect per se. 5. Neither yohimbine (10 mg kg(-1)) nor RX821002 (3 mg kg(-1)) altered the cataleptic response to the D1 receptor antagonist, SCH 23390 (1 mg kg(-1) s.c.), while, like clozapine, both compounds abolished the response to the 5-HT2A receptor antagonist, MDL 100,151 (3 mg kg(-1) s.c.). 6. The present data strongly implicate alpha2-adrenoceptor blockade in the anticataleptic properties of clozapine and suggest that its lack of extrapyramidal side effects in the clinic may also be a consequence of this property.
An 18-year old male patients with tetracycline-resistant acne vulgaris was prescribed isotretinoin in daily doses of 0.5 mg/kg. Ten days later, he developed an acute episode of acne fulminans which was regressive. Subsequently, two attempts were made at reintroducing isotretinoin; the first one was followed by a new episode of acne fulminans and the second one, by ordinary myalgias, while the patient was still under corticosteroid therapy. A search in the literature yielded 14 cases of acne fulminans that had possibly been induced by isotretinoin. Doses and intervals between medication and acute manifestations varied, and the responsibility of isotretinoin was seldom demonstrated. Associations with erythema nodosum myalgias and arthralgias have been described. This rare adverse effect of isotretinoin therapy must be known. Its course and treatment are not different from those of ordinary acne fulminans.
