The present paper assesses the chemopreventive potential of retinoic acid on benzoyl peroxide (BPO)-induced cutaneous tumor promotion response and oxidative stress in murine skin. In this study, we have shown the activities of cutaneous antioxidant enzymes and phase II metabolizing enzymes and the glutathione content were decreased while epidermal ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity and DNA synthesis were induced in benzoyl peroxide treated animals. Topical application of retinoic acid resulted in significant inhibition of benzoyl peroxide-induced epidermal ornithine decarboxylase activity and DNA synthesis. Application of retinoic acid at three different doses prior to the application of benzoyl peroxide recovered the depleted level of glutathione, inhibited activities of antioxidant and phase II metabolizing enzymes, thus resulting in significant inhibition of oxidative stress in dose dependent manner. Enhanced susceptibility of cutaneous microsomal lipid peroxidation and xanthine oxidase activity were significantly reduced (P > 0.05). The antimutagenic effect of retinoic acid was tested against benzoyl peroxide mediated mutagenicity in Salmonella typhimurium strain TA-98 and TA-100 using 3-methyl cholanthrene-induced murine skin (S9 fraction) as the metabolic activation system. Indeed, with the addition of various concentrations of retinoic acid there was significant reduction in the number of revertants per plate in concentration dependent manner. In summary, our data indicates that retinoic acid may exhibit cancer chemopreventive activity in skin tumorigenesis model.
A phase II study of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ agonist rosiglitazone extended release (RSG XR) in mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD) detected a treatment benefit to cognition in apolipoprotein E(APOE)-ε4-negative subjects. The current phase III study with prospective stratification by APOE genotype was conducted to confirm the efficacy and safety of RSG XR in mild-to-moderate AD. An open-label extension study assessed the long-term safety and tolerability of 8 mg RSG XR.
This double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study enrolled 693 subjects. Within 2 APOE allelic strata (ε4-positive, ε4-negative), subjects were randomized (2:2:2:1) to once-daily placebo, 2 mg RSG XR, 8 mg RSG XR or 10 mg donepezil (control). Coprimary endpoints were change from baseline to week 24 in the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-cognitive subscale (ADAS-Cog) score, and week 24 Clinician's Interview-Based Impression of Change plus caregiver input (CIBIC+).
At week 24, no significant differences from placebo in change from baseline in coprimary endpoints were detected with either the RSG XR dose in APOE-ε4-negative subjects or overall. For donepezil, no significant treatment difference was detected in ADAS-Cog; however, a significant difference was detected (p = 0.009) on the CIBIC+. Peripheral edema was the most common adverse event for 8 mg RSG XR (15%) and placebo (5%), and nasopharyngitis for 2 mg RSG XR (7%).
No evidence of efficacy of 2 mg or 8 mg RSG XR monotherapy in cognition or global function was detected in the APOE-ε4-negative or other analysis populations. The safety and tolerability of RSG XR was consistent with its known pharmacology.
Perinatal cadmium (Cd) exposure has been shown to alter behaviors and reduce learning ability of offspring. A few studies have shown that Cd reduced serum thyroid hormones (THs), which are important for brain development during the perinatal period. Brain specific genes, neurogranin (RC3) and myelin basic protein (BMP), are known to be regulated by TH through TH receptors (TR). It has been suggested that RC3 may play roles in memory and learning. In addition, Cd has been suggested to have estrogen-like activity. To evaluate the effects of perinatal low-dose exposure to Cd on thyroid hormone-related gene (RC3, TR-beta1, MBP, RAR-beta) and sex hormone receptor gene (ER-alpha, ER-beta and PgR) expressions in the brain and on behaviors of offspring, mice were administered with 10ppm Cd (from gestational day 1 to postnatal day 10) and/or 0.025% methimazole (MMI; anti-thyroid drug) (from gestational day 12 to postnatal day 10) in drinking water. Also, 0.1% MMI was administered as a positive control (high MMI group). RC3 mRNA expression was reduced in the female brain of combined exposure and high MMI groups and was negatively correlated with the activity in the open-field. ER-alpha, ER-beta and PgR mRNA expressions were decreased in male and female Cd, and female Cd+MMI groups, respectively; among these changes the reduced expression of PgR was opposite to estrogenic action. These results suggested that perinatal exposure to Cd disrupted the gene expressions of sex hormone receptors, which could not be considered to be a result of estrogenic action. Our study indicates that alteration in the gene expressions of RC3 and sex hormone receptors in the brain induced by perinatal Cd and MMI exposure might be one mechanism of developmental toxicity of Cd.
Although acetylcholinesterase (AChE) is primarily a hydrolytic enzyme, metabolising the neurotransmitter acetylcholine in cholinergic synapses, it also has some non-catalytic functions in the brain which are far less well characterised. AChE was shown to be secreted or shed from the neuronal cell surface like several other membrane proteins, such as the amyloid precursor protein (APP). Since AChE does not possess a transmembrane domain, its anchorage in the membrane is established via the Proline Rich Membrane Anchor (PRiMA), a transmembrane protein. Both the subunit oligomerisation and membrane anchor of AChE are shared by a related enzyme, butyrylcholinesterase (BChE), the physiological function of which in the brain is unclear. In this work, we have assayed the relative activities of AChE and BChE in membrane fractions and culture medium of three different neuronal cell lines, namely the neuroblastoma cell lines SH-SY5Y and NB7 and the mouse basal forebrain cell line SN56. In an effort to understand the shedding process of AChE, we have used several pharmacological treatments, which showed that it is likely to be mediated in part by an EDTA- and batimastat-sensitive, but GM6001-insensitive metalloprotease, with the possible additional involvement of a thiol isomerase. Cellular release of AChE by SH-SY5Y is significantly enhanced by the muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR) agonists carbachol or muscarine, with the effect of carbachol blocked by the mAChR antagonist atropine. AChE has been implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease and it has been shown that it accelerates formation and increases toxicity of amyloid fibrils, which have been closely linked to the pathology of AD. In light of this, greater understanding of AChE and BChE physiology may also benefit AD research.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder contributed by the combination of age, genetic and environmental factors. Several studies have clearly shown increase in the incidences of PD in the rural environments and hypothesized the involvement of pesticides such as paraquat and maneb in neurodegeneration. These studies have prompted researchers to develop paraquat and maneb models to study the effect of co-treatment of maneb and paraquat on neuronal toxicity; however, the mechanism underlying maneb and paraquat co-treatment induced neuronal toxicity has not yet been clearly understood. The involvement of cytochrome P4502E1 and glutathione S-transferases A4-4 enzymes in the detoxification of several pesticides such as atrazine, fenamirol, organophosphorous insecticide parathion, methoxychlor, diethyl dithiocarbamate and paraquat has been known. The contribution of CYP2E1 and GSTA4-4 in neuronal toxicity has also been reported. The present study was therefore undertaken to investigate the mechanism of maneb- and paraquat-induced neurodegeneration by estimating the level of antioxidant defense enzymes in the striatum and measuring the differential expressions of CYP2E1 and GSTA4-4 genes. Animals were treated with and without maneb (30 mg/kg, i.p.) or paraquat (10 mg/kg, i.p.) either alone or in combination in exposure time-dependent manner. A significant increase in catalase, glutathione S-transferase and lipid peroxidation in the striatum was found following 3, 6 and 9 weeks of co-treatment as compared with individual treatment or controls. Individual treatment of maneb or paraquat did not exhibit any significant alteration in CYP2E1 and GSTA4-4 expression up to 6 weeks; however, an augmentation in CYP2E1 and GSTA4-4 expression was observed in the animals exposed to maneb or paraquat for 9 weeks. Augmentation in the expression of CYP2E1 and GSTA4-4 was more pronounced in the animals treated with maneb and paraquat in combination for nine weeks. A significant reduction in the augmented lipid peroxidation in the striatum was observed when the striatum was pre-administered with CYP2E1 inhibitors; however, glutathione pre-administration induced lipid peroxidation. Results obtained from the present investigation suggest the involvement of CYP2E1 and GSTA4-4 in the augmentation of the lipid peroxidation thereby enhancing neurodegeneration.
Capillary zone electrophoresis (CZE) was investigated for its suitability to monitor proteinuria occurring during nephrotoxic drug therapy. Urine samples of tumor patients receiving chemotherapy consisting of carboplatin, etoposide, and ifosfamide were concentrated and desalted in microconcentrators and analyzed in two different alkaline CZE buffer systems. Reduction of electroosmotic flow (EOF) by the addition of putrescine increased the number of resolved protein peaks. Both CZE methods were linear between 2.5 and 50 microg/ml, exhibited satisfactory precision (relative standard deviation <10%) and were suitable for monitor the time course of proteinuria after chemotherapy administration. In contrast to sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE), CZE detected interindividual differences in protein patterns. Whereas these differences hampered a direct quantification of proteins in urine, they may contain information on the type or extent of kidney damage.
Many formulations of Thimerosal (49.55% mercury by weight)-containing Rho(D) immune globulins (TCRs) were routinely administered to Rh-negative mothers in the US prior to 2002.
It was hypothesized: (1) if prenatal Rho(D)-immune globulin preparation exposure was a risk factor for neurodevelopmental disorders (NDs) then more children with NDs would have Rh-negative mothers compared to controls; and (2) if Thimerosal in the Rho(D)-immune globulin preparations was the ingredient associated with NDs, following the removal of Thimerosal from all manufactured Rho(D)-immune globulin preparations from 2002 in the US the frequency of maternal Rh-negativity among children with NDs should be similar to control populations.
Maternal Rh-negativity was assessed at two sites (Clinic A-Lynchburg, VA; Clinic B-Rockville and Baltimore, MD) among 298 Caucasian children with NDs and known Rh-status. As controls, maternal Rh-negativity frequency was determined from 124 Caucasian children (born 1987-2001) without NDs at Clinic A, and the Rh-negativity frequency was determined from 1,021 Caucasian pregnant mothers that presented for prenatal genetic care at Clinic B (1980-1989). Additionally, 22 Caucasian patients with NDs born from 2002 onwards (Clinics A and B) were assessed for maternal Rh-negativity.
There were significant and comparable increases in maternal Rh-negativity among children with NDs (Clinic: A=24.2%), autism spectrum disorders (Clinic: A=28.3%, B=25.3%), and attention-deficit-disorder/attention-deficit-hyperactivity-disorder (Clinic: A=26.3%) observed at both clinics in comparison to both control groups (Clinic: A=12.1%, B=13.9%) employed. Children with NDs born post-2001 had a maternal Rh-negativity frequency (13.6%) similar to controls.
This study associates TCR exposure with some NDs in children.
Nickel compounds are environmental and occupational hazards that pose serious health problems and are causative factors of acute lung injury. The c-jun N-terminal kinases (JNKs) are regulated through a mitogen-activated protein (MAP) 3 kinase-MAP2 kinase cascade and have been implicated in nickel toxicity. In this study, we used genetically modified cells and mice to investigate the involvement of two upstream MAP3Ks, MAP3K1 and 2, in nickel-induced JNK activation and acute lung injury. In mouse embryonic fibroblasts, levels of JNK activation and cytotoxicity induced by nickel were similar in the Map3k2-null and wild-type cells but were much lower in the Map3k1/Map3k2 double-null cells. Conversely, the levels of JNK activation and cytotoxicity were unexpectedly much higher in the Map3k1-null cells. In adult mouse tissue, MAP3K1 was widely distributed but was abundantly expressed in the bronchiole epithelium of the lung. Accordingly, MAP3K1 ablation in mice resulted in severe nickel-induced acute lung injury and reduced survival. Based on these findings, we propose a role for MAP3K1 in reducing JNK activation and protecting the mice from nickel-induced acute lung injury.
A case is reported of a 39-year-old woman who had postoperative pulmonary embolism after taking combined oral contraceptives from 1967 to 1970. Her related history included birth of 2 large infants, phlebitis, and varicosities. Her operation for retroverted uterus and tubal sterilization was followed the next day by a severe pulmonary embolism treated with heparin. This treatment resulted in a pelvic hematoma, abundant metrorrhagia, and anemia requiring 4 transfusions. 4 months later she developed jaundice due to hepatitis virus B, which potentiated the effect of the antiprothrombin treatment and precipitated 2 new pelvic masses, fever, and metrorrhagia. She was given hysterectomy, which revealed bilateral hematosalpinx, probably related to endometriosis. 1 year later she was in good health, but her serum lipids were found high in the alpha- and pre-beta-lipoprotein bands. A delay of 2 months between stopping oral contraceptives and surgery is recommended.
We describe a 46-year-old, schizophrenic woman with late-onset myoclonus after treatment with antipsychotic drugs. The myoclonic jerking of the neck with synchronous contractions of the face persisted after all the antipsychotic drugs had been discontinued. Tardive myoclonus has not been documented previously.
Chondrolysis initiated by postoperative, intra-articular pain pumps has recently been described by multiple institutions.
To evaluate the in vitro chondrotoxicity of anesthetic formulations commonly used in pain pumps.
Controlled laboratory study.
Freshly isolated human articular chondrocytes were cultured for 24-, 48-, and 72-hour trials in a custom bioreactor that mimics the metabolism of synovial fluid. Chondrocytes were perfused in Dulbecco's Modified Eagle's Medium 10% fetal bovine serum and one of the following medications: 1% lidocaine, 1% lidocaine with epinephrine, 0.25% bupivacaine, 0.25% bupivacaine with epinephrine, 0.5% bupivacaine, or 0.5% bupivacaine with epinephrine. Static and perfusion cultures with growth media were used as controls. All experiments were run in duplicate. Live/dead staining was performed, and the ratio of dead:live cells was assessed by fluorescent microscopy and histomorphometry.
Significantly more chondrocyte necrosis was found in all cultures with medications containing epinephrine (P < .05) at all time points. Similar necrosis rates were exhibited in 0.25% and 0.5% bupivacaine compared with controls at 24 and 48 hours. However, 0.5% bupivacaine produced significantly more cell death at 72 hours. Similar necrosis rates were exhibited with 1% lidocaine compared to controls at 24 hours.
In this in vitro model, 0.25% and 0.5% bupivacaine caused minimal chondrocyte necrosis when used in pain pumps for a maximum of 48 hours. All anesthetics containing epinephrine (pH <or=4) were chondrotoxic and cannot be advocated for pain pump use. The use of 0.5% bupivacaine for greater than 48 hours is not recommended.
The results of this study may help improve the safety of intra-articular pain pump use by examining the effects of local anesthetics on chondrocyte viability.
A case of sclerosing cholangitis after a two-month treatment by hepatic artery infusion of FUDR is reported. The patient presented with jaundice and a marked increase in serum alkaline phosphatase activity which persisted after withdrawal of FUDR infusion. Endoscopic retrograde cholangiogram revealed a stricture of the middle part of the common bile duct, which was treated by endoprosthesis insertion. From this report, as well as those previously published, it is concluded that sclerosing cholangitis may complicate continuous hepatic artery infusion with FUDR. This lesion could be secondary to an FUDR-induced arteritis in the branches of hepatic artery which supply bile ducts.
We studied the outcomes at school age in children who had participated in a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of early postnatal dexamethasone therapy (initiated within 12 hours after birth) for the prevention of chronic lung disease of prematurity.
Of the 262 children included in the initial study, 159 lived to school age. Of these children, 146 (72 in the dexamethasone group and 74 in the control group) were included in our study. All the infants had had severe respiratory distress syndrome requiring mechanical ventilation shortly after birth. In the dexamethasone group, 0.25 mg of dexamethasone per kilogram of body weight was given intravenously every 12 hours for one week, and then the dose was tapered. We evaluated the children's growth, neurologic and motor function, cognition, and school performance.
Children in the dexamethasone group were significantly shorter than the controls (P=0.03 for boys, P=0.01 for girls, and P=0.03 for all children) and had a significantly smaller head circumference (P=0.04). Children in the dexamethasone group had significantly poorer motor skills (P<0.001), motor coordination (P<0.001), and visual-motor integration (P=0.02). As compared with the controls, children in the dexamethasone group also had significantly lower full IQ scores (mean [+/-SD], 78.2+/-15.0 vs. 84.4+/-12.6; P=0.008), verbal IQ scores (84.1+/-13.2 vs. 88.4+/-11.8, P=0.04), and performance IQ scores (76.5+/-14.6 vs. 84.5+/-12.7, P=0.001). The frequency of clinically significant disabilities was higher among children in the dexamethasone group than among controls (28 of 72 [39 percent] vs. 16 of 74 [22 percent], P=0.04).
Early postnatal dexamethasone therapy should not be recommended for the routine prevention or treatment of chronic lung disease, because it leads to substantial adverse effects on neuromotor and cognitive function at school age.
Anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity is a clinically complex syndrome that leads to substantial morbidity and mortality for cancer survivors. Despite several years of research, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain largely undefined and thus effective therapies to manage this condition are currently non-existent. This study therefore aimed to determine the contribution of the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway (UPP) and endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-stress within this context. Cardiotoxicity was induced with the use of doxorubicin (DXR) in H9C2 rat cardiomyoblasts (3 μM) for 24 h, whereas the tumour-bearing GFP-LC3 mouse model was treated with a cumulative dose of 20 mg/kg. Markers for proteasome-specific protein degradation were significantly upregulated in both models following DXR treatment, however proteasome activity was lost. Moreover, ER-stress as assessed by increased ER load was considerably augmented (in vitro) with modest binding of DXR with ER. These results suggest that DXR induces intrinsic activation of the UPP and ER stress which ultimately contributes to dysfunction of the myocardium during this phenomenon.
Twenty-four-hour ambulatory blood pressure, including the acceleration phase, and left ventricular mass were evaluated in 16 patients with isolated systolic hypertension (standing blood pressure greater than or equal to 160 mm Hg systolic and less than or equal to 95 mm Hg diastolic). After a 4-week, single-blind, placebo period, each patient underwent 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring and echocardiography. Labetalol therapy was then initiated at 100 mg twice a day in a single-blind manner and increased weekly by 100 mg twice a day until blood pressure control was obtained or a maximum dosage of 400 mg twice a day was reached. Blood pressure control was achieved at a mean daily dose of 363 +/- 46 mg of labetalol. Measurements were repeated at the end of an 8-week maintenance phase. Labetalol therapy significantly reduced the mean 24-hour systolic ambulatory blood pressure from 154 +/- 8 (mean +/- SEM) mm Hg at baseline to 142 +/- 6 mm Hg (p greater than 0.01) and controlled the early morning surge in systolic ambulatory blood pressure. Minor reductions in diastolic blood pressure and heart rate were statistically but not clinically significant. Left ventricular mass was not changed. Labetalol monotherapy provides effective 24-hour control of systolic blood pressure, including the acceleration phase, in patients with isolated systolic hypertension.
Because postoperative urinary retention can result in considerable morbidity and the rate of retention after hysterectomy has recently increased at our institutions, we conducted a study to determine risk factors for the disorder.
A cohort of 366 consecutive patients who had undergone uncomplicated abdominal or vaginal hysterectomy for benign disease and who met strict inclusion criteria were studied retrospectively by means of a review of their medical records. Student's t test and multivariate logistic regression analysis were used to assess the effects of operative time, amount of fluid given perioperatively, type and amount of analgesic agent administered postoperatively, age of the patient, performance of a vaginal versus an abdominal hysterectomy, and the postoperative use of patient-controlled analgesia on the rate of postoperative urinary retention in these patients.
After adjustment for confounding factors, only the use of patient-controlled analgesia (p = 0.0001) and vaginal hysterectomy (p = 0.0003) were significantly related to postoperative urinary retention. Patients who used patient-controlled analgesia were 5.7 times (95 percent confidence interval, 2.6 to 12.4) more likely to have urinary retention than those given an intramuscular agent.
Urinary retention after hysterectomy might be avoided by administering analgesic agents intramuscularly or inserting a suprapubic cystostomy catheter postoperatively, especially in patients who have undergone a vaginal procedure.
The mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) and its substrates S6K1 and S6K2 regulate cell growth, proliferation, and metabolism through translational control. RPS6KB1 (S6K1) and RPS6KB2 (S6K2) are situated in the commonly amplified 17q21-23 and 11q13 regions. S6K1 amplification and protein overexpression have earlier been associated with a worse outcome in breast cancer, but information regarding S6K2 is scarce. The aim of this study was to evaluate the prognostic and treatment predictive relevance of S6K1/S6K2 gene amplification, as well as S6K2 protein expression in breast cancer. S6K1/S6K2 gene copy number was determined by real-time PCR in 207 stage II breast tumors and S6K2 protein expression was investigated by immunohistochemistry in 792 node-negative breast cancers. S6K1 amplification/gain was detected in 10.7%/21.4% and S6K2 amplification/gain in 4.3%/21.3% of the tumors. S6K2 protein was detected in the nucleus (38%) and cytoplasm (76%) of the tumor cells. S6K1 amplification was significantly associated with HER2 gene amplification and protein expression. S6K2 amplification correlated significantly with high S6K2 mRNA levels, ER+ status and CCND1 amplification. S6K1 and S6K2 gene amplification was associated with a worse prognosis independent of HER2 and CCND1. S6K2 gain and nuclear S6K2 expression was related to an improved benefit from tamoxifen among patients with ER+, respectively ER+/PgR+ tumors. In the ER+/PgR- subgroup, nuclear S6K2 rather indicated decreased tamoxifen responsiveness. S6K1 amplification predicted reduced benefit from radiotherapy. This is the first study showing that S6K2 amplification and overexpression, like S6K1 amplification, have prognostic and treatment predictive significance in breast cancer.
1. Calcium channel blockade attenuates adrenergically induced renal vasoconstriction and the present study examined whether the magnitude of the supression was enhanced or blunted in rat models of renal failure or diabetes-induced glomerular hyperfiltration. 2. Male Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats and spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) were used that had either renal failure induced by cisplatin administration or early diabetic nephropathy (EDN) consequent to an injection of streptozotocin (STZ). After 7 days of cisplatin or 4 weeks of STZ, rats were anaesthetized and renal haemodynamic studies were performed. 3. Cisplatin-treated WKY rats and SHR exhibited reduced creatinine clearance (CCr) and increased fractional excretion of sodium (FE(Na)) and kidney index (all P < 0.05), along with tubular damage in the kidney, compared with non-treated rats. In the EDN model, there was marked albuminuria and increased FE(Na), kidney index and CCr (all P < 0.05) compared with non-diabetic nephropathy (NDN) rats. Amlodipine significantly (P < 0.05) and dose-dependently attenuated the magnitude of the neurally and adrenergically induced renal vasoconstriction in all experimental groups compared with their respective control groups (13-6 vs 9-5% in renal failure vs non-renal failure WKY rats; 26-15 vs 17-8% in renal failure vs non-renal failure SHR; 19-9 vs 14-5% in EDN vs NDN). 4. The data obtained demonstrate that not only does amlodipine blunt adrenergically induced renal vasoconstriction in normal rats, but that it also does so, and to a greater extent, in rats with either renal failure or hyperfiltration.
Pregnant Fischer rats injected with cocaine in a 'binge' pattern (3x15 mg/kg, i.p.) from gestational days 8 through 17, had significantly higher levels of progesterone (212.12+/-22.50 vs. 91. 99+/-15.41 ng/ml) and corticosterone (257.99+/-21.76 ng/ml vs. 31. 70+/-7.93, respectively) than saline-treated dams. No significant differences in prolactin were observed (2.36+/-0.17 vs. 2.17+/-0.19 ng rPrl132/ml). Correlation analysis indicated that there is a significant relationship between plasma levels of progesterone and corticosterone and the quality of nests built by the dams. No correlation was found within animals between prolactin plasma levels and the nest quality. Thus, cocaine's effect on progesterone and corticosterone may contribute to the series of behavioral alterations associated with cocaine exposure during pregnancy.
Bannayan-Riley-Ruvalcaba syndrome (BRRS) is an autosomal dominant condition characterised by macrocephaly, developmental delay and subtle cutaneous features. BRRS results from mutations in the PTEN gene. In adults, PTEN mutations cause Cowden syndrome where, in addition to the macrocephaly, there is a higher risk of tumour development. Diagnosis of BRRS is often delayed as presentation can be variable, even within families.
To identify characteristics of this condition which might facilitate early diagnosis. Prompt diagnosis not only avoids unnecessary investigations in the child but potentially identifies heterozygote parents who are at risk of tumour development.
Six children with a PTEN mutation were identified. All had extreme macrocephaly. Four parents and a male sibling were found to have a PTEN mutation on subsequent testing. Affected parents had extreme macrocephaly and a history of thyroid adenoma, or breast or skin lesions. All six children had presented to medical attention before the age of 2.5 years (3/6 were investigated as neonates), but the median age at diagnosis was 5 years. Four of the children had multiple investigations prior to identification of a PTEN mutation.
BRRS should be considered in children with extreme macrocephaly as it is the most consistent clinical feature seen, particularly where there is a family history of macrocephaly.
This study was designed to analyze the effects of lidocaine and sodium bicarbonate on ventricular arrhythmias resulting from amitriptyline infusion in dogs. Amitriptyline was infused i.v. at 0.5 mg/kg/min for 30 min, followed by 1 mg/kg/min to dogs anesthetized with morphine and alpha-chloralose. When arrhythmia occurred, the infusion rate was reduced by one-third and the effect of various interventions studied. In the initial 18 dogs, lidocaine, sodium bicarbonate or isotonic saline was administered i.v. to six dogs each in a randomized, blinded fashion. The prevalence of ventricular ectopic complexes was not changed after isotonic saline, but was reduced by lidocaine at concentrations greater than or equal to 5 mg/l and by sodium bicarbonate. The effects of lidocaine were transient and associated with significant blood pressure reduction. Sodium bicarbonate produced more dramatic and sustained arrhythmia reversal along with a reduction in amitriptyline-induced conduction slowing. Administration of hypertonic sodium chloride in equimolar quantities to sodium bicarbonate failed to affect amitriptyline-induced ventricular arrhythmias significantly, but hyperventilation to a pH similar to that produced by sodium bicarbonate (7.48) significantly reduced the frequency of amitriptyline-induced ventricular ectopy. When amitriptyline was infused into dogs ventilated with various respiratory rates, ventricular arrhythmia resulted in 18 of 18 (100%) dogs with pH less than 7.42, 2 of 4 (50%) dogs with pH between 7.48 and 7.51 and 0 of 8 (0%) dogs with a pH between 7.59 and 7.65 (P less than or equal to .001). These results suggest that sodium bicarbonate is effective treatment for amitriptyline-induced cardiac arrhythmias with beneficial effects largely due to alkalinization.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The aim of this international phase II trial was to determine the efficacy and safety profile of weekly vinorelbine plus trastuzumab as first-line chemotherapy for women with HER 2-overexpressing metastatic breast cancer. Sixty-nine patients with tumours overexpressing HER 2 received vinorelbine: 30 mg m-2 week-1 and trastuzumab: 4 mg kg-1 on day 1 as a loading dose followed by 2 mg kg-1 week-1 starting on day 8. Sixty-two patients were evaluable for response and 69 patients were evaluable for toxicity. The overall response rate was 62.9%. The median time to response was 8.4 weeks, the median duration of response was 17.5 months, the median progression-free survival was 9.9 months (95% CI, 5.6-12.1) and the one-year progression-free survival was 39.1%. The median survival for all patients was 23.7 months (95% CI, 18.4-32.6). This regimen was safe: grade 3-4 neutropenia were observed over 17.7% of courses in 83.8% of patients, with only two episodes of febrile neutropenia (0.1%) in two patients (2.9%). Only one patient discontinued treatment due to grade 3 symptomatic cardiac dysfunction that resolved with therapy. Vinorelbine plus trastuzumab is one of the most active treatment regimens for patients with HER 2-positive metastatic breast cancer and demonstrates a very favourable safety profile allowing prolonged treatment with long-term survival. This study has been presented in part at the following conferences: The San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium, San Antonio, TX, USA, 2003; The American Society of Clinical Oncology, Orlando, FL, USA, 2005.
A 48-year-old woman was hospitalized with the diagnosis of hepatitis. She presented with symptoms of jaundice, headache, elevated bilirubin, and elevated hepatic enzymes. She related a recent episode of a bronchial infection that was treated during the previous eight days with paracetamol (500mg, 2 doses only), chlorpheniramine, betamethasone and clindamycin. After an initial clinical and laboratorial improvement, she began to complain of pruritus of the palms and soles. Thereafter, vesicles evolving to blisters developed and a deterioration of her general health ensued. Serologies for hepatitis A, B, and C viruses were negative. Intrahepatic cholestasis and Stevens Johnson Syndrome (SJS) were the final diagnosis. The association of the Stevens Johnson Syndrome and intrahepatic cholestasis simultaneously, related to adverse drug reactions, is very rare. The drugs reportedly involved are mainly antibiotics, such as ampicillin, vancomycin, amoxicillin/clavulinic acid and erythromycin. Other drugs involved are non-steroidal anti-inflamatory drugs, such as mefenamic acid, ibuprofen, and sulindac. The reactions can be minor or severe and can even cause death, an outcome that has been reported in patients of all races and ethnic groups, but appears to be more rare in patients of Latin origin. We present a discussion of this case and review the main characteristics of the Stevens Johnson Syndrome.
The cardiofaciocutaneous (CFC) syndrome is characterized by congenital heart defect, developmental delay, peculiar facial appearance with bitemporal constriction, prominent forehead, downslanting palpebral fissures, curly sparse hair and abnormalities of the skin. CFC syndrome phenotypically overlaps with Noonan and Costello syndromes. Mutations of several genes (PTPN11, HRAS, KRAS, BRAF, MEK1 and MEK2), involved in the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway, have been identified in CFC-Costello-Noonan patients. Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10), a lipophilic molecule present in all cell membranes, functions as an electron carrier in the mitochondrial respiratory chain, where it transports electrons from complexes I and II to complex III. CoQ10 deficiency is a rare treatable mitochondrial disorder with various neurological (cerebellar ataxia, myopathy, epilepsy, mental retardation) and extraneurological (cardiomyopathy, nephropathy) signs that are responsive to CoQ10 supplementation. We report the case of a 4-year-old girl who presented a CFC syndrome, confirmed by the presence of a pathogenic R257Q BRAF gene mutation, together with a muscular CoQ10 deficiency. Her psychomotor development was severely impaired, hindered by muscular hypotonia and ataxia, both improving remarkably after CoQ10 treatment. This case suggests that there is a functional connection between the MAPK pathway and the mitochondria. This could be through the phosphorylation of a nuclear receptor essential for CoQ10 biosynthesis. Another hypothesis is that K-Ras, one of the proteins composing the MAPK pathway, might be recruited into the mitochondria to promote apoptosis. This case highlights that CoQ10 might contribute to the pathogenesis of CFC syndrome.
To observe the effects of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) in peripheral lymphocytes on T helper 1 (TH1)/TH2 cytokine ratios and to investigate the potential impact and mechanism of β-adrenergic receptor antagonists on immune function in patients with chronic heart failure (CHF).
Sixty-nine patients with New York Heart Association functional class II-IV CHF and a radionuclide left ventricular ejection fraction of less than 45% received carvedilol or metoprolol in a randomized fashion. Thirty healthy persons were studied as controls. Interferon (IFN)-γ and interleukin (IL)-10 in CD4+ T lymphocytes were quantified by three-color flow cytometry. cAMP levels in peripheral blood mononuclear cells were tested by radioimmunoassay at baseline and 6 months after treatment.
The levels of lymphocyte cAMP in CHF patients were significantly lower than in normal controls (p < 0.01). The IFN-γ/IL-10 ratio was significantly higher in CHF patients (p < 0.01). The levels of cAMP, IFN-γ and IL-10 among CHF patients with different pathogenic factors displayed no significant differences (p > 0.05). The lymphocyte cAMP level was negatively correlated with the IFN-γ/IL-10 ratio (p < 0.01). After treatment with metoprolol and carvedilol, the IFN-γ/IL-10 ratio in the CHF patients was dramatically decreased (p < 0.01 for each drug) and lymphocyte cAMP was remarkably increased (p < 0.01 for each drug).
These results suggest that the decrease of cAMP affects the TH1/TH2 phenotype in peripheral lymphocytes of CHF patients. β-Blocking medications appear to have a beneficial effect on the TH1/TH2 balance and on the immune system through increasing production of cAMP, offering further evidence to support the use of β-adrenergic receptor blockers to treat CHF.
