The purpose of this study was to describe a patient, 7-month-old child with ventriculoperitoneal shunts for hydrocephalus with ventriculitis caused by vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium. Two ventriculoperitoneal shunts were inserted just after birth and on the second month. On the sixth month, both shunts were removed because of dysfunction, and external drainage was inserted. The child developed fever, and lumbar puncture revealed a high leukocyte count and protein concentration after external drainage. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) cultures yielded E. faecium, which was resistant to ampicillin, erythromycin, gentamicin, penicillin G, vancomycin, and teicoplanin and was susceptible to chloramphenicol, ciprofloxacin, streptomycin, levofloxacin, and rifampin, as determined by the disk diffusion method. As a result of the antimicrobial susceptibility tests, multidrug antibiotic therapy was changed from vancomycin and ceftazidime to chloramphenicol, rifampin, and meropenem. In addition, a rifampin-clindamycin-impregnated shunt (The Codman Hakim Bactiseal, Raynham, MA) was inserted. The patient became afebrile, and CSF cultures were sterile after 15 days of yielding E. faecium. Implantation of the rifampin-clindamycin-impregnated shunt and timely use of appropriate antibiotics for 10 days according to antimicrobial susceptibility testing seem to be important in the resolution of vancomycin-resistant enterococci infections, especially in countries where linezolid and quinupristin-dalfopristin are not in use yet.
Vancomycin hydrochloride (VCM) is widely used for treatment of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) infections. However, this drug can cause sever adverse reactions, such as red neck syndrome, nephrotoxicity and ototoxicity. Thus, therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) was bringing into effect for well effectiveness and to prevent side effects. In Kanto Medical Center NTT EC, TDM of VCM has been brought into effect since 1994. The date were accumulated from 200 patients. In this study, the retrospective research was carried out based on 117 cases selected from the above accumulated data, and then several factors such as VCM inducing side effect, a therapeutic effect, and the forecast of pharmacokinetic parameter using laboratory data were examined. Consequently, the high blood concentration trough level, the high value after 1 to 2 hours infusion, and the extension of t1/2 were brought forward as a nephrotoxicity causing factor, and more over each laboratory data (BUN, Cr, GOT, GPT, gamma-GTP, T-BiL, ALP, LDH) was high before infusion of VCM in patients with renal dysfunction. High value T-Bil and lower value TP were brought forward in patients with hepatic dysfunction, and high eosinophils and high blood concentration were brought forward after 1 or 2 hours infusion. In relation to side effects, it was found that the outbreak rate of side effects is high in patients with a complication of hypertension or diabetes. The administration term was considered as a factor which influences the therapeutic effects. The unchanged effect was 10.9 +/- 7.9 days, the improved effect was 14.6 +/- 9.3 days, the remarkably improved effect was 17.7 +/- 14.1 days. As the administration term gets longer, the improvement rate was recognized to be an upward tendency. The difference in significant effects was recognized between unchanged and remarkably unchanged (p < 0.05) effects. As the forecast of pharmacokinetic parameter using the laboratory data, VCMt1/2 showed a significant correlation between Cr and T-BiL, and it was VCMt1/2 = 8.56CR + 2.169T-Bil + 7.1. This result shows that VCMt1/2 can be estimated.
Epimorphin, a morphoregulatory factor essential to organ development, is believed to direct normal morphogenesis in tissue repair. We examined the dynamics and the roles of epimorphin, a cell surface-associated molecule detected on mesenchymal cells, in hepatic tissue repair from acute liver injury.
After acute liver injury was induced by carbon tetrachloride in Balb/c mice, the distribution of epimorphin-expressing cells was studied immunohistochemically. To clarify interactions between epimorphin expression and hepatocyte behavior, epimorphin-expressing cells and proliferating hepatocytes were counted. Then, epimorphin quantity and isoforms were assessed by western blotting. To better understand effects of epimorphin, we cultured rat hepatocytes in its presence.
Epimorphin was distributed in relation to sinusoids, portal veins, central veins and granulomas, expressed in stellate cells and myofibroblasts. In the periportal zone, the expression in sinusoids was decreased at 24 h but increased on day 7 after carbon tetrachloride administration. Numbers of epimorphin-expressing cells and proliferating hepatocytes changed in an inverse manner as time progressed. In the pericentral zone, reactivity for epimorphin was markedly enhanced concurrently with appearance of granulomas. Quantities of 34-kDa isoform paralleled epimorphin-staining intensity. In vitro, epimorphin induced spherical hepatocyte aggregates and maintained differentiated hepatocyte function.
Epimorphin is involved in tissue repair following a single injection of carbon tetrachloride, in which distribution and the quantity of epimorphin expression are important, particularly in maintaining hepatocyte function.
Recent studies have highlighted the involvement of the peripheral immune system in delayed cellular degeneration after stroke. In the permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) model of stroke, the spleen decreases in size. This reduction occurs through the release of splenic immune cells. Systemic treatment with human umbilical cord blood cells (HUCBC) 24 h post-stroke blocks the reduction in spleen size while significantly reducing infarct volume. Splenectomy 2 weeks prior to MCAO also reduces infarct volume, further demonstrating the detrimental role of this organ in stroke-induced neurodegeneration. Activation of the sympathetic nervous system after MCAO results in elevated catecholamine levels both at the level of the spleen, through direct splenic innervation, and throughout the systemic circulation upon release from the adrenal medulla. These catecholamines bind to splenic alpha and beta adrenoreceptors. This study examines whether catecholamines regulate the splenic response to stroke. Male Sprague-Dawley rats either underwent splenic denervation 2 weeks prior to MCAO or received injections of carvedilol, a pan adrenergic receptor blocker, prazosin, an alpha1 receptor blocker, or propranolol, a beta receptor blocker. Denervation was confirmed by reduced splenic expression of tyrosine hydroxylase. Denervation prior to MCAO did not alter infarct volume or spleen size. Propranolol treatment also had no effects on these outcomes. Treatment with either prazosin or carvedilol prevented the reduction in spleen size, yet only carvedilol significantly reduced infarct volume (p < 0.05). These results demonstrate that circulating blood borne catecholamines regulate the splenic response to stroke through the activation of both alpha and beta adrenergic receptors.
The aim of the study was to assess the prevalence of visual field constriction in a consecutive, unselected series of patients in the Copenhagen area treated with vigabatrin for severe epilepsy, and further to assess appropriate screening techniques for detecting such visual field defects.
During 1999, 36 vigabatrin-treated patients (aged 13-67) referred to the eye clinic, had a full ophthalmic examination. Routine visual field testing by means of a) finger movements and b) a tangent screen was supplemented by c) manual kinetic Goldmann perimetry and d) automated static threshold profile perimetry (Octopus).
Of the 31 subjects accepted for entry, 80% showed some degree of visual field constriction. The affection was regarded as slight in 15 cases, moderate in seven, and severe in four. Both kinetic Goldmann and static computerised perimetry disclosed the peripheral defects in those affected. By Goldmann perimetry, it appeared as a smooth narrowing of outer visual field borders, whereas Octopus demonstrated a less regular, more scattered loss of sensitivity.
Eighty per cent with peripheral field affection is among the highest reported frequencies in a vigabatrin-treated series of patients so far. An association with a cumulated dose of the drug was demonstrated. Visual field testing by finger movements and tangent screen evaluation will not reveal the initial peripheral losses of the visual field. For this purpose, we found manual kinetic Goldmann perimetry a valid alternative to modern computerised perimetric techniques. Goldmann takes less time, makes the co-operation of the patient easier, and the interpretation is simple.
To compare pregnancy outcome prospectively after phenytoin and carbamazepine monotherapy with outcome in matched mother-child pairs exposed to nonteratogens to evaluate the relative fetal safety of these drugs.
A prospective, controlled, and blinded observational study.
Thirty-six mother-child pairs exposed to carbamazepine monotherapy and 34 pairs exposed to phenytoin monotherapy, all prospectively studied, were compared with mother-child pairs exposed to nonteratogens. The controls were matched for maternal age, time of consultation, obstetric history, and socioeconomic status.
The primary end point of interest was the children's global IQ measured by either the Bayley or the McCarthy scale according to their ages.
A teratology consultation program and two neurology services in Toronto, Ontario.
Children exposed to phenytoin in utero had a mean (+/- SD) global IQ 10 points lower (95% confidence interval, 4.9 to 15.8 points) than their matched controls (113.4 +/- 13.1 and 103.1 +/- 25.1; P = .038). The Reynell language development scores followed a similar trend, with children exposed to phenytoin scoring significantly lower than their controls. Phenytoin-exposed children had a global IQ of 84 or less significantly more often than the control group (P < .01). Children exposed in utero to carbamazepine did not differ from their controls on any of the neurobehavioral tests.
Our study suggests a clinically important negative effect of phenytoin on neurobehavioral development, independent of maternal or environmental factors, causing a substantial number of children to achieve a lower score than expected on cognitive tests. No similar effects could be shown after gestational use of carbamazepine.
The carcinogenic potential of phenobarbital (PB) and 3-methylcholanthrene (3-MC) was assayed in a new medium-term carcinogenicity bioassay using D-galactosamine (DGA) as a nonsurgical method to induce liver cell regeneration in place of partial hepatectomy (PH). Rats were initially given a single ip injection (200 mg/kg) of diethylnitrosamine (DEN) and after 2 wk on basal diet received 2 ip injections of DGA (300 mg/kg) at the end of wk 2 and 5. They were treated with one of the test compounds PB or 3-MC in the diet or fed basal diet for wk 3-8 Carcinogenic potential was assessed by comparing the numbers and areas per square centimeter of glutathione S-transferase placental form-positive (GST-P+) foci in the livers of test chemical-treated animals with those of the control animals given DEN/DGA alone. Positive estimations of carcinogenicity were obtained for PB, which is a nongenotoxic liver tumor promoter, and for 3-MC, which is a genotoxic nonliver carcinogen. Increases of liver/body weight ratios and serum total cholesterol were observed in rats treated with PB or 3-MC. Interestingly, interlobe differences were found on the development of GST-P+ liver cell foci. Our results thus confirm that the present bioassay protocol with repeated administration of DGA instead of PH may offer a new and sensitive method to screen large-numbers of environmental liver and nonliver carcinogens.
The patterns of hippocampal neuronal loss and rewiring of the dentate gyrus (DG) were studied in the mouse model of temporal lobe epilepsy at 2 months after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (PISE). NeuN immunocytochemistry showed two patterns of neuronal damage, i.e., type 1 with partial loss of pyramidal neurons in CA3 area and type 2 with almost compete loss of CA3 pyramidal neurons. Anterograde tracing with Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (PHA-L) demonstrated that, at different rostrocaudal segments of the hippocampus, associational and commissural connections in the DG changed differently between mice with type 1 vs. type 2 neuronal loss. Calretinin (CR)-immunopositive mossy cells in ventral hilus and its fibers in inner molecular layer of bilateral DG remained in mice with type 1 but almost disappeared in mice with type 2 neuronal loss, which was further supported by retrograde labeling with cholera toxin subunit B (CTB) showing colocalization of CTB with CR in the ventral hilus of bilateral DG in mice with type 1 neuronal loss, which was lost in those with type 2 neuronal loss. Furthermore, the sprouted PHA-L-immunopositive en passant and terminal boutons from the DG were found in CA1 area to contact with surviving calbindin-, CR-, and parvalbumin-immunopositive neurons. The present study therefore suggests that different patterns of neuronal loss in CA3 area may be linked to different axon reorganizations in the DG.
This study was designed to investigate the role of increased adipocytes in the bone marrow (BM) niche induced by high-dose chemotherapy in hematopoietic recovery. Arabinosylcytosine (Ara-C) was administered to adult C57BL/6J mice to induce adipogenesis in the BM. We investigated the effects of adipogenesis on hematopoietic recovery following chemotherapy, using the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma inhibitor, bisphenol A diglycidyl ether (BADGE). Adipocyte hyperplasia could be induced by Ara-C treatment in BM and inhibited by BADGE. The accelerated recovery of leukocyte counts, increased colony forming units, and a higher proportion of Ki67(+)CD45(+) BM cells and Ki67(+)Lin(-)Sca1(+)c-kit(+) hematopoietic stem cells were observed in the long bone marrow of adipocyte-inhibited mice, as well as an increase in the number of CD45(+) BM cells in the tail fatty marrow compared to controls. Adipocytes participated in creating a distinctive niche for hematopoietic cells. In addition, lower expression of stromal cell-derived factor-1α and hypoxia-inducible factor-1 alpha were detected in the BADGE-treated group. These results indicate that hematopoietic recovery is improved following chemotherapy in adipogenesis-inhibited mice. In addition, adipocytes may create an individual niche that affects the proliferation and migration of hematopoietic cells in vitro and in vivo.
We investigated whether variants in the serotonin transporter gene (SLC6A4) influence smoking cessation rates using antidepressant therapy (i.e. bupropion and nortriptyline).
Pharmacogenetic (secondary) analysis of a randomized, placebo-controlled efficacy trial of bupropion and nortriptyline for smoking cessation.
Single-centre study, Maastricht University, the Netherlands.
A total of 214 of 255 (84%) current daily smokers participating in a randomized controlled efficacy trial.
Subjects were genotyped for three functional variants in SLC6A4 (5-HTTLPR, STin2, rs25531). Primary outcome measures were prolonged abstinence from weeks 4-12, 4-26 and 4-52. Secondary outcome measures included 7-day point prevalence abstinence at weeks 4, 12, 26 and 52.
Carriers of the 5-HTTLPR high-activity L-variant had higher prolonged cessation rates with bupropion than placebo [odds ratio (OR) = 1.44, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.01-2.05, P = 0.04]. Combining the three variants resulted in increased prolonged cessation rates for both bupropion and nortriptyline among carriers of four to five high-activity variants (bupropion: OR = 2.00, 95% CI =1.21-3.29, P = 0.01; nortriptyline: OR = 1.91, 95% CI = 1.02-3.56, P = 0.04). Similar results were found for point prevalence abstinence.
Bupropion and nortriptyline seem to be more effective in smoking cessation among SLC6A4 high-activity variant carriers, probably by blocking the increased serotonin transporter activity, thereby increasing serotonin levels. Prospective studies have to assess if this can improve cessation rates when treatment is targeted at individuals based on their genotypes.
To determine the maximal-tolerated dose (MTD) of infusional cyclosporine (CSA) with fixed-dose carboplatin (CBDCA).
Clonogenic cytotoxicity assays were performed to assess the effect of CSA on reversal of resistance to CBDCA. The phase I study was performed in three phases. In phases 1 and 2, escalating-dose CSA (5, 7.5, 8.8, or 9.5 mg/kg/d) with fixed-dose CBDCA 300 or 250 mg/m2 were administered. Phase 3 required an initial cycle of CBDCA 250 mg/m2 alone, followed by combination therapy with CBDCA 250 mg/m2 and CSA (8.8, 9.5, or 10.0 mg/kg/d).
Preincubation of platinum-resistant A2780 human ovarian cancer cells with CSA 2 micrograms/mL significantly enhanced CBDCA cytotoxicity in clonogenic assays. Fifty-one patients received 130 courses of therapy. The phase 1 MTD was thrombocytopenia (CSA 7.5 mg/kg/d and CBDCA 300 mg/m2) attributable to the effects of CBDCA alone. The phase 2 MTD was reversible nephrotoxicity (serum creatinine elevations to 3.6 and 4.4 mg/dL) and neutropenia (CSA 9.5 mg/kg/d and CBDCA 250 mg/m2). In phase 3, headache was observed in five patients and hypertension in one patient at CSA 10 mg/kg/d. The expected change in platelet count predicted for CBDCA alone was compared with the actual change; no excessive thrombocytopenia was observed with addition of CSA. Steady-state CSA levels of 2 micrograms/mL capable of reversing platinum resistance in vitro were observed. Four objective responses were observed.
CSA is effective in reversing CBDCA resistance in A2780 ovarian cancer cells. Short-term infusions of CSA < or = 8.8 mg/kg/d in combination with CBDCA are well-tolerated for heavily pretreated patients and result in CSA levels known to reverse CBDCA resistance in vitro.
This study examined renal function in 42 children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) treated according to BFM-95 protocol. Fifteen (group 1) were investigated longitudinally at 3 time points: before (T1), 4 weeks after (T2), and 2-6 months after (T3) consolidation therapy with high-dose methotrexate (HDMTX). The frequency of abnormalities in glomerular and tubular tests were nil at T1 and ranged from 13 to 40% at T2 and 7 to 33% at T3 in group 1. Twenty percent of the patients (n = 10) in group 2, who were examined at a single time point 7-36 months after consolidation, had glomerular and tubular abnormalities. There was only mild tubular abnormality in 5.8% of patients (n = 17) in group 3, who were examined at a single time point a mean of 56.1 +/- 12.5 months after completion chemotherapy. These data show that consolidation therapy with HDMTX is frequently associated with acute renal toxicity in children with ALL but does not leave clinically significant late sequelae.
Monotherapy with a single antiviral agent is insufficient in controlling hepatitis B virus infection in the majority of patients with anti-HBe positive chronic hepatitis B. Interferon/long-term lamivudine combination therapy was evaluated to determine if this strategy would improve treatment efficacy and reduce the emergence of lamivudine resistance.
In total, 36 consecutive anti-HBe positive patients were treated with interferon (3 MU subcutaneously three times weekly) and lamivudine (100 mg orally once a day) for 12 months. After completion of the combined treatment, all patients continued to receive lamivudine monotherapy indefinitely.
Overall, 35 patients (97%) showed virological response at 12 months. Four patients (11%) cleared HBsAg and developed anti-HBs. During the follow-up time, after the discontinuation of interferon, of 30 +/- 12 months (range: 7-57 months), 13 patients (36%) exhibited breakthrough infection. The cumulative rates of breakthrough infection at the end of 1, 2, 3 and 4 years of treatment were 0%, 14%, 32%, and 59%, respectively.
Combination therapy appears to be effective and may also delay the selection of lamivudine-resistant variants. However, controlled trials are definitely warranted to clarify the potential benefits of combination antiviral treatment over monotherapy.
Patients with a recessively inherited "pure" hereditary spastic paresis (SPG5) have mutations in the gene coding for the oxysterol 7 alpha hydroxylase (CYP7B1). One of the expected metabolic consequences of such mutations is accumulation of oxysterol substrates due to decreased enzyme activity. In accordance with this, we demonstrate here that four patients with the SPG5 disease have 6- to 9-fold increased plasma levels of 27-hydroxycholesterol. A much higher increase, 30- to 50-fold, was found in cerebrospinal fluid. The plasma levels of 25-hydroxycholesterol were increased about 100-fold. There were no measurable levels of this oxysterol in cerebrospinal fluid. The pattern of bile acids in serum was normal, suggesting a normal bile acid synthesis. The findings are discussed in relation to two transgenic mouse models with increased levels of 27-hydroxy cholesterol in the circulation but without neurological symptoms: the cyp27a1 transgenic mouse and the cyp7b1 knockout mouse. The absolute plasma levels of 27-hydroxycholesterol in the latter models are, however, only about 20% of those in the SPG5 patients. If the accumulation of 27-hydroxycholesterol is an important pathogenetic factor, a reduction of its levels may reduce or prevent the neurological symptoms. A possible strategy to achieve this is discussed.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ) agonists and PPARγ/α dual agonists are used in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus and hyperlipidemias. In carcinogenicity studies, some of these agonists induced hemangiomas/hemangiosarcomas in mice, but not in rats. We hypothesized that increased endothelial cell (EC) proliferation may be involved in the mechanism of PPAR agonist-induced vascular tumors in mice. We previously showed that the sarcomagenic PPARγ agonist troglitazone (TG) increased EC proliferation in brown and white adipose tissue and liver in mice at sarcomagenic doses (400 and 800 mg/kg) after four weeks of treatment. In vitro, TG had a mitogenic effect on mouse microvascular mouse ECs by increasing cell proliferation and survival. The current studies showed that treatment of mouse ECs in vitro induced alterations in proliferation pathway gene expression, especially the expression of insulin-like growth factor-1, but had no effect on mouse oxidative stress pathways. In vivo, treatment with vitamin E did not inhibit TG-induced EC proliferation in liver and adipose tissue. In addition, no hypoxic effect was detected in adipose tissue of TG-treated mice; however, TG had a minor effect on hepatocellular hypoxia. These results provide additional evidence supporting a direct mitogenic effect in the mode of action of TG-induced hemangiosarcomas in mice.
Cardiotoxicity was an unanticipated side effect elicited by the clinical use of imatinib (Imb). This toxicity has been examined in only a limited number of experimental studies. The present study sought, by a variety of approaches, to identify important characteristics of Imb-induced cardiac alterations. Male spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) received oral doses of 10, 30, or 50 mg/kg Imb or water daily for 10 d. Cardiac lesions, detected at all doses, were characterized by cytoplasmic vacuolization and myofibrillar loss. In a second experiment, cardiac lesions were found in Sprague Dawley (SD) and SHR rats given 50 or 100 mg/kg Imb for 14 d. Mean cardiac lesion scores and serum levels of cardiac troponin I were higher in SHRs than in SD rats. Imb induced myocyte death by necrosis, autophagy, and apoptosis. Dose-related increases in cardiac expression were observed for several genes associated with endoplasmic reticulum stress response, protein folding, and vascular development and remodeling. Imb caused alterations in isolated myocytes (myofibrillar loss, highly disrupted and disorganized sarcomeric α-actinin, apoptosis, and increased lactate dehydrogenase release) at low concentrations (5 mM). The authors conclude that Imb exerts cardiotoxic effects that are manifest through a complex pattern of cellular alterations, the severity of which can be influenced by arterial blood pressure.
Aloe vera is one of the most commonly used botanicals for various prophylactic and therapeutic purposes. Recently, NTP/NCTR has demonstrated a dose-dependent increase in large intestinal tumors in F344 rats chronically exposed to Aloe barbadensis Miller (Aloe vera) non-decolorized whole leaf extract (AVNWLE) in drinking water. The morphological and molecular pathways of AVNWLE-induced large intestinal tumors in the F344 rats were compared to human colorectal cancer (hCRC) literature. Defined histological criteria were used to compare AVNWLE-induced large intestinal tumors with hCRC. The commonly mutated genes (Kras, Ctnnb1, and Tp53) and altered signaling pathways (MAPK, WNT, and TGF-β) important in hCRC were evaluated within AVNWLE-induced large intestinal tumors. Histological evaluation of the large intestinal tumors indicated eight of twelve adenomas (Ads) and four of twelve carcinomas (Cas). Mutation analysis of eight Ads and four Cas identified point mutations in exons 1 and 2 of the Kras gene (two of eight Ads, two of four Cas), and in exon 2 of the Ctnnb1 gene (three of eight Ads, one of four Cas). No Tp53 (exons 5-8) mutations were found in Ads or Cas. Molecular pathways important in hCRC such as MAPK, WNT, and TGF-β signaling were also altered in AVNWLE-induced Ads and Cas. In conclusion, the AVNWLE-induced large intestinal tumors in F344 rats share several similarities with hCRC at the morphological and molecular levels.
The development of nanotechnology has increased the risk of exposure to types of particles other than combustion-derived particles in the environment, namely, industrial nanomaterials. On the other hand, patients with bronchial asthma are sensitive to inhaled substances including particulate matters. This study examined the effects of pulmonary exposure to a type of nano-sized carbon nanotube (multi-walled nanotubes: MWCNT) on allergic airway inflammation in vivo and their cellular mechanisms in vitro. In vivo, ICR mice were divided into 4 experimental groups. Vehicle, MWCNT (50 microg/animal), ovalbumin (OVA), and OVA+MWCNT were repeatedly administered intratracheally. Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) cellularity, lung histology, levels of cytokines related to allergic inflammation in lung homogenates/BAL fluids (BALFs), and serum immunoglobulin levels were studied. Also, we evaluated the impact of MWCNT (0.1-1 microg/ml) on the phenotype and function of bone marrow-derived dendritic cells (DC) in vitro. MWCNT aggravated allergen-induced airway inflammation characterized by the infiltration of eosinophils, neutrophils, and mononuclear cells in the lung, and an increase in the number of goblet cells in the bronchial epithelium. MWCNT with allergen amplified lung protein levels of Th cytokines and chemokines compared with allergen alone. MWCNT exhibited adjuvant activity for allergen-specific IgG(1) and IgE. MWCNT significantly increased allergen (OVA)-specific syngeneic T-cell proliferation, particularly at a lower concentration in vitro. Taken together, MWCNT can exacerbate murine allergic airway inflammation, at least partly, via the promotion of a Th-dominant milieu. In addition, the exacerbation may be partly through the inappropriate activation of antigen-presenting cells including DC.
Cocaine-induced convulsions appear to be mediated by serotonin (5-HT) neurotransmission, acting primarily at 5-HT(2) receptors. However, this effect of cocaine is attenuated by cocaine binding at sigma and muscarinic M(1) and M(2) sites. This study examined whether the aforementioned neural sites mediate the nearly two-fold difference in sensitivity to cocaine-induced convulsions across C57BL/6J (6J) and C57BL/6ByJ (6ByJ) mice. Experiment 1 compared 5-HT transporter densities across several brain regions of 6J and 6ByJ mice and cocaine-induced convulsions following pretreatment with the 5-HT reuptake inhibitor fluoxetine. Experiment 2 compared 5-HT(2) receptor densities across these mice and cocaine-induced convulsions following pretreatment with the 5-HT(2) antagonist cinanserin. There were no differences in 5-HT transporter densities, however, fluoxetine produced a greater facilitation of cocaine-induced convulsions in 6ByJ relative to 6J mice, suggesting that sensitivity to convulsions is mediated postsynaptically. Indeed, 5-HT(2) density was higher in 6ByJ relative to 6J mice in the amygdaloid ridge, hypothalamus, and midbrain. In addition, cinanserin attenuated convulsions more potently in 6J relative to 6ByJ mice. There were no differences in the densities or affinities of 5-HT(1), muscarinic, or sigma receptors across these strains, suggesting that density of these latter sites does not mediate genetic sensitivity to cocaine-induced convulsions. Since 6ByJ mice are less sensitive to convulsions despite the fact that they have more 5-HT(2) receptors, we hypothesized that these mice may exhibit a weaker linkage of 5-HT(2) sites to their second-messenger system relative to 6J mice. However, in experiment 3 we demonstrated that 5-HT(2)-receptor mediated phosphoinositide hydrolysis was higher in 6ByJ relative to 6J mice in the same regions also displaying higher 5-HT(2) densities. This study suggests that 5-HT(2) receptors mediate genetic sensitivity to cocaine-induced convulsions, further supporting the role of these sites in mediating this toxic effect of cocaine.
Sunitinib (SUN) is a new multi-targeted oral tyrosine kinase inhibitor that has both anti-angiogenic and anti-tumor activities. However, information reported in the literature on the effects of SUN on the constitutive expression of cytochrome P450 1A1 (CYP1A1) gene in cells from mammalian species remains unclear. Therefore, the main objectives of the current work were to investigate the potentiality of SUN to induce CYP1A1 gene expression in human breast cancer MCF7 cells and to explore the molecular mechanisms involved. Our results showed that SUN induced the CYP1A1 mRNA, protein, and activity levels in a concentration-dependent manner in MCF7 cells. The increase in CYP1A1 mRNA by SUN was completely blocked by the transcriptional inhibitor, actinomycin D; implying that SUN increased de novo RNA synthesis. Furthermore, the ability of SUN to increase luciferase reporter gene expression suggests an aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR)-dependent transcriptional control and excludes the possibility of any posttranscriptional mechanisms. In addition, blocking of AhR activation by resveratrol, a well-known AhR antagonist, prevented the SUN-induced CYP1A1 gene expression, further confirms the involvement of AhR. Interestingly, this was associated with the inability of SUN to directly bind to and induce transformation of cytosolic AhR to its DNA-binding form in vitro, suggesting that the effect of SUN does not involve direct binding to AhR. The current manuscript provides the first evidence for the ability of SUN to induce CYP1A1 gene expression in MCF7 cells through AhR ligand-independent mechanisms.
The ability of the GABA(B) receptor antagonist, phaclofen to alter behavioral effects of ethanol was evaluated by loss of righting reflex (sleep time), motor incoordination (bar holding), spontaneous locomotion (open field activity) and hypothermia. Pretreatment with phaclofen significantly decreased the effects of ethanol on motor incoordination, locomotor activity and hypothermia. However, phaclofen had no effect on either pentobarbitalor diazepam-induced motor incoordination. Phaclofen slightly increased the ED50 for loss of the righting reflex but did not alter either the duration of reflex loss produced by ethanol or blood ethanol levels at awakening. Our results suggest phaclofen is rapidly inactivated resulting in difficulty in observing antagonism of long duration ethanol effects. These findings suggest that the GABA(B) system may play a role in mediating several important actions of ethanol.
We report a case of acute interstitial nephritis associated with cefotetan therapy. Cefotetan should be considered a potential cause of acute renal failure in patients who develop rash, eosinophilia, and fever in association with an acute deterioration of renal function.
Using various FcgammaR-deficient mice, we have obtained suggestive evidence that FcgammaRI on macrophages is responsible for severe cartilage destruction during arthritis mediated by immune complexes (ICs). This role of FcgammaRI is pronounced in the presence of activated Th1 cells and a likely Th1 cell-derived cytokine mediating up-regulation of FcgammaRI expression is interferon (IFN)-gamma. We now investigated whether local overexpression of IFN-gamma using an adenoviral vector is able to elevate cartilage destruction during experimental immune complex-mediated arthritis (ICA) and to what extent this process is FcgammaRI-mediated. IFN-gamma overexpression during ICA had no significant effect on the total cell mass infiltrating the knee joint. However, a higher percentage of macrophages expressing markers for a proinflammatory phenotype was found and these macrophages were situated in close proximity of the cartilage surface. Interestingly, cartilage destruction as studied by matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-mediated proteoglycan damage (VDIPEN expression), chondrocyte death, and erosion was significantly increased. This effect of IFN-gamma was only found in the presence of ICs, as IFN-gamma overexpression during zymosan-induced arthritis, which is not IC-dependent, did not lead to severe cartilage destruction. These results imply a crucial role for ICs and the IgG-binding receptors in the aggravation of cartilage damage by IFN-gamma. Local overexpression of IFN-gamma induced increased FcgammaRI mRNA levels in synovium. To study whether this up-regulation of FcgammaRI mediates aggravation of cartilage destruction, ICA was raised in FcgammaRI(-/-) and their wild-type controls. IFN-gamma resulted in elevated VDIPEN expression, which was still present in FcgammaRI(-/-). Of great interest, chondrocyte death remained low in FcgammaRI(-/-). These results indicate that IFN-gamma overexpression deteriorates cartilage destruction in the presence of ICs and that FcgammaRI is crucial in the development of chondrocyte death.
Dispositions of caffeine and antipyrine were compared as indicators of decreasing hepatic function in dogs with experimentally induced progressive liver disease. Dimethylnitrosamine, a hepatospecific toxin, was administered orally to 16 dogs; 6 dogs served as controls (group 1). Three classes of liver disease were defined by histologic features: mild (group 2; n = 5), moderate (group 3; n = 6), and severe (group 4; n = 5). Disposition of antipyrine, and 24 hours later, caffeine was studied 3 weeks after the last dose of toxin in each dog. For both drugs, rapid IV administration of 20 mg/kg of body weight was administered and serum samples were obtained at intervals for determination of at least 5 terminal-phase drug half-lives. For both drugs, clearance and mean residence time differed among groups (P < or = 0.01). Clearance of antipyrine and caffeine was decreased in groups 3 and 4, compared with groups 1 and 2. Antipyrine and caffeine mean residence times were longer in group-3 dogs, compared with dogs of groups 1 and 2. Correction of caffeine and antipyrine clearances for hepatic weight increased discrimination between groups 3 and 4. The clearance and mean residence time ratios of antipyrine to caffeine were calculated for each group and, when compared with values for group-1 dogs, were used to test for differences between the 2 drugs in response to disease. Ratios did not differ among groups. These results indicate that the disposition of antipyrine and caffeine may change similarly with progression of dimethylnitrosamine-induced liver disease.
Reactive oxygen species and oxidative stress are involved in quinolinic acid (QUIN)-induced neurotoxicity. QUIN, a N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAr) agonist and prooxidant molecule, produces NMDAr overactivation, excitotoxic events, and direct reactive oxygen species formation. Copper is an essential metal exhibiting both modulatory effects on neuronal excitatory activity and antioxidant properties. To investigate whether this metal is able to counteract the neurotoxic and oxidative actions of QUIN, we administered copper (as CuSO(4)) intraperitoneally to rats (2.5, 5.0, 7.5, and 10.0 mg/kg) 30 min before the striatal infusion of 1 microliter of QUIN (240 nmol). A 5.0 mg/kg CuSO(4) dose significantly increased the copper content in the striatum, reduced the neurotoxicity measured both as circling behavior and striatal gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) depletion, and blocked the oxidative injury evaluated as striatal lipid peroxidation (LP). In addition, copper reduced the QUIN-induced decreased striatal activity of Cu,Zn-dependent superoxide dismutase, and increased the ferroxidase activity of ceruloplasmin in cerebrospinal fluid from QUIN-treated rats. However, copper also produced significant increases of plasma lactate dehydrogenase activity and mortality at the highest doses employed (7.5 and 10.0 mg/kg). These results show that at low doses, copper exerts a protective effect on in vivo QUIN neurotoxicity.
The effect of the type of carcinogen initiator on the ability of phenobarbital (PB) to promote hepatic tumor formation in 15-day-old initiated male B6C3F1 mice was evaluated. Fifteen-day-old male B6C3F1 mice were divided into 6 groups of 10 mice each. Groups 1 and 2 received a single intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of diethylnitrosamine (DENA) (5 micrograms/body wt). Groups 3 and 4 received a single i.p. injection of diethylnitrosamine (DENA) (5 micrograms/g body wt). Groups 3 and 4 received a single i.p. injection of dimethylnitrosamine (DMNA) (5 micrograms/g body wt). Groups 5 and 6 received a single i.p. injection of saline. At weaning (28 days of age), mice in groups 2, 4 and 6 received PB (500 mg/ml) in their drinking water. Mice in groups 1, 3 and 5 received deionized drinking water. Drinking water treatment continued for 24 weeks at which time mice were sampled. At sampling, mice were examined for hepatic tumors by histology. Mice in groups 5 (no treatment) and 6 (PB only) did not exhibit hepatic tumors. Groups 2 (DENA + PB) displayed a decrease in hepatic adenomas from that of group 1 (DENA only), confirming previous observations. Treatment with DMNA and PB (group 4), however, resulted in a significant increase in both hepatic adenoma incidence and number over that of DMNA only (group 3) treated mice. The promoted adenomas appeared to be predominantly eosinophilic in appearance. The type of initiator therefore appears important in determining if 15-day-old initiated male B6C3F1 mice respond to the promotion effects of PB.
