Fischer 344 rats were treated with tobramycin or gentamicin, 40 mg/kg/day, for up to 10 days or with tobramycin, 120 mg/kg/day, for up to 14 days. Serum creatinine and BUN at the time of sacrifice were determined, and kidney tissues were examined by light and electron microscopy. Rats receiving gentamicin demonstrated progressive renal proximal tubular necrosis which was nearly universal at the end of 10 days. Their BUN and creatinine levels rose progressively over the same period. Even at the higher dosage, tobramycin therapy resulted in only rare foci of proximal tubular necrosis and minimal elevation of BUN and creatinine. Although they occurred later and were substantially less severe, the ultrastructural changes induced by tobramycin were the same as those seen following gentamicin administration. These results indicate that the mechanism of tobramycin-induced renal injury is probably similar to that of gentamicin and that tobramycin is significantly less nephrotoxic in this experimental model.
The effects of hypotensive anesthesia induced by PGE1 on myocardial metabolism, oxygen demand and oxygen supply were studied. Nine mongrel dogs were anesthetized with pentobarbital and isoflurane. Mean blood pressure (MBP), cardiac output (CO), blood gases (BG), coronary blood flow (CBF), and myocardial tissue oxygen tension (MPO) were measured. Arterial and coronary venous lactate and pyruvate concentrations were also measured. We calculated myocardial oxygen consumption, L/P ratio, excess lactate, oxygen extraction ratio and lactate extraction ratio to estimate the adequacy of myocardial aerobic metabolism. CO and CBF decreased in accordance with MBP depression. Myocardial oxygen consumption decreased significantly with PGE1 administration. Lactate and pyruvate concentrations, L/P ratio, excess lactate and myocardial tissue oxygen tension were unchanged. These results suggest that PGE1 exerts no significant effect on myocardial metabolism during hypotensive anesthesia.
We investigated the effects of adenosine receptor antagonists on amitriptyline-induced cardiotoxicity in isolated rat hearts.
The amitriptyline concentrations that prolonged the QRS duration more than 150% (10(-4) M) and 50-75% (5.5 x 10(-5) M) were accepted as the control groups for two experimental protocols, respectively. In the first protocol, amitriptyline (10(-4) M) was infused following pretreatment with a selective adenosine A(1) receptor antagonist, DPCPX (8-cyclopentyl-1,3-Dipropylxanthine,10(-4) to 10(-6) M) or a selective adenosine A(2a) receptor antagonist, CSC (8-3-chlorostyryl-caffeine,10(-4) to 10(-6) M). In the second protocol, amitriptyline (5.5 x 10(-5) M) was infused following pretreatment with DPCPX (10(-4) M) or CSC (10(-5) M). Left ventricular developed pressure (LVDP), dp/dt(max), QRS duration and heart rate (HR) were measured.
In the first protocol, 10(-4) M DPCPX pretreatment shortened QRS duration at 50 minutes when compared to the control group (p < 0.05). In the second protocol, pretreatment with 10(-4) M DPCPX shortened the QRS duration at 40, 50, and 60 minutes after amitriptyline infusion when compared to the control group (p < 0.05, p < 0.01 and p < 0.05, respectively). Pretreatment with 10(-5) M CSC prolonged QRS duration at 20, 30, and 60 minutes (p < 0.05). Amitriptyline infusion following pretreatment with DPCPX or CSC did not change LVDP, dp/dt(max), or HR when compared to control in both protocols (p > 0.05).
While 10(-4) M DPCPX shortened QRS prolongation, 10(-5) M CSC prolonged QRS duration in the isolated rat hearts with prolonged QRS duration induced by 5.5 x 10(-5)M amitriptyline. An adenosine A(1) receptor antagonist, DPCPX, might shorten amitriptyline-induced QRS prolongation by activating beta adrenergic receptors.
High-dose methotrexate (HDMTX) is a component of many cancer treatment regimens. Despite careful management, delayed renal clearance, followed by extremely high serum levels with potentially life-threatening toxicity can occur. In the present study, we report our results of carboxypeptidase-G2 (CPDG2) rescue in 8 patients with delayed methotrexate elimination and renal impairment after HDMTX therapy for lymphoma or osteosarcoma. A dose of 50 U/kg CPDG2 was administered. MTX plasma levels decreased rapidly and recovery of renal function was observed in all patients. No patient developed severe WHO grade 4 MTX toxicity. CPDG2 provides an alternative route of MTX elimination by converting it to inactive and non-toxic metabolites. CPDG2 rescue was well tolerated, safe and very effective in preventing severe or life-threatening MTX toxicity.
Morphine has been extensively used in the treatment of pulmonary edema, and its action is believed to be mediated in part by its ability to produce peripheral venodilation. This study investigated whether opiates produce venodilation in human hand veins and explored the underlying mechanism(s). Fifteen healthy volunteers (11 men and four women) were studied with use of the dorsal hand vein compliance technique. After preconstriction with the selective alpha 1-adrenergic receptor agonist phenylephrine, dose-response curves were constructed to (1) opiate receptor agonists morphine (1 to 30 micrograms/min) or fentanyl (0.07 to 1 microgram/min), (2) a combination of morphine and the mu-opiate receptor antagonist naloxone, and (3) morphine and a combination of histamine (H1 and H2) receptor antagonists. Infusion of morphine caused venodilation in a dose-dependent manner, whereas fentanyl did not produce venodilation. Coinfusion of naloxone and morphine impaired the venodilation only slightly. Coinfusion of the H1- and H2-antagonists completely abolished the venodilatory effect of morphine. These results suggest that the venodilatory effect of morphine is mediated through histamine release and that mu-opiate receptors have little or no involvement in this process.
In patients under oral anticoagulant requiring percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) with stent implantation, the optimal association between aspirin, clopidogrel and oral anticoagulant (OAC) remains cumberstome. Triple therapy and dual therapy using aspirin and OAC have been evaluated and are associated with a high frequency of major bleedings. The combination of clopidogrel and OAC has never been evaluated.
We aimed to investigate the safety and efficacy of clopidogrel and OAC in patients requiring OAC undergoing PCI for acute coronary syndrome.
A monocenter retrospective study was undertaken between 2000 and 2006 and included all patients undergoing PCI with stent implantation on OAC. On discharge dual therapy with clopidogrel and OAC was prescribed. The primary end-point was the frequency of major TIMI bleedings. Secondary end-points were major cardiovascular event (MACE). Results are reported as rate of events with 95% confidence intervals (CI).
Two hundreds and nine patients were followed for 71 +/- 22 months. The indication for oral anticoagulation was atrial fibrillation in 80% of patients, a valvular prothesis in 18% and a history of pulmonary embolism in 5%. The rate (95%CI) of major bleeding was 2.4% (0.9%-5.8%) 2.87% (1.17%-6.44%) and 3.8% (1.79%-7.68%) at 1 month, 12 months and 71 months respectively, which represent 8 events among which 2 were fatal. The MACE rate (95%CI) was low: 0% at one month, 3.8% (1.79%-7.68%) at 12 months and 24.4% (19.07%-30.65%) at 71 months of follow up. Only one stent thrombosis was recorded at the ninth month. The overall rate of death was 9.5% (6.28%-14.32%) among which 2.87% (1.17%-6.44%) were of cardiovascular origin.
The use of clopidogrel and OAC combination in patients on OAC undergoing coronary stenting is safe and efficient at the short-term. At the long-term, this combination is probably not safe, with a relatively high incidence of fatal stroke.
Dexrazoxane was found effective in reducing doxorubicin cardiotoxicity when given at a dose ratio (dexrazoxane: doxorubicin) of 20:1. Preclinical studies indicated that dexrazoxane at a dose ratio of 10 to 15:1 also protected against epirubicin-induced cardiotoxicity. The main objective of this study was to investigate the efficacy of dexrazoxane, given at a dose ratio of 10:1 against epirubicin cardiotoxicity.
One hundred sixty-two advanced breast cancer patients were randomized to receive epirubicin-based chemotherapy with or without dexrazoxane. Patients who had previously received adjuvant chemotherapy that contained anthracyclines were treated with cyclophosphamide 600 mg/m2 intravenously (IV), epirubicin 60 mg/m2 IV, and fluorouracil 600 mg/m2 IV, on day 1 every 3 weeks. The other patients were treated with epirubicin 120 mg/m2 IV on day 1 every 3 weeks. Cardiac toxicity was defined as clinical signs of congestive heart failure, a decrease in resting left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) to < or = 45%, or a decrease from baseline resting LVEF of > or = 20 EF units.
One hundred sixty patients were evaluated. Cardiotoxicity was recorded in 18 of 78 patients (23.1%) in the control arm and in six of 82 (7.3%) in the dexrazoxone arm. The cumulative probability of developing cardiotoxicity was significantly lower in dexrazoxane-treated patients than in control patients (P = .006; odds ratio, 0.29; 95% confidence limit [CL], 0.09 to 0.78). Noncardiac toxicity, objective response, progression-free survival, and overall survival were similar in both arms.
Dexrazoxane given at a dexrazoxane:epirubicin dose ratio of 10:1 protects against epirubicin-induced cardiotoxicity and does not affect the clinical activity and the noncardiac toxicity of epirubicin. The clinical use of dexrazoxane should be recommended in patients whose risk of developing cardiotoxicity could hamper the eventual use and possible benefit of epirubicin.
The aim of the study was to examine the effects of epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG) on hepatic fibrogenesis and on cultured hepatic stellate cells (HSCs). The rat model of carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4))-induced hepatic fibrosis was used to assess the effect of daily intraperitoneal injections of EGCG on the indexes of fibrosis. Histological and hepatic hydroxyproline examination revealed that EGCG significantly arrested progression of hepatic fibrosis. EGCG caused significant amelioration of liver injury (reduced activities of serum alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase). The development of CCl(4)-induced hepatic fibrosis altered the redox state with a decreased hepatic glutathione and increased the formation of lipid peroxidative products, which were partially normalized by treatment with EGCG, respectively. Moreover, EGCG markedly attenuated HSC activation as well as matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2 activity. In cultured stellate cell, the expression of MMP-2 mRNA and protein were substantially reduced by EGCG treatment. Concanavalin A-induced activation of secreted MMP-2 was inhibited by EGCG through the influence of membrane type 1-MMP activity. These results demonstrate that administration of EGCG may be useful in the treatment and prevention of hepatic fibrosis.
We investigated the effects of YM905 [(+)-(1S,3'R)-quinuclidin-3'-yl 1-phenyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline-2-carboxylate monosuccinate], a new orally active muscarinic M3-receptor antagonist, on bowel dysfunction in vivo using experimental models that reproduce the symptoms present in irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). YM905 potently inhibited restraint stress-induced fecal pellet output in fed rats (ED50: 4.0 mg/kg) and diarrhea in fasted rats (ED50: 1.7 mg/kg), with similar potencies to the inhibition of bethanechol-, neostigmine- and nicotine-induced fecal pellet output in rats (ED50: 3.3, 7.9 and 4.5 mg/kg, respectively). YM905 also inhibited 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)-, prostaglandin E2- and castor oil-induced secretory diarrhea in mice (ED50: 5.5, 14 and 6.3 mg/kg, respectively), but showed no significant effect on cholera toxin-induced intestinal secretion in mice. In addition, YM905 (3, 10 mg/kg) reversed morphine-decreased postprandial defecation in ferrets, a model of spastic constipation, whereas remosetron, a 5-HT3-receptor antagonist, was not effective. The mode of YM905 action was similar to that of darifenacin, a selective M3-receptor antagonist, with equivalent potencies. By contrast, propantheline, an antimuscarinic drug that has been used for IBS, was much less potent. These results show that YM905 ameliorates a wide spectrum of bowel dysfunctions through the blockade of M3 receptors, suggesting its therapeutic potential for treating IBS.
This study determined, in humans, the effects of (i) the number of within-session task repetitions (72 or 144 over a period of 15 or 30 min, respectively) on the time course of motor learning in a long-term (seven consecutive daily motor-training sessions and a 1-week post-follow-up) novel tongue-task training regime and (ii) somatosensory manipulations (capsaicin-induced intra-oral pain or lidocaine-induced sensory loss of the tongue tip) on motor learning in a short-term (single motor-training session consisting of 72 within-session task repetitions over a period of 15 min) novel tongue-task training regime. Novel tongue-task training consisted of tracking a moving target box by generating a pre-set amount of tongue-protrusion force onto a force lever. Analysis of motor behaviour revealed (i) a higher within-session gain for the 30-min tongue-task training regime, but this difference did not differentially affect the time course of the overall motor performance or additional motor performance variables between the 15- and 30-min tongue-task training regimes in subsequent training sessions. (ii) somatosensory manipulations of the tongue tip reduced the gains in overall motor performance, and this reduced motor performance was mainly characterized by exaggerated undershoot errors and delayed reaction times for the lidocaine tongue-task training regime and exaggerated overshoot and undershoot errors as well as delayed reaction times for the capsaicin tongue-task training regime. It is concluded that extended within-session task repetitions do not facilitate additional long-term gains in overall motor performance and intra-oral sensory loss or pain hinders motor learning.
Ketoconazole is not known to be proarrhythmic without concomitant use of QT interval-prolonging drugs. We report a woman with coronary artery disease who developed a markedly prolonged QT interval and torsades de pointes (TdP) after taking ketoconazole for treatment of fungal infection. Her QT interval returned to normal upon withdrawal of ketoconazole. Genetic study did not find any mutation in her genes that encode cardiac IKr channel proteins. We postulate that by virtue of its direct blocking action on IKr, ketoconazole alone may prolong QT interval and induce TdP. This calls for attention when ketoconazole is administered to patients with risk factors for acquired long QT syndrome.
Sixteen patients suffering from phenacetin nephropathy were seen at one London hospital between June 1964 and January 1970. There were five deaths, three of them following a surgical operation. Phenacetin nephropathy occurs far more frequently than is generally considered. Unless patients are asked about the consumption of phenacetin routinely the diagnosis is usually missed. It is recommended that phenacetin and paracetamol should be available only on a doctor's prescription.
88 patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) were given the inhibitor of 5 alpha-reductase proscar (finasteride, Merck and Co. Inc., USA) for 12-14 months and uroselective blocker of alpha-adrenoreceptors alfuzosin (dalfas, Synthelabo Group, France) for 4-5 months. The patients were examined before the combined treatment and on the treatment month 1, 3, 6 and 12. The proscar plus alfuzosin combination produced a response after 2-3-week treatment due to alpha-blocker Further, the effect was enhanced by the action of inhibitor of 5 alpha-reductase. Combination of alfuzosin with proscar meets three principal requirements demanded of BPH chemotherapy: improves urination, inhibits the growth of adenomatous tissue, diminishes the size of the enlarged prostate.
This survey aimed to assess the extent and pattern of use of suxamethonium for elective tracheal intubation in children and the occurrence of major complications. A postal questionnaire was sent to 280 consultant anaesthetists and senior registrars in the West Midlands Region. Of the 180 replies received, 84% of respondents use suxamethonium routinely. Usage was more common amongst those more recently trained (all anaesthetists with less than 10 years experience reported using suxamethonium for routine intubation compared with 81% of those with over 20 years experience). Reported side effects directly attributable to suxamethonium were common, the most frequent being cardiac arrhythmias (especially bradycardia) following the first dose (24% respondents) or the second dose (43%), and prolonged apnoea (36% of respondents). There were 13 reported cardiac arrests (requiring external cardiac massage), three of which were associated with repeat dosing and one with undiagnosed Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Three cases of documented hyperkalaemia did not lead to cardiac arrest. There were two deaths, neither of which could be solely attributed to the use of suxamethonium. We conclude that suxamethonium remains popular in paediatric practice and that minor side effects are common and usually preventable. Life-threatening reactions are rare and until a truly comparable alternative is produced this drug will continue to be used in children.
A randomised, controlled, single-blind study was performed on 100 patients to investigate a new method of reducing pain on propofol injection. Aspiration of 2 ml of the patient's blood into a syringe of propofol immediately before injection was compared with the addition of lignocaine 20 mg or normal saline 2 ml to the propofol before injection. The addition of blood was significantly more effective in reducing pain on injection than the addition of saline (p < 0.001), but was not significantly more effective than the addition of lignocaine.
A randomised, double-blind, controlled trial was undertaken to compare three different methods of reducing pain during the intravenous injection of propofol. In 101 patients undergoing daycase surgery, verbal rating scores for pain during injection of propofol were compared immediately after intravenous pretreatment with ketorolac 10 mg, lignocaine 10 mg or saline. Neither pain during injection (p = 0.129), nor venous sequelae at 7 days postoperatively were significantly different between the three treatments. Pain during propofol injection remains a confounding clinical problem.
Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) is a rapidly fatal tumor with increasing incidence worldwide responsible for many thousands of deaths annually. Although there is a clear link between exposure to asbestos and mesothelioma, and asbestos is known to be both clastogenic and cytotoxic to mesothelial cells, the mechanisms of causation of MPM remain largely unknown. However, there is a rapidly emerging literature that describes inactivation of a diverse array of tumor suppressor genes (TSGs) via promoter DNA CpG methylation in MPM, although the etiology of these alterations remains unclear. We studied the relationships among promoter methylation silencing, asbestos exposure, patient demographics and tumor histology using a directed approach; examining six cell cycle control pathway TSGs in an incident case series of 70 MPMs. Promoter hypermethylation of APC, CCND2, CDKN2A, CDKN2B, HPPBP1 and RASSF1 were assessed. We observed significantly higher lung asbestos body burden if any of these cell cycle genes were methylated (P < 0.02), and there was a significant trend of increasing asbestos body counts as the number of methylated cell cycle pathway genes increased from 0 to 1 to >1 (P < 0.005). This trend of increasing asbestos body count and increasing number of methylated cell cycle pathway genes remained significant (P < 0.05) after controlling for age, gender and tumor histology. These data suggest a novel tumorigenic mechanism of action of asbestos and may contribute to the understanding of precisely how asbestos exposure influences the etiology and clinical course of malignant mesothelioma.
The effects of phenytoin (PHT) and phenobarbital (PHB) on EEG activity and behavior was studied in the model of epilepsy induced by intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of imipenem/cilastatin (Imi/Cil). Under intraperitoneal (i.p.) sodium pentobarbital anesthesia adult male Wistar albino rats were implanted with electrodes and cannulas were placed into the right lateral ventricle. Animals were divided into groups: 1) Imi/Cil (100/100 microg, i.c.v.), 2) PHT (40 mg/kg) + Imi/Cil (100/100 microg, i.c.v), 3) PHT (80 mg/kg) + Imi/Cil (100/100 microg, i.c.v.), 4) PHT (160 mg/kg) + Imi/Cil (100/100 microg, i.c.v.), 5) PHB (50 mg/kg) + Imi/Cil (100/100 microg, i.c.v.), and 6) PHB (80 mg/kg) + Imi/Cil (100/100 microg, i.c.v.). PHT and PHB were injected intraperitoneally (i.p.) 1 h before Imi/Cil. Seizures were scored according to the scale: 0--normal behavior; 1--twitching, 2--head nodding, forelimb clonus, 3--rearing, and 4--clonic-tonic convulsions. Imi/Cil provoked maximal seizures in all animals, and all rats died 10 - 18 min after the injection. Epileptiform activity preceded behavioral seizures. Clonic-tonic seizures were associated with continuous bursts of high-frequency high-amplitude spikes in the EEG. PHT and PHB suppressed Imi/Cil-induced seizures dose-dependently. PHB reduced epileptiform discharges during behavioral seizures elicited by Imi/Cil, while PHT had no effect on EEG epileptic phenomena. These results suggest that PHT acts as anticonvulsant, and PHB as anticonvulsant and antiepileptic agent in the model of epilepsy induced by Imi/Cil.
Nitrendipine is a dihydropyridine calcium antagonist that may be active when administered once daily. The aim of the study was to assess the effect of antihypertensive treatment with nitrendipine (20-40 mg) on left ventricular mass and diastolic function. Forty patients with mild to moderate hypertension (diastolic pressure greater than or equal to 90 and less than or equal to 114 mm Hg) were enrolled; a complete echo Doppler examination was performed at baseline, and 8 and 12 months after treatment in order to measure left ventricular mass and diastolic and systolic function. Only 28 patients completed the study follow-up. At month 8 nitrendipine had already successfully reduced blood pressure (mean 122 +/- 9 to 92 +/- 10 mm Hg) without modifying heart rate, and left ventricular mass index (150 +/- 48 to 123 +/- 34 g/m2), with a further reduction at month 12. Isovolumic relaxation time was reduced at month 8 from 138 +/- 28 to 111 +/- 17 ms, but the diastolic pattern was completely modified only after 1 year, with a normalization of deceleration time (from 220 +/- 35 to 188 +/- 12). Systolic function did not change. Our results indicate that nitrendipine is a powerful antihypertensive agent that reduces left ventricular mass, but requires a longer period of time to improve diastolic filling pattern.
Morphine has been the standard opioid in patient-controlled analgesia (PCA). Oxycodone, the analgesic potency of which in i.v. administration has been suggested to be slightly greater than that of morphine, has not yet been studied for its efficacy in PCA.
Fifty patients, undergoing a plastic reconstruction of the breast or a major operation of the vertebrae, such as lumbar spinal fusion, used PCA for postoperative pain. Patients were randomized to receive either morphine 45 microg/kg or oxycodone 30 microg/kg as i.v. bolus doses. Patients were assessed for pain with a visual analogue scale (VAS) and side effects at 3, 9 and 24 h. Venous blood samples for the measurement of plasma concentration of oxycodone and that of morphine and its metabolites were taken.
In this study patients needed, on average, the same amount of oxycodone and morphine in the recovery room and on the ward. There was no difference in the quality of analgesia (VAS) or incidence of side effects, such as nausea, vomiting, pruritus and urinary retention. The plasma concentrations of morphine-6-glucuronide showed that this metabolite might contribute to the analgesia resulting from morphine administration.
The same dose of intravenous oxycodone and morphine administered by PCA pump was needed for immediate postoperative analgesia. The two drugs appear to be equipotent.
The effects of four inotropic agents with differing ancillary properties [a cardiac glycoside (digoxin), a combined alpha- and beta-adrenergic agonist (dobutamine), a beta-adrenergic agonist (prenalterol), and a phosphodiesterase inhibitor (amrinone)] alone and with subsequent addition of isosorbide dinitrate were compared in 48 consecutive acute myocardial infarction patients with radiographic and haemodynamic (pulmonary artery occluded pressure greater than 18 mm Hg) left ventricular failure. All agents with the exception of dobutamine reduced the elevated left heart filling pressure; only digoxin and dobutamine augmented the cardiac stroke volume index. All drugs except digoxin reduced the SVRI; an arteriolar constrictor response was evident 60 min after digoxin and a tachycardia resulted after combined alpha- and beta- and beta-adrenergic stimulations (dobutamine and prenalterol, respectively). The addition of isosorbide dinitrate reversed the inotrope-induced elevations of systemic arterial pressure and resulted in additional reductions in left heart filling pressure. These data suggest that, in the absence of substantial venodilator properties in an inotropic compound, reduction in elevated left heart filling pressure is not achieved with inotropic therapy alone in acute left ventricular failure and combining a venodilator may be haemodynamically advantageous.
Cardiovascular risk factors are associated with reduction in both the number and function of vascular progenitor cells. We hypothesized that 1) hypertension abrogates postnatal vasculogenesis, and 2) antihypertensive treatment based on the combination of perindopril (angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor) and indapamide (diuretic) may counteract hypertension-induced alteration in progenitor cell-related effects. Postischemic neovascularization was significantly lower in untreated spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) compared with Wistar Kyoto (WKY) rats (p < 0.05). Treatment of SHRs with perindopril and the combination of perindopril/indapamide reduced the blood pressure levels and normalized vessel growth in ischemic area. Cotreatment with perindopril and indapamide increased vascular endothelial growth factor and endothelial nitric-oxide synthase protein contents, two key proangiogenic factors. It is interesting to note that 14 days after bone marrow mononuclear cell (BM-MNC) transplantation, revascularization was significantly lower in ischemic SHRs receiving BM-MNCs isolated from SHRs compared with those receiving BM-MNCs isolated from WKY rats (p < 0.05). Alteration in proangiogenic potential of SHR BM-MNCs was probably related to the reduction in their ability to differentiate into endothelial progenitor cells in vitro. Furthermore, the number of circulating endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) was reduced by 3.1-fold in SHRs compared with WKY rats (p < 0.001). Treatments with perindopril or perindopril/indapamide restored the ability of BM-MNCs to differentiate in vitro into EPCs, increased the number of circulating EPCs, and re-established BM-MNC proangiogenic effects. Therefore, hypertension is associated with a decrease in the number of circulating progenitor cells and in the BM-MNC proangiogenic potential, probably leading to vascular complications in this setting. The combination of perindopril and indapamide counteracts hypertension-induced alterations in progenitor cell-related effects and restores blood vessel growth.
Hemodynamic alterations were studied to determine their role in isoproterenol-induced cardiac arrhythmias in the desoxycorticosterone acetate--saline-treat rat. Since epinephrine, a catecholamine possessing an alpha-adrenergic receptor agonist component, was considerably less potent as an arrhythmogenic agent, an elevation in blood pressure was thought to be protective against arrhythmias. Both albuterol, a beta2-adrenergic agonist, alone and epinephrine administered following tolazoline, an alpha-adrenergic blocking agent, decreased blood pressure to that of isoproterenol but failed to elicit significant arrhythmias. Phenylephrine administered prior to isoproterenol resulted in significant arrhythmias despite the maintenance of mean blood pressure at normal levels. The study shows that blood pressure alterations are not important in the etiology of isoproterenol-induced arrhythmias in the corticoid-pretreated rat.
26 patients with a paranoid-hallucinatory syndrome were treated with a fixed daily dose of haloperidol. Psychopathological symptoms and parkinsonism were studied before and during the treatment. HVA and 5-HIAA concentrations in CSF were determined immediately before and after 5 or 15 days of treatment. After 5 days of treatment a slight effect was observed on psychotic symptoms and on the extrapyramidal motor system, as well as an elevation of HVA and 5-HIAA concentrations in CSF. After 15 days of treatment the extrapyramidal and antipsychotic effects were significant, but the rise of HVA was smaller than after 5 days of treatment; 5-HIAA remained unchanged. These different time courses of the neuroleptic effects on psychopathological symptoms, on extrapyramidal system and on monoamine metabolites concentration in CSF could be interpreted as a development of drug tolerance in relation to the biochemical parameters.
