The association of cocaine and acute hypertension is well known; however, cocaine use has not generally been linked to chronic hypertension. We hypothesized that chronic use of cocaine over time would increase the prevalence of hypertension and that cocaine induced vasoconstriction would result in urine protein leakage, manifested by microalbuminuria. Therefore, we studied a population of predominantly black male patients admitted for addiction treatment whose drug of dependence was cocaine. A urine toxicology screen was considered positive if cocaine was detected within 24 h prior to or during admission to the hospital. A total of 301 patients with normal renal function were observed over their 2 week hospitalization. The majority (62%) of the patients were normotensive regardless of the status of their initial urine toxicology screen. Twenty percent of the population had acutely elevated blood pressure that normalized within 1 day, whereas 18% had blood pressure chronically >140/90 mm Hg (chronic hypertension). Levels of systolic and diastolic blood pressures were examined at age deciles and compared to the NHANES III (Third National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey) data for a predominantly black population. There was no significant difference in blood pressure with age in the cocaine users compared to the NHANES groups. Random urine samples were screened for the presence of microalbuminuria and no significant elevation was detected in any of the samples tested. We conclude that chronic cocaine use is associated with acute but not chronic hypertension in middle-aged black males. Cocaine use does not cause microalbuminuria.
The effect of chloroquine toxicity on color vision is unclear. The authors identified the color defects seen in chloroquine retinopathy and determined the sensitivity and specificity of clinical color vision tests for detecting the presence of previously diagnosed chloroquine retinopathy.
Case-control study.
Chloroquine retinopathy was defined using previously published criteria. Data from 30 patients with retinopathy and 25 patients using chloroquine but with no evidence of retinal toxicity were collected.
All patients were tested with the following six clinical color vision tests: Ishihara, Farnsworth D-15, and Adams Desaturated-15 (Dsat-15), City University 2nd Edition (CU), Standard Pseudoisochromatic Plates Part 2 (SPP-2), and American Optical Hardy Rand Rittler (AO HRR).
The number of failures was determined for each test. The types of color vision defects were classified as blue-yellow (BY), red-green (RG), or mixed RG and BY (mixed).
Of the 30 patients with retinopathy, 28 (93.3%) of 30 patients failed at least 1 color vision test, demonstrating predominantly mixed defects. Five (25%) of 25 of the control subjects failed at least 1 test, and these defects were predominantly BY. The sensitivity and specificity of the tests are as follows: SPP-2 (93.3%, 88%), AO HRR (76.7%, 88%), Ishihara (43.3%, 96%), Dsat-15 (33.3%, 84%), D-15 (16.7%, 96%), and CU (20%, 92%).
Color vision can be affected by chloroquine and should be tested routinely with a color vision test designed to detect both mild BY and protan RG defects to maximize sensitivity for toxicity. The SPP-2 and AO HRR are two tests that meet these criteria. The Ishihara has a low sensitivity, as do the D-15 tests and CU. All of the tests have similar specificity for chloroquine toxicity. If color vision defects are detected in patients at risk of developing chloroquine retinopathy, additional testing is indicated to rule out toxicity.
Antioxidant effects of paraoxonase, a high density lipoprotein (HDL)-associated enzyme that inhibits low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) oxidation in human serum, have been reported. Patients with thyroid dysfunction are more susceptible to oxidative stress, and may show enhanced LDL-C oxidation. The purpose of this study was to evaluate serum paraoxonase activity in patients with hyperthyroidism before and after treatment with methimazole (MMI).
Twenty-four hyperthyroid patients (15 women and nine men, aged 43.0 +/- 12.9 years) and 23 age- and sex-matched healthy controls were studied. Serum paraoxonase activity, lipid, lipoprotein and apolipoprotein levels were measured in fasting samples. Patients were treated with MMI 20-30 mg daily for the first month, and 5-10 mg daily thereafter, and re-evaluated after 6-9 months of treatment.
Significantly lower serum paraoxonase activity was present in hyperthyroid patients before treatment compared with the controls (43.4 +/- 21.9 vs. 72.6 +/- 41.2 U/ml, P < 0.005). After a mean follow-up of 7.3 months, 15 patients became euthyroid (treated) and nine were still hyperthyroid. After follow-up, serum paraoxonase activity had increased to 62.2 +/- 37.4 U/ml in those who became euthyroid (P < 0.05 compared with baseline). In patients who were still hyperthyroid serum paraoxonase was unchanged from baseline, at 43.2 +/- 23.2 U/ml.
Serum paraoxonase is reduced in patients with hyperthyroidism and reverts to normal after euthyroidism is attained. Reduced serum paraoxonase activity in thyrotoxicosis might predispose lipids to oxidation.
The objective of the present study was to evaluate the degree of sedation, intraocular pressure, and hemodynamic changes with premedication with low doses of oral clonidine, 100 microg and 200 microg, in outpatient cataract surgeries.
This is a randomized, double-blind, clinical study undertaken at the Universidade Federal de São Paulo with 60 patients of both genders, physical status ASA 1 and 2, ages 18 to 80 years. Patients were separated into three groups: placebo, clonidine 100 microg, and clonidine 200 microg. Intraocular pressure, heart rate, and blood pressure besides assessment of sedation were measured before and 90 minutes after the administration of clonidine. Sedation levels were classified according to the Ramsay sedation scale.
Patients who received placebo and 100 microg of clonidine did not show reduction in heart rate, while a reduction in heart rate was observed in patients who received 200 microg of clonidine, and this difference was statistically significant. Patients who received 200 microg of clonidine also had a reduction in systolic and diastolic blood pressure (p < 0.05). One patient who received 200 microg of clonidine developed severe hypotension, with systolic pressure < 80 mmHg. Patients treated with clonidine had a reduction in intraocular pressure (p < 0.05). Ninety minutes after the oral administration of placebo and 100 microg and 200 microg of clonidine, 25%, 60%, and 80% of the patients respectively were classified as Ramsay 3 or 4.
Clonidine 100 microg can be indicated as premedication for fasciectomies, being effective in sedation and reduction of intraocular pressure, without adverse effects on blood pressure and heart rate.
The authors describe a case of cirrhogenic hepatitis due to Pexid which was given for 8 months at 400 mg/day for a severe angina pectoris. We find here the anatomo-clinical profile of perhexiline maleate hepatiits already described in approximately 20 cases. There was a cirrhogenic evolution in our case as in 5 others : but here cirrhosis was revealing and seems stabilized since the treatment was stopped. The cirrhogenic evolution could be due to a cumulative effect of the drug and/or to an immuno-allergic mechanism as in alcoholic cirrhosis which is very similar, especially from an anatomical point of view. However cirrhogenic hepatitis differs by a characteristic lysosomal overload : brown pigment under microscopic observation and lipolysosomes with in some cases a lamellar structure under electron microscopic observation. The prescription of such a drug should be limited to cases of refractory angina pectoris and needed a regular clinical and biological survey.
The experiments to inhibit a tremor reaction induced by various cholinomimetics have established that DED50 of atropine and amedine is significantly indifferent when tremor is caused by pilocarpine, oxotremorine, and aceclidine while the activity of amedine is lower than that of atropine when ezerine, arecoline and galantamine are applied. The comparison of the findings with the data on the selectivity of the above M-cholinolytics leads to the conclusion that in in vivo experiments, the muscarinic agonists are able to show their selectivity against various subtypes of M-cholinoreceptors. The results of in vivo experiments are found to differ from the data on the in vitro selectivity of M-cholinomimetics in some cases.
To explore the clinico-pathological features and possible pathogenesis of rifampicin-associated acute renal failure (ARF).
The clinico-pathological features of 4 patients with Rifampicin-associated ARF were analyzed. Rifampicin-dependent antibody in the patient's serum was detected with Coomb's test.
4 cases with rifampicin-associated ARF was distinguished from 202 in-patients with ARF in 5 years(1.98%). Most of them had infection before the occurrence of ARF. Clinical features were characterized by fever, fatigue and gastro-intestinal symptoms after taking rifampicin (especially when it was reused). Oliguria or anuria developed suddenly. Laboratory data showed hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia and decline of renal function. Some also had impaired liver function. Renal biopsy revealed acute tubular necrosis in 3 cases and acute interstitial nephritis in 1 case. Serum rifampicin-dependent antibody was positive in all the cases.
Rifampicin-associated ARF is not rare clinically, especially in those rifampicin re-exposure patients. Renal function should be closely monitored in susceptible patients. Detection of serum rifampicin-dependent antibody may be helpful to distinguish this group of ARF patients.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors plus dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers or low-dose thiazide diuretics are considered first-line therapies in hypertensive diabetic patients as glucose metabolism is not relevantly affected. Most diabetic patients require at least two different drug classes to achieve the recommended target blood pressure of 130/85 mmHg. This controlled clinical trial investigated the calcium channel blocker lercanidipine versus hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) as add-on in diabetic patients with uncontrolled hypertension on enalapril monotherapy.
Overall, 174 patients (18-80 years old, well-controlled diabetes type 1 or 2, mild to moderate hypertension) were included in a 2-week placebo run-in followed by 4 weeks on enalapril 20 mg. Subsequently, 135 non-responders (90 mmHg < or = mean sitting diastolic blood pressure < or = 109 mmHg) were randomized to 20 weeks of double-blind add-on therapy to enalapril with either lercanidipine 10 mg (n = 69) or HCTZ 12.5 mg (n = 66). The primary study objective was to prove non-inferiority of lercanidipine add-on versus HCTZ add-on in reducing sitting diastolic blood pressure; response rates and tolerability data were also observed.
Both add-on treatments clearly decreased diastolic blood pressure to a greater extent than enalapril monotherapy (mean +/- SD changes at study end: lercanidipine, -9.3 mmHg; HCTZ, -7.4 mmHg); non-inferiority of lercanidipine versus HCTZ was formally proven. Blood pressure response rates reached 69.6% on enalapril plus lercanidipine as compared with 53.6% on enalapril plus HCTZ (difference between treatments, P > 0.05). Blood pressure of 130/85 mmHg or less was achieved in 30.4% of patients on lercanidipine add-on and in 23.2% of those randomized to HCTZ add-on (P > 0.05). Both treatment regimens were well tolerated.
Lercanidipine add-on showed comparable efficacy to HCTZ add-on in diabetic patients with hypertension badly controlled on angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor monotherapy. The blood pressure response rates seemed to be somewhat higher following enalapril plus lercanidipine than enalapril plus HCTZ.
The evaluation of strength of morphine withdrawal syndrome in rats after the 17th day i. p. morphine administration is proposed as calculation of individual indexes in "open field" test. It is found, that injection 1, 5 or 10 mg/kg of morphine 30 min before testing, decreases the withdrawal syndrome in dose dependent manner. Disappearance of particular withdrawal signs took place in different doses of morphine pretreatment. According to this effect all the signs were divided into four groups and signs of each group were given by the specificity coefficient (from 0 to 3). The total individual index of the withdrawal syndrome was calculated as a sum of particular signs, multiplied by the particular coefficient. Specificity of significant signs decrease according to the order: "wet dog" shakes, diarrhea, writhings, dyspnea, paw shakes, ptosis, piloerection and teeth chattering.
Because glutathione (GSH) has been reported to be increased in chronic beryllium disease (CBD) and is associated with immune modulation, associations between CBD and gene polymorphisms of the rate-limiting enzyme in GSH synthesis, glutamate cysteine ligase (GCL), were investigated. Glutamate cysteine ligase consists of a catalytic subunit (GCLC) and modifier subunit (GCLM).
Patients with CBD, beryllium-sensitized subjects (BeS), and beryllium-exposed subjects without CBD were genotyped for the GCLC GAG trinucleotide repeat polymorphism (GCLC TNR), the GCLC-129 single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), and the GCLM-588 SNP.
Results indicate that GCLC TNR genotype 7/7 is negatively associated with CBD (odds ratio [OR] = 0.28, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 0.08-0.95) and the GCLM-588 C/C SNP genotype is associated with CBD susceptibility (OR = 3.07, 95% CI = 1.00-9.37). No differences were noted in the BeS group.
This study suggests that GSH modulation may play a role in CBD pathogenesis, but not in sensitization to beryllium.
Nitric oxide (NO) has been implicated in migraine pathogenesis based on the delayed development of typical migraine headache 4-6 h after infusing the NO donor nitroglycerin [glyceryl trinitrate (GTN)] to migraineurs. Furthermore, inhibiting the synthesis of NO by treatment with a NO synthase (NOS) inhibitor attenuates spontaneous migraine headaches in 67% of subjects. Because NO has been linked to inflammation and cytokine expression, we investigated the delayed consequences of brief GTN infusion (30 min) on the development of meningeal inflammation in a rat model using doses relevant to the human model. We found dose-dependent Type II NOS [inducible NOS (iNOS)] mRNA upregulation in dura mater beginning at 2 h and an increase in the corresponding protein expression at 4, 6 and 10 h after infusion. Type II NOS immunoreactivity was expressed chiefly within resident meningeal macrophages. Consistent with development of a delayed inflammatory response, we detected induction of interleukin 1beta in dura mater at 2 and 6 h and increased interleukin 6 in dural macrophages and in rat cerebrospinal fluid at 6 h after GTN infusion. Myeloperoxidase-positive cells were rarely found. Leakage of plasma proteins from dural blood vessels was first detected 4 h after GTN infusion, and this was suppressed by administering a specific Type II NOS inhibitor [L-N(6)-(1-iminoethyl)-lysine (L-NIL)]. In addition to cytokine induction, macrophage iNOS upregulation and oedema formation after GTN infusion, dural mast cells exhibited granular changes consistent with secretion at 4 and 6 h. Because iNOS was expressed in dural macrophages following topical GTN, and in the spleen after intravenous injection, the data suggest that the inflammatory response is mediated by direct actions on the dura and does not develop secondary to events within the brain. Our findings point to the importance of new gene expression and cytokine expression as fundamental to the delayed response following GTN infusion, and support the hypothesis that a similar response develops in human meninges after GTN challenge.
The influence of hypertension and of treatment with some dihydropyridine-type Ca(2+) channel blockers and with the nondihydropyridine-type vasodilator hydralazine on the morphology of kidney was investigated in 26-week-old spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and in age-matched Wistar-Kyoto rats. Fourteen-week-old SHR were treated for 12 weeks with a nonhypotensive dose of lercanidipine or with equihypotensive doses of lercanidipine, manidipine, nicardipine, and hydralazine. In control SHR, systolic pressure values were significantly higher in comparison with Wistar-Kyoto rats. Treatment with the low dose of lercanidipine did not reduce systolic blood pressure in SHR, whereas the higher dose of lercanidipine or other compounds tested significantly decreased systolic pressure values. Glomerular hypertrophy accompanied by signs of glomerulosclerosis, increase of mesangial cells, and convoluted tubules degeneration were observed in control SHR. Hypotensive doses of Ca(2+) antagonists countered glomerular injury, the increase of mesangial cells, the reduction of capsular space, and tubular degeneration. Hydralazine, in spite of its hypotensive activity, displayed a slight nephroprotective action. The nonhypotensive dose of lercanidipine countered in part glomerular injury, narrowing of capsular space, and tubular degeneration, and decreased mesangial cell augmentation in SHR. These results suggest that treatment with dihydropyridine-type Ca(+2) antagonists counters hypertensive glomerular and tubular changes occurring in SHR. The demonstration of nephroprotection by the nonhypotensive dose of lercanidipine suggests that the renal effects of the compound may be in part unrelated to its hemodynamic activity.
Ifosfamide is a derivative of cyclophosphamide and is used to treat malignant tumours. One of its side effects is nephrotoxicity. Three children with previously normal renal function, who received ifosfamide for the treatment of Ewing's Sarcoma and subsequently developed hypophosphataemic rickets, are described.
South Sudan has five million inhabitants and has been fighting a war of independence with North Sudan since 1959. The hostilities have totally disrupted society and the country is the most inaccessible of Africa. International non-government organizations co-operate in relief activities in the 'Operation Life Line'. Semi-nomadic pastoral tribes populate South Sudan. Doctors Without Borders assisted in fighting a major epidemic of kala azar in the late eighties which cost some 200,000 lives; the organization still provides medical aid in the country.
South Sudan has 5 million inhabitants and has been fighting a war of independence with North Sudan since 1959. The hostilities have totally disrupted the society and its government. In this region, international nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) are cooperating in relief activities in Operation Life Line, providing assistance to semi-nomadic pastoral tribes such as the Nuers and the Dinkas. The NGO Doctors Without Borders assisted in fighting a major epidemic of kala azar in the late 1980s; it cost some 200,000 lives, half of the Nuers' total population. The report of these doctors flying to different spots in the South of the country recounted how medical consultations were carried out under trees where possible. Kala azar was treated with ampules of Pentostam, and brucellosis patients were picked from the waiting group. Tuberculosis, whose indications are heavy coughing and expectoration, was also rampant. The abscess of a woman caused by a human bite was treated under local anesthesia with ketamine. The team had examined 70 patients by midday. In Duar, a site where Doctors Without Borders has treated 20,000 kala azar patients, basic health care and vaccinations were performed. In a marshy region, the Dinkas allow their livestock to graze, and there is a small but acceptable clinic in this location to which 3 patients with cerebral malaria were admitted by noon. There were also many TB patients. The doctors prescribed routine medications before conducting further examinations.
LoxP-Cre technology was used to remove the selenocysteine tRNA gene, trsp, in either endothelial cells or myocytes of skeletal and heart muscle to elucidate the role of selenoproteins in cardiovascular disease. Loss of selenoprotein expression in endothelial cells was embryonic lethal. A 14.5-day-old embryo had numerous abnormalities including necrosis of the central nervous system, subcutaneous hemorrhage and erythrocyte immaturity. Loss of selenoprotein expression in myocytes manifested no apparent phenotype until about day 12 after birth. Affected mice had decreased mobility and an increased respiratory rate, which proceeded rapidly to death. Pathological analysis revealed that mice lacking trsp had moderate to severe myocarditis with inflammation extending into the mediastinitis. Thus, ablation of selenoprotein expression demonstrated an essential role of selenoproteins in endothelial cell development and in proper cardiac muscle function. The data suggest a direct connection between the loss of selenoprotein expression in these cell types and cardiovascular disease.
The aims of this work were to compare the effects of methyl mercury chloride and thimerosal on neurite/process outgrowth and microtubule proteins in differentiating mouse N2a neuroblastoma and rat C6 glioma cells. Exposure for 4h to sublethal concentrations of both compounds inhibited neurite outgrowth to a similar extent in both cells lines compared to controls. In the case of N2a cells, this inhibitory effect by both compounds was associated with a fall in the reactivity of western blots of cell extracts with monoclonal antibody T1A2, which recognises C-terminally tyrosinated alpha-tubulin. By contrast, reactivity with monoclonal antibody B512 (which recognises total alpha-tubulin) was unaffected at the same time point. These findings suggest that decreased tubulin tyrosination represents a neuron-specific early marker of mercury toxicity associated with impaired neurite outgrowth.
The presence of antiphospholipid antibodies (aPL) has been associated with vascular occlusive events. However, the role of aPL in predicting ischemic events, particularly recurrent ischemic stroke, is controversial.
To evaluate the effect of baseline aPL positivity (ie, positivity for anticardiolipin antibodies [aCL], lupus anticoagulant antibodies [LA], or both) on subsequent thrombo-occlusive events, including recurrent stroke.
The Antiphospholipid Antibodies and Stroke Study (APASS), a prospective cohort study within the Warfarin vs Aspirin Recurrent Stroke Study (WARSS), a randomized double-blind trial (N = 2206) conducted at multiple US clinical sites from June 1993 through June 2000 and comparing adjusted-dose warfarin (target international normalized ratio, 1.4-2.8) and aspirin (325 mg/d) for prevention of recurrent stroke or death. APASS participants were 1770 (80%) WARSS participants who consented to enroll in the APASS, with usable baseline blood samples drawn prior to randomization to the WARSS and analyzed for aPL status within 90 days of index stroke by a central independent laboratory. Quality assurance was performed on approximately 10% of samples by a second independent laboratory.
Two-year rate of the composite end point of death from any cause, ischemic stroke, transient ischemic attack, myocardial infarction, deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, and other systemic thrombo-occlusive events. The primary analysis assessed the outcome associated with aPL positivity within each WARSS treatment group separately, after risk-factor adjustment (since these aPL-positive vs aPL-negative comparisons were not randomized).
Of the 1770 APASS patients, 720 (41%) were classified as aPL-positive and 1050 (59%) as aPL-negative. There was no increased risk of thrombo-occlusive events associated with baseline aPL status in patients treated with either warfarin (relative risk [RR], 0.99; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.75-1.31; P =.94), or aspirin (RR, 0.94; 95% CI, 0.70-1.28; P =.71). The overall event rate was 22.2% among aPL-positive and 21.8% among aPL-negative patients. There was no treatment x aPL interaction (P =.91). Patients with baseline positivity for both LA and aCL antibodies tended to have a higher event rate (31.7%) than did patients who tested negative for both antibodies (24.0%) (unadjusted RR, 1.36; 95% CI, 0.97-1.92; P =.07). Classification and regression tree analyses did not identify a specific LA test or aCL isotype or titer that was associated with increased risk of thrombo-occlusive event.
The presence of aPL (either LA or aCL) among patients with ischemic stroke does not predict either increased risk for subsequent vascular occlusive events over 2 years or a differential response to aspirin or warfarin therapy. Routine screening for aPL in patients with ischemic stroke does not appear warranted.
Chronic lead exposure has been epidemiologically linked with hypertension and renal disease. Clinical studies suggest that low lead levels may contribute to renal progression. However, experimental studies have not examined whether low levels of lead accelerate progression in experimental chronic renal disease. Sprague-Dawley rats were administered lead (L; 150 ppm in drinking water, n = 16) for 4 wk, followed by remnant kidney (RK) surgery with continuation of lead for an additional 12 wk; control rats (n = 9) were treated similarly but did not receive lead. Lead treatment was well tolerated and resulted in modest elevations in whole blood lead levels (26.4 +/- 4.5 vs. 1 +/- 0 mug/dl, week 16, P < 0.001). Lead treatment was associated with higher systolic blood pressure (P < 0.05) and worse renal function (creatinine clearance 1.4 +/- 0.4 vs. 1.8 +/- 0.5 ml/min, RK+L vs. RK, P < 0.05), and with a tendency for greater proteinuria (6.6 +/- 6.1 vs. 3.6 +/- 1.5 mg protein/mg creatinine, RK+L vs. RK, P = 0.08). While glomerulosclerosis tended to be worse in lead-treated rats (37.6 +/- 11 vs. 28.8 +/- 2.3%, RK+L vs. RK, P = 0.06), the most striking finding was the development of worse arteriolar disease (P < 0.05), peritubular capillary loss (P < 0.05), tubulointerstitial damage, and macrophage infiltration (P < 0.05) in association with significantly increased renal expression of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 mRNA. In conclusion, lead accelerates chronic renal disease, primarily by raising blood pressure and accelerating microvascular and tubulointerstitial injury.
N-Allylation (-CH(2)-CHCH(2)) of [Dmt(1)]endomorphins yielded the following: (i) [N-allyl-Dmt(1)]endomorphin-2 (Dmt=2',6'-dimethyl-l-tyrosine) (12) and [N-allyl-Dmt(1)]endomorphin-1 (15) (K(i)mu=0.45 and 0.26nM, respectively) became mu-antagonists (pA(2)=8.59 and 8.18, respectively) with weak delta-antagonism (pA(2)=6.32 and 7.32, respectively); (ii) intracerebroventricularly administered 12 inhibited morphine-induced CNS-mediated antinociception in mice [AD(50) (0.148ng/mouse) was 16-fold more potent than naloxone], but not spinal antinociception, and (iii) 15 reversed the alcohol-elevated frequency in spontaneous inhibitory post-synaptic currents (IPSC) in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells in rat brain slices (P=0.0055). Similarly, N-allylation of the potent mu-opioidmimetic agonists, 1,6-bis-[H-Dmt-NH]-hexane and 3,6-bis-[Dmt-NH-propyl]-2(1H)-pyrazinone, converted them into mu-antagonists (pA(2)=7.23 and 7.17 for the N-allyl-derivatives 17 and 19, respectively), and exhibited weak delta-antagonism. Thus, N-allylation of Dmt containing opioid peptides or opioidmimetics continues to provide a facile means to convert selective mu-opioid agonists into potent mu-opioid antagonists.
Stress and increased glucocorticoid levels are associated with many neuropsychiatric disorders including schizophrenia and depression. Recently, the role of vascular endothelial factor receptor-2 (VEGFR2/Flk1) signaling has been implicated in stress-mediated neuroplasticity. However, the mechanism of regulation of VEGF/Flk1 signaling under long-term continuous glucocorticoid exposure has not been elucidated.
We examined the possible effects of long-term continuous glucocorticoid exposure on VEGF/Flk1 signaling in cultured cortical neurons in vitro, mouse frontal cortex in vivo, and in post mortem human prefrontal cortex of both control and schizophrenia subjects.
We found that long-term continuous exposure to corticosterone (CORT, a natural glucocorticoid) reduced Flk1 protein levels both in vitro and in vivo. CORT treatment resulted in alterations in signaling molecules downstream to Flk1 such as PTEN, Akt and mTOR. We demonstrated that CORT-induced changes in Flk1 levels are mediated through glucocorticoid receptor (GR) and calcium. A significant reduction in Flk1-GR interaction was observed following CORT exposure. Interestingly, VEGF levels were increased in cortex, but decreased in serum following CORT treatment. Moreover, significant reductions in Flk1 and GR protein levels were found in postmortem prefrontal cortex samples from schizophrenia subjects.
The alterations in VEGF/Flk1 signaling following long-term continuous CORT exposure represents a molecular mechanism of the neurobiological effects of chronic stress.
A 65-year-old male with diabetes, hypertension, and mild renal failure developed dizziness and syncope one week after starting clonidine 0.45 mg/day. A continuous ECG recording revealed sinus bradycardia, nodal rhythm, and multiple episodes of sinus arrest lasting up to 4.5 seconds. Upon discontinuation of clonidine, serial continuous ECG recordings revealed gradual decrease in the number and duration of the sinus arrest episodes, until their complete disappearance shortly after the third day off clonidine. This report shows that clonidine may cause a concentration-dependent sinus node dysfunction in addition to the atrioventricular (AV) node abnormalities previously ascribed to it.
Cardiac troponins, which are used as myocardial injury markers, are released in plasma only after tissue damage has occurred. Therefore, there is a need for identification of biomarkers of earlier events in cardiac injury to limit the extent of damage. To accomplish this, expression profiling of 1179 unique microRNAs (miRNAs) was performed in a chronic cardiotoxicity mouse model developed in our laboratory. Male B6C3F1 mice were injected intravenously with 3mg/kg doxorubicin (DOX; an anti-cancer drug), or saline once a week for 2, 3, 4, 6, and 8weeks, resulting in cumulative DOX doses of 6, 9, 12, 18, and 24mg/kg, respectively. Mice were euthanized a week after the last dose. Cardiac injury was evidenced in mice exposed to 18mg/kg and higher cumulative DOX dose whereas examination of hearts by light microscopy revealed cardiac lesions at 24mg/kg DOX. Also, 24 miRNAs were differentially expressed in mouse hearts, with the expression of 1, 1, 2, 8, and 21 miRNAs altered at 6, 9, 12, 18, and 24mg/kg DOX, respectively. A pro-apoptotic miR-34a was the only miRNA that was up-regulated at all cumulative DOX doses and showed a significant dose-related response. Up-regulation of miR-34a at 6mg/kg DOX may suggest apoptosis as an early molecular change in the hearts of DOX-treated mice. At 12mg/kg DOX, up-regulation of miR-34a was associated with down-regulation of hypertrophy-related miR-150; changes observed before cardiac injury. These findings may lead to the development of biomarkers of earlier events in DOX-induced cardiotoxicity that occur before the release of cardiac troponins.
Hexavalent chromium [Cr(VI)] is a well-known human carcinogen associated with the incidence of lung cancer. Inhibition of metal induced carcinogenesis by a dietary antioxidant is a novel approach. Luteolin, a natural dietary flavonoid found in fruits and vegetables, possesses potent antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activity. We found that short term exposure of human bronchial epithelial cells (BEAS-2B) to Cr(VI) (5μM) showed a drastic increase in ROS generation, NADPH oxidase (NOX) activation, lipid peroxidation, and glutathione depletion, which were significantly inhibited by the treatment with luteolin in a dose dependent manner. Treatment with luteolin decreased AP-1, HIF-1α, COX-2, and iNOS promoter activity induced by Cr(VI) in BEAS-2B cells. In addition, luteolin protected BEAS-2B cells from malignant transformation induced by chronic Cr(VI) exposure. Moreover, luteolin also inhibited the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8, TNF-α) and VEGF in chronic Cr(VI) exposed BEAS-2B cells. Western blot analysis showed that luteolin inhibited multiple gene products linked to survival (Akt, Fak, Bcl-2, Bcl-xL), inflammation (MAPK, NF-κB, COX-2, STAT-3, iNOS, TNF-α) and angiogenesis (HIF-1α, VEGF, MMP-9) in chronic Cr(VI) exposed BEAS-2B cells. Nude mice injected with BEAS-2B cells chronically exposed to Cr(VI) in the presence of luteolin showed reduced tumor incidence compared to Cr(VI) alone treated group. Overexpression of catalase (CAT) or SOD2, eliminated Cr(VI)-induced malignant transformation. Overall, our results indicate that luteolin protects BEAS-2B cells from Cr(VI)-induced carcinogenesis by scavenging ROS and modulating multiple cell signaling mechanisms that are linked to ROS. Luteolin, therefore, serves as a potential chemopreventive agent against Cr(VI)-induced carcinogenesis.
Activation of Ca(2+) signaling induced by receptor stimulation and mechanical stress plays a critical role in the development of cardiac hypertrophy. A canonical transient receptor potential protein subfamily member, TRPC6, which is activated by diacylglycerol and mechanical stretch, works as an upstream regulator of the Ca(2+) signaling pathway. Although activation of protein kinase G (PKG) inhibits TRPC6 channel activity and cardiac hypertrophy, respectively, it is unclear whether PKG suppresses cardiac hypertrophy through inhibition of TRPC6. Here, we show that inhibition of cGMP-selective PDE5 (phosphodiesterase 5) suppresses endothelin-1-, diacylglycerol analog-, and mechanical stretch-induced hypertrophy through inhibition of Ca(2+) influx in rat neonatal cardiomyocytes. Inhibition of PDE5 suppressed the increase in frequency of Ca(2+) spikes induced by agonists or mechanical stretch. However, PDE5 inhibition did not suppress the hypertrophic responses induced by high KCl or the activation of protein kinase C, suggesting that PDE5 inhibition suppresses Ca(2+) influx itself or molecule(s) upstream of Ca(2+) influx. PKG activated by PDE5 inhibition phosphorylated TRPC6 proteins at Thr(69) and prevented TRPC6-mediated Ca(2+) influx. Substitution of Ala for Thr(69) in TRPC6 abolished the anti-hypertrophic effects of PDE5 inhibition. In addition, chronic PDE5 inhibition by oral sildenafil treatment actually induced TRPC6 phosphorylation in mouse hearts. Knockdown of RGS2 (regulator of G protein signaling 2) and RGS4, both of which are activated by PKG to reduce G alpha(q)-mediated signaling, did not affect the suppression of receptor-activated Ca(2+) influx by PDE5 inhibition. These results suggest that phosphorylation and functional suppression of TRPC6 underlie prevention of pathological hypertrophy by PDE5 inhibition.
To study the behavioral depression induced by a generalized limbic seizure and by an opioid. The hypothesis that an opioid fentanyl and an amygdala-evoked seizure induced behavioral depression through the nucleus accumbens was tested.
The behavioral depression induced by an amygdala-kindled seizure was studied in fully kindled rats, with or without prior injection of fentanyl (0.05 mg/kg, s.c.). Local infusion of a nonspecific opioid antagonist, naloxone, or saline, was made bilaterally in the nucleus accumbens. The durations of loss of righting reflex (LORR), loss of tail-pinch response, and catalepsy were assessed.
Fentanyl induced an LORR following a generalized kindled seizure. The combination of fentanyl and a generalized seizure, as compared to fentanyl alone or a generalized seizure alone, resulted in a prolonged duration of LORR, catalepsy, and loss of tail pinch response. Infusion of naloxone as compared to saline in the nucleus accumbens reduced the duration of catalepsy and LORR induced by fentanyl, with or without a generalized seizure.
Postictal depression that follows a generalized kindled seizure enhanced the behavioral effects of the opioid fentanyl. Network synaptic depression induced by the seizure acted synergistically with fentanyl to produce analgesia, catalepsy, and LORR, in part through the nucleus accumbens.
In 8 of 18 homosexual men with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) treated with intravenous co-trimoxazole (trimethoprim-sulphamethoxazole) apparent drug-related complications developed during the course of acute therapy. A symptom complex of fevers and increasing malaise, often with nausea and headaches, developed usually after 9 days of therapy at a daily dosage of 20 mg/kg of trimethoprim and 100 mg/kg of sulphamethoxazole. These symptoms were associated with a diffuse erythematous maculopapular eruption and peripheral cytopenias. A similar picture was noted in two children with suspected AIDS-associated PCP. The high frequency of adverse reactions to co-trimoxazole therapy for PCP seems to be characteristic of AIDS patients.
