Pramipexole (PPX) is a dopamine agonist approved for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of idiopathic Parkinson's disease as well as restless leg syndrome. The objective of this study was to investigate the toxicity of PPX when administered orally to juvenile rhesus monkeys once daily for 30 weeks, and to assess the reversibility of toxicity during a 12-week recovery. Rhesus monkeys (N=4 males and 4 females/group; 22-24 months of age) were orally treated daily for 30 weeks with 0.0, 0.1, 0.5 or 2.0 mg/kg PPX, and subjects were assessed daily using the NCTR Operant Test Battery (OTB). Clinical chemistry, hematology, ophthalmology and other standard postmortem toxicological evaluations, including histopathology and neuropathology as well as toxicokinetics were performed. The systemic exposure to PPX was higher than that at therapeutic doses in man and AUC(0-24 h)-data increased proportionally to dose. Blood pressure significantly decreased over time in all groups including control. Near the end of treatment, there were statistically significant decreases in heart rate for the 0.5 and 2.0 mg/kg/day groups compared to control. After 4 weeks of dosing, serum prolactin was significantly decreased in all treatment groups compared to control. This decrease remained at the end of treatment in the 0.5 and 2.0 mg/kg/day groups. In summary, administration of PPX at doses of up to 2.0 mg/kg/day for 30 weeks to juvenile rhesus monkeys produced adverse findings which were attributable to its pharmacological properties, including hypoprolactinemia.
An open-label retrospective study was conducted to assess the effectiveness and tolerability of topiramate in children and adolescents with pervasive developmental disorders (PDD). Topiramate is a novel antiepileptic drug approved as an adjunctive treatment for seizure disorders. A retrospective chart review was conducted in an outpatient clinic specialized in treating individuals with developmental disabilities, to identify all children and adolescents with PDD who received topiramate. Patients were included if concomitant medications remained unchanged. Treatment response was assessed using the Global Improvement item of the Clinical Global Impressions scale (CGI-GI), based on a review of medical records and the Conners Parent Scale (CPS), as completed by parents. Fifteen patients were identified (12 male, 3 female; age = 14.7 +/- 3.3 years), including 11 patients with autistic disorder, 2 patients with Asperger's disorder, and 2 patients with PDD not otherwise specified (PDD, NOS). Eight patients (4 patients with autistic disorder, 2 patients with Asperger's disorder, and 2 patients with PDD, NOS) were judged to be responders, as defined by a score of 1 or 2 on the CGI-GI. Treatment duration was 25 +/- 16 weeks, and the mean dose was 235 +/- 88 mg. Differences between baseline and the end-of-trial period were observed in the following CPS subscales: conduct, hyperactivity, and inattention. No differences were noted in the psychosomatic, learning, and anxiety subscales. Three patients discontinued topiramate because of side effects, with 2 patients experiencing cognitive difficulties and 1 patient a skin rash. Topiramate may be beneficial for treating secondary symptoms of PDD, and prospective openlabel studies and double-blind, placebo-controlled studies to assess its efficacy and safety are needed.
Recent in-vitro data indicate that depletion of neural cells of myo-inositol by virtue of down-regulation of the high-affinity sodium-myo-inositol co-transporter (SMIT) may be a common mechanism of action of the mood stabilizers lithium, valproate and carbamazepine. The authors sought to investigate whether or not down-regulation of SMIT also occurs in vivo in bipolar patients. Expression of SMIT mRNA was measured in neutrophils of bipolar patients either unmedicated or treated with lithium salts or valproate and in neutrophils of unmedicated, matched healthy controls using quantitative real-time PCR. The content of SMIT mRNA was significantly reduced in neutrophils of lithium-treated bipolar patients compared to controls and to untreated bipolar patients. Untreated bipolar I patients but not bipolar II patients exhibited a significantly higher expression of SMIT mRNA than controls. Neutrophils of bipolar I patients treated with valproate exhibited a significantly lower expression of SMIT mRNA than untreated bipolar I patients but did not differ from controls. These results suggest that lithium and valproate down-regulate SMIT mRNA in vivo in patients. In addition the data provide first evidence that up-regulation of SMIT might be associated with an increased risk for bipolar I disorder.
The aim of this study was to examine the selegiline treatment compared to methylphenidate (MPH) in children and adolescents with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
Forty subjects, aged 6-15 years, boys and girls, who were diagnosed as having ADHD, using the criteria of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders- Fourth Edition (DSM-IV), were randomly assigned to receive either selegiline or MPH for 60 days. Treatment outcomes were assessed using the Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Scale (ADHS) administered at baseline and on days 14, 28, 42, and 60 following the commencement of treatment. Side effects were also rated.
There were no significant differences between sex, age, weight, and ethnicity of participants in the 2 groups. Both groups showed a significant improvement over the 60 days of treatment resulting from the teachers' and parents' ADHS scores across the treatment.
Following the trial, MPH did not effect greater mean improvement as a result of the parents' or teachers' ADHS scores than selegiline. Thus, selegiline appears to be effective and well tolerated for ADHD in children and adolescents.
High-dose cytarabine (ara-c) may overcome cytarabine resistance in leukemic blasts. It has been used as a successful salvage and in postremission therapy but not as initial induction treatment. Patients aged 15 to 60 years, presenting with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML) were randomized to receive either high-dose cytarabine, 3 g/m2 12 hourly on days 1, 3, 5, and 7 for 8 doses, daunorubicin 50 mg/m2 days 1 to 3, etoposide 75 mg/m2 days 1 to 7, (HIDAC-3-7) or standard dose cytarabine 100 mg/m2 continuous intravenous infusion for 7 days with daunorubicin and etoposide at the same dose and schedule as above (7-3-7). Patients could receive a second or third induction course if complete remission (CR) was not achieved. All patients received the same postinduction consolidation therapy (5-2-5) for 2 courses. Eligible patients had no prior chemotherapy or myelodysplastic disease. Patients have been followed for a median of 4.5 years. Of 301 patients treated, complete response (CR) was achieved in 71% with HIDAC-3-7 and 74% with 7-3-7. For patients in CR, the estimated median remission duration was 45 months with HIDAC-3-7 and 12 months with 7-3-7 (P = .0005 univariate analysis, P = .0004 multivariate analysis). The estimated percentage of patients relapse free 5 years after achieving a CR was 49% on HIDAC-3-7 and 24% on 7-3-7. Patients in CR tended to survive longer with HIDAC-3-7 but there were no overall survival differences between the two arms. HIDAC-3-7 was associated with significantly more toxicity in induction with more leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, nausea, and vomiting and eye toxicity (all P < .001) but a similar incidence of severe central nervous system and cerebellar toxicity compared to 7-3-7. The consolidation treatment was the same in both arms but caused significantly more leukopenia and thrombocytopenia in patients previously treated with HIDAC-3-7 induction (P < .0001). We conclude that a dose-effect exists for cytarabine in AML and that HIDAC-3-7 prolongs remission duration and disease-free survival and is tolerable when used as initial induction therapy in patients with de novo AML.
Feeding 0.001% estrone in a diet to C57BL/KsJ mice homozygous for the recessive obesity gene "diabetes" (db) permitted dissociation of the primary consequences of obesity gene expression from the secondary consequences of diabetes effected through interaction between the db gene and other diabetogenic genes in the inbred background. Estrone-treated db/db mice were similar to untreated mutants in exhibiting hyperphagia and marked obesity. However, estrone-treated mutants did not develop the hyperinsulinemia, hyperglycemia, and islet atrophy characteristic of untreated db/db mice. Thus, expression of the primary defect could be studied in the absence of the myriad secondary sequelae elicited by chronic hyperinsulinemia and hyperglycemia. Reduced numbers of hepatocyte plasma membrane insulin receptors (50% of normal) persisted in the estrone-treated mice in the absence of hyperinsulinemia, indicating that this deficiency was a consequence of the primary genetic defect and not merely a downregulation phenomenon secondary to hyperinsulinemia. Comparison of insulin secretion from comparably sized +/+ islets versus islets from estrone-treated db/db mice showed no intrinsic defects in beta-cell sensitivity to glucose. In conclusion, db-induced obesity can be dissociated from hyperinsulinemia, hyperglycemia, beta-cell dysfunction, and hyperphagia but is associated with a generalized membrane defect reflected in part by the persistent deficiency of plasma membrane insulin receptors.
To evaluate the effects of conjugated equine estrogens (CEE) on the pilocarpine-induced epilepsy in rats.
40 female rats were divided into: GPC (positive control) presented "status epilepticus" (SE) induced by pilocarpine; GOC (ovariectomized control) only castrated; GNC (negative control) received only saline solution; GPE received pilocarpine, presented SE, castrated and received 50microg/kg CEE treatment; GPV received pilocarpine, castrated and received propylene glycol (vehicle). The animals were monitored by a video system. At the end of observation, the brains removed for later histologic analysis using Neo-Timm and Nissl methods.
The GPE presented a reduction in number of seizures compared to GPV. The Neo-Timm analysis showed that GPV had greater sprouting of mossy fibers, with a denser band in the area of the dentate gyrus hilum compared to GPE. On Nissl staining, GPE showed evident neuronal loss in the CA3 area. GPV presented loss in CA1 and dentate gyrus.
Estrogen may have a protecting effect on the central nervous system.
Capecitabine is an oral chemotherapeutic agent converted to 5 fluorouracil (5-FU). Neurotoxicity associated with the medication encompasses both central and peripheral nervous systems. We describe a 60 year old man with colonic carcinoma who developed diplopia due to a sixth nerve palsy following the use of capecitabine which is an orally administered prodrug of 5-FU. An MRI of brain did not reveal a space occupying lesion or vascular insult to account for his cranial nerve palsy. The sixth nerve palsy resolved spontaneously once capecitabine was withdrawn. Physicians in all walks of life are increasingly likely to come across such patients and should familiarize themselves with toxicities consequent to chemotherapy. Further research is needed to elucidate the cause of capecitabine associated neurotoxicity.
The ototoxic potentials of two aminoglycoside antibiotics, amikacin and gentamicin, were compared in cats, using several otoxicity assessment techniques. Daily subcutaneous doses of 90 and 45 mg of amikacin per kg and 18 and 9 mg of gentamicin per kg (approximately six and three times the daily human dose) were administered to cats for extended periods of time until cochlear or vestibular dysfunction developed. Renal tissue damage and serum and perilymph antibiotic concentrations were also monitored. Amikacin selectively produced an impairment of cochlear function after an approximate cumulative dose of 3,600 mg/kg obtained after 41 days at 90 mg/kg per day or 78 days at 45 mg/kg per day, as determined by electrophysiological assessment. Gentamicin caused an impairment of vestibular function after an approximate cumulative dose of 700 mg/kg obtained after 42 days at 18 mg/kg per day or 68 days at 9 mg/kg per day, as determined by ataxia and impaired righting reflex. Gentamicin also moderately reduced electrophysiological cochlear responses and appeared to cause histological renal tissue change more frequently than did amikacin.
Cytotoxic effects of some therapeutic drugs, including those used for antibacterial treatment, can involve mitochondria by inducing their permeabilization, followed by cell death and organ malfunctioning. This suggests that a strategy to preserve tissue mitochondria could preserve normal organ functioning. Morales et al. reveal that the antidiabetic drug metformin prevents gentamicin-induced nephropathy through a mitochondria-dependent pathway, normalizing oxidative stress and restoring mitochondrial functional integrity.
Resting refractive correction in ketamine-, pentobarbital-, or halothane-anesthetized rhesus and cynomolgus monkeys was approximately 1-3 diopters myopic, with little difference under the various anesthetic regimens. Topical cyclopentolate or atropine, or systemic hexamethonium eliminated much of the myopia, while epinephrine, phenylephrine and thymoxamine had little effect. Anesthesia-induced myopia in monkeys thus seems comparable to tonic accommodation ("night myopia") in the human. Accommodation induced by electrical stimulation of the Edinger-Westphal nucleus averaged approximately 50% less under halothane than under pentobarbital, possibly due to halothane-induced systemic arterial hypotension.
Ceftriaxone has a very long serum half-life and enhanced in vitro activity against common pediatric pathogens. Therefore we evaluated the efficacy and safety of once daily ceftriaxone therapy in 57 children with serious infections including: meningitis (26 patients); ventriculitis (3); pyelonephritis (7); osteomyelitis (6); abscess (4); septic arthritis (3); sepsis (2); and miscellaneous infections (6). The most common isolates were Haemophilus influenzae (23), Escherichia coli (9) and Staphylococcus aureus (8). Ceftriaxone was given intravenously or intramuscularly in a dose of 50 mg/kg for non-central nervous system (CNS) infections. Patients with CNS infections received an initial dose of 100 mg/kg followed by 80 mg/kg 12 hours later and once daily thereafter. In a limited number of patients no major differences in serum ceftriaxone concentrations were found after intravenous or intramuscular injection. Of 57 patients with pathogens isolated 55 were completely cured; in one patient with Klebsiella pneumoniae ventriculitis, intraventricular gentamicin was briefly added to the regimen. Another patient with an anaerobic liver abscess recovered after metronidazole was administered. In three patients a delayed response to ceftriaxone was noted. One patient with previous recurrent infections had a second episode of H. influenzae meningitis 22 days after cessation of therapy. Clinical side effects were noted in 10 of 71 patients (including 14 treated patients who had negative cultures). Seven patients had diarrhea, one each had fever or rash and one had fever, rash and arthralgia. Laboratory side effects in 16 of 71 patients included eosinophilia (7), thrombocytosis (7), elevated liver enzymes (4) and leukopenia and neutropenia (2).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We report on a patient who had taken the centrally acting analgesic tramadol for over 1 year. The compound had proven to be sufficient to treat her painful episodes related to fibromyalgia. Due to lack of supply while being on a trip, intake of the drug was stopped abruptly, resulting in the development of classical abstinence-like symptoms within 1 week. Abstinence-like symptoms consisted of restlessness and insomnia for which the benzodiazepine lorazepam was given. Diarrhoea and abdominal cramps were treated with the peripherally active opioid loperamide, while bouts of cephalgia were treated with sumatriptan. Diffuse musculoskeletal-related pain and restless leg syndrome (RLS) were treated with dextromethorphan. All these different medications proved to be efficacious as they resulted in the cessation of symptoms. Within 1 week symptoms ceased and the patient regained her normal activities without any sequelae. Although tramadol is considered a non-habit- and non-dependence-forming analgesic, abstinence symptoms are likely to develop following abrupt cessation of intake, especially when the compound had been taken over 1 year. Therefore patients should be advised of such an effect whenever they decide to stop intake or their physician is planning to switch to another medication. To avoid abstinence-like symptoms doses should be slowly tapered down.
Oculomotor balance and contrast sensitivity are known to be impaired after an intake of a single dose of lorazepam. To the best of our knowledge, these effects have not been explored in long-term users of lorazepam, despite the potential importance of such deficits in everyday life.
We tested the ophthalmological effects and contrast sensitivity for static stimuli in long-term lorazepam users.
There were 15 lorazepam users and 15 sex-, age- and education level-matched control subjects tested, using a simple blind procedure.
The ophthalmological effects were scarce, with a discrete exophoria. Visual acuity was preserved. Contrast sensitivity, however, was more markedly impaired, consistent with the effects of an acute dose of lorazepam. The effects were not correlated with anxiety or sedation.
The results are discussed in terms of their possible impact on everyday life. As visual acuity does not allow the detection of the impairments that are observed in the present study, it is suggested that a more systematic exploration of contrast sensitivity be carried out in long-term users of benzodiazepines.
Carbamazepine is widely used in the treatment of epilepsy and various neuralgias. Its most common side-effects are leukopenia and skin rash. Hepatic side-effects are rare, but serious and occasionally even fatal. A 72-year-old woman with toxic hepatitis due to carbamazepine is presented. We recommend monitoring liver function tests in every patient receiving this drug.
Individual differences in the propensity to acquire drug self-administration may have a substantial genetic basis.
To study the genetic contribution to cocaine self-administration by comparing hybrids of cocaine preferring (C57BL/6J) and nonpreferring (ICR) mice.
ICR and C57BL/6J parental strains were compared to hybrids with 75% ICR:25% C57BL/6J, 50% ICR:50% C57BL/6J, and 25% ICR:75% C57BL/6J genetic backgrounds for acquisition of sucrose pellet and intravenous cocaine self-administration in 1-h test sessions. Mice that acquired cocaine self-administration were subsequently tested in a between-session self-administration dose-response procedure.
Increasing presence of C57BL/6J genes increased the percentage of mice that acquired sucrose pellet self-administration in the first test session. In lever-trained mice, only 19% of ICR mice met acquisition criteria for cocaine self-administration after 15 sessions, whereas 76% of C57BL/6J mice met acquisition criteria, although both strains initially sampled a similar number of cocaine injections. Increasing the percentage of C57BL/6J genes in the nonpreferring ICR background to 50 and 75% led to increasing percentages of mice that met acquisition criteria to 31 and 52%, respectively. In mice that acquired self-administration, only mice with 75% C57BL/6J genes showed a typical inverted U-shaped self-administration dose-response curve, whereas the curve was flat across doses for mice with < or = 50 and 100% C57BL/6J genes.
The findings are consistent with a genetically based dose-dependent enhancement of cocaine reinforcement by C57BL/6J genes. These results suggest that heritable traits impart a substantial genetic load that facilitates the propensity for cocaine addiction among individuals in outbred populations.
An 82-year-old man with treatment-resistant depression and early Alzheimer's disease was started on methylphenidate. Significant obsessive-compulsive behavior ensued but diminished over several weeks when methylphenidate was replaced by fluvoxamine. The patient had no prior psychiatric history, but he had a sister with obsessive-compulsive disorder. It appears that methylphenidate precipitated the patient's pathological behavior.
Cyclooxygenase-2 activity is required for the development of lithium-induced polyuria. However, the involvement of a specific, terminal prostaglandin (PG) isomerase has not been evaluated. The present study was undertaken to assess lithium-induced polyuria in mice deficient in microsomal prostaglandin E synthase-1 (mPGES-1). A 2-wk administration of LiCl (4 mmol.kg(-1).day(-1) ip) in mPGES-1 +/+ mice led to a marked polyuria with hyposmotic urine. This was associated with elevated renal mPGES-1 protein expression and increased urine PGE(2) excretion. In contrast, mPGES-1 -/- mice were largely resistant to lithium-induced polyuria and a urine concentrating defect, accompanied by nearly complete blockade of high urine PGE(2) and cAMP output. Immunoblotting, immunohistochemistry, and quantitative (q) RT-PCR consistently detected a significant decrease in aquaporin-2 (AQP2) protein expression in both the renal cortex and medulla of lithium-treated +/+ mice. This decrease was significantly attenuated in the -/- mice. qRT-PCR detected similar patterns of changes in AQP2 mRNA in the medulla but not in the cortex. Similarly, the total protein abundance of the Na-K-2Cl cotransporter (NKCC2) in the medulla but not in the cortex of the +/+ mice was significantly reduced by lithium treatment. In contrast, the dowregulation of renal medullary NKCC2 expression was significantly attenuated in the -/- mice. We conclude that mPGES-1-derived PGE(2) mediates lithium-induced polyuria likely via inhibition of AQP2 and NKCC2 expression.
Renal cell carcinomas (RCC) develop as a consequence of somatic mutations of the von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) tumour suppressor gene. Recent epidemiological studies show that high and prolonged occupational exposures to trichloroethene (TRI) are associated with an increased incidence of RCC. Tumour tissues from 23 RCC patients with occupational histories of very high TRI exposure were analysed for somatic mutations within the VHL gene. DNA was isolated from microdissected tumour cells, amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and analysed in single strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) and sequencing. RCC tissues of all 23 TRI exposed persons analysed thus far showed aberrations of the VHL gene, with 30% having aberrations in exon 1, 44% in exon 2, and 26% in exon 3. By comparison to much lower reported VHL mutation frequencies of 33-55% in TRI-unexposed RCC patients, these results indicate a specifically high mutation frequency at the VHL gene in TRI-exposed RCC patients; four of these aberrations have thus far been confirmed as VHL mutations by sequence analysis. This finding indicates the VHL gene being a susceptible and specific target in TRI induced renal carcinogenesis. Furthermore, the frequent involvement of exon 2 identifies potential 'hot spots' for this carcinogen. In addition to the available epidemiological studies the results are now further proof for human renal carcinogenicity induced by high occupational exposures to TRI.
Stimulant addiction is often linked to excessive risk taking, sensation seeking, and impulsivity, but in ways that are poorly understood. We report here that a form of impulsivity in rats predicts high rates of intravenous cocaine self-administration and is associated with changes in dopamine (DA) function before drug exposure. Using positron emission tomography, we demonstrated that D2/3 receptor availability is significantly reduced in the nucleus accumbens of impulsive rats that were never exposed to cocaine and that such effects are independent of DA release. These data demonstrate that trait impulsivity predicts cocaine reinforcement and that D2 receptor dysfunction in abstinent cocaine addicts may, in part, be determined by premorbid influences.
By means of a case-control study we investigated the association between HLA phenotypes and the development of proteinuria after aurothioglucose or D-penicillamine treatment in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). HLA-DR3 was markedly increased in 44 treatment cases compared with 66 RA controls (46 versus 18%, p = 0.002). HLA-DR3 positive patients were at greater risk during treatment with D-penicillamine (RR 10.1, p = 0.001) than gold treated cases (RR 1.7, p = 0.365). The associations between HLA-DR3 and nephrotic syndrome (RR = 6.3, p = 0.004) and early onset proteinuria (RR = 5.4, p less than 0.001) were stronger compared with uncomplicated proteinuria (RR = 3.1, p = 0.017) and late-onset proteinuria (RR = 1.6, p = 0.459), respectively. It appears that genetic factors in RA influence the development, the degree and the time of onset of drug induced proteinuria.
Three dogs became lethargic and had poor appetites within 2 months after anticonvulsant treatment was initiated to control seizures. Dogs were neutropenic, thrombocytopenic, and anemic and had splenomegaly. Sensitivity to phenobarbital and related anticonvulsants may induce life-threatening leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, and anemia in dogs. Phenobarbital-induced neutropenia in these 3 dogs may have posed a risk for developing bacteremia. It is important for clinicians to be aware of adverse effects so that adequate precautions can be taken. A baseline hemogram should always be obtained before starting anticonvulsant treatment, and periodic hemograms should be obtained to monitor animals. Furthermore, client education should include instructions on recognizing signs of bacteremia, thrombocytopenia, and anemia.
To evaluate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of daily doses of 25, 50, and 100 mg of zonisamide (ZNS) administered as adjunctive treatment in patients with Parkinson disease (PD).
We conducted a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, parallel-treatment, placebo-controlled study in Japan. Patients with PD who showed insufficient response to levodopa treatment were given placebo for 2 weeks and then treated for 12 weeks with 25, 50, or 100 mg/day of ZNS or placebo, in addition to levodopa, followed by a 2-week dose-reduction period. The primary endpoint was change from baseline in the total score of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) Part III at the final assessment point. Secondary endpoints included changes from baseline in total daily "off" time; total scores of UPDRS Parts I, II, and IV; and Modified Hoehn and Yahr Scale score. Safety analysis was based on the incidence of adverse events.
There was significant improvement in the primary endpoint in the 25-mg and 50-mg groups vs placebo. The duration of "off" time was significantly reduced in the 50-mg and 100-mg groups vs placebo. Dyskinesia was not increased in ZNS groups. The incidence of adverse effects was similar between the 25-mg, 50-mg, and placebo groups but higher in the 100-mg group.
Zonisamide is safe, effective and well tolerated at 25 to 100 mg/day as an adjunctive treatment in patients with Parkinson disease.
Systemic fungal infections have significantly increased. The mainstay of treatment is amphotericin B deoxycholate. A limitation of using amphotericin B includes infusion-related reactions and nephrotoxicity. A continuous infusion of amphotericin B was found to reduce nephrotoxicity and infusion-related reactions.
To implement clinical practice policy on the continuous intravenous administration of amphotericin B in the patients hospitalized in general medical wards at Siriraj Hospital.
A one-page evidence-based clinical practice policy on continuous intravenous administration of amphotericin B was prepared and disseminated to all general medical wards in Siriraj Hospital. The information on the patients who received amphotericin B treatment between March 2004 and March 2006 was collected. The data were analyzed using descriptive statistics, univariate analysis and multivariate analysis as appropriate. A p-value of < 0. 05 was considered statistically significant.
Of 166 courses of amphotericin B treatment in 148 patients, 102 courses (61.4%) were given continuous intravenous administration of amphotericin B (CI group) and 64 courses (38.6%) were given conventional 4-to 6-hour intravenous administration (RI group). The mean age of the patients in the CI group was significantly greater than that in the RI group. The CI group had more patients with neutropenia with persistent fever whereas the RI group had more patients with HIV/AIDS and cryptococcal meningitis. The incidence of amphotericin B-related nephrotoxicity was 27.5% in the CI group compared with 39.1% in the RI group (p = 0.164). Chills were observed in 6.9% of the patients in the CI group compared with 26.6% in the RI group (p = 0. 001). Overall mortality at the end of therapy was significantly higher in the CI group. However, most of the deaths in the CI group were unrelated to fungal infections or amphotericin administration.
Continuous infusion of amphotericin B was associated with a decrease in infusion-related reactions and tended to have less nephrotoxicity than those in the 4-to 6-hour infusion group.
Progression of heart failure after initial myocardial injury is mediated in part by various redundant inflammatory mediators, including the widely expressed cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2). Because COX-2 inhibitors are useful in treating many inflammation-mediated diseases, we asked whether COX-2 inhibition can attenuate heart failure progression.
Heart failure was experimentally induced in 100 mice by administration of doxorubicin (4 mg. kg(-1). wk(-1) for 6 weeks). Beginning at day 42, mice were fed daily with either COX-2 inhibitor-containing mice chow (n=50) or plain mice chow (controls; n=50). Left ventricular ejection fraction was evaluated as a measure of heart failure by a novel method of transthoracic echocardiography (with intravascular ultrasound catheters) at baseline and on days 42, 56, and 70. From baseline to study termination, left ventricular ejection fraction in COX-2 inhibitor-treated mice decreased significantly less than in control mice (9% versus 29%, P<0.01). Mortality was significantly lower for COX-2 inhibitor-treated mice than for control mice (18% versus 38%, P<0.01). These results were confirmed in a revalidation study in COX-2 inhibitor-treated mice (n=25) and controls (n=25). That study revealed that the hearts from control mice weighed roughly the same as hearts from COX-2 inhibitor-treated mice but showed more extensive signs of cardiomyopathy (as determined by pathological analysis by an independent, blinded observer) and higher levels of COX-2 proteins (as determined by immunoblotting [6442+/-1635 versus 4300+/-2408 arbitrary units, P<0.022]).
COX-2 inhibitors can attenuate the progression of heart failure in a murine model of doxorubicin-induced heart failure.
The present study was designed to determine the central effects of cocaine on heart rate and blood pressure in Wistar Kyoto rats (WKY) and to evaluate mechanisms involved in the response. Cocaine (0.025-4 mg/kg) was administered to unanesthetized, unrestrained rats via a cannula placed into the lateral ventricle. Procaine (0.1 and 4 mg/kg) was also administered centrally. Cocaine did not significantly alter blood pressure at doses of 0.025, 0.1, or 0.5 mg/kg, icv. Only the highest dose, 4 mg/kg, icv produced a significant pressor response. Cocaine produced significant dose-dependent tachycardia, with the maximum increase in heart rate occurring within 5 min. Procaine (4 mg/kg, icv) produced tachycardia, but the effect was significantly less than that produced by cocaine (4 mg/kg, icv). Cocaine also produced tachycardia at a dose of 0.1 mg/kg, but procaine did not significantly alter heart rate at the same dose. Central phentolamine pretreatment (0.1 mg/kg, icv) significantly attenuated the increase in heart rate produced by cocaine. These results indicate that the centrally mediated tachycardia produced by cocaine is partly due to its local anesthetic activity and to indirect stimulation of alpha receptors.
A case of an adult with disulfiram-induced hepatitis is presented. An etiological role for the drug was proved when the patient underwent a provocative challenge and developed evidence of hepatocellular damage, reversible on withdrawal of the drug. Disulfiram-induced liver injury is difficult to detect in a population with a high incidence of alcohol-related hepatic disease. Liver chemistries should be screened before beginning disulfiram therapy and periodically during treatment.
