The present experiments examined the role of spinal proinflammatory cytokines [interleukin-1beta (IL-1)] and chemokines (fractalkine) in acute analgesia and in the development of analgesic tolerance, thermal hyperalgesia, and tactile allodynia in response to chronic intrathecal morphine. Chronic (5 d), but not acute (1 d), intrathecal morphine was associated with a rapid increase in proinflammatory cytokine protein and/or mRNA in dorsal spinal cord and lumbosacral CSF. To determine whether IL-1 release modulates the effects of morphine, intrathecal morphine was coadministered with intrathecal IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra). This regimen potentiated acute morphine analgesia and inhibited the development of hyperalgesia, allodynia, and analgesic tolerance. Similarly, intrathecal IL-1ra administered after the establishment of morphine tolerance reversed hyperalgesia and prevented the additional development of tolerance and allodynia. Fractalkine also appears to modulate the effects of intrathecal morphine because coadministration of morphine with intrathecal neutralizing antibody against the fractalkine receptor (CX3CR1) potentiated acute morphine analgesia and attenuated the development of tolerance, hyperalgesia, and allodynia. Fractalkine may be exerting these effects via IL-1 because fractalkine (CX3CL1) induced the release of IL-1 from acutely isolated dorsal spinal cord in vitro. Finally, gene therapy with an adenoviral vector encoding for the release of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 also potentiated acute morphine analgesia and attenuated the development of tolerance, hyperalgesia, and allodynia. Taken together, these results suggest that IL-1 and fractalkine are endogenous regulators of morphine analgesia and are involved in the increases in pain sensitivity that occur after chronic opiates.
The Hyperkinetic Abnormal Movements Scale (HAMS) was developed based on extensive observation of normal and abnormal movements in squirrel monkeys. The observations of abnormal movements were performed using animals that had undergone prior lesioning with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) that subsequently developed levodopa-induced abnormal movements. Specific and easily observable changes in behavior were used to delineate the boundaries between each rating level of the scale. The full spectrum of abnormal behavior at each rating level was then characterized for the squirrel monkey. Once the scale was fully developed and finalized, reliability testing revealed strong inter-rater (r = 0.959) and intrarater reliability (r = 0.930 to 0.941). Novice raters were easily taught its use and subsequently could use the scale with strong inter-rater reliability (R = 0.9057). In further studies of levodopa-induced abnormal movements, the HAMS was demonstrated to be highly sensitive, highly specific, and valid, both internally and when compared with an objective measure of abnormal movements. Although the scale was developed in MPTP-lesioned squirrel monkeys treated with levodopa, it might provide a framework for the standardized measurement of hyperkinetic abnormal movements in other primates and other experimental conditions.
There is no highly effective chemotherapy for malignant gliomas to date. We found that dimethylaminomicheliolide (DMAMCL), a selective inhibitor of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) stem/progenitor cells, inhibited the growth of glioma cells.
The distribution of DMAMCL in brain was analyzed by an ultraperformance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS/MS) system. The anti-tumor evaluations of DMAMCL in vitro were performed by MTT, FACS and RT-PCR. In vivo, the mixture of C6 cells and matrigel was injected into caudatum, and the anti-tumor activity of DMAMCL was evaluated by tumor growth and rat survival. The toxicity of DMAMCL was evaluated by body weight, daily food intake, hematological or serum biochemical analyses, and histological appearance of tissues.
The IC50 values of DMAMCL against the C6 and U-87MG cell lines in vitro were 27.18 ± 1.89 μM and 20.58 ± 1.61 μM, respectively. DAMMCL down-regulated the anti-apoptosis gene Bcl-2 and increased apoptosis in C6 and U-87MG cells in a dose-dependent manner. In a C6 rat tumor model, daily administration of DMAMCL for 21 days reduced the burden of C6 tumors by 60% to 88% compared to controls, and more than doubled the mean lifespan of tumor-bearing rats. Distribution analysis showed that the DMAMCL concentration was higher in the brain than in plasma. Evaluations for toxicity revealed that oral administration of DMAMCL at 200 or 300 mg/kg once a day for 21 days did not result in toxicity.
These results suggest that DMAMCL is highly promising for the treatment of glioma.
This is a description of a 34-month-old girl with dysarthria after a dosage of 37.5 mg/15 hours of intravenous diazepam (DZP). Dysarthria lasted 180 hours after the final dose. However, her respiration and blood pressure were normal, and disturbance of consciousness was mild and normalized at 77 hours. The clinical correlations of the concentrations of DZP and its active metabolite are discussed.
The physical and pharmacological properties of the structural isomers isoflurane and enflurane differ from each other and from those of other potent inhaled anaesthetics. The minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) for isoflurane (1.15%) is one-and-one-half times that for halothane (0.75%) and two-thirds that for enflurane (1.7%). The blood/gas partition coefficient (1.4) for isoflurane is lower than the coefficients for all other potent inhaled agents. Despite this lower blood solubility, induction of anaesthesia is slightly faster with halothane because of isoflurane's mild pungency. Enflurane depresses ventilation more than isoflurane, which in turn is slightly more depressant than halothane. All these agents dilate constricted bronchi, and thus are useful in the anaesthetic management of patients who have asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Isoflurane has the largest circulatory margin of safety of all potent halogenated agents; it produces the least myocardial depression at a given multiple of MAC. Isoflurane may increase heart rate, particularly in younger patients, and occasionally is associated with tachycardia. It decreases total peripheral resistance, thereby decreasing systemic arterial pressure. Although results from one study suggest that isoflurane may produce a "steal" or coronary blood flow in patients with coronary artery disease, results from other studies suggest that, even in the presence of coronary artery disease, coronary blood flow to all parts of the heart remains as adequate with isoflurane as with other anaesthetics. Greater concentrations of isoflurane (1.6 MAC) increase cerebral blood flow less than does halothane. Isoflurane does not produce convulsive activity, but can produce profound muscle relaxation. It enhances the action of tubocurarine or pancuronium, and (to a lesser extent) vecuronium or atracurium. The enhancement is comparable to that produced by enflurane. Less enhancement is produced by halothane or nitrous oxide-narcotic. Only 0.17% of isoflurane taken up in man appears as urinary metabolites. This resistance to biodegradation may explain the minimal or absent hepatotoxicity and nephrotoxicity of isoflurane.
CB 3717, N10-propargyl-5,8-dideazafolic acid, is a tight-binding inhibitor of thymidylate synthase (TS) whose cytotoxicity is mediated solely through the inhibition of this enzyme. Recent preclinical studies have focused on the intracellular formation of CB 3717 polyglutamates. Following a 12-hour exposure of L1210 cells to 50 microM [3H]CB 3717, 30% of the extractable radioactivity could be accounted for as CB 3717 tetra- and pentaglutamate, as determined by high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) analyses. As inhibitors of isolated L1210 TS, CB 3717 di-, tri-, tetra- and pentaglutamate are 26-, 87-, 119- and 114-fold more potent than CB 3717, respectively, and their formation may, therefore, be an important determinant of CB 3717 cytotoxicity. In early clinical studies with CB 3717, activity has been seen in breast cancer, ovarian cancer, hepatoma, and mesothelioma. Toxicities included hepatotoxicity, malaise, and dose-limiting nephrotoxicity. This latter effect is thought to be due to drug precipitation within the renal tubule as a result of the poor solubility of CB 3717 under acidic conditions. In an attempt to overcome this problem, a clinical trial of CB 3717 administered with alkaline diuresis is under way. Preliminary results at 400 and 500 mg/m2 suggest that a reduction in nephrotoxicity may have been achieved with only 1 instance of renal toxicity in 10 patients. Hepatotoxicity and malaise are again the most frequent side effects. Evidence of antitumor activity has been seen in 3 patients. Pharmacokinetic investigations have shown that alkaline diuresis does not alter CB 3717 plasma levels or urinary excretion and that satisfactory urinary alkalinization can be readily achieved.
Haloperidol, a non-selective dopamine receptor antagonist, was injected intraperitoneally in to suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN)-lesioned rats at various phases of the locomotor activity rhythm induced by methamphetamine (MAP) treatment. A single injection of haloperidol shifted the phase of MAP-induced locomotor rhythm phase dependently, while saline injection had no effect on the phase. A phase-response curve of MAP-induced rhythm for haloperidol had a small phase-advancing area at CT 13 to 15, a large phase-delaying area at CT 3 to 7 and a dead zone at CT 17 to 1. Although the day-to-day variation of MAP-induced locomotor rhythm was about 2.5-times as great as that of light entrainable circadian rhythm, the phase shifts of both directions were statistically significant. Phase delay shifts at CT 5 depended on the dose of haloperidol. In addition to the phase-shifting effect, haloperidol suppressed the MAP-induced locomotor activity for activity for about 10 h regardless of the phase of the injection. Pentobarbital also suppressed ther locomotor activity for a similar duration. However, significant phase shift was not detected with pentobarbital injected at CT 5 or CT 13, at the phase where haloperidol induced the maximal phase delay or advance, respectively. Present findings suggest that the dopaminergic mechanism is involved in the entrainment and/or oscillatory mechanism of the MAP-induced rhythm.
Proliferative lesions induced by 2,6-dimethylaniline (DMA) in a two-stage rat nasal carcinogenesis model were immunohistochemically and ultrastructurally investigated. Male F344 rats received diet containing 3,000 ppm DMA for 52 weeks after initiation with a single subcutaneous injection of 2400 mg/kg of N-bis(2-hydroxypropyl)nitrosamine (DHPN). Histopathologically, proliferation of Bowman's glands, glandular hyperplasias, dysplastic foci, adenomas, and carcinomas were observed in treated rats. These nasal lesions mostly arose in the olfactory mucosa of the nasal cavity. Immunohistochemically, they were positive for cytokeratin and/or collagen type IV antibodies. Ultrastructurally, intracytoplasmic dense secretory granules (200-850 nm in diameter), identical to those in normal Bowman's glands, were observed in all the lesions, providing further support from an origin from these glands. Based on their cellular characterization, growth pattern and/or proliferative activity, two morphological continua were evident, one from dysplastic foci to carcinomas and the other from proliferation of Bowman's glands to glandular hyperplasias and adenomas. These results suggest that dysplastic foci arise from Bowman's glands and progress to carcinomas, while proliferation of Bowman's glands result in glandular hyperplasias and adenomas.
Baseline electrocardiogram abnormalities and market elevations not associated with myocardial necrosis make accurate diagnosis of myocardial infarction (MI) difficult in patients with cocaine-associated chest pain. Troponin sampling may offer greater diagnostic utility in these patients.
To assess outcomes based on troponin positivity in patients with cocaine chest pain admitted for exclusion of MI.
Outcomes were examined in patients admitted for possible MI after cocaine use. All patients underwent a rapid rule-in protocol that included serial sampling of creatine kinase (CK), CK-MB, and cardiac troponin I (cTnI) over eight hours. Outcomes included CK-MB MI (CK-MB >or= 8 ng/mL with a relative index [(CK-MB x 100)/total CK] >or= 4, cardiac death, and significant coronary disease (>or=50%).
Of the 246 admitted patients, 34 (14%) met CK-MB criteria for MI and 38 (16%) had cTnI elevations. Angiography was performed in 29 of 38 patients who were cTnI-positive, with significant disease present in 25 (86%). Three of the four patients without significant disease who had cTnI elevations met CK-MB criteria for MI, and the other had a peak CK-MB level of 13 ng/mL. Sensitivities, specificities, and positive and negative likelihood ratios for predicting cardiac death or significant disease were high for both CK-MB MI and cTnI and were not significantly different.
Most patients with cTnI elevations meet CK-MB criteria for MI, as well as have a high incidence of underlying significant disease. Troponin appears to have an equivalent diagnostic accuracy compared with CK-MB for diagnosing necrosis in patients with cocaine-associated chest pain and suspected MI.
Dexfenfluramine and fenfluramine greatly increase the risk of developing pulmonary hypertension (PHT). The mechanism of anorexigen-associated PHT (AA-PHT) and the reason PHT occurs in a minority of people exposed are unknown. Anorexigens are weak pulmonary vasoconstrictors, but they become potent when synthesis of the endogenous vasodilator nitric oxide (NO) is suppressed. We hypothesized NO deficiency predisposes affected individuals to develop AA-PHT. A prospective, case-control, study was performed on consecutive patients with AA-PHT (n = 9). Two sex-matched control groups were selected: patients with primary PHT (P-PHT, n = 8) and normal volunteers (n = 12). Lung NO production (VNO) and systemic plasma oxidation products of NO (NOx) were measured at rest and during exercise. AA-PHT developed 17 +/- 6 mo after a short course of anorexigen (6 +/- 2 mo) and was irreversible. VNO was lower in AA-PHT than in P-PHT and correlated inversely with PVR (p < 0.05). The apparent VNO deficiency may have resulted from increased oxidative inactivation of NO in patients with AA-PHT, as their NOx levels were elevated (p < 0.05) in inverse proportion to VNO (r2 = 0. 55; p < 0.02). In susceptible persons, anorexigens can cause an irreversible syndrome of PHT, hypoxemia, and systemic vascular complications after brief exposures. These patients have a relative NO deficiency years after discontinuing the anorexigen, perhaps explaining their original susceptibility.
A review is presented of the various types of cardiotoxicity associated with the clinical use of doxorubicin, a highly effective antineoplastic agent of the anthracycline family. Acute toxicity is related to rapid intravenous administration of the drug and is manifested by vasodilatation, hypotension and cardiac arrhythmias. Subacute toxicity is very uncommon. It develops early in the course of therapy and is characterized by myocarditis and pericarditis. Chronic toxicity is the most common form of doxorubicin-induced cardiac toxicity. It is manifested by chronic dilated cardiomyopathy, which develops late in the course of therapy or shortly after its termination. Morphologic changes are characteristic and consist of myofibrillar loss and cytoplasmic vacuolization (which is due to dilatation of the sarcoplasmic reticulum) of the myocytes. The damaging effects of reactive oxygen species, generated by the interaction of doxorubicin with iron, play a critically important role in the pathogenesis of the chronic cardiotoxicity. Other factors related to this toxicity include inhibition of DNA topoisomerase II, stimulation of certain immune responses and a diversity of other biochemical effects on various cellular organelles. Doxorubicin induces apoptosis in a variety of cell types, but not in cardiac myocytes. The chronic cardiotoxicity of doxorubicin is significantly attenuated by chelation of iron by ICRF-187 (dexrazoxane). A greatly delayed type of doxorubicin cardiotoxicity has been recently found to occur in survivors of childhood cancers who were treated with doxorubicin without any immediate adverse effects, but develop chronic cardiomyopathy at periods of time ranging up to 15 years later. The pathogenesis of this type of toxicity remains to be determined.
To investigate the liver tumor promoting effects of phenytoin (5,5-diphenylhydantoin; DPH), 5 week old male D2B6F1 mice were given a single i.p. dose of 90 mg N-nitrosodiethylamine (NDEA)/kg body wt in tricaprylin. Control groups received tricaprylin alone. After 2 weeks, the mice were given a diet containing 500, 250 or 125 p.p.m. DPH. Ten mice from each treatment group were killed at 30 weeks of age, at which time 10/10 mice given 500 p.p.m. DPH after NDEA initiation had developed multiple hepatocellular foci and adenomas. Such lesions were found only in 2/10 mice given NDEA alone. By 60 weeks, when the experiment was concluded, the incidences (and multiplicities, in units of tumors per tumor-bearing mouse) of hepatocellular adenomas were 60% (1.8 +/- 0.8), 100% (11.6 +/- 5.5), 77% (4.4 +/- 3.3) or 71% (2.6 +/- 1.3) in mice exposed to NDEA alone, or NDEA followed by 500, 250 or 125 p.p.m. DPH respectively. Hepatocellular carcinomas (87% incidence) and hepatoblastomas (33% incidence) were found only in mice given 500 p.p.m. DPH following NDEA initiation. Dose-dependent and profound increases in hepatic CYP2B-mediated benzyloxyresorufin O-dealkylase activity were detected in livers of B6C3F1 mice exposed for 14 days to dietary DPH (125, 250, 500 or 1000 p.p.m.). Similar increases in this activity were observed in D2B6F1 mice exposed to 500 and 250 p.p.m. for 30 or 60 weeks. Thus, increased hepatic CYP2B activity in mice exposed to DPH correlates with the tumor promoting effect of this compound.
We report one case of parkinsonism induced by cisapride and one case of Parkinson's disease whose symptoms were worsened by cisapride. Case 1. A 75-year-old female who had suffered from constipation and loss of appetite, was treated with cisapride for her gastro-intestinal symptoms. One year later, she developed progressive parkinsonian gait, cogwheel rigidity She showed parkinsonian gait, cogwheel rigidity and slowness in motion. Two months after cisapride was discontinued, her parkinsonism and depression disappeared. Case 2. A 66-year-old female with Parkinson's disease was given cisapride for constipation. Two months after starting cisapride, her akinesia and rigidity deteriorated gradually, and she became bed-ridden with dysphagia and dyspnea. After cisapride was discontinued, her parkinsonian symptoms improved gradually, and she became ambulant three months later. Cisapride is a benzamide derivative with a prokinetic action. Experimental studies have revealed that it has indirect cholinomimetic effects and potentially stimulates the gastrointestinal motor activity without blocking dopamine receptors or activating muscarinic cholinergic receptors. However, the present cases showed that cisapride could be a dopamine receptor blocker, and either induce or worsen parkinsonism. Therefore, cisapride should be avoided or very carefully used in parkinsonian patients and old people.
Objective is to speculate on the ribavirin induced anemia by inhibiting S-adenosylhomocysteine (SAH)-hydrolase activity. The major toxicity associated with the use of ribavirin is hemolytic anemia. This adverse effect has been ascribed to the accumulation of ribavirin triphosphate in the erythrocyte, which interferes with erythrocyte function. Ribavirin has been found to inhibit SAH-hydrolase activity in erythrocyte. SAH is further hydrolyzed to adenosine and homocysteine by SAH-hydrolase. The formation of S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) is then demethylated to SAH. SAH, the metabolite of SAM, on the other hand is a powerful inhibitor of methyltransferase enzymes, competing for the SAM binding site. A concurrent decrease in SAM and an increase in SAH levels would inhibit methylation of many tissue components including proteins, DNA, RNA, phospholipids and other small molecules. The enzyme protein carboxyl methyltransferase type II has been recently shown to play a crucial role in the repair of damaged proteins. SAM is the methyl donor of the reaction, and its demethylated product, SAH is the natural inhibitor of this reaction, as well as of most SAM-dependent methylations. The biological function of this transmethylation reaction is related to the repair or degradation of age-damaged proteins. Methyl ester formation in erythrocyte membrane proteins has been used as a marker reaction to tag these abnormal residues and to monitor their increase associated with erythrocyte ageing diseases. Liver disease is complicated by cholesterol deposition in hepatic and extrahepatic membranes. Erythrocyte membrane fluidity has been improved with the administration of SAM and correlated with the cholesterol/phospholipid ratio of the membranes. The levels of SAH-hydrolase activity were also found to undergo a sharp decrease with red cell ageing. The similarity of these alterations with certain morphofunctional characteristics of erythrocyte in some conditions as chronic renal failure, liver disease and hereditary spherocytosis makes it possible to hypothesize that the inhibition of SAH-hydrolase could constitute at least a part of ribavirin induced hemolytic anemia.
To investigate the therapeutic effect of methylselenocysteine (MSC) combined with tamoxifen in MCF-7 breast cancer xenograft and the underlying mechanisms. MCF-7 breast cancer xenograft was established in ovariectomized female athymic nude mice and treated with tamoxifen and/or MSC. Tumor size was measured twice a week. Immunohistochemistry and TUNEL assays were used to measure ERalpha expression, ERalpha target genes (progesterone receptor (PR) and cyclin D1 expression), Ki-67 index, apoptosis and microvessel density. Combined treatment with tamoxifen and MSC synergistically inhibited tumor growth compared to MSC alone and tamoxifen alone. MSC alone or MSC + tamoxifen significantly reduced ERalpha, PR and cyclin D1, Ki67 index and microvessel density while increasing apoptosis in tumor tissues. These findings demonstrate synergistic growth inhibition of ERalpha positive breast cancer xenografts by combination of tamoxifen with organic selenium compounds. Organic selenium may provide added benefit when combined with tamoxifen in adjuvant therapy or prevention.
A case of Budd-Chiari syndrome in a young woman taking oral contraceptives is described. Her main complaints were abdominal pain and ascites without hepatosplenomegaly and the subsequent development of shock. Diagnosis was established by selective hepatic arteriogram and vena cavagram. She was treated with supportive measures, anticoagulants and neomycin. At the time of this report, the patient is slowly convalescing, taking coumadin, diuretics and Aldactone, as well as supplementary vitamins. Reviewed are 14 cases of Budd-Chiari syndrome occurring while patients were taking oral contraceptives.
A combined cholestatic-hepatocellular injury and noncaseating granulomas occurred in two patients 1 and 4 weeks after phenylbutazone therapy. Both patients were jaundiced, one had a macular rash, and both had peripheral blood eosinophilia. Symptoms and signs subsided, and abnormal findings from tests of hepatic function rapidly returned to normal following withdrawal of the drug. Sections of liver biopsy specimens 6 months later showed no granulomas or other pathologic changes. Previously reported cases are reviewed.
Elevated levels of aluminium (Al), strontium (Sr), barium (Ba), iron (Fe), manganese (Mn) cations - combined with deficiencies of magnesium (Mg)/calcium (Ca) - have been observed in the foodchains that traditionally support the Chamorro populations affected by high incidence clusters of Alzheimer (AD), Parkinson-like (PD), motor neurone diseases and multiple sclerosis on the island of Guam. Soils drawn from the cluster region demonstrated an excessive fivefold increase in 'magnetic susceptibility' readings in relation to soils from disease free adjoining regions. A multifactorial aetiological hypothesis is proposed that pivots upon the combined exposure to high levels of natural/industrial sources of ferrimagnetic/ferroelectric compounds incorporating Al, Fe, Mn, Sr, Ba (e.g., via yam/seafood consumption or exposure to world war 2 (WW2) munitions) and to low levels of Mg/Ca in all S. Pacific locations where these clusters of neurodegenerative disease have simultaneously erupted. Once gut/blood brain barrier permeability is impaired, the increased uptake of Al, Fe, Sr, Ba, or Mn into the Mg/Ca depleted brain leads to rogue metal substitutions at the Mg/Ca vacated binding domains on various enzyme/proteoglycan groups, causing a broad ranging disruption in Mg/Ca dependent systems - such as the glutamine synthetase which prevents the accumulation of neurotoxic glutamate. The rogue metals chelate sulphate, disrupting sulphated-proteoglycan mediated inhibition of crystal proliferation, as well as its regulation of the Fibroblast growth factor receptor complex which disturbs the molecular conformation of those receptors and their regulation of transphosphorylation between intracellular kinase domains; ultimately collapsing proteoglycan mediated cell-cell signalling pathways which maintain the growth and structural integrity of the neuronal networks. The depression of Mg/Ca dependent systems in conjunction with the progressive ferrimagnetisation of the CNS due to an overload of rogue ferroelectric/ferrimagnetic metal contaminants, enables 'seeding' of metal-protein crystalline arrays that can proliferate in the proteoglycan depleted brain. The resulting magnetic field emissions initiate a free radical mediated progressive pathogenesis of neurodegeneration. The co-clustering of these various types of disease in select geographical pockets around the world suggests that all of these conditions share a common early life exposure to ferromagnetic metal nucleating agents in their multifactorial aetiology. Factors such as individual genetics, the species of metal involved, etc., dictate which specific class of disease will emerge as a delayed neurotoxic response to these environmental insults.
The cortical somatosensory evoked potential (SEP) of the rat, evoked by contralateral forepaw stimulation, consisted of early (P 1 and N 1) and the late components (P 2 and N 2). Microelectrode recording yielded evoked unitary responses of short latencies in the range of the early components and responses of longer latencies in the range of P 2. During the development of focal epilepsy after topical application of penicillin, the late components of SEP were enhanced and the enhanced late negativity corresponded to a surface negative cortical spike. The prominent enlargement of later components was associated with prolonged, often recurrent discharges of long latency unitary responses and with enlarged local field potentials. Early components of SEP remained relatively unaffected and so did unitary responses with short latencies. Epileptic spike-conditioned SEPs in the cuneate nucleus, thalamic sensory relay nucleus and sensory cortex were depressed from 100 ns (cuneate nucleus) to about 300 ms (thalamus and cortex) subsequent to spike discharge. Transmission in the cuneate nucleus was least affected. Thalamic and cortical early components of SEP had similar time courses of recovery, which differed markedly from hat of cortical late components. Our findings suggest that two different neuronal activities generate different components of SEP and are differentially involved in the epileptic activities, which results in the different amplitude recovery following spontaneous epileptic spike discharges.
Schinzel-Giedion syndrome is characterized by severe mental retardation, distinctive facial features and multiple congenital malformations; most affected individuals die before the age of ten. We sequenced the exomes of four affected individuals (cases) and found heterozygous de novo variants in SETBP1 in all four. We also identified SETBP1 mutations in eight additional cases using Sanger sequencing. All mutations clustered to a highly conserved 11-bp exonic region, suggesting a dominant-negative or gain-of-function effect.
Few controlled studies have addressed the issue of effective medical treatment for nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). We herein assessed the effect of orlistat in patients with NAFLD.
We performed a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study on 52 patients with NAFLD diagnosed by ultrasound (US) and confirmed by liver biopsy (40 patients). The patients were randomized to receive either orlistat (120 mg 3 times daily for 6 months) or placebo. All patients participated in an identical behavioral weight loss program. All patients underwent monthly evaluation by abdominal US; liver enzyme levels, lipid profiles, insulin levels, and anthropometric parameters were monitored, and all patients underwent nutritional follow-up evaluation. Twenty-two patients underwent a second liver biopsy examination at the end of the study.
Fifty-two patients were recruited and 44 (mean age, 47.7 y; mean body mass index, 33) completed the study. Serum glucose and insulin levels (P<.03) were significantly higher in the orlistat group, which also presented a higher degree of fibrosis. Body mass index was reduced significantly in each group, with a nonsignificant difference between the groups. Serum alanine transaminase (ALT) levels decreased significantly in both groups, with an almost 2-fold reduction in the orlistat group (48% vs 26.4%). There was a statistically significant reversal of fatty liver by US only in the orlistat group (P<.05).
Orlistat improves serum ALT levels and steatosis on US in NAFLD patients, beyond its effect on weight reduction.
Case-parent trios were used in a genome-wide association study of cleft lip with and without cleft palate. SNPs near two genes not previously associated with cleft lip with and without cleft palate (MAFB, most significant SNP rs13041247, with odds ratio (OR) per minor allele = 0.704, 95% CI 0.635-0.778, P = 1.44 x 10(-11); and ABCA4, most significant SNP rs560426, with OR = 1.432, 95% CI 1.292-1.587, P = 5.01 x 10(-12)) and two previously identified regions (at chromosome 8q24 and IRF6) attained genome-wide significance. Stratifying trios into European and Asian ancestry groups revealed differences in statistical significance, although estimated effect sizes remained similar. Replication studies from several populations showed confirming evidence, with families of European ancestry giving stronger evidence for markers in 8q24, whereas Asian families showed stronger evidence for association with MAFB and ABCA4. Expression studies support a role for MAFB in palatal development.
Japanese medaka fish (Oryzias latipes) were used to develop an in vivo method to assess hepatocellular proliferation in a nonmammalian model. Proliferative responses were assessed in medaka at 7, 17, 24, and 94 days after a 48-hour exposure to 10 or 100 mg/L diethylnitrosamine (DEN). Subgroups of medaka were exposed to 50 or 75 mg/L of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) in water for 72 hours, sacrificed, and then processed for immunohistochemical staining. Proliferative indices of BrdU-labeled hepatocytes were quantified and compared using both count and area measurements. There was a significant increase (p < 0.05) in hepatocellular proliferation in the 100 mg/L DEN-treated fish as compared to controls and 10 mg/L DEN-treated fish for the first 3 time points. Hepatocarcinogenicity was evaluated 26 weeks post-DEN exposure. There was a significant increase (p < 0.0001) in hepatocellular neoplasms in 100 mg/L DEN-treated fish compared to other fish. Effective BrdU-labeling of S-phase hepatocytes in medaka was achieved by adding BrdU to the aquarium water, and an increase in hepatocellular proliferation using this method was detected 7 days after exposure to a carcinogenic concentration of DEN. Additionally, the new method of area measurement indices of proliferation were as precise as count indices (R2 > or = 0.92).
