The standard adjuvant therapy for rectal cancer is 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) often combined with radiotherapy. Well-documented side effects of 5-FU include nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea, leukopenia and thrombocytopenia, hand-foot syndrome, mucositis, and cardiotoxicity. Peripheral neurotoxicity has only rarely been reported. We report a patient with a stage II rectal carcinoma who developed a mild axonal sensorimotor neuropathy at the end of a 5-FU therapy.
The mitochondrial antioxidant enzyme manganese-containing superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) functions as a tumor suppressor gene. Reconstitution of MnSOD expression in several human cancer cell lines leads to reversion of malignancy and induces a resistant phenotype to the cytotoxic effects of TNF and hyperthermia. The signaling pathways that underlie these phenotypic changes in MnSOD-overexpressing cells are unknown, although alterations in the activity of several redox-sensitive transcription factors, including AP-1 and NF-kappaB, have been observed. To determine the downstream signaling molecules involved in MnSOD-induced cell resistant phenotype, in the present study we analyzed the expression profile of several groups of genes related to stress response, DNA repair, and apoptosis, in a human breast cancer MCF-7 cell line overexpressing MnSOD (MCF+SOD). Of 588 genes examined, 5 (0.85%) were up-regulated (2-42-fold), and 11 (1.9%) were down-regulated (2-33-fold) in the MCF+SOD cells compared to the parental MCF-7 cells. The five up-regulated genes were MET, GADD153, CD9, alpha-catenin and plakoglobin. The genes with the most significant down-regulation included: vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 1, TNF-alpha converting enzyme, and interleukin-1beta. GADD153 (involved in the repair of DNA double strand breaks) showed a 33-fold increase in microarray analysis and these results were confirmed by RT-PCR. To further determine the specificity in MnSOD-induced gene regulation, MCF+SOD cells were stably transfected with an antisense MnSOD sequence whose expression was controlled by a tetracycline-inducible regulator. Expression of three up-regulated genes was measured after induction of antisense MnSOD expression. Interestingly, expression level of GADD153 but not MET or CD9 was reduced 24 h after antisense MnSOD induction. Together, these results suggest that reconstitution of MnSOD in tumor cells can specifically modulate the expression of down-stream effector genes. GADD153 and other elements observed in the MCF+SOD cells may play a key role in signaling the MnSOD-induced cell phenotypic change.
Fibrates and HMG CoA reductase inhibitors are commonly used in the treatment of diabetic dyslipidaemia. However, these two groups of drugs have not been compared in diabetic patients in a randomized controlled trial. Therefore, a multicentre study was performed in 73 subjects with non-insulin-dependent (Type 2) diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) and combined hyperlipidaemia (serum cholesterol 6.2-10.0 mmol l(-1), serum triglycerides 2.3-10.0 mmol l(-1)), comparing the efficacy of 400 mg bezafibrate with 10 mg simvastatin in a double-blind fashion. Treatment with bezafibrate during 12 weeks reduced serum triglycerides significantly more than simvastatin (-41% vs -22%, p < 0.001) and increased HDL cholesterol more (bezafibrate: + 17% vs simvastatin: + 9%, p < 0.05). LDL cholesterol levels decreased by 14% (p < 0.001) during simvastatin and increased by 21% (p < 0.01) during bezafibrate. This increase in LDL cholesterol was positively correlated with fasting serum triglycerides (p < 0.001) and was associated with a reduction of the serum apolipoprotein B concentration, suggesting an increase in LDL particle size. Metabolic control of diabetes (fasting glycaemia; HbA1c) and insulin secretion (C-peptide levels) were unaffected by both treatments. The incidence of side-effects during treatment was similar for both drugs. Thus, 400 mg bezafibrate mainly increases HDL cholesterol and lowers serum triglycerides but at the expense of an increase in LDL cholesterol; 10 mg simvastatin lowers LDL cholesterin more effectively but has a smaller effect on HDL cholesterol and triglycerides.
Cocaine-associated thrombosis has been reported in the literature with reports of vascular injuries to cardiac, pulmonary, intestinal, placental, and musculoskeletal vessels; however, injury of the pedal vessels is rare. We report on a 31-year-old man who presented 2 months following a cocaine binge with limb-threatening ischemia without an otherwise identifiable embolic source. Angiography confirmed extensive occlusive disease of the tibioperoneal vessels. The patient improved following therapy with heparin and a prostacyclin analogue. Cocaine-induced thrombosis should be considered in patients presenting with acute arterial insufficiency in the lower limb without any other identifiable cause.
An 84-year-old man was referred to the emergency department with severe dyspnea. Based on his physical findings, electrocardiogram, X-ray and echocardiographic findings, congestive heart failure was suspected and drip infusion of prophylactic heparin against intracardiac thrombosis was commenced together with dopamine, nitroglycerin and furosemide. Diuresis occurred and the pulmonary congestion ameliorated remarkably. Starting on the 20th hospital day, the platelet count was gradually reduced (from 256,000 to 55,000 /microl) and the fibrin degradation product concentration rose (27.6 microg/ml). However, prothrombin time was not prolonged (89%), the concentration of antithrombin III was low -normal (69%) and the fibrinogen concentration was high (650 mg/dl). Thus, heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT), rather than disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), was suspected. Heparin was withdrawn on the 24th hospital day and replaced by nafamostat mesilate after which the platelet count was restored to 100,000 /microl. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for HIT antibodies was positive. Unfortunately, the patient died from uncontrolled sepsis on the 29th hospital day. At autopsy, platelet-rich thrombi were found in the small pulmonary arteries and intestinal arteries. No evidence of DIC, such as fibrin-rich thrombosis, was observed. This is the first autopsy report of HIT in Japan.
To evaluate the antioxidant effects of acetaminophen in atherosclerosis.
Experimental literature and abstracts accessed through MEDLINE (1966-February 2001).
Atherosclerosis is an inflammatory disorder associated with coronary events. The oxidative stress burden resulting from excess pro-oxidant free radical formation contributes to oxidative modification of low-density lipoprotein (lipid peroxidation) and is associated with atherosclerosis. Acetaminophen (phenol-like compound) may limit these key processes that are involved. The findings of earlier experimental laboratory tests and abstracts are evaluated.
In vitro data suggest that acetaminophen may reduce lipid peroxidation, whereas animal data showed decreased progression of atherosclerosis. Further animal model and human studies are required to confirm these earlier findings.
Resistance to endocrine therapies remains a major problem in the management of estrogen receptor-alpha (ER)-positive breast cancer. We show that inhibition of NF-kappaB (p65/RELA), either by overexpression of a mutant IkappaB (IkappaBSR) or a small-molecule inhibitor of NF-kappaB (parthenolide; IC(50)=500 nM in tamoxifen-resistant cells), synergistically restores sensitivity to 4-hydroxytamoxifen (4HT) in resistant MCF7/RR and MCF7/LCC9 cells and further sensitizes MCF-7 and MCF7/LCC1 control cells to 4HT. These effects are independent of changes in either cell cycle distribution or in the level of autophagy measured by inhibition of p62/SQSTM1 expression and cleavage of LC3. NF-kappaB inhibition restores the ability of 4HT to decrease BCL2 expression, increase mitochondrial membrane permeability, and induce a caspase-dependent apoptotic cell death in resistant cells. Each of these effects is reversed by a caspase 8 (CASP8)-specific inhibitor that blocks enzyme-substrate binding. Thus, increased activation of NF-kappaB can alter sensitivity to tamoxifen by modulating CASP8 activity, with consequent effects on BCL2 expression, mitochondrial function, and apoptosis. These data provide significant new insights into how molecular signaling affects antiestrogen responsiveness and strongly suggest that a combination of parthenolide and tamoxifen may offer a novel therapeutic approach to the management of some ER-positive breast cancers.
The effects of 11-oxo-11H-pyrido[2,1-b]quinazoline-2-carboxylic acid (Sm 857) on immediate type, particularly type I allergic reactions were investigated and the following results were obtained. 48-h homologous passive cutaneous anaphylaxis (PCA) in rats was inhibited by oral administration of Sm 857 from the 4th h to the 30th min before antigen challenge and by intravenous administration from the 2nd h to just before antigen challenge. 48-h homologous PCA in rats was inhibited dose-dependently by oral administration of Sm 857 at 1-50 mg/kg 30 min before antigen challenge. On the other hand, the intravenous administration 10 min before antigen challenge showed similar dose-dependent effects on PCA and the effects were significant at doses of 0.5-2 mg/kg. The oral administration of Sm 857 for 1-4 weeks reduced the PCA inhibitory effect in comparison with single administration. Sm 857 injected intravenously twice at intervals of 15-120 min showed no change in inhibitory effect. The PCA inhibitory effect of Sm 857 in adrenalectomized rats was reduced markedly when compared with that in sham-operated rats. On the other hand, adrenalectomy had no influence on the inhibitory effect of tranilast. Sm 857, tranilast and ketotifen inhibited histamin-induced capillary permeability in rats and, in particular, the effect of ketotifen was conspicuous. Sm 857, tranilast and ketotifen significantly inhibited antigen-induced histamine release from the peritoneal cavity of passively sensitized rats. Release of slow reacting substance of anaphylaxis (SRS-A), on the other hand, was inhibited significantly by Sm 857 and ketotifen. Sm 857 showed a tendency to inhibit antigen-induced histamine release from the lung tissue of passively sensitized guinea pigs and significantly inhibited SRS-A release. Sm 857 inhibited histamine- and leukotriene D4 (LTD4)-induced contraction in the lung parenchyma and the tracheal muscle. However, the drug had no effect on contraction of the ileum. Sm 857 showed a tendency to inhibit the Schultz-Dale reaction in the lung parenchyma ana the ileum. Both oral and intravenous administration of Sm 857 showed an inhibitory effect on experimental asthma in guinea pigs, which was similar to that of tranilast.
Prader-Willi Syndrome is a congenital multisystem disorder, characterized by a typical dysmorphism, mental retardation, hyperphagia due to insatiable appetite, and resultant morbid obesity. Psychiatric symptoms include obsessions and temper tantrums.
Pharmacotherapy is experimental with a few reports of successful fluoxetine treatment.
We report an aggravation in the food-related symptoms and a consequent weight gain in an adolescent with Prader-Willi syndrome, who was treated with fluvoxamine and fluoxetine.
A study was undertaken in 19 patients with benign to moderate essential hypertension to verify the effect of indapamide alone or combined with a beta-blocker on plasma renin activity, plasma aldosterone, serum potassium and urinary prostaglandins PGE2 and PGF2a. Blood pressure was normalized in 11 (58%) patients with 2.5 mg indapamide/day. In the remaining 8 patients, the addition of pindolol resulted in blood pressure control. Under indapamide, a 70% increase in plasma renin activity and 81% (p less than 0.01) in plasma aldosterone was observed, whereas there was an 18% (p less than 0.001) decrease in potassium. Simultaneously, an increase in urinary PGE2 and PGF2a was observed; these values were significant for PGE2 (p less than 0.025). The addition of pindolol did not produce significant change in the biochemical parameters measured. The increase in the excretion rate of primary prostaglandins could play a role in the mode of action of indapamide.
A 52-year-old dentist with kappa light chain multiple myeloma relapsed 6 months after 180 mg/m2 melphalan and an autograft. A partial remission had been attained after the autograft. Relapse occurred while he was on dexamethasone maintenance therapy. Chemotherapy was not an option due to low blood counts. Thalidomide was administered at relatively high doses (escalated up to 700 mg daily and continued for 4 months). There was a prompt decline in urine protein from 6067 mg/day to 2177 mg/day within a month. The response continued to improve with achievement of near-complete remission within 6 months and a decline in urine protein to 413 mg/day. Subsequently, grade 3 neutropenia and peripheral neuropathy required dose reduction to 200 mg/day. Disease activity parameters continued to improve on the lower dose of thalidomide. Nine months after starting thalidomide, the patient is in near-complete remission, enjoys an excellent quality of life, and has returned to work. We conclude that thalidomide can effectively control myeloma relapsing after high-dose chemotherapy, and may be especially useful in resistant cases or those unable to tolerate further chemotherapy. Bone Marrow Transplantation (2000) 25, 1319-1320.
An acute ischemia has almost its origin in a mechanical obstruction of the vessel caused by embolus, thrombose or dissection. An ischemia caused by medicament, excepted the erronated intraarterial injection of vasoconstrictive medicament, is very seldom encountered in the clinic. We describe the case of a young woman who was referred to our clinic for investigation and treatment of an acute ischemia of both limbs. In her past medical history she was treated because of a liver insufficiency occurring after a spontaneous abortion and received methylergometrine (Methergin) for uterine stimulation. Because of this unusual manifestation in a young patient with a complicated past medical history we considered the possibility of a drug induced ischemia caused by ergotamine-derivate. The rapid recovering after treatment with chlorpromazine and nifedipine confirmed the suspected diagnosis. A well defined therapy of this rare complication has not been described; vasodilatators, nitroglycerin, calcium-antagonists and even streptokinase and balloon dilatation are proposed.
The paper reports a case of hemolytic anemia induced by procainamide hydrochloride treatment. Decreases in hemoglobin concentration are correlated with 11 months of procainamide treatment along with a marked increase in hemoglobin following cessation of the drug. The patient exhibited no symptoms suggestive of drug-induced Lupus Erythematosus that has been frequently reported as a sequela of procainamide therapy. Direct antiglobulin tests were consistently positive throughout the clinical course, and an ether-eluate prepared from the patient's red blood cells showed panagglutinability. The antibody in the eluate reacted with Rhnull, D--, LW negative, and U negative red blood cells without addition of procainamide or pretreatment of red blood cells with the drug. It is noted that this antibody reacts similarly to the antibody produced as a consequence of alpha-methyl-dopa therapy.
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is the most common form of cancer in children. Recent advances in treatment have led to dramatically improved survival rates. Standard ALL treatment includes multiple administrations of the chemotherapeutic drug vincristine, which is a known neurotoxic agent. Although peripheral neuropathy is a well-known toxicity among children receiving vincristine acutely, the long-term effects on the peripheral nervous system in these children are not clear. The objective of this study was to determine the prevalence of neuropathy and its impact on motor function and quality of life (QOL) among children who survived ALL. Thirty-seven survivors of childhood ALL aged 8-18 underwent evaluation for neuropathy through self-reported symptoms, standardized examinations, and nerve conduction studies (NCS). Functional impact of neuropathy was assessed using the Bruininks-Oseretsky test of Motor Proficiency (BOT-2). QOL was assessed using the PedsQL. Nerve conduction study abnormalities were seen in 29.7% of children who were longer than 2 years off therapy for ALL. Most children with an abnormal examination or NCS did not have subjective symptoms. Although overall motor function was below population norms on the BOT-2, presence of neuropathy did not significantly correlate with motor functional status or QOL.
The short-term cardiovascular effects of dynorphin A (1-13), as well as its effects upon morphine bradycardia were investigated. In unanesthetized, unrestrained rats, intracerebroventricular (ICV) dynorphin A (1-13) injections (10-20 micrograms) produced a dose-related pressor effect, whereas intravenous (IV) dynorphin A (1-13) (1.0 mg/kg) produced a depressor effect; these responses persisted less than five min. Heart rate was not significantly altered by these doses or routes of administration. Dynorphin A (1-13) also produced behavioral effects in the unanesthetized animals, such as wet dog shakes in response to IV administration and wet dog shakes accompanied by barrel rolling in response to ICV administration. To evaluate the effects of dynorphin A (1-13) pretreatment on the bradycardic response to IV morphine, rats were pretreated with 10 micrograms dynorphin A (1-13) ICV four, six or eight hours prior to challenge with morphine sulfate (0.1 mg/kg IV). Four hour pretreatment with dynorphin A (1-13) (tested at 14:00 hr) resulted in a potention of morphine bradycardia, with six hours pretreatment (tested at 16:00 hr) no effect was observed, and eight hours following dynorphin A (1-13) pretreatment (tested at 18:00 hr) morphine bradycardia was attenuated. Additionally, the bradycardic response to IV morphine alone became more exaggerated as rats approached their nocturnal activity cycle. These data further establish that dynorphin A (1-13) exerts a potent, long lasting modulatory effect on morphine bradycardia and emphasize the importance of circadian variables in altering the magnitude of cardiovascular responses to opioid agonists.
Lithium-pilocarpine induced status epilepticus (LPSE) causes selective and age-dependent neuronal death, although the mechanism of maturation-related injury has not yet been clarified. The activating transcription factor-2 (ATF-2) protein is essential for the normal development of mammalian brain and is activated by c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK). It induces the expression of the c-jun gene and modulates the function of the c-Jun protein, a mediator of neuronal death and survival. Therefore, we investigated the expression of c-Jun and ATF-2 protein in the immature and adult rat hippocampus to understand their roles in LPSE-induced neuronal death.
Lithium chloride was administrated to P10 and adult rats followed by pilocarpine. Neuronal injury was assessed by silver and cresyl violet staining, performed 72 hours after status epilepticus. For evaluation of the expression of ATF-2 and c-Jun by immunohistochemical method and Western blot, animals were sacrificed at 0, 4, 24, and 72 hours after the initiation of seizure.
Neuronal injury and expression of c-Jun were maturation-dependently increased by LPSE, whereas ATF-2 immunoreactivity decreased in the mature brain. Since both c-Jun and ATF-2 are activated by JNK, and targets and competitors in the same signal transduction cascade, we could speculate that ATF-2 may compete with c-Jun for JNK phosphorylation.
The results suggested a neuroprotective role of ATF-2 in this maturation-related evolution of neuronal cell death from status epilepticus.
A 51-year-old woman with a history of uterine fibroids status post myomectomy and hysterectomy presented for evaluation and treatment of intermittently painful papules of the left shoulder. Histopathologic examination showed a proliferation of smooth muscle fascicles consistent with the diagnosis of cutaneous leiomyomas. Genetic sequencing demonstrated a novel mutation in the fumarate hydratase gene that confirmed the diagnosis of Reed's syndrome. A subset of individuals with Reed's syndrome is predisposed to develop a papillary renal-cell carcinoma, so appropriate radiologic examinations should be performed. Treatment of the pain caused by cutaneous leiomyomas includes the use of nifedipine, nitroglycerine, phenoxybenzamine, surgical excision, and carbon dioxide laser ablation.
Pegylated-liposomal doxorubicin (Doxil) is a unique form of liposomal doxorubicin in which the liposomes are coated with methoxypoly (ethylene glycol), resulting in a diminished uptake by the reticuloendothelial system, leading to a longer half-life in blood and a different toxicity profile than nonpegylated liposomes. We performed a phase II study of Doxil in sarcoma. The patient population was primarily previously treated or had diagnoses considered unresponsive to chemotherapy. The initial dose per course was 55 mg/m2 every four weeks with dose modification based on mucositis and hand-foot syndrome (the main limiting toxicities). Treatment was generally well tolerated. Of 214 evaluable treatment courses in 47 patients, toxicities were mild and similar to previous reports, but dose reduction was common. No definite cardiac toxicity was observed. There were: 6 osteosarcomas, 3 Ewings, 1 extraosseous osteosarcoma, 1 chondrosarcoma, 2 alveolar soft part sarcomas, 15 gastrointestinal stromal cell tumors (GIST), and 19 other soft tissue sarcomas. Three of the 47 patients received a CR or PR, although 15 of the 47 patients were felt to have derived clinical benefit from the treatment. Some responses were delayed. These data suggest that pegylated-liposomal doxorubicin has activity in this population of poor prognosis sarcoma and that this treatment is associated with modest toxicity.
Naringenin, a common dietary flavonoid abundantly present in fruits and vegetables, is believed to possess strong anti-proliferative properties and the ability to induce apoptosis in hepatoma cell lines. However, there are no reports describing its effects on the invasion and metastasis of hepatoma cell lines, and the detailed molecular mechanisms of its effects are still unclear. In this study, we investigated the mechanisms underlying naringenin-mediated inhibition of 12-O-Tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA)-induced cell invasion and inhibition of secreted and cytosolic MMP-9 production in human hepatoma cells (HepG2, Huh-7, and HA22T) and murine embryonic liver cells (BNL CL2). Naringenin suppressed MMP-9 transcription by inhibiting activator protein (AP)-1 and nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) activity. It suppressed TPA-induced AP-1 activity through inhibiting the phosphorylation of the extracellular signal-related kinase (ERK) and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) signaling pathways, and it suppressed TPA-induced inhibition of NF-κB nuclear translocation through IκB. Additionally, it suppressed TPA-induced activation of ERK/phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt upstream of NF-κB and AP-1. These data suggest that naringenin suppresses the invasiveness and metastatic potential of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) by inhibiting multiple signal transduction pathways.
Dopaminergic therapy in patients with Parkinson's disease may change the quality as well as the quantity of sexual interest and behavior. This 72-year-old man had a 37-year history of Parkinson's disease treated with a right thalamotomy and was later treated with levodopa for more than 20 years. Selegiline (5 mg twice daily) was added for motor fluctuations. He developed a frequent impulse to wear women's clothing but did not act on this impulse until his wife died over a year later. He then began to dress in women's clothing an average of once per week. He stated he had never thought of cross-dressing previously. The selegiline was stopped, and his urge to wear women's clothing ceased. Paraphilias are a rare behavioral complication of Parkinson's disease treatment. Other paraphilias have been attributed to dopamine agonists, suggesting that the action of the monoamine oxidase inhibitor responsible for the patient's transvestism in this case was dopamine potentiation. Drug-induced paraphilias and hypersexuality may represent a reversal of the putative premorbid Parkinson's disease personality traits of introversion, cautious behavior, and lack of "novelty-seeking." A biologic basis for transvestism, and paraphilias in general, is not known. Rare clues emerge from cases similar to this one.
Tinea corporis and tinea cruris are usually treated with a topical antifungal agent unless the infection is unresponsive, involves an extensive area, is chronic, or is in a difficult-to-access area. In these cases oral antifungals are frequently used.
This double-blind study was undertaken to determine whether a 2-week course of oral itraconazole would produce statistically significant clinical and mycologic improvement in the treatment of tinea corporis, tinea cruris, or both, over the results obtained with placebo. A second objective was to determine the safety of itraconazole, through routine measurements of serum chemistry profiles.
Sixty-seven patients were entered into a double-blind, multicenter study to compare the clinical and mycologic effects of itraconazole, 100 mg daily (45 patients), and placebo (22 patients) on tinea corporis and/or tinea cruris. The duration of treatment was 2 weeks. The investigators assessed signs and symptoms and performed a potassium hydroxide examination and culture at baseline, at termination of therapy, and 2 weeks after completion of treatment.
Twenty-two (96%) of 23 evaluable patients in the itraconazole group had healed or markedly improved lesions, as compared with 5 of 13 (39%) in the placebo group (p < or = 0.01). Similarly, the condition in 13 of 23 patients (57%) in the itraconazole group was mycologically cleared at the end of treatment whereas this result occurred in only 2 (17%) of 12 patients in the placebo group (p = 0.02). The prevalence of adverse side effects was lower for the itraconazole-treated group (20%) than for the placebo-treated group (36%).
Itraconazole 100 mg once daily is an effective agent for the treatment of tinea cruris and tinea corporis.
