2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) influences infection of kidney cells (MDBK) with Bovine Herpesvirus 1 (BHV-1) through an increase in virus replication and an acceleration of BHV-1-induced apoptosis. Previously our group demonstrated that BHV-1, in the early stages of infection, significantly up-regulates telomerase activity in MDBK cells, while, in the late phases of infection, when BHV-1-induced apoptosis occurred, a down-regulation of telomerase activity was detected. Hence, herein, for the first time, we described the influences of TCDD on telomerase activity during virus infection. In kidney cells (MDBK) infected with BHV-1 and exposed to different doses of TCDD we explored telomerase activity by TRAP assay. Concomitantly, we examined protein levels of both bTERT and c-Myc by Western blot analysis. In all groups, TCDD induced an acceleration in down-regulation of telomerase activity. Particularly, TCDD drastically and significantly decreased telomerase activity when virus-induced apoptosis took place. This result was accompanied from an accelerated down-regulation of bTERT and c-Myc. Finally, in the presence of TCDD, we evidenced a dose-dependent overexpression of aryl hydrocarbon receptor. Hence, our data suggest that TCDD, through a significant acceleration in down-regulation of telomerase activity, bTERT and c-Myc, may contribute to accelerated BHV-1-induced apoptosis.
Fetal alcohol exposure affects 1 in 100 children making it the leading cause of mental retardation in the US. It has long been known that alcohol affects cerebellum development and function. However, the underlying molecular mechanism is unclear.
We demonstrate that CREB binding protein (CBP) is widely expressed in granule and Purkinje neurons of the developing cerebellar cortex of naïve rats. We also show that exposure to ethanol during the 3(rd) trimester-equivalent of human pregnancy reduces CBP levels. CBP is a histone acetyltransferase, a component of the epigenetic mechanism controlling neuronal gene expression. We further demonstrate that the acetylation of both histone H3 and H4 is reduced in the cerebellum of ethanol-treated rats.
These findings indicate that ethanol exposure decreases the expression and function of CBP in the developing cerebellum. This effect of ethanol may be responsible for the motor coordination deficits that characterize fetal alcohol spectrum disorders.
Although epidemiological investigations indicate that chronic arsenic exposure can induce developmental neurotoxicity in children, the molecular mechanisms are still poorly understood. Neural cell adhesion molecules (NCAMs) play critical roles during the development of nervous system. Polysialylation of NCAM (PSA-NCAM) is a critical functional feature of NCAM-mediated cell interactions and functions. The present study aimed at investigating the effects of maternal and early life arsenite exposure on NCAM and PSA-NCAM in rat offspring. To this end, mother rats were divided into three groups and exposed to 0, 2.72 and 13.6mg/L sodium arsenite, respectively, during gestation and lactation. After weaning, rat offspring drank the same solution as their mothers. Neural reflex parameters, arsenic level of hippocampus, ultra-structural changes of hippocampus, the expression of NCAM, PSA-NCAM and two polysialyltransferases (STX and PST) in rat offspring were assessed. Arsenite exposure significantly prolonged the time of completing reflex response of surface righting, negative geotaxis and cliff avoidance of rat offspring in 13.6mg/L As-exposed group. Neurons and capillaries presented pathological changes and the expression of NCAM, PSA-NCAM, STX and PST were up-regulated in hippocampus of rat offspring exposed to arsenite. These results indicated that maternal arsenite exposure increases the expression of PSA-NCAM, NCAM and polysialyltransferases in hippocampus of rat offspring on postnatal day (PND) 21 and PND120, which might contribute to the impaired neurodevelopment following arsenite exposure.
A patient with renal disease developed Coombs-positive hemolytic anemia while receiving cephalothin therapy. An anti-cephalothin IgG antibody was detected in the patient's serum and in the eluates from her erythrocytes. In addition, nonimmunologic binding of normal and patient's serum proteins to her own and cephalothin-coated normal red cells was demonstrated. Skin tests and in vitro lymphocyte stimulation revealed that the patient was sensitized to cephalothin and also to ampicillin. Careful investigation of drug-induced hemolytic anemias reveals the complexity of the immune mechanisms involved.
It is well known that intravenous opioids may cause truncal rigidity. To the best of our knowledge truncal rigidity induced by epidural opioid has never been reported. Recently, we came across an accident of truncal rigidity following epidural sufentanil. The victim was a 65-year-old female who received cholecystectomy, choledochotomy, and cholangiography. For post-operative pain control, an epidural catheter was inserted cephalad [corrected] at L1-2 interspace with a length of 4 cm of the catheter retained in the epidural space. The epidural catheter was secured and tested for correct placement with 3 ml of 2% lidocaine with 1:200,000 epinephrine prior to induction of general anesthesia. No opioid was ever given in the operative course. When the patient was fully awake and complained of wound pain in the recovery room 50 mg of sufentanil in 10 ml normal saline was given via the epidural catheter after a negative evacuation test. About one minute after the epidural shot, she was found to lose consciousness without any slightest warning sign. Truncal rigidity and locked jaw that followed entailed respiratory arrest and rapid deterioration of oxygenation which evidenced a life-threatening airway emergency. It spite of our efforts we could not manage to ventilate her with ordinary means. It was not until the administration of 80 mg of succinylcholine and oral endotracheal intubation could an adequate ventilation be reestablished. She regained spontaneous breathing 15 min after the episode but for safety's sake she remained intubated for 6 h until the dissipation of analgesia. Another test dose was attempted, which reconfirmed that the epidural catheter was in proper position. She stayed in the recovery room for 24 h and returned to ward in satisfactory condition. The incidence disclosed that epidural sufentanil even with a dose as small as 50 micrograms could cause truncal rigidity. Thus when epidural sufentanil is applied for post-operative pain control constant vigilance is necessary in order to avoid accident.
The effects of 1% lidocaine as a diluent on the pharmacokinetics and tolerance of ceftriaxone administered intramuscularly were investigated in 12 adult volunteers. Each subject received two 0.5-g doses of ceftriaxone (one in water and the other in 1% lidocaine) at least 1 week apart in a randomized crossover fashion. Plasma and urine samples were collected serially and assayed for ceftriaxone content by high-performance liquid chromatography. The mean peak plasma concentration, time to attain the peak, area under the plasma curve from time zero to infinity, and elimination half-life were 45 micrograms/ml, 2.5 h, 578 micrograms . h/ml, and 7.1 h, respectively, after intramuscular administration of ceftriaxone in water diluent. The corresponding mean values in 1% lidocaine diluent were 42 micrograms/ml, 3 h, 577 micrograms . h/ml, and 7.0 h. The pharmacokinetic data suggested that 1% lidocaine does not alter either the elimination parameters or the bioavailability of intramuscularly administered ceftriaxone. The intensity and frequency of pain at the injection site were reduced considerably by the coadministered lidocaine.
Symptoms of serotonergic overstimulation may resemble depressive symptoms. Postulating that overmedication with fluoxetine can appear as response failure (as norfluoxetine accumulates), systematic trials of lower doses were conducted in patients who failed to respond despite apparent initial improvements.
Of 23 consecutive outpatients treated with fluoxetine 20 mg/day for DSM-III-R major depression, 4 failed to sustain initial improvements during 4-8 weeks of treatment (in the absence of apparent side effects). In these 4 patients, fluoxetine was withdrawn for 2 weeks, then reinstituted at 20 mg q.o.d. All patients were followed up weekly to monthly (for up to 17 months) and administered the 17-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression.
Four of 4 patients improved during washout and went on to respond to the lower dose. All 4 cases are presented. On review of the literature, fluoxetine fixed-dose studies reveal increased adverse effects with no increase in efficacy at dosages above 5 mg/day and decreased efficacy at dosages above 40 mg/day. Special issues inherent in the study and use of an antidepressant with a 1- to 3-week active half-life are discussed.
Even in the apparent absence of side effects, nonresponse to fluoxetine may be due to overmedication in some patients. Standard doses of fluoxetine may be higher than "optimum." The apparent difficulty distinguishing fluoxetine's adverse effects/toxicity (or a "therapeutic window" effect) from underlying depressive symptoms, taken in conjunction with the 3-9 weeks required to approach steady state, may suggest the option of lowering the dose in some cases of nonresponse or "relapse."
Erectile dysfunction (ED) has a profound impact on the quality of life of many men. Many risk factors are associated with ED, such as aging, sex hormone levels, hypertension, cardiovascular diseases, and diabetes mellitus. Arsenic exposure could damage peripheral vessels and increase the risk of cardiovascular disease. However, the relationship between arsenic exposure and ED has seldom been evaluated.
In this study we aimed to investigate whether exposure to arsenic enhances the risk of ED.
We recruited 177 males >or= 50 years of age through health examinations conducted in three hospitals in Taiwan. We used a questionnaire (International Index of Erectile Function-5) to measure the level of erectile function. Sex hormones, including total testosterone and sex hormone-binding globulin, were determined by radioimmunoassay. We used another standardized questionnaire to collect background and behavioral information (e.g., cigarette smoking; alcohol, tea, or coffee drinking; and physical activity).
The prevalence of ED was greater in the arsenic-endemic area (83.3%) than in the non-arsenic-endemic area (66.7%). Subjects with arsenic exposure > 50 ppb had a significantly higher risk of developing ED than those with exposure <or= 50 ppb, after adjusting for age, cigarette smoking, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and cardiovascular disease [odds ratio (OR) = 3.4]. Results also showed that the risk of developing severe ED was drastically enhanced by arsenic exposure (OR = 7.5), after adjusting for free testosterone and traditional risk factors of ED.
Results suggested that chronic arsenic exposure has a negative impact on erectile function.
Individual variability in arsenic metabolism may underlie individual susceptibility toward arsenic-induced skin lesions and skin cancer. Metabolism of arsenic proceeds through sequential reduction and oxidative methylation being mediated by the following genes: purine nucleoside phosphorylase (PNP), arsenic (+3) methyltransferase (As3MT), glutathione S-transferase omega 1 (GSTO1), and omega 2 (GSTO2). PNP functions as arsenate reductase; As3MT methylates inorganic arsenic and its metabolites; and both GSTO1 and GSTO2 reduce the metabolites. Alteration in functions of these gene products may lead to arsenic-specific disease manifestations.
To find any probable association between arsenicism and the exonic single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of the above-mentioned arsenic-metabolizing genes, we screened all the exons in those genes in an arsenic-exposed population.
Using polymerase chain reaction restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis, we screened the exons in 25 cases (individuals with arsenic-induced skin lesions) and 25 controls (individuals without arsenic-induced skin lesions), both groups drinking similar arsenic-contaminated water. The exonic SNPs identified were further genotyped in a total of 428 genetically unrelated individuals (229 cases and 199 controls) for association study.
Among four candidate genes, PNP, As3MT, GSTO1, and GSTO2, we found that distribution of three exonic polymorphisms, His20His, Gly51Ser, and Pro57Pro of PNP, was associated with arsenicism. Genotypes having the minor alleles were significantly overrepresented in the case group: odds ratio (OR) = 1.69 [95% confidence interval (CI), 1.08-2.66] for His20His; OR = 1.66 [95% CI, 1.04-2.64] for Gly51Ser; and OR = 1.67 [95% CI, 1.05-2.66] for Pro57Pro.
The results indicate that the three PNP variants render individuals susceptible toward developing arsenic-induced skin lesions.
Although patients with heart failure (HF) have been identified as particularly susceptible to the acute effects of air pollution, the effects of long-term exposure to air pollution on patients with this increasingly prevalent disease are largely unknown.
This study was designed to examine the mortality risk associated with residential exposure to traffic-related air pollution among HF patients.
A total of 1,389 patients hospitalized with acute HF in greater Worcester, Massachusetts, during 2000 were followed for survival through December 2005. We used daily traffic within 100 and 300 m of residence as well as the distance from residence to major roadways and to bus routes as proxies for residential exposure to traffic-related air pollution. We assessed mortality risks for each exposure variable using Cox proportional hazards models adjusted for prognostic factors.
After the 5-year follow-up, only 334 (24%) subjects were still alive. An interquartile range increase in daily traffic within 100 m of home was associated with a mortality hazard ratio (HR) of 1.15 [95% confidence interval (CI), 1.05-1.25], whereas for traffic within 300 m this association was 1.09 (95% CI, 1.01-1.19). The mortality risk decreased with increasing distance to bus routes (HR = 0.88; 95% CI, 0.81-0.96) and was larger for those living within 100 m of a major roadway or 50 m of a bus route (HR = 1.30; 95% CI, 1.13-1.49). Adjustment for area-based income and educational level slightly attenuated these associations.
Residential exposure to traffic-related air pollution increases the mortality risk after hospitalization with acute HF. Reducing exposure to traffic-related emissions may improve the long-term prognosis of HF patients.
Thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA) is rare after transplantation and is associated with a high incidence of kidney graft dysfunction. Between December 2000 and March 2006, 136 simultaneous pancreas-kidney transplantations were performed with an incidence of TMA of 5.1% (71.4% localized to kidney allograft). All cases were diagnosed during the first three months and were attributed to tacrolimus; 74% were women. Systemic TMA presented higher values of lactate dehydrogenase (2658 +/- 659 U/L vs. 1331 +/- 473 U/L, p = 0.04) and a greater decrease in hematocrit (45.8 +/- 17.7% vs. 19.2 +/- 6%, p = 0.02) than in localized TMA. Acute kidney rejection complicated almost 90% of the cases with 43% of kidney graft lost. Tacrolimus was switched to sirolimus and fresh-frozen plasma was administered. Creatinine clearance after a mean follow-up of two yr was 100.7 mL/min/1.73 m(2) and 57.9 mL/min/1.73 m(2) in patients with systemic and localized TMA, respectively. In conclusion, sirolimus is an alternative to TMA associated with tacrolimus.
Chronic heart failure causes disturbances in ventilation and pulmonary gas transfer that participate in limiting peak exercise oxygen uptake (VO(2p )). The beta-adrenergic receptor blocker carvedilol improves left ventricular (LV) function and not VO(2p). This study was aimed at investigating the pulmonary response to changes in LV performance produced by carvedilol in patients with chronic heart failure.
Twenty-one patients with New York Heart Association class II to III heart failure were randomly assigned (2 to 1) to carvedilol (25 mg twice daily, n = 14) or placebo (n = 7) for 6 months. Rest forced expiratory volume (FEV(1)), vital capacity, total lung capacity, carbon monoxide diffusing capacity, its alveolar-capillary membrane component, pulmonary venous and transmitral flows (for monitoring changes in LV end-diastolic pressure), LV diastolic and systolic dimensions, stroke volume, ejection fraction, and fiber shortening velocity were measured at baseline and at 3 and 6 months. VO(2p), peak ratio of dead space to tidal volume (VD/VT(p)), ventilatory equivalent for carbon dioxide production (VE/VCO(2)), and VO(2) at anaerobic threshold (VO(2at)) were also determined.
FEV(1), vital capacity, total lung capacity, carbon monoxide diffusing capacity, and the alveolar-capillary membrane component were impaired in chronic heart failure compared with 14 volunteers and did not vary with treatment. Carvedilol reduced end-diastolic pressure, end-diastolic diameter, and end-systolic diameter and increased ejection fraction, stroke volume, and fiber shortening velocity without affecting VO(2p), VO(2at), VD/VT(p), or VE/VCO(2) at 3 and 6 months. Placebo did not produce significant changes.
In chronic heart failure carvedilol ameliorates LV function at rest and does not significantly affect ventilation and pulmonary gas transfer or functional capacity. These results suggest that improvement in cardiac hemodynamics with carvedilol does not reverse pulmonary dysfunction. Persistent lung impairment might have some role in the failure of carvedilol to improve exercise performance.
Pituitary and testicular response to an intravenous infusion of 480 micrograms luteinizing hormone releasing hormone (LHRH) for 8 hours (1 microgram/min) was investigated in 8 male volunteers in normal and hyperprolactinaemic state. Eight normal men were given 150 mg of sulpiride daily for 14 days. Serum prolactin (PRL) levels were elevated significantly, but basal serum levels of luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) did not change following daily oral administration of sulpiride in 8 normal men. Eight men showed biphasic LH response to LHRH infusion in both normal and hyperprolactinaemic state, and there was a rather exaggerated response in serum LH concentration in hyperprolactinaemic state. Serum FSH response to LHRH was similar in normal and hyperprolactinaemic state. Although slight increase in serum testosterone concentration was observed during LHRH infusion in normal and hyperprolactinaemic state, the statistical difference was not significant. The result of the present study suggests that the function of the hypothalamic-pituitary-testicular axis, as measured by serum gonadotrophin and testosterone responses, is well reserved.
Erythrina suberosa is an ornamental tall tree found in India, Pakistan, Nepal, Bhutan, Burma, Thailand and Vietnam. We have isolated four known distinct metabolites designated as α-Hydroxyerysotrine, 4'-Methoxy licoflavanone (MLF), Alpinumisoflavone (AIF) and Wighteone. Among the four isolated metabolites the two flavonoids, MLF and AIF were found to be the most potent cytotoxic agent with IC50 of ∼20μM in human leukemia HL-60 cells. We are reporting first time the anticancer and apoptotic potential of MLF and AIF in HL-60 cells. Both MLF and AIF inhibited HL-60 cell proliferation and induce apoptosis as measured by several biological endpoints. MLF and AIF induce apoptosis bodies formation, enhanced annexinV-FITC binding of the cells, increased sub-G0 cell fraction, loss of mitochondrial membrane potential (Δψm), release of cytochrome c, Bax, activation of caspase-9, caspase-3 and PARP (poly ADP Ribose polymers) cleavage in HL-60 cells. MLF and AIF also increase the expression of apical death receptor, Fas, with inhibition of anti-apoptotic protein Bid. All the above parameters revealed that these two flavonoids induce apoptosis through both extrinsic and intrinsic apoptotic pathways in HL-60 cells. In spite of apoptosis, these two flavonoids significantly inhibit nuclear transcription factor NF-κB and STAT (Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription) signaling pathway, which are highly expressed in leukemia. The present study provide an insight of molecular mechanism of cell death induced by MLF and AIF in HL-60 cells which may be useful in managing and treating leukemia.
To observe the effect of simvastatin on the expression of high mobility group box-1 protein (HMGB1) and morphology of atherosclerotic plaques in atherosclerotic rats, to ascertain whether HMGB1 plays a role in the preventive mechanism of simvastatin from atherosclerosis (AS).
Sixty Wistar rats were divided randomly into three groups: control group, model group and simvastatin treatment group. Gastric gavage of vitamin D3 with high fat food was used to reproduce atherosclerotic rat model. The rats in the treatment group were treated with simvastatin of 2.5 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1) (gastric perfusion) 8 weeks after fat diet. The expression of the histopathology and protein of HMGB1 in atherosclerotic plaques of the aorta was observed by immunohistochemistry at 10 weeks and 12 weeks. The gene expression of HMGB1 at atherosclerotic plaques of aorta was observed with real time-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The morphology of the atherosclerotic plaques was observed.
The expression of HMGB1 increased significantly in atherosclerotic plaques in model group, and simvastatin could evidently inhibit the expression of HMGB1, and it was more obvious in 12-week group. Compared with control group, the HMGB1 mRNA expression was upregulated in all atherosclerotic model groups (10 weeks: 19.695+/- 1.418 vs. 2.981+/-0.753, 12 weeks: 20.542+/-1.132 vs. 3.219+/-0.332, both P<0.01). In the simvastatin treatment group, the gene expression of HMGB1 was lower than the age-match model group at 10 weeks (15.798+/-0.891) and 12 weeks (12.641+/-0.734), and in the 12-week treatment group it was lower than that in the 10-week treatment group (P<0.05 or P<0.01). In the model group, the ring-shape calcified atherosclerotic plaques were extensively found in the wall of the aorta. Simvastatin could obviously inhibit the formation of the atherosclerotic plaques, and the effect was more obvious in the 12-week treatment group than that of the 10-week treatment group.
Simvastatin can alleviate the formation of the atherosclerotic plaques in the atherosclerotic rats, decrease the protein and mRNA expression of HMGB1. The results suggest that the vessels are protected from forming AS through alleviating inflammatory reaction.
To examine the efficacy of fluvoxamine and clomipramine in obsessive compulsive disorder and to compare their tolerabilities.
In this multicenter, randomized, double-blind trial, fluvoxamine (100-250 mg/day) was compared with clomipramine (100-250 mg/day) for 10 weeks in the treatment of 66 psychiatric outpatients, aged 18 to 65 years, with a diagnosis of obsessive compulsive disorder. The main efficacy variable was the Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale; secondary variables were the National Institute of Mental Health Global Obsessive Compulsive Scale and the Clinical Global Impressions-Improvement scale.
Seventeen patients withdrew prematurely, 6 in the fluvoxamine group and 11 in the clomipramine group. In the intent-to-treat population (34 fluvoxamine patients and 30 clomipramine patients), there were no significant differences with respect to the mean reduction in total Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale score (last observation carried forward) at any time-point; a mean reduction of 8.6 (33%) was seen in the fluvoxamine group and 7.8 (31%) in the clomipramine group. Similar results were obtained in virtually all secondary variables. The only exception was the obsession-free interval for the Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale, which was significantly longer in the fluvoxamine group, especially in a population of patients with disease of > 12 months' duration (F = 5.298, df = 1, p = .026). Adverse events were mostly tolerable; 9 patients (5 receiving fluvoxamine, 4 receiving clomipramine) withdrew due to adverse events related to treatment.
Fluvoxamine and clomipramine were equally effective in the treatment of obsessive compulsive disorder. Both agents were well tolerated; fluvoxamine produced fewer anticholinergic side effects and caused less sexual dysfunction than clomipramine, but more reports of headache and insomnia.
Proteinuria is a significant independent determinant of the progression of chronic renal diseases. It induces an increased synthesis of angiotensin II, endothelin and profibrogenic growth factors, such as transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta), by mesangial and tubular cells. The antiproteinuric effect of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) in diabetic and non-diabetic nephropathies predicts long-term renoprotection afforded by these drugs. Angiotensin II receptor antagonists are renoprotective in patients with type 2 diabetes, but studies about their effect in non-diabetic proteinuric nephropathies are very scarce.
We randomly assigned 97 patients with non-diabetic nephropathies and proteinuria >1.5 g/24 h to treatment with losartan (50 mg daily) or amlodipine (5 mg daily) for 20 weeks. Doses of the study medications were titrated to achieve a target blood pressure <140/90 mmHg in both groups. Primary outcome was the decrease in the level of 24 h proteinuria. Secondary outcomes were changes in the plasma and urinary levels of TGF-beta.
The baseline characteristics in both groups were similar. Proteinuria decreased by 32.4% (95% confidence interval -38.4 to -21.8%) after 4 weeks of treatment and by 50.4% (-58.9 to -40.2%) after 20 weeks in the losartan group, whereas no significant proteinuria changes were observed in the amlodipine group (P < 0.001). There was no significant correlation between the level of baseline proteinuria and the proteinuria decrease induced by losartan. Both losartan and amlodipine induced a similar and significant blood pressure reduction. Target blood pressure was achieved with the initial dose of study medication (50 mg daily) in 76% of losartan group patients and in 68% of the amlodipine group patients (5 mg daily). Urinary TGF-beta significantly decreased with losartan (-22.4% of the baseline values after 20 weeks of treatment), whereas it tended to increase with amlodipine (between-group difference P < 0.05). A significant correlation between proteinuria decrease and urinary TGF-beta reduction was found in the losartan group (r = 0.41, P < 0.005). Serum creatinine and serum potassium remained stable during the study in both groups.
Losartan induced a drastic decrease in proteinuria accompanied by a reduction in urinary excretion of TGF-beta in patients with non-diabetic proteinuric renal diseases.
More and more microRNA (miRNA) are found to be involved in tumor genesis and progress. Arsenic trioxide has been an effective chemotherapeutic drug in cancer therapy for many years. In this study, we aimed to find the miRNA involved in the mechanisms of arsenic trioxide treatment in cancer therapy.
We detected the expression profile of miRNA by miRNA microarray and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Cell viability assay, flow cytometry analysis, prediction of miRNA targets, Western blot analysis and luciferase reporter assay were carried out to determine the role of one selected miRNA, namely mir-29a, in affecting the biological behaviors of HepG-2 cells.
Among the 677 human miRNA in the microarray, five miRNA were upregulated and four were downregulated in HepG-2 cells treated with arsenic trioxide compared to their controls. If only changes above two folds were considered, four miRNA were identified, namely miR-24, miR-29a, miR-30a and miR-210, which were all upregulated. Among them, miR-29a showed a positive therapeutic effect in liver cancer cells by inhibiting cell growth and inducing cell apoptosis, and PPM1D was confirmed to be the target gene of miR-29a. Furthermore, a synergy effect was detected between miR-29a and arsenic trioxide.
Arsenic trioxide altered miRNA expression profile in HepG-2 cells. Among the altered miRNA, miR-29a seemed to take a role in the mechanism of arsenic trioxide in liver cancer therapy. The synergy effect between miR-29a and arsenic trioxide may offer this drug a new chance in cancer therapy by decreasing its dose and toxic side-effects.
We observed 75 subjects with acute vitamin D3 intoxication (AVD3I). The clinical manifestations of this intoxication are kidneys disorders (65.0%), renal insufficiency (51.0%), gastrointestinal tract disorders (23.0%), arterial hypertension (52.0%). After this intoxication these patients are recommended prolonged rehabilitation.
We report three patients with bilateral GPi stimulation for stage 4 Parkinson's disease (PD) with severe levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LID). In all three it was possible to completely inhibit LID using high-stimulation parameters. Parallel to complete inhibition of LID, an inhibition of the anti-akinetic effect of levodopa was observed, whereas, at the same time, rigidity was markedly improved. GPi stimulation is adaptable over time, and stimulation parameters have to be programmed according to off- and on-period motor symptoms. The main interest of stimulation is the possibility of finding a compromise between LID alleviation in on-phase without loss of the beneficial motor effects and improvement in parkinsonism in off-phase. In some patients, residual dyskinesias have to be accepted so as not to aggravate on-period motor symptoms by a presumed overinhibition of basal ganglia outflow.
Gastric ulcers are a frequent problem in the United States. Proton pump inhibitors have been shown to increase healing rates and improve clinical symptoms. The objective of this study is to compare gastric ulcer healing rates for patients treated with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) (omeprazole, rabeprazole, pantoprazole, or lansoprazole), an histamine 2- receptor antagonist (ranitidine) or placebo.
A literature search was conducted to identify randomized, controlled clinical trials that included a PPI in at least one treatment arm and assessed the gastric ulcer healing rates endoscopically. The healing rates were estimated for each treatment at specific time points, and Rate Ratios (RR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) were estimated for each trial.
Sixteen trials met the inclusion criteria: four compared a PPI versus placebo, nine compared a PPI versus ranitidine (no trials of rabeprazole versus ranitidine met the inclusion criteria), and three compared a newer PPI (lansoprazole, pantoprazole or rabeprazole) versus omeprazole. In relation to ranitidine, the pooled RR of PPIs (lansoprazole, omeprazole and pantoprazole) was 1.33 (95% CI 1.24 to 1.42) at four weeks. In each trial, greater improvement in the studied clinical symptoms was found with the newer PPIs (rabeprazole, pantoprazole and lansoprazole) when compared to omeprazole.
In this study treatment with PPIs resulted in higher healing rates than ranitidine or placebo. This evidence suggests that the first choice for gastric ulcer treatment for the greater relief of symptoms is one of the newer PPIs.
NSC3852 (5-nitroso-8-quinolinol) has cell differentiation and antiproliferative activity in human breast cancer cells in tissue culture and antitumor activity in mice bearing P388 and L1210 leukemic cells. We investigated the mechanism of NSC3852 action in MCF-7 human breast cancer cells using electron spin resonance (ESR). Reactive oxygen species (ROS) were detected in MCF-7 cell suspensions incubated with NSC3852 using the spin trap 5,5-dimethyl-1-pyrroline-N-oxide (DMPO). Formation of the DMPO-OH adduct was quenched by the addition of superoxide dismutase but not by catalase, and we concluded that superoxide was generated in the NSC3852-treated cells. The flavoprotein inhibitor diphenylene iodonium suppressed ROS production, providing evidence for the involvement of a flavin-dependent enzyme system in the ROS response to NSC3852. A biologically significant oxidative response to NSC3852 occurred in MCF-7 cells. An early marker of oxidative stress was a decrease in the [glutathione]/[glutathione disulfide] ratio 1 h after NSC3852 addition. Oxidative DNA damage, marked by the presence of 8-oxoguanine, and DNA-strand breakage occurred in cells exposed to NSC3852 for 24 h. Apoptosis peaked 48 h after exposure to NSC3852. Pretreatment with the glutathione precursor N-acetyl-l-cysteine (NAC) prevented DNA-strand breakage and apoptosis. Pretreatment with NAC also reversed NSC3852 decreases in E2F1, Myc, and phosphorylated retinoblastoma protein, indicative of redox-sensitive pathway(s) in MCF-7 cells during G(1) phase of the cell cycle. We conclude that ROS formation is involved in the apoptotic and cell differentiation responses to NSC3852 in MCF-7 cells.
H2 receptor antagonists can rarely cause idiosyncratic drug reactions leading to acute hepatitis. Famotidine, however, is considered a relatively safe drug with regards to hepatotoxicity. We report a case of a 47 year old male with a history of hepatitis C who developed acute hepatitis on the third day of hospitalization with a dramatic rise in his liver enzymes from normal values at the time of admission. The acute rise in liver enzymes made us consider an adverse drug reaction and famotidine was discontinued. Subsequently his liver enzymes came back to normal in seven days. Thus, physicians should consider famotidine induced hepatitis as a possible etiology of acute liver dysfunction.
N-acetylcysteine (NAC) has been shown to potentiate the haemodynamic and antiplatelet effects of nitroglycerine (NTG) in man, and to limit the development of haemodynamic tolerance to NTG. These effects may be mediated. by the formation of S-nitroso-NAC, which induces vasodilation and strongly inhibits platelet aggregation. In a randomized double-blind study in 46 patients with severe unstable angina pectoris unresponsive to standard treatment (including cutaneous nitrates and calcium antagonists in 45 patients) we compared the effects of intravenous (IV) NTG with those of IV NTG combined with IV NAC (5 g 6 hourly). Treatment with NTG/NAC (24 patients) was associated with a similar frequency of episodes of chest pain as treatment with NTG alone (22 patients), but somewhat fewer increments in infusion rate for pain control (10 vs 17; P NS). The NTG/NAC group had a significantly lower incidence of acute myocardial infarction than the NTG/placebo group (3 vs 10 patients; P = 0.013). Symptomatic hypotension occurred frequently in the NTG/NAC group (7 vs 0 patients; P = 0.006). It is concluded that combined administration of NTG and NAC in patients with unstable angina pectoris may augment the clinical efficacy of NTG, largely by reducing the incidence of acute myocardial infarction. However, the high incidence of severe hypotension with NTG/NAC suggests that this regimen should be used with some caution.
beta-Blockers are the first line of therapy for hypertension. However, they are associated with side effects because of central nervous system (CNS) effects and beta(2)-adrenergic antagonism. To overcome these problems and provide a long-term beta(1)-blockade, antisense oligonucleotides against rat beta(1)-adrenergic receptor (beta(1)-AR) mRNA (beta(1)-AS-ODN) were designed and tested for the ability to inhibit cardiac beta(1)-ARs as well as lower blood pressure in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs).
Radioligand binding assay showed that a single intravenous injection of beta(1)-AS-ODN delivered in cationic liposomes significantly decreased cardiac beta(1)-AR density by 30% to 50% for 18 days (P<0.01), with no effect on beta(2)-ARs. This was accompanied by marked attenuation of beta(1)-AR-mediated positive inotropic response in isolated perfused hearts in vitro (P<0.02) and in conscious SHRs monitored by telemetry in vivo (P<0.02). Furthermore, the blood pressure of SHRs was reduced for 20 days, with a 38 mm Hg maximum drop. Heart rate was not significantly decreased. Quantitative autoradiography was performed to assess beta(1)-AS-ODN effects on the CNS, which demonstrated no changes in beta(1)-ARs in brain, in contrast to a significant reduction in heart and kidney (P<0.05). For comparison with beta-blockers, the effects of atenolol on cardiovascular hemodynamics were examined, which lowered blood pressure for only 10 hours and elicited appreciable bradycardia in SHRs.
These results indicate that beta(1)-AS-ODN, a novel approach to specific beta(1)-blockade, has advantages over currently used beta-blockers in providing a profound and prolonged reduction in blood pressure without affecting heart rate, beta(2)-ARs, and the CNS. Diminished cardiac contractility resulting from less beta(1)-AR expression contributes to the antihypertensive effect.
