Abuse of cocaine and other sympathomimetic drugs has been reported as a significant risk factor for stroke. The physiopathologic mechanisms implicated are multifactorial. Chronic cocaine use leads to extensive destruction of osteocartilaginous structures of nose, sinuses and palate.
We report the case of a 56 years-old woman with hypertension and smoke abuse who was admitted with a pontine paramedian infarction. Cranial resonance findings of midline destructive lesions lead to the suspicion of chronic cocaine consumption. The initial outcome was good but she was re-admitted nine months later with an extent pontomesencephalic infarction.
Abuse of cocaine is a risk factor for stroke that should be considered not only in young patients. The pathogenic relationship between stroke and midline cocaine related destructive lesions is discussed.
Occupational and environmental exposure to potassium dichromate (K2Cr2O7), a hexavalent chromium compound, can result in liver damage associated with oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of the antioxidant curcumin (400 mg/kg b.w.) on the K2Cr2O7-induced injury, with special emphasis on ascitic fluid accumulation and oxidative phosphorylation mitochondrial enzymes and the adenosine triphosphate (ATP) levels in isolated mitochondria from livers of rats treated with K2Cr2O7 (15 mg/kg b.w.). Thus, curcumin attenuated the ascites generation, prevented the decrease in the activities of aconitase and F1F0 ATPase, and maintained the ATP levels. The activity of complex II was not completely reestablished by curcumin, whereas complexes III and IV activities were unchanged.
To assess quantitatively the risks of ophthalmic beta-blocking agents for cardiovascular and respiratory adverse reactions, we analyzed the binding kinetics of beta-blocking agents to the beta-1 and beta-2 adrenoceptors. The relationship between the occupancies for beta-1 and beta-2 adrenoceptors and the effects on the exercise pulse rate or the forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) after topical administration of carteolol, befunolol, timolol and betaxolol was analyzed using a ternary complex model. The beta-1 and beta-2 receptor occupancies after ophthalmic administration were calculated to be quite high as well as those after oral administration. The maximum occupancies for beta-1 and beta-2 receptors after ordinary ophthalmic administration were 52% and 88% for carteolol, 52% and 61% for befunolol, 62% and 82% for timolol, and 44% and 3% for betaxolol, respectively. Concave relationships were obtained between a decrease in exercise pulse rate and the beta-1 receptor occupancy and between a decrease in FEV1 and beta-2 receptor occupancy, respectively. Nasolacrimal occlusion was estimated to decrease the exercise pulse rate and FEV1 by 65% and 50%, respectively. The beta-1 and beta-2 adrenoceptor occupancies were proved to be the most appropriate indicators for cardiac and pulmonary adverse reactions evoked by ophthalmic beta-blocking agents.
To assess the efficacy and safety of escitalopram in treating specific phobia.
The study was performed in an academic medical center. Adults meeting DSM-IV criteria for specific phobia were randomly assigned to 12 weeks of double-blind treatment with escitalopram or placebo. Efficacy measures included the Main Phobia Scale (MPS), the Marks Fear Questionnaire (FQ) and the Clinical Global Impressions of Improvement (CGI-I) scale. Data were collected between September 2002 and September 2004.
Of 13 subjects enrolled, 12 returned for at least one post-randomization visit and were included in the intent to treat sample. Response rates on the various subscales of the MPS and the FQ ranged from 20 to 80% for escitalopram, compared to 0-43% with placebo. Rates of response using the CGI-I scale were 60% for escitalopram and 29% for placebo, with a strong between treatment effect in favor of the drug at week 12 (effect-size = 1.13). Using the last observation carried forward, no statistically significant treatment differences were found. The drug was well tolerated.
Treatment response was consistently greater for escitalopram than for placebo, with strong effects observed in favor of the drug. However, treatment differences on the primary outcome measures were not significant in this under-powered pilot study. Escitalopram may hold promise as a treatment for specific phobia and larger randomized controlled trials are needed.
Gonadotropins play a crucial role in ovarian homeostasis and fertilization through the activation of the cAMP cascade. However, gonadotropin hyper-stimulation may be associated with higher risk for ovarian cancer development. It has been suggested, that high gonadotropin levels in peritoneal and ovarian cystic fluids of patients suffering from benign ovarian cysts, may lead to malignancy. Moreover, we have recently discovered that gonadotropin stimulation can activate the MAPK cascade in target cells. Using DNA microarray technology and RNA from human granulosa cells, we discovered that stimulation with saturating doses of gonadotropins dramatically elevates activity of genes coding for epiregulin and amphiregulin. These gene products can bind and activate the EGF receptor and ERBB4, which are associated with the development of various cancers such as ovarian, breast endometrial and other non-gynecological malignancies. Gonadotropin receptors are expressed not only in the gonads, but also in non-gonadal tissues and in cancer cells. The discovery that gonadotropins activate certain mitogenic signal transduction pathways, may serve as a guide for novel anti-cancer therapy by (1) specific interference at the receptor level to block the gonadotropic response, or arresting the receptor expression and (2) blocking downstream mitogenic signals generated by these hormones, like attenuation of the expression of epiregulin and amphiregulin that belong to the EGF family, using anti-sense and/or SiRNA techniques targeted to suppress their expression. Moreover, since amphiregulin and epiregulin act as mediators of luteinizing hormone (LH) action in the mammalian ovulatory follicles, regulation of the expression of these factors may open new possibilities in treatment of ovarian malfunction implicated with ovarian hyper-stimulation.
Docetaxel is a front-line standard-of-care chemotherapeutic drug for the treatment of breast cancer. Phosphoinositide 3-kinases (PI3K) are lipid kinases that regulate breast tumor cell growth, migration, and survival. The current study was intended to determine whether GDC-0941, an orally bioavailable class I selective PI3K inhibitor, enhances the antitumor activity of docetaxel in human breast cancer models in vitro and in vivo.
A panel of 25 breast tumor cell lines representing HER2+, luminal, and basal subtypes were treated with GDC-0941, docetaxel, or the combination of both drugs and assayed for cellular viability, modulation of PI3K pathway markers, and apoptosis induction. Drug combination effects on cellular viability were also assessed in nontransformed MCF10A human mammary epithelial cells. Human xenografts of breast cancer cell lines and patient-derived tumors were used to assess efficacy of GDC-0941 and docetaxel in vivo.
Combination of GDC-0941 and docetaxel decreased the cellular viability of breast tumor cell lines in vitro but to variable degrees of drug synergy. Compared with nontransformed MCF10A cells, the addition of both drugs resulted in stronger synergistic effects in a subset of tumor cell lines that were not predicted by breast cancer subtype. In xenograft models, GDC-0941 enhanced the antitumor activity of docetaxel with maximum combination efficacy observed within 1 hour of administering both drugs. GDC-0941 increased the rate of apoptosis in cells arrested in mitosis upon cotreatment with docetaxel.
GDC-0941 augments the efficacy of docetaxel by increasing drug-induced apoptosis in breast cancer models.
In 11 patients with complex partial epileptic seizures stuporous states were observed during treatment with valproate (VPA) (2 cases), with VPA and phenobarbitone (PB) (4 cases), or with VPA, PB and a third anti-epileptic drug (5 cases). Based on 3 characteristic cases, an attempt is made to define the role of VPA, the nature of the stuporous states, and the origin of digestive disorders which often herald the onset of behavioural disorders. Several clinical studies have suggested the direct responsibility of VPA even if the adverse effects are potentiated by many other anti-epileptic drugs. Stuporous states are not due to VPA overdose and do not depend on the mode of administration. No correlation has been found between electroclinical signs and plasma or CSF levels of the different anti-epileptic drugs. Reported data and the present cases suggest a paradoxical epileptogenic role for VPA on complex partial seizures: there exists a close similarity of electroclinical findings between spontaneous epileptic seizures and stuporous states during DPA treatment. Digestive disorders appear to result from a central mechanism and not from digestive tract intolerance. In some cases, it is likely that partial seizures with digestive symptoms and signs do occur.
Deguelin, a rotenoid of the flavonoid family, has been reported to possess antiproliferative and anticarcinogenic activities in several cell lines and tumor models. However, it is still unclear whether deguelin effectively inhibits tumor-associated lymphangiogenesis and lymphatic metastasis. Since tumor production of vascular endothelial cell growth factor (VEGF)-D was associated with tumor lymphangiogenesis and lymphatic metastasis, we established the mouse lymphatic metastasis model by transfecting high expression VEGF-D into LL/2 Lewis lung cells (VEGF-D-LL/2) and explored the effects of deguelin on lymphatic metastasis in the immunocompetent C57BL/6 mice. Our results indicated that deguelin inhibited proliferation, migration of VEGF-D-LL/2 cells via downregulating AKT and mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway and interfered tube formation of lymphatic vascular endothelial cells on matrigel at nanomolar concentrations. Deguelin significantly downregulated the expression of VEGF-D both at mRNA and protein levels in VEGF-D-LL/2 cells in a dose-dependent manner. In the in vivo study, intraperitoneal administration of deguelin (4 mg/kg) remarkably inhibited the tumor-associated lymphangiogenesis and lymphatic metastasis. The rates of lymph node and lung metastasis in deguelin-treated mice were 0 and 16.7% compared with 58.3 and 83.3% in control group mice, respectively. Deguelin also resulted in a remarkable delay of tumor growth and prolongation of life span. Immunohistochemical staining with antibodies against VEGF-D, LYVE-1 and VEGFR-3 revealed fewer positive vessel-like structures in deguelin-treated mice compared with control group mice. Taken together, we demonstrate for the first time that deguelin suppresses tumor-associated lymphangiogenesis and lymphatic metastasis by downregulation of VEGF-D both in vitro and in vivo.
The purpose of the present study was to determine if trihydroxymethamphetamine (THMA), a metabolite of methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, "ecstasy"), or its thioether conjugate, 6-(N-acetylcystein-S-yl)-2,4,5-trihydroxymethamphetamine (6-NAC-THMA), play a role in the lasting effects of MDMA on brain serotonin (5-HT) neurons. To this end, novel high-yield syntheses of THMA and 6-NAC-THMA were developed. Lasting effects of both compounds on brain serotonin (5-HT) neuronal markers were then examined. A single intraventricular injection of THMA produced a significant lasting depletion of regional rat brain 5-HT and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), consistent with previous reports that THMA harbors 5-HT neurotoxic potential. The lasting effect of THMA on brain 5-HT markers was blocked by the 5-HT uptake inhibitor fluoxetine, indicating that persistent effects of THMA on 5-HT markers, like those of MDMA, are dependent on intact 5-HT transporter function. Efforts to identify THMA in the brains of animals treated with a high, neurotoxic dose (80 mg/kg) of MDMA were unsuccessful. Inability to identify THMA in the brains of these animals was not related to the unstable nature of the THMA molecule because exogenous THMA administered intracerebroventricularly could be readily detected in the rat brain for several hours. The thioether conjugate of THMA, 6-NAC-THMA, led to no detectable lasting alterations of cortical 5-HT or 5-HIAA levels, indicating that it lacks significant 5-HT neurotoxic activity. The present results cast doubt on the role of either THMA or 6-NAC-THMA in the lasting serotonergic effects of MDMA. The possibility remains that different conjugated forms of THMA or oxidized cyclic forms (e.g., the indole of THMA) play a role in MDMA-induced 5-HT neurotoxicity in vivo.
In cardiogenic shock, combined pharmacotherapy with dopamine/dobutamine was being used as a standard regimen and was compared to dopamine/milrinone in this study. In a total of 20 patients with persistent hemodynamic depression despite mechanical ventilation plus dopamine (10-12 micrograms/kg/min) and nitroglycerin (33 micrograms/min) infusions additional therapy with dobutamine (maximal dose: 9 micrograms/kg/min; n = 10) or milrinone (0.5 microgram/kg/min; n = 10) was started. Dobutamine induced an increase of cardiac index (2.0 +/- 0.1 to 2.9 +/- 0.21/min/m2; p < 0.01; mean +/- SEM) and heart rate (96 +/- 6 to 117 +/- 5 min-1; p < 0.05) while mean arterial pressure (75 +/- 2 to 71 +/- 4 mm Hg) and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (21 +/- 2 to 19 +/- 2 mm Hg) hardly changed. The rate-pressure product rose from 10790 +/- 684 to 13234 +/- 678 mm Hg/ min (p < 0.05). Milrinone had a comparable effect on cardiac index (2.0 +/- 0.1 to 2.6 +/- 0.1 I/min/m2; p < 0.01) but induced a minor change in heart rate (94 +/- 6 to 104 +/- 8 min-1; p < 0.05) and a more pronounced decrease in mean arterial pressure (77 +/- 2 to 65 +/- 2 mm Hg; p < 0.01) and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (24 +/- 2 to 17 +/- 1 mm Hg; p < 0.01). The rate-pressure product declined (11033 +/- 711 to 10555 +/- 929 mm Hg/min). In comparison, dopamine/milrinone appeared to be advantageous in terms of pre- and afterload reduction and myocardial oxygen demand. However, the concomitant decline in arterial pressure might impair end-organ perfusion.
We investigated whether EGFRvIII contributes to tumorigenicity and resistance to 5-FU in HCC cell lines. Our results show that several HCC cell lines have EGFRvIII expression. EGFRvIII-positive HCC cells grew more rapidly and had a lower sensitivity to 5-FU than EGFRvIII-negative HCC cells. For further analysis of the biological characteristics of EGFRvIII, an EGFRvIII or EGFR expression cassette was introduced into the HCC cell line, Huh-7. Compared with Huh-7 cells and Huh7-EGFR cells, Huh7-EGFRvIII not only exhibit significantly increase of cell growth in vitro and in vivo but also show enhanced migration in vitro. Furthermore, 5-FU has significantly lower inhibition effect on Huh7-EGFRvIII cells then on both Huh-7 and Huh7-EGFR cells in vitro and in vivo. Collectively, these results demonstrate that EGFRvIII plays a pivotal role in tumorigenicity and enhanced 5-FU resistance of HCC.
A case is reported of a man with apparent unipolar depression that was responsive to treatment with phenelzine who became hypomanic when isoetharine was added to treat his chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The role of beta-adrenergic receptors in affective illness is reviewed in light of this case.
A 53-year-old man with a 3-month addiction to approximately 5 mg/day of triazolam experienced psychosis and delirium following relatively abrupt withdrawal from the drug. In contrast to a previous report suggesting that triazolobenzodiazepine withdrawal may not respond to replacement doses of other benzodiazepines, this patient's withdrawal syndrome was effectively treated with lorazepam.
Two patients are described in whom subtle cognitive impairments are associated with therapeutic doses of amoxapine. The implications of this observation for the management of depression, particularly in patients with coexisting dementing illnesses, are discussed.
It has long been recognized that muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChRs) are crucial for the control of cognitive processes, and drugs that activate mAChRs are helpful in ameliorating cognitive deficits of Alzheimer's disease (AD). On the other hand, GABAergic transmission in prefrontal cortex (PFC) plays a key role in "working memory" via controlling the timing of neuronal activity during cognitive operations. To test whether the muscarinic and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) system are interconnected in normal cognition and dementia, we examined the muscarinic regulation of GABAergic transmission in PFC of an animal model of AD. Transgenic mice overexpressing a mutant gene for beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) show behavioral and histopathological abnormalities resembling AD and, therefore, were used as an AD model. Application of the mAChR agonist carbachol significantly increased the spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic current (sIPSC) frequency and amplitude in PFC pyramidal neurons from wild-type animals. In contrast, carbachol failed to increase the sIPSC amplitude in APP transgenic mice, whereas the carbachol-induced increase of the sIPSC frequency was not significantly changed in these mutants. Similar results were obtained in rat PFC slices pretreated with the beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta). Inhibiting protein kinase C (PKC) blocked the carbachol enhancement of sIPSC amplitudes, implicating the PKC dependence of this mAChR effect. In APP transgenic mice, carbachol failed to activate PKC despite the apparently normal expression of mAChRs. These results show that the muscarinic regulation of GABA transmission is impaired in the AD model, probably due to the Abeta-mediated interference of mAChR activation of PKC.
Cinobufagin, a major component of cinobufacini (huachansu), is an important cardenolidal steroid. Several studies have suggested that cinobufagin has potent anti-cancer effects. The present study examines the apoptosis-inducing activity and the underlying mechanism of action of cinobufagin in osteosarcoma (OS) cells. Our results showed that cinobufagin potently inhibited the proliferation of U2OS, MG63 and SaOS-2 cells. Significant increases in G2/M cell-cycle arrest and apoptosis in OS cells were also observed. The expression levels of several apoptotic proteins were assessed after cinobufagin treatment in U2OS cells. Among them, xIAP, cIAP-1, survivin and Bcl-2 levels decreased remarkably, while the levels of Bax and cleaved-PARP increased. Furthermore, we validated the inhibition of GSK-3β/NF-κB signaling following cinobufagin treatment. Western blots showed a decrease in nuclear p65 protein expression after exposure to different concentrations of cinobufagin, while the phosphorylation of GSK-3β was simultaneously increased. Transduction with constitutively active forms of GSK-3β could protect against the downregulation of p65 and upregulation of cleaved-PARP that are induced by cinobufagin treatment. However, combined treatment with cinobufagin and SB216367 resulted in a significant reduction in p65 and an increase in cleaved-PARP in U2OS cells. Altogether, these results show that cinobufagin is a promising agent for the treatment of OS. These studies are the first to reveal the involvement of the GSK-3β/NF-κB pathway in cinobufagin-induced apoptosis.
In this study the effect of DHE on postural hypotension induced by major antihypertensive drugs was evaluated in 40 patients. 30 patients were treated with methyldopa, five with guanoxan sulphate and five with bethanidine sulphate. To obtain a more accurate picture of the effectiveness of DHE and to test the reproducibility of its effect, each patient was observed during five separate, successive periods: in the first period the antihypertensive agent was given alone; in the second period it was given along with placebo; in the third period it was given with DHE; in the fourth period the antihypertensive agent was given alone again; and in the fifth period it was again given with DHE. In the third and in the fifth period, DHE was administered at the same time as the antihypertensive agent in a dose of 9-15 mg/24 h (3-5 mg three times daily). The first dose was given 1 h before rising, and the daily dosage was progressively increased. The beneficial effect of DHE on postural hypotension was evaluated by assessing the clinical symptoms in a semiquantitative manner and by measuring the arterial blood pressure and heart rate in a recumbent and standing position. The results were classified as follows: excellent, good, moderate and no response. In most cases, DHE was found to be an effective drug for the treatment of postural hypotension, an improvement in clinical symptoms being noted in 57.5% of patients tested (excellent and good results). In these patients the standing arterial blood pressure showed a significant response (p less than 0.01). DHE did not interfere with the therapeutic effect of the antihypertensive agents. Furthermore, DHE did not affect the heart rate, nor did it give rise to any adverse reactions.
We present a case of a patient who received nitrous oxide on two occasions within a period of 8 weeks and who subsequently developed a diffuse myelopathy, characterized by upper extremity paresis, lower extremity paraplegia and neurogenic bladder. Laboratory testing revealed hyperhomocysteinaemia and low levels of vitamin B(12). Because of this uncommon clinical presentation, we analysed the patient's DNA, and found a polymorphism in the MTHFR gene that is associated with the thermolabile isoform of the 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase enzyme, which explained the myelopathy experienced by the patient after being exposed to nitrous oxide. Soon after initiating supplementary therapy with folic acid and vitamin B(12), the neurological symptoms subsided.
Caffeine is an analgesic adjuvant, but also has panicogenic properties. Anxiety sensitivity is a trait vulnerability factor related to negative responses to pain, and is known to moderate negative psychological responses to caffeine.
The current study sought to investigate whether anxiety sensitivity moderates the effect caffeine has on the pain responses of healthy women.
Caffeine (250 mg) was administered to women pre-selected as high, medium or low in anxiety sensitivity. Measures of arousal and mood were taken before and after drug administration. The cold pressor pain task was used to induce pain. Pain threshold, tolerance, sensory and affective pain responses were also recorded.
Caffeine increased systolic blood pressure and mood. Additionally, those low in anxiety sensitivity exhibited caffeine-induced improvement in negative mood (less depressed) and caffeine-related hypoalgesia.
These results suggest that the analgesic effects of caffeine may depend on anxiety sensitivity status, and that the fear of bodily sensations should be considered in pain management programmes.
We report a case of pulmonary tuberculosis with acute renal failure caused by readministration of Rifampicin (RFP). A 73 year-old man was admitted to a certain hospital complaining with dyspnea on exertion. As his sputum smear was positive for acid-fast bacilli, he was transferred to our hospital for the isolation and treatment. He was diagnosed as lung tuberculosis and was administrated RFP, Isoniazid (INH) and Ethambutol (EB). On the 20th day after the initiation of treatment, the administration of drugs were suspended, because of liver dysfunction. After recovery of liver dysfunction, we have readministered antituberculous drugs, starting with EB, then INH, and finally RFP. On the 22nd day after the readministration of RFP, acute renal failure was observed. All medications were suspended and we started treatment with hydration and furosemide. His renal function recovered after 7 weeks. Histopathological examination of the kidney revealed interstitial infiltration and tubular nephritis. According to the histopathological examination and the clinical course, we concluded acute renal failure was induced by the readministration of RFP. This case suggests that we have to pay attention to renal side effect of RFP in the course of readministration.
The efficacy of hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIg) alone or combined with hepatitis B (HB) vaccine in preventing hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection after accidental exposure to blood of HBV carriers was studied in a controlled trial. HBIg (0.06 ml/kg) was administered intramuscularly within 3 days after exposure to 56 recipients. A second dose was given 1 month later. In another group of 28 persons, a single dose of HBIg was given within 3 days followed by the first dose of HB vaccine (HEVAC-B Pasteur 10 micrograms) within 7 days after exposure. A control group consisted of 53 health care workers who reported more than 3 days after exposure and who did not receive any specific immuno-prophylaxis. The recipients were followed for at least 10 months. Immunisation, both passive and combined passive and active, was clearly effective since none of the recipients developed acute symptomatic HBV infection compared with four (8%) of 47 not immunised (Fisher's exact test P = 0.02). The number in each group immunised was too small to allow valid comparison of the relative efficacy of the two schedules. Nevertheless, in the absence of evidence of lesser efficacy for the combination of HBIg and HB vaccine after exposure, the combined passive/active schedule would seem the treatment of choice since it offers the additional benefit of long-term protection.
Many new serotonergic antidepressants have been introduced over the past decade. Although urinary incontinence is listed as one side effect of these drugs in their package inserts there is only one report in the literature. This concerns 2 male patients who experienced incontinence while taking venlafaxine. In the present paper the authors describe 2 female patients who developed incontinence secondary to the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors paroxetine and sertraline, as well as a third who developed this side effect on venlafaxine. In 2 of the 3 cases the patients were also taking lithium carbonate and beta-blockers, both of which could have contributed to the incontinence. Animal studies suggest that incontinence secondary to serotonergic antidepressants could be mediated by the 5HT4 receptors found on the bladder. Further research is needed to delineate the frequency of this troubling side effect and how best to treat it.
Circulating IgG-immune complexes (IgG-IC) play a role in the complex etiology of C-HUS. In an ongoing open clinical study protein A immunoadsorption treatment is carried out for patients who developed severe forms of the syndrome after mitomycin-C chemotherapy. So far, successful treatment of 14 out of 19 evaluable patients was possible. A protein A immunoadsorption system was used, allowing processing of large plasma volumes to eliminate IgG and IgG-IC from the patient's plasma.
