Bortezomib (Velcade, formerly known as PS-341) is a boronic acid dipeptide derivative, which is a selective and potent inhibitor of the proteasome. We examined the antitumor activity of combination therapy with bortezomib + docetaxel in two human pancreatic cancer cell lines (MiaPaCa-2 and L3.6pl) selected for their divergent responses to bortezomib alone. Bortezomib blocked docetaxel-induced apoptosis in the MiaPaCa-2 cells and failed to enhance docetaxel-induced apoptosis in L3.6pl cells in vitro but did interact positively with docetaxel to inhibit clonogenic survival. These effects were associated with decreased accumulation of cells in M phase, stabilization of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors, p21 and p27, and inhibition of cdk2 and cdc2 activities. In orthotopic xenografts, combination therapy produced significant reductions in tumor weight and volume in both models associated with accumulation of p21, inhibition of proliferation, and increased apoptosis. Combination therapy also reduced tumor microvessel densities, effects that were associated with reductions in tumor cell production of vascular endothelial growth factor and increased levels of apoptosis in tumor-associated endothelial cells. Together, our results suggest that bortezomib enhances the antitumoral activity of taxanes by enforcing cell growth arrest and inhibiting angiogenesis.
The relationship between CCl4 or (CCl4 + phenobarbital)-induced liver cirrhosis and diethylnitrosamine (DEN) hepatocarcinogenesis in male F-344 rats was investigated. DEN given alone produced no liver lesions after 16 weeks, but 4/12 (33%) neoplastic nodules developed when nitrosamine was administered to rats with previously established cirrhosis. On the other hand, (CCl4 + phenobarbital) post-treatment had an even stronger effect, increasing the yield of neoplastic nodules to 100% (28/28). Since the exposure time of DEN was the same in all treated groups (4 months), the results indicate the decreased effectiveness of (CCl4 + phenobarbital) pretreatment on DEN hepatocarcinogenesis.
We report the first X-linked creatine-deficiency syndrome caused by a defective creatine transporter. The male index patient presented with developmental delay and hypotonia. Proton magnetic-resonance spectroscopy of his brain revealed absence of the creatine signal. However, creatine in urine and plasma was increased, and guanidinoacetate levels were normal. In three female relatives of the index patient, mild biochemical abnormalities and learning disabilities were present, to various extents. Fibroblasts from the index patient contained a hemizygous nonsense mutation in the gene SLC6A8 and were defective in creatine uptake. The three female relatives were heterozygous for this mutation in SLC6A8, which has been mapped to Xq28.
The pathological mechanisms that cause central nervous system (CNS) dysfunction in most neurological diseases are not well established. Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus (TMEV) is known to interact with cells of the CNS and its intracerebral inoculation to susceptible mice strains causes neurological disorders resembling multiple sclerosis (MS). In this study, we reported that primary astrocyte cultures from SJL/J susceptible mice when infected with TMEV released important amounts of nitrites (NO2-) to the culture medium, as measured in the supernatants 24 hours after infection. In addition, we observed an increment in the production of tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) by susceptible SJL/J strain derived astrocytes infected with TMEV. The treatment with the thiolic antioxidant N-acetyl-cysteine partially suppressed the virus-stimulated production of nitric oxide and TNF-alpha, in a dose response fashion. These results indicate that during viral infection astrocytes are an important cellular source of nitric oxide and TNF-alpha, substances which play important roles during CNS inflammatory events. The effects of the antioxidant N-acetyl-cysteine, modulating the production of the above compounds by TMEV-infected astrocytes may be a significant factor in preventing CNS demyelination.
A 77-year-old male was diagnosed with immunohaemolytic anaemia. He presented with fever, jaundice and oliguric renal insufficiency. He had been taking diclofenac for three days. Additional examinations and tests revealed a Coombs-positive haemolytic anaemia and thrombopenia. The micro-card gel-agglutination test demonstrated antibodies against diclofenac metabolites. After discontinuation of diclofenac and short-term treatment with prednisone and haemodialysis for two days, the patient made an almost full recovery. Haemolytic anaemia caused by diclofenac is rare. It can be caused by autoantibodies against erythrocytes and complement-fixing antibodies that bind to erythrocytes only in the presence of diclofenac or its metabolites. A timely diagnosis-supported by the appropriate laboratory tests--is of critical importance in this rare but extremely serious complication of the use of diclofenac. The treatment consists of withdrawal of diclofenac and supportive measures, possibly in combination with immunosuppressants.
Eighteen infants, each weighing less than 1,500 gm, were treated with low dose digoxin therapy for patent ductus arteriosus and signs of circulatory congestion. Nine of the 18 developed one or more signs of clinical deterioration felt to be related to digoxin therapy: eight infants experienced frequent episodes of bradycardia, six had cardiac arrhythmias, and six experienced feeding difficulties. All signs disappeared when digoxin therapy was discontinued. Digoxin, even in relatively low dosages, can have deleterious complications in seriously ill low-birth-weight infants. Alternatives to digoxin in this patient population should be considered before institution of digoxin therapy.
Copper-deficient rat embryos are characterized by brain and heart anomalies, low superoxide dismutase activity, and high superoxide anion concentrations. One consequence of increased superoxide anions can be the formation of peroxynitrite, a strong biological oxidant. To investigate developmentally important features of copper deficiency, GD 8.5 mouse embryos from copper-adequate and copper-deficient dams were cultured in media that were adequate or deficient in copper. After 48 h, copper-deficient embryos exhibited brain and heart anomalies, and a high incidence of yolk sac vasculature abnormalities compared to controls. Immunohistochemistry of 4-hydroxynonenal and 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine for lipid and DNA damage, respectively, was similar between groups. In contrast, 3-nitrotyrosine, taken as a measure of protein nitration, was markedly higher in the neuroepithelium of the anterior neural tube of copper-deficient embryos than in controls. Repletion of copper-deficient media with copper, or supplementation with copper-zinc superoxide dismutase, Tiron, or glutathione peroxidase did not ameliorate the abnormal development, but did decrease 3-nitrotyrosine in neuroepithelium of copper-deficient embryos. These data support the concept that while copper deficiency compromises oxidant defense and increases protein nitration, additional mechanisms, e.g., altered nitric oxide metabolism may contribute to copper-deficiency-induced teratogenesis.
To report complications of direct fibrosing agent injection in the treatment of aneurysmal bone cysts (ABCs) in children.
The authors retrospectively analyzed all cases of ABCs treated with direct fibrosing agent injection (Ethibloc; Ethnor Laboratories, Ethicon, Noderstedt, Germany) at Robert Debré Hospital since 1994. Histologic diagnosis was assigned by means of surgical biopsy findings prior to treatment. Treatment responses were categorized. Injection was administered with general anesthesia, computed tomographic guidance, and use of a 14- to 16-gauge needle. Contrast material was injected to determine presence of intracystic septa and verify absence of venous opacification. Amount of fibrosing agent injected corresponded to amount of contrast material necessary to fully opacify the cyst. Intraosseous needle track was obliterated with histoacryl injection.
Fifteen patients were treated. Mean follow-up was 80 months; no patient was lost to follow-up. One patient experienced pulmonary embolus that necessitated a 7-day intensive care unit stay. Four patients experienced early aseptic fistulization after the first injection, which led to surgical débridement and curettage. Five patients had transient inflammatory reaction with mild 38 degrees C fever, which was controlled with analgesic and antiinflammatory drugs. Eleven patients did not require surgery, and results at latest follow-up were considered to indicate complete healing (type 1 results) in nine and incomplete healing (type 2 results) in two. For type 1 results: Six patients received one injection, two received two injections, and one received three injections. For type 2 results: one patient received one injection, and one received three injections.
A high rate of major local and general complications was encountered with use of direct fibrosing agent injection; the technique has been abandoned for treatment of ABCs.
Postoperative renal dysfunction in rats is induced by ketorolac dosed concurrently with gentamicin. Herein, we report the renal effects of diclofenac in four groups of rats: control (C = anesthesia, surgery); diclofenac (D = anesthesia, surgery, diclofenac 18 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1)); gentamicin (G = anesthesia, surgery, gentamicin 20 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1)); and diclofenac and gentamicin (DG = anesthesia, surgery, diclofenac, gentamicin). Renal function, after three treatment days, was assessed using histology, p-aminohippurate (PAH), and iothalamate (IOT) clearances, serum and urine electrolytes, osmolality, urea, and creatinine. Urine output was increased (from 5.2 to 12.5 mL/24 h), and urine osmolality was decreased (from 2121 to 883 mOsm/kg) in the DG group. PAH and IOT clearances were decreased in the G and DG groups (PAH by 18%, IOT by 22%; PAH by 38%, IOT by 43%, respectively); there were no changes in the C and D groups. Urea and creatinine clearances were decreased by 61% and 43%, respectively, in the DG group. Kidney sections showed the most severe pathologic changes in the DG group. Our data indicate that the perioperative combination of diclofenac and gentamicin was deleterious to renal function.
Diclofenac alone does not result in significant perioperative renal dysfunction, but the combination of gentamicin and diclofenac is deleterious to renal function. Considering this and previous findings, the evidence suggests that treatment with aminoglycosides may be a significant risk factor for inducing perioperative renal failure during treatment with nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs.
Using a patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) delivery system, we evaluated the clinical advantages and disadvantages of morphine PCA compared with morphine plus lysine acetyl salicylate (LAS), a soluble aspirin. After major orthopedic surgery, 50 adult patients were enrolled in a prospective, randomized, and double-blinded study. When a patient in the recovery room complained of pain, an initial dose of morphine or the morphine/LAS mixture was titrated to achieve analgesia of visual analog score < or = 3 in 30 min. An equivalent volume PCA dose of either morphine 1 mg/mL or morphine 0.5 mg + LAS 90 mg/mL was used with a lockout interval of 10 min. Pain score, patient satisfaction, vital signs, and adverse effects were observed for 48 h. Adequate analgesia (visual analog scale score < or = 3) was achieved with either drug. Morphine consumption in the morphine/LAS group was significantly less than in morphine group (13.9 vs 18.4 mg in 24 h and 24.3 vs 32.4 mg in 48 h). Significantly more sedation was evident with the morphine group (P < 0.05). We conclude that injectable LAS can be used as an effective and safe adjuvant to morphine for PCA. This combination reduces dose requirements of morphine and hence some of its adverse effects.
Injectable aspirin could be used as an effective and safe adjuvant to morphine for patient-controlled analgesia. This combination reduces the dose requirement of morphine and therefore some of the morphine-related untoward effects.
In the course of chronic treatment with a cardioselective beta-blocking agent (atenolol) 6 patients out of a series of 38 hypertensives developed signs of circulatory congestion. In spite of this, maximal exercise capacity was maintained. This resulted from hemodynamic readjustments at rest and exercise, where an increase in stroke volume played a major role.
Long-term studies on 11 patients suffering from methyldopa-induced autoimmune haemolytic anaemia suggest that this self limitable episode of disturbed immune tolerance is characterized by five main parameters: 1. The autoimmune pathogenic average daily drug dose: Unfortunately, it cannot be estimated exactly due to the individually rather variable absorption of methyldopa (7-62%). The lowest oral dose in our patients was 125 mg daily. 2. The period of autoimmune induction: between the start of the methyldopa administration and the beginning of autoantibody production. It has to be estimated somewhat shorter than the time up to the clinical manifestation of the haemolytic anaemia. This varied over a wide range from 2 to 52 months. 3. The period of the active autohemolysis: between the appearance of pathogenic autoantibodies and the withdrawal of methyldopa. It depends on the recognition of the cause of the disease. In our patients it varied between 2 and 32 weeks. 4. The period of the haematologic remission: between the withdrawal of methyldopa and the normalization of the red blood cell values. It ranged between 4 weeks and 4 months. Contrary to the other parameters, the clinical remission is almost uniform in all patients. It begins immediately when the drug is stopped. This fact suggests that the induction and maintenance of the disease needs a continuous application of methyldopa and its presence in blood and tissue. The normalization of the red blood cell turnover simultaneous with the cessation of therapy, although the direct antiglobulin test remains positive, reveals a change of the autoantibodies into those apathogenic variants known from the majority of methyldopa-induced autoimmunizations. 5. The period of immunologic remission: between the withdrawal of methyldopa and the definite extinction of autoantibody production. It varied between 4 and 12 months. Transition to or later development of an autonomous warm autoantibody anaemia were not observed. The disease remits spontaneously. Its prompt reversibility resembles the same phenomenon in autoantibody anaemias induced by infectious agents. An inhibition of methyldopa-sensitive suppressor-T-cells may initiate the disturbed tolerance disease.
A 53-year-old patient suffering from delusional disorder developed an anticholinergic syndrome 19 days after initiation of paroxetine in addition to a steady dose of clozapine. The clozapine plasma concentration had doubled and was in the toxic range. On re-exposition with a lower clozapine dosage the increase was significantly lower. The importance of a dose-dependent interaction of both drugs is emphasized and a possible pharmacological explanation described. With regard to interactions of SSRIs and clozapine, fluvoxamine, a potent inhibitor of cytochrome P450 1A2, gives rise to higher clozapine levels at an earlier time, compared to other SSRIs (paroxetine, fluoxetine and sertraline), which are potent cytochrome P450 2D6 inhibitors.
Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma of the central nervous system (NHL-CNS) is thought to account for about 1% of primary brain tumours. Radiation therapy has mainly been applied to treat cerebral lymphoma, but the low cure rate and the lack of enduring response have stimulated the search for alternatives. With the aim of postponing radiotherapy as long as possible, we tested the efficacy of a M-BACOD schedule administered immediately after histological diagnosis in 14 patients. After two M-BACOD courses 10 (71%) patients displayed an objective response (i.e. were apparently tumour-free when examined by CT). In 6 (60%) M-BACOD-responsive patients, radiotherapy was delayed for 5 months (without recurrences after a follow-up ranging from 9 to 18 months). Moreover, in 3 M-BACOD-responsive patients, no recurrence took place (even without radiotherapy) after a follow-up of 6-12 months. We conclude that radiation can be postponed after chemotherapy or delayed until tumor recurrence.
The mitochondrial peripheral benzodiazepine receptor (mPBR) is involved in a functional structure designated as the permeability transition pore, which controls apoptosis. Binding of Fas/APO-1/CD95 triggers a prototypic apoptosis-inducing pathway. Using four different human tumor cell lines (T-cell Jurkat, neuroblastoma SHEP, osteosarcoma 143N2, and glioblastoma SNB79 cell lines), all of which express CD95 and mPBR, we investigated the potential role of mPBR ligands in CD95-induced apoptosis. We show that, in vitro, the three mPBR ligands tested (RO5-4864, PK11195, and diazepam) enhanced apoptosis induced by anti-CD95 antibody in Jurkat cells, as demonstrated by mitochondrial transmembrane potential drop and DNA fragmentation. In contrast, RO5-4864, but not PK11195 or diazepam, enhanced anti-CD95 apoptosis in all other cell lines. These effects were obtained in Bcl-2-overexpressing SHEP cell lines, but not in Bcl-X(L) SHEP cell lines. Enhancement of anti-CD95 antibody-induced apoptosis by RO5-4864 was characterized by an increased mitochondrial release of cytochrome c and Smac/DIABLO proteins and an enhanced activation of caspases 9 and 3, suggesting a mitochondrion-dependent mechanism. Preincubation of cells with the different mPBR ligands or anti-CD95 did not affect the levels of expression of either mPBR or CD95. In vivo, we found that the RO5-4864 mPBR ligand significantly increased the growth inhibition induced by two chemotherapeutic agents, etoposide and ifosfamide, using two human small cell lung cancers xenografted into nude mice. Peripheral benzodiazepine receptor ligands may therefore act as chemosensitizing agents for the treatment of human neoplasms.
The use of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor fluoxetine is associated with only minor cardiovascular effects. However, due to a possible inhibitory effect on the metabolism of calcium channel blockers it may potentiate the activity of nifedipine, causing profound adverse cardiovascular effects. This report describes the appearance of profound weakness, orthostatic hypotension and tachycardia following the initiation of fluoxetine treatment in a nifedipine-treated 80-year-old patient.
Minocycline can cause various types of hepatotoxicity. We report an 18-year-old male who developed a delayed onset of minocycline-induced cholestatic hepatitis with autoimmune features and neutropenia. He responded to withdrawal of the drug and a short course of corticosteroids. If minocycline is to be administered, then periodic monitoring for hepatoxicity is recommended.
Serotonin syndrome occurred under treatment with average dose of Venlafaxine and lithium in a 50 year-old female patient with a history of sensitiveness to SSRIs. Plasma levels of Venlafaxine and its metabolite were within reference range. Parmacogenetic evaluation indicated normal metabolic pathway.
We evaluated the safety and efficacy of long-term lamivudine monotherapy in a group of 25 patients with hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg)-negative chronic hepatitis B. Lamivudine was administered in a daily dose of 150 mg for a mean of 26 +/- 7 months and was well tolerated. No patient lost hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg). The rate of initial biochemical response increased from 88% at 6 months to 96% at 12 months of therapy, but it progressively decreased thereafter; the biochemical remission rate was 68% at 18 months, 59. 5% at 24 months, and 42.5% at >/=30 months. Alanine transaminase (ALT) increased to higher than the baseline levels in 8 of the 11 patients with a biochemical breakthrough reaching acute hepatitis levels in 6 of them. Acute icteric hepatitis developed in one patient. The virologic remission rate assessed by a sensitive quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay was 68% at both 6 and 12 months, decreasing thereafter to 52% at 18 months and to 41. 6% at both 24 and >/=30 months. Virologic breakthroughs were always persistent and preceded ALT elevations by a median of 4 (3-24) months. YMDD mutants were detected in all patients with a virologic breakthrough. In conclusion, in patients with HBeAg-negative chronic hepatitis B, long-term lamivudine therapy is safe and is associated with high biochemical and virologic response rates at the end of the first year. However, response rates tend to decrease with time and breakthroughs due to YMDD mutants accumulate. ALT activity during breakthroughs often exceeds the baseline and may reach even acute hepatitis levels.
Prostate cancer (PrCa) is characterized by progression from an androgen-dependent phenotype to one that is inevitably androgen independent (AI) and lethal. Recent evidence strongly suggests that the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase/Akt (PI3K/Akt) and androgen receptor (AR) signalling pathways provide prostatic epithelium with the necessary signalling events to escape the apoptotic response associated with androgen withdrawal therapy. Silencing of phosphatase and tensin homologue deleted on chromosome 10 (PTEN) and glycogen synthase kinase beta (GSK3beta) are frequently associated with advanced PrCa systems and likely serve critical roles in promoting AR and PI3K/Akt gain-of-function. That PTEN negatively regulates AR and is sufficient to promote metastatic PrCa in murine models strongly implies its role as a gatekeeper of progressive PrCa. In human PrCa, PTEN loss is correlated with substantial increases in Akt(Ser473) and integrin-linked kinase expression, both of which promote Ser(9) phospho-inhibition of GSK3beta and inactivation of apoptotic factors. Sufficient evidence also suggests that GSK3beta is not only a critical regulator of proproliferative signalling but also a promiscuous one as PI3K/Akt pools of GSK3beta are, at least in part, functionally interchangeable with those of the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway. Thus, GSK3beta may serve not only as a mediator of PI3K/Akt activation but may also regulate the potent transactivation and proproliferative effects that Wnt3a and beta-catenin confer upon AR. These data suggest that prostate-specific activation of GSK3beta may serve as a viable pharmacological option. Thus, in this review, we emphasize that temporal changes in GSK3beta and PTEN expression during progression to AI PrCa are important factors when considering the potential for therapies targeting the oncogenic contributions of PI3K/Akt and AR signalling pathways.
Several studies have demonstrated that enalapril causes a clinical and hemodynamic improvement in patients with congestive heart failure. Nevertheless, the drug capability of influencing left ventricular systolic and diastolic indexes has not been evaluated. In 12 patients with severe congestive heart failure (NYHA class III-IV), treated with digitalis and diuretics, we performed a baseline evaluation through a right heart catheterization, echocardiography and radionuclide ventriculography. The effects on left ventricular systolic and diastolic function indexes after the administration of enalapril 5 mg by oral route have been evaluated. After 3 months of chronic therapy with enalapril 5 mg twice daily, we performed a further evaluation through echocardiography and radionuclide ventriculography. At the acute test we observed a significant improvement of left ventricular ejection fraction (EF), left ventricular stroke index (LVSI), and peak of filling rate (PFR), with a significant reduction of pulmonary wedge pressure (PWP) and peripheral vascular resistance (PVR). After 3 months of chronic therapy EF was significantly increased with respect to baseline values (37 +/- 6.9% vs 28.7 +/- 7.9%, p less than 0.05) and showed a further increase after the drug administration (from 37 +/- 6.9% to 48 +/- 5.4%, p less than 0.001). PFR showed a similar behaviour and reached at the follow-up evaluation normal values (from 1.97 +/- 0.7 edv/s to 2.57 +/- 0.6 efv/s, p less than 0.001). Furthermore, the echocardiographic dimensions of the left ventricle decreased significantly with a significant increase of shortening fraction. In conclusion, our study demonstrates that in patients with severe congestive heart failure enalapril improves the left ventricular systolic and diastolic function indexes and this improvement is persistent.
We report on three women with phenprocoumon-induced liver failure. In all three, jaundice was the main symptom. Liver failure was manifest 6 months after initial exposure to phenprocoumon in two women and 18 months in the third. None received corticosteroids. The course was prolonged in each patient, but all three finally recovered. Liver failure associated with oral anticoagulation is rare. Most published reports describe only individual cases. Instances of fatal outcome and instances requiring liver transplantation for survival have been seen. Coumarin treatment should be considered as a possible etiology of acute liver failure, even if the drug has been administered for a longer period without any previous problems. While cross-reactions with other coumarin substances have been reported, if coumarin anticoagulation is absolutely required, use of a congener under close monitoring seems justifiable.
Nineteen adult cancer patients each received 6-10 monthly treatments of doxorubicin and cisplatin. For 24-30 hr before each treatment, recumbent pulse was measured. Treatment was stopped for disease progression or when a total doxorubicin dose of 550 mg/m2 was reached. No patient developed congestive heart failure (CHF) during therapy. Two to four months after stopping treatment, three patients developed CHF. In these cases, 2-6 months before complication of therapy, prior to notable decrement in any other index of cardiac function, the 24-hr rhythm-qualified mean (mesor) of pulse showed a positive slope by linear regression analysis (P less than 0.05). This mesor rise was apparent at cumulative doxorubicin doses of 300, 420 and 240 mg/m2. patients subsequently received additional doxorubicin to total doses of 540, 525 and 530 mg/m2. Patients who did or did not experience a rise in pulse received similar total doses of doxorubicin. Serial pulse mesors predicted CHF reliably and were substantially less expensive than radionuclide ejection fraction determination ($200 per test). A progressive rise in the circadian pulse-mesor was clearly a harbinger of histologically documented doxorubicin-induced lethal CHF in Wistar-Kyoto rats of both sexes.
In utero exposure to antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) can result in several different teratogenic effects including major malformations, dysmorphic facial features, and learning and behavioural problems. It is estimated that there is a 2-3-fold increase in the risk of malformations compared with the general population. The risk of cognitive impairment and behavioural problems is less clear.
To report the frequency and specificity of individual dysmorphic features and to relate the dysmorphic facial phenotype to developmental outcome.
A retrospective study of 375 children born to 219 mothers with epilepsy. The age of the study group ranged from 6 months to 16 years. Each child underwent a physical examination and a battery of neuropsychological tests. Dysmorphic features were scored from photographs on a blind basis by a panel of dysmorphologists.
A total of 274 children were exposed to AEDs (63 to valproate, 94 to carbamazepine, 26 to phenytoin, 15 to other monotherapies, and 76 to polytherapy). Major malformations were identified in 14% of children exposed to valproate in utero, 5% exposed to carbamazepine, and 4% in the non-exposed group. Overall, 47% of exposed children were correctly identified as having been exposed to AEDs in utero. There was a significant correlation between verbal intelligence quotient and dysmorphic facial features in the valproate exposed children only.
Children exposed to valproate have more distinctive facial features, but a subtle and distinctive facial phenotype is also seen in children exposed to carbamazepine. Nearly half (45%) of unexposed children had some of the facial features associated with AED exposure, showing that many of these features may be seen as part of normal variation and that the diagnosis of the fetal anticonvulsant syndrome is difficult to make on the basis of facial gestalt alone. Developmental surveillance should be offered to children with prenatal exposure to AEDs, particularly those with exposure to high doses of valproate.
Inhibition of mammary carcinogenesis by dietary energy restriction is associated with a decrease in cell proliferation and the induction of apoptosis. Although changes in the metabolism of insulin-like growth factor I and glucocorticoids have been proposed to modulate these cellular processes, limitations in blood supply could induce similar effects. To investigate this possibility, female Sprague Dawley rats were given an injection of 1-methyl-1-nitrosourea and fed purified diets ad libitum or at 60% ad libitum intake, i.e., 40% dietary energy restriction. Premalignant mammary pathologies and mammary adenocarcinomas obtained from these rats were processed for vascular density analysis via CD-31 immunostaining. Vascular density, measured as vessels/unit area, of premalignant mammary pathologies and adenocarcinomas from dietary energy restriction rats was reduced 31 and 39%, respectively (P < 0.01). This effect, which was observed in a 50-microm wide band of tissue surrounding each pathology, was exerted on blood vessels > 25 microm2. Conversely, intratumoral vascular density was unaffected by dietary energy restriction. cDNA microarray and Western blot analyses of adenocarcinomas for evidence of dietary energy restriction-mediated effects on vascularization revealed that only the level of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor protein Flk-1 was significantly reduced (P < 0.001). It appears that dietary energy restriction imposes limitations in the supply of blood to developing pathologies, an effect that could directly inhibit the carcinogenic process. The vascular density data imply that dietary energy restriction inhibited the growth of endothelial cells but leave unresolved the question of whether dietary energy restriction had a specific effect on angiogenesis. The factors that account for the failure of dietary energy restriction to limit intratumoral vascularization are not obvious and merit additional investigation.
Transport of hemodynamic unstable septic patients for diagnostic or therapeutic interventions outside the intensive care unit is complex but sometimes contributes to increasing the chance of survival.
To report our experience with terlipressin treatment for facilitation of transport to distant facilities for diagnostic or therapeutic procedures in septic patients treated with norepinephrine.
We conducted a retrospective analysis of the records of our ICU, identifying the patients with septic shock who required norepinephrine for hemodynamic support.
Terlipressin was given to 30 septic shock patients (15 females and 15 males) who were on high dose norepinephrine (10 microg/min or more) in order to facilitate their transport outside the ICU. The dose of terlipressin ranged from 1 to 4 mg, with a mean of 2.13+/-0.68 mg. The dose of norepinephrine needed to maintain systolic blood pressure above 100 mmHg decreased following terlipressin administration, from 21.9+/-10.4 microg/min (range 5-52 microg/min) to 1.0+/-1.95 (range 0-10) (P < 0.001). No patients required norepinephrine dose adjustment during transport. No serious complications or overshoot in blood pressure values were observed following terlipressin administration. Acrocyanosis occurred only in eight patients receiving more than 1 mg of the drug. The overall mortality rate was 50%.
Our data suggest that terlipressin is effective in septic shock. Because it is long-acting and necessitates less titration it might be indicated for patient transportation.
To investigate the effect of 7 to 14 days of therapy with nifedipine (sustained-release preparation) on the 24-hour blood pressure patterns of pregnant women with pre-eclampsia or chronic hypertension, and to test the utility of blood pressure monitoring in modulating the timing and dosage of the drug.
24-hour automatic blood pressure monitoring of pregnant women with pre-eclampsia or chronic hypertension before and after nifedipine treatment.
Centre for Prevention, Diagnosis and Treatment of Hypertension in Pregnancy, University of Turin, Italy.
Sixteen pregnant women with pre-eclampsia and 17 with chronic hypertension.
24-hour blood pressure monitoring was performed before the beginning of the therapy and after 7 to 14 days of treatment with sustained-release nifedipine.
Chronobiological analysis of systolic and diastolic blood pressure values was performed; MESOR, amplitude, acrophase, hyperbaric index, percent time elevation and significance of rhythm were calculated before and after treatment.
6336 blood pressure measurements were analysed. Systolic and diastolic MESOR values were significantly decreased after nifedipine treatment both in pre-eclampsia and in chronic hypertension. However, the antihypertensive effect of nifedipine in pre-eclampsia was especially pronounced during evening and night, while in chronic hypertension it was more constant during the 24-hour period. 24-hour blood pressure monitoring allowed adjustment, when necessary, to the timing and dosage of nifedipine in accordance with the blood pressure patterns of each patient, using the hyperbaric index and percent time elevation as objective parameters for the evaluation of treatment efficacy.
24-hour blood pressure monitoring is a good method to optimise treatment, and confirms that nifedipine is useful for the control of maternal blood pressure in pregnancy.
