Two patients suffered reversible acute oligoanuric renal failure following massive mannitol infusion (400 to 900 g/day) given as treatment for intracranial hypertension. We believe this to be a previously unreported complication. Both patients had normal renal function before therapy. Serum creatinine level rose to 7.4 mg/dL (654 mumole/L) in patient 1 and to 2.7 mg/dL (238 mumole/L) in patient 2. Measured and calculated serum osmolality were 362 and 301 mOsm/kg, respectively, in patient 1 and 333 and 220 mOsm/kg, respectively, in patient 2. Other causes of renal failure were excluded. We postulate that the mannitol-induced increase in solute delivery to the macula densa may have triggered an intense tubuloglomerular feedback response resulting in a marked fall in glomerular filtration rate. Alternatively, mannitol infusion may have caused tubular cell swelling with luminal obstruction.
While surgical resection is the most effective treatment for gallbladder cancer, most of these cancers are not resectable at the time of diagnosis, and therefore, chemotherapy serves as the primary therapy in many cases. However, to date, there is no standard chemotherapy for this cancer. We report a case of advanced gallbladder cancer for which the anticancer drug S-1 was effective. The patient was a 53-year-old woman who presented with a huge ovarian tumor. On workup, all abdominal images revealed the presence of advanced gallbladder cancer that had invaded the liver. Because the gallbladder formed a relatively hard and swollen mass involving the omentum, as revealed during exploration, the surgical resection of the gallbladder was not possible at that time, and only hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy were performed. She started on the anticancer drug S-1 just after this operation. S-1 is a prodrug of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), and contains 5-chloro-2-4-dihydroxypyridine (CDHP), an inhibitor of dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) that rapidly degrades 5-FU. Eight months after the first operation, radical cholecystectomy was performed. Pathologically, the tumor was diagnosed as an adenocarcinoma of the gallbladder, and no evidence of liver invasion was found. Intratumoral gene expression analysis of the resected gallbladder revealed significantly elevated DPD expression. We suggest that the rapid degradation of 5-FU mediated by this high DPD in our patient was significantly blocked by the CDHP in S-1, and that the efficacy of 5-FU was consequently maintained at the maximum level.
To determine the association between arginine vasopressin receptor 1A gene (AVPR1A) and autism spectrum disorders (ASDs), we examined 3 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), namely, rs7294536, rs3759292, and rs10877969, in the promoter region of AVPR1A by using a family-based association test (FBAT) in 151 Korean trios. Our results demonstrated a statistically significant association between autism and SNPs (additive model: rs7294536, chi(2)=9.328, df=2, P=0.002; rs10877969, chi(2)=11.529, df=2, P<0.001) as well as between autism and haplotype analysis (additive model: chi(2)=14.122, df=3, P=0.003). In addition, we found that ADI-R scores calculated by using a diagnostic algorithm for failure to develop peer relationships (A2) were higher in subjects having the AA genotype than in subjects having the AG and GG genotypes of rs7294536. Thus, our study provides evidence for a possible association between these SNPs and the phenotype of ASDs.
Several new androgen receptor antagonists were synthesized and found to have varying activities across typically anti-androgen resistant mutants (Thr877 → Ala and Trp741 → Leu) and markedly improved potency over previously reported pan-antagonists. X-ray crystallography of a new anti-androgen in an androgen receptor mutant (Thr877 → Ala) shows that the receptor can accommodate the added bulk presented by phenyl to naphthyl substitution, casting doubt on previous reports of predicted binding orientation and the causes of antagonism in bulky-B-ring antagonists.
D-penicillamine, an agent still used in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) may produce inflammatory myopathy or myositis. Some reported cases are documented with muscle biopsy. We report a 34-year old female, receiving the drug for more than 4 years, who consulted us with recently developed proximal muscle pain and weakness. EMG-findings were typical for inflammatory muscle disease; muscle enzymes remained normal. D-penicillamine was stopped and she was started on prednisolone with rapid improvement. The EMG-findings, with follow-up within three months, proved to be a good diagnostic tool, in the absence of laboratory muscle enzymes abnormalities.
Neurotoxicity in relation to concomitant administration of lithium and neuroleptic drugs, particularly haloperidol, has been an ongoing issue. This study examined whether use of lithium with neuroleptic drugs enhances neurotoxicity leading to permanent sequelae. The Spontaneous Reporting System database of the United States Food and Drug Administration and extant literature were reviewed for spectrum cases of lithium/neuroleptic neurotoxicity. Groups taking lithium alone (Li), lithium/haloperidol (LiHal) and lithium/ nonhaloperidol neuroleptics (LiNeuro), each paired for recovery and sequelae, were established for 237 cases. Statistical analyses included pairwise comparisons of lithium levels using the Wilcoxon Rank Sum procedure and logistic regression to analyze the relationship between independent variables and development of sequelae. The Li and Li-Neuro groups showed significant statistical differences in median lithium levels between recovery and sequelae pairs, whereas the LiHal pair did not differ significantly. Lithium level was associated with sequelae development overall and within the Li and LiNeuro groups; no such association was evident in the LiHal group. On multivariable logistic regression analysis, lithium level and taking lithium/haloperidol were significant factors in the development of sequelae, with multiple possibly confounding factors (e.g., age, sex) not statistically significant. Multivariable logistic regression analyses with neuroleptic dose as five discrete dose ranges or actual dose did not show an association between development of sequelae and dose. Database limitations notwithstanding, the lack of apparent impact of serum lithium level on the development of sequelae in patients treated with haloperidol contrasts notably with results in the Li and LiNeuro groups. These findings may suggest a possible effect of pharmacodynamic factors in lithium/neuroleptic combination therapy.
Isolated methylmalonic acidemia (MMA) is a rare metabolic disease due to the deficient activity of L-methylmalonyl-CoA mutase (MCM). This mitochondrial enzyme converts L-methylmalonyl-CoA to succinyl-CoA using adenosylcobalamin (Adocbl) as cofactor. Isolated MMA is subdivided into five forms: mut MMA associated with MCM deficiency, three different defects related to mitochondrial Adocbl formation (cblA, cblB, and cblH), and cblD variant 2. We performed proteomic analysis on mitochondria from an individual with cblH/cblD disorder using 2-D DIGE to identify differentially expressed proteins in this disease. Comparative analysis of control/patient mitochondrial proteome allowed us to identify differential expression of 10 proteins. The most notable groups included proteins involved in apoptosis (cytochrome c), oxidative stress (manganese superoxide dismutase) and cell metabolism (succinyl-CoA ligase (GDP forming) and mitochondrial glycerophosphate dehydrogenase). Immunoblot analysis further validated 2-D DIGE results of two of these proteins in multiple MMA patients, suggesting that the differences in expression are a general effect in this disorder. It is feasible that the differential proteins identified in this study have a biological significance and might be related to the pathophysiology of MMA.
To determine whether there is any difference between 0.5% and 1% tropicamide in ocular discomfort and mydriatic efficacy in adolescents with Type 1 diabetes.
In a double-blind study, one drop of 0.5% tropicamide was instilled in one eye and one drop of 1% instilled in the other eye of 30 subjects aged 12-18 years. Drop strengths were randomized. Pupil size was measured before instillation, at 10, 20 and 30 min. Discomfort was measured using a recognized pain scale.
Irrespective of the concentration of tropicamide used, all pupils dilated to at least 6 mm at 30 min, sufficient for successful ophthalmoscopy. Pain was significantly less when the lower concentration of tropicamide was used; pain score for the 0.5% group [median (interquartile range)] 1.0 (0-2) and 2.0 (1-3) for the 1.0% group, P = 0.009 (Wilcoxon rank test).
This minor change in practice significantly reduces the distress associated with drop instillation without compromising the clinical examination, and may thus be important in encouraging compliance at the yearly diabetic review.
Vancomycin is frequently used in clinical practice to treat severe wound and systemic infections caused by Gram-positive bacteria after cardiac surgery. The drug is excreted almost entirely by glomerular filtration and might exhibit nephrotoxic side effects. This study compared the nephrotoxic impact of vancomycin during continuous versus intermittent administration.
The authors analyzed 149 patients admitted to the intensive care unit during a 5-yr period. All patients were treated at the intensive care unit after elective open heart surgery. Thirty patients received a dosage of 1325 +/- 603 mg/d vancomycin (range 300-3400 mg/d) by intermittent infusion, and 119 patients received a mean dosage of 1935 +/- 688 mg/d (range 352-3411 mg/d) by continuous infusion.
Nephrotoxicity occurred in 11 patients (36.7%) in the intermittent treatment group and in 33 patients (27.7%) in the continuous treatment group (P = 0.3; 95% CI = 0.283). Continuous veno-venous hemofiltration after vancomycin administration was required for 9 patients (9 of 30; 30%) in the intermittent treatment group and for 28 (28 of 119; 23.5%) in the continuous treatment group (P = 0.053; 95% CI = 0.256). A change of one unit (1 mg/l) in vancomycin serum concentration (DeltaVancoC) induced an average change of 0.04 mg/dl in creatinine (DeltaCrea) in the intermittent treatment group versus 0.006 mg/dl in the continuous treatment group (P < 0.001).
The data show that both the intermittent and also the continuous application modality of vancomycin are associated with deterioration of renal function in critically ill patients after cardiac surgery. However, continuous infusion showed the tendency to be less nephrotoxic than the intermittent infusion of vancomycin.
To determine the effects of rosiglitazone on insulin sensitivity, glucose tolerance and ambulatory blood pressure when administered to subjects with persistent impaired glucose tolerance (IGT).
Eighteen subjects with persistent IGT were randomized to receive rosiglitazone 4 mg twice daily or matching placebo for 12 weeks. Evaluation at baseline and at the end of treatment included measurement of whole body insulin sensitivity during a euglycaemic hyperinsulinaemic clamp and deriving an insulin sensitivity index. Changes in glucose and insulin concentration were determined after oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) and mixed meal tolerance tests, and 24-h ambulatory blood pressure was monitored.
Rosiglitazone significantly improved the insulin sensitivity index by 2.26 micro g/kg per min per pmol/l relative to placebo (P = 0.0003). Four of nine subjects receiving rosiglitazone reverted to normal glucose tolerance and 5/9 remained IGT, although four of these had improved 2-h glucose values. In the placebo group, 1/9 subjects progressed to Type 2 diabetes and 8/9 remained IGT. Following OGTT and meal tolerance test, glucose and insulin area under curve were reduced over 3 and 4 h, respectively. Compared with placebo, ambulatory blood pressure decreased significantly in the rosiglitazone group by 10 mmHg systolic (P = 0.0066) and 8 mmHg diastolic (P = 0.0126).
Consistent with its effects in patients with Type 2 diabetes, rosiglitazone substantially improved whole body insulin sensitivity and the glycaemic and insulinaemic responses to an OGTT and meal tolerance test in subjects with persistent IGT. Furthermore, rosiglitazone reduced systolic and diastolic ambulatory blood pressure in these subjects.
Cigarette smoke causes lung tumorigenesis; however, the mechanisms underlying transformation are unknown. We investigated if tobacco compounds induce DNA promoter hypermethylation in BEAS-2B cells treated with low doses of cigarette smoke condensate (CSC) for one month. Transcriptional profiles and anchorage-independent growth were explored using Affymetrix microarray and soft agar assay, respectively. To investigate if tobacco compounds induce hypermethylation, CSC/dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO)-treated cells were further treated with 5-Aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5AzaC) and trychostatin A (TSA). This treatment was followed by transcriptional profiling. CSC-exposed cells acquired a fibroblast-like shape with enhanced anchorage-independent growth. Silencing of epithelial cadherin, the hallmark of epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT), was observed upon exposure to CSC. Changes in the expression of genes involved in epidermal development, intercellular junction formation, and cytoskeleton formation were identified. Gene expression profiles from 5AzaC- and TSA-treated cells revealed 130 genes possibly methylated due to chronic CSC exposure. Our results suggest that E-cadherin may also be silenced by hypermethylation in an in vitro model of chronic exposure to low doses of CSC. This study demonstrates evidence for a tobacco compound induced EMT-like process in vitro and provides insight into possible mechanisms of gene silencing occurring during this treatment.
To evaluate a case of atypical optic neuropathy that presented with blurred vision following the use of an antiarrythmic agent.
Record of the patient was reviewed to determine the etiology of his optic neuropathy.
Ophthalmological examination revealed unilateral optic disc edema with relatively well-preserved visual acuity. In routine tests, results of complete blood count, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, liver and kidney function tests, chest x-ray, Goldmann visual field examination, and brain computed tomography scan were normal. Orbital ultrasonography revealed optic disc edema with prominent optic nerve head and without orbital pathology.
Systemic history and drug intake should be investigated in every patient with optic disc edema. Discontinuation of the medication can prevent further optic nerve damage or involvement of the other eye.
To review and improve the evidence base regarding the toxic effects of Mephedrone, a cathinone derivative which was first believed to have been synthesised and propagated in 2007. On the 7th April 2010 the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 (Amendment) Order 2010 was passed, declaring 4-Methylmethcathinone and other substituted cathinones Class B drugs as of 16 April 2010. This took place despite a perceived lack of evidence as to its potential harms.
We undertook a critical review of the available literature to see what evidence existed for the potential effects of mephedrone ingestion. We then conducted our own retrospective consecutive case series of all patients presenting to the Aberdeen Royal Infirmary Emergency Department from the 1st December until the 16th April (the date at which Mephedrone was officially proscripted). The notes were examined for amounts, timings, sources and reasons for ingestion. Symptoms, biometric, ECG and blood analysis data were also recorded along with management and disposal outcomes.
11 articles relating to mephedrone toxicity were identified and reviewed. 89 subjects were found for our case series. This compared to only 27 patients presenting with ingestion of substances (heroin, cocaine, cannabis) at that time illegal. 30 patients stated ingestion of mephedrone in isolation and a further 27 patients stated ingestion of mephedrone with alcohol in addition.
A profile of largely psychoactive and cardiovascular toxicity is described with drug naivety perhaps explaining the high rates of bingeing and addiction reported.
The authors report the case of a 65 year old man treated with amiodarone chlorhydrate since 4 years and perhexiline maleate since 15 months, admitted for constitutional symptoms with fever, neurologic troubles particularly polyneuritis and pronounced hypoglycemia. A diagnostic of hyperthyroidism was made and attributed to amiodarone. The hypoglycemia and the polyneuritis were related to perhexiline maleate as other signs presented by the patient. All the symptoms disappeared after discontinuation of the drugs. The complications secondary to maleate perhexiline administration are reviewed.
We describe a 25-year-old woman with pre-existing mitral valve prolapse who developed intractable ventricular fibrillation after consuming a "natural energy" guarana health drink containing a high concentration of caffeine. This case highlights the need for adequate labelling and regulation of such products.
Chloroquine induced a myasthenic syndrome in a patient taking the drug for presumable reticular erythematous mucinosis. Clinical features and results of single-fiber electromyography were typical for a failure of neuromuscular transmission, while peripheral nerves and muscles were intact on clinical, biochemical, electrophysiologic, and pathologic investigation. The time course of the clinical and electrophysiologic findings during provocation with chloroquine and the absence of autoantibodies indicate that the syndrome was due to a direct effect of the drug on the neuromuscular junction. While not taking chloroquine, the patient showed a decremental response on a modified double-step nerve stimulation test and a mean consecutive difference on single-fiber electromyography that was at the upper limit of normal, indicating a subclinical impairment of neuromuscular transmission. These findings can explain the apparent rarity of the syndrome described, as a direct effect of chloroquine on the neuromuscular junction may only have clinical relevance in patients with a reduced neuromuscular safety factor.
We report a case of methotrexate-induced pericarditis and pericardial effusion in a 22-year-old pregnant woman. These complications have not previously been described as isolated phenomena associated with methotrexate therapy.
Antihypertensive therapy not only normalizes the elevated blood pressure but also restores the reduced baroreceptor reflex response associated with hypertension, although the underlying mechanism is not fully understood. We assessed the hypothesis that a reversal of the enhanced basal Fos expression seen during hypertension in nucleus tractus solitarii, the terminal site of baroreceptor afferents, underlies the restoration of baroreceptor reflex sensitivity after antihypertensive treatment. Male adult spontaneously hypertensive or normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats received for 3 weeks captopril (100 mg/kg/day) added to their drinking water. Evaluated subsequently under pentobarbital anesthesia, captopril-treated spontaneously hypertensive rats exhibited significantly lowered systolic blood pressure and restoration of the sensitivity in baroreceptor reflex control of heart rate to levels comparable with Wistar-Kyoto rats. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis and immunohistochemical evaluation revealed concomitant down-regulation of basal expression in nucleus tractus solitarii of c-fos gene at both mRNA and protein levels. Captopril treatment, on the other hand, elicited no discernible effect on systolic blood pressure, cardiac baroreceptor reflex sensitivity or basal expression of Fos protein at the nucleus tractus solitarii of normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats. From these findings we suggest that a down-regulation of basal Fos expression in nucleus tractus solitarii may contribute to the restoration of baroreceptor reflex sensitivity in spontaneously hypertensive rats that received antihypertensive treatment such as captopril.
In recent years, New World cutaneous leishmaniasis has been seen at a higher incidence among returning Israeli travelers. Leishmania braziliensis and related species cause unsightly cutaneous lesions possibly complicated with a mucosal disease. A total of 12 patients with New World cutaneous leishmaniasis were treated in our clinic, 11 of whom (92%) acquired the disease in the Bolivian Amazon Basin. Five (42%) had regional lymphadenopathy in addition to cutaneous lesions. Polymerase chain reaction was performed for 8 patients to identify the causative Leishmania species. In all, 9 patients (75%) were cured by a single course, and 3 (25%) after an additional course of intravenous sodium stibogluconate. The treatment was well tolerated clinically. Laboratory abnormalities, mainly elevation of liver enzymes (58%), were reversible. We concluded that polymerase chain reaction is a useful tool in establishing the species diagnosis of leishmaniasis and that sodium stibogluconate appears to be a safe and effective treatment for L braziliensis infection.
Several mechanisms have been proposed to explain toxicity of local anesthetics to chondrocytes, including the blockade of potassium channels and mitochondrial injury. The purposes of this investigation were to study the effects of lidocaine, bupivacaine, and ropivacaine on human chondrocyte viability and mitochondrial function in vitro and to characterize the type of cell death elicited following exposure.
Primary chondrocyte cultures from patients with osteoarthritis undergoing knee replacement were treated with saline solution and the following concentrations of local anesthetics: 2%, 1%, and 0.5% lidocaine, 0.5% and 0.25% bupivacaine, and 0.5% and 0.2% ropivacaine for one hour. Cell viability and apoptosis were measured by flow cytometry at twenty-four hours and 120 hours after treatment. Nuclear staining and caspase 3 and 9 cleavage assays (Western blot) were used to further establish the induction of apoptosis. Mitochondrial dysfunction was evaluated by the accumulation of mitochondrial DNA damage (quantitative Southern blot), changes in adenosine triphosphate production (bioluminescence kit), and mitochondrial protein levels (Western blot analysis).
Exposure of primary human chondrocytes to a 2% concentration of lidocaine caused massive necrosis of chondrocytes after twenty-four hours, 1% lidocaine and 0.5% bupivacaine caused a detectable, but not significant, decrease in viability after twenty-four hours, while 0.5% lidocaine, 0.25% bupivacaine, and both concentrations of ropivacaine (0.5% and 0.2%) did not affect chondrocyte viability. Flow cytometry analysis of chondrocytes 120 hours after drug treatment revealed a significant decrease in viability (p < 0.05) with a concomitant increase in the number of apoptotic cells at all concentrations of lidocaine, bupivacaine, and ropivacaine analyzed, except 0.2% ropivacaine. Apoptosis was verified by observation of condensed and fragmented nuclei and a decrease in procaspase 3 and 9 levels. Local anesthetics induced mitochondrial DNA damage and a decrease in adenosine triphosphate and mitochondrial protein levels.
Lidocaine, bupivacaine, and ropivacaine cause delayed mitochondrial dysfunction and apoptosis in cultured human chondrocytes.
Resveratrol is a phytoalexin with strong antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects reaching high concentrations in red wine. The aim of our study was to test the effects of resveratrol pretreatment on cholecystokinin-octapeptide (CCK-8)-induced acute pancreatitis in rats. Animals were divided into a control group, a group treated with CCK-8 and a group receiving 10 mg/kg resveratrol prior to CCK-8 administration. Resveratrol ameliorated the CCK-8-induced changes in the laboratory parameters, and reduced the histological damage in the pancreas. The drug failed to improve the pancreatic antioxidant state, but increased the amount of hepatic reduced glutathione and prevented the reduction of hepatic catalase activity. Resveratrol-induced inhibition of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) activation or reduction of the pancreatic tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) concentration could not be demonstrated. In conclusion, the beneficial effects of resveratrol on acute pancreatitis seem to be mediated by the antioxidant effect of resveratrol or by an NF-kappaB-independent anti-inflammatory mechanism.
CNQX (6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione) and NBQX (2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoyl-benzo[f]quinoxaline), two competitive AMPA (non-NMDA glutamate) receptor antagonists, as well as their interaction with CGP 37849, a competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, were studied in rats and mice. CNQX and NBQX inhibited the locomotor activity of naive rats. No symptoms of behavioral excitation were observed. CGP 37849 induced locomotor hyperactivity which was reduced by CNQX and NBQX. In monoamine-depleted rats (pretreated with reserpine + alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine), none of the two quinoxalines nor CGP 37849 antagonized akinesia. The antiakinetic effect of L-DOPA was increased by CGP 37849, but not by CNQX or NBQX. The latter action of CGP 37849 was decreased by CNQX and NBQX. The antiakinetic effect of clonidine was not changed by CNQX. The locomotor hyperactivity induced by apomorphine or cocaine was not modified by CNQX. Neither of the quinoxalines changed the catalepsy induced by haloperidol or spiperone. The fluphenazine catalepsy was slightly decreased by CNQX and increased by NBQX. CNQX and NBQX were inactive in the forced swimming test; CNQX (but not NBQX) increased the CGP 37849-induced reduction of the immobility time. CNQX decreased the muscle tone of hind limbs in naive and monoamine-depleted rats. The obtained results indicate that the AMPA receptor antagonists differ in their neuropharmacological profile from CGP 37849, an NMDA receptor antagonist. There is no positive cooperation (except for the forced swimming test) between NMDA and AMPA receptor antagonists; on the contrary, an antagonistic between them has been observed.
Using rats in one-trial passive avoidance tests, the anti-amnesic effects of the nootropic drug aniracetam were investigated; moreover, the action of aniracetam upon the cholinergic system in the brain was studied. In one-trial passive avoidance tests, aniracetam prolonged significantly the retention time for 100 mg/kg, p.o. However, the retention-prolonging effect was diminished when the dose was increased to 300 mg/kg p.o. Investigation of the action of the drug upon the cholinergic system revealed that ACh and choline content in the corpus striatum was not increased by any doses of aniracetam. ACh content in the hippocampus was increased by doses of 100-300 mg/kg, p.o., but choline was not significantly increased by any doses, while in the cerebral cortex ACh content was significantly increased by a dose of 300 mg/kg, p.o. In addition, the decrease in hippocampal ACh and choline content following an injection of scopolamine was lessened by aniracetam 100 mg/kg, p.o. and 100-300 mg/kg, respectively. In order to elucidate the mechanism of these actions of aniracetam, the ACh-releasing action and changes in choline content of the extracellular spaces in the hippocampus were investigated, but no effects were observed. The results obtained indicate that aniracetam has an inhibitory effect upon scopolamine-induced amnesia. The mechanism of this effect may be an action upon the cholinergic system; therefore, some action with respect to the impairment of cholinergic neurotransmission in the hippocampus induced by scopolamine appears to be of particular importance.
