Diclofenac is an anti-inflammatory analgesic which is widely used in the therapy of inflammatory joint pain. Diclofenac hepatotoxicity ranges from asymptomatic elevation of transaminase activity to significant liver disease. 31 cases of diclofenac-induced hepatitis with five associated deaths have been already reported in the English, French and Spanish literature. We report the case of a 64-year-old patient who was admitted to the hospital with an icteric hepatitis of sudden onset. The only drug that was taken before admission was diclofenac in a daily dose of 150-200 mg because of a spondylodiscitis. Work-up of the patient included ERCP, laparoscopy and liver biopsy and excluded other reasons of a cholestatic hepatitis. Discontinuation of diclofenac resulted in normalization of transaminase activity and bilirubin concentration within four months. The frequent use of diclofenac and the possibility of fatal liver damage highlights the need that diclofenac-toxicity should be considered in the differential diagnosis of acute cholestatic hepatitis.
We report a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (SIADH), neurotoxicity and facial erythema induced by several anti-cancer drugs in a case of malignant lymphoma of thyroid gland. A 68-year-old male was admitted, complaining of neck tumor and dyspnea. On admission, he was treated with vincristine (VCR) for bronchostenosis due to malignant lymphoma. Neck tumor and mediastinal lymph node swelling reduced. On the ninth day after chemotherapy of VCR, a consciousness disturbance was found and he was diagnosed as having SIADH. Following chemotherapy of cyclophosphamide, SIADH was also induced so he was treated with irradiation for neck and mediastinal field, instead of chemotherapy. During irradiation, however, enlargement of systemic lymph nodes appeared, and the chemotherapy was resumed. He achieved partial remission, but somnolence after ifosfamide and facial erythema after ranimustine were observed. In spite of the difference in the chemical structure of these anti-cancer drugs, several side effects occurred. It is suggested that the direct effects of drugs on the nervous system were SIADH and neurotoxicity.
Delta sleep inducing peptide (WAGGDASGE, DSIP) is a well known multifunctional regulatory peptide. Numerous studies have confirmed its stress-protective and adaptive activity which is independent of the origin or nature of the stress or other harmful factors. However, the biosynthetic origin of DSIP remains obscure, since nothing is known of its protein precursor(s) and their encoding gene(s). We have performed a comprehensive analysis of available gene and protein databases for homologous peptide sites within mammalian resources including man. A family of Jumonji C (JmjC)-domain-containing histone demethylases was shown to contain a sequence fragment closely homologous to DSIP. One type of these ubiquitous and phylogenetically ancient proteins encoded by JMJD1B gene includes the WKGGNASGE sequence that differs from DSIP by only 2 amino acid residues in positions 2 and 5. The respective peptide was synthesized and its biological effects were evaluated in a preliminary way in the forced swimming and antitoxic tests. We suggest that the histone demethylases of the JmjC-group containing DSIP-related region can be considered as possible protein precursors of endogenous peptides with DSIP-like activity.
Obesity is the most common nutritional disorder in Western society. Uncoupling protein-2 (UCP2) is a recently identified member of the mitochondrial transporter superfamily that is expressed in many tissues, including adipose tissue. Like its close relatives UCP1 and UCP3, UCP2 uncouples proton entry in the mitochondrial matrix from ATP synthesis and is therefore a candidate gene for obesity. We show here that a common G/A polymorphism in the UCP2 promoter region is associated with enhanced adipose tissue mRNA expression in vivo and results in increased transcription of a reporter gene in the human adipocyte cell line PAZ-6. In analyzing 340 obese and 256 never-obese middle-aged subjects, we found a modest but significant reduction in obesity prevalence associated with the less-common allele. We confirmed this association in a population-based sample of 791 middle-aged subjects from the same geographic area. Despite its modest effect, but because of its high frequency (approximately 63%), the more-common risk allele conferred a relatively large population-attributable risk accounting for 15% of the obesity in the population studied.
To investigate the chronic effects of air pollution caused mainly by automobiles in healthy adult females.
Respiratory symptoms were investigated in 5682 adult females who had lived in the Tokyo metropolitan area for three years or more in 1987; 733 of them were subjected to pulmonary function tests over eight years from 1987 to 1994. The subjects were divided into three groups by the level of air pollution they were exposed to during the study period. The concentrations of nitrogen dioxide and suspended particulate matter were the highest in group 1, and the lowest in group 3.
The prevalence rates of respiratory symptoms in group 1 were higher than those in groups 2 and 3, except for wheezing. Multiple logistic regression analysis showed significant differences in persistent phlegm and breathlessness. The subjects selected for the analysis of pulmonary function were 94, 210, and 102 females in groups 1, 2, and 3, respectively. The annual mean change of FEV(1) in group 1 was the largest (-0.020 l/y), followed by that in group 2 (-0.015 l/y), and that in group 3 (-0.009 l/y). Testing for trends showed a significant larger decrease of FEV(1) with the increase in the level of air pollution.
The subjects living in areas with high levels of air pollution showed higher prevalence rates of respiratory symptoms and a larger decrease of FEV(1) compared with those living in areas with low levels of air pollution. Since the traffic density is larger in areas with high air pollution, the differences among the groups may reflect the effect of air pollution attributable to particulate matter found in automobile exhaust.
Recent reports suggest that existing antihypertensive agents may not have sufficient efficacy to control blood pressure (BP) in many patients. Omapatrilat, an agent under development, has been shown to have significantly greater antihypertensive efficacy than existing agents, but may also carry increased risk of angioedema. We compared the efficacy and safety of omapatrilat to a representative angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, enalapril.
The Omapatrilat Cardiovascular Treatment vs. Enalapril (OCTAVE) trial is a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, active-controlled, 24-week trial in 25,302 patients with untreated or uncontrolled hypertension conducted in 3298 office-based sites in 12 countries. Subjects were randomized to omapatrilat 10 mg or enalapril 5 mg as initial therapy for hypertension (group 1, n = 9292), replacement for existing antihypertensive therapy (group 2, n =11,224), or in addition to existing antihypertensive therapy (group 3, n = 4751). Study drug was force-titrated at week 2 and electively titrated at weeks 4 and 6 to a maximum of omapatrilat 80 mg or enalapril 40 mg once daily. At weeks 8 and 16, adjunctive antihypertensive medications were added electively to achieve target BP.
Omapatrilat reduced systolic BP 3.6 mm Hg more than enalapril at week 8, and was associated with less use of adjunctive antihypertensive therapy by week 24 (19% v 27%; P < 0.001 for both comparisons). Subjects randomized to omapatrilat were more likely to reach BP target, regardless of demographics or comorbid conditions and whether omapatrilat was used as initial therapy, replacement for existing therapy, or in addition to existing therapy. Angioedema was more frequent with omapatrilat than enalapril (2.17% v 0.68%). Two omapatrilat-treated subjects experienced angioedema with airway compromise, which was successfully treated.
Omapatrilat provided broadly superior antihypertensive efficacy when used in a setting resembling clinical practice. Angioedema was more common than with enalapril but life-threatening angioedema was rare. The risk-benefit profile for omapatrilat in clinical use therefore appears likely to be favorable in appropriate patients.
A patient with a history of coronary artery diseases developed new ST segment depressions in the ECG registration during a low dose (0.7%) isoflurane anaesthesia that was combined with a continuous thoracic epidural analgesia. Simultaneously a small decrease in mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) was noted. During the next 5 min these changes were followed by a severe drop in MAP (from 88 to 60 mmHg) and in cardiac output from 5.5 to 3.2 L/min. When isoflurane was discontinued both the ECG and the cardiovascular changes returned to the previous condition. Later, when 0.5% isoflurane was restarted, the ECG changes reappeared within ten min, but disappeared once again when isoflurane administration was discontinued. Thus, this patient had repeated episodes of myocardial ischaemia which were associated with the use of low dose isoflurane. Although isoflurane-induced "coronary steal" may appear as a likely cause of these ischaemic episodes, it is possible that the thoracic epidural had synergistic action and rendered the patient exceptionally sensitive to minor changes in perfusion pressure.
Bepridil is a unique calcium antagonist with a broad pharmacologic profile and demonstrated efficacy as an antianginal agent. Data from US clinical trials of bepridil in 840 patients (820 with chronic stable angina; 20 with vasospastic angina) indicated that the drug is well tolerated. The most frequent adverse reactions were of gastrointestinal or neurologic origin. Although bepridil has negative inotropic potential, a contributory role of the drug could not be precisely determined in 24 cases of congestive heart failure. Bepridil (median dose, 300 mg/day) lengthened the corrected QT (QTc) interval in most patients. The mean increase was 7.7%. Torsades de pointes occurred in 7 patients, an incidence of approximately 1%. Prolonged QT/QTc interval, low serum potassium level, or use of a potassium-wasting diuretic was present in each case. A life-table analysis involving 712 patients showed a 1-year overall survival rate of 97.1%. A 1-year survival rate of 97% was also determined by comparing 652 bepridil-treated patients with 1,361 matched control subjects from a data base of greater than 10,000 patients referred to the Duke University Medical Center for cardiac catheterization. Based on US clinical trials, the overall safety results indicate an acceptable safety profile of bepridil when this calcium antagonist is used in the treatment of chronic stable angina.
The potential of isopropyl triphenyl phosphate (ITP) to produce delayed neurotoxicity in hens was examined using several techniques. ITP contained O,O,O-triphenyl phosphate (24%), O-o-isopropylphenyl O,O-diphenyl phosphate (25%), O,O-diisopropyl-phenyl O-phenyl phosphate (20%), O-o, p-diisopropylphenyl O,O-diphenyl phosphate (18%) and O-p-isopropylphenyl O,O-diphenyl phosphate (6%). Hens treated twice, 3 wk apart, with doses of ITP as high as 11.7 g/kg showed no clinical signs of delayed neurotoxicity and only mild signs of general toxicity. Furthermore, none showed even subtle neurohistologic changes suggestive of delayed neurotoxicity. ITP produced dose-dependent inhibition of hen plasma cholinesterase and brain neurotoxic esterase (NTE). The study was continued because NTE inhibition has been shown to be a reliable predictor of organophosphates that produce delayed neurotoxicity. ITP was administered prior to tri-o-tolyl phosphate (TOCP) challenge in order to determine if it altered development of TOCP delayed neurotoxicity. ITP neither enhanced nor reduced the onset or severity of neurotoxicity produced by TOCP. The time-course for brain and spinal cord NTE inhibition by ITP and TOCP were compared and found to be different. The maximum brain NTE inhibition produced by ITP (doses up to 11.7 g/kg) was never complete (always less than 90%), and spinal cord NTE inhibition was significantly less than that produced in the brain. In contrast, brain and spinal cord inhibition produced by 500 mg TOCP/kg were equal and greater than 90%. This testing regimen showed that ITP produced an effect on NTE at the biochemical level without producing clinical or neurohistologic abnormalities in treated hens. Furthermore, this biochemical effect was qualitatively different than that produced by the delayed neurotoxicant TOCP.
alpha2-Macroglobulin (A2M) is a proteinase inhibitor found in association with senile plaques (SP) in Alzheimer's disease (AD). A2M has been implicated biochemically in binding and degradation of the amyloid beta (Abeta) protein which accumulates in SP. We studied the relationship between Alzheimer's disease and a common A2M polymorphism, Val1000 (GTC)/Ile1000 (ATC), which occurs near the thiolester active site of the molecule. In an initial exploratory data set (90 controls and 171 Alzheimer's disease) we noted an increased frequency of the G/G genotype from 0.07 to 0.12. We therefore tested the hypothesis that the G/G genotype is over-represented in Alzheimer's disease in an additional independent data set: a group of 359 controls and 566 Alzheimer's disease patients. In the hypothesis testing cohort, the G/G genotype increased from 0.07 in controls to 0.12 in Alzheimer's disease (P < 0.05, Fisher's exact test). The odds ratio for Alzheimer's disease associated with the G/G genotype was 1.77 (1.16-2.70, P < 0.01) and in combination with APOE4 was 9.68 (95% CI 3.91-24.0, P < 0.001). The presence of the G allele was associated with an increase in Abeta burden in a small series. The A2M receptor, A2M-r/LRP, is a multifunctional receptor whose ligands include apolipoprotein E and the amyloid precursor protein. These four proteins have each been genetically linked to Alzheimer's disease, suggesting that they may participate in a common disease pathway.
Methamphetamine dependence is a growing problem for which no medication treatments have proven effective.
We evaluated bupropion, an antidepressant with beneficial effects for the treatment of nicotine dependence, in patients with methamphetamine dependence, to assess the safety and tolerability of methamphetamine administration during bupropion treatment.
Twenty-six participants entered the study and 20 completed the protocol. Participants received intravenous methamphetamine (0, 15, and 30 mg) before and after randomization to twice-daily bupropion (150 mg SR) or matched placebo. Dependent measures included cardiovascular effects of methamphetamine, methamphetamine and amphetamine pharmacokinetics, and peak and trough plasma concentrations of bupropion and its metabolites.
Bupropion treatment was well tolerated, with bupropion- and placebo-treated groups reporting similar rates of adverse events. Methamphetamine administration was associated with expected stimulant cardiovascular effects, and these were not accentuated by bupropion treatment. Instead, there was a trend for bupropion to reduce methamphetamine-associated increases in blood pressure and a statistically significant reduction in methamphetamine-associated increases in heart rate. Pharmacokinetic analysis revealed that bupropion treatment reduced the plasma clearance of methamphetamine and also reduced the appearance of amphetamine in the plasma. Methamphetamine administration did not alter the peak and trough plasma concentrations of bupropion or its metabolites.
Methamphetamine administration was well tolerated during bupropion treatment. There was no evidence of additive cardiovascular effects when the drugs were coadministered. This study provides initial evidence for the safety of prescribing bupropion for the treatment of methamphetamine abuse and dependence. The impact of bupropion treatment in patients who abuse larger doses of methamphetamine remains undetermined.
The spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) is generally considered to be a suitable genetic model for the study of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), since it displays hyperactivity, impulsivity, poorly sustained attention, and deficits in learning and memory processes. Converging evidence suggests a primary role of disturbance in the dopaminergic neurotransmission in ADHD patients and in SHR, and in addition, some studies have also demonstrated alterations in adenosinergic neurotransmission in SHR. In the present study, adult female Wistar (WIS) and SHR rats received caffeine (1-10 mg/kg i.p.) 30 min before training, immediately after training, or 30 min before a test session in the spatial version of the Morris water maze. The effect of caffeine administration on WIS and SHR blood pressure was also measured. SHR needed significantly more trials in the training session to acquire the spatial information, but they displayed a similar profile to that of WIS rats in the test session (48 h later), demonstrating a selective deficit in spatial learning. Pre-training administration of caffeine (1-10 mg/kg i.p.) improved this spatial learning deficit in SHR, but did not alter the WIS performance. In contrast, post-training administration of caffeine (3 mg/kg i.p.) did not alter the SHR test performance, but increased memory retention in WIS rats. No dose of caffeine tested altered the mean blood pressure of WIS or SHR. These results demonstrate a selective spatial learning deficit in SHR which can be attenuated by pre-training administration of caffeine. In addition, the present findings indicate that the spatial learning deficit in SHR is not directly related to hypertension.
A number of studies have compared ecstasy users to control groups on various measures of neuropsychological function in order to determine whether ecstasy use results in lasting cognitive deficits. However, few of those studies controlled adequately for non-ecstasy illicit drug use.
The aim of this study was to investigate neuropsychological function in chronic ecstasy users while controlling for polydrug use.
Neuropsychological function was assessed in four groups-30 current 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) users with a little history of illicit drug use other than ecstasy and cannabis, 30 polydrug controls, 30 drug-naïve controls and 20 ex-MDMA users-using a battery of well-validated, computerized neuropsychological tests. The battery focused on memory, executive function, impulsivity and risk-taking.
Few differences were apparent between the groups, and on no measure were the current MDMA users impaired significantly relative to the polydrug controls. However, within the current MDMA users, questionnaire-measured impulsivity correlated with performance on a number of tests-a relationship that was not apparent in the controls.
These data highlight the complexity in understanding the current ecstasy literature and suggest that some individuals may be particularly vulnerable to cognitive impairment following chronic use. Although no differences were identified between the current MDMA users and the controls, trait impulsiveness was significantly correlated with impairment on a number of neuropsychological outcome measures in the MDMA users, but not in the controls. These data suggest that impulsive individuals may be those most at risk for the development of cognitive impairment following chronic ecstasy use.
Prenatal exposure to alcohol promotes the level of reactive oxygen species within embryos and results in developmental disorders. In this study, we investigated the effect of capsaicin (trans-8-methyl-N-vanillyl-6-nonenamide), the major pungent ingredient in red peppers, on ethanol-induced teratogenicity in mouse embryos (embryonic days 8.5-10.5). In response to ethanol administration (1.0 microl/ml), developmental parameters such as yolk sac circulation, allantois, heart, hindbrain, midbrain, forebrain, otic and optic systems, branchial bar, olfactory system, forelimb, hindlimb, and somites decreased significantly in comparison with those of control group (p<0.05). However, the concurrent administration of capsaicin (1 x 10(-8) microg/ml or 1 x 10(-7) microg/ml) and ethanol significantly ameliorated most of the morphological scores excepting yolk sac circulation and hindlimb scores (p<0.05). Furthermore, the levels of superoxide dismutase activity and cytoplasmic glutathione peroxidase and phospholipid hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase mRNAs in the ethanol-treated embryos recovered to the levels observed in control embryos by capsaicin co-administration. These results indicate that capsaicin has a protective effect against ethanol-induced teratogenicity via an antioxidative activity.
We report a 72-year-old woman who showed marked orolingual dyskinesia and choreoathetoid movements of the neck, with rolling and nodding of the head. She had been treated for postural tremor and other complaints with multiple drugs, including trihexyphenidyl HCl (THP) 6 mg/day for about two years. Moreover, two months before admission to our hospital, a doctor added tricyclic antidepressant, dosulepin HCl (DL) because of her state of anxiety. Two weeks following DL administration, the persistent dyskinesia described above appeared. Suspecting the dyskinesia to be induced by anticholinergics, we withdrew THP, which decreased the intensity of the dyskinesia. Then, when DL was ceased the dyskinesia almost completely disappeared, slightly recurring only during calculating, when excited or writing. In order to confirm that anticholinergics were the cause of the dyskinesia, we administered THP 6 mg/day again. In a few days the same dyskinesia reappeared, disappearing following THP withdrawal. In this case the overlap of anticholinergics might have resulted in the dyskinesia, because both THP and DL have anticholinergic effects. It should be stressed that inappropriate administration of anticholinergics could cause severe dyskinesia in the elderly.
Risk factors for asthma among farm women are understudied.
We evaluated pesticide and other occupational exposures as risk factors for adult-onset asthma.
Studying 25,814 farm women in the Agricultural Health Study, we used self-reported history of doctor-diagnosed asthma with or without eczema and/or hay fever to create two case groups: patients with atopic asthma and those with nonatopic asthma. We assessed disease-exposure associations with polytomous logistic regression.
At enrollment (1993-1997), 702 women (2.7%) reported a doctor's diagnosis of asthma after age 19 years (282 atopic, 420 nonatopic). Growing up on a farm (61% of all farm women) was protective for atopic asthma (odds ratio [OR], 0.55; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.43-0.70) and, to a lesser extent, for nonatopic asthma (OR, 0.83; 95%CI, 0.68-1.02; P value for difference = 0.008). Pesticide use was almost exclusively associated with atopic asthma. Any use of pesticides on the farm was associated only with atopic asthma (OR, 1.46; 95% CI, 1.14-1.87). This association with pesticides was strongest among women who had grown up on a farm. Women who grew up on farms and did not apply pesticides had the lowest overall risk of atopic asthma (OR, 0.41; 95% CI, 0.27-0.62) compared with women who neither grew up on farms nor applied pesticides. A total of 7 of 16 insecticides, 2 of 11 herbicides, and 1 of 4 fungicides were significantly associated with atopic asthma; only permethrin use on crops was associated with nonatopic asthma.
These findings suggest that pesticides may contribute to atopic asthma, but not nonatopic asthma, among farm women.
U1 small nuclear interference (U1i) has recently been described as a novel gene silencing mechanism. U1i employs short oligonucleotides, so-called U1 adaptors, for specific gene knockdown, expanding the field of current silencing strategies that are primarily based on RNA interference (RNAi) or antisense. Despite the potential of U1 adaptors as therapeutic agents, their in vivo application has not yet been studied. Here we explore U1i by analyzing U1 adaptor-mediated silencing of the oncogene Pim-1 in glioblastoma cells. We have generated Pim-1-specific U1 adaptors comprising DNA, locked nucleic acids (LNA), and 2'-O-Methyl RNA and demonstrate their ability to induce a Pim-1 knockdown, leading to antiproliferative and pro-apoptotic effects. For the therapeutic in vivo application of U1 adaptors, we establish their complexation with branched low molecular weight polyethylenimine (PEI). Upon injection of nanoscale PEI/adaptor complexes into subcutaneous glioblastoma xenografts in mice, we observed the knockdown of Pim-1 that resulted in the suppression of tumor growth. The absence of hepatotoxicity and immune stimulation also demonstrates the biocompatibility of PEI/adaptor complexes. We conclude that U1i represents an alternative to RNAi for the therapeutic silencing of pathologically upregulated genes and demonstrate the functional relevance of Pim-1 oncogene knockdown in glioblastoma. We furthermore introduce nanoscale PEI/adaptor complexes as efficient and safe for in vivo application, thus offering novel therapeutic approaches based on U1i-mediated gene knockdown.
Contact allergy to and allergic contact dermatitis from methyldibromoglutaronitrile (MDBGN) have been frequently reported since the 1990s.
This study was initiated to help determine the optimal test preparation for MDBGN and to help determine the clinical relevance of such a contact allergy.
In 38 patients with positive (32 patients) or doubtful (6 patients) patch-test reactions to at least one of four test preparations of MDBGN in petrolatum at 1.0%, 0.5%, 0.3%, and 0.1% (all weight per weight [w/w]), a repeated open application test (ROAT) with moisturizers with and without MDBGN at 0.03% w/w was conducted on patients' upper arms for a maximum of 4 weeks. Seven patients not hypersensitive to MDBGN served as controls and went through the same procedure.
Nineteen (59.4%) of the 32 MDBGN-allergic patients developed a positive ROAT result on the arm on which the moisturizer containing MDBGN was applied whereas no patients with doubtful or negative reactions to MDBGN reacted (p = .002). A statistically significant association was found between the patch-test reactivity and the outcome of the ROAT (p < .001).
Patch testing with MDBGN at 0.3% and 0.1% will miss clinically relevant patch-test reactions to MDBGN.
Nor-β-lapachone has shown several biological properties. Regarding cytotoxic activity against cancer cell lines, it has been recognized as an important prototype. However, quinonoid drugs present a major challenge because of their toxicity. In this study, we evaluated the cytotoxicity and genetic toxicity of nor-β-lapachone in human lymphocytes and HL-60 leukemia cells and murine V79 fibroblasts, to shed some light on its selectivity toward cancer cells. As measured by MTT test, exposure of V79 cells to nor-β-lapachone resulted in a weak cytotoxicity (IC(50) = 13.41 μM), and at a concentration up to 21.9 μM, no cytotoxic effect was observed in lymphocytes, while in HL-60 cells, nor-β-lapachone elicited significantly greater cytotoxicity (IC(50) = 1.89 μM). Cultures coexposed to GSH-OEt showed an increased viability, which may indicate a neutralization of ROS generated by quinonoid treatment. In fact, only the highest concentrations of nor-β-lapachone (10 or 20 μM) caused an increase in oxidative stress in nontumor levels cells as measured by TBARS and nitrite/nitrate detection. This was accompanied by an alteration in intracellular thiol content. However, NAC pre-exposure restored the redox equilibrium of the cells and the concentration of thiol levels to control values. Nor-β-lapachone at 2.5 and 5 μM failed to induce DNA damage in nontumor cells, but at the highest concentrations tested, it induced single and double DNA strand breaks and increased the frequency of chromosomal aberrations. Interestingly, these damages were prevented by NAC pretreatment or exacerbated by prior exposure to the GSH-depleting agent 1-bromoheptane. In electrochemical experiments, nor-β-lapachone at the same concentrations as those used in genotoxic tests did not damage DNA directly, but at the highest concentration tested (200 μM), it caused a very weak DNA interaction. Corroborating electrochemical data, oxidative modifications of DNA bases were observed, as checked by DNA repair enzymes EndoIII and FPG, which reinforced the indirect actions caused by nor-β-lapachone through ROS generation and not via DNA intercalation. The DNA repair capacities were higher for nontumor cells than for leukemia cells, which may be related to the selective cytoxicity of nor-β-lapachone toward cancer cells. Our data suggest that ROS play an important role in nor-β-lapachone toxicity and that its DNA-damaging effect occurs only at concentrations several times higher than that needed for its antiproliferative effect on cancer cells.
It has been nearly three decades since the beginning of nationwide research into gossypol as a male antifertility agent in China. Several lines of data implicating some side effects of gossypol were published which led to the termination of this area of research in China. The present review re-examines these data and points out the confusion surrounding issues such as hypokalaemia, irreversible azoospermia and other side effects. The prospects and related difficulties for gossypol as a potential male contraceptive are also discussed.
