Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) reduce the risk of Alzheimer's disease, although the underlying mechanisms are unknown. Glutamate excitotoxicity has been implicated in Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and others. We examined the effects of aspirin, acetaminophen, and ibuprofen on cultured primary rat embryonic neurons from mesencephalon, the area primarily affected in Parkinson's disease. We evaluated whether these drugs protect dopaminergic neurons against excitotoxicity. All three NSAIDs significantly attenuated the decrease in dopamine uptake caused by glutamate, indicating preservation of neuronal integrity. One hundred micro-moles ibuprofen protected both dopaminergic neurons and neurons overall against glutamate toxicity. In addition, ibuprofen alone increased the relative number of dopaminergic neurons by 47%. Thus, NSAIDs protected neurons against glutamate excitotoxicity in vitro, and deserve further consideration as neuroprotective agents in Parkinson's disease.
The purpose of this study was to compare the efficacy of proton pump inhibitor (PPI) with H(2) receptor antagonist (H(2)RA) in treatment of upper abdominal symptoms.
This was a multi-center, open study conducted at 102 hospitals in Japan. Patients with reflux esophagitis received famotidine 10 mg twice daily for 2 weeks, then omeprazole 10 mg once daily for 2 weeks. Thereafter, patients were switched to famotidine 10 mg twice daily for a third 2-weekperiod, provided those with a medical condition agreed to continue the study. Patients evaluated the treatment response to each gastrointestinal symptom using a predefined patient questionnaire and gastrointestinal symptom rating scale (GSRS).
161 patients entered the study, of whom 8 were excluded from all analyses due to lack of participation following entry. Overall symptom improvement rate (n = 130) at week 4, after the 2-week omeprazole treatment, was 75.4% and this was significantly higher than that after the first 2-week famotidine treatment (41.5%) at week 2. In patients (n = 36) who completed 6 weeks of treatment, 2-week omeprazole treatment at week 4 showed a significantly higher overall symptom improvement rate compared with both the first 2-week and third 2-week famotidine treatments.
Omeprazole was superior to famotidine for treatment of upper abdominal symptoms in patients with reflux esophagitis, which suggested that gastric acid might be a cause not only of reflux symptoms, but also of ulcer symptoms and dysmotility symptoms such as epigastric pain and feeling of fullness in reflux esophagitis.
2,2-bis(bromomethyl)-1,3-propanediol (BMP) is an extensively used brominated flame retardant found in urethane foams and polyester resins. In a 2-year dietary study conducted by the National Toxicology Program, BMP caused neoplastic lesions at multiple sites including the urinary bladder in both rats and mice. The mechanism of its carcinogenic effect is unknown. In the present study, using SV-40 immortalized human urothelial cells (UROtsa), endpoints associated with BMP induced DNA damage and oxidative stress were investigated. The effects of time (1-24h) and concentration (5-100 μM) on BMP induced DNA strand breaks were assessed via the alkaline comet assay. The results revealed evidence of DNA strand breaks at 1 and 3h following incubation of cells with non-cytotoxic concentrations of BMP. Strand breaks were not present after 6h of incubation. Evidences for BMP associated oxidative stress include: an elevation of intracellular ROS formation as well as induction of Nrf2 and HSP70 protein levels. In addition, DNA strand breaks were attenuated when cells were pre-treated with N-acetyl-l-cysteine (NAC) and oxidative base modifications were revealed when a lesion specific endonuclease, human 8-hydroxyguanine DNA glycosylase 1 (hOGG1) was introduced into the comet assay. In conclusion, these results demonstrate that BMP induces DNA strand breaks and oxidative base damage in UROtsa cells. Oxidative stress is a significant, determinant factor in mediating these DNA lesions. These early genotoxic events may, in part, contribute to BMP-induced carcinogenesis observed in rodents.
Previous studies indicated that lipopolysaccharide (LPS) interacts with the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug sulindac (SLD) to produce liver injury in rats. In the present study, the mechanism of SLD/LPS-induced liver injury was further investigated. Accumulation of polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PMNs) in the liver was greater in SLD/LPS-cotreated rats compared to those treated with SLD or LPS alone. In addition, PMN activation occurred specifically in livers of rats cotreated with SLD/LPS. The hypothesis that PMNs and proteases released from them play critical roles in the hepatotoxicity was tested. SLD/LPS-induced liver injury was attenuated by prior depletion of PMNs or by treatment with the PMN protease inhibitor, eglin C. Previous studies suggested that tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF) and the hemostatic system play critical roles in the pathogenesis of liver injury induced by SLD/LPS. TNF and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) can contribute to hepatotoxicity by affecting PMN activation and fibrin deposition. Therefore, the role of TNF and PAI-1 in PMN activation and fibrin deposition in the SLD/LPS-induced liver injury model was tested. Neutralization of TNF or inhibition of PAI-1 attenuated PMN activation. TNF had no effect on PAI-1 production or fibrin deposition. In contrast, PAI-1 contributed to fibrin deposition in livers of rats treated with SLD/LPS. In summary, PMNs, TNF and PAI-1 contribute to the liver injury induced by SLD/LPS cotreatment. TNF and PAI-1 independently contributed to PMN activation, which is critical to the pathogenesis of liver injury. Moreover, PAI-1 contributed to liver injury by promoting fibrin deposition.
While estrogens protect against coronary artery disease in women, it is unclear whether they influence cardiovascular function in men. The present report describes coronary vascular abnormalities and the lipoprotein profile of a male patient with estrogen insensitivity caused by a disruptive mutation in the estrogen-receptor gene.
Stress thallium scintigraphy, echocardiography, and electron-beam computed tomography (CT) scanning of the coronary arteries and detailed lipoprotein analysis were performed. Electron-beam CT scanning of the coronary arteries showed calcium in the left anterior descending artery. Lipoprotein analysis showed relatively low levels of total (130 mg/dL), LDL (97 mg/dL), and HDL (34 mg/dL) cholesterol; apolipoprotein A-I (91.7 mg/dL); and lipoprotein(a) (4.1 nmol/L), but normal levels of triglycerides (97 mg/dL) and pre-beta-1-HDL cholesterol (61 microg/mL).
The absence of functional estrogen receptors may be a novel risk factor for coronary artery disease in men.
Minoxidil, a potent arteriolar vasodilator, is used clinically as an antihypertensive agent, providing blood pressure control in patients who are resistant to conventional drug therapy. In spite of its antihypertensive effects, however, minoxidil treatment does not result in regression of cardiac hypertrophy. Laboratory studies have shown that minoxidil treatment actually causes cardiac enlargement when administered to normotensive animals. The mechanism of minoxidil-induced cardiac hypertrophy and its consequences for the myocardium have not been determined. Because cardiac hypertrophy is a significant independent risk factor for cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, it is important to understand this dissociation between blood pressure and cardiac enlargement and also to consider the possible impact of such findings on the clinical use of minoxidil. In the investigation presented here, we examined the structure and function of cardiac muscle from normotensive rats who developed myocardial hypertrophy after minoxidil treatment. Data demonstrate that minoxidil produces enlargement of the left ventricle, right ventricle and interventricular septum. The right ventricular enlargement produced by minoxidil treatment is due to an increase in myocyte cross-sectional area, a finding which may suggest pressure overload of the right ventricle. Left ventricular and septal enlargement in this model cannot be totally accounted for by an increase in myocyte cross-sectional area, suggesting that minoxidil causes enlargement by a mechanism other than pressure overload in these areas of the heart. Functionally, left ventricular papillary muscles from hearts with minoxidil-induced hypertrophy develop force which is equal to that developed by control muscles, but contract and relax more slowly than muscles from control hearts.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We diagnosed cauda equina syndrome 15 h after uneventful single spinal administration of 0.5% hyperbaric bupivacaine 12.5 mg through a 27-gauge pencil-point type needle. No preexisting neurologic disorder was recorded. There was no pain or paresthesia during needle placement or drug injection. The sensory levels were bilateral, symmetric, and caudal to T8. Resolution of most of the symptoms occurred within a few days but some foot drop persisted for 2 yr after the procedure. Bupivacaine neurotoxicity is suggested by the absence of any other identifiable cause for this neurologic deficit.
Doxorubicin is one of the most effective drugs available for cancer chemotherapy. However, the clinical use of doxorubicin has been greatly limited because of severe side effects on cardiomyocytes. Since Nd1-L, a novel actin-binding protein, is expressed most abundantly in the heart of adult mice, we examined a role of Nd1-L in doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy. When doxorubicin (5 mg/kg x 4 times) was injected into adult mice at a 3-day-interval, approximately 50% of injected mice died within 4 weeks of the first injection. Nd1-L mRNA expression in the heart decreased within 3 weeks after the first injection and many cardiomyocytes of injected mice died by apoptosis. Overexpression of Nd1-L in the heart of transgenic mice protected the cardiomyocytes from apoptosis and improved survival rate after doxorubicin injection. Furthermore, activation of Erk1/2 was observed in cultured cells overexpressing Nd1-L. Thus, Nd1-L plays a critical role in protecting the heart from doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy.
1. To investigate the role of nitric oxide (NO) in diabetic nephropathy the effect of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibition by NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) was observed in a streptozotocin diabetic spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) model. 2. Two groups of SHR (n = 8) with streptozotocin-induced diabetes were studied. One group was given L-NAME 5 mg/kg bodyweight per day in the drinking water for 8 weeks while both groups received daily subcutaneous injections of Ultratard insulin. Creatinine clearance, urinary protein excretion, urinary nitrate concentration and systolic blood pressure were measured at fortnightly intervals. Rats were killed at 8 weeks and plasma angiotensin II (AngII) was measured by radioimmunoassay. 3. Renal function (endogenous creatinine clearance) remained stable in both groups. In the L-NAME group, however, there was a progressive increase in proteinuria that was highly significant at 6 weeks (22.1 +/- 2.9 compared with 6.5 +/- 0.7 mg/ 24 h per 100 g in control SHR diabetic rats P < 0.001). 4. Systolic blood pressure was significantly elevated in the L-NAME group throughout the study compared with the control group. 5. Plasma AngII was significantly elevated in the L-NAME group compared with controls (42.8 +/- 10.3 vs 15.1 +/- 1.9 pmol/L, respectively; P < 0.05). 6. Activation of the renin-angiotensin system may account, at least in part, for the resulting vasoconstrictor activity with chronic nitric oxide depletion.
Clinical reports and animal experiments indicate that both cocaine administration and cocaine withdrawal increase anxiety. We investigated the ability of a number of putative anxiolytic agents to alleviate these anxiety states using the elevated plus-maze. Rats in the cocaine condition received either saline or cocaine (20 mg/kg) 40 min prior to testing; those in the withdrawal condition were tested 48 h following a chronic treatment regime (saline or cocaine 20 mg/kg per day for 14 days). Prior to testing, animals received a benzodiazepine (1.0 or 2.0 mg/kg diazepam), a serotonergic agonist (0.5 or 1.0 mg/kg buspirone), an antihistamine (50 mg/kg dimenhydrinate or 27 mg/kg diphenhydramine) or a saline injection. All drugs were administered intraperitoneally. Cocaine administration and cocaine withdrawal reduced the percentage time spent on and the number of entries into the open arms. Diazepam dose-dependently alleviated cocaine withdrawal-induced anxiety and non-significantly attenuated cocaine-induced anxiety. Buspirone, dimenhydrinate and diphenhydramine did not consistently alleviate the anxiety caused by either cocaine pre-treatment regime; in the saline conditions, however, each of these treatments was anxiogenic. In summary, benzodiazepines alleviated cocaine-induced anxiety, while future research on the ability of serotonergic and antihistaminergic drugs to alleviate these anxiety states is warranted.
The aim of the present study was to examine SA4503 [1-(3,4-dimethoxyphenethyl)-4-(3-phenylpropyl)piperazine dihydrochloride], a novel selective receptor agonist, in respect of its potential antidepressant action. To this end we used a forced swimming test in rats to study SA4503 alone, as well as its interaction with imipramine, a classic tricyclic antidepressant. SA4503 decreased the immobility time in the forced swimming test in rats (although only at one of the three doses used); at the same time it did not change the locomotor activity recorded under the same experimental conditions. Moreover, SA4503 showed a synergistic effect with imipramine in the forced swimming test (both those compounds given jointly decreased the immobility time, but were ineffective when administered separately). It had previously been shown that repeated administration of antidepressants with different pharmacological profiles enhanced the action of D-amphetamine, quinpirole and other dopamine stimulants. SA4503 administered repeatedly increased the locomotor hyperactivity induced by D-amphetamine and quinpirole (a dopamine D /D receptor agonist), but not by (+/-)-7-hydroxy-dipropyloamino-tetralin hydrobromide [(+/-)-7-OH-DPAT; a dopamine D receptor agonist]. The results presented in this paper support the suggestion that SA4503 may have potential antidepressive properties.
Arsenic methylation relies on folate-dependent one-carbon metabolism and facilitates urinary As elimination. Clinical manifestations of As toxicity vary considerably among individuals and populations, and poor methylation capacity is thought to confer greater susceptibility.
After determining that folate deficiency, hyperhomocysteinemia, and low urinary creatinine are associated with reduced As methylation, and that As exposure is associated with increased genomic methylation of leukocyte DNA, we asked whether these factors are associated with As-induced skin lesion risk among Bangladeshi adults.
We conducted a nested case-control study of 274 cases who developed lesions 2 years after recruitment, and 274 controls matched to cases for sex, age, and water As.
The odds ratios and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for development of skin lesions for participants who had low folate (< 9 nmol/L), hyperhomocysteinemia (men, > 11.4 micromol/L; women, > 10.4 micromol/L), or hypomethylated leukocyte DNA at recruitment (< median) were 1.8 (95% CI, 1.1-2.9), 1.7 (95% CI, 1.1-2.6), and 1.8 (95% CI, 1.2-2.8), respectively. Compared with the subjects in the first quartile, those in the third and fourth quartiles for urinary creatinine had a 0.4-fold decrease in the odds of skin lesions (p < 0.01).
These results suggest that folate deficiency, hyperhomocysteinemia, and low urinary creatinine, each associated with decreased As methylation, are risk factors for As-induced skin lesions. The increased DNA methylation associated with As exposure previously observed, and confirmed among controls in this study, may be an adaptive change because hypomethylation of leukocyte DNA is associated with increased risk for skin lesions.
To investigate whether carnitine deficiency is a risk factor during the development of diethylnitrosamine (DENA)-induced hepatic carcinogenesis.
A total of 60 male Wistar albino rats were divided into six groups with 10 animals in each group. Rats in group 1 (control group) received a single intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of normal saline. Animals in group 2 (carnitine-supplemented group) were given L-carnitine (200 mg/kg per day) in drinking water for 8 wk. Animals in group 3 (carnitine-depleted group) were given D-carnitine (200 mg/kg per day) and mildronate (200 mg/kg per day) in drinking water for 8 wk. Rats in group 4 (DENA group) were injected with a single dose of DENA (200 mg/kg, i.p.) and 2 wk later received a single dose of carbon tetrachloride (2 mL/kg) by gavage as 1:1 dilution in corn oil. Animals in group 5 (DENA-carnitine depleted group) received the same treatment as group 3 and group 4. Rats in group 6 (DENA-carnitine supplemented group) received the same treatment as group 2 and group 4.
Administration of DENA resulted in a significant increase in alanine transaminase (ALT), gamma-glutamyl transferase (G-GT), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), total bilirubin, thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) and total nitrate/nitrite (NOx) and a significant decrease in reduced glutathione (GSH), glutathione peroxidase (GSHPx), catalase (CAT) and total carnitine content in liver tissues. In the carnitine-depleted rat model, DENA induced a dramatic increase in serum ALT, G-GT, ALP and total bilirubin, as well as a progressive reduction in total carnitine content in liver tissues. Interestingly, L-carnitine supplementation resulted in a complete reversal of the increase in liver enzymes, TBARS and NOx, and a decrease in total carnitine, GSH, GSHPx, and CAT induced by DENA, compared with the control values. Histopathological examination of liver tissues confirmed the biochemical data, where L-carnitine prevented DENA-induced hepatic carcinogenesis while D-carnitine-mildronate aggravated DENA-induced hepatic damage.
Data from this study suggest for the first time that: (1) carnitine deficiency is a risk factor and should be viewed as a mechanism in DENA-induced hepatic carcinogenesis; (2) oxidative stress plays an important role but is not the only cause of DENA-induced hepatic carcinogenesis; and (3) long-term L-carnitine supplementation prevents the development of DENA-induced liver cancer.
In Xuanwei County, China, unvented indoor coal burning is strongly associated with increased risk of lung cancer and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. However, the impact of coal burning and stove improvement on risk of pneumonia is not clear.
We conducted a retrospective cohort study among all farmers born 1917 through 1951 and living in Xuanwei as of 1 January 1976. The analysis included a total of 42,422 cohort members. Follow-up identified all deaths in the cohort from 1976 through 1996. Ages at entry into and at exit from follow-up ranged from 24 to 59 years and from 25 to 80 years, respectively. The record search detected 225 deaths from pneumonia, and 32,332 (76%) were alive as of 31 December 1996. We constructed multivariable Cox models (time variable = age) to estimate hazard ratios (HRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs).
Use of coal, especially smokeless coal, was positively associated with pneumonia mortality. Annual tonnage and lifetime duration of smoky and smokeless coal use were positively associated with pneumonia mortality. Stove improvement was associated with a 50% reduction in pneumonia deaths (smoky coal users: HR, 0.521; 95% CI, 0.340-0.798; smokeless coal users: HR, 0.449; 95% CI, 0.215-0.937).
Our analysis is the first to suggest that indoor air pollution from unvented coal burning is an important risk factor for pneumonia death in adults and that improving ventilation by installing a chimney is an effective measure to decrease it.
In rats, exposure to diazepam (DZ) during the last week of gestation is associated with behavioral alterations (in some cases sexually dimorphic) that appear when the animals reach adulthood. This study was conducted to evaluate the effects of prenatal DZ exposure on the function of the gamma-aminobutyric (GABA)(A) receptor complex. The method used - perfusion of rat hippocampal nerve terminals labeled with [3H]noradrenaline (NA) - allowed us to evaluate the effects of DZ on a specific native GABA(A) receptor subtype which is located on hippocampal noradrenergic nerve endings and mediates the release of NA. Muscimol stimulated synaptosomal release of [3H]NA in a concentration-dependent manner; maximal stimulation (50%) was achieved with a concentration of 30 microM, and the ED(50) was 1.7 microM. The effect of muscimol was potentiated by the positive allosteric modulators DZ and 3alpha-pregnan-5alpha-ol-20-one (3alpha,5alpha-P; allopregnanolone), which displayed similar maximal effects and affinities. In the presence of DZ (0.1 microM), muscimol stimulated the release of [3H]NA with an ED(50) of 0.5 microM; in the presence of 3alpha,5alpha-P (0.1 microM), the ED(50) of muscimol was 0.3 microM. Prenatal DZ exposure did not modify the concentration-effect curve for muscimol, but it did abolish the potentiating effects of DZ and 3alpha,5alpha-P. These findings demonstrate that prenatal exposure to DZ produces functional modifications of the GABA(A) receptor subtype we investigated. This effect may be related to the relative contributions of the various protein subunits that compose the GABA(A) receptor complex. Exposure to DZ while the GABA(A) receptors are developing might influence the expression of these subunits, giving rise to a receptor that can be activated by muscimol but is not susceptible to allosteric modulation by DZ or 3alpha,5alpha-P.
The incidence of haloperidol-induced catalepsy was investigated in mice whose postsynaptic dopamine (DA) receptors in the striatum had been upregulated by denervation with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA). In nonupregulated mice, which were injected with 6-OHDA 4 days before, DA in the striatum fell to 21% of the level found in vehicle-injected mice but [3H]spiperone binding to the membrane of the striatum did not increase. In upregulated mice, which were injected with 6-OHDA 28 days before, DA was at 24% and [3H]spiperone binding increased by 15%. The ED50 values (with 95% confidence limits) for haloperidol-induced catalepsy in nonupregulated mice and that in upregulated mice was 0.40 mg/kg (0.25-0.65 mg/kg) and 0.29 mg/kg (0.16-0.51 mg/kg), respectively. There was no significant difference in the incidence of catalepsy between the two groups of mice. This suggests that the intensity of catalepsy produced by the DA receptor blockade may be unaltered even when the density of receptors increases.
The present study was conducted to evaluate plasma levels of monoamine neurotransmitter metabolites in spontaneous recurrences of methamphetamine psychosis (i.e., flashbacks). The subjects were 50 physically healthy females comprised of 25 who experienced flashbacks (flashbackers), 18 who did not experienced methamphetamine psychosis, and 9 who were currently suffering from persistent methamphetamine psychosis. The control data were available from 28 normal healthy females, of whom 20 had previously abused methamphetamine (users) and 8 who had not (nonusers), none of whom had ever become psychotic. Plasma levels of norepinephrine (NE), dopamine (DA), and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), and their respective metabolites were assayed. Plasma NE levels were significantly higher in the 25 flashbackers during their flashbacks than during their periods of normalcy, and were significantly higher than those in the 20 user and 8 nonuser controls. Plasma 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG) levels during flashbacks were significantly higher than those in the 20 user controls. The nine subjects with persistent methamphetamine psychosis had significantly higher NE levels than the user and nonuser controls. The 16 nonflashbackers had significantly higher MHPG levels than the user controls. The present study suggests that an increase in peripheral noradrenergic activity is related to the occurrence of flashbacks.
Inflammatory processes have an important role in the development of hepatic steatosis and progression to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Interleukin-6 (IL-6) is known to be a proinflammatory cytokine, but also promotes liver regeneration and protects the liver against various forms of damage. The role of IL-6/Glycoprotein 130 (GP130) in NASH remains unclear. In this study, we determined whether blocking IL-6/GP130 signaling prevents progression of steatohepatitis in a mouse NASH model. Six-week-old male C57/BL6 mice were fed either chow control or a methionine choline-deficient (MCD) diet for 8 weeks. Half of the MCD diet-fed mice were treated with 15 mg/kg rat anti-mouse IL-6 receptor antibody (MR16-1), intraperitoneally twice weekly, the remainder and chow-fed mice were injected with 15 mg/kg rat IgG as a control. Hepatic steatosis, injury, fibrosis, apoptosis, markers of lipid peroxidation/oxidant stress and IL-6-related gene expressions were evaluated. MR16-1 treatment decreased signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 activities and expression of suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 in MCD diet-treated mouse livers. Although this treatment enhanced intrahepatic lipid accumulation accompanied by increased sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1 and decreased peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha expression, elevated plasma alanine aminotransferase levels were improved with decreased plasma free fatty acid levels, lipid peroxidation/oxidant stress and hepatic apoptosis. Blocking IL-6/GP130 signaling by MR16-1 enhanced MCD diet-induced hepatic steatosis, but ameliorated liver injury. These findings suggest that hepatic IL-6 signaling has a protective role against the progression of hepatic steatosis but may enhance liver inflammation.
Cocaine is a highly addictive drug that exerts its effects by increasing the levels of released dopamine in the striatum, followed by stable changes in gene transcription, mRNA translation, and metabolism within medium spiny neurons in the striatum. The multiple changes in gene and protein expression associated with cocaine addiction suggest the existence of a mechanism that facilitates a coordinated cellular response to cocaine. Here, we provide evidence for a key role of miRNAs in cocaine addiction. We show that Argonaute 2 (Ago2), which plays an important role in miRNA generation and execution of miRNA-mediated gene silencing, is involved in regulation of cocaine addiction. Deficiency of Ago2 in dopamine 2 receptor (Drd2)-expressing neurons greatly reduces the motivation to self-administer cocaine in mice. We identified a distinct group of miRNAs that is specifically regulated by Ago2 in the striatum. Comparison of miRNAs affected by Ago2 deficiency with miRNAs that are enriched and/or up-regulated in Drd2-neurons in response to cocaine identified a set of miRNAs that are likely to play a role in cocaine addiction.
Rifaximin, a nonsystemic antibiotic that exhibits low gastrointestinal absorption, is a potent agonist of human pregnane X receptor (PXR), which contributes to its therapeutic efficacy in inflammatory bowel disease. To investigate the effects of long-term administration of rifaximin on the liver, PXR-humanized mice were administered rifaximin for 6 months; wild-type and Pxr-null mice were treated in parallel as controls. Histological analysis revealed time-dependent intense hepatocellular fatty degeneration and increased hepatic triglycerides in PXR-humanized mice and not in wild-type and Pxr-null mice. After long-term treatment, PXR target genes were induced in small intestine and liver, with significant up-regulation in the expression of hepatic genes related to triglyceride synthesis and lipid accumulation. However, no significant hepatic accumulation of rifaximin was found, even after 6 months of treatment, in PXR-humanized mice. Genes in the small intestine that are involved in the uptake of fatty acids and triglycerides were induced along with increased triglyceride accumulation in intestinal epithelial cells of PXR-humanized mice; this was not observed in wild-type and Pxr-null mice. These findings suggest that long-term administration of rifaximin could lead to PXR-dependent hepatocellular fatty degeneration as a result of activation of genes involved in lipid uptake, thus indicating a potential adverse effect of rifaximin on liver function after long-term exposure.
Myocardial metabolism was studied in open-chest dogs before and during induction of myocardial ischaemia by coronary artery occlusion. Blood was sampled from a local coronary vein draining ischaemic tissue and from coronary sinus draining predominantly nonischaemic tissue. In the basal state, induction of myocardial ischaemia stimulated myocardial lipolysis as shown by release of glycerol from the ischaemic zone. During isoprenaline infusion, free fatty acids (FFA) extraction across the ischaemic myocardium was substantially increased, but no glycerol release occurred. Pretreatment with nicotinic acid or sodium salicylate markedly depressed FFA extraction across ischaemic myocardium, both during basal and isoprenaline stimulated lipolysis and nicotinic acid most likely inhibited lipolysis in the ischaemic zone. Thus, reduced severity of acute ischaemic injury by antilipolytic treatment might be due to a combination of inhibited myocardial lipolysis and reduced FFA extraction.
The salivary gland is considered to be a reservoir of many growth factors in rodents. In humans, the epidermal growth factor, basic fibroblast growth factor, and insulin and insulin-like growth factor family have also been detected in this gland, but their physiological role remains unclear. In this study, we focused on bFGF, which is a well-known mitogen for various types of cells, and is present in the salivary gland as well as in saliva. The roles of bFGF in the salivary gland were investigated by three different procedures. First, the effects of bFGF on the salivary gland cells were investigated with a monolayer culture of normal submandibular gland cells. The effects of different concentrations of bFGF on the second passage of these cultured cells were examined. In both human and rat cultured submandibular gland cells, bFGF accelerated the cell proliferation at a concentration of 100 ng/mL or higher. Next, an atrophic model of the rat submandibular gland was used to examine the ability of bFGF to accelerate tissue repair. Two weeks after ductal ligation, the ligature was removed, and various amounts of bFGF, isoproterenol, or saline were administered via a retrograde duct instillation. Both isoproterenol and bFGF increased acinar and ductal cell proliferation significantly. To determine the role of bFGF in saliva, we investigated its effect on the healing process of oral mucosal defects. Four-millimeter mucosal defects were made to the depth of the periosteum in the rat palate under anesthesia. bFGF or vehicle alone was applied once only at the time of surgery as a suspension. At days 3, 5, and 7 in the bFGF group, significant increases in the degree of re-epithelialization were found in treated groups. These results indicate that its action as a mitogen stimulus is the major effect of bFGF on salivary gland cells and mucosal epithelium.
Consensus asthma guidelines recommend antileukotriene agents as alternative therapy to existing anti-inflammatory medications; however, the full therapeutic potential of these medications has not yet been determined.
The purpose of this study was to assess the efficacy and safety of the oral leukotriene receptor antagonist zafirlukast (20 mg twice daily) in subgroups of patients who have asthma with the use of integrated data from four 13-week trials.
The trials had comparable designs, entry criteria, and clinical assessments. Patient subgroups were characterized by demographic and baseline asthma characteristics. Analysis of covariance models were tested for overall treatment effect and for interactions between treatment and subgroup characteristics.
Patients with mild-to-moderate asthma (12 to 76 years old) who were treated with albuterol alone were randomized (nZ = 879; nP = 605) and included in subset analyses. Significant overall treatment effects, favoring zafirlukast, were noted for measures of daytime and nighttime symptoms, beta2 -agonist use, and pulmonary function (P <.05). A significant, quantitative, treatment-by-age interaction was noted for beta2 -agonist use (P <. 03), suggesting greater reductions in rescue medication use with increasing patient age. Compared with placebo, similar size and/or direction of response was noted with zafirlukast in the various subgroups, indicating a benefit with zafirlukast regardless of subgroup. Significant treatment-by-strata interactions (P <.05), favoring zafirlukast, were noted for various outcome measures in subgroups with the greatest amount of baseline beta2 -agonist use (>8 puffs/day) and with greater baseline peak flow variability (>/=20%) and baseline airflow obstruction (FEV1 /forced vital capacity ratio, <0.70). The overall treatment failure rate was significantly lower in the zafirlukast group compared with the placebo group (P <.003). No associations were observed between any adverse events and subgroups defined by demographic characteristics.
Exploratory subset analyses showed that zafirlukast is similarly efficacious in patients with asthma who have differing demographic characteristics and degrees of subjective symptoms. Additionally, zafirlukast appears to be incrementally beneficial in patients with more moderate disease, defined by a greater requirement for as-needed rescue medication and more abnormal pulmonary function at baseline. Over 13 weeks, zafirlukast was well tolerated and demonstrated a safety profile clinically indistinguishable from placebo.
The imidazobenzodiazepine 6-(2-bromophenyl)-8-fluoro-4H-imidazo-[1,5-a] [1,4]benzodiazepine-3-carboxamide (imidazenil) is a new anxiolytic and anticonvulsant ligand of the benzodiazepine recognition site that possesses the characteristics of a partial allosteric modulator of the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) type A receptor. The effects of imidazenil on GABAA receptor function were examined both in vitro and in vivo. Imidazenil inhibited [3H] flumazenil binding to mouse cerebral cortical membranes in vitro with an IC50 of 0.9 nM, showing that this compound binds with high affinity to benzodiazepine receptors. However, imidazenil failed to modify t-[35S]butylbicyclophosphorothionate ([35S]TBPS) binding to washed or unwashed mouse cortical membrane preparations. Furthermore, imidazenil injected i.p. into mice failed to affect [35S]TBPS binding subsequently measured in unwashed cortical membranes. In contrast, imidazenil reduced in a dose-dependent manner the increase in [35S]TBPS binding elicited by isoniazid (200 mg/kg s.c.), an effect mimicked by lorazepam and abecarnil++ but not by bretazenil. As expected, i.p. administration of lorazepam or abecarnil induced within 30 min a marked reduction in [35S]TBPS binding subsequently measured in unwashed cortical membranes of control mice. Moreover, imidazenil at a dose as low as 0.05 mg/kg (i.p.) delayed the onset of convulsions and death elicited by isoniazid and reduced significantly the number of mice exhibiting seizures. Accordingly, imidazenil also showed great potency in antagonizing the convulsions induced by pentylenetetrazole in rats. Imidazenil also completely abolished the increase in [35S]TBPS binding induced by foot-shock or exposure to carbon dioxide. Finally, imidazenil antagonized both in vitro and in vivo the effects of bretazenil or lorazepam on GABAA receptor function.
Peroxisome proliferator activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma), a nuclear transcription factor, modulates angiotensin II (AII) or thromboxane A(2) (TxA(2)) response in the vasculature via transcriptional regulation of their gene or receptor expression. Increased AII or TxA(2) vasoconstriction and deteriorating renal function observed in glycerol-induced acute renal failure (ARF) may be attributed to a down-regulated PPAR-gamma expression/activity probably via an increased free radical generation. In this study, we investigated the effect of PPAR-gamma induction in glycerol-induced ARF by examining renal vascular reactivity to AII and TxA(2) and by renal expression/activity of PPAR-gamma. Vascular responses to AII or U46619, a TxA(2) mimetic were determined in rat isolated perfused kidney following induction of ARF with glycerol (50%, v/v, i.m.). Extent of renal damage and function were assessed with or without pre-treatment with ciglitazone (9 nmol kg(-1) x 21 days), a PPAR-gamma inducer. In ARF, vasoconstriction was enhanced to AII (three-fold; p<0.05) and U46619 (82%; p<0.05). Ciglitazone reduced AII and U46619 vasoconstriction by 59+/-1% (p<0.05) and 56+/-1% (p<0.05), respectively. Ciglitazone reduced proteinuria (38+/-3%) which was two-fold higher in ARF. Similarly, ciglitazone enhanced Na(+) excretion by 1.5 times while reducing BUN by 49+/-6%. On the contrary, ciglitazone did not change plasma creatinine which was significantly higher in ARF rats. Ciglitazone reduced free radical generation by 30+/-3% while elevating nitrite excretion approximately 2-fold. PPAR-gamma expression and activity were significantly lower in ARF rats and ciglitazone enhanced PPAR-gamma protein expression and activity by 45+/-3% and 52+/-4%, respectively. Data from this study suggest that reduced PPAR-gamma expression and activity may be involved in the pathology of glycerol-induced ARF and induction of PPAR-gamma by ciglitazone confers protection through reduced AII and TxA(2) vasoconstriction and/or enhanced renal function via reducing free radical generation.
In a cohort of 50,282 pregnancies 19 children with cardiovascular defects were born to 1042 women who received female hormones during early pregnancy (18.2 per 1000). Among 49,240 children not exposed in utero to these agents there were 385 with cardiovascular malformations (7.8 per 1000). Six children with cardiovascular defects were born to a sub-group of 278 women who used oral contraceptives during early pregnancy (21.5 per 1000). After the data were controlled for a wide variety of potentially confounding factors by multivariate methods, the association between in utero exposure to female hormones and cardiovascular birth defects was statistically significant.
To elucidate the mechanism(s) of the relieving effect of saline on cephaloridine (CER) nephrotoxicity, rats were given CER in equal quantity (1 g/kg body weight; i.v.), but at two different concentrations (4 and 25%) in saline. Urinary excretion of glucose, which was investigated as an index for renal proximal tubular injury, revealed that the renal damage was less in the 4% CER 25 ml/kg group than in the 25% CER 4 ml/kg group. As to urinary excretions of CER, sodium, potassium and water, no significant differences were observed between the two groups in the first 2 h, but chloride in the 4% CER 25 ml/kg group showed higher values than in the 25% CER 4 ml/kg group. Plasma concentrations of sodium, potassium, chloride and CER, did not show any definite distinctions between the two groups. At the time-point of 20 min after the CER administration, renal CER content was significantly lower in the 4% CER 25 ml/kg group than in the 25% CER 4 ml/kg group. These results suggest that the sodium ion which is needed for cellular trapping of CER is competitively expended for cellular entry of the chloride ion in the kidney, and that the relieving effect of the saline on CER nephrotoxicity is ascribable to the loaded quantity of chloride ion.
