Benzene causes hematotoxicity and leukemia in humans. To analyze benzene-caused aberrant gene expression, we examined differential gene expression by microarray analysis of peripheral mononuclear blood cells from seven workers diagnosed with benzene poisoning and seven matched controls. Twenty-two genes were found up-regulated and 18 down-regulated in benzene patients compared with controls. Here we report the characterization of two benzene-regulated genes. CYP4F3A, which encodes the leukotriene B(4) (LTB(4)) omega-hydroxylase, is important for inactivation of LTB(4) in neutrophils. CYP4F3A mRNA was found elevated in all patients; moreover, CYP4F3A mRNA and protein were induced by benzene metabolite phenol in HL-60 and K562 cells as well as ex vivo in human peripheral neutrophils. Silencing of CYP4F3A in HL-60 cells by lentiviral delivery of CYP4F3A-specific siRNA reduced cell survival to 56%, 44%, 22%, 14%, and 3% at 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 days, respectively; the results suggest that CYP4F3A is a critical positive regulator of HL-60 proliferation. DNA-dependent protein kinase catalytic subunit (DNA-PKcs) regulates non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) in DNA double strand break (DSB) repair. DNA-PKcs mRNA was found consistently increased in the patients and DNA-PKcs mRNA and protein were induced by hydroquinone in HL-60 cells. In a DSB model, hydroquinone induced the formation of gamma-H2AX foci, a marker of DSBs, in HL-60 cells. The findings indicate that hydroquinone induces DSBs and induction correlates with elevated levels of DNA-PKcs and NHEJ. Similar results were obtained in K562 cells treated with phenol. Since NHEJ is error-prone, induction of DNA-PKcs and NHEJ may contribute to mutagenesis and leukemia by benzene. To our knowledge, the study demonstrated for the first time that benzene and metabolites induce CYP4F3A and DNA-PKcs both in vivo and in vitro. Induction of the genes may play a role in the pathogenesis of benzene hematotoxicity and serve as biomarkers of benzene exposure.
Previous studies have shown that amiodarone prevents sustained ventricular arrhythmias in 77% to 93% of patients. To date, a study using statistical analysis to verify the drug's effectiveness has not been reported. Amiodarone was given to 17 patients with drug refractory sustained ventricular arrhythmias. All patients had serious underlying heart disease including coronary artery disease (15 patients) or cardiomyopathy (two patients). Ten patients had angiographic evidence of a left ventricular aneurysm. All patients had left ventricular dysfunction. The mean left ventricular ejection fraction was 33%. In the 5.5 +/- 8.3 months prior to amiodarone, these 17 patients had documented sustained ventricular arrhythmias requiring countershock (41 episodes), overdrive pacing (four episodes), or intravenous drugs (three episodes). Amiodarone was given as a loading dose (1 gm/day for 10 days) and a maintenance dose (200 to 600 mg/day). During a follow-up period of 8.9 +/- 5.7 months, only eight episodes occurred requiring countershock (5) or overdrive pacing (2); one patient died suddenly. A statistical test constructed for this problem showed a significant (p greater than 0.001) reduced risk of experiencing a sustained ventricular arrhythmia after amiodarone. This statistical model confirms previous studies showing that amiodarone prevents sustained ventricular arrhythmias and prevents sudden cardiac death.
1. Chloramphenicol has been widely used in the treatment of serious infections including typhoid fever and meningitis. However, the drug is haemotoxic in man inducing firstly, a reversible, dose-dependent anaemia which develops during treatment, secondly, an often fatal aplastic anaemia with pancytopenia and acellular marrow, and thirdly, leukaemia. 2. We investigated the haemotoxicity of chloramphenicol succinate (CAPS) in female CD-1 mice in repeat dose studies, to compare the response with the reversible anaemia reported in man. Studies in male Wistar Hanover rats were also carried out. 3. CAPS was gavaged daily to mice at dose levels from 800 - 2000 mg/kg for seven days. Values were significantly reduced for reticulocytes at 1700 and 2000 mg/kg, and for erythrocytes (RBC), haematocrit (HCT), and haemoglobin (Hb) at 2000 mg/kg. Platelet and white blood cell (WBC) counts were unaffected. 4. Mice were dosed with CAPS at 1400 mg/kg for 10 days and sampled at 1, 4 and 15 days after the last dose. At day 1 post dosing, RBC, HCT and Hb values were significantly reduced, but returned to normal (or above normal) by day 4 or 15. 5. CAPS from 2000 - 4000 mg/kg was gavaged to rats daily for 19 days. Hb values were significantly lower at 3600 and 4000 mg/kg; reticulocytes were not reduced. WBC and platelet counts, in general, were unaffected. 6. Levels of apoptosis in marrow mononuclear cells were increased in CAPS-treated mice, but not in CAPS-treated rats. Serum biochemistry parameters, in general, showed few changes of toxicological significance. 7. We conclude that the administration of CAPS to CD-1 mice induced haematological changes showing close parallels with the chloramphenicol-induced reversible anaemia seen in man.
Oral transmucosal fentanyl citrate (OTFC) is a novel lozenge dosage form of fentanyl used for premedication. Many dermatology patients undergoing surgical procedures could benefit from such a medication.
The study compared the safety and efficacy of 400-vs 800-micrograms dosage forms for their sedative and anxiolytic effects in adults undergoing a variety of dermatologic outpatient surgical procedures.
Patients received OTFC 30 minutes before the procedure. Vital signs, oxygen saturation, sedation, and anxiety scores were measured before OTFC administration and every 15 minutes thereafter.
Significant sedation and anxiolysis developed in both dosage groups. No clinically significant changes in respiratory rate, heart rate, or blood pressure occurred during the study period. Common drug-induced side effects included dizziness, nausea, pruritus, and vomiting.
OTFC is safe and effective for outpatient dermatologic procedures; however, the risk of opioid-related side effects must be carefully weighed against the benefits when deciding to use OTFC in an outpatient setting.
Connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) is a cysteine-rich growth factor induced by transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) and is thought to play a critical role in TGF-beta-stimulated extracellular matrix accumulation. To explore its involvement in early diabetic nephropathy, we investigated the time course of CTGF gene expression and its regulation in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rat kidney.
Northern blot analysis for CTGF, TGF-beta, and fibronectin expression was performed in the glomeruli of STZ-induced diabetic rats from 3 days to 12 weeks after the induction of diabetes, together with histological examination. To investigate the role of prostanoids in this process, aspirin was administered in one group of diabetic rats. Furthermore, CTGF expression was analyzed in rat mesangial cells cultured under high-glucose conditions.
Glomerular expression of CTGF and TGF-beta1 mRNA was coordinately upregulated as early as day 3, followed by fibronectin induction and mesangial matrix accumulation. Chronic aspirin treatment in diabetic rats significantly attenuated mesangial expansion, and effectively suppressed CTGF induction, as well as inhibiting the upregulation of TGF-beta1 and fibronectin expression. In cultured mesangial cells, aspirin treatment abolished high glucose-stimulated CTGF upregulation.
These results indicate that CTGF expressed in the glomeruli is upregulated in the early stage of STZ-induced diabetic nephropathy in rats, and could be a critical mediator of the development of diabetic glomerulosclerosis. In addition, the modulatory effects of aspirin during this process suggest a role of the cyclooxygenase pathway in the progression of diabetic nephropathy.
The effects of folic acid-induced acute renal failure on the renal excretion of belotecan were investigated in rats after intravenous administration. Both glomeruli and renal tubules were seriously damaged by folic acid-induced acute renal failure. The renal excretion clearance, CLr, of belotecan was significantly decreased by folic acid-induced acute renal failure. Furthermore, glomerular filtration rate and secretion clearance of the drug were dramatically decreased by folic acid-induced acute renal failure. In vivo renal uptake of belotecan was inhibited by p-aminohippurate, whereas renal excretion was inhibited by GF120918, but not by verapamil and bromosulphalein. This indicates that Oat1/3 and Bcrp are involved in the renal uptake and urinary excretion of belotecan, respectively. Both mRNA and protein levels of Oat1, Oat3 and Bcrp were significantly decreased in folic acid-induced acute renal failure rats. Based on the finding that belotecan is a substrate of OAT1 but not of OAT3, the decrease in CLr of belotecan in folic acid-induced acute renal failure could, therefore, mainly be attributed to the down-regulation of Oat1 and Bcrp, in addition to the decrease in glomerular filtration rate.
Resistant arterial hypertension is uncommon when there is good compliance to antihypertensive therapy and secondary causes have been ruled out. We report a 41 years old male that suffered hypertensive encephalopathy and received prophylactic anticonvulsant therapy showing progressive raise of arterial pressure levels. Renovascular hypertension, aldosteronism and pheochromocytoma were discarded and, in spite of combined use of antihypertensive drugs, he did not achieve normal blood pressure. When phenytoin was discontinued, blood pressure temporarily normalized. Carbamazepine was started and blood pressure raised again. It fell when this medication was discontinued. Antiepileptic agents could induce drug metabolizing system and thus reduce the effects of antihypertensive medications.
To investigate the effect and possible mechanisms of antiangiogenesis therapy for HCC in rats.
Adult male LEW/SsN rats were divided into 3 groups, 25 animals each. Group A was the control group. Groups B and C were given diethylnitrosamine, 5 mg/kg/d. In addition, group C rats received an intraperitoneal injection of fumagillin, 30 mg/(kg x d). Five animals in each group were killed at 6th, 12th, 18th, 20th and 24th wk to evaluate the development of HCC and metastasis. Weight of the rats, liver tumors, and number of organs involved by HCC were measured at each stage. We compared methionine aminopeptidase-2 (MetAP-2) mRNA, Bcl-2 mRNA, telomerase mRNA, and telomerase activity at 24th wk in the liver tissue of group A rats and tumor tissue of HCC from group B and C rats.
No HCC developed in group A, but tumors were present in group B and C rats by the 18th wk. At wk 20 and 24, the median liver weight in group B was 0.64 g (range: 0.58-0.70 g) and 0.79 g (range: 0.70-0.90 g) (P = 0.04), and that in group C was 0.37 g (range: 0.35-0.42 g) and 0.39 g (range: 0.35-0.47 g) (P = 0.67). The liver weight in group C rats was significantly lower than that in group B rats (P = 0.009). At the same time, the median metastasis score (number of organ systems involved) was 3 (range2-3) in group B, and 1 (range 1-2) in group C, a significant difference between the groups (P = 0.007, 0.004). The levels of MetAP-2 mRNA were significantly higher in groups B and C than in group A (P = 0.025), and significantly higher in group C than in group B (P = 0.047). The level of Bcl-2 mRNA was significantly higher in group B than in group A (P = 0.024), but lower in group C than in group B, although not significantly (P = 0.072). Telomerase mRNA was significantly higher in group B than in group A (P = 0.025), but significantly lower in group C than in group B (P = 0.016). The same inter-group relationship was also true for telomerase activity (P = 0.025 and 0.046).
Fumagillin effectively inhibits both liver tumor growth and metastasis in rats in vivo. A possible mechanism is fumagillin-induced inhibition of MetAP-2, which plays an essential role in endothelial cell proliferation. Inhibition of MetAP-2 also results in inhibition of Bcl-2 and telomerase activity.
We have treated 16 acromegalic patients for up to 44 months with octreotide in varying doses. Growth hormone levels were suppressed in 14 patients with associated clinical improvement. IGF-1 levels were measured in 12 and fell into the normal range in 10. Prolactin was suppressed in six hyperprolactinaemic patients but was unaltered in normoprolactinaemic acromegalic patients. Post-prandial hyperglycaemia with impaired insulin secretion was noted in all patients, and one patient required oral hypoglycaemic agents. Octreotide did not affect thyroid function. CT scans from before and after six months of treatment demonstrated minimal tumour shrinkage in only two patients. Octreotide was well tolerated with no serious haematological or biochemical disturbance and no evidence of malabsorption. Two patients developed gallstones. Octreotide is effective in acromegaly. The development of gallstones is the only serious adverse event we have encountered.
Gene therapy using small interfering RNA (siRNA) is a novel strategy for effective anticancer therapies. However, low gene transfection efficiency and technical difficulties linked to siRNA delivery limit their practical application for gene delivery. Therefore, development of effective siRNA carriers is required. Overexpression of osteopontin (OPN) and its association with tumorigenesis has been reported in a majority of breast cancers. In this study, we used siRNA against OPN (siOPN) and investigated the possible OPN-dependent signaling pathway and the potential use of poly(amino ester) (PAE) based on glycerol propoxylate triacrylate (GPT) and spermine (SPE) for siRNA delivery. The GPT-SPE could effectively condense siRNA and protect the siRNA from RNaseA enzyme degradation. GPT-SPE/siRNA complexes showed good intracellular uptake and high gene silencing efficiency in vitro. Furthermore, in the breast cancer xenograft model, intratumoral injection of GPT-SPE/siOPN significantly inhibited tumor growth. These results demonstrated that silencing of OPN effectively suppressed the growth of breast cancer cells and further suggested that delivery of siRNA using GPT-SPE may act as an effective gene carrier for cancer therapy.
A 65-year-old woman presented with clinical features of primary thrombocythemia (PT), and absence of the BCR/ABL fusion gene. She responded to hydroxyurea treatment, although after 1 year she required progressive increases in the dose. Six years later, she maintained a high platelet count despite hydroxyurea at 2 g/day and treatment was changed to anagrelide. After 3 weeks, both platelet and leukocyte counts increased. A karyotype study detected the Philadelphia chromosome in all of the 24 metaphases studied. Fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis revealed the BCR/ABL rearrangement. The patient was treated with imatinib mesylate and achieved a normal platelet and leukocyte count in 3 weeks. Patients presenting clinical features of PT expressing the Ph chromosome or the BCR/ABL fusion gene have been well documented but, to our knowledge, this is the first report of evolution from typical PT to chronic myeloid leukemia.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis syndrome was diagnosed in a 63-year-old woman 11 days after coronary artery bypass grafting. Her only presenting complaints were incisional leg pain and vague chest discomfort. The syndrome was suspected when her platelet count was found to be 37,000/microL. A subsequent ventilation-perfusion lung scan showed findings highly probable for pulmonary embolism. An inferior venacavogram obtained before a pulmonary angiogram revealed a large retrohepatic thrombus at the right atrial junction. The patient was successfully treated with the defibrinogenating agent ancrod (Arvin). A diagnosis of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis syndrome should be considered and heparin therapy should be avoided in patients with low platelet counts who have been previously treated with heparin.
Fibrates are drugs of choice in patients with hypertriglyceridemia (HTG), but may increase the risk for gallstones by decreasing bile acid synthesis. Fish oil might be a therapeutic alternative, but its effect on bile acid metabolism in humans is unknown. We compared the effects of triglyceride-lowering therapy by fish oil or bezafibrate on cholesterol synthesis and bile acid metabolism in HTG. Cholesterol synthesis, bile acid pool sizes, and synthesis rates were compared between 9 male HTG patients and 10 normolipidemic controls matched for age, sex, and BMI. Effects of bezafibrate or fish oil were studied only in HTG patients in a randomized crossover trial. Patients had 14-fold higher serum triglyceride concentrations and greater cholesterol synthesis, as indicated by a 107% higher ratio of serum lathosterol to cholesterol (P < 0.01) than controls. The groups did not differ in bile acid metabolism. Both bezafibrate and fish oil reduced serum TG concentration (-68 and -51% vs. baseline, respectively). Compared with baseline, bezafibrate therapy was associated with reduced cholesterol synthesis (-25%, P = 0.009) without changes in bile acid synthesis rate and pool size. In contrast, fish oil increased bile acid synthesis (+31% vs. baseline, P = 0.07 and +53% vs. bezafibrate, P = 0.02) and altered bile acid distribution, as reflected by an increased ratio of the cholic acid (CA) synthesis rate to the chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA) synthesis rate (+35% vs baseline, P = 0.05 and + 32% vs bezafibrate, P = 0.07) without effects on bile acid pool size or cholesterol synthesis. In conclusion, cholesterol synthesis is greater in HTG patients than in controls, whereas bile acid synthesis does not differ. Bezafibrate and fish oil have similar triglyceride-lowering capacities, but distinct effects on cholesterol synthesis. Bile acid synthesis is increased by fish oil, but not by bezafibrate therapy.
A 68-year-old female patient with advanced ovarian carcinoma collapsed whilst receiving a carboplatin and cyclophosphamide infusion. This reaction was considered to fit with coronary vasospasm. Hypersensitivity to carboplatin is a rare but real complication of therapy and should be considered in patients presenting with hyperacute changes on ECG whilst receiving carboplatin therapy.
We observed leukoencephalopathy in 1 patient, and progressive dementia in another, during the administration of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and levamisole. A retrospective search, among 80 other patients with resected colorectal cancer receiving 5-FU and levamisole as adjuvant therapy, 166 resected malignant melanoma patients receiving adjuvant levamisole, and 254 advanced colorectal cancer patients receiving 5-FU often combined with leucovorin, for other cases of encephalopathy was negative. The frequency of this neurotoxicity is low (about 2% of patients receiving 5-FU and levamisole), but it appears specific for this combination of drugs. The lack of complete reversibility on stopping the drugs is worrisome, as this therapy is used to improve the curability of resected colon cancer.
Calcium antagonists are currently under investigation as potential beneficial drugs in the prevention of cerebral vasospasm. However, some calcium antagonists have the propensity to inhibit platelet aggregation. This study investigated the danger posed by the administration of calcium antagonists for recurrent hemorrhage in a simulated rat model of subarachnoid hemorrhage. We found that verapamil, a calcium antagonist with antiplatelet activity, lowers clot resistance and may promote rebleeding.
The extracellular matrix metalloproteinase inducer (EMMPRIN) is significant in the regulation of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) synthesis in atherosclerosis-related cells, and is possibly involved in the progression of atherosclerotic plaque. EMMPRIN expression is also up-regulated in PMA-induced THP-1 cells and is inhibited by resveratrol. However, it remains unclear how resveratrol inhibits EMMPRIN expression. We thus investigated the role of the MAPK signaling pathway in resveratrol inhibiting the up-regulation of EMMPRIN in PMA-induced THP-1 cells. We found that the ERK1/2 and p38 pathways, but not the JNK, are activated during the up-regulation of EMMPRIN expression. We also observed that while resveratrol suppresses the up-regulation of EMMPRIN, it also suppresses both the ERK1/2 and p38 pathways in a dose-dependent manner. Taken together, we established that it is through both the ERK1/2 and p38 MAPK pathways that resveratrol inhibits the expression of EMMPRIN in PMA-induced THP-1 cells.
Oxaliplatin is a promising drug for cancer therapy and the oxaliplatin/5-fluorouracil/leucovorin (FOLFOX) regimen has become the standard adjuvant treatment for colorectal cancer. However, the oxaliplatin-induced neurotoxicity still represents a clinical problem leading to a discontinuation of the therapy. Many strategies have been proposed in order to manage the neurotoxicity, but their effect on antitumoral efficacy is still unclear. In this study, we investigated the effect of reduced glutathione administration on neurotoxicity, oxaliplatin pharmacokinetics, and platinum-DNA (Pt-DNA) adduct formation in patients affected by colorectal cancer treated with FOLFOX4 adjuvant regimen. Twenty-seven patients were randomized to receive GSH 1500 mg/m or saline solution before oxaliplatin infusion. Evaluation of neurotoxicity, pharmacokinetics of plasmatic total and ultrafiltered Pt, and determination of Pt-DNA adduct formation on white blood cells was performed during the 5th, 9th, and 12th cycles. At the end of all cycles of therapy, the patients in the GSH arm showed a statistically significant reduction of neurotoxicity (P=0.0037) compared with the placebo arm. There were no significant differences in the main pharmacokinetic parameters between the two arms except a lower area under the plasma concentration-time curve and a smaller apparent steady-state volume of distribution (Vss) when GSH was coadministered. This difference can be explained by the natural function of GSH in the detoxification of oxaliplatin and by its ability to remove the Pt bound to plasma proteins. The determination of Pt-DNA adduct formation shows no statistically significant differences between the two arms. In conclusion, this study indicates that coadministration of GSH is an effective strategy to reduce the oxaliplatin-induced neurotoxicity without impairing neither the pharmacokinetics of oxaliplatin, nor the Pt-DNA adduct formation.
Several cases of Parkinsonian syndrome, cognitive impairment or hyperammonemia induced by sodium valproate have been described in the literature. We report the first case presenting an association of the three adverse effects occurring with divalproate sodium prescribed for bipolar disorder: a 58-year-old man with a history of bipolar type I disorder presented with Parkinsonian syndrome and cognitive impairment of insidious onset. This patient had been treated for several years with lithium carbonate, with a successful effect on mood swings, but with distressing adverse effects such as hand tremor and diarrhoea. Lithium therapy was progressively withdrawn while sodium divalproate was initiated. Associated medications, unchanged for several years, were amisulpride (daily dose: 100 mg), liothyronine, ciprofibrate and benfluorex. The patient was treated with sodium divalproate for seven months (daily dose: 1,000 mg), and with trihexyphenidyle for one month for extrapyramidal symptoms. At hospital admission, he presented with temporal disorientation, slowed thinking, severe anterograde memory deficits, and Parkinsonian syndrome. The minimal mental state (MMS) score was 16 (maximum: 30). The patient was anxious but did no present with mood symptoms. He also developed hyperammonemia (124 micromol/liter, normal range: 15 to 60 micromol/liter) without signs or biochemical evidence of hepatic failure. Valproate concentrations were within the therapeutic ranges (79 mg/l, normal range: 50 to 100 mg/l). The CT-scan showed cerebral and cerebellar atrophy with enlarged ventricles. The electroencephalogram showed generalized slowing waves. All the symptoms resolved within one month after the withdrawal of divalproate: the extrapyramidal hypertonia resolved, the MMS score was 29. The CT-scan and the electroencephalogram returned to normal. The divalproate was replaced by lithium. After a one-year follow-up, the cognitive and neurological symptomatology did not reappear at the exception of the pre-existing hand tremor. The pathophysiology of valproate induced hyperammonemic encephalopathy remains unclear. A possible mechanism is neuronal toxicity induced by increased intracellular concentrations of glutamate and ammonium in astrocytes. Indeed, these abnormal intracellular concentrations increase the intracellular osmolarity and thus induce rise in intracranial pressure and cerebral oedema. Reversible dementia could be due to a direct toxic effect of valproate on the central nervous system or to an indirect effect mediated through valproate-induced hyperammonemia. It has been suggested that the occurrence of extrapyramidal syndrome could be explained by a disturbance in the GABAergic pathways inducing reversible dopamine inhibition. A drug adverse reaction should always be considered when a patient treated with valproate presents with extrapyramidal symptoms and cognitive disorders even when valproate concentrations are within standard therapeutic ranges.
To clarify the vagal mediation of behavioral changes following systematically administered CCK-like peptides, we examined the effects of subcutaneously injected ceruletide on several behavioral parameters. Ceruletide at a dose of 100 micrograms/kg reduced the rates of spontaneous locomotor activity and rearing, and also inhibited methylphenidate- and methamphetamine-induced hyperactivity in both sham-operated and vagotomized mice to same extent, whereas bilateral subdiaphragmatic vagotomy attenuated these behavioral parameters. These results indicate that the ascending sensory pathway mediating a peripheral CCK-elicited signal may not be responsible for producing the behavioral effects of systematically administered CCK-like peptides.
A patient with dilated cardiomyopathy was proven to have unsuspected severe myocarditis on endomyocardial biopsy. There was no history of an antecedent viral infection. Procainamide therapy had recently been initiated and was discontinued after the biopsy results were available. A repeat endomyocardial biopsy showed resolution of the inflammation.
We report a case in which hemorrhage occurred in an asymptomatic falx meningioma known beforehand, after the internal use of low-dose aspirin for 16 months. Our case is the second one in which hemorrhage from a meningioma may have been induced by aspirin prophylaxis. On the other hand, aspirin may have promoted the enlargement of spontaneous hemorrhage from meningioma. Furthermore, inadequate control of hypertension may have been another cause of hemorrhage. Although it is difficult to solely attribute intratumoral hemorrhage to aspirin, we have to be careful when prescribing aspirin for patients who have asymptomatic meningioma.
Interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) has potential dose-limiting neurotoxic side effects when used in cancer therapy. The nature of this neurotoxicity is speculative, and there is no definitive treatment. Because animal studies suggest that IFN-alpha acts at opioid receptor sites, we gave naltrexone, a long-acting opioid antagonist, to 9 patients who had hematological malignancies and who suffered from IFN-alpha side effects. Seven of these patients experienced complete or moderate relief of side effects. Five of the patients tested before and during naltrexone treatment showed improvement of cognitive functioning. Two patients could not tolerate naltrexone side effects. This study suggests an intervention against IFN-alpha side effects and provides support for the role of opioid receptor interaction in IFN-alpha neurotoxicity.
Anticatatonic effects of systemic and intracerebroventricularly administered GABAergic agents (GABA, muscimol piracetam, sod. valproate) were studied in rats against perphenazine-induced catatonia. All GABAergic agents, except piracetam, were found to posses anticatatonic actions as they significantly blocked perphenazine-induced catatonia. When these GABAergic agents were administered simultaneously with anticholinergic (scopolamine) or dopaminergic (bromocriptine) substances there was potentiation of the anticatatonic effect. The protective effect of GABAergic agonists and GABA antagonist and its modification by anticholinergic and dopaminergic agents has been explained on the basis of neurotransmitter interaction.
A clinical study of ramosetron was carried out to evaluate its efficacy in preventing both acute and delayed emesis in cisplatin-based chemotherapy by using a double-blind method with granisetron as the comparative drug.
Cisplatin at a dose of > or =70 mg/m(2) was administered as a single intravenous (i.v.) infusion over 4 h. Patients were randomly assigned to receive either ramosetron (0.3 mg i.v. bolus 30 min before cisplatin on Day 1 and a 0.1 mg tablet in the morning for Days 2 to 5 after completion of chemotherapy; n = 36) or granisetron (3 mg i.v. infusion 30 min before cisplatin on Day 1 and a 1 mg tablet in the morning for Days 2 to 5 after completion of chemotherapy; n = 37). The observation period started with the initiation of chemotherapy (0 h) and continued for 24 h after completion of the chemotherapy for acute emesis, and on Days 2 to 5 for delayed nausea and vomiting.
A total of 73 patients were eligible for evaluation, with 36 patients in the ramosetron group and 37 in the granisetron group. The efficacy of both drugs was analyzed in terms of the degree of achievement in each day of treatment. Ramosetron was as effective as granisetron in preventing nausea and vomiting (both acute and delayed emesis). The two drugs had a similar safety profile and adverse events were generally mild and transient.
Ramosetron is effective and safe for the control of acute and delayed emesis induced by cisplatin.
Platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) is the strongest stimulator of the proliferation of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs). PDGF receptor beta subunit (PDGFR-beta) is acquired on HSCs proliferation induced by PDGF. In this study, we aim to investigate the effect of PDGFR-beta small interference RNA (siRNA) on experimental hepatic fibrosis.
We constructed a PDGFR-beta siRNA expression plasmid and investigated its effect on the activation of HSCs. Bromodeoxyuridine incorporation was performed to investigate the effect of PDGFR-beta siRNA on HSCs proliferation. A hydrodynamics-based transfection method was used to deliver PDGFR-beta siRNA to rats with hepatic fibrosis. The distribution of transgenes in the liver was observed by immunofluorescence. The antifibrogenic effect of PDGFR-beta siRNA was investigated pathologically.
Platelet-derived growth factor receptor-beta subunit siRNA could significantly downregulate PDGFR-beta expression, suppress HSCs activation, block the mitogen-activated protein kinase signalling pathway and inhibit HSCs proliferation in vitro. PDGFR-beta siRNA expression plasmid could be delivered into activated HSCs by the hydrodynamics-based transfection method, and remarkably improve the liver function of the rat model induced by dimethylnitrosamine and bile duct ligation. Furthermore, the progression of fibrosis in the liver was significantly suppressed by PDGFR-beta siRNA in both animal models.
Platelet-derived growth factor receptor-beta subunit siRNA may be presented as an effective antifibrogenic gene therapeutic method for hepatic fibrosis.
Fatty acid synthase (FASN) is the metabolic enzyme responsible for the endogenous synthesis of the saturated long-chain fatty acid, palmitate. In contrast to most normal cells, FASN is overexpressed in a variety of human cancers, including cutaneous melanoma, in which its levels of expression are associated with tumor invasion and poor prognosis. We have previously shown that FASN inhibition with orlistat significantly reduces the number of spontaneous mediastinal lymph node metastases following the implantation of B16-F10 mouse melanoma cells in the peritoneal cavity of C57BL/6 mice. In this study, we investigate the biological mechanisms responsible for the FASN inhibition-induced apoptosis in B16-F10 cells. Both FASN inhibitors, cerulenin and orlistat, significantly reduced melanoma cell proliferation and activated the intrinsic pathway of apoptosis, as demonstrated by the cytochrome c release and caspase-9 and -3 activation. Further, apoptosis was preceded by an increase in both reactive oxygen species production and cytosolic calcium concentrations and independent of p53 activation and mitochondrial permeability transition. Taken together, these findings demonstrate the mitochondrial involvement in FASN inhibition-induced apoptosis in melanoma cells.
Several recent reports have linked the use of dopamine agonists (DAs) to a variety of compulsive behaviors in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). These inappropriate behaviors may include pathological gambling, compulsive shopping, and hypersexuality.
To report the case of a patient with increased range of sexual behavior after use of pramipexole, a DA.
A 67-year-old man with a 7-year diagnosis of PD treated with levodopa and pramipexole presented with a dramatic change in sexual behavior after an increase in DA dose.
The patient, who historically was a very shy and conservative person, started to present increased frequency of sexual intercourse with his wife, during which he began speaking obscenities with an extreme preference for anal intercourse, preferences never requested before. After pramipexole was withdrawn, complete remission was observed with return to his usual sexual behavior.
Hypersexuality and paraphilias are complications not uncommonly found in patients with PD under dopaminergic treatment. Further studies are needed for the understanding of this complex complication, and particularly the most prevalent relationship between pathological hypersexuality and use of DAs.
To study the outcome in clinical practice of first DMARD and/or corticosteroid (CS) treatment in patients with recent onset rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
245 patients with active RA, not previously treated with DMARDs or CS, were randomised to one of two treatment groups, T1 = 7.5-15 mg of prednisolone (PRE) daily for one to three months followed, if needed, by methotrexate (MTX) in a weekly dose of 5-15 mg in addition to the lowest possible dose of PRE or T2 = sulfasalazine (SAL), supplemented with lowest possible CS dose if needed.
The EULAR individual response criteria were applied and remission was defined as a final DAS28 < 2.6. Function was assessed by the HAQ and radiographic progression by Larsen scores. A patient who managed to remain on the allocated treatment for two years was described as a "completer".
After 2 years of treatment, 70% of the patients in T1 and 63% in T2 were responders (30% and 33% "good responders", respectively). In T1 29% and in T2 19% were in remission. There was a significant functional improvement in both groups but radiographic progression occurred. The mean decrease in HAQ and increase in the Larsen score were similar in the two groups. One-third of the patients were non-completers, 19% from T1 and 47% from T2. Non-completers had, compared with completers, a significantly lower rate of individual response and remission. Completers and non-completers had similar functional improvement and similar radiological progression.
Individual response and remission was reduced in patients who did not complete their first DMARD/CS treatment option. Treatment failures were significantly more frequent in the sulfasalazine plus optional CS than in the CS plus optional methotrexate treatment group.
To report the first systematic investigation of the cognitive effects of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) analogues in male patients, as LHRH analogues have been associated with memory impairments in women using these drugs for gynaecological conditions.
Eighty-two men with extraprostatic prostate cancer were randomly assigned to receive either continuous leuprorelin, goserelin (both LHRH analogues), cyproterone acetate (a steroidal antiandrogen) or close clinical monitoring. These patients underwent cognitive assessments at baseline and before starting treatment (77), and then 6 months later (65).
Compared with the baseline assessments, men receiving androgen suppression monotherapy performed worse in two of 12 tests of attention and memory; 24 of 50 men randomized to active treatment and assessed 6 months later had a clinically significant decline in one or more cognitive tests but not one patient randomized to close monitoring showed a decline in any test performance.
Pharmacological androgen suppression monotherapy for prostate cancer may be associated with impaired memory, attention and executive functions.
