This is the report of two cases of infantile spasms, manifesting transient brain shrinkage in computerized tomography (CT) after ACTH treatment. ACTH was given for 8 weeks to a 8-months-old Japanese girl with infantile spasms. First CT performed at 2 weeks after the final ACTH injection, displayed moderate brain shrinkage. Second CT at 4 months showed marked diminution of the shrinkage. ACTH was also given for 8 weeks to a 14 months old Japanese boy with infantile spasms. First CT, just before ACTH treatment, showed mild cortical atrophy, the second at 7 days after the final ACTH injection revealed marked brain shrinkage and moderate ventricular dilatation, and the third at 2 months, disclosed mild improvement of the shrinkage. ACTH or corticoateroid has widespread effects on the developing nervous system. In animal experiments, ACTH or steroids interfere with brain growth of young rats. CT findings of transient brain shrinkage in a child with infantile spasms might suggest that intensive treatment with ACTH or steroids in infancy interferes with brain growth as seen in the results of animal experiments.
Acute development of cardiomyopathy and occlusive thromboembolic events following cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) is rare but frequently lethal. The authors report the successful management of such an event in a 52-year-old man with squamous cell carcinoma of the soft palate. The possible pathophysiological mechanisms are discussed.
In patients presenting with sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmias, when oral quinidine monotherapy fails as determined by programmed electrical stimulation, the degree of benefit observed with combination therapy with mexiletine is debated. We prospectively studied 20 consecutive patients (16 men and 4 women) aged 33 to 77 years (mean age, 62 +/- 11 years) who were treated with maximally tolerated quinidine and mexiletine combination therapy and who had ventricular tachyarrhythmias induced at baseline and during oral quinidine monotherapy. Coronary artery disease was present in 19 patients (95%). Programmed electrical stimulation was performed at 2 drive train cycle lengths with up to 3 extrastimuli at two ventricular sites. During follow-up study with combination quinidine-mexiletine therapy ventricular tachyarrhythmias were rendered noninducible in four patients (20%). The remaining 16 patients showed a significant slowing of their tachycardia cycle length (267 +/- 56 msec baseline vs 320 +/- 75 msec with quinidine vs 345 +/- 53 msec with combination therapy, p < 0.05). There was also an increase in the mean QTc interval (452 +/- 50 msec baseline vs 477 +/- 79 msec after quinidine vs 486 +/- 65 msec with combination quinidine-mexiletine therapy, p = not significant) and in the mean ventricular effective refractory period (246 +/- 25 msec baseline vs 281 +/- 37 msec after quinidine vs 290 +/- 25 msec with combination quinidine-mexiletine therapy, p < 0.05). We conclude that sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmias induced during quinidine monotherapy were rendered noninducible by oral combination therapy with quinidine-mexiletine in 20% of cases.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
GABA is the major inhibitory transmitter at CNS synapses. Changes in subunit composition of the pentameric GABA(A) receptor, including increased levels of alpha4 subunit in dentate granule cells and associated functional alterations such as increased zinc blockade of GABA currents, are hypothesized to be critical components of epileptogenesis. Here, we report that the minimal promoter of the human alpha4 subunit gene (GABRA4p), when used to drive reporter gene expression from adeno-associated viral vectors, controls condition-specific up-regulation in response to status epilepticus, defining a transcriptional mechanism for seizure-induced changes in levels of alpha4 subunit containing GABA(A) receptors. Transfection studies in primary hippocampal neurons show that inducible early growth response factor 3 (Egr3) up-regulates GABRA4p activity as well as the levels of endogenous alpha4 subunits. Given that Egr3 knockout mice display approximately 50% less GABRA4 mRNAs in the hippocampus and that increases in alpha4 and Egr3 mRNAs in response to pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus are accompanied by increased binding of Egr3 to GABRA4 in dentate granule cells, our findings support a role for Egr3 as a major regulator of GABRA4 in developing neurons and in epilepsy.
Evidence for the use of amifostine (Ethyol, ALZA Pharmaceuticals, Palo Alto, CA/US Bioscience, West Conshohocken, PA) as a radioprotectant has been gathered in a number of clinical trials conducted over the past decade. This report briefly reviews those trials, as well as highlights results of a recent phase II trial conducted to evaluate the efficacy of daily amifostine administration in reducing the incidence of radiation-induced esophagitis in patients with stage III non-small cell lung cancer. Of 25 patients evaluated, none experienced grade 3 or 4 esophagitis or dyspnea. No patients required discontinuation of therapy due to amifostine-induced hypotension. There was a 60% objective response rate and 1-, 2-, and 3-year survival rates were 55%, 23%, and 23%, respectively. Thus, amifostine administration reduced radiation-induced toxicities without reducing antitumor efficacy.
Analgesic efficacy and tolerability of intranasal (IN) ketorolac was evaluated in postoperative patients in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
Patients received IN ketorolac (31.5 mg) [DOSAGE ERROR CORRECTED] or placebo three times daily for up to 5 days, with access to morphine by patient controlled analgesia (PCA). Patients in a single-dose phase were removed from PCA 3 hours prior to the first study dose the day after surgery, and received a single IN ketorolac or placebo dose when visual analog scale scores were > or =40.
Three hundred patients (N = 199 ketorolac, N = 101 placebo) were enrolled following primarily hysterectomies (135/300, 45%) and hip replacements (100/300, 33%); 189 (N = 115 ketorolac, N = 74 placebo) entered the single-dose phase. Mean age was 52 years (range 19-81) and 69% of patients were women. The primary efficacy endpoint, the single-dose summed pain intensity difference score at 6 hours, was significantly higher in the ketorolac group compared with placebo (83.3 vs 37.2, P < 0.007), indicating greater pain reduction with ketorolac. Morphine use was reduced by 34% in the ketorolac group compared with the placebo group. The incidence of adverse events ( approximately 98%) was similar in the two groups. The most common adverse events in both groups were nausea and vomiting. There was a trend in the ketorolac group for a lower incidence of opioid-related side effects such as constipation and pruritus. Nasal irritation occurred more frequently with ketorolac vs placebo (24% vs 2%).
IN ketorolac was well tolerated and effective in treating moderate-to-severe postoperative pain in inpatients; the convenience of IN dosing suggests that its usefulness in the ambulatory care setting should be evaluated.
We studied whether administration of nitroflurbiprofen (HCT-1026), a cyclooxygenase inhibitor with nitric oxide (NO)-donating properties, modulates the increased intrahepatic vascular tone in portal hypertensive cirrhotic rats.
In vivo hemodynamic measurements (n = 8/condition) and evaluation of the increased intrahepatic resistance by in situ perfusion (n = 5/condition) were performed in rats with thioacetamide-induced cirrhosis that received either nitroflurbiprofen (45 mg/kg), flurbiprofen (30 mg/kg, equimolar concentration to nitroflurbiprofen), or vehicle by intraperitoneal injection 24 hours and 1 hour prior to the measurements. Additionally, we evaluated the effect of acute administration of both drugs (250 micromol/L) on the intrahepatic vascular tone in the in situ perfused cirrhotic rat liver (endothelial dysfunction and hyperresponsiveness to methoxamine) and on hepatic stellate cell contraction in vitro. Typical systemic adverse effects of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, such as gastrointestinal ulceration, renal insufficiency, and hepatotoxicity, were actively explored.
In vivo, nitroflurbiprofen and flurbiprofen equally decreased portal pressure (8 +/- 0.8 and 8.4 +/- 0.1 mm Hg, respectively, vs 11.8 +/- 0.6 mm Hg) and reduced the total intrahepatic vascular resistance. Systemic hypotension was not aggravated in the different treatment groups (P = .291). In the perfused cirrhotic liver, both drugs improved endothelial dysfunction and hyperresponsiveness. This was associated with a decreased hepatic thromboxane A(2)-production and an increased intrahepatic nitrate/nitrite level. In vitro, nitroflurbiprofen, more than flurbiprofen, decreased hepatic stellate cells contraction. Flurbiprofen-treated rats showed severe gastrointestinal ulcerations (bleeding in 3/8 rats) and nefrotoxicity, which was not observed in nitroflurbiprofen-treated cirrhotic rats.
Treatment with nitroflurbiprofen, an NO-releasing cyclooxygenase inhibitor, improves portal hypertension without major adverse effects in thioacetamide-induced cirrhotic rats by attenuating intrahepatic vascular resistance, endothelial dysfunction, and hepatic hyperreactivity to vasoconstrictors.
The 24-hour continuous infusion of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and folinic acid (FA) as part of several new multidrug chemotherapy regimens in advanced gastric cancer (AGC) has shown to be effective, with low toxicity. In a previous phase II study with 3-weekly bolus 5-FU, FA and mitomycin C (MMC) we found a low toxicity rate and response rates comparable to those of regimens such as ELF, FAM or FAMTX, and a promising median overall survival. In order to improve this MMC-dependent schedule we initiated a phase II study with high-dose 5-FU/FA and 3-weekly bolus MMC.
From February, 1998 to September, 2000 we recruited 33 patients with AGC to receive weekly 24-hour 5-FU 2,600 mg/m(2) preceded by 2-hour FA 500 mg/m(2) for 6 weeks, followed by a 2-week rest period. Bolus MMC 10 mg/m(2) was added in 3-weekly intervals. Treatment given on an outpatient basis, using portable pump systems, was repeated on day 57. Patients' characteristics were: male/female ratio 20/13; median age 57 (27-75) years; median WHO status 1 (0-2). 18 patients had a primary AGC, and 15 showed a relapsed AGC. Median follow-up was 11.8 months (range of those surviving: 2.7-11.8 months).
32 patients were evaluable for response - complete remission 9.1% (n = 3), partial remission 45.5% (n = 15), no change 27.3% (n = 9), progressive disease 15.1% (n = 5). Median overall survival time was 10.2 months [95% confidence interval (CI): 8.7-11.6], and median progression-free survival time was 7.6 months (95% CI: 4.4-10.9). The worst toxicities (%) observed were (CTC-NCI 1/2/3): leukopenia 45.5/18.2/6.1, thrombocytopenia 33.3/9.1/6.1, vomitus 24.2/9.1/0, diarrhea 36.4/6.1/3.0, stomatitis 18.2/9.1/0, hand-foot syndrome 12.1/0/0. Two patients developed hemolytic-uremic syndrome (HUS).
High-dose 5-FU/FA/MMC is an effective and well-tolerated outpatient regimen for AGC (objective response rate 54.6%). It may serve as an alternative to cisplatin-containing regimens; however, it has to be considered that possibly HUS may occur.
Toxoplasma gondii Nicolle and Manceaux, 1908 is a unicellular protozoan that can infect a broad spectrum of organisms including humans. In addition to a nuclear genome, it also carries a circular DNA within a plastid-like organelle (apicoplast) and a linear genome within its mitochondria. The plastid organelle has been shown to be the target of various anti-parasitic drugs or antibiotics. To evaluate the effects of agents on the DNA replication of T. gondii, we tested six drugs (ciprofloxacin, acetylspiramycin, clindamycin, azithromycin, artemether, and sulfadiazine) on the parasite cultured in Hela cells. After drug treatment for 48 h, the parasite growth and DNA replication were evaluated and quantitated using TaqMan real-time quantitative PCR with oligonucleotide primers synthesized based on a gene from the apicoplast genome (ycf24, Genbank accession no. U87145) and a gene from the nuclear genome (uprt, Genbank accession no. U10246). Our results showed that ciprofloxacin was the most effective in inhibiting the replication of the plastid DNA after 48 h drug treatment, with a reduction of 22% in the copy number of the plastid DNA. Artemether was the most effective drug in suppressing the proliferation of tachyzoites. This study also demonstrates that real-time quantitative PCR is a simple and useful technique for monitoring parasite growth and DNA replication.
Our study describes the adult clinical and biochemical spectrum of guanidinoacetate methyltransferase (GAMT) deficiency, a recently discovered inborn error of metabolism. The majority of the previous reports dealt with pediatric patients, in contrast to the present study. A total of 180 institutionalized patients with a severe mental handicap were investigated for urine and plasma uric acid and creatinine. Patients with an increased urinary uric acid/creatinine ratio and/or decreased creatinine were subjected to the analysis of guanidinoacetate (GAA). Four patients (three related and one from an unrelated family) were identified with GAMT-deficiency. A fifth patient had died before a biochemical diagnosis could be made. They all had shown a normal psychomotor development for the first year of life, after which they developed a profound mental retardation. Three out of four had convulsions and all four totally lacked the development of speech. Their GAMT activity in lymphoblasts was impaired and two novel mutations were identified: the 59 G > C and 506 G > A missense mutations. Urinary GAA was increased, but highly variable 347-1,624 mmol/mol creat (Controls <150 mmol/mol creat). In plasma and CSF the GAA levels were fairly constant at 17.3-27.0 mumol/L (Controls 1.33-3.33) and 11.0-12.4 mumol/L, respectively (Controls 0.068-0.114). GAMT deficiency in adults is associated with severe mental retardation and absence or limited speech development. Convulsions may be prominent. The nonspecific nature of the clinical findings as well as the limited availability of GAA assays and/or in vivo magnetic resonance spectroscopy of the brain may mean that many more patients remain undiagnosed in institutions for persons with mental handicaps.
Comparison was made of changes in such morphological characteristics of tumor as cell differentiation and mitotic activity in 142 patients with endometrial carcinoma in the course of treatment, using tamoxifen or oxyprogesterone capronate or both, and those of estrogen background (karyopicnotic, eosinophilic and maturity indices, numerical index of maturity and blood-estradiol level). Three levels of estrogen background-low, medium and high-were identified by assay of the colpocytological indices in postmenopausal patients with endometrial carcinoma. Levels of the colpocytological indices observed at high indices of estrogen background proved a reliable numerical criterion for evaluating the sensitivity of the patients to neoadjuvant hormone therapy. A significant correlation was established between high estrogen background, pathogenetic variant I and high differentiation of tumor cells. The high incidence of hormonal pathology in tumor tissue was registered when the colpocytological indices dropped by half after oxyprogesterone capronate treatment, and by third-after combined therapy (tamoxifen + oxyprogesterone capronate). In cases free from pronounced pathomorphism, said indices dropped by not more than 20%.
Attention is directed to the potential danger of therapy with haloperidol in children. Its value in reducing the excessive movements of Sydenham chorea must be weighed against the usual tendency of this disorder to remit spontaneously and the occasional tendency of the drug to cause castastropic adverse reaction
Protease inhibitors used as therapy for HIV-1 infection have been associated with metabolic side-effects such as peripheral fat wasting, central adiposity, hyperlipidaemia and insulin resistance. This metabolic disorder is known as the lipodystrophy syndrome. This syndrome can be recognized by the early appearance of an increase in serum triglyceride, cholesterol and plasma-free fatty acid levels. Here, we describe an HIV-1 positive patient with the lipodystrophy syndrome in whom a decline in serum triglycerides was seen along with a significant improvement in glucose uptake following treatment with bezafibrate for 3 months. This improvement may be a consequence of the Randle effect, i.e. increased availability of plasma-free fatty acids is negatively correlated to glucose uptake. We also noted a significant improvement in endothelial-dependent flow-mediated dilatation after treatment with bezafibrate. This effect could result from the increased glucose uptake observed and a decrease in insulin resistance secondary to the lowered triglyceride levels by bezafibrate. We conclude that bezafibrate may be of clinical utility in the lipodystrophy syndrome, through its beneficial effects on insulin resistance, glucose uptake and endothelial dysfunction.
β-Chloroprene (2-chloro-1,3-butadiene), a monomer used in the production of neoprene elastomers, is of regulatory interest due to the production of multiorgan tumors in mouse and rat cancer bioassays. A significant increase in female mouse lung tumors was observed at the lowest exposure concentration of 12.8 ppm, whereas a small, but not statistically significant increase was observed in female rats only at the highest exposure concentration of 80 ppm. The metabolism of chloroprene results in the generation of reactive epoxides, and the rate of overall chloroprene metabolism is highly species dependent. To identify potential key events in the mode of action of chloroprene lung tumorigenesis, dose-response and time-course gene expression microarray measurements were made in the lungs of female mice and female rats. The gene expression changes were analyzed using both a traditional ANOVA approach followed by pathway enrichment analysis and a pathway-based benchmark dose (BMD) analysis approach. Pathways related to glutathione biosynthesis and metabolism were the primary pathways consistent with cross-species differences in tumor incidence. Transcriptional BMD values for the pathway were more similar to differences in tumor response than were estimated target tissue dose surrogates based on the total amount of chloroprene metabolized per unit mass of lung tissue per day. The closer correspondence of the transcriptional changes with the tumor response is likely due to their reflection of the overall balance between metabolic activation and detoxication reactions, whereas the current tissue dose surrogate reflects only oxidative metabolism.
Inducibility of antinuclear antibodies (ANA) by mercuric chloride (HgCl2) was studied in various strains of mice. High response to the treatment was observed in strains A.SW (H-2s), A.CA (H-2f), A.TH (H-2t2), B10.S (H-2s), DBA/1J (H-2q), and P/J (H-2p); strains A.BY (H-2b), B10.M (H-2f), and C3H/HeSnJ (H-2k) showed a low response, while strains A/WySn (H-2a), A/J (H-2a), A.TL (H-2tl), BALB/cJ (H-2d), C57BL/10SnJ (H-2b), B10.A (H-2a), and PL/J (H-2u) did not produce any detectable ANA. Thus, the H-2a haplotype determines resistance to the treatment regardless of the genetic background; the H-2s determines susceptibility, while the H-2b and H-2f are intermediate haplotypes whose effect depends on the interaction with the background genes. Our results with intra-H-2 recombinant strains indicate that the I region of the H-2 complex is the major genetic factor controlling this response. The function of the I region is to control cellular cooperation in the immune response that finally results in production of antibodies specific for a particular antigen. Therefore, we postulated that the I region controls the antibody response to a nuclear antigen released as a result of HgCl2 toxicity in mice. A genetic study of an A.SW X C57BL/10 cross confirmed this observation, showing that resistance to ANA induction by HgCl2 in this strain combination is determined by interaction of a semidominant H-2-linked gene and one or more unlinked genes. The two drugs tested, gold sodium thiomalate and D-penicillamine, also induced ANA in A.SW mice, while other strains tested resisted this treatment.
This paper sought to review current knowledge about the relationship between substance misuse and early psychosis.
A literature search was conducted using Medline and restricting the search to articles after 1996. Additional articles were sourced from reference lists of relevant articles.
There is a high prevalence of substance misuse among persons with early psychosis, with cannabis and alcohol featuring prominently. Substance misuse is associated with earlier onset and possibly more positive symptoms, although apparently not with greater cognitive impairment. Cannabis appears to confer an increased likelihood of developing schizophrenia in biologically vulnerable individuals. Amphetamines also cause psychosis which may become chronic, although specific vulnerability to this effect is less well established. Many cases of so-called 'drug-induced psychosis' become diagnosed as schizophrenia in later years. Specific intervention programs report positive outcomes with regard to substance misuse and the course of psychosis.
Substance misuse should always be assessed in this patient group, bearing in mind the potential interactive causes of psychopathology. Intervention is of value in improving outcomes.
We report on two children with rhabdomyosarcoma who received ifosfamide as part of their chemotherapy schedule. Both children subsequently developed severe ifosfamide-induced nephrotoxicity, necessitating electrolyte supplementation. We describe the histopathological findings of renal biopsies performed in these children after the onset of renal dysfunction and comment on the possible mechanisms involved in ifosfamide nephrotoxicity.
The response rate (RR) to single-agent chemotherapy with doxorubicin or ifosfamide in patients with advanced soft-tissue sarcoma (STS) is in the range of 20%. Paclitaxel is clinically useful in treating several solid tumors and has demonstrated activity in a series of human sarcoma cell lines. Twenty-eight patients with measurable advanced STS participated in this phase II trial of paclitaxel at 250 mg/m2 administered as a 3-hr i.v. infusion once every 3 weeks. All patients received granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) beginning on the day after paclitaxel and lasting until recovery from neutropenia. No prior chemotherapy had been used in 17 patients; 10 patients had had prior doxorubicin-based therapy; and 1 patient had had intraperitoneal therapy with edatrexate. Two partial responses (PRs) (7%; 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1-23%) were observed. The responding patients included a patient with angiosarcoma of the scalp who had complete regression of cutaneous lesions and improvement of nonmeasurable pulmonary disease lasting 6 months. The other PR occurred in a woman with metastatic uterine leiomyosarcoma and lasted 9 months. Seven patients had stable disease for 3-4 months. Median time to progression for all patients was 3.5 months (range: 2.5-9 months). The mean nadir in the white-blood-cell (WBC) count was 3.8 x 10(3)/microliter (range: [0.2-16.2] x 10(3)/microliter), with a mean nadir in the absolute neutrophil count (ANC) of 2.4 x 10(3)/microliter (range: [0.0-7.1] x 10(3)/microliter). Three patients died while in the study. Two patients with angiosarcoma of the scalp who did not qualify for this study were treated with paclitaxel off protocol, and experienced dramatic tumor regression. The overall response to paclitaxel observed in this heterogeneous group of patients was disappointing. However, the activity seen in angiosarcoma of the scalp suggests that further evaluation is warranted in patients with STS.
A patient with a severe polyneuropathy in association with osteosclerotic myeloma improved after melphalan and prednisone treatment. Aggressive treatment with chemotherapy is appropriate in this type of patient.
Toward the goal of developing effective treatments for prostate cancers, we examined the effects of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors on the survival of prostate cancer cells. We show that roscovitine, R-roscovitine, and CGP74514A (collectively referred to as CKIs) induce the apoptosis of LNCaP and LNCaP-Rf cells, both of which express wild-type p53. Apoptosis required caspase-9 and caspase-3 activity, and cytochrome c accumulated in the cytosol of CKI-treated cells. Amounts of p53 increased substantially in CKI-treated cells, whereas amounts of the endogenous caspase inhibitor XIAP decreased. CKIs did not appreciably induce the apoptosis of LNCaP cells treated with pifithrin-alpha, which prevents p53 accumulation, or of prostate cancer cells that lack p53 function (PC3 and DU145). Ectopic expression of p53 in PC3 cells for 44 hours did not reduce XIAP abundance or induce apoptosis. However, p53-expressing PC3 cells readily apoptosed when exposed to CKIs or when depleted of XIAP by RNA interference. These findings show that CKIs induce the mitochondria-mediated apoptosis of prostate cancer cells by a dual mechanism: p53 accumulation and XIAP depletion. They suggest that these events in combination may prove useful in the treatment of advanced prostate cancers.
Tesofensine is a (triple) reuptake inhibitor of noradrenaline, dopamine, and serotonin that is in development for the treatment of obesity. The abuse potential of triple reuptake inhibitors is not yet known, and so this study was undertaken to evaluate the potential abuse-related effects of tesofensine in humans. It was designed as a single-dose, randomized, double-blind, crossover study involving tesofensine vs. placebo, D-amphetamine (positive control for dopaminergic/stimulant effects), bupropion, and atomoxetine (negative/unscheduled controls) in recreational stimulant users (N = 52). Subjective and objective measures were assessed for 48 h after drug administration. The study results show that the effects of D-amphetamine were significantly greater than those of placebo on all primary and secondary subjective measures. The effects of tesofensine were not significantly different from those of placebo and were lower than those of D-amphetamine 30 mg on all primary and most secondary measures. The effects of tesofensine were either lower than or not different from those of bupropion or atomoxetine. These results demonstrate that the abuse potential for tesofensine is no greater than that of bupropion or atomoxetine, and tesofensine is therefore unlikely to be recreationally abused.
Recent studies suggest that cetraxate possesses anti-Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) activity. We therefore conducted this pilot study to investigate the efficacy of a cetraxate-based triple therapy and to compare the regimen with proton pump inhibitor-based triple therapy.
From April 2001 to January 2002, a total of 58 H. pylori-infected patients were randomly assigned to 1 of 2 regimens for 1 week: cetraxate plus clarithromycin and amoxicillin (CCA group) or pantoprazole plus clarithromycin and amoxicillin (PCA group). Follow-up endoscopy was performed at 8 weeks after the end of treatment to assess the treatment response.
Intention-to-treat analysis showed that the eradication rates of the CCA group (n = 27) and PCA group (n = 31) were 70.4% and 93.5%, respectively. The CCA group had a significantly lower eradication rate than the PCA group (p = 0.03). Per-protocol analysis also showed similar results (69.2% vs. 96.7%, p = 0.01). However, the frequency of adverse events in the CCA group was lower than that of the PCA group (3.7% vs. 25.8%, p = 0.03). Univariate analysis showed that the eradication rate was significantly related to proton pump inhibitor therapy (93.5% vs. 70.4%, p = 0.03 ) and smoking habit (66.7 % vs. 88.4%, p = 0.05), but multivariate analysis disclosed that proton pump inhibitor therapy was the only independent factor predicting treatment success (p < 0.05).
Cetraxate-based triple therapy is less effective than pantoprazole-based triple therapy in the treatment of H. pylori infection. However, the former has a lower frequency of adverse effects than the latter.
