This study was performed to compare levels of serum homocysteine (Hcy), vitamin B12 and folic acid in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), pseudoexfoliative glaucoma (PEXG), normotensive glaucoma (NTG) and healthy controls.
Twenty-five patients with POAG, 24 with PEXG, and 18 with NTG, along with 19 control healthy subjects were included this prospective study. Levels of serum Hcy were measured using immunoassay, and those of serum vitamin B12 and folic acid were measured using competitive chemiluminescent enzyme immunoassay.
The mean Hcy concentration in the PEXG group was significantly higher (P < 0.001) as compared to the other groups. There were no significant differences with respect to the mean Hcy concentrations among other groups (P > 0.05). There were no statistical differences in serum vitamin B12 levels among POAG, PEXG, NTG and control subjects (P > 0.05). The mean serum folic acid level was significantly lower in the subjects with PEXG (P < 0.009). However, the mean folic acid concentrations among the other groups did not differ significantly (P > 0.05).
Elevated levels of Hcy in PEXG may explain the role of endothelial dysfunction among patients with PEXG.
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) in HIV-positive persons might be caused by both HIV and traditional or non-HIV-related factors. Our objective was to investigate long-term exposure to specific antiretroviral drugs and CKD.
A cohort study including 6843 HIV-positive persons with at least three serum creatinine measurements and corresponding body weight measurements from 2004 onwards.
CKD was defined as either confirmed (two measurements >or=3 months apart) estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) of 60 ml/min per 1.73 m or below for persons with baseline eGFR of above 60 ml/min per 1.73 m or confirmed 25% decline in eGFR for persons with baseline eGFR of 60 ml/min per 1.73 m or less, using the Cockcroft-Gault formula. Poisson regression was used to determine factors associated with CKD.
Two hundred and twenty-five (3.3%) persons progressed to CKD during 21 482 person-years follow-up, an incidence of 1.05 per 100 person-years follow-up [95% confidence interval (CI) 0.91-1.18]; median follow-up was 3.7 years (interquartile range 2.8-5.7). After adjustment for traditional factors associated with CKD and other confounding variables, increasing cumulative exposure to tenofovir [incidence rate ratio (IRR) per year 1.16, 95% CI 1.06-1.25, P < 0.0001), indinavir (IRR 1.12, 95% CI 1.06-1.18, P < 0.0001), atazanavir (IRR 1.21, 95% CI 1.09-1.34, P = 0.0003) and lopinavir/r (IRR 1.08, 95% CI 1.01-1.16, P = 0.030) were associated with a significantly increased rate of CKD. Consistent results were observed in wide-ranging sensitivity analyses, although of marginal statistical significance for lopinavir/r. No other antiretroviral drugs were associated with increased incidence of CKD.
In this nonrandomized large cohort, increasing exposure to tenofovir was associated with a higher incidence of CKD, as was true for indinavir and atazanavir, whereas the results for lopinavir/r were less clear.
We studied 45 patients (new-born to 12 year olds) who received 50-100 mg/kg/day chloramphenicol sodium succinate i.v. over 2-49 days for the treatment of central nervous system infections. Multiple blood samples were obtained to measure serum concentrations of chloramphenicol and its succinate ester by high pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC). Haematological parameters (haemoglobin, white cell, neutrophil, eosinophil and platelet counts) were also determined. Chloramphenicol therapy was effective in all patients. Anaemia was present in 10, leukopenia in four, neutropenia in four, and eosinophilia in 16 patients. These adverse effects occurred between 3 and 34 days after the initiation of therapy. Chloramphenicol therapy had to be discontinued only in three patients, who had absolute neutrophil counts less than 800/mm3. All adverse effects were reversible. Demographic factors, daily dose, duration of therapy, steady-state peak and trough serum concentrations, area under the serum concentration-time curve normalized for dose, and the elimination half-life were not correlated with the occurrence of adverse effects of chloramphenicol. The mean cumulative dose of chloramphenicol succinate was the only factor always higher but not statistically different in patients with adverse effects compared to those without. The mean cumulative dose of chloramphenicol succinate ranged from 1.2 to 1.8 g/kg in patients with adverse effects and 0.9-1.1 g/kg in those without. These data suggest that the adverse effects of chloramphenicol may not be predictable in paediatric patients. However, a high cumulative dose may possibly be an important factor in predisposing some patients to certain chloramphenicol toxicity.
The authors conducted a pilot, randomized, open label with blind assessment, controlled trial to determine whether vitamin E supplementation has a neuroprotective effect in chemotherapy-induced peripheral nerve damage.
Thirty-one patients with cancer treated with six courses of cumulative cisplatin, paclitaxel, or their combination regimens were randomly assigned in two groups and followed by neurologic examination and electrophysiologic study. Patients assigned in Group I (n = 16) received oral vitamin E at a daily dose of 600 mg/day during chemotherapy and 3 months after its cessation were compared to patients of Group II (n = 15), who received no supplementation and served as controls. The severity of neurotoxicity was summarized by means of a modified peripheral neuropathy score.
The incidence of neurotoxicity differed between the two groups, occurring in 4/16 (25%) patients assigned in the vitamin E supplementation group and in 11/15 (73.3%) patients assigned in the control group (p = 0.019). Mean peripheral neuropathy scores were 3.4 +/- 6.3 for patients of Group I and 11.5 +/- 10.6 for patients of Group II (p = 0.026). The relative risk (RR) of developing neurotoxicity was significantly higher in case of control patients, RR = 0.34, 95% CI = 0.14 to 0.84.
Vitamin E supplementation in cancer patients may have an important neuroprotective effect.
The human selenoenzyme thioredoxin reductase 1 (TrxR1) is a very important enzyme for cell growth, differentiation, and the defense against oxidative stress. Several studies have shown that TrxR1 is up-regulated in tumor cells. The regulation of TrxR1 is very complex and involves the expression of different transcript forms of mRNA. We have, by quantitative polymerase chain reaction, investigated the total expression of TrxR1 mRNA and quantified the expression of alternative mRNA forms (alpha1/2, alpha6, alpha7/8, alpha10/11, alpha13, gamma2-4, and beta1) in six different human malignant mesothelioma cell lines of epithelioid, sarcomatoid, or mixed phenotype. The most abundant alpha-form was surprisingly alpha1/2 and not the expected alpha7/8. Selenium treatment resulted in increased expression of all alpha-variants, except the alpha10/11, where the levels were unaffected. The expression of protein isoforms was studied and the less abundant forms TrxR1v.2, TrxR1v.3, and TrxR1v.5 were detected in cell lysates and in human tumor tissue, using specific peptide antibodies. Furthermore, TrxR1v.3 and TrxR1v.5, previously not identified in human cells, were detected by mass spectrometry. Our data show differential expression of TrxR1 mRNA forms in malignant mesothelioma of different phenotype, and investigation of alternative transcript variants of TrxR1 could be a valuable tool in the diagnostics and characterization of tumors.
Since relative or absolute insulin deficiency and insulin insensitivity are involved in the aetiology of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM), we examined whether patients with NIDDM exhibit genetic variability in the coding region of insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS-1), a candidate gene that is ubiquitous in insulin-sensitive and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF1) sensitive tissues, including those that determine glucose production and clearance and those with regulatory effects on pancreatic beta-cell function. IRS-1 has a central role as an adaptor molecule that links the insulin-receptor and IGF1-receptor kinases with enzymes that regulate cellular metabolism and growth. Single-stranded conformation polymorphism analysis and direct nucleotide sequencing were applied to genomic DNA from 86 unrelated patients with NIDDM and 76 normoglycaemic controls. 10 of the patients with NIDDM and 3 of the controls were heterozygous at codon 972 for a polymorphism in which glycine was substituted with arginine. Moreover, at codon 513, 6 patients with NIDDM and 2 controls had a heterozygous polymorphism with a transition from alanine to proline. None of the polymorphism carriers had both aminoacid variants and the total allelic frequency of IRS-1 polymorphisms was about three times higher in patients with NIDDM than in controls (p = 0.02). Both aminoacid substitutions were located close to tyrosine phosphorylation motifs that are putative recognition sites for insulin and IGF1 signal transmission proteins. Analysis of the phenotypes showed that patients with NIDDM who had IRS-1 variants did not differ in their degree of insulin resistance compared with patients without known IRS-1 polymorphisms. However, carriers of the codon 972 variant had significantly lower plasma levels of fasting insulin and C-peptide. Our results suggest that aminoacid polymorphisms in IRS-1 may be involved in the aetiology of a subset of late-onset NIDDM.
The rising prevalence of methylmercury (MeHg) in seafood and in the global environment provides an impetus for delineating the mechanism of the toxicity of MeHg. Deleterious effects of MeHg have been widely observed in humans and in other mammals, the most striking of which occur in the nervous system. Here we test the model organism, Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans), for MeHg toxicity. The simple, well-defined anatomy of the C. elegans nervous system and its ready visualization with green fluorescent protein (GFP) markers facilitated our study of the effects of methylmercuric chloride (MeHgCl) on neural development. Although MeHgCl was lethal to C. elegans, induced a developmental delay, and decreased pharyngeal pumping, other traits including lifespan, brood size, swimming rate, and nervous system morphology were not obviously perturbed in animals that survived MeHgCl exposure. Despite the limited effects of MeHgCl on C. elegans development and behavior, intracellular mercury (Hg) concentrations (<or=3 ng Hg/mg protein) in MeHgCl-treated nematodes approached levels that are highly toxic to mammals. If MeHgCl reaches these concentrations throughout the animal, this finding indicates that C. elegans cells, particularly neurons, may be less sensitive to MeHgCl toxicity than mammalian cells. We propose, therefore, that C. elegans should be a useful model for discovering intrinsic mechanisms that confer resistance to MeHgCl exposure.
Mercury (Hg), widely used in industry, is a great environmental health problem for humans and animals. Despite several reports regarding Hg toxicity, there is scarcity of data on its toxic manifestations on Sprague Dawley rats under realistic exposure conditions. Experimental studies have shown that sulphur-containing antioxidants have beneficial effects against the detrimental properties of Hg. The present work was aimed to study the therapeutic potential of combined administration of N-acetyl cysteine (NAC; 2 mmol/kg ip), zinc (Zn; 2 mmol/kg po), and selenium (Se; 0.5 mg/kg po) against dimethylmercury (DMM; 1 mg/kg po)-intoxicated male rats for 12 weeks. Exposure to DMM caused significant alterations in cytochrome P450 (CYP) activity, microsomal lipid peroxidation, and proteins. Activities of transaminases (aspartate aminotransferase/alanine aminotransferase), alkaline phosphatase, and lactate dehydrogenase in serum, as well as activities of CYP enzymes aniline hydroxylase (AH), amidopyrine-N-demethylase (AND) in liver microsomes and activities of acid phosphatase, alkaline phosphatase, glucose-6-phophatase, and succinic dehydrogenase in the liver and kidney, were significantly altered after DMM administration. DMM exposure also induced severe hepato-renal alterations at the histopathological level. NAC, along with Zn and Se, dramatically reversed the alterations in all of the variables more toward control. The study results conclude that protective intervention of combined treatment of NAC, along with Zn and Se, is beneficial in attenuating DMM-induced systemic toxicity.
In a randomised, controlled, double-blinded trial to study the effect of ondansetron pretreatment on the pain produced after intravenous injection of rocuronium and propofol in comparison with lidocaine, 60 patients were randomly assigned to one of three groups. Group 1 received 5 ml of intravenous 0.9% sodium chloride solution pretreatment, group 2 received ondansetron 4 mg (2 mg.ml-1 solution) diluted into a 5-ml solution, and group 3 received 50 mg lidocaine (5 ml 1% solution); this was followed 1 min later by rocuronium and propofol. Pain was reduced significantly in the ondansetron and lidocaine groups (p < 0.0001) compared with placebo, and significantly better with lidocaine than with ondansetron (p = 0.02). We conclude that ondansetron is effective in relieving the pain of rocuronium but is not as effective as lidocaine.
Enuresis is a common paediatric problem which is sometimes treated with anticholinergic drugs. We report a 4-year-old girl who presented with acute bilateral blindness, a focal seizure and hypertension 10 days after commencing oxybutynin to treat enuresis. Magnetic resonance imaging brain showed features of posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome, a recognised but rare complication of hypertension in children. Discontinuing the oxybutynin leads to complete neurological recovery associated with normalisation of her blood pressure. We believe this case represents a rare complication of anticholinergic therapy. Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome is a treatable and reversible cause of acute encephalopathy with blindness, as long as an early diagnosis is made.
We describe drug-drug interactions (DDIs) encountered with antifungals in clinical practice.
Retrospective observational study of hospitalized adults receiving systemic antifungal treatment in the intensive care unit (ICU) and in the infectious diseases unit (IDU) of the University Hospital of Bordeaux, France between 1996 and 2001. All treatment episodes with antifungal agent were examined and all prescribed concomitant medication identified for potential drug-drug interactions (PDDI)-serious events occurring during treatment were adjudicated for clinical DDI.
There were 150 treatment episodes with antifungal agent in 105 patients. Fluconazole was used in 48% of the treatment episodes, amphotericin B in 46%, itraconazole in 4.7% and flucytosine in 1.3%. One hundred and sixteen PDDIs were identified related to the use of amphotericin B (81.0%), fluconazole (17.2%) or itraconazole (1.7%). Of these, 22 were associated with a clinical evidence of adverse interaction (hypokalemia, increased creatininemia or nephrotoxicity). All these clinical drug-drug interactions (CDDIs) were with amphotericin B. They were due to furosemide (36.4%), cyclosporine (31.8%) and hydrocortisone (18.2%). PDDIs were mostly associated with leukaemia (40.4%), HIV infection (24.6%) and cancer (10.5%).
In ICU and IDU, systemic antifungal treatments lead to many PDDIs, mainly related to the type of antifungal used and to the pathology treated. Clinical DDI seem more common with amphotericin.
To determine whether alternating regimens consisting of zidovudine and 2',3'-dideoxycytidine (ddC) reduce the toxicity and maintain or increase the antiretroviral effect associated with each drug alone.
An unblinded, randomized (phase II) clinical trial in which seven treatment regimens were compared.
Outpatient clinics of 12 AIDS Clinical Trials Units.
One hundred thirty-one patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) or AIDS-related complex and serum p24 antigenemia (> or = 70 pg/mL).
Treatments included weekly or monthly alternating zidovudine (200 mg every 4 hours) and ddC (0.01 or 0.03 mg/kg body weight every 4 hours); weekly intermittent zidovudine, 200 mg every 4 hours, or ddC, 0.03 mg/kg every 4 hours; and continuous zidovudine.
Toxicity, CD4 cell counts, serum p24 antigen levels, and clinical end points. Data were analyzed for the first 48 weeks of therapy (median follow-up, 40 weeks).
Hematologic toxicity was significantly less frequent in patients who received zidovudine therapy every other week (11% to 15%) or every other month (11% to 14%) than in those who received continuous zidovudine therapy (33%) (P < 0.02). Weekly alternating therapy with zidovudine and ddC, 0.03 mg/kg, or intermittent therapy with ddC, 0.03 mg/kg, produced high rates of peripheral neuropathy (41% and 50%, respectively). Neuropathy occurred in 10% to 21% of patients in the other three alternating-therapy limbs and in 17% of patients receiving zidovudine alone (intermittently or continuously). Initial increases in CD4 cell counts were sustained in three alternating-therapy limbs, but counts returned to baseline by week 28 in the remaining limbs. The median weight gain at week 48 was significantly greater in patients treated with alternating regimens (0.9 to 3.8 kg) compared with those treated with continuous zidovudine therapy (-0.7 kg) (P = 0.008). Patients treated with alternating regimens and those treated with continuous zidovudine had similarly sustained decreases in p24 antigen levels.
These findings suggest that alternating therapy with zidovudine and ddC reduces the toxicity associated with each drug alone while maintaining strong antiretroviral activity.
Endocardial catheter ablation with direct current high voltage shocks was performed in a patient with recurrent syncope due to a catecholamine-sensitive ventricular tachycardia that was drug refractory and occurred in the absence of identifiable heart disease. Pace mapping and catheter activation mapping of the spontaneous and isoproterenol-induced ventricular tachycardia located the tachycardia origin in the right ventricular outflow tract. Ablation dramatically reduced spontaneous ventricular tachycardia and ectopic activity (from 50,000 to less than 100 ectopic beats/24 h). The patient has remained symptom free and without ventricular tachycardia recurrence for 3 years. These observations and review of previous studies suggest that catheter mapping can easily locate the arrhythmia focus in the right ventricular outflow tract and that catheter ablation can be performed at low risk. Catheter ablation is a viable option for the treatment of right ventricular catecholamine-sensitive tachycardias that are unresponsive to antiarrhythmic drugs.
A very severely retarded infant with a Dandy-Walker malformation was treated with valproate since the age of 6 months on account of infantile spasms. Three weeks after start of therapy dexamethasone was applied additionally because valproate was ineffective. Seventy-six days after initiation of valproate therapy the infant died with the clinical signs of fulminant valproate-associated hepatotoxicity despite the discontinuation of valproate. In combination with a febrile otitis media the child had been periodically restless and lethargic during the last week prior to liver coma. Activity of liver enzymes remained within normal limits up to two days before coma occurred. Analysis of valproate metabolites by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry yielded unusually high concentrations of the di-unsaturated metabolite E,E-2,3'-dien-valproate before and during liver failure. The concentrations of the main metabolites E-2-en-valproate und 3-keto-valproate remained within the usual range found during valproate therapy at steady state. The oxydation products 4-en-valproate and E-2,4-dien-valproate which are formed by alternative pathways and are considered to be hepatotoxic were detected in very low concentrations only. The application of carnitine, of antioxidants thought to improve the capacity of the free radical scavenger system (selen, vitamin E), and of N-acetylcysteine which can detoxify reactive drug metabolites could not prevent the fatal outcome.
Deliberate hypotension was induced with isoflurane (mean inspired concentration 2.3 +/- 1.0%) in 12 patients undergoing craniotomy for clipping of cerebral aneurysms. Global cerebral blood flow (CBF) was measured before, during, and after hypotension. Arterio-venous O2 content difference was measured concomitantly, and the cerebral metabolic rate for oxygen (CMRO2) was calculated from these data. Mean arterial pressure (MAP) was reduced from 78 +/- 5 mmHg to 51 +/- 7 mmHg and then returned to 82 +/- 8 mmHg. Mean CBF before hypotension was 49 +/- 14 ml X 100 g-1 X min-1 and was unchanged during (45 +/- 12 ml X 100 g-1 X min-1) and after (49 +/- 15 ml X 100 g-1 X min-1) hypotension. The CMRO2 before hypotension was 2.0 +/- 0.6 ml X 100 g-1 X min-1. This was statistically significantly (P less than 0.025) reduced to 1.5 +/- 0.5 ml X 100 g-1 X min-1 during hypotension and then returned to 2.2 +/- 0.6 ml X 100 g-1 X min-1 on return to normotension. This indicates that the global cerebral O2 supply-demand balance was favorably influenced by isoflurane. No complications could be attributed to the hypotensive technique. We conclude that, with regard to global cerebral oxygenation, isoflurane is a safe agent with which to induce hypotension during neurosurgery.
The purpose of the study was to compare the effects of adding 50 microg of morphine, 25 microg of fentanyl or saline to 6 mg of hyperbaric bupivacaine on postoperative analgesia and time to urination in patients undergoing arthroscopic knee surgery under spinal anesthesia.
The study was designed in a prospective, randomized, double-blinded and placebo-controlled manner. Sixty ASA I-II patients were randomized into the following three groups: Group BM: 6 mg of bupivacaine and 50 microg of morphine, Group BF: 6 mg of bupivacaine and 25 microg of fentanyl, and Group BS: 6 mg of bupivacaine and saline. Selective spinal anesthesia was performed in a lateral decubitus position, with the operative knee dependent for 10 min.
In all groups satisfactory anesthesia was provided during the operation. There was a statistically significant difference between all the groups in times to voiding [Group BM 422 +/- 161 min; Group BF 244 +/- 163 min; Group BS 183 +/- 54 min (mean +/- SD)]. The incidence of pruritus was significantly greater in Group BM (80%) and BF (65%) in comparison with Group BS (no pruritus) (P < 0.05). The incidence of nausea was significantly increased in Group BM (35%) in comparison with Group BF (10%) and Group BS (P < 0.05). Analgesic consumption was significantly greater in Group BS in comparison with Groups BM and BF (P < 0.01).
We conclude that during spinal anesthesia even mini-dose intrathecal morphine is not acceptable for outpatient surgery due to side-effects, especially severely prolonged time to urination.
Early exposure to environmental estrogens may exert lasting impacts on health. In rodents, homeobox A10 (HOXA10) was demonstrated to be a target of early endocrine disruption, as indicated by persistent changes in uterine HOXA10 expression and promoter DNA methylation in the offspring. This study aimed at analyzing long-term effects of estradiol-17β on porcine uterine HOXA10. Therefore, offspring were exposed in utero to low (0.05 and 10μg/kg body weight/day) and high (1000μg/kg body weight/day) doses, respectively. We, furthermore, investigated whether promoter DNA methylation was generally involved in regulating HOXA10 expression. Unexpectedly, the maternal estrogen exposure did not distinctly impact HOXA10 expression and promoter DNA methylation in either pre- or postpubertal offspring. Although differential HOXA10 expression was observed in endometrial tissue during the estrous cycle and the pre-implantation period, no concurrent substantial changes occurred regarding promoter DNA methylation. However, by comparing several tissues displaying larger differences in transcriptional abundance, HOXA10 expression correlated with promoter DNA methylation in prepubertal, but not postpubertal, gilts. Thus, promoter DNA methylation could affect gene expression in pigs, depending on their stage of development. Clearly, early estrogen exposure exerted other effects in pigs as known from studies in rodents. This may be due to endocrine differences as well as to species-specific peculiarities of tissue sensitivity to estradiol-17β during critical windows of development.
Hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) is used to manage hypertension and heart failure; however, its side effects include mild hypokalemia, metabolic abnormalities, and volume depletion, which might have deleterious effects on renal and endothelial function. We studied whether HCTZ cause renal injury and/or altered vasoreactivity and if these changes are hypokalemia-dependent. Rats were given a normal diet or a diet moderately low in potassium K+ with or without HCTZ. Animals fed either a low K+ diet alone or HCTZ developed mild hypokalemia. There was no significant difference in systolic blood pressure in the different treatment groups. All three groups with hypokalemia had mild proteinuria; low K(+)-HCTZ rats had reduced creatinine clearance. HCTZ-treated rats displayed hypomagnesemia, hypertriglyceridemia, hyperglycemia, insulin resistance, and hyperaldosteronism. No renal injury was observed in the groups without HCTZ; however, increased kidney weight, glomerular ischemia, medullary injury, and cortical oxidative stress were seen with HCTZ treatment. Endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation was reduced in all hypokalemic groups and correlated with reduced serum K+, serum, and urine nitric oxide. Our results show that HCTZ is associated with greater renal injury for the same degree of hypokalemia as the low K+ diet, suggesting that factors such as chronic ischemia and hyperaldosteronism due to volume depletion may be responsible agents. We also found impaired endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation was linked to mild hypokalemia.
To study the efficacy of tetracycline (or doxycycline) and nicotinamide in the treatment of less extensive bullous pemphigoid.
An open trial of 11 patients with bullous pemphigoid. Treatment was initiated with tetracycline 1.5-2 g/day and nicotinamide 1.5-2 g/day and gradually tapered down. Doxycycline was substituted for tetracycline in patients who could not tolerate tetracycline due to gastrointestinal side effects or headache.
6 out of 11 patients achieved complete response (> 90% decrease in lesions) while another 2 had partial response (50-90% decrease in lesions).
Tetracycline/doxycycline and nicotinamide is a useful alternative treatment for localized bullous pemphigoid, especially in those whose concurrent medical illnesses preclude the use of systemic corticosteroids.
To demonstrate the association between minocycline treatment and development of the pseudotumor cerebri syndrome.
A retrospective study was conducted of 12 patients from five neuro-ophthalmic referral centers who developed pseudotumor cerebri syndrome after being treated with standard doses of minocycline for refractory acne vulgaris. The main outcome measures included resolution of headaches, transient visual obscurations, diplopia, papilledema, and visual fields static thresholds after withdrawal of minocycline and treatment for increased intracranial pressure.
Nine (75%) of the 12 patients developed symptoms of the pseudotumor cerebri syndrome syndrome within 8 weeks of starting minocycline therapy; six were not obese. Two patients developed symptoms only after a year had elapsed because of commencement of treatment with minocycline. One patient was asymptomatic, and pseudotumor cerebri syndrome was diagnosed by finding papilledema on routine examination 1 year after minocycline was started. None of the patients developed recurrences for at least 1 year after the discontinuation of minocycline and treatment for increased intracranial pressure, but three (25%) of the 12 patients had substantial residual visual field loss.
Minocycline is a cause or precipitating factor in pseudotumor cerebri syndrome. Although most patients have prominent symptoms and are diagnosed promptly, others are asymptomatic and may have optic disk edema for a long period of time before diagnosis. Withdrawal of minocycline and treatment for increased intracranial pressure lead to resolution of the pseudotumor cerebri syndrome, but visual field loss may persist.
The authors report two cases of muscular tuberculosis in patients with dermatomyositis treated with steroids. Antituberculous therapy with Rifampicin led to a severe relapse of the dermatomyositis in both cases, suggesting enzymatic induction inhibiting the action of the steroids.
Due to severe side effects in virtually all children treated with a standard dose of 45 mg/m(2)/day all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) for acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) the AML-BFM study group reduced the dosage to 25 mg/m(2)/day. For the lack of data on the use of ATRA at this dosage in children with APL, the study group further decided to evaluate the pharmacokinetics and metabolism of ATRA in children.
Twenty-three pharmacokinetic and metabolic profiles of ATRA were studied in 14 children (aged 0.9-18.4 years) with APL. Eleven plasma samples were collected over a period of 8 hr and analyzed for ATRA and its metabolites by high-performance liquid chromatography.
Peak plasma concentrations of ATRA were characterized by wide interpatient variability (range: 28.6-513.0 nM). Compared to adults the same metabolic pathways were observed in children. Even though peak plasma concentrations were in the lower range of those considered effective in vitro, ATRA side effects, notably neurotoxicity, still required dose reduction, treatment break, or drug withdrawal in eight patients. In this small number of patients, neurotoxicity could not be related to age or any specific level of ATRA or metabolites in the plasma. Plasma concentrations of vitamin A, however, were significantly higher in those patients, who developed signs of neurotoxicity (P = 0.03, Mann-Whitney Rank Sum test).
Considering the low plasma concentrations and the persistence of toxicity in spite of dose reduction intermittent dosing schedules might be considered as an alternative to further dose reduction of ATRA in the treatment of APL especially in children, who might be at risk of ATRA-induced neurotoxicity.
Drug-induced myopathy and/or rhabdomyolysis have been reported with use of some statins and fibric acid derivatives. The risk of adverse effects is increased with their concomitant use. We report the case of myopathy with rhabdomyolysis during the concomitant use of cerivastatin and gemfibrozil.
Concurrent treatments of cobalt chloride (CoCl2) and phenobarbital (PB), alone or in combination with lithocholic acid (LCA), were administered to rats for 7 days to assess whether or not a hypoactive hypertrophic smooth endoplasmic reticulum (HHSER) could be induced, as well as investigating the potential role of HHSER in the pathogenesis of cholestasis. LCA given alone slightly reduced hepatic triglycerides, significantly elevated plasma triglycerides and decreased microsomal glucose-6-phosphatase (G6P-ase) activity. PB administered alone significantly increased hepatic phospholipids and microsomal protein, phospholipid and cytochrome P-450 contents, as well as microsomal aminopyrine-N-demethylase (APDM-ase) activity. Functional indicators of liver impairment were associated primarily with CoCl2 treatment, whether given alone or in combination with PB + LCA. These signs included significantly reduced hepatic triglycerides, and increased plasma triglycerides associated with enhanced release of hepatic VLDL-triglycerides, as well as significantly decreased microsomal G6P-ase activity and/or reduced APDM-ase activity and cytochrome P-450 content. Elevated plasma bilirubin levels, and aspartate and alanine aminotransferase activities were also evident with concurrent CoCl2 + PB + LCA treatments. Combined CoCl2 + PB treatments, with or without LCA, caused significant increases in microsomal protein and phospholipid, and decreased activity of the rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER) marker G6P-ase, but no changes in cytochrome P-450 levels and no marked alterations in the activity of the SER marker APDM-ase. The data indicated that simultaneous CoCl2 and PB treatments, whether given alone or in combination with LCA, caused a functional impairment of the RER, and did not induce HHSER membranes.
All studies carried out on stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR-SP) have clearly demonstrated that cicletanine protects tissues and vessels. This effect has also been observed with captopril. However, the effectiveness of captopril seemed to be dependent on its blood pressure lowering effect, and this was not found with cicletanine in previous experimental studies on SHR-SP. In view of the difference in effectiveness between captopril and cicletanine as regards blood pressure, it was considered important to compare the two compounds in a similar blood pressure complex. In this study, the effects of cicletanine at two dosage levels (3.33 and 10 mg/kg/day) on the tissue and vascular lesions of SHR-SP were compared with those of captopril in doses of 1 mg/kg/day. Iffa Credo SHR-SP rats aged 7 weeks were divided into four groups of 12 animals each: 2 groups received cicletanine 3.33 and 10 mg/kg/day respectively, 1 group received captopril 1 mg/kg/day and 1 group served as control. Blood pressure was recorded once a week. After 44 days of treatment, all animals were killed and autopsied. A significant antihypertensive effect was observed with both captopril (p less than 0.001) and cicletanine 10 mg/kg (p less than 0.05). In doses of 3.33 mg/kg cicletanine induced only a very slight fall in blood pressure, not significantly different from controls. On the other hand, histological and ultrastructural examinations showed better preservation of tissues and, chiefly, vessels with cicletanine at the two dosage levels than with captopril 1 mg/kg.
For several years, our laboratory has investigated the role for the HPA axis in cocaine reinforcement. Two classes of drugs that we have studied include corticosterone synthesis inhibitors (e.g., metyrapone) and benzodiazepine receptor agonists (e.g., oxazepam). In the experiments described in this manuscript, we tested the effects of various doses of metyrapone and oxazepam against several doses of self-administered cocaine. Behavioral, endocrine and pharmacokinetic measures of the effects of the combination of metyrapone and oxazepam on cocaine reward are presented. Combinations of metyrapone and oxazepam at doses that produced no observable effects when administered separately significantly reduced cocaine self-administration without affecting food-maintained responding during the same sessions. Changes in pharmacokinetics or endocrine function do not appear to mediate these effects, suggesting a central mechanism of action. Therefore, although these drugs produce their effects through distinct mechanisms, an additive effect on cocaine self-administration is obtained when these drugs are administered together, suggesting that combinations of low doses of metyrapone and oxazepam may be useful in reducing cocaine seeking with a reduced incidence of unwanted side effects and a decreased potential for abuse.
