Buprenorphine is a thebaine derivative used in the treatment of heroin and other opiate addictions. In this study, the selective probe reactions for each of the major hepatic cytochromes P450 (P450s) were used to evaluate the effect of buprenorphine and its main metabolite norbuprenorphine on the activity of these P450s. The index reactions used were CYP1A2 (phenacetin O-deethylation), CYP2A6 (coumarin 7-hydroxylation), CYP2C9 (diclofenac 4'-hydroxylation), CYP2C19 (omeprazole 5-hydrxoylation), CYP2D6 (dextromethorphan O-demethylation), CYP2B6 (7-ethoxy-4-trifluoromethyl-coumarin 7-deethylation), CYP2E1 (chlorzoxazone 6-hydroxylation), and CYP3A4 (omeprazole sulfoxidation). Buprenorphine exhibited potent, competitive inhibition of CYP2D6 (Ki 10 +/- 2 microM and 1.8 +/- 0.2 microM) and CYP3A4 (Ki 40 +/- 1.6 microM and 19 +/- 1.2 microM) in microsomes from human liver and cDNA-expressing lymphoblasts, respectively. Compared with buprenorphine, norbuprenorphine demonstrated a lower inhibitory potency with CYP2D6 (22.4% inhibition at 20 microM norbuprenorphine) and CYP3A4 (13.6% inhibition at 20 microM) in microsomes from human cDNA-expressing lymphoblast cells. Furthermore, buprenorphine was shown to be a substrate of CYP2D6 (Km = 600 microM; Vmax = 0.40 nmol/min/mg protein) and CYP3A4 (Km = 36 microM; Vmax = 0.19 nmol/min/mg protein). The present in vitro study suggests that buprenorphine and its major metabolite norbuprenorphine are inhibitors of CYP2D6 and CYP3A4; however, at therapeutic concentrations they are not predicted to cause potentially clinically important drug interactions with other drugs metabolized by major hepatic P450s.
A 54-year-old man developed mild renal insufficiency after treatment with gentamicin and cephalothin. He then received tetracycline for eight days, 500 mg orally four times daily, for a total dose of 15 gm. Twelve days after discontinuation of the drug, a severe but reversible aplastic anemia developed. We propose that bone-marrow-toxic concentrations of tetracycline resulted from the preexisting renal insufficiency. Because of the temporal relationship between tetracycline administration and aplastic anemia, and the lack of any other explanation, we conclude that this case illustrates a rare but potentially fatal complication of this drug.
In a patient with akinetic mutism, extensive circumscribed bilateral lesions in the precentral part of the centrum semiovale, due to delayed necrotizing leucoencephalopathy after combined intravenous polychemotherapy and radiation, were found at autopsy. CT and somatosensory evoked potentials were normal and a slow alpha rhythm was present, but there was a lack of EEG desynchronization. Akinetic mutism and the loss of desynchronization in this case are thought to result from interrupted thalamofrontal and extrathalamic reticulofrontal projections and the disconnection of the anterior limbic cortex.
Foscarnet nephrotoxicity has been reported to be associated with acute tubulointerstitial nephritis. Crystals in glomerular capillary lumens have also been observed in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome who were treated with foscarnet for cytomegalovirus disease. We describe a kidney transplant recipient who developed a nephrotic syndrome with microscopic hematuria and nonoliguric acute renal failure within 15 days after starting foscarnet therapy for cytomegalovirus infection. A kidney biopsy specimen showed the presence of crystals in all glomeruli and in proximal tubules. Fourier transform infrared microscopy analysis demonstrated that crystals were made from several forms of foscarnet salts: mixed calcium and sodium salts, and unchanged trisodium foscarnet salts. Renal function and proteinuria spontaneously improved, and a second transplant biopsy performed 8 months after the first one revealed fibrotic organization of half of the glomeruli and of interstitial tissue, and crystal vanishing. We were thus able to provide proof of the possible precipitation of foscarnet in a transplanted kidney.
Of 149 workers from the electronics industry with occupational dermatoses seen at the Joint Occupational Dermatoses Clinic at the National Skin Centre, Singapore, 51.0% (76) were diagnosed to have irritant contact dermatitis, 40.9% (61) had allergic contact dermatitis, and 8.1% (12) had noncontact dermatitis. More than half of the patients were younger than 30 years of age. Common irritants were soldering flux, oils and coolants, solvents, and acids/alkalis. The most common allergens were nickel and resins, followed by rubber chemicals and the constituents of flux. Of the noncontact dermatitis, 8 were caused by occupationally relevant exacerbation of endogenous eczema, whereas there was one case each of miliaria, frictional dermatitis, and fatal toxic epidermal necrolysis caused by trichloroethylene allergy.
It is known that radiation activates the phosphoinositol-3 kinase (PI3K)/Akt pathway and that inhibition of PI3K or Akt sensitizes tumor vasculature to radiotherapy. Mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) is a downstream target of Akt, and we hypothesized that irradiation activates mTOR signaling in both glioma and endothelial cells (ECs) and that radiosensitization results from inhibiting mTOR signaling. mTOR inhibitors, rapamycin and RAD001 (everolimus) were found to radiosensitize vascular ECs, but failed to sensitize glioma cells as determined by clonogenic assay. Therefore, we investigated the anti-angiogenic effects of mTOR inhibitors. Increased phospho-mTOR protein was detected in irradiated human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC), but not in GL261 glioma cells. Phospho-S6, a biomarker for mTOR signaling, was also found to be induced following irradiation in HUVEC and this effect was inhibited by PI3K or mTOR inhibitors. Significant increase in cleaved caspase 3 was detected when Rad001 was combined with radiation. Endothelial tube formation was significantly diminished following treatment with rapamycin and 3 Gy of radiation. Histological sections of GL261 tumors from mice showed a greatly reduced vascular density when treated with RAD001 and radiation. Power Weighted Doppler of glioma xenografts in mice showed a significant reduction in vasculature and blood flow compared with mice treated with 3 Gy or RAD001 alone. We conclude that irradiation activates mTOR signaling in vascular endothelium and that rapamycin and RAD001 increased apoptosis of ECs in response to radiation. To the authors' best knowledge this is the first study which demonstrates that mTOR inhibitors may be a way to target the vasculature by radiosensitizing the vascular endothelium resulting in better tumor control as seen in experiments demonstrating increased tumor growth delay in mice treated with rapamycin with radiation compared with mice treat with either treatment alone. We conclude that mTOR inhibitors have increased efficacy as antiangiogenics when combined with radiation.
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is an adult-onset, lethal, scarring lung disease of unknown etiology. Some individuals with IPF have a familial disorder that segregates as a dominant trait with incomplete penetrance. Here we used linkage to map the disease gene in two families to chromosome 5. Sequencing a candidate gene within the interval, TERT, revealed a missense mutation and a frameshift mutation that cosegregated with pulmonary disease in the two families. TERT encodes telomerase reverse transcriptase, which together with the RNA component of telomerase (TERC), is required to maintain telomere integrity. Sequencing the probands of 44 additional unrelated families and 44 sporadic cases of interstitial lung disease revealed five other mutations in TERT. A heterozygous mutation in TERC also was found in one family. Heterozygous carriers of all of the mutations in TERT or TERC had shorter telomeres than age-matched family members without the mutations. Thus, mutations in TERT or TERC that result in telomere shortening over time confer a dramatic increase in susceptibility to adult-onset IPF.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the in vitro effects of dichlorvos (organophosphorous pesticide) on the biological value of erythrocytes; an in vitro test of erythrocyte protection against DDVP effects was also included. A significant decrease of glutathione level with concomitant increase of methemoglobin and denatured hemoglobin levels, as well as a rise of Heinz body number were observed after 24 h following the treatment with dichlorvos (100 microM). Preincubation of erythrocytes with glutathione prevented the toxic effects of the pesticide with the maintenance of both glutathione and methemoglobin at a control level.
We reported that intravenous infusion of angiotensin II (ANG II) stimulated ventilation (VE) in conscious dogs. Other studies in our laboratory have demonstrated that increases in respiration occurred in association with activation of the renin-angiotensin system during acute hypotension and during hypercapnia. Therefore, in conscious dogs (n = 5), we examined the effects of ANG II receptor blockade with intravenous saralasin (0.5 micrograms.kg-1.min-1) on respiratory responses during progressive nitroprusside-induced hypotension and during the ventilatory response to increased inspired fraction of CO2 (VRC). During hypotension (mean arterial pressure decreased approximately 20%) combined with ANG II receptor blockade, VE, heart rate, and arginine vasopressin increases were attenuated compared within unblocked studies. With ANG II receptor blockade during hypotension, alveolar ventilation and arterial PCO2 (PaCO2) were unchanged, which contrasted with a doubling of alveolar ventilation and a decrease of 4.8 +/- 1 Torr in PaCO2 in unblocked studies. During hypercapnia, the slope of the VRC was not affected by ANG II receptor blockade, but with 6.5% inspired CO2 fraction, VE and PaCO2 were lower than in unblocked studies. These results indicated that ANG II contributed to the respiratory response to a modest hypotension but did not affect respiratory sensitivity to CO2.
We previously reported that a total methanolic extract of the underground part of Angelica gigas Nakai (Umbelliferae) (here-in-after abbreviated AG) significantly inhibited acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity. We characterized 12 coumarin derivatives including both decursin and decursinol from extracts of AG. In this study, we evaluated the anti-amnestic activity of decursin, a major coumarin constituent isolated from AG, in vivo using ICR mice with amnesia induced by scopolamine (1 mg/kg body weight, s.c.). Decursin, when administered to mice at 1 and 5 mg/kg body weight i.p., significantly ameliorated scopolamine-induced amnesia as measured in both the passive avoidance test and the Morris water maze test. Moreover, decursin significantly inhibited AChE activity by 34% in the hippocampus of treated mice. These results indicate that decursin may exert anti-amnestic activity in vivo through inhibition of AChE activity in the hippocampus.
Homer proteins modulate neuroplasticity in excitatory synapses and are dynamically regulated by cocaine. Whereas acute cocaine elevates immediate-early gene (short) isoforms of Homer1 in the nucleus accumbens, withdrawal from repeated cocaine administration downregulates the expression of constitutive Homer1 isoforms. The present study determined whether or not this downregulation in constitutive Homer expression in the accumbens is necessary for enduring alterations in cocaine-induced changes in the brain and behavior. The long vs short Homer isoforms were overexpressed in the rat nucleus accumbens during drug abstinence, and the adaptations elicited by repeated cocaine on glutamate transmission and motor behavior were measured. It was found that both chronic and acute overexpression of constitutive, but not short, Homer isoforms abolished cocaine-induced sensitization of locomotor hyperactivity and prevented the development of glutamate abnormalities in the accumbens, including the reduction in basal extracellular glutamate content and the sensitized glutamate response to a subsequent cocaine challenge injection. Together, these data indicate that the enduring reduction of long Homer isoforms in the nucleus accumbens of cocaine-withdrawn rats is necessary for the expression of cocaine-induced neuroplasticity.
Plasma HDL are a negative risk factor for atherosclerosis. Cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP; 476 amino acids) transfers cholesteryl ester from HDL to other lipoproteins. Subjects with homozygous CETP deficiency caused by a gene splicing defect have markedly elevated HDL; however, heterozygotes have only mild increases in HDL. We describe two probands with a CETP missense mutation (442 D:G). Although heterozygous, they have threefold increases in HDL concentration and markedly decreased plasma CETP mass and activity, suggesting that the mutation has dominant effects on CETP and HDL in vivo. Cellular expression of mutant cDNA results in secretion of only 30% of wild type CETP activity. Moreover, coexpression of wild type and mutant cDNAs leads to inhibition of wild type secretion and activity. The dominant effects of the CETP missense mutation during cellular expression probably explains why the probands have markedly increased HDL in the heterozygous state, and suggests that the active molecular species of CETP may be multimeric.
Vault poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (VPARP) and telomerase-associated protein 1 (TEP1) are components of the vault ribonucleoprotein complex. Vaults have been implicated in multidrug resistance of human tumors and are thought to be involved in macromolecular assembly and/or transport. Previous studies showed that VPARP-deficient mice were viable, fertile, and did not display any vault-related or telomerase-related phenotype, whereas disruption of telomerase-associated protein 1 in mice led to reduced stability of the vault RNA and affected its stable association with vaults, although there were no telomerase-related changes. In this study, we evaluated the susceptibility of Vparp-/- and Tep1-/- mice to dimethylhydrazine-induced colon tumorigenesis and urethane-induced lung tumorigenesis. Mice received i.p. injections of either 1 g/kg body weight of urethane twice a week for 2 weeks or 20 mg/kg body weight of dimethylhydrazine once a week for 10 weeks and were analyzed after 10 and 60 weeks, respectively. The colon tumor incidence and multiplicity were significantly higher and colon tumor latency was significantly shorter in Vparp-/- mice compared with wild-type mice. Increased colon tumor incidence, multiplicity, and reduced tumor latency were also seen in Tep1-/- mice, however, these results were statistically not significant. Lung tumor multiplicities were increased in both Vparp-/- and Tep1-/- mice but were not significant. The increase in carcinogen-induced tumors in VPARP-deficient mice is the only phenotype observed to date, and suggests a possible role for VPARP, directly or indirectly, in chemically induced neoplasia.
Tocainide is an effective oral antiarrhythmic agent. We report a 77-year-old man who developed agranulocytosis and anemia while receiving tocainide therapy. These hematologic abnormalities were detected on routine evaluation six weeks after beginning tocainide therapy. The absolute granulocyte count decreased to 50/mm3 (0.05 X 10(9)/L). The anemia was mild; hemoglobin count, 10.9 g/dL (109 g/L). These abnormalities were associated with local and stromal adipocytic bone marrow damage, and decreased production of red blood cells and granulocytes. The platelet count was not affected. The patient had no evidence of infection. Hematologic values were restored to normal two weeks after discontinuation of tocainide therapy, indicating that bone marrow toxicity of tocainide is reversible.
Laryngopharyngeal reflux disease (LPRD) with nocturnal recovery of gastric acid secretion (nocturnal acid breakthrough: NAB) with proton pump inhibitors (PPI) was first reported. A 79-year-old Japanese woman complained of globus pharyngeus and mild heartburn was examined with the use of tetra-probe 24-h pH monitoring. She had been treated for reflux esophagitis (GERD) for 12 months prior to her visit to our office. She took Lansoprazole (30 mg/day) before dinner every day. The tetra-probe 24-h pH monitoring revealed that the recovery of gastric acid secretion occurred 6.5 h after taking the dose of PPI. The intragastric pH dropped < 4 at about 23:00 and remained below that level for 4 h and 50 min. The 24-h pH-metry at each probe showed that the nocturnal recovery of gastric acid secretion with PPI (NAB on PPI) influenced gastroesophageal and laryngopharyngeal refluxes. The symptoms of the pharynx and esophagus disappeared after taking H2 receptor antagonist (H2RA) additionally before bedtime.
Patients with acute- or lymphoma-type adult T-cell leukemia (ATL) have a poor outcome because of the intrinsic drug resistance to chemotherapy. Protection from apoptosis is a common feature involved in multidrug-resistance of ATL. IAP (inhibitor of apoptosis) family proteins inhibit apoptosis induced by a variety of stimuli. In this study, we investigated the expression of IAP family members (survivin, cIAP1, cIAP2, and XIAP) in the primary leukemic cells from patients with ATL. We found that survivin was overexpressed in ATL, especially in acute-type ATL. Sodium arsenite was shown to down-regulate the expression of survivin at both the protein and RNA levels in a time- and dose-dependent manner, thus inhibiting cell growth, inducing apoptosis, and enhancing the caspase-3 activity in ATL cells. Nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) enhances the transcriptional activity of survivin. Sodium arsenite suppressed the constitutive NF-kappaB activation by preventing the IkappaB-alpha degradation and the nuclear translocation of NF-kappaB. These findings suggest that survivin is an important antiapoptotic molecule that confers drug resistance on ATL cells. Sodium arsenite was shown to down-regulate the expression of survivin through the NF-kappaB pathway, thus inhibiting cell growth and promoting apoptosis of ATL cells.
In the study presented here, the muscle protein synthesis and degradation in gentamicin-induced acute renal failure were examined in rats fed a low (7%)-, normal (22%)-, and high (35%)-isocaloric protein diet. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were fed equivalent amounts of these diets for 10 days and then received daily subcutaneous injections of either 1 mL of sterile isotonic saline or 100 mg/kg of gentamicin for 7 consecutive days. The rats were sacrificed the following day, and epitrochlearis muscles were obtained for measurement of protein turnover. The serum creatinine in each of the gentamicin-treated groups were significantly higher than that in the saline-treated controls but were no different from each other. Muscle protein synthesis (calculated from the incorporation of radiolabeled (U-14C) phenylalanine) was slightly but not significantly decreased in gentamicin-treated rats as compared with that of the corresponding saline controls in each of the dietary groups. Net protein degradation (the rate of tyrosine release into media) in the 7 and 22% gentamicin-treated groups was similar to that in the corresponding saline controls. In contrast, net protein degradation was significantly greater in the 35% gentamicin group of rats when compared with that in the 7 and 22% gentamicin groups and its own control. In the 7 and 22% saline- and gentamicin-treated protein groups, there was a reduction in net protein degradation in response to insulin. In contrast, the net protein degradation continued to remain significantly elevated in the 35% gentamicin-treated group, despite addition of insulin, when compared with that in the 7 and 22% gentamicin groups and its own control.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-alpha has been implicated in the regulation of normal and pathological cellular functions, but the effect of specific gene silencing on PPARalpha-mediated function is not fully defined.
This study evaluated the role of PPARalpha in hypertensive renal injury induced by nitric oxide withdrawal and high salt (4% NaCl) diet [high salt/N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine (L-NNA)].
Three PPARalpha siRNA clones, siRNA(790-811), siRNA(974-995) or siRNA(1410-1431), directed at the DNA or ligand binding domain of PPARalpha mRNA or scrambled siRNA was cloned into plasmid expression vector and was injected (10 microg intravenously) in hypertensive rats. Twenty-four-hour readings of blood pressure and heart rate were taken in conscious rats using radiotelemetry. Kidney injury was evaluated by determining N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase excretion, expression of kidney injury molecule-1 and histopathology. PPARalpha mRNA and protein expression were also determined.
High salt/L-NNA increased PPARalpha mRNA expression three-fold, and this was abolished in rats treated with PPARalpha siRNA(790-811), siRNA(974-995) or siRNA(1410-1431). High salt/L-NNA also increased blood pressure but reduced heart rate without affecting pulse pressure. However, blood pressure was further increased in rats treated with PPARalpha siRNA(790-811) (37 +/- 3%, P < 0.05). High salt/L-NNA also increased N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase excretion and expression of kidney injury molecule-1. However, PPARalpha siRNA(790-811) did not affect N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase excretion but reduced kidney injury molecule-1 expression. Histopathology of kidney tissues in high salt/L-NNA-treated rats revealed global, fibrinoid and tubular interstitial necrosis that was blunted by PPARalpha siRNA(790-811).
These data suggest that increased PPARalpha expression is a protective mechanism in hypertensive renal injury induced by nitric oxide withdrawal/high salt diet and that siRNAs targeting the DNA-binding domain of PPARalpha gene elicited differential effects on hypertension and kidney injury.
Studies in Europe have suggested that injectable diacetylmorphine, the active ingredient in heroin, can be an effective adjunctive treatment for chronic, relapsing opioid dependence.
In an open-label, phase 3, randomized, controlled trial in Canada, we compared injectable diacetylmorphine with oral methadone maintenance therapy in patients with opioid dependence that was refractory to treatment. Long-term users of injectable heroin who had not benefited from at least two previous attempts at treatment for addiction (including at least one methadone treatment) were randomly assigned to receive methadone (111 patients) or diacetylmorphine (115 patients). The primary outcomes, assessed at 12 months, were retention in addiction treatment or drug-free status and a reduction in illicit-drug use or other illegal activity according to the European Addiction Severity Index.
The primary outcomes were determined in 95.2% of the participants. On the basis of an intention-to-treat analysis, the rate of retention in addiction treatment in the diacetylmorphine group was 87.8%, as compared with 54.1% in the methadone group (rate ratio for retention, 1.62; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.35 to 1.95; P<0.001). The reduction in rates of illicit-drug use or other illegal activity was 67.0% in the diacetylmorphine group and 47.7% in the methadone group (rate ratio, 1.40; 95% CI, 1.11 to 1.77; P=0.004). The most common serious adverse events associated with diacetylmorphine injections were overdoses (in 10 patients) and seizures (in 6 patients).
Injectable diacetylmorphine was more effective than oral methadone. Because of a risk of overdoses and seizures, diacetylmorphine maintenance therapy should be delivered in settings where prompt medical intervention is available. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00175357.)
In a previous study, we showed that the positive subjective effects of cocaine were higher during the follicular phase compared to the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle. The purpose of the present study was to determine if exogenously administered progesterone during the follicular phase in females would attenuate the response to cocaine compared to the normal follicular phase, thus making the response to cocaine similar to the luteal phase. To address the role of sex differences, males were also administered exogenous progesterone during one inpatient stay. In all, 11 female and 10 male non-treatment-seeking cocaine smokers participated. Females had three inpatient stays: one during a normal follicular phase, one during a normal luteal phase, and one during a follicular phase when exogenous progesterone was administered. Males had two inpatient stays: one when exogenous progesterone was administered and the other when placebo was administered. During each inpatient admission, there were four smoked cocaine administration sessions: participants were administered six doses of cocaine (0, 6, 12, or 25 mg cocaine base) at 14 min intervals. Smoked cocaine increased heart rate, blood pressure and several subjective effects such as 'good drug effect' and 'drug quality' cluster scores. Administration of progesterone during the follicular phase in women attenuated the positive subjective effects of cocaine, whereas only minimal changes were observed in men. These results indicate that progesterone modulates the response to cocaine in women and suggests that fluctuations in endogenous progesterone levels account for some of the sex differences observed in humans.
For the last 100 years secretin has been extensively studied for its hormonal effects on digestion. Recent observations that the deficits in social reciprocity skills seen in young (3-4-year-old) autistic children are improved after secretin infusions suggest an additional influence on neuronal activity. We show here that i.v. administration of secretin in rats induces Fos protein expression in the neurons of the central amygdala as well as the area postrema, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, external lateral parabrachial nucleus and supraoptic nucleus. However, secretin infusion did not induce Fos expression in the solitary tract nucleus or paraventricular nucleus, regions normally activated by related peptides such as cholecystokinin. The peak blood levels of secretin that induce Fos protein expression in rat brain are similar to the peak blood levels observed during i.v. treatment with secretin in humans. The amygdala is known to be critical for developing reciprocal social interaction skills and abnormalities in this brain region have been demonstrated in autistic children.
Cognitive function was assessed in chronic drug users on neurocognitive measures of executive and memory function. Current amphetamine users were contrasted with current opiate users, and these two groups were compared with former users of these substances (abstinent for at least one year). Four groups of participants were recruited: amphetamine-dependent individuals, opiate-dependent individuals, former users of amphetamines, and/or opiates and healthy non-drug taking controls. Participants were administered the Tower of London (TOL) planning task and the 3D-IDED attentional set-shifting task to assess executive function, and Paired Associates Learning and Delayed Pattern Recognition Memory tasks to assess visual memory function. The three groups of substance users showed significant impairments on TOL planning, Pattern Recognition Memory and Paired Associates Learning. Current amphetamine users displayed a greater degree of impairment than current opiate users. Consistent with previous research showing that healthy men are performing better on visuo-spatial tests than women, our male controls remembered significantly more paired associates than their female counterparts. This relationship was reversed in drug users. While performance of female drug users was normal, male drug users showed significant impairment compared to both their female counterparts and male controls. There was no difference in performance between current and former drug users. Neither years of drug abuse nor years of drug abstinence were associated with performance. Chronic drug users display pronounced neuropsychological impairment in the domains of executive and memory function. Impairment persists after several years of drug abstinence and may reflect neuropathology in frontal and temporal cortices.
Dominant mutations of the P/Q-type Ca(2+) channel (CACNA1A) underlie several human neurological disorders, including episodic ataxia type 2, familial hemiplegic migraine 1 (FHM1) and spinocerebellar ataxia 6, but have not been found previously in the mouse. Here we report the first dominant ataxic mouse model of Cacna1a mutation. This Wobbly mutant allele of Cacna1a was identified in an ethylnitrosourea (ENU) mutagenesis dominant behavioral screen. Heterozygotes exhibit ataxia from 3 weeks of age and have a normal life span. Homozygotes have a righting reflex defect from postnatal day 8 and later develop severe ataxia and die prematurely. Both heterozygotes and homozygotes exhibit cerebellar atrophy with focal reduction of the molecular layer. No obvious loss of Purkinje cells or decrease in size of the granule cell layer was observed. Real-time polymerase chain reaction revealed altered expression levels of Cacna1g, Calb2 and Th in Wobbly cerebella, but Cacna1a messenger RNA and protein levels were unchanged. Positional cloning revealed that Wobbly mice have a missense mutation leading to an arginine to leucine (R1255L) substitution, resulting in neutralization of a positively charged amino acid in repeat III of voltage sensor segment S4. The dominance of the Wobbly mutation more closely resembles patterns of CACNA1A mutation in humans than previously described mouse recessive mutants (tottering, leaner, rolling Nagoya and rocker). Positive-charge neutralization in S4 has also been shown to underlie several cases of human dominant FHM1 with ataxia. The Wobbly mutant thus highlights the importance of the voltage sensor and provides a starting point to unravel the neuropathological mechanisms of this disease.
Phenylpropanolamine (PPA) is widely used as a nasal decongestant administered orally in sustained release preparations and, in Sweden, the recommended dose nowadays is 50 mg twice daily for adults. The aim of this placebo-controlled, cross-over study was to determine the onset and duration of the decongestive effect of 50 and 100 mg PPA in 15 healthy subjects. All subjects arrived at the laboratory at 07.30 h. After an acclimatisation, the nasal mucosal baseline was established with rhinostereometry and the minimal cross-sectional area was measured using acoustic rhinometry. The systolic and diastolic blood pressures were also determined. Then all subjects were given their study drugs for the day and the measurements were repeated every hour for 8 h. This procedure was repeated for 3 days at 48 h intervals between the days. For purposes of comparison, the decongestive effect of oxymetazoline nasal spray was studied on a separate day. The decongestive effect of 100 mg PPA was similar to that of topical oxymetazoline. It develops after 1 h and lasts for approximately 6 h. The decongestive effect of oxymetazoline was significantly greater than that of 50 mg PPA and that of 100 mg PPA was significantly greater than that of 50 mg PPA using rhinostereometry, but not when using acoustic rhinometry. However, 50 mg PPA had no significant decongestive effect, compared with placebo, with rhinostereometry or acoustic rhinometry. In the first 3 h after administration of PPA, there was a dose-response increase in the systolic and diastolic blood pressures, which then returned to baseline. In conclusion, this study shows that PPA in double the recommended dose, i.e. 100 mg, has a significant decongestive effect on the nasal mucosa in healthy subjects. However, when the dose of PPA is increased the systolic and diastolic blood pressures also increase.
Tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), an approved coronary thrombolytic agent, can cause serious bleeding. We report the cases of six patients with intracranial hemorrhage after tPA treatment for acute myocardial infarction. None of the patients were hypertensive at admission, and only one was hypertensive during therapy. Intravenous tPA, 100 mg, was followed by continuous intravenous heparin infusion; intracranial hemorrhage occurred between 2 and 14 hours after tPA infusion ended and between 3 and 17 hours after heparin therapy was started. The partial thromboplastin time (PTT) was excessively prolonged (from 81 s to more than 150 s) in all patients at onset of intracranial hemorrhage. The intracerebral hematomas were predominantly of lobar location, and two patients had multiple simultaneous hemorrhages. Four patients died from massive intracranial hemorrhage; the mechanism for these hemorrhages was unclear. Factors possibly related to hemorrhage include a systemic fibrinolytic state or a platelet anti-aggregant effect produced by tPA and enhanced hemorrhagic tendency caused by the combined effects of tPA and heparin. Local vascular changes at the bleeding site remain as potential contributing factors for isolated intracranial hemorrhage.
The neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS) is a potentially life threatening illness associated with significant morbidity especially in the neonatal period. A case of NAS due to codeine prescribed for pain relief during pregnancy is reported. Clinicians should be aware that narcotic derivatives prescribed in late pregnancy can give rise to this type of problem.
Brassinosteroids (BRs) are plant hormones that appear to be ubiquitous in both lower and higher plants. Recently, we published the first evidence that some natural BRs induce cell growth inhibitory responses in several human cancer cell lines without affecting normal non-tumor cell growth (BJ fibroblasts). The aim of the study presented here was to examine the mechanism of the antiproliferative activity of the natural BRs 28-homocastasterone (28-homoCS) and 24-epibrassinolide (24-epiBL) in human hormone-sensitive and -insensitive (MCF-7 and MDA-MB-468, respectively) breast cancer cell lines. The effects of 6, 12 and 24h treatments with 28-homoCS and 24-epiBL on cancer cells were surveyed using flow cytometry, Western blotting, TUNEL assays and immunofluorescence analyses. The studied BRs inhibited cell growth and induced blocks in the G(1) cell cycle phase. ER-α immunoreactivity was uniformly present in the nuclei of control MCF-7 cells, while cytoplasmic speckles of ER-α immunofluorescence appeared in BR-treated cells (IC(50), 24h). ER-β was relocated to the nuclei following 28-homoCS treatment and found predominantly at the periphery of the nuclei in 24-epiBL-treated cells after 24h of treatment. These changes were also accompanied by down-regulation of the ERs following BR treatment. In addition, BR application to breast cancer cells resulted in G(1) phase arrest. Furthermore, TUNEL staining and double staining with propidium iodide and acridine orange demonstrated the BR-mediated induction of apoptosis in both cell lines, although changes in the expression of apoptosis-related proteins were modulated differently by the BRs in each cell line. The studied BRs seem to exert potent growth inhibitory effects via interactions with the cell cycle machinery, and they could be highly valuable leads for agents for managing breast cancer.
