There is no approved pharmaco-therapy for cocaine dependence. Risperidone is an atypical antipsychotic drug with combined dopamine-2/serotonin-2 (D(2)/5-HT(2)) antagonist activity that has been effective in reducing cocaine use in some animal studies. We tested the efficacy of a long-acting, injectable preparation of risperidone on cocaine use in active cocaine users.
Thirty-one cocaine-dependent men who met DSM-IV diagnostic criteria for current cocaine dependence entered a 12-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of intramuscular risperidone, 25 mg every other week. The primary outcome measure was cocaine use as measured by urinary concentration of cocaine metabolites. Secondary outcomes were self-report of cocaine use and craving, depressive symptoms as measured by the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D), and adverse events. Participants were recruited during a 12-month period from October 2005 to September 2006.
Both groups reduced their cocaine use during the study. There were no between-group differences in the primary measure of cocaine use (urinary metabolites [F = 0.7, p = .41]) or on craving measures. Those assigned to risperi-done reported significantly worsened depressive symptoms (mean +/- SD HAM-D change scores: +7.4 +/- 8.8 vs. -2.3 +/- 5.8, respectively, F = 7.5, p = .018) and gained significantly more weight (mean weight change: +6.3 +/- 9.4 lb vs. -4.0 +/- 8.9 lb, respectively, F = 4.65, p = .044) than those assigned to placebo.
Treatment with long-acting injectable risperidone in active cocaine users was not associated with reduction in cocaine use or craving and was associated with worsening of depressive symptoms and weight gain.
clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00385801.
Muscle fasciculations and pain following the administration of suxamethonium were assessed in a group of patients who performed a series of stretch exercises approximately 1 h before operation. Comparison was made with a group who received suxamethonium but no pretreatment. Fasciculations were significantly reduced in the exercised group, and the incidence of muscle pain decreased from 52% in the untreated group to 12% in the exercised group. A significant relationship was shown between the severity of visible fasciculations and muscle pain.
Long-standing evidence indicates that Alzheimer's disease patients with behavioral symptoms have a worse prognosis and a more rapid disease progression. The current retrospective analysis evaluated the efficacy and safety of memantine in a subpopulation of patients with Alzheimer's disease exhibiting behavioral symptoms of agitation/aggression or psychosis at baseline.
A pooled analysis was conducted in people with agitation/aggression or psychosis from 3 large 6-month, randomized studies in moderately severe to severe Alzheimer's disease. The effect of memantine and placebo on these specific symptoms was evaluated using the Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI) subitem cluster of agitation and psychosis. Outcomes on global, cognitive, and functional measures were also analyzed.
Sixty percent of the total patient group had baseline symptoms of agitation/aggression, delusions, or hallucinations on the NPI. At both 12 and 24/28 weeks, there was a significant treatment advantage for memantine over placebo for the proportion of patients showing improvement on the defined neuropsychiatric symptom cluster (55.6% vs. 44.4% at week 12, p = .008; 58.0% vs. 44.8% at week 24/28, p = .002) and specifically for the treatment of agitation/aggression (55.3% vs. 43.1% at week 12, p = .011; 61.0% vs. 45.0% at week 24/28, p < .001). Placebo-treated patients in this population demonstrated an accelerated disease progression for global (Clinician's Interview-Based Impression of Change Plus Caregiver Input), cognitive (Severe Impairment Battery), and functional (Alzheimer Disease Cooperative Study Activities of Daily Living Inventory 19-item scale) outcomes, but memantine conferred statistically significant benefit for all measures. Tolerability in this population remained good, and fewer memantine-treated patients than placebo-treated patients withdrew due to adverse events.
This post hoc analysis provides important evidence from placebo-controlled trials that memantine may be a safe and effective treatment in Alzheimer's disease patients with agitation/aggression or psychosis, who are otherwise prone to rapid progression. Memantine treatment provided benefits in cognitive, functional, and global outcomes in these patients and for their agitation/aggression.
Gemcitabine (GEM, 2',2'-difluorodeoxycytidine) is currently used in advanced pancreatic adenocarcinoma, with a response rate of < 20%. The purpose of our work was to improve GEM activity by addition of cannabinoids. Here, we show that GEM induces both cannabinoid receptor-1 (CB1) and cannabinoid receptor-2 (CB2) receptors by an NF-κB-dependent mechanism and that its association with cannabinoids synergistically inhibits pancreatic adenocarcinoma cell growth and increases reactive oxygen species (ROS) induced by single treatments. The antiproliferative synergism is prevented by the radical scavenger N-acetyl-L-cysteine and by the specific NF-κB inhibitor BAY 11-7085, demonstrating that the induction of ROS by GEM/cannabinoids and of NF-κB by GEM is required for this effect. In addition, we report that neither apoptotic nor cytostatic mechanisms are responsible for the synergistic cell growth inhibition, which is strictly associated with the enhancement of endoplasmic reticulum stress and autophagic cell death. Noteworthy, the antiproliferative synergism is stronger in GEM-resistant pancreatic cancer cell lines compared with GEM-sensitive pancreatic cancer cell lines. The combined treatment strongly inhibits growth of human pancreatic tumor cells xenografted in nude mice without apparent toxic effects. These findings support a key role of the ROS-dependent activation of an autophagic program in the synergistic growth inhibition induced by GEM/cannabinoid combination in human pancreatic cancer cells.
A 51-year old woman treated with high doses of penicillin G developed acute intravascular haemolysis and tubulointerstitial nephritis. Immunological investigations showed circulating immune complexes, decreased C3 and C4 components of complement, IgG deposits in the renal interstitium, positive direct Coombs test with anti-IgG sera and complement and circulating anti-penicillin antibodies demonstrated by indirect antiglobulin tests and IgG RAST. Plasma haemoglobin and anti-penicillin antibodies could be removed by an early exsanguino-transfusion. These findings suggest that the nephritis was due to immune complexes and the haemolysis, to a combined hapten-type and immune complex mechanism.
A 39-year-old woman who suffered from migraine is described. She developed analgesic nephropathy due to phenacetin, and constrictive pericarditis, probably due to methysergide treatment.
A 4 1/2-month-old, 26-week premature infant with multiple complications of prematurity required a central venous catheter for venous access and antibiotic treatment of bacterial nosocomial infections. He developed tricuspid valve endocarditis with vegetation caused by Enterococcus faecium resistant to ampicillin, vancomycin and quinupristin-dalfopristin but susceptible to linezolid. He was successfully treated with linezolid intravenously (7 weeks) and then orally (2 weeks).
To explore the effect of muscovite on the quality of gastric ulcer healing.
Gastric ulcers were produced in male rats by serosal application of acetic acid. Rats were gavaged for 14 days with saline, omeprazole and muscovite starting 3 days after ulcer induction. Then the tissue and blood samples were obtained and measured.
In the muscovite group, restored mucosa thickness increased, cystically dilated glands decreased, microvessels in connective tissue increased, the secretion of mucus, hexosamine, PGE2, EGF, bFGF were enhanced, and the express of EGFR was stronger.
Muscovite can promote the gastric ulcer healing and improve the quality of gastric ulcer healing.
New treatments for malaria are urgently needed in areas such as Thailand where highly drug-resistant strains of Plasmodium falciparum are prevalent. Mefloquine is rapidly losing efficacy and conventional doses of halofantrine are infective. We therefore used pharmacokinetic stimulation to design an extended-dose halofantrine regimen and tested it in 26 soldiers stationed along the Thai-Cambodian border. Halofantrine was given after meals as three doses of 500 mg each at 4-hr intervals on the first day, followed by 500 mg a day for six days (total dose 4.5 g). Twenty-six soldiers treated with quinine-tetracycline for seven days (Q7T7) served as controls. There were no significant differences in efficacy between halofantrine and Q7T7 (P > 0.1) as assessed by cure rate (92% versus 85%), mean parasite clearance time (82 hr versus 81 hr), or mean fever clearance time (93 hr versus 99 hr). Halofantrine was better tolerated than Q7T7. The side effects score was lower (2 versus 11; P < 0.001), there were less days on which side effects occurred (2.0 days versus 5.5 days; P < 0.001), and fewer patients had adverse effects on every treatment day (4% versus 42%; P < 0.01). High-dose halofantrine is as effective and better tolerated than quinine-tetracycline for multidrug-resistant falciparum malaria.
Acute renal failure and hyperkalemia due to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors have been described in diabetic patients with other predisposing conditions. The case reported here involves a patient with type 1 diabetes mellitus, microalbuminuria and normal renal function who was treated with enalapril. Two years after initiation of this therapy, at a time when glycemic control was poor, he presented with symptomatic hyperkalemia and impaired renal function accompanied by hyporeninemic hypoaldosteronism. This case illustrates that reversible impairment of renal function and hyperkalemia can present after 2 years of treatment with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors in patients with precipitating factors.
To test the hypothesis that visual disturbances are more common during intravenous magnesium sulfate administration than at 1 to 4 days after discontinuation of the drug, 13 women underwent bedside neuroophthalmologic examinations during intravenous magnesium sulfate tocolysis at 2.0 to 3.0 gm hr and again at 1 to 4 days after cessation of therapy. Visual symptoms were common during intravenous magnesium sulfate administration. Blurred vision was present in 12 of 13 patients and diplopia was present in 10 of 13 patients. Abnormal findings during neuroophthalmologic examination occurred in all patients during intravenous magnesium sulfate administration. Findings included ptosis, accommodative and convergence insufficiency, and abnormal pupillary responsiveness to light and near. All patients were symptom-free and had normal examinations after magnesium sulfate was discontinued. These findings suggest that visual disturbances with therapeutic magnesium sulfate are common.
The clinical presentation, treatment, and outcomes of six consecutive patients presenting with acute aortic dissection secondary to hypertensive crises from methamphetamine use is described. Data were obtained prospectively from the expanded STS clinical database of the division of cardiothoracic surgery at the University of Washington, but reviewed in a retrospective fashion. These patients represent 5.5% of all patients diagnosed and treated for aortic dissection in the same time period (6/109) and 20% of all patients with aortic dissection under the age of 50 years (6/30). We conclude that young patients (<age 50 years old) presenting with acute aortic dissections should be routinely tested for methamphetamine. Positive urine tests should be confirmed with chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). Beta and alpha blockers should be used instead of the more typical beta blockade alone. We recommend the addition and documentation of intense, long-term drug rehabilitation program along with routine periodic clinical and radiographic follow-up to prevent secondary aneurysmal dilation of remaining pathological aorta.
Signalling by the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) superfamily of proteins depends on the phosphorylation and activation of SMAD proteins by heteromeric complexes of ligand-specific type I and type II receptors with serine/threonine-kinase activity. The vertebrate SMAD family includes at least nine members, of which Smad2 has been shown to mediate signalling by activin and TGF-beta. In Xenopus, Smad2 can induce dorsal mesoderm, mimicking Vg-1, activin and nodal. Here we investigate the function of Smad2 in mammalian development by generating two independent Smad2 mutant alleles in mice by gene targeting. We show that homozygous mutant embryos fail to form an organized egg cylinder and lack mesoderm, like mutant mice lacking nodal or ActRIB, the gene encoding the activin type-I receptor. About 20 per cent of Smad2 heterozygous embryos have severe gastrulation defects and lack mandibles or eyes, indicating that the gene dosage of Smad2 is critical for signalling. Mice trans-heterozygous for both Smad2 and nodal mutations display a range of phenotypes, including gastrulation defects, complex craniofacial abnormalities such as cyclopia, and defects in left-right patterning, indicating that Smad2 may mediate nodal signalling in these developmental processes. Our results show that Smad2 function is essential for early development and for several patterning processes in mice.
Use of cocaine, by inhalation, is currently increasing in Western Countries and its use is superseding heroin in the rising generation. Young people of the third millennium use narcotics to avoid the negative conditions of daily life and to escape on "unreal" trips, as happened in the '60s and '70s for the heroin-addicted. Today, on the contrary, people addicted to cocaine want to be more competitive and "winners" and believe that cocaine can help them to reach this goal. A series of 104 patients (75 male, 29 female), aged between 16 and 54 yrs, all habitual inhaling cocaine users (> or = 10 times per month) have been observed for 2 years. Among them, 11 (10.5%) had nasal septal perforation, which is frequently related to cocaine use. Of these 11 patients, 8 (72.7%) had nasal septal perforation of the quadrangular cartilage, while in the other 3 (27.3%) the perforation involved also the bony tract (vomer-perpendicular ethmoidal lamina). Psychological analysis of these 104 patients is reported: 62 patients (59.6%) answered that they inhaled cocaine to improve endurance and to feel stronger and less tired; 34 patients (32.7%) in order to enjoy themselves more during parties and to communicate more effectively with other people; 5 patients (4.8%) to gain confidence and to overcome their shyness, 2 patients (1.9%) to improve their sexual performance and 1 patient (1%) to drink more alcoholic drinks for a longer time without feeling sleepy. All the patients underwent psychotherapeutic treatment, but the lack of compliance and constantly missing the scheduled follow-up visits resulted in complete therapy being performed in only 16 patients (15.3%). All the patients with nasal septal perforation underwent rhino-endoscopy, at T0, with 0 degrees, 45 degrees endoscopes, computed tomography scan of nose and paranasal sinuses and biopsy. At the time of the observational period, none of the 11 patients who presented nasal septal perforation agreed to stop cocaine abuse; therefore, a temporary solution has been offered to all the patients (accepted by 3 of them), i.e., the positioning of a silicone button to close the perforation and, thus, improve the air flow in the nose and reduce progression of local necrosis. Together with the button, the positioning is described, under local anaesthesia, of two layers per septal side of hyaluronic acid, at different levels of esterification, kept in site by the button as a "sandwich" in order to obtain better re-growth of the mucosa and fewer scabs and bleeding.
We reports the result about the changes of function of gallbladder in 17 acromegalic patients after treatment with long-acting somatostatin analogue SMS201-995 for 3-36 months by ultrasonogram. The number of cases developed bile sludges, gallstones, chronic and acute cholecystitis was 14, 8, 10 and 1 respectively during therapy. The contractibility of gallbladder after fatty meal was inhibited in all of the patients during the course of therapy. A bolus injection of SMS201-995 with a dosage of 100 micrograms for acromegalic patients resulted in marked suppression of the contractibility of the gallbladder. Our result indicates that the decreased contractibility of the gallbladder leads to the formation of gallstones during the long-term therapy of SMS201-995. Therefore, it is important to follow the gallbladder carefully in the course of the therapy of SMS201-995.
To investigate the frequency, mortality rate, and characteristics of stroke in heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and the effect of argatroban therapy in that setting.
Retrospective analysis of two prospective studies of argatroban therapy in heparin-induced thrombocytopenia.
Hospitalized care.
Patients were 960 patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (767 argatroban-treated patients, 193 historical controls).
Argatroban 2 microg x kg x min, adjusted to achieve activated partial thromboplastin times 1.5-3 times baseline
Case records were reviewed to identify patients with stroke present at or within 37 days of study entry and to assess 37-day outcomes. Stroke occurred in 30 (3.1%) patients (stroke at entry, n = 9; new stroke during follow-up, n = 24; more than one stroke, n = 4). By logistic regression with treatment, protocol, age, and gender as covariates, females were significantly more likely to suffer stroke (odds ratio, 2.48; 95% confidence interval, 1.11-5.53; p =.026) and stroke-associated mortality (odds ratio, 4.10; 95% CI, 1.12-15.01; p =.033), and argatroban-treated patients had significantly reduced odds, vs. control, of new stroke (odds ratio, 0.31; 95% confidence interval, 0.10-0.96; p =.041) and stroke-associated mortality (odds ratio, 0.18; 95% confidence interval, 0.03-0.92; p =.039). Stroke (odds ratio, 3.66; 95% confidence interval, 1.73-7.73; p <.001) and age (odds ratio per year, 1.017; 95% confidence interval, 1.004-1.029; p =.008) were significant predictors of all-cause death. In the argatroban group, baseline platelet counts were significantly less in patients with, vs. without, stroke (medians, 42 x 10/L vs. 72 x 10/L; p =.006). Of 35 stroke events, 33 (94%) were ischemic and two (6%) were hemorrhagic (one per group, none during argatroban infusion); 30 (86%) were present at or within 13 days of entry.
Stroke, particularly ischemic stroke, is common in heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and significantly increases mortality risk. Stroke in heparin-induced thrombocytopenia occurs most often in females, in patients with more severe thrombocytopenia, and within 2 wks of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia presentation. Argatroban therapy vs. control significantly reduces the likelihood of new stroke and stroke-associated mortality in heparin-induced thrombocytopenia without increasing intracranial hemorrhage.
Selenium-dependent extracellular glutathione peroxidase (E-GPx) is found in plasma and other extracellular fluids. Previous studies have indicated that patients with chronic renal failure on dialysis have low plasma GPx activity. In this study, dialysis patients had approximately 40% of control plasma GPx activity, while anephric individuals had lowest plasma GPx activities ranging from 2 to 22% of control. The residual plasma GPx activity in anephric individuals could be completely precipitated by anti-E-GPx antibodies, indicating that all plasma GPx activity can be attributed to E-GPx in both normal and anephric individuals. Plasma GPx activity rises rapidly following kidney transplantation, often reaching normal values within 10 days. The plasma GPx activity in some transplanted patients rises to levels higher than the normal range, followed by a return to the normal range. Since E-GPx in the kidney is primarily synthesized in the proximal tubules, we investigated whether nephrotoxic agents known to disrupt proximal tubule function also affected plasma GPx activity. The beta-lactam antibiotic cephaloglycin rapidly caused a decrease in plasma GPx activity in rabbits. In addition, the chemotherapeutic agent ifosfamide caused a decrease in plasma GPx activity in pediatric osteosarcoma patients. Fanconi syndrome associated with either ifosfamide therapy or valproic acid therapy also caused a decrease in plasma GPx activity. Thus plasma GPx activity is related to kidney function and is decreased in certain situations where nephrotoxic drugs are administered. Monitoring plasma GPx activity may have predictive value in evaluating the function of transplanted kidneys or in predicting those patients particularly at risk of nephrotoxic injury associated with certain medications.
This study prospectively assessed whether Tei index is predictive of early systolic dysfunction in adults undergoing adriamycin treatment.
Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) was obtained by radionuclide ventriculography at baseline and after treatment. Tei index was evaluated by echocardiography at baseline, at an intermediary cycle and at the end of chemotherapy. Fifty-five predominantly female patients (91%) with breast cancer (80%) and without known cardiac disease were evaluated. After treatment (adriamycin dose of 304 +/- 47 mg/m(2)), systolic dysfunction (final LVEF < 50%) occurred in eight patients (14%). Baseline, intermediate or variation of Tei index were not accurate to predict early systolic dysfunction ("c" statistics < or = 0.60). Baseline Tei index > 0.39, for example, had a sensitivity of 75%, specificity of 55%, positive predictive value of 22% and negative predictive value of 93%.
Tei index does not appear to be a useful tool for detection of early adriamycin cardiotoxicity in adults.
Numerous data indicated a significance for the brain dopaminergic pathways in the behavioral effects of cocaine, however recent research also demonstrated involvement of serotonin (5-HT) neurotransmission and particularly 5-HT(1B) receptors in the reinforcing, discriminative stimulus and sensitizing effects of cocaine. In order to substantiate a role of these receptors in incentive motivation for cocaine, we used the extinction/reinstatement model to examine the effects of the 5-HT(1B) receptor ligands on reinstatement of extinguished cocaine-seeking behavior and food-taking behavior. Rats trained to self-administer cocaine (0.5 mg/kg/infusion) subsequently underwent extinction procedures. They were then tested for the cocaine-primed or cocaine-associated cue-induced reinstatement of extinguished cocaine-seeking behavior. Other groups of rats were trained to self-administer food (sweet milk), and after extinction they were tested for the reinstatement of food-taking behavior induced by contingent food presentation. The 5-HT(1B) receptor antagonists SB 216641 (2.5-7.5 mg/kg) and GR 127935 (2.5-10 mg/kg) dose-dependently attenuated the cocaine (10 mg/kg)- and cocaine-associated cue-induced reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior whereas they failed to alter reinstatement of food-taking behavior. The 5-HT(1B) receptor agonist CP 94253 (2.5 or 5 mg/kg) combined with a subthreshold priming dose of cocaine (2.5 mg/kg) potentiated reinstatement of the drug seeking-behavior, but inhibited cocaine seeking induced by a submaximal dose (10 mg/kg) of cocaine or the cocaine-associated cue. Moreover, the 5-HT(1B) receptor agonist attenuated reinstatement of food-taking behavior. Facilitatory effect of CP 94253 on cocaine-seeking behavior and its inhibitory effect on food-taking behavior were blocked by SB 216641, but its inhibitory effect on cocaine-seeking behavior remained unaffected by this 5-HT(1B) receptor antagonist. Our results indicate that tonic activation of 5-HT(1B) receptors is involved in cocaine- and cue-induced reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior and that the inhibitory effects of 5-HT(1B) receptor antagonists on these phenomena are directly related to motivational aspects of cocaine abuse. The facilitatory 5-HT(1B) receptor-mediated effect of the 5-HT(1B) receptor agonist on cocaine seeking may be related to the earlier reported enhancement of the rewarding properties of cocaine, while its inhibitory effect on cocaine-seeking behavior, unrelated to the 5-HT(1B) receptor activation, may result from a general reduction of motivation.
The repeated administration of dopamine receptor agonists produces a progressive increase in the acute behavioral effects of these drugs, known as behavioral sensitization. These includes the development of impulsive aggressive behavior after repeated small doses of apomorphine. The aim of this investigation was to study the behavioral specificity of the apomorphine-induced aggressiveness model and its possible relationship with changes in the D(2) receptor-G-protein interaction. Apomorphine (1 mg/kg, sc) was administered daily for three weeks to two groups of male Wistar rats. One of the groups was repeatedly tested for the development of aggressiveness. Apomorphine aggressiveness developed stepwise with repeated behavioral testing. Neither apomorphine-treated group displayed any behavioral change in the open field test, forced swimming test, or quipazine-induced wet-dog shake response test. Three weeks of apomorphine administration in the home cage increased the GDP binding affinity and reduced the [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding in striatal membranes, but this effect was not present in apomorphine-treated rats that had developed aggressiveness. In conclusion, sensitization to apomorphine, as measured by the expression of aggressiveness, developed only with accumulating apomorphine-induced fighting, was behaviorally specific, and appeared to be dependent on the D(2) receptor-G-protein interaction. The absence of sensitization to the dopaminergic stimulation may be mediated by the downregulation of D(2) receptor sensitivity via changes in the GDP affinity of G-proteins.
Propanolol use can result in a severe toxic psychosis. In this case, mild perceptual errors progressed eventually to a severe confusional state over a period of 6 months. Life threatening cardiac symptoms forced the continuation of propanolol until the bundle of His was surgically severed. Despite the prolonged delirium, the patient showed complete clearing of sensorium within 2 weeks after cessation of the drug. The differential diagnosis of delirium in the cardiac patient needs to include consideration of propanolol use.
To analyze the clinical features and to identify factors associated with the development of Raynaud's phenomenon (RP) in patients receiving chemotherapy for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) related Kaposi's sarcoma.
A retrospective cohort study of all patients with Kaposi's sarcoma treated with chemotherapy at Toronto-Sunnybrook Regional Cancer Centre from 1987 to 1995. Patients who developed RP were compared with those who did not with respect to age, CD4 cell count, Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome Clinical Trials Group (ACTG) stage, smoking history, type and dose of chemotherapy, and previous treatment with interferon and radiation therapy.
Eighty-seven patients with Kaposi's sarcoma were treated with chemotherapy between 1987 and 1995. Five developed RP, which progressed to digital gangrene. Median age, proportion of smokers, proportion defined as ACTG poor risk, median CD4 count, and history of opportunistic infections were equal in the 2 groups. All patients with RP received vinblastine followed by bleomycin. No cases of RP occurred in 27 patients treated with vinblastine alone or in 24 patients treated with bleomycin without previous vinblastine. Patients developing RP tended to have received higher cumulative doses of chemotherapy including bleomycin (p = 0.067) and previous treatment with either local radiation or interferon (p < 0.009, p < 0.001, respectively).
Sequential chemotherapy with vinblastine followed by bleomycin was associated with the development of RP in patients with HIV related Kaposi's sarcoma. Bleomycin alone was not associated with RP.
We generated transgenic mice expressing osteopontin (OPN) under the control of the alpha(1)-antitrypsin promoter. These mice (OPN-T mice) expressed OPN mRNA in liver and kidney, and released a large amount of plasma OPN, which increased after stimulation with turpentine oil. Before sensitization, the number of CD4+ T cells in lymph nodes was significantly higher in OPN-T than nontransgenic mice, and that in spleen was slightly higher, whereas that of CD8+ T cells was no different between OPN-T and nontransgenic mice. After sensitization, the CD4+ T cell numbers in spleen increased significantly, while there were almost no changes in the CD8+ T cells in lymph nodes and spleen. The intensity of contact hypersensitivity responses to 2,4-dinitrofluorobenzene (DNFB) was obviously enhanced in OPN-T mice. In the delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) model elicited by DNFB, the number of CD8+ T cells among DNFB-2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS)-peritoneal exudate cells was significantly higher in OPN-T than nontransgenic mice, while there was almost no difference in that of CD4+ T cells. Adoptive transfer experiments revealed that the enhanced reactivity is carried by CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, respectively, although the ability of transferring DTH was significantly lower in CD8+ than in CD4+ T cells. The enhancement of CD8+ T cell migration was observed in OPN-T mice. These results suggest that OPN induces a proliferation of effector CD4+ and CD8+ cells in cell-mediated reactions and plays a role in the migration of CD8+ T cells.
From August 1999 to April 2001, there was an outbreak of severe eczema at a factory manufacturing medical equipment. A glue, mainly based on the isocyanate dicyclohexylmethane-4,4'-diisocyanate (DMDI), was suspected as being the cause of the problem. 16 workers with recent episodes of eczema were patch tested with a standard series, an isocyanate series and work material. The latter consisted of, among other things, the glue, DMDI, and an amine, dicyclohexylmethane-4,4'-diamine (DMDA), which is formed when DMDI reacts with water. 13 patients reacted to DMDI, 9 to 1,6-hexamethylenediisocyanate (HDI) and 4 to isophoronediisocyanate (IPDI), all of which are aliphatic isocyanates. None reacted to the aromatic isocyanates, diphenylmethane-4,4'-diisocyanate (MDI) or toluenediisocyanate (TDI). One explanation for this pattern could be that aromatic diisocyanates are more reactive than the aliphatic ones and that, therefore, they are inactivated before penetrating the skin. 5 patients reacted to DMDA and 5 to 4,4'-diaminodiphenylmethane (MDA). Concurrent reactions to DMDA and or MDA with DMDI could be due to cross-reactivity. The positive reactions to MDA could also be a marker of MDI exposure. Yet another patient, investigated in 1997 with suspected work-related contact dermatitis from the glue, is described. She, however, showed no positive reactions to any isocyanates.
