Left-chest pain and infarct-like ECG changes occurred in a 47-year-old man who had had an orchiectomy for embryonic carcinoma of the testes and was receiving the second cycle of chemotherapy with vinblastine, bleomycin and cisplatin. Only creatine kinase was slightly elevated (90 U/l) among the heart-specific enzymes. Coronary angiography did not demonstrate any coronary abnormalities, but the ventriculogram showed apical akinesia. Chest pain and similar ECG changes again occurred during the third treatment cycle, this time without bleomycin. This sequence would suggest that vinblastine was the cause of the myocardial damage, although its pathogenesis is uncertain.
To determine the acceptability of short term neo-adjuvant maximal androgen deprivation (MAD) to patients treated with external beam radiation for locally advanced prostate cancer.
Between 1996 and 2000, 818 patients with locally advanced, but non-metastatic, prostate cancer were entered into a randomised clinical trial (TROG 96.01), which compared radiation treatment alone with the same radiation treatment and 3 or 6 months neo-adjuvant MAD with goserelin and flutamide. Relevant symptoms, and how troublesome they were to the patient, were scored using a self-assessment questionnaire. This was completed by the patient at registration, and at specified times during and after treatment. Patients taking flutamide had liver function tests checked at regular intervals.
All patients have completed at least 12 months follow-up after treatment. Nearly all patients completed planned treatment with goserelin, but 27% of patients in the 6-month MAD treatment arm, and 20% in the 3-month arm, had to stop flutamide early. This was mainly due to altered liver function (up to 17% patients) and bowel side effects (up to 8% patients). However, although flutamide resulted in more bowel symptoms for patients on MAD, there was significant reduction in some urinary symptoms on this treatment. Acute bowel and urinary side effects at the end of radiation treatment were similar in all treatment arms. Side effect severity was unrelated to radiation target volume size, which was reduced by MAD, but symptomatology prior to any treatment was a powerful predictor. Of the 36% of patients who were sexually active before any treatment, the majority became inactive whilst on MAD. However, sexual activity at 12 months after radiation treatment was similar in all treatment arms, indicating that the effects of short term MAD on sexual function are reversible.
Despite temporary effects on sexual activity, and compliance difficulties with flutamide, short-term neo-adjuvant MAD was not perceived by patients to be a major inconvenience. If neo-adjuvant MAD in the way tested can be demonstrated to lead to improved biochemical control and/or survival, then patients would view these therapeutic gains as worthwhile. Compliance with short-term goserelin was excellent, confirming that LH-RH analogues have a potential role in more long-term adjuvant treatment. However, for more protracted androgen deprivation, survival advantages and deleterious effects need to be assessed in parallel, in order to determine the optimal duration of treatment.
To study the protective effect of local gene therapy with adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) on the function and morphology of the cochlea of guinea pigs with gentamicin-induced hearing loss.
Hearing loss was induced with gentamicin (80 mg.kg(-1).day(-1) injected intramuscularly) in 18 pigmented guinea pigs 4 days prior to gene transfer. The guinea pigs were then divided into groups A, B, and C for AAV-mediated NT-3 gene transfer (n=7), AAV infection (n=7) or no particular intervention (n=4), respectively. Mini-Osmotic pump were implanted in either side of the ears in groups A and B, and the guinea pigs were injected with gentamicin (80 mg.kg(-1).day(-1)) intramuscularly since the operation day for 10 consecutive days. In group C, only gentamicin was administrated. Before and 14 days after gentamicin administration, auditory brainstem response audiometry (ABR) and distort-product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAE) were recorded, and the animals sacrificed to observe the morphological changes of the cochlear microscopically.
Compared with groups B and C, the animals in group A showed better auditory ability (ABR and DPOAE) and significantly higher surviving rate of the outer hair cells (P<0.05).
AAV-mediated NT-3 gene transfer may protect and repair the cochlear hair cells and auditory function damaged by aminoglycoside ototoxicity in guinea pigs, and aseptic procedure is of vital importance in cochlear local gene therapy.
Our previous studies show that Bcl-2, a regulator of apoptosis, may be involved in the reduction of mucous cell metaplasia (MCM) during recovery from inflammatory responses. The present study was to determine whether neutrophilic inflammation mediates Bcl-2 expression in mucous cells. Rats were intratracheally instilled with 50-1000 microg of LPS. The number of neutrophils recovered by bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) increased with the dose of LPS, and the percentage of Bcl-2-expressing cells increased with the numbers of neutrophils in the BAL. Depletion of neutrophils did not reduce MCM, but the percentage of Bcl-2-positive cells increased 1.8-fold in neutrophil-depleted compared with controls. Injection of rats with bezafibrate, an inducer of cytochrome P-450, doubled the number of neutrophils in the BAL, decreased MCM twofold compared with vehicle-injected controls, and reduced Bcl-2 expression. Bcl-2 mRNA levels decreased in a tracheal epithelial cell line treated with bezafibrate. These data demonstrate that Bcl-2 expression is independent of the number of neutrophils in the BAL and that bezafibrate may directly reduce Bcl-2 expression in epithelial cells.
Although rural Canadians are reported to have higher rates of diabetes than others, little is known about the relative influence of known versus agriculture-related risk factors. The purpose of this research was to carry out a comprehensive study of prevalence, risk factors and co-morbidities of diabetes among adults in rural Saskatchewan and to determine possible differences between those living on and off farms.
In 2010, we conducted a baseline mail-out survey (Saskatchewan Rural Health Study) of 11,982 households located in the province's four agricultural quadrants. In addition to self-reported physician-diagnosed diabetes, the questionnaire collected information from farm and small town cohorts on possible diabetes determinants including lifestyle, family history, early life factors and environmental/agricultural-related exposures. Clustering effect within households was adjusted using Generalized Estimating Equations approach.
Responses were obtained from 4624 (42%) households comprising 8208 males and females aged 18 years or older and 7847 self-described Caucasian participants (7708 with complete information). The overall age-standardized diabetes prevalence for the latter was 6.35% but people whose primary residence was on farms had significantly lower diabetes prevalence than those living in non-farm locations (5.11% versus 7.33% respectively; p<0.0001). Diabetes risk increased with age and affected almost 17% of those older than 65 (OR 2.57; CI' 1.63, 4.04 compared to those aged 18-45). Other known independent risk factors included family history of diabetes (OR 2.50 [CI's 1.94, 3.23] if father; OR 3.11 [CI's 2.44, 3.98] if mother), obesity (OR 2.66; CI's 1.86, 3.78), as well as lower socioeconomic status, minimal/no alcohol intake and smoking. The most original finding was that exposure to insecticides conferred an increased risk for diabetes among males (OR 1.83; CI's 1.15, 2.91). Finally, the co-morbidities with the strongest independent association with diabetes were heart disease and hypertension.
While known diabetes risk factors are important determinants of diabetes in the agricultural zones of Saskatchewan, on-farm residence is protective and appears related to increased outdoor activities. In contrast, we have now shown for the first time that exposure to insecticides is an independent risk factor for diabetes among men in rural Canada.
In previous studies we have shown that administration of 200 mg/day hydrocortisone (cortisol) to normal subjects raises blood pressure and cardiac output, with no change in total peripheral resistance or resting forearm vascular resistance. We have tested the hypothesis that this rise in cardiac output is essential for the rise in blood pressure (BP). Six normal volunteer men, aged 22 to 34 years, took part in two studies of 10 days, in random order, at least 4 weeks apart. Placebo (Study A) or 50 mg atenolol orally, 12 hourly (Study B), was given on days 1 to 10 and 50 mg cortisol orally, 6 hourly, on days 5 to 10. Blood pressure and cardiac output (Fick technique, alternative Doppler) were measured on days 4 and 10. In Study A (placebo and cortisol) systolic BP rose from 116 to 125 mm Hg (standard error of the difference, SED 1.5), P < .01, and in Study B (atenolol and cortisol) from 109 to 120 mm Hg (SED 1.5), P < .01. Cardiac output (indirect Fick) rose from 4.8 +/- 0.01 to 5.9 +/- 0.2 L/min, P < .01, in A, and was unchanged in Study B, 4.4 +/- 0.1 to 4.4 +/- 0.2 L/min. Cardiac output measured by Doppler method was similar in pattern, 5.1 +/- 0.2 to 6.7 +/- 0.2 L/min (P < .01) in A and 5.7 +/- 0.2 to 5.8 +/- 0.2 in B. Calculated peripheral resistance fell in Study A and increased in Study B.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Twenty-four women with stress urinary incontinence of slight to moderate grade were treated with phenylpropanolamine (PPA), po 50 mg twice daily, and placebo for periods of two weeks according to randomized double-blind cross-over schedule. A significant increase in maximum urethral closure pressure (MUCP) was found after treatment with PPA compared to placebo, but functional urethral length was unchanged. Number of leakage episodes were significantly reduced during PPA treatment, but micturition frequency was unchanged. Fourteen women preferred PPA, 4 preferred placebo, and 6 considered PPA and placebo to be ineffective. The scored improvements obtained by PPA were highly significant when tested against the scored placebo effect. There was a significant correlation between subjective assessment and improvement in number of leakage episodes and increase of MUCP. Plasma-PPA levels showed no significant correlation with any of the effect variables. Adverse reactions were few and negligible.
The development of retinal pigment epithelial defects in a young patient with Wilson's disease after long-term penicillamine therapy is described. It is hypothesized that decreased copper availability secondary to penicillamine therapy may result in defective elastin within the lamina of Bruch with resultant defects in the overlying retinal pigment epithelium.
Resveratrol increases lifespan and decreases the risk of many cancers. We hypothesized resveratrol will slow the growth of human prostate cancer xenografts.
SCID mice were fed Western diet (40% fat, 44% carbohydrate, 16% protein by kcal). One week later, human prostate cancer cells, either LAPC-4 (151 mice) or LNCaP (94 mice) were injected subcutaneously. Three weeks after injection, LAPC-4 mice were randomized to Western diet (control group), Western diet plus resveratrol 50 mg/kg/day, or Western diet plus resveratrol 100 mg/kg/day. The LNCaP mice were randomized to Western diet or Western diet plus resveratrol 50 mg/kg/day. Mice were sacrificed when tumors reached 1,000 mm(3). Survival differences among groups were assessed using Cox proportional hazards. Serum insulin and IGF axis were assessed using ELISAs. Gene expression was analyzed using Affymetrix gene arrays.
Compared to control in the LAPC-4 study, resveratrol was associated with decreased survival (50 mg/kg/day--HR 1.53, P = 0.04; 100 mg/kg/day--HR 1.22, P = 0.32). In the LNCaP study, resveratrol did not change survival (HR 0.77, P = 0.22). In combined analysis of both resveratrol 50 mg/kg/day groups, IGF-1 was decreased (P = 0.05) and IGFBP-2 was increased (P = 0.01). Resveratrol induced different patterns of gene expression changes in each xenograft model, with upregulation of oncogenic pathways E2F3 and beta-catenin in LAPC-4 tumors.
Resveratrol was associated with significantly worse survival with LAPC-4 tumors, but unchanged survival with LNCaP. Based on these preliminary data that resveratrol may be harmful, caution should be advised in using resveratrol for patients until further studies can be conducted.
Unlike neurologic toxicity, myocardial infarction appears to be an idiosyncratic response to the drug, unrelated to dose, duration of use, or route of administration. There is no marker to identify the person who may have life-threatening cardiac effects after taking cocaine, but those who experienced myocardial ischemia once are at risk of recurrence if they use the drug again.
1. We describe the effects of barbiturates on the neurotoxicity induced by nitric oxide (NO) on foetal rat cultured cortical and hippocampal neurones. Cessation of cerebral blood flow leads to an initiation of a neurotoxic cascade including NO and peroxynitrite. Barbiturates are often used to protect neurones against cerebrovascular disorders clinically. However, its neuroprotective mechanism remains unclear. 2. In the present experiment, we established a new in vitro model of brain injury mediated by NO with an NO-donor, 1-hydroxy-2-oxo-3-(3-aminopropyl)-3-isopropyl-1-triazene (NOC-5) on grid tissue culture wells. We also investigated the mechanisms of protection of CNS neurones from NO-induced neurotoxicity by thiopentone sodium, which contains a sulphydryl group (SH-) in the medium, and pentobarbitone sodium, which does not contain SH-. 3. Primary cultures of cortical and hippocampal neurones (prepared from 16-day gestational rat foetuses) were used after 13-14 days in culture. The cells were exposed to NOC-5 at the various concentrations for 24 h in the culture to evaluate a dose-dependent effect of NOC-5. 4. To evaluate the role of the barbiturates, neurones were exposed to 4, 40 and 400 microM of thiopentone sodium or pentobarbitone sodium with or without 30 microM NOC-5. In addition, superoxide dismutase (SOD) at 1000 u ml(-1) and 30 microM NOC-5 were co-administered for 24 h to evaluate the role of SOD. 5. Exposure to NOC-5 induced neural cell death in a dose-dependent manner in both cortical and hippocampal cultured neurones. Approximately 90% of the cultured neurones were killed by 100 microM NOC-5. 6. This NOC-5-induced neurotoxicity was significantly attenuated by high concentrations of thiopentone sodium (40 and 400 microM) as well as SOD, but not by pentobarbitone sodium. The survival rates of the cortical neurones and hippocampal neurones that were exposed to 30 microM NOC-5 were 11.2+/-4.2% and 37.2+/-3.0%, respectively, and in the presence of 400 microM thiopentone sodium, the survival rate increased to 65.3+/-3.5% in the cortical neurones and 74.6+/-2.2% in the hippocampal neurones. 7. These findings demonstrate that thiopentone sodium, which acts as a free radical scavenger, protects the CNS neurones against NO-mediated cytotoxicity in vitro. In conclusion, thiopentone sodium is one of the best of the currently available pharmacological agents for protection of neurones against intraoperative cerebral ischaemia.
Cardiac side effects of mesalamine are uncommon. A young man with ulcerative colitis who developed recurrent chest pain and electrocardiographic changes while on mesalamine is presented. Various causes of mesalamine-induced chest pain are discussed.
A number of anticonvulsant drugs were studied for their efficacy in preventing seizures and death from intoxication with cocaine. Rats were first pretreated with the test drug then subjected to large doses of intraperitoneally administered cocaine. In this model, control animals developed seizures in approximately 6 min, followed by death in approximately 10 min. Statistically significant protection against seizures and death was afforded by pretreatment with diazepam, phenobarbitol and the blocker of the uptake of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), SKF 100330A. Only partial protection was afforded by the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist MK 801, the benzodiazepine antagonist, flumazenil and the novel aminobenzamide, LY 201116. Valproic acid and phenytoin demonstrated limited efficacy against cocaine-induced seizures, without consistently reducing death. Carbamazepine and ethosuximide did not significantly reduce seizures or death. In this model of acute cocaine toxicity, the anticonvulsants diazepam, phenobarbital and the blocker of the uptake of GABA, SKF 100330A were the most effective in protecting rats from cocaine-induced seizures and death. These data offer insight into future approaches for the treatment of patients with the acute toxic effects of cocaine.
Stress contributes significantly to the development of many diseases. In clinical studies, a strong correlation between depression and immune dysfunction has been shown. Our previous studies indicated that sympathetic innervation can regulate intestinal mucosal immunity through sympathetic synapses, but the mechanism in stress/depression-induced intestinal immune deficiency was unclear. Using a mouse model in which behavioural stress/depression is chemically induced by reserpine, it is found that there is a substantial deficiency of intestinal local humoral and particularly specific antibody response to the antigen stimulation in reserpine-treated group. No significant difference of CD4+, CD8+ or Mac1+ cells between reserpine-treated and control groups was detected in the intestine. This deficiency is closely correlated with stress/depression. A possible correlation between stress, cytokine secretion and humoral immunity in vivo is postulated.
A retrospective study of 30 adults who underwent supravesical diversion for a variety of benign and malignant conditions was done with special attention to the fate of the residual bladder. Diversion was performed for diverse conditions, including radiation cystitis, cyclophosphamide cystitis, interstitial cystitis, incontinence and trauma. All groups experienced significant morbidity from the remaining in situ bladder. Over-all, 80% of the patients experienced at least 1 complication, chief among which were pyocystis (67%), hemorrhage (23%), severe pain (13%), and unremitting feelings of incomplete emptying and spasm (17%). Complications of sufficient severity to require rehospitalization occurred in 43% of the patients. Several patients required multiple rehospitalizations. Reoperation requiring general or regional anesthesia was necessary in 9 patients (30%) and included 4 cystectomies. Serious consideration should be given to performing primary cystectomy at the time of supravesical diversion in any patient in whom subsequent undiversion is not anticipated.
The purpose of this study was to determine whether digoxin is effective in patients with chronic, stable mild to moderate heart failure.
Digoxin has been a traditional therapy in heart failure, but methodologic limitations in earlier studies have prevented definitive conclusions regarding its efficacy.
Withdrawal of digoxin (placebo group, n = 46) or its continuation (digoxin group, n = 42) was performed in a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled multicenter trial of patients with chronic, stable mild to moderate heart failure secondary to left ventricular systolic dysfunction who had normal sinus rhythm and were receiving long-term treatment with diuretic drugs and digoxin.
Patients withdrawn from digoxin therapy showed worsened maximal exercise capacity (median change in exercise time -96 s) compared with that of patients who continued to receive digoxin (change in exercise time +4.5 s) (p = 0.003). Patients withdrawn from digoxin therapy showed an increased incidence of treatment failures (p = 0.039) (39%, digoxin withdrawal group vs. 19%, digoxin maintenance group) and a decreased time to treatment failure (p = 0.037). In addition, patients who continued to receive digoxin had a lower body weight (p = 0.044) and heart rate (p = 0.003) and a higher left ventricular ejection fraction (p = 0.016).
These data provide strong evidence of the clinical efficacy of digoxin in patients with normal sinus rhythm and mild to moderate chronic heart failure secondary to systolic dysfunction who are treated with diuretics.
The antihypertensive effect of atenolol, a new beta 1 receptor blocking agent, was studied in a double blind non cross-over trial in 40 patients (pts) affected by mild to moderately severe essential hypertension with normal plasma renin activity. After a run-in period (15 days) of placebo treatment pts were assigned to two groups. The first (group A) continued placebo treatment for 30 days, the second (Group B) were given atenolol (ICI 66082) 100 mg daily for 30 days also. Atenolol significantly reduced systolic and diastolic blood pressure in recumbent and standing position and heart rate at rest. No significantly changes of the same parameters were observed in group A. Body weight and plasma renin activity was unchanged in both groups. Atenolol treatment never was discharged in order to side effects. These results seem to suggest that atenolol can be an useful drug in the treatment of systemic blood hypertension.
Renal hypouricemia is an inherited and heterogeneous disorder characterized by increased urate clearance (CUA). The authors recently established that urate was reabsorbed via URAT1 on the tubular apical membrane and that mutations in SLC22A12 encoding URAT1 cause renal hypouricemia. This study was undertaken to elucidate and correlate clinical and genetic features of renal hypouricemia. The SLC22A12 gene was sequenced in 32 unrelated idiopathic renal hypouricemia patients, and the relationships of serum urate levels, and CUA/creatinine clearance (Ccr) to SLC22A12 genotype were examined. Uricosuric (probenecid and benzbromarone) and anti-uricosuric drug (pyrazinamide) loading tests were also performed in some patients. Three patients had exercise-induced acute renal failure (9.4%), and four patients had urolithiasis (12.5%). The authors identified eight new mutations and two previously reported mutations that result in loss of function. Thirty patients had SLC22A12 mutations; 24 homozygotes and compound heterozygotes, and 6 heterozygotes. Mutation G774A dominated SLC22A12 mutations (74.1% in 54 alleles). Serum urate levels were significantly lower and CUA/Ccr was significantly higher in heterozygotes compared with healthy subjects; these changes were even more significant in homozygotes and compound heterozygotes. These CUA/Ccr relations demonstrated a gene dosage effect that corresponds with the difference in serum urate levels. In contrast to healthy subjects, the CUA/Ccr of patients with homozygous and compound heterozygous SLC22A12 mutations was unaffected by pyrazinamide, benzbromarone, and probenecid. The findings indicate that SLC22A12 was responsible for most renal hypouricemia and that URAT1 is the primary reabsorptive urate transporter, targeted by pyrazinamide, benzbromarone, and probenecid in vivo.
The incidence of melanoma, the most lethal form of skin cancer, continues to increase in the Western world. In addition to genetic alterations in high- and low-susceptibility genes identified for melanoma, somatic mutations in BRAF gene occur frequently in human melanoma and are distinctively linked to sun exposure. Of significance is a single hotspot codon, i.e., BRAF V600, wherein up to 92% of all mutations arise. Recent work in our laboratory has demonstrated that solar ultraviolet (UV) irradiation triggers mutagenesis through induction of various DNA lesions, many of which capable of producing similar types of mutations, as those seen in BRAF V600 variants in human melanoma. In this review article, we have discussed application of "DNA damage-targeted mutagenicity" of solar UV-irradiation for determining the mechanistic involvement of sunlight UV in BRAF V600 mutagenesis in human melanoma. We envision that establishing "DNA-damage derived mutagenesis" in this exceptionally unique target gene may resolve the underlying mechanism(s) of melanoma-genesis, thus helping define preventive and therapeutic measures against this malignant disease.
The authors investigated whether preprogramming (Bereitschaftspotential, BP) and control activity (skilled performance positivity, SPP) in a bimanual, sequential skilled performance task (SPT) is sensitive to L-dopa administration in non-demented Parkinson's disease (PD) patients.
Movement related potentials (MRPs) were recorded in 12 non-demented parkinsonian patients before and after acute L-dopa administration, and in 17 control subjects, all of whom were performing SPT for the first time. BP, SPP and correct performances were evaluated both as a grand average and in sequential blocks in order to verify the learning effect.
After L-dopa administration the PD patients scored a significantly higher percentage of correct performances (P<0.05), linked to a decreased BP amplitude (P<0.001) and an increased SPP amplitude (P<0.005), than before therapy. Dynamic evaluation through the block analysis did not show any learning effect in off-therapy patients but showed that L-dopa intake improved learning, linked to a BP amplitude decrease (P<0.005) and a SPP amplitude increase (P<0.05). Furthermore, L-dopa minimized differences in the learning trend between off-therapy PD patients and controls.
Our findings suggest that skilled motor learning is impaired in non-demented untreated PD patients. Dopaminergic drug administration seems to restore the ability of PD patients to use more automatic motor strategies, as demonstrated by the electrophysiological and behavioural pattern, which became more similar to that of normal subjects.
The emetic agent ipecac is widely used for the initial treatment of acute oral drug overdose. Its emetic and gastric evacuative efficacies have been studied extensively but its potential for pharmacologic interactions with various drugs and other possible poisons has not been explored. The purpose of this investigation was to determine if ipecac can alter the acute toxicity of two widely used drugs that act on the central nervous system, phenobarbital and theophylline. Ipecac syrup, 5 ml/kg, was administered by gavage to male Lewis rats either 1 hr before or 15 or 30 min after the start of an iv infusion of phenobarbital or theophylline. Control animals received the syrup vehicle only. Ipecac elicited vomiting-like behavior (frequent, wide opening of the mouth) for more than 1 hr. The drug infusion was stopped immediately after onset of the loss of righting reflex (phenobarbital) or maximal seizures (theophylline). Samples of cerebrospinal fluid, blood (for serum), and the brain were obtained at that time for analysis of drug concentrations. There were no significant differences between control and ipecac-treated animals with respect to the dose requirements and drug concentrations in cerebrospinal fluid, serum, and brain at the respective pharmacologic endpoint. It is concluded that ipecac has no apparent effect on the acute toxicity of phenobarbital and theophylline in rats.
A considerable proportion of patients discontinue dipyridamole therapy because of headache. Risk indicators for the development of dipyridamole induced headache were identified by means of an exploratory analysis of data from the European/Australasian Stroke Prevention in Reversible Ischaemia Trial (ESPRIT) and the Second European Stroke Prevention Study (ESPS 2). In ESPRIT, dipyridamole induced headache was significantly associated with female sex, absence of hypertension and non-smoking (area under the receiver operator characteristic (ROC) curve 0.63 (95% CI 0.58 to 0.68)) and in ESPS 2 with female sex and absence of ischaemic lesions on imaging (area under the ROC curve 0.64 (95% CI 0.59 to 0.69)).
Pioglitazone hydrochloride (PIO), a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ) agonist, was administered orally for 85 weeks at 16 mg/kg/day to male rats fed either a diet containing 1.5% ammonium chloride (acid-forming diet) or a control diet to investigate the effects of urinary acidification induced by the acid-forming diet on the tumorigenic potential of PIO in the urinary bladder. The surviving animals at the end of the administration period were followed to the end of the 2-year study period without changes in the diet and were subjected to terminal necropsy on Week 104. The number of urinary microcrystals, evaluated by manual counting with light microscopy and by an objective method with a laser diffraction particle size analyzer, was increased by PIO on Weeks 12 and 25 and the increases were markedly suppressed by urinary acidification. Urinary citrate was decreased by PIO throughout the study period, but no changes were seen in urinary oxalate at any timepoint. The incidences of PIO-treated males bearing at least one of the advanced proliferative changes consisting of papillary hyperplasia, nodular hyperplasia, papilloma or carcinoma were significantly decreased from 11 of 82 males fed the control diet to 2 of 80 males fed the acid-forming diet. The acid-forming diet did not show any effects on the toxicokinetic parameters of PIO and its metabolites. Microcrystalluria appears to be involved in the development of the advanced stage proliferative lesions in bladder tumorigenesis induced by PIO in male rats.
The apical ballooning syndrome (ABS) is a recently described stress-mediated acute cardiac syndrome characterized by transient wall-motion abnormalities involving the apex and midventricle with hyperkinesis of the basal left ventricular (LV) segments without obstructive epicardial coronary disease. Cardiotoxicity is not an uncommon adverse effect of chemotherapeutic agents. However, there are no reports of ABS secondary to chemotherapeutic agents. We describe the case of a woman who developed the syndrome after chemotherapy for metastatic cancer. A 79-year-old woman presented with typical ischemic chest pain, elevated cardiac enzymes with significant ST-segment abnormalities on her electrocardiogram. She underwent recent chemotherapy with fluorouracil for metastatic colorectal cancer. Echocardiography revealed a wall-motion abnormality involving the apical and periapical segments which appeared akinetic. Coronary angiography revealed no obstructive coronary lesions. The patient was stabilized with medical therapy. Four weeks later she remained completely asymptomatic. Echocardiogram revealed a normal ejection fraction and a resolution of the apical akinesis. Pathogenetic mechanisms of cardiac complications in cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy include coronary vasospasm, endothelial damage and consequent thrombus formation. In our patient, both supraphysiologic levels of plasma catecholamines and stress related neuropeptides caused by cancer diagnosis as well as chemotherapy may have contributed the development of ABS.
Nimesulide (selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor) is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug for the symptomatic treatment of painful conditions like osteoarthritis, spondilitis and primary dysmenorrhoea. Nimesulide induced liver damage is a serious side effect of this otherwise popular drug. The mechanism involved in nimesulide induced hepatotoxicity is still not fully elucidated. However, both mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress have been implicated in contributing to liver injury in susceptible patients. Mitochondria besides being the primary source of energy, act as a hub of signals responsible for initiating cell death, irrespective of the pathway, i.e. apoptosis or necrosis. The present study was aimed to explore the role of compounding stress, i.e. Ca(2+) overload and GSH depletion in nimesulide induced mitochondrial toxicity and dysfunction. Our study showed that, nimesulide (100 microM) treatment resulted into rapid depletion of GSH (60%) in isolated rat liver mitochondria and significant Ca(2+) dependent MPT changed. Enhanced ROS generation (DCF fluorescence) was also observed in mitochondria treated with nimesulide. An important finding was that the concentration at which nimesulide oxidized reduced pyridine nucleotides (autofluorescence of NAD(P)H), it affected mitochondrial electron flow (MTT activity decreased by 75%) and enhanced mitochondrial depolarization significantly as assessed by Rhodamine 123 fluorescent probe. Therefore, nimesulide was found to aggravate redox imbalance and affect Ca(2+) dependent mitochondrial membrane permeability transition leading to dysfunction and ultimately cell death.
Cajanol (5-hydroxy-3-(4-hydroxy-2-methoxyphenyl)-7-methoxychroman-4-one) is an isoflavanone from Pigeonpea [Cajanus cajan (L.) Millsp.] roots. As the most effective phytoalexin in pigeonpea, the cytotoxic activity of cajanol towards cancer cells has not been report as yet. In the present study, the anticancer activity of cajanol towards MCF-7 human breast cancer cells was investigated. In order to explore the underlying mechanism of cell growth inhibition of cajanol, cell cycle distribution, DNA fragmentation assay and morphological assessment of nuclear change, ROS generation, mitochondrial membrane potential (DeltaPsim) disruption, and expression of caspase-3 and caspase-9, Bax, Bcl-2, PARP and cytochrome c were measured in MCF-7 cells. Cajanol inhibited the growth of MCF-7 cells in a time and dose-dependent manner. The IC(50) value was 54.05 microM after 72 h treatment, 58.32 microM after 48 h; and 83.42 microM after 24h. Cajanol arrested the cell cycle in the G2/M phase and induced apoptosis via a ROS-mediated mitochondria-dependent pathway. Western blot analysis showed that cajanol inhibited Bcl-2 expression and induced Bax expression to desintegrate the outer mitochondrial membrane and causing cytochrome c release. Mitochondrial cytochrome c release was associated with the activation of caspase-9 and caspase-3 cascade, and active-caspase-3 was involved in PARP cleavage. All of these signal transduction pathways are involved in initiating apoptosis. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report demonstrating the cytotoxic activity of cajanol towards cancer cells in vitro.
The mechanism underlying the reversible depression of erythropoiesis by chloramphenicol has been investigated in rabbits in which hemolytic anemia had been induced by phenylhydrazine so that the compensatory erythroid hyperplasia would provide a situation where abnormalities in the bone marrow cells reflected predominantly those of erythroid precursors. Maintenance of chloramphenicol in the serum of these animals at concentrations in the order of 15 mug/ml resulted in erythropoietic depression after several days. The onset of this depression corresponded to the development of a cellular respiratory defect in the erythroid precursors which was associated with an abnormality in the composition of the mitochondrial respiratory pathway. The abnormality took the form of a selective depletion of cytochromes a + a(3) and b which can be explained by an inhibitory effect of the antibiotic on their formation by the mitochondrial protein-synthesizing system. The relationship between the mitochondrial lesion and the depression of proliferative activity was further indicated by the correlation between the restoration of the cytochrome deficit and the recovery of erythropoiesis after chloramphenicol administration was ceased. The features of the reversible depression of erythropoiesis corresponded closely to those in man, so that a specific action of chloramphenicol on mitochondrial formation provides a reasonable explanation for this important manifestation of chloramphenicol toxicity.
Leptin, the product of the ob gene, is a hormone secreted by adipocytes. Animals with mutations in the ob gene are obese and lose weight when given leptin, but little is known about the physiological role of leptin in humans. Obese subjects have higher concentrations of leptin than lean subjects, the strongest correlation being with percentage body fat. Thus, it appears that obese subjects are resistant to the effects of endogenously secreted leptin. We have also shown that insulin stimulates leptin production, chronically but not acutely, presumably through its trophic effect on adipocytes. Troglitazone is an insulin-sensitizing thiazolidinedione, which improves hepatic and skeletal muscle insulin resistance in NIDDM and obesity. This study was undertaken to investigate the effects of troglitazone on leptin production in vitro and in vivo. In the presence and absence of 100 nmol/l insulin and 10 umol/l troglitazone, 72-h primary cultures of isolated abdominal adipocytes were studied. Insulin led to an almost twofold increase in leptin in vitro, and this increase was completely abolished by coincubation with troglitazone. Incubation with troglitazone alone led to a 40% decrease in leptin production. In obese patients administered troglitazone 200 mg twice daily for 12 weeks, there was no significant change in fasting plasma leptin concentrations, despite a 40-50% reduction in fasting and postmeal plasma insulin concentrations. Troglitazone treatment led to a significant increase in insulin sensitivity, and there was a positive correlation between the change in insulin sensitivity and the change in plasma leptin concentration in these subjects. In conclusion, troglitazone treatment had no net effect on plasma leptin concentrations, possibly because of improvement in insulin sensitivity and reduction in plasma insulin concentrations.
