This study investigates the role of forebrain D1 receptors in the motor expression of seizures induced by pilocarpine. Conscious rats receiving bilateral intracaudate injections of saline, just failed to convulse to 200 mg/kg pilocarpine, but responded vigorously to 600 mg/kg of the cholinomimetic. LY 171555 significantly protected rats against 600 mg/kg pilocarpine, when delivered into the anterior striatum, as also did SCH 23390, from all rostrocaudal levels of the striatum. Intrastriatal SKF 38393 or CY 208-243 neither facilitated nor ameliorated pilocarpine-induced convulsions. SCH 23390 was also anticonvulsant from the nucleus accumbens, while intra-accumbens CY 208-243 was without effect. It is concluded that SCH 23390 affords protection against pilocarpine-induced limbic motor seizures by blocking the effects of endogenous dopamine released tonically onto D1 receptors in the corpus striatum and nucleus accumbens. The inability of additional D1 receptor stimulation to intensify such seizures, could indicate that forebrain D1 receptors are already maximally stimulated by the endogenous transmitter.
Anorectal malignant melanoma is an uncommon tumour. Unlike for cutaneous melanoma, there are few guidelines for its optimal management. In particular, very few palliative treatment strategies have been described for patients with advanced disease. We report on an 80 year old patient with locally advanced anorectal melanoma nearly completely blocking the anal orifice and disseminated metastases. Complete regression of the primary tumour and partial remission of the metastases was achieved with intratumoral injections of natural interferon-beta and systemic administration of dacarbazine. The quality of life in this patient was improved markedly by providing relief from severe rectal pain and bleeding. We propose that conservative treatment strategies such as intratumoral injections with interferon-beta should be considered as a palliative treatment option for stenosing anorectal melanoma before an abdominoperineal resection is recommended.
Cisplatin (CDDP) is an effective and widely used chemotherapeutic agent for pediatric tumors, and ototoxicity is one of the dose-limiting side effects.
It was the aim of our study to investigate the effect of acetyl L-carnitine (ALCAR) on experimental CDDP ototoxicity by audiologic tests, histomorphologic, immunohistochemical and ultrastructural examinations and to investigate the apoptotic pathways.
Wistar albino rats (n = 28) were studied. Baseline audiological tests were performed in 4 groups: group 1, control; group 2, ALCAR; group 3, CDDP; group 4, CDDP + ALCAR-administered rats. Control audiological tests were performed on the 3rd day, and then the rats were sacrificed. Ear and brain specimens were examined by transmission electron microscopy, and caspase 3, 8 and 9 activities were investigated.
The CDDP-administered rats showed significant auditory brainstem response threshold shifts using all stimuli (clicks, 6-kHz and 8-kHz tone burst) compared with the control groups. The CDDP + ALCAR-administered rats showed significant auditory brainstem response threshold shifts by only click stimuli compared with the control groups. In the brain, spiral ganglion and organ of Corti, ultrastructural damage was prominent in group 3; the number of TUNEL (terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling)-positive cells and caspase 3, 8 and 9 immunostaining cells was significantly high in group 3.
ALCAR improves CDDP-induced auditory impairment, and also antioxidative and antiapoptotic properties of ALCAR on CDDP ototoxicity were supported by the findings.
Exposure of zebrafish embryos to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) activates the zebrafish aryl hydrocarbon receptor 2 (AHR) to produce developmental and cardiovascular toxicity. AHR is found in the heart; however, AHR activation by TCDD is not confined to the heart and occurs throughout the organism. In order to understand the cause of cardiotoxicity, we constructed a constitutively active AHR (caAHR) based on the zebrafish AHR2 and expressed it specifically in cardiomyocytes. We show that AHR activation within the cardiomyocytes can account for the heart failure induced by TCDD. Expression of the caAHR within the heart produced cardiac malformations, loss of circulation, and pericardial edema. The heart-specific activation of AHR reproduced several other well-characterized endpoints of TCDD toxicity outside of the cardiovascular system, including defects in swim bladder and craniofacial development. This work identifies a single cellular site of TCDD action, the myocardial cell, that can account for the severe cardiovascular collapse observed following early life stage exposure to TCDD, and contributes to other forms of toxicity.
Fourteen patients with angina pectoris completed a double blind trial of atenolol 25 mg, 50 mg, and 100 mg twice daily and propranolol 80 mg thrice daily. In comparison with placebo, all active treatments significantly reduced anginal attacks, consumption of glyceryl trinitrate, resting and exercise heart rate, resting and exercise systolic blood pressure, and significantly prolonged exercise time. There was no significant difference between the effects of propranolol and atenolol. Nine patients completed a further trial comparing atenolol given once or twice daily. Both regimens were effective and there was no significant difference between the reductions in anginal attacks, glyceryl trinitrate consumption, systolic blood pressure, or heart rate. Twenty-four-hour ambulatory electrocardiograms showed that atenolol consistently reduced heart rate throughout the 24-hour period whether given once or twice daily. Atenolol is a potent antianginal agent which, in most patients, is likely to be effective once daily.
We examined the effects of estradiol (E2), the natural estrogenic hormone, on the structure and expression of DNA polymerase beta (DNA pol beta), a DNA repair gene, from E2-induced primary kidney tumors of twelve Syrian hamsters, their metastases, and from kidney tissues surrounding the tumors. We sequenced the coding region of the hamster DNA pol beta and found it to differ from that of the human by 11%. No mutations were detected in the entire coding region including the catalytic domain of the DNA pol beta from E2-induced primary kidney tumors, their metastases, or from kidney tissues surrounding the tumors. The expression of the DNA pol beta mRNA was also not significantly altered in E2-induced kidney tumors or in kidney tissues surrounding the tumors compared to that of control kidney tissues. These results suggest that mutations in the DNA pol beta gene may not be involved in the induction or malignant progression of hamster kidney tumors induced by E2. The nucleotide sequence of the hamster DNA pol beta described here will be useful for the study of the structure and expression of this gene.
Subacute methotrexate neurotoxicity (MTX-NT) may occur days to weeks after systemic or intrathecal (IT) MTX administration and is often manifest by stroke-like symptoms. The pathogenesis of MTX-NT has mainly been associated with cerebral folate homeostasis, but the specific mechanism leading to the development of this complication is mostly unknown and is likely to be multifactorial. Most of studies aimed to determine putative genetic determinants of this syndrome have been focused on the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) C677T single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP). However, there are other functional polymorphisms that have also been identified in enzymes and transporters related to MTX and folate homeostasis. In this context, we carried out an extensive genetic analysis through the screening of 21 SNPs in 11 relevant genes in a five-year-old girl with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) who developed MTX-NT. The analysis revealed the presence of numerous genetic variants that may have accounted for the neurotoxicity observed. We discuss the putative role of MTX pharmacogenetics in the pathogenesis of MTX-NT.
1. In 27 severe primary hypertensive patients nifedipine (10 mg), administered orally, induced prompt (-21% of control at 30 min) and persistent (-17% at 120 min) fall of mean arterial pressure mediated through reduction of peripheral vascular resistance with rise of cardiac output. 2. The sublingual route (nine cases) showed more rapid onset of action and equal antihypertensive effectiveness. 3. In five patients with hypertensive crisis and acute left ventricular failure, the drug strikingly reduced systemic and pulmonary arterial pressures and relieved pulmonary oedema. 4. Prompt efficacy, ease of administration, absence of important side effects indicate that nifedipine may be a useful therapeutic agent in severe hypertension and in critical conditions that require rapid lowering of blood pressure.
Although pentoxifylline produces various beneficial effects in a preheparinized model of hemorrhagic shock, it was unknown whether this agent restores the depressed cardiac output (CO) and tissue perfusion in a nonheparinized model of trauma-hemorrhage and resuscitation and, if so, whether it decreases the susceptibility to sepsis after hemorrhage.
After laparotomy (i.e., induction of trauma), rats were bled to and maintained at a mean arterial pressure of 40 mm Hg until 40% of the maximum shed blood volume was returned in the form of Ringer's lactate. The animals were then resuscitated with Ringer's lactate, four times the volume of shed blood. Pentoxifylline (50 mg/kg body weight) or normal saline solution was infused intravenously more than 95 minutes during and after resuscitation. At 1.5 and 4 hours after resuscitation, CO, tissue perfusion, and plasma liver enzyme levels were determined. Sepsis was induced by cecal ligation and puncture at 20 hours after hemorrhage, and the necrotic cecum was excised 10 hours thereafter.
CO and tissue perfusion in the liver, kidney, spleen, and small intestine decreased significantly after hemorrhage and resuscitation. Pentoxifylline treatment, however, restored the depressed CO and tissue perfusion. The elevated liver enzyme levels were also significantly reduced by pentoxifylline treatment. Moreover, pentoxifylline prevented the increased mortality of posthemorrhaged rats subjected to sepsis.
Because pentoxifylline restored the depressed CO and tissue perfusion and decreased the susceptibility to sepsis, this agent appears to be a useful adjunct to crystalloid resuscitation after trauma and hemorrhage, even in the absence of blood resuscitation.
To examine the prescribing of prochlorperazine secondary to the prescribing of a medicine which could lead to symptoms for which prochlorperazine is indicated and commonly used. Given the range of potential hypotensive, sedative, dystonic and other extra-pyramidal side effects associated with prochlorperazine, its association with hip fracture was also examined.
Prescription/event sequence symmetry analyses were undertaken from 1st January 2003 to 31st December 2006, using administrative claims data from the Department of Veterans' Affairs, Australia. This method assesses asymmetry in the distribution of an incident event (either prescription of another medicine or hospitalization) before and after the initiation of prochlorperazine. Crude and adjusted sequence ratios (ASR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI) were calculated.
A total of 34 235 persons with incident use of prochlorperazine were identified during the study period. Statistically significant positive associations were found for a number of commonly used medicines, including cardiovascular medicines, NSAIDs, opioids and sedatives and the subsequent initiation of prochlorperazine that ranged from 1.07 (95%CI 1.01-1.14) for diuretics to 1.50 (95%CI 1.40-1.61) for statins. Prescription event analysis showed a 49% (95%CI 1.19-1.86) increased risk of hospitalisation for hip fracture following dispensing of prochlorperazine.
Prescribers should consider the possible contributing role of newly initiated medicines with the potential to cause of dizziness, and where possible address this through dose reduction or cessation of the medicine, rather than prescribing prochlorperazine.
Hereditary hypotrichosis simplex is a rare autosomal dominant form of hair loss characterized by hair follicle miniaturization. Using genetic linkage analysis, we mapped a new locus for the disease to chromosome 18p11.22, and identified a mutation (Leu9Arg) in the adenomatosis polyposis down-regulated 1 (APCDD1) gene in three families. We show that APCDD1 is a membrane-bound glycoprotein that is abundantly expressed in human hair follicles, and can interact in vitro with WNT3A and LRP5-two essential components of Wnt signalling. Functional studies show that APCDD1 inhibits Wnt signalling in a cell-autonomous manner and functions upstream of beta-catenin. Moreover, APCDD1 represses activation of Wnt reporters and target genes, and inhibits the biological effects of Wnt signalling during both the generation of neurons from progenitors in the developing chick nervous system, and axis specification in Xenopus laevis embryos. The mutation Leu9Arg is located in the signal peptide of APCDD1, and perturbs its translational processing from the endoplasmic reticulum to the plasma membrane. APCDD1(L9R) probably functions in a dominant-negative manner to inhibit the stability and membrane localization of the wild-type protein. These findings describe a novel inhibitor of the Wnt signalling pathway with an essential role in human hair growth. As APCDD1 is expressed in a broad repertoire of cell types, our findings indicate that APCDD1 may regulate a diversity of biological processes controlled by Wnt signalling.
Chronic treatment of rats with the naturally occurring androgen, testosterone, leads to hypertension and cardiovascular disease. This effect is believed to be mediated through the adrenal gland and in particular by action on the steroid 11 beta-hydroxylase enzyme system. To study the possible mechanism of this effect, the enzyme system was examined at several time periods up to the time that hypertension develops. Rats were treated with testosterone (10 mg/day) for 3, 7, 21, and 42 days. Levels of cytochrome P-450(11) beta enzyme and messenger RNA (mRNA) were determined as well as 11 beta-hydroxylase enzyme activity. A significant decrease in enzyme activity was observed after 3 days of treatment. This correlates with a profound decrease in the level of cytochrome P-450(11) beta enzyme as determined by Western blot analysis. A large decrease in cytochrome P-450(11) beta mRNA was also observed after 3 days of treatment. All three parameters remained low throughout the treatment period. The decrease in 11 beta-hydroxylase enzyme activity appears to result from a lower enzyme level brought about by decreased concentrations of mRNA transcripts.
Voltage gated K(+) channels (Kv) are a highly diverse group of channels critical in determining neuronal excitability. Deficits of Kv channel subunit expression and function have been implicated in the pathogenesis of epilepsy. In this study, we investigate whether the expression of the specific subunit Kv3.4 is affected during epileptogenesis following pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus. For this purpose, we used immunohistochemistry, Western blotting assays and comparative analysis of gene expression using TaqMan-based probes and delta-delta cycle threshold (ΔΔCT) method of quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) technique in samples obtained from age-matched control and epileptic rats. A marked down-regulation of Kv3.4 immunoreactivity was detected in the stratum lucidum and hilus of dentate gyrus in areas corresponding to the mossy fiber system of chronically epileptic rats. Correspondingly, a 20% reduction of Kv3.4 protein levels was detected in the hippocampus of chronic epileptic rats. Real-time quantitative PCR analysis of gene expression revealed that a significant 33% reduction of transcripts for Kv3.4 (gene Kcnc4) occurred after 1 month of pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus and persisted during the chronic phase of the model. These data indicate a reduced expression of Kv3.4 channels at protein and transcript levels in the epileptic hippocampus. Down-regulation of Kv3.4 in mossy fibers may contribute to enhanced presynaptic excitability leading to recurrent seizures in the pilocarpine model of temporal lobe epilepsy.
Acute administration of alpha-naphthylisothiocyanate (ANIT) to rats has been used as a model of intrahepatic cholestasis. The mechanism of toxicity of ANIT is unknown, although recent evidence suggests a causal or permissive role for glutathione (GSH) (Dahm LJ and Roth RA, Biochem Pharmacol 42: 1181-1188, 1991). In these studies, ANIT treatment elevated hepatic non-protein sulfhydryl (NPSH) content, an indicator of GSH content, when liver injury was evident. The purpose of the present study was to characterize the effects of ANIT on hepatic NPSH content and to relate these changes to the development of liver injury. In rats fasted for 24 hr, administration of ANIT (100 mg/kg, per os [p.o.]) did not change hepatic NPSH content, bile flow, or serum measurements of total bilirubin concentration, alanine aminotransferase (ALT) activity, or gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGT) activity by 12 hr post-treatment relative to corn oil vehicle controls. However, by 24 hr after ANIT treatment, rats exhibited cholestasis and elevations in serum markers of liver injury. These markers were associated temporally with an increase in hepatic NPSH content, which consisted entirely of GSH. To determine whether the cholestasis caused by ANIT treatment might have caused the elevation of hepatic NPSH content, an extrahepatic cholestasis in rats was produced by ligation of the common bile duct. Bile duct ligation elevated hepatic NPSH content between 6 and 12 hr after ligation. Administration to rats of a non-hepatotoxic analog of ANIT, beta-naphthylisothiocyanate, also elevated hepatic NPSH content 24 hr after treatment. Taken together, these results indicate that the elevation in hepatic NPSH content after ANIT treatment is associated temporally with the onset of liver injury, but this elevation does not appear to participate causally in the mechanism of injury.
Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a genetically heterogeneous disease that leads to progressive and irreversible vision loss among the elderly. Inflammation, oxidative damage, cholesterol metabolism and/or impaired function of retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) have been implicated in AMD pathogenesis. We examined toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) as a candidate gene for AMD susceptibility because: (i) the TLR4 gene is located on chromosome 9q32-33, a region exhibiting evidence of linkage to AMD in three independent reports; (ii) the TLR4-D299G variant is associated with reduced risk of atherosclerosis, a chronic inflammatory disease with subendothelial accumulation; (iii) the TLR4 is not only a key mediator of proinflammatory signaling pathways but also linked to regulation of cholesterol efflux and (iv) the TLR4 participates in phagocytosis of photoreceptor outer segments by the RPE. We examined D299G and T399I variants of TLR4 in a sample of 667 unrelated AMD patients and 439 unrelated controls, all of Caucasian ancestry. Multiple logistic regression demonstrated an increased risk of AMD in carriers of the G allele at TLR4 residue 299 (odds ratio=2.65, P=0.025), but lack of an independent effect by T399I variant. TLR4-D299G showed an additive effect on AMD risk (odds ratio=4.13, P=0.002) with allelic variants of apolipoprotein E (APOE) and ATP-binding cassette transporter-1 (ABCA1), two genes involved in cholesterol efflux. Interestingly, the effect of TLR4, APOE and ABCA1 variants on AMD susceptibility was opposite to that of association with atherosclerosis risk. Our data provide evidence of a link between multiple diverse mechanisms underlying AMD pathogenesis.
Cefotaxime and other cephalosporins were retrospectively evaluated for the treatment of meningitis and non-central nervous system (CNS) infections due to ampicillin-resistant Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib). Between January 1985 and February 1989, 45 cases of meningitis and 27 cases of non-CNS infection due to ampicillin-resistant Hib were documented at Texas Children's Hospital in Houston. Of the 45 children with meningitis, 26 (57.8%) were treated with cefotaxime, 11 (24.4%) with chloramphenicol, and three (6.7%) with cefuroxime; five children (11.1%) were initially given chloramphenicol but later received cefotaxime instead. In addition, 14 chloramphenicol-treated patients from a previous study were included in this analysis. There were no significant differences in terms of neurologic sequelae or other complications (except diarrhea) between the cefotaxime and chloramphenicol groups. The efficacy of cefotaxime was equivalent to that of chloramphenicol for the treatment of ampicillin-resistant Hib meningitis. Cefuroxime was as safe and effective as chloramphenicol or cefotaxime for the treatment of non-CNS infections due to ampicillin-resistant Hib.
The effect of chronic combined treatment with galantamine and 17beta-estradiol on passive avoidance retention was studied in middle-aged ovariectomized female rats (15 months) with scopolamine-induced amnesia. Combined treatment with galantamine and estradiol completely restored retrieval of memory traces in middle-aged ovariectomized female rats.
Erythromycin estolate (EE), a macrolide antibiotic, has caused hepatotoxicity both in human and experimental animals. The objective of this study was to integrate general toxicology, transcriptomics, and metabonomics approaches to determine the mechanisms of EE-induced liver injury. Histopathological examinations unveiled dose-dependent hydropicdegenerationof hepatocytes after EE administration. Further biochemical analysis of treated rats confirmed that cholestasis and oxidative stress were induced by EE treatments. Microarray analysis of the livers from EE-treated rats showed that differentially expressed genes were enriched in the ABC transporters, cell cycle, and p53 signaling pathways. Metabonomics analysis revealed that EE exposure could lead to disturbances in energy metabolism, amino acid metabolism, lipid metabolism, and nucleotide metabolism, which may be attributable to EE toxicological effects on the liver through oxidative stress. 5-Oxoproline may be used as a biomarker of EE-induced liver injury. More importantly, the integrated analysis of transcriptomics and metabonomics datasets demonstrated that the induction of ABC transporters pathway severed as an anti-cholestatic adaptive mechanism in EE-induced cholestasis. In addition, EE-induced liver injury was also related to alteration in glycogen and sucrose metabolism, arachidonic acid metabolism, and linoleic acid metabolism pathways.
To explore the effect of aminoguanidine (AG) on hemodynamics and nitric oxide (NO) in hemorrhagic shock in rabbit.
Shock was produced in twenty rabbits by femoral artery blood letting, and they were randomly divided into two groups with treatment with saline (control group) or AG (each n=10). Pclab system and nitric acid reductase methods were performed to detect hemodynamics parameters and NO levels at preshock, postshock (30 minutes and 150 minutes) and 30 minutes and 180 minutes after resuscitation respectively.
No significant differences were observed in hemodynamics parameters and NO levels between the two groups before resuscitation. Whereas after resuscitation, hemodynamics parameters such as systolic arterial pressure (SAP), heart rate (HR), mean arterial pressure (MAP), left ventricular systolic pressure (LVSP) and the max and minimum first derivative of left ventricular pressure (+/-dp/dt max) were all improved greatly in the two groups. AG decreased serum NO level significantly, while saline did not have such effect, suggesting that AG had a longer and more efficient effect against hemorrhagic shock (P<0.05 or P<0.01).
AG can improve hemodynamics parameters and decrease NO level in hemorrhagic shock in rabbit.
1 Propranolol and pindolol reduced both the blood pressure and plasma renin activity when given chronically to hypertensive patients. 2 There was no correlation between the fall in blood pressure and the fall in plasma renin activity. 3 Neither the basal nor the random plasma renin activity predicted the patients who would respond to beta-adrenergic receptor blocking drugs. 4 Oral propranolol reduced plasma renin activity but did not reduce blood pressure within 4 h of administration; oral pindolol reduced blood pressure but did not reduce plasma renin activity within 4 h of administration. 5 The reduction of blood pressure by propranolol and pindolol does not seem to be mediated by changes in plasma renin in most patients.
1. Dose-response curves of isoprenaline were constructed in nine hypertensive patients before and after either propranolol or metoprolol. 2. The decrease of diastolic blood pressure and increase of heart rate with isoprenaline were significantly more inhibited by propranolol than by metoprolol. 3. The increase in calf blood flow with isoprenaline was significantly more depressed after propranolol than after metoprolol. 4. The results suggest that the response of the vessels in the limbs to sympathetic stimulation is much less affected after metoprolol than after propranolol.
Pneumocystis jirovecii is an opportunistic pathogen that causes serious pneumonia in immunosuppressed patients. Standard therapy and prophylaxis include trimethoprim (TMP)-sulfamethoxazole; trimethoprim in this combination targets dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR). Fourteen clinically observed variants of P. jirovecii DHFR were produced recombinantly to allow exploration of the causes of clinically observed failure of therapy and prophylaxis that includes trimethoprim. Six DHFR variants (S31F, F36C, L65P, A67V, V79I, and I158V) showed resistance to inhibition by trimethoprim, with Ki values for trimethoprim 4-fold to 100-fold higher than those for the wild-type P. jirovecii DHFR. An experimental antifolate with more conformational flexibility than trimethoprim showed strong activity against one trimethoprim-resistant variant. The two variants that were most resistant to trimethoprim (F36C and L65P) also had increased Km values for dihydrofolic acid (DHFA). The catalytic rate constant (kcat) was unchanged for most variant forms of P. jirovecii DHFR but was significantly lowered in F36C protein; one naturally occurring variant with two amino acid substitutions (S106P and E127G) showed a doubling of kcat, as well as a Km for NADPH half that of the wild type. The strongest resistance to trimethoprim occurred with amino acid changes in the binding pocket for DHFA or trimethoprim, and the strongest effect on binding of NADPH was linked to a mutation involved in binding the phosphate group of the cofactor. This study marks the first confirmation that naturally occurring mutations in the gene for DHFR from P. jirovecii produce variant forms of DHFR that are resistant to trimethoprim and may contribute to clinically observed failures of standard therapy or prophylaxis.
1. Pronounced hypoaldosteronism was found in five young women with low-renin hypertension and characteristic features of the mineralocorticoid hypertensive syndrome. 2. There was no overproduction of the mineralocorticoids 11-deoxycorticosterone and 18-OH-11-deoxycorticosterone. 3. Dexamethasone restored blood pressure to normal, decreased body weight, increased plasma potassium, and increased plasma renin activity and aldosterone excretion in all patients. 4. The data suggest overproduction of an unknown adrenocorticotrophic hormone-dependent mineralocorticoid maintaining hypertension in these patients.
Opioid receptors exist in at least three forms: mu, delta and kappa. Agonists at mu receptors produce orthostatic hypotension in man by a mechanism involving a reduction in baroreflex sensitivity. We describe here the cardiovascular properties of metkephamid, a relatively selective delta opioid receptor agonist. Blood pressure, heart rate and plasma noradrenaline concentration were measured over a 7 h period in eight normal young male volunteers in the supine position and after 70 degrees 5 min head-up tilt, after receiving metkephamid (50 mg intramuscularly) or placebo. Metkephamid increased heart rate in the supine position with no change in blood pressure or plasma noradrenaline concentration. This was accompanied by symptoms consistent with an anti-muscarinic anticholinergic effect. Head-up tilt resulted in substantial hypotension after metkephamid with an attenuated change in heart rate and no increase in noradrenaline concentration. We conclude that delta as well as mu opioid receptor agonists can produce orthostatic hypotension with attenuation of heart rate response. Metkephamid possesses anticholinergic properties not seen with mu receptor agonists, suggesting a possible role of delta opioid receptors in cholinergic activity.
