To explore the relationship between genetic polymorphism of NQO1 and susceptibility to benzene poisoning (BP).
The genetic polymorphism of NQO1 for 100 patients with benzene poisoning and 90 workers exposed to benzene who were engaged in the same working time and job title as patients with benzene poisoning were detected by PCR-RFLP.
There was a 2.82-fold (95% CI: 1.42-5.58 ) increased risk of BP in the subjects with NQO1 C609T mutation genotype (T/T) compared with those carrying heterozygous (C/T) and wild type (C/C), and there was a 2.94-fold (95% CI: 1.25-6.90) increased risk of BP in the subjects with NQO1 C609T mutation genotype (T/T) compared with those carrying wild type (C/C) . There was a trend that the risk of BP in subjects with NQO1 C609T mutation genotype (T/T) was higher than those carrying heterozygous (C/T) and even higher than those carrying wild type (C/C) (chi2(trend) = 6.01, P = 0.014).
The subjects with NQO1 C609T mutation genotype (T/T) were more susceptive to benzene and NQO1 is as a biomarker to assessment the risk of benzene poisoning for individual.
We consecutively recruited 75 patients with intractable headache syndromes, divided them into three groups (frequent migraine = FM, transformed migraine = TM, and tension type headache = TT) based on their headache symptoms and treated all 75 with divalproex sodium. Thirty-six patients (48%) reported a > or = 50% reduction in headache frequency. We noted significantly different treatment response rates in the three patient groups, with FM patients reporting the highest rate of improvement (11/18 = 61%), TM patients an intermediate rate (22/43 = 51%), and TT patients the lowest response rate (3/14 = 21%). These data suggest that prophylactic therapy with divalproex may be effective in selected patients with intractable headache syndromes and that identification of clinically distinct headache subtypes may assist in predicting response to treatment.
The following article describes a girl with right upper quadrant abdominal colic following Ceftriaxon therapy for purulent meningitis. Ultrasound made it possible to demonstrate sludge-balls, floating in the gallbladder, a follow up examination was normal. Moreover the features of gallbladder precipitations following Ceftriaxon therapy will be described, and the clinical consequences will be discussed.
Mutations in MECP2, encoding methyl CpG-binding protein 2, cause Rett syndrome, the most severe autism spectrum disorder. Re-expressing Mecp2 in symptomatic Mecp2-null mice markedly improves function and longevity, providing hope that therapeutic intervention is possible in humans. To identify pathways in disease pathology for therapeutic intervention, we carried out a dominant N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU) mutagenesis suppressor screen in Mecp2-null mice and isolated five suppressors that ameliorate the symptoms of Mecp2 loss. We show that a stop codon mutation in Sqle, encoding squalene epoxidase, a rate-limiting enzyme in cholesterol biosynthesis, underlies suppression in one line. Subsequently, we also show that lipid metabolism is perturbed in the brains and livers of Mecp2-null male mice. Consistently, statin drugs improve systemic perturbations of lipid metabolism, alleviate motor symptoms and confer increased longevity in Mecp2 mutant mice. Our genetic screen therefore points to cholesterol homeostasis as a potential target for the treatment of patients with Rett syndrome.
Acute unilateral vestibular loss is a balance disorder that is accompanied by vertigo symptoms and concomitant vegetative symptoms, including nausea and vomiting. Patients are frequently confined to bed rest but may continue to experience vertigo symptoms. A well-established antivertiginous therapy consisting of cinnarizine and dimenhydrinate at low doses may offer rapid relief of acute vertigo symptoms due to acute vestibular loss, without inhibiting physiological compensation processes.
The purpose of this study was to compare the clinical efficacy and tolerability of a fixed combination of cinnarizine 20 mg and dimenhydrinate 40 mg versus monotherapy with its respective components in the treatment of acute vertigo symptoms due to acute unilateral vestibular loss.
In this prospective, single-center, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group clinical study, 50 patients with acute vestibular vertigo were randomly assigned to receive 4 weeks of treatment (1 tablet 3 times daily) with a fixed combination of 20 mg cinnarizine and 40 mg dimenhydrinate, 20 mg cinnarizine alone, or 40 mg dimenhydrinate alone. All patients received a 15% mannitol infusion as standard therapy during the first 6 days of treatment. Efficacy was determined by the patients' assessments of vertigo symptoms after 1 and 4 weeks of treatment using a verbal rating scale (vertigo score) and by vestibulo-ocular and vestibulospinal tests. The primary efficacy criterion was defined as the relief of vertigo symptoms after 1 week of treatment.
After 1 week of treatment, the fixed combination was significantly more effective than 20 mg cinnarizine (P < 0.001) and 40 mg dimenhydrinate (P < 0.01). After 4 weeks, the fixed combination was still significantly more effective than cinnarizine in reducing vertigo symptoms (P < 0.01) and significantly more effective than dimenhydrinate in improving the patients' balance while standing (P < 0.05). The tolerability of the fixed combination was rated good or very good by 100% of the patients (cinnarizine alone, 82.4%; dimenhydrinate alone, 94.4%). No serious adverse events occurred. Four patients in the fixed combination and the cinnarizine groups, and 6 patients in the dimenhydrinate group reported nonserious adverse events.
The results of this study suggest a distinct benefit in using a fixed combination of cinnarizine 20 mg and dimenhydrinate 40 mg versus the respective monotherapies in this population of patients with acute vestibular vertigo.
Recent guidelines are consistent in acknowledging that most hypertensive patients need at least two drugs for optimal blood pressure (BP) control. Trial data are available to support the use of a renin-angiotensin system (RAS) blocker (ie, an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker), plus a diuretic, a RAS blocker plus a calcium channel blocker (CCB), and a CCB plus a diuretic. The ACCOMPLISH trial demonstrated somewhat convincingly that an ACE inhibitor/CCB is superior to the same ACE inhibitor plus a thiazide. In the ASCOT trial, amlodipine/perindopril was superior to beta-blocker/thiazide in its effects on all major cardiovascular outcomes and new-onset diabetes. Further substudies of ASCOT provided plausible explanations for the benefits of amlodipine/perindopril strategy. In the CAFE substudy, amlodipine/perindopril was significantly more effective in the reduction of central BP as compared to atenolol/bendroflumethiazide, despite similar brachial BP reduction. More recently, analysis of long-term BP variability provided a further explanation for the reduction of cardiovascular events with amlodipine/perindopril in ASCOT. Thus, the combination of perindopril and amlodipine seems an ideal logical evidence-based pair of antihypertensive agents to select.
Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2A (MEN 2A) and familial medullary thyroid carcinoma (FMTC) are two closely related cancer syndromes inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. Mutations in the RET proto-oncogene were found in MEN 2A and FMTC families. In this study we report seven different germline mutations in the RET proto-oncogene in five of five MEN 2A and five of six FMTC families. Each of the mutations involves a cysteine residue in the extracellular cysteine-rich domain of the RET receptor tyrosine kinase. We developed simple polymerase chain reaction based diagnostic tests for all seven mutations in these families.
To explore the direct contribution of dexamethasone (Dex) for insulin resistance inducing in thecal cells and effects of berberine (Ber) and puerarin (Pue).
Ovarian thecal cells from porcine follicles were isolated and cultured in vitro. Insulin resistance of thecal cells was induced by Dex treatment for 48 h. Then the glucose utilization ratio of thecal cells was detected. Meanwhile, the effects of Ber and Pue on insulin signal transmission and steroid hormones synthesis were determined by RT-PCR and Western blotting.
(1) After being treated by Dex for 48 h, the [3-3H] -glucose uptake in cells was lowered by about half, and the glucose content in supernate increased for about 1/3. (2) The RT-PCR and Western blotting showed that levels of insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS-1), mRNA and protein expression of glucose transporter 4 (GLUT4) lowered, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor -gamma(PPARgamma) and cytochrome P450 17 hydroxylase (CYP17) mRNA or protein expression increased in the model cells. However, the changes of above insulin signal molecules and CYP17 expression were inversed significantly after treated with Ber and Pue for 48 h. (3) As compared with the control, in the model cells, levels of testosterone (T, microg/mL) was higher (0.82 +/- 0.20 vs 0.38 +/- 0.01, P < 0.05), while after Ber and Pue treatment it was 0.44 +/- 0.24 and 0.45 +/- 0.21 respectively, all lower than that in the model cells (P < 0.05). No significant change of serum progesterone was found in all groups (P > 0.05).
After insulin resistance has been induced, the androgen synthetic capacity of thecal cells enhanced significantly. Ber and Pue could lower the degree of insulin resistance and the androgen synthesis in the model cells, displaying the favorable prospect of the two insulin sensitizing agents for the treatment of polycystic syndrome.
l-Ephedrine is an active ingredient in several herbal formulations with a mechanism of action similar to amphetamine and methamphetamine. However, its potential to damage dopaminergic terminals in the caudate/putamen (CPu) has yet to be fully evaluated. The studies here used in vivo brain microdialysis experiments to determine the systemic doses and extracellular brain levels of l-ephedrine necessary to produce similar increases in CPu extracellular dopamine and marked hyperthermia that were previously shown necessary for amphetamine-induced neurotoxicity in male Sprague-Dawley rats. At an environmental temperature of 23 degrees C, a single 40 mg/kg intraperitoneal (ip) dose of l-ephedrine produced marked hyperthermia (>/= 40 degrees C), peak microdialysate ephedrine levels of 7.3 +/- 1.2 microM, and a 20-fold increase in microdialysate dopamine levels. Twenty-five mg/kg produced a lesser degree of hyperthermia, peak microdialysate ephedrine levels of 2.6 +/- 0.4 microM, and a 10-fold increase in dopamine levels. Three doses of 40 mg/kg given at 3-h intervals or 4 doses of 25 mg/kg l-ephedrine given at 2-h intervals were compared with 4 doses of 5 mg/kg d-amphetamine given at 2-h intervals. Multiple doses of either ephedrine or amphetamine caused severe hyperthermia (>/= 41.3 degrees C) but striatal tissue levels of dopamine 7 days after dosing were reduced only 25% or less by ephedrine compared to the 75% reductions produced by amphetamine. The increases in CPu microdialysate levels of serotonin produced by either 4 x 25 mg/kg l-ephedrine or 4 x 5 mg/kg d-amphetamine did not significantly differ, but elevation of dopamine levels by d-amphetamine were over 2-fold times the level caused by l-ephedrine. Microdialysate glutamate levels were elevated to the same extent by either 25 mg/kg l-ephedrine or 4 x 5 mg/kg d-amphetamine. l-Ephedrine may not be as neurotoxic to dopaminergic terminals as d-amphetamine, because non-lethal doses of l-ephedrine do not sufficiently increase the CPu dopamine levels within nerve terminals or the extracellular space to those necessary for a more pronounced long-term dopamine depletion.
Expression of cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 protein during rat hepatocarcinogenesis associated with fatty change, fibrosis, cirrhosis and oxidative DNA damage, caused by a choline-deficient, L-amino acid-defined (CDAA) diet were investigated in F344 male rats, along with the chemopreventive efficacy of the specific COX-2 inhibitor, nimesulide (NIM). Nimesulide, which was administered in the diet at concentrations of 200, 400, 600 and 800 p.p.m. for 12 weeks, decreased the number and size of preneoplastic enzyme-altered liver foci, levels of oxidative DNA damage, and the grade and incidence of fibrosis in a dose-dependent manner. A preliminary long-term study of 65 weeks also revealed that 800 p.p.m. NIM decreased the multiplicity of neoplastic nodules and hepatocellular carcinomas and prevented the development of cirrhosis. Western blot analysis revealed that COX-2 protein was barely expressed in control livers and increased approximately 2.9-fold in the livers of rats fed on a CDAA diet for 12 weeks and approximately 4.5-5.4-fold in tumors, with a diameter larger than 5 mm, at 80 weeks. Immunohistochemically, COX-2 protein was positive in sinusoidal and stromal cells in fibrotic septa, which were identified by immunoelectron microscopy as Kupffer cells, macrophages, either activated Ito cells or fibroblasts, after exposure to the CDAA diet for 12 weeks, whereas it was only occasionally weakly positive in sinusoidal, probably Kupffer, cells in control livers. In neoplastic nodules in rats fed on a CDAA diet for 30 and 80 weeks, sinusoidal cells and cells with relatively large round nuclei and scanty cytoplasm were strongly positive for COX-2 protein, with the neoplastic hepatocytes in the minority of the nodules, but not the cancer cells, being moderately positive. These results clearly indicate that rat hepatocarcinogenesis, along with fatty change, fibrosis and cirrhosis, is associated with increased expression of COX-2 protein, and point to the chemopreventive efficacy of a selective COX-2 inhibitor against, at least, the early stages of hepatocarcinogenesis.
Type 1 diabetes (T1D) also known as juvenile diabetes is a chronic autoimmune disorder that precipitates in genetically susceptible individuals by environmental factors particularly during early age. Both genetic and epigenetic factors are implicated in the beta-cell development, proliferation, differentiation and function. Recent evidences suggested that there is a link between diabetes and histone deacetylases (HDACs), because HDAC inhibitors promote beta-cell development, proliferation and function as well as improve glucose homeostasis. Sodium butyrate (NaB) is a short chain fatty acid having HDAC inhibition activity. The present study was aimed to investigate the protective role of NaB treatment on the beta-cell proliferation, function and glucose homeostasis as well as apoptosis in juvenile diabetic rat. Diabetes was induced by single injection of STZ (60 mg/kg, i.p.) in chilled citrate buffer, while NaB (500 mg/kg/day) was administrated by i.p. route for 21 days as pre- and post-treatment schedule. Plasma glucose and insulin levels, HbA1c, glucose tolerance, apoptosis, and expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), p38, p53, caspase-3, extracellular signal-regulated kinase-1/2 (ERK-1/2), forkhead box protein O1 (FOXO1) and insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS-1) as well as histone acetylation were evaluated. NaB treatment decreased plasma glucose, HbA1c, beta-cell apoptosis and improved plasma insulin level and glucose homeostasis through HDAC inhibition and histone acetylation in diabetic animal as compared to control. NaB treatment improved the beta-cell proliferation, function and glucose homeostasis as well as reduced beta-cell apoptosis in juvenile diabetic rat by the modulation of p38/ERK MAPK and apoptotic pathway.
Reaction of 1-methylquinolinium-2-dithioacetic acid zwitterions with excess methyl iodide in dimethylformamide gave the corresponding bis(2-methylthio)vinyl derivatives. These compounds were more soluble in both aqueous and organic media than the dithioacetic acid zwitterions but showed comparable antileukemic activity in mice. Reaction with morpholine converted a bis(2-methylthio)vinyl derivative almost quantitatively to the 2-mono(methylthio)-2-morpholino derivative. Leukemia cell culture studies of the 6-methyl derivative showed no effect on cell cycle processes.
We report two cases of drug-induced vasculitis subsequent to long-term minocycline therapy. Case 1; A 27-year-old woman, who was receiving minocycline hydrochloride for eosinophilic pustular folliculitis of 68-months'duration, showed polyarthralgia, intermittent low-grade fever, and light red reticulated erythemas with subcutaneous nodules on her extremities. Case 2; A 31-year-old man developed reddish-brown, reticulated erythemas with induration on bilateral lower legs after 24-months' duration of minocycline hydrochloride treatment for hidradenitis suppurativa. In both cases, skin biopsies demonstrated vasculitis affecting a small-sized artery at the border of the dermis and subcutis. Serum antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA) showed borderline elevation. In both cases cessation of minocycline administration resulted in rapid improvement of cutaneous lesions and constitutional symptoms. Recently, attention has been focused on drug-induced ANCA-positive vasculitis. Accumulation of previous case reports of minocycline-induced vasculitis with cutaneous lesions disclosed that the duration of the treatment before clinical symptoms averaged 35 months. Patients may present with livedoid skin lesions accompanied by fever, polyarthritis, autoimmune hepatitis and drug-induced lupus. Early recognition of ANCA-positive vasculitis is essential during long-term minocycline treatment, because cessation of the drug can result in complete resolution.
A 63-year-old patient under spinal anaesthesia during transurethal resection of the prostate developed a bradycardia and a short-lasting asystolia five hours and 20 minutes after the beginning of the anaesthesia. At this time the remission of spinal anaesthesia was nearly complete, and the patient had received his daily dose of 150 mg atenolol because of a current hypertension 80 minutes earlier. This case report calls into question uninterrupted medication perioperatively with beta-blocking drugs for antihypertensive therapy under spinal anaesthesia. In cases of elective spinal anaesthesia we recommend omitting a preexisting therapy with beta-blockers on the day of operation.
We report a patient with serious organophosphorus-induced delayed neurotoxicity due to malathion. The patient was a 49-year-old male with a history of habitual alcohol drinking, who ingested approximately 100 ml of 50% malathion [S-1,2-bis(ethoxycarbonyl)-ethyl-0,0-dimethyl phosphorodithioate solution], with a large amount of alcohol in a suicide attempt. Following recovery from an acute cholinergic phase 36 hours after ingestion, respiratory muscle weakness, consciousness disturbance and diffuse weakness of the limb muscles occurred, necessitating mechanical ventilation. On the 7th hospital day, glove and stocking type sensory disturbance was observed and weakness of the limbs had progressed to distal dominant flaccid quadriparalysis with moderate muscle atrophy. Two months after onset, neurogenic bladder and spinal automatism became obvious. After 7 months, spasticity of the lower limbs developed, while the weakness of the upper limbs improved. Sural nerve biopsy showed axonal degeneration, loss of large myelinated fibers and increases in Schwann cell clusters. These findings were similar to those seen in patient with triorthocresyl phosphate (TOCP) intoxication. The symptoms of this patient seemed to correspond to Senanayake's "intermediate syndrome". The final clinical features and sural nerve biopsy findings were in close agreement with those in patients with serious organophosphorus compounds induced delayed neurotoxicity due to TOCP intoxication. However, this patient exhibited more severe neuropathy than seen in previously reported cases of organophosphorus compounds induced delayed neurotoxicity caused by less toxic organophosphorus compounds, such as Dipterex. This suggests that alcohol might have been an etiological factor in damage of nervous tissue in this rare case. This is the first case of organophosphorus compounds induced delayed neurotoxicity due to malathion to be reported in Japan.
Adriamycin (doxorubicin) is an antineoplastic drug used to treat various cancers; however, its chronic use is accompanied by cardiotoxicity. Previous results suggested that free radical formation may contribute to Adriamycin toxicity. Adriamycin-induced cardiotoxicity was examined in rats maintained on either standard or selenium-supplemented diets. Adriamycin was administered intraperitoneally; the cumulative dose was 15 mg/kg body weight. Selenium status, glutathione peroxidase activities, vitamin E, and MDA contents were determined on red blood cell (RBC) and cardiac homogenates. RBC selenium levels and selenium glutathione peroxidase activity were significantly increased in selenium-supplemented animals compared with control or placebo groups. However, Adriamycin-treated rats showed a significant decrease in RBC selenium and selenium glutathione peroxidase compared with the placebo group. Moreover, treatment with Adriamycin increased RBC MDA content, which was attenuated by the selenium supplementation. In parallel, RBC vitamin E decreased markedly in the Adriamycin-treated group and was totally restored by selenium supplementation. Cardiac biochemical analyses confirmed the blood results. Thus, a free radical mechanism does contribute to Adriamycin cardiotoxicity, and shows the importance of balancing selenium levels in Adriamycin-treated subjects to limit Adriamycin's action. A decrease in Adriamycin cardiotoxicity with no concomitant decrease in its antineoplastic activity would considerably improve the therapeutic benefit of the drug.
Tandem autologous hematopoetic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is an effective treatment in patients with multiple myeloma (MM). Patients receive high-dose cyclophosphamide (CY) followed by two myeloablative dosages of melphalan (MEL). Cardiotoxicity treatment related data are scanty. In 30 patients with MM chemotherapy was followed by high-dose CY (cycle CY), and two autologous tandem HSCT treatments with MEL (cycles MEL I and MEL II). During each 15-day treatment troponin I (TnI), brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) and endothelin-1 (ET-1) were controlled at six time points. All patients underwent conventional and tissue Doppler echocardiography prior to CY therapy (Eho 0), before cycle MEL I (Eho 1), before cycle MEL II (Eho 2), and 3 months after the completion of therapy (Eho 3). None of the patients developed clinical signs of heart failure. The peak TnI concentrations were noted at days 8, 11, and 15 during all three chemotherapy cycles. During all three cycles there was a significant increase in baseline BNP concentrations and BNP levels measured at day 1 after treatment with CY and MEL (CY: P = 0.0001, MEL I: P = 0.001, MEL II: P = 0.001). The highest BNP concentration occurred during CY treatment (0.517 +/- 0.391 microg/L). During cycles MEL I and MEL II we noted the peak BNP concentrations at day 4 following chemotherapy (MEL I 0.376 +/- 0.418 microg/L; MEL II 0.363 +/- 0.379 microg/L). During all three cycles the highest ET-1 levels occurred at day 1 after chemotherapy (CY 1.146 +/- 1.313 ng/L; MEL I 1.054 +/- 2.242 ng/L; MEL II 0.618 +/- 0.539 ng/L). A significant increase in ET-1 concentrations relative to the basal values occurred only in cycle MEL II (P = 0.003). The duration of wave a in the Doppler pulmonary vein flow increased significantly (Eho 0/Eho 1: P = 0.008, Eho 0/Eho 3: P = 0.026). There was a significant decrease in the A/a ratio in flow velocities during chemotherapy (Eho 0/Eho 1: P = 0.002, Eho 0/Eho 3: P < 0.0001). Early diastolic tissue Doppler velocities (Em) decreased significantly during individual cycles of chemotherapy (P = 0.006). A significant post-treatment increase in the incidence of mitral regurgitation was observed (Eho 0/Eho 3: P = 0.003). Treatment of MM patients with tandem autologous HSCT is cardiotoxic. Our patients did not develop clinically overt heart failure or myocardial necrosis. Increased plasma levels of BNP and ET-1 were compatible with transient neurohormonal activation of heart failure. Doppler echocardiography studies revealed worsening of left ventricular diastolic function and occurrence of functional mitral regurgitation.
Male Fischer 344 rats were exposed to air or to 50 p.p.m. methoxyflurane vapour for a period of 14 weeks. At the end of this period, half of the rats in each group were killed; the remainder breathed air only for a further four weeks (recovery period) before being killed. During the exposure period, growth of the methoxyflurane-exposed rats was markedly depressed, though food consumption was similar in the two groups. Both water consumption and urine volume were increased by methoxyflurane, possibly due to the nephrotoxic effect of fluoride, the concentration of which exceeded 50 micromolar in the sera of all exposed rats. At the end of the exposure period, livers of all exposed rats, but no controls, showed focal hepatocellular degeneration and necrosis, and evidence of liver cell regeneration. Fatty change was prominent. During the recovery period, water consumption and urine volumes returned to near-normal levels. At the end of the recovery period, focal necrosis was still observed in the livers, although fatty change was no longer present. No histological abnormalities were observed in the kidneys of any rats.
Topiramate is a recently developed antiepileptic medication that is becoming more widely prescribed because of its efficacy in treating refractory seizures. Urologists should be aware that this medication can cause metabolic acidosis in patients secondary to inhibition of carbonic anhydrase. In addition, a distal tubular acidification defect may result, thus impairing the normal compensatory drop in urine pH. These factors can lead to the development of calcium phosphate nephrolithiasis. We report the first two cases of topiramate-induced nephrolithiasis in the urologic literature.
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) is a rare syndrome with four main symptoms: rigidity, hyperthermia, altered mental status and autonomic instability. We report a patient with an atypical manifestation of NMS.
A single case was reported.
A patient with pneumonia developed delirium and was treated with olanzapine and developed a NMS with fluctuating hyperthermia and autonomic instability during a month. Only slight rigidity was present. Creatine kinase was not elevated. The patient was severely agitated and manic. After discontinuation of olanzapine the patient showed no psychopathology or hyperthermia.
NMS should be considered when patients treated with antipsychotics develop one or more symptoms of NMS.
Human and animal studies point to 3 dimensions of personality that change during pharmacotherapy with a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI). Specifically, harm avoidance has been found to decrease, social dominance has been found to increase, and hostility in social situations has been found to decrease with SSRI treatment. We sought to determine personality changes in subjects with either major depressive disorder (MDD) or obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) treated with paroxetine. We also sought to determine whether or not these personality changes were associated with disease state (MDD vs. OCD) or treatment response (responders vs. nonresponders).
Thirty-seven subjects diagnosed with either MDD or OCD (according to DSM-IV criteria) completed the Cattell 16 Personality Factor Inventory (16-PF) before and after treatment with paroxetine. Treatment response was defined as a Clinical Global Impressions-Improvement rating of "much" or "very much" improved and a drop in Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression score of at least 50% for MDD or Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale score of at least 30% for OCD.
No significant differences were found between subjects with MDD and OCD in personality change with treatment. In the whole group, treatment responders had a greater decrease than nonresponders in 16-PF factors relating to harm avoidance. An increase in social dominance factors and a decrease in factors relating to hostility in social situations were found, but these changes were not significantly different between responders and nonresponders.
These findings indicate that certain personality dimensions change with SSRI treatment and that some of these changes are independent of clinical treatment response.
Defunctionalization of capsaicin-sensitive afferent nerves by pretreatment with a neurotoxic dose of capsaicin aggravates gastric ulcers in rats. In the present study, we investigated the roles of vanilloid receptors in gastric antral ulcers, using vanilloid receptor agonists and antagonists. Gastric antral ulcers were induced by a combination of diethyldithiocarbamate and 1 N HCl in refed rats. The administration of ruthenium red (1.5 mg/kg, s.c., twice daily) aggravated gastric antral ulcers (ulcer index: control, 33.7+/-13.7 mm(2); ruthenium red, 99.9+/-11.0 mm(2)). A similar result was observed in rats pretreated with a neurotoxic dose of capsaicin. On the other hand, capsaicin (1-10 mg/kg, p.o., twice daily) inhibited antral ulcer formation (ulcer index: control, 99.2+/-20.6 mm(2); capsaicin 10 mg/kg, 37.0+/-11.7 mm(2)). A similar effect was obtained in rats treated with the novel antiulcer drug, lafutidine (3-10 mg/kg, p.o., twice daily), which has gastroprotective activity mediated by capsaicin-sensitive afferent nerves. The antiulcer effects of capsaicin and lafutidine were abolished by ruthenium red and by pretreatment with a neurotoxic dose of capsaicin. These results suggest that vanilloid receptors play a gastroprotective role in gastric antral ulcers. In addition, treatment with ruthenium red may be an alternative tool for defunctionalization of capsaicin-sensitive afferent nerves.
All-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) promotes cell differentiation. We have studied its effect on the local recurrence and metastatic spreading of an experimental rhabdomyosarcoma in rats.
syngenic rhabdomyosarcoma cells (S4MH) were inoculated s.c. in male WAG/RijCrl rats. After 25 days tumors were excised and a 40% hepatectomy was performed for all animals. Ten days later the rats were sacrificed and a thorough necropsy was performed. The animals were randomly allocated to receive daily doses of ATRA (5 mg/kg, i.p.) or its solvent (Clinoleic/ethanol 90/10), starting three days before surgery until the end of the experiment.
ATRA reduced the incidence of local recurrence from 70 to 33% (p < 0.05), but the tumor size was not altered (1.8 vs. 2.0 cc). Regarding inguinal metastasis, there was a six-fold decrease (0.2 vs. 1.2 cc; p < 0.05) in mean tumor volume, although the rate of this proliferation increased sharply (86 vs. 29%; p < 0.05) for treated animals. The volume of the retroperitoneal tumor masses also decreased with ATRA (0.7 vs. 5.1 cc; p < 0.05), but the difference in rate was not significant (71 vs. 67%). Lung metastases, which were present in 100% of control animals, were found in only 33% of treated rats, while the mean number of metastatic foci dropped from 26.7 to 5.7 (p < 0.05).
Protocols including retinoid administration prior to and following primary tumor excision could help in controlling both recurrence and metastatic progression in surgically treated rhabdomyosarcoma.
The precise mechanism of pulmonary hypoplasia associated with congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) still remains unclear. Recently, prenatal treatment with retinoic acid (RA) has been reported to stimulate alveologenesis in hypoplastic lungs in the nitrofen model of CDH. The serine/threonine protein kinase B (AKT) plays a key role in lung morphogenesis through epithelial-mesenchymal interaction in phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)-dependent manner. It has been reported that the lung morphogenesis in explants in mice is interfered by inhibitors of PI3K-AKT signaling pathway. Furthermore, we have recently shown that nitrofen inhibits PI3K-AKT signaling during mid-to-late lung morphogenesis in the nitrofen-induced hypoplastic lung. We hypothesized that prenatal administration of RA upregulates pulmonary gene expression of PI3K and AKT in the nitrofen-induced hypoplastic lung.
Pregnant rats were exposed to either olive oil or nitrofen on day 9 of gestation (D9). 5 mg/kg of RA was given on D18, D19 and D20. The fetuses were harvested on D21, and fetal lungs were obtained and divided into four groups: control, control + RA, nitrofen, nitrofen + RA. The mRNA expression levels of PI3K and AKT were analyzed in each lung by real-time RT-PCR and statistically analyzed. Immunohistochemistry was also performed to evaluate protein expression of PI3K and AKT in the fetal lungs at D21.
The pulmonary gene expression levels of PI3K and AKT were significantly upregulated in nitrofen + RA group compared to nitrofen group and control + RA group (p < 0.05), whereas there were no significant differences between controls and control + RA group. Immunoreactivity of PI3K and AKT was markedly increased in nitrofen + RA lungs compared to nitrofen-induced hypoplastic lungs.
Upregulation of PI3K and AKT genes after prenatal treatment with RA in the nitrofen-induced hypoplastic lung suggests that RA may have a therapeutic potential in modulating lung alveologenesis by stimulating epithelial-mesenchymal interaction via PI3K-AKT signaling.
