The pyrimidine antimetabolite 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) is a chemotherapeutic agent used widely for various tumors. Common side effects of 5-FU are related to its effects on the bone marrow and gastrointestinal epithelium. Neurotoxicity caused by 5-FU is uncommon, although acute and delayed forms have been reported. Wernicke's encephalopathy is an acute, neuropsychiatric syndrome resulting from thiamine deficiency, and has significant morbidity and mortality. Central nervous system neurotoxicity such as Wernicke's encephalopathy following chemotherapy with 5-FU has been reported rarely, although it has been suggested that 5-FU can produce adverse neurological effects by causing thiamine deficiency. We report a patient with Wernicke's encephalopathy, reversible with thiamine therapy, associated with 5-FU-based chemotherapy.
Nephrin is an essential structural component of the glomerular slit diaphragm (SD), a highly organized intercellular junction that constitutes the ultrafiltration barrier of the kidney. Recent studies have identified two additional nephrin-interacting SD proteins (NEPH1 and NEPH2), suggesting that the zipper-like pattern of the SD is formed through complex intra- and intermolecular interactions of these proteins. However, the complexity of the SD structure suggests that additional SD components remain to be discovered. In this study, we identified galectin-1 (Gal-1) as a new component of the SD, binding to the ectodomain of nephrin. Using dual-immunofluorescence and confocal microscopy and dual-immunoelectron microscopy, we found Gal-1 co-localizing with the ectodomain of nephrin at the SD in normal human kidney. By immunoprecipitation and surface plasmon resonance, we confirmed a direct molecular interaction between Gal-1 and nephrin. Moreover, recombinant Gal-1 induced tyrosine phosphorylation of the cytoplasmic domain of nephrin and activation of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 in podocytes. We also showed that podocytes are a major site of biosynthesis of Gal-1 in the glomerulus and that the normal expression patterns and levels of Gal-1 are altered in patients with minimal change nephrotic syndrome. Finally, in puromycin aminonucleoside-induced rat nephrosis, an apparent reduction in the levels of Gal-1 and nephrin around the onset of heavy proteinuria was also revealed. Our data present Gal-1 as a new extracellular ligand of nephrin localized at the glomerular SD, and provide further insight into the complex molecular organization, interaction, and structure of the SD, which is an active site of intracellular signaling necessary for podocyte function.
Oral contraceptive pills (OCPs) are one of the most effective reversible and accessible contraceptives, and patient acceptance for their use depends partly on the unfavorable adverse effects. The present study compared the two kinds of OCPs (monophasic; levonorgestrel (LNG)-ethinyl estradiol (EE) 150/30 versus triphasic; LNG-EE 50-75-125/30-40-30) for adverse effects and patient satisfaction.
A randomized clinical trial was performed on 314 women who used OCPs for the first time, as their contraception, for 6 months. Overall, 1884 cycles were studied. In the monophasic group (n=159 who finally finished the study), monophasic pills LNG-EE 150/30mcg, and in the triphasic group (n=155 who finally finished the study), triphasic pills LNG-EE 50-75-125/30-40-30 mcg were used. Statistical analysis was performed using SPSS 10: Chi square test, Fisher exact test and Student's t-test were used.
There were no significant differences between the two groups for common side effects, including nausea, headache, nervousness, facial hyperpigmentation (chloasma), and body weight (increase or decrease) but breakthrough bleeding and spotting (BTB/S) were less in the triphasic group, occurring in 30 cycles (18.86%) versus 10 cycles (6.45%), P=0.009*. Patient satisfaction for the two OCPs was similar and high. The rates of side effects were low.
It seems that the monophasic and triphasic pills are similar according to patient satisfaction and side effects; therefore there is no benefit of one over the other except for BTB/S, for which triphasic is superior.
In this case we are reporting on a patient suffering from malignant renovascular hypertension and chronic renal failure due to occlusion of both renal arteries. The acute renal insufficiency after Captopril and later on after Enalapril treatment was fully reversible. We believe that the acute reversible renal insufficiency was caused by the blockage of glomerular autoregulation depending on Angiotensin II.
To compare the rate of progression of mean maximum intimal-medial thickness (IMT) in carotid arteries, using quantitative B-mode ultrasound imaging, during antihypertensive therapy with isradipine vs hydrochlorothiazide.
Randomized, double-blind, positive-controlled trial.
Nine medical center clinics.
A total of 883 patients with baseline mean +/- SD systolic and diastolic blood pressure (SBP and DBP, respectively) of 149.7 +/- 16.6 and 96.5 +/- 5.1 mm Hg, age of 58.5 +/- 8.5 years, and maximum IMT of 1.17 +/- 0.20 mm.
Twice daily doses of isradipine (2.5-5.0 mg) or hydrochlorothiazide (12.5-25 mg). MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE (PRIMARY END POINT): Rate of progression of mean maximum IMT in 12 carotid focal points over 3 years.
There was no difference in the rate of progression of mean maximum IMT between isradipine and hydrochlorothiazide over 3 years (P=.68). There was a higher incidence of major vascular events (eg, myocardial infarction, stroke, congestive heart failure, angina, and sudden death) in isradipine (n=25; 5.65%) vs hydrochlorothiazide (n=14; 3.17%) (P=.07), and a significant increase in nonmajor vascular events and procedures (eg, transient ischemic attack, dysrhythmia, aortic valve replacement, and femoral popliteal bypass graft) in isradipine (n=40; 9.05%) vs hydrochlorothiazide (n=23; 5.22%) (P=.02). At 6 months, mean DBP decreased by 13.0 mm Hg in both groups, and mean SBP decreased by 19.5 mm Hg in hydrochlorothiazide and 16.0 mm Hg in isradipine (P=.002); the difference in SBP between the 2 groups persisted throughout the study but did not explain the increased incidence of vascular events in patients treated with isradipine.
The rate of progression of mean maximum IMT in carotid arteries, the surrogate end point in this study, did not differ between the 2 treatment groups. The increased incidence of vascular events in patients receiving isradipine compared with hydrochlorothiazide is of concern and should be studied further.
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome and acute myoglobinuric renal failure developed in three patients after they had received a combination of a major tranquilizer and a tricyclic antidepressant or after a large dose of haloperidol. Rhabdomyolysis was demonstrated by biochemical methods as well as by a muscle biopsy. Myoglobinuria was confirmed by radioimmunodiffusion and also was verified in a necropsy specimen. Dehydration and drug interaction with tricyclic antidepressants seem to be predisposing factors. Renal function recovered when the patient survived the acute episode, but neurologic sequelae persisted. Recommendations that may avert further cases are made.
Data were collected during a year-long multicenter collaborative trial comparing short-acting fluphenazine hydrochloride with long-acting fluphenazine decanoate in a group of schizophrenic patients being maintained in the community. We examined the emergence and course of depressive symptomatology, operationally defined by the Hamilton Depression Scale total score. Of 211 patients, approximately 25% had depression develop within five months after discharge. Depressed patients had a more chronic psychiatric history and, contrary to the hypothesis that depression is a favorable prognostic indicator, they were more likely to relapse. There were no differences in incidence of emergent depression between the two drug treatment groups.
Carbamazepine and vigabatrin are contraindicated in typical absence seizures. Of 18 consecutive referrals of children with resistant typical absences only, eight were erroneously treated with carbamazepine either as monotherapy or as an add-on. Vigabatrin was also used in the treatment of two children. Frequency of absences increased in four children treated with carbamazepine and two of these developed myoclonic jerks, which resolved on withdrawal of carbamazepine. Absences were aggravated in both cases where vigabatrin was added on to concurrent treatment. Optimal control of the absences was achieved with sodium valproate, lamotrigine, or ethosuximide alone or in combination.
The design, synthesis, and biological evaluation of a series of new aromatase (AR, CYP19) inhibitors bearing an imidazole ring linked to a 7-substituted coumarin scaffold at position 4 (or 3) are reported. Many compounds exhibited an aromatase inhibitory potency in the nanomolar range along with a high selectivity over 17-α-hydroxylase/C17-20 lyase (CYP17). The most potent AR inhibitor was the 7-(3,4-difluorophenoxy)-4-imidazolylmethyl coumarin 24 endowed with an IC(50) = 47 nM. Docking simulations on a selected number of coumarin derivatives allowed the identification of the most important interactions driving the binding and clearly indicated the allowed and disallowed regions for appropriate structural modifications of coumarins and closely related heterocyclic molecular scaffolds.
Trauma to the rat's spinal cord results in a lesion characterized by ingrowth of glial cells, accumulation of macrophages, and the progressive development of necrosis and cavitation. Since, when appropriately activated, both astrocytes and macrophages secrete growth-promoting cytokines, we examined whether treatment with drugs that stimulate the secretory activities of these cells might promote tissue repair and reduce necrosis in the traumatized spinal cord. The spinal cord of rats was crushed extradurally at T8 and the rats were injected intraperitoneally with (i) a lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or ImuVert to activate cytokine secretion, (ii) Indomethacin to reduce necrosis by inhibiting prostaglandin synthesis, (iii) a combination of LPS+Indomethacin, or (iv) vehicle. After 28 days the lesion site was examined quantitatively by light microscopical image analysis. The lesion of vehicle-treated control animals showed large cavities, extensive infiltration by debris-engorged macrophages, and relatively few axons. Treatment with LPS or ImuVert significantly reduced the degree of cavitation and increased the number of cells and axons in the lesion. Treatment with LPS+Indomethacin was significantly more effective than treatment with LPS alone, while treatment with Indomethacin alone was ineffective. To test whether the histopathological differences between treated and control rats might be reflected in functional improvement, rats were subjected to a contusion (weight-drop) injury and their walking ability was quantified by the Tarlov scale for 28 days postoperatively. Treatment with LPS+Indomethacin significantly improved locomotor function of animals subjected to a moderate (1.25 g x 20 cm) injury. We conclude that tissue repair and functional recovery after spinal cord injury are enhanced by combined treatment with agents that promote the secretory activities of the nonneuronal cells and that inhibit prostaglandin synthesis. These results indicate that the search for more effective treatments should include studies on combinations of drugs having different pharmacological specificities.
To report a case of psychosis induced by therapeutic doses of baclofen.
A 32-year-old Hindu man was prescribed oral baclofen 10 mg twice daily for relief of muscular spasms secondary to tetanus. After 4 weeks of baclofen use, he presented to the psychiatry emergency facility with a 4 day history of third-person auditory hallucinations and persecutory and referential delusions without underlying mood symptoms. These symptoms resolved within 1 week of discontinuing baclofen. Rechallenge with baclofen resulted in reemergence of psychotic symptoms, which disappeared after discontinuing baclofen.
Reemergence of psychotic symptoms after rechallenge with baclofen suggests baclofen-induced psychosis. Use of the Naranjo probability scale indicates a probable association of baclofen with this patient's psychosis. The absence of underlying mood disorder makes this case different from previously reported ones.
Baclofen may be associated with the occurrence of psychosis. Clinicians should consider baclofen-induced psychosis as a differential diagnosis in patients presenting with psychosis during treatment with this drug.
In an effort to establish the appropriate timing of myeloschisis repair, changes in the exposed neural tissue were studied during fetal development. Neuron-specific enolase (NSE) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) were examined immunohistochemically in mice with vitamin-A-induced myeloschisis. As in the normally developing lumbosacral spinal cord, NSE was already expressed in the cytoplasm of neurons in the basal plate of the neural plaque in 16-day-old embryos. GFAP became positive at day 17 both in normal embryos and at the outer border of the plaques in dysraphic embryos. Expression of both NSE and GFAP in normal controls was unchanged in intensity and localization during later fetal development. In contrast, the expression of GFAP increased during later development in the neural plaque of dysraphic animals and suggests a progressive gliosis of tissue with the passage of time. The expression of NSE in the plaque did not change during this time. These results suggest that the neural plaque retains intact neurons in the face of progressive gliosis. Moreover, the results suggest that repair of the myeloschisis should start before irreversible changes are established by progressive gliosis.
Nomifensine has demonstrated efficacy in several animal models that have been found to be predictive of clinical antidepressant activity, and has also been found to have a low potential for both cardiovascular and anticholinergic side effects. A comparison of nomifensine's profile with those of standard antidepressant agents shows this drug to possess clear advantages which may make it an attractive choice for the treatment of endogenous depression.
To investigate the effects of quercetin and X-ray on collagen synthesis of cultured human keloid-derived fibroblast and the mechanism.
Collagen synthesis of cultured human keloid and normal fibroblasts were detected by hydroxyproline colorimetric analysis. Immunocytochemical staining was used to investigate collagen I and III expression. mRNA expression of collagen I and III, and transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta 1 were assayed by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and real-time PCR.
Quercetin inhibited the collagen synthesis of both keloid and normal fibroblasts in a dose-dependent manner. Immunocytochemical staining indicated that collagen I and III were down-regulated by quercetin and X-ray (P < 0.05), particularly collagen I (P < 0.05). mRNA expression of both collagen I and III in quercetin groups significantly decreased compared with that in control group (P < 0.05), especially in the group treated with both quercetin and X-ray (P < 0.01). mRNA level of TGF-beta 1 gene was down-regulated by quercertin (P < 0.05).
Quercetin will probably be one of the new medicines which could effectively treat keloid. Quercetin combined with X-ray could reduce the dose of radiation.
Twenty patients with paralysis agitans took part in a double-blind, cross-over investigation of CB 154 (2-bromo-alpha-ergocryptine) and Madopar (L-Dopa + benserazid (a peripheral decarboxylase inhibitor), dose ratio 4:1). Each treatment phase lasted for 8 weeks. Modapar was found to be significantly superior to CB 154 in the treatment of the Parkinson state as a whole (Webster total score) and the individual symptoms of hypokinesia, rigidity and tremor. Compared with pretreatment score, CB 154 had a weak, but significant effect on tremor, but not on the Webster total score, hypokinesia and rigidity. The effect of CB 154, however, varied: four patients preferred CB 154 to Madopar on account of its satisfactory therapeutic effect and fewer side-effects ("on-off" phenomena, hyperkinesia, psychiatric complications); other patients showed neither therapeutic effect nor side-effects of CB 154, which in some cases may be related to too low a dose-level of CB 154 (median 30 mg daily, range 20-60 mg). In the four cases first mentioned which showed a good effect of CB 154, the ratio between the dose of CB 154 and the dose of L-Dopa (in Madopar) was 3.5-10 mg/100 mg, i.e. in certain cases it must be assumed that the maximum dose of CB 154 lies around 120 mg daily.
Hormones, including estrogen and progesterone, and their receptors play an important role in the development and progression of ovarian carcinoma. Androgen, its receptor and coactivators have also been implicated in these processes. p44/Mep50/WDR77 was identified as a subunit of the methylosome complex and lately characterized as a steroid receptor coactivator that enhances androgen receptor as well as estrogen receptor-mediated transcriptional activity in a ligand-dependent manner. We previously described distinct expression and function of p44 in prostate, testis, and breast cancers. In this report, we examined the expression and function of p44 in ovarian cancer. In contrast to findings in prostate and testicular cancer and similar to breast cancer, p44 shows strong cytoplasmic localization in morphologically normal ovarian surface and fallopian tube epithelia, while nuclear p44 is observed in invasive ovarian carcinoma. We observed that p44 can serve as a coactivator of both androgen receptor (AR) and estrogen receptor (ER) in ovarian cells. Further, overexpression of nuclear-localized p44 stimulates proliferation and invasion in ovarian cancer cells in the presence of estrogen or androgen. These findings strongly suggest that p44 plays a role in mediating the effects of hormones during ovarian tumorigenesis.
Hyperoxaluria is a condition where excessive oxalate is present in the urine. Many reports have documented free radical generation followed by hyperoxaluria as a consequence of which calcium oxalate deposition occurs in the kidney tissue. The present invivo study was designed to investigate the potential of N-acetylcysteine in modulating hyperoxaluric manifestation induced by sodium oxalate in the rat kidneys. Male wistar rats in one group were administered single dose of sodium oxalate (70mg/kg body weight) intraperitoneally to induce hyperoxaluric conditions and in the other group, rats were injected N-acetylcysteine (NAC) (200mg/kg body weight) intraperitoneally, half an hour after sodium oxalate dose. The treatment is for a period of 24h. N-acetylcysteine significantly reduced hyperoxaluria caused oxidative stress by reducing lipid peroxidation, restoring antioxidant enzymes activity in kidney tissue, followed by reduction in impairment of renal functioning. In addition, NAC administration reduced the number of calcium oxalate monohydrate (COM) crystals in the urine as observed under polarization microscope. Histological analysis depicted that NAC treatment decreased renal epithelial damage, inflammation and restored normal glomeruli morphology. Thus, it shows that use of an extraneous antioxidant may prove beneficial for combating the conditions of oxidative stress produced by hyperoxaluria.
Newly admitted paranoid schizophrenic patients (N = 68) were treated with either loxapine or chlorpromazine for up to 4 weeks. Mean maximum dosages were 84 mg/day of loxapine and 820 mg/day of chlorpromazine. Loxapine showed efficacy superior to that of chlorpromazine, confirming earlier retrospective findings. Adverse reactions were also less troublesome with loxapine.
The aqueous extract of Desmodium gangeticum (L) DC (Fabaceae) (DG) was studied in isoproterenol induced myocardial infarcted (MI) rats for the hypocholesterolemic and antioxidant effect. After inducing MI by isoproterenol (35 mg/kg b wt. i.p.), the aqueous extract of Desmodium gangeticum root at a dose of 3 ml/100 g b wt. was orally administered daily for a period of 30 days in six rats. On induction of MI, the activities of creatinine phosphokinase (CPK), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and serum glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase (SGOT) increased in myocardial tissue, hepatic tissue and serum. Pretreatment of DG to MI rats prevented the increase of these enzymes. The hypocholesterolemic effect of DG was assessed by the concentration of total cholesterol, low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol and through the activities of 3-hydroxy 3-methyl glutaryl co-enzyme (HMG CoA) reductase and lecithin cholesterol acyl transferase (LCAT) in the myocardial tissue. The significant (P < 0.001) decrease in the concentration of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) and improved activities of glutathione reductase and catalase in the myocardial tissues of rats treated with DG suggest free radical scavenging activity of the extract.
Prazosin was administered to 16 patients with essential hypertension in an initial dose of 0.5 mg, after which the blood pressure (BP), pulse, and plasma concentrations of prazosin were measured at 0, 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 2.5, 3, 4, 6, 8, and 24 hours. The dose of prazosin was then increased over 16 to 20 weeks, and similar sequences of measurements were obtained twice. Eleven patients completed the 20-week course. All patients did not respond in a similar way; two distinct patterns of BP and pulse response emerged, although there was no significant difference in the pharmacokinetic parameters, namely, absorption rate constant (Ka), maximum plasma concentration (Cpmax), time to reach the maximum concentration (Tmax), prazosin plasma half-life (T 1/2), elimination rate constant (kel), prazosin plasma concentration-time curve (AUC), and clearance. Patients in Group 1 had a marked reduction (52/30 mm Hg) of BP after the first dose of prazosin, no pulse increase, and needed a small dose of prazosin to maintain an adequate BP response. Patients in Group 3 had a minimal reduction in BP (14/13 mm Hg) after a first dose, a significant pulse increase, and needed a high dose of prazosin to control their BP. We conclude that this effect might be due to a different drug-receptor interaction, and the BP response and dose could be predicted from the response of the first dose of prazosin.
To identify somatic mutations in pediatric diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma (DIPG), we performed whole-genome sequencing of DNA from seven DIPGs and matched germline tissue and targeted sequencing of an additional 43 DIPGs and 36 non-brainstem pediatric glioblastomas (non-BS-PGs). We found that 78% of DIPGs and 22% of non-BS-PGs contained a mutation in H3F3A, encoding histone H3.3, or in the related HIST1H3B, encoding histone H3.1, that caused a p.Lys27Met amino acid substitution in each protein. An additional 14% of non-BS-PGs had somatic mutations in H3F3A causing a p.Gly34Arg alteration.
Genome-wide association studies have revealed that common noncoding variants in MTNR1B (encoding melatonin receptor 1B, also known as MT(2)) increase type 2 diabetes (T2D) risk(1,2). Although the strongest association signal was highly significant (P < 1 × 10(-20)), its contribution to T2D risk was modest (odds ratio (OR) of ∼1.10-1.15)(1-3). We performed large-scale exon resequencing in 7,632 Europeans, including 2,186 individuals with T2D, and identified 40 nonsynonymous variants, including 36 very rare variants (minor allele frequency (MAF) <0.1%), associated with T2D (OR = 3.31, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.78-6.18; P = 1.64 × 10(-4)). A four-tiered functional investigation of all 40 mutants revealed that 14 were non-functional and rare (MAF < 1%), and 4 were very rare with complete loss of melatonin binding and signaling capabilities. Among the very rare variants, the partial- or total-loss-of-function variants but not the neutral ones contributed to T2D (OR = 5.67, CI = 2.17-14.82; P = 4.09 × 10(-4)). Genotyping the four complete loss-of-function variants in 11,854 additional individuals revealed their association with T2D risk (8,153 individuals with T2D and 10,100 controls; OR = 3.88, CI = 1.49-10.07; P = 5.37 × 10(-3)). This study establishes a firm functional link between MTNR1B and T2D risk.
To determine any cardiac or vascular morbidity associated with long term treatment with tamoxifen given after mastectomy for primary breast cancer.
Cohort study using linkage between database of a randomised trial and statistics of Scottish hospital inpatients to identify episodes of cardiac and vascular morbidity.
NHS hospitals in Scotland.
1312 women who had undergone mastectomy for breast cancer and who were randomised either to a treatment group to receive adjuvant tamoxifen or to a control group to be given tamoxifen only on first relapse of disease. Maximum duration of tamoxifen treatment was 14 years. Total woman years of follow up were 9943.
Randomised and observational comparisons of risk (expressed as hazard ratios) of myocardial infarction, other cardiac event, cerebrovascular disease, or thromboembolic event according to treatment allocated and between nonusers, former users, and current users of tamoxifen.
Use of tamoxifen was associated with lower rates of myocardial infarction. Hazard ratio for women in control group was 1.92 (95% confidence interval 0.99 to 3.73) compared with women allocated to adjuvant treatment. The association was stronger for current use: hazard ratio for non-users was 3.49 (1.52 to 8.03) compared with current users. Current users of tamoxifen, however, had higher rates of thromboembolic events:hazard ratio for non-users was 0.40 (0.18 to 0.90) compared with current users.
Our results provide further evidence that tamoxifen reduces the risk of myocardial infarction. Thromboembolic events should be carefully monitored in trials of tamoxifen, particularly those of prophylactic treatment, in which tamoxifen is given to healthy women.
The effects of Ya-hom, a traditional Thai herbal formulation, on blood pressure were evaluated to verify its use for fainting treatment. Ya-hom has several recipes, which are composed of different medicinal plants in varying ratio. We have selected the most popular commercial preparation to determine the effect on the blood pressure in rats. The water extract of Ya-hom at doses of 0.2, 0.4, 0.6 and 0.8 g/kg initially transiently decreased pressure and over time, increased blood pressure. The duration of the Ya-hom effect on decreasing and increasing blood pressure was dose dependent. The time to maximal effect of Ya-hom on increasing blood pressure was also dose dependent. Phentolamine attenuated the blood pressure decreasing effect but did not affect the blood pressure increasing effect of Ya-hom. Ya-hom was previously shown to increase aortic ring contraction, which was partially inhibited by phentolamine, and increased atrial contraction. It is possible that phentolamine inhibits the effect of Ya-hom on vascular smooth muscle contraction resulting in a prominent positive inotropic effect. This may be the same reason that phentolamine does not influence the effect of Ya-hom on increasing blood pressure. The dominant effect of Ya-hom on increasing blood pressure supports the use of Ya-hom for the treatment of fainting.
The genetic association of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) to rheumatoid arthritis risk has commonly been attributed to alleles in HLA-DRB1. However, debate persists about the identity of the causal variants in HLA-DRB1 and the presence of independent effects elsewhere in the MHC. Using existing genome-wide SNP data in 5,018 individuals with seropositive rheumatoid arthritis (cases) and 14,974 unaffected controls, we imputed and tested classical alleles and amino acid polymorphisms in HLA-A, HLA-B, HLA-C, HLA-DPA1, HLA-DPB1, HLA-DQA1, HLA-DQB1 and HLA-DRB1, as well as 3,117 SNPs across the MHC. Conditional and haplotype analyses identified that three amino acid positions (11, 71 and 74) in HLA-DRβ1 and single-amino-acid polymorphisms in HLA-B (at position 9) and HLA-DPβ1 (at position 9), which are all located in peptide-binding grooves, almost completely explain the MHC association to rheumatoid arthritis risk. This study shows how imputation of functional variation from large reference panels can help fine map association signals in the MHC.
Despite recent advances in chemotherapy, the prognosis for patients with advanced gastric cancer (GC) or gastroesophageal junction cancer remains poor. Human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) is a novel target for biologic therapy in metastatic GC. We analyzed the association between HER2 overexpression and the clinicopathologic characteristics of advanced GC. Formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tumor samples were collected from patients with stage III or to IV (M(0)) GC who subsequently underwent curative surgery followed by adjuvant chemotherapy with 5-fluorouracil and cisplatin. All the samples were analyzed for HER2 status by immunohistochemistry (IHC) and fluorescence in situ hybridization. Of 142 samples analyzed, 7.1% scored IHC 2+ and 8.6% scored IHC 3+, whereas 9.3% were HER2-amplified. Of HER2-amplified cases, 76.9% (10/13) scored IHC 3+, showing the correlation between HER2 amplification and overexpression (P=0.01). HER2 IHC 3+ cases were more common in the intestinal-type tumors compared with diffuse-type tumors (16.7% vs. 5.1%, respectively; P=0.049), and a nonsignificant trend was observed using fluorescence in situ hybridization (14.3% vs. 9.2%, respectively; P=0.399). HER2 gene amplification was more frequent in stage IV (M(0)) than stage III disease (15.4% vs. 4.0%, respectively; P=0.037). Interestingly, HER2-amplified disease was more common than nonamplified disease in patients with nodal stage 3 tumors (76.9% vs. 38.6%, respectively; P=0.009); a similar pattern was observed using IHC. HER2 overexpression correlated with nodal stage, and a lymph node ratio greater than 0.5 was more common in HER2-amplified tumors than HER2-nonamplified tumors (69.2% vs. 43.3%, respectively; P=0.086). These findings suggest that further investigations of adjuvant therapy with HER2-targeted therapy for advanced GC are warranted.
Air pollution effect on humans represents a major public health problem. Exposure to genotoxic compounds in the ambient air is evaluated using different biomarkers. In the present study we assessed DNA-adducts levels in apparently healthy people living and working in the city of Cotonou (Benin) in which exposure to air pollutants such as benzene and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) mainly benzo(a)pyrene has been evidenced. Rural inhabitants were enrolled as control group. Taxi-motorbike drivers, street food vendors, and gasoline salesmen were recruited in Cotonou whereas suburban residents were recruited in Godomey, 12 km from Cotonou. We found that taxi-motorbike drivers, roadside residents, street vendors, taxi-motor-bike drivers and gasoline sellers had significantly higher levels of DNA-adducts than suburban and village inhabitants (P < 0.001; post hoc, LSD). Means values were 24.6 ± 6.4, 23.78 ± 6.9, 34.7 ± 9.8, and 37.2 ± 8.1 in the exposed groups versus 2.1 ± 0.6 and 3.1 ± 0.8 adducts/10(8) nucleotides, in the two control groups, respectively. We did not find any significant difference within the high exposure groups and inside low exposure subgroups (namely suburban residents and villagers) because the mean individual exposure values to both PAHs and benzene were similar among subjects exposed in the city of Cotonou and those in suburban and village areas. However, there is significant interindividual variations in adducts levels that may reflect variation of genetic susceptibility factors. Ranges of adduct level/10(8) nucleotides were: 1-69, 1-76, 3-169, 4-124, 0-9, 0-8 adducts/10(8) for taxi-motorbike drivers, roadside residents, street vendors, gasoline sellers, suburban and village inhabitants, respectively. Our study demonstrated a clear-cut elevated level of DNA adducts in city residents than in none exposed people (or very low exposure levels people) and designate these city residents groups as people at risks for the chronic diseases possibly caused by benzene and PAHs.
It is uncertain whether patients with proximal deep-vein thrombosis should be treated with streptokinase followed by intravenous heparin or with intravenous heparin alone. Published reports indicate that streptokinase plus heparin increases the risk of bleeding, including central nervous system bleeding and death, but decreases the risk of postphlebitic syndrome. Previous recommendations regarding these treatments have not considered patients' preferences or the values they attach to the possible outcomes of therapy.
We used decision analysis to combine published estimates of the probabilities of various adverse outcomes of treatment (bleeding, pulmonary embolism, postphlebitic syndrome, and death) with the values patients placed on these outcomes. We questioned 36 patients about the values they attached to each outcome. Sixteen patients had had deep-vein thrombosis, and 20 had not.
By the values they attached to the outcomes, all 36 patients indicated that they were unwilling to accept an increased risk of death to avoid postphlebitic syndrome. According to the decision analysis, heparin alone was the better treatment for all 36 patients. As compared with streptokinase plus heparin, heparin alone provided 29 days of additional life expectancy over the predicted life expectancy of 20 years. Although the difference between the two treatments was small, heparin alone remained the better treatment in sensitivity analyses that examined the reasonable ranges of probabilities of the clinical outcomes.
The values patients placed on the outcomes of treatment for deep-vein thrombosis support the use of heparin alone over the combined use of streptokinase and heparin.
We have studied the effect of propofol on the side effects associated with intrathecal morphine in 40 patients undergoing major arthroplasty. Patients received spinal anaesthesia with plain 0.5% bupivacaine 20 mg mixed with preservative-free morphine 0.3 mg. Before injection of the local anaesthetic, the patients were allocated randomly to receive either a bolus dose of propofol 10 mg followed by an infusion of 30 mg/24 h or equal volumes of 10% Intralipid (control group). The number of patients without postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) was similar in both groups. However, the incidence of nausea and vomiting was lower in the propofol (13 and 22, respectively) than in the control (34 and 36) group (P < 0.01 and P < 0.05, respectively). Severe vomiting episodes were less frequent in the propofol group (1 vs 11; P < 0.05). Four patients in the propofol group and 12 patients in the control group had itching (P < 0.05). The incidence of urinary retention was similar in both groups. There was no additional sedation attributable to propofol. In conclusion, sub-hypnotic doses of propofol protected significantly against itching and had a modest effect on PONV after intrathecal morphine.
In recent years, attempts have been made to broadly deem seizures developing during theophylline administration as theophylline-related seizures. Consequently, a tendency to consider all the seizures attributable to theophylline has occurred. We investigated background factors in pediatric patients with seizures to examine the involvement of theophylline in the event.
Of adverse events developing during theophylline administration which were reported by two theophylline preparation manufacturers between October 1987 and April 2004, we investigated underlying disease, regimen, outcome, and other items in 255 patients with seizures provoked by oral preparations and in 79 patients with seizures provoked by intravenous preparations.
The most predominant factors were represented by neurological predispositions, e.g., epilepsy, and by a history of fits prior to the onset of seizures in not less than two-thirds of pediatric patients with seizures who were receiving theophylline. Furthermore, not less than 90% of pediatric patients who remained with sequelae and who died had the factors. Our investigation revealed that the factors developed predominantly when the relevant patients presented fever, aged under 3 years and had history of seizures.
Therefore, we consider that advertence to this point is most important in administering theophylline safely.
