Elevated whole blood serotonin 5-HT, or hyperserotonemia, is a common biomarker in autism spectrum disorder (ASD). The integrin β3 receptor subunit gene (ITGB3) is a quantitative trait locus for whole blood 5-HT levels. Recent work shows that integrin β3 interacts with the serotonin transporter (SERT) in both platelets and in the midbrain. Furthermore, multiple studies have now reported gene-gene interaction between the integrin β3 and SERT genes in association with ASD. Given the lack of previous data on the impact of integrin β3 on brain or behavioral phenotypes, we sought to compare mice with decreased or absent expression of the integrin β3 receptor subunit (Itgb3 +/- and -/-) with wildtype littermate controls in behavioral tasks relevant to ASD. These mice did not show deficits in activity level in the open field or anxiety-like behavior on the elevated plus maze, two potential confounds in the evaluation of mouse social behavior. In the three-chamber social test, mice lacking integrin β3 were shown to have normal sociability but did not show a preference for social novelty. Importantly, the absence of integrin β3 did not impair olfaction or the ability to recall familiar social odors. Additionally, mice lacking integrin β3 showed increased grooming behavior in novel environments. These preliminary studies reveal altered social and repetitive behavior in these mice, which suggests that the integrin β3 subunit may be involved in brain systems relevant to ASD. Further work is needed to fully characterize these behavioral changes and the underlying brain mechanisms.
A 61-year-old woman with a 30-year history of systemic lupus erythematosus treated with chloroquine sulfate presented with complete heart block, congestive heart failure, and findings of restrictive cardiomyopathy on echocardiogram. Thickening of mitral, aortic, and tricuspid valves along with mild to moderate valve regurgitation was also present. Magnetic resonance imaging showed increased gadolinium uptake in the interventricular septum and the left ventricular lateral wall. Endomyocardial biopsy specimen showed marked myocardial cytoplasmic vacuolation and extensive myelin figures. Seven months after discontinuation of chloroquine, she showed significant clinical improvement and reversal of cardiomyopathy on echocardiography. This is the first case report describing a cardiomyopathy with prolonged use of chloroquine involving the conduction system, cardiac valves, and the myocardium with reversal on discontinuation of the drug.
Mutations in PTEN-induced kinase 1 (PINK1) gene cause recessive familial type 6 of Parkinson's disease (PARK6). PINK1 is believed to exert neuroprotective effect on SN dopaminergic cells by acting as a mitochondrial Ser/Thr protein kinase. Autosomal recessive inheritance indicates the involvement of loss of PINK1 function in PARK6 pathogenesis. In the present study, confocal imaging of cultured SN dopaminergic neurons prepared from PINK1 knockout mice was performed to investigate physiological importance of PINK1 in maintaining mitochondrial membrane potential (ΔΨ(m)) and mitochondrial morphology and test the hypothesis that PARK6 mutations cause the loss of PINK1 function. PINK1-deficient SN dopaminergic neurons exhibited a depolarized ΔΨ(m). In contrast to long thread-like mitochondria of wild-type neurons, fragmented mitochondria were observed from PINK1-null SN dopaminergic cells. Basal level of mitochondrial superoxide and oxidative stressor H(2)O(2)-induced ROS generation were significantly increased in PINK1-deficient dopaminergic neurons. Overexpression of wild-type PINK1 restored hyperpolarized ΔΨ(m) and thread-like mitochondrial morphology and inhibited ROS formation in PINK1-null dopaminergic cells. PARK6 mutant (G309D), (E417G) or (CΔ145) PINK1 failed to rescue mitochondrial dysfunction and inhibit oxidative stress in PINK1-deficient dopaminergic neurons. Mitochondrial toxin rotenone-induced cell death of dopaminergic neurons was augmented in PINK1-null SN neuronal culture. These results indicate that PINK1 is required for maintaining normal ΔΨ(m) and mitochondrial morphology of cultured SN dopaminergic neurons and exerts its neuroprotective effect by inhibiting ROS formation. Our study also provides the evidence that PARK6 mutant (G309D), (E417G) or (CΔ145) PINK1 is defective in regulating mitochondrial functions and attenuating ROS production of SN dopaminergic cells.
In 2 multicenter, double blind studies, the efficacy and safety of diclofenac, 150 mg/day, were compared with those of aspirin, 3.6 g/day, in 194 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in Study 1 and with those of naproxen, 1000 mg/day, in 223 patients with RA in Study 2. After single blind, placebo washout periods of 2 days to 2 weeks, patients entered 12-week treatment periods in each study. In both studies, diclofenac, aspirin, and naproxen produced statistically significant improvement (p less than or equal to 0.01) from baseline in all primary efficacy variables at each assessment visit. There were no significant differences between treatments. In both studies, significantly fewer (p less than or equal to 0.05) patients receiving diclofenac experienced adverse effects compared to the aspirin and naproxen groups. Significantly fewer (p less than 0.05) patients in the diclofenac group compared to the aspirin group discontinued the trial due to side effects (primarily tinnitus and deafness). In Study 2, fewer patients in the diclofenac group discontinued the trial due to adverse effects than in the naproxen group. In conclusion, diclofenac, aspirin, and naproxen demonstrated similar efficacy; however, diclofenac was significantly better tolerated than either aspirin or naproxen.
Systemic administration of pilocarpine, which results in status epilepticus followed by recurrent seizures in rats, is a widely used experimental model of chronic limbic epilepsy. Marked structural alterations have been documented in pilocarpine-induced epilepsy, and these include cell loss in the hippocampus and other brain areas, and sprouting of mossy and cholinergic fibers in the hippocampus. Evidence is accumulating that neurotrophins and neurotrophin receptors are involved in the cascade of these events. Two and 4 months after pilocarpine-induced epilepsy, neurons containing the 75-kDa low affinity neurotrophin receptor (p75NTR) were investigated with immunohistochemistry in the medial septal and diagonal band nuclei. No significant differences in the distribution and number of immunoreactive neurons were found in the epileptic rats compared to control saline-treated animals. However, in the epileptic animals, a significant decrease in the perikaryal size of p75NTR-immunoreactive neurons of the septal/diagonal band region was found by 60 days, and such atrophic changes were more marked in the diagonal band nuclei by 120 days. These findings indicate that the p75NTR-containing cell bodies, which include the neurons projecting to the hippocampal formation and are cholinergic in the normal brain, survive after months of spontaneous recurrent seizures, during which, therefore, a supply of p75NTR to target regions is maintained in the chronic epileptic brain. However, the present data point out that these p75NTR-containing neurons undergo a significant shrinkage in pilocarpine-induced chronic epilepsy, thus indicating that they are involved in the brain pathology of temporal lobe epilepsy.
Stimulation of neural afferents in the parietal pericardium of anaesthetized, open-chest dogs by local application of capsaicin (0.1-100 micrograms) consistently induced dose-related pressor effects and tachycardia, whereas the application (0.1-1 microgram) of neuropeptides substance P (SP), neurokinin A (NKA), neurokinin B (NKB) or calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) had no cardiovascular effect. Capsaicin-induced reflex responses were not affected by vagotomy, but were abolished by bilateral sectioning of the upper thoracic (T1-T4) white rami communicantes and stellectomy. Capsaicin-induced reflex tachycardia could also be abolished by a beta-adrenoceptor blockade with propranolol (0.5 mg/kg, IV), while ganglionic blockade with pentolinium (0.5 mg/kg, IV) eliminated both the tachycardia and pressor effects. Intravenous treatment with the cyclo-oxygenase inhibitors, indomethacin (5 mg/kg) or aspirin (100 mg/kg) had no effect on reflex pressor and heart rate responses to pericardial capsaicin. Also local treatment of the pericardium with either indomethacin (1 microgram/ml) or dual cyclooxygenase/lipoxygenase inhibitor, BW755C (10 micrograms/ml) failed to affect the responses to capsaicin. We conclude that (i) capsaicin-sensitive afferents which are present in the dog pericardium have a spinal origin and can initiate sympathetically-mediated reflex cardiovascular changes; (ii) the reflexogenic action of capsaicin on pericardial afferents does not depend on local production of eicosanoids; (iii) neuropeptides appear to be without reflexogenic effects on neural afferents in the dog parietal pericardium.
To investigate the influence of inhibitor of myosin light-chain kinase (MLCK) on the human pulmonary arterial endothelial cell (HPAEC) challenged with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and LPS induced of acute lung injury (ALI) in mice.
HPAECs were cultured in ECM medium and its passages 4-6 were used. After treatment with inhibitor of MLCK (ML-7) for 60 minutes, the HPAECs were incubated in LPS for another 60 minutes, and then cell viability was measured by the methyl thiazolyl tetrazolium (MTT) assay. Immunofluorescence microscope was used to detect phosphorylated-MLCK (p-MLCK) immunoreactive cells. Twenty female BALB/c mice were randomly divided into two groups. The mice of LPS group were exposed to LPS (1 microg/g) through nasal instillation, and the mice of ML-7 group were pretreated with ML-7 before intranasal instillation of LPS. Wet/dry weight (W/D) ratio of lung, bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) protein content, myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity and histopathological changes of lung tissue were observed. Immunohistochemistry assays were used to determine the status of MLCK and CD11b immunoreactive cells in lung tissue, and expression of MLCK mRNA in lung tissue was assessed by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Expression of MLCK protein in lungs was assayed by Western blotting.
Compared with LPS group, increased absorbance (A) value of HPAEC was found in ML-7 group (P<0.01). Immunoreactive cells of p-MLCK were more reduced in the ML-7 group (P<0.05), and W/D ratio of lung, MPO activity and BALF protein content of lung tissue were decreased in ML-7 group (P<0.05 or P<0.01). Histological examination showed that an extensive lung inflammation was seen in mice of LPS group, with an accumulation of a large number of neutrophils, marked pulmonary edema and hemorrhage, but the inflammation and parenchymal hemorrhage was significantly alleviated in ML-7 group. Both MLCK immunoreactive cells located in endothelium and CD11b in infiltrated inflammatory cells were decreased in ML-7 group compared with those in LPS group. Compared with LPS group, MLCK mRNA and protein expressions (A) in ML-7 group were significantly decreased (both P<0.05).
ML-7, an MLCK inhibitor, enhances activity of HPAEC induced by LPS and reduces expression of p-MLCK. It also reduces the LPS-induced infiltration of neutrophils in lung tissues, pulmonary edema and expression of MLCK and CD11b protein and MLCK mRNA in lung tissues, demonstrating that inhibition of activation of MLCK, leading to an abatement of phosphorylation of myosin light chain or MLCK, resulting in stabilization of vascular barrier function. The results suggest that MLCK has a crucial role in the pathogenesis of ALI.
We report on a young female patient suffering from anal-cancer who received simultaneous radiochemotherapy and developed a "hibernating myocardium" during continuous infusion of 5-FU.
In literature the incidence of cardiac complications caused by 5-FU-therapy is found to be between 1% and 10%. Patients with coronary heart disease have a four-fold higher risk. Possible pathogenic mechanisms are spasm of coronary artery, direct cardiotoxicity, immunological reactions and disturbance of the coagulation system.
We examined memory improvement with respect to the effects of gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP) in male C57BL/6J mice under conditions of experimentally induced amnesia. GRP was administered following training in a one-trial passive avoidance test. In Experiment 1, the drug scopolamine (1 or 2 mg/kg, ip) was used to induce amnesia prior to training, and GRP (32 nmol/kg, ip) or saline (control) was administered immediately after training. Results indicate that GRP at this dose improved memory only when the dosage of scopolamine was relatively low (1 mg/kg). In Experiment 2, CO2-induced amnesia was employed. Mice were placed in a chamber filled with CO2 or air (control) immediately after acquisition training. Subsequently, they were administered either saline or GRP (32 nmol/kg, ip). Significantly longer light-dark latency was observed in all mice that received GRP (both experimental and control groups). In total, our results indicate that the effect of GRP at this dose on the improvement of impaired memory is dependent on the degree of impairment. Furthermore, because CO2-induced hypoxia is known to decrease acetylcholine release in the brain, our results also suggest that GRP and its receptor may interact with the cholinergic system in the central nervous system.
To review Australian adverse drug reaction reports describing hyponatraemia and hypokalaemia attributed to indapamide and compare the characteristics of the patients with those in Australian reports implicating two other diuretic products (hydrochlorothiazide and amiloride hydrochloride; chlorothiazide).
Descriptive analysis using reports from the database of the Adverse Drug Reactions Advisory Committee (ADRAC).
Numbers of reports of hyponatraemia and hypokalaemia; proportion of such reports in total reports of adverse reactions to each drug; severity of electrolyte disturbances.
Between August 1984 and September 2000, 84 Australian reports of hyponatraemia and 87 reports of hypokalaemia, in which indapamide was the sole suspected drug, were submitted to ADRAC. Most reports involved an indapamide dose of 2.5 mg daily. There was a significantly greater proportion of reports of hyponatraemia with indapamide and with the hydrochlorothiazide and amiloride combination than with chlorothiazide; hypokalaemia was significantly more common for indapamide than for the other two drugs. Of the 87 reports of hypokalaemia with indapamide, 35 patients also had hyponatraemia. For all three drugs, at least 80% of reports of hyponatraemia were in people aged 65 or over, and electrolyte disturbance was most commonly reported in elderly women.
Hyponatraemia and hypokalaemia have been described in 20.9% and 21.7%, respectively, of reports to ADRAC in which indapamide was the sole suspected drug. The electrolyte disturbances can be severe.
To assess if propranolol prevents the first bleeding in cirrhosis, we randomly assigned 174 patients with large varices to either propranolol in doses reducing the resting heart rate by 25% (85 patients) or to a placebo (oral vitamin K, 89 patients). Sixty-nine patients had alcoholic cirrhosis, 24 posthepatitis cirrhosis and 81 cryptogenic cirrhosis. At the time of inclusion, 75 patients (43%) had ascites and according to the Child-Pugh classification, 103 (59%) had Class A disease, 60 (34%) Class B and 11 (7%) Class C. We report here an interim analysis of the study when all patients had been followed for at least 1 year (mean follow-up = 22 months). At this time, the cumulative proportion of patients free of bleeding was 74% (both differences not significant), respectively. A retrospective analysis showed that the cumulative percentage of patients free of bleeding was significantly higher in the propranolol- than in the control-group in the subsets of patients without ascites or in Child-Pugh Class A: respectively, 87 vs. 64% (p = 0.023) and 88 vs. 64% (p = 0.01). No differences in bleeding incidence were found in patients with ascites or in Child-Pugh Class B or C. Propranolol treatment did not affect survival in any subgroup. Twenty-five patients had to be withdrawn from propranolol because of side effects (n = 23) or low compliance (n = 2). If confirmed on a longer follow-up, these results suggest that propranolol could prevent the first bleeding in patients with well-compensated cirrhosis.
A case of persistent cerebellar dysfunction following high-dose cytosine arabinoside (Ara-C) treatment of acute myelogenous leukemia is reported. The symptoms developed after a cumulative dose of 24 g/m2, and 6 months after the start of symptoms, the signs of cerebellar damage were unchanged. The symptoms aggravated during a subsequent low-dose therapy with Ara-C, 15 mg twice daily. This supports the presumption that this adverse effect is caused by the cumulative dose rather than by high plasma concentrations.
Large haemorrhagic and necrotic cutaneous lesions developed after two low dose (5 mg) methotrexate injections in a patient suffering from long standing rheumatoid arthritis. Differential clinical diagnosis included factitia dermatitis, infectious processes, pyoderma gangrenosum, rheumatoid neutrophilic dermatitis, necrotizing arteritis and vasculitis. Histological and direct immunofluorescent examinations of skin biopsies supported the diagnosis of leucocytoclastic vasculitis. We discuss the respective roles of methotrexate and rheumatoid arthritis in the outbreak of leucocytoclastic vasculitis. Hypersensitivity is strongly suspected.
Chronic abuse of methamphetamine leads to cognitive dysfunction and high rates of relapse, paralleled by significant changes of brain dopamine and serotonin neurotransmission. Previously, we found that rats with extended access to methamphetamine self-administration displayed enhanced methamphetamine-primed reinstatement of drug-seeking and cognitive deficits relative to limited access animals. The present study investigated whether extended access to methamphetamine self-administration produced abnormalities in dopamine and serotonin systems in rat forebrain. Rats self-administered methamphetamine (0.02-mg/i.v. infusion) during daily 1-h sessions for 7 to 10 days, followed by either short- (1-h) or long-access (6-h) self-administration for 12 to 14 days. Lever responding was extinguished for 2 weeks before either reinstatement testing or rapid decapitation and tissue dissection. Tissue levels of monoamine transporters and markers of methamphetamine-induced toxicity were analyzed in several forebrain areas. Long-access methamphetamine self-administration resulted in escalation of daily drug intake ( approximately 7 mg/kg/day) and enhanced drug-primed reinstatement compared with the short-access group. Furthermore, long-, but not short-access to self-administered methamphetamine resulted in persistent decreases in dopamine transporter (DAT) protein levels in the prefrontal cortex and dorsal striatum. In contrast, only minor alterations in the tissue levels of dopamine or its metabolites were found, and no changes in markers specific for dopamine terminals or glial cell activation were detected. Our findings suggest that persistent methamphetamine seeking is associated with region-selective changes in DAT levels without accompanying monoaminergic neurotoxicity. Greater understanding of the neuroadaptations underlying persistent methamphetamine seeking and cognitive deficits could yield targets suitable for future therapeutic interventions.
Acute hepatitis for intravenous amiodarone is an uncommon problem with scarce appearances in medical literature. Sometimes, it has postulated that the vehicle of the intravenous preparation and not the active principle is the possible cause of this complication. We report a patient with fulminating hepatitis and severe encephalopathy following the administration of intravenous amiodarone. We present also the clinical evolution of the patient after reintroduction of oral amiodarone. In the end, we make a review of the associated literature with our case.
S-(1,2-Dichlorovinyl)-L-cysteine sulfoxide (DCVCS) is a reactive and potent nephrotoxic metabolite of the human trichloroethylene metabolite S-(1,2-dichlorovinyl)-L-cysteine (DCVC). Because DCVCS covalent binding to kidney proteins likely plays a role in its nephrotoxicity, in this study biotin-tagged DCVCS, N-biotinyl-DCVCS (NB-DCVCS), was synthesized, and its stability in buffer alone and in the presence of rat blood or plasma was characterized in vitro. In addition, reactivity toward GSH and covalent binding to selected model enzymes and isolated kidney proteins were characterized. The half-lives of NB-DCVCS (39.6 min) and the DCVCS (diastereomer 1, 14.4 min; diastereomer 2, 6 min) in the presence of GSH were comparable. Incubating the model enzymes glutathione reductase and malate dehydrogenase with 10 μM NB-DCVCS for 3 h at 37 °C followed by immunoblotting using antibiotin antibodies demonstrated that glutathione reductase and malate dehydrogenase were extensively modified by NB-DCVCS. When rat kidney cytosol (6 μg/μL) was incubated with NB-DCVCS (312.5 nM to 5 μM) for 3 h at 37 °C followed by immunoblotting, a concentration-dependent increase in signal with multiple proteins with different molecular weights was observed, suggesting that NB-DCVCS binds to multiple kidney proteins with different selectivity. Incubating rat kidney cytosol with DCVCS (10-100 μM) prior to the addition of NB-DCVCS (2.5 μM) reduced the immunoblotting signal, suggesting that NB-DCVCS and DCVCS compete for the same binding sites. A comparison of the stability of NB-DCVCS and DCVCS in rat blood and plasma was determined in vitro, and NB-DCVCS exhibited higher stability than DCVCS in both media. Collectively, these results suggest that NB-DCVCS shows sufficient stability, reactivity, and selectivity to warrant further investigations into its possible use as a tool for future characterization of the role of covalent modification of renal proteins by DCVCS in nephrotoxicity.
Cryptorchidism is a common reproductive abnormality, possibly resulting from abnormal hormone production/action by the fetal testis. Insulin-like factor 3 (Insl3) is thought to be involved in gubernaculum development and transabdominal testicular descent, but its importance is unclear, due partly to lack of suitable Insl3 antibodies. We generated (by genetic immunization) and validated a novel antirat Insl3 antibody, which we used to characterize immunoexpression of Insl3 in rat Leydig cells (LCs) from fetal life until adulthood and its relationship to cryptorchidism. Immunoexpression was strong on embryonic day (E) 17.5 and E19.5 and from 35 d of age onward but weak from E21.5 until puberty. Because in utero exposure to di (n-butyl) phthalate (DBP) induces cryptorchidism and suppresses Insl3 gene expression, we investigated Insl3 protein expression in fetal and adult rats exposed to 500 mg/kg.d DBP from E13.5 to E21.5. Expression on E17.5 and E19.5 decreased dramatically after DBP exposure, but there was no consistent correlation between this suppression and abnormal testis position. We also compared expression of Insl3 and P450 side-chain cleavage enzyme in fetal testes from rats exposed in utero to DBP or flutamide (50 mg/kg.d). DBP treatment suppressed expression of both P450 side-chain cleavage enzyme and Insl3 at E19.5, but flutamide exposure had no effect on either protein, demonstrating that Insl3 expression in fetal rat LCs is not androgen regulated. In adult rats, Insl3 expression was suppressed in 80% of cryptorchid and 50% of scrotal testes from rats exposed to DBP, suggesting that prenatal DBP exposure also leads to maldevelopment/malfunction of the adult LC population in some animals.
Mammalian genomes encode only a small number of cuproenzymes. The many genes involved in coordinating copper uptake, distribution, storage and efflux make gene/nutrient interactions especially important for these cuproenzymes. Copper deficiency and copper excess both disrupt neural function. Using mice heterozygous for peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM), a cuproenzyme essential for the synthesis of many neuropeptides, we identified alterations in anxiety-like behavior, thermoregulation and seizure sensitivity. Dietary copper supplementation reversed a subset of these deficits. Wildtype mice maintained on a marginally copper-deficient diet exhibited some of the same deficits observed in PAM(+/-) mice and displayed alterations in PAM metabolism. Altered copper homeostasis in PAM(+/-) mice suggested a role for PAM in the cell type specific regulation of copper metabolism. Physiological functions sensitive to genetic limitations of PAM that are reversed by supplemental copper and mimicked by copper deficiency may serve as indicators of marginal copper deficiency.
Bromocriptine, a dopamine agonist with central nervous system actions, may reduce sympathetic nervous system activity. We tested this hypothesis by measuring arterial blood pressure, central venous pressure, heart rate, muscle sympathetic nerve activity, and forearm blood flow before and after unloading the arterial baroreceptors with sodium nitroprusside (0.5 to 1.5 mcg/kg per minute IV), before and after unloading the cardiopulmonary baroreceptors with incremental lower body negative pressure (0 to -15 mm Hg), and before and after immersion of the hand in ice-cold water for 2 minutes (cold pressor test). After obtaining basal responses to provocative maneuvers, we gave 20 healthy subjects either 5 mg oral bromocriptine (n = 10) or placebo (n = 10) in a randomized, double-blind fashion. Bromocriptine did not affect resting mean arterial pressure, heart rate, or forearm blood flow. Bromocriptine decreased resting central venous pressure by 1.2 mm Hg (P < .05) and tended to increase total integrated muscle sympathetic nerve activity (from 151 +/- 44 to 212 +/- 82 U/min, P = NS). The reflex increases in muscle sympathetic nerve activity to nitroprusside infusion and lower body negative pressure were unchanged by bromocriptine; however, vascular responsiveness to both maneuvers was impaired after bromocriptine administration compared with control. Without bromocriptine, the reflex increase in muscle sympathetic nerve activity after nitroprusside-induced hypotension maintained forearm blood flow at a constant level, whereas with bromocriptine the forearm blood flow increased from 1.9 +/- 0.3 to 2.8 +/- 0.6 mL/min per 100 mL (P < .05).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In order to evaluate the neuroprotective effect of Rosiglitazone Maleate (RSG) against brain ischemic injury, the effects of Rosiglitazone Maleate on the inflammation following cerebral ischemia/reperfusion were investigated. Focal cerebral ischemia was induced by the intraluminal thread for cerebral middle artery (MCA) occlusion. Rosiglitazone Maleate at concentrations of 0.5, 2 and 5 mg/kg was infused by intragastric gavage twice immediately and 2 h after MCA occlusion, respectively. The effects of Rosiglitazone Maleate on brain swelling, myeloperoxidase and interleukin-6 mRNA level in brain tissue after MCA occlusion and reperfusion were evaluated. The results showed that as compared with the model control group, RSG (0.5 mg/kg) had no significant influence on brain swelling (P>0.05), but 2 mg/kg and 5 mg/kg RSG could significantly alleviate brain swelling (P<0.05). All different doses of RSG could obviously reduce MPO activity in brain tissue after MCA occlusion and reperfusion in a dose-dependent manner. RSG (0.5 and 2 mg/kg) could decrease the expression levels of IL-6 mRNA in brain tissue after MCA occlusion and reperfusion to varying degrees (P<0.05) with the difference being significant between them. It was concluded that RSG could effectively ameliorate brain ischemic injury after 24 h MCA occlusion and inhibit the inflammatory response after ischemia-reperfusion in this model.
Rats displayed a reduction in the percentage of time spent on the open arms of the elevated plus-maze 24-30 hours after withdrawal from chronic chlordiazepoxide treatment (10 mg/kg/day IP for 4 weeks). This indicated an anxiogenic response in this test. This anxiogenic response was not significantly reversed by DL-propranolol (5 and 10 mg/kg IP) or clonidine (0.02 and 0.04 mg/kg IP). These results provide no evidence to suggest that the anxiogenic effects of chlordiazepoxide withdrawal are mediated by an increase in noradrenergic activity. The possible involvement of multiple transmitter systems in benzodiazepine withdrawal symptomology is discussed.
Foscarnet is used as therapy of cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection in immunosuppressed subjects. We present a patient with human immunodeficiency virus infection under treatment with foscarnet for CMV retinitis who complained of thirst and polyuria. Laboratory data showed hypernatremia with increased plasma osmolality and metabolic hyperchloremic acidosis. A water deprivation test demonstrated a nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. Other laboratory studies, including urine pH, anion gap, titratable acidity, and bicarbonate, showed a distal tubular acidification defect. All abnormalities were transient, with recovery a few days after foscarnet withdrawal. No cases of renal acidosis, and only one case of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, has been previously reported as a complication of foscarnet treatment. Our patient developed both nephrogenic diabetes insipidus and renal tubular acidosis with a temporal pattern that demonstrated a link between foscarnet therapy and these abnormalities.
Renal disease progression in the rat is associated with a time-dependent upregulation of renal endothelin-1 (ET-1) gene expression and synthesis. We have previously demonstrated that endothelin A receptor subtype (ETA) blockade in rats with remnant kidney reduced signs of disease activity, suggesting that ET-1 exerts part of its deleterious effects on the kidney through ETA. No data are available so far on the role of ETB receptor in progressive renal injury. We first studied renal ETA and ETB receptor gene expression in rats with remnant kidney on days 7, 30, and 120 after the surgical procedure. While renal expression of ETA was unaffected, ETB receptor gene was significantly upregulated with time in rats with remnant kidney, being 3.5-fold and sixfold higher than shamoperated rats at days 30 and 120. We also evaluated whether bosentan, a nonpeptidic ETA and ETB receptor antagonist, offered better protection against renal disease progression than reported for ETA-selective blockers and whether it improved survival in animals with renal ablation. Two groups of rats with renal mass reduction (n = 11 each) were given bosentan 100 mg/kg/d orally or its vehicle (carboxymethyl cellulose) beginning day 7 after the surgical procedure and were followed until the death of the vehicle-treated animals. Sham-operated animals comprised the control group. Bosentan partially prevented increases in blood pressure and proteinuria, but had a remarkable protective effect on renal function and significantly prolonged animal survival. These data suggest that blocking both renal ETA and ETB receptors might have major implications in the treatment of human progressive nephropathies.
The pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1 beta, TNF-alpha and IL-6 are of great importance in the development of silica-induced lung damage and repair. In this study we investigated the role of IL-1 beta, TNF-alpha and COX2 in silica-induced regulation of IL-6 release and pneumocyte loss in various mono- and co-cultures of monocytes, pneumocytes and endothelial cells. All co-cultures with monocytes, and especially cultures including endothelial cells, showed an increase of silica-induced release of IL-6 compared to the respective monocultures. Treatment with the antagonist IL-1 ra strongly decreased IL-1 beta and IL-6 release in contact co-cultures of monocytes and pneumocytes. COX2 up-regulation by silica and IL-1 beta was eliminated by IL-1 ra. Inhibition of COX2 markedly reduced both IL-1 beta and IL-6 release. IL-1 ra was more effective than COX2-inhibition in reduction of IL-6, but not of IL-1 beta. Silica-induced pneumocyte loss was reduced by IL-1 beta, but this effect was not counteracted by the IL-1 receptor antagonist. Our findings suggest that silica-induced IL-6 release from pneumocytes is mainly mediated via IL-1 beta release from the monocytes, via both COX2-dependent and -independent pathways. Notably, COX2-derived mediators seem crucial for a positive feed-back regulation of IL-1 beta release from the monocytes. In contrast to silica-induced IL-6, the reduction in pneumocyte loss by IL-1 beta does not seem to be regulated through an IL-1R1-dependent mechanism.
A tightly regulated catabolic process named autophagy involves the degradation of intracellular components via lysosomes. Here we investigate the antitumor effect of E Platinum, a newly synthesized derivative of oxaliplatin, in vivo and in vitro. E Platinum exhibits growth inhibition of various tumor cells in a dose-dependent manner, but the mechanism underlying it is unclear. Based on theory introducing autophagy, we preliminarily investigate whether autophagy could contribute to the antitumor activity of E Platinum. Our results showed that autophagy induced by 12.5 μM E Platinum in gastric carcinoma BGC-823 cells was significantly characterized by the FITC-fluorescent microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 (MAP-LC3), lysosomal-rich/acidic compartments visualized with Lysotracker red (LTR-red) and an accumulation of numerous large autophagic vesicles within the cytoplasm, but not in the control cells. Meanwhile treatment of cells with 12.5 μM E Platinum resulted in conversion of water soluble LC3 (LC3-I) to lipidated and autophagosome-associated form (LC3-II) as well as increasing expression of autophagy protein Beclin 1. Activation of predominant lysosomal aspartic protease, LAMP-1 and cathepsin D, was demonstrated. Moreover, RNA interference targeting Beclin 1, inhibition of autophagy by 3-methyladenine (3-MA) and chloroquine significantly suppressed the above process as well as the BGC-823 cells growth inhibition triggered by 12.5 μM E Platinum. Studies of mechanism revealed that E Platinum suppressed activation of mTOR and p70S6K by decreasing phosphorylation of Akt, ERK1/2, JNK and p38 involved in mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling. We supported new evidences for E Platinum as a promising antitumor agent, involving with autophagy induction.
Limited experimental models exist to assess drug toxicity in pediatric populations. We recently reported how a multi-age rat model could be used for pre-clinical studies of comparative drug toxicity in pediatric populations. The objective of this study was to expand the utility of this animal model, which previously demonstrated an age-dependent sensitivity to the classic nephrotoxic compound, gentamicin, to another nephrotoxicant, namely cisplatin (Cis). Sprague-Dawley rats (10, 25, 40 and 80 days old) were injected with a single dose of Cis (0, 1, 3 or 6 mg kg(-1) i.p.). Urine samples were collected prior and up to 72 h after treatment in animals that were >or= 25 days old. Several serum, urinary and 'omic' injury biomarkers as well as renal histopathology lesions were evaluated. Statistically significant changes were noted with different injury biomarkers in different age groups. The order of age-related Cis-induced nephrotoxicity was different than our previous study with gentamicin: 80 > 40 > 10 > 25 day-old vs 10 >or= 80 > 40 > 25-day-old rats, respectively. The increased levels of kidney injury molecule-1 (Kim-1: urinary protein/tissue mRNA) provided evidence of early Cis-induced nephrotoxicity in the most sensitive age group (80 days old). Levels of Kim-1 tissue mRNA and urinary protein were significantly correlated to each other and to the severity of renal histopathology lesions. These data indicate that the multi-age rat model can be used to demonstrate different age-related sensitivities to renal injury using mechanistically distinct nephrotoxicants, which is reflected in measurements of a variety of metabolite, gene transcript and protein biomarkers.
In June 1992, a 51-year-old Caucasian man with a mild learning disability was prescribed chlorpromazine and thioridazine for sleeplessness and agitation. He developed neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) which was treated successfully with intravenous diazepam. Without further exposure to neuroleptics, the patient became acutely unwell with signs of catatonic syndrome in March 1993 and responded to oral diazepam. When the dose of diazepam was reduced in August 1993, the catatonic syndrome recurred and responded to an increase in his oral diazepam. In the past, the patient had been admitted to hospital in 1983 and 1986 with severe extrapyramidal symptoms and parkinsonism following prescription of neuroleptics for agitation. This case provides evidence that patients with a predisposition to catatonic syndrome may be at increased risk of developing NMS, and therefore, should not be treated with neuroleptics.
