Three hundred seven high risk patients with renal impairment (serum creatinine greater than or equal to 1.5 mg/dl) were randomized in a double-blind manner to either iopamidol (a nonionic, low osmolar radiocontrast agent) or diatrizoate (a conventional radiocontrast agent) at cardiac angiography with subsequent follow-up study of renal function. Baseline clinical and angiographic variables were similar in the iopamidol (n = 155) and diatrizoate (n = 152) groups. Change in renal function after angiography was less pronounced with iopamidol compared with diatrizoate as measured by mean ( +/- SD) increase in 24 h serum creatinine (0.11 +/- 0.2 versus 0.22 +/- 0.26 mg/dl, p less than 0.001), mean maximal increase in serum creatinine (0.2 +/- 0.44 versus 0.38 +/- 0.73 mg/dl, p less than 0.0001) and percent of patients with a maximal increase in serum creatinine greater than 0.5 mg/dl (8% versus 19%, p less than 0.01). Such differences could not be documented in diabetic patients using insulin. There was no significant difference between agents in the number of patients developing clinically severe acute renal dysfunction. It is concluded that iopamidol is less nephrotoxic than diatrizoate in high risk patients at cardiac angiography. However, the difference in nephrotoxicity is small, of no major clinical significance in the majority of high risk patients and could not be documented in insulin-using diabetic patients. Iopamidol may be the preferred agent in certain patients with advanced renal impairment, but further study is warranted.
We studied effects of a novel alpha-2 adrenoceptor antagonist, YNS-15P (N-[(2R,11bS)-9-methoxy-1,3,4,6,7, 11b-hexahydro-2H-benzoquinolizin-2-yl]-N-methylmethanesulfonami de hydrochloride), on colonic propulsion stimulated by wrap-restraint stress (WRS) or bethanechol, on normal colonic propulsion and on diarrhea induced by castor oil in rats. Alpha-2 adrenoceptor antagonists, rauwolscine and RX821002, decreased the increase in the number and weight of fecal pellets induced by WRS. YNS-15P also inhibited WRS-stimulated fecal excretion in a dose-dependent manner. A 5-hydroxytryptamine3 receptor antagonist, granisetron, trimebutine and diazepam, but not a 5-hydroxytryptamine4 receptor antagonist, GR113808, significantly inhibited WRS-stimulated fecal excretion. YNS-15P inhibited WRS-stimulated colonic transit in a dose-dependent manner. However, YNS-15P had no significant effect on normal fecal excretion and colonic transit or on bethanechol-stimulated fecal excretion. YNS-15P also failed to inhibit castor-oil-induced diarrhea. These results indicate that YNS-15P selectively inhibits WRS-stimulated colonic propulsion, and that alpha-2 adrenoceptors may be involved in stress-induced colonic motor dysfunction in fed rats.
To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of carbetocin (a long-acting synthetic analogue of oxytocin), when administered immediately after vaginal delivery at term.
Carbetocin was given as an intramuscular injection immediately after the birth of the infant in 45 healthy women with normal singleton pregnancies who delivered vaginally at term. Dosage groups of 15, 30, 50, 75, 100, 125, 150, 175 or 200 microg carbetocin were assigned to blocks of three women according to the continual reassessment method (CRM).
All dosage groups consisted of three women, except those with 100 microg (n=6) and 200 microg (n=18). Recorded were dose-limiting adverse events: hyper- or hypotension (three), severe abdominal pain (0), vomiting (0) and retained placenta (four). Serious adverse events occurred in seven women: six cases with blood loss > or = 1000 ml, four cases of manual placenta removal, five cases of additional oxytocics administration and five cases of blood transfusion. Maximum blood loss was greatest at the upper and lower dose levels, and lowest in the 70-125 microg dose range. Four out of six cases with blood loss > or = 1000 ml occurred in the 200 microg group. The majority of additional administration of oxytocics (4/5) and blood transfusion (3/5) occurred in the dose groups of 200 microg. All retained placentae were found in the group of 200 microg.
The MTD was calculated to be at 200 microg carbetocin.
The effect of recurrent cycles of muscle fiber degeneration-regeneration was studied by repeated bupivacaine injections into the rat anterior tibial muscle. Injections of 0.6 ml of 0.75% bupivacaine were performed weekly for 6 months. The rats were allowed to recover for another 2 months and then killed. Histological and histochemical stains showed striking changes, including marked variability in fiber size, numerous internal nuclei, extensive fiber splitting and many whorled fibers. Combined staining for end-plate cholinesterase and terminal axons showed a markedly enlarged zone of terminal innervation. These findings suggest that the observed morphological changes usually attributed to a primary myopathic process may instead be the manifestations of impaired and incomplete regeneration occurring after cycles of degeneration-regeneration.
Two patients with similar clinical features are presented: both patients had chronic renal failure, on hemodialysis for many years but recently begun on a high-flux dialyzer; both had been receiving a carbidopa/levodopa preparation; and both had the onset of hallucinosis and recurrent seizures, which were refractory to anticonvulsants. The first patient died without a diagnosis; the second patient had a dramatic recovery following the administration of vitamin B6. Neither patient was considered to have a renal state sufficiently severe enough to explain their presentation.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI) have been established as effective drugs in the treatment of depressive and anxiety disorders. However, there are also reports that they can induce depressive symptoms and suicidal thoughts in patients. Eighty of 230 patients who met the DSM-III-R criteria for panic disorder received, during the course of treatment, fluvoxamine (a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor) at a dose level between 50-200 mg/day. The patients were clinically evaluated for a history of affective disorder and for the presence of affective symptoms before the treatment and for emergence of depressive symptoms during the treatment. Seven of the 80 patients (9%) developed symptoms of depression despite a good antianxiety response. Five of the 7 patients received fluvoxamine as second choice after tricyclic antidepressants (TCA). These patients had no history of affective disorder, and no symptoms of depression were present before the treatment with fluvoxamine. The depressive symptoms abated after the fluvoxamine was discontinued and TCA or clonazepam was prescribed. The depressive symptoms reappeared when fluoxetine was administered. None of these 7 patients developed depressive symptoms while treated with TCA or clonazepam. Among the 150 patients treated with TCA and benzodiazepines, not a single case of depression was seen in patients without a previous history of depression. These results suggest a vulnerability among some of panic disorder patients to noradrenergic-serotonergic imbalance caused by SSRI, which has to be taken into clinical consideration.
The influence of neuroleptic drugs on body temperature regulation is well established. Even with atypical neuroleptic drugs such as clozapine, hyperthermia has been observed as well as the malignant neuroleptic syndrome. It is likely that the influence of clozapine affects the immune response. A case is reported in which afebrile angina tonsillaris and endocarditis developed, as a result of high-dosage therapy with clozapine over several years. Besides the special features of the course, differential diagnosis, therapy and possible influence on the body temperature and the immune response are discussed.
The recent development of in vitro hepatitis C virus (HCV) RNA replication systems has provided useful tools for studying the intracellular anti-HCV activity of ribavirin. Ribavirin has been shown to: (1) induce "error catastrophe" in poliovirus, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 98, 6895-6900), (2) be a pseudo-substrate of the HCV RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) in vitro, J. Biol. Chem. 276, 46094-46098), and (3) increase mutations in HCV RNA in the binary T7 polymerase/HCV cDNA replication system, J. Virol. 76, 8505-8517). These findings have led to the hypothesis that ribavirin may also induce error catastrophe in HCV. However, the functional relevance of ribavirin-induced HCV RNA mutagenesis is unclear. By use of a colony formation assay, in which RNA is isolated from the HCV subgenomic replicon system following treatment, the impact of ribavirin, inosine-5'-monophosphate dehydrogenase (IMPDH) inhibitors, and the combination was assessed. Ribavirin reduced HCV replicon colony-forming efficiency (CFE) in a dose-dependent fashion, suggesting that ribavirin may be misincorporated into replicon RNA and result in an anti-replicon effect analogous to error catastrophe. This effect was markedly suppressed by addition of exogenous guanosine. Combination treatment with ribavirin and mycophenolic acid (MPA) or VX-497, both potent, nonnucleoside IMPDH inhibitors, led to a greatly enhanced anti-replicon effect. This enhancement was reversed by inclusion of guanosine with the treatment. In contrast, MPA or VX-497 alone had only marginal effects on both the quantity and quality (CFE) of replicon RNA, suggesting that although IMPDH inhibition is an important contributing factor to the overall ribavirin anti-HCV replicon activity, IMPDH inhibition by itself is not sufficient to exert an anti-HCV effect. Sequencing data targeting the neo gene segment of the HCV replicon indicated that ribavirin together with MPA or VX-497 increased the replicon error rate by about two-fold. Taken together these results further suggest that lethal mutagenesis may be an effective anti-HCV strategy. The colony formation assay provides a useful tool for evaluating mutagenic nucleoside analogs for HCV therapy. Finally, the data from combination treatment indicate potential therapeutic value for an enhanced anti-HCV effect when using ribavirin in combination with IMPDH inhibition.
Occludin is the first identified integral protein for the tight junction (TJ), and its long COOH-terminal domain is considered to have functions in receiving and transmitting cell survival signals. Loss of TJ-associated molecules, such as occludin, has been correlated with tumor progression in carcinogenesis; however, the precise molecular mechanisms explaining its loss of expression and whether occludin expression has any effects on cancer phenotypes remain to be clarified. Here, we show that forced expression of occludin in cancer cells exhibits enhanced sensitivity to differently acting apoptogenic factors, and thus inhibits the tumorigenicity of transformed cells, via modulation of unique sets of apoptosis-associated genes. In addition, studies using deletion mutants of occludin constructs show that 44 amino acids at the COOH-terminal end play a critical role in modifying the cellular phenotypes. Interestingly, occludin decreases cellular invasiveness and motility, thereby abrogating metastatic potencies of cancer cells. We also found that occludin expression is silenced by CpG island hypermethylation on its promoter region. Synergy with a demethylator and histone deacetylase inhibitor or retinoids that stimulate retinoic acid receptor alpha induces endogenous occludin, which is sufficient for apoptotic sensitization. Our results show the functional diversity of occludin and suggest that methylator phenotype of occludin provides enhanced tumorigenic, invasive, and metastatic properties of cancer cells, identifying occludin as a likely candidate for a tumor-suppressor gene in certain types of cancer.
Crry, a complement regulatory protein, modulates renal interstitial disease induced by proteinuria.
Recent studies have suggested a role for urinary complement components in mediating tubulointerstitial damage, which is known to have a good correlation with progression of chronic renal diseases. Although accumulating evidence suggests that complement regulatory proteins play an important protective role in glomeruli, their role in renal tubules remains unclear. In order to establish the role of a complement regulatory protein, Crry, in renal tubular injury, we employed a molecular biological approach to block the expression of Crry in tubules of animals with proteinuria induced with puromycin aminonucleoside nephritis (PAN). Methods and Results. Two different antisense oligodeoxynucleotides (ODNs) against Crry were designed and applied to cultured rat mesangial cells in vitro in order to establish their efficacy. Antisense ODN treatment resulted in decreased expression of Crry protein associated with increased sensitivity to complement attack in cell lysis assays compared with control ODN treatment or no treatment (44.7, 1.50, and 1.34%, respectively). Antisense ODNs did not affect the expression of Thy1 as a control, confirming the specificity of our ODNs. In vivo, we performed selective right renal artery perfusion to administer antisense ODNs to the kidney and showed prominent uptake of ODNs by proximal tubular cells. Reduced expression of Crry protein was demonstrated in proximal tubular cells in antisense ODNs-treated kidneys. Normal rats treated with the antisense ODNs did not show any pathological changes. However, in PAN, rats with massive proteinuria showed increased deposition of C3 and C5b-9 in tubules in antisense-treated kidneys, and histological assessment revealed more severe tubulointerstitial injury in antisense-treated animals compared with controls.
These results establish a pathogenic role for complement in leading to tubulointerstitial injury during proteinuria and, to our knowledge for the first time, show a protective role of a complement regulatory protein, Crry, in renal interstitial disease.
The aim of this study was to assess the efficacy, safety and tolerability of pegylated interferon and ribavirin in HIV/hepatitis C virus (HCV)-coinfected patients, prescribed for the same duration and at the same dosage as that used in HCV monoinfection studies.
It was an open-label, single-centre, prospective study.
Forty-five patients coinfected with HIV and HCV with CD4 counts >200 cells/microL were treated with pegylated interferon-alpha2b 1.5 microg/kg/week and ribavirin 1000-1200 mg/day for 24-48 weeks depending on HCV genotype. Safety and tolerability were assessed weekly for the first month and monthly thereafter. Virological response was assessed at weeks 4, 12 and 24 and at the end of treatment and 12 and 24 weeks post completion of treatment. The primary endpoint was defined as undetectable HCV RNA at 24 weeks post completion of treatment [sustained virological response (SVR)].
The majority of patients were male and had been injecting drug users. Sixty per cent were on antiretroviral therapy. In an intention-to-treat analysis, 53% had an SVR (genotype 1, 19% and genotype 2/3, 75%). All patients who had undetectable HCV RNA at week 4 of HCV treatment [very early virological response (VEVR)] had a SVR. On multivariate analysis only HCV genotype predicted SVR. Adverse events occurred frequently.
These results indicate that 24 weeks of HCV treatment may be adequate for HIV-infected individuals coinfected with HCV genotype 2 or 3. VEVR can predict SVR in this group and may be used to guide the subgroup of genotype 2/3 individuals who will respond to 24 weeks of treatment.
We describe the clinical course and striking neuroimaging findings of a child with central nervous system toxicity due to isoniazid. Serum isoniazid level was in the toxic range, the result of a dispensing error as well as a possible pharmacogenetic factor. We postulate that these imaging findings were the result of intramyelinic edema, previously described in experimental animal models of isoniazid toxicity.
The occurrence of HIV associated non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) is a well recognized event. HIV associated Hodgkin's disease (HD) has also been observed. A unique patient with both entities is described. The patient was a 29 year old homosexual male who developed clinical IIA nodular sclerosis HD in 1985. He was HIV + with CD4/CD8 = 0.2 and his sister had HD 20 years earlier. He received MOPP and had a complete response. In October 1988 he developed weight loss with an abdominal mass and biopsy revealed diffuse small non-cleaved NHL, with bone marrow involvement. This was his first AIDS associated illness. Probes identified clonally rearranged DNA fragments in the J region of IgH chains and clonal rearrangements in the c-myc gene were also observed but EBV sequences could not be demonstrated. He was treated with m-BACOD but died in March 1989. His course was not complicated by opportunistic infection. Possible etiologies for the HD include his HIV status or shared sibling environment. The development of the NHL may have resulted from HIV infection and/or secondary to his treatment for HD. The relationship between the two lymphomas is uncertain and factors other than HIV exposure and its immune dysfunction may have been causal.
In patients with diffuse large cell lymphoma treated with chemotherapy the presence of high levels of serum beta 2 microglobulin has been considered as a bad prognostic factor. Until now, attempts to detect early relapse in patients with diffuse large cell lymphoma have been sparse. To address this issue we began a prospective clinical trial to evaluate the role of different clinical, laboratory and radiographic tests in the detection of early relapse in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). Only serum beta 2 microglobulin levels had clinical significance and 26 of 53 patients (49%) had abnormal levels, 3 to 23.1 months (mean 8.5 months) before evident relapse. Elevated serum lactic dehydrogenase (LDH) levels and beta 2 microglobulin were observed in six patients and all relapsed, suggesting that the combination of these two tests should be considered in future prospective clinical trials in order to define the utility of both tests to detect early relapse. This information may allow us to begin chemotherapy when the tumor mass is still low thereby making the probability of achieving a long second remission more likely.
Thirty-six patients with AIDS-associated Kaposi sarcoma (KS) requiring chemotherapy were treated for six 3-week cycles of pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (20 mg/m(2)) plus interleukin-12 (IL-12; 300 ng/kg subcutaneously twice weekly), followed by 500 ng/kg subcutaneous IL-12 twice weekly for up to 3 years. All received highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART). Twenty-two had poor-prognosis KS (T(1)S(1)). Thirty patients had a major response, including 9 with complete response, yielding an 83.3% major response rate (95% confidence interval: 67.2%-93.6%). Median time to first response was 2 cycles. Median progression was not reached at median potential follow-up of 46.9 months. Of 27 patients with residual disease when starting maintenance IL-12, 15 had a new major response compared with this new baseline. The regimen was overall well tolerated; principal toxicities were neutropenia, anemia, transaminitis, and neuropsychiatric toxicity. Patients had increases in serum IL-12, interferon gamma, and inducible protein-10 (IP-10), and these remained increased at weeks 18 and 34. The regimen of IL-12 plus liposomal doxorubicin yielded rapid tumor responses and a high response rate in patients with AIDS-KS receiving HAART, and responses were sustained on IL-12 maintenance therapy. A randomized trial of IL-12 in this setting may be warranted. This study is registered at (http://www.clinicaltrials.gov) as no. NCT00020449.
The therapeutic potential of beta2-adrenergic receptor (AR) agonists in the treatment of autoimmune diseases has been reported. However, the role of these drugs in the myocardial structure-induced autoimmune process, which is thought to play a crucial role in the progression of myocarditis to subsequent complications, has not been elucidated.
Experimental autoimmune myocarditis (EAM) was induced in rats by immunization with cardiac myosin. On daily administration from day 0 after immunization, the beta2-selective AR agonists formoterol or salbutamol ameliorated EAM on day 21 and increased myocardial interleukin-10/interferon-gamma mRNA levels. Propranolol, a nonselective beta-AR antagonist, aggravated EAM on day 21 and decreased mRNA levels, whereas metoprolol, a beta1-selective AR antagonist, showed no effect. These results were reflected in vivo by the proliferation of cardiac myosin-primed lymph node cells from drug-treated rats. In vitro addition of beta2-selective AR agonists inhibited the activation of cardiac myosin fragment-specific myocarditogenic T lymphocytes, and this effect was reversed by ICI118,551, a beta2-selective AR antagonist. Furthermore, treatment with 2 different beta2-selective AR agonists starting on day 14 also ameliorated EAM on day 21.
beta2-AR stimulation suppressed the development of EAM by inhibiting cardiac myosin-specific T-lymphocyte activation in lymphoid organs and by shifting the imbalance in Th1/Th2 cytokine toward Th2 cytokine. Furthermore, it also ameliorated established myocardial inflammation. beta2-AR-stimulating agents may represent important immunomodulators of the cardiac myosin-induced autoimmune process and have potential as a new therapy for myocarditis.
Status epilepticus (SE) was induced in rats by administration of 3 mmol/kg lithium chloride followed 24 h later by injection of 25 mg/kg pilocarpine. Treatment with 20 mg/kg diazepam was initiated at the time each of four EEG patterns was seen: (i) discrete electrographic seizures; (ii) waxing and waning epileptiform activity; (iii) continuous, high-amplitude, rapid spiking; and (iv) periodic epileptiform discharges (PEDs) on a relatively flat background. Success of diazepam in stopping all seizure activity was predicted by the EEG pattern seen at the time of treatment. All rats treated while displaying discrete electrographic seizures had status stopped with diazepam, but only three of six with waxing and waning epileptiform activity and one of six each with continuous spiking and PEDs. Rats which continued to seize had a decrease in spike amplitude of 74.8 +/- 18.25% following diazepam injection. These data confirm the clinical impression that the longer the duration of status epilepticus, the more difficult it is to control and suggest that the EEG pattern at the time of treatment predicts the probability of success.
The aim of this study was to measure plasma atrial natriuretic peptide in preterm infants with a patent ductus arteriosus before and after closure with indomethacin. Atrial natriuretic peptide was measured in 28 preterm infants with clinical and echocardiographic evidence of a patent ductus arteriosus and in eight preterm infants who did not develop clinical evidence of a patent ductus arteriosus. Plasma concentration of atrial natriuretic peptide was measured by radioimmunoassay. In 18 infants the patent ductus arteriosus closed after one course of indomethacin; atrial natriuretic peptide levels decreased from median 1240 pg/ml (range 201-5483 pg/ml) to 266 pg/ml (range 62-1108 pg/ml). In four infants the patent ductus arteriosus closed after two courses of indomethacin and two infants had surgical ligation after indomethacin treatment failed. The patent ductus arteriosus closed spontaneously in four infants (atrial natriuretic peptide median level 152 pg/ml, range 61-495 pg/ml). In the eight infants without patent ductus arteriosus, atrial natriuretic peptide level was median 224 pg/ml (range 38-876 pg/ml). Measurement of plasma atrial natriuretic peptide concentration has a role in predicting when indomethacin treatment is indicated.
Limited systematic data exists on the incidence of drug-induced hepatotoxicity due to disulfiram and the most important prognostic markers. We aimed to determine the nature and frequency of suspected disulfiram hepatotoxicity in Sweden.
All reports of suspected hepatic adverse drug reactions (ADR) associated with disulfiram received by the Swedish Adverse Drug Reactions Advisory Committee (SADRAC) 1966-2002 were reviewed. Causality assessment was based on the International Consensus Criteria.
A total of 82 reports of disulfiram suspected ADRs had at least a possible causal relationship. Eight patients died or underwent liver transplantation (Tx). Mortality or Tx was 16% in patients with jaundice. The median age of the patients (65% males) was 45 years with a median duration of treatment of 42 days. Bilirubin was higher (P<0.0001) in the deceased/transplanted patients compared to surviving patients. No difference was observed in age or duration of therapy between deceased and transplanted and those who recovered. Eosinophilic infiltration in liver biopsies was associated with a favourable outcome, hepatocyte drop-out with a poor outcome.
Disulfiram associated hepatitis has a considerable mortality risk. Histological signs of immunoallergy seem to be common. Bilirubin and hepatocyte drop-out were the only predictors for death or transplantation.
To evaluate the relationship between serum adiponectin level, dietary intake, and metabolic syndrome (MetS) in type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM) patients, and to identify factors associated with serum adiponectin level.
A cross-sectional study was performed using 789 type 2 DM patients (406 men and 383 women) 40-80 years old. Subjects were classified into 3 groups on the basis of serum adiponectin level. General characteristics and anthropometric, hematologic, and dietary data were obtained for each subject.
The prevalence of hypoadiponectinemia (<4.0 µg/mL) was 57.4% in men and 32.4% in women. Serum adiponectin level was negatively correlated with body mass index (BMI), waist circumference, body fat percentage, and serum concentrations of insulin and triglyceride, and was positively correlated with high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol level. Even though the direct association of nutrient intake with serum adiponectin concentration was not strong, various contributing factors for hypoadiponectinemia were strongly correlated with micronutrient intake, such as calcium, iron, and niacin. Both sexes in the group with the lowest adiponectin concentration had a higher prevalence of MetS and MetS components than corresponding sexes in the group with the highest adiponectin concentration.
Our findings show that hypoadiponectinemia is strongly associated with MetS in type 2 DM patients. Dietary intake may be indirectly associated with adiponectin levels through factors such as BMI, waist circumference, insulin, homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR), triglyceride, HDL-cholesterol, and blood pressure. Therefore, our results suggest that manipulation of the level of adiponectin may prevent MetS and reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease in type 2 DM patients.
Recombinant human albumin-interferon alfa (alb-IFN) is a novel 85.7-kD recombinant protein consisting of interferon alfa-2b genetically fused to human serum albumin.
A phase 2, open-label, dose-ranging study was conducted in IFN-alfa-naïve patients with genotype 1 chronic hepatitis C to evaluate the antiviral activity, safety, and pharmacokinetics of alb-IFN. Fifty-six patients were enrolled to receive two subcutaneous injections of alb-IFN 14 days apart in five dose cohorts of 200, 450, 670, 900, and 1,200 microg.
A 2 log(10) IU/mL or greater reduction in hepatitis C virus (HCV) RNA at Week 4 was observed in 69% (18/26) of patients who received the higher alb-IFN doses of 900 and 1,200 microg. The mean HCV RNA reduction at Week 4 in these two higher-dose cohorts was 3.2 log(10) IU/mL. Modeling of viral kinetics demonstrated a biphasic response that was dose dependent. Adverse events were mostly mild to moderate in severity. The most common adverse events were headache (73%), chills (63%), fatigue (61%), and arthralgia (55%). The median terminal half-life was 141 h consistent with previous alb-IFN data from IFN-alfa-experienced patients.
Alb-IFN demonstrated significant antiviral activity and was well tolerated in patients with HCV genotype 1 infection.
In the present study, we evaluated changes of both oxidative stress marker concentrations in erythrocytes and values of blood pressure, as well as their relation during short-term estradiol therapy in preeclampsia. Serum estradiol concentrations were also recorded. The results of this study showed significant decrease of mean arterial pressure (MAP) values during estradiol therapy, whereas there was no significant change in serum estradiol concentrations. Decreased concentrations of superoxide anion (O(2)(-)), hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)), nitrite (NO(2)(-)), peroxynitrite (ONOO(-)) and lipid peroxide (LPO) were found during estradiol therapy in erythrocytes. No changes were found in the activity of gluthatione-S-transferase (GST). The decrease of MAP values was positively correlated with the reduction of concentrations of O(2)(-), H(2)O(2), NO(2)(-) and ONOO(-) in erythrocytes during estradiol therapy. The obtained results suggest that short-term intramuscular administration of estradiol shows antioxidative effects in erythrocytes and reduces blood pressure in preeclampsia.
Epidural lipomatosis is a rare disease, most often associated with chronic administration of exogenous steroids. We report the case of a 69-year-old man treated with 20mg prednisolone daily for 11 years because of polyarthritis. The patient complained of back pain associated with severe weakness of his lower limbs and brisk reflexes, with a progressive onset over one year. MRI showed epidural lipomatosis narrowing the epidural spaces from T-3 to T-10. Tapering of steroids was associated with slow but positive resolution of his symptoms.
The zebrafish ortholog of the human COL11A1 gene encoding the cartilage collagen XI proalpha1 chain was characterized to explore its function in developing zebrafish using the morpholino-based knockdown strategy. We showed that its expression in zebrafish is developmentally regulated. A low expression level was detected by real-time PCR during the early stages of development. At 24 hpf, a sharp peak of expression was observed. At that stage, in situ hybridization indicated that col11a1 transcripts are restricted to notochord. At 48 hpf, they were exclusively detected in the craniofacial skeleton, endoskeleton of pectoral fins and in otic vesicles. Collagen XI alpha1-deficient zebrafish embryos developed defects in craniofacial cartilage formation and in notochord morphology. Neural crest specification and mesenchymal condensation occurred normally in morpholino-injected embryos. Col11a1 depletion affected the spatial organization of chondrocytes, the shaping of cartilage elements, and the maturation of chondrocytes to hypertrophy. Knockdown of col11a1 in embryos stimulated the expression of the marker of chondrocyte differentiation col2a1, resulting in the deposit of abnormally thick and sparse fibrils in the cartilage extracellular matrix. The extracellular matrix organization of the perichordal sheath was also altered and led to notochord distortion. The data underscore the importance of collagen XI in the development of a functional cartilage matrix. Moreover, the defects observed in cartilage formation resemble those observed in human chondrodysplasia such as the Stickler/Marshall syndrome. Zebrafish represent a novel reliable vertebrate model for collagen XI collagenopathies.
Chili peppers are rich in capsaicin. The potent vasodilator calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) is stored in a population of C-fiber afferents that are sensitive to capsaicin. CGRP and peptides released from cardiac C fibers have a beneficial effect in myocardial ischemia and reperfusion. It has been reported that capsaicin pretreatment can deplete cardiac C-fiber peptide stores. Furthermore, it has also been reported that capsaicin-treated pigs have significantly increased mean arterial blood pressure compared with controls, and that the decrease in CGRP synthesis and release contributes to the elevated blood pressure. A case has also been reported of an arterial hypertensive crisis in a patient with a large ingestion of peppers and chili peppers the day before. We present a case of an arterial hypertensive crisis in a 19-year-old Italian man with an abundant ingestion of peppers and of chili peppers the preceding day. This case describes an unusual pattern of arterial hypertensive crisis due to capsaicin.
This study evaluated whether nitric oxide (NO) derived from nitric oxide synthase (NOS) induced by radiation is associated with tumorigenesis in the mammary glands. When rats were exposed to whole-body irradiation with gamma-rays (1.5 Gy) immediately after weaning and then treated with diethylstilbestrol, as an irradiated control, the tumor incidence (85%) was increased 7.6-fold in comparison with that (11.1%) of the non-irradiated control. The tumor incidence declined to 28.6% in the rats injected intraperitoneally with phenyl-N-tert-butylnitrone (PBN, 160 mg/kg), an inhibitor of inducible NOS (iNOS) expression and also a spin trapping agent, 30 min before irradiation. Also, the tumor incidence (25%) in rats orally administered with N-(3-(aminomethyl)-benzyl)-acetamide (1400W, 2.3+/-0.1 mg/day), a highly selective inhibitor of iNOS, dissolved in drinking water for 3 days after the irradiation was less than one-third of that in the irradiated control. On treatment with PBN or 1400W, no adenocarcinoma developed. Many of the mammary tumors that developed in the irradiated rats were positive for the estrogen receptor (ER). In contrast, ER was not detected in the tumors yielded from irradiated rats administered with PBN or 1400W. These results indicate that iNOS-derived NO may participate in the formation of estrogen-dependent mammary adenocarcinomas following radiation.
