The influence of different doses of bradykinin (2.5 micrograms, 5 micrograms/kg i.v.) and dopamine (0.5 micrograms - a small dose and 25 micrograms, 250 micrograms/kg i.v. - a big dose) administered into the rat femoral artery on the blood pressure was estimated. Dopamine evoked hypotension (the small dose) or hypertension (the big dose). Bradykinin evoked dose-dependent decrease of the blood pressure. Bradykinin (2.5 micrograms/kg i.v.) administered in the 45th sec of the dopamine action enhanced the hypertensive effect and decreased the hypotensive effect of dopamine. Dopamine administered in the big dose after phentolamine and propranolol evoked hypotension. This effect was stronger after administration of dopamine (25 micrograms/kg i.v.). The hypotensive action of bradykinin persisted in spite of phentolamine and propranolol application but this peptide did not change the hypotensive effect of dopamine under these conditions. The authors discuss hypothetical mechanism of action of the observed influence of bradykinin on the effect of dopamine in the circulatory system.
The majority of post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorders in renal transplant patients are of the B-cell phenotype, while the T-cell phenotype is rare. We report a case of Epstein Barr Virus-positive, T-cell lymphoma in a renal transplant patient, presenting unusually as acute appendicitis.
A 45-year-old Hispanic male renal transplant patient presented with right-side abdominal pain 17 years after transplant. The laboratory studies were unremarkable. Laparoscopic exploration showed an inflamed appendix so a laparoscopic appendectomy was performed. Pathology of the appendix showed large cells positive for CD3, CD56 and Epstein Barr Virus-encoded RNA staining, and negative for CD20 and CD30. The tissue tested positive for T-cell receptor gene rearrangement by polymerase chain reaction analysis. Treatment management involved reduction of immunosuppression and initiation of chemotherapy with cisplatin, etoposide, gemcitabine, and solumedrol followed by cyclophosphamide, hydroxydaunorubicin, vincristine and prednisone). He recovered and the allo-grafted kidney is fully functional.
We report a rare case of post-renal transplant large T-cell lymphoma, with an unusual presentation of acute appendicitis and Epstein Barr Virus-positivity, which responded well to chemotherapy.
Nonylphenol (NP) is an environmental endocrine-disrupting chemical that has been detected in human cord blood and milk. Developmental exposure to NP is unavoidable and can lead to hyperadrenalism, a syndrome that resembles Cushing's disease and has a life-long impact on the affected individual. In this study, we investigated the recovery of female rats from developmental exposure to NP and the effects of such exposure on future generations. Female rats were time-mated, and rats in the experimental group (NP group) were administered NP in drinking water (2μg/mL) throughout gestation and lactation. Pregnant females in the control group were given water only (Veh group). The resulting litters were recognized as the first-generation F1 offspring. The F1 females were time-mated with non-sibling F1 males within the same treatment group. NP was not administered after the F0 generation. The treatment procedures for F3 offspring were identical to those for the F2 generation. The experimental results showed that the observed characteristics of the F3 NP generation had reverted to normal and resembled those of the F3 Veh generation. Thus, our study indicated that developmental exposure to NP resulted in a life-long impact on the exposed individual, but that recovery to the "normal" state was possible if further NP exposure was prevented.
A case of rhabomyolysis with attendant severe acute renal failure, arisen in a 59-year-old male treated with haloperidol-decanoate, is presented. The patient has been affected by paranoia schizophrenia since childhood, and he was treated with electroshock and successively with neuroleptics p.o. Four years before our observation, a therapy with haloperidol decanoate (50 mg i.m. monthly) was started. After some time, catatonic like episodes appeared, which got more and more frequent, until they appeared weekly. In occasion of the last of them, he was admitted to our hospital. At the objective examination he presented psychomotory arrest, perspiration, mytacism, severe muscle rigidity, moderate oedems to lower limbs. Laboratory findings showed a pattern consistent with rabdomyolysis and severe renal failure. After that haloperidol decanoate was stopped and rehydration and intensive diuretic therapy was started, the clinical and laboratory pattern went normal, persisting however a light creatinine increase. Probably the rhabdomyolysis was induced by the haloperidol decanoate, and renal failure by secondary severe hyvolemia. This case comes into the so-called neuroleptic malignant syndrome which can rarely arise in patients treated with antipsycotic agents and which causes high mortality, particularly when there are rhabdomyolysis and acute renal failure.
A questionnaire that was mailed to 510 randomly selected dermatologists in the United States surveyed their use of three systemic chemotherapeutic agents for the treatment of psoriasis during the two-year period of 1973 to 1974. Methotrexate was used by 52% of the surveyed dermatologists, while hydroxyurea and azaribine were used by 10% and 2%, respectively. Seventy-five percent of the dermatologists who used methotrexate treated ten or fewer psoriatic patients with this drug. Multiple dose therapy with methotrexate divided over a period of 36 hours each week was the preferred schedule of 66% of the dermatologists. Liver biopsy specimens and creatinine clearance tests were obtained for only 17% and 35% of patients, respectively, prior to initiating methotrexate therapy. The estimated number of dermatologist-treated psoriatics nationwide receiving methotrexate is 25,000.
Drug-induced liver injury (DILI) is the most common adverse event causing drug nonapprovals and drug withdrawals. Using drugs as test agents and measuring a panel of cellular phenotypes that are directly linked to key mechanisms of hepatotoxicity, we have developed an in vitro testing strategy that is predictive of many clinical outcomes of DILI. Mitochondrial damage, oxidative stress, and intracellular glutathione, all measured by high content cellular imaging in primary human hepatocyte cultures, are the three most important features contributing to the hepatotoxicity prediction. When applied to over 300 drugs and chemicals including many that caused rare and idiosyncratic liver toxicity in humans, our testing strategy has a true-positive rate of 50-60% and an exceptionally low false-positive rate of 0-5%. These in vitro predictions can augment the performance of the combined traditional preclinical animal tests by identifying idiosyncratic human hepatotoxicants such as nimesulide, telithromycin, nefazodone, troglitazone, tetracycline, sulindac, zileuton, labetalol, diclofenac, chlorzoxazone, dantrolene, and many others. Our findings provide insight to key DILI mechanisms, and suggest a new approach in hepatotoxicity testing of pharmaceuticals.
The involvement of the sympathetic postganglionic neuron in secondary hyperalgesia was evaluated using a model of secondary hyperalgesia induced by a small intradermal injection of capsaicin in the rat, a procedure known to produce mechanical hyperalgesia/allodynia in humans. Capsaicin injection into the glabrous skin of the hind paw led to increased sensitivity to mechanical stimulation with von Frey filaments at the injection site (i.e. primary hyperalgesia) as well as in an area of the hind paw remote from the site of injection (i.e. secondary hyperalgesia). Surgical removal of the sympathetic postganglionic neurons innervating the hind paw plantar skin before the capsaicin injection prevented secondary hyperalgesia. However, decentralization of the sympathetic postganglionic neurons subserving the hind paw did not effect secondary hyperalgesia. Phentolamine, an alpha-adrenergic receptor antagonist, as well as prazosin, an alpha 1-adrenergic receptor antagonist, given systemically, both blocked the development of secondary hyperalgesia. Yohimbine, an alpha 2-adrenergic receptor antagonist, was without effect. Prazosin also blocked the development of secondary hyperalgesia when given intradermally at the site of capsaicin injection. Activation of C-fibres with capsaicin induces secondary hyperalgesia, which is sympathetic postganglionic neuron-dependent. This sensory-sympathetic interaction is, however, independent of preganglionic sympathetic outflow and seems to be mediated by an alpha 1-adrenergic mechanism. Sensory-sympathetic interaction appears to take place in the area of capsaicin-induced C-fibre nociceptor activation.
Emerging hepatic models for the study of drug-induced toxicity include pluripotent stem cell-derived hepatocyte-like cells (HLCs) and complex hepatocyte-non-parenchymal cellular coculture to mimic the complex multicellular interactions that recapitulate the niche environment in the human liver. However, a specific marker of hepatocyte perturbation, required to discriminate hepatocyte damage from non-specific cellular toxicity contributed by non-hepatocyte cell types or immature differentiated cells is currently lacking, as the cytotoxicity assays routinely used in in vitro toxicology research depend on intracellular molecules which are ubiquitously present in all eukaryotic cell types. In this study, we demonstrate that microRNA-122 (miR-122) detection in cell culture media can be used as a hepatocyte-enriched in vitro marker of drug-induced toxicity in homogeneous cultures of hepatic cells, and a cell-specific marker of toxicity of hepatic cells in heterogeneous cultures such as HLCs generated from various differentiation protocols and pluripotent stem cell lines, where conventional cytotoxicity assays using generic cellular markers may not be appropriate. We show that the sensitivity of the miR-122 cytotoxicity assay is similar to conventional assays that measure lactate dehydrogenase activity and intracellular adenosine triphosphate when applied in hepatic models with high levels of intracellular miR-122, and can be multiplexed with other assays. MiR-122 as a biomarker also has the potential to bridge results in in vitro experiments to in vivo animal models and human samples using the same assay, and to link findings from clinical studies in determining the relevance of in vitro models being developed for the study of drug-induced liver injury.
Azathioprine is a drug commonly used for the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease, organ transplantation and various autoimmune diseases. Hepatotoxicity is a rare, but important complication of this drug. The cases reported to date can be grouped into three syndromes: hypersensitivity; idiosyncratic cholestatic reaction; and presumed endothelial cell injury with resultant raised portal pressures, venoocclusive disease or peliosis hepatis. The components of azathioprine, 6-mercaptopurine and the imidazole group, may play different roles in the pathogenesis of hepatotoxicity. The strong association with male sex, and perhaps with human leukocyte antigen type, suggests a genetic predisposition of unknown type. Many of the symptoms of hepatotoxicity, such as nausea, abdominal pain and diarrhea, can be nonspecific and can be confused with a flare-up of inflammatory bowel disease. As well, the subtype resulting in portal hypertension can occur without biochemical abnormalities. A 63-year-old man with Crohn's disease who is presented developed the rare idiosyncratic form of azathioprine hepatotoxicity, but also had a severe disabling steroid myopathy, peripheral neuropathy, resultant deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism related to immobility, and a nosocomial pneumonia. His jaundice and liver enzyme levels improved markedly on withdrawal of the drug, returning to almost normal in five weeks. Treating inflammatory bowel disease effectively while trying to limit iatrogenic disease is a continuous struggle. Understanding the risks of treatment is the first important step. There must be a low threshold for obtaining liver function tests, especially in men, and alertness to the need to discontinue the drug or perform a liver biopsy should patients on azathioprine develop liver biochemical abnormalities, unexplained hepatomegaly or signs of portal hypertension.
Several agents in a new class of antiemetic compounds, 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT3) antagonists, have shown promise as effective antiemetics with fewer side effects than metoclopramide. One of these agents, batanopride, produced no severe toxicity at doses that prevented emesis due to chemotherapy in early Phase I trials. We conducted a randomized, double-blinded, 7 arm clinical trial to: (1) identify the presence of a dose-response for complete protection from emesis, and (2) compare batanopride with a standard antiemetic, methylprednisolone if a dose-response was found not to exist. Prior to chemotherapy, six patient groups each received a single intravenous dose of batanopride ranging from 0.2 to 6.0 mg/kg whereas a seventh group received methylprednisolone 250 mg intravenously. Chemotherapy-naïve cancer patients scheduled to receive moderately emetogenic chemotherapy were eligible. Primary treatment outcomes that were recorded and analyzed included the number of episodes of emesis, the time to the first episode of emesis as well as the frequency and severity of nausea. Two hundred and eight patients accrued between April 1989 and February 1990 were evaluable for response. A significant dose-response effect for complete protection from emesis was not seen over the first 24 hours after chemotherapy (p = 0.102). However, a linear dose-response effect for time to first emesis was evident in a multivariate analysis (p = 0.029). While the highest batanopride dose group was associated with a higher complete protection rate (CPR) than the control group, this group also exhibited a higher incidence of diarrhea (p = 0.013), hypotension, and electrocardiographic abnormalities.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In the present study, the effects of intra-ventral tegmental area (VTA) injections of morphine on memory retention of a one-trial passive avoidance task have been investigated in morphine-sensitized rats. Retrieval was examined 24h after training and used as memory retention. Sensitization was obtained by subcutaneous (s.c.) injections of morphine, once daily for 3 and 5 days free of the opioid before training. Post-training administration of the both systemic (2.5, 5 and 7.5mg/kg, s.c.) and intra-VTA (5 and 7.5microg/rat) of morphine, dose-dependently decreased memory retention. The response induced by post-training administration of intra-VTA morphine (7.5microg/rat) was significantly reversed in morphine-sensitized rats. The inhibition of morphine-induced amnesia in morphine-sensitized rats was decreased by once daily injections of naloxone (0.5, 1 and 2mg/kg, s.c.), SCH 23390 (0.025, 0.05 and 0.1mg/kg, s.c.) or sulpiride (25, 50 and 100mg/kg, s.c.), during the sensitization. The results suggest that VTA has an important role in morphine-induced amnesia and morphine sensitization affects this process through opioid and dopamine receptors.
Cocaine is a drug with a myriad of pharmacological properties enabling it to be used as a therapeutic agent in medicine. The adverse effects of the recreational use of this drug are often observed in patients presenting to the Emergency Department. This paper describes a patient who presented with unusual symptoms after the rectal administration of cocaine, and the proposed explanation for these symptoms.
Calcium antagonists are drugs commonly prescribed for the treatment of hypertension, angina pectoris, cardiac arrhythmias and other disorders because of their efficacy and tolerability. Nevertheless, overdosage and intoxication are well documented. In this paper we report a case of nimodipine overdosage resulting in prolonged hypotension and hypoxemia, which was successfully treated with calcium gluconate.
Peroxisome proliferators, such as the lipid-lowering fibrates that function as agonists for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha), induce liver tumors in rodents and may produce cholestasis in humans. Considerable attention has focused on peroxisome proliferator-induced hepatocellular carcinoma, a phenomenon not noted in man, whereas limited studies examine fibrates and other therapeutic drugs that induce cholestasis, a common finding in humans. Moreover, the mechanisms by which fibrates induce hepatocyte proliferation and cholestasis are still not fully understood. We have examined the role of hepatocyte retinoid X receptor alpha (RXRalpha), an essential partner of PPARalpha, in modulating WY-14,643-induced hepatocyte proliferation and cholestasis. WY-14,643 treatment induced hepatomegaly in wild type (WT) mice that was also accompanied by induction of the expression of cyclins D1, D3, A2, and B1 and Cdc2 as well as inhibition of Wee 1. Such changes were either absent or greatly reduced in hepatocyte RXRalpha-null mice. Furthermore, neither WY-14,643 treatment nor RXRalpha deficiency affected apoptosis, indicating the importance of PPARalpha/RXRalpha in regulating Wee 1-mediated Cdc2/cyclin B1 expression for cells to enter into mitosis. WY-14,643 treatment also induced cholestasis and liver injury, which is evidenced by induction of alanine aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase, and hepatic bile acid levels in WT mice. Hepatocyte RXRalpha deficiency protected the mice from WY-14,643-induced liver injury. WY-14,643-mediated induction of the small heterodimer partner, Mrp3, and Cyp3a11 levels was greater in hepatocyte RXRalpha-null than in WT mouse livers suggesting enhanced repression of bile acid synthesis and increased efflux of bile acids into blood for renal excretion as well as hydroxylation of bile acids because of hepatocyte RXRalpha deficiency. These data establish a crucial role of hepatocyte RXRalpha in regulating WY-14,643-mediated cell cycle progression as well as bile acid homeostasis.
The effects of ketones on acetaminophen metabolism and hepatotoxicity were investigated in male rats. Ketosis was produced by oral administration of either acetone or 1,3-butanediol. Histologic studies revealed that both ketogenic agents conferred protection from acetaminophen-induced liver necrosis. Pharmacokinetic studies indicated that both acetone and 1,3-butanediol: a) increased the blood half-life of acetaminophen, b) markedly decreased the apparent rate constant for formation of acetaminophen mercapturate, and c) modestly decreased the capacities for acetaminophen sulfate formation and renal elimination of the drug. Neither acetone nor 1,3-butanediol had any effect on either the apparent rate constant for formation of acetaminophen glucuronide or on the predrug levels of hepatic glutathione. However, after a large dose of acetaminophen, the rate and percentage of glutathione depletion were markedly less in 1,3-butanediol-treated rats and modestly less in acetone-treated rats as compared with controls. These data indicate that acetone- or 1,3-butanediol-induced ketosis confers protection from hepatic necrosis due largely to decreased formation of the reactive metabolite. The effects of ketosis and of diabetes on acetaminophen metabolism and hepatotoxicity are compared.
To assess the efficacy of fenofibrate treatment in combination with urate lowering agents in patients with gout.
Fourteen male patients with chronic tophaceous or recurrent acute attacks of gout were evaluated in an open-label pilot study of the hypolipidemic agent, fenofibrate (Lipidil Supra 160 mg/d). Patients were stable on urate lowering agents (allopurinol or benzbromarone) for > or = three months without acute attack for the most recent one month before participating. All patients were being treated with established doses of urate lowering agents without modification throughout the study. Clinical and biochemical assessments including serum uric acid, creatinine, liver function test and fasting serum lipid were measured at (1) baseline (2) after two months of fenofibrate treatment and (3) two months after fenofibrate was withdrawn.
Serum uric acid was lowered by 23% after two months of fenofibrate treatment (6.93 +/- 2.16 vs. 5.22 +/- 1.16 mg/dL; p = 0.016). Triglyceride levels were also reduced after fenofibrate treatment (p = 0.001). However, this effect was reversed after the withdrawal (p = 0.002) of the drug. Alkaline phosphatase was reduced after fenofibrate treatment (p = 0.006), but increased 21% after the withdrawal of the drug (p = 0.002). By contrast, serum levels of high density lipoprotein and creatinine were increased 9% (p = 0.018) and 12% (p = 0.006), respectively; however, both levels were significantly decreased to the baseline levels upon withdrawal of fenofibrate.
Fenofibrate can effectively reduce uric acid levels in addition to its known hypolipidemic effect. Fenofibrate may be used as a potential urate lowering agent in patients with gout, especially in those with coexisting hyperlipidemia.
HLA genes play a role in the predisposition of several diseases. The aim was to analyze the prevalence of HLA class I phenotypes and HLA-DRB1* genotype in patients with CIU associated with ASA and NSAIDs hypersensitivity (AICU).
69 patients with AICU, and 200 healthy subjects.
Subjects with HLA-B44 and HLA-Cw5 antigens were more represented in patients with AICU than in control group. Subjects with HLA-A11, HLA-B13, HLACw4, and HLA-Cw7 antigen were more represented in control group than in patients with AICU. Multiple logistic regression demonstrated an association of HLA-Cw4 and HLA-Cw7 with a lower risk of AICU, whereas carriers of HLA-B44 phenotype had a higher risk of AICU. No differences were found between patients and controls as regards to HLA-DRB1* genotype.
We observed an association between some HLA class-I antigens and AICU. To the best of our knowledge this is the first description of such association.
The t(10;14)(q24;q11) chromosomal translocation found in malignant cells of 5-10% of patients with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) involves the T-cell receptor delta chain gene on chromosome 14 and a breakpoint cluster region on chromosome 10. The candidate proto-oncogene tcl-3, thought to be involved in the pathogenesis of t(10;14) T-ALL, was cloned and found to be elevated in expression in leukemic cells harboring the t(10;14) translocation. Sequence analysis revealed that tcl-3 is a new homeobox-containing gene. Comparison of the tcl-3 cDNA and its 5' genomic sequences with DNA sequences from the t(10;14) translocation breakpoints showed that this gene is structurally altered in four patients with t(10;14)(q24;q11) T-ALL. These findings suggest that homeobox-containing genes that normally act as transcription factors may contribute to T-cell leukemogenesis when abnormally expressed.
Myocardial infarction is a major cause of excess long-term mortality in survivors of Hodgkin disease, but limited information exists on the effects of specific chemotherapy regimens used to treat these patients on their risk of death from myocardial infarction.
We followed a cohort of 7033 Hodgkin disease patients who were treated in Britain from November 1, 1967, through September 30, 2000, and compared their risk of myocardial infarction mortality with that in the general population of England and Wales. All statistical tests were two-sided.
A total of 166 deaths from myocardial infarction occurred in the cohort, statistically significantly more than expected (standardized mortality ratio [SMR] = 2.5, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 2.1 to 2.9), with an absolute excess risk of 125.8 per 100,000 person-years. Standardized mortality ratios decreased sharply with older age at first treatment, but absolute excess risks of death from myocardial infarction increased with older age up to age 65 years at first treatment. The statistically significantly increased risk of myocardial infarction mortality persisted through to 25 years after first treatment. Risks were increased statistically significantly and independently for patients who had been treated with supradiaphragmatic radiotherapy, anthracyclines, or vincristine. Risk was particularly high for patients treated with the doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine regimen (SMR = 9.5, 95% CI = 3.5 to 20.6). Risk at 20 or more years after first treatment was particularly great for patients who had received supradiaphragmatic radiotherapy and vincristine without anthracyclines (SMR = 14.8, 95% CI = 4.8 to 34.5).
The risk of death from myocardial infarction after treatment for Hodgkin disease remains high for at least 25 years. The increased risks are related to supradiaphragmatic radiotherapy but may also be related to anthracycline and vincristine treatment.
A population-based case-control study of renal cancer (495 cases of renal cell cancer, 74 cases of renal pelvis cancer, and 697 controls) was conducted in the Minneapolis-St. Paul 7-county metropolitan area. Information was obtained on a large number of variables, including the use of analgesic drugs. Long-term use (greater than 36 mo) of phenacetin-containing products was associated in both sexes with a twofold increased risk for renal cell cancer. Long-term use of phenacetin- and acetaminophen-containing products was associated with elevated risks of nearly threefold to eightfold for cancer of the renal pelvis. The separate effects of these analgesics could not be adequately assessed because most long-term users took both products.
The aim of the present study was to examine the effects of cinitapride, a novel prokinetic benzamide-stimulating gastrointestinal motility agent, on gastric secretion and ulceration in rats and elucidate some possible vascular and anti-oxidant mechanisms of such protection.
Male Wistar rats.
Cinitapride (CNT, Lab. Almirall, S.A.) (0.25, 0.5, and 1 mg/kg) and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT, Sigma Chemical Co., St. Louis, MO, USA) (10 mg/kg), administered intraperitoneally (i.p.).
Gastric ulceration was induced by instillation of 1 mL/100 g animal of 50% (v/v) ethanol in distilled water and by pylorus-ligated rat model. Gastric microvascular changes, and the activity of myeloperoxidase (as a marker of neutrophil infiltration) and glutathione peroxidase (an important enzyme in scavenging of lipid peroxides) were determined. The results were compared with those of 5-HT. The data were evaluated using Student's t-test for paired data and the non-parametric Mann-Whitney U-test.
In 4 h pyloric-ligated animals, i.p. CNT did not significantly reduce the incidence of gastric mucosal damage, and no significant differences were found in the values of total volume and acidity. However, CNT caused a marked and dose-dependent reduction of haemorrhagic lesions induced by 50% v/v ethanol. These protective effects were specifically related to a reduction of neutrophil infiltration. CNT at the dose of 1 mg/kg raised the decreased glutathione peroxidase activity to the control level. In contrast, pretreatment with 5-HT worsened the ethanol-induced erosions, but did not significantly induce any gastric microvascular changes. However, the myeloperoxidase activity rose markedly and the glutathione peroxidase levels decreased significantly in the mucosa injured by 50% v/v ethanol.
This study demonstrates a new gastroprotective feature of CNT that could be partly explained not only through reduction of neutrophil toxicity but also by an increased synthesis of free-radical scavenging enzymes such as glutathione peroxidase. Furthermore, it is likely that serotonergic-dependent mechanisms are also involved via 5-HT2-receptor blockade and 5-HT1 receptor activation.
Orthostatic hypotension developed in a 65-year-old man during treatment with quinidine and propranolol. Quinidine reduced standing blood pressure, attenuated the Valsalva response, and increased plasma norepinephrine concentrations, suggesting the presence of nonselective alpha-adrenergic blockade. The addition of propranolol inhibited the compensatory tachycardia and produced symptomatic orthostatic hypotension. Physicians should be alerted to the possibility of orthostatic hypotension when the alpha blocking effects of quinidine are combined with a beta blocking agent such as propranolol.
To evaluate the toxicity and activity of thalidomide in patients with advanced metastatic renal cell cancer and to measure changes of one angiogenic factor, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)165, with therapy.
29 patients were enrolled on a study of thalidomide using an intra-patient dose escalation schedule. Patients began thalidomide at 400 mg/d and escalated as tolerated to 1200 mg/d by day 54. Fifty-nine per cent of patients had had previous therapy with IL-2 and 52% were performance status 2 or 3. Systemic plasma VEGF165 levels were measured by dual monoclonal ELISA in 8 patients.
24 patients were evaluable for response with one partial response of 11 months duration of a patient with hepatic and pulmonary metastases (4%), one minor response, and 2 patients stable for over 6 months. Somnolence and constipation were prominent toxicities and most patients could not tolerate the 1200 mg/day dose level. Systemic plasma VEGF165 levels did not change with therapy.
These results are consistent with a low level of activity of thalidomide in renal cell carcinoma. Administration of doses over 800 mg/day was difficult to achieve in this patient population, however lower doses were practical. The dose-response relationship, if any, of thalidomide for renal cell carcinoma is unclear.
The efficacy of surgery for patients with non-small-cell lung cancer is limited, although recent studies suggest that preoperative chemotherapy may improve survival. We conducted a randomized trial to examine the possible benefit of preoperative chemotherapy and surgery for the treatment of patients with non-small-cell lung cancer.
We studied 60 patients (59 men and 1 woman) with stage IIIA non-small-cell lung cancer. The patients were randomly assigned to receive either surgery alone or three courses of chemotherapy (6 mg of mitomycin per square meter of body-surface area, 3 g of ifosfamide per square meter, and 50 mg of cisplatin per square meter) given intravenously at three-week intervals and followed by surgery. All patients received mediastinal radiation after surgery. The resected tumors were evaluated by means of K-ras oncogene analysis and flow cytometry.
The median period of survival was 26 months in the patients treated with chemotherapy plus surgery, as compared with 8 months in the patients treated with surgery alone (P < 0.001); the median period of disease-free survival was 20 months in the former group, as compared with 5 months in the latter (P < 0.001). The rate of recurrence was 56 percent in the group treated with chemotherapy plus surgery and 74 percent in the group treated with surgery alone. The prevalence of mutated K-ras oncogenes was 15 percent among the patients receiving preoperative chemotherapy and 42 percent among those treated with surgery alone (P = 0.05). Most of the patients treated with chemotherapy plus surgery had tumors that consisted of diploid cells, whereas the patients treated with surgery alone had tumors with aneuploid cells.
Preoperative chemotherapy increases the median survival in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer.
In the previous 500 2-year chemical bioassays within the National Toxicology Program, large intestinal tumors (cecal carcinomas) related to chemical exposure have not been observed in B6C3F1 mice. The recently completed o-nitrotoluene study provided the first cecal tumor response and an opportunity to evaluate the morphology and molecular profile of oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes that are relevant to humans. Morphologically, the carcinomas were gland-forming tumors lined by tall columnar epithelial cells that were positive for cytokeratin 20 and negative for cytokeratin 7. Using immunohistochemistry beta-catenin (encoded by Catnb) protein accumulation was detected in 80% (8/10) of the cecal carcinomas, while increased cyclin D1 and p53 protein expression was detected in 73% (8/11), respectively. There was no difference in adenomatous polyposis protein expression between normal colon and cecal carcinomas. All tumors examined exhibited mutations in exon 2 (corresponds to exon 3 in humans) in the Catnb gene. Mutations in p53 were identified in nine of 11 carcinomas, and all were in exon 7. Analysis of the K-ras gene revealed mutations in 82% (9/11) of carcinomas; all had specific G --> T transversions (Gly --> Val) at codons 10 or 12. The alterations in cancer genes and proteins found in the mouse large intestinal tumors included mutations that activate signal transduction pathways (K-ras and Catnb) and changes that disrupt the cell-cycle and bypass G(1) arrest (p53, cyclin D1). These alterations, which are hallmarks of human colon cancer, probably contributed to the pathogenesis of the large intestinal carcinomas in mice following o-nitrotoluene exposure.
PARP-2 is a member of the poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase family, with some activities similar to those of PARP-1 but with other distinct roles. Two series of isoquinolin-1-ones were designed, synthesized, and evaluated as selective inhibitors of PARP-2, using the structures of the catalytic sites of the isoforms. A new efficient synthesis of 5-aminoisoquinolin-1-one was developed, and acylation with acyl chlorides gave 5-acylaminoisoquinolin-1-ones. By examination of isoquinolin-1-ones with carboxylates tethered to the 5-position, Heck coupling of 5-iodoisoquinolin-1-one furnished the 5-CH═CHCO(2)H compound for reduction to the 5-propanoic acid. Alkylation of 5-aminoisoquinolin-1-one under mildly basic conditions, followed by hydrolysis, gave 5-(carboxymethylamino)isoquinolin-1-one, whereas it was alkylated at 2-N with methyl propenoate and strong base. Compounds were assayed in vitro for inhibition of PARP-1 and PARP-2, using FlashPlate and solution-phase assays, respectively. The 5-benzamidoisoquinolin-1-ones were more selective for inhibition of PARP-2, whereas the 5-(ω-carboxyalkyl)isoquinolin-1-ones were less so. 5-Benzamidoisoquinolin-1-one is the most PARP-2-selective compound (IC(50(PARP-1))/IC(50(PARP-2)) = 9.3) to date, in a comparative study.
An important aspect of antihypertensive drug treatment is quality of life (QL) which should at least not be negatively affected. In this study, the QL during treatment with carvedilol (C), a beta-blocker with vasodilating properties due to alpha-1-receptor blockade, was compared to that of enalapril (E) in patients who had responded to the treatment.
Patients with mild to moderate hypertension (diastolic blood pressure 95-115 mmHg) were randomised to receive either E(n = 119) of C(n = 129) in a double-blind multicenter study. The starting doses were 12.5 (C) and 10 (E) mg with doubling of the dose if necessary at 3-week intervals. If insufficient blood pressure (BP) control was found at 50 mg C or 40 mg E, 12.5 mg of hydrochlorothiazide was added. After having reached the goal BP the patients entered a 5-months maintenance period. General well-being was evaluated by the "Göteborg Quality of Life Questionnaire".
Equally many patients in the respective treatment groups responded at the different dose levels. Diastolic BP after 5 months in the maintenance period was similar on C and E, respectively. For most items, QL was not affected by the treatments. An increased incidence of cough was perceived in the E group (p < 0.001). None of the C treated patients reported frequent cough at the end of the study compared with 12% of E treated patients.
C and E had similar BP lowering effects. Neither treatment seemed to affect the patients QL adversely. Cough, although seldom leading to withdrawal from the therapy, may be more common than is commonly recognised during treatment with ACE-inhibitors.
Human serum butyrylcholinesterase (Hu BChE) is currently under advanced development as a pretreatment drug for organophosphate (OP) poisoning in humans. It was shown to protect mice, rats, guinea pigs, and monkeys against multiple LD(50) challenges of OP nerve agents by i.v. or s.c. bolus injections. Since inhalation is the most likely route of exposure to OP nerve agents on the battlefield or in public places, the aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of Hu BChE against whole-body inhalation exposure to sarin (GB) vapor. Male Göttingen minipigs were subjected to one of the following treatments: (1) air exposure; (2) GB vapor exposure; (3) pretreatment with 3 mg/kg of Hu BChE followed by GB vapor exposure; (4) pretreatment with 6.5 mg/kg of Hu BChE followed by GB vapor exposure; (5) pretreatment with 7.5 mg/kg of Hu BChE followed by GB vapor exposure. Hu BChE was administered by i.m. injection, 24h prior to whole-body exposure to GB vapor at a concentration of 4.1 mg/m(3) for 60 min, a dose lethal to 99% of untreated exposed pigs (LCt99). EEG, ECG, and pupil size were monitored throughout exposure, and blood drawn from a surgically implanted jugular catheter before and throughout the exposure period, was analyzed for acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and BChE activities, and the amount of GB present in plasma. All animals exposed to GB vapor alone or pretreated with 3 or 6.5 mg/kg of Hu BChE, died following exposure to GB vapor. All five animals pretreated with 7.5 mg/kg of Hu BChE survived the GB exposure. The amount of GB bound in plasma was 200-fold higher compared to that from plasma of pigs that did not receive Hu BChE, suggesting that Hu BChE was effective in scavenging GB in blood. Additionally, pretreatment with 7.5 mg/kg of Hu BChE prevented cardiac abnormalities and seizure activity observed in untreated animals and those treated with lower doses of Hu BChE.
A patient with ischemic cardiomyopathy and congestive heart failure was treated with disopyramide phosphate for ventricular arrhythmias. The development of ventricular tachycardia was associated with elevated plasma disopyramide levels and prolongation of the QRS and QT intervals, suggesting a disopyramide-induced depression of ventricular conduction and a prolongation of recovery. Thus, in patients with congestive heart failure, as well as in patients with renal and/or hepatic dysfunction, special care must be exercised with respect to the use of disopyramide.
