Arsenic is an established human carcinogen, but the mechanisms through which it contributes to for instance lung cancer development are still unclear. As arsenic is methylated during its metabolism, it may interfere with the DNA methylation process, and is therefore considered to be an epigenetic carcinogen. In the present study, we hypothesize that arsenic is able to induce DNA methylation changes, which lead to changes in specific gene expression, in pathways associated with lung cancer promotion and progression. A549 human adenocarcinoma lung cells were exposed to a low (0.08 µM), intermediate (0.4 µM) and high (2 µM) concentration of sodium arsenite for 1, 2 and 8 weeks. DNA was isolated for whole-genome DNA methylation analyses using NimbleGen 2.1 M deluxe promoter arrays. In addition, RNA was isolated for whole-genome transcriptomic analysis using Affymetrix microarrays. Arsenic modulated DNA methylation and expression levels of hundreds of genes in a dose-dependent and time-dependent manner. By combining whole-genome DNA methylation and gene expression data with possibly involved transcription factors, a large molecular interaction network was created based on transcription factor-target gene pairs, consisting of 216 genes. A tumor protein p53 (TP53) subnetwork was identified, showing the interactions of TP53 with other genes affected by arsenic. Furthermore, multiple other new genes were discovered showing altered DNA methylation and gene expression. In particular, arsenic modulated genes which function as transcription factor, thereby affecting target genes which are known to play a role in lung cancer promotion and progression.
A patient who suffered from severe decrease of accommodation and pupillary dilatation following the systemic use of disopyramide is described. The ocular side effects when this drug is used in large doses result from its anticholinergic action.
Previous observations have demonstrated that embryonic exposure to the endocrine disruptor vinclozolin during gonadal sex determination promotes transgenerational adult onset disease such as male infertility, kidney disease, prostate disease, immune abnormalities and tumor development. The current study investigates genome-wide promoter DNA methylation alterations in the sperm of F3 generation rats whose F0 generation mother was exposed to vinclozolin. A methylated DNA immunoprecipitation with methyl-cytosine antibody followed by a promoter tilling microarray (MeDIP-Chip) procedure was used to identify 52 different regions with statistically significant altered methylation in the sperm promoter epigenome. Mass spectrometry bisulfite analysis was used to map the CpG DNA methylation and 16 differential DNA methylation regions were confirmed, while the remainder could not be analyzed due to bisulfite technical limitations. Analysis of these validated regions identified a consensus DNA sequence (motif) that associated with 75% of the promoters. Interestingly, only 16.8% of a random set of 125 promoters contained this motif. One candidate promoter (Fam111a) was found to be due to a copy number variation (CNV) and not a methylation change, suggesting initial alterations in the germline epigenome may promote genetic abnormalities such as induced CNV in later generations. This study identifies differential DNA methylation sites in promoter regions three generations after the initial exposure and identifies common genome features present in these regions. In addition to primary epimutations, a potential indirect genetic abnormality was identified, and both are postulated to be involved in the epigenetic transgenerational inheritance observed. This study confirms that an environmental agent has the ability to induce epigenetic transgenerational changes in the sperm epigenome.
Heterozygous mutations in the melanocortin-4 receptor (MC4R) gene represent the most frequent cause of monogenic obesity in humans. MC4R mutation analysis in a cohort of 77 children with morbid obesity identified previously unreported heterozygous mutations (P272L, N74I) in two patients inherited from their obese mothers. A rare polymorphism (I251L, allelic frequency: 1/100) reported to protect against obesity was found in another obese patient. When expressed in neuronal cells, the cell surface abundance of wild-type MC4R and of the N74I and I251L variants and the cAMP generated by these receptors in response to exposure to the agonist, α-MSH, were not different. Conversely, MC4R P272L was retained in the endoplasmic reticulum and had reduced cell surface expression and signaling (by ≈ 3-fold). The chemical chaperone PBA, which promotes protein folding of wild-type MC4R, had minimal effects on the distribution and signaling of the P272L variant. In contrast, incubation with UBE-41, a specific inhibitor of ubiquitin activating enzyme E1, inhibited ubiquitination of MC4R P272L and increased its cell surface expression and signaling to similar levels as wild-type MC4R. UBE41 had much less profound effects on MC4R I316S, another obesity-linked MC4R variant trapped in the ER. These data suggest that P272L is retained in the ER by a propensity to be ubiquitinated in the face of correct folding, which is only minimally shared by MC4R I316S. Thus, studies that combine clinical screening of obese patients and investigation of the functional defects of the obesity-linked MC4R variants can identify specific ways to correct these defects and are the first steps towards personalized medicine.
We have investigated the effects of neonatal capsaicin treatment of rabbits on the development of bronchial hyperresponsiveness following allergen exposure from birth. In vivo airways responsiveness was assessed as the concentrations of histamine to cause a 35% decrease in compliance (PC35) and a 50% increase in resistance (PC50). Rabbits treated with vehicle capsaicin (10% ethanol, 10% tween 80 and 80% saline) and then immunised with Altenaria tenius (40,000 protein nitrogen units (PNU)/ml + AL(OH)3 + saline in a ratio 2:1:1) were more responsive to aerosol histamine in vivo at three months of age when compared to sham-immunised (AL(OH)3 + saline 1:3) or saline-treated rabbits for compliance measurements (P < 0.05). However, immunised rabbits although not significantly different to sham-immunised (P > 0.05) were significantly more responsive than saline-treated rabbits for resistance measurements (P < 0.05). Neonatal capsaicin treatment significantly attenuated the increased responsiveness seen in immunised rabbits for both compliance and resistance measurements (P < 0.05). The bronchial hyperresponsiveness is unlikely to be due to cellular infiltration per se as cell numbers assessed by bronchoalveolar lavage were not significantly different between groups (P > 0.05). Exogenous in vitro functional bronchial responses to capsaicin were increased in vehicle-immunised rabbits, an effect attenuated by neonatal capsaicin treatment (P < 0.05) whereas responses to methacholine, histamine or electrical field stimulation remained similar between groups (P > 0.05). Bronchial levels of calcitonin gene-related peptide- and substance P-like immunoreactivity were unaffected by any treatment (P > 0.05).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Adriamycin (ADR) is known to exert a severe negative inotropic effect on isolated myocardial preparations; a role for free radical generation has been hypothesized. Spin-trapping of free radicals has been extensively exploited in ESR studies, both in cell-free systems and in intact tissues. The interaction between spin-traps and free radicals should in principle stop the reaction cascade leading to cellular damage. Based on this hypothesis, the possible cardioprotective action of three spin-trapping agents, 5,5-dimethyl-l-pyrroline-N-oxide (DMPO), N-tert-butyl-alpha-phenylnitrone (PBN) and alpha-(4-pyridyl 1-oxide) N-tert-butylnitrone (POBN), was tested on isolated rat atria incubated in the presence of ADR; maximal non-cardiotoxic concentrations were used (50, 10 and 50 mM respectively) in order to achieve a maximal spin-trapping effect. A varying degree of protection was observed with the three compounds, directly correlated to their hydrophobicity, as assessed by chloroform/water partition coefficients. It is proposed that ADR-induced free radical generation is responsible for the acute cardiotoxic effects of the drug; this seems to be a site-specific mechanism restricted to one or more hydrophobic cellular compartment/s, since only lipophilic spin-trapping agents are able to prevent the development of the negative inotropic effect of ADR.
We performed genetic association studies in a population-based breast cancer case-control study analysing polymorphisms in genes involved in homologous recombination (NBS1, RAD52, RAD51, XRCC2 and XRCC3) and non-homologous end-joining (KU70/80 and LIG4). These DNA double-strand break repair genes are candidates for breast cancer susceptibility. Genotype results were available for up to 2205 cases and 1826 controls. In the homologous recombination (HR) pathway, genotype frequencies differed between cases and controls for two polymorphisms in XRCC3; T241M (P=0.015) and IVS5 A>G at nt 17893 (P=0.008). Homozygous carriers of M241 were associated with an increased risk [odds ratio (OR) MM versus TT=1.3 (95% confidence interval (CI) 1.1-1.6)], while the rare allele of IVS5A>G was associated with a dominant protective effect [OR AG versus AA=0.8 (0.7-0.9)]. The association of a rare variant in XRCC2 (R188H) was marginally significant [P=0.07; OR HH versus RR=2.6 (1.0-6.7)]. In the non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ) pathway, a polymorphism in LIG4 (T>C at nt 1977) was associated with a decrease in breast cancer risk [P=0.09; OR CC versus TT=0.7 (0.4-1.0)]. No significant association was found for 12 other polymorphisms in the other genes studied. For XRCC3, we found evidence for four common haplotypes and four rarer ones that appear to have arisen by recombination. Two haplotypes, AGC and GGC, were associated with non-significant reductions in breast cancer risk, and the rare GAT haplotype was associated with a significantly increased risk. These data provide some evidence that variants in XRCC2 and LIG4 alter breast cancer risk, together with stronger evidence that variants of XRCC3 are associated with risk. If these results can be confirmed, understanding the functional basis should improve our understanding of the role of DNA repair in breast carcinogenesis.
Doxorubicin (DOX) and idarubicin (IDA) are anthracycline antibiotics, widely used in human cancer treatment. The present study addressed the effects of these two drugs on lipid bilayer fluidity, protein conformation and microviscosity in erythrocytes from acute myeloid leukaemia patients, using electron spin resonance (ESR) spectroscopy and fluorescence measurements. Only DOX caused statistically significant changes in the parameters examined. Within 30 min of drug injection, changes were observed in the fluidity of the hydrophobic parts of the lipid bilayer and erythrocyte membrane protein conformation. These changes persisted for up to 24h. Analysis of the EPR Tempamine spectrum also showed that the microviscosity of the erythrocyte interior increased during the early stages of the drug effect. Idarubicin, in contrast, caused no identifiable change in any of the parameters studied and therefore seems to be safe for erythrocytes. We conclude that IDA is markedly less toxic than DOX to erythrocytes from acute myeloid leukaemia patients.
The terminology, pathophysiology, and therapy of acute hypertensive emergencies of pregnancy are reviewed. A hypertensive emergency of pregnancy can be defined to include any of the following: (1) an acute increase in blood pressure to values greater than 160/110 mm Hg, (2) development of symptoms consistent with severe preeclampsia, or (3) symptoms consistent with known complications of uncontrolled blood pressure. A hypertensive emergency requires hospitalization, immediate antihypertensive treatment to reduce maternal blood pressure without substantially decreasing placental perfusion and compromising the fetus, and delivery of the infant as soon as possible. Hydralazine has been shown to decrease blood pressure effectively in hypertensive emergencies of pregnancy. Although many institutions consider hydralazine the antihypertensive agent of choice in pre-eclampsia/eclampsia, there have been no comparative studies to document that hydralazine is the safest or most efficacious agent and only one human study evaluated its effects on maternal blood pressure, fetal heart rate, growth retardation, and uterine activity. Based on available data, minibolus doses or infusion over 20-30 minutes of diazoxide may prove to be safe and effective alternatives to hydralazine, but more data are needed. Nitroprusside may have a role in the short-term treatment of patients unresponsive or intolerant to hydralazine, but human studies are needed before nitroprusside can be recommended routinely. Methyldopa cannot be considered a first-choice agent for the rapid reduction of blood pressure because of its slow onset of action. Further studies are needed before propranolol, i.v. nitroglycerin, captopril, clonidine, minoxidil, naldolol, atenolol, or metoprolol can be recommended. Until further studies are conducted, hydralazine will continue to be the treatment of choice for hypertensive emergencies of pregnancy.
In conscious rats, continuous i.v. infusion of cocaine (2 mg/kg/min) produced a marked increase in blood pressure, an initial moderate increase followed by a decrease in heart rate, tonic-clonic convulsions and, finally, a lethal episode of status epilepticus. No change in rectal temperature was observed. Infusion of cocaine methiodide (2 mg/kg/min), a quaternary derivative of cocaine, also produced a lethal episode of status epilepticus, but it was 6 times less potent than cocaine on a molar basis. In pentobarbital-anesthetized, spontaneously breathing rats, cocaine produced death by respiratory failure. Artificial ventilation of pentobarbital-anesthetized rats elevated the lethal dose of cocaine by 15-fold and these animals died of marked hypotension. In conscious rats, pretreatment with dl-, d- or l-propranolol or the alpha 2-selective adrenoceptor antagonist yohimbine enhanced the convulsive and lethal effects of cocaine. In contrast, the alpha 2-selective adrenoceptor agonist clonidine or the alpha 1-selective adrenoceptor antagonist prazosin attenuated these effects. Yohimbine antagonized the protective effect of clonidine. The nonselective alpha adrenoceptor antagonist phentolamine, the autonomic ganglionic blocker chlorisondamine and various calcium channel blockers had no effect on the convulsive or lethal doses of cocaine. The pressor response to cocaine was attenuated by calcium channel blockers, clonidine, phentolamine and dl- or l-propranolol, but not by d-propranolol. The pressor response to cocaine was abolished by chlorisondamine, reversed to a depressor response by prazosin and enhanced by yohimbine. The initial tachycardiac response to cocaine was reversed to bradycardia by dl- and l-propranolol, prazosin, yohimbine or high doses of the calcium channel blockers, but was unaffected by phentolamine, d-propranolol, clonidine or chlorisondamine. These results indicate that in spontaneously breathing animals, acute i.v. infusions of lethal doses of cocaine produce death primarily by central effects, namely by status epilepticus in conscious rats and by respiratory arrest in pentobarbital-anesthetized rats. In artificially ventilated, pentobarbital-anesthetized rats, however, cocaine produces death by effects on the cardiovascular system. In conscious rats, endogenous alpha 1 adrenoceptors exert a deleterious influence on cocaine-induced convulsive and lethal effects, whereas alpha 2 adrenoceptors provide protective influence. Propranolol appears to enhance cocaine-induced acute lethality through a mechanism independent of beta adrenoceptors. Calcium channel blockers appear ineffective in antagonizing cocaine's lethality.
Familial hyperkalemic hypertension (FHHt) is a Mendelian form of arterial hypertension that is partially explained by mutations in WNK1 and WNK4 that lead to increased activity of the Na(+)-Cl(-) cotransporter (NCC) in the distal nephron. Using combined linkage analysis and whole-exome sequencing in two families, we identified KLHL3 as a third gene responsible for FHHt. Direct sequencing of 43 other affected individuals revealed 11 additional missense mutations that were associated with heterogeneous phenotypes and diverse modes of inheritance. Polymorphisms at KLHL3 were not associated with blood pressure. The KLHL3 protein belongs to the BTB-BACK-kelch family of actin-binding proteins that recruit substrates for Cullin3-based ubiquitin ligase complexes. KLHL3 is coexpressed with NCC and downregulates NCC expression at the cell surface. Our study establishes a role for KLHL3 as a new member of the complex signaling pathway regulating ion homeostasis in the distal nephron and indirectly blood pressure.
The aim of the present study was to determine whether S-4-carboxy-3-hydroxyphenylglycine (S)-4C3HPG, a mixed group I glutamate metabotropic receptor antagonist and a group II agonist, attenuated parkinsonian-like muscle rigidity in rats. Muscle tone was examined using a combined mechano and electromyographic method, which measured simultaneously the muscle resistance (MMG) of the rat's hind foot to passive extension and flexion in the ankle joint and the electromyographic activity (EMG) of the antagonistic muscles of that joint: gastrocnemius and tibialis anterior. Muscle rigidity was induced by pretreatment with haloperidol (1 mg/kg i.p.). (S)-4C3HPG injected in doses of 5 and 15 microg/0.5 microl bilaterally, into the rostral region of the striatum, decreased both the haloperidol-induced muscle rigidity (MMG) and the enhanced electromyographic activity (EMG). The present results suggest that blockade of mGluR1 receptors and/or activation of mGluR2 ones, localized in the rostral part of the striatum, may be responsible for the anti-parkinsonian effect of (S)-4C3HPG.
Sixteen out of 25 hebephrenic and paranoid schizophrenic patients completed a double-blind cross-over study with sulpiride and haloperidol. The patient sample was relatively chronic: Median age was 35 years (range 26-53 years), median duration of illness 10 years (4-35 years), and median duration of neuroleptic treatment 5 years (1-28 years). Each patient was treated with sulpiride/haloperidol in random order for 12 weeks with a drug-free period before each treatment phase. Mean total BPRS (Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale) score was reduced from 25 to 15 (P less than 0.05) during sulpiride (800-2800 mg/day, median 1600 mg/day), and from 28 to 15 (P less than 0.01) during haloperidol (6-18 mg/day, median 12). There were no significant differences between the groups with respect to total BPRS score, single items or symptom clusters. However, in a few, very "chronic", disturbed, and long-term treated patients, haloperidol appeared more beneficial than sulpiride. Autonomic side effects and parkinsonism tended to occur more frequently during haloperidol than during sulpiride, but no significant differences were found. It is concluded that sulpiride, a specific dopamine-2 receptor blocker, has antipsychotic effect, not significantly different from haloperidol, but may produce slightly less side effects.
In 22 50-year-old men with long-standing, untreated essential hypertension of the low renin type, venous plasma vasopressin concentrations were about three times those of 15 matched normotensive control subjects (p less than 0.005). These patients also had increased arterial concentrations of noradrenaline and adrenaline (p less than 0.05) but there was no direct association between these two catecholamines and vasopressin. On the other hand, adrenergic beta-receptor blockade with oxprenolol reduced both blood pressure and plasma vasopressin (p less than 0.01) while venous plasma dopamine concentrations significantly increased. In addition, the hypertensives had highly significantly increased serum uric acid (p less than 0.001) that correlated positively with venous vasopressin concentrations (p less than 0.05). According to these data, patients with the volume-sustained low renin type of essential hypertension have increased plasma vasopressin concentrations that probably are inversely related to dopaminergic nervous activity. The data also indicate that increased plasma vasopressin correlates with serum uric acid, most probably through increased tubular reabsorption of this acid.
To observe reversal of ventricular remodeling by the protein kinase C inhibitor Scutellarein in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs).
Twelve SHRs were randomly divided into two groups. Scutellarein and saline (10 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1)) were given by intraperitoneal injection to two groups of rats separately. Systolic blood pressure (SBP) and ventricular weight index (LVW/BW, RVW/BW) were measured. A polarization microscope and an image analyzer system (IAS) were used to observe changes in cardiovascular structure and to count the content of cardiac muscle interstitial collagen.
The pathologic changes in the left ventricle in the Scutellarein group rats (SHR(D)) improved to varying degrees, including hypertrophy of the cardiac muscle and collagen volume fraction.
Scutellarein can reverse ventricular remodeling, improve myocardial stiffness and protect heart cardiac muscle.
Non-enzymatic protein glycation and resultant accumulation of advanced glycation endproducts (AGE) are implicated in the pathogenesis of diabetic complications including diabetic nephropathy (DN). It is considered that antiglycating agents offer protection against AGE mediated pathologies including DN. Earlier we characterized procyanidin-B2 (PCB2) as the active component from cinnamon (Cinnamomum zeylanicum) that inhibits AGE formation in vitro. In this study, we have investigated the potential of PCB2-enriched fraction of cinnamon to prevent in vivo accumulation of AGE and to ameliorate renal changes in diabetic rats. Streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats were fed with either 3% cinnamon or 0.002% PCB2-fraction in diet for 12weeks. Biochemical analysis of blood and urine was performed at the end of experiment. Evaluation of glomerular markers that serve as indicators of renal function was done by immunohistochemistry, immunoblotting and qRT-PCR. Supplementation of diabetic rats with cinnamon and PCB2-fraction prevented glycation mediated RBC-IgG cross-links and HbA1c accumulation in diabetes rats. Cinnamon and PCB2-fraction also inhibited the accumulation of N-carboxy methyl lysine (CML), a prominent AGE in diabetic kidney. Interestingly, cinnamon and its PCB2-fraction prevented the AGE mediated loss of expression of glomerular podocyte proteins; nephrin and podocin. Inhibition of AGE by cinnamon and PCB2-fraction ameliorated the diabetes mediated renal malfunction in rats as evidenced by reduced urinary albumin and creatinine. In conclusion, PCB2 from cinnamon inhibited AGE accumulation in diabetic rat kidney and ameliorated AGE mediated pathogenesis of DN.
The non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug-activated gene (NAG-1) is a newly identified member of the transforming growth factor (TGF)-β superfamily and plays significant roles in regulating proliferation and pro-apoptotic activities. In the present study, we studied the regulation of NAG-1 by troglitazone in the cultured gastric cancer cell line BGC-823. MTT and TUNEL assays demonstrated that troglitazone potentially inhibits the proliferation of the gastric cancer cell line and induces apoptosis in vitro in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Troglitazone induced concentration-dependent NAG-1 expression in the BGC-823 cells, as assessed using immunocytochemistry. Furthermore, troglitazone increased Egr-1 protein levels in a concentration-dependent manner. In conclusion, the present study suggests that troglitazone markedly impedes proliferation and pro-apoptotic activities in BGC-823 cells, and the mechanism may partly be through the Egr-1 pathway.
Three common missense variants of the Disrupted in Schizophrenia 1 (DISC1) gene, rs3738401 (Q264R), rs6675281 (L607F) and rs821616 (S704C), have been variably associated with the risk of schizophrenia. In a case-control study, we examine whether these gene variants are associated with schizophrenia and ultra-resistant schizophrenia (URS) in a population of French Caucasian patients. The URS phenotype is characterized according to stringent criteria as patients who experience no clinical, social and/or occupational remission in spite of treatment with clozapine and at least two periods of treatment with distinct conventional or atypical antipsychotic drugs. We find a significant association between DISC1 missense variants and URS. The association with rs3738401 remains significant after appropriate correction for multiple testing. These results suggest that the DISC1 rs3738401 missense variant is statistically linked with ultra-resistance to antipsychotic treatment.
In the recent past, several phytoconstituents are being explored for their potential neuromodulatory effects in neurological diseases. Repeated exposure of acrylamide (ACR) leads to varying degree of neuronal damage in experimental animals and humans. In view of this, the present study investigated the efficacy of geraniol (GE, a natural monoterpene) to mitigate acrylamide (ACR)-induced oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction and neurotoxicity in a rat model and compared its efficacy to that of curcumin (CU, a spice active principle with multiple biological activities). ACR administration (50mg/kg bw, i.p. 3times/week) for 4weeks to growing rats caused typical symptoms of neuropathy. ACR rats provided with daily oral supplements of phytoconstituents (GE: 100mg/kg bw/d; CU: 50mg/kg bw/d, 4weeks) exhibited marked improvement in behavioral tests. Both phytoconstituents markedly attenuated ACR-induced oxidative stress as evidenced by the diminished levels of reactive oxygen species, malondialdehyde and nitric oxide and restored the reduced glutathione levels in sciatic nerve (SN) and brain regions (cortex - Ct, cerebellum - Cb). Further, both phytoconstituents effectively diminished ACR-induced elevation in cytosolic calcium levels in SN and Cb. Furthermore, diminution in the levels of oxidative markers in the mitochondria was associated with elevation in the activities of antioxidant enzymes. While ACR mediated elevation in the acetylcholinesterase activity was reduced by both actives, the depletion in dopamine levels was restored only by CU in brain regions. Taken together our findings for the first time demonstrate that the neuromodulatory propensity of GE is indeed comparable to that of CU and may be exploited as a therapeutic adjuvant in the management of varied human neuropathy conditions.
The effect of carvedilol on heart failure (HF) in patients with a functionally univentricular heart (UVH) remains unclear.
Carvedilol was used to treat HF in 51 patients with a UVH, classified into 3 groups: after the Fontan operation (F), after the bidirectional Glenn operation (G), and patients who had not undergone Fontan or Glenn operation (NF). Carvedilol therapy was started at a mean age of 10 ± 12 years (range: 1 month to 34 years). The initial and maximum doses of carvedilol were 0.04 ± 0.03 and 0.42 ± 0.29 mg · kg(-1) · day(-1), respectively. After a mean follow-up of 11 months, the cardiothoracic ratio improved from 60 ± 8 to 58 ± 8% (P<0.01), and the dosage of furosemide was reduced from 1.4 ± 0.9 to 0.7 ± 0.7 mg · kg(-1) · day(-1) (P < 0.01). The ejection fraction also improved from 35 ± 12 to 40 ± 11% (P < 0.05), and this improvement was prominent in the F group (from 35 ± 15 to 45 ± 9%; P < 0.05). Clinical signs, symptoms, and New York Heart Association functional class also improved.
Carvedilol may play an important role in treating HF associated with a UVH.
Gram-negative bacillary meningitis is a serious threat to patients with head trauma or altered immune systems, or those who have had neurosurgical procedures. The aminoglycoside antibiotics administered systemically and into the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) have proved useful in the treatment of these infections. Intralumbar and parenteral gentamicin sulfate and tobramycin sulfate were administered to an acromegalic woman with Klebsiella meningitis. She had objective evidence of adhesive arachnoiditis and symptoms of polyradiculitis. Cessation of the aminoglycoside administration resulted in symptomatic improvement, and reinstitution of therapy caused a recurrence of neurologic symptoms. Polyradiculitis may be a complication of the intralumbar administration of aminoglycosides.
Clinical observations and case reports suggest that there are important cerebrovascular complications of cocaine use, but no studies have documented a direct link.
To determine whether low-dose cocaine administration induces cerebral vasoconstriction in healthy cocaine users.
Randomized controlled trial.
Twenty-four healthy and neurologically normal men (mean age, 29 years) reporting median cocaine use of 8 lifetime exposures (range, 3 to >40).
Double-blind intravenous administration of cocaine (0.4 or 0.2 mg/kg) or placebo, with cerebral magnetic resonance angiography performed at baseline and 20 minutes following infusion.
Cocaine-induced angiographic change indicative of vasoconstriction, as independently and concordantly rated by 2 reviewers blind to treatment condition.
Cocaine-induced cerebral vasoconstriction in a dose-related fashion (P=.03), with angiograms indicative of vasoconstriction found in 5 of 8 and 3 of 9 subjects receiving 0.4- and 0.2-mg/kg cocaine, respectively, compared with 1 of 7 subjects administered placebo. Outcome stratification by frequency of self-reported lifetime cocaine use (3-10 times, 11-40 times, or >40 times) revealed a statistically stronger dose-related effect (P<.001), suggesting that greater lifetime cocaine use was associated with a greater likelihood of vasoconstriction.
Cocaine administration induced dose-related cerebral vasoconstriction on magnetic resonance angiograms. These changes occurred at low cocaine doses and in the absence of other risk factors, including polydrug abuse, hypertension, or cerebrovascular disease. Outcome stratification by prior cocaine use statistically strengthened the relationship between cocaine administration and vasoconstriction, suggesting that cocaine may have a cumulative residual effect in promoting cerebrovascular dysfunction.
