This investigation was performed to evaluate the effects of nimesulide (NIM), a selective cyclo-oxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor, on forebrain ischemia-induced in vivo oxidative stress damage in the rat hippocampus. Hippocampal tissue glutathione (GSH) and malondialdehyde (MDA) contents, the activities of the antioxidants superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase as well as nitric oxide (NO) concentration were estimated. A clinically relevant dose of NIM (18 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1), p.o.) was administered immediately after induction of forebrain ischemia for 7 consecutive days. Forebrain ischemia induced oxidative stress after 7 days manifested by significant decrease in GSH and increase in MDA levels as compared to control (p < 0.05). Also, in rats subjected to ischemia, SOD and catalase activities were decreased significantly compared to the control group (p < 0 .05). On the other hand, ischemic rats showed a significant increase in NO concentration compared to those in the control group (p < 0.05). Treatment with NIM protected the rats from ischemia-induced oxidative stress as evident by normalization of measured parameters. The present study indicates the ability of NIM to reduce oxidative stress induced by transient forebrain ischemia. This suggests that the induction of COX-2 might be involved in transient forebrain ischemia-induced oxidative damage and hence the selective COX-2 inhibitors might be a valuable therapeutic strategy against ischemic brain injury.
Nalidixic acid, the quinolone frequently used in the treatment of acute dysentery, is now emerging as an important cause of pseudotumour cerebri in infants and young children. A study of 20 such cases showed that all the patients had received a higher than recommended dose of nalidixic acid and that 85% of them were given the drug unnecessarily (i.e., for acute watery diarrhoea). A high concentration of the drug in the commercial preparations as well as the lack of awareness about this among doctors, especially the general practitioners, is the possible contributory factor leading to this situation. A simple measure of bringing down the concentration of nalidixic acid in the available preparations and sticking to oral rehydration solution alone in the treatment of acute watery diarrhoea, can bring down the incidence of this condition.
The effects of long-term lithium administration on glomerular structure and intervention with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI) were studied in rats. Male Wistar rats were fed a lithium-containing diet (Li) or control diet (C) for 16 weeks postnatally. Li-treated rats developed renal failure, hypertension and proteinuria. During the subsequent 24 weeks, subgroups were treated with ACEI. The kidneys were fixed by perfusion, and tissue blocks were serially cut for estimation of glomerular volume and glomerular characteristics by light microscopy. Mesangial and mesangial matrix volume fractions, surface density of capillary walls, basement membrane thickness and foot process width (FPW) were measured by electron microscopy. Glomerular volume was decreased in Li-rats, with increased intra-individual variation. In all Li-rats, some glomeruli (mean 27%) were abnormal, with severe changes in only three rats. Ultrastructural parameters obtained by systematic sampling of three glomeruli in each rat showed no differences among groups. Among Li-treated animals there was a significant correlation between FPW and albumin excretion per unit filtration surface, and between filtration surface per glomerulus and inulin clearance. In conclusion, long-term lithium administration to newborn rats caused marked changes in glomerular volume which were not associated with measurable changes in structural parameters. No effect of ACEI-treatment was detectable.
The present study aimed to determine whether the T-helper cell type 2-derived cytokines, interleukin (IL)-4 and -13, can modulate the lung response to ozone exposure. IL-13(-/-), IL-4/13(-/-) and IL-13-overexpressing transgenic (Tg) mice were exposed to ozone (3 ppm; 3 h) or air. Wild-type (Wt) Balb/c mice and transgenic-negative littermates (IL-13Wt) were used as controls for gene-deficient and IL-13Tg mice, respectively. IL-4/13(-/-) and IL-13(-/-) mice developed a lesser degree of ozone-induced airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR) while IL-13Tg mice developed a greater degree of AHR compared with ozone-exposed wild-type or IL-13Wt mice, respectively. Ozone caused a time-dependent increase of bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) neutrophils and macrophages in wild-type mice, maximal at 20-24 h, which was attenuated in the IL-13(-/-) and IL-4/13(-/-) mice. In IL-13Tg mice, there was a greater increase in BAL neutrophils after ozone exposure compared with IL-13Wt mice. Using quantitative real-time PCR, ozone-induced mRNA expression for IL-6 and keratinocyte chemokine was further enhanced in IL-13(-/-) and IL-4/13(-/-) mice, and was inhibited in IL-13Tg mice. Macrophage inflammatory protein (MIP)-3alpha/CCL20 expression was enhanced after ozone exposure in wild-type mice, inhibited in IL-13(-/-) and IL-4/13(-/-) mice, while in IL-13Tg mice it was enhanced. A similar pattern of expression was observed with lipopolysaccharide-induced cytokine (LIX/CXCL5/ENA-78) expression. In conclusion, interleukin-13 augments ozone-induced airway hyperresponsiveness and neutrophilic inflammation, possibly through modulation of certain cytokines induced by ozone exposure.
A 50-year-old woman suffered from a diffuse skin rash, high fever and jaundice immediately after a second injection of glutathion and Stronger Neo-minophagen C which contains glycyrrhizin. Liver biopsy performed 11 months after the onset showed mild spotty hepatocyte necrosis, marked cholestasis in parenchyma, and some lymphocyte infiltration in the portal area. Interlobular bile ducts had undergone vacuolar degeneration or were absent in some portal tracts. In her hospital course, unremitting jaundice persisted and biliary cirrhosis developed with signs of portal hypertension; she died from liver failure 26 months after the onset. A liver specimen at her death revealed that most of the interlobular bile ducts had vanished. Based on the clinical course and pathology, drug-induced ductopenia, possibly due to an adverse reaction to glycyrrhizin, is the most likely diagnosis. While drug-related biliary cirrhosis is rarely fatal, this case presented an unusually rapid course of fatal biliary cirrhosis.
Salicylaldehyde isonicotinoyl hydrazone (SIH) is a lipophilic, orally-active tridentate iron chelator providing both effective protection against various types of oxidative stress-induced cellular injury and anticancer action. However, the major limitation of SIH is represented by its labile hydrazone bond that makes it prone to plasma hydrolysis. Recently, nine new SIH analogues derived from aromatic ketones with improved hydrolytic stability were developed. Here we analyzed their antiproliferative potential in MCF-7 breast adenocarcinoma and HL-60 promyelocytic leukemia cell lines. Seven of the tested substances showed greater selectivity than the parent agent SIH towards the latter cancer cell lines compared to non-cancerous H9c2 cardiomyoblast-derived cells. The tested chelators induced a dose-dependent dissipation of the inner mitochondrial membrane potential, an induction of apoptosis as evidenced by Annexin V positivity or significant increases of activities of caspases 3, 7, 8 and 9 and cell cycle arrest. With the exception of nitro group-bearing NHAPI, the studies of iron complexes of the chelators confirmed the crucial role of iron in the mechanism of their antiproliferative action. Finally, all the assayed chelators inhibited the oxidation of ascorbate by iron ions indicating lack of redox activity of the chelator-iron complexes. In conclusion, this study identified several important design criteria for improvement of the antiproliferative selectivity of the aroylhydrazone iron chelators. Several of the novel compounds--in particular the ethylketone-derived HPPI, NHAPI and acetyl-substituted A2,4DHAPI--merit deeper investigation as promising potent and selective anticancer agents.
Bilateral electrolytic lesions of the superior colliculus in rats increased spontaneous locomotor activity, enhanced amphetamine-induced hyperactivity and attenuated apomorphine-induced biting. These lesions were associated with an increased rate of turnover of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens, but not in the striatum. Similarly concentrations of the dopamine metabolites homovanillic acid and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid were elevated in accumbens tissue but not in striatum in rats with bilateral collicular lesions. The results indicate that lesions of the superior colliculus cause differentiation between hyperactivity and stereotypy, and that this may be related to blockade of a nigrostriatal outflow, and relief of inhibition on mesolimbic systems.
Virtually all low molecular weight inhibitors of human glutamate carboxypeptidase II (GCPII) are highly polar compounds that have limited use in settings where more lipophilic molecules are desired. Here we report the identification and characterization of GCPII inhibitors with enhanced liphophilicity that are derived from a series of newly identified dipeptidic GCPII substrates featuring nonpolar aliphatic side chains at the C-terminus. To analyze the interactions governing the substrate recognition by GCPII, we determined crystal structures of the inactive GCPII(E424A) mutant in complex with selected dipeptides and complemented the structural data with quantum mechanics/molecular mechanics calculations. Results reveal the importance of nonpolar interactions governing GCPII affinity toward novel substrates as well as formerly unnoticed plasticity of the S1' specificity pocket. On the basis of those data, we designed, synthesized, and evaluated a series of novel GCPII inhibitors with enhanced lipophilicity, with the best candidates having low nanomolar inhibition constants and clogD > -0.3. Our findings offer new insights into the design of more lipophilic inhibitors targeting GCPII.
Data are presented on the patterns of drug use and HIV risk-taking of daily amphetamine and opioid injectors among 1245 injecting drug users who were interviewed in Sydney in 1989. About one-third of the sample had injected amphetamines during a typical month of injecting, and 12% were using amphetamines on a daily basis. Daily amphetamine injectors were younger, less well educated, and less likely to have engaged in drug treatment, but they were no more likely than daily opioid users to have shared injection equipment or to have engaged in other behaviour likely to transmit HIV. Although there seemed to be no special cause for concern about HIV risk-taking among amphetamine injectors, there was nonetheless a high prevalence of sharing injecting equipment, with over half of daily amphetamine and heroin injectors having shared in the past several months. In addition, approximately a third of amphetamine injectors were injecting on a daily basis, a pattern of use which increases the risk of developing a severe dependence syndrome, and of experiencing an amphetamine-induced psychosis.
To report a case of aseptic meningitis related to ibuprofen ingestion.
We discuss the case of a 56-year-old white man with a history of rheumatoid arthritis and hypertension who became confused, nauseated, and began to vomit within 2 hours of the ingestion of ibuprofen. A diagnosis of ibuprofen-induced aseptic meningitis was made based on the patient's physical and laboratory findings, the quick onset and resolution of symptoms, and his medical history.
Ibuprofen-induced aseptic meningitis has been most frequently reported in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus. However, there have been reports of this reaction in patients with other underlying disease states. Various nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs have been reported to cause this reaction, but ibuprofen is the most common offending agent. A drug-related cause should be considered in any patient who presents with typical meningitis symptoms, such as fever, headache, and stiff neck, that occur within hours of ingesting a drug.
Although persons with systemic lupus erythematosus appear to have an increased risk for this type of reaction, the development of signs and symptoms in other patients warrants the consideration of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs as the cause of aseptic meningitis.
Abnormal DNA CpG island hypermethylation and transcriptionally repressive histone modifications are associated with the aberrant silencing of tumor suppressor genes. Lysine methylation is a dynamic, enzymatically controlled process. Lysine-specific demethylase 1 (LSD1) has recently been identified as a histone lysine demethylase. LSD1 specifically catalyzes demethylation of mono- and dimethyl-lysine 4 of histone 3 (H3K4), key positive chromatin marks associated with transcriptional activation. We hypothesized that a novel class of oligoamine analogues would effectively inhibit LSD1 and thus cause the reexpression of aberrantly silenced genes.
Human colorectal cancer cells were treated with the oligoamines and changes in mono- and dimethyl-H3K4 and other chromatin marks were monitored. In addition, treated cells were evaluated for the reexpression of the aberrantly silenced secreted frizzled-related proteins (SFRP) Wnt signaling pathway antagonist genes. Finally, the effects of the LSD1 inhibitors were evaluated in an in vivo xenograft model.
Treatment of HCT116 human colon adenocarcinoma cells in vitro resulted in increased H3K4 methylation and reexpression of silenced SFRP genes. This reexpression is also accompanied by a decrease in H3K9me2 repressive mark. Importantly, cotreatment with low doses of oligoamines and a DNA methyltransferase inhibitor highly induces the reexpression of the aberrantly silenced SFRP2 gene and results in significant inhibition of the growth of established tumors in a human colon tumor model in vivo.
The use of LSD1-inhibiting oligoamine analogues in combination with DNA methyltransferase inhibitors represents a highly promising and novel approach for epigenetic therapy of cancer.
Glomerular slit diaphragm (SD) represents a modified adherens junction composed of molecules belonging to both immunoglobulin and cadherin superfamilies. Cadherins associate with the cytosolic scaffolding protein beta-catenin, but the precise role of beta-catenin in mature or injured podocytes is not known.
The conditional podocyte-specific beta-catenin-deficient mouse line was generated using the doxycycline-inducible Cre-loxP system. Expression of the beta-catenin-deficient gene was turned off at the age of 8 weeks by doxycycline treatment and the kidney phenotype was analysed. In addition, beta-catenin-deficient and control mice were treated with adriamycin (ADR) and analysed for albuminuria and morphological alterations.
Deletion of beta-catenin in mature podocytes did not change the morphology of podocytes nor did it lead to albuminuria. However, lack of beta-catenin attenuated albuminuria after ADR treatment. Electron microscopic examination showed increased podocyte foot process effacement associated with SD abnormalities in ADR-treated control mice compared to beta-catenin-deficient mice.
These results show that beta-catenin in podocytes is dispensable for adult mice, but appears to be important in modulating the SD during ADR-induced perturbation of the filtration barrier.
The present study, performed in-vivo, included 30 infected primary teeth in 26 children in the age group of 3-8 years. The purpose of this study was to compare the efficacy of two obturating materials, zinc oxide-eugenol and Maisto's paste, in infected primary teeth. 30 teeth were divided into two groups of 15 teeth. Teeth in Group I were obturated using zinc oxide-eugenol and those in Group II were obturated using Maisto's paste. On clinical evaluation, teeth obturated with Maisto's paste showed 100% success. Five teeth that were overfilled with Maisto's paste showed complete resorption of excess material within 3 months while the two teeth overfilled with zinc oxide-eugenol showed incomplete resorption of the excess material even after 9 months. Zinc oxide-eugenol treated cases showed only 26.7% bone regeneration while in case of Maisto's paste, it was 93%. Complete healing of the inter-radicular pathology was seen with Maisto's paste. However, the pathology was present in 40% of the zinc oxide-eugenol treated teeth even after 9 months. Maisto's paste was thus seen to be superior to zinc oxide-eugenol both in clinical as well as radiological evaluation, done over a period of 9 months in relation to bone regeneration, healing of inter-radicular pathology and resorption of excess material.
It is well documented that manganese neurotoxicity induces clinical symptoms similar to those of idiopathic Parkinson's disease. Although microglial cytotoxic mediator-induced neurotoxicity is suggested, the mechanism by which manganese up-regulates cytotoxic mediator, such as nitric oxide (NO), remains poorly understood. Therefore, in this study, we investigated the mechanism of manganese on induction of iNOS in microglial cells. iNOS promoter/luciferase assay revealed that manganese (500 (M) regulated the iNOS expression at the transcriptional level. Immunoblot analysis also revealed that phosphorylation levels of ERK, JNK MAPKs and Akt (PKB, PI 3-kinase downstream effector), were increased. Both protein and mRNA levels of iNOS expression were abrogated by specific inhibitors, SP600125 (JNK inhibitor, 20 microM), PD98059 (ERKs inhibitor, 50 microM), or LY294002 (PI 3-kinase inhibitor, 20 microM), but not by SB203580 (20 microM), a p38 specific inhibitor. These data lead to the conclusion that manganese regulates the iNOS expression at the transcriptional level in BV2 microglial cells and the increased iNOS protein expression is mediated via both JNK-ERK MAPK and PI3K/Akt signaling pathways, but not via p38 MAPK pathway. Increased iNOS protein level was also found in RAW264.7 murine macrophage cells.
Previous work in our laboratory indicated that di-n-butyl-2,2-dichlorovinyl phosphate (DBCV) produced electrophysiologic changes in hen peripheral nerve that coincided with the development of histopathologic changes and neurologic signs of peripheral neuropathy. The purpose of the present study was to follow the time course for the development of the electrophysiologic changes and to determine whether pretreatment with the phosphinate analog of DBCV (DBCV-P), a nonageable organophosphorus compound, prevented these effects. Although significant electrophysiologic deficits occurred in the tibial and sciatic nerve 24 h after DBCV treatment, the most marked changes coincided with the onset of clinical signs of organophosphorus-induced delayed neuropathy (14-21 d). The sciatic and tibial nerves were equally susceptible to DBCV in producing deficits characterized by changes in the relative refractory period and an increased strength-duration threshold. Pretreatment with DBCV-P prevented the clinical signs and also attenuated the electrophysiologic deficits induced by DBCV treatment. These data suggest that electrophysiologic deficits occur before clinical signs of organophosphorus-induced delayed neuropathy (OPIDN) and may be indicative of a link between neurotoxic esterase (NTE) inhibition and onset of overt clinical toxicity.
1. In the present study, we developed an experimental model of cystitis induced by cyclophosphamide (CYP). In order to characterize des-Arg9-BK-induced contraction on the urinary bladder (UB) during the development of inflammation and to quantify kinin B1 receptor gene expression using a quantitative RT - PCR technique. 2. In the presence of peptidase inhibitors captopril (10 microM), DL-thiorphan (1 microM) and DL-2-mercaptomethyl-3-guanidino-ethylthiopropanoic acid (MERGEPTA 5 microM), bradykinin (BK) (0.3 - 3,000 nM) evoked a concentration-dependent contraction of rat UB which was not different between the CYP- and vehicle-treated groups. Unlike BK, des-Arg9-BK (0.3 - 100,000 nM) did not contract UB from vehicle-treated rats but contracted vigorously bladder strips from CYP-treated rats 14, 24 and 168 h after treatment. In UB of 24 h treated rat, the pD2 value of des-Arg9-BK was 7.3+/-0.1. 3. The cyclo-oxygenase inhibitor indomethacin (3 microM) reduced by 30% the maximal response of des-Arg9-BK. Both the kinin B1 receptor antagonists des-Arg9-[Leu8]BK (10 microM) and des-Arg10-Hoe 140 (10 microM) produced a rightward shift of the concentration-response curve to des-Arg9-BK yielding pKB values of 6.8+/-0.2 and 7.2+/-0.1, respectively, whilst the kinin B2 receptor antagonist Hoe 140 (1 microM) had no effect. 4. After CYP treatment, mRNA coding for the kinin B1 receptor appeared predominantly in UB. In this organ, the induction was progressive, reaching a maximum 48 h after CYP treatment. 5. In conclusion, the present study provides strong evidence for an induction of kinin B1 receptors in UB of CYP-treated rats. This was associated at a molecular level with an increase in mRNA expression of the gene coding for the kinin B1 receptor. This kinin receptor displayed the whole features of a classical rat kinin B1 receptor.
Oral contraceptives (OC) are a definite risk for venous thrombosis. It is commonly accepted that they cause a fourfold increased risk of thrombosis compared to non-users. The prescription patterns were evaluated from 1990 to 2000 in a northern Italian province (province of Padua). This province is typical of other northern Italian provinces. As a consequence, it can be safely assumed that the observations gathered may apply to the entire north of Italy. During these years, a sharp increase in the use of OC was noted. Furthermore, around 1995 to 1996, a marked switch toward the use of preparations containing third-generation progestins was noted. During the past few years of the observation period, approximately 80% of women use preparations containing third-generation progestins. During the same period, an increased incidence of episodes of venous thromboembolism (VTE) was noted. The increase in the prevalence of VTE episodes appeared to be proportional to the increased use of OC, regardless of the type of progestin contained in the oral contraceptive preparations.
This study evaluated the efficacy and safety of remifentanil, a potent mu agonist opioid with a rapid onset and offset of effect, as a sole induction agent for loss of consciousness (LOC) and compared it with alfentanil.
Remifentanil and alfentanil were administered intravenously over 2 min in ascending doses (remifentanil 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 10, 15, 20 microg/kg; alfentanil 40, 60, 80, 100, 120, 160, 200 microg/kg) to unpremedicated healthy patients. Patients were observed for rigidity and LOC for 30 s after the end of infusion. If patients had not lost consciousness, 2 mg x kg(-1) x min(-1) thiopental was administered until LOC was achieved. Arterial blood samples, obtained at specified time intervals, were analyzed for remifentanil and alfentanil whole-blood concentration. Blood pressure and heart rate were also recorded at preset time intervals.
Neither drug could reliably produce LOC. With both drugs, there was a dose-dependent decrease in thiopental requirements and a dose-dependent increase in the incidence and severity of rigidity (P < 0.05). The median effective dose (ED50) for LOC with remifentanil was 12 microg/kg, and for alfentanil it was 176 mcrog/kg. The median effective concentration (EC50; whole-blood concentration) of remifentanil was 53.8 ng/ml and for alfentanil it was 1,012 ng/ml. Minimal hemodynamic changes were observed after either drug was given.
Remifentanil is 15 times more potent than alfentanil, based on the ED50 to achieve loss of response to a verbal command and 20 times more potent than alfentanil based on the EC50. Neither opioid is suitable as a sole induction agent.
Nitrogen-containing bisphosphonates (N-BPs) are effective antiosteolytic agents in patients with multiple myeloma. Preclinical studies have also demonstrated that these agents have direct antitumor effects in vitro and can reduce tumor burden in a variety of animal models, although it is not clear whether such effects are caused by direct actions on tumor cells or by inhibition of bone resorption. N-BPs prevent bone destruction in myeloma by inhibiting the enzyme farnesyl pyrophosphate synthase in osteoclasts, thereby preventing the prenylation of small GTPase signaling proteins. In this study, utilizing a plasmacytoma xenograft model without complicating skeletal lesions, treatment with zoledronic acid (ZOL) led to significant prolongation of survival in severe combined immunodeficiency mice inoculated with human INA-6 plasma cells. Following treatment with a clinically relevant dose of ZOL, histological analysis of INA-6 tumors from the peritoneal cavity revealed extensive areas of apoptosis associated with poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase cleavage. Furthermore, Western blot analysis of tumor homogenates demonstrated the accumulation of unprenylated Rap1A, indicative of the uptake of ZOL by nonskeletal tumors and inhibition of farnesyl pyrophosphate synthase. These studies provide, for the first time, clear evidence that N-BPs have direct antitumor effects in plasma cell tumors in vivo and this is executed by a molecular mechanism similar to that observed in osteoclasts.
Acute hypokalemic periodic paralysis may be induced by betamethasone injections during pregnancy.
A healthy 23-year-old gravid woman at 32 weeks of gestation with preterm premature rupture of membranes received two doses of 12-mg intramuscular betamethasone 24 hours apart to accelerate fetal lung maturation. She developed significant proximal muscle weakness within 16 hours after the initial dose. Her serum potassium was 1.6 mEq/L. Oral and parenteral potassium replacement restored her neuromuscular function over several days. She delivered by repeat cesarean at 34 weeks of gestation without complications for her or the neonate.
Hypokalemic periodic paralysis, a rare cause of weakness, may be induced by betamethasone injections during pregnancy and is reversible with low-risk interventions.
The synthetic retinoic acid analog, 9-cis-UAB30 [(2E,4E,6Z,8E)-8-(3',4'-dihydro-1'(2'H)-naphthalen-1'-ylidene)-3,7-dimethyl-2,4,6-octatrienoic acid], is a specific ligand for the retinoid X receptor. Murine oncogenicity and pharmacokinetics studies were performed as part of the preclinical development of 9-cis-UAB30 for breast cancer chemoprevention. In the oncogenicity study, TSG-p53((+/-)) (p53 knockout) mice (25 per sex per group) received daily gavage exposure to 9-cis-UAB30 doses of 0 (control), 30, 100, or 300 mg/kg/d for 6 months. Positive controls received p-cresidine (400 mg/kg/d) for 6 months. 9-cis-UAB30 had no biologically significant effects on survival, body weight, body weight gain, clinical signs, hematology, or clinical chemistry but induced dose-related hepatomegaly in both sexes and decreased thymus weights in high-dose females. Gross and microscopic pathology provided no evidence of 9-cis-UAB30 toxicity or oncogenicity; by contrast, p-cresidine induced urinary bladder neoplasms in more than 60% of male and female mice. It was concluded that 9-cis-UAB30 is not oncogenic in p53((+/-)) mice. In the pharmacokinetics study, C57BL/6 mice received daily gavage exposure to 9-cis-UAB30 (100 or 300 mg/kg/d) for 1 or 7 days. Pharmacokinetic parameters were similar after 1 and 7 days of dosing. Dose-related peak plasma levels of 9-cis-UAB30 were seen between 0.25 and 3 hours; volume of distribution was comparable at both dose levels. Increases in area under the curve were less than proportional to dose and were associated with an increased rate of apparent clearance and decreased elimination half-life. These results suggest decreased absorption and/or possible induction of clearance mechanisms. Enzyme induction may underlie the hepatomegaly seen in mice treated with 9-cis-UAB30 for 6 months in the oncogenicity study.
The present work studies the effect of parachlorophenylalanine (PCPA, 200 mg/kg intraperitoneally/48 hr for 7 days) on the oxidative stress and nephropathy induced by gentamicin (80 mg/kg intraperitoneally/daily for 7 days) in Wistar rats. The effect of PCPA on lipid peroxidation products and reduced glutathione content in renal and brain tissue, as well as on 5HT content in brain was assessed. Catalase and superoxide dismutase activities were determined in brain tissue. Blood urea nitrogen and creatinine in plasma and total protein content in urine were also measured. Gentamicin caused significant increases in proteinuria, non-protein nitrogen compounds and lipid peroxidation markers, together with decreases in both reduced glutathione content in renal and brain tissue and enzymatic activities in brain homogenates. PCPA harnessed the effect of gentamicin in the brain and the kidney, while PCPA alone induced brain oxidative stress. These results support the prooxidant action of PCPA in brain tissue and its capacity to exacerbate the oxidative stress and renal dysfunction induced by gentamicin, as well as the possible antioxidant property of serotonin.
Pulmonary hypoplasia and persistent pulmonary hypertension are the main causes of mortality and morbidity in newborns with congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH). Nitrofen is well known to induce CDH and lung hypoplasia in a rat model, but the mechanism remains unknown. To increase the understanding of the underlying pathogenesis of CDH, we performed a global gene expression analysis using microarray technology.
Pregnant rats were given 100 mg nitrofen on gestational day 9.5 to create CDH. On day 21, fetuses after nitrofen administration and control fetuses were removed; and lungs were harvested. Global gene expression analysis was performed using Affymetrix Platform and the RAE 230 set arrays. For validation of microarray data, we performed real-time polymerase chain reaction and Western blot analysis.
Significantly decreased genes after nitrofen administration included several growth factors and growth factors receptors involved in lung development, transcription factors, water and ion channels, and genes involved in angiogenesis and extracellular matrix. These results could be confirmed with real-time polymerase chain reaction and protein expression studies.
The pathogenesis of lung hypoplasia and CDH in the nitrofen model includes alteration at a molecular level of several pathways involved in lung development. The complexity of the nitrofen mechanism of action reminds of human CDH; and the picture is consistent with lung hypoplasia and vascular disease, both important contributors to the high mortality and morbidity in CDH. Increased understanding of the molecular mechanisms that control lung growth may be the key to develop novel therapeutic techniques to stimulate pre- and postnatal lung growth.
To systematically review the effectiveness and safety of 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 receptor antagonists (5-HT3 RAs) compared with other antiemetic medication or placebo for prophylaxis of radiation-induced nausea and vomiting.
We searched the following electronic databases: MEDLINE, Embase, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Clinical Trials, and Web of Science. We also hand-searched reference lists of included studies. Randomized, controlled trials that compared a 5-HT3 RA with another antiemetic medication or placebo for preventing radiation-induced nausea and vomiting were included. We excluded studies recruiting patients receiving concomitant chemotherapy. When appropriate, meta-analysis was conducted using Review Manager (v5) software. Relative risks were calculated using inverse variance as the statistical method under a random-effects model. We assessed the quality of evidence by outcome using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation approach.
Eligibility screening of 47 articles resulted in 9 included in the review. The overall methodologic quality was moderate. Meta-analysis of 5-HT3 RAs vs. placebo showed significant benefit for 5-HT3 RAs (relative risk [RR] 0.70; 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.57-0.86 for emesis; RR 0.84, 95% CI 0.73-0.96 for nausea). Meta-analysis comparing 5-HT3 RAs vs. metoclopramide showed a significant benefit of the 5-HT3 RAs for emetic control (RR 0.27, 95% CI 0.15-0.47).
5-Hydroxytryptamine-3 RAs are superior to placebo and other antiemetics for prevention of emesis, but little benefit was identified for nausea prevention. 5-Hydroxytryptamine-3 RAs are suggested for prevention of emesis. Limited evidence was found regarding delayed emesis, adverse events, quality of life, or need for rescue medication. Future randomized, controlled trials should evaluate different 5-HT3 antiemetics and new agents with novel mechanisms of action such at the NK(1) receptor antagonists to determine the most effective drug. Delayed nausea and vomiting should be a focus of future study, perhaps concentrating on the palliative cancer population.
The relationship between high blood pressure and the incidence of stroke is well established. Currently the effects of lowering blood pressure in patients with established cerebrovascular disease is undetermined, and there is continuing concern regarding the treatment of patients soon after a stroke event. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors maintain cerebral blood flow despite lowering blood pressure in patients with heart failure and otherwise uncomplicated hypertension. We tested the hypothesis that perindopril, an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor with a gradual onset of action and a minimal first-dose hypotensive effect, lowers blood pressure without adversely affecting cerebral blood flow in patients 2 to 7 days after symptoms of cerebral infarction.
Patients were randomized to receive 15 days of oral perindopril (4 mg) or placebo in a double-blind study. Blood pressure was monitored semiautomatically. Cerebral blood flow was calculated from internal carotid artery and vertebral Doppler ultrasound, supplemented by middle cerebral artery blood velocities.
Twenty-four patients completed the protocol; four additional patients were withdrawn for reasons unrelated to treatment. Patients on perindopril had a placebo-corrected reduction in blood pressure of 19/11 mm Hg. Blood pressure remained reduced after 2 weeks of treatment. In contrast, total cerebral blood flow was unaffected by perindopril. Neurological symptoms improved similarly in both groups.
Perindopril was well tolerated and effectively reduced blood pressure without reducing carotid territory blood flow in patients with symptoms of recent cerebral ischemia.
