Acute encephalopathy attributable to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) is rare. A patient experienced this reaction associated with a continuous 5-FU infusion. The etiology of the event remains uncertain, but it is generally reversible and does not preclude retreatment with 5-FU at reduced dosages. Steroids and thiamine may expedite neurologic recovery.
The cardiovascular effects of prolonged administration of levodopa were studied in 54 men and women with Parkinson's disease; 23 of them were younger than 70 and 31 were 70 or older. The patients were evaluated clinically before treatment was started and at regular intervals thereafter. The average optimal dosage of levodopa for both age groups was 3.0 and 2.5 gm per day, respectively, during an average treatment period of 20.7 months. Eleven patients showed hypotension (systolic BP of 105 mm Hg or less) that was not related to dosage; in only 6 did the drug have to be permanently discontinued because of syncope; 3 of this group had an associated psychiatric disorder. Four patients had pretreatment hypertension; in 3 the BP fell to normal during therapy; in the remaining patient the hypertension persisted and was successfully treated by an antihypertensive drug. In 5 patients an occasional atrial or ventricular ectopic beat was noted both before and during levodopa therapy but no therapeutic intervention was required. Thirty of the 46 patients with adequate ECG follow-up did not show any significant changes; 5 others showed an increase, and 11 a decrease in myocardial ischemia. Thus the administration of levodopa in elderly patients with or without heart disease is a relatively safe procedure. The only exception would be patients over 70 years of age with a history of previous myocardial infarction. In this group there seems to be a higher incidence of clinically significant hypotension. In such patients, levodopa therapy should be carried out with great caution.
In pre-trained rats, food-rewarded reinforced alternation in a T-maze was markedly impaired by scopolamine, but unaffected by the centrally-active nicotinic antagonist mecamylamine (0.2-6.3 mg/kg s.c.). The nicotinic antagonist chlorisondamine (10 micrograms i.v.t.) was also ineffective, despite demonstrated blockade of nicotine-induced locomotor depression. These results question the extent to which central nicotinic receptors are involved in memory function.
To determine if the number of involved anatomic areas can modify the standard risk groups in pediatric Hodgkin's lymphoma, identifying children who would benefit from a reduction in treatment intensity.
Retrospective study evaluating age, sex, histology, Ann-Arbor stage, presence of B symptoms, number of involved anatomic areas, risk grouping (favorable vs. unfavorable), and laboratory exams. All patients received doxorubicin-containing chemotherapy. Patients in complete remission for 5 years or longer were evaluated as for late effects.
Sixty-nine patients (2-18 years) were included, 68% belonged to the unfavorable risk group. Overall survival and event-free survival were 94 and 87%, respectively. Late effects were screened in 46 cases. Advanced stage and > or = four involved anatomic areas had negative impact on event-free survival, while only the number of involved anatomic areas retained statistical significance when using Cox analysis (hazard ratio = 6.4, 95%CI = 1.08-38.33; p = 0.04). Risk groups were adjusted by number of involved anatomic areas (< four/> or = four involved anatomic areas), with a significant reallocation of patients (p = 0.008). Of the 30 patients with late effects, 21 were in the original unfavorable risk group and 14 (66.6%) could have been reallocated to the favorable risk group based on the number of involved anatomic areas.
If re-stratification had been applied, a considerable number of children would have received less intensive treatment and, consequently, could have had lower chances of late effects. A prospective study could define if adjustment of risk group by number of involved anatomic areas would have any impact on survival rates.
The authors prospectively followed 14 patients treated with thalidomide for cutaneous lupus erythematosus (CLE), in order to evaluate the occurrence of peripheral neuropathy (PN) and to assess whether PN correlates with thalidomide dose. The patients were followed for up to 24 months with neurologic and electrophysiologic evaluations. Seven patients (50%) developed sensory axonal PN. The median time free from PN was 14 months. PN occurred after 10 months in the majority of patients. No correlations were found between thalidomide cumulative dose and occurrence of PN (Mann-Whitney U test; p > 0.16).
Because of the claim that ibogaine suppresses the symptoms of "narcotic withdrawal" in humans, the effect of ibogaine on naltrexone-precipitated withdrawal signs in morphine-dependent rats was assessed. Morphine was administered subcutaneously through implanted silicone reservoirs for 5 days. Ibogaine (20, 40 or 80 mg/kg, i.p.) or saline was administered 30 min prior to challenge with naltrexone (1 mg/kg, i.p.) and withdrawal signs were counted for the following 2 hr. Ibogaine (40 and 80 mg/kg) significantly reduced the occurrence of four signs (wet-dog shakes, grooming, teeth chattering and diarrhea) during naltrexone-precipitated withdrawal; three other signs (weight loss, burying and flinching) were unaffected. Ibogaine induces head and body tremors lasting for 2-3 hr and the tremors might have interfered with the expression of opioid withdrawal. To examine this issue, another experiment was conducted in which ibogaine (40 mg/kg) or saline was administered 4 hr prior to challenge with naltrexone. Although there was a complete absence of tremors, ibogaine still significantly reduced the occurrence of the same four signs of withdrawal.
Two cases of acute nephrotic syndrome, occurring in patients treated with lithium in monitored therapeutic doses, are described. They each made a full recovery. A kidney biopsy, carried out in one case, disclosed normal tissue. Up to now, only a small number of comparable cases have been described in the literature. Pathological kidney changes appear to be more frequent with toxic serum lithium levels, i.e. greater than 2 mmol/l. However, it remains at the present time an open question as to what proportion of such cases are a consequence of primary renal pathological lesions and what proportion are otherwise caused. All published types of kidney dysfunctions in relationship to treatment with therapeutic doses of lithium are discussed in connection with the cases observed.
Methamphetamine abusers often complain of feelings of depression that can complicate accurately diagnosing these individuals during treatments for methamphetamine abuse. This article presents an examination of temporal associations between documented methamphetamine use and reported ratings of depression among 162 gay and bisexual male methamphetamine abusers who participated in a 16-week randomized clinical trial of four behavioral therapies for methamphetamine abuse. Methamphetamine use was measured using thrice-weekly urine samples analyzed for drug metabolite. Self-reported depressive symptoms were collected weekly using the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI). At treatment entry, 73.2% of participants rated their depressive symptoms as mild or higher in severity (BDI>or=10), with 28.5% reporting BDI scores in the moderate to severe range (BDI>or=19). All participants reported significant decreases in depressive symptoms from baseline through the end of treatment, regardless of treatment condition, HIV status, or mood disorder diagnosis. A mixed regression model showed methamphetamine use for up to 5 days prior to the BDI score strongly predicted depressive symptoms (F1, 968=18.6, P<.0001), while BDI scores had no significant association with subsequent methamphetamine use. Findings show that behavioral methamphetamine abuse treatment yields reductions in methamphetamine use and concomitant depressive symptom ratings that are sustained to 1 year after treatment entry.
Fluoxetine is a new antidepressant with pharmacologic effects apparently limited to blockade of neuronal serotonin reuptake. We entered 20 patients who met DSM-III criteria for either panic disorder or agoraphobia with panic attacks into an open, uncontrolled pilot study of fluoxetine. Four responded to placebo in the week before fluoxetine administration and were dropped from the study. Of the remaining 16 patients, nine were nonresponders and seven were responders, with complete cessation of their panic attacks. Eight of the nine nonresponders were unable to tolerate the side effects of fluoxetine. In contrast, all of the responders (and one nonresponder) experienced minimal side effects. Fluoxetine may be effective in the treatment of panic attacks, perhaps implicating the serotonergic system in the pathophysiology of panic disorder. Future studies should use very low doses of fluoxetine to initiate treatment.
Head and neck squamous cell carcinomas (HNSCC) are characterized by resistance to chemotherapy and overexpression of antiapoptotic Bcl-2 family members, including Bcl-X(L) and Bcl-2. Molecular targeting of Bcl-X(L) and/or Bcl-2 in HNSCC cells has been shown to promote apoptosis signaling and to sensitize cells to chemotherapy drugs, including cisplatin, which is commonly used in the treatment of HNSCC. We report that induction of HNSCC apoptosis by the proteasome inhibitor bortezomib is accompanied by up-regulation of the proapoptotic proteins Bik and Bim, natural cellular inhibitors of Bcl-X(L) and Bcl-2. Additionally, bortezomib treatment of HNSCC cells caused up-regulation of antiapoptotic Mcl-1L. Inhibition of Bik or Bim up-regulation using small interfering RNA markedly attenuated bortezomib-induced cell death. By contrast, small interfering RNA-mediated inhibition of Mcl-1L expression resulted in enhanced killing by bortezomib. Further investigation showed that the combination of bortezomib and cisplatin led to synergistic killing of HNSCC cells, with calculated combination indexes well below 1.0. Taken together, these results delineate a novel mechanism of HNSCC killing by bortezomib that involves up-regulation of Bik and Bik. Moreover, our findings suggest that the combination of bortezomib plus cisplatin, or bortezomib plus an inhibitor of Mcl-1L, may have therapeutic value in the treatment of HNSCC.
To prepare thrombus-targeted urokinase liposomes and observe its improved thrombolytic efficacy on thrombus model rats.
The ligand H-Arg-Gly-Asp-Ser-OH (RGDS) which has specific affinity to thrombus was synthesized by liquid phase method and anchored on the surface of liposomes by incorporating its conjugate with DSPE-PEG3,500-COOH into liposomal lipid bilayers, thus thrombus-targeted liposomes were produced. Urokinase (UK) liposomes were prepared at room temperature through method modification using hydrogenated soy phosphatidylcholine (HSPC); the in vivo thrombolysis of the obtained thrombus-targeted UK liposomes and its comparison with TBS (Tris-HCl buffered solution) control, free UK and UK liposomes were assessed on common carotid artery model rats.
The obtained liposomes were characteristic of high UK entrapment efficiency, small mean diameter and good storage stability. At the same dose (60,000 U.kg-1), compared to the wet thrombi weights of TBS control group, those of free UK group and UK liposome group showed no statistical difference, while those of targeted UK liposomes group were significantly decreased (P < 0.001); when evaluated in term of dry thrombi weights the result was slightly different. Compared to UK liposomes of the same dose, the targeted UK liposomes showed significantly improved thrombolytic efficacy (P < 0.01 in wet weights decrease and P < 0.05 in dry weights decrease respectively).
The targeted UK liposomes displayed good targeted thrombolytic effect.
A 5-day continuous infusion of vincristine (VCR; total dose 4 mg/m2) has been given as part of a high-dose chemoradiotherapy regimen with bone marrow transplantation. Evidence of neurotoxicity, such as weakness, paraesthesia and intestinal hypomotility, was evaluated prospectively in nine patients. Five patients had advanced neuroblastoma and four, relapsed sarcomas, and all had responded to initial conventional-dose therapy. VCR was combined with high-dose melphalan (180 mg/m2) and fractionated total-body irradiation. Plasma concentrations of VCR were measured by radioimmunoassay during and up to 24 h after the infusion. Serum and urine electrolytes and liver function tests were measured during VCR treatment and at regular intervals thereafter. VCR concentration at 1 h ranged from 1.8 to 10.9 (median 6.6) ng/ml, and a steady state was achieved by 13-30 h (median 16 h). Levels above 1 ng/ml were maintained throughout the 5-day period with a mean steady-state concentration of 1.7 ng/ml (range 1.3-2.15). After cessation of the infusion, serum concentrations fell to below 0.25 ng/ml within 24 h. Abdominal pain occurred in one patient, but neither constipation nor ileus was seen. In two patients severe muscle pain occurred in the lower limbs towards the end of the infusion. Significant electrolyte problems did not occur and, in particular, there was no evidence of inappropriate ADH secretion. Transient increases in liver enzymes were common but bilirubin was not elevated during the period of monitoring. This regimen allows a two-fold escalation in the dose of VCR to be administered, producing sustained high serum drug levels without major toxicity.
1,3-Butadiene and chloroprene are multisite carcinogens in B6C3F1 mice with the strongest tumor response being the induction of lung neoplasms in females. Incidence of brain tumors in mice exposed to 1,3-butadiene was equivocal. This article reviews the efforts of our laboratory and others to uncover the mechanisms of butadiene and chloroprene induced lung and brain tumor responses in the B6C3F1 mouse. The formation of lung tumors by these chemicals involved mutations in the K-ras cancer gene and loss of heterozygosity in the region of K-ras on distal chromosome 6, while alterations in p53 and p16 were implicated in brain tumorigenesis.
We characterized the in vivo, cellular and molecular pathophysiology of a case of neonatal hyperparathyroidism (NHPT) resulting from a de novo, heterozygous missense mutation in the gene for the extracellular Ca2+ (Ca2+(o))-sensing receptor (CaR). The female neonate presented with moderately severe hypercalcemia, markedly undermineralized bones, and multiple metaphyseal fractures. Subtotal parathyroidectomy was performed at 6 wk; hypercalcemia recurred rapidly but the bone disease improved gradually with reversion to an asymptomatic state resembling familial benign hypocalciuric hypercalcemia (FBHH). Dispersed parathyroid cells from the resected tissue showed a set-point (the level of Ca2+(o) half maximally inhibiting PTH secretion) substantially higher than for normal human parathyroid cells (approximately 1.8 vs. approximately 1.0 mM, respectively); a similar increase in set-point was observed in vivo. The proband's CaR gene showed a missense mutation (R185Q) at codon 185, while her normocalcemic parents were homozygous for wild type (WT) CaR sequence. Transient expression of the mutant R185Q CaR in human embryonic kidney (HEK293) cells revealed a substantially attenuated Ca2+(o)-evoked accumulation of total inositol phosphates (IP), while cotransfection of normal and mutant receptors showed an EC50 (the level of Ca2+(o) eliciting a half-maximal increase in IPs) 37% higher than for WT CaR alone (6.3+/-0.4 vs. 4.6+/-0.3 mM Ca2+(o), respectively). Thus this de novo, heterozygous CaR mutation may exert a dominant negative action on the normal CaR, producing NHPT and more severe hypercalcemia than typically seen with FBHH. Moreover, normal maternal calcium homeostasis promoted additional secondary hyperparathyroidism in the fetus, contributing to the severity of the NHPT in this case with FBHH.
Most prior studies examining drug use among men who have sex with men (MSM) have been cross-sectional or retrospective and have not determined whether periods of increased drug use are associated with high-risk sexual behavior at the individual level. In this article, we describe patterns of use of methamphetamines, poppers, and sniffed cocaine and sexual risk behavior among 736 San Francisco MSM enrolled in the EXPLORE study and followed for up to 48 months. In longitudinal analysis, use of methamphetamines, poppers, and sniffed cocaine declined during follow-up. However, compared with older participants, younger participants were more likely to increase their drug use over time. Results of conditional logistic regression demonstrated that high-risk sexual behavior was more common during reporting periods characterized by increased methamphetamine, poppers, or sniffed cocaine use. This within-person analysis found that compared with periods of no drug use, periods of both light drug use (less than weekly use of drugs) and heavier drug use (at least weekly use of at least one drug) were significantly associated with increased risk of engaging in unprotected anal sex with an HIV-positive or unknown-status partner. These results suggest that even intermittent, recreational use of these drugs may lead to high-risk sexual behavior, and that, to reduce and prevent risks of HIV, no level of use of these drugs should be considered "safe." HIV prevention interventions should target MSM who report either light or heavy use of methamphetamines, poppers, and sniffed cocaine.
The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) is a ligand-activated transcription factor that mediates the induction of the CYP1 family of cytochrome P450s and of several phase II detoxification enzymes. Although induction of these genes is the best characterized AHR function, it does not adequately explain the diversity of AHR-mediated effects. 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is the prototypical AHR ligand and dioxin congener and a model for many environmentally relevant organochlorinated compounds. Research over the course of the last 30 years has made it evident that AHR activation in response to TCDD and other xenobiotic agonists directly affects multiple metabolic pathways, leading to the identification of many AHR-directed effects of dioxin involved in regulation of growth factor signaling, cell cycle proliferation, differentiation, arrest, and apoptosis. There is ample evidence that TCDD causes persistent cardiac defects in zebrafish, chickens, mice, and likely humans and is associated with human cardiovascular disease. The question that I address here is whether exposure to TCDD during early development perturbs the concerted differentiation patterns of cardiovascular cell lineages and tissues and leads to cardiac malformations and long-term cardiovascular disease. Research to define the mechanisms responsible for the lifelong cardiovascular malformations resulting from TCDD exposure during embryonic development will be highly significant to the prevention of environmental cardiovascular injury.
Within the framework of a prospective lipid-lowering intervention study 44 patients were treated over a period of 3 years with a lipid-lowering diet and 200-400 mg fenofibrate daily. The intervention led to statistically significant decreases in total cholesterol (Chol), low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-Chol) and triglycerides levels, and to a significant increase in high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-Chol) levels. Despite intervention, in 8 patients the HDL-Chol levels decreased by up to 20 mg/dl, where these were mainly patients with high initial values. Likewise, the triglycerides of 4 patients whose initial levels were relatively low increased (up to 49 mg/dl) and the LDL-Chol levels of 8 patients whose initial levels were also low increased (up to 49 mg/dl). Only minor success was achieved through the 6-week diet, but this was still slightly significant for Chol and LDL-Chol levels. A total of 21 patients underwent repeat angiography within 3 years for clinical reasons. For the evaluation of the angiographic progress a total of 98 minor and moderate stenoses was measured using digital image processing and automatic contour finding. The change in the angiographic parameters 'percent diameter reduction' (%DR) and 'percent plaque area' (%PA) correlated with on-treatment LDL-Chol levels (%DR change with LDL-Chol: r = 0.67, P = 0.0005; %DR change with Chol: r = 0.61, P = 0.002; %PA change with LDL-Chol: r = 0.40, P = 0.037; %PA change with Chol: r = 0.38, P = 0.044), while for HDL-Chol and triglycerides no influence on the angiographic progress could be demonstrated. On the basis of the reproducibility of the measuring methods the patients were classified in the categories 'regression', 'unchanged' and 'progression'. The patients classified as 'regression' (parameter: %DR change) showed an LDL-Chol mean value of 162 +/- 9 mg/dl, whereas those classified as 'unchanged' or 'progression' showed values of 189 +/- 25 mg/dl and 199 +/- 21 mg/dl, respectively (P = 0.014). A negative correlation appeared between the angiographic progress parameters and the initial degree of stenosis. The left ventricular ejection fraction in the second angiography showed relationships to lipoprotein levels and angiographic progress parameters.
Worldwide usage of different colouring agents in the food industry prompted us to study their toxicity. The potential adverse effects of erythrosine (ER, FD & C Red No. 3) on the spermatogenesis process were investigated in adult mice. Testicular lactic dehydrogenase isoenzyme activity (LDH-X), a pachytene spermatocyte marker of testicular toxicity, was significantly decreased to 71.8% and 68.6% of the control value after daily p.o. administration of ER (21 days) in doses of 68 and 136 mg kg-1 respectively. At the same time, the normal average epididymal sperm count as well as the percentage of motile sperms were significantly inhibited by about 50% and 57% respectively. Moreover, ER was shown to disrupt the normal morphology of the sperm head. Thus, after 5 daily p.o administrations of ER in doses of 680 and 1360 mg kg-1 (equivalent to 10 and 20% of its LD50) it increased the incidence of sperms with abnormal head by about 57% and 65% respectively. The induced increase in sperm abnormalities could enhance the spermatogenic dysfunction and germ cell mutagenicity. These findings indicate that ER in the used doses has a potential toxic effect on spermatogenesis in mice and in turn, it may affect its testicular function and reproductive performance.
The authors report a case of mania secondary to amantadine in a patient for whom amantadine was used to treat galactorrhea and amenorrhea. Attempts to treat the mania and endocrine symptoms simultaneously and the biological implications are discussed.
A patient with thioridazine-induced torsades de pointes ventricular tachycardia treated with magnesium sulphate is presented. Due to incessant recurrence of tachycardias it was possible to observe the time course of the effect of 1 g intravenous doses. Suppression of torsades de pointes lasted at best for no more than 18 min and a maintenance infusion was not effective without overdrive pacing. Magnesium sulphate may have value as first aid therapy for drug-induced torsades de pointes ventricular tachycardia. However, its effect disappears rapidly, and, therefore, should not alone be relied on as prophylactic treatment.
This study was undertaken to compare the efficacy and safety of intravenous administration of atosiban versus ritodrine for the treatment of preterm labor.
Women with preterm labor and intact membranes diagnosed at 23 to 33 gestational weeks (n = 247) were randomly assigned to treatment arms and received atosiban (6.75 mg intravenous bolus, 300 microg/min for 3 hours, then 100 microg/min intravenously) or ritodrine (0.10-0.35 mg/min intravenously) for as long as 18 hours. Tocolytic effectiveness was assessed in terms of the numbers of women who had not been delivered after 48 hours and after 7 days. Safety was assessed in terms of maternal side effects and neonatal morbidity. Secondary outcomes included mean gestational age at delivery and mean birth weight. An intent-to-treat analysis was performed with the Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test.
The proportion of women who had not been delivered at 48 hours was 84.9% (n = 107) in the atosiban group and 86.8% (n = 105) in the ritodrine group. At 7 days 92 women had still not been delivered in both the atosiban (73.0%) and ritodrine (76.0%) groups. Neither of these differences was statistically significant. The incidence of maternal cardiovascular side effects was substantially lower in the atosiban group (4.0% vs 84.3%, P <.001). In addition, intravenous therapy was terminated more frequently as a result of maternal adverse events in the ritodrine group (29.8%) than in the atosiban group (0.8%). The overall occurrences of fetal adverse events in the two treatment groups were comparable. Neonatal morbidity was similar between the treatment groups after adjustment for unbalanced enrollment of women with multiple pregnancies and for gestational ages within treatment groups.
Atosiban was comparable in clinical effectiveness to conventional ritodrine therapy but was better tolerated than ritodrine, with no evidence of significant maternal or fetal adverse events. Neonatal morbidity, which was similar between the two treatment arms, was apparently related to the gestational age of the infant rather than to the exposure to either tocolytic agent.
Undersized mitral annuloplasty (MAP) is effective in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy and functional mitral regurgitation (MR) since, as well as addressing the MR, the MAP may also reshape the dilated left ventricular (LV) base. However, the direct benefits of this possible reshaping on LV function in the absence of underlying MR remain incompletely understood. The study aim was to identify these benefits in a canine model of acute heart failure.
Six dogs underwent MAP with a prosthetic band on the posterior mitral annulus, using four mattress sutures. The sutures were passed individually through four tourniquets and exteriorized untied via the left atriotomy. Sonomicrometry crystals were implanted around the mitral annulus and left ventricle to measure geometry and regional function. Acute heart failure was induced by propranolol and volume loading after weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass; an absence of MR was confirmed by echocardiography. MAP was accomplished by cinching the tourniquets. Data were acquired at baseline, after induction of acute heart failure, and after MAP.
MAP decreased mitral annular dimensions in both commissure-commissure and septal-lateral directions. Concomitantly, the diastolic diameter of the LV base and LV sphericity decreased (i.e., improved) from 37.4 +/- 9.3 to 35.9 +/- 10 mm (p = 0.063), and from 67.9 +/- 18.6% to 65.3 +/- 18.9% (p = 0.016), respectively. Decreases were evident in both LV end-diastolic pressure (from 17 +/- 7 to 15 +/- 6 mmHg, p = 0.0480 and Tau (from 48 +/- 8 to 45 +/- 8 ms, p <0.01), while fractional shortening at the LV base increased from 7.7 +/- 4.5% to 9.4 +/- 4.5% (p = 0.045). After MAP, increases were identified in both cardiac output (from 1.54 +/- 0.57 to 1.65 +/- 0.57 1/min) and Emax (from 1.86 +/- 0.9 to 2.41 +/- 1.31 mmHg/ml).
The data acquired suggest that isolated MAP may have certain benefits on LV dimension/function in acute heart failure, even in the absence of MR. However, further investigations are warranted in a model of chronic heart failure.
In this study we evaluated the efficacy and tolerability of sublingual fentanyl (SLF) for breakthrough pain (BTP) in adult opioid-tolerant cancer patients. Patients received one dose of placebo, SLF 100, 200 and 400 microg in random order at four pain episodes. The primary efficacy endpoint was pain intensity difference (PID) from baseline. Twenty-seven patients received study medication. Overall PID increased significantly with SLF 400 microg versus placebo (8.57 mm, p <0.0001). Improvements were statistically different from placebo at 15 min (p = 0.005). SLF 100 and 200 microg showed a numerical trend towards improved pain relief. A dose that gave a clinically important reduction in pain (PID > 20 mm) was identified by 95% of patients. Reduced use of rescue medication (p < 0.001, SLF 400 microg) and improved global assessment of treatment (p = 0.0146, SLF 400 microg) confirmed these differences as clinically important. Nausea and dizziness were the most common treatment-related adverse effects. SLF appears to be a fast, effective and well-tolerated treatment for BTP.
Cyclooxygenase-1 (COX-1) is a key enzyme involved in generation of prostanoids, important mediators and modulators of asthmatic inflammation. In a subpopulation of aspirin-sensitive asthmatics (ASA) inhibition of COX-1 by nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs results in activation of inflammatory cells and development of symptoms. Alternatively spliced variants of COX-1 lacking 111 bp from exon 9 were described previously but have never been identified in human leucocytes peripheral blood leucocytes (PBL) or upper airway epithelial cells. We aimed to assess the expression of spliced variants of COX-1 mRNA in PBLs from patients with asthma and in healthy subjects (HS) referring the expression to patients characteristics (including ASA-sensitivity) and to aspirin-triggered 15-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (15-HETE) generation.
The study included 30 patients with ASA, 30 patients with aspirin-tolerant asthma (ATA) and 30 HS serving as controls. Nasal polyps for epithelial cell cultures were obtained from 10 patients with chronic rhinosinusitis. Expression of full length and spliced variants of COX-1 enzyme was detected by RT-PCR and presented as the ratio of full-length COX-1 to alternatively spliced COX-1 mRNA [COX-1 alternative splicing index (COX-1 AS index)]. Release of eicosanoids (PGE(2) and 15-HETE) by PBLs was measured with enzyme immunoassay.
In both PBLs and airway epithelial cells the expression of full-length product prevailed over spliced variants of COX-1 enzyme. Cyclooxygenase-1 AS index was significantly lower in asthmatics as compared to HS (1.96 +/- 0.71 vs 2.41 +/- 0.99, P < 0.05) indicating the relatively higher expression of the alternative transcript in asthmatic patients. Cyclooxygenase-1 AS index was not different between ASA and ATA groups (mean 1.90 +/- 0.66 vs 2.02 +/- 0.76, respectively, P = 0.39). There was no significant association between COX-1 AS index and mean daily dose of inhaled glucocorticosteroids or pulmonary function tests (FEV(1), FVC) but in ASA group a weak correlation with daily dose of oral glucocorticosteroids was found (r = 0.39; P = 0.03). In ASA patients there was a significant positive correlation between the COX-1 AS index and the percentage of aspirin-triggered increase in 15-HETE generation (r = 0.51; P < 0.03).
Alternatively spliced variants of COX-1 mRNA are differently expressed in patients with bronchial asthma and may be associated with aspirin-triggered 15-HETE generation.
Intravenous valproate has been suggested for the treatment of status epilepticus in part because of its relatively good cardiovascular safety profile. We report a case of severe hypotension associated with intravenous valproate used to treat status epilepticus in an 11-year-old girl. Valproate 960 mg (30 mg/kg) was infused over 1 hour. The patient's blood pressure decreased from a baseline of 130/80 mm Hg to 70/55 mm Hg, 39 minutes into the infusion. Although her seizures stopped, her blood pressure fluctuated between 90/60 mm Hg and 60/30 mm Hg over the next several hours, requiring treatment with intravenous fluids and pressor therapy. Endotracheal intubation eventually was performed. Once her blood pressure stabilized, the patient improved clinically. To our knowledge, this is the first report of significant hypotension associated with intravenous valproate in the treatment of status epilepticus in the pediatric population.
A phase II study was performed to assess the safety and efficacy of ifosfamide and mitoxantrone in recurrent and/or metastatic squamous cell carcinomas of the head and neck. Treatment consisted of ifosfamide 1500 mg/m2 in 1000 ml saline, infused over 60 min and mesna 20% of the total dose of ifosfamide in three doses for 3 days combined with mitoxantrone 12 mg/m2 given as a short infusion on day 1. Treatment courses were repeated every 4 weeks until a total of six cycles. Twenty-two patients entered this trial, 13 of whom had received chemo- and radiation therapy, and nine patients who underwent radiation therapy with or without prior surgery. We observed no objective response, with the exception of two patients who experienced minor response (reduction of tumor size of 25%). The dose-limiting toxicity was myelosuppression with grade 3/4 leukocytopenia in seven patients (32%) and grade 3/4 neutropenia in 15 (68%). Severe organ toxicity except alopecia (91%) was not observed. Ifosfamide combined with mitoxantrone does not improve the therapeutic armentarium in recurrent squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck.
