Mutations in the alpha-synuclein gene (A30P and A53T) are reported to cause familial Parkinson's disease (PD), but it is not known how they result in selective dopaminergic cell death. Here we report on effects of mutant alpha-synucleins on dopamine transporter (DAT)-mediated toxicity of the selective dopaminergic neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP+) in vitro. We established human embryonic kidney HEK-293 cell lines stably co-expressing each alpha-synuclein isoform and the human DAT. We demonstrate that expression of all alpha-synuclein isoforms enhances toxicity of general complex I inhibition (rotenone), but only the expression of mutant alpha-synucleins induces significant increased DAT-dependent toxicity of very low concentrations of MPP+ compared to wild-type protein. Proteasomal inhibition by lactacystin does not alter MPP+-toxicity in all cell lines. Our data suggest a new mechanism of MPP+-induced dopaminergic toxicity by an interaction between mutant alpha-synucleins and the DAT, which is independent of the function of the proteasome.
To explore the rational use of anticoagulants, especially among the elderly, balancing antithrombotic efficacy and risk for hemorrhage. Previous prospective studies have not provided powerful assessments of risk factors for intracranial hemorrhage, the dominant complication in reversing the anticoagulant decision.
Case-control analysis.
A large general hospital and its anticoagulant therapy unit.
121 consecutive adult patients taking warfarin who were hospitalized with intracranial hemorrhage were each matched to three contemporaneous controls randomly selected from among outpatients managed by our hospital anticoagulant therapy unit.
77 patients had intracerebral hemorrhage (46% fatal) and 44 had subdural hemorrhage (20% fatal). The prothrombin time ratio (PTR) was the dominant risk factor for intracranial hemorrhage. For each 0.5 increase in PTR over the entire range, the risk for intracerebral hemorrhage doubled (odds ratio, 2.1; 95% CI, 1.4 to 2.9). For subdural hemorrhage, the risk was unchanged over the PTR range from 1.0 to 2.0 but rose dramatically above a PTR of 2.0 (approximate international normalized ratio, 4.0). Age was the only other significant independent risk factor for subdural hemorrhage (odds ratio, 2.0 per decade; CI, 1.3 to 3.1). For intracerebral hemorrhage, age was of borderline significance (odds ratio, 1.3 per decade; CI, 1.0 to 1.6) after controlling for PTR and the two other independent risk factors: history of cerebrovascular disease (odds ratio, 3.1; CI, 1.7 to 5.6) and presence of a prosthetic heart valve (odds ratio, 2.8; CI, 1.3 to 5.8).
The results emphasize the importance of maintaining the prothrombin time ratios under 2.0 and the need for especially careful use of warfarin in the elderly.
The purpose of this study was to identify abnormal metabolite patterns of valproate (VPA) as possible early indicators of VPA-induced liver toxicity. In a prospective study, we determined serum and urine levels of VPA metabolites by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) during the course of therapy in 25 children treated for infantile spasms with high VPA doses (less than or equal to 100 mg/kg body weight/day). Most patients had similar metabolite profiles: The main metabolites in serum were the beta-oxidation products (2-en-VPA and 3-keto-VPA) and the major diunsaturated metabolite 2,3'-dien-VPA. Glucuronide conjugates and the oxidation products represent the most abundant metabolites in urine. Other metabolites, including the potential hepatotoxin 4-en-VPA, were detected only in low concentrations. Two children had transiently aberrant metabolite profiles, indicating altered beta-oxidation, (levels of 2-en-VPA, 2,3'-dien-VPA, and 3-en-VPA were markedly increased) in connection with hepatomegaly and increased liver enzyme activities at a time when both had febrile infections and were receiving dexamethasone comedication. At no time were increased levels of 4-en-VPA or its derivatives detected. Establishing the VPA metabolite profile may aid in evaluation of patients who show signs and symptoms of liver dysfunction during VPA therapy. The present study shows that initial stages of hepatotoxicity reactions to VPA may be accompanied by characteristic changes in VPA metabolism; early detection of such abnormal metabolite patterns might decrease the risk of severe hepatic injury.
Two patients with severe disabling psoriasis were treated with methotrexate (MTX). As a short course of treatment was envisaged, a pretreatment liver biopsy was not performed. Although both patients developed similarly abnormal levels of hepatic enzymes after low cumulative doses of MTX (440 and 450 mg), subsequent liver biopsies revealed contrasting findings. In one patient the histological features were normal. However, in the second, there was hepatic fibrosis, and the absence of a pretreatment biopsy led to problems with interpretation of these histological findings. As a liver biopsy is by far the most reliable method of detecting liver disease, we suggest that it is still of value to include a baseline liver biopsy in the pretreatment assessment of patients even when only a short course of MTX is planned.
We present the case of a 25-year-old woman who, although normotensive on presentation, had a severe hypotensive episode more than 12 h after initial ingestion of sustained release verapamil. Management of asymptomatic patients who have overdosed on a sustained release preparation of a calcium channel blocker is discussed.
Thymidine phosphorylase (TP) is a unique enzyme involved not only in angiogenesis, but in 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) metabolism as well. TP is produced by both tumor and stromal cells. The aim of this study was to reveal the clinical implication of TP localization in tumor tissues. Advanced colorectal cancer specimens (n=97) were prepared for immunohistochemical staining using monoclonal antibodies against TP, p53, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), factor VIII, CD68 and thymidylate synthase (TS). Clinicopathological factors and the clinical prognosis were examined for each indicator. High tumor TP expression and high stromal TP expression were observed in 38% (36/95 cases) and 49% (47/95 cases) of the cases, respectively. High tumor TP expression tended to correlate with microvessel density (MVD) (p=0.0511). Among patients who underwent curative resection, those with high stromal TP expression had a favorable prognosis (p=0.0127). High stromal TP status was also a strong prognostic factor in the group receiving adjuvant 5-FU derivatives (p=0.0222). TP produced by tumor cells has a stimulatory effect on tumor angiogenesis, while that produced by stromal cells plays an entirely different role. The latter may enhance the anticancer effect of 5-FU via its catalyzed function.
Studies with murine models suggest that maternal exposure to aromatic hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) agonists may impair mammary gland differentiation and increase the susceptibility to mammary carcinogenesis in offspring. However, the molecular mechanisms responsible for these perturbations remain largely unknown. Previously, we reported that the AhR agonists 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) induced CpG methylation of the breast cancer-1 (BRCA-1) gene and reduced BRCA-1 expression in breast cancer cell lines. Based on the information both the human and rat BRCA-1 genes harbor xenobiotic responsive elements (XRE = 5'-GCGTG-3'), which are binding targets for the AhR, we extended our studies to the analysis of offspring of pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats treated during gestation with TCDD alone or in combination with the dietary AhR antagonist resveratrol (Res). We report that the in utero exposure to TCDD increased the number of terminal end buds (TEB) and reduced BRCA-1 expression in mammary tissue of offspring. The treatment with TCDD induced occupancy of the BRCA-1 promoter by DNA methyltransferase-1 (DNMT-1), CpG methylation of the BRCA-1 promoter, and expression of cyclin D1 and cyclin-dependent kinase-4 (CDK4). These changes were partially overridden by pre-exposure to Res, which stimulated the expression of the AhR repressor (AhRR) and its recruitment to the BRCA-1 gene. These findings point to maternal exposure to AhR agonists as a risk factor for breast cancer in offspring through epigenetic inhibition of BRCA-1 expression, whereas dietary antagonists of the AhR may exert protective effects.
Both desflurane and sevoflurane have individually been reported to induce hepatic dysfunction; however hepatic dysfunction after administration of both of them separately in a single patient has not previously been reported. As their metabolites differ in nature, we considered that it would be unlikely that their combined use would cause sensitization and induce hepatic dysfunction. We report on the first patient with reproducible liver dysfunction after sevoflurane and desflurane. This 54-year-old man sequentially received 3 anesthetics over a 1-year period. The first anesthetic was isoflurane, and the course was uneventful. The second anesthetic was sevoflurane, and this resulted in fever with chills and elevated aspartate aminotransferase (543 U/l) 17 days later. The third anesthetic was desflurane which resulted in a similar clinical picture after 17 days. The symptoms improved, and the serum transaminase level returned to normal after conservative therapy. The similar time interval between the operation date and the onset of hepatic dysfunction, after excluding other possibilities, made us highly suspicious that the hepatic dysfunction was induced by sevoflurane on 1 occasion and desflurane on the other. We suggest that inhaled anesthetics should be totally replaced by intravenous anesthetics for future operations in patients with such a diagnosis.
Childhood respiratory allergies, which contribute to missed school days and other activity limitations, have increased in recent years, possibly due to environmental factors.
In this study we examined whether air pollutants are associated with childhood respiratory allergies in the United States.
For the approximately 70,000 children from the 1999-2005 National Health Interview Survey eligible for this study, we assigned between 40,000 and 60,000 ambient pollution monitoring data from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, depending on the pollutant. We used monitors within 20 miles of the child's residential block group. We used logistic regression models, fit with methods for complex surveys, to examine the associations between the reporting of respiratory allergy or hay fever and annual average exposure to particulate matter < or = 2.5 microm in diameter (PM2.5), PM < or = 10 microm in diameter, sulfur dioxide, and nitrogen dioxide and summer exposure to ozone, controlling for demographic and geographic factors.
Increased respiratory allergy/hay fever was associated with increased summer O3 levels [adjusted odds ratio (AOR) per 10 ppb = 1.20; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.15-1.26] and increased PM2.5 (AOR per 10 microg/m3 = 1.23; 95% CI, 1.10-1.38). These associations persisted after stratification by urban-rural status, inclusion of multiple pollutants, and definition of exposures by differing exposure radii. No associations between the other pollutants and the reporting respiratory allergy/hay fever were apparent.
These results provide evidence of adverse health for children living in areas with chronic exposure to higher levels of O3 and PM2.5 compared with children with lower exposures.
T-2 toxin is regarded as an important etiological factor of Kashin-Beck disease, and supplementation of selenium-salt partly prevents Kashin-Beck disease. The present study investigated the effects of T-2 toxin on the degradation of type II collagen in human chondrocytes in vitro. Human chondrocytes were isolated and cultured on bone matrix gelatin to form an artificial cartilage model in vitro with or without T-2 toxin and selenium. Immunohistochemistry analyses showed that T-2 toxin decreased type II collagen staining and selenium appeared to prevent the decrease in type II collagen induced by T-2 toxin in engineered cartilage. Then, Western blot and RT-PCR analyses showed that an increase in MMP-13 and MMP-1 expressions, and a decrease in the expression of the general endoproteinase inhibitor (α(2)M) were induced by T-2 toxin. Gelatin reverse zymography showed that TIMP-1 and TIMP-2 levels were decreased in a dose-dependent manner after exposure of T-2 toxin. Selenium had a protective role by increasing the level of type II collagen protein through down-regulation of MMP-13 protein and mRNA expression and up-regulation of TIMP-1 and TIMP-2 expressions. These data suggest T-2 toxin induces cartilage matrix degradation by the up-regulation of MMP-13 and TIMP-1, and down-regulation of TIMP-2 and α(2)M expressions.
When drug effects are quantified using the tail-cuff method, changes in systemic arterial pressure are extrapolated from those occurring in the caudal artery. The validity of this extrapolation was tested in anesthetized rats by recording drug-induced changes in phasic arterial pressure simultaneously from catheters inserted into the lower abdominal aorta, carotid, and caudal arteries. Pressor responses to norepinephrine or angiotensin were of equal magnitude at all three sites, but phentolamine reduced systolic pressure in the aorta or caudal artery more than that in the carotid artery. Unlike previous discrepancies between carotid and tail-cuff systolic pressures, aortic hypotension caused by injections of phentolamine or pentolinium in awake normotensive or spontaneously hypertensive rats was accurately predicted by the tail-cuff method. Because drug-induced changes in diastolic pressure always varied much less than those in systolic pressure, should indirect measurement of diastolic pressure become technically feasible, it might be preferable for assessing drug effects on blood pressure.
Pseudovasculitis is a disease process that mimics the presentation and possibly the laboratory findings of true vasculitis. However, biopsy specimens do not reveal the typical histopathologic findings expected in vasculitis. One often overlooked cause of pseudovasculitis is cocaine use, which has been described in case reports to cause aggressive nasal destruction and various skin lesions and thus has been confused with Wegener granulomatosis or leukocytoclastic vasculitis. Unfortunately, serologic tests such as antinuclear antibody or antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody cannot reliably differentiate between these entities. We describe a patient who presented with what was believed to be Wegener granulomatosis affecting the skin and upper airway. However, findings from repeated biopsies did not support this diagnosis, and the only unifying diagnosis was cocaine-induced pseudovasculitis. The ability to recognize and differentiate between true vasculitis and pseudovasculitis is essential for the clinician because treatment options are radically disparate.
Oral administration of tamoxifen, an endocrine therapy for breast cancer, often induces hepatic steatosis (THS, tamoxifen-induced hepatic steatosis) as a complication, which can progress to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). The development of this complication is strongly associated with three clinical risk factors; specifically, insulin resistance, central obesity, and hypertriglyceridemia, however a genetic predisposition to THS has yet to be investigated. The aim of this study is to determine whether genetic polymorphism of the P450c17alpha enzyme coded for by the CYP17 gene, responsible for regulating serum estrogen, has an association with THS. After obtaining informed consent from 180 eligible breast cancer patients treated with tamoxifen, DNA was collected and analyzed by restriction fragment length polymorphism assay and classified into alleles defined as A1 and A2. The absence or presence and extent of THS was evaluated by calculating the liver/spleen (L/S) ratio based on Hounsfield units with a CT scanner. Administration of tamoxifen led to THS (L/S ratio <0.9) in 57 (31.7%) of 180 patients while the remaining 123 (68.3%) patients did not develop THS. A significant difference in the distribution of CYP17 genotypes was observed between patients who developed THS and those who did not (P=0.021). A significantly higher frequency of the A2 allele was seen in the THS group (odds ratio, 1.90; 95% confidence interval, 1.21-2.99). Our study provides the first evidence that CYP17 polymorphism participates in the development of THS, and sheds light on the genetic causes of this side effect and genetic differences between tamoxifen-treated individuals.
A single i.v. injection of daunomycin (10 mg/kg) into rats produced severe proteinuria and hypercholesterolemia without atherosclerosis on the 20th and 40th days after the treatment. However, these changes were not observed on the 5th day. No change in systolic blood pressure was seen through the 40-day experimental period. Relaxation to acetylcholine, A23187 and nitroprusside was examined in aortic rings precontracted with phenylephrine (3 x 10(-6) M). Acetylcholine-induced relaxation was significantly attenuated in the nephrotic rats on the 20th and 40th days, in comparison to the control animals. In aortic rings taken from control and nephrotic rats on the 40th day, removal of the endothelium or treatment with methylene blue (10(-5) M) completely abolished the relaxation induced by acetylcholine (10(-5) M). In addition, acetylcholine (10(-5) M) induced a transient increase in the aortic cyclic GMP and this increase was completely abolished by removal of the endothelium. In the preparations of nephrotic rats on the 20th and 40th days, the cyclic GMP levels stimulated by acetylcholine (10(-5) M) were decreased to about 50% in comparison to their respective control. A23187 also evoked diminished relaxation in nephrotic rats on the 20th and 40th days. However, on the 40th day after the treatment, the effects of nitroprusside in relaxing the aorta and in elevating the cyclic GMP level in the aorta were not altered by nephrosis. In addition, the nitroprusside-induced relaxation and cyclic GMP accumulation were not affected by removal of the endothelium. These results indicate that endothelium-dependent relaxation is attenuated with the development of nephrosis.
Growth of endometriotic lesions in rodent model of endometriosis is inhibited by resveratrol, a natural polyphenol with antiproliferative and antiinflammatory properties, and simvastatin, an inhibitor of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase (HMGCR) activity.
The objective of the investigation was to study the mechanism of action of resveratrol and its interactions with simvastatin, focusing on cholesterol biosynthesis and HMGCR gene expression and protein activity in primary cultures of human endometrial stromal (HES) cells.
HES cells were obtained from healthy volunteers. Biosynthesis of cholesterol was assessed by measuring the conversion of [(14)C]acetate to [(14)C]cholesterol. HMGCR mRNA transcripts were quantified by real-time PCR, protein expression by Western blot analysis, and enzyme activity by measuring the conversion of [3-(14)C]3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-coenzyme A to [(14)C]mevalonic acid lactone in HES cell microsomes.
Resveratrol inhibited cholesterol biosynthesis, HMGCR mRNA, and enzyme activity. Simvastatin inhibited cholesterol biosynthesis and enzyme activity but increased HMGCR mRNA and protein expression. Resveratrol potentiated the inhibitory effects of simvastatin on cholesterol biosynthesis and HMGCR enzyme activity and abrogated the stimulatory effects of simvastatin on HMGCR mRNA transcripts and protein expression.
Resveratrol inhibits key steps of the mevalonate pathway by mechanisms that are partly complementary to and partly comparable with simvastatin via reducing both expression and activity of HMGCR. A combination of resveratrol and simvastatin may be of potential clinical relevance to development new treatments of human endometriosis.
We sought to determine whether systemic administration of proteases ameliorates membranous nephritis induced in rats by immunization and challenge with cationic bovine gamma globulin, and whether targeting of protease to glomerular capillaries increases efficacy. Proteases substituted with biotin were targeted via the cationic protein avidin A, which by virtue of its charge has affinity for the glomerular basement membrane. Despite identical pretreatment proteinuria, rats given untargeted protease (biotin-conjugated without avidin, or unconjugated plus avidin) had significantly less proteinuria than saline-treated controls and nephrotic rats given avidin plus biotin-conjugated (targeted) protease had even less proteinuria and reduced glomerular rat IgG and C3. Among more severely nephrotic rats, targeted protease was again more effective than untargeted protease at reducing proteinuria, and also decreased the size of electron-dense glomerular deposits, hypercholesterolemia, and creatininemia. Inactivated targeted proteases had no effect on proteinuria, hypercholesterolemia, or azotemia. Finally, active targeted protease did not affect proteinuria in the nonimmune mediated nephrosis induced by puromycin aminonucleoside. We conclude that systemic protease can specifically diminish glomerular immune deposits, proteinuria, hyperlipidemia, and creatininemia associated with experimental immune complex glomerulonephritis but not toxic nephrosis, and that targeted protease is more effective than untargeted protease.
The present studies were carried out to examine a possible role of hippocampal dopamine in the hyperactivity induced by methamphetamine. For this purpose, 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion of the dorsal hippocampus (D-HPC) was made in desmethylimipramine pretreated rats in order to specifically destroy dopamine neurons. D-HPC lesions produced a large (96%) and selective depletion of content of dopamine in the D-HPC. This lesion did not change spontaneous locomotion and rearing behavior. The 6-OHDA lesioned rat produced a blockade of the increase in locomotor activity induced by 1.0 and 2.0 mg/kg of methamphetamine. In contrast, the 6-OHDA lesion of the D-HPC failed to influence the methamphetamine-induced rearing activity. These results indicate that dopamine neurons in the D-HPC may have some role in methamphetamine-induced locomotion, but not in methamphetamine-induced rearing.
Whereas ch/ch wild-type mice and ch/14CoS heterozygotes are viable, 14CoS/14CoS mice homozygous for a 3800 kb deletion on chromosome 7 die during the first day postpartum. Death is caused by disruption of the fumarylacetoacetate hydrolase (Fah) gene; absence of FAH, final enzyme in the tyrosine catabolism pathway, leads to accumulation of reactive electrophilic intermediates. In this study, we kept 14CoS/14CoS mice alive for 60 d with oral 2-(2-nitro-4-trifluoromethyl-benzyol)-1,3-cyclohexanedione (NTBC), an inhibitor of p-hydroxyphenylpyruvate dioxygenase, second enzyme in the tyrosine catabolic pathway. The 70% of NTBC-treated 14CoS/14CoS mice that survived 60 d showed poor growth and developed corneal opacities, compared with ch/14CoS littermates; NTBC-rescued Fah(-/-) knockout mice did not show growth retardation or ocular toxicity. NTBC-rescued 14CoS/14CoS mice also exhibited a striking oxidative stress response in liver and kidney, as measured by lower GSH levels and mRNA induction of four genes: glutamate cysteine ligase catalytic (Gclc) and modifier (Gclm) subunits, NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase (Nqo1), and heme oxygenase-1 (Hmox1). Withdrawal of NTBC for 24-48 h from rescued adult 14CoS/14CoS mice resulted in severe apoptosis of the liver, detected histologically and by cytochrome c release from the mitochondria, increased caspase 3-like activity, and further decreases in GSH content. In kidney, proximal tubular epithelial cells were abnormal. Human hereditary tyrosinemia type I (HT1), caused by mutations in the FAH gene, is an autosomal recessive disorder in which the patient usually dies of liver fibrosis and cirrhosis during early childhood; NTBC treatment is known to prolong HT1 children's lives-although liver fibrosis, cirrhosis, hepatocarcinoma, and corneal opacities sometimes occur. The mouse data in the present study are consistent with the possibility that endogenous oxidative stress-induced apoptosis may be the underlying cause of liver pathology seen in NTBC-treated HT1 patients.
A possibility that can be advanced to explain the antihypertensive effect of beta-blocking drugs is that they act through the baroreflex control of the cardiovascular system. In 38 essential hypertensive patients we measured 1) The lengthening and shortening in R-R interval caused by stimulation or deactivation of arterial baroreceptors (vasoactive drug technique); 2) The fall and rise in blood pressure caused by stimulation and deactivation of carotid baroreceptors (neck chamber); 3) The rise in forearm vascular resistance caused by deactivation of cardiopulmonary receptors (lower body suction). The study was made before and after 6-10 days' administration of nadolol (80-360 mg once a day) or acebutolol (200-600 mg t.i.d.). Nadolol and acebutolol similarly reduced blood pressure and heart rate. Either drug increased heart rate responses to arterial baroreceptor manipulation but the increase fell short of statistical significance. Blood pressure and vasomotor responses to carotid baroreceptor and cardiopulmonary receptor manipulation were also not significantly modified by beta blockade. The baroreceptor control of heart rate and blood pressure showed a modification, however, insofar as a resetting towards the lower blood pressure values occurred. These findings demonstrate that arterial baroreceptor and cardiopulmonary receptor control of circulation is not potentiated by beta-blocking drugs, and that therefore this mechanism cannot account for their antihypertensive effect. The resetting of the baroreflex that occurs during beta blockade may, however, contribute to maintain the hypotension obtained.
Most patients who have had a stroke are given aspirin; however, aspirin-related cerebral haemorrhage is a complication that is currently of concern, particularly in China where there is a high incidence of cerebral haemorrhage in secondary prevention programmes and within the community. Cilostazol, a phosphodiesterase 3 (PDE3) inhibitor, is an alternative to aspirin that works through a different mechanism. This trial aimed to compare the efficacy and safety of cilostazol with that of aspirin for the long-term prevention of the recurrence of ischaemic stroke.
720 patients (mean age 60.2 years, SD 9.86) who had had an ischaemic stroke within the previous 1-6 months were enrolled consecutively in a prospective, multicentre, double-blind, randomised trial. 360 patients were randomly assigned to receive cilostazol and 360 patients to receive aspirin. Analysis was by intention to treat. Patients in both groups took the medication for 12-18 months. The primary endpoint was any recurrence of stroke (ischaemic stroke, haemorrhagic stroke, or subarachnoid haemorrhage) during the trial period. All patients had MRI with T1 MRI, T2 MRI, diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI), T2 fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR), and T2 gradient echo imaging (T2*) at the beginning and the end of the study. This trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT00202020.
The average duration of treatment was 740 person-years, and 719 patients were analysed (360 in the cilostazol group and 359 in the aspirin group). The primary endpoint was reported in 12 patients in the cilostazol group and in 20 patients in the aspirin group. The estimated hazard ratio, calculated with Kaplan-Meier curves (risk of primary endpoint in cilostazol group vs aspirin group), was 0.62 (95% CI 0.30-1.26; p=0.185). Symptomatic cerebral haemorrhage was reported in six patients: one in the cilostazol group and five in the aspirin group. Asymptomatic cerebral haematoma was found in four patients in the aspirin group and one patient in the cilostazol group. Brain bleeding events were significantly more common in the aspirin group than in the cilostazol group (7 vs 1, p=0.034). All of the six patients with symptomatic haemorrhage had previous cerebral microbleeds in the area where the haematoma was located.
The results of this pilot study showed no significant difference in the rate of recurrence of stroke between patients with ischaemic stroke who were randomly assigned to take either cilostazol or aspirin. The lower rates of ischaemic and haemorrhagic stroke in the cilostazol group suggest that cilostazol might be a more effective and safer alternative to aspirin for Chinese patients with ischaemic stroke; however, a larger phase III trial is required to confirm this.
National Health Ministry of the People's Republic of China; Otsuka Pharmaceutical.
Drug-induced aseptic meningitis is a rare adverse effect of some drugs. We report a patient with four episodes of meningitis caused by ibuprofen. In all episodes the patient had taken ibuprofen for pain, and subsequently developed fever and cerebrovascular symptoms. Drug-induced meningitis cannot be distinguished from meningitis caused by other agents. Diagnosis is therefore based on close association between drug administration and onset of symptoms, as well as negative microbiology tests results, especially if previous episodes of drug-induced meningitis have occurred.
The primary objective of this study was to compare and contrast psychotic symptoms reported by cocaine- and methamphetamine-dependent individuals. Participants included 27 cocaine-dependent and 25 methamphetamine-dependent males, as well as 15 cocaine-dependent and 18 methamphetamine-dependent females. After screening, participants were excluded if they met criteria for any Axis I diagnosis other than nicotine dependence, or methamphetamine or cocaine dependence (ie, participants had to use either methamphetamine or cocaine but were excluded if they met dependence criteria for both). The participants were administered the newly developed Psychotic Symptom Assessment Scale (PSAS), which assesses psychotic symptoms. A high proportion of both cocaine- and methamphetamine-dependent men and women reported delusions of paranoia and auditory hallucinations. However, during the abstinent and intoxicated conditions, methamphetamine-dependent men and women were more likely than cocaine-dependent men and women to report psychotic symptoms. Future studies will compare psychotic symptoms reported by non-dependent recreational stimulant users to stimulant-dependent individuals.
A case of tuberculous pleurisy associated with myoclonus and Quincke's edema due to isoniazid (INH) and isoniazid sodium methanesulfonate (IHMS) was reported. A 75-year-old man was admitted to our division because of chest discomfort and the left chest pain of one month's duration. A conventional chest roentgenogram revealed pleural effusion in the left thoracic cavity. The pleural specimen obtained from the left parietal pleura revealed caseating granuloma. Myoclonus suddenly appeared two months after the administration of antituberculous drugs for tuberculous pleurisy. Therefore, INH was discontinued. Three days later the patient's myoclonus disappeared and nine days later IHMS was newly administered. The patient abruptly developed myoclonus and Quincke's edema. IHMS was discontinued and 30 mg of prednisolone was simultaneously given. Two days later myoclonus disappeared and two days more later Quincke's edema was improved. The lymphocyte stimulation test using IHMS was positive. At that time, levels of serum vitamin B6 were within normal levels. These results suggest that myoclonus may result from epileptogenic action caused by INH or IHMS, and Quincke's edema may result from hypersensitive reaction associated with IHMS.
Little is known about risk factors for depression in methamphetamine users. Using data from 526 adults in the largest psychosocial clinical trial of methamphetamine users conducted to date, this study examined clinical, demographic, and substance use characteristics that predict the presence of a diagnosis of major depressive disorder (MDD) three years after treatment for methamphetamine dependence. The results indicate that two risk factors predict a diagnosis of MDD: a Beck Depression Inventory total score greater than 20, and one or more prior suicide attempts. These risk factors identify methamphetamine users who may benefit from early interventions for psychiatric symptoms.
Delta9-Tetrahydrocannabinol, the main active component of marijuana, induces apoptosis of transformed neural cells in culture. Here, we show that intratumoral administration of Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol and the synthetic cannabinoid agonist WIN-55,212-2 induced a considerable regression of malignant gliomas in Wistar rats and in mice deficient in recombination activating gene 2. Cannabinoid treatment did not produce any substantial neurotoxic effect in the conditions used. Experiments with two subclones of C6 glioma cells in culture showed that cannabinoids signal apoptosis by a pathway involving cannabinoid receptors, sustained ceramide accumulation and Raf1/extracellular signal-regulated kinase activation. These results may provide the basis for a new therapeutic approach for the treatment of malignant gliomas.
