The author reviewed records of 10 patients who had experienced acute loxapine overdose. The most frequent medical complications were CNS depression, sinus tachycardia, hypertension, and hypothermia; 6 patients had had generalized major motor seizures, 1 had had recurrent paroxysmal atrial tachycardia, and 2 had had transient renal insufficiency from rhabdomyolysis and myoglobinuria. Other clinical effects from loxapine overdose were predominantly anticholinergic. The author recommends that loxapine-overdose patients receive ECG monitoring and treatment of medical complications in an intensive care unit.
A case of mixed sensorimotor neuropathy associated with sulphasalazine therapy is reported. This is believed to be unique.
A class of potent inhibitors of colony-stimulating factor-1 receptor (CSF-1R or FMS), as exemplified by 8 and 21, was optimized to improve pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties and potential toxicological liabilities. Early stage absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion assays were employed to ensure the incorporation of druglike properties resulting in the selection of several compounds with good activity in a pharmacodynamic screening assay in mice. Further investigation, utilizing the type II collagen-induced arthritis model in mice, culminated in the selection of anti-inflammatory development candidate JNJ-28312141 (23, FMS IC(50) = 0.69 nM, cell assay IC(50) = 2.6 nM). Compound 23 also demonstrated efficacy in rat adjuvant and streptococcal cell wall-induced models of arthritis and has entered phase I clinical trials.
To analyze and compare the clinical characteristics of mannitol-induced acute renal function impairment in treatment of patients of different ages suffering from subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) for the first time.
This study was a review of 1 361 patients with available hospital records admitted to the division of neurology due to SAH from February 1989 to December 2005. Among them, 94 patients had acute renal function impairment as a result of mannitol administration. Of these patients, 35 patients were middle-aged (<60 years old) and 59 patients of old age (>60 years old). The study included the time of appearance of renal function impairment after mannitol medication, its prognosis, the administration of nephrotoxic drugs, and the dose and duration of mannitol therapy.
In old age group, abnormal renal function and urine routine appeared in 5 days (median), and 4 days (median) respectively, and acute renal failure (ARF) was diagnosed in 5 days, and the incidence rate of ARF was 20.3% after treatment with mannitol. The respective event appeared 7 days, 11 days, 9 days and 2.8% (P<0.05 or P<0.01) respectively, in middle-aged group. The data indicated the elderly patients had poorer tolerance to mannitol, with earlier occurrence of mannitol nephrosis, poorer outcome of kidney impairment and worse prognosis. Forty-three patients (72.9%) were treated with katlex (with a median of total dosage of 400 mg) in old-aged group, 35 patients (100.0%) were treated with katlex (with a median of total dosage of 800 mg) in middle-aged group, and there was a significant difference between two groups (P<0.01). The data indicated the incidence of mannitol nephrosis was lower in patients treated with large dosage of mannitol and katlex. The mortality was 3.4% (2/59 cases) and 0% (0/35 cases) in old-aged and middle-aged groups respectively (P=0.528).
The elderly patients have higher rate of mannitol-induced impairment of renal function after SAH than middle-aged patients. The data emphasize that proper combination therapy of mannitol with katlex is an effective measure in preventing renal failure.
Little is known about effects of commonly used anxiolytic drugs on psychologically evoked responses of two major stress systems, the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) and the sympathetic-adrenal-medullary (SAM) axis. The purpose of the present study was to assess effects of the anxiolytic alprazolam on responses of the HPA and the SAM axes to a standardized psychosocial stress protocol, the Trier Social Stress Test (TSST). Forty-six healthy, non-smoking, non-medicated males, aged between 18 and 45 years, were invited once to the laboratory and received a single oral dose of 1mg alprazolam or placebo, respectively, 1h prior to the TSST. The secretion of ACTH, cortisol, epinephrine, norepinephrine as well as changes in heart rate, blood pressure, and psychological states (anxiety, wakefulness, good mood, calmness) in response to the TSST were measured. Subjects pre-treated with alprazolam showed a strongly blunted response of ACTH as well as total and free cortisol to the TSST. Whereas alprazolam-treated subjects displayed significantly lower systolic blood pressure immediately before the TSST, neither the secretion of epinephrine, norepinephrine nor changes of heart rate in response to the stress test differed from placebo-treated subjects. Regarding psychological parameters, alprazolam clearly decreased subjective ratings on the questionnaire scale "wakefulness" and increased ratings on the scale "good mood", whereas ratings on scales assessing "state anxiety" or "agitation" were not affected. In healthy subjects, we observed a dissociation of the effects of alprazolam on the endocrine and the autonomic response to psychosocial stress. The psychological responses seemed to be masked by sedative properties of alprazolam.
Dilevalol, the stereoisomer of labetalol, was given in repeated incremental intravenous bolus injections to 10 patients with severe hypertension requiring urgent blood pressure lowering. The mean cumulative dose of dilevalol was 445 +/- 165 mg. Blood pressure was reduced from 201 +/- 33/131 +/- 13 to 150 +/- 12/109 +/- 7 mm Hg (p less than 0.01) and heart rate did not change significantly. In only one patient was the study discontinued because of side effects (nausea and dizziness). There were no other clinically significant adverse reactions and no change was observed in electrocardiogram or routine biochemical and hematologic tests. Five of these patients, who achieved diastolic blood pressure of less than or equal to 105 mm Hg, participated in a subsequent outpatient phase of the study with combination of oral dilevalol with hydrochlorothiazide. Of these only one achieved good blood pressure control. We concluded that in such severely hypertensive patients intravenous dilevalol was safe and effective for the short-term lowering of blood pressure. However, long-term outpatient maintenance with this drug needs further evaluation.
Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) have the potential to disrupt the thyroid endocrine system. The objective of the present study was to characterize the disrupting effects of long-term exposure on the thyroid endocrine system in adult fish and their progeny following parental exposure to PBDEs. Zebrafish (Danio rerio) embryos were exposed to environmentally relevant concentrations (1, 3, and 10 μg/L) of the PBDE mixture DE-71 for 5 months until sexual maturation. In the F0 generation, exposure to DE-71 significantly increased plasma thyroxine (T4) but not 3,5,3'-triiodothyronine (T3) in females. This increased T4 was accompanied by decreased mRNA levels of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and thyrotropin β-subunit (TSHβ) in the brain. The F1 generation was further examined with or without continued DE-71 treatment conditions. Exposure to DE-71 in the F0 fish caused significant increases in T4 and T3 levels in the F1 larvae and modified gene expressions in the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis (HPT axis) under both conditions. Decreased hatching and inhibition of growth in the F1 offspring were observed in the condition without DE-71 treatment. Continued DE-71 treatment in the F1 embryos/larvae resulted in further decreased hatching, and increased malformation rates compared with those without DE-71 exposure. Analysis of F1 eggs indicated that parental exposure to DE-71 could result in a transfer of PBDEs and thyroid hormones (THs) to their offspring. For the first time, we demonstrated that parental exposure to low concentrations of PBDEs could affect THs in the offspring and the transgenerational PBDE-induced toxicity in subsequent nonexposed generations.
The administration of the antithyroid drug methimazole to rats via drinking water prevented the development of hypertension that usually accompanies subtotal nephrectomy and saline drinking (1% NaCl). In methimazole-treated rats, elevated blood pressure induced 5 weeks previously returned to normotensive levels. Pressor responsiveness to angiotensin, vasopressin and norepinephrine in unanesthetized rats was studied after prevention of hypertension in control, low-renal-mass hypertensive (LRM) and low-renal-mass methimazole-treated (LRM-M) rats, and in the reversion study in LRM and LRM-M rats. In LRM rats, responsiveness to vasoconstrictors was increased, whereas responsiveness to vasoconstriction was clearly reduced in LRM-M rats after prevention and reversion studies. These results suggest that (a) thyroid hormones are required in the early and established phases of LRM hypertension, and (b) the decreased pressor responsiveness to vasoconstrictors may play a role in the prevention and reversion of this type of hypertension following methimazole administration. However, the changes in pressor responsiveness may also be secondary to the reduction in blood pressure.
The pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease and l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia are characterised by an imbalance between activity of the direct and indirect pathways regulated by dopamine D1 and D2 receptors, respectively. In this study, we investigated the effects of treatments combining adenosine A(1) and metabotropic glutamate 5 (mGlu5) receptors modulators on locomotion induced by dopamine D1 receptor activation in the reserpine-treated rats. Administration of the adenosine A(1) receptor agonist and mGlu5 receptor antagonist resulted in the significant reduction of dopamine D1 receptor agonist-induced locomotion. The combination of adenosine A(1) receptor agonist with mGlu5 receptor antagonist had no greater effect than these compounds alone. However, the adenosine A(1) receptor antagonist attenuated the inhibitory effect of mGlu5 receptor antagonist. The data suggest that the effect of mGlu5 receptor blockade on locomotion elicited by dopamine D1 receptor stimulation involves activation of adenosine A(1) receptors. This interaction can improve our understanding of pathophysiology of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia.
To explore the pathogenesis of hyperthyroid cardiomyopathy.
A rabbit model of hyperthyroid cardiomyopathy was reproduced by daily intraperitoneal injection of L-thyroxine (L-Thy, 45 microg x kg(-1)xd(-1)) for 28 consecutive days. Forty New Zealand rabbits were randomly divided into four groups: control group, L-Thy group, imidapril group, and valsartan group. Ventricular tissues were harvested after 4 weeks. Cardiac hypertrophy index and cardiomyocyte diameter were assessed. Cardiac fibrosis was shown by Masson's stain and collagen volume fraction (CVF) was measured using pathological image analytic system. Plasma and cardiac angiotensin II (AngII) concentration were measured with radioimmunoassay (RIAs). mRNA expression of angiotensin converting enzyme(ACE), one tape angiotensin recipient-II(AT1R) and AT2R were semi-quantified with reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Expression of ACE, AT1R and AT2R protein were evaluated with Western blotting analysis.
Compared with control group, rabbits treated with L-Thy only were found to have remarkable myocardial hypertrophy and extracellular matrix fibrosis. Increased plasma and tissue AngII were detected in L-Thy group. RT-PCR and Western blotting analysis revealed enhanced mRNA and protein expression of ACE, AT1R and AT2R. It was also demonstrated that both imidapril and valsartan alleviated cardiac hypertrophy and extracellular matrix fibrosis induced by L-Thy. Compared with L-Thy and valsartan group, imidapril group showed significantly lower plasma /tissue AngII concentration and more effective inhibition of extracellular matrix fibrosis. Imidapril did not alter the expression of ACE, AT1R or AT2R. Plasma concentration of AngII was markedly higher in valsartan group compared with L-Thy group, whereas tissue AngII concentration showed no significant difference between two groups. In valsartan group, AT1R and AT2R mRNA expressions were significantly upregulated, whereas valsartan did not change mRNA and protein expression of ACE.
Renin-angiotensin system (RAS) may play an important role in hyperthyroid cardiomyopathy. Imidapril and valsartan may exert beneficial effects on hyperthyroid cardiomyopathy via retarding myocardial remodeling.
In the present study, the effects of morphine sensitization on impairment of memory formation and the state-dependent learning by morphine have been investigated in mice. Pretraining administration of morphine (0.5, 2.5 and 5 mg/kg) dose dependently decreased the learning of a one-trial passive avoidance task. Pretest administration of morphine (0.5, 2.5 and 5 mg/kg) induced state-dependent retrieval of the memory acquired under pretraining morphine influence. Pretraining or pretest administration of naloxone (0.25, 0.5 and 1 mg/kg) reversed both responses to morphine (5 mg/kg). Amnesia induced by pretraining morphine was significantly reversed in morphine-sensitized mice which had previously received once daily injections of morphine [20 and 30 mg/kg, subcutaneously (s.c.)] for 3 days. Morphine sensitization tended to reverse but did not significantly affect morphine state-dependent memory. The inhibition of morphine-induced amnesia in morphine-sensitized mice was decreased by once daily administration of naloxone (0.5, 1 and 2 mg/kg) 30 min prior to injection of morphine (20 mg/kg/day x 3 days). Three-days administration of 1-phenyl-7,8-dihydroxy-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine HCL (SKF 38393; 8, 16 and 32 mg/kg) or SCH 23390; R(+)-7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine HCL (0.01, 0.05 and 0.1 mg/kg) before morphine (for 3 days) and during morphine-sensitization, decreased and increased, the amnesia induced by pretraining morphine, respectively. Similar administration of quinpirole (0.5, 1 and 2 mg/kg) or sulpiride (25, 50 and 100 mg/kg) before morphine also decreased and increased the amnesia induced by pretraining morphine, respectively. The results suggest that morphine sensitization affects the impairment of memory formation, but not the facilitation of retrieval induced by morphine and thus it is postulated that dopamine receptors may play an important role in this effect.
To report a case of acute dystonia consisting of neck stiffness, trismus, and unilateral temporomandibular joint (TMJ) pain and subluxation secondary to an increase in sustained-release (SR) bupropion.
A 44-year-old white man with a history of chronic low-back pain and tension headaches, taking no other medications, was started on bupropion SR 150 mg once a day for depression. The dosage was increased to 150 mg SR twice a day and eventually augmented with buspirone 15 mg 3 times a day. He developed bilateral trismus, inability to rotate his head laterally, and spontaneous left TMJ subluxation. Symptoms recessed with discontinuation of both medications and failed to reappear with a trial of buspirone 15 mg 3 times a day alone. A retrial of bupropion alone evidenced no adverse effects at a dosage of 150 mg SR once a day. However, when the dosage was increased to 150 mg SR twice a day, the patient reexperienced initial signs of neck stiffness, jaw muscle tightness, and left TMJ subluxation within 24-48 hours. Reduction of the bupropion dosage to 150 mg SR once daily stopped the symptoms; the patient has continued at this dosage without adverse effects for > 1 year.
Medication-induced focal dystonias usually present with dramatic head (most frequently oral-buccal) and neck muscle spasm with occasional jaw clenching, bruxism, and TMJ syndrome. In this case, the rapid onset of neck and jaw symptoms within 24-48 hours of an increase of bupropion SR from 150 mg once a day to 150 mg twice a day suggest that the patient may have been sensitized by an initial trial of bupropion and buspirone, or by the increased dose of bupropion alone. Both agents are reported to interact with both the dopaminergic and serotonergic systems. Although buspirone has been implicated in inducing acute dystonia, it did not do so in this case when used alone at a dose of 45 mg a day. During a second trial of bupropion SR 150 mg a day, neck and jaw symptoms recurred within 24-48 hours of increasing the dose to 150 mg SR twice a day. The symptoms receded when the bupropion dose was returned to 150 mg SR once a day, suggesting a dose-response relationship. The Naranjo probability scale indicated that this untoward reaction was probable.
This case suggests that selected patients may experience dose-related acute dystonic adverse reactions to bupropion with or without buspirone augmentation. Dystonias, which usually follow administration of antipsychotics, have been linked to acute dopamine depletion and basal ganglion-derived gamma synchronization dysfunction. Acute dystonia symptoms may begin within hours of starting or changing antipsychotic drug dosage; however, 90% of symptoms are observed during the first 3-5 days of starting or increasing dosage. To the best of our knowledge, there have been no reports of bupropion-induced dystonia.
A common approach to the management of hypertension suggests the use of an initial drug and the addition of a second agent if goal blood pressures (BPs) are not achieved. The Sixth Report of the Joint National Committee (JNC VI) suggests that the use of low dose combination therapy may be an appropriate alternative to initial treatment. In this prospective, randomized, open label, blinded end point (PROBE) study, following a 2 week single blind placebo washout period, qualified patients were started on a calcium channel blocker, felodipine 5 mg for 2 weeks. Patients who were nonresponders (DBP equals 90 mm Hg) were randomized to either felodipine 10 mg (n equals 17, mean age 52.4, 12 males), an ACE inhibitor, enalapril 5 mg/felodipine 5 mg (n equals 20 mean, mean age 52.1, 13 males), or another ACE inhibitor, benazepril 10 mg/amlodipine 5 mg (n equals 18, mean age 53.9, 15 males) for an additional 6 weeks. Ambulatory BP monitoring was performed at the end of the single blind placebo washout period and again at the end of the study. All three treatment groups had significant reductions in mean 24 hour systolic and diastolic BP compared to baseline. The reduction in mean 24 hour systolic and diastolic BPs in the benazepril/amlodipine treated patients (-17.2/-9.7 mm Hg) was significantly greater (p equals 0.05) than in the felodipine 10 mg treated patients (-11.9/-6.4 mm Hg) and was also numerically but not statistically significantly greater than in the enalapril/felodipine treated patients (-14.2/-8.2 mm Hg). Similar differences were seen when assessing daytime BP (06:00-21:59) and nighttime BP (10:00-05:59). The reductions in morning systolic and diastolic BP (6 am-noon) in the benazepril/amlodipine treated patients (-18.6/-10.7 mm Hg) were numerically but not statistically significantly greater than the enalapril/felodipine treated patients (-13.6/-7.5 mm Hg) and the felodipine 10 mg treated patients (-14.9/-8.3 mm Hg). The data from this study suggests that using low dose combination therapy in patients who are nonresponders to first line monotherapy with a calcium channel blocker provides greater blood pressure control than up titration to higher dose monotherapy. Low dose combination therapy may therefore be an important early alternative to up titration of monotherapy in patients who are nonresponders. These data confirm other observations with combination therapy with Ã -blockers/ diuretics, ACE inhibitors/diuretics, and angiotensin II (AII) receptor blockers/diuretics. (c)1999 by Le Jacq Communications, Inc.
Cadmium (Cd) exposure causes glucosuria (glucose in the urine). Previously, it was shown that Cd exposure of primary cultures of mouse kidney cells (PMKC) decreased mRNA levels of the glucose transporters, SGLT1 and SGLT2 and that Sp1 from Cd-exposed cells displayed reduced binding to the GC boxes of the mouse SGLT1 promoter in vitro. Here, we identified a GC box upstream of mouse SGLT2 gene. ChIP assays on PMKC revealed that exposure to 5 microM Cd abolished Sp1 binding to SGLT1 GC box while it decreased Sp1 binding to SGLT2 GC sequence by 30% in vivo. The in vitro DNA binding assay, EMSA, demonstrated that binding of Sp1 from Cd (7.5 microM)-treated PMKC to the SGLT2 GC probe was 86% lower than in untreated cells. Sp1 is a zinc finger protein. Compared to PMKC exposed to 5 microM Cd alone, inclusion of 5 microM Zn restored SGLT1 and 2 mRNA levels by 15% and 30%, respectively. Cd (10 microM) decreased the binding of recombinant Sp1 (rhSp1) to SGLT1 and SGLT2 GC probes to 12% and 8% of untreated controls. Cd exerted no effect on GC-bound rhSp1. Co-treatment with Cd and Zn showed that added Zn significantly restored rhSp1 binding to the SGLT1 and SGLT2. Addition of Zn post Cd treatment was not stimulatory. We conclude that Cd can replace Zn in Sp1 DNA binding domain to reduce its binding to GC sites in mouse SGLT1 and SGLT2 promoters.
To report a case of acute cholestatic hepatitis following exposure to the inhalational anesthetic isoflurane.
A 70-year-old healthy woman from Iraq developed acute cholestatic hepatitis 3 weeks following repair of the right rotator cuff under general anesthesia. There was no evidence for viral, autoimmune, or metabolic causes of hepatitis. No other medications were involved except for dipyrone for analgesia. The alanine aminotransferase was elevated to a peak concentration of 1533 U/L and the serum bilirubin reached a peak of 17.0 mg/dL. There was slow improvement over 4 months. Accidental reexposure by the patient to dipyrone was uneventful.
The clinical and histologic picture of this case resembles halothane hepatitis, which has a significant mortality rate.
Isoflurane, a common anesthetic agent, can cause severe cholestatic hepatitis.
The C syndrome is characterized by trigonocephaly and associated anomalies, such as unusual facies, psychomotor retardation, redundant skin, joint and limb abnormalities, and visceral anomalies. In an individual with the C syndrome who harbors a balanced chromosomal translocation, t(3;18)(q13.13;q12.1), we discovered that the TACTILE gene for CD96, a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily, was disrupted at the 3q13.3 breakpoint. In mutation analysis of nine karyotypically normal patients given diagnoses of the C or C-like syndrome, we identified a missense mutation (839C-->T, T280M) in exon 6 of the CD96 gene in one patient with the C-like syndrome. The missense mutation was not found among 420 unaffected Japanese individuals. Cells with mutated CD96 protein (T280M) lost adhesion and growth activities in vitro. These findings indicate that CD96 mutations may cause a form of the C syndrome by interfering with cell adhesion and growth.
Pediatric dental procedures are increasingly performed under general anesthesia because of the inability to cooperate, situational anxiety, or other behavioral problems. Volatile anesthetics have been associated with emergence delirium in children, whereas the use of propofol for anesthetic maintenance has been shown to reduce the incidence of emergence delirium after other types of surgeries. The aim of this study is to compare a sevoflurane-based anesthetic with a propofol-based technique as it relates to the incidence of emergence delirium and the quality of recovery after pediatric dental surgery, in patients who present with risk factors for perioperative behavioral issues.
We prospectively collected data of 179 pediatric patients scheduled for ambulatory dental surgery using a double-blind and randomized trial design. Subjects were anesthetized following standardized protocols for either a sevoflurane- or a propofol-based technique. The incidence of emergency delirium, as measured by the Pediatric Anesthesia Emergence Delirium score, was the primary outcome. Secondary outcomes included the incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV), number of nursing interventions in the recovery room, time to discharge readiness, and parental satisfaction.
We found no difference in the incidence of emergence delirium after both types of anesthesia. However, use of sevoflurane significantly increased both the risk of PONV and the number of postoperative nursing interventions. Discharge criteria were met about 10 min earlier in patients anesthetized with sevoflurane. Parental satisfaction was equally high with both anesthesia regimens.
A propofol-based anesthetic technique did not lead to a lower incidence of emergence delirium after dental surgery in children but did result in significantly less PONV and fewer postoperative nursing interventions.
Peroxiredoxin 4 (PRDX4) is one of a newly discovered family of antioxidative proteins. We generated human PRDX4 (hPRDX4) transgenic (Tg) mice, displaying a high level of hPRDX4 expression in the pancreatic islets, and then focused on the functions of PRDX4 in a type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) model using a single high dose of streptozotocin (SHDS). After SHDS-injection, Tg mice showed significantly less hyperglycemia and hypoinsulinemia and a much faster response on glucose tolerance test than wild-type (WT) mice. Morphologic and immunohistochemical observation revealed that the pancreatic islet areas of Tg mice were larger along with less CD3-positive lymphocyte infiltration compared with WT mice. Upon comparison between these two mouse models, β-cell apoptosis was also repressed, and reversely, β-cell proliferation was enhanced in Tg mice. Real-time RT-PCR demonstrated that the expression of many inflammatory-related molecules and their receptors and transcription factors were significantly downregulated in Tg mice. These data indicate that PRDX4 can protect pancreatic islet β-cells against injury caused by SHDS-induced insulitis, which strongly suggests that oxidative stress plays an essential role in SHDS-induced diabetes. This study, for the first time, implicates that PRDX4 has a pivotal protective function against diabetes progression in this T1DM model.
The available data suggest that digitalis improves symptoms of a failing heart in the presence of sinus rhythm as well as supraventricular arrhythmias. Intravenous digitalis administration in patients with chronic heart failure and baseline hemodynamic deterioration increases cardiac index and reduces heart rate. These beneficial effects are maintained with long-term oral therapy and are comparable with those obtained using dobutamine in patients with chronic severe heart failure. The addition of digoxin to therapy with vasodilators and diuretics confers clinical benefit in patients with moderate to severe heart failure symptoms because of systolic ventricular dysfunction. Digoxin effects on diastolic function appear to be different in patients with preserved systolic function in comparison to patients with overt heart failure and systodiastolic dysfunction. In patients with right ventricular dysfunction digoxin does not appear to influence hemodynamic measurements unless concomitant left ventricular dysfunction is present.
Drug-induced myopathy has been reported with use of lovastatin, nicotinic acid, and clofibrate. A particularly severe form, often accompanied by rhabdomyolysis, has been reported with the use of lovastatin and gemfibrozil; however, as far as we know, no case has been documented with use of gemfibrozil alone. Herein, we report the first case (to our knowledge of gemfibrozil-induced myopathy, confirmed by drug rechallenge.
This study investigates the role of high-dose chemotherapy with haematopoietic stem cell rescue as consolidation treatment in high-risk retinoblastoma (extraocular disease at diagnosis or relapse or invasion of cut end of optic nerve). 25 patients received high-dose chemotherapy including carboplatin (250 mg/m2/day from day 1 to day 5 for the 6 first patients and 350 mg/m2/day from day 1 to day 5 for the other patients), etoposide (350 mg/m2/day from day 1 to day 5) and cyclophosphamide (1.6 g/m2/day from day 2 to day 5) (CARBOPEC) followed by autologous haematopoietic stem cell rescue. 19 patients received this drug combination for chemosensitive extraocular relapse. The other 6 patients with histological high-risk factors were given this treatment as consolidation after enucleation and conventional chemotherapy. The three year disease-free survival was 67.1%. In 7 of the 9 relapsing patients, the first site of relapse was the central nervous system. All patients with central nervous system disease died except one. The main toxicity was haematological and digestive (mucositis and diarrhoea). 2 of the 13 evaluable patients had grade III and IV ototoxicity. One patient experienced an acute grade I reversible cardiotoxicity. The CARBOPEC regimen seems to be a promising therapeutic strategy in patients with high-risk retinoblastoma, especially those with bone and/or bone marrow involvement. This treatment did not improve the outcome of patients with central nervous system disease.
A population-based case-control study of kidney cancer was carried out in New South Wales using data from structured interviews with 489 cases of renal-cell cancer and 147 cases of renal pelvic cancer diagnosed in 1989 and 1990, together with 523 controls from the electoral rolls. This study showed that the risk of renal pelvic cancer was increased by phenacetin/aspirin compound analgesics (RR = 12.2; 95% CI 6.8-22.2) to a far greater extent than by paracetamol (RR = 1.3; 95% CI 0.7-2.4; not significant). There was a doubling of risk (RR = 2.0; 95% CI 0.9-4.4) in the highest tertile of paracetamol taken in any form compared with values for non-users of any type of analgesic. By contrast, the risk of renal-cell cancer appeared to be increased to a similar degree by phenacetin/aspirin compound analgesics (RR = 1.4; 95% CI 0.9-2.3) and paracetamol taken in any form (RR = 1.5; 95% CI 1.0-2.3). When both drugs were treated as alternative forms of the same risk factor, the risk was increased by 1.7 (95% CI 1.2-2.4). On this evidence, we postulate that phenacetin/aspirin compounds are weakly carcinogenic in the renal parenchyma through the metabolic conversion of phenacetin to paracetamol, and potently carcinogenic in the renal pelvis by different or additional pathways involving renal papillary necrosis. In addition, there is an indication of a weak link between paracetamol and renal pelvic cancer.
We have evaluated the physiological and behavioral effects of the CNS-selective nicotinic agonist (E)-N-methyl-4-(3-pyridinyl) -3-butene-1-amine (RJR-2403) using a number of different methods, including 1) reversal of pharmacologically induced amnesia in a step-through passive avoidance paradigm, 2) radial arm maze performance in rats with chemically induced brain lesions, 3) changes in HR and blood pressure in rats and 4) changes in body temperature, Y-maze activity, acoustic startle response and respiration in mice. Our results indicate that RJR-2403 is equal to or better than nicotine on measures of CNS function and cognitive enhancement. Specifically, RJR-2403 significantly improved passive avoidance retention after scopolamine-induced amnesia and enhanced both working and reference memory in rats with ibotenic acid lesions of the forebrain cholinergic projection system in an 8-arm radial maze paradigm. By comparison, RJR-2403 was 15 to 30-fold less potent than nicotine in decreasing body temperature, respiration, Y-maze rears and crosses and acoustic startle response. RJR-2403 also demonstrated greatly reduced cardiovascular effects. RJR-2403 was approximately 10-fold less potent than nicotine in increasing HR and 20-fold less potent in increasing blood pressure. These results are consistent with in vitro data indicating this compound's high selectivity for CNS nicotinic ACh receptor subtypes relative to peripheral ganglionic and muscle-type nicotinic ACh receptors. Therefore, RJR-2403 may be a valuable tool for understanding the central and peripheral pharmacology of nicotinic cholinergic systems as well as a potential lead compound for the development of nicotinic therapeutics to treat neurological diseases where cholinergic neurotransmission has been compromised.
Compared with the neuroleptic nonresponsive (NNR) mouse line, the neuroleptic responsive (NR) line has a significantly higher number of striatal cholinergic neurons (Hitzemann et al., 1993). We now report additional information on this genetic association. At the fifth selected generation, a new selection of the NR and NNR lines differed 5-fold in their ED50 values (1 vs. 5 mg/kg) for haloperidol-induced catalepsy and 20% in the number of striatal cholinergic neurons (higher in the NR line). This association was further examined in 10 standard inbred mouse strains; eight of the strains had been crossed to form the heterogeneous stock from which the new NR and NNR lines were selected. In this panel, we detected no significant association between number of cholinergic neurons and haloperidol response. To examine the similarities and differences in the modes of inheritance for the two phenotypes, we formed a full Mendelian cross from the C57BL/6 (B6) and DBA/2 (D2) mouse strains. The B6 and D2 strains differ 9-fold in their haloperidol ED50 values (3.9 vs. 0.4 mg/kg) and more than 30% in the number of cholinergic neurons (higher in the D2 strain). Haloperidol-induced catalepsy was described by a simple additive genetic model; the narrow sense heritability was 0.60. In contrast, for the number of cholinergic neurons, the B6 genotype was dominant and heterosis was detected in the F1 cross. Despite the differences in heritability, among B6D2 F2 individuals, increasing haloperidol sensitivity was associated with increasing numbers of striatal cholinergic neurons. The BXD recombinant inbred series (25 strains) showed a 16-fold range of variation in the haloperidol ED50 and a greater than 50% variation in the number of striatal cholinergic neurons. However, we detected no significant association between haloperidol response and number of cholinergic neurons. Overall, the data suggest that the genetic association between the phenotypes is modest, complex and detectable only with some genetic strategies.
For several years carbamazepine has been used to treat intractable mania and it is frequently used in combination with lithium. Reports of toxicity have appeared in the past 2 years and some risk factors have been suggested. This paper reports four cases of brain-damaged adolescents treated with carbamazepine and lithium for both seizure and behaviour control who developed this reported neurotoxic phenomenon.
Recently, 14-member macrolide antibiotics such as clarithromycin and roxithromycin have been shown to have anticancer and antiangiogenic effects. We investigated the suppressive effect of roxithromycin on accelerated hepatocellular carcinoma growth in a rat hepatocarcinogenetic model and compared results with effects from TNP-470.
Tumor was induced by oral diethylnitrosamine administration for 17 weeks. Normal saline, TNP-470 (50 mg/kg), or roxithromycin (40 or 100 mg/kg) was administered i.p. thrice per week from week 10 to 17.
Carcinomatous tissue growing outside dysplastic nodules and a marked expression of placental glutathione S-transferase were detected in rats with induced carcinogenesis. Tumor growth was accompanied by augmented expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase, activation of nuclear factor kappaB, and increased lipid peroxidation level. All these effects were absent in animals that received roxithromycin or TNP-470. The inhibitory effect of roxithromycin was dose dependent and no clear differences were noted between groups given roxithromycin 100 mg/kg and TNP-470 50 mg/kg.
Our results indicate that roxithromycin inhibits oxidative stress, nitric oxide production, and nuclear factor kappaB activation induced by experimental hepatocarcinogenesis. The data provide additional evidence for the potential use of roxithromycin in treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma prevention.
Disulfiram is used to treat alcoholism and is known to cause peripheral neuropathy: few reports of biopsied human nerves have revealed axonal degeneration and loss of myelinated fibers. We studied a 22-year-old woman with severe sensorimotor neuropathy following treatment with disulfiram for 6 months. Histologic studies of the sural nerve revealed a neurofilamentous axonopathy with rare enlarged axons distended by neurofilaments. Disulfiram is converted enzymatically to carbon disulfide, which causes neurofilamentous distal axonopathy in animals. Similar changes in human nerve after disulfiram administration suggest that carbon disulfide is the toxic agent.
The toxic effect of benomyl on the embryogenesis of Xenopus laevis was investigated, and the tissues most affected by benomyl were identified. The toxicity of benomyl at various concentrations (5-20 microM) was tested with the Xenopus frog embryo teratogenesis assay (FETAX), used with slight modification. All test embryos subjected to 20 microM of benomyl died, and exposure to 10 and 15 microM benomyl produced growth inhibition and 11 types of severe external malformations. Histological examination of the test embryos showed dysplasia of the brain, eyes, intestine, otic vesicle, and muscle and swelling of the pronephric ducts and integuments. Among the tissues and organs affected, malformation of neural tissue was the most severe. The presumptive ectoderm isolated from st. 9 embryo was cultured in 10 ng/mL of activin A to induce neural tissue and mesoderm. When it was cultured with 10 ng/mL of activin A in the presence of 1 and 10 microM of benomyl, neural tissue induction was inhibited more severely than that of any other tissue. The gene expression of cultivated explants was investigated by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) assay in order to study the inhibition of neural tissue by benomyl. The results showed that with increasing benomyl concentration, the expression of the neural-specific marker NCAM (neural cell adhesion molecule), was more strongly inhibited than the muscle-specific marker muscle actin. Electron micrographs of test explants showed many residual yolk platelets and mitochondrial degeneration. In the present investigation the most severe toxic effects of benomyl were seen in the nerve tissues of the Xenopus embryo. This inhibition of neural development may have been caused by the inhibition of the assembly of neural microtubules and by the effect of benomyl on neuronal proliferation and migration.
