The sulfate anion transporter (sat-1, Slc26a1) has been cloned from rat liver, functionally characterized, and localized to the sinusoidal membrane in hepatocytes and basolateral membrane (BLM) in proximal tubules (PT). Here, we confirm previously described localization of sat-1 protein in rat liver and kidneys and report on gender differences (GD) in its expression by immunochemical, transport, and excretion studies in rats. The approximately 85-kDa sat-1 protein was localized to the sinusoidal membrane in hepatocytes and BLM in renal cortical PT, with the male-dominant expression. However, the real-time reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction data indicated no GD at the level of sat-1 mRNA. In agreement with the protein data, isolated membranes from both organs exhibited the male-dominant exchange of radiolabeled sulfate for oxalate, whereas higher oxalate in plasma and 24-h urine indicated higher oxalate production and excretion in male rats. Furthermore, the expression of liver, but not renal, sat-1 protein was: unaffected by castration, upregulated by ovariectomy, and downregulated by estrogen or progesterone treatment in males. Therefore, GD (males > females) in the expression of sat-1 protein in rat liver (and, possibly, kidneys) are caused by the female sex-hormone-driven inhibition at the posttranscriptional level. The male-dominant abundance of sat-1 protein in liver may conform to elevated uptake of sulfate and extrusion of oxalate, causing higher plasma oxalate in males. Oxalate is then excreted by the kidneys via the basolateral sat-1 (males > females) and the apical CFEX (Slc26a6; GD unknown) in PT and eliminated in the urine (males > females), where it may contribute to the male-prevailing development of oxalate urolithiasis.
Previous reports show different cerebral activity patterns during treatment with clozapine and typical neuroleptics. However, to date no study has directly compared the brain activity patterns while subjects are undergoing treatment with clozapine and other atypical antipsychotics. This comparison is of interest, given the probably different mechanism of action of clozapine in comparison with other atypicals.
To assess the effect of clozapine on perfusion deviations still evident during treatment with risperidone.
Here we used hexamethylene-propylenaminoxime single photon emission computed tomography to compare the perfusion patterns observed during the performance of a Stroop test in 10 patients sequentially treated with risperidone and clozapine, owing to a lack of response to the former, and in 10 healthy controls.
Patients on risperidone showed decreased perfusion as compared to controls in the medial prefrontal, middle cingulate and insular regions, as well as increased activities in brain stem and the posterior hippocampus. After receiving clozapine, the same patients showed an even wider prefrontal perfusion deficit and the brain stem was still hyperactive, but the abnormalities in the cingulate cortex, insula and hippocampus had disappeared. Clinical improvement was directly related to an increase in thalamic perfusion.
Clozapine may alleviate hyperactivity in the limbic system in schizophrenia and may facilitate activation of the regions involved in cognitive tasks to a greater degree than risperidone, as well as eliciting greater inhibition of the PF region.
Vigabatrin is an antiepileptic drug that, although relatively well tolerated, is associated with visual field constriction and other visual disturbances of unclear origin.
We performed a complete neuroophthalmologic examination and electrophysiologic studies on 39 patients receiving vigabatrin and on 11 control patients.
Nearly 50% of patients receiving vigabatrin had constricted visual fields compared with control patients. Some of the vigabatrin patients also had reduced visual acuity and abnormal color vision. In addition, most vigabatrin patients had abnormal electroretinographic results, the severity of which correlated strongly with the degree of visual field constriction.
Vigabatrin can cause electrophysiologic evidence of retinal dysfunction and clinically detectable disturbances of visual sensory function.
The Remission in Schizophrenia Working Group (RSWG) has defined criteria for symptomatic remission based on achieving and maintaining a consistently low symptom threshold for at least six consecutive months. This analysis examined symptomatic remission in acutely ill patients with schizophrenia receiving either aripiprazole or haloperidol for one year.
Pooled data from two 52-week, randomized, double-blind, multicenter, comparative trials of aripiprazole and haloperidol in acutely ill patients with schizophrenia were analyzed. Measures of symptomatic remission were calculated according to RSWG criteria.
Remission rates were significantly higher for patients treated with aripiprazole compared with haloperidol (32% vs 22%, respectively; p<0.001, LOCF). Among remitters, aripiprazole-treated patients achieved symptom criteria in a significantly shorter time than haloperidol-treated patients (log rank p=0.0024). For trial completers, remission rates were similarly high in both groups (aripiprazole, 77%; haloperidol, 74%). Regardless of treatment type, remitters received significantly higher global clinical ratings than nonremitters (p<0.0001). Aripiprazole was associated with a significantly lower rate of discontinuations due to adverse events (AEs) than haloperidol (8.0% vs 18.4%, respectively; p<0.001) as well as lower concomitant medication use for extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) (23% vs 57%, respectively; p<0.001).
Acutely ill schizophrenia patients treated with aripiprazole demonstrated a significantly higher rate of symptomatic remission across 52 weeks compared with haloperidol-treated patients. The similar remission rates among trial completers in both treatment groups, combined with fewer AE-related discontinuations and lower EPS medication use in the aripiprazole group, suggest that better tolerability with aripiprazole may have contributed to superior overall remission rates.
We describe a patient with probable dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) whose Parkinsonism worsened after administration of rivastigmine within the therapeutic dose range. Some extrapyramidal signs (EPS) then reversed to pre-treatment level after rivastigmine dose reduction. We draw attention to the need of EPS monitoring during titration of cholinesterase inhibitors in patients with DLB. This is the first report to our knowledge of iatrogenic worsening of Parkinsonism which was successfully managed by dose reduction.
Sertraline's efficacy and tolerability in treating generalized anxiety disorder were evaluated.
Adult outpatients with DSM-IV generalized anxiety disorder and a total score of 18 or higher on the Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale were eligible. After a 1-week single-blind placebo lead-in, patients were randomly assigned to 12 weeks of double-blind treatment with placebo (N=188, mean baseline anxiety score=25) or flexible doses (50-150 mg/day) of sertraline (N=182, mean anxiety score=25). The primary outcome measure was baseline-to-endpoint change in the Hamilton anxiety scale total score. A secondary efficacy measure was the Clinical Global Impression (CGI) improvement score; response was defined as a score of 2 or less.
Sertraline patients had significantly greater improvement than placebo patients on all efficacy measures at week 4. Analysis of covariance of the intent-to-treat group at endpoint (with the last observation carried forward) showed a significant difference in the decrease from baseline of the least-square mean total score on the Hamilton anxiety scale between sertraline (mean=11.7) and placebo (mean=8.0). Significantly greater endpoint improvement with sertraline than placebo was obtained for mean scores on the Hamilton anxiety scale psychic factor (6.7 versus 4.1) and somatic factor (5.0 versus 3.9). The rate of responders, based on CGI improvement and last observation carried forward, was significantly higher for sertraline (63%) than placebo (37%). Sertraline was well tolerated; 8% of patients versus 10% for placebo dropped out because of adverse events.
Sertraline appears to be efficacious and well tolerated in the treatment of generalized anxiety disorder.
Aspirin causes bronchoconstriction in aspirin-intolerant asthma (AIA) patients by triggering cysteinyl-leukotriene (cys-LT) production, probably by removing PGE2-dependent inhibition. To investigate why aspirin does not cause bronchoconstriction in all individuals, we immunostained enzymes of the leukotriene and prostanoid pathways in bronchial biopsies from AIA patients, aspirin-tolerant asthma (ATA) patients, and normal (N) subjects. Counts of cells expressing the terminal enzyme for cys-LT synthesis, LTC4 synthase, were fivefold higher in AIA biopsies (11.5+/-2.2 cells/mm2, n = 10) than in ATA biopsies (2.2+/-0.7, n = 10; P = 0. 0006) and 18-fold higher than in N biopsies (0.6+/-0.4, n = 9; P = 0. 0002). Immunostaining for 5-lipoxygenase, its activating protein (FLAP), LTA4 hydrolase, cyclooxygenase (COX)-1, and COX-2 did not differ. Enhanced baseline cys-LT levels in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid of AIA patients correlated uniquely with bronchial counts of LTC4 synthase+ cells (rho = 0.83, P = 0.01). Lysine-aspirin challenge released additional cys-LTs into BAL fluid in AIA patients (200+/-120 pg/ml, n = 8) but not in ATA patients (0. 7+/-5.1, n = 5; P = 0.007). Bronchial responsiveness to lysine-aspirin correlated exclusively with LTC4 synthase+ cell counts (rho = -0.63, P = 0.049, n = 10). Aspirin may remove PGE2-dependent suppression in all subjects, but only in AIA patients does increased bronchial expression of LTC4 synthase allow marked overproduction of cys-LTs leading to bronchoconstriction.
Very high blood pressure during pregnancy poses a serious threat to women and their babies. The use of drugs to lower blood pressure will reduce this risk for the women, and possibly also for the baby.
The objective of this review was to compare different antihypertensive drugs used for treatment of severe hypertension during pregnancy.
We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group trials register (April 2002), the Cochrane Controlled Trials Register (The Cochrane Library, Issue 2 2002) and MEDLINE (April 2002).
Studies were randomised trials. Quasi random designs were excluded. Participants were women with severe hypertension during pregnancy. Women postpartum at trial entry were excluded. Interventions were any comparisons of one antihypertensive agent with another.
Data were extracted independently by two reviewers to assess eligibility and describe the trial characteristics, and by one reviewer for the meta-analyses. Discrepancies were resolved by discussion. There was no blinding of authorship or results. Whenever possible, unpublished data were sought from investigators.
Twenty trials were included (1637 women) and 19 were excluded. There were ten different comparisons. Hydralazine was the most common drug for others to be evaluated against. Diazoxide, given as 75mg bolus injections, appears to be associated with maternal hypotension requiring treatment, and ketanserin is less effective than hydralazine at reducing blood pressure. There is no other clear evidence that any one of the other antihypertensive agents is better than another for women with severe hypertension during pregnancy.
Until better evidence is available, the choice of antihypertensive should depend on the experience and familiarity of an individual clinician with a particular drug, and on what is known about adverse maternal and fetal side-effects. Exceptions are diazoxide and ketanserin, which are probably not good choices.
Metabolism of individual phospholipids was studied in neurones and neuroglia under conditions of convulsions caused by picrotoxin administration. Metabolic activity of all the phospholipids studied was increased in neuronal membranes under extreme conditions of convulsive attacks. The rate of metabolism of phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylethanolamine and sphingomyelin was increased 2-2.5-fold approximately. The most distinct alterations of metabolic activity were observed in the fraction of minor phospholipids: specific radioactivity of phosphatidylserine was increased 10-fold and phosphatidylinositol--16-fold. Metabolism of phosphatidic acid and lysophosphatidylcholine was elevated more than 15-fold. Convulsions exhibited the most distinct effect on metabolism of phosphatidylinositol and phosphatidylserine in neuroglia cells. As distinct from neurones, metabolism of phosphatidyl choline and sphingomyelin was not markedly altered in neuroglia. Similar metabolism and universal cell response, carried out via phospholipids, appear to occur in the system neurone-neuroglia.
Echocardiograms of 47 children treated with doxorubicin in combination with other cytostatic agents in the period 1979-1984 were reviewed. The authors compared the first and the last echocardiographic registration of every individual patient, analysing the left ventricular dimensions and the shortening fraction which is the indicator of myocardial contractility. Statistical analysis revealed a significant dilation of the left ventricle with a decrease of contractility in the whole group of patients during the therapy. Seven out of 9 patients who had an abnormal shortening fraction at the last measurement died of malignancy. Three children, all in remission of their malignancy, developed a dilated cardiomyopathy that was fatal in two. The possibilities for prevention of this serious complication by means of serial echocardiography during treatment with anthracycline derivatives are discussed.
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-ρ-dioxin (TCDD) induces hepatic dyslipidemia mediated by the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR). Stearoyl-CoA desaturase 1 (Scd1) performs the rate-limiting step in monounsaturated fatty acid (MUFA) synthesis, desaturating 16:0 and 18:0 into 16:1n7 and 18:1n9, respectively. To further examine the role of Scd1 in TCDD-induced hepatotoxicity, comparative studies were performed in Scd1(+/+) and Scd1(-/-) mice treated with 30 μg/kg TCDD. TCDD induced Scd1 activity, protein, and messenger RNA (mRNA) levels approximately twofold. In Scd1(+/+) mice, hepatic effects were marked by increased vacuolization and inflammation and a 3.5-fold increase in serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels. Hepatic triglycerides (TRGs) were induced 3.9-fold and lipid profiling by gas chromatography-mass spectroscopy measured a 1.9-fold increase in fatty acid (FA) levels, consistent with the induction of lipid transport genes. Induction of Scd1 altered FA composition by decreasing saturated fatty acid (SFA) molar ratios 8% and increasing MUFA molar ratios 9%. Furthermore, ChIP-chip analysis revealed AhR enrichment (up to 5.7-fold), and computational analysis identified 16 putative functional dioxin response elements (DREs) within Scd1 genomic loci. Band shift assays confirmed AhR binding with select DREs. In Scd1(-/-) mice, TCDD induced minimal hepatic vacuolization and inflammation, while serum ALT levels remained unchanged. Although Scd1 deficiency attenuated TCDD-induced TRG accumulation, overall FA levels remained unchanged compared with Scd1(+/+) mice. In Scd1(-/-) mice, TCDD induced SFA ratios 8%, reduced MUFA ratios 13%, and induced polyunsaturated fatty acid ratios 5% relative to treated Scd1(+/+) mice. Collectively, these results suggest that AhR regulation of Scd1 not only alters lipid composition but also contributes to the hepatotoxicity of TCDD.
Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors used in the treatment of glaucoma are rarely associated with blood dyscrasias. Several case reports of aplastic anemia with use of acetazolamide, and two cases with use of methazolamide, have appeared in the literature. This report documents two cases of aplastic anemia, at least one of which was almost certainly induced by the use of methazolamide, one case of agranulocytosis, and two cases of neutropenia related to the use of methazolamide. In each case several weeks to months elapsed between initiation of therapy and onset of reaction. This suggests that changes in patients' general medical condition should be continually monitored when using these drugs.
To determine the effect of prenatal lead exposure on brain monoaminergic systems, pregnant rats were given tap water containing 250 ppm lead acetate, for the duration of pregnancy, while tap water without lead (Pb(2+)) was substituted at birth. Control rats were derived from dams that consumed tap water during pregnancy, and had no exposure to lead afterwards. At 12 weeks after birth, Pb(2+) content of brain cortex was increased 3- to 4-fold (P < 0.05). At this time the endogenous striatal levels of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and homovanillic acid were 19% lower in Pb(2+) exposed rats (P < 0.05), while there was no change in the striatal level of dopamine (DA), noradrenaline, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylglycol, serotonin (5-HT) and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (HPLC/ED). Also there was no change in these monoamines and metabolites in the prefrontal cortex of Pb(2+) exposed rats. However, turnover of 5-HT in prefrontal cortex, as indicated by 5-hydroxytryptophan accumulation 30 min after acute treatment with the decarboxylase inhibitor NSD-1015 (100 mg/kg IP), was lower in the Pb(2+) exposed rats. In the striatum AMPH-induced (1 mg/kg IP) turnover of DA, evidenced as L-DOPA accumulation after NSD-1015, was increased to a lesser extent in the Pb(2+) exposed rats (P < 0.05). The nitric oxide synthase inhibitor 7-nitroindazole (10 mg/kg IP) attenuated the latter effect, indicating that neuronal NO mediates this AMPH effect, at least in part. Moreover, DA D(2) receptor sensitivity developed in Pb(2+) exposed rats, as evidenced by enhanced quinpirole-induced yawning activity and enhanced quinpirole-induced locomotor activity (each, P < 0.05). These findings indicate that ontogenetic exposure to lead can have consequences on monoaminergic neuronal function at an adult stage of life, generally promoting accentuated behavioral effects of direct and indirect monoaminergic agonists, and related to increased dopamine turnover in basal ganglia.
Propofol is frequently used for intravenous sedation or anesthesia in ambulatory and office-based anesthesia. Although awakening is usually rapid, there are instances of delayed recovery from propofol anesthesia. It has been reported that aminophylline antagonizes the sedative effects of several anesthetic and analgesic drugs. The case reports presented here demonstrate that intravenous aminophylline effectively reversed prolonged propofol-induced sedation/anesthesia in the postoperative period. There were no side effects or delayed re-sedation after the administration of aminophylline. Our study suggests that aminophylline could be a clinically useful propofol antagonist.
Niacin extended-release (NER) is safe and effective for treatment of dyslipidemia. However, some patients discontinue NER treatment because of flushing, the most common adverse event associated with niacin therapy.
To evaluate the effect of daily oral acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) on NER-induced flushing in patients with dyslipidemia.
A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter, 5-week study was conducted (ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT00626392). Patients (n = 277) were randomly assigned to one of six treatment arms and received a 1-week run-in with ASA 325 mg or placebo followed by 4 weeks of ASA 325 mg or placebo 30 minutes before NER at a starting dose of 500 mg or 1000 mg; all patients were titrated to NER 2000 mg at week 3. The primary endpoint was the maximum severity of flushing events during week 1.
In week 1, ASA run-in, ASA pretreatment, and a lower starting dosage of NER (500 mg/day) resulted in reductions in mean maximum severity of flushing; 48% fewer patients who received ASA experienced flushing episodes of moderate or greater intensity relative to placebo (absolute rates 15% vs 29%; p = 0.01). Over 4 weeks, ASA reduced the number of flushing episodes/patient/week by 42% relative to placebo. The discontinuation rate due to flushing was lower in the ASA group compared with placebo (1.8% vs 9.4%; p = 0.007). Overall safety was not different between groups.
These data suggest that a clinically meaningful reduction in the severity and incidence of NER-induced flushing may be achieved with ASA use.
As the developing brain is exquisitely vulnerable to chemical disturbances, testing for developmental neurotoxicity of a substance is an important aspect of characterizing its tissue specific toxicity. Mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs) can be differentiated toward a neural phenotype, and this can be used as a model for early brain development. We developed a new in vitro assay using mESCs to predict adverse effects of chemicals and other compounds on neural development - the so-called DNT-EST. After treatment of differentiating stem cells for 48h or 72h, at two key developmental stages endpoint for neural differentiation, viability, and proliferation were assessed. As a reference, we similarly treated undifferentiated stem cells 2 days after plating for 48h or 72h in parallel to the differentiating stem cells. Here, we show that chemical testing of a training set comprising nine substances (six substances of known developmental toxicity and three without specific developmental neurotoxicity) enabled a mathematical prediction model to be formulated that provided 100% predictivity and accuracy for the given substances, including in leave-one-out cross-validation. The described test method can be performed within two weeks, including data analysis, and provides a prediction of the developmental neurotoxicity potency of a substance.
Cigarette smoking is the primary etiology of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and a risk factor for both lung and cardiovascular (CV) diseases, which are rarely investigated concomitantly. Although smoking cessation shows clear CV risk benefit, lung-related disease risk remains higher in former smokers than in never smokers. We sought to determine the differential molecular responses of murine respiratory tissues to better understand the toxicity pathways involved in smoking-related disease risk and those related to the benefits of smoking cessation. ApoE(-/-) mice were exposed to mainstream cigarette smoke (CS) or a smoking cessation-mimicking protocol for up to 6 months and transcriptomics analysis of nasal epithelium and lung parenchyma performed. We supported our gene expression profiling approach with standard lung histopathology and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) analysis. Many BALF analytes involved in functions ranging from inflammation to cell proliferation and tissue remodeling were found elevated in BALF. Gene expression levels of these molecules were also increased in lung tissue, suggesting that the inflammatory response was the result of local tissue activation and the contribution of recruited inflammatory cells. Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) of expression data from murine lungs and nasal epithelium showed distinct activation patterns of inflammation, complement, and xenobiotic metabolism pathways during CS exposure that were deactivated upon smoking cessation. Pathways involved in cell proliferation and tissue remodeling were activated by CS and progressively deactivated upon smoke exposure cessation. Differential CS-mediated responses of pulmonary and nasal tissues reflect common mechanisms but also the varying degrees of epithelial functional specialization and exposure along the respiratory tract.
To investigate the role of azathioprine in maintaining improvement after 1-year low-dose IV pulse CYC therapy in patients with early diffuse Systemic Sclerosis (dcSSc).
Thirteen patients with early dcSSc who had completed a year of treatment with low-dose IV pulse CYC underwent AZA treatment (100 mg/day) in a prospective 1-year study. Modified Rodnan skin score (mRss), Health Assessment Questionnaire-Disability Index (HAQ-DI), forced vital capacity (FVC), and diffusing lung capacity for CO (DLCO) were assessed as outcome measures. In addition, the nine organ/system Medsger et al. severity scores and the European Scleroderma Study Group (ESSG) activity index were evaluated.
The improvement from a year of CYC therapy was maintained by AZA treatment. No outcome measures deteriorated (mRss 8.23 +/- 2.9 vs. 6.38 +/- 3.4; HAQ-DI 0.38 +/- 0.4 vs. 0.32 +/- 0.3; FVC 89.5 +/- 13.2 vs. 89.4 +/- 15.9; DLCO 73.6 +/- 14.4 vs. 75.0 +/- 19.5), nor were there any increases in any organ/system severity scores or ESSG activity index detected.
This study suggests a role of AZA in maintaining the improvement induced by low dose pulse CYC in early dcSSc, making it possible a short duration of treatment at a low cumulative dose of the drug. These results, however, await confirmation in controlled studies.
Factors involved in the development of an insidious polyradiculoneuropathy in association with a procainamide-induced, lupuslike syndrome were explored. A 73-year-old man with this clinical syndrome had sural nerve changes consisting of loss of large myelinated fibers with evidence of remyelination and Schwann cell proliferation. The patient's lymphocytes showed marked incorporation of tritiated thymidine when cultured with either procainamide or extracts of human peripheral nerve myelin, and there was an enhanced response with the combination. We also found that procainamide-treated rats showed acceleration of lymphocyte sensitization to peripheral nerve myelin as judged by the early development of inhibition of macrophage migration and positive skin tests to extracts of peripheral nerve myelin. These studies suggest that procainamide can enhance lymphocyte sensitization to peripheral nerve myelin and may have predisposed this individual to development of a polyradiculoneuropathy.
Hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) is a rare, often fatal complication of mitomycin C therapy. It is generally accepted that HUS is, in part, caused by endothelial cell dysfunction. Endothelial cells modulate blood flow, blood pressure, and myointimal proliferation. Endothelial cells synthesize and release products that modulate vascular tone and regulate vascular smooth muscle cell growth. We describe a patient who developed HUS secondary to mitomycin C, resulting in end-stage renal disease and necessitating chronic hemodialysis. Over several months, the patient subsequently developed multisystem organ failure involving the heart, liver, and intestine that was associated with angiographically documented small, distal vessel occlusive disease and ultrasonographically identified coronary artery intimal hyperplasia. We propose that a diffuse ongoing endothelial cell dysfunction (ie, endotheliopathy) is the putative mechanism for this patient's clinical course. To our knowledge, this continuum of HUS presenting as a multisystem, progressive disorder has not been previously reported.
Indomethacin therapy for closure of patent ductus arteriosus frequently causes oliguria, and occasionally more serious renal dysfunction. Low dose dopamine has been suggested as a means for preventing this side effect.
