A 62-year-old man with rheumatoid arthritis developed jaundice while taking piroxicam. A full evaluation including ultrasound, computerized tomography, endoscopic cholangiography, and liver biopsy confirmed the diagnosis of intrahepatic cholestasis. The patient's jaundice and all other liver function abnormalities normalized 4 months after he discontinued taking piroxicam. This is the first case report in the United States of severe liver toxicity associated with piroxicam. The six cases in the English-language literature are reviewed, featuring the presentation, patterns of liver injury, and outcome in each. Piroxicam should be considered as a potential cause of cholestatic jaundice when other more common etiologies have been excluded.
The authors present a case of myocardial infarction in a 26-year-old man with antiphospholipid syndrome (APS) and a history of recent cocaine use. His only traditional cardiovascular risk was that he smoked. The authors propose that his cocaine use and APS brought about a potentially catastrophic cardiac event despite therapeutic anticoagulation. This was supported by the finding of normal coronary arteries on angiography despite both a significant regional wall motion abnormality on echocardiography and a significant rise in Troponin I. This case suggests the presence of a synergistic effect between cocaine and antiphospholipid antibodies.
Anticholinergic syndrome may present with a wide variety of signs and symptoms. Central manifestations range from excitatory symptoms including delirium and agitation to central nervous system depression, stupor and coma. Anticholinergic syndrome was once a common phenomenon after general anesthesia because of the frequent administration of the anticholinergic agents atropine and scopolamine. Now that these agents are rarely administered, anesthesia-related anticholinergic syndrome is currently infrequently reported. Still, many prescription and over the counter medications as well as many anesthetic agents possess anticholinergic activity, and this diagnosis should be considered in patients with altered mental status following general anesthesia. We report a case of prolonged somnolence following general anesthesia for an MRI. A rapid improvement of mental status with physostigmine confirmed the diagnosis of anticholinergic syndrome. This case is unique in that anticholinergic syndrome-related respiratory depression was promptly reversed with physostigmine.
We performed this study to assess whether low dose spironolactone could be administered in hemodialysis (HD) patients with moderate to severe heart failure to improve cardiovascular function and reduce hospitalization without inducing hyperkalemia. We enrolled 16 chronic HD patients with moderate to severe heart failure and left ventricle ejection fraction :5 45%. In a double blinded randomized placebo controlled study, one group of 8 patients received 25 mg of spironolactone after each dialysis session within six months, and the rest received a placebo. Echocardiography was performed on all the patients to assess ejection fraction and left ventricular mass during 12 hours after completion of hemodialysis at the beginning and the end of study. Serum potassium was measured predialysis every 4 weeks. The mean ejection fraction increased significantly more in spironolactone group during the study period than in the placebo group (6.2 +/- 1.64 vs. 0.83 +/- 4.9, P= 0.046). The mean left ventricular mass decreased in the spironolactone group, but increased significantly in the placebo group during the period (-8.4 +/- 4.72 vs. 3 +/- 7.97. 95%, P= 0.021). The incidence of hyperkalemia was not significantly increased in the study or controlled groups. In conclusion, we found in this study that administration of spironolactone in chronic HD patients with moderate to severe heart failure substantially improved their cardiac function and decreases left ventricular mass without development of significant hyperkalemia.
The aim of this randomized, double-blind, multicentric study was to assess and compare cognitive impairment in patients treated with either lorazepam or hydroxyzine, for generalized anxiety. Only non depressed patients were selected according to MADRS criteria. The cognitive assessment was performed with the BEC 96 rating scale, the intensity of anxiety symptoms was evaluated through the Hamilton-anxiety and Covi scales. The level of relation, mood and sedation was assessed for each item with a visual analog scale (VAS). The patient's and investigator's opinion on the global efficiency of the treatment were also evaluated on VAS. After an 8-day wash-out period under placebo, the treatment was given in a double-blind way for 28 days: either hydroxyzine 25 mg at a daily dosage of 100 mg t.i.d. (25 mg - 25 mg - 50 mg), or lorazepam 1 mg at a daily dosage of 4 mg t.i.d. (1 mg - 1 mg - 2 mg). The results were as follows: after the 28-day treatment period, patients showed at the BEC 96 a cognitive improvement in both groups, but the improvement in the hydroxyzine group was significantly higher. Furthermore, the improvement appeared more quickly in the hydroxyzine group. The Hamilton-anxiety and Covi scales showed an improvement in the anxiety level in both groups with no significant difference. The visual analog scales assessing relation, mood and sedation improved in both groups as well as the patient's and investigator's opinion. The five assessments all showed a significant by higher improvement in the hydroxyzine group.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Previous phase I-II studies have shown that the combination of paclitaxel-cisplatin-etoposide (TEP) is very active and well tolerated in patients with small-cell lung cancer (SCLC). In order to compare the TEP combination to cisplatin etoposide (EP) regimen as front-line treatment in patients with SCLC, we conducted a randomised multicenter study.
One hundred thirty-three chemotherapy-naïve patients with histologically proven limited or extensive stage SCLC were randomised to receive either paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 i.v. three-hour infusion on day 1 and cisplatin 80 mg/m2 i.v. on day 2 and etoposide 80 mg/m2 i.v. on days 2-4 with G-CSF support (5 mcg/kg s.c. days 5-15) or cisplatin 80 mg/m2 i.v. on day 1 and etoposide 120 mg/m2 i.v. on days 1-3 in cycles every twenty-eight days.
Due to excessive toxicity and mortality observed in the TEP arm, an early interim analysis was performed and the study was closed. Sixty-two patients received two hundred sixty-one cycles of TEP and seventy-one patients three hundred twenty-three cycles of EP The two patient groups were well balanced for age, sex, performance status, stage of disease and the presence of abnormal LDH at diagnosis. In an intention-to-treat overall analysis both regimens were equally active with a complete and partial response rate of 50% (95% confidence interval (CI): 37.5%-62.4%) for TEP and 48% (95%) CI: 36.2%-59.5%) for EP (P = 0.8). The median time to disease progression was 11 months for TEP and 9 months for EP (P = 0.02). The duration of response, one-year survival and overall survival were similar in the two arms. Similarly, in an intention-to-treat subgroup analysis of patients with limited or extensive stage disease, there was no difference in the activity between the two regimens except of a longer median time to disease progression in the extensive stage in favour of the TEP regimen, eight versus six months (P = 0.04). However, there were eight toxic deaths in the TEP arm versus none in the EP arm (P = 0.001). Moreover, the TEP regimen was associated with more severe toxicity than the EP regimen in terms of grade 4 neutropenia (P = 0.04), grade 3-4 thrombocytopenia (P = 0.02), febrile neutropenia (P = 0.08), grade 3-4 diarrhea (P = 0.01), grade 3-4 asthenia (P = 0.05) and grade 3 neurotoxicity (P = 0.06).
In this early terminated study, the TEP regimen was significantly more toxic than the EP regimen. The TEP regimen is associated with significant toxicity and mortality, and should not be used outside of a protocol setting. For future investigations, dose and schedule modifications are necessary to reduce toxicity.
Sepsis is a multifactorial, and often fatal, disorder typically characterized by widespread inflammation and immune activation with resultant endothelial activation. In the present study, we postulated that the adipokine adiponectin serves as a critical modulator of survival and endothelial activation in sepsis. To this aim, we evaluated both loss-of-function (adiponectin gene-deficient mice) and subsequent gain-of-function (recombinant adiponectin reconstitution) strategies in two well-established inflammatory models, cecal ligation perforation (CLP) and thioglyocollate-induced peritonitis. Adipoq(-/-) mice, subjected to CLP, exhibited a profound ( approximately 8-fold) reduction in survival compared with their wild-type Adipoq(+/+) littermates after 48 h. Furthermore, compared with wild-type controls, thioglycollate challenge resulted in a markedly greater influx of peritoneal neutrophils in Adipoq(-/-) mice accompanied by an excess production of key chemoattractant cytokines (IL-12p70, TNFalpha, MCP-1, and IL-6) and upregulation of aortic endothelial adhesion molecule VCAM-1 and ICAM-1 expressions. Importantly, all of these effects were blunted by recombinant total adiponectin administration given 3 days prior to thioglycollate challenge. The protective effects of adiponectin were ascribed largely to higher-order adiponectin oligomers, since administration of recombinant C39A trimeric adiponectin did not attenuate endothelial adhesion molecule expression in thioglycollate-challenged Adipoq(-/-) mice. These data suggest a critical role of adiponectin as a modulator of survival and endothelial inflammation in experimental sepsis and a potential mechanistic link between adiposity and increased sepsis.
In summary, the effects of dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) and its metabolites, dimethyl sulfone (DMSO2) and dimethyl sulfide (DMS), were studied in five selected systems in rats and mice. DMSO enhanced the taurine excretion and the lethality produced by such aromatic hydrocarbons as benzene and chlorobenzene in rats. In mice, DMSO decreased the toxicity such cholinesterase inhibitors as paraoxon and octamethyl pyrophosphoramide. DMSO also lowered the body temperture of rats and reduced the motor activity of mice. Although DMSO2, the major metabolite of DMSO, was not effective in increasing the lethality of solvent hydrocarbons, it seemed to be quite as effective with respect to the other effects. DMS, although quite potent with respect to lowering body temperature and reducing motor activity, was relatively ineffective otherwise. Thus each of the metabolites has a spectrum of activity different from the parent compound; DMSO has the widest spectrum and DMS the narrowest. It remains to be determined whether the therapeutic effects of DMSO are related to the experimental effects reported above in animals, and whether DMSO2 and DMS may share any of the therapeutic effects of DMSO.
We report a case of ticlopidine-induced cholestatic hepatitis.
An 82-year-old man suffered a myocardial infarction in February 1998. Because of persistent angina pectoris a coronary stent was implanted in May 1998. At this time medication with 1 x 250 mg ticlopidine was started in addition to the preexistent medication of aspirin 1 x 100 per day, metoprolol fumarate 1 x 95 mg per day and isosorbide dinitrate 1 x 100 mg per day. Three weeks after starting ticlopidine the patient complained of itching, and on day 28 painless jaundice developed. At this time, the serum activities of alkaline phosphatase (923 U/l), gamma-GT (823 U/l) and total bilirubin concentration (129 mumol/l) were markedly elevated, whereas the activities of the transaminases (AST 131 U/l, ALT 194 U/l) were slightly increased. An extra- or intrahepatic biliary obstruction was ruled out, and there were no signs of a toxic, infectious or immunological cause for the hepatic injury. Liver biopsy showed centro-acinar cholestasis. After drug discontinuation the itching stopped after 4 weeks and jaundice disappeared after 2 weeks. Eight months after the onset of symptoms, the activities of alkaline phosphatase (226 U/l) and gamma-GT (213 U/l) were still elevated but the patient was asymptomatic.
Ticlopidine-induced mild serum liver enzyme elevations have been observed in some studies (incidence 1-2%). The incidence of severe hepatitis has been estimated at 0.0013%. Only a few cases (in approximately 20 patients receiving ticlopidine) of a severe cholestatic pattern of injury have been reported. In all cases the jaundice resolved and serum liver enzyme concentrations normalised over a period of months. Characteristically, liver biopsies demonstrated centro-acinar cholestasis. Monitoring of serum liver enzyme concentrations is not recommended. When itching or jaundice occur in a patient taking ticlopidine, the possibility of toxic liver damage should be taken into account.
The purpose of this study was to determine whether vascular disruption is a feature of cocaine-induced teratogenicity in early murine organogenesis. The embryotoxic effects of cocaine were assessed: (1) in vivo, (2) in embryos cultured in the presence of cocaine (in vitro), and (3) after cocaine was administered in vivo and the embryos subsequently cultured in the absence of cocaine (in vivo-in vitro). When cocaine (78 mg/kg) was administered in vivo on day 8 and embryos were assessed on day 10, significant vascular perturbations, in the form of vasodilation and hemorrhage, as well as neural defects, were observed. In the in vitro system, day 8 embryos were cultured for 48 hr in the presence of 0, 10, 20, 33, and 66 micrograms/ml cocaine. At 10 and 20 micrograms/ml, vascular perturbation was not seen, while at higher cocaine concentrations, development of the yolk sac vasculature was inhibited. Hemorrhage was not a feature of in vitro cocaine embryotoxicity. However, significantly increased incidences of neural defects were seen at concentrations of 20 micrograms/ml or greater. Finally, in the in vivo-in vitro system, 78 mg/kg cocaine was administered on day 8 in vivo and embryos were dissected after 15 min and cultured for 48 hr. Marked cardiovascular perturbation, as well as neural defects, were produced using this protocol. With cocaine treatment, only 26.6% of embryos had a functioning heartbeat and yolk sac circulation, compared to 85.6% of controls. This cardiovascular disruption was associated with pooling of blood in the embryo, with 59.9% of embryos exhibiting marked vasodilation and hemorrhage compared to 12.5% in controls. Additional manifestations of cardiovascular perturbation were edema and blisters observed in cocaine-treated embryos. Neural tube defects, including open neural tube (8.3%) and microcephaly/hypoplastic prosencephalon (30.0%), were also significantly increased in cocaine-treated embryos. The cardiovascular and neural effects produced by cocaine were dose-dependent (40, 20 mg/kg). Thus, administration of cocaine in the in vivo or in vivo-in vitro systems produced marked cardiovascular effects, while in vitro treatment did not. These results suggest that cocaine may elicit cardiovascular toxicity through a maternally mediated mechanism.
Few adverse effects have been reported with adjunctive dexamethasone treatment in pneumococcal meningitis. Nevertheless, we report a case of cerebral vasculitis. A 49-year-old man was admitted for fever and altered mental status. Lumbar puncture revealed a high inflammatory response and Streptococcus pneumoniae was identified by culture. Antibacterial therapy and adjunctive dexamethasone treatment were initiated as recommended. The immediate outcome was favorable but due to the onset of focal cerebral abnormalities, a CT scan was performed on the ninth day showing cerebral vasculitis. The patient died on the thirteenth day despite antibacterial therapy and resuscitation. In our case, a secondary neurological worsening appeared when adjunctive dexamethasone treatment was stopped suggesting a rebound effect. Observation of similar cases may lead to modifying adjunctive dexamethasone treatment protocol in bacterial meningitis.
2,3,5-Tris(glutathion-S-yl)hydroquinone (TGHQ) is nephrotoxic in male Fischer 344 rats (20 micromol/kg) and albino guinea pigs (200 micromol/kg), but not BALB/c or B6C3F1 mice or Golden Syrian hamsters (200 micromol/kg). Since quinones are known to alkylate proteins, and because such macromolecular damage may play a role in cytotoxicity, we investigated the covalent binding of TGHQ to kidney (target tissue) and liver (nontarget tissue) of rodents "sensitive" or "resistant" to the nephrotoxic effects of TGHQ. Immunohistochemical staining of tissue obtained 2 h after administration of TGHQ, with rabbit anti-2-bromo-N-(acetyl-L-cystein-S-yl)HQ antibodies, correlated with the subsequent region of necrosis observed 19 h after dosing in Fischer 344 rats and guinea pigs. Immunohistochemical staining was localized to the S3 segment of the renal proximal tubules, at the corticomedullary junction along the medullary rays, and in the outer stripe of the outer medulla. Immunostaining was also observed in the same region in hamsters, but subsequent necrosis did not develop. In contrast, no immunostaining was observed in mice. Moreover, immunostaining was not detected in the livers of any species. Western blot analysis revealed numerous immunoreactive renal proteins in TGHQ-treated animals. The most distinctive immunostaining renal proteins were observed in Fischer 344 rats at approximately 34 kDa (mitochondria), approximately 35 kDa (nuclei) which comigrated with histone H1, and approximately 73 kDa (urine) which comigrated with gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase. These adducted proteins were not detected in other species. Qualitative differences in alkylated proteins may therefore contribute to species susceptibility to TGHQ.
To describe the occurrence of pulmonary embolism (PE) as a rare adverse effect of clozapine that is treatable, but sometimes fatal, and survey the literature on the subject in the hope of increasing awareness of the potential danger that may result from drug interactions.
A 47-year-old woman treated with clozapine and paroxetine was admitted to the hospital with dyspnea and swelling of the leg. The patient was diagnosed as having PE and was treated with intravenous heparin. On hospital day 7, sudden acute respiratory failure developed and the patient died. Postmortem examination confirmed the existence of massive PE.
The woman had no identifiable risk factors other than receiving a combination of clozapine and paroxetine, with a demonstrated elevated clozapine blood concentration. Use of the Naranjo probability scale revealed a probable likelihood that the adverse reaction was drug related.
The association of antipsychotic drugs and venous thromboembolism has been previously described, but is still a rare finding. This case highlights the importance of monitoring and possibly discontinuing treatment when venous thrombosis is suspected. There should be careful monitoring, especially in patients with risk factors for thrombosis. Finally, antidepressant-antipsychotic drug combinations can increase the risk of rare adverse effects, such as venous thromboembolism, even in the absence of other risk factors.
To report a new case of probable alfuzosin-induced hepatitis.
An 80-year-old man was evaluated because of jaundice and pruritus. He was diagnosed as having Child-Pugh A chronic liver disease due to hepatitis B virus. Other etiologies of hepatitis were appropriately ruled out, and the hepatitis B was non-replicative. Therefore, elevated liver enzyme levels were ascribed to alfuzosin treatment.
Although alfuzosin-related mixed-type hepatotoxicity has been previously reported, this is the first published case describing probable hepatocellular-type hepatotoxicity resulting from use of alfuzosin in a patient with underlying chronic liver disease. According to the Naranjo probability scale, alfuzosin was a probable cause of the hepatotoxicity. The mechanism of alfuzosin-induced liver damage is unknown. Several features, such as absence of predictable dose-dependent toxicity of alfuzosin in previous studies and absence of hypersensitivity manifestations in our case, are suggestive of a metabolic type of idiosyncratic toxicity.
Alfuzosin rarely causes hepatotoxicity; however, clinicians must be alert for this adverse effect while using alfuzosin.
Identification of carcinogenic activity is the primary goal of the 2-year bioassay. The expense of these studies limits the number of chemicals that can be studied and therefore chemicals need to be prioritized based on a variety of parameters. We have developed an ensemble of support vector machine classification models based on male F344 rat liver gene expression following 2, 14 or 90 days of exposure to a collection of hepatocarcinogens (aflatoxin B1, 1-amino-2,4-dibromoanthraquinone, N-nitrosodimethylamine, methyleugenol) and non-hepatocarcinogens (acetaminophen, ascorbic acid, tryptophan). Seven models were generated based on individual exposure durations (2, 14 or 90 days) or a combination of exposures (2+14, 2+90, 14+90 and 2+14+90 days). All sets of data, with the exception of one yielded models with 0% cross-validation error. Independent validation of the models was performed using expression data from the liver of rats exposed at 2 dose levels to a collection of alkenylbenzene flavoring agents. Depending on the model used and the exposure duration of the test data, independent validation error rates ranged from 47% to 10%. The variable with the most notable effect on independent validation accuracy was exposure duration of the alkenylbenzene test data. All models generally exhibited improved performance as the exposure duration of the alkenylbenzene data increased. The models differentiated between hepatocarcinogenic (estragole and safrole) and non-hepatocarcinogenic (anethole, eugenol and isoeugenol) alkenylbenzenes previously studied in a carcinogenicity bioassay. In the case of safrole the models correctly differentiated between carcinogenic and non-carcinogenic dose levels. The models predict that two alkenylbenzenes not previously assessed in a carcinogenicity bioassay, myristicin and isosafrole, would be weakly hepatocarcinogenic if studied at a dose level of 2 mmol/kg bw/day for 2 years in male F344 rats; therefore suggesting that these chemicals should be a higher priority relative to other untested alkenylbenzenes for evaluation in the carcinogenicity bioassay. The results of the study indicate that gene expression-based predictive models are an effective tool for identifying hepatocarcinogens. Furthermore, we find that exposure duration is a critical variable in the success or failure of such an approach, particularly when evaluating chemicals with unknown carcinogenic potency.
To test the hypothesis that cocaine-induced embryonic vascular disruption is mediated by oxygen free radicals, the antioxidants 2-oxothiazolidine-4-carboxylate (OTC) and alpha-phenyl-N-t-butyl nitrone (PBN) were employed. When cocaine (78 mg/kg) was administered on day 8 of gestation to ICR mice and embryos evaluated on day 10 (in vivo), 62.3% of cocaine-treated embryos showed increased vasodilation compared to 4.9% for controls, and 33.1% of the cocaine-exposed embryos showed marked hemorrhage compared to 3.3% for controls. In addition, cocaine increased the incidence of neural defects, in the form of open neural tube, hypoplastic prosencephalon, and microcephaly. Administration of OTC (0.25 and 0.5 mmol/kg) or PBN (300 mg/kg) prior to cocaine significantly reduced cocaine-induced vasodilation and hemorrhage, while not preventing neural defects. When cocaine (78 mg/kg) was administered in vivo on day 8 of gestation and embryos were dissected 15 min later and subsequently cultured for 48 hr in the absence of cocaine (in vivo-in vitro), marked vascular disruption was observed: normal yolk circulation/heartbeat was decreased to 26.6%, while edema/blisters and vasodilation/hemorrhage were increased to 45.6% and 59.6%, respectively. Administration of PBN (300 mg/kg) prior to cocaine completely prevented cocaine-induced vascular disruption. When cocaine was administered in vivo and PBN (300 micrograms/ml) was incubated with cultured embryos in vitro, the antioxidant only partially prevented cocaine-induced cardiovascular defects in this model. Neural defects produced by cocaine were not significantly affected by PBN, administered either in vivo or in vitro. Cocaine (78 mg/kg) administered in vivo stimulated lipid peroxidation maximally after 3 hr in both day 8 and day 9 embryos. When cocaine was incubated in vitro during embryo culture at 33 micrograms/ml, a concentration that produces nonspecific inhibition of growth and development, embryonic lipid peroxidation on day 9 was not affected. Finally, when PBN (300 mg/kg) was administered prior to cocaine (78 mg/kg) on day 8 of gestation, stimulation of lipid peroxidation by cocaine was prevented. These results suggest that cocaine-induced vascular disruption in early development is mediated by maternal production of oxygen free radicals.
(1) To evaluate the ototoxic potential of docusate sodium and mineral oil and (2) to compare the cerumenolytic properties of these agents to water and a commercially available product.
Prospective animal study.
Docusate sodium and mineral oil are being used to dissolve cerumen plugs. Their ototoxicity has never been assessed.
Nineteen guinea pigs represented 38 ears, which formed 4 groups. Each group was injected with an intratympanic solution once a week for 4 weeks. Group 1 was injected with a negative control solution of saline, group 2 with docusate sodium, group 3 with a positive control solution of gentamicin, and group 4 with mineral oil. Auditory brainstem responses (ABRs) were recorded before any procedure and 1 week after the final injections. Cochleas were analyzed under scanning electron microscopy. The cerumenolytic properties of water, docusate sodium, mineral oil, and cerumol were evaluated.
There was no significant ABR threshold increase for saline or mineral oil. Gentamicin and docusate sodium caused a significant threshold increase that averaged 51.9 dB and 44.9 dB over all the frequencies (P < .001). Electron microscopy could not be performed on the cochleas treated by docusate sodium because of very severe osteitis. All of the agents tested seemed to be effective cerumenolytics compared with no treatment, but water was significantly more effective compared with any of the other tested products (P < .001).
Docusate sodium was severely ototoxic, and its use should be discouraged. Mineral oil was not ototoxic. Water seemed to be the most effective cerumenolytic agent.
Oxidative stress plays a vital role in diabetic complications. To suppress the oxidative stress mediated damage in diabetic pathophysiology, a special focus has been given on naturally occurring antioxidants present in normal diet. D-saccharic acid 1,4-lactone (DSL), a derivative of D-glucaric acid, is present in many dietary plants and is known for its detoxifying and antioxidant properties. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the beneficial role of DSL against alloxan (ALX) induced diabetes in the pancreas tissue of Swiss albino rats. A dose-dependent study for DSL (20-120 mg/kg body weight) was carried out to find the effective dose of the compound in ALX-induced diabetic rats. ALX exposure elevated the blood glucose, glycosylated Hb, decreased the plasma insulin and disturbed the intra-cellular antioxidant machineries whereas oral administration of DSL at a dose of 80 mg/kg body weight restored these alterations close to normal. Investigating the mechanism of the protective activity of DSL we observed that it prevented the pancreatic β-cell apoptosis via mitochondria-dependent pathway. Results showed decreased mitochondrial membrane potential, enhanced cytochrome c release in the cytosol and reciprocal regulation of Bcl-2 family proteins in the diabetic rats. These events were also found to be associated with increased level of Apaf-1, caspase 9, and caspase 3 that ultimately led to pancreatic β-cell apoptosis. DSL treatment, however, counteracted these changes. In conclusion, DSL possesses the capability of ameliorating the oxidative stress in ALX-induced diabetes and thus could be a promising approach in lessening diabetic complications.
Pregnant rats of CFHB strain were injected 81/2 days postcoitum with a 1% suspension of retinoic acid (RA) in arachis oil to give 20 mg RA per kg body weight. Control rats were injected with arachis oil only. After 26 hours, one uterine horn was removed from each rat and the embryos cultured in serum from untreated rats. The embryos in the other horn were allowed to continue development in vivo. After a further 48 hours the cultures were terminated and the second uterine horn removed from each rat. This provided four groups of embryos for comparison: (1) embryos from RA-treated rats, (2) cultured embryos from RA-treated rats, (3) embryos from control rats, and (4) cultured embryos from control rats. The results showed that the effects of the teratogen on the cultured embryos were similar to those on the embryos allowed to continue development for the same period in the mother. In both groups RA reduced protein synthesis, inhibited somite and limb bud formation, and caused various neural tube defects, particularly microcephaly and abnormalities in the closure of the anterior and posterior neuropores.
An unusual case of bilateral femoral nerve compression caused by iliacus hematomas in a patient on anticoagulant therapy is herein reported with special reference to the comparative diagnostic value of ultrasonography, computerized tomorgraphy, and magnetic resonance imaging. The importance of early surgical decompression is also emphasized.
Pericarditis with tamponade developed in a patient treated with high-dose cytarabine for acute lymphocytic leukemia. Evidence suggests that this was a direct complication of his treatment.
Acquired neuromyotonia is characterized by hyperexcitability of motor nerves resulting in continuous muscle fiber activity. It occurs most often as a paraneoplastic syndrome in patients with cancers of the immune system. Antibodies against voltage-gated potassium channels (VGKCs) have been detected in some patients. Peripheral neuropathy is sometimes present. We report on a patient with Hodgkin's lymphoma in complete remission who developed paresthesias followed by neuromyotonia with bulbar involvement. Peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy was diagnosed electrophysiologically and evidence of axonal degeneration and demyelination was detected by sural nerve biopsy. The patient's complaints, including dysarthria, improved after carbamazepine treatment.
Autosomal recessive juvenile parkinsonism (AR-JP, PARK2; OMIM 602544), one of the monogenic forms of Parkinson's disease (PD), was initially described in Japan. It is characterized by early onset (before age 40), marked response to levodopa treatment and levodopa-induced dyskinesias. The gene responsible for AR-JP was recently identified and designated parkin. We have analysed the 12 coding exons of the parkin gene in 35 mostly European families with early onset autosomal recessive parkinsonism. In one family, a homozygous deletion of exon 4 could be demonstrated. By direct sequencing of the exons in the index patients of the remaining 34 families, eight previously undescribed point mutations (homozygous or heterozygous) were detected in eight families that included 20 patients. The mutations segregated with the disease in the families and were not detected on 110-166 control chromosomes. Four mutations caused truncation of the parkin protein. Three were frameshifts (202-203delAG, 255delA and 321-322insGT) and one a nonsense mutation (Trp453Stop). The other four were missense mutations (Lys161Asn, Arg256Cys, Arg275Trp and Thr415Asn) that probably affect amino acids that are important for the function of the parkin protein, since they result in the same phenotype as truncating mutations or homozygous exon deletions. Mean age at onset was 38 +/- 12 years, but onset up to age 58 was observed. Mutations in the parkin gene are therefore not invariably associated with early onset parkinsonism. In many patients, the phenotype is indistinguishable from that of idiopathic PD. This study has shown that a wide variety of different mutations in the parkin gene are a common cause of autosomal recessive parkinsonism in Europe and that different types of point mutations seem to be more frequently responsible for the disease phenotype than are deletions.
Inherited mutations in the E-cadherin gene ( CDH1 ) were described recently in three Maori kindreds with familial gastric cancer. Familial gastric cancer is genetically heterogeneous and it is not clear what proportion of gastric cancer susceptibility in non-Maori populations is due to germline CDH1 mutations. Therefore, we screened eight familial gastric cancer kindreds of British and Irish origin for germline CDH1 mutations, by SSCP analysis of all 16 exons and flanking sequences. Each family contained: (i) two cases of gastric cancer in first degree relatives with one affected before age 50 years; or (ii) three or more cases of gastric cancer. Novel germline CDH1 mutations (a nonsense and a splice site) were detected in two families (25%). Both mutations were predicted to truncate the E-cadherin protein in the signal peptide domain. In one family there was evidence of non-penetrance and susceptibility to both gastric and colorectal cancer; thus, in addition to six cases of gastric cancer, a CDH1 mutation carrier developed colorectal cancer at age 30 years. We have confirmed that germline mutations in the CDH1 gene cause familial gastric cancer in non-Maori populations. However, only a minority of familial gastric cancers can be accounted for by CDH1 mutations. Loss of E-cadherin function has been implicated in the pathogenesis of sporadic colorectal and other cancers, and our findings provide evidence that germline CDH1 mutations predispose to early onset colorectal cancer. Thus, CDH1 should be investigated as a cause of inherited susceptibility to both gastric and colorectal cancers.
