To explore whether 4-day parenteral beta-lactam therapy is as effective as 7-day therapy for children hospitalized for parenteral antimicrobials.
A series of patients aged 3 months to 15 years who fulfilled strict criteria for bacterial pneumonia, other respiratory infections, sepsis-like infections, and other acute infections were prospectively randomized to receive parenteral penicillin or cefuroxime randomly for 4 or 7 days. Besides blood and throat cultures, the etiology was searched by serology for 23 different agents.
Of 154 children analyzed, a probable etiology was established in 96. Of those, a bacterial infection, with or without concomitant viral infection, was disclosed in 80% and 94% in the 4-day and 7-day treatment groups, respectively; pneumococcus being the commonest agent. There was one possible treatment failure in the 4-day group, but with a questionable relation to the short course. Three patients in the 4-day and two in the 7-day group underwent treatment changes, or were rehospitalized within 30 days. All children recovered entirely.
Shortening parenteral beta-lactam treatment to 4 days in infections for which most parenteral antimicrobials are instituted, is not only safe, but reduces costs, is ecologically sound, and minimizes the risks of nosocomial infections and other adverse effects of treatment.
The benefit of intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rtPA) in acute stroke is linked to clot lysis and artery recanalization. Argatroban is a direct thrombin inhibitor that safely augments the benefit of rtPA in animal stroke models. There are no human data on this combination.
We report the first phase of the Argatroban tPA Stroke Study, an ongoing prospective, open-label, dose-escalation, safety and activity study of argatroban and rtPA in patients with ischemic stroke. The primary outcome was incidence of intracerebral hemorrhage; secondary outcome, complete recanalization at 2 hours. After standard-dose intravenous rtPA administration, a 100-mug/kg bolus of argatroban followed by infusion of 1 mug/kg per minute for 48 hours was adjusted to a target partial thromboplastin time of 1.75 times that of the control group.
Fifteen patients (including 10 men) were enrolled, with a mean +/- SD age of 61 +/- 13 years. All patients had middle cerebral artery occlusions. Baseline median National Institute of Health Stroke Scale score was 14 (range, 4-25). The mean +/- SD time from symptom onset to argatroban bolus administration was 172 +/- 53 minutes. Symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage occurred in 2 patients, including 1 with parenchymal hemorrhage type 2. Asymptomatic bleeding occurred in 1 patient and there was 1 death. Recanalization was complete in 6 patients and partial in another 4, and reocclusion occurred in 3 within 2 hours of rtPA bolus administration.
The safety of low-dose argatroban combined with intravenous rtPA may be within acceptable limits, and its efficacy for producing fast and complete recanalization is promising, but a larger cohort of patients is required to confirm these preliminary observations.
Mustard gas exposure causes adult respiratory distress syndrome associated with lung injury. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether an antioxidant, such as N-acetylcysteine (NAC), has any protective effect. Guinea pigs were given single exposure (0.5-6 mg/kg body weight) of 2-chloroethyl ethyl sulfide (CEES) as a mustard analogue intratracheally and maintained for various lengths of time (1 h to 21 days). Within 1 h of CEES infusion at 4 mg/kg, high levels of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), ceramides, and nuclear factor kappaB accumulated in lung and alveolar macrophages. Both acid and neutral sphingomyelinases were activated within 4 h. These signal transduction events were associated with alteration in the oxygen defense system. Within 1 h of exposure to CEES (6 mg/kg body weight), there was 10-fold increase in the (125)I-BSA leakage into lung tissue, indicating severe lung injury. Although low level of CEES exposure (0.5 mg/kg body weight) produced symptoms of chemical burn in lung as early as 1 h after exposure, the severity of edema, congestion, hemorrhage, and inflammation increased progressively with time (1 h to 21 days). Feeding of single dose of NAC (0.5 g) by gavage just before the CEES infusion was ineffective to counteract these effects. However, consumption of the antioxidant in drinking water for 3 or 30 days prior to CEES exposure significantly inhibited the induction of TNF-alpha, activation of neutral and acid sphingomyelinases, production of ceramides, activation of caspases, leakage of (125)I-bovine serum albumin ((125)I-BSA) into lung tissue, and histological alterations in lung. Pretreatment with NAC for 3 and 30 days protected against 69-76% of the acute lung injury. Therefore, NAC may be an antidote for CEES-induced lung injury.
Diazepam (DZ), the preferred anticonvulsant benzodiazepine (BZ) for the treatment of organophosphate (OP) nerve agent-induced seizures and neuronal damage, has been associated with unwanted effects such as sedation, amnesia, cardiorespiratory depression, anticonvulsant tolerance, and dependence liability. In a search for safer and more effective anticonvulsant BZs against OP-induced seizure and neuronal damage, we have previously shown that imidazenil (IMD), a low-intrinsic efficacy positive allosteric modulator of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) action at α1-containing GABA(A) receptors, which has high intrinsic efficacy at α2-, α3-, and α5-containing GABA(A) receptors, is more potent and longer lasting than DZ pretreatment at protecting rats from diisopropyl fluorophosphate (DFP)-induced electrocorticographic (ECoG) seizures and neuronal damage. The effects of IMD were observed at doses that are devoid of sedative, amnestic, and anticonvulsant tolerance actions. In the present study, we compared the anticonvulsant and neuroprotective effects of a combination of atropine (2 mg/kg, ip) and pyridine-2-aldoxime methochloride (2-PAM, 20 mg/kg, ip) with IMD (0.5 mg/kg, ip) or midazolam (MDZ, 0.5-2 mg/kg, ip) administered after the onset of DFP (1.5 mg/kg, sc)-induced seizure activity. The severity of DFP-induced ECoG seizures was assessed by continuous radio telemetry recordings in unrestrained and freely moving rats. Furthermore, the extent of neuronal damage was evaluated using a neuron-specific nuclear protein immunolabeling and fluoro-jade B staining procedure. We report here that IMD is more efficacious and longer lasting than sedating doses of MDZ in protecting rats from DFP-induced ECoG seizures and neuronal damage.
Mercury is a highly toxic metal which induces oxidative stress. Metallothionein and heat shock protein 70 (HSP70) are stress proteins involved in response to different stimuli. In the present study rats were administered per oral application by gavage, a single daily dose (0.1 mg/kg) of HgCl(2) for 3 consecutive days. To find a relation between these two stress proteins and mercury, parameters of liver injury, redox state of the cells, and the expression and protein levels of HSP70 and metallothionein by Northern and Western blot analysis were assayed either in blood or in liver. HgCl(2) at the doses of 0.1 mg/kg induced liver injury detected by a slight increase in serum aspartate aminotransferase and alkaline phosphatase activities and by the enhanced levels of bilirubin. Oxidative stress was detected by a significant decrease in protein-SH and an increase in thiobarbituric acid reactive substances in liver following one dose of mercury. mRNA and protein levels of both metallothionein and HSP70 increased progressively from first to third doses of mercury. We conclude that against low doses of mercury that produce a slight liver injury and oxidative stress, the liver rapidly responds by inducing the expression of metallothionein and HSP70. We suggest that metallothionein induction attenuates the decrease in protein-SH induced by the first dose of mercury, since metallothionein increases the pool of thiol groups in the cytosol eliminating oxygen radicals and inhibiting lipid peroxidation. From these results we can suggest that the changes observed in these stress proteins by the effect of mercury appear to be a response rapidly induced at transcriptional and at translational levels.
The aims of the present study were to assess the effects of arsenic trioxide on the nuclear matrix protein profiles of mouse neuroblastoma cells. Arsenic trioxide induces apoptosis of acute promyelocytic leukemia cells. Our results demonstrated that 2 microM As2O3 could significantly inhibit the growth of Neuro-2a cells. As early as 24 hours after As2O3 treatment, we began to observe the alteration of nuclear matrix proteins and apoptosis in tumor cells by TUNEL assay but not by DNA ladder. An increase expression of Hsc in nuclear matrix proteins of 2 microM As2O3 treated cells was also noted. Our results also showed that before a mass range of apoptosis occurred, the composition of nuclear matrix proteins had altered. Hence the alteration of nuclear matrix proteins, such as increased expression of Hsc, may be a sensitive indicator for the detection of early apoptosis.
The case of a 30-y-old male with latent tuberculosis who developed chemical hepatitis requiring hospitalization after 50 d of treatment with rifampin and pyrazinamide is reported. This case justifies the CDC guidelines that were updated on 31 August 2003 advising against the use of this brief regimen for patients with latent tuberculosis due to its risk for hepatotoxicity.
The traditional approach for estimating noncancer and cancer reference values in quantitative chemical risk assessment is time and resource intensive. The extent and nature of the studies required under the traditional approach has limited the number of chemicals with published risk assessments. In this study, female mice were exposed for 13 weeks to multiple concentrations of five chemicals that were positive in a 2-year cancer bioassay. Traditional histological and organ weight changes were evaluated, and gene expression microarray analysis was performed on the target tissues. The histological, organ weight changes, and the original tumor incidences in the original cancer bioassay were analyzed using standard benchmark dose (BMD) methods to identify noncancer and cancer points of departure, respectively. The dose-related changes in gene expression were also analyzed using a BMD approach and the responses grouped based on cellular biological processes. A comparison of the transcriptional BMD values with those for the traditional noncancer and cancer apical endpoints showed a high degree of correlation for specific cellular biological processes. For chemicals with human exposure data, the transcriptional BMD values were also used to calculate a margin of exposure. The margins of exposure ranged from 1900 to 54,000. Both the correlation between the BMD values for the transcriptional and apical endpoints and the margin of exposure analysis suggest that transcriptional BMD values may be used as potential points of departure for noncancer and cancer risk assessment.
The C609T single nucleotide polymorphism of the NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1) gene has been identified as an important risk parameter for the susceptibility to colorectal cancer. We here carried out a case-control study and examined the genotype distribution of NQO1 C609T (Pro189Ser) using the polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) approach, to investigate the possible role of this SNP as a risk factor in colorectal cancer development in Kasmir, India. We investigated the genotype distribution in 86 CRC cases in comparison with 160 healthy subjects and also focused on clinicopathological variables in the CRC cases. The observed genotype frequencies in cases and controls were significantly different [OR=1.64; 95%CI=0.94-2.86]. We also found a significant association between the Ser/Ser variant form with age group, smoking status, tumor location, nodal status/ higher tumor grade and with exposure to pesticides. Therefore, we suggest that the NQO1 C609T SNP is involved either in susceptibility or development of CRC in the ethnic Kashmiri population.
To describe our experience with the use of percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass as a therapy for cardiac arrest in an adult patient intoxicated with verapamil.
Case report.
Emergency department of a university hospital.
A patient with cardiac arrest after severe verapamil intoxication.
Percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass and theophylline therapy.
A 41-yr-old white male had taken 4800-6400 mg of verapamil in a suicide attempt. On arrival of the ambulance physician, the patient was conscious with weak palpable pulses and was transported to a nearby hospital. The patient developed a pulseless electrical activity, and cardiopulmonary resuscitation was started. Despite all advanced life support efforts, the patient remained in cardiac arrest. Therefore, he was transferred under ongoing cardiopulmonary resuscitation to our department, where percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass was initiated immediately (2.5 hrs after cardiac arrest). The first verapamil serum concentration obtained at admittance to our institution was 630 ng/mL. After several ineffective intravenous epinephrine applications, the administration of 0.48 g of theophylline as an intravenous bolus 6 hrs and 18 mins after cardiac arrest led to the return of spontaneous circulation. The patient remained stable and was transferred to an intensive care unit the same day. He woke up on the 12th day and was extubated on the 18th day. After transfer to a neuropsychiatric rehabilitation hospital, he recovered totally.
In patients with cardiac arrest attributable to massive verapamil overdose, percutaneous extracorporeal cardiopulmonary bypass can provide adequate tissue perfusion and sufficient cerebral oxygen supply until the drug level is reduced and restoration of spontaneous circulation can be achieved.
Heterocyclic amines are known to be important environmental carcinogens in several organs including the colon. The aim of this study was to induce colonic epithelial malignancies within a short-term period and analyze the expression of cycooxygenase (COX)-2, inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and beta-catenin, and mutations of beta-catenin gene in induced tumors. Male Crj: CD-1 mice were given a single i.g. administration (200 mg/kg body wt) of 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) or 2-amino-3,8-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoxaline (MeIQx) followed by 2% dextran sodium sulfate (DSS) in the drinking water for a week. The expression of beta-catenin, COX-2 and iNOS was immunohistochemically assessed in colonic epithelial lesions and the beta-catenin gene mutations in colonic adenocarcinomas induced were analyzed by the single strand conformation polymorphism method, restriction enzyme fragment length polymorphism and direct sequencing. At week 16, a high incidence of colonic neoplasms with dysplastic lesions developed in mice that received PhIP and DSS, but only a few developed in those given MeIQx and DSS. Immunohistochemically, the adenocarcinomas induced were all positive for three proteins. All seven adenocarcinomas induced by PhIP and DSS have mutations. The findings suggest that DSS exerts powerful tumor-promoting effects on PhIP-initiated colon carcinogenesis in mice and this mouse model is useful for investigating environment-related colon carcinogenesis within a short-term period.
We report a case of dilated cardiomyopathy that we believe is secondary to excessive use of inhaled beta agonists. Clinicians should be mindful of this possibility when using beta agonists to treat patients with obstructive airways disease; particularly if there is already recognised left ventricular dysfunction.
We have considered a novel "rational" gene targeting approach for treating pathologies whose genetic bases are defined using select phytochemicals. We reason that one such potential application of this approach would be conditions requiring immunosuppression such as autoimmune disease and transplantation, where the genetic target is clearly defined; i.e., interleukin-2 and associated T-cell activation. Therefore, we hypothesized that select phytochemicals can suppress T-lymphocyte proliferation both in vitro and in vivo. The immunosuppressive effects of berry extract, curcumin, quercetin, sulforaphane, epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG), resveratrol, alpha-tocopherol, vitamin C and sucrose were tested on anti-CD3 plus anti-CD28-activated primary human T-lymphocytes in culture. Curcumin, sulforaphane, quercetin, berry extract and EGCG all significantly inhibited T-cell proliferation, and this effect was not due to toxicity. IL-2 production was also reduced by these agents, implicating this important T-cell cytokine in proliferation suppression. Except for berry extract, these same agents also inhibited mouse splenic T-cell proliferation and IL-2 production. Subsequent in vivo studies revealed that quercetin (but not sulforaphane) modestly suppressed mouse splenocyte proliferation following supplementation of BALB/c mice diets. This effect was especially prominent if corrected for the loss of supplement "recall" as observed in cultured T-cells. These results suggest the potential use of these select phytochemicals for treating autoimmune and transplant patients, and support our strategy of using select phytochemicals to treat genetically-defined pathologies, an approach that we believe is simple, healthy, and cost-effective.
Progesterone has been demonstrated to be involved in maintaining pregnancy by regulating immunocytes. Dendritic cells (DCs), the most potent triggers of the adaptive immune response, express receptors for steroid hormones and are regarded as one of the primary targets of progesterone. However, the functional modification of DCs by progesterone remains poorly understood. Here, we report that progesterone does not affect the morphology or apoptosis of murine bone marrow-derived DCs. Progesterone-treated DCs were characterized by decreased expression of Ia (MHC class II), CD80 and CD86, increased production of IL-10, and decreased secretion of IL-12. Compared with mature DCs (mDCs), activated progesterone-treated DCs had a reduced capacity to stimulate CD4(+) T cell proliferation. The observation that progesterone-treated DCs could attenuate delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) responses in vivo suggests that progesterone mediates suppressive DC activity. However, transfer of progesterone-treated DCs into the peritoneal cavity of mice did not elevate the percentage of CD4(+)CD25(+)Foxp3(+) regulatory T cells in the spleen. Overall, our study helps to increase understanding of the role of DCs exposed to progesterone in the maintenance of pregnancy.
The potential for antiepileptic drugs to negatively impact cognitive abilities has generated renewed interest in herbal drugs and formulations in the treatment of epilepsy. Bacopa monnieri is one such widely used revitalizing herb that purportedly strengthens nervous function and also possesses memory-enhancing, antioxidative, antiepileptic, and anti-inflammatory properties. We investigated the neuroprotective role of B. monnieri extract in alteration of glutamate receptor binding and gene expression of NMDA R1 in hippocampus of temporal lobe epileptic rats. In association with pilocarpine-induced epilepsy, there was significant downregulation of NMDA R1 gene expression and glutamate receptor binding without any change in its affinity. B. monnieri treatment of epileptic rats significantly reversed the expression of NMDA R1 and glutamate receptor binding alterations to near-control levels. Also, in the epileptic rats, we measured a significant increase in the activity of glutamate dehydrogenase, which neared the control level after B. monnieri treatment. The therapeutic effect of B. monnieri was also observed in the Morris water maze experiment. These data together indicate the neuroprotective role of B. monnieri extract in glutamate-mediated excitotoxicity during seizures and cognitive damage occurring in association with pilocarpine-induced epilepsy.
A new approach in the treatment of cystic fibrosis involves improving the function of mutant cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR). VX-770, a CFTR potentiator, has been shown to increase the activity of wild-type and defective cell-surface CFTR in vitro.
We randomly assigned 39 adults with cystic fibrosis and at least one G551D-CFTR allele to receive oral VX-770 every 12 hours at a dose of 25, 75, or 150 mg or placebo for 14 days (in part 1 of the study) or VX-770 every 12 hours at a dose of 150 or 250 mg or placebo for 28 days (in part 2 of the study).
At day 28, in the group of subjects who received 150 mg of VX-770, the median change in the nasal potential difference (in response to the administration of a chloride-free isoproterenol solution) from baseline was -3.5 mV (range, -8.3 to 0.5; P=0.02 for the within-subject comparison, P=0.13 vs. placebo), and the median change in the level of sweat chloride was -59.5 mmol per liter (range, -66.0 to -19.0; P=0.008 within-subject, P=0.02 vs. placebo). The median change from baseline in the percent of predicted forced expiratory volume in 1 second was 8.7% (range, 2.3 to 31.3; P=0.008 for the within-subject comparison, P=0.56 vs. placebo). None of the subjects withdrew from the study. Six severe adverse events occurred in two subjects (diffuse macular rash in one subject and five incidents of elevated blood and urine glucose levels in one subject with diabetes). All severe adverse events resolved without the discontinuation of VX-770.
This study to evaluate the safety and adverse-event profile of VX-770 showed that VX-770 was associated with within-subject improvements in CFTR and lung function. These findings provide support for further studies of pharmacologic potentiation of CFTR as a means to treat cystic fibrosis. (Funded by Vertex Pharmaceuticals and others; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00457821.).
A central feature of the inflammatory pathology in Alzheimer's disease is activated microglia clustered around aggregated amyloid beta (Abeta) peptide-containing plaques. In vitro-cultured microglia can be activated to an inflammatory state by aggregated Abeta with the induction of a range of different neurotoxic factors and provide a model system for studying microglia Abeta interactions. Gene expression responses of human postmortem brain-derived microglia to aggregated Abeta were measured using whole genome microarrays to address the hypothesis that Abeta interactions with human microglia primarily induce proinflammatory genes and not activation of genes involved in Abeta phagocytosis and removal. The results demonstrated that Abeta activation of microglia induced a large alteration in gene transcription including activation of many proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines, most notably, interleukin (IL)-1beta, IL-8, and matrix metalloproteinases (MMP), including MMP1, MMP3, MMP9, MMP10, and MMP12. All of these genes could amplify ongoing inflammation, resulting in further neuronal loss. Changes in expression of receptors associated with Abeta phagocytosis did not match the changes in proinflammatory gene expression. Time-course gene expression profiling, along with real-time polymerase chain reaction validation of expression changes, demonstrated an acute phase of gene induction for many proinflammatory genes but also chronic activation for many other potentially toxic products. These chronically activated genes included indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase and kynureninase, which are involved in formation of the neurotoxin quinolinic acid, and S100A8, a potential proinflammatory chemokine. These studies show that activation of microglia by Abeta induces multiple genes that could be involved in inflammatory responses contributing to neurodegenerative processes.
A nasal challenge model of allergic rhinitis was used to determine if pretreatment with oral theophylline reduces histamine release in vivo. Ten subjects were entered into a double-blind, cross-over trial. The results showed that both the physiologic response (sneezing) (p = 0.02) and the amount of mediators (histamine, kinins, toluene sulfonyl arginine methyl ester esterase activity) (p less than 0.01 for all) released into nasal secretions were significantly reduced after one week of pretreatment with theophylline. At the time of challenge, the serum concentrations of theophylline were between 8 and 22 micrograms/ml. It is speculated that the ability of theophylline to block the clinical response to antigen challenge and to decrease the release of mast cell mediators contributes to its clinical efficacy in the treatment of asthma.
We report the case of an elderly patient with diastolic heart failure and renal insufficiency admitted to hospital as he complained of having a history of hypogastric pain and dysuria without fever due to renal lithiasis and urinary infection. Because the pain was persistence, and considering the presence of renal dysfunction, it was administered a single low dose of paracetamol/codein (500/30 mg). After about 1 hour of the administration, he suddenly complained of the onset of a lancinating epigastric pain radiating to the whole abdomen and retrosternum accompanied by nausea. The electrocardiogram (EKG) was negative for myocardial infarction and computed tomography excluded aortic dissection and other causes of acute abdomen. Laboratory tests showed instead liver and pancreatic damage. The symptomatology was relieved 3 hours later of the onset after antispastic treatment with anticholinergics (floroglucine). The likely underlying pathophysiological mechanism is the codein-induced spasm of the sphincter of Oddi combined with dysfunction of the same sphincter and reduced bile storage capacity related to a previous cholecystectomy. When a similar event does not regress, it may lead to more severe conditions such as acute pancreatitis. Since codein is a widely used drug, this report may suggest cholecystectomy as a contraindication during administration for the risk of occurrence of these complications.
Both statins and thiazolidinediones have antiinflammatory properties. However, the exact mechanisms underlying these effects are unknown. We investigated whether atorvastatin (ATV) and pioglitazone (PIO) increase the myocardial content of lipoxin-A4 and 15(R)-epi-lipoxin-A4 (15-epi-LXA4), both arachidonic acid products with strong antiinflammatory properties.
In experiment 1, rats received 3-day pretreatment with water; PIO 2, 5, or 10 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1); ATV 2, 5, or 10 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1); or PIO 10 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1)+ATV 10 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1). In experiment 2, rats received water; PIO 10 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1)+ATV 10 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1); PIO+ATV and valdecoxib, a selective cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor; PIO+ATV and zileuton, a selective 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor; or zileuton alone. There were 4 rats in each group. Hearts were harvested and analyzed for myocardial lipoxin-A4 and 15-epi-LXA4 levels and for COX-2 and 5-lipoxygenase protein expression. ATV and PIO at 5 and 10 mg x kg(-1) . d(-1) significantly increased myocardial 15-epi-LXA4 levels compared with the sham-treated group (0.51 +/- 0.02 ng/mg). Myocardial 15-epi-LXA4 were significantly higher in the PIO+ATV group (1.29 +/- 0.02 ng/mg; P < 0.001 versus each other group). Both valdecoxib and zileuton abrogated the PIO+ATV increase in 15-epi-LXA4, whereas zileuton alone had no effect. PIO, ATV, and their combination resulted in a small increase in myocardial lipoxin-A4 levels, which was not statistically significant. ATV alone or in combination with PIO markedly augmented COX-2 expression. PIO had a much smaller effect on COX-2 expression. Myocardial expression of 5-lipoxygenase was not altered by PIO, ATV, or their combination.
Both PIO and ATV increase myocardial levels of 15-epi-LXA4, a mediator with antiinflammatory properties. This finding may explain the antiinflammatory properties of both PIO and ATV.
Thenar hypoplasia has been described to occur as a part of radial longitudinal deficiency syndromes and occasionally related to Holt-Oram syndrome in which both cardiac and skeletal abnormalities co-occur. We describe a case with bilateral thenar hypoplasia, which resembles a milder variety of Holt-Oram syndrome, who developed bradycardia after exposure to lithium at therapeutic doses.
Excessive smoking is a well know phenomenon in psychiatry. Nicotine, the most important content of cigarette tobacco, interacts with several receptors of neurotransmitters in the CNS: especially the dopaminergic system appears to be relevant in this respect. Nicotine is a potent substance to counteract neuroleptic-induced parkinsonism. On the other hand nicotine is possibly a risk-factor for tardive dyskinesia. Nicotine has enormous therapeutical implications.
The purpose of this study was to determine whether an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, benazepril, and an angiotensin receptor antagonist, valsartan, would decrease atherosclerotic severity in cholesterol-fed rabbits. Male rabbits were fed either: (a) normal rabbit chow; (b) 2% cholesterol diet; (c) 2% cholesterol diet supplemented by benazepril (3 mg/kg per day, subcutaneous injection); or (d) 2% cholesterol diet supplemented by valsartan (1 mg/kg per day, subcutaneous injection). After 12 weeks, the arteries were harvested for histomorphometry and immunohistochemistry. We observed that decreases in serum triglyceride (TG) and total cholesterol (TC) and ACE activity with benazepril-treatment were more than 60, 30, and 84%, respectively, in comparison with the cholesterol group; with valsartan-treatment, TG levels were 53% lower than in the cholesterol group, however, there was no significant difference in TC and ACE activity. The percentage of aortic surface atherosclerotic area, intimal thickness and the ratio of aortic intimal area to medial area were about 40% lower in the benazepril-treated group in comparison with those of the cholesterol group; the difference was more than 60% in the thoracic aorta. The valsartan-treated group had 23% less atherosclerotic area, less effective than benazepril treatment. The percent of PCNA-positive cells and the number of intimal proliferative cells/mm2 were significantly less in the benazepril-treated group compared with the cholesterol group (by 55 and 63%); these parameters were 35 and 17% lower, respectively, with valsartan. The ratio of proliferating macrophages to smooth muscle cells (SMCs) was 3:1 in the cholesterol group, 1:1 in the benazepril and 2:1 in the valsartan-treated group. These results indicate that benazepril could reduce atherosclerotic progression by decreasing macrophage proliferation and accumulation in the arterial wall. The mechanisms for reducing atherosclerotic progression by benazepril and valsartan may be related to reduction of TG and blockade of the angiotensin II action.
Consistent with previous accounts, some of the patients visiting our pain clinic during the course of a migraine attack have indicated-without solicitation-that sumatriptan injection initially intensified their headache before they were able to appreciate any pain relief. In this study, those patients who came forward complaining about pain exacerbation were asked to rate their headache intensity every 5 min. Within 5-15 min of sumatriptan injection, 17 of the 31 patients studied (55%) reported that their migraine pain intensified for 10-15 min before they started to notice any pain relief. Similar pattern of pain exacerbation was also observed in migraine attacks treated with oral formulation of almotriptan, eletriptan, rizatriptan, and zolmitriptan. To investigate the possible mechanism underlying this transient exacerbation of pain, we examined whether intravenous administration of sumatriptan can alter the response properties of C- and Adelta-meningeal nociceptors in the rat. Five to twenty minutes after intravenous administration of 300 microg/kg sumatriptan, 8/10 C-units and 2/8 Adelta-units increased their firing rate, and 6/10 C-units and 7/8 Adelta-units developed mechanical hyper-responsiveness to dural indentation. The minimal effective dose for activation and sensitization of meningeal nociceptors by sumatriptan was 3 microg/kg, suggesting that relatively low levels of triptans entering the circulation shortly after their administration can alter the physiological properties of meningeal nociceptors and produce a transient exacerbation of headache.
Several candidate genes along androgen pathway have been suggested to affect prostate cancer risk but no single gene seems to be overwhelmingly important for a large fraction of the patients. In this study, we first screened for variants in candidate genes and then chose to explore the association between 18 variants and prostate cancer risk by genotyping DNA samples from unselected (n = 847) and familial (n = 121) prostate cancer patients and population controls (n = 923). We identified a novel single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the CYP19A1 gene, T201M, with a mild significant association with prostate cancer [odds ratio (OR), 2.04; 95% confidence interval (95% CI), 1.03-4.03; P = 0.04]. Stratified analysis revealed that this risk was most apparent in patients with organ-confined (T(1)-T(2)) and low-grade (WHO grade 1) tumors (OR, 5.42; 95% CI, 2.33-12.6; P < 0.0001). In contrast, CYP17A1 -34T>C alteration was associated with moderate to poorly differentiated (WHO grade 2-3) organ-confined disease (OR, 1.42; 95% CI, 1.09-1.83; P = 0.007). We also tested a multigenic model of prostate cancer risk by calculating the joint effect of CYP19A1 T201M with five other common SNPs. Individuals carrying both the CYP19A1 and KLK3 -252A>G variant alleles had a significantly increased risk for prostate cancer (OR, 2.87; 95% CI, 1.10-7.49; P = 0.03). In conclusion, our results suggest that several SNPs along the androgen pathway, especially in CYP19A1 and CYP17A1, may influence prostate cancer development and progression. These genes may have different contributions to distinct clinical subsets as well as combinatorial effects in others illustrating that profiling and joint analysis of several genes along each pathway may be needed to understand genetic contributions to prostate cancer etiology.
