Statins (3-Hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors) have been shown to reduce clinical events in excess of what can be explained by altering lipid profile. Statins have been shown to possess modest antioxidant and antiplatelet aggregatory effect. We postulated that statins may accordingly inhibit arterial thrombus formation. To assess the antithrombotic effects of atorvastatin, a commonly used statin, in response to an oxidant stimulus, we fed Sprague-Dawley rats either regular chow, or chow mixed with atorvastatin (1.25 mg/kg) for 10 days (n = 16 in each group). Eight rats in each group were also given oxidized low-density lipoprotein intravenously prior to the induction of thrombus. An occlusive thrombus was created in the abdominal aorta by application of Whatman paper soaked in 35% FeCl3. The time to occlusive thrombus formation was not altered by administration of oxidized low-density lipoprotein in the rats fed regular chow or chow mixed with atorvastatin. However, time to thrombosis was increased in the group given chow mixed with atorvastatin (26 +/- 4 minutes vs. 20 +/- 5 minutes, P < 0.02). To determine the mechanism of atorvastatin's antithrombotic effect, we measured the expression of endothelial constitutive nitric oxide synthase (cNOS) in rat aortas by Western analysis. The cNOS protein expression was enhanced 75% in rats fed chow with atorvastatin (P < 0.01 vs. rats fed regular chow). Plasma levels of total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol were similar in all groups. This study shows that atorvastatin delays thrombus formation in arterial channels exposed to oxidant stress. This effect of atorvastatin appears to be related to increased expression of cNOS, which is known to inhibit platelet aggregation and induce vasodilatation. The effects of atorvastatin are independent of its effects on plasma cholesterol levels.
A 36-year-old, 7-week-gravida patient with catheter-related nosocomial infective endocarditis due to methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is presented in this paper. The patient was admitted to our hospital because of carbon monoxide intoxication. After 14 days, MRSA catheter-related bacteremia developed. The central venous catheter was immediately removed, and teicoplanin therapy was started. Because of persistent fever, leukocytosis, and high C-reactive protein values, endocarditis was suspected. A transesophageal echocardiogram revealed 19-mm vegetation on her mitral valve, confirming the diagnosis of endocarditis. Gentamicin and rifampicin were added to the therapy regimen, and the dose of teicoplanin was increased to 12 mg/kg-day. After 8 days, a splenic abscess was detected by ultrasonography. Vegetation excision, mitral valve replacement by open-heart surgery and splenectomy were performed in the same operation. Antibiotherapy was continued for 6 weeks after surgery, and the patient's condition improved. The development of endocarditis could be prevented by proper clinical practices.
Tardive dyskinesia (TD) is a motor disorder of the orofacial region resulting from chronic neuroleptic treatment. A high incidence and irreversibility of this hyperkinetic disorder has been considered a major clinical issue in the treatment of schizophrenia. The molecular mechanism related to the pathophysiology of tardive dyskinesia is not completely known. Various animal studies have demonstrated an enhanced oxidative stress and increased glutamatergic transmission as well as inhibition in the glutamate uptake after the chronic administration of haloperidol. The present study investigated the effect of curcumin, an antioxidant, in haloperidol-induced tardive dyskinesia by using different behavioural (orofacial dyskinetic movements, stereotypy, locomotor activity, % retention), biochemical (lipid peroxidation, reduced glutathione levels, antioxidant enzyme levels (SOD and catalase) and neurochemical (neurotransmitter levels) parameters. Chronic administration of haloperidol (1 mg/kg i.p. for 21 days) significantly increased vacuous chewing movements (VCM's), tongue protrusions, facial jerking in rats which was dose-dependently inhibited by curcumin. Chronic administration of haloperidol also resulted in increased dopamine receptor sensitivity as evident by increased locomotor activity and stereotypy and also decreased % retention time on elevated plus maze paradigm. Pretreatment with curcumin reversed these behavioral changes. Besides, haloperidol also induced oxidative damage in all major regions of brain which was attenuated by curcumin, especially in the subcortical region containing striatum. On chronic administration of haloperidol, there was a decrease in turnover of dopamine, serotonin and norepinephrine in both cortical and subcortical regions which was again dose-dependently reversed by treatment with curcumin. The findings of the present study suggested for the involvement of free radicals in the development of neuroleptic-induced tardive dyskinesia and point to curcumin as a possible therapeutic option to treat this hyperkinetic movement disorder.
Current guidelines for the treatment of hypertension do not provide specific recommendations for obese hypertensive patients. To identify an optimal treatment regimen for obese hypertensive patients, we studied the interactions between a drug-based weight loss approach by sibutramine and different antihypertensive drug regimens.
This was a prospective, 16-week double-blind placebo-controlled randomized multicenter study in 171 obese hypertensive patients. After a 2-week run-in period, patients receiving 1 of the 3 antihypertensive combination therapies (felodipine 5 mg/ramipril 5 mg [n=57], verapamil 180 mg/trandolapril 2 mg [n=55], or metoprolol succinate 95 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg [metoprolol/hydrochlorothiazide; n=59]) were assigned randomly to sibutramine (15 mg) or placebo. Sibutramine treatment resulted in a significantly greater decrease in body weight, body mass index, and waist circumference and a significant increase in diastolic blood pressure during 24-hour blood pressure monitoring compared with placebo treatment. Sibutramine-induced weight loss and reduction of visceral obesity were markedly attenuated in the metoprolol/hydrochlorothiazide group compared with the other groups. Consistently, improvement in glucose tolerance and hypertriglyceridemia by sibutramine was abrogated in the cohort treated with metoprolol/hydrochlorothiazide compared with the other groups.
The present study demonstrates for the first time that an antihypertensive combination therapy regimen with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and calcium channel blockers is more advantageous than a beta-blocker/diuretic-based regimen in supporting the weight-reducing actions and concomitant metabolic changes induced by sibutramine in obese hypertensive patients. These data may help to develop future comprehensive treatment strategies and guidelines for this high-risk patient population.
The aim of this study was to assess the principal signs and symptoms for severe necrotizing midline nasal lesions and give diagnostic and management algorithms.
Literature review and retrospective chart review were performed. Three patients with Wegener's granulomatosis (WG), six patients with sarcoid, eight patients with cocaine abuse, and one lymphoma patient were analyzed with respect to symptom complexes, laboratory results, and radiographic findings. Based on computed tomography findings, a nasal destruction score was tabulated for each patient.
All diseases essentially had similar signs and symptoms within the head and neck but several extranasal sites were suggestive of specific etiologies. Serological laboratory testing was diagnostic in only two of the six sarcoid patients and two of the three WG patients. There were no specific tests associated with lymphoma or cocaine abuse, although erythrocyte sedimentation rate was consistently and significantly elevated in the latter group. Biopsy confirmed disease was found in one of the three sarcoid patients, in one of the three WG patients, and in one out of one of the lymphoma patients. Nasal destruction scores were highest in WG and lymphoma patients, intermediate in cocaine abuse patients, and lowest in patients with sarcoidosis. Two of the three WG patients had extensive neoosteogenesis. One out of one lymphoma and five of the eight cocaine abuse patients had oronasal or oroantral fistulas.
Laboratory tests and biopsies were consistently unreliable in all diseases. Repeat studies should be performed in all cases of negative results if clinical suspicion is high. Neo-osteogenesis and mastoid disease were associated with WG when compared with patients with similar levels of nasal destruction due to other etiologies. Laryngeal and dermatologic changes without significant nasal bony abnormalities raised suspicion for sarcoidosis. Hard and soft palate defects were associated with cocaine abuse and extranodal nasal lymphoma.
Contraction and relaxation of airway smooth muscles is mediated, in part, by G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) and dysfunction of these receptors has been implicated in asthma. Phosphorylation of GPCRs, by G protein-coupled receptor kinase (GRK), is an important mechanism involved in the dampening of GPCR signaling. To determine whether this mechanism might play a role in airway smooth muscle physiology, we examined the airway pressure time index and heart rate (HR) responses to intravenous administration of the cholinergic agonist methacholine (MCh) in genetically altered mice lacking one copy of GRK2 (GRK2 +/-), homozygous GRK3 knockout (GRK3 -/-), and wild-type littermates. (GRK2 -/- mice die in utero.) GRK3 -/- mice demonstrated a significant enhancement in the airway response to 100 and 250 microgram/kg doses of MCh compared with wild-type and GRK2 +/- mice. GRK3 -/- mice also displayed an enhanced sensitivity of the airway smooth muscle response to MCh. In addition, GRK3 -/- mice displayed an altered HR recovery from MCh-induced bradycardia. Although direct stimulation of cardiac muscarinic receptors measured as vagal stimulation-induced bradycardia was similar in GRK3 -/- and wild-type mice, the baroreflex increase in HR associated with sodium nitroprusside-induced hypotension was significantly greater in GRK3 -/- than wild-type mice. Therefore, these data demonstrate that in the mouse, GRK3 may be involved in modulating the cholinergic response of airway smooth muscle and in regulating the chronotropic component of the baroreceptor reflex.
A number of acquired De-Toni-Debre-Fanconi-Syndromes have been reported after cytostatic treatment with Ifosfamide. For the majority of these patients prognosis of renal function was poor. In our study we evaluated the frequency of subclinical tubulopathies, the influence of the cumulative Ifosfamide dose and other risk factors and the prognosis of once established tubular dysfunction.
79 patients after polychemotherapy regimens employing Ifosfamide (n = 39), Ifosfamide plus Cisplatinum (n = 35) or Cisplatinum (n = 5) were examined at least 3 months after completion of therapy. Beside the creatinine-clearance we evaluated glomerular and tubular function by measurement of transferrin, immunoglobuline G, Alpha-1-microglobuline and N-Acetyl-beta-D-Glucosamidaseexcretion and by tubular reabsorption of phosphate and aminoacids.
Renal hyperaminoaciduria was found most often, and there was no linear correlation between the cumulative Ifosfamide-dose and phosphate reabsorption. A reduced glomerular filtration rate and glomerular proteinuria were found in about 10.5% of patients. Approximately half of the patients had tubular dysfunction. Impairment of phosphate reabsorption once established did not normalize in the majority of patients. Cisplatinum was found to worsen the Ifosfamide-induced tubulopathy.
Our results indicate subclinical tubulopathy after Ifosfamide in a high proportion of patients. This Ifosfamide induced nephrotoxicity is worsened by Cisplatinum and seems to be irreversible for the majority of patients. To describe and to prevent Ifosfamide-induced nephrotoxicity, further studies should focus on: 1. the identification of the risk-groups/patients and additional risk factors, 2. the estimation of the prognosis of once established renal damage, 3. the clarification of the pathomechanism.
The influence of glucocorticoids on the transcription factor NFkB was investigated by using the gel mobility shift assay with nuclear extracts prepared from rat cerebral cortex and hippocampus after a variety of in vivo treatments. Following stimulation with each of three treatments, kainate, pilocarpine, or lithium plus pilocarpine-induced seizures, NFkB DNA binding activity was significantly greater in the cortex and hippocampus from adrenalectomized than from adrenal-intact rats. These results indicate that in rat brain glucocorticoids inhibit NFkB activity in addition to the previously reported inhibition of the transcription factor AP-1 (activator protein 1). Impairment of stimulus-induced transcription factor activity may contribute to the deleterious effects of prolonged elevations of glucocorticoids on neuronal function.
A 68-year-old ex-smoker man with history of allergy, presented to the emergency department with progressive dyspnea one hour following self-medication with aspirin for troublesome headache. Examination revealed diffuse sibilant rhonchi over both lungs. Electrocardiogram showed signs of ischemia. In the intensive care unit, he received bronchodilators, nitroglycerin, and aspirin. Bronchospasm increased, and then the patient was shocked, and developed cardiac arrest. After resuscitation, he was kept on mechanical ventilation and adrenaline infusion. He was scheduled for coronary angiography. The left system demonstrated stenosis of the mid-segment of the left anterior descending artery (LAD), which was totally occluded distally, stenosis of the left circumflex (LCx) with a mild plaque in its marginal branch. The right system demonstrated stenosis of the mid-segment of the right coronary artery (RCA), with diffusely diseased posterior descending artery (PDA) and posterolateral left ventricular branch (PLLV). Successful direct stenting was performed to the RCA. Angiography demonstrated worsening of the distal stenosis in the PLLV and complete occlusion of the PDA. Balloon dilatation of the PLLV was adequate, but dilatation of the PDA failed. Repeat angiography of the left system revealed an occluded LCx with critical stenosis of its marginal branch; nevertheless, the LAD was as before. Balloon dilatation of the distal LAD was attempted without improvement, yet, angiography therein, demonstrated "migration" of the stenoses in the LCx. The procedure was halted, adrenaline infusion discontinued, and an intra-aortic balloon pump inserted. The patient was discharged one day later. Follow-up angiography 6 months later demonstrated mild atherosclerotic coronary irregularities.
Sjögren-Larsson syndrome (SLS) is caused by a deficiency of fatty aldehyde dehydrogenase (FALDH), encoded by the ALDH3A2 gene. In animal studies, the expression of the murine ortholog of FALDH, has been shown to be under the control of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha). In the present study, we investigated whether the hypolipidemic drug bezafibrate, which is a pan-agonist of all PPAR-isoforms, might induce FALDH activity in human fibroblasts of control subjects and SLS patients that still have some residual FALDH activity. Our results show that FALDH activity was induced 1.4-fold after a 3-day treatment with 800 microM bezafibrate in fibroblasts of control subjects. Interestingly, in fibroblasts of two SLS patients homozygous for the p.R228C substitution, FALDH activity could be induced to 37% of control values by bezafibrate treatment. mRNA analysis in fibroblasts of these patients also revealed a mean 1.8-fold induction of FALDH mRNA after bezafibrate treatment. No induction was observed in fibroblasts of patients with mutations that cause instability of FALDH mRNA or that result in a protein without any residual activity. These data suggest that bezafibrate treatment could be effective in patients with expression of FALDH protein and some residual enzyme activity. Further research is needed to resolve whether patients could benefit from treatment with bezafibrate.
Data on a combination norgestrel-ethinyl estradiol oral contraceptive (Ovral) were obtained from eight large family planning clinics. The safety and efficacy of the drug were evaluated for 6,806 mature, sexually active women who received a total of 127,872 cycles of the medication; this represents 9,836 woman-years of usage. No pregnancy attributable to medication failure occurred, but 19 women who omitted two or more consecutive tablets became pregnant. This produced an overall use-effectiveness pregnancy rate of 0.19/100 woman-years. Cycle control was excellent, and intermenstrual bleeding was rare. Adverse effects were minimal; laboratory values seldom deviated from pretreatment levels. Fertility returned promptly upon withdrawal of the contraceptive, and no infant abnormalities were attributed to its use.
A clinical review of the oral contraceptive Ovral (.5 mg norgestrel, .05 mg ethinyl estradiol), representing 6806 users over 9836 woman-years of use, is presented. 19 pregnancies occurred (.19 per 100 woman-years), though none were attributable to failure of the drug. Menstrual periods were regular and predictable in at least 80% of the patients. The incidence of intermenstrual bleeding was low (2.5% of the cycles). 306 patients (4.5%) discontinued medication for medical reason s, the most prevalent of which were headache, nausea and vomiting, weight gain, and nervousness. Breast masses developed in 19 women, carcinoma in situ of the cervix in 16 patients, and thrombophlebitis in 9 women. Hepatic and thyroid functions were slightly altered, though there was no evidence of abnormal adrenal function or neuro-ophthalmologic effects related to the medication. Fertility promp tly returned after cessation of treatment in most cases, and no infant a bnormalities were attributable to the drug. The contraceptive effect of Ovral is suggested to be due primarily to gonadotropin suppression with subsequent inhibition of ovulation.
Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of C-terminal octapeptide of cholecystokinin (CCK-8) in rats prolonged pentobarbital- and ethanol-induced sleeping time, but non-sulfated CCD-8 (CCK-8-NS) had no effect and caerulein showed a tendency to prolong the pentobarbital narcosis. On the other hand, i.c.v. injection of thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH) shortened the sleeping time and the effect of CCK-8 was apparently antagonized by combined administration of TRH. Spontaneous locomotor activity in the late morning and early afternoon was not affected by CCK-8, but it increased following i.c.v. injection of CCK-8-NS. Hyperactivity produced by TRH and methamphetamine was suppressed by i.c.v. injection of CCK-8, while CCK-8-NS showed a tendency to enhance the methamphetamine-induced hyperactivity and caerulein had no effect. These results indicate that CCK-8 has a sedative action and antagonizes the behavioral excitation caused by TRH and methamphetamine, but that the effects of CCK-8-NS and caerulein were rather the opposite of those of CCK-8. In an additional experiment the TRH-induced body shaking response was not affected by combined administration of CCK-8.
Plasma homocysteine has recently been associated with the occurrence of methotrexate-related neurotoxicity. We observed extreme elevations of homocysteine in a 9-year-old boy presenting with leukemia treated with the ALL-BFM 95 protocol. Coma occurred at about the 71st hour from the first methotrexate administration, and lasted for 30 h but MRI and CT studies showed no intracranial pathology. The second course of high-dose methotrexate was administered with no complications. Homocysteine areas under the curve (AUC) were calculated as the sum of areas of rectangles during the 6-hour intervals from T(0) to T(72) hours (AUC(0--72)) and methotrexate AUCs were evaluated using MW/PHARM 3.3 software. The AUC of homocysteine during the first, toxic course was 5.2 times higher than AUC during the second administration, whereas AUC of methotrexate also differed by a factor of 5. Plasma concentrations of folate prior to the first and the second courses, respectively, were 4.4 versus 45 micromol/l making this difference the most striking discriminator between the two courses. Mutation analysis showed that the patient was heterozygous for the C 677 T mutation in the MTHFR gene. We suggest that plasma homocysteine, pretreatment plasma folate and possibly the presence of MTHFR mutations may be biomarkers of methotrexate toxicity and possibly its antifolate effect targeted towards the tumor as well.
Using a whole-exome sequencing strategy, we identified recessive CCNO (encoding cyclin O) mutations in 16 individuals suffering from chronic destructive lung disease due to insufficient airway clearance. Respiratory epithelial cells showed a marked reduction in the number of multiple motile cilia (MMC) covering the cell surface. The few residual cilia that correctly expressed axonemal motor proteins were motile and did not exhibit obvious beating defects. Careful subcellular analyses as well as in vitro ciliogenesis experiments in CCNO-mutant cells showed defective mother centriole generation and placement. Morpholino-based knockdown of the Xenopus ortholog of CCNO also resulted in reduced MMC and centriole numbers in embryonic epidermal cells. CCNO is expressed in the apical cytoplasm of multiciliated cells and acts downstream of multicilin, which governs the generation of multiciliated cells. To our knowledge, CCNO is the first reported gene linking an inherited human disease to reduced MMC generation due to a defect in centriole amplification and migration.
In 12 of 93 hypercalcemic patients with metastatic advanced breast cancer treated with tamoxifen the most common life-threatening metabolic complication of flare hypercalcemia developed. All the hypercalcemic patients had osteolytic or mixed lytic and blastic bone metastases. In patients with advanced breast cancer, hypercalcemia develops within the first few weeks of initiation of tamoxifen therapy. In our study group, calcium levels were measured frequently in both serum and urine samples by a semi-autoanalyzer and an autoanalyzer, using standard methods. Elevation of calcium levels was noticed in the tamoxifen-receiving hypercalcemic breast cancer patients, and levels returned to normal when tamoxifen was withdrawn. The median duration of flare hypercalcemia was 9 days (range, 4-16 days). The median calcium value was 13.6 mg/dl (range, 11.7-15.8). The diagnosis of tamoxifen flare hypercalcemia was based on the normal pretreatment serum or urine calcium values and the occurrence of hypercalcemia within the first few weeks of tamoxifen initiation. There are no specific treatment recommendations for hormone flare hypercalcemia, except for tamoxifen withdrawal, which is usually temporary, and the introduction of a low dose of an antihypercalcemic drug. We evaluated the effect of such a drug, gallium nitrate, on flare hypercalcemia. All the patients were treated with hydration, and 6 patients, whose calcium level was above 13.6 mg/dl, were treated with a moderate dose of gallium nitrate (200 mg/m(2) per kg) for 5 consecutive days, they achieved normocalcemia and continued with tamoxifen. The median time from hormonal drug initiation to flare hypercalcemia was 17.5 days, and median duration was 9 days. The above result indicates that the serious metabolic complication of hypercalcemia develops due to the iatrogenic effect of tamoxifen, but it can be controlled with an antihypercalcemic drug, gallium nitrate, while continuing tamoxifen therapy. It seems that the use of gallium nitrate in the treatment of flare hypercalcemia could allow safe readministration of tamoxifen and prevent premature tamoxifen discontinuance or withdrawal.
Current developmental and reproductive toxicity protocols include only a limited set of parameters for effects on the developing immune system. In this study, a wide range of immunological parameters were included in a pre- and postnatal developmental toxicity study. Dose-response data were compared to determine the relative sensitivity of different immune and developmental parameters. Mated female Wistar rats were dosed daily by gavage with methylmercury (0, 0.1, 0.4, 0.7, 1.0, 1.5, and 2.0 mg/kg BW/day) from gestational day 6 to postnatal day (PND) 10. In addition to general, reproductive, and developmental parameters, a wide range of immunological parameters were assessed in male offspring at PNDs 21, 42, and 70. The T cell-dependent antibody response to keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH) was assessed following sc immunizations on PNDs 21 and 35. Dose-response data were analyzed using the benchmark dose (BMD) approach by fitting dose-response models to the various endpoints. Methylmercury induced effects on developmental parameters, such as growth parameters and pup mortality. Effects on the immune system were found at doses without observed developmental toxicity. Immune effects differed at the three time points and consisted mainly of effects on functional parameters. The parameter with the lowest 5% lower confidence bound of the BMD (BMDL) was the primary KLH-specific IgG antibody response, which showed a dose-dependent decrease with a BMD of 0.039 mg/kg BW/day (CI 0.010-0.12). These data show the relatively high sensitivity of the developing immune system and thereby illustrate the relevance of testing immune parameters in reproductive and developmental toxicity testing protocols.
To detect the mRNA expression of ERK1, ERK2, JNK1 and P38 gene in mitogen-activated protein kinase(MAPK) path way in the arseniasis patients caused by burning coal.
70 arseniasis patients caused by burning coal at Jiaole village XingRen county in December 2006 were selected as case group, and another 30 villagers with similar living habits, matched gender and age, healthy physical condition without history of burning high arsenic coal were selected as control group from 12 km nearby the same village.Silver diethyl dithiocarbamate method (Ag-DDC) was taken to detect the arsenic contents in the environmental media, food, and arsenic level in the urine and hair of arseniasis patients.On the principle of informed consent, the peripheral blood was collected from the patients. The total RNA was extracted with Trizol method and cDNA was reversed from it. The mRNA expression of ERK1, ERK2, JNK1 and P38 gene in MAPK path way were tested by real-time fluorescent quantitative PCR (QT-PCR).
A total of 70 cases of arseniasis patients (31 cases of mild, 25 cases of moderate and 14 cases of severe) and 30 cases of control were chosen. The median (quartile) of arsenic contents in the indoor air, outdoor air, coal, chili and corn were 0.079 (0.053-0.117) mg/m(3) ,0.007 (0.002-0.015) mg/m(3) , 93.010 (39.460-211.740) mg/kg, 3.460(0.550-16.760) mg/kg and 1.500(0.300-4.140) mg/kg respectively. They were above the national health standards. The median (quartile) of arsenic contents in the soil, rice and drinking water were separately 12.130(4.230-24.820) mg/kg, 0.650(0.300-0.980) mg/kg and 0.043(0.012-0.089)mg/kg, which were within the national health standards. Compared with the control group ((26.97 ± 9.71)µg/g Cr), arsenic level in the patients' urine ((71.48 ± 22.74)µg/g Cr) increased significantly, the differences were significant (F = 90.38, P < 0.01). Compared with the control group ((1.58 ± 1.07)µg/g), arsenic level in the patients' hair ((4.45 ± 2.78) µg/g) increased significantly, the differences were significant (F = 48.22, P < 0.01). The relative expression amount of the median(quartile) for ERK2, JNK1 mRNA were 0.0667 (0.0378-0.1371) and 0.0013 (0.0009-0.0025), respectively. Compared with the control group 0.1744 (0.1009-0.1985) and 0.0022 (0.0017-0.0030) , only the decreases of ERK2, JNK1 mRNA expression was significant (χ(2) = 15.10, 14.25, P < 0.01), and no significance in the other index. ERK2 mRNA relative expression for mild, medium and severe groups were separately 0.0818 (0.0408-0.1509) ,0.0582 (0.0154-0.1699) and 0.0588 (0.0399-0.1034) . Compared with the control group (0.1744 (0.1099-0.1985) ), there was significant difference (Z = -2.89, -3.19, -2.67, P < 0.01). JNK1 mRNA relative expression were 0.0012 (0.0007-0.001 57), 0.0019 (0.0011-0.0035), 0.0013 (0.0010-0.0026), respectively. Compared with the control group (0.0022 (0.0017-0.0030) ), significances were found in the mild groups (Z = -3.72, P < 0.01).
Arsenic could induce the changes of ERK2 and JNK1mRNA expression in the MAPK path way in arseniasis patients.It suggests that the MAPK signaling pathway take part in the occurrence and development process of arseniasis caused by burning coal.
It is reported that a C1-inhibitor (CI-INH) deficiency dependent angiodema case arose 'de novo' in a child without a family history of this disease. His mother was undergoing immunosuppressive therapy (50 mg of azathioprine plus 8 mg of methyl-prednisolone daily) during pregnancy, uninterrupted for seven years because of a kidney transplant. All the other known causes of acquired C1-INH deficiency were excluded. An involvement of an azathioprine-induced C1-INH gene mutation is hypothised.
The authors report the case of a woman with borderline personality disorder who developed a prolactinoma probably induced by amisulpride. This patient was treated with 300 mg of amisulpride per day for a delirium. Her brain MRI was normal. Four months later this patient developed a micro-adenoma (5mm) on the right side of the pituitary gland with amenorrhea and galactorrhea. Amisulpride treatment was withdrawn and replaced by a treatment of quetiapine 100 mg day(-1). The hyperprolactinemia symptoms disappeared. This report shows that the short-term use of amisulpride treatment was linked to an elevation in the PRL level with a possible induction of a pituitary adenoma.
The effectiveness and safety of diltiazem monotherapy was evaluated in 29 patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension (diastolic pressure between 95 and 115 mmHg). There were 16 men and 13 women, ages ranged from 29 to 58 years (mean 43). After a 2-week placebo period, each patient was given a 60 mg diltiazem tablet three times a day for 8 weeks. Blood pressure and heart rate were determined at weekly clinic visits. Three patients were withdrawn from the study because of a skin rash, palpitation and a frequent loose stool, respectively. In the remaining 26 patients, the mean systolic and diastolic blood pressures were reduced significantly in 2 weeks of therapy and thereafter. At the end of the 8-week treatment the mean supine blood pressure decreased from 158/103 at baseline to 139/94 mmHg, the mean sitting blood pressure from 156/104 to 136/93 mmHg, and the mean standing blood pressure from 151/104 to 134/96 mmHg. The heart rate did not change significantly before or during diltiazem treatment. In 16 (61.5%) of the 26 patients, diltiazem consistently reduced the diastolic blood pressure more than 5 mmHg throughout 2 to 8 weeks of treatment. The left ventricular mass and ejection fraction assessed with M-mode echocardiograms were normal before diltiazem treatment, and remained unchanged 8 weeks after the treatment. By using treadmill exercise tests, there was a significant increase in exercise duration and a significant reduction in the peak heart rate at 8 weeks after the treatment. The peak systolic blood pressure did not change significantly.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The patient, a 34-year-old Japanese woman who noticed worsening of her rash after using topical corticosteroid preparations on her neck, was patch tested for both commercial preparations and corticosteroids themselves. The patch test results revealed that she had a contact allergy to gold, oxytetracycline, and 2 types of corticosteroid (acetonides and esters) in 7 compounds (betamethasone valerate and dipropionate, hydrocortisone butyrate and hydrocortisone butyrate propionate, amcinonide, budesonide, and fluocinonide).
Adrenal tumors autonomously producing cortisol cause Cushing's syndrome. We performed exome sequencing of 25 tumor-normal pairs and identified 2 subgroups. Eight tumors (including three carcinomas) had many somatic copy number variants (CNVs) with frequent deletion of CDC42 and CDKN2A, amplification of 5q31.2 and protein-altering mutations in TP53 and RB1. Seventeen tumors (all adenomas) had no somatic CNVs or TP53 or RB1 mutations. Six of these had known gain-of-function mutations in CTNNB1 (β-catenin) or GNAS (Gαs). Six others had somatic mutations in PRKACA (protein kinase A (PKA) catalytic subunit) resulting in a p.Leu206Arg substitution. Further sequencing identified this mutation in 13 of 63 tumors (35% of adenomas with overt Cushing's syndrome). PRKACA, GNAS and CTNNB1 mutations were mutually exclusive. Leu206 directly interacts with the regulatory subunit of PKA, PRKAR1A. Leu206Arg PRKACA loses PRKAR1A binding, increasing the phosphorylation of downstream targets. PKA activity induces cortisol production and cell proliferation, providing a mechanism for tumor development. These findings define distinct mechanisms underlying adrenal cortisol-producing tumors.
Adrenocortical carcinomas (ACCs) are aggressive cancers originating in the cortex of the adrenal gland. Despite overall poor prognosis, ACC outcome is heterogeneous. We performed exome sequencing and SNP array analysis of 45 ACCs and identified recurrent alterations in known driver genes (CTNNB1, TP53, CDKN2A, RB1 and MEN1) and in genes not previously reported in ACC (ZNRF3, DAXX, TERT and MED12), which we validated in an independent cohort of 77 ACCs. ZNRF3, encoding a cell surface E3 ubiquitin ligase, was the most frequently altered gene (21%) and is a potential new tumor suppressor gene related to the β-catenin pathway. Our integrated genomic analyses further identified two distinct molecular subgroups with opposite outcome. The C1A group of ACCs with poor outcome displayed numerous mutations and DNA methylation alterations, whereas the C1B group of ACCs with good prognosis displayed specific deregulation of two microRNA clusters. Thus, aggressive and indolent ACCs correspond to two distinct molecular entities driven by different oncogenic alterations.
During the last week of June 2008, central and northern California experienced thousands of forest and brush fires, giving rise to a week of severe fire-related particulate air pollution throughout the region. California experienced PM(10-2.5) (particulate matter with mass median aerodynamic diameter > 2.5 mum to < 10 mum; coarse ) and PM(2.5) (particulate matter with mass median aerodynamic diameter < 2.5 mum; fine) concentrations greatly in excess of the air quality standards and among the highest values reported at these stations since data have been collected.
These observations prompt a number of questions about the health impact of exposure to elevated levels of PM(10-2.5) and PM(2.5) and about the specific toxicity of PM arising from wildfires in this region.
Toxicity of PM(10-2.5) and PM(2.5) obtained during the time of peak concentrations of smoke in the air was determined with a mouse bioassay and compared with PM samples collected under normal conditions from the region during the month of June 2007.
Concentrations of PM were not only higher during the wildfire episodes, but the PM was much more toxic to the lung on an equal weight basis than was PM collected from normal ambient air in the region. Toxicity was manifested as increased neutrophils and protein in lung lavage and by histologic indicators of increased cell influx and edema in the lung.
We conclude that the wildfire PM contains chemical components toxic to the lung, especially to alveolar macrophages, and they are more toxic to the lung than equal doses of PM collected from ambient air from the same region during a comparable season.
Hyperpolarization-activated, cyclic nucleotide-gated (HCN) channels contribute to cationic Ih current in neurons and regulate the excitability of neuronal networks. Studies in rat models have shown that the Hcn1 gene has a key role in epilepsy, but clinical evidence implicating HCN1 mutations in human epilepsy is lacking. We carried out exome sequencing for parent-offspring trios with fever-sensitive, intractable epileptic encephalopathy, leading to the discovery of two de novo missense HCN1 mutations. Screening of follow-up cohorts comprising 157 cases in total identified 4 additional amino acid substitutions. Patch-clamp recordings of Ih currents in cells expressing wild-type or mutant human HCN1 channels showed that the mutations had striking but divergent effects on homomeric channels. Individuals with mutations had clinical features resembling those of Dravet syndrome with progression toward atypical absences, intellectual disability and autistic traits. These findings provide clear evidence that de novo HCN1 point mutations cause a recognizable early-onset epileptic encephalopathy in humans.
Down syndrome confers a 20-fold increased risk of B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL), and polysomy 21 is the most frequent somatic aneuploidy among all B-ALLs. Yet the mechanistic links between chromosome 21 triplication and B-ALL remain undefined. Here we show that germline triplication of only 31 genes orthologous to human chromosome 21q22 confers mouse progenitor B cell self renewal in vitro, maturation defects in vivo and B-ALL with either the BCR-ABL fusion protein or CRLF2 with activated JAK2. Chromosome 21q22 triplication suppresses histone H3 Lys27 trimethylation (H3K27me3) in progenitor B cells and B-ALLs, and 'bivalent' genes with both H3K27me3 and H3K4me3 at their promoters in wild-type progenitor B cells are preferentially overexpressed in triplicated cells. Human B-ALLs with polysomy 21 are distinguished by their overexpression of genes marked with H3K27me3 in multiple cell types. Overexpression of HMGN1, a nucleosome remodeling protein encoded on chromosome 21q22 (refs. 3,4,5), suppresses H3K27me3 and promotes both B cell proliferation in vitro and B-ALL in vivo.
