A case of angioedema associated with the initiation of a nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug in a patient stable on an angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitor is reported.
A 68-year-old African-American man with no known drug allergies and a history of hypertension, benign prostatic hypertrophy, diverticulosis, and gout arrived at the clinic with swelling of the lips and tongue three days after he started taking naproxen 375 mg every eight hours as needed for pain associated with acute gout. He denied urticaria, difficulty breathing, fever, abdominal pain, vomiting, and diarrhea. His other medications included quinapril 10 mg daily (taken for 5 years), tamsulosin hydrochloride 0.4 mg daily, omeprazole 20 mg daily, and colchicine 0.6 mg daily. He had reported smoking approximately 2.5 packs of cigarettes per week and consuming alcohol (one to two drinks) on the weekends. He denied any illicit drug use, drug rash, or seasonal allergies. Naproxen was discontinued, and the patient was treated with prednisone (tapered regimen) and acetaminophen 650-mg tablets, and his angioedema resolved. The Naranjo et al. probability scale revealed that naproxen and quinapril coadministration was the probable cause of the patient's adverse reaction (score of 7).
A 68-year-old African-American man who had been receiving quinapril for 5 years developed angioedema after initiation of naproxen.
Groups of male and female IF strain mice were fed a diet containing either 0.5% or 1.0% paracetamol for up to 18 months. Among male mice fed the higher dose, the total liver cell tumour incidence was 87%, 21.7% developing hepatocellular carcinomas: both yields were statistically significant. The corresponding incidence in high dose females was 19.2% and 4.3%, respectively, only the former being significant. Foci of cellular alteration were also present in the livers of high dose mice of both sexes and also in those of the low dose males.
When uncomplicated neutropenia during doxorubicin (Adriamycin), bleomycin, vinblastine and dacarbazine (ABVD) chemotherapy for the treatment of Hodgkin's lymphoma is encountered, it is unclear whether or not treatment should be modified. In the present study, we determined the incidence of neutropenia, febrile neutropenia, and the relationship of febrile neutropenia to grade III/IV neutropenia and dose modification, in a large university patient population. We reviewed the charts of patients diagnosed with Hodgkin's lymphoma between 1 January 1990 and 31 December 2002 who were treated with ABVD chemotherapy, and seen at the University of Iowa with complete diagnosis, staging, and treatment dosing records. Adequate data was available on 894 treatments in 81 patients with Hodgkin's lymphoma treated with ABVD chemotherapy. Grade III/IV neutropenia was present on the scheduled day of treatment in 187 (20.9%) treatments in 64 (79%) patients. Grade III/IV neutropenia was most common at cycle 1 day 15. Febrile neutropenia developed nine times in eight patients, and eight episodes of febrile neutropenia developed when the treatment-day absolute neutrophil count (ANC) > or =1000. Dose delay of >4 days and/or dose reduction to <80% of original doxorubicin dose following grade III/IV neutropenia occurred in 29 of 187 treatments, with no episodes of febrile neutropenia. With grade III/IV neutropenia on the day of therapy, 158 treatments were administered without dose reduction or dose delay with one subsequent episode of febrile neutropenia. Neutropenia during ABVD is common, and dose modification for uncomplicated neutropenia on the day of treatment may not reduce the risk of febrile neutropenia. It may be possible to maintain dose intensity in the face of uncomplicated neutropenia during ABVD therapy.
Advanced-stage or relapsed/refractory Hodgkin's disease (HD) has a poor prognosis despite aggressive chemotherapy regimens and the use of high-dose therapy with autologous stem cell support. Mitoxantrone, vinblastine and CCNU (lomustine) (MVC) combines the most effective chemotherapeutic agents of previous regimens for poor prognosis HD, and eliminates marginally active agents with unnecessary toxicities, such as bleomycin and dacarbazine. Sixty-eight patients with HD (23 newly diagnosed and 45 with relapsed/refractory disease, one patient treated both de novo and years later in relapse) were treated with the MVC regimen (mitoxantrone 8 mg/m(2)/day i.v. days 1 - 3; vinblastine 8 m/m(2)/day days 1 and 22; and CCNU (lomustine) 100 mg/m(2) on day 1, repeated at 6 - 8 weeks) in a single-arm Phase II study. All patients responded to treatment in the newly diagnosed group (overall response = 100%). The median response duration was not reached, but was in the range 7.6 - 180 + months, and median survival was 94 months. Eleven complete responses are ongoing at 39 - 180 + months. In the previously-treated patients, 41 responded to MVC (OR = 91%). The median response duration for this group was 11 months, and the median survival was 34 months after initiating MVC. Four secondary myeloid leukemias occurred, three in de novo, and one in the relapsed/refractory group, at a median follow-up of 14 years. MVC regimen for HD is highly active, for both de novo and relapsed/refractory disease, with high response rates and survival that compare favourably with the results obtained by high-dose therapy with stem-cell transplantation. Although significant, the toxicities associated with this regimen were manageable.
Recent reports suggest that methadone may prolong the QTc interval and cause torsades de pointes. This study was conducted to evaluate the prevalence of QTc prolongation during oral methadone therapy and identify factors associated with prolongation. Patients receiving oral methadone as treatment for chronic pain or addiction were eligible for the study. One hundred four patients who were receiving > or = 20 mg methadone per day for > or = 2 weeks underwent electrocardiograms to measure QTc interval duration. Sixty-three (61%) patients were male and 63 (61%) were receiving methadone maintenance for opioid addiction. The mean (+/- SD) age was 45.3 +/- 9.4 years. The median (range) methadone dose was 110 mg/day (20-1200 mg/day); median (range) number of months on methadone was 12.5 months (1-444 months). The median (range) QTc interval was 428 msec (396-494 msec). Thirty-three percent had QTc prolongation (males 40%, females 20%; P=0.03). No patient had a QTc longer than 500 msec. Significant dose response was observed in males on methadone <12 months (rho=0.60, P=0.02). Our study suggests that methadone may prolong the QTc interval in specific subpopulations but poses little risk of serious prolongation.
Chronic oral administration of l -NAME precipitates stroke in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRSP). The present study investigated whether acetazolamide (an acidotic agent) given alone or in combination with an angiotensin blocker (enalapril maleate) offers any protection from NO-deficient stroke in SHRSP. We also examined whether protection from NO-deficient stroke involves activation of K(+)channels. Five-week-old SHRSP drank saline (group I), l -NAME (group II), l -NAME+enalapril (group III), l -NAME+acetazolamide (group IV), and l -NAME+enalapril+acetazolamide (group V). Within a few hours following onset of stroke, rats were attached to a blood pressure recorder. In subsequent experiments, to investigate the involvement of K(+)channels, glibenclamide and BaCl(2)(K(+)channel blockers) were included in the drinking solutions that were given to the SHRSP groups receiving l -NAME, acetazolamide and enalapril. Group I of SHRSP did not develop stroke. Group II, III and IV developed stroke in 12+/-2, 29+/-2 and 20+/-2 days, respectively. SHRSP from group V did not develop stroke. However, they died in 70+/-2 days. The glibenclamide and BaCl(2)administration failed to prevent this protection from stroke. In conclusion, concurrent administration of acetazolamide and enalapril prevents onset of NO-deficient stroke in SHRSP. These stroke-protective effects are independent of reductions in mean or systolic blood pressures and do not involve an activation of K(+)channels.
The chemopreventive potential of cycloartenol on benzoyl peroxide and UVB radiation-induced cutaneous tumor promotion markers and oxidative stress in murine skin is assessed. Benzoyl peroxide treatment (20 mg/animal/0.2 ml acetone) and UVB radiation (0.420 J/m(2)/s) caused a decrease in the activities of cutaneous antioxidant enzymes namely, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, phase II metabolizing enzyme such as glutathione-S-transferase and quinone reductase and depletion in the level of cutaneous glutathione. There was also enhancement in cutaneous microsomal lipid peroxidation, xanthine oxidase activity, [(14)C]-ornithine decarboxylase activity and [(3)H]-thymidine incorporation into cutaneous DNA. Cycloartenol was topically applied prior to the application of benzoyl peroxide at dose levels of 0.2 mg and 0.4 mg/kg body weight in acetone, which resulted in significant inhibition of epidermal ornithine decarboxylase activity and DNA synthesis (P < 0.001). There was also significant reduction of lipid peroxidation and xanthine oxidase activity (P < 0.001). In addition, the depleted levels of glutathione, inhibited activities of antioxidant and phase II metabolizing enzymes, were also recovered to a significant level (P < 0.001). The data indicate that cycloartenol is an effective chemopreventive agent in skin carcinogenesis.
A phase II, open, nonrandomized trial was carried out in a group of epirubicin-treated patients with cancer at different sites with the aim of detecting early preclinical changes that are predictive of the risk for heart failure. All patients underwent conventional echocardiography, as well as tissue Doppler imaging (TDI) with strain (sigma) and strain rate (SR), a very accurate technique for detecting minimal changes in cardiac left ventricular (LV) function. Moreover, echocardiographic changes identified during epirubicin treatment were compared with those of a series of biochemical markers of both myocardial damage and inflammation/oxidative stress. Sixteen patients (male-to-female ratio, 3:13; mean age +/- standard deviation, 56 +/-3 years; range, 27-75 years) with histologically confirmed tumors at different sites, scheduled to be treated with an epirubicin-based chemotherapy regimen, were enrolled in the study. A significant impairment in systolic LV function was observed after 200 mg/m2 of epirubicin; this was shown by a lower SR peak compared with baseline (1.82 +/- 0.57/second versus 1.45 +/- 0.44/second), whereas sigma remained unchanged. The following significant changes in LV diastolic function occurred only after 300 mg/m2 of epirubicin: a decrease in conventional early/late diastolic (E/A) velocities (1.16 +/- 0.31 versus 0.93 +/- 0.24) and a reduction in both the E(m) wave in the basal portion of the interventricular septum (8.86 +/- 1.73 cm/second versus 7.51 +/- 2.30 cm/second) and in the E(m)/A(m) ratio (1.09 +/- 0.51 versus 0.83 +/- 0.51), as measured using the TDI technique. No significant changes in LV ejection fraction were observed. Baseline values of brain natriuretic peptide, troponin I, myoglobin, and creatine kinase-myocardial subfraction were within the normal range and no significant changes were observed throughout the study. Levels of interleukin (IL)-6 and its soluble receptor (sIL-6R) and reactive oxygen species increased significantly, whereas glutathione peroxidase (GPx) levels decreased significantly, after 200 mg/m2 of epirubicin. Significant correlations between the reduction in the SR peak (deltaSR) after 200 mg/m2 of epirubicin and the increase in IL-6 and ROS and decrease in GPx were observed. The multiple regression analysis showed that the only independent predictive variable for deltaSR was ROS level. Our data show that: (a) subtle cardiac abnormalities may occur at epirubicin doses significantly below those known to be potentially clinically harmful and (b) the earliest myocardial impairment affects LV systolic rather than diastolic function. Early contractility impairment during epirubicin treatment was associated with high levels of ROS and markers of inflammation. The clinical meaningfulness of our findings warrants further investigations in a larger number of patients for a longer period of follow-up.
Mesothelin is expressed in various types of malignant tumour, and we recently reported that expression of mesothelin was related to an unfavourable patient outcome in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. In this study, we examined the clinicopathological significance of the mesothelin expression in gastric cancer, especially in terms of its association with the staining pattern.
Tissue specimens from 110 gastric cancer patients were immunohistochemically examined. The staining proportion and intensity of mesothelin expression in tumour cells were analysed, and the localisation of mesothelin was classified into luminal membrane and/or cytoplasmic expression.
Mesothelin was positive in 49 cases, and the incidence of mesothelin expression was correlated with lymph-node metastasis. Furthermore, luminal membrane staining of mesothelin was identified in 16 cases, and the incidence of luminal membrane expression was also correlated with pT factor, pStage, lymphatic permeation, blood vessel permeation, recurrence, and poor patient outcome. Multivariate analysis showed that luminal membrane expression of mesothelin was an independent predictor of overall patient survival.
We described that the luminal membrane expression of mesothelin was a reliable prognostic factor in gastric cancer, suggesting the functional significance of membrane-localised mesothelin in the aggressive behaviour of gastric cancer cells.
Six observations are presented of patients receiving intermitent rifampicin treatment (900 mg twice weekly) that developed acute renal failure during treatment (4 cases) or when treatment was taken up again, after an interruption of 6 months (2 cases). Following anuria of 4--14 days and nitrogen retention between 248 and 521 mg, the evolution was favourable. Clinical, biological and immunological data (anti-rifampicin antibodies were detected in 1/8 and 1/16 in 3 cases) suggest the immune origin of this type of renal accidents.
Two cases are presented, of hemolytic jaundice, determined by rifampicin. The first occured in a woman in whom treatment was started again after an interruption of 6 months and the second in a man undergoing intermittent treatment that had been tolerated very well for 3 months. Following the extension of the application of rifampicin in intermittent treatment might occur more frequently. Posology apparently has a major role and some precautions are to be taken.
Insulin resistance is characterized by disturbances in lipid metabolism in skeletal muscle. Our aim was to investigate whether gene expression and fatty acid (FA) profile of skeletal muscle lipids are affected by diets differing in fat quantity and quality in subjects with the metabolic syndrome (MetS) and varying degrees of insulin sensitivity. 84 subjects (age 57.3±0.9 y, BMI 30.9±0.4 kg/m(2), 42 M/42 F) were randomly assigned to one of four iso-energetic diets: high-SFA (HSFA); high-MUFA (HMUFA) or two low-fat, high-complex carbohydrate diets, supplemented with 1.24 g/day of long-chain n-3 PUFA (LFHCCn-3) or control oil (LFHCC) for 12 weeks. In a subgroup of men (n=26), muscle TAG, DAG, FFA and phospholipid contents were determined including their fractional synthetic rate (FSR) and FA composition at fasting and 4h after consumption of a high-fat mixed-meal, both pre- and post-intervention. Genes involved in lipogenesis were downregulated after HMUFA (mean fold change -1.3) and after LFHCCn-3 (fold change -1.7) in insulin resistant subjects (< median of (S(I))), whereas in insulin sensitive subjects (>median of insulin sensitivity) the opposite effect was shown (fold change +1.6 for both diets). HMUFA diet tended to decrease FSR in TAG (P=.055) and DAG (P=.066), whereas the LFHCCn-3 diet reduced TAG content (P=.032). In conclusion, HMUFA and LFHCCn-3 diets reduced the expression of the lipogenic genes in skeletal muscle of insulin resistant subjects, whilst HMUFA reduced the fractional synthesis rate of DAG and TAG and LFHCC n-3 the TAG content. Our data indicate that these diets may reduce muscle fat accumulation by affecting the balance between FA synthesis, storage and oxidation.
Glutathione-S-transferase gene (GST) polymorphisms can result in variable ability of these enzymes to remove electrophilic substrates. We investigated whether the GSTP1 Val105 and GSTM1 deletion polymorphisms modify the lead-cognitive function association.
We used repeated measures analysis to compare the association between cumulative lead biomarkers-bone lead measured using K-shell X-Ray Fluorescence-and Mini-Mental State Exam (MMSE) score by GST variants, adjusted for covariates, among Normative Aging Study participants, a Boston-based prospective cohort of men. We had complete data for 698 men (providing 1292 observations) for GSTM1 analyses and 595 men (providing 1142 observations) for GSTP1 analyses.
A 15μg/g higher tibia lead concentration (interquartile range of tibia lead) was associated with a 0.24 point decrement in MMSE score among GSTP1 Val105 variant carriers, which was significantly stronger than the association among men with only wild-type alleles (p=0.01). The association among GSTP1 Val105 carriers was comparable to that of 3 years of age in baseline MMSE scores. The association between tibia lead and MMSE score appeared progressively steeper in participants with increasingly more GSTP1 Val105 alleles. A modest association between tibia lead and lower MMSE score was seen among participants with the GSTM1 deletion polymorphism. Neither of the glutathione S-transferase variants was independently associated with cognitive function, nor with lead biomarker measures. The results pertaining to patella lead were similar to those observed for tibia lead.
Our results suggest that the GSTP1 Val105 polymorphism confers excess susceptibility to the cognitive effects of cumulative lead exposure.
Both the root and stem bark of Mahonia species were popular folk medicines. The plant has several proven biological activities including anti-bacterial, anti-fungal, and anti-inflammatory effects. However, Mahonia has not been studied for its anticancer effects. In the present study, we made extracts from Mahonia oiwakensis (MOE), a selected species in Taiwan, and investigated their effects on various human lung cells. We found that MOE-induced apoptotic death in human A549 non-small-cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) cells in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Treatment with the extracts also caused an increase in the sub-G1 fraction of cells, chromosome condensation, and DNA fragmentation. The mitochondrial-mediated pathway was implicated in this MOE-induced apoptosis as evidenced by the activation of the caspase cascade, cleavage of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP), disruption of mitochondrial membrane potential, and release of cytochrome C. A higher ratio of Bax/Bcl-2 proteins and cleavage of Bid were also observed in MOE-induced cell apoptosis. In A549 tumor-xenografted nude mice, MOE also retarded in vivo proliferation (P<0.05) and induced apoptosis in tumor cells, as shown by a decrease in Ki-67-positive staining (P<0.05) and increased transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL)-positive staining (P<0.05). In conclusion, MOE inhibits the growth of human lung cancer cells in vitro and in vivo, suggesting that it may have therapeutic potential against human lung cancer.
Because many investigators have demonstrated the efficacy of dietary protein restriction in various experimental models of glomerular injury that progress to focal and segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS), we used this dietary maneuver in chronic aminonucleoside nephrosis. This model of glomerular disease, which uses a single intravenous injection of the puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN), slowly progresses over 18 weeks with mesangial cell proliferation and FSGS as the pathologic hallmarks. We performed renal functional and histopathologic studies in 21 rats with chronic aminonucleoside nephrosis. Group 1 rats (n = 10) were fed a standard rodent diet containing 23.4% protein, whereas group 2 animals (n = 11) were maintained with a 6% protein diet replete with electrolytes, minerals, and vitamins. In those animals subjected to dietary protein restriction, proteinuria was significantly reduced at 14, 28, 84, and 126 days after PAN administration. In rats maintained with the 6% protein diet at 126 days after PAN delivery, there was also a significant reduction in the percent of glomeruli with segmental areas of glomerulosclerosis or hyalinosis and mesangial cell proliferation. We conclude that the renal functional and histologic consequences of chronic aminonucleoside nephrosis can be blunted by dietary protein restriction.
This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial that evaluated the efficacy of a higher-than-typical daily dose of naltrexone (150 mg/day), taken for 12 weeks, in 164 patients (n = 116 men and n = 48 women) with co-occurring cocaine and alcohol dependence. Patients were stratified by gender and then randomly assigned to either naltrexone or placebo, and to either cognitive-behavioral therapy or a type of medical management. The two primary outcomes were cocaine use and alcohol use. Significant Gender x Medication interactions were found for cocaine use via urine drug screens (three way, with time) and self-reports (two way) for drug severity (two way) and alcohol use (two way). The type of psychosocial treatment did not affect outcomes. Thus, 150 mg/day naltrexone added to a psychosocial treatment resulted in reductions in cocaine and alcohol use and drug severity in men, compared to higher rates of cocaine and alcohol use and drug severity in women.
Lung cancer continues to be the leading cause of cancer deaths throughout the world and conventional therapy remains largely unsuccessful. Although, chemoprevention is a plausible alternative approach to curb the lung cancer epidemic, clinically there are no effective chemopreventive agents. Thus, development of novel compounds that can target cellular and molecular pathways involved in the multistep carcinogenesis process is urgently needed. Previous studies have suggested that substitution of sulfur by selenium in established cancer chemopreventive agents may result in more effective analogs. Thus in the present study we selected the chemopreventive agent S,S'-(1,4-phenylenebis[1,2-ethanediyl])bisisothiourea (PBIT), also known to inhibit inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), synthesized its selenium analog (Se-PBIT) and compared both compounds in preclinical model systems using non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cell lines (NCI-H460 and A549); NSCLC is the most common histologic type of all lung cancer cases. Se-PBIT was found to be superior to PBIT as an inducer of apoptosis and inhibitor of cell growth. Se-PBIT arrested cell cycles at G1 and G2-M stage in both A549 and H460 cell lines. Although both compounds are weakly but equally effective inhibitors of iNOS protein expression and activity, only Se-PBIT significantly enhanced the levels of p53, p38, p27 and p21 protein expression, reduced levels of phospholipase A2 (PLA2) but had no effect on cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) protein levels; such molecular targets are involved in cell growth inhibition, induction of apoptosis and cell cycle regulation. The results indicate that Se-PBIT altered molecular targets that are involved in the development of human lung cancer. Although, the mechanisms that can fully account for these effects remain to be determined, the results are encouraging to further evaluate the chemopreventive efficacy of Se-PBIT against the development of NSCLC in a well-defined animal model.
Cortical potentials associated with voluntary, self-paced wrist flexion (MRPs) were recorded from 3 scalp locations (Cz and psi contralateral hand motor area) in patients with Parkinson's disease (9 de novo patients and 30 L-Dopa treated patients). The analysis concerned 3 components of the MRPs: the 2 slow negative shifts (NS1 and N1) before the movement onset and the motor potential (MP). The NSI amplitude was measured at Cz, the peak negativity N1 and MP from contralateral hand motor area location. The potential distribution was also studied. The amplitude of the MRPs components was the same as in the normals. But in de novo patients, the potential distribution of the NS1 component was different; a Cz preponderance of the NS1 amplitude was not found. In patients treated with L-Dopa, there is a negative correlation between the changes in amplitude and the changes in clinical rating for NS1, N1 and MP components. The decrease in the MRPs components was significant from stage III and IV of the Hoehn and Yahr scales. After L-Dopa therapy, the NS1 component from de novo patients was increased in amplitude. The amplitude of the MRPs components from patients with L-Dopa induced clinical fluctuations was reduced during "off" period in comparison to "on" period. The findings suggest that the NS1 potential and the N1 and MP components share 2 distinct systems for the control of voluntary movement. Their mechanism in Parkinson's disease is discussed.
The aim of this study was to compare the effects of conventional ventilation, lateral (non-injured lung-dependent) position, asynchronous and synchronous independent lung ventilation on inflammatory markers in an animal model of unilateral lung acid injury.
Twenty-eight dogs underwent unilateral endobronchial instillation with hydrochloric acid and randomly received (n = 7 in each group) conventional ventilation in the supine (group I) or lateral position (group II), and independent lung ventilation in asynchronous (group III) or synchronous (group IV) modes. Arterial blood gases and serum cytokine levels were assessed at baseline, and 5 min and 4 h after mechanical ventilation. At the end of the study, cytokine levels were measured in individual lung lavage fluid. In three animals per group, differential lung perfusion was detected using a dual-head gamma camera.
Unilateral acid injury alone worsened oxygenation as determined by the ratio of PaO(2) to fraction of inspired oxygen (PaO(2)/FiO(2)) and increased serum cytokine levels. Mean oxygenation (SD) was significantly preserved in group II, 338 (26); group III, 396 (28); and group IV, 395 (22) compared with group I, 173 (18) (all P < 0.01). Serum IL-8, left-lung lavage IL-8 and matrix metalloproteinase-9 levels were significantly lower in groups II-IV (all P < 0.05). Only group I showed significantly different left and right lung lavage fluid cytokine levels. Groups III and IV showed slightly decreased left lung perfusion. Cytokine levels and oxygenation were similar in groups III and IV.
In this model of unilateral lung acid injury, lateral position and independent lung ventilation preserved oxygenation and attenuated the inflammatory response in serum and injured lung BAL fluid.
Troglitazone is an anti-diabetic agent that improves hyperglycemia by reducing peripheral insulin resistance in type II diabetic patients. Troglitazone has been shown to cause growth inhibition of various normal and cancerous cells. However, the molecular mechanism by which troglitazone affects the growth of these cancer cells remains unclear. Here, we report that troglitazone treatment of Hep 3B human hepatocellular carcinoma cells resulted in dose-dependent growth inhibition. Analysis of cell cycle distribution by flow cytometry showed that the number of apoptotic cells was increased in a dose-dependent manner in response to troglitazone treatment. cDNA microarray analysis showed a number of differentially expressed genes in response to troglitazone. Among the upregulated genes, hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (HIF-1)-responsive RTP801 was induced in a dose-dependent manner. We also observed HIF-1 accumulation by immnocytochemistry after troglitazone treatment. These results strongly suggest that RTP801 might be involved in troglitazone-induced apoptosis in Hep 3B cells.
The adverse effects of retinoids on bones and joints are being increasingly documented. A case is reported in which isotretinoin was considered responsible for polyarteritis-like vasculitis. Perinuclear antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies were present in titers that correlated with clinical and laboratory test abnormalities.
Cannabinoid-induced analgesia was shown in animal studies of acute inflammatory and neuropathic pain. In humans, controlled clinical trials with Delta-tetrahydrocannabinol or other cannabinoids demonstrated analgesic efficacy in chronic pain syndromes, whereas the data in acute pain were less conclusive. Therefore, the aim of this study was to investigate the effects of oral cannabis extract in two different human models of acute inflammatory pain and hyperalgesia.
The authors conducted a double-blind, crossover study in 18 healthy female volunteers. Capsules containing Delta-tetrahydrocannabinol-standardized cannabis extract or active placebo were orally administered. A circular sunburn spot was induced at one upper leg. Heat and electrical pain thresholds were determined at the erythema, the area of secondary hyperalgesia, and the contralateral leg. Intradermal capsaicin-evoked pain and areas of flare and secondary hyperalgesia were measured. Primary outcome parameters were heat pain thresholds in the sunburn erythema and the capsaicin-evoked area of secondary hyperalgesia. Secondary measures were electrical pain thresholds, sunburn-induced secondary hyperalgesia, and capsaicin-induced pain.
Cannabis extract did not affect heat pain thresholds in the sunburn model. Electrical thresholds (250 Hz) were significantly lower compared with baseline and placebo. In the capsaicin model, the area of secondary hyperalgesia, flare, and spontaneous pain were not altered.
To conclude, no analgesic or antihyperalgesic activity of cannabis extract was found in the experiments. Moreover, the results even point to the development of a hyperalgesic state under cannabinoids. Together with previous data, the current results suggest that cannabinoids are not effective analgesics for the treatment of acute nociceptive pain in humans.
Tiagabine, a novel GABA reuptake inhibitor, has been reported to induce non-convulsive status epilepticus (NCSE) in patients with epilepsy. We report a 27 year old female with history of pseudoseizure documented by video-EEG monitoring who presented confusion while on 56 mg per day of tiagabine. Electroencephalography showed generalized sharp and slow wave discharges, consistent with NCSE. The NCSE was terminated by lorazepam and did not recur after tiagabine was discontinued. This case report suggests that tiagabine may induce NCSE in patients without epilepsy.
Standard treatment of poisoning by organophosphorus (OP) nerve agents with atropine and oximes lacks efficacy with different nerve agents. A direct pharmacologic intervention at the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) was proposed as an alternative therapeutic approach and promising in vitro and in vivo results were obtained with the bispyridinium compound SAD-128. In addition, a number of SAD-128 analogues improved neuromuscular transmission of soman-poisoned diaphragms in vitro. We investigated the interaction of six of these SAD-128 analogues with the orthosteric binding site of the human α7 nAChR and Torpedo californica nAChR with a high-throughput assay using radioactive ligands. The determined affinity constants indicate a weak interaction of three test compounds (K(i) in the micromolar range) with both receptors, but no interaction could be recorded with the other three test compounds. The six SAD-128 analogues showed a low intrinsic inhibitory potency with human acetylcholinesterase (IC₅₀ > 400 μM). In conclusion, the results of the present study do not indicate a correlation between the affinity to the orthosteric binding site and the functional improvement of neuromuscular transmission and it is assumed that other mechanisms contribute to the therapeutic effect of the tested compounds.
Cardiac surgery performed with cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) may be complicated by hypotension due to low systemic vascular resistance (SVR). Often in those cases, hypotension is resistant to pressor catecholamines. We report six cases of norepinephrine-resistant postcardiotomy hypotension, treated by terlipressin (TP), a potent vasopressor agent. Between May 2007 and May 2008, we treated six patients with TP administration (1 mg bolus) for post CPB refractory vasodilatory hypotension. Analyzed parameters were: mean arterial pressure (m-AP), SVR, cardiac output index (CI), mean pulmonary pressure (m-PP), and lactate, at baseline (before TP bolus) and 3 h after injection. Before TP bolus, the average m-AP was 53.32+/-8.86 mmHg, the CI was 3.45+/-0.24 l/min/m(2), the SVR was 650+/-62.03 dyne*s/cm(5) and the arterial lactate level was 4.6+/-0.95 mmol/l. Three hours after the TP bolus, the m-AP increased to 81.83+/-9.71 mmHg (P=0.002), the CI decreased to 2.88+/-0.14 l/min/m(2) (P=0.002), the SVR increased to 1154+/-116 dyne*s/cm(5) (P=0.002), and arterial lactates decreased to 3.13+/-0.78 mmol/l (P=0.015), without significant modification of m-PP and CVP. We treated postoperative refractory low SVR hypotension by TP administration in bolus. Exogenous administration of TP normalized SVR and increased the systemic arterial pressure with a minimum effect on pulmonary pressure. Subsequently, the effect on systemic blood pressure enhanced urine output. No major collateral effects were observed. The administration of TP in bolus may result as a useful alternative for treating refractory low SVR hypotension post CPB.
Adrenaline myocarditis in rats was accompanied by a decrease in relative activity of pyruvate kinase from hyaloplasm of heart muscle, especially pronounced within 6-13 hrs after adrenaline administration. This phenomenon was probably due to an increase in content of protein in hyaloplasm, but not to an alteration in the enzyme activity. This conclusion was confirmed by studies of some properties of pyruvate kinase. Under these pathological conditions the Km of phosphoenol pyruvate was of the same order of magnitude as in normal state; 1-phenylalanine was characterized as an inhibitor of non-competitive type tomards phosphoenol pyruvate, and palmitate did not exhibit the inhibitory effect on pyruvate kinase as it was found in normal state. The effectiveness of the enzyme inhibition by L-phenylalanine, protection of the enzyme against this amino acid effect by L-alpha-alanine, L-serine and L-cysteine, and also the degree of activation of pyruvate kinase by the amino acids under adrenaline myocarditis were similar to those phenomena observed in normal state.
