Inorganic arsenic is a ubiquitous environmental contaminant associated with an increased risk of skin hyperkeratosis and cancer. Although several hypotheses that relate to arsenic-induced carcinogenesis have been suggested, the mechanism of action remains obscure. In the present study, molecular mechanisms underlying the inactivation of p53 function and the genomic instability in malignant transformation of the human keratinocyte cell line, HaCaT, induced by low levels of arsenic were investigated. Our results show that long-term exposure of HaCaT cells to sodium arsenite (1.0 microM) increases their proliferation, causes DNA double-strand breaks, and induce anchorage-independent growth. In arsenite-exposed cells, the levels of phospho-p53, p21, and mdm2 increase at early times after exposure. The levels, however, decrease with longer times. Interaction of the promoter of mot-2 (a p53 inhibitor) with nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) was established by Southwestern and Western blot assays. Blockage of NF-kappaB prevents the increases of arsenite-induced mot-2 levels, and knockdown of mot-2 facilitates the nuclear translocation of p53, indicating that, in HaCaT cells exposed to arsenite, NF-kappaB inhibits p53 function by mot-2. Moreover, inactivation of NF-kappaB facilitated p53-mediated DNA repair and prevented arsenite-induced malignant transformation. Together, the results suggest that the repressive effect of NF-kappaB on p53 by mot-2 leads to genomic instability, which is involved in arsenite-induced malignant transformation of human keratinocytes.
Methylxanthines and some antibiotics can cause side effects, provoked by their central action, e.g. seizures. The epileptogenic effects of given drugs can be intensified during combined treatment, as a result of pharmacological interactions. In the present study the author investigated the influence of some commonly used antibiotics: benzylpenicillin, cefuroxime, doxycycline and amikacin upon central activity of methylxanthines in mice. The obtained results suggest, that all tested antibiotics, mainly benzylpenicillin, enhanced epileptogenicity of aminophylline in chemical seizures test. benzylpenicillin as only one among chosen antibiotics presented her own convulsant activity. During electrostimulation test, benzylpenicillin, doxycycline and amikacin intensified convulsions induced by methylxanthines. Only cefuroxime had no influence upon central action of methylxanthines in that experiments. Analysis of drugs' plasma levels, with using immunofluorescence methods, excluded pharmacokinetic interactions between them. Results of present investigation indicate, that there is a possibility of intensification of drugs' convulsant activity during combined treatment-aminophylline with some antibiotics in medical practice.
The purpose of the present investigation was to evaluate whether the beta 2-adrenergic agonists affect the pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics of aminophylline-induced seizures. Adult male Albino Swiss mice were treated i.p. with salbutamol, fenoterol or terbutaline and 30 min. later they received i.p.aminophylline. During 90 min. observation clonic and tonic seizures and also mortality of mice were registered. Moreover the influence of beta 2-adrenomimetics on electroshock-induced seizure threshold (CS 50) and on plasma aminophylline concentration was estimated. It was found that pretreatment with salbutamol, fenoterol and terbutaline decreased the ED 50 (for clonic and tonic seizures) and LD 50 of aminophylline. Fenoterol decreased but terbutaline increased the CS 50 in mice. Only terbutaline elevated significantly the plasma concentration of aminophylline. The data indicate that concomitant treatment with beta 2-adrenergic agonists together with aminophylline increase the risk of aminophylline-induced seizures. Thus plasma monitoring of aminophylline concentration could be used in all patients treated simultaneously with beta-2-adrenergic agonists and aminophylline.
Patients with essential hypertension have disturbed autonomic cardiovascular regulation and circadian pacemaker function. Recently, the biological clock was shown to be involved in autonomic cardiovascular regulation. Our objective was to determine whether enhancement of the functioning of the biological clock by repeated nighttime melatonin intake might reduce ambulatory blood pressure in patients with essential hypertension. We conducted a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover trial in 16 men with untreated essential hypertension to investigate the influence of acute (single) and repeated (daily for 3 weeks) oral melatonin (2.5 mg) intake 1 hour before sleep on 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure and actigraphic estimates of sleep quality. Repeated melatonin intake reduced systolic and diastolic blood pressure during sleep by 6 and 4 mm Hg, respectively. The treatment did not affect heart rate. The day-night amplitudes of the rhythms in systolic and diastolic blood pressures were increased by 15% and 25%, respectively. A single dose of melatonin had no effect on blood pressure. Repeated (but not acute) melatonin also improved sleep. Improvements in blood pressure and sleep were statistically unrelated. In patients with essential hypertension, repeated bedtime melatonin intake significantly reduced nocturnal blood pressure. Future studies in larger patient group should be performed to define the characteristics of the patients who would benefit most from melatonin intake. The present study suggests that support of circadian pacemaker function may provide a new strategy in the treatment of essential hypertension.
Nausea and vomiting are very common during pregnancy, mainly throughout the first trimester. Metoclopramide is a dopamine receptor blocking drug that is commonly used to treat nausea and vomiting. The aim of this prospective study was to investigate the effect on the fetus of intrauterine exposure to metoclopramide. One hundred and seventy-five women who received metoclopramide and consulted 6 teratogen information centers in Israel, Italy, Brazil, and Canada were studied. Women exposed to metoclopramide were paired for age, smoking and alcohol consumption habits with women exposed to nonteratogens. Women in the metoclopramide group had a significantly higher rate of premature births (8.1%) as compared with the control group (2.4%) ( p = 0.02, relative risk = 3.37, 95% confidence interval 1.12-10.12). Rates of major malformations in the metoclopramide group (4.4%) did not differ from controls (4.8%) ( p = 0.84, relative risk = 0.91, 95% confidence interval 0.34-2.45). According to our findings, metoclopramide use during the first trimester of pregnancy does not appear to be associated with an increased risk of malformations, spontaneous abortions, or decreased birth weight, however, larger studies are needed to confirm these observations.
The antiarrhythmic effectiveness of a new class I agent, SC-36602, was evaluated in two canine models of ventricular arrhythmia. In a Harris coronary ligation-induced arrhythmia model, SC-36602 significantly reduced ectopic rate at doses of 8 mg/kg i.v. and 15, 20 and 30 mg/kg per os. In a ouabain-induced arrhythmia model, a 9 mg/kg i.v. dose of SC-36602 had a sustained (greater than or equal to 60 min) antiarrhythmic effect. The approximate plasma concentration of SC-36602 necessary for measurable antiarrhythmic activity was estimated to be 2-7 micrograms/ml after either i.v. or oral administration. No adverse cardiovascular or central nervous system effects were observed in conscious or anesthetized dogs in response to SC-36602.
Central nervous system mechanisms are involved in hypertension caused by chronic inhibition of nitric oxide (NO) synthesis. Chronic inhibition of NO synthesis might also activate the Rho/Rho-kinase pathway in the vasculature. We recently demonstrated that activation of the Rho/Rho-kinase pathway in the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) contributes to hypertensive mechanisms in spontaneously hypertensive rats. The aim of the present study was to determine whether activation of this pathway also contributes to neurogenic hypertensive mechanisms caused by chronic NO synthesis inhibition. The NO synthase inhibitor N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) was administered to Wistar-Kyoto rats in their drinking water (1 mg/mL) for 2 weeks. Bilateral microinjection of Y-27632, a specific Rho-kinase inhibitor, into the NTS elicited decreases in arterial pressure, heart rate, and renal sympathetic nerve activity in control rats and L-NAME-treated rats. The magnitude of the decrease, however, was significantly greater in L-NAME-treated than in control rats. In another group of rats, the specific Rho-kinase inhibitor, Y-27632, was administered intracisternally for 2 weeks with a mini-osmotic pump from the beginning of treatment with L-NAME. Y-27632 co-treatment significantly attenuated the increase in arterial pressure. Furthermore, the expression level of membranous RhoA and phosphorylation of the target proteins of Rho-kinase, the ERM (ezrin, radixin, moesin) family members, was significantly greater in L-NAME-treated rats than in control rats. These results indicate that activation of the Rho/Rho-kinase pathway in the NTS contributes to neurogenic hypertension caused by chronic NO synthase inhibition.
Inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) is expressed in both the fibrotic plaque of Peyronie's disease (PD) in the human, and in the PD-like plaque elicited by injection of TGFbeta1 into the penile tunica albuginea (TA) of the rat. Long-term inhibition of iNOS activity, presumably by blocking nitric oxide (NO)- and cGMP-mediated effects triggered by iNOS expression, exacerbates tissue fibrosis through an increase in: (a) collagen synthesis, (b) levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS), and (c) the differentiation of fibroblasts into myofibroblasts. We have now investigated whether: (a) phosphodiesterase (PDE) isoforms, that regulate the interplay of cGMP and cAMP pathways, are expressed in both the human and rat TA; and (b) L-arginine, that stimulates NOS activity and hence NO synthesis, and PDE inhibitors, that increase the levels of cGMP and/or cAMP, can inhibit collagen synthesis and induce fibroblast/myofibroblast apoptosis, thus acting as antifibrotic agents. We have found by immunohistochemistry, RT/PCR, and Western blot that PDE5A-3 and PDE4A, B, and D variants are indeed expressed in human and rat normal TA and PD plaque tissue, as well as in their respective fibroblast cultures. As expected, in the PD fibroblast cultures, pentoxifylline (non-specific cAMP-PDE inhibitor) increased cAMP levels without affecting cGMP levels, whereas sildenafil (PDE5A inhibitor) raised cGMP levels. Both agents and L-arginine reduced the expression of collagen I (but not collagen III) and the myofibroblast marker, alpha-smooth muscle actin, as determined by immunocytochemistry and quantitative image analysis. These effects were mimicked by incubation with 8-Br-cGMP, which in addition increased apoptosis, as measured by TUNEL. When L-arginine (2.25 g/kg/day), pentoxifylline (10 mg/kg/day), or sildenafil (10 mg/kg/day) was given individually in the drinking water for 45 days to rats with a PD-like plaque induced by TGF beta1, each treatment resulted in a 80-95% reduction in both plaque size and in the collagen/fibroblast ratio, as determined by Masson trichrome staining. Both sildenafil and pentoxiphylline stimulated fibroblast apoptosis within the TA. Our results support the hypothesis that the increase in NO and/or cGMP/cAMP levels by long-term administration of nitrergic agents or inhibitors of PDE, may be effective in reversing the fibrosis of PD, and more speculatively, other fibrotic conditions.
Tuberous sclerosis (TSC) is a hamartoma syndrome attributable to mutations in either TSC1 or TSC2 in which brain involvement causes epilepsy, mental retardation, and autism. We have reported recently (Meikle et al., 2007) a mouse neuronal model of TSC in which Tsc1 is ablated in most neurons during cortical development. We have tested rapamycin and RAD001 [40-O-(2-hydroxyethyl)-rapamycin], both mammalian target of rapamycin mTORC1 inhibitors, as potential therapeutic agents in this model. Median survival is improved from 33 d to more than 100 d; behavior, phenotype, and weight gain are all also markedly improved. There is brain penetration of both drugs, with accumulation over time with repetitive treatment, and effective reduction of levels of phospho-S6, a downstream target of mTORC1. In addition, there is restoration of phospho-Akt and phospho-glycogen synthase kinase 3 levels in the treated mice, consistent with restoration of Akt function. Neurofilament abnormalities, myelination, and cell enlargement are all improved by the treatment. However, dysplastic neuronal features persist, and there are only modest changes in dendritic spine density and length. Strikingly, mice treated with rapamycin or RAD001 for 23 d only (postnatal days 7-30) displayed a persistent improvement in phenotype, with median survival of 78 d. In summary, rapamycin/RAD001 are highly effective therapies for this neuronal model of TSC, with benefit apparently attributable to effects on mTORC1 and Akt signaling and, consequently, cell size and myelination. Although caution is appropriate, the results suggest the possibility that rapamycin/RAD001 may have benefit in the treatment of TSC brain disease, including infantile spasms.
A 12-year-old girl developed generalized tonic-clonic seizures following ingestion of flecainide 1500 mg (15 tablets). At presentation, the electrocardiogram showed marked prolongation of the JT interval and marked increase in QRS duration. The initial plasma flecainide level was greater than 4 micrograms ml-1. Supportive therapy was instituted and complete recovery occurred within 48 h. The electrocardiogram returned to normal. The management of class 1 antiarrhythmic agent toxicity is briefly outlined and the association of antiarrhythmic drug toxicity with seizures is reviewed.
Mutations in the ABCC6 (MRP6) gene cause pseudoxanthoma elasticum (PXE), a rare heritable disorder resulting in the calcification of elastic fibers. In the present study a cDNA encoding a full-length normal variant of ABCC6 was amplified from a human kidney cDNA library, and the protein was expressed in Sf9 insect cells. In isolated membranes ATP binding as well as ATP-dependent active transport by ABCC6 was demonstrated. We found that glutathione conjugates, including leukotriene C(4) and N-ethylmaleimide S-glutathione (NEM-GS), were actively transported by human ABCC6. Organic anions (probenecid, benzbromarone, indomethacin), known to interfere with glutathione conjugate transport of human ABCC1 and ABCC2, inhibited the ABCC6-mediated NEM-GS transport in a specific manner, indicating that ABCC6 has a unique substrate specificity. We have also expressed three missense mutant forms of ABCC6, which have recently been shown to cause PXE. MgATP binding was normal in these proteins; ATP-dependent NEM-GS or leukotriene C(4) transport, however, was abolished. Our data indicate that human ABCC6 is a primary active transporter for organic anions. In the three ABCC6 mutant forms examined, the loss of transport activity suggests that these mutations result in a PXE phenotype through a direct influence on the transport activity of this ABC transporter.
A major side-effect of high-dose methotrexate is renal toxicity, which may develop unexpectedly despite adequate standard precautions such as hydration and alkalinisation of the urine. The pathogenesis is unclear. Recent reports suggest that the combination of high-dose methotrexate with non-chemotherapeutic agents may cause such renal impairment. Three cases of unexpected renal impairment following the combined use of high-dose methotrexate and another cytotoxic agent, procarbazine, are reported. Possible mechanisms of this interaction are discussed, as are recommendations for future combined administration.
(1) New cases of mitochondrial disorders have been described in French children exposed to zidovudine in utero. Despite this, zidovudine remains the reference prophylaxis for mother-child HIV transmission.
About one-third of sporadic basal cell carcinomas (BCCs) of the skin and 10-15% of primitive neuroectodermal tumors (PNETs) of the central nervous system show mutations in the PTCH tumor suppressor gene. The PTCH gene product (Ptch) functions as a transmembrane receptor for the Sonic hedgehog protein (Shh) and interacts with another transmembrane protein called Smoh. To further elucidate the significance of alterations in the Shh signaling pathway, we investigated 31 sporadic BCCs and 15 PNETs for the mutation and/or expression of SMOH, PTCH, SHH, and GL11. In addition, we fine-mapped the SMOH gene locus by fluorescence in situ hybridization to chromosomal band 7q32. Mutational analysis identified four BCCs with somatic missense mutations in SMOH affecting codon 535 (TGG==>TTG: Trp==>Leu) in three tumors and codon 199 (CGG==>TGG: Arg==>Trp) in one tumor. A missense mutation at codon 533 (AGC==>AAC: Ser==>Asn) was found in one PNET. PTCH mutations were detected in eight BCCs and one PNET. Two BCCs demonstrated mutations in both SMOH and PTCH. The majority of tumors showed an increased expression of SMOH, PTCH, and GL11 transcripts as compared with that of normal skin and nonneoplastic brain tissue, respectively. In contrast, only one BCC and one PNET expressed SHH mRNA at levels detectable by reverse transcription-PCR, and no SHH gene mutations were found. In summary, our results indicate that both PTCH and SMOH represent important targets for genetic alterations in sporadic BCCs and PNETs.
A 44-year old woman with recurrent solitary fibrous tumor (SFT)/hemangiopericytoma was enrolled in a clinical sequencing program including whole-exome and transcriptome sequencing. A gene fusion of the transcriptional repressor NAB2 with the transcriptional activator STAT6 was detected. Transcriptome sequencing of 27 additional SFTs identified the presence of a NAB2-STAT6 gene fusion in all tumors. Using RT-PCR and sequencing, we detected this fusion in all 51 SFTs, indicating high levels of recurrence. Expression of NAB2-STAT6 fusion proteins was confirmed in SFT, and the predicted fusion products harbor the early growth response (EGR)-binding domain of NAB2 fused to the activation domain of STAT6. Overexpression of the NAB2-STAT6 gene fusion induced proliferation in cultured cells and activated the expression of EGR-responsive genes. These studies establish NAB2-STAT6 as the defining driver mutation of SFT and provide an example of how neoplasia can be initiated by converting a transcriptional repressor of mitogenic pathways into a transcriptional activator.
Known disease mechanisms in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) maintenance disorders alter either the mitochondrial replication machinery (POLG, POLG2 and C10orf2) or the biosynthesis pathways of deoxyribonucleoside 5'-triphosphates for mtDNA synthesis. However, in many of these disorders, the underlying genetic defect has yet to be discovered. Here, we identify homozygous nonsense and missense mutations in the orphan gene C20orf72 in three families with a mitochondrial syndrome characterized by external ophthalmoplegia, emaciation and respiratory failure. Muscle biopsies showed mtDNA depletion and multiple mtDNA deletions. C20orf72, hereafter MGME1 (mitochondrial genome maintenance exonuclease 1), encodes a mitochondrial RecB-type exonuclease belonging to the PD-(D/E)XK nuclease superfamily. We show that MGME1 cleaves single-stranded DNA and processes DNA flap substrates. Fibroblasts from affected individuals do not repopulate after chemically induced mtDNA depletion. They also accumulate intermediates of stalled replication and show increased levels of 7S DNA, as do MGME1-depleted cells. Thus, we show that MGME1-mediated mtDNA processing is essential for mitochondrial genome maintenance.
Arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) is a frontline drug for treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia and is in clinical trials for treatment of other malignancies, including multiple myeloma; however, efforts to expand clinical utility to solid tumors have been limited by toxicity. Nanoparticulate forms of As(2)O(3) encapsulated in 100-nm-scale, folate-targeted liposomes have been developed to lower systematic toxicity and provide a platform for targeting this agent. The resultant arsenic "nanobins" are stable under physiologic conditions but undergo triggered drug release when the pH is lowered to endosomal/lysosomal levels. Cellular uptake and antitumor efficacy of these arsenic liposomes have been evaluated in folate receptor (FR)-positive human nasopharyngeal (KB) and cervix (HeLa) cells, as well as FR-negative human breast (MCF-7) tumor cells through confocal microscopy, inductively coupled plasma mass spectroscopy, and cytotoxicity studies. Uptake of folate-targeted liposomal arsenic by KB cells was three to six times higher than that of free As(2)O(3) or nontargeted liposomal arsenic; the enhanced uptake occurs through folate-mediated endocytosis, leading to a 28-fold increase in cytotoxicity. In contrast, tumor cells with lower FR density on the surface (HeLa and MCF-7) showed much less uptake of the folate-targeted drug and lower efficacy. In cocultures of KB and MCF-7 cells, the folate-targeted arsenic liposomes were exclusively internalized by KB cells, showing high targeting specificity. Our studies further indicate that folate-targeted delivery of As(2)O(3) with coencapsulated nickel(II) ions (as a nontoxic adjuvant) potentiates the As(2)O(3) efficacy in relatively insensitive solid tumor-derived cells and holds the promise of improving drug therapeutic index.
Solitary fibrous tumors (SFTs) are rare mesenchymal tumors. Here, we describe the identification of a NAB2-STAT6 fusion from whole-exome sequencing of 17 SFTs. Analysis in 53 tumors confirmed the presence of 7 variants of this fusion transcript in 29 tumors (55%), representing a lower bound for fusion frequency at this locus and suggesting that the NAB2-STAT6 fusion is a distinct molecular feature of SFTs.
Uveal melanoma is the most common primary cancer of the eye and often results in fatal metastasis. Here, we describe mutations occurring exclusively at codon 625 of the SF3B1 gene, encoding splicing factor 3B subunit 1, in low-grade uveal melanomas with good prognosis. Thus, uveal melanoma is among a small group of cancers associated with SF3B1 mutations, and these mutations denote a distinct molecular subset of uveal melanomas.
This multicenter, noncomparative, nonrandomized study evaluated the clinical efficacy and safety of ceftriaxone for treating acute otitis media in children following clinical failure of oral antibiotic therapy. Middle-ear fluid samples were collected on day 0 and on day 3, 4, or 5 (day 3 to 5) and were used to test whether ceftriaxone therapy can eradicate Streptococcus pneumoniae isolates with increased resistance to penicillin (MIC >/= 1 mg/liter). At the first visit, on day 0, middle-ear fluid was sampled for bacteriological testing by tympanocentesis or otorrhea pus suction. Patients were administered 50 mg of ceftriaxone/kg of body weight/day, injected intramuscularly once daily, for 3 days. A second sample was collected by tympanocentesis if a pneumococcus isolate for which the MIC of penicillin was >/=1 mg/liter was detected in the day-0 sample and if the middle-ear effusion persisted on day 3 to 5. This second sample was tested for bacterial eradication. One hundred eighty-six children aged 5 months to 5 years, 10 months, with acute otitis media clinical failure were enrolled and treated in this trial. On day 10 to 12, 145 (83.8%) of the 173 patients evaluable for clinical efficacy were clinically cured. Of the 59 patients infected by pneumococci, 36 had isolates for which the MICs of penicillin were >/=1 mg/liter. Of those patients, on day 10 to 12, 32 (88.9%) were clinically cured. Middle-ear fluid samples collected by day 3 to 5 following the onset of treatment with ceftriaxone were sterile for 24 of the 27 (88.9%) patients who were infected as of day 0 by pneumococci for which the MICs of penicillin were >/=1 mg/liter and who were evaluable for bacteriological eradication. On day 10 to 12, 81.4% of S. pneumoniae-infected children and 87.5% of Haemophilus influenzae-infected children were clinically cured. No discontinuation of treatment due to adverse events, particularly due to local reactions at the injection site, were reported. Only 11 adverse events which had doubtful, probable, or possible links with the study treatment were recorded. Both the bacteriologically assessed eradication of pneumococci for which the MICs of penicillin were >/=1 mg/liter and the clinical cure rates demonstrate that ceftriaxone is of value in the management of acute otitis media unresponsive to previous oral antibiotic therapy.
Netilmicin or tobramycin was administered to 197 patients in a prospective randomized double-blind trial. Of these patients, 140 recipients of nine or more doses of netilmicin or tobramycin could be evaluated for nephrotoxicity. Fifty-five patients were able to cooperate in the administration of serial audiograms. Nephrotoxicity of similar severity developed in 7 of 73 (9.6%) recipients of tobramycin and in 7 of 67 (10.4%) recipients of netilmicin (P greater than 0.05). Mild or slight auditory toxicity developed in 5 of 28 (17.8%) recipients of tobramycin and in 2 of 27 (7.4%) recipients of netilmicin (P greater than 0.05).
The major symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD) are due to degeneration of the nigrostriatal pathway and depletion of dopamine (DA). Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), norepinephrine (NE), serotonin (5-HT), and melanin pigments are also decreased and acetylcholinergic activity increased. Biochemically, increased methylation can cause the depletion of DA, NE, 5-HT, and melanin pigments and also an increase of acetylcholine; thus, increased methylation can present a biochemical picture that resembles the biochemical changes that occur in PD. During the therapy of PD with L-dopa, it is well known that L-dopa reacts avidly with S-adenosyl-L-methionine (SAM), the biologic methyl donor, to produce 3-O-methyl-dopa. Correspondingly, L-dopa has been shown to deplete the concentration of SAM, and SAM has been found to induce PD-like motor impairments in rodents; therefore, an excess of SAM-dependent methylation may be associated with Parkinsonism. To further study the effects of methylation, SAM was injected into the lateral ventricle of rats. SAM caused tremors, rigidity, abnormal posture, and dose-related hypokinesia. Doses of 9.38, 50, and 400 nM/rat caused 61.9, 73.4, and 94.8% reduction, respectively, of motor activity. A 200-mg/kg IP dose of L-dopa, given before 50 nM SAM, blocked the SAM-induced hypokinesia. SAM also caused a decrease in TH immunoreactivity, apparent degeneration of TH-containing fibers, loss of neurons, and the accumulation of phagocytic cells in the substantia nigra. These results showed that excess SAM in the brain, probably due to its ability to increase methylation, can induce symptoms that resemble some of the changes that occur in PD.
Given the greatly elevated risks of contralateral breast cancer (CBC) observed in breast cancer patients who carry mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2, it is critical to determine the effectiveness of standard adjuvant therapies in preventing CBC in mutation carriers. The WECARE study is a matched, case-control study of 708 women with CBC as cases and 1,399 women with unilateral breast cancer (UBC) as controls, including 181 BRCA1/BRCA2 mutation carriers. Interviews and medical record reviews provided detailed information on risk factors and breast cancer therapy. All study participants were screened for BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations using denaturing high-performance liquid chromatography (DHPLC) to detect genetic variants in the coding and flanking regions of the genes. Conditional logistic regression was used to compare the risk of CBC associated with chemotherapy and tamoxifen in BRCA1/BRCA2 mutation carriers and non-carriers. Chemotherapy was associated with lower CBC risk both in non-carriers (RR = 0.6 [95% CI: 0.5-0.7]) and carriers (RR = 0.5 [95% CI: 0.2-1.0]; P value = 0.04). Tamoxifen was associated with a reduced CBC risk in non-carriers (RR = 0.7 [95% CI: 0.6-1.0]; P value = 0.03). We observed a similar but non-significant reduction associated with tamoxifen in mutation carriers (RR = 0.7 [95% CI: 0.3-1.8]). The tests of heterogeneity comparing carriers to non-carriers did not provide evidence for a difference in the associations with chemotherapy (P value = 0.51) nor with tamoxifen (P value = 0.15). Overall, we did not observe a difference in the relative risk reduction associated with adjuvant treatment between BRCA1/BRCA2 mutation carriers and non-carriers. However, given the higher absolute CBC risk in mutation carriers, the potentially greater impact of adjuvant therapy in reducing CBC risk among mutation carriers should be considered when developing treatment plans for these patients.
Recent data have suggested that there are no differences among various anthracycline-based chemotherapy regimens [including cyclophosphamide, vincristine, methotrexate, and prednisone (CHOP), methotrexate, calcium leucovorin, bleomycin, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, and dexamethasone (m-BACOD), methotrexate, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, prednisone, and bleomycin (MACOP-B), and cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, etoposide, prednisone, cytosine arabinoside, bleomycin, vincristine, methotrexate, and calcium leucovorin (PROMACE-cyta-BOM)] in patients with diffuse aggressive lymphomas. Because outcome appears to depend on certain prognostic factors, risk groups can be identified. Therefore, these prognostic factors were examined for their correlations with survival, time-to-treatment failure (TTF), and disease free survival (DFS) in a group of patients with diffuse aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma who were treated on a single randomized trial with either CHOP or m-BACOD.
From July 1984 to January 1988, 392 patients with diffuse large cell or diffuse mixed non-Hodgkin's lymphoma were enrolled in an Intergroup study and were randomly assigned to treatment with CHOP or m-BACOD chemotherapy. Of these, 325 were eligible for response, toxicity, and survival analysis, and the results were reported. The survival and TTF results now have been updated. The 286 patients who had lactic dehydrogenase (LDH) data available at study entry were analyzed for prognostic features according to the International Index criteria and using Martingale Residuals for proportional hazards regression.
There were no differences in survival, TTF, and disease free survival between groups of patients treated with either CHOP or m-BACOD. In addition, analysis using the International Index criteria confirmed that patients in the lower risk groups had better outcome than patients in the higher risk groups (5-year survival was 56 and 58% for low and low/intermediate risk groups, respectively, and 37% and 31% for high/intermediate and high risk groups, respectively). There were, however, no differences in survival, disease free survival, or TTF within any risk group when treatment with CHOP or m-BACOD were compared. In addition, analysis using Martingale residuals for proportional hazards regression identified LDH level (> 3 x normal) as an important prognostic factor that was not captured by the International Index. Thus, 5-year survival was 57% if LDH was normal or below, 42% if LDH was 1-3 x normal, and 21% if LDH was > 3 x normal.
In patients with advanced diffuse large cell or diffuse mixed non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, there are no differences in outcome that can be attributed to treatment with CHOP vs. m-BACOD; this holds for any prognostic group identified by the International Index. However, the level of LDH at time of study entry is an important prognostic factor that is predictive of survival and may help to identify candidates for future clinical trials.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of an oral ribosomal immunotherapy in the management of children with recurrent acute adenoiditis (RAA). 60 children with RAA were included and randomly assigned into two groups (group A and B). Group A children underwent ribosomal prophylaxis, while group B received a placebo. Before, at the end and 6 months after start of the therapy, children underwent medical history, ENT examination, plasma levels of immunoglobulins class E, A, G, M (IgE, IgA, IgG, IgM), tympanometry, active anterior rhinomanometry and VAS scores by children' parents. After the treatment and at the end of the study, in the group A, the serum concentration of IgE was significantly (P < 0.05) lower than in group B (77.34 +/- 6.23 vs. 95.49 +/- 7.07 mg/dl; 74.82 +/- 6.26 vs. 94.44 +/- 7.44 mg/dl), IgA titers were significantly (P < 0.05) higher than in group B (312.04 +/- 18.41 vs. 213.20 +/- 11.82; 309.07 +/- 18.33 vs. 211.73 +/- 11.54 mg/dl) as well as serum concentration of IgG (1401.12 +/- 118.81 vs. 1101.81 +/- 109.64 mg/dl; 1412.19 +/- 116.43 vs. 1144.06 +/- 103.58 mg/dl). At the end of the study, comparison between the two groups showed, in group A: 77% of children (n = 23), versus 23% (n = 7) of group B, with a type A tympanogram; significant (P < 0.05) nasal flow decrease at the rhinomanometric measures; VAS scores were significantly (P < 0.05) improved (1.8 +/- 0.22 vs. 5.1 +/- 0.59) and frequency, severity and social impact of RAA episodes were significantly (P < 0.05) lower than group B. Our results show the therapeutic effectiveness of this approach in the prophylaxis of recurrent acute adenoiditis.
To verify whether the frequencies of 5,10-methylenotetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) polymorphisms at positions 677 and 1298 are higher in women with children affected by trisomy 21 than in those with chromosomally normal offspring.
A case-control study was carried out with 70 women whose children had trisomy 21 and 88 controls whose children were chromosomally normal. The frequencies of polymorphisms of points C677T and A1298C of MTHFR gene coding were studied in these two groups. Odds ratios (OR) for having a child affected by trisomy 21 were estimated for homozygosis, heterozygosis or the absence of the above-mentioned MTHFR polymorphisms. Logistic regression models were used to control for the effect of confounding variables on these odds ratios.
The frequency of joint heterozygotic polymorphism (677 and 1298) was significantly higher in women with children affected by trisomy 21 than in those with chromosomally normal offspring (OR: 5.7).
The presence of joint heterozygotic polymorphism in the codifying gene for MTHFR was a risk factor for having a child with trisomy 21.
Oxygen-derived free radicals have been implicated in the pathogenesis of myocardial injury. We therefore investigated the pathophysiology of myocardial injury induced in isolated rat hearts by perfusion with superoxide radical generated by reacting 2.5 mmol/l purine, 0.03 U/ml xanthine oxidase and 300 U/ml catalase. Perfusion with superoxide significantly (P<0.05) increased left ventricular end-diastolic pressure within 15 to 20 min. During the same time period, heart rate and left-ventricular developed pressure significantly declined to 44.6+/-8.2% and 31.0+/-4.9% of control, respectively. Superoxide perfusion also significantly increased production of prostaglandins, nitric oxide (detected as nitrites) and peroxynitrite (detected immunohistochemically as nitrotyrosine). N(G)-nitro-l-arginine (100 micromol/l), a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, attenuated superoxide-induced generation of peroxynitrite, increased synthesis of prostacyclin, and partially blocked myocardial dysfunction, as did 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one (30 micromol/l), a selective inhibitor of soluble guanylate cyclase, and ONO-3708 (10 micromol/l), a selective thromboxane A(2)receptor antagonist. In contrast, nitroglycerin (4 micromol/l) and sodium nitroprusside (1 micromol/l) each exacerbated the superoxide-induced myocardial dysfunction. These results suggest that nitric oxide and related reactive species contribute to myocardial injury induced by superoxide. Moreover, they suggest that oxidative stress can be delayed or inhibited by reducing levels of nitric oxide, by inhibiting soluble guanylate cyclase, and by blocking thromboxane/prostaglandin receptors.
