A number of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs cause nephrotoxicity characterized by nephrotic syndrome, usually with acute renal insufficiency. Remission of proteinuria and renal insufficiency after discontinuation of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug therapy is characteristic. Relapse of nephrotic syndrome in the absence of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug rechallenge has not previously been reported. Nephrotic syndrome developed in an 80-year-old woman taking naproxen, and remitted after discontinuation of the drug. Nephrotic syndrome relapsed four months later without re-exposure to naproxen or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Renal biopsy at that time revealed minimal-change disease. The relationship between these two episodes of nephrotic syndrome is discussed with regard to possible pathogenetic mechanisms.
Pregnancy failure during placentation in lactating dairy cows was associated with low concentrations of serum progesterone. Beef cows have greater serum progesterone and less pregnancy failure. Experiment 1 determined that reduction of serum progesterone affected late embryonic/early fetal loss in suckled beef cows. Cows (n=40) received progesterone from two new or used controlled internal drug releasing devices, replaced every 5d, beginning on Day 28 of gestation (mating=Day 0); CL were enucleated on Day 29. Retention of pregnancy was 77% in treated cows and 97% in 78 control cows (P<0.05). Experiment 2 determined how pregnant, lactating dairy cows with high or low progesterone concentrations during Days 28-34 differed in luteal function or in serum progesterone during replacement therapy. Luteal tissue from such cows was assayed for progesterone and expression of mRNA for genes of endothelin and prostaglandin (PG) systems. Secretion of progesterone and prostaglandins by dispersed luteal cells was determined during incubation with LH, endothelin-1, or arachidonic acid. Neither luteal progesterone nor mRNAs for endothelin or prostaglandin systems differed. Endothelin-1 inhibited secretion of progesterone more (P<0.05) in luteal cells from cows with low versus high serum progesterone, when incubated with arachidonic acid. Secretion of prostaglandin F(2)alpha was increased and that of 6-keto-PGF(1)alpha decreased by endothelin-1 in vitro. Serum progesterone during replacement was lower (P<0.05) for cows with low than high serum progesterone at lutectomy. Thus, clearance, more than luteal production, determined peripheral progesterone in pregnant, lactating dairy cows.
A compendium of hepatic gene expression signatures was used to identify a mechanistic basis for the hepatic toxicity of an experimental CCR5 antagonist (MrkA). Development of MrkA, a potential HIV therapeutic, was discontinued due to hepatotoxicity in preclinical studies. Rats were treated with MrkA at 3 dose levels (50, 250, and 500 mg/kg) for 1, 3, or 7 days. Hepatic toxicity (vacuolation, consistent with steatosis, and elevated serum transaminase levels) was observed at 250 and 500 mg/kg, but not at 50 mg/kg. Hepatic gene expression profiles were compared to a compendium of hepatic expression profiles. MrkA was similar to 3 beta-oxidation inhibitors (valproate, cyclopropane carboxylate, pivalate), 8 PPARalpha agonists (fenofibrate, bezafibrate and 6 fibrate analogues), and 3 other diverse compounds (diethylnitrosamine, microcystin LR & actinomycin D). These data indicate MrkA to be a mitochondrial inhibitor, and activation of PPARalpha-regulated transcription was thought to be due to an accumulation of endogenous ligands. While mitochondrial inhibition was likely responsible for steatosis, canonical pathway analysis revealed that progression to liver injury may be mediated by activation of the innate immune system primarily through NF-kB pathways. These results demonstrate the utility of a gene expression response compendium in developing transcriptional biomarkers and identifying the mechanistic basis for toxicity.
The effect of 50% convulsant (CD50) and 50% lethal (LD50) doses of lidocaine, bupivacaine and pentylenetetrazol were determined in mice stressed by paradoxical sleep deprivation (PSD). The results showed a reduced mortality after high doses of local anesthetics and decreased seizure susceptibility induced by bupivacaine after 48 h and 72 h of PSD. On the other hand this stressful manipulation increased the susceptibility to pentylenetetrazol-induced convulsions. These data may suggest a different mechanism of action for these drugs. Possible alterations in drug metabolism or on aminergic transmission after PSD may be involved in the protection to the toxic effect of the local anesthetics.
An 11-year-old girl with CML in chronic phase was treated with allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT). She had had no episode of heart disease, and her chest roentgenogram and electrocardiogram were within normal ranges. She had no anthracycline, but 120 mg/kg (2.01 g/m2/d x 2 days) of cyclophosphamide (CY) for conditioning of BMT. She suffered from an acute heart failure on 14 days after BMT and died 2 days later. Autopsy revealed "specific heart muscular disease" with apparent degeneration and necrosis of heart muscle cells. More than 30 fatal cases of CY cardiotoxicity after BMT have been reported, and most patients developed acute heart failure within 10 days after CY dosing. Goldberg et al. reviewed 14 cases of CY cardiotoxicity, and considered more than 1.55 g/m2/day to be the critical doses for the onset of fatal cardiomyopathy. This case was considered to be first case in Japan. CY cardiomyopathy is an early fatal complication of BMT when CY used for conditioning. The dosing schedule may be considered.
Group II metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) have been implicated in regulating the psychopharmacologic effects of cocaine and other drugs of abuse. The present study investigated the interactions between the group II mGluR agonist LY379268 [(-)-2-oxa-4-aminobicyclo [3.1.0] hexane-4,6-dicarboxylate] and cocaine in squirrel monkeys whose operant behavior was maintained under a second order schedule of i.v. cocaine self-administration with or without presentations of a cocaine-paired visual stimulus, extinguished and subsequently reinstated by priming injections of cocaine with or without presentations of a cocaine-paired stimulus, and controlled by cocaine trained as a discriminative stimulus. Antagonism studies with the group II mGluR antagonist LY341495 [2S-2-amino-2-(1S,2S-2-carboxycyclopropyl-1-yl)-3-(xanth-9-yl) propanoic acid] investigated the extent to which the cocaine-modulating effects of LY379268 could be reversed by blocking group II mGluRs. Quantitative observational studies investigated the effects of LY379268 and LY341495 on species-typical behaviors, balance, and muscle resistance. Pretreatment with LY379268 reduced cocaine self-administration and cocaine-induced reinstatement of drug seeking in a dose-dependent, LY341495-reversible manner. Significant effects of LY379268 were observed both in the presence and absence of the cocaine-paired stimulus. LY379268 did not alter the discriminative stimulus effects of cocaine, nor did it markedly affect observed behavior, with the exception of an increase in visual scanning. Emesis frequently was observed after the highest dose of LY379268 (1.0 mg/kg). The results suggest that LY379268, by stimulating group II mGluRs, can attenuate the reinforcing and priming effects of cocaine at doses that do not alter its perceptibility or markedly suppress other behaviors.
Hearts from alpha1,3-Galactosyltransferase gene-knockout (GaIT-KO) pigs were transplanted heterotopically into 8 baboons that received an anti-CD154 monoclonal antibody (mAb)-based immunosuppressive regimen and heparin. Three baboons died or were euthanized with beating grafts on 16, 23, and 56 days, respectively, and the remaining 5 grafts functioned for 59-179 days. Hyperacute rejection did not occur, and classical features of acute humoral xenograft or acute cellular rejection were rare. However, thrombotic microangiopathy (TM) developed in all cases; its onset was delayed in 2 baboons that received aspirin. Function of a pig organ in a baboon for a period approaching 6 months has not been reported previously and lends encouragement that the barriers to xenotransplantation will be overcome, but TM requires investigation.
Isosorbide dinitrate in spray form is an effective and safe option for the treatment of hypertensive emergencies. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether isosorbide dinitrate spray is as effective and safe as treatment in tablet form for the management of hypertensive emergencies in the elderly.
Forty patients with hypertensive emergencies were randomly divided into two groups of 20 patients each. Group A received 1.25 mg isosorbide dinitrate aerosol upon arrival and a second dose 15 min later when mean systemic arterial pressure (MAP) reduction was <15% . Group B patients received a single 5 mg tablet of sublingual isosorbide dinitrate.
Blood pressure in Group A patients decreased from 193 +/- 13/123 +/- 6.6 mmHg to 154 +/- 15/92.5 +/- 7.6 mmHg (p < 0.005), the reduction beginning 10 min after drug administration; no adverse effects were found. Two patients in Group B did not respond but for the other patients in this group blood pressure decreased from 197 +/- 10/121 +/- 7 to 154 +/- 11/90 +/- 4 mmHg, (p < 0.005), the reduction beginning 45 min after receiving the medication; 8 patients suffered headache.
Our results indicate that isosorbide dinitrate aerosol is more effective than tablets for the treatment of elderly patients with hypertensive emergencies.
To compare the efficacy of clonidine and nifedipine in rapidly reducing blood pressure (BP).
Forty-four patients with arterial hypertension of any cause were selected and randomly divided in three groups: P group, consisting of 9 patients who received placebo; N group, consisting of 17 patients, 8 males, mean age of 47 years who received 10 mg of sublingual nifedipine; C group, consisting of 18 patients, 6 males, with mean age of 47 years who received 0.2 mg of clonidine per os. The BP were measured on admission and every 15 minutes for 1 hour. The final goal of treatment was to lower diastolic pressure in 20 mmHg or more.
At the end of 60 minutes the nifedipine as well as clonidine were equally effective in lowering BP. The earliest manifestation of drug activity occurred at 25 minutes after administration. Side effects were noted only with clonidine in 23% of the cases, but without any clinical significance.
Nifedipine as well as clonidine are equally effective in rapidly lowering BP with minimal side effects.
We compared the activities of linezolid (25 mg/kg of body weight, administered intraperitoneally every 8 h) and of vancomycin (25 mg/kg of body weight, administered intraperitoneally every 8 h) in a rat model of vanA vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium experimental endocarditis. Results were expressed as median log(10) CFU per gram of vegetation after 3 days of treatment. The median log(10) CFU per gram of vegetation was 10.1 among 7 untreated control animals, 10.2 among 9 vancomycin-treated animals, and 7.9 among 10 linezolid-treated animals. Linezolid treatment was more active (P < 0.05) than vancomycin treatment or no treatment.
L-arginine treatment prevents adrenocorticotrophin (ACTH) induced hypertension in the rat. This study examined whether L-arginine treatment could reverse established ACTH hypertension and its effects on markers of decreased NO activity.
Sixty-four male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into 6 groups given 12 days of treatment: (1) sham (0.9% NaCl, 0.5 ml/kg, subcutaneously, sc, n = 16); (2) ACTH (0.5 mg/kg/day, sc, n = 16); (3) sham + L-arginine (0.6% in food, from treatment day 8 onwards, n = 10); (4) ACTH + L-arginine (n = 10); (5) sham + D-arginine (0.6% in food, from T 8 onwards) (n = 6); and (6) ACTH + D-arginine (n = 6). Systolic blood pressure, water intake, urine volume, and body weight were measured every second day. At the end of the experiments, plasma and urinary nitrate/nitrite (NOx), plasma amino acid concentrations (in groups 1-4), and urinary cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) concentrations were measured.
Sham, sham + L-arginine, and sham + D-arginine treatments did not affect blood pressure. ACTH increased systolic blood pressure (from 121 +/- 1 to 147 +/- 2 mmHg, p < 0.001, pooled control vs treatment day 12, mean +/- sem), and this was partially reversed by L-arginine (group 4: from 141 +/- 2 on day 8 to 133 +/- 1 mmHg on day 12, n = 10, p < 0.001). In contrast, D-arginine did not affect blood pressure in ACTH-treated rats (group 6). ACTH increased water intake and urine volume and decreased body weight, and L-arginine administration did not alter these parameters. ACTH decreased plasma citrulline (group 1 vs 2: 115 +/- 7 vs 67 +/- 6 micro M/L, n = 16, p < 0.001) and NOx concentrations (group 1 vs 2: 8.3 +/- 0.8 vs 4.5 +/- 0.6 microM/L, n= 10, p < 0.001) and these decreases were reversed by L-arginine treatment (group 4: citrulline 98 +/- 9 micro M/L, NOx 9.1 +/- 1.6 micro M/L, group 2 vs 4, both p < 0.05). ACTH produced marked increases in urinary cGMP excretion (group 1 vs 2: 0.5 +/- 0.1 vs 1.9 +/- 0.4 nmol/24 h, p < 0.01).
Supplementation with L-arginine partly reversed established ACTH-induced hypertension and restored plasma NOx and citrulline concentrations to levels seen in sham-treated rats. These data are consistent with previous studies suggesting that functional NO deficiency has a role in ACTH-induced hypertension in rats.
2,5-Hexanedione (2,5-HD) pretreatment potentiated CHCl3-induced hepatotoxicity. 2,5-HD significantly increased hepatic cytochrome P-450, NADPH cytochrome c reductase, aniline hydroxylation, p-nitroanisole O-demethylation, and aminopyrine N-demethylation in both male and female mice. 2,5-HD pretreatment potentiated CHCl3-induced centrilobular necrosis and increased serum alanine amino transferase (ALT) activity by 20 times more than CHCl3 alone. Similarly, 2,5-HD pretreatment potentiated CDCl3-induced hepatotoxicity as well as CCl4-induced hepatotoxicity in male mice, but did not potentiate trichloroethylene-, 1,1,2-trichloroethane-, or perchloroethylene-induced hepatotoxicity. In female mice, 2,5-HD pretreatment potentiated CHCl3- and CDCl3-induced hepatotoxicity as well as trichloroethylene-, 1,1,2-trichloroethane-, and carbon tetrachloride-induced hepatotoxicity, but not perchloroethylene-induced hepatotoxicity. 2,5-HD pretreatment had no preferential effect on either CHCl3- or CDCl3-induced hepatotoxicity in females. However, phenobarbital pretreatment did differentiate CHCl3- and CDCl3-induced hepatotoxicity in females. 2,5-HD-induced potentiation of halocarbon hepatotoxicity is sex dependent.
To present a case of gemfibrozil-induced myositis which precipitated an acute compartment syndrome.
A 49-year-old woman with chronic renal failure was given gemfibrozil for hyperlipidaemia. She developed myositis in the sixth week of therapy. Her symptoms initially persisted despite withdrawal of gemfibrozil and she developed an acute compartment syndrome.
Emergency fasciotomy was performed. She gradually improved and complete recovery occurred eight weeks after cessation of gemfibrozil therapy.
Gemfibrozil may induce a local myositis which, in our patient, precipitated an acute compartment syndrome. One should be alert to symptoms of possible drug-induced myositis in patients receiving gemfibrozil. Extreme caution should be exercised in its use in patients with impaired renal function.
A four-week, double-blind study compared the effectiveness of thioridazine and diazepam in 40 geriatric patients with various symptoms of senility. Patients' progress was evaluated with the Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale, a Modified Nurses' Observation Scale for Inpatient Evaluation (NOSIE), a global rating of degree of illness, and a global rating of degree of overall change. The data indicate that thioridazine was superior to diazepam inrelieving troublesome symptoms of senility.
The available antihyperlipidaemic drugs are generally safe and effective, and major systemic adverse effects are uncommon. However, because of their complex mechanisms of action, careful monitoring is required to identify and correct potential drug interactions. Bile acid sequestrants are the most difficult of these agents to administer concomitantly, because their nonspecific binding results in decreased bioavailability of a number of other drugs, including thiazide diuretics, digitalis preparations, beta-blockers, coumarin anticoagulants, thyroid hormones, fibric acid derivatives and certain oral antihyperglycaemia agents. Although the incidence is low, nicotinic acid may cause hepatic necrosis and so should not be used with drugs that adversely affect hepatic structure or function. With the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, relatively new agents for which clinical data are still being accumulated, the major problems appears to be rhabdomyolysis, associated with the concomitant use of cyclosporin, fibric acid derivatives or erythromycin, and mild, intermittent hepatic abnormalities that may be potentiated by other hepatotoxic drugs. Fibrates also have the potential to cause rhabdomyolysis, although generally only in combination with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, and are subject to binding by concomitantly administered bile acid sequestrants. The major interaction involving probucol is a possible additive effect with drugs or clinical conditions that alter the prolongation of the QTc interval, increasing the potential for polymorphic ventricular tachycardia.
Polymorphisms in the promoter region of the serotonin transporter gene (5-HTTLPR) and exposure to early childhood adversities (CA) are independently associated with individual differences in cognitive and emotional processing. Whether these two factors interact to influence cognitive and emotional processing is not known.
We used a sample of 238 adolescents from a community study characterised by the presence of the short allele of 5-HTTLPR (LL, LS, SS) and the presence or absence of exposure to CA before 6 years of age. We measured cognitive and emotional processing using a set of neuropsychological tasks selected predominantly from the CANTAB® battery. We found that adolescents homozygous for the short allele (SS) of 5-HTTLPR and exposed to CA were worse at classifying negative and neutral stimuli and made more errors in response to ambiguous negative feedback. In addition, cognitive and emotional processing deficits were associated with diagnoses of anxiety and/or depressions.
Cognitive and emotional processing deficits may act as a transdiagnostic intermediate marker for anxiety and depressive disorders in genetically susceptible individuals exposed to CA.
The effect of dose was evaluated for the bladder carcinogenicity of N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl] formamide (FANFT). The chemical was fed to male weanling F344 rats for 30 weeks followed by 74 weeks of control diet. The incidences of bladder carcinoma were 100, 100, 87, 0, 0 and 0% for doses of 0.2, 0.1, 0.05, 0.01, 0.005 and 0.001%, respectively. There was an inverse relationship between dose and latency period. There was no increased incidence of tumors of other tissues.
The use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) during pregnancy has been sometimes related to harmful cardiac effects secondary to the precocious closure in uterus of ductus arteriosus. This closure is linked to the inhibition of the cyclo-oxygenase (COX) enzyme that plays a key-role in the prostaglandin synthesis. Recently, it has been acquired that, among NSAIDs, nimesulide has a more selective action on the isoform COX-2 that is more strictly related to inflammatory phenomena. The isoform COX-1, instead, steadily expressed in tissues, would be responsible of continuous prostaglandin synthesis maintaining patent the ductus arteriosus in uterus. The case reported in this paper describes a remarkable right ventricle hypertrophy observed in a newborn whose mother, during the whole period of pregnancy, frequently used nimesulide as analgesic. Probably, in spite of its selective action on COX-2, the prolonged use of nimesulide has determined a closure of the ductus, inducing a functional fetal pulmonary hypertension that resolved after birth with the consequent regression of the right ventricular hypertrophy.
We made accelerometric recordings of the tremor induced by valproic acid. The tremor was similar to essential tremor and appeared within a month of starting therapy. It was present at rest and exacerbated by action or antigravity positioning. There was no close correlation of tremor severity and plasma valproate level, but the tremor usually appeared at dosages greater than 750 mg per day. This tremor has appeared in 20 of 25 patients recently studied. In some patients the tremor is markedly active; however, others note only minimal tremor activity.
AG-012986 is a pan-CDK (cyclin-dependent kinase) inhibitor that has in vitro and in vivo antitumor properties but was stopped in development due in part to rapid bone-marrow-independent white blood cell toxicity in preclinical studies and the potential for acute and delayed immunosuppression in humans. Because peripheral lymphocytes are largely nonproliferating, it was hypothesized the toxicity of AG-012986 was due to an off-target mechanism and not driven by the intended pharmacology. We show the toxicity mechanism in primary human immune cells is caspase driven. T-cells treated with AG-012986 and acutely stimulated through the T-cell receptor exhibited decreased toxicity while still maintaining cell division inhibition. This indicated that the pharmacology of AG-012986 functioned as expected but the toxicity had now been decoupled through activation. Induced phosphorylation of p38 and IL-2 production was impaired with AG-012986. Thus, AG-012986 could cause apoptosis of T-cells by targeting upstream kinases in the p38 Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway and impairing cellular survival.
Oncogenic mutations in PIK3CA, which encodes the phosphoinositide-3-kinase (PI3K) catalytic subunit p110α, occur in ∼25% of human breast cancers. In this study, we report the development of a knock-in mouse model for breast cancer where the endogenous Pik3ca allele was modified to allow tissue-specific conditional expression of a frequently found Pik3ca(H1047R) (Pik3ca(e20H1047R)) mutant allele. We found that activation of the latent Pik3ca(H1047R) allele resulted in breast tumors with multiple histological types. Whole-exome analysis of the Pik3ca(H1047R)-driven mammary tumors identified multiple mutations, including Trp53 mutations that appeared spontaneously during the development of adenocarinoma and spindle cell tumors. Further, we used this model to test the efficacy of GDC-0941, a PI3K inhibitor, in clinical development, and showed that the tumors respond to PI3K inhibition.
There is an emerging body of data suggesting that mood disorders are associated with decreased brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). The present study aims to investigate the effects of the mood stabilizers lithium (Li) and valproate (VPT) in an animal model of bipolar disorder. In the first experiment (acute treatment), rats were administered D-amphetamine (AMPH) or saline for 14 days, and then between day 8 and 14, rats were treated with either Li, VPT or saline. In the second experiment (maintenance treatment), rats were pretreated with Li, VPT or saline, and then between day 8 and 14, rats were administered AMPH or saline. In both experiments, locomotor activity was measured using the open-field test and BDNF levels were measured in rat hippocampus by sandwich-ELISA. Li and VPT reversed AMPH-induced behavioral effects in the open-field test in both experiments. In the first experiment, Li increased BDNF levels in rat hippocampus. In the second experiment, AMPH decreased BDNF levels and Li and VPT increased BDNF levels in rat hippocampus. Our results suggest that the present model fulfills adequate face, construct and predictive validity as an animal model of mania.
Both clonidine and ketamine have been found to prolong the action of local anesthetics through a peripheral mechanism. Our study compares the efficacy of a low dose of clonidine or ketamine separately added to intravenous regional anesthesia (IVRA) with lidocaine to prevent tourniquet pain.
We conducted a prospective randomized double-blinded study in 45 patients undergoing hand or forearm surgery, with anticipated duration exceeding 1 hour under IVRA. Proximal cuff inflation of a double tourniquet was followed by administration of 40 mL of lidocaine 0.5% and either saline, 1 microg/kg clonidine, or 0.1 mg/kg ketamine. When anesthesia was established, the inflation of the proximal and distal cuff was interchanged. Thereafter, tourniquet pain was rated on a visual analog scale (VAS) every 10 minutes. Intraoperatively, boluses of 25 microg fentanyl were provided for tourniquet pain treatment when required, and total fentanyl consumption was recorded.
Patients receiving plain lidocaine persistently reported the highest pain scores among groups (P <.001) 20 minutes after distal cuff inflation. Differences between the groups with additional treatment were noted 50 minutes after distal cuff inflation and until the end of the observation, with significantly lower VAS ratings (P <.001 to P <.01) in ketamine-treated patients. Total fentanyl consumption was significantly decreased by ketamine (70.00 +/- 25.35 microg) or clonidine (136.67 +/- 39.94 microg) compared with the plain lidocaine group (215.33 +/- 52.33 microg) (P <.001 between all groups).
The addition of clonidine 1 microg/kg or ketamine 0.1 mg/kg to lidocaine for IVRA delays the onset of unbearable tourniquet pain and decreases analgesic consumption for tourniquet pain relief, although ketamine has a more potent effect.
Moricizine has been touted as having a low incidence of proarrhythmic effects. We present a case of proarrhythmia from moricizine, which presented as exercise induced ventricular tachycardia, and review the literature suggesting that this antiarrhythmic drug shares the proarrhythmic profile of other agents with predominant type Ic action. We conclude that moricizine has certain clinical and electrophysiological features that resemble type Ic antiarrhythmic agents. Precautions similar to those used when prescribing other drugs of this type should be followed when prescribing moricizine, including predischarge exercise testing.
Rhabdomyolysis and myositis are rare, dose-related complications of statins and fenofibrates. The outcome is favorable as a rule with rapid regression after stopping the responsible drug. Recently, various auto-immune disease with evidence of hypersensitivity to HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors or fibrates drugs have been reported. Less than ten cases of dermatomyositis and polymyositis due to cholesterol-lowering drugs (CLD) have been previously reported. Five more cases polymyositis associated with CLD are reported.
Symptoms were compatible with diagnosis of polymyositis according to Bohan and Peter and with previous reported criteria for drug-induced myopathy in all cases. None of these patients had previous other connective tissue disorders.
Five patients (median age 68 [54-78], female N =4) with CLD treatment (statin N =4, fenofibrates N =1) have developed iatrogenic polymyositis. All of them presented both proximal muscular weakness and increased muscle enzyme levels. One patient had iatrogenic antisynthetase syndrome characterized by mechanic's hand, Raynaud's phenomenon and anti JO1 antibodies. One other had sclerodermic hand oedema. Antinuclear antibodies were positive in 4 cases and muscle biopsy revealed polymyositis infiltrate in 4 cases. CLD treatment was discontinued with partial clinical improvement in 3 cases. Clinical remission was obtained with corticosteroid (N =5) in association with immunosuppresive agents in 3 cases.
Muscular symptoms in patient with CLD treatment could be the first symptom of a polymyositis revealed or increased by this treatment and must encourage physician with antinuclear antibodies screening especially in case of proximal muscular weakness and increased muscle enzyme levels.
We cared for a 64-year-old woman who experienced increased serum creatinine levels after 8 days of ciprofloxacin therapy. She had previously received a course of several antibiotics, including gentamicin. Renal function returned to normal 18 days after the ciprofloxacin was discontinued. This is the eighth reported case of nephrotoxicity associated with this agent. The mechanism and predisposing factors have not been defined.
