Furfuryl alcohol is considered by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to be a high volume production chemical, with over 1 million pounds produced annually. Due to its high production volume and its numerous industrial and consumer uses, there is considerable potential for work-related exposure, as well as exposure to the general population, through pulmonary, oral, and dermal routes of exposure. Human exposure data report a high incidence of asthma in foundry mold workers exposed to furan resins, suggesting potential immunologic effects. Although furfuryl alcohol was nominated and evaluated for its carcinogenic potential by the National Toxicology Program, studies evaluating its immunotoxicity are lacking. The studies presented here evaluated the immunotoxic potential of furfuryl alcohol following exposure by the dermal and pulmonary routes using a murine model. When tested in a combined irritancy local lymph node assay, furfuryl alcohol was identified to be an irritant and mild sensitizer (EC3 = 25.6%). Pulmonary exposure to 2% furfuryl alcohol resulted in enhanced airway hyperreactivity, eosinophilic infiltration into the lungs, and enhanced cytokine production (IL-4, IL-5, and interferon-γ) by ex vivo stimulated lung-associated draining lymphoid cells. Airway hyperreactivity and eosinophilic lung infiltration were augmented by prior dermal exposure to furfuryl alcohol. These results suggest that furfuryl alcohol may play a role in the development of allergic airway disease and encourage the need for additional investigation.
To investigate the protective effects of blocking rennin-angiotensin system (RAS) on the progression of renal injury in glomerulosclerosis, a glomerulosclerosis model was made for SD rats by unilateral nephrectomy and being injected with Adriamycin into caudal vein. The rats with glomerulosclerosis were randomly divided as ten per group into those without further treatment (group D) and those treated with Benazepril (group DB), Losartan (group DL), or sham-operation (group C), respectively. After 6 weeks of administration of Benazepril or Losartan, the mRNA expressions of TGF-beta1, Col IV, Fn, ET-1 and iNOS in renal cortex were measured by RT-PCR. Besides, the expressions of TGF-beta1, ET-1 and iNOS at protein level were detected by Western blotting and the concentrations of Col IV and Fn were analyzed with immunohistochemistry respectively. Results showed that the rats in group D appeared as obvious proteinuria, hypoalbuminemia and hypercholesterolemia, which had a significant difference compared with group C (p < 0.05), and most of their mesangiums were detected with cellular proliferation and significant increasing for extracellular matrix. Renal cortex TGF-beta1, Col IV, Fn, ET-1 and iNOS in rats of group D were increased by 3.59, 2.57, 2.21, 2.58 and 3.28 times at mRNA level, and by 2.60, 1.40, 0.75, 1.83 and 2.15 times at protein level, respectively, compared with group C. When the animals were treated with Benazepril (group DB) or Losartan (group DL), however, the biochemical and pathological damages were significantly recovered, and protein expressions of TGF-beta1, Col IV, Fn, ET-1 and iNOS were also significantly diminished (p < 0.05). This study suggested that blocking RAS using Benazepril or Losartan can have protective effects on the renal injury in glomerulosclerosis by down-regulating the expressions of TGF-beta1, Col IV, Fn, ET-1 and iNOS.
In a retrospective survey of drug-induced hepatitis during a ten-year period, we found that quinidine sulfate was the most common offending agent. We analyzed the clinical and laboratory data of the 33 cases of quinidine-induced hepatitis and noted the following: (1) It is an easily recognized drug reaction, because, in most patients, fever preceded liver damage. (2) The clinical picture usually includes fever and sometimes is accompanied by gastrointestinal symptoms, rash, and thrombocytopenia, which resolved after discontinuation of drug therapy, but reappeared promptly after a rechallenge. (These features suggest a hypersensitivity mechanism.) (3) The histologic findings of the liver biopsy specimens consisted of portal and parenchymal, acute and chronic hepatitis, combined with granulomas. (4) In a long-term follow-up study of 15 patients, no liver function abnormalities were found. We thus conclude that quinidine-induced hepatitis, when recognized early, is a reversible drug reaction.
Evidence is accumulating that cerebral laterality appears to be an important feature in the regulation of the stress response with the right hemisphere being closely linked to stress-regulatory systems, including the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. Although some animal and human data support this hypothesis, studies on brain damaged patients yet failed to substantiate laterality effects on cortisol secretion. The aim of this study was to examine whether unilateral stroke differentially affects tonic and phasic response characteristics of the HPA axis, and to evaluate the impact of intrahemispheric lesion location. Basal morning cortisol levels and phasic responses towards a mentally challenging task were examined in 32 stroke patients with left-sided (LH; n=18) or right-sided (RH; n=14) infarctions and 30 healthy controls matched for age and gender. Only LH, but not RH patients displayed increased morning cortisol levels when compared to controls. In contrast, phasic reactions were blunted in the combined patient group with RH patients showing the most distinct decline. More anterior located lesions were associated with reduced phasic, but not tonic cortisol measures. This relationship appeared to be particularly pronounced in RH patients. Results support the conclusion that the central regulation of cortisol secretion is under excitatory control of the right hemisphere and can be interpreted within a framework of asymmetrical regulation of the stress response. Left- and right-sided strokes may differentially affect response patterns of the HPA axis, a stress-regulatory system that is associated with effective protection against disease and external challenges.
We identified methadone maintenance therapy (MMT) use during follow-up interviews and examined associations between MMT use and socio-demographic and drug-related variables using generalized estimating equations (GEE). Of the 1587 participants recruited into this cohort, 170 (11%) were enrolled in MMT at baseline and additional 498 (31%) initiated MMT during follow-up. Of those ever enrolled in MMT, 406 (61%) ceased MMT and re-initiated MMT on more than one occasion. The median treatment duration was 14.4 months. Factors that were negatively and significantly associated with MMT use in multivariate analyses included: Aboriginal ethnicity (adjusted odds ratio [AOR] = 0.40); recent incarceration (AOR = 0.79); sex trade involvement (AOR = 0.87); syringe lending (AOR = 0.72); heroin injection (AOR = 0.64), whereas female gender (AOR = 2.47), HIV positivity (AOR = 1.57), and crack cocaine smoking (AOR = 1.23) were positively and significantly associated with being on MMT. Unstable housing, syringe borrowing, non-fatal overdose, cocaine injection, and residence in Vancouver's Downtown Eastside were not associated with MMT use in multivariate analyses. Our study demonstrates high rates of initiation of and retention in MMT among local IDUs. While the use of MMT was associated with reductions in heroin use and HIV risk behavior, barriers to Aboriginal IDUs were evident, and the association with increased crack cocaine use deserves further study.
Sirt1 is an NAD(+)-dependent deacetylase that extends lifespan in lower organisms and improves metabolism and delays the onset of age-related diseases in mammals. Here we show that SRT1720, a synthetic compound that was identified for its ability to activate Sirt1 in vitro, extends both mean and maximum lifespan of adult mice fed a high-fat diet. This lifespan extension is accompanied by health benefits including reduced liver steatosis, increased insulin sensitivity, enhanced locomotor activity and normalization of gene expression profiles and markers of inflammation and apoptosis, all in the absence of any observable toxicity. Using a conditional SIRT1 knockout mouse and specific gene knockdowns we show SRT1720 affects mitochondrial respiration in a Sirt1- and PGC-1α-dependent manner. These findings indicate that SRT1720 has long-term benefits and demonstrate for the first time the feasibility of designing novel molecules that are safe and effective in promoting longevity and preventing multiple age-related diseases in mammals.
Warfarin, a coumarin anticoagulant, is used worldwide for the treatment and prevention of thromboembolic disease. Warfarin therapy, however, can be difficult to manage because of the drug's narrow therapeutic index and the wide interindividual variability in patient response. It is now clear that genetic polymorphisms in genes influencing metabolism (CYP2C9) and pharmacodynamic response (VKORC1) are strongly associated with warfarin responsiveness. Optimal warfarin dosing in turn drives other positive anticoagulation-related outcomes. Therefore, a strong basic science argument is emerging for prospective genotyping of warfarin patients. Effective clinical translation would establish warfarin pharmacogenomics as a heuristic model for personalized medicine.
We present 3 cases of anti-myeloperoxidase, anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (MPO-ANCA)-positive rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis developed during the treatment with D-penicillamine (D-PC) for rheumatoid arthritis. Rheumatoid arthritis was diagnosed in these patients, and D-PC was administered to them at doses of 100, 200, and 300 mg per day for 32, 42, and 39 months, respectively. They developed proteinuria, hematuria, renal insufficiency, and anemia, and D-PC was stopped. On admission, MPO-ANCA was strongly positive in their sera. Renal biopsy showed glomerulonephritis with cellular crescents. Immunofluorescence examination revealed deposits of granular IgG, IgM, IgA, C1q, and C3 in the mesangium. The 3 patients were treated with steroid pulse therapy along with administration of anticoagulants, and cyclophosphamide was also used in 2 patients. Their renal function improved gradually and MPO-ANCA disappeared after immunosuppressive treatment.
The 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitors lovastatin and simvastatin have been associated with rhabdomyolysis in cardiac transplant recipients. Herein, we report a case of a 52-year-old male recipient of a cardiac transplant who developed rhabdomyolysis and acute renal failure caused by simvastatin precipitated by multiple drug interactions.
The patient had a history of cardiac transplantation (5 years before) and presented with a 2-day history of dark urine preceded by 2 weeks of diffuse myalgias. He had been maintained on cyclosporine throughout the entire post-transplant period. Simvastatin was added and pravastatin was discontinued 2 months before admission. Two weeks before the onset of muscle symptoms, digoxin and verapamil were started for new-onset atrial fibrillation. Creatinine phosphokinase levels peaked at 950,000 IU with serum creatinine of 3.3 mg/dL (baseline, 1.8 mg/dL).
Review of the medication history indicates a temporal association between the addition of 3 drugs (simvastatin, verapamil, and digoxin) to the medication regimen already containing cyclosporine and the episode of rhabdomyolysis. All of these drugs are cytochrome P450 3A4 and/or P-glycoprotein substrates that are known from previous pharmacokinetic studies to individually produce substantial increases in levels of simvastatin.
We believe this case illustrates that avoiding the use of drugs that are cytochrome P450 3A4 and/or P-glycoprotein substrates reduces the risk of rhabdomyolysis caused by 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitors.
Lithium is a commonly prescribed mood-stabilizing drug. However, chronic treatment with lithium induces numerous kidney-related side effects, such as dramatically reduced aquaporin 2 (AQP2) abundance, altered renal function, and structural changes. As a model system, inner medullary collecting ducts (IMCD) isolated from rats treated with lithium for either 1 or 2 weeks were subjected to differential 2D gel electrophoresis combined with mass spectrometry and bioinformatics analysis to identify (i) signaling pathways affected by lithium and (ii) unique candidate proteins for AQP2 regulation. After 1 or 2 weeks of lithium treatment, we identified 6 and 74 proteins with altered abundance compared with controls, respectively. We randomly selected 17 proteins with altered abundance caused by lithium treatment for validation by immunoblotting. Bioinformatics analysis of the data indicated that proteins involved in cell death, apoptosis, cell proliferation, and morphology are highly affected by lithium. We demonstrate that members of several signaling pathways are activated by lithium treatment, including the PKB/Akt-kinase and the mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK), such as extracellular regulated kinase (ERK), c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase (JNK), and p38. Lithium treatment increased the intracellular accumulation of beta-catenin in association with increased levels of phosphorylated glycogen synthase kinase type 3beta (GSK3beta). This study provides a comprehensive analysis of the proteins affected by lithium treatment in the IMCD and, as such, provides clues to potential lithium targets in the brain.
BP 897 is a potent (K(i) = 0.92 nM) dopamine D(3) receptor compound developed for the treatment of cocaine abuse and craving. BP 897 has a high selectivity for the dopamine D(3) versus D(2) receptors (70-fold) and a moderate affinity for 5-HT(1A) receptors, (K(i) = 84 nM), adrenergic-alpha(1) (K(i) = 60 nM) and -alpha(2) adrenoceptors (K(i) = 83 nM). BP 897 displays significant intrinsic activity at the human dopamine D(3) receptor by decreasing forskolin-stimulated cAMP levels and by stimulating mitogenesis of dopamine D(3)-expressing NG108-15 cells. Although these findings suggest that BP 897 is a partial agonist, recent studies in Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cells with expressed dopamine D(3) receptors demonstrated that BP 897 is devoid of any intrinsic activity but potently inhibits dopamine agonist effects (pIC(50) = 9.43 and 9.51) in agonist-induced acidification rate or increase of GTPgammaS binding, respectively. In addition, BP 897 inhibits in vivo (EC(50) = 1.1 mg/kg, i.v.) agonist-induced decrease of firing rate of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. It has been clearly shown that BP 897, 1 mg/kg, i.p., reduces cocaine-seeking behavior in rats, without producing reinforcement on its own. In rhesus monkeys, BP 897 is not self-administered (up to 30 microg/kg, i.v.) but reduces cocaine self-administration. The potential usefulness of BP 897 in the treatment of drug-seeking behavior is further supported by its effects in drug conditioning models. Although BP 897 reduces L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated monkeys, it provokes a return of parkinsonian symptoms. At high doses BP 897 has been reported to produce catalepsy in rats. Pharmacokinetic and toxicological data have not yet been published. These interesting preclinical findings with BP 897 provide additional validation for dopamine D(3) receptor as a therapeutic target for the treatment of cocaine abuse and its associated central nervous system (CNS) disorders. BP 897 recently entered phase II clinical studies.
Assessment of the functional significance of anatomically defined coronary stenoses has been hampered by the lack of clinically applicable techniques of measuring coronary blood flow or flow ratios. A digital angiographic technique is reported that allows rapid analysis of relative regional coronary blood flow during routine cardiac catheterization. This technique was validated in dogs by comparing digital flow ratio estimates with electromagnetic-flow (EMF) ratio measurements. Fourteen open-chest dogs had EMF probes placed on the proximal left anterior descending artery before selective coronary angiography. Electrocardiographically gated images were acquired directly by a digital radiographic system during both baseline blood flow and either contrast or papaverine-induced hyperemia. Dual-parameter functional images were generated using color and intensity coding to represent contrast arrival time and contrast density, respectively. For analysis, myocardial areas of interest were created over the distal perfusion bed of the left anterior descending coronary artery. Mean contrast density/appearance time (CD/AT) values were computer calculated as the mean density divided by the mean arrival time for each. Coronary flow reserve was determined as the ratio of the CD/AT value for a hyperemic image divided by the CD/AT value for the corresponding baseline image. CD/AT ratios correlated well (r = 0.92) with actual EMF ratios (CD/AT Ratio = 0.90 EMF Ratio +0.12, n = 48 ratios). Reproducibility was +/- 13%. Interobserver (r = 0.99) and intraobserver (r = 0.98) variability was excellent. Thus, rapid, accurate and reproducible estimates of relative regional coronary blood flow are possible using digital radiography.
To evaluate quantitatively articles that compared effects of second and third generation oral contraceptives on risk of venous thrombosis.
Meta-analysis.
Cohort and case-control studies assessing risk of venous thromboembolism among women using oral contraceptives before October 1995.
Pooled adjusted odds ratios calculated by a general variance based random effects method. When possible, two by two tables were extracted and combined by the Mantel-Haenszel method.
The overall adjusted odds ratio for third versus second generation oral contraceptives was 1.7 (95% confidence interval 1.4 to 2.0; seven studies). Similar risks were found when oral contraceptives containing desogestrel or gestodene were compared with those containing levonorgestrel. Among first time users, the odds ratio for third versus second generation preparations was 3.1 (2.0 to 4.6; four studies). The odds ratio was 2.5 (1.6 to 4.1; five studies) for short term users compared with 2.0 (1.4 to 2.7; five studies) for longer term users. The odds ratio was 1.3 (1.0 to 1.7) in studies funded by the pharmaceutical industry and 2.3 (1.7 to 3.2) in other studies. Differences in age and certainty of diagnosis of venous thrombosis did not affect the results.
This meta-analysis supports the view that third generation oral contraceptives are associated with an increased risk of venous thrombosis compared with second generation oral contraceptives. The increase cannot be explained by several potential biases.
Lipid metabolism in tissues and HDL were examined in daunomycin-induced nephrotic rats. 1) Daunomycin-induced nephrotic rats showed the decreased phospholipids, the increased cholesterol content in heart. Phospholipids, triglycerides and cholesterol content in brain, lung and spleen were similar in daunomycin-induced nephrotic rats and control rats. 2) Triglycerides content in hepatocytes was decreased in daunomycin-induced nephrotic rats. But, cholesterol esters content in hepatocytes was higher in daunomycin-induced nephrotic rats than control rats. 3) LCAT activity in serum was increased in daunomycin-induced nephrotic rats. 4) Apolipoproteins composition of HDL in daunomycin-induced nephrotic rats showed the increased apoA-I and the decreased apo E. These results show that the increased cholesterol esters in liver tissue are due to hepatocytes in daunomycin-induced nephrotic rats. The increased HDL cholesterol content may contribute to the increase of LCAT activity in daunomycin-induced nephrotic rats. The increase of LCAT activity in serum results in the increased apo A-I content in daunomycin-induced nephrotic rats. No direct evidence about the incorporation of HDL into liver is obtained from the present experiments and further study will be necessary to clarify this evidence.
As kappa agonists have been proposed as treatments for cocaine abuse, the cardiovascular effects of the kappa opioid receptor agonists ethylketocyclazocine (EKC) and enadoline were investigated in conscious squirrel monkeys. Both EKC and enadoline increased heart rate with little effect on blood pressure. This effect appeared to be specific for kappa receptors as the mu opioid agonist morphine did not mimic the effects of the kappa agonists. The opioid antagonist naltrexone, at a dose of 1.0 mg/kg, blocked the effect of EKC. An action at both central and peripheral receptors may be responsible for the heart rate increase following kappa agonist treatment. The ganglionic blocker chlorisondamine partially antagonized the effect of EKC on heart rate, suggesting central involvement, while the peripherally-acting agonist ICI 204,448 ((+/-)-1-[2,3- (Dihydro-7-methyl-1H-inden-4-yl)oxy]-3-[(1-methylethyl)amino]-2-butanol hydrochloride) also increased heart rate, supporting a peripheral site of action. When given in combination with cocaine, EKC produced effects that were sub-additive, suggesting that the kappa agonists may be used safely as cocaine abuse treatments.
Experiments were undertaken to study whether progressive processes of bovine serum albumin (BSA) nephritis in C57BL/B10-BR mice could be prevented by the treatment with methylprednisolone (MPSL), a glucocorticoid. Crescentic glomerulonephritis could be induced in 22 mice with high 95 per cent reproducibility by preimmunization of 0.2 mg of BSA four times every 2 weeks, followed by daily intraperitoneal injections of 50 mg/kg of BSA for 4 weeks (group IV, a control). In groups of 8 mice each, intraperitoneal injection of 50 mg/kg of MPSL was initiated 3 days before preimmunization (group I), before daily intraperitoneal injection of BSA (group II), and after daily intraperitoneal injection of BSA (group II), and after daily intraperitoneal injection of BSA (group III). In each group, the treatment was continued until the final day of the experiment. In group I, anti-BSA antibody titers, the levels of circulating immune complexes (CIC) and urinary protein was significantly suppressed in comparison with those in group IV. Histologically, diffuse intra- and extra-capillary proliferation observed in group IV was apparently inhibited. In group II and III, urinary protein and intra-/extracapillary proliferation were significantly diminished compared with those of group IV in spite of minor or no decrease in antibody titers and the CIC levels. These results suggest that MPSL has a suppressive effect on the progressive processes of immune complex mediated glomerulonephritis through both its immunosuppressive and antiinflammatory actions, especially when used in the early stage of immune reaction.
Indomethacin is the most frequently used pharmacological agent for closure of a patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) in premature infants. However, reports of complications, particularly, necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC) and isolated gastrointestinal perforation have generated concerns about the use of this medication.
A retrospective study to compare the incidence of NEC, NEC-related gastrointestinal complications and isolated gastrointestinal perforation among premature infants treated for a PDA with either, indomethacin alone (I), surgical ligation alone (L), or indomethacin followed by surgical ligation (I-L).
The medical records of 224 infants that underwent treatment, either pharmacological or surgical, for a PDA, confirmed by echocardiography, over a 4-year period (1995 to 1998) were analyzed. Treatment history and gastrointestinal complications were reviewed.
Of the 224 infants, 108 (48.2%) were treated with I, 50 (22.3%) by L, 66 (29.5%) with I-L. The clinical characteristics of the three treatment groups were similar and no differences in the incidence of NEC were observed between groups. NEC occurred in 14 (13%) of the I group, seven (14%) of the L group, and eight (12%) of the I-L group. The rate of NEC related gastrointestinal complications and isolated gastrointestinal perforation were also similar among groups.
In this large retrospective study, indomethacin treatment for a significant PDA in premature infants was not associated with a greater risk for NEC or NEC-related gastrointestinal complications than surgical ligation.
Although taxol has shown significant activity in advanced ovarian cancer, peripheral neuropathy is likely to become the major dose-limiting toxicity. We describe a case of advanced ovarian carcinoma who developed difficulty walking because of marked pain in the lower extremities and loss of proprioception 25 days after treatment with weekly taxol (80 mg/m(2)x3).
Galanin receptors type 1 (GalR1) and/or type 2 (GalR2) represent unique pharmacological targets for treatment of seizures and epilepsy. Previous studies have shown that the endogenous peptide ligand galanin exerts powerful anticonvulsant effect through activation of these two G protein-coupled receptors, which are highly expressed in the temporal lobe of rodent brain. Here we report the characterization of a putative GalR2-positive allosteric modulator CYM2503. CYM2503 potentiated the galanin-stimulated IP1 accumulation in HEK293 cells stably expressing GalR2 receptor, whereas it exhibited no detectable affinity for the (125)I galanin-binding site of GalR2 receptor, an effect consistent with that of a positive allosteric modulator. In the rat Li-pilocarpine status epilepticus model, CYM2503, injected intraperitoneally, increased the latency to first electrographic seizure and the latency to first stage 3 behavioral seizure, decreased the latency to the establishment of status epilepticus, and dramatically decreased the mortality. In a Li-pilocarpine seizure model in mice, CYM2503 increased the latency to first electrographic seizure and decreased the total time in seizure. CYM2503 also attenuated electroshock-induced seizures in mice. Thus, CYM2503 provides a starting point for the development of anticonvulsant therapy using the galanin R2 receptor as target.
Experience-dependent changes in the structure of dendritic spines may contribute to learning and memory. Encoded by three genes, the Shank family of postsynaptic scaffold proteins are abundant and enriched in the postsynaptic density (PSD) of central excitatory synapses. When expressed in cultured hippocampal neurons, Shank promotes the maturation and enlargement of dendritic spines. Recently, Shank3 has been genetically implicated in human autism, suggesting an important role for Shank proteins in normal cognitive development. Here, we report the phenotype of Shank1 knock-out mice. Shank1 mutants showed altered PSD protein composition; reduced size of dendritic spines; smaller, thinner PSDs; and weaker basal synaptic transmission. Standard measures of synaptic plasticity were normal. Behaviorally, they had increased anxiety-related behavior and impaired contextual fear memory. Remarkably, Shank1-deficient mice displayed enhanced performance in a spatial learning task; however, their long-term memory retention in this task was impaired. These results affirm the importance of Shank1 for synapse structure and function in vivo, and they highlight a differential role for Shank1 in specific cognitive processes, a feature that may be relevant to human autism spectrum disorders.
Arsenite is an important cancer chemotherapeutic. The liver is a major target tissue of arsenic toxicity and hepatotoxicity may limit its chemotherapeutic efficacy. O(2)-vinyl 1-(pyrrolidin-1-yl)diazen-1-ium-1,2-diolate (V-PYRRO/NO) is a liver-selective nitric oxide (NO)-producing prodrug metabolized by hepatic P450 enzymes to release NO locally. V-PYRRO/NO protects against various organic or inorganic hepatotoxicants but any role in arsenic hepatotoxicity is undefined. Thus, we studied the effects of V-PYRRO/NO (0-1000muM) pretreatment on inorganic arsenic-induced toxicity in cultured rat liver (TRL 1215) cells. These cells metabolized the prodrug to release NO, producing extracellular nitrite levels to 41.7-fold above control levels (7.50+/-0.38 microM) after 24h V-PYRRO/NO (1000 microM) exposure. The effect of pretreatment with V-PYRRO/NO (24h) on the cytolethality of arsenic (as NaAsO(2)) exposure (24h) was assessed. Arsenic was markedly less toxic in V-PYRRO/NO pretreated cells (LC(50)=30.3 microM) compared to control (LC(50)=20.1 microM) and the increases in LC(50) showed a direct relationship to the level of NO produced (measured as nitrite). Consistent with the cytolethality data, V-PYRRO/NO pretreatment markedly reduced arsenic-induced apoptosis as assessed by DNA fragmentation. Activation of the c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) pathway can be critical to apoptosis and pretreatment with V-PYRRO/NO suppressed arsenic-induced JNK activation. V-PYRRO/NO pretreatment modestly increased metallothionein (MT), a metal-binding protein, but greatly enhanced arsenic induction of MT. Thus, V-PYRRO/NO pretreatment directly mitigates arsenic toxicity in cultured liver cells, reducing cytolethality, apoptosis and related JNK pathway activation, apparently through generation of NO. The role of NO in reducing the hepatotoxicity of arsenical chemotherapeutics in vivo deserves additional study.
The yawns and penile erection elicited in rats by apomorphine (100 micrograms/kg SC) are dose-dependently suppressed by the enkephalinase-resistant analog of NT, [D-Trp11]NT, intracerebroventricularly (ICV) injected (10-120 ng per rat). This antagonistic effect was shared by NT (0.75-3 micrograms per rat) administered ICV. The yawns induced by pilocarpine (2 mg/kg IP) were similarly antagonized by [D-Trp11]NT (30-120 ng per rat). The enkephalinase inhibitor acetorphan (5 mg/kg IV) reduced in a naloxone (2 mg/kg, SC)-resistant manner the apomorphine-induced penile erection or yawning.
Troglitazone (TGZ) is a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR gamma) ligand that has pro-apoptotic activity in human colon cancer. Although TGZ binds to PPAR gamma transcription factors as an agonist, emerging evidence suggests that TGZ acts independently of PPAR gamma in many functions, including apoptosis. Early growth response-1 (Egr-1) transcription factor has been linked to apoptosis and shown to be activated by extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK). We investigated whether TGZ-induced apoptosis may be related to Egr-1 induction, because TGZ has been known to induce ERK activity. Our results show that Egr-1 is induced dramatically by TGZ but not by other PPAR gamma ligands. TGZ affects Egr-1 induction at least by two mechanisms; TGZ increases Egr-1 promoter activity by 2-fold and prolongs Egr-1 mRNA stability by 3-fold. Inhibition of ERK phosphorylation in HCT-116 cells abolishes the Egr-1 induction by TGZ, suggesting its ERK-dependent manner. Further, the TGZ-induced Egr-1 expression results in increased promoter activity using a reporter system containing four copies of Egr-1 binding sites, and TGZ induces Egr-1 binding activity to Egr-1 consensus sites as assessed by gel shift assay. In addition, TGZ induces ERK-dependent phosphorylation of PPAR gamma, resulting in the down-regulation of PPAR gamma activity. The fact that TGZ-induced apoptosis is accompanied by the biosynthesis of Egr-1 suggests that Egr-1 plays a pivotal role in TGZ-induced apoptosis in HCT-116 cells. Our results suggest that Egr-1 induction is a unique property of TGZ compared with other PPAR gamma ligands and is independent of PPAR gamma activation. Thus, the up-regulation of Egr-1 may provide an explanation for the anti-tumorigenic properties of TGZ.
Infantile myopathies with diaphragmatic paralysis are genetically heterogeneous, and clinical symptoms do not assist in differentiating between them. We used phased haplotype analysis with subsequent targeted exome sequencing to identify MEGF10 mutations in a previously unidentified type of infantile myopathy with diaphragmatic weakness, areflexia, respiratory distress and dysphagia. MEGF10 is highly expressed in activated satellite cells and regulates their proliferation as well as their differentiation and fusion into multinucleated myofibers, which are greatly reduced in muscle from individuals with early onset myopathy, areflexia, respiratory distress and dysphagia.
Craniofrontonasal syndrome (CFNS) is an X-linked developmental disorder that shows paradoxically greater severity in heterozygous females than in hemizygous males. Females have frontonasal dysplasia and coronal craniosynostosis (fusion of the coronal sutures); in males, hypertelorism is the only typical manifestation. Here, we show that the classical female CFNS phenotype is caused by heterozygous loss-of-function mutations in EFNB1, which encodes a member of the ephrin family of transmembrane ligands for Eph receptor tyrosine kinases. In mice, the orthologous Efnb1 gene is expressed in the frontonasal neural crest and demarcates the position of the future coronal suture. Although EFNB1 is X-inactivated, we did not observe markedly skewed X-inactivation in either blood or cranial periosteum from females with CFNS, indicating that lack of ephrin-B1 does not compromise cell viability in these tissues. We propose that in heterozygous females, patchwork loss of ephrin-B1 disturbs tissue boundary formation at the developing coronal suture, whereas in males deficient in ephrin-B1, an alternative mechanism maintains the normal boundary. This is the only known mutation in the ephrin/Eph receptor signaling system in humans and provides clues to the biogenesis of craniosynostosis.
