Neuroblastoma is the single most common and deadly tumor of childhood and is often associated with therapy resistance. Cyclooxygenases (COXs) catalyze the conversion of arachidonic acid to prostaglandins. COX-2 is up-regulated in several adult epithelial cancers and is linked to proliferation and resistance to apoptosis. We detected COX-2 expression in neuroblastoma primary tumors and cell lines but not in normal adrenal medullas from children. Treatment of neuroblastoma cells with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, inhibitors of COX, induced caspase-dependent apoptosis via the intrinsic mitochondrial pathway. Treatment of established neuroblastoma xenografts in nude rats with the dual COX-1/COX-2 inhibitor diclofenac or the COX-2-specific inhibitor celecoxib significantly inhibited tumor growth in vivo (P < 0.001). In vitro, arachidonic acid and diclofenac synergistically induced neuroblastoma cell death. This effect was further pronounced when lipooxygenases were simultaneously inhibited. Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((1)H MRS) of neuroblastoma cells treated with COX inhibitors demonstrated accumulation of polyunsaturated fatty acids and depletion of choline compounds. Thus, (1)H MRS, which can be performed with clinical magnetic resonance scanners, is likely to provide pharmacodynamic markers of neuroblastoma response to COX inhibition. Taken together, these data suggest the use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs as a novel adjuvant therapy for children with neuroblastoma.
Nephrotoxicity in association with 5-aminosalicylic acid therapy is well recognised. In this patient the nephrotoxicity only became apparent after severe weight loss had occurred in association with nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. The patient aged 26 with ulcerative colitis received resin coated mesalazine (Asacol) 1200 mg/day and lost 12 kg in weight over a four month period, only complaining of thirst towards the end of this period.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is known to progress through a step often called tumor promotion. Phenobarbital (PB) is the prototype of nongenotoxic cacinogens that promote HCC in rodents. The molecular target of PB to elicit the promotion has been the subject of intense investigations over the last 30 years since it was discovered. The nuclear receptor constitutive active/androstane receptor (CAR) is activated by PB as well as by various other xenobiotics such as therapeutic drugs and environmental pollutants. CAR activation results in the transcriptional induction of numerous hepatic genes including those that encode xenobiotic-metabolizing enzymes such as a set of cytochrome P450s. In addition to PB, many CAR activators are nongenotoxic carcinogens, but the role of CAR in liver tumor promotion remains unexplored. Using Car(-/-) mice, we have here examined tumor promotion by chronic treatment with PB in drinking water after tumor initiation with a single dose of the genotoxic carcinogen diethylnitrosamine. None of the Car(-/-) mice developed either eosinophilic foci or advanced liver tumors, whereas all Car(+/+) mice developed HCC and/or adenoma by 39 weeks. The results indicate that CAR is the molecular target of promotion by PB and that activation of this receptor is an essential requirement for liver tumor development.
Severe rhabdomyolysis and acute renal failure occurred in a patient receiving epsilon-aminocaproic acid. The lack of evidence of vascular involvement in the muscle biopsy specimen suggests that epsilon-aminocaproic acid may have direct myotoxicity. This drug may produce a spectrum of muscle disease from mild myopathy to life-threatening rhabdomyolysis.
Inorganic arsenic is a known human carcinogen causing tumors of the skin, urinary bladder, lung, liver, kidney, and possibly other organs. However, the animal models for inorganic arsenic carcinogenesis have been limited and development has been problematic. Gestation is often a period of high sensitivity to carcinogenesis so we investigated inorganic arsenite as a transplacental carcinogen in mice. Pregnant C3H mice were exposed to sodium arsenite (0, 42.5, and 85 ppm as arsenic) in the drinking water for a brief period during gestation (from gestation day 8 to 18), with no further arsenic exposure or other treatments. The offsprings were monitored up to 90 weeks. Transplacental inorganic arsenic exposure produced a dose-dependent induction of tumors in the liver, adrenal, lung, and ovary in the offsprings after they had reached adulthood. This included hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), a tumor associated with arsenic exposure in humans. These tumors occurred when mice became adults in the absence of any other treatments and well after arsenic exposure had ended. Genomic analysis of liver tumors and tumor-surrounding tissues revealed several patterns of aberrant gene expression associated with transplacental arsenic carcinogenesis. This animal model demonstrated that inorganic arsenic could act as a "complete" transplacental carcinogen in mice. In addition, other important animal models for inorganic arsenic as a skin tumor co-promoter or as a co-carcinogen are discussed. The development of these animal models should advance our understanding of the mechanisms of inorganic arsenic carcinogenesis.
Although loss of connexin expression and/or gap junction intercellular communication correlates with decreased growth control and increased neoplastic potential, there is limited evidence directly linking gap junction intercellular communication function with tumor suppression in situ. Here, we show for the first time that a gap junction protein, connexin32 (Cx32), acts as a lung tumor suppressor in a mouse model. Cx32-deficient nontumorous lung tissue exhibited an increased proliferative index (P < 0.001), and, after exposure to the carcinogen diethylnitrosamine, Cx32-deficient mice exhibited a highly statistically significant (P < 0.001) increase in bronchioloalveolar lung tumor incidence (28 of 45, 62%) and a 45% increase in average multiplicity compared with wild-type mice (7 of 29, 24%). Tumors from Cx32-deficient mice also showed increased activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (P < 0.001) compared with wild-type tumors, implicating this signaling pathway in Cx32/gap junction intercellular communication-associated lung tumorigenesis.
There is controversy regarding the exact localization and roles of osteopontin (OPN), a multipotential chemokine, in renal injury. There is little information on the expression and role of OPN in gentamicin-induced acute tubular necrosis (ATN) and its recovery process.
A severe ATN model was made using male Wistar rats by injecting gentamicin (150 mg/kg/day) for five days and limiting the provision of water. The expression and localization of OPN mRNA and protein, ED1 as a macrophage marker, proliferating cellular nuclear antigen (PCNA), CD44 as an OPN receptor, megalin as a proximal tubule marker, and their relationships to each other were examined from the early tubular necrotic period to the late recovery period by Northern blotting, in situ hybridization, and double immunohistochemical staining.
In the gentamicin group, OPN mRNA and protein were expressed in only the PCNA-positive proliferating cortical distal tubules, not in the necrotic proximal tubules, until day 6 after the first administration, but were found markedly in PCNA-positive regenerative proximal and distal tubules on days 10, 15, and 30. The localization of PCNA-positive cells was almost always accompanied with the up-regulated expression of OPN using quantitative analysis (P < 0.01). CD44 expression was markedly up-regulated in the renal cortical tubular epithelium from days 6 to 30. In the control group, no expression of OPN and CD44 in the cortical area was found throughout the experimental period.
These results suggested that OPN is related to the proliferation and regeneration of tubular epithelial cells after tubular damage.
Leucomalachite green is a persistent and prevalent metabolite of malachite green, a triphenylmethane dye that has been used widely as an antifungal agent in the fish industry. Concern over the use of malachite green is due to the potential for consumer exposure, evidence suggestive of tumor promotion in rodent liver, and suspicion of carcinogenicity based on structure-activity relationships. Our previous study indicated that feeding rodents malachite or leucomalachite green resulted in a dose-related increase in liver DNA adducts, and that, in general, exposure to leucomalachite green caused an increase in the number and severity of changes greater than was observed following exposure to malachite green. To characterize better the genotoxicity of leucomalachite green, female Big Blue rats were fed leucomalachite green at doses of 0, 9, 27, 91, 272, or 543 ppm for up to 32 weeks. The livers were analyzed for lacI mutations at 4, 16, and 32 weeks and DNA adducts at 4 weeks. Using a 32P-postlabeling assay, we observed a dose-related DNA adduct in the livers of rats fed 91, 272, and 543 ppm leucomalachite green. A approximately 3-fold increase in lacI mutant frequency was found in the livers of rats fed 543 ppm leucomalachite green for 16 weeks, but significant increases in mutant frequencies were not found for any of the other doses or time points assayed. We also conducted 2-year tumorigenesis bioassays in female and male F344 rats using 0, 91, 272, and 543 ppm leucomalachite green. Preliminary results indicate an increasing dose trend in lung adenomas in male rats treated with leucomalachite green, but no increase in the incidence of liver tumors in either sex of rat. These results suggest that the DNA adduct formed in the livers of rats fed leucomalachite green has little mutagenic or carcinogenic consequence.
Subclinical mutations in genes associated with the congenital long-QT syndromes (LQTS) have been suggested as a risk factor for drug-induced LQTS and accompanying life-threatening arrhythmias. Recent studies have identified genetic variants of the cardiac K+ channel genes predisposing affected individuals to acquired LQTS. We have identified a novel Na+ channel mutation in an individual who exhibited drug-induced LQTS.
An elderly Japanese woman with documented QT prolongation and torsade de pointes during treatment with the prokinetic drug cisapride underwent mutational analysis of LQTS-related genes. A novel missense mutation (L1825P) was identified within the C-terminus region of the cardiac Na+ channel (SCN5A). The L1825P channel heterologously expressed in tsA-201 cells showed Na+ current with slow decay and a prominent tetrodotoxin-sensitive noninactivating component, similar to the gain-of-function phenotype most commonly observed for SCN5A-associated congenital LQTS (LQT3). In addition, L1825P exhibited loss of function Na+ channel features characteristic of Brugada syndrome. Peak Na+ current density observed in cells expressing L1825P was significantly diminished, and the voltage dependence of activation and inactivation was shifted toward more positive and negative potentials, respectively.
This study demonstrates that subclinical mutations in the LQTS-related gene SCN5A may predispose certain individuals to drug-induced cardiac arrhythmias.
Increased nitric oxide (NO) production may result in further brain damage via nitric oxide synthase uncoupling in patients with acute ischaemic stroke by increasing free radical formation and oxidative stress. In this connection, we measured nitrite and nitrate (NO metabolites), ischaemia-modified albumin (IMA) and thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) in patients with ischaemic stroke.
We studied 41 patients with ischaemic stroke (22 men and 19 women, aged 65+/-13 years) and 37 age- and sex-matched controls (22 men and 15 women, aged 65+/-8 years). Blood samples were drawn within the first 24 h from the onset of symptoms in the patient group. Fasting morning samples were used in the control group. Concentrations of nitrite and nitrate were determined by Griess reagent; concentrations of IMA were determined by the albumin cobalt-binding test; and concentrations of TBARS were determined colorimetrically by thiobarbituric acid.
Nitrate, IMA and TBARS concentrations were significantly increased compared with controls (P<0.005, P<0.001, and P=0.01, respectively).
Patients with acute ischaemic stroke exhibit abnormalities in a range of markers of increased nitrosative and oxidative stress. These abnormalities may contribute to greater brain damage in patients with acute ischaemic stress.
We show that haploinsufficiency of KANSL1 is sufficient to cause the 17q21.31 microdeletion syndrome, a multisystem disorder characterized by intellectual disability, hypotonia and distinctive facial features. The KANSL1 protein is an evolutionarily conserved regulator of the chromatin modifier KAT8, which influences gene expression through histone H4 lysine 16 (H4K16) acetylation. RNA sequencing studies in cell lines derived from affected individuals and the presence of learning deficits in Drosophila melanogaster mutants suggest a role for KANSL1 in neuronal processes.
Ribavirin (RBV) shows a strong antiviral effect on hepatitis C virus when used in combination with interferon. However, RBV-induced anemia is a major problem in this therapy. It would be of great clinical importance to ameliorate the anemia without reducing the RBV dose. We report here that, Ninjinyoeito (NYT), a herbal medicine can reduce the RBV-induced anemia.
Twenty-three patients with chronic hepatitis C were treated with interferon alpha 2b plus RBV with (NYT group) or without (control group) NYT by a randomized selection. Eighteen patients completed the treatment schedule, and hemato-biochemical and virological effects were evaluated.
There was no significant difference in biochemical and virological responses between the two groups. However, anemia was significantly reduced in the NYT group compared with the control group. The maximal decrease of Hb in the NYT group (2.59+/-1.10 g/dL) was significantly (P = 0.026) smaller than that in the control group (3.71+/-0.97 g/dL). There was no significant difference in serum glutathione peroxidase activity, serum RBV concentration, and Th1/Th2 balance between the two groups. There was no specific adverse effect in NYT administration.
These results suggest that NYT could be used as a supportive remedy to reduce the RBV-induced anemia in the treatment of chronic hepatitis C.
RNA exosomes are multi-subunit complexes conserved throughout evolution and are emerging as the major cellular machinery for processing, surveillance and turnover of a diverse spectrum of coding and noncoding RNA substrates essential for viability. By exome sequencing, we discovered recessive mutations in EXOSC3 (encoding exosome component 3) in four siblings with infantile spinal motor neuron disease, cerebellar atrophy, progressive microcephaly and profound global developmental delay, consistent with pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 1 (PCH1; MIM 607596). We identified mutations in EXOSC3 in an additional 8 of 12 families with PCH1. Morpholino knockdown of exosc3 in zebrafish embryos caused embryonic maldevelopment, resulting in small brain size and poor motility, reminiscent of human clinical features, and these defects were largely rescued by co-injection with wild-type but not mutant exosc3 mRNA. These findings represent the first example of an RNA exosome core component gene that is responsible for a human disease and further implicate dysregulation of RNA processing in cerebellar and spinal motor neuron maldevelopment and degeneration.
Interferon alpha, used in hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection causes many neuropsychiatric side effects: emotional disturbances, chronic fatigue, cognitive impairment, and psychotic states. They overlap with emotional disturbances and cognitive impairment caused by chronic HCV infection.
To assess prevalence and severity of depressive symptoms in patients treated with interferon alpha due to HCV infection.
A total of 44 persons (27 men, 17 women) aged from 21 to 61 years old (median 45 years) treated due to chronic hepatitis were examined. They were treated with pegylated interferon alfa 2a and ribavirin. All of them underwent liver biopsy to assess liver inflammation, fibrosis, and steatosis as well as completed Eysenck's neuroticism questionnaire. Then, before treatment and after 12 weeks, they underwent biochemical and psychiatric examination. Biochemical examination included aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (G-GT), and HCV RNA. Psychiatric examination included Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), Hamilton Depressive Rating Scale (HAMD), Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS), and the SF-36 questionnaire. Diagnoses of depression were made basing on PSE questionnaire from Schedules of Clinical Assessment in Neuropsychiatry (SCAN version 2.0).
Depressive disorders were diagnosed in 3 (6.8%) subjects before treatment and in 5 (11.4%) subjects after 12 weeks of treatment. A statistically significant increase of depressive rates was observed (medians: HDRS 6/11.5; MADRS 4/10; BDI 8/10.5). Quality of life dropped significantly in some SF - 36 scales: physical functioning, general health, vitality, and social functioning. Depressive ratings were independent of biochemical parameters (AST, ALT, G-GT), HCV RNA, liver inflammation, fibrosis, steatosis level, and HCV genotype. Ratings of neuroticism highly influenced all depressive ratings. Rise of depressive ratings was independent of neither any initial biochemical parameters nor the neuroticism level.
Interferon alpha increases the severity of depressive symptoms. The rise is probably caused by biological activity of interferon and independent of initial ratings of depression.
Atrial fibrillation is a highly prevalent arrhythmia and a major risk factor for stroke, heart failure and death. We conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) in individuals of European ancestry, including 6,707 with and 52,426 without atrial fibrillation. Six new atrial fibrillation susceptibility loci were identified and replicated in an additional sample of individuals of European ancestry, including 5,381 subjects with and 10,030 subjects without atrial fibrillation (P < 5 × 10(-8)). Four of the loci identified in Europeans were further replicated in silico in a GWAS of Japanese individuals, including 843 individuals with and 3,350 individuals without atrial fibrillation. The identified loci implicate candidate genes that encode transcription factors related to cardiopulmonary development, cardiac-expressed ion channels and cell signaling molecules.
The chromosome 17q21.31 deletion syndrome is a genomic disorder characterized by highly distinctive facial features, moderate-to-severe intellectual disability, hypotonia and friendly behavior. Here, we show that de novo loss-of-function mutations in KANSL1 (also called KIAA1267) cause a full del(17q21.31) phenotype in two unrelated individuals that lack deletion at 17q21.31. These findings indicate that 17q21.31 deletion syndrome is a monogenic disorder caused by haploinsufficiency of KANSL1.
We previously reported that fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2) facilitated the differentiation of transplanted bone marrow cells (BMCs) into hepatocytes. Our earlier study also demonstrated that administration of FGF2 in combination with bone marrow transplantation (BMT) synergistically activated tumor necrosis factor-alpha signaling and significantly improved liver function and prognosis more than BMT alone. However, the way that it affected the extracellular matrix remained unclear. Here, we investigated the effect of FGF2 treatment together with BMT on liver fibrosis in mice treated with carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)). Transplantation of BMCs and concurrent treatment with FGF2 caused a statistically significant reduction in CCl(4)-induced liver fibrosis that was accompanied by strong expression of matrix metalloproteinase 9 as compared with FGF2-only treatment or BMT alone. Moreover, in this process, the proliferation of bone-marrow-derived cells was accelerated without causing apoptosis. Thus, the administration of FGF2 in combination with BMT synergistically improves CCl(4)-induced liver fibrosis in mice. This treatment has the potential of being an effective therapy for patients with liver cirrhosis.
Adefovir dipivoxil was recently approved for the treatment of wild-type and lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, a congender of adefovir that is used in the treatment of HIV infected patients, has recently been shown to also be effective in patients with lamivudine-resistant HBV infection. We therefore compared the two substances in a study of 53 patients defined by high HBV DNA (>6 log10 copies/mL) levels and genotypic evidence of lamivudine resistance. Thirty-five patients received tenofovir for 72 to 130 weeks, and 18 received adefovir for 60 to 80 weeks. Changes in HBV DNA levels were followed for the complete period of 48 weeks. Early viral kinetics were compared on matched subgroups of 5 patients each. Individually, all tenofovir-treated patients showed a strong and early suppression of HBV DNA within a few weeks whether they were coinfected with HIV or were without comorbidity. In contrast, considerable individual variations in HBV DNA decline were observed in the adefovir group. Thus at week 48, only 44% of these patients had HBV DNA levels below 10(5) copies/mL in contrast to 100% of the tenofovir-treated patients (P = .001). No severe side effects were noticed in either group. No evidence of phenotypic viral resistance could be demonstrated in the tenofovir-treated patients in the long term (up to 130 weeks). In conclusion, tenofovir may become an effective alternative for the treatment of patients with lamivudine-resistant HBV infection.
We investigated the effect of pranlukast (ONO-1078), a cysteinyl leukotriene receptor antagonist, in 11 patients with severe bronchial asthma. The patients had been treated with 1600 micrograms/day of beclomethasone or 800-1600 micrograms/day of beclomethasone plus 2.5-20 mg/day of prednisolone, but remained symptomatic. After a 2-week baseline period, the patients received 225 mg of pranlukast twice daily for 8 weeks. Morning and evening peak expiratory flow rate (PEF) and symptom scores (cough, dyspnea, sleep) were recorded in an asthma diary. Ten patients completed the study. Symptom scores, especially dyspnea and sleep scores, and the number of rescue beta 2-agonist inhalations were significantly decreased. The morning PEF significantly improved from a mean baseline value of 311 to 341 L/min by the end of the study period. The evening PEF also improved, from 328 to 348 L/min, although the difference was not significant. These results suggest that pranlukast may be effective in treating patients with severe asthma who are refractory to corticosteroid therapy.
Ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA), a component of bile acid, which is abundant in the gall bladder of bears, has been used in clinical medicine for cholestatic liver diseases. Recently, it was demonstrated that UDCA and its derivative tauroursodeoxycholic acid block apoptotic cell death in both hepatic and non-hepatic cells. Cisplatin, an effective anti-cancer drug, is known to cause sensory neuropathy in patients receiving the drug. In the present study, whether UDCA is effective in blocking cisplatin-induced cell death in mouse hybrid sensory neurons was conducted. N18D3 mouse hybrid sensory neurons exposed to cisplatin were found to undergo apoptotic cell death. Preincubation with UDCA completely blocked cisplatin-induced apoptotic cell death in the sensory neurons, and cisplatin-induced p53 accumulation was suppressed by UDCA treatment. These results indicate that UDCA has a neuroprotective effect on the cisplatin-induced neuronal cell death of sensory neurons via the downregulation of the p53 signaling pathway.
Severe septic shock is associated with an imbalance between oxygen demand and oxygen supply (DO2) in the presence of an impaired oxygen extraction. Vasopressors are often used to restore a minimal perfusion pressure and inotropic agents are often used to increase myocardial contractility. However, optimal adrenergic support remains controversial. The present study investigated the effects of norepinephrine and dobutamine on DO2, oxygen consumption (VO2), and oxygen extraction in a dog model of endotoxic shock.
Prospective, randomized, cross-over trial.
University intensive care laboratory.
A total of 14 mongrel dogs anesthetized with pentobarbital and mechanically ventilated with air.
The dogs received 2 mg/kg Escherichia coli endotoxin intravenously. After 30 mins, fluid administration with 0.9% saline was started to restore baseline filling pressures. The dogs randomly received dobutamine and norepinephrine. Each agent was infused for 20 mins followed by a drug free interval of 30 mins so that each dog could serve as his own control. Results for norepinephrine were grouped as low dose (0.1 and 0.2 micrograms/kg/min) and high dose (0.5 and 1.0 micrograms/kg/min). Results for dobutamine were also grouped as low dose (5 micrograms/kg/min) and high dose (10 micrograms/kg/min).
Norepinephrine increased both mean arterial pressure (MAP) and cardiac output without a significant change in systemic vascular resistance. Only high-dose norepinephrine increased DO2 (from 969 +/- 62 to 1240 +/- 49 mL/min [p < .001]) and VO2 (from 176 +/- 15 to 194 +/- 14 mL/min [p < .001]). Dobutamine increased both cardiac output and MAP. Both low- and high-dose dobutamine increased DO2 (from 891 +/- 91 to 1142 +/- 99 mL/min [p < .001] and from 847 +/- 54 to 1317 +/- 75 mL/min [p < .001], respectively) and VO2 (from 172 +/- 14 to 182 +/- 15 mL/min [p < .001] and from 168 +/- 13 to 184 +/- 14 mL/min [p < .001], respectively). The increase in VO2 for a given increase in DO2 was higher with high-dose norepinephrine compared with high-dose dobutamine. When all doses were taken together, DO2 increased more with dobutamine than norepinephrine. Oxygen extraction decreased with all doses for both norepinephrine and dobutamine.
In this endotoxic shock model, both norepinephrine and dobutamine can increase DO2 and VO2 but dobutamine caused a more consistent increase in these parameters. The decrease in oxygen extraction was relatively similar with dobutamine and norepinephrine. The present study does not support a significant beneficial effect of norepinephrine on the tissue extraction capabilities in endotoxic shock.
Testicular germ cell tumors (TGCTs) are the most common carcinomas of young men aged 15-35. The molecular events involved in TGCT genesis are poorly understood. TGCTs have near universal amplification of the short arm of chromosome 12, however positional cloning efforts have not identified causative genes on 12p involved in formation or progression of TGCTs. Human embryonal carcinoma (EC) are the stem cells of TGCTs and are pluripotent. EC cells terminally differentiate toward a neuronal lineage with all-trans retinoic acid (RA) treatment resulting in a concomitant G1 cell cycle arrest and loss of tumorigenicity. Our efforts to define the molecular mechanisms of RA-mediated tumor cell differentiation at a critical "commitment to differentiate" window has identified a cassette of genes on 12p that are repressed with RA precisely as EC cells lose tumorigenic potential. These are Nanog, CD9, EDR1 (PHC1), SCNN1A, GDF3, Glut3 and Stella. The master pluripotency regulator Oct4 is located on chromosome 6 and is also repressed by RA. Notably, knockdown of Oct4 with siRNA results in repression of basal Nanog, EDR1, GDF3 and Stella gene expression. Nanog has recently been identified to play a role in maintenance of the pluripotency of mouse embryonic stem cells and CD9, EDR1, GDF3, and Stella have each been implicated as stem cell markers. Since RA suppresses the tumorigenicity of EC cells, these genes may have a critical role in the etiology of TGCTs, suggesting a link between enforced pluripotency and transformation.
Zafirlukast is a leukotriene receptor antagonist that was invented to treat patients with chronic asthma.
To evaluate whether the zafirlukast improved the peak expiratory flow rate (PEFR) and clinical symptoms, 31 asthmatic patients with moderate persistent asthma who received regular inhaled corticosteroid were randomly divided into the study group (N = 17). They received the zafirlukast 20 mg bid for 4 weeks, and the control group (N = 14) received a placebo. Daily morning and evening PEFR and St. George's Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ) scoring were recorded respectively. The levels of serum IgE and urine leukotriene E4 before and after treatment were measured using enzyme linked immunosorbent assay and enzyme immunoassay kits.
In the zafirlukast treated group, the morning PEFR was significantly improved from 314.4 +/- 20.6 to 340.6 +/- 18.3 L/min (N = 17, p < 0.05) after 4 weeks of treatment, while the control group did not show any significant changes. The zafirlukast group had significant improvement in their symptom scores of SGRQ from 48.6 +/- 4.6 to 33.8 +/- 4.7 (N = 17, p < 0.05). However, the placebo did not improve the symptom scores.
Leukotriene receptor antagonists effectively improved symptoms and benefited lung function for moderate persistent asthmatic patients who had received regular treatments with inhaled steroids.
Venous thromboembolism (VTE) is a major complication of myeloma therapy recently observed with the increasing use of up-front thalidomide and dexamethasone (thal-dex). The pathogenesis of thal-induced VTE is not well recognized, and the role of prothrombotic factors, especially of thrombophilic abnormalities, is not yet determined.
Two hundred and sixty-six patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma (MM) were primarily treated with thal-dex in preparation for subsequent high-dose therapy and autologous stem-cell transplantation. Out of these 266 patients, 190 were evaluated for thrombophilic alterations at baseline, and 125 of them were also re-assessed after thal-dex therapy.
The presence of genetic thrombophilic polymorphisms among patients with MM was superimposable to that of normal controls and was associated with a twofold increase in the relative risk of VTE. aAPCR and elevated factor VIII levels were frequent, albeit transient, alterations and were not associated with a significant increase in the risk of VTE. Two hundred and forty-six patients received a thromboprophylaxis with fixed low-dose warfarin (1.25 mg/day) during thal-dex therapy. Of these patients (or 10.6%), 26 had symptomatic VTE events. Their patients-years rate of VTE (35.5%) was significantly lower in comparison with the 86.2% rate recorded among the first 19 patients who initially entered the study and did not receive any kind of thromboprophylaxis (P = 0.043).
On the basis of these data, a baseline thrombophilic work up is not recommended in patients with receiving up-front thal-dex. For these patients, fixed low-dose warfarin may be a valuable prophylaxis against VTE.
This study investigated the mechanisms of protection afforded by the proton pump inhibitor lansoprazole against gastric injury induced by different non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) in rats.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats were orally treated with indomethacin (100 micromol/kg), diclofenac (60 micromol/kg), piroxicam (150 micromol/kg) or ketoprofen (150 micromol/kg). Thirty minutes before NSAIDs, animals were orally treated with lansoprazole 18 or 90 micromol/kg. Four hours after the end of treatments, the following parameters were assessed: gastric mucosal PGE2, malondialdehyde (MDA), myeloperoxidase (MPO) or non-proteic sulfhydryl compounds (GSH) levels; reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) of mucosal COX-2 mRNA; gastric acid secretion in pylorus-ligated animals; in vitro effects of lansoprazole (1-300 micromol/L) on the oxidation of low density lipoproteins (LDLs) induced by copper sulphate.
All NSAIDs elicited mucosal necrotic lesions which were associated with neutrophil infiltration and reduction of PGE2 levels. Increments of MPO and MDA contents, as well as a decrease in GSH levels were detected in the gastric mucosa of indomethacin- or piroxicam-treated animals. Indomethacin enhanced mucosal cyclooxygenase-2 expression, while not affecting cyclooxygenase-1. At the oral dose of 18 micromol/kg lansoprazole partly counteracted diclofenac-induced mucosal damage, whereas at 90 micromol/kg it markedly prevented injuries evoked by all test NSAIDs. Lansoprazole at 90 micromol/kg reversed also the effects of NSAIDs on MPO, MDA and GSH mucosal contents, without interfering with the decrease in PGE2 levels or indomethacin-induced cyclooxygenase-2 expression. However, both lansoprazole doses markedly inhibited acid secretion in pylorus-ligated rats. Lansoprazole concentration-dependently reduced the oxidation of LDLs in vitro.
These results suggest that, besides the inhibition of acid secretion, lansoprazole protection against NSAID-induced gastric damage depends on a reduction in mucosal oxidative injury, which is also responsible for an increment of sulfhydryl radical bioavailability. It is also suggested that lansoprazole does not influence the down-regulation of gastric prostaglandin production associated with NSAID treatment.
Sixteen young (5 months) and 16 old (20-24 months) male Wistar rats, housed together or in individual cages were observed for cataleptic behavior 10, 20 and 30 days after the beginning of chronic haloperidol treatment (1.0 mg/kg, twice daily, for 30 days). Catalepsy was measured by the bar test. Age increased the duration of haloperidol-induced catalepsy of isolated and group-housed rats in the three observation sessions (old-isolated = 7.4 +/- 0.2; old-group housed = 7.5 +/- 0.1; young-isolated = 6.3 +/- 0.2; young-group housed = 6.8 +/- 0.2 In seconds in session 1, for example). Conversely, isolation did not modify the sensitivity to the cataleptic effect of haloperidol. Even more important, no differences in duration of haloperidol-induced catalepsy were observed among the three sessions for each group. The results indicate that under the experimental conditions employed the animals did not develop tolerance nor sensitization to haloperidol-induced catalepsy. In addition, neither age nor isolation modified the absence of effects of repeated haloperidol treatment on the catalepsy behavior of rats.
Epidemiological studies reported that the prevalence of diabetes in women over 40 years of age, especially those in the postmenopausal phase, was higher than men in areas with high levels of arsenic in drinking water. The detailed effect of arsenic on glucose metabolism/homeostasis in the postmenopausal condition is still unclear.
We investigated the effects of arsenic at doses relevant to human exposure from drinking water on blood glucose regulation in estrogen-deficient female mice.
Adult female mice who underwent ovariectomy or sham were exposed to drinking water contaminated with arsenic trioxide (0.05 or 0.5 ppm) in the presence or absence of 17β-estradiol supplementation for 2-6 weeks. Assays related to glucose metabolism were performed.
Exposure of normal mice to arsenic significantly increased blood glucose, decreased plasma insulin, and impaired glucose tolerance, but did not induce insulin resistance. Blood glucose and insulin were higher, and glucose intolerance, insulin intolerance, and insulin resistance was increased in ovariectomized mice compared with sham-control mice treated with arsenic. Furthermore, liver phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase mRNA expression was increased and liver glycogen content was decreased in ovariectomized mice compared with controls treated with arsenic. Glucose-stimulated insulin secretion in islets isolated from arsenic-treated ovariectomized mice was also significantly decreased. Arsenic treatment significantly decreased plasma adiponectin levels in sham-control and ovariectomized mice. Altered glucose metabolism/homeostasis in arsenic-treated ovariectomized mice was reversed by 17β-estradiol supplementation.
Our findings suggest that estrogen deficiency plays an important role in arsenic-altered glucose metabolism/homeostasis in females.
