Replacement of one of the ethyl substituents in diethylstilbestrol by side chains with functional groups converted this potent estrogen into pure antiestrogens with the potential for the treatment of breast cancer. These agents completely suppressed estrogen receptor-mediated gene activation and inhibited the growth of estrogen-sensitive MCF-7 breast cancer cells in submicromolar concentrations. The most potent derivative displayed similar activity as fulvestrant (ICI 182,780) in vitro and in the mouse uterine weight test. Obviously, the stilbene structure can act as a substitute for estradiol in the development of pure estrogen antagonists.
The antibiotic spectrum, pharmacology, adverse effects, and therapeutic use of amikacin sulfate are reviewed. Amikacin, a semisynthetic analog of kanamycin, is highly active against most gram-negative bacteria including many gentamicin-resistant strains. Amikacin's pharmacologic properties have been studied extensively in both children and adults. It achieves high, predictable, and prolonged blood concentrations with a favorable therapeutic index. Amikacin does cause nephrotoxicity and ototoxicity; however there is no conclusive evidence that these toxicities differ from those caused by other major aminoglycosides. The effectiveness of amikacin sulfate in the treatment of serious gram-negative bacillary infections is well documented. Amikacin sulfate is an important addition to the antibiotic armamentarium of a hospital with high gentamicin or tobramycin resistance. In hospitals without substantial aminoglycoside resistance, its use is debatable because amikacin has not been shown to have increased clinical efficacy compared with the other aminoglycosides for infections caused by susceptible bacteria.
The aim of this investigation was to identify pathways involved in pneumoconiosis susceptibility, clarify their potential mechanisms, and generate SNP-to-gene to pathway hypotheses using an analytical pathway-based approach.
The identify candidate causal SNPs and pathways (ICSNPathway) was used to perform pathway analysis of a GWAS dataset for pneumoconiosis, which, after quality control filtering, harbored genotypes of 710,999 SNPs in 202 pneumoconiosis cases and 198 exposed controls. The first stage involved the pre-selection of candidate SNPs by linkage disequilibrium analysis and functional annotation of the most significant SNPs; the second stage involved annotation of biological mechanisms for the selected candidate SNPs using improved-gene set enrichment analysis.
ICSNPathway analysis identified 18 candidate SNPs, involving 13 genes and 30 candidate pathways and revealed 13 hypothetical biological mechanisms. The strongest hypothetical biological mechanism was that rs8120 and rs2292151 alters the role of TICAM1, a gene involved in various pathways and processes, including positive regulation of tumor necrosis factor (TNF) production, innate immune response-activating signal transduction, positive regulation of the innate immune response, and the biosynthesis of type I interferon (0.001<p<0.008; 0.001< false discovery rate (FDR) <0.035). The second strongest mechanism was that rs2230656 modulates HIST3H3 to affect its role in chromatin assembly processes (p<0.001; FDR <0.001). The third mechanism was that rs11592462 modulates CDH23, which regulates organization of the inner ear stereocilia, auditory receptor cell morphogenesis, ear morphogenesis, and cellular homeostasis (0.001<p<0.006; 0.001<FDR<0.044). Of 13 candidate genes, TICAM1, HIST3H3, CA1, CA3, PTPRZ1, and IL27RA are associated with fibrosis. Some of the 30 candidate pathways, which include positive regulation of TNF production, innate immune response-activating signal transduction, and regulation of innate immune response, may be associated with susceptibility to pneumoconiosis. Other candidate genes and pathways were novel or lacking fibrosis-related research.
By applying ICSNPathway analysis to the pneumoconiosis GWAS data, we identified candidate SNPs, genes such as TICAM1 and HIST3H3, and pathways involved in the positive regulation of TNF production that may contribute to pneumoconiosis susceptibility. Further analyses are needed to validate the results.
The growth arrest-specific gene 6 product (Gas6) is a secreted protein related to the anticoagulant protein S but its role in hemostasis is unknown. Here we show that inactivation of the Gas6 gene prevented venous and arterial thrombosis in mice, and protected against fatal collagen/epinephrine-induced thrombo embolism. Gas6-/- mice did not, however, suffer spontaneous bleeding and had normal bleeding after tail clipping. In addition, we found that Gas6 antibodies inhibited platelet aggregation in vitro and protected mice against fatal thrombo embolism without causing bleeding in vivo. Gas6 amplified platelet aggregation and secretion in response to known agonists. Platelet dysfunction in Gas6-/- mice resembled that of patients with platelet signaling transduction defects. Thus, Gas6 is a platelet-response amplifier that plays a significant role in thrombosis. These findings warrant further evaluation of the possible therapeutic use of Gas6 inhibition for prevention of thrombosis.
Treatment-emergent symptoms and behavioral changes were assessed during an 8-week double-blind study comparing molindone and thioridazine in 31 aggressive hospitalized children (ages 6-11). Molindone was found to be as effective as thioridazine in this sample. Adverse effects differed (nonsignificantly) for the two groups, with more sedation in the thioridazine-treated children. Clinical records from 6 adolescent inpatients treated with molindone were reviewed as a comparison group. Molindone is a relatively safe neuroleptic for child and adolescent inpatients because of its short half-life and minimal prolonged tissue accumulation. Additional studies on different child populations are necessary before the proper indications for molindone usage in the pediatric group can be established.
Elderly patients (N = 28) with a variety of psychiatric disorders were treated with molindone in an 8-week open clinical trial. Many patients had concomitant medical illnesses, and many were on other medications in addition to molindone. Molindone appeared to be safe, clinically effective, and well-tolerated. The most common adverse effects were extrapyramidal side effects, but the occurrence of these symptoms was relatively low.
Prednisone is the initial treatment of primary focal segmental glomerulosclerosis. However, when immunosuppressive agents in combination with steroids are used in the treatment of prednisone-dependent and prednisone-resistant patients the remission rate is variable. We report a long-term trial using cyclophosphamide (2.0 to 3.0 mg/kg body weight for 12 weeks) in combination with prednisone (1.0 to 2.0 mg/kg body weight), as compared with prednisone alone for the treatment of prednisone-resistant and frequently relapsing nephrotic syndrome and focal segmental glomerulosclerosis. Fifty-four patients (34 males and 20 females) with a diagnosis of idiopathic nephrotic syndrome and focal segmental glomerulosclerosis, followed-up for an average of 86.1 +/- 82.4 months, were evaluated. Complete remission occurred in 20.4% and partial remission in 14.8% of the patients treated with steroids and in 26.7 and 20.0% of the patients treated with cyclophosphamide + prednisone, respectively. Of the 24 prednisone-resistant patients treated with steroids in combination with cyclophosphamide, 33.3% obtained a complete/partial response. At the time of final evaluation, 25% of the patients treated with prednisone and 10.0% of those treated with prednisone in combination with cyclophosphamide had reached end-stage renal disease. Persistent nephrotic syndrome and progressive renal insufficiency were more frequently observed among the patients treated with prednisone alone (50.0 vs 33.3% and 33.3 vs 16.7%, respectively). The treatments were well tolerated and no patient experienced adverse reactions requiring discontinuation of medications. Although open-label and non-randomized, the present trial showed that cyclophosphamide is a reasonable choice for the treatment of primary focal segmental glomerulosclerosis and prednisone-resistant nephrotic syndrome.
Adverse drug reactions are common and contribute to significant mortality and morbidity. We report a case study of an elderly woman who manifested with uncommon reversible renal tubular defects following the use of escitalopram. She was initially seen for worsening symptoms of depression and started on escitalopram in addition to her regular medications, which included donepezil, hydrochlorothiazide and mirtazapine. Three weeks later, she became increasingly confused and manifested recurrent falls. Laboratory evaluation showed hyponatraemia and evidence of renal tubular absorption defects. The patient's symptoms and laboratory abnormalities improved upon discontinuation of escitalopram as well as of mirtazapine and hydrochlorthiazide. This case illustrates the possibility of rare but reversible renal tubular defects associated with the use of antidepressant medications.
Most patients presenting to emergency departments (EDs) with cocaine-associated chest pain are admitted for at least 12 hours and receive a "rule out acute coronary syndrome" protocol, often with noninvasive testing prior to discharge. In patients without cocaine use, coronary computerized tomography angiography (CTA) has been shown to be useful for identifying a group of patients at low risk for cardiac events who can be safely discharged. It is unclear whether a coronary CTA strategy would be efficacious in cocaine-associated chest pain, as coronary vasospasm may account for some of the ischemia. We studied whether a negative coronary CTA in patients with cocaine-associated chest pain could identify a subset safe for discharge.
We prospectively evaluated the safety of coronary CTA for low-risk patients who presented to the ED with cocaineassociated chest pain (self-reported or positive urine test). Consecutive patients received either immediate coronary CTA in the ED (without serial markers) or underwent coronary CTA after a brief observation period with serial cardiac marker measurements. Patients with negative coronary CTA (maximal stenosis less than 50%) were discharged. The main outcome was 30-day cardiovascular death or myocardial infarction.
A total of 59 patients with cocaine-associated chest pain were evaluated. Patients had a mean age of 45.6 +/- 6.6 yrs and were 86% black, 66% male. Seventy-nine percent had a normal or nonspecific ECG and 85% had a TIMI score <2. Twenty patients received coronary CTA immediately in the ED, 18 of whom were discharged following CTA (90%). Thirty-nine received coronary CTA after a brief observation period, with 37 discharged home following CTA (95%). Six patients had coronary stenosis >or=50%. During the 30-day follow-up period, no patients died of a cardiovascular event (0%; 95% CI, 0-6.1%) and no patient sustained a nonfatal myocardial infarction (0%; 95% CI, 0-6.1%).
Although cocaine-associated myocardial ischemia can result from coronary vasoconstriction, patients with cocaine associated chest pain, a non-ischemic ECG, and a TIMI risk score <2 may be safely discharged from the ED after a negative coronary CTA with a low risk of 30-day adverse events.
A series of N-pyrimidinyl-2-phenoxyacetamide adenosine A(2A) antagonists is described. SAR studies led to compound 14 with excellent potency (K(i) = 0.4 nM), selectivity (A(1)/A(2A) > 100), and efficacy (MED 10 mg/kg p.o.) in the rat haloperidol-induced catalepsy model for Parkinson's disease.
We previously demonstrated that curcumin, a polyphenolic antioxidant purified from turmeric, up-regulated peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-gamma gene expression and stimulated its signaling, leading to the inhibition of activation of hepatic stellate cells (HSC) in vitro. The current study evaluates the in vivo role of curcumin in protecting the liver against injury and fibrogenesis caused by carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)) in rats and further explores the underlying mechanisms. We hypothesize that curcumin might protect the liver from CCl(4)-caused injury and fibrogenesis by attenuating oxidative stress, suppressing inflammation, and inhibiting activation of HSC. This report demonstrates that curcumin significantly protects the liver from injury by reducing the activities of serum aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, and alkaline phosphatase, and by improving the histological architecture of the liver. In addition, curcumin attenuates oxidative stress by increasing the content of hepatic glutathione, leading to the reduction in the level of lipid hydroperoxide. Curcumin dramatically suppresses inflammation by reducing levels of inflammatory cytokines, including interferon-gamma, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and interleukin-6. Furthermore, curcumin inhibits HSC activation by elevating the level of PPARgamma and reducing the abundance of platelet-derived growth factor, transforming growth factor-beta, their receptors, and type I collagen. This study demonstrates that curcumin protects the rat liver from CCl(4)-caused injury and fibrogenesis by suppressing hepatic inflammation, attenuating hepatic oxidative stress and inhibiting HSC activation. These results confirm and extend our prior in vitro observations and provide novel insights into the mechanisms of curcumin in the protection of the liver. Our results suggest that curcumin might be a therapeutic antifibrotic agent for the treatment of hepatic fibrosis.
Anticholinergic agents are muscarinic receptor antagonists that suppress the activity of the acetylcholine system in the brain. Some of these agents also increase the concentration of dopamine in the synaptic cleft, which may result in psychotic symptoms. Oxybutynin is an antimuscarinic drug that may have adverse effects on the CNS, including memory impairment, confusion, delirium and hallucinations in elderly patients. To date, several case reports have been published about the association between oxybutynin and psychotic symptoms in elderly subjects, but we were unable to find any case reports describing oxybutynin-induced psychotic disorders in young people. Here we report on two patients, a 7-year-old boy and a 21-year-old man, who developed a brief psychotic disorder that may have been caused by oxybutynin. The first patient was kept under observation with vital functions supported but no medication. All his psychotic symptoms regressed and his general condition improved. The second patient was treated with olanzapine 10 mg/day. His psychotic symptoms resolved within 3 weeks. Our two case reports provide evidence that oxybutynin may induce psychotic disorders, and in younger patients.
With this 8-month study, we wanted to evaluate the efficacy of continuous intrathecal baclofen infusion delivery by a programmable pump for severe spasticity according to patient selection criteria, implantation technique and related parameters, and outcome after the initial follow-up period.
Intrathecal baclofen infusion was initiated in 30 patients within 24 h after a test dose of the agent resulted positive in spinal anaesthesia. During the procedure and the follow-up period, the following parameters were measured: incidence of anaesthesiological or surgical complications and adverse events, postdural puncture headache, prolonged motor block, difficulty in wound healing, infection, necessity to remove the pump; clinical response as measured on the Ashworth and spasms scales, quality of sleep, autonomy, quality of life and pain before and after intrathecal baclofen therapy.
Perioperative vital parameters (mean duration of the operation, 86+/-13 min) were stable; no motor block or postdural puncture headache, early or late infection developed. The 1 case of delayed wound healing resolved with treatment; a dislocated catheter was repositioned in 1 other case. The differences in changes between pre- and posttreatment were statistically significant, with best results obtained on rigidity and pain. The mean length of hospital stay was 8+/-2 days. Baclofen tolerance was observed in 1 case, but resolved after baclofen holiday with morphine. One case of pump malfunctioning was resolved with replacement of the device; no new neurological deficits occurred thereafter.
The good clinical response to treatment of spasticity and rigidity, improved quality of life, pain reduction and patient satisfaction with short length of admission demonstrate the efficacy of intrathecal baclofen therapy. Safe and efficacious, this mode of treatment appears to be the gold standard for treating severe spasticity.
The present study examines striatal monoamine changes in a murine model of levodopa-induced dyskinesia (LID), a common side effect of Parkinson's disease (PD) therapy. Mice previously exposed to 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) and later made hyperactive with high-dose (200mg/kg, i.p.) exogenous levodopa were compared to mice with normal motor behavior who received either levodopa without previous MPTP or no treatment at all. Using high-performance liquid chromatography, dopamine (DA), serotonin (5HT), noradrenaline (NA) and their metabolites were then measured in samples of striatum versus olfactory bulbs as controls. In the olfactory bulb, exogenous levodopa caused increased DA levels and increased DA-, 5HT- and NA-turnover rates, but decreased 5HT and NA levels, regardless of animal activity. These trends were also seen in the striatum, but animals with LID seemed to have unique differences. Thus, in mice sacrificed at the height of their hyperactive LID behavior, striatal DA and 5HT were significantly lower and DA- and 5HT-turnover rates were significantly higher than control animals with normal motor behavior, regardless of levodopa exposure. In addition, the expected increased NA-turnover rate seen in other specimens from animals exposed to levodopa was not seen in the striatum of LID mice. The results of the present study demonstrate that there is a distinct profile of striatal monoamines conducive to LID that must be considered when trying to explain the effects of anti-LID drugs utilizing monoamine receptors.
This report summarizes information on drugs recently approved by the Food and Drug Administration, Office of Drug Evaluation I, Division of Oncology Drug Products. Five applications supporting new claims will be discussed: Trisenox (arsenic trioxide) for induction of remission and consolidation in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia who are refractory to, or have relapsed from, retinoid and anthracycline chemotherapy, and whose disease is characterized by the presence of the t(15;17) translocation or PML/RAR-alpha gene expression; Nolvadex (tamoxifen citrate) in women with ductal carcinoma in situ, following breast surgery and radiation, to reduce the risk of invasive breast cancer; Arimidex (anastrazole) for first-line treatment of postmenopausal women with hormone receptor positive or hormone receptor unknown locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer; Taxol (paclitaxel), 175 mg/m(2) by 3 h infusion in combination with cisplatin for first-line treatment of advanced ovarian cancer; and Targretin gel (bexarotene) for the topical treatment of cutaneous lesions in patients with stage IA and IB cutaneous T-cell lymphoma who have not tolerated other therapies or who have refractory or persistent disease. Information provided includes rationale for drug development, study design, efficacy and safety results, and pertinent literature references.
The anticonvulsant effect of alpha,beta-epoxy-carvone (EC), a monoterpene monocyclic, was investigated in three animal models. EC at 300 or 400 mg/kg promoted protection of 75% and 87.5%, respectively, against convulsions induced chemically by pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) and it was efficient in prevents the tonic convulsions induced by maximal electroshock (MES) in doses of 200, 300 or 400 mg/kg, resulting in 25%, 25% and 100% of protection, respectively. This monoterpene was also capable to promote an increase of latency for development of convulsions induced by picrotoxin (PIC) at 300 or 400 mg/kg and presented a significant protection against convulsions at doses of 200, 300 or 400 mg/kg, resulting in 12.5%, 12.5% and 100% of protection, respectively. On the other hand, the anticonvulsant effect of EC, was not affected by pretreatment with flumazenil (FLU), a selective antagonist of benzodiazepine site of GABA(A) receptor. Additionally was observed that EC treatment reduced the levels of in vitro lipoperoxidation and decreased (21.2%) the amplitude of compound action potential after 30 min of incubation. The present results clearly indicate the ability of EC to modulate the anticonvulsant and antioxidant effects. However, our data suggests that the action mechanisms are not due a direct activation of the GABA(A) benzodiazepine receptors, but could be associated with the reduction of isolated nerve excitability, possibly involving a voltage-gated Na(+) channels blockade.
Acute chloroform intoxication can cause depression of the central nervous system and may lead to death from lethal arrhythmias or respiratory arrest. Thus, the organic solvent is no longer in clinical use as an anaesthetic, but still plays a role in cases of suicide, homicide or inhalation for psychotropic effects. Several cases of lethal arrhythmia after intoxication with chloroform have been described. Pharmacological inhibition of cardiac "human ether-à-go-go-related gene" (HERG) potassium channels is linked to proarrhythmic effects of cardiac and noncardiac drugs. To further investigate the electrophysiological basis of the arrhythmogenic potential of chloroform, we analysed inhibitory effects of chloroform on cloned HERG potassium channels, heterologously expressed in Xenopus oocytes and in Human Embryonic Kidney (HEK 293) cells using the double-electrode voltage-clamp technique and the whole-cell patch-clamp technique, respectively. In HEK cells, chloroform blocked HERG tail currents with an IC(50) of 4.97mM. Biophysical properties were further investigated in the Xenopus oocyte expression system. Onset and wash-out of block was fast and inhibition was completely reversible. Chloroform did not alter channel activation, however, direct channel inactivation was accelerated significantly. Steady-state-inactivation of HERG was not affected. Chloroform dependent block of HERG channels was voltage dependent with a decrease of inhibition at more positive membrane potentials. No frequency-dependence of block could be observed. In summary, chloroform blocked HERG potassium channels probably in a toxicologically relevant concentration. These findings contribute to the pathophysiology of proarrhythmic effects in acute chloroform intoxication.
Concurrent abuse of alcohol and cocaine results in the formation of cocaethylene, a powerful cocaine metabolite. Cocaethylene potentiates the direct cardiotoxic and indirect neurotoxic effects of cocaine or alcohol alone.
A 44-year-old female with history of cocaine and alcohol abuse presented with massive stroke in the emergency department. CT scan revealed extensive left internal carotid artery dissection extending into the left middle and anterior cerebral arteries resulting in a massive left hemispheric infarct, requiring urgent decompressive craniectomy. The patient had a stormy hospital course with multiple episodes of torsades de pointes in the first 4 days requiring aggressive management. She survived all events and was discharged to a nursing home with residual right hemiplegia and aphasia.
The combination of ethanol and cocaine has been associated with a significant increase in the incidence of neurological and cardiac emergencies including cerebral infarction, intracranial hemorrhage, myocardial infarction, cardiomyopathy, and cardiac arrhythmias. The alteration of cocaine pharmacokinetics and the formation of cocaethylene have been implicated, at least partially, in the increased toxicity of this drug combination.
Thirty-five patients with severe chronic congestive heart failure that was refractory to conventional therapy were given high dosages of furosemide (250 to 4000 mg/d) because of significantly reduced renal function (mean endogenous creatinine clearance, 0.53 mL/s/1.73 m2 [32 mL/min/1.73 m2]). Natriuresis, weight reduction (mean, 11 kg), and relief of symptoms were achieved in all patients. The mean survival after the start of the high-dose furosemide therapy was 11.3 months (range, 0.5 to 36 months) (n = 35). When this therapy eventually failed, long-term intermittent hemofiltration was performed in eight selected cases, further prolonging survival (mean, 3.0 months). High-dose furosemide therapy and hemofiltration improved the quality of life and prolonged survival. The use of diuretics in congestive heart failure should therefore include treatment with high-dose furosemide, which is effective and can be given over a long period without serious side effects.
To characterize the vitamin E-responsive anemia occurring in owl monkeys (Aotus trivirgatus), osmotic fragility, and H2O2-induced and time-dependent hemolysis, as well as RBC lipid peroxidation, were compared in anemic and nonanemic owl monkeys. Whereas vitamin E serves as a lipid-soluble antioxidant, the glutathione peroxidase system functions in the water-soluble phase of the cell. Thus, activity of glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase, and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, as well as reduced glutathione concentrations in owl monkeys' RBC, were compared with those of rhesus macaques and cebus and squirrel monkeys fed the same diet and maintained under the same management scheme. Osmotic fragility did not differ between anemic and nonanemic owl monkeys. The H2O2-induced and time-dependent hemolysis was approximately 10-fold greater among anemia owl monkeys than among their nonanemic counterparts, and lipid peroxidation values tended to be higher in the anemic monkeys. Owl monkeys, as a species and independent of anemia, exhibited higher RBC peroxidation than did 2 other New World species, cebus and squirrel monkeys. The glutathione peroxidase system was not depressed in owl monkey RBC. The only observed difference in this system was in the glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase activity, which was 3- to 6-fold higher in the owl monkey than in the other species, indicating an increased activity of the peroxidase system. Thus, a defect in the glutathione peroxidase system could not be identified.
To study the frequency and degree of adverse effect, other than liver dysfunction, of isoniazid (INH) preventive therapy in Japanese people.
Chart review of Japanese persons who started isoniazid preventive chemotherapy in the two clinics in Tokyo, from 2003/1/1 to 2004/12/31.
There were 779 cases who did not transiently or completely stop INH preventive therapy because of adverse effect, and 20 cases who stopped INH transiently or completely because of adverse effect other than liver damage (total 799 cases). Of those cases, 153 cases (153/799=19.1%) experienced one or more adverse effect other than liver damage, and 20 cases (20/799=2.5%) of these 153 cases stopped INH transiently (12 cases) or completely (8 cases). For each category of adverse effect, digestive system symptoms were most frequent (5.9%), and then in frequency order, lethargy or easy-fatigability (4.6%), central nervous symptoms (4.5%), skin eruptions (2.6%), acne (2.5%), alcohol intolerance-like symptoms (2.5%), peripheral neuropathy (0.4%), arthralgia or limb pain (0.3%). Adverse effect requiring stopping INH transiently or completely were skin eruption (1.3%), digestive system symptoms (1.1%), central nervous symptoms (0.6%), acne (0.1%). Most of the adverse effect were not serious, and not required hospitalization. In isoniazid (INH) preventive therapy in Japanese people, adverse effect other than liver damage were not infrequent, but most of them are not serious, and do not disturb continuation of preventive therapy in most cases.
Levodopa is the most effective treatment for the symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD). However, after an initial period of benefit, several limitations become apparent, including motor complications such as dyskinesia. Dyskinesia can severely affect patients' quality of life and increases healthcare resource use. Thus, delaying the need for levodopa, and therefore the onset of levodopa-induced dyskinesia, is important.
The aim of this study was to compare the cost effectiveness, from a UK healthcare payer perspective, of two antiparkinsonian treatment strategies in early PD: first-line monotherapy with rasagiline, a novel monoamine oxidase B inhibitor; and the non-ergoline dopamine receptor agonist pramipexole.
An economic Markov model was developed as a pragmatic tool to derive comparative information on the effectiveness, utility and costs of these two strategies over a 5-year period. Model input data were obtained from the TEMPO study for rasagiline and from a study by the Parkinson Study Group for pramipexole. Effectiveness outcomes were time to levodopa and time to levodopa-induced dyskinesia. Cost and quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) data were derived from published sources.
Rasagiline was the dominant strategy. Compared with pramipexole, use of the rasagiline strategy was estimated to reduce costs by 18% per patient over 5 years and was associated with an additional 10% delay in dyskinesia onset (0.41 years; 95% CI 0.27, 0.55). This strategy was also found to prolong the time to levodopa initiation by 25% through a gain of 0.83 levodopa-free years (95% CI 0.56, 1.1). In addition, use of the rasagiline strategy was found to generate a 5% gain in QALYs over 5 years compared with the pramipexole strategy (3.7 +/- 0.02 vs 3.51 +/- 0.03). Sensitivity analyses confirmed that the model was robust.
Rasagiline represents a cost-effective alternative to pramipexole in the treatment of early PD in the UK.
The effect of PGE(2) EP3 receptors on injury size was investigated following cerebral ischemia and induced excitotoxicity in mice. Treatment with the selective EP3 agonist ONO-AE-248 significantly and dose-dependently increased infarct size in the middle cerebral artery occlusion model. In a separate experiment, pretreatment with ONO-AE-248 exacerbated the lesion caused by N-methyl-d-aspartic acid-induced acute excitotoxicity. Conversely, genetic deletion of EP3 provided protection against N-methyl-d-aspartic acid-induced toxicity. The results suggest that PGE(2), by stimulating EP3 receptors, can contribute to the toxicity associated with cyclooxygenase and that antagonizing this receptor could be used therapeutically to protect against stroke- and excitotoxicity-induced brain damage.
Resistance formation is a major problem in antiviral treatment of hepatitis B recurrence after liver transplantation. One possible therapeutic approach is an antiviral combination therapy with synergistic drugs. Four patients who were transplanted for chronic hepatitis B were analyzed retrospectively. All patients had reinfection of the graft and breakthrough of hepatitis B virus (HBV) during consecutive famciclovir and lamivudine monotherapy. Subsequently a combination therapy of lamivudine and interferon alpha 2a (3 times 3 million units weekly) was initiated. Addition of interferon markedly reduced viral replication rate in all patients. Three patients became HBV-DNA negative despite lamivudine resistance, but only two had a sustained response. No patient seroconverted to anti-HBe or lost HBsAg, but all patients showed a normalization of alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase levels. No severe complications, and especially no rejection episodes occurred. Therefore lamivudine combined with interferon might be used for the therapy of hepatitis B reinfection after liver transplantation.
A 43-year-old woman with Plummer's disease underwent left thyroid lobectomy without premedication using ambulatory electrocardiogram monitoring under general anesthesia. Anesthesia was induced with an intravenous bolus of fentanyl 100 microg, lidocaine 40 mg, propofol 80 mg and vecuronium 7 mg. As she moved 5 min after induction of anesthesia, fentanyl 100 microg and propofol 30 mg were administered additionally. After positive pressure ventilation by mask for 8 min, heart rate decreased from 71 beats x min(-1) to 48 beats x min(-1), and laryngoscopy was performed. When the tip of the laryngoscope was pressed on the base of the tongue and on lifting the epiglottis, the electrocardiogram showed RR interval prolongation and gradually going to sinus arrest. The laryngoscope was removed immediately and mask ventilation was performed. The heart beat resumed at 5.5 sec after sinus arrest. Atropine 0.5 mg was given intravenously and heart rate increased to 50 beats x min(-1). Additionally atropine 0.25 mg increased heart rate to 70 beats x min(-1). The second laryngoscopy was performed uneventfully. We consider this phenomenon as a result of vagovagal reflex. Fentanyl and propofol, by reducing sympathetic tone to a greater extent than parasympathetic tone, decrease blood pressure and heart rate, and predispose to a parasympathetic response for noxious stimulation. This case indicates that intravenous injection of atropine must be immediately used for bradycardia during laryngoscopy for induction of general anesthesia with fentanyl and propofol.
This study was designed to determine whether inhibition of formation of AGE and advanced lipoxidation end-products (ALE) is a mechanism of action common to a diverse group of therapeutic agents that limit the progress of diabetic nephropathy. We compared the effects of the ACE inhibitor enalapril, the antioxidant vitamin E, the thiol compound lipoic acid, and the AGE/ALE inhibitor pyridoxamine on the formation of AGE/ALE and protection against nephropathy in streptozotocin diabetic rats.
Renal function and AGE/ALE formation were evaluated in rats treated with the agents listed above. Plasma was monitored monthly for triglycerides, cholesterol, creatinine and TNF-alpha, and 24-h urine samples were collected for measurement of albumin and total protein excretion. After 29 weeks, renal expression of mRNA for extracellular matrix proteins was measured, and AGE/ALE were quantified in skin and glomerular and tubular collagen.
Diabetic animals were both hyperglycaemic and dyslipidaemic, and showed evidence of early nephropathy (albuminuria, creatinaemia). All interventions limited the progression of nephropathy, without affecting glycaemia. The order of efficacy was: pyridoxamine (650 mg.kg(-1).day(-1)) > vitamin E (200 mg.kg(-1).day(-1)) > lipoic acid (93 mg.kg(-1).day(-1)) approximately enalapril (35 mg.kg(-1).day(-1)). Pyridoxamine also significantly inhibited AGE/ALE accumulation in tissues; effects of other agents were mixed, but the degree of renoprotection was consistent with their effects on AGE/ALE formation.
All interventions inhibited the progression of nephropathy at the doses studied, but the maximal benefit was achieved with pyridoxamine, which also limited dyslipidaemia and AGE/ALE formation. These experiments indicate that the more effective the renoprotection, the greater the inhibition of AGE/ALE formation. For optimal protection of renal function, it would be beneficial to select drugs whose mechanism of action includes inhibition of AGE/ALE formation.
