We assessed the intraluminal pH and mucosal prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) concentrations in patients (nonresponders) whose gastric ulcer did not heal after an initial 2 months and subsequent 3 months of treatment with one of five H2-receptor antagonists (H2RAs). The efficacy of misoprostol, a PGE1 analogue, or AG-1749, a proton-pump inhibitor, on ulcer healing in nonresponders was also tested. The percentage of time (24-h measurement) during which the pH was 3 or more was higher in the basal condition (no H2RA) in nonresponders than in good responders with healing in the first 2 months. H2RAs increased this percentage satisfactorily in nonresponders as well as in good responders. The mean mucosal PGE2 concentration in the ulcer rim was 26 ng/g of tissue in nonresponders, much lower than in good responders. Treatment with misoprostol combined with an H2RA resulted in 60% success for ulcer healing within the next 2 months in nonresponders, without affecting the intraluminal pH measured during treatment with an H2RA alone. AG-1749 raised the percentage of time with high pH to 99% from the 68% obtained with an H2RA and cured 88% of this type of ulcer. These results suggest that extremely low PGE2 levels in gastric mucosa are related to the effectiveness of the H2RA. In such a condition, the small amount of gastric acid that is still secreted even during treatment with an H2RA may interrupt ulcer healing. Therefore, treatment with a prostaglandin analogue combined with an H2RA or treatment with a proton-pump inhibitor may be useful for ulcer healing in nonresponders.
An animal model of human complex partial status epilepticus induced by lithium chloride and pilocarpine administration was developed in our laboratory. The objective of the study was to provide a detailed analysis of both ictal and postictal behavior and to quantify seizure-related morphological damage. In order to determine the animal's responsiveness to either visual or olfactory stimuli, adult male rats were submitted to the following behavioral paradigms: the object response test, the social interaction test, and the elevated plus-maze test. The rotorod test was used to evaluate motor performance. Two weeks after status epilepticus, brains were morphologically examined and quantification of the brain damage was performed. Profound impairment of behavior as well as responsiveness to exteroceptive stimuli correlated with the occurrence of epileptic EEG activity. When the epileptic EEG activity ceased, responsiveness of the pilocarpine-treated animals was renewed. However, remarkable morphological damage persisted in the cortical regions two weeks later. This experimental study provides support for the clinical evidence that even nonconvulsive epileptic activity may cause brain damage. We suggest that the model can be used for the study of both functional and morphological consequences of prolonged nonconvulsive seizures.
We recently reported partially to wholly reversible hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, including severe hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy, as a side effect in pediatric transplant recipients receiving tacrolimus immunosuppression. This seemed to be dose related. We describe a pediatric patient receiving tacrolimus who died 3 weeks after liver/bowel transplantation. Postmortem findings revealed arteritis of cardiac arteries and extensive calcification of cardiac tissue suggesting a possible mechanism of tacrolimus cardiac toxicity. This is consistent with recent reports of tacrolimus increasing calcium release into the sarcoplasmic reticulum of cardiac and striated muscle.
To evaluate mechanisms underlying modulation of inflammatory chemokines in primary human keratinocytes (normal human epidermal keratinocytes) and repair-related processes in wound models by plant polyphenols (PPs) with antioxidant and superoxide scavenging properties (verbascoside [Vb], resveratrol [Rv], polydatin [Pd], quercetin [Qr], and rutin).
Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)-controlled chemokines CXCL8/interleukin 8 (IL-8), CCL2/monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1), and CXCL10/interferon gamma-produced protein of 10 kDa (IP-10) were modulated by transforming growth factor alpha (TGF-α) and by the tumor necrosis factor alpha/interferon gamma combination (T/I). EGFR phosphorylation, nuclear translocation, and downstream cytoplasmic signaling pathways (extracellular regulation kinase [ERK]1/2, p38, STAT3, and PI-3K) were studied. All PPs did not affect TGF-α-induced STAT3 phosphorylation, whereas they suppressed T/I-activated NFkappaB and constitutive and T/I-induced but not TGF-α-induced ERK1/2 phosphorylation. Vb and Qr suppressed total EGFR phosphorylation, but they synergized with TGF-α to enhance nuclear accumulation of phosphorylated EGFR. Vb strongly inhibited TGF-α-induced p38 phosphorylation and T/I-induced NFkappaB and activator protein-1 (AP-1) binding to DNA. Vb was an effective inhibitor of T/I-stimulated chemokine synthesis, and it accelerated scratch wound healing in vitro. Anti-inflammatory and wound healing activities of Vb were confirmed in vivo in the full-thickness excision wound. Although Pd and Rv did not affect EGFR activation/translocation, they and Qr synergized with TGF-α and T/I in the induction of IL-8 transcription/synthesis while opposing enhanced MCP-1 and IP-10 transcription/synthesis connected with pharmacologically impaired EGFR functioning.
PPs perturb the EGFR system in human keratinocytes, and this effect may be implicated in the regulation of inflammatory and repair-related processes in the skin.
Anti-inflammatory and wound healing effects of PPs depend on their interaction with EGFR-controlled cytoplasmic and nuclear pathways rather than on their direct redox properties.
Voriconazole is a new antifungal agent that has been recently introduced into clinical practice. We found no published reports of painful peripheral neuropathy associated with its use.
To describe a unique case of painful peripheral neuropathy associated with voriconazole use.
University hospital.
A 43-year-old patient who had undergone liver transplantation received voriconazole for invasive deep sinus aspergillosis and developed intolerable pain in all extremities.
A laboratory workup and electromyographic and nerve conduction studies were performed to exclude other causes of neuropathy in this complicated patient. Results of electromyographic and nerve conduction studies were suggestive of a demyelinating neuropathy. Symptoms and signs of neuropathy disappeared shortly after voriconazole discontinuation, suggesting a possible role in the development of neuropathy. The patient continues to do well 10 months after this event.
To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of voriconazole-associated peripheral neuropathy. Awareness of this association and careful monitoring for neurological signs are necessary for patients receiving voriconazole.
Chronic arsenic exposure induces oxidative damage to liver leading to liver fibrosis. We aimed to define the effect of grape seed extract (GSE), an antioxidant dietary supplement, on arsenic-induced liver injury. First, Male Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to a low level of arsenic in drinking water (30ppm) with or without GSE (100mg/kg, every other day by oral gavage) for 12months and the effect of GSE on arsenic-induced hepatotoxicity was examined. The results from this study revealed that GSE co-treatment significantly attenuated arsenic-induced low antioxidant defense, oxidative damage, proinflammatory cytokines and fibrogenic genes. Moreover, GSE reduced arsenic-stimulated Smad2/3 phosphorylation and protein levels of NADPH oxidase subunits (Nox2, Nox4 and p47phox). Next, we explored the molecular mechanisms underlying GSE inhibition of arsenic toxicity using cultured rat hepatic stellate cells (HSCs). From the in vitro study, we found that GSE dose-dependently reduced arsenic-stimulated ROS production and NADPH oxidase activities. Both NADPH oxidases flavoprotein inhibitor DPI and Nox4 siRNA blocked arsenic-induced ROS production, whereas Nox4 overexpression suppressed the inhibitory effects of GSE on arsenic-induced ROS production and NADPH oxidase activities, as well as expression of TGF-β1, type I procollagen (Coll-I) and α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) mRNA. We also observed that GSE dose-dependently inhibited TGF-β1-induced transactivation of the TGF-β-induced smad response element p3TP-Lux, and that forced expression of Smad3 attenuated the inhibitory effects of GSE on TGF-β1-induced mRNA expression of Coll-I and α-SMA. Collectively, GSE could be a potential dietary therapeutic agent for arsenic-induced liver injury through suppression of NADPH oxidase and TGF-β/Smad activation.
Nonsmall cell lung cancers with neuroendocrine differentiation (NSCLC-ND) may demonstrate biologic behavior intermediate between NSCLC and small cell lung cancer (SCLC) with impact on prognosis.
We analyzed 116 consecutive patients with Stage III and IV NSCLC who were diagnosed and treated between 2001 and 2006. Using immuno-histochemical staining for neuron-specific enolase (NSE), chromogranin A (ChrA), and synaptophysin (Syn), 29 (25%) NSCLC-ND were identified.
Expression of NSE was present in 22.4%, ChrA in 15.5% and Syn in 14.8% of patients with NSCLC. Therapeutic response was significantly better in the NSCLC-ND group and specimens with > 30% neuroendocrine (NE)-differentiated tumor cells showed favourable therapeutic response (P < 0.05). Multivariate binary logistic regression showed that percentage of NE positive tumor cells was a significant independent prognostic factor associated with a favourable outcome. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves and areas under ROC curves confirmed that percentage of NE-differentiated tumor cells could be useful prediction factor of therapeutic response. Moreover, according to percentage of NE-differentiated tumor cells, optimal cutoffs and related sensitivities and specificities were determined for each markers.
Advanced-stage NSCLC with NE tumor cells are clinically less aggressive tumors. Percentage of NE-differentiated tumor cells identifies patients with favourable therapy response to paclitaxel-cisplatin.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the involvement of chemical mediators other than histamine in nasal allergic signs using histamine H(1) receptor-deficient mice. In passively sensitized mice, antigen instillation into the nasal cavity induced significant increases in sneezing and nasal rubbing in wild-type mice, but no such increases were observed in histamine H(1) receptor-deficient mice. In actively sensitized mice, both sneezing and nasal rubbing were also significantly increased in a dose-dependent manner in both wild-type and histamine H(1) receptor-deficient mice. Histamine H(1) receptor antagonists such as cetirizine and epinastine significantly inhibited antigen-induced nasal allergic signs in wild-type mice, although the effects were incomplete. In addition, the thromboxane A(2) receptor antagonist ramatroban also inhibited these responses in wild-type mice. However, the leukotriene receptor antagonist zafirlukast showed no effects in wild-type mice. These results suggested that in the acute allergic model (passive sensitization), only histamine H(1) receptors are related to nasal signs induced by antigen, whereas in the chronic allergic model (active sensitization), both histamine H(1) receptors and thromboxane A(2) receptors were involved in the responses.
Parkinson's disease (PD)-like symptoms including learning deficits are inducible by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). Therefore, it is possible that MPTP may disturb hippocampal memory processing by modulation of dopamine (DA)- and activity-dependent synaptic plasticity. We demonstrate here that intraperitoneal (i.p.) MPTP injection reduces the number of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive neurons in the substantia nigra (SN) within 7days. Subsequently, the TH expression level in SN and hippocampus and the amount of DA and its metabolite DOPAC in striatum and hippocampus decrease. DA depletion does not alter basal synaptic transmission and changes pair-pulse facilitation (PPF) of field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) only at the 30ms inter-pulse interval. In addition, the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) is impaired whereas the duration of long-term depression (LTD) becomes prolonged. Since both LTP and LTD depend critically on activation of NMDA and DA receptors, we also tested the effect of DA depletion on NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic transmission. Seven days after MPTP injection, the NMDA receptor-mediated fEPSPs are decreased by about 23%. Blocking the NMDA receptor-mediated fEPSP does not mimic the MPTP-LTP. Only co-application of D1/D5 and NMDA receptor antagonists during tetanization resembled the time course of fEPSP potentiation as observed 7days after i.p. MPTP injection. Together, our data demonstrate that MPTP-induced degeneration of DA neurons and the subsequent hippocampal DA depletion alter NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic transmission and activity-dependent synaptic plasticity.
To assess the efficacy and safety of benzbromarone in patients with renal impairment and severe tophaceous gout (despite receiving optimal conventional therapy).
Six patients with refractory gout (despite optimal therapy) were treated with benzbromarone. Uric acid levels and number of gout attacks were recorded monthly. Adverse events to medications were also recorded.
After 1 year of treatment with benzbromarone, average uric acid level reduced from 0.61 mmol/L to 0.46 mmol/L. Repeated measures tests on the changes in uric acid were clinically significant (p=0.01). The frequency of acute attacks of gout was reduced from 16 (8-20) to 7.3 (1-16); p=0.01. None of the patients reported adverse events with the medications. There were no acute flares resulting from initiation of medications.
Benzbromarone is effective in lowering uric acid levels and in reducing the number of acute attacks of gout in patients who have failed optimal treatment. Making this drug more readily available will increase our therapeutic choices for urate reduction and help decrease the morbidity associated with gout.
The incidence of long-term (> or = 3 months) neuropathy in 350 melanoma patients treated with single normothermic or 'mild' hyperthermic perfusion with melphalan in the period 1978 to 1990 was studied. Long-term neuropathy was encountered in 14 patients; in 10/51 patients (20%) after perfusion at the axillary level and in 4/247 patients (2%) after perfusion at the iliac level. After brachial and femoro-popliteal perfusions no long-term neuropathy was observed. Neuropathy, mainly consisting of paresis/paralysis of the hand and/or fingers, anaesthesia, and/or paraesthesiae, improved over a mean period of 16 (3-43) months in eight patients, but three patients still had serious neuropathy one year after perfusion. In another six patients little improvement was seen and four died with permanent neuropathy. Acute regional toxicity after perfusion and the application of 'mild' hyperthermia did not seem to influence the incidence of long-term neuropathy. This complication is probably a result of the isolating Esmarch rubber bandage being applied too tightly during perfusion at a proximal level. At the axillary level, where the brachial plexus lacks the protection from enveloping tissues, nerve damage is especially prone to occur. We recommend applying this bandage no tighter than is necessary to maintain the isolation of the circuit. This implies meticulous surgical isolation of the vascular system and accurate monitoring of leakage.
Various antidepressants are commonly used for the treatment of depression and several other neuropsychiatric disorders. In addition to their primary effects on serotonergic or noradrenergic neurotransmitter systems, antidepressants have been shown to interact with several receptors and ion channels. However, the molecular mechanisms that underlie the effects of antidepressants have not yet been sufficiently clarified. G protein-activated inwardly rectifying K(+) (GIRK, Kir3) channels play an important role in regulating neuronal excitability and heart rate, and GIRK channel modulation has been suggested to have therapeutic potential for several neuropsychiatric disorders and cardiac arrhythmias. In the present study, we investigated the effects of various classes of antidepressants on GIRK channels using the Xenopus oocyte expression assay. In oocytes injected with mRNA for GIRK1/GIRK2 or GIRK1/GIRK4 subunits, extracellular application of sertraline, duloxetine, and amoxapine effectively reduced GIRK currents, whereas nefazodone, venlafaxine, mianserin, and mirtazapine weakly inhibited GIRK currents even at toxic levels. The inhibitory effects were concentration-dependent, with various degrees of potency and effectiveness. Furthermore, the effects of sertraline were voltage-independent and time-independent during each voltage pulse, whereas the effects of duloxetine were voltage-dependent with weaker inhibition with negative membrane potentials and time-dependent with a gradual decrease in each voltage pulse. However, Kir2.1 channels were insensitive to all of the drugs. Moreover, the GIRK currents induced by ethanol were inhibited by sertraline but not by intracellularly applied sertraline. The present results suggest that GIRK channel inhibition may reveal a novel characteristic of the commonly used antidepressants, particularly sertraline, and contributes to some of the therapeutic effects and adverse effects.
The cytotoxicity of benzene (BZ) and its major metabolites phenol (PHE), hydroquinone (HQ), catechol (CAT), 1,4-benzoquinone (BQ), 1,2,4-benzenetriol (BT), trans,trans-muconic acid (ttMA) and S-phenylmercapturic acid (S-PMA) was assessed by exposing Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cells to these compounds. Benzene was the least toxic (LD50 = 20 mM), while BQ showed the highest potency (LD50 = 10 microM), followed by HQ (LD50 = 40 microM). It was found that the trend of cytotoxicity was: BQ > HQ > > CAT > ttMA > BT > S-PMA > > PHE > BZ. 1,4-Benzoquinone and HQ also demonstrated considerable ability to induce DNA strand breaks in CHO cells, which was assayed using the fluorimetric analysis of DNA unwinding. The other metabolites were unable to cause DNA strand breaks. When HQ was administered in combination with other metabolites, no synergism was observed in the induction of DNA strand breaks. From these results, it can be seen that BQ and HQ are the most bioreactive species among the benzene metabolites when tested on CHO cells. Differences between the results obtained in our study and other studies were discussed.
Acute hyperammonemia causes cerebral edema, elevated intracranial pressure and loss of cerebral blood flow (CBF) responsivity to CO2. Inhibition of glutamine synthetase prevents these abnormalities. If the loss of CO2 responsivity is secondary to the mechanical effects of edema, one would anticipate loss of responsivity to other physiological stimuli, such as hypoxia and changes in mean arterial blood pressure (MABP). To test this possibility, pentobarbital-anesthetized rats were subjected to either hypoxic hypoxia (PaO2 approximately 30 mm Hg), hemorrhagic hypotension (MABP approximately 70 and 50 mm Hg), or phenylephrine-induced hypertension (MABP approximately 125 and 145 mm Hg). CBF was measured with radiolabeled microspheres. Experimental groups received intravenous ammonium acetate (approximately 50 mumol min-1 kg-1) for 6 h to increase plasma ammonia to 500-600 microM. Control groups received sodium acetate plus HCl to prevent metabolic alkalosis. The increase in CBF during 10 min of hypoxia after 6 h of ammonium acetate infusion (84 +/- 19 to 259 +/- 52 ml min-1 100 g-1) was similar to that after sodium acetate infusion (105 +/- 20 to 265 +/- 76 ml min-1 100 g-1). Cortical glutamine concentration was elevated equivalently in hyperammonemic rats subjected to normoxia only or to 10 min of hypoxia. With severe hypotension, CBF was unchanged in both the ammonium (80 +/- 20 to 76 +/- 24 ml min-1 100 g-1) and the sodium (80 +/- 14 to 73 +/- 16 ml min-1 100 g-1) acetate groups. With moderate hypertension, CBF was unchanged. With the most severe hypertension, significant increases in CBF occurred in both groups, but there was no difference between groups. We conclude that hypoxic and autoregulatory responses are intact during acute hyperammonemia. The previously observed loss of CO2 responsivity is not the result of a generalized vasoparalysis to all physiological stimuli.
To test the ability of the heart to express characteristic geometric features of concentric and eccentric hypertrophy concurrently, constriction of the ascending aorta was performed in 4-week-old rats. Simultaneously, these rats were treated with an arteriolar dilator minoxidil. An examination 6 weeks after induction of the hemodynamic overload revealed no signs of congestion in systemic or pulmonary circulation in rats with aortic constriction or minoxidil-treated sham-operated rats. The magnitude of hemodynamic overload caused by aortic constriction or minoxidil treatment could be considered as equivalent, because the same enlargement of left ventricular pressure-volume area was necessary to compensate for either pressure or volume overload. Myocardial contractility decreased in rats with aortic constriction, and the compensation was achieved wholly by the marked concentric hypertrophy. Volume overload in minoxidil-treated rats was compensated partially by the eccentric hypertrophy and partially by the increased myocardial contractility. In contrast, increased lung weight and pleural effusion were found in all minoxidil-treated rats with aortic constriction. Unfavorable changes in left ventricular mass and geometry, relatively high chamber stiffness, and depressed ventricular and myocardial function were responsible for the massive pulmonary congestion.
Humanin (HN) and its derivatives, such as Colivelin (CLN), suppress neuronal death induced by insults related to Alzheimer's disease (AD) by activating STAT3 in vitro. They also ameliorate functional memory impairment of mice induced by anticholinergic drugs or soluble toxic amyloid-beta (Abeta) in vivo when either is directly administered into the cerebral ventricle or intraperitoneally injected. However, the mechanism underlying the in vivo effect remains uncharacterized. In addition, from the standpoint of clinical application, drug delivery methods that are less invasive and specific to the central nervous system (CNS) should be developed. In this study, we show that intranasally (i.n.) administered CLN can be successfully transferred to CNS via the olfactory bulb. Using several behavioral tests, we have demonstrated that i.n. administered CLN ameliorates memory impairment of AD models in a dose-responsive manner. Attenuation of AD-related memory impairment by HN derivatives such as CLN appears to be correlated with an increase in STAT3 phosphorylation levels in the septohippocampal region, suggesting that anti-AD activities of HN derivatives may be mediated by activation of STAT3 in vivo as they are in vitro. We further demonstrate that CLN treatment inhibits an Abeta induced decrease in the number of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT)-positive neurons in the medial septum. Combined with the finding that HN derivatives upregulate mRNA expression of neuronal ChAT and vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) in vitro, it is assumed that CLN may ameliorate memory impairment of AD models by supporting cholinergic neurotransmission, which is at least partly mediated by STAT3-mediated transcriptional upregulation of ChAT and VAChT.
Female C57BR/cdJ (BR) mice are unusually susceptible to spontaneous and chemically induced hepatocarcinogenesis relative to females of other inbred strains, in part because they are insensitive to the inhibitory effects of ovarian hormones on liver tumor development; BR males are intermediate among strains in their sensitivity. C57BL/6J (B6) male and female mice are relatively resistant among inbred strains. Linkage analysis of crosses between BR and resistant B6 mice identified two loci, on Chromosomes 17 and 1, that accounted for the high susceptibility of BR mice to hepatocarcinogenesis. To determine whether the increased susceptibility of BR relative to B6 mice is intrinsic to the target hepatocytes or is the result of local or systemic differences in milieu, we determined the strain of origin of tumors that arose in BR<-->B6 aggregation chimeras. Chimeras were treated at 12 days of age with N,N-diethylnitrosamine, and individual tumors were dissected from 15 males at 32 weeks and from 7 females at 50 weeks of age. DNA was prepared from each tumor, and quantitative PCR assays were used to determine the strain of origin for each tumor. The overall contribution of each strain to non-neoplastic liver was determined using the PCR assay and through analysis of the relative amount of glucose phosphate isomerase activity associated with the BR and B6 electrophoretic variants; the median contribution of B6 cells to non-neoplastic liver was 50%. A majority (91%) of the 230 tumors analyzed from both sexes was derived from the BR donor, indicating that the net overall effect of BR susceptibility genes is cell autonomous.
The epileptogenic potential of pefloxacin and norfloxacin, two quinolone antibiotics, was investigated in vivo in three different animal species by measuring drug concentrations in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), which is part of the biophase, at the onset of convulsions. Interestingly, the pefloxacin-to-norfloxacin concentration ratios in CSF were virtually constant across the species (7.0, 6.6, and 6.0 in mice, rats, and rabbits, respectively), suggesting that this approach could be used to predict the relative epileptogenic potential of quinolones in humans.
Abdominal complications were evaluated with ultrasonography in 20 patients who received marrow-ablative chemotherapy and bone marrow or blood stem cell transplantation for the treatment of hematologic malignancies. Ultrasonographic findings compatible with veno-occlusive disease of the liver, cytomegalovirus infection of the colon, hepatic lesion of graft-versus-host disease, and cyclophosphamide-induced hemorrhagic cystitis were demonstrated in 6 of these patients. In addition, ascites, pleural effusion, gall bladder wall thickening, and hepatosplenomegaly were easily detected. Since ultrasonography is noninvasive and can be repeated, ultrasonographic studies are useful for evaluating and monitoring abdominal complications which are frequently encountered in these transplant patients.
The aim of this study was to assess the activity and toxicity of carboplatin/vinorelbine combination chemotherapy in unresectable locally advanced and metastatic non-small cell lung cancer. Between April 1997 and June 1999 30 patients (22 M, eight F, median age 62) received treatment with carboplatin AUC 6 on day 1, and vinorelbine 25mg/m(2) on days 1, 8 and 15. Treatment was given every 28 days for six cycles unless progressive disease occurred. Twenty-three patients (77%) had stage IV disease, and seven (23%) stage IIIB. Ninety-three percent were WHO performance status 0-1. Twenty-three patients were fully assessable. Nine patients achieved partial responses (9/23, 39%) for an overall objective response rate of 9/30 (30%; 95% CI 15-49%). The median duration of response was 2.75 months (range 1-13 months). The median progression-free survival was 2 months and the median survival 5.25 months. The actuarial 1-year survival was 20%. The median number of cycles completed was two (range 1-6). Day 15 vinorelbine was administered in only 18% of cycles. The main toxicity was myelosuppression. WHO grade III/IV neutropenia was experienced in 50% of patients, however, there were only three episodes of febrile neutropenia. Eight patients required blood transfusion and one developed grade III thrombocytopenia. Treatment was ceased in one patient because of grade IV autonomic neuropathy. No patient had significant nausea and vomiting. There were no treatment-related deaths. These results indicate that carboplatin/vinorelbine is well tolerated and has similar activity to cisplatin/vinorelbine in patients with unresectable non-small cell lung cancer, however, the median survival was considerably shorter.
Although hairy cell leukaemia was first described 40 years ago, it is only in the last decade that newer therapeutic agents have enabled effective treatment. The purine nucleoside analogue, 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine (2-CdA) is currently considered as first-line therapy with a very high rate of complete remission. Although adverse events with 2-CdA are increasingly recognized, severe cutaneous reactions have been reported rarely. We describe two consecutive patients treated with 2-CdA for hairy cell leukaemia who both suffered extremely severe cutaneous reactions, one of which was life-threatening.
The notion that antidepressant treatment-associated hypomania or mania being pharmacologically induced has been challenged. To determine whether selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI) induced hypomania is secondary to medication effects, we examined the dose-response relationship of SSRI-induced hypomania in two patients with depressive disorder.
Case study.
Hypomanic symptoms emerged during treatment with sertraline at the dose of 300 mg per day in a 45-year-old male with major depression. Paroxetine treatment at the dose of 80 mg per day induced hypomania in a 37-year-old female with dysthymia and trichitillomania. These patients have no family or personal history of bipolar disorder. Hypomania resolved when sertraline was decreased to 200 mg per day and paroxetine to 40 mg per day. No hypomanic switch was observed during 18-24 months follow-up.
In the absence of risk factors for manic switch, SSRI-induced hypomania may be dose-dependent medication effects.
Precurarisation with 1 mg/15 kg d-tubocurarine was given before 1.5 mg/kg succinylcholine to obtain muscle relaxation for tracheal intubation in 100 patients, whereas 1 mg/kg succinylcholine only was administered to 100 controls. Serious postoperative myalgia fell from 8% to 0%, and forms of average intensity from 21% to 8% in the curarised group. Muscle resolution was regarded as satisfactory in 96% (98% in the controls). The effectiveness and degree of safety of this combination are discussed, together with the indications and contraindications for the employment of the technique in the prevention of myalgia induced by succinylcholine.
To evaluate the effect of current treatment with non-selective or cardioselective beta-blockers on the outcome of a first acute myocardial infarction in hypertensive patients.
Peak aspartate aminotransferase was measured as an indirect estimate of infarct size, the occurrence of circulatory arrest from ventricular tachyarrhythmias and in-hospital mortality.
A retrospective analysis was performed on data collected in a continuously operating register of all hospitalized acute myocardial infarctions in Malmö, Sweden.
A total of 2114 hypertensive patients were admitted to hospital with a first acute myocardial infarction. Of these patients, 323 were treated with a non-selective beta-blocker on admission and 338 with a cardioselective beta-blocker.
In patients given a non-selective beta-blocker the mean peak aspartate aminotransferase was 3.02 +/- 0.15 mukat/l, which was significantly lower than the peak (3.78 +/- 0.35 mukat/l) recorded in the patients given a cardioselective beta-blocker. In a multiple regression analysis, treatment with a non-selective beta-blocker was significantly and inversely related to peak aspartate aminotransferase after adjustment for several clinical characteristics. Age, anterior myocardial infarction, peak aspartate aminotransferase, serum potassium and treatment with a cardioselective beta-blocker were significantly and independently associated with the occurrence of circulatory arrest due to ventricular tachyarrhythmias. The relative risk of circulatory arrest in patients taking cardioselective beta-blockers was 1.73 (95% confidence interval 1.16-2.58) and in patients taking non-selective beta-blockers 1.02 (95% confidence interval 0.64-1.66). Advanced age, a history of diabetes mellitus, a history of stroke, anterior myocardial infarction, a high serum potassium level and a high peak aspartate aminotransferase level significantly predicted in-hospital mortality. The relative risk of in-hospital mortality in patients taking non-selective beta-blockers was 0.92 (95% confidence interval 0.64-1.30), and in patients taking cardioselective beta-blockers 0.84 (95% confidence interval 0.59-1.19).
The study suggests that current treatment with non-selective beta-blockers may have reduced the enzymatically estimated infarct size and the occurrence of circulatory arrest due to ventricular tachyarrhythmias. Both non-selective and cardioselective beta-blockers may also have reduced the in-hospital mortality in this population of hypertensive patients suffering a first acute myocardial infarction. In a clinical study using with adrenaline infusions in healthy volunteers, we found that beta 2-receptor blockade improved potentially arrhythmogenic variables, such as hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia, but the adrenaline-induced reduction in diastolic blood pressure was reversed. Pretreatment with the new beta-blocker carvedilol preserved the beneficial electrolyte effects without increasing blood pressure during the adrenaline infusion.
