With the increasing knowledge about the antioxidant potential of many micronutrients such as zinc and vitamin C, their roles in oxidative stress related health disorders have been postulated. This study therefore investigated low micronutrient status as a predisposing factor for hypertension in a traditionally lacto-vegetarian population like Indians.
Micronutrient profile was assessed in 109 hypertensives with age-gender-socio-economic status matched 115 healthy normotensives (30-58 years of age). Food intakes were estimated through a semi-quantitative food frequency questionnaire. Nutrient intakes were then evaluated by previous estimates of cooked foods from our laboratory. Systolic and diastolic blood pressure (SBP, DBP), age, weight, height, waist and hip circumference, occupation, physical activity, smoking habits were recorded. Fasting blood samples were analyzed for hemoglobin, serum level of glucose, triglycerides, total cholesterol, HDL, ceruloplasmin, plasma level of ascorbic acid, folic acid, retinol, erythrocyte glutathione reductase activity coefficient (EGRAC) and erythrocyte membrane zinc.
There were no significant differences between protein, fat intakes of normal and hypertensive individuals, though intakes of men were higher than those of women (p < 0.05). Intakes of omega-6 fatty acids were higher (p = 0.08) and omega-3 fatty acids were lower in hypertensive men than normotensive men (p = 0.04). Gender differences were also significant for micronutrient intakes except vitamin C and beta-carotene. Intakes of potassium, copper, folic acid and vitamin C were significantly lower in hypertensive individuals than in normotenisves. No significant association was found between occupation or activity level and hypertension (p > 0.2) in these subjects. Conditional logistic regression analysis indicated that intakes of vitamin C, folic acid and zinc were associated with 18% (OR = 1.18, 95% CI:1.08, 1.26), 51% (OR = 1.51, 95% CI 0.94, 2.1) higher odds for hypertension, and 3% lower odds for hypertension (OR = 0.97, 95% CI 0.92, 1.01), respectively. Mean plasma vitamin C and folic acid were significantly higher (p < 0.01), and serum ceruloplasmin and erythrocyte membrane zinc were marginally higher (p = 0.07) in normal than hypertensive subjects. In multivariate linear regression analyses, plasma vitamin C, serum ceruloplasmin and erythrocyte membrane zinc were negatively associated with SBP (p = 0.00001) and plasma vitamin C was negatively associated with DBP (p = 0.0001).
Low dietary intakes of vitamin C, folic acid and zinc emerged as the possible risk factors for hypertension. Further, lower levels of plasma vitamin C, erythrocyte membrane zinc and ceruloplasmin were found to be the putative intermediary biomarkers in pathogenesis of hypertension.
Galectin-3 is a multifunctional beta-galactoside-binding protein implicated in apoptosis, malignant transformation, and tumor progression. The mechanisms by which galectin-3 contributes to malignant progression are not fully understood. In this study, we found that the introduction of wild-type galectin-3 into nontumorigenic, galectin-3-null BT549 human breast epithelial cells conferred tumorigenicity and metastatic potential in nude mice, and that galectin-3 expressed by the cells was phosphorylated. In contrast, BT549 cells expressing galectin-3 incapable of being phosphorylated (Ser6-->Glu Ser6-->Ala) were nontumorigenic. A microarray analysis of 10,000 human genes, comparing BT549 transfectants expressing wild-type and those expressing phosphomutant galectin-3, identified 188 genes that were differentially expressed (>2.5-fold). Genes affected by introduction of wild-type phosphorylated but not phosphomutant galectin-3 included those involved in oxidative stress, a novel noncaspase lysosomal apoptotic pathway, cell cycle regulation, transcriptional activation, cytoskeleton remodeling, cell adhesion, and tumor invasion. The reliability of the microarray data was validated by real-time reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR) and by Western blot analysis, and clinical relevance was evaluated by real-time RT-PCR screening of a panel of matched pairs of breast tumors. Differentially regulated genes in breast cancers that are also predicted to be associated with phospho-galectin-3 in transformed BT549 cells include C-type lectin 2, insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 5, cathepsins L2, and cyclin D1. These data show the functional diversity of galectin-3 and suggest that phosphorylation of the protein is necessary for regulation (directly or indirectly) of unique sets of genes that play a role in malignant transformation.
Starch microspheres 40 micrometers in diameter, which are rapidly degraded by serum amylase, have been administered through hepatic arterial catheters to five patients with primary and metastatic liver cancer to determine whether (1) arterial blood flow through the liver could be temporarily blocked, and (2) such occlusion at the level of the arteriolar capillary bed would enhance regional uptake and catabolism and decrease systemic exposure to simultaneously administered hepatic arterial bischlorethylnitrosourea (BCNU). It was possible with 10 ml of microspheres (9 X 10(6) microspheres/ml) injected into the hepatic artery to transiently (for 15-30 minutes) reduce hepatic flow by 80-100% in the five patients. When BCNU (50 mg/m2 in one minute) was given with microspheres there was a 30-90% reduction in systemic nitrosourea exposure and in peak levels. No myelosuppression was noted and hepatic toxicity consisted of acute pain due to BCNU and 1.5-2.0 fold transient enzyme elevations. One patient with cholangiocarcinoma showed a partial response lasting three months; three patients had stable disease and one patient with colon carcinoma had progressive disease. Thus, this pilot study suggests that concurrent intra-arterial microspheres and BCNU may have the potential to improve selective regional drug effect with marked diminution in systemic toxicity.
Cleidocranial dysplasia (CCD) is a rare disorder which is inherited as an autosomal genetic trait. It is characterized by defective ossification, delayed bone and tooth development, stomatognathic and craniofacial abnormalities, and it is caused by mutations in the RUNX2 gene that is responsible for osteoblast differentiation. The purpose of this review is to collect and analyze data in the literature on orofacial typical manifestations of the syndrome and to present knowledge of the eziopatogenics mechanisms of the CCD. Clinical, genetic, aetiopathogenetic studies on this syndrome were compliled through a systematic approach using Medline. This review reports the cranio-facial features and dental characteristics of the CCD on the basis of all data in the literature. This review pays particular attention on the eziopatogenics mechanisms of CCD and summarises the results of the most recent studies. Access to detailed review of the etiopathogenic mechanisms of CCD is a fundamental support for clinicians as it can allow to make an informed assessment regarding the most effective choice of therapy. The review shows how an interdisciplinary approach is necessary for an appropriate treatment since CCD patients suffer from a skeletal third class, transverse deficiency of the maxilla, supernumerary permanent teeth and deficient eruption of impacted permanent teeth.
Activation of Kupffer cells is a prominent feature of necro-inflammatory liver injury. We have recently demonstrated that 5-lipoxygenase (5-LO) and its accessory protein, 5-LO-activating protein (FLAP), are essential for the survival of Kupffer cells in culture, as their inhibition drives these liver resident macrophages to programmed cell death. In the current study, we explored whether the potent FLAP inhibitor, Bay-X-1005, reduces the number of Kupffer cells in vivo and whether this pharmacological intervention protects the liver from carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4))-induced damage. Rats treated with CCl(4) showed an increased number of Kupffer cells, an effect that was abrogated by the administration of Bay-X-1005 (100 mg/Kg body weight, per oral, daily). Consistent with a role for Kupffer cells in necro-inflammatory liver injury, partial depletion of Kupffer cells following FLAP inhibition was associated with a remarkable hepatoprotective action. Indeed, Bay-X-1005 significantly reduced the intense hepatocyte degeneration and large bridging necrosis induced by CCl(4) treatment. Moreover, Bay-X-1005 induced a reduction in the gelatinolytic activity of matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) and a decrease in mRNA expression of tissue inhibitor of MMP-2. The FLAP inhibitor reduced leukotriene (LT)B(4) and cysteinyl LT levels and down-regulated 5-LO and FLAP protein expression in the liver. It is interesting that a significant increase in the hepatic formation of lipoxin A(4), an endogenous, anti-inflammatory lipid mediator involved in the resolution of inflammation, was observed after the administration of Bay-X-1005. These findings support the concept that modulation of the 5-LO pathway by FLAP inhibition may be useful in the prevention of hepatotoxin-induced necro-inflammatory injury.
Mice bearing LP07 lung adenocarcinoma present some characteristics similar to those shown in patients with several malignant diseases. LP07 tumor bearers develop paraneoplastic syndromes such as cachexia, leukocytosis, and hypercalcemia, partly due to a systemic inflammatory response. We analyzed some of the mechanisms involved in the effectiveness of the association of the appetite-stimulant medroxiprogesterone acetate (MPA) and the nonselective cyclooxigenase (COX) inhibitor indomethacin (INDO) in LP07 tumor bearing mice. INDO and INDO plus MPA treatments significantly inhibited tumor growth, which was not inhibited by MPA. The number of lung metastatic nodules was decreased with all treatments, being most effective INDO alone and INDO plus MPA. A significant decrease of plasmatic levels of the matrix metalloproteinases MMP-9 and MMP-2 correlated with these results. Paraneoplastic syndromes, leukocytosis, and cachexia were abolished by all treatments. We determined effects of the treatments on circulating cytokines shown to regulate cachexia and inflammation. Both treatments alone, and INDO plus MPA, reduced circulating IL-6 throughout tumor evolution. A pronounced increase in serum IL-1ss levels was detected in untreated tumor bearers. These levels decreased and were closer to normal serum values when LP07 mice were treated with INDO plus MPA. The combination of a nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug as INDO and MPA showed to be effective in inhibiting tumor and metastatic growth and diminishing paraneoplastic symptoms and SIR. A variety of specific molecules are implicated as playing a role in cancer-induced cachexia and hematological alterations.
The effect of an i.v. administration of some beta-adrenergic blocking drugs on blood pressure has been investigated in rats after blood-brain barrier (BBB) opening. Practolol and atenolol which do not penetrate the BBB, induced an immediate hypotensive effect after BBB breakdown by intracarotid (i.c.) injection of cetrimonium. In 39 week-old spontaneously hypertensive rats, practolol (15 mg/kg i.v.) and atenolol (3 mg/kg i.v.) induced a large drop in blood pressure while only a slight decrease was shown in normotensive ones. Likewise, acebutolol induced a significantly greater hypotension after BBB damage. On the other hand, the effects of dl-propranolol (5 mg/kg), quinidine (2.5 mg/kg) and isoproterenol (3 micrograms/kg) on blood pressure were not modified by pretreatment with cetrimonium i.c., while the hypotension induced by d-propranolol (5 mg/kg) was shortened. These results indicate that beta-adrenergic blocking agents with a low degree of lipophily can induce a hypotensive effect when their penetration into brain is largely enhanced after BBB opening either by prolonged hypertension or by cetrimonium. This effect is only dependent on their action on beta-adrenoreceptors; membrane stabilizing effect and intrinsic sympathomimetic activity do not seem to be involved.
Persons afflicted with protein malnutrition are generally deficient in a variety of essential micronutrients like zinc, copper, iron, and selenium, which in turn affects number of metabolic processes in the body. To evaluate the protective effects of zinc on the enzymes involved in oxidative stress induced in liver of protein-deficient rats, the current study was designed. Zinc sulfate at a dose level of 227 mg/L zinc in drinking water was administered to female Sprague-Dawley normal control as well as protein-deficient rats for a total duration of 8 weeks. The effects of zinc treatment in conditions of protein deficiency were studied on rat liver antioxidant enzymes, which included catalase, glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione reductase (GR), superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione reduced (GSH), and glutathione-S-transferase (GST). Protein deficiency in normal rats resulted in a significant increase in hepatic activities of catalase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase, and glutathione-S-transferase and the levels of lipid peroxidation. A significant inhibition in the levels of reduced glutathione and the enzyme activity of superoxide dismutase has been observed after protein deficiency in normal rats. Interestingly, Zn treatment to protein-deficient animals lowered already raised activity catalase, glutathione peroxidase, and glutathione-S-transferase and levels of lipid peroxidation to significant levels when compared to protein-deficient animals. Also, Zn treatment to the protein-deficient animals resulted in a significant elevation in the levels of GSH and SOD activity as compared to their respective controls, thereby indicating its effectiveness in regulating their levels in adverse conditions. It has also been observed that concentrations of zinc, copper, iron, and selenium were found to be decreased significantly in protein-deficient animals. However, the levels of these elements came back to within normal limits when zinc was administrated to protein-deficient rats. This study concludes that zinc has the potential to regulate the activities of oxidative stress enzymes as well as essential hepatic elements.
Long-term lithium therapy is associated with hypercalcaemia in 10-60% of patients, but unlike creatinine and thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), monitoring by general practitioners of serum calcium for patients on lithium is not a requirement of the Qualities and Outcomes Framework (QOF) of 2004. We aimed to assess requesting patterns for serum calcium in patients on long-term lithium therapy and subsequent diagnosis of hypercalcaemia.
We identified 100 patients on long-term lithium therapy, as indicated by regular monitoring of lithium levels in our laboratory for at least 1 year. We determined how many of these patients had had serum calcium analysed, noting the assay date, concentration, source of request and clinical details stated.
Forty-three out of hundred patients had serum calcium analysed during the course of their treatment including 28 in the previous 15 months. Twenty-one patients had serum calcium analysed by their GP, including 12 in the previous 15 months. Hypercalcaemia was diagnosed in five patients (11.6%).
A significant proportion of patients in whom calcium was checked developed hypercalcaemia on lithium therapy. However, only 12% of the patients had serum calcium requested by their GP in the previous 15 months, which compares unfavourably with TSH and creatinine, for which monitoring approaches 100%. We recommend that serum calcium be checked every 15 months along with creatinine and TSH. This might be achieved by incorporating appropriate targets into the QOF, or by reflective or reflex adding-on of calcium to lithium specimens from patients who have not had calcium analysed in the previous 15 months.
The aim of this study was to determine whether the use of amiodarone in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) increases the risk of bradyarrhythmia requiring a permanent pacemaker.
Reports of severe bradyarrhythmia during amiodarone therapy are infrequent and limited to studies assessing the therapy's use in the management of patients with ventricular arrhythmias.
A study cohort of 8,770 patients age > or =65 years with a new diagnosis of AF was identified from a provincewide database of Quebec residents with a myocardial infarction (MI) between 1991 and 1999. Using a nested case-control design, 477 cases of bradyarrhythmia requiring a permanent pacemaker were matched (1:4) to 1,908 controls. Multivariable logistic regression was used to estimate the odds ratio (OR) of pacemaker insertion associated with amiodarone use, controlling for baseline risk factors and exposure to sotalol, Class I antiarrhythmic agents, beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers, and digoxin.
amiodarone use was associated with an increased risk of pacemaker insertion (OR: 2.14, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.30 to 3.54). This effect was modified by gender, with a greater risk in women versus men (OR: 3.86, 95% CI: 1.70 to 8.75 vs. OR: 1.52, 95% CI: 0.80 to 2.89). Digoxin was the only other medication associated with an increased risk of pacemaker insertion (OR: 1.78, 95% CI: 1.37 to 2.31).
This study suggests that the use of amiodarone in elderly patients with AF and a previous MI increases the risk of bradyarrhythmia requiring a permanent pacemaker. The finding of an augmented risk of pacemaker insertion in elderly women receiving amiodarone requires further investigation.
Seven parkinsonian patients who had severe on-off effects during chronic treatment with levodopa were studied. Marked swings in plasma dopa levels as well as in motor function followed each oral dose of levodopa. A constant intravenous infusion of levodopa resulted in stable plasma dopa concentrations and virtual disappearance of motor fluctuations. Notwithstanding steady plasma dopa levels, an abrupt decline in the antiparkinsonian response to levodopa attended postural tilting or cold pressore stimulation. Although these maneuvers were accompanied by a significant rise in plasma norepinephrine, the intravenous infusion of this catecholamine failed to influence the effect of levodopa on parkinsonian signs. The results suggest that central noradrenergic mechanisms as well as alterations in circulating dopa may contribute to the on-off response to levodopa.
Supplementing a rabbit's diet with 2% cholesterol alone or with a trace amount of copper created neuropathological changes that resembled those seen in Alzheimer's disease (AD). AD model rabbits were impaired in eyeblink classical conditioning; a form of learning severely impaired in AD. Our aim was to replicate AD rabbit model neuropathology, test eyeblink conditioning in this model, and determine if galantamine (Razadyne) would ameliorate impaired conditioning. In Experiment 1 rabbit chow with 2% cholesterol and drinking water with 0.12 mg/liter copper sulfate were administered for 10 weeks. Control rabbits received normal food and water. Rabbit brains were probed for neuropathology. AD model rabbits had significant neuronal loss in frontal cortex, hippocampus and cerebellum. Changes in neurons in the hippocampus were consistent with neurofibrillary degeneration and cytoplasmic immunoreactivity for amyloid-beta and tau. In Experiment 2 AD model rabbits were injected daily with vehicle or 3.0 mg/kg galantamine and tested on 750 ms trace and delay eyeblink conditioning. Galantamine improved eyeblink conditioning significantly over vehicle. The AD rabbit model has validity from neuropathological to cognitive levels and offers a promising addition to the available animal models of AD. Galantamine ameliorated impaired eyeblink conditioning, extending the validity of the AD rabbit model to treatment modalities.
Flunarizine and nimodipine, Ca2+ modulators which exert antagonist effects against catecholamines and serotonin and have specific action on the brain, were used as antidotes to imipramine toxicity in the rat. Imipramine, a tricyclic antidepressant, inhibits synaptic reuptake of catecholamines and serotonin. Flunarizine administered concurrently with imipramine increased survival time significantly (p less than 0.04). After a lethal dose of imipramine (85 mg/kg) 5 out of 5 animals treated with flunarizine (2.37 +/- 1.21 mg/kg in divided doses) and 4 out of 5 animals treated with nimodipine (0.36 +/- 0.11 mg/kg) survived. The acute toxicity of imipramine might be related, in part, to drug-induced alteration in turnover of excitatory neurotransmitters which will induce intracellular Ca2+ accumulation and damage to vital organs. These toxic effects of endogenously produced neuroamines may be antagonized by nimodipine or flunarizine.
Osteonecrosis is a frequently disabling complication of renal transplantation. Thirty-one of 244 patients (12.7%), who received cadaver renal transplants from 1968 to 1978 developed an osteonecrosis. An analysis of 14 possible risk factors suggested that only the following were significantly more frequent in the osteonecrosis group: greater than 3 pulse doses of 1.2 g prednisolone, serum creatinine greater than 133 mumol/L, steroid-induced diabetes mellitus and second and subsequent transplantation. An important decline in the incidence of osteonecrosis (26.7 per cent to 6.5 per cent) was seen with prophylactic vitamin D2 treatment and the onset of osteonecrosis was on average one year later. Dangerous side effects of the large doses of vitamin D2 were minimal. Hypercalcaemia due to overdosage with vitamin D2 during simultaneous prednisolone therapy was usually mild and returned to normal in a few days by dose reduction.
To compare the frequency and extent of pulmonary embolism (PE) occurring during pulse-spray pharmacomechanical thrombolysis (PSPMT) of clotted hemodialysis grafts with use of either urokinase (UK) or heparinized saline (HS). Postintervention primary patency and complication rates were compared for each method of thrombolysis.
Twenty-seven patients were enrolled in this prospective, randomized, double-blind study evaluating PE with two PSPMT agents. The doses of heparin were similar between groups. The only variable was that one group of patients received UK and the other received HS. In two cases, the venous anastomosis could not be crossed. Eleven patients were treated with UK and 14 with HS. Nuclear medicine perfusion lung scans were performed before treatment and after graft declotting procedures. Lung perfusion was quantified to 10% of a pulmonary segment (0 = normal perfusion, 1 = segmental perfusion defect), with nine segments counted for each lung.
Baseline nuclear medicine perfusion lung scan results were abnormal (> or = 20% segmental perfusion defect) in 19 patients (70.4%). New PE (one or more pulmonary segments) occurred in two patients treated with UK (18.2%) and nine patients treated with HS (64.3%; P = .04). All cases of PE were asymptomatic. Quantitative global pulmonary perfusion analyses revealed that treatment with UK improved flow to 0.2 +/- 2.0 pulmonary segments, whereas treatment with HS decreased perfusion to 1.0 +/- 1.7 segments (P = .16, NS). Although postintervention primary patency rates were similar according to life-table analysis (P = .76, NS), complication rates were higher with use of HS (n = 4, 28.6%) than with use of UK (n = 2, 18.2%) (P = .6, NS).
All PE were asymptomatic during PSPMT, but treatment with UK reduced the rate of PE and tended to result in smaller defects in lung scan results. Most patients undergoing hemodialysis have abnormal baseline perfusion scan results, but PSPMT with UK improved many of them. The postintervention primary patency rates were similar between groups, but complications were more frequent after treatment with HS.
The oxidation of low-density lipoproteins (LDL) plays an important role in the development of atherosclerosis. Curcumin is a yellow pigment obtained from rhizomes of Curcuma longa and is commonly used as a spice and food colouring. Curcumin and turmeric extracts have several pharmacological effects including antitumour, anti-inflammatory, antioxidant and antiinfectious activities although the precise mechanisms involved remain to be elicited. We evaluated the effect of an ethanol-aqueous extract obtained from rhizomes of C. longa on LDL oxidation susceptibility and plasma lipids in atherosclerotic rabbits. A total of 18 rabbits were fed for 7 weeks on a diet containing 95.7% standard chow, 3% lard and 1. 3% cholesterol, to induce atherosclerosis. The rabbits were divided into groups, two of which were also orally treated with turmeric extract at doses of 1.66 (group A) and 3.2 (group B) mg/kg body weight, respectively. A third group (group C) acted as a control. Plasma and LDL lipid composition, plasma alpha-tocopherol, plasma retinol, LDL TBARS, LDL lipid hydroperoxides and analysis of aortic atherosclerotic lesions were assayed. The low but not the high dosage decreased the susceptibility of LDL to lipid peroxidation. Both doses had lower levels of total plasma cholesterol than the control group. Moreover, the lower dosage had lower levels of cholesterol, phospholipids and triglycerides in LDL than the 3.2-mg dosage. In conclusion, the use of this extract could be useful in the management of cardiovascular disease in which atherosclerosis is important.
Headache often accompanies treatment with nitroglycerin, but the cerebral hemodynamic effects and the exact mechanism of the headache are incompletely understood. Transcranial Doppler monitoring allows evaluation and monitoring of changes in blood flow velocity in the large intracranial arteries. The objective of this study was to assess middle cerebral artery (MCA) blood flow velocities with transcranial Doppler monitoring in subjects receiving continuous low-dose nitroglycerin intravenously or by patch, and correlate these with clinical headache. Twenty-eight normal adult men received nitroglycerin (0.12 micrograms/kg/min intravenously [n = 14] or 0.6 mg/min by transdermal patch [n = 14]), for up to 120 minutes, with monitoring of clinical headache status (standard 4-point scale), blood pressure, heart rate, end-expiratory PCO2 (CO2), and right MCA velocity. All subjects developed headache (mean time to onset, 34 min), reaching moderate or severe levels in 20. There were no differences in age, weight, mean blood pressure, mean heart rate, or resting end-tidal CO2 between those whose headache reached a moderate to severe level and those whose headache remained mild. MCA velocity decreased from baseline values at all levels of clinical headache (onset, -17%; moderate, -18%; severe, -16%; nitroglycerin stopped, -19%) (p, 0.0001 by t test for each stage of headache). MCA velocity remained decreased at the time of headache resolution (-14%; p < 0.001). Blood pressure, heart rate, and CO2 did not change significantly. There were no differences related to route of nitroglycerin dosing. These data show that continuous low doses of nitroglycerin by patch or intravenously produce headache in normal male subjects. MCA velocities were significantly decreased at headache onset and at all levels of headache severity. Changes in MCA velocity persisted beyond the clinical headache. These results suggest a direct MCA vasodilatory effect of nitroglycerin. This method may also be used to evaluate the intracranial hemodynamic effects of other vasoactive drugs, even in clinical settings.
Aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase (AADC) has previously been shown to be up-regulated at the level of its protein activity and its mRNA abundance by antipsychotic drugs. Its activity has also been shown to be down-regulated by dopamine agonists including amphetamine. In this study we have injected rats for up to 32 days with amphetamine and the anti-epileptic drug vigabatrin, both of which can cause psychosis with similarities to schizophrenia. We have shown that AADC mRNA levels are reduced in most brain regions by both drugs. Cocaine and other non-psychotogenic anti-epileptic drugs had no effect in this paradigm. Two products of this enzyme are implicated in psychotogenesis.
To elucidate involvement of the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) signaling pathway in endogenous and exogenous liver carcinogenesis, we investigated mutations of TGF-beta receptor type II (TGF-betaRII), Smad2 and Smad4 genes, and expression of TGF-betaRII in hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs) induced by a choline-deficient L-amino acid-defined (CDAA) diet and by N-nitrosodiethylamine (DEN). Male Fischer 344 rats received a CDAA diet continuously and HCCs were sampled after 75 weeks. Administration of DEN was followed by partial hepatectomy (PH), with colchicine to induce cell cycle disturbance and a selection pressure regimen, HCCs being obtained after 42 weeks. Total RNAs were extracted from individual HCCs and mutations in TGF-betaRII, Smad2 and Smad4 were investigated by reverse transcription (RT)-polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-restriction-single-strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) analysis followed by sequencing analysis. Mutations of Smad2 were detected in 2 out of 12 HCCs (16.7%) induced by the CDAA diet, a GGT-to-GGC transition (Gly to Gly) at codon 30 and a TCT-to-GCT (Ser to Ala) transversion at codon 118, without any TGF-betaRII or Smad4 alterations. No mutations of TGF-betaRII, Smad2 and Smad4 were encountered in eleven HCCs induced by the exogenous carcinogen. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR revealed reduced expression of TGF-betaRII in 2 HCCs (16.7%) without Smad2 mutations out of 12 HCCs induced by the CDAA diet and none of 11 induced by DEN. These results suggest that the TGF-beta signaling pathway may be disturbed in endogenous liver carcinogenesis in rats.
Tri-ortho-cresyl phosphate (TOCP) has been widely used in industry and reported to induce delayed neurotoxicity in humans and animals. In addition, it is known to have a deleterious effect on the male reproductive system in animals, but the precise mechanism is yet to be elucidated. The present study shows that TOCP could disrupt the seminiferous epithelium in the mouse testis and decrease the sperm density in the epididymis in a dose-dependent manner. Neuropathy target esterase (NTE) was shown to exist in mouse spermatogenic cells, including spermatogonial stem cells and to be significantly inhibited by TOCP. Likewise, saligenin cyclic-o-tolyl phosphate (SCOTP), an activated metabolite of TOCP, markedly inhibited NTE activity in spermatogonial stem cells. Both inhibition of NTE activity by SCOTP and knockdown of NTE by shRNA remarkably inhibited cell proliferation. These results point to a role of NTE in regulating proliferation of mouse spermatogonial stem cells and provide a novel insight into the mechanism by which TOCP diminishes on the sperm number in the mouse testis.
2-Chloro-5-nitro-N-phenylbenzamide (GW9662), a potent irreversible PPAR-γ antagonist, has shown promise as a cancer chemopreventive agent and is undergoing preclinical evaluations. Studies were initiated to assess its bacterial mutagenicity and pharmacokinetic profile in two animal species prior to subchronic oral toxicity evaluations and the results are reported here. GW9662 was mutagenic in both TA98 and TA100 bacterial strains with and without metabolic activation but was negative in the nitroreductase-deficient strains (TA98NR and TA100NR) also with and without metabolic activation, indicating that GW9662 mutagenicity is dependent on nitroreduction. The mutagenic activity was predominantly via a base-substitution mechanism. Following oral dosing in rats and dogs, the parent compound, GW9662, was virtually absent from plasma samples, but there was chromatographic evidence for the presence of metabolites in the plasma as a result of oral dosing. Metabolite identification studies showed that an amine metabolite ACPB (5-amino-2-chloro-N-phenylbenzamide), a product of nitro reduction, was the predominant species exhibiting large and persistent plasma levels. Thus systemic circulation of GW9662 has been attained largely in the form of its reduced metabolite, probably a product of gut bacterial metabolism. GW9662 was detectable in plasma of rats and dogs after intravenous dose albeit at low concentrations. Pharmacokinetic analysis following intravenous dosing in rats showed a rapid clearance and an extensive tissue distribution which could have accounted for the very low plasma levels. Of note, the amine metabolite was absent following intravenous dosing in both rats and dogs, confirming it being a product of presystemic metabolism. The potential utility of GW9662 as a chemopreventive agent, especially as an Estrogen Receptor-α (ER-α) inducer in an otherwise ER-α negative breast tissue, is of great interest. However, the results shown here suggest that additional animal toxicological and bioavailability studies are required to establish a role of GW9662 as a chemopreventive agent.
Thymoquinone (TQ) is the major active compound derived from Nigella sativa. Our aim of this work was to evaluate the antioxidant and antiarthritic activity of TQ in Wistar rat by collagen induced arthritis (CIA). TQ was administered at a dose of 5mgkg(-1) body weight once daily for 21days. The effects of treatment in the rats were assessed by biochemical (articular elastase, MPO, LPO, GSH, catalase, SOD and NO), inflammatory mediators (IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α, IL-10, IFN-γ and PGE(2)) and histological studies in joints. TQ was effective in bringing significant changes on all the parameters (articular elastase, MPO, LPO, GSH, catalase, SOD and NO) studied. Oral administration of TQ resulted in significantly reduced the levels of pro-inflammatory mediators (IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α, IFN-γ and PGE(2)) and increased level of IL-10. The protective effects of TQ against RA were also evident from the decrease in arthritis scoring and bone histology. In conclusion, the fact that TQ abolished a number of factors known to be involved in RA pathogenesis indicates that the administration of thymoquinone may have potential value in the treatment of inflammatory disease.
Pycnidione, a small tropolone first isolated from the fermented broth of Theissenia rogersii 92031201, exhibits antitumor activities through an undefined mechanism. The present study evaluated the effects and mechanisms of pycnidione on the growth and death of A549 human lung cancer cells. Pycnidione significantly inhibited the proliferation of A549 cells in a concentration-dependent manner, with a 50% growth inhibition (GI(50)) value of approximately 9.3nM at 48h. Pycnidione significantly decreased the expression of cyclins D1 and E and induced G(1)-phase cell cycle arrest and a subsequent increase in the sub-G(1) phase population. Pycnidione also markedly reduced the expression of survivin and activated caspase-8 and -3, increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation, caused the collapse of the mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP), and enhanced PAI-1 production, thus triggering apoptosis in the A549 cells. Taken together, pycnidione exerts anti-proliferative effects on human lung cancer cells through the induction of cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. Therefore, testing of its effects in vivo is warranted to evaluate its potential as a therapeutic agent against lung cancer.
Melanoma has the capacity to spread via the blood stream to the brain, and has been notoriously resistant to drug therapy. An activating mutation in the gene encoding BRAF is known to be responsible for half of melanomas. This article provides a review of GSK2118436 and PLX4032 as potential therapeutics for the treatment of melanomas by inhibiting oncogenic BRAF.
Angiotensin converting-enzyme inhibitors cross the placenta and modify the maternal, foetal and utero-placental renin-angiotensin system. Eight cases of pregnancy in women taking captopril have been published, 7 other cases being reported in this review paper. There were one spontaneous and 2 therapeutic abortions, one of which disclosed a malformation of uncertain diagnosis and imputation. One intrauterine death at 28 weeks was probably due to the severity of the maternal disease. Two children born to mothers also treated with frusemide died of neonatal anuria. Delivery or caesarean section occurred before term in 8 cases, and there were 3 cases of neonatal respiratory distress with a favourable outcome. Finally, one mother gave birth at term to twins of normal weight. The cases with respiratory distress can be attributed to the mother's hypertension, to prematurity and/or to concomitant treatment with beta-blockers, while the cases with anuria seem to be due to inhibition of the effects of angiotensin on renal haemodynamics, with salt depression as a possible aggravating factor. Treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors does not seem to warrant therapeutic abortion. However, these drugs are contra-indicated in pregnancy and should only be given to women wishing to become pregnant if they present with resistant and dangerous arterial hypertension. A programme of pharmacovigilance is being set up to follow up such pregnancies.
A 35-year-old renal transplant patient with stable renal function developed an unexplained anaemia. Appropriate investigations proved non-diagnostic. Only when enalapril therapy was stopped did the anaemia reverse and haemoglobin levels returned to pre-treatment levels. An association between angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and anaemia in patients with renal failure is becoming more evident. A literature review of this problem and its possible pathogenesis in patients with renal failure is given.
Acoustic trauma, one of the leading causes of sensorineural hearing loss, induces sensory hair cell damage in the cochlea. Identifying the molecular mechanisms involved in regulating sensory hair cell death is critical towards developing effective treatments for preventing hair cell damage. Recently, microRNAs (miRNAs) have been shown to participate in the regulatory mechanisms of inner ear development and homeostasis. However, their involvement in cochlear sensory cell degeneration following acoustic trauma is unknown. Here, we profiled the expression pattern of miRNAs in the cochlear sensory epithelium, defined miRNA responses to acoustic overstimulation, and explored potential mRNA targets of miRNAs that may be responsible for the stress responses of the cochlea. Expression analysis of miRNAs in the cochlear sensory epithelium revealed constitutive expression of 176 miRNAs, many of which have not been previously reported in cochlear tissue. Exposure to intense noise caused significant threshold shift and apoptotic activity in the cochleae. Gene expression analysis of noise-traumatized cochleae revealed time-dependent transcriptional changes in the expression of miRNAs. Target prediction analysis revealed potential target genes of the significantly downregulated miRNAs, many of which had cell death- and apoptosis-related functions. Verification of the predicted targets revealed a significant upregulation of Taok1, a target of miRNA-183. Moreover, inhibition of miR-183 with morpholino antisense oligos in cochlear organotypic cultures revealed a negative correlation between the expression levels of miR-183 and Taok1, suggesting the presence of a miR-183/Taok1 target pair. Together, miRNA profiling as well as the target analysis and validation suggest the involvement of miRNAs in the regulation of the degenerative process of the cochlea following acoustic overstimulation. The miR-183/Taok1 target pair is likely to play a role in this regulatory process.
