Treatment with a beta-adrenergic blocker (beta-blocker) in hypertension is associated with increased plasma atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) levels despite a decrease in cardiac overload. The mechanism and pathophysiological significance of the phenomenon remain unclear. To clarify the role of the ANP system in the antihypertensive effects of the beta-blocker, we investigated the effects of carvedilol (30 mg/kg x day, orally, for 4 weeks) on the ANP system in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR-SP/Izm). Plasma ANP levels showed a significant increase despite a significant decrease in blood pressure and heart rate in the carvedilol group. Although ANP messenger RNA levels in the heart did not change, messenger RNA levels of the natriuretic peptide-C (NP-C) receptor as a clearance receptor showed a significant decrease in both the aorta and lung in the carvedilol group. NP-C receptor densities were also significantly decreased in the lung in this group. The biological half-life of exogenous ANP in circulating blood was prolonged in the carvedilol group compared with that in the control group. Administration of the ANP receptor antagonist, HS-142-1, resulted in a greater increase in systolic blood pressure in the carvedilol group than in the control group. In addition, both basal and ANP-stimulated cGMP contents in the aorta were significantly higher in the carvedilol group. These results suggest that carvedilol potentiates the hypotensive action of ANP by increasing plasma ANP levels and enhancing the vascular response to ANP. These effects were closely related to the down-regulation of the NP-C receptor. The newly found mechanism seems to account for a sizable portion of the antihypertensive effects of carvedilol and could be of potential importance in the treatment of cardiovascular disease with beta-blockers.
Resveratrol (3,5,4'-trihydroxystilbene) is a phytoalexin synthesized by plants, most notably grapes, against microbial invasion or ultraviolet stimulation, and is known to exert antioxidant, anticancer, and antiobesity effects.
This study was conducted to find resveratrol derivatives with higher anti-obesity activity compared to resveratrol and to verify their mechanism of action.
The inhibitory effect of resveratrol and its derivatives on adipocyte differentiation in 3T3-L1 cells was studied using Oil Red O staining, and the effects on the intracellular expression of fatty acid synthase (FAS) and acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC) were measured via Western blot analysis.
A derivative of resveratrol, 4-[2-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)vinyl]pyridine (DPVP), exerted inhibitory effects against 3T3-L1 adipocyte differentiation (IC(50) = 13.5 µM) and FAS expression. Notably, it displayed higher activity at concentrations lower than 25 µM compared to resveratrol.
DPVP is considered to have greater potential as an anti-obesity substance, as it exhibits excellent activity at low concentrations compared to resveratrol.
To investigate the dosing, tolerability, and outcomes associated with the use of concomitant beta-blockers and inotropic therapy in patients with refractory heart failure during the first 6 months of their therapy.
Retrospective review.
University-based, tertiary care heart failure and transplant center.
Sixteen inotrope-dependent outpatients with end-stage refractory heart failure who were receiving continuous intravenous milrinone. Of these patients, 12 also received an oral beta-blocker; the remaining four patients who did not receive beta-blockers served as the comparator group.
For each patient, the initial and final study drug doses of continuous intravenous milrinone and oral beta-blocker treatment, when applicable, were recorded over the 6-month period. Mean heart rate, blood pressure, ejection fraction, and oxygen consumption were measured, and 95% confidence intervals were calculated. Serum sodium and creatinine concentrations, as well as the creatinine clearance, were measured. In the 12 patients who received concomitant milrinone and beta-blockers, the mean baseline ejection fraction was approximately 18%, and they received milrinone for 18.6 weeks. Seven patients received carvedilol for 16.1 weeks, and five received metoprolol tartrate for 17.6 weeks. Dosages of the beta-blockers were titrated. Final daily doses were carvedilol 42.8 mg (95% confidence interval 20.3-65.4) and metoprolol 42.5 mg (95% confidence interval 28.0-57.2). Patients continued to receive other standard oral drug therapy for heart failure. One patient discontinued metoprolol and one discontinued carvedilol because of hypotension and/or worsening heart failure. Cardiac adverse events in the concomitant milrinone plus beta-blocker group were heart failure requiring hospitalization in 10 patients and ventricular arrhythmias in one.
Inotrope-dependent patients with refractory end-stage heart failure tolerated continuous intravenous milrinone plus beta-blockers in addition to diuretics and vasodilators for the 6-month observation period. Beta-blocker dosages were titrated, and three patients achieved the target beta-blocker dosage established for stage A-C heart failure. Additional studies are needed to determine the optimal selection and dosing of drug combinations in this population.
Although the preclinical literature suggests that cannabinoids produce antinociception and antihyperalgesic effects, efficacy in the human pain state remains unclear. Using a human experimental pain model, the authors hypothesized that inhaled cannabis would reduce the pain and hyperalgesia induced by intradermal capsaicin.
In a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled, crossover trial in 15 healthy volunteers, the authors evaluated concentration-response effects of low-, medium-, and high-dose smoked cannabis (respectively 2%, 4%, and 8% 9-delta-tetrahydrocannabinol by weight) on pain and cutaneous hyperalgesia induced by intradermal capsaicin. Capsaicin was injected into opposite forearms 5 and 45 min after drug exposure, and pain, hyperalgesia, tetrahydrocannabinol plasma levels, and side effects were assessed.
Five minutes after cannabis exposure, there was no effect on capsaicin-induced pain at any dose. By 45 min after cannabis exposure, however, there was a significant decrease in capsaicin-induced pain with the medium dose and a significant increase in capsaicin-induced pain with the high dose. There was no effect seen with the low dose, nor was there an effect on the area of hyperalgesia at any dose. Significant negative correlations between pain perception and plasma delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol levels were found after adjusting for the overall dose effects. There was no significant difference in performance on the neuropsychological tests.
This study suggests that there is a window of modest analgesia for smoked cannabis, with lower doses decreasing pain and higher doses increasing pain.
Compounds inhibiting DNA repair and synthesis are expected to act synergistically with BCNU, a standard agent in the therapy of glioblastoma multiforme, and improve survival of patients with malignant gliomas. Ribonucleotide reductase (EC1.17.4.1; RR) catalyzes the rate-limiting step in DNA synthesis and plays a critical role in maintaining crucial substrates for DNA repair. We have studied the effects of Didox, an inhibitor of RR on 9L glioma cells in combination with BCNU. We analyzed intracellular dNTP pools and found that Didox significantly depleted the intracellular dNTP concentrations. Experiments using cytotoxicity, growth inhibition and clonogenic assays showed significant synergism of Didox and BCNU. Combination regimens using synchronous administration demonstrated highest cytotoxicity. We have also identified altered gene expression in a number of DNA repair related enzymes after BCNU treatment using large-scale cDNA arrays. The coadministration with Didox could reverse the expression of some of the overexpressed repair gene suggesting possible pathways to circumvent the developing resistance in 9L glioma cells against BCNU. These results introduce the combination of Didox and BCNU as a viable alternative for the treatment of malignant gliomas.
Three patients with normal renal function developed acute renal failure between the ninth and twenty-seventh days of combined gentamicin and cephalothin therapy. The dose of gentamicin (4-6 mg/kg/day) was in the normal range, but that of cephalothin (180 mg/kg/day) was abnormally high. The nephropathy was of the tubular-interstitial type and the clinical picture similar to that seen in acute drug-induced nephropathies. Frusemide was given only after the onset of renal failure. In these three patients the high intravenous doses of cephalothin combined with gentamicin were probably nephrotoxic.
The intestinal hormone, glucagon-like peptide-2 (GLP-2), enhances intestinal growth and reduces inflammation in rodent models. Hence, a degradation-resistant GLP-2 analog is under investigation for treatment of Crohn's disease. However, GLP-2 increases colonic dysplasia in murine azoxymethane (AOM)-induced colon cancer. Considering the increased colon cancer risk associated with chronic colitis, we have therefore examined the effects of long-acting hGly(2)GLP-2, as well as of endogenous GLP-2 using the antagonist hGLP-2(3-33) in two novel models of inflammation-associated colon cancer: rats fed the carcinogen 2-Amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) and a high-fat diet (HFD) for one or three cycles, and mice with chronic dextran sodium-sulfate (DSS)-induced colitis administered AOM. hGly(2)GLP-2 treatment of one-cycle PhIP/HFD rats increased the number of colonic aberrant crypt foci by 72 ± 11% (P < 0.01). Fifty-one weeks after three PhIP/HFD cycles, hGly(2)GLP-2-treated rats had a 22% incidence of colon cancer, compared with 0% in vehicle-treated rats. AOM-DSS mice treated with vehicle or hGly(2)GLP-2 had high-grade dysplasia/colon cancer incidences of 56 and 64%, respectively, compared with 46% in hGLP-2(3-33)-treated AOM-DSS animals (P < 0.05). Unexpectedly, hGLP-2(3-33) also reduced the colitis damage score by 32.0 ± 8.4% (P < 0.05). All high-grade dysplastic/cancerous tumors had nuclear localization of β-catenin although β-catenin mRNA transcript and protein levels did not differ between treatment groups. GLP-2 receptor mRNA expression also was not different. However, hGLP-2(3-33)-treated mice had markedly reduced numbers of doublecortin-and-calmodulin-kinase-like-1-positive stem cells, by 73.7 ± 8.6% (P < 0.05). In conclusion, the results of this study indicate a role for hGly(2)GLP-2 and endogenous GLP-2 as potential cancer promoters in rodents.
Severe renal impairment and massive proteinuria are rare in pheochromocytoma. We report the case of a patient with pheochromocytoma who repeatedly developed episodes of acute renal deterioration and transient, massive proteinuria. Each episodes followed hypotensive periods, two of which seemed to be induced by administration of metoclopramide. The pathogenetic mechanisms of acute renal deterioration and proteinuria are discussed.
Great interest has been focused on the chemoprevention of colonic carcinogenesis by oral administration of ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) because its administration reportedly reduces the incidence of colon cancer in animal experiments. To elucidate the precise role of UDCA in the chemoprevention of azoxymethane-induced colon carcinogenesis, we examined the expression levels of group II phospholipase A2 in the colonic tissue of UDCA-treated and untreated rats and correlated the levels with the findings of aberrant crypt foci, putative preneoplastic lesions. Twelve weeks after azoxymethane exposure, the total number of aberrant crypt foci in 0.4% UDCA-fed rats and 1% UDCA-fed rats was significantly decreased compared to the untreated animals. The mucosal concentrations of PGE2 and 6-keto PGF1alpha were significantly lower in the UDCA-treated rats than in untreated rats. In correlation with lowering, the enhanced activity, protein mass and mRNA levels of group II phospholipase A2 were significantly attenuated in the UDCA-treated animals. The chemopreventive role of UDCA in colon carcinogenesis may lie in its modulation of the arachidonate metabolism in colonic mucosa.
Ethambutol leads to chronic, severe optic neuritis with sudden onset in approximately 5-14% of all patients. Therefore, the ability of visually (pattern) evoked potentials for the early diagnosis of ethambutol-induced optic neuritis was tested. During ethambutol therapy prolonged latency was documented in 5 of 15 cases (33%). One of these 5 cases showed a reversible decrease in visual acuity. Thus, during treatment with ethambutol visually (pattern) evoked potentials may reveal a surprisingly high percentage of subclinical optic neuritis. These patients need close supervision in order to facilitate early discontinuation of the drug when neuritis develops.
Apoptosis is the process of programmed cell death characterized by a series of distinct biochemical and morphologic changes involving activation of the caspase protease, cascade, which remains under the regulatory control of nitric oxide. In this study we investigated the activity of a key apoptotic protease, caspase-3, and the expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (NOS-2) associated with gastric epithelial cell apoptosis during indomethacin-induced gastric mucosal injury.
The experiments were conducted with groups of rats subjected to intragastric administration of 60 mg/kg indomethacin or the vehicle. After 2 h the animals were killed and their gastric mucosal tissue used for macroscopic assessment, assays of epithelial cell apoptosis, and the measurement of caspase-3 and NOS-2 activities.
Indomethacin caused extensive multiple hemorrhagic lesions accompanied by marked enhancement in epithelial cell apoptosis, a 3.9-fold increase in mucosal expression of caspase-3 activity, and an 11.9-fold induction in NOS-2. Moreover, the mucosal expression of NOS-2 showed a positive correlation with the extent of changes induced in caspase-3 activity.
The results implicate caspase-3 in the process of indomethacin-induced gastric epithelial cell apoptosis and point towards participation of NOS-2 in the amplification of the cell death signaling cascade, hence contributing to the extent of mucosal injury.
Treatment of rats with 25 mg/kg/day of the neuroleptic drug chlorpromazine for periods of 7, 28 or 90 days causes a slow accumulation of lipid in large droplets in centrilobular hepatocytes. There is little or no damage to hepatocytes as assessed by changes in glucose-6-phosphatase activity and by electron microscopy. Furthermore there is no indication of a change in peroxisomal beta-oxidation of fatty acids or in microsomal omega-oxidation of fatty acids. It is, therefore, clear that lipid accumulation in the liver does not automatically induce peroxisomal and microsomal fatty acid oxidising enzymes.
Chronic treatment with opioid drugs such as morphine leads to the development of tolerance, which manifests as a loss of drug potency. The mechanisms underlying this phenomenon are poorly understood, but recent evidence suggests that increased activity of nociceptive sensory transmitters [calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and substance P] and other signalling messengers (prostaglandins) contribute to its development. Chronic intrathecal morphine administration to rats for 7 days produced analgesic tolerance. Co-administration of SR140333, a selective substance P receptor (neurokinin-1) antagonist, or nimesulide, a cyclooxygenase-2-selective inhibitor, augmented the acute effects of morphine, prevented morphine tolerance and reversed established tolerance. In cultured adult dorsal root ganglion neurons, exposure to morphine for 5 days increased the number of neurons expressing CGRP immunoreactivity. Co-exposure with the peptide CGRP receptor antagonist CGRP8-37, SR140333 or nimesulide prevented the morphine-induced increase in the expression of CGRP immunoreactivity. Additionally, BIBN4096BS, a nonpeptide CGRP receptor antagonist, stereoselectively produced similar effects. In summary, this investigation demonstrates that activity of CGRP and substance P contributes to both the induction and expression of opioid analgesic tolerance. Additionally, it highlights the involvement of prostaglandins generated by spinal cyclooxygenase-2 activity in the genesis of opioid tolerance. The neuropeptide and prostanoid activity contributing to tolerance is expressed at the level of the primary afferents terminating in the spinal cord. The combination of opioids with agents that block this activity may represent a useful strategy for the prevention as well as the reversal of clinical opioid tolerance.
Arsenic trioxide (As2O3) induces remission in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). To better understand molecular mechanisms of arsenic actions, this study investigated the effect of two different arsenic compounds on gene expression of apoptosis and cellular proliferation related genes. The Wilms' tumor gene (wt1) is up-regulated in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and a variety of leukemia cell lines. The expression of wt1 in these cells is proposed to have an anti-apoptotic effect. HL-60 and K562 were treated with arsenic trioxide (As2O3) and sodium arsenite (NaAsO2) at concentrations between 0 - 10 microM for up to 48 h. The induction of apoptosis was accompanied by down-regulation of hTERT and wt1 mRNA and protein expression but up-regulation of par-4. Low concentrations of 0.1 microM arsenic induced expression of the anti-apoptotic bcl-2 gene in both cell lines HL-60 and K562. There were no major differences encountered between compounds. After arsenic treatment of the leukemia cell lines HL-60 and K562 the up-regulation of par-4 may contribute to the induction of apoptosis rather than down-regulation of bcl-2. The therapeutic effect of arsenic is the induction of apoptosis by modulating the gene expression profile of pro- and anti-apoptotic genes including the wt1 gene.
This work was performed to clarify the differences between a long or short development of morphine dependence as well as between a recently installed or a long-term dependence. Morphine withdrawal in rats is a well-characterized phenomenon but this is not so in mice. A study of the principal withdrawal signs have been performed in mice, evaluating their specificity and particular profile of appearance in each type of dependence. Mice were divided into two groups that received increasing doses of morphine every 24 h, three groups that received increasing doses of morphine twice a day for 3 days, and a control group that received saline. Naloxone-induced opiate withdrawal was evaluated following short-term exposition to morphine [Test 1 (T1)--saline and Test 2 (T2)--naloxone] and long-term exposition to morphine [Test 3 (T3)--naloxone and Test 4 (T4)--saline]. Morphine administration twice a day is more effective in inducing opiate dependence than once a day, and with the latter, the duration of morphine exposure increases the intensity of withdrawal signs. Weight loss, diarrhea, body shakes, jumping, paw tremor, ptosis, piloerection, and the modified Gellert-Holtzman scale for mice are specific patterns of naloxone-induced withdrawal. The first four signs allow the discrimination between different levels of opiate dependence. Body care, piloerection, and the modified Gellert-Holtzman scale could be useful to detect conditioned withdrawal.
The majority of Parkinson's disease patients undergoing levodopa therapy develop disabling motor complications (dyskinesias) within 10 years of treatment. Stimulation of cannabinoid receptors, the pharmacological target of Delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol, is emerging as a promising therapy to alleviate levodopa-associated dyskinesias. However, the mechanisms underlying this beneficial action remain elusive, as do the effects exerted by levodopa therapy on the endocannabinoid system. Although levodopa is known to cause changes in CB1 receptor expression in animal models of Parkinson's disease, we have no information on whether this drug alters the brain concentrations of the endocannabinoids anandamide and 2-arachidonylglycerol. To address this question, we used an isotope dilution assay to measure endocannabinoid levels in the caudate-putamen, globus pallidus and substantia nigra of intact and unilaterally 6-OHDA-lesioned rats undergoing acute or chronic treatment with levodopa (50 mg/kg). In intact animals, systemic administration of levodopa increased anandamide concentrations throughout the basal ganglia via activation of dopamine D1/D2 receptors. In 6-OHDA-lesioned rats, anandamide levels were significantly reduced in the caudate-putamen ipsilateral to the lesion; however, neither acute nor chronic levodopa treatment affected endocannabinoid levels in these animals. In lesioned rats, chronic levodopa produced increasingly severe oro-lingual involuntary movements which were attenuated by the cannabinoid agonist R(+)-WIN55,212-2 (1 mg/kg). This effect was reversed by the CB1 receptor antagonist rimonabant (SR141716A). These results indicate that a deficiency in endocannabinoid transmission may contribute to levodopa-induced dyskinesias and that these complications may be alleviated by activation of CB1 receptors.
Neurotoxic effects of trimethylbenzene isomers (pseudocumene, mesitylene and hemimellitene) in male rats were investigated in conditions of acute and subchronic inhalation exposure. Rotarod performance and pain sensitivity behaviour were tested in rats exposed to trimethylbenzenes at concentrations of 250-2,000 ppm immediately after termination of a 4-hour exposure. Exposure to each of trimethylbenzene isomers resulted in concentration-dependent disturbances in rotarod performance, and decrease in pain sensitivity in rats. Pseudocumene, mesitylene and hemimellitene EC50 values for rotarod performance behaviour disturbances were 954, 963, 768 ppm and for decreases in pain sensitivity EC50 were 1,115, 1,212, 848, ppm, respectively. In conditions of subchronic inhalation exposure, pseudocumene and hemimellitene at concentrations of 25, 100 and 250 ppm caused concentration-dependent disturbances in rotarod performance behaviour and decrease in pain sensitivity. Neurotoxic effect of hemimellitene was more pronounced than that of pseudocumene and mesitylene. Two weeks after cessation of inhalation exposure to pseudocumene or hemimellitene no recovery in rotarod performance behaviour was observed.
Human telomerase, activated in about 90% of cancers, is mainly composed of hTR, hTERT and TP1. The exposed RNA template of hTR is an ideal target for antisense oligonucleotides (As-ODN); while recent findings indicate all-trans retinoid acid (ATRA) could effectively inhibit the expression of catalytic subunit-hTERT. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of ATRA and As-ODN in oral squamous cell carcinoma and whether telomerase activity could be synergistically inhibited by them and thus therapeutically exploited in the future. As-ODN-hTR was transfected into human tongue squamous cell carcinoma cell line (Tca8113) with or without ATRA. Telomerase activity was examined by PCR-Elisa; viability was compared with growth curve; apoptotic rate was analyzed by Annexin V/PI double staining and hTERT expression was tested with western blot. Tca8113 cells displayed significant growth inhibition during the 9-day exposure to ATRA/As-ODN, especially to a combination of As-ODN-hTR and 5muM ATRA, correlating with the inhibition of telomerase expression. The relative telomerase activity was inhibited during treated with As-ODN-hTR alone, ATRA alone, or a combination of them. While without ATRA, the effect of As-ODN would disappear at 96h after transfection. As-ODN-hTR alone or combined with ATRA also significantly increase the apoptotic rate. Our findings provided direct evidence, in oral squamous cell carcinoma, As-ODN-hTR and ATRA could synergistically inhibit telomerase activity and telomerase protein in human tongue squamous cell carcinoma cells, which correlated with the induction of growth arrest.
Aim of the study was to investigate LV structural and functional parameters in doxorubicin chemotherapy and idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy as well as to study dynamics of LV systolic-diastolic dysfunction in relation to the increasing doxorubicin dosage. Patients with malignant blood diseases (with non-Hodgkin's, Hodgkin's lymphoma and chronic lymphatic leukaemia) and patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy were investigated. Patients were divided into 2 groups. The first group included 49 patients (25 men and 24 women, average age was 41.2+/-2.1) with malignant blood diseases. The second group consisted of 50 patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (39 men and 11 women, average age was 38.8+/-9.36). Patients were divided into three subgroups according to the dose of administration of doxorubicin: I subgroup--232.2+/-5.8 mg/m(2), II subgroup--388+/-15.3 mg/m(2) and III subgroup--533.1+/-13.6 mg/m(2). The LV systolic-diastolic function was evaluated twice using echo CG. Consistent dose-dependent evolution of doxorubicin cardio toxicity was observed, which eventually resulted in development of anthracycline myocardiopathy. Doxorubicin cardio toxicity is evident as early as at low total doses (232 mg/m(2)); at a "critical dose" (356-388 mg/m(2)) LV diastolic dysfunction with clinical signs of HF develops; at a total dose of 533 mg/m(2) anthracycline dilated myocardiopathy with LV systolic-diastolic dysfunction and clinical signs of HF develops in 100% of cases. In anthracycline myocardiopathy, LV undergoes the same structural and functional mass index >120 g/m(2) and idiopathic dilated myocardiopathy: LV eccentric hypertrophy (II type LV remodelling with myocardial mass index >120 g/m(2) and relative thickness of LV posterior wall <0.44); decreased LV systolic-diastolic dimensions/volumes; LV diastolic dysfunction of the restrictive type. Etiologic factor is not so important for remodelling of left ventricle, which is the basis of clinically manifested dilated cardiomyopathy.
Pulmonary artery thrombosis and an anti-ethinyl-oestradiol monoclonal IgGlambda were found to be associated in a 36-year-old woman (Mrs MAI.) who took an oral contraceptive containing 50 mug ethinyl-oestradiol and 500 mug nor-ethisterone daily. After appropriate purification including methods by which the IgG was separated of bound circulating hormones, its binding activity was demonstrated by several methods: passive haemagglutination of oestradiol-benzoate sensitized red blood cells; gel filtration on Sephadex G-25; ultracentrifugation and equilibrium dialysis. IgGlambda MAI bound ethinyl oestradiol (Ka=2-7 X 10(1) M-1) and also 17-beta-oestradiol, with a lower affinity (Ka=0-4 X 10(7) M-1). The valency for these two hormones was near 2. Ethinyl-oestradiol bound to the IgG was displaced by ethinyl-oestradiol itself and in decreasing order of potency by 17-beta-oestradiol, progesterone, oestriol, and testosterone. Oestrone and hydrocortisone had no effect. Although the localization of the binding sites of this IgGlambda was not studied, it is likely that they were the antibody sites of the molecule and, according to immunochemical criteria, it may be classified as a monoclonal anti-ethinyl-oestradiol antibody. It is felt that its association with the pulmonary thrombosis and the oral contraceptive may be significant. This supports the hypothesis of an immunological mechanism for the unexplained thrombotic risk of oral contraceptives.
A 35-year-old woman who had taken an oral contraceptive (50 mcg ethinyl estradiol (EE) plus 500 mcg norethisterone) for 2 1/2 years was hospitalized for a massive left pulmonary thrombosis. A monoclonal IgGgamma gammopathy of about 700 mg/100 ml was found from electrophoretic patterns. After purifying the IgG, including separation from bound circulating hormones, its binding activity for several steroids was determined by equilibrium dialysis, which revealed several steroids as inhibitors of EE binding by IgG with potencies in the following order (decreasing): EE itself, 17beta-estradiol, progesterone, estriol, and testosterone. It appears likely that the binding sites of this KgGgamma were the antibody sites and that it may be classified as a monoclonal anti-ethinyl-estradiol antibody. The occurrence of thrombosis and a rare gammopathy in a young woman is unlikely and lends support to the hypothesis that an immunological mechanism is responsible for the thrombotic risk associated with oral contraceptives.
Chronic inflammation and oxidative stress play fundamental roles in the pathogenesis of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Previously, we reported that myeloperoxidase (MPO), an aggressive oxidant-generating neutrophil enzyme, is associated with NASH severity in man. We now investigated the hypothesis that MPO contributes to the development and progression of NASH.
Low-density lipoprotein receptor-deficient mice with an MPO-deficient hematopoietic system (LDLR(-/-/)MPO(-/-tp) mice) were generated and compared with LDLR(-/-/)MPO(+/+tp) mice after induction of NASH by high-fat feeding.
High-fat feeding caused a ~4-fold induction of liver MPO in LDLR(-/-/)MPO(+/+) mice which was associated with hepatic sequestration of MPO-positive neutrophils and high levels of nitrotyrosine, a marker of MPO activity. Importantly, LDLR(-/-/)MPO(-/-tp) mice displayed markedly reduced hepatic neutrophil and T-lymphocyte infiltration (p<0.05), and strong down regulation of pro-inflammatory genes such as TNF-α and IL-6 (p<0.05, p<0.01) in comparison with LDLR(-/-/)MPO(+/+tp) mice. Next to the generalized reduction of inflammation, liver cholesterol accumulation was significantly diminished in LDLR(-/-/)MPO(-/-tp) mice (p = 0.01). Moreover, MPO deficiency appeared to attenuate the development of hepatic fibrosis as evident from reduced hydroxyproline levels (p<0.01). Interestingly, visceral adipose tissue inflammation was markedly reduced in LDLR(-/-/)MPO(-/-tp) mice, with a complete lack of macrophage crown-like structures. In conclusion, MPO deficiency attenuates the development of NASH and diminishes adipose tissue inflammation in response to a high fat diet, supporting an important role for neutrophils in the pathogenesis of metabolic disease.
Pregnant mice were given a single dose (10 mug/g body weight) of diethylstilbestrol (DES) on Days 7 to 19, which correspond to the first to fifth lunar months in humans, after the authors, using a 14C-labeled compound, confirmed easy placental penetration by DES. Treatment with DES on Days 15 to 19 resulted in the induction of persistent urogenital sinus (15.8 to 92.5%) and hypertrophy of the portio vaginalis (11.8 to 73.3%) in female offspring, and treatment on Days 17 and 19 resulted in the induction of undescended testes and their hypogenesis (70.4 to 73.3%) in male offspring, although treatment with DES at other stages of pregnancy and after birth did not cause these alterations. The incidence of various tumors (lung adenoma, granulosa cell tumor, etc.) increased significantly (31.0 to 37.9%) when DES was given on Days 15 and 17, which correspond to the stage sensitive to other carcinogens. However, adenosis and adenocarcinoma of the vagina were not observed in the offspring.
Rats exposed to valproic acid (VPA) on gestational day 12 (GD12) have been advanced as a rodent model of autism [Arndt TL, Stodgell, Rodier PM. The teratology of autism. Int J Dev Neurosci 2005;23: 189-99.]. These rats show cerebellar anomalies and alterations in eyeblink conditioning that are associated with autism. Autistic humans and VPA-exposed rats show normal responses to conditioned and unconditioned stimuli, but they show marked differences from comparison groups in acquisition, magnitude, and timing of the conditioned response (CR). This study examined VPA-induced eyeblink CR timing differences by training rats on an interstimulus interval (ISI) discrimination task, in which two distinct conditioned stimuli (CS; tone and light) are paired with the same unconditioned stimulus (US; periocular shock) at two distinct CS-US intervals. Previous findings suggest that this task would produce abnormally large and prematurely timed CRs for VPA-exposed rats relative to controls. Adult male Long-Evans rats that were exposed to either VPA or saline on GD 12.5 were trained on an ISI discrimination task [Brown KL, Pagani JH, Stanton ME. The ontogeny of interstimulus interval (ISI) discrimination of the conditioned eyeblink response in rats. Behav Neurosci 2006;120: 1057-70.]. In support of earlier findings, we observed early acquisition and enhanced magnitude of the CR in VPA rats compared with controls on long CS trials. VPA rats also showed prematurely timed CRs to long- CS trials, but not to short- CS trials. The ISI discrimination procedure used in the current study reveals differential timed responses in this animal model of autism not previously seen.
Recent studies have shown that coadministration of certain protease inhibitors (PIs) with gastric acid-reducing agents results in decreased plasma concentrations of the PI. To assess the effect of acid-reducing agents on lopinavir/ritonavir, data from two clinical trials (n = 38 and 190) were pooled. Both trials randomized antiretroviral-naïve, HIV-infected patients to receive lopinavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg twice-daily or 800/200 mg once-daily in combination with stavudine and lamivudine, or tenofovir and emtricitabine. Concurrent administration of gastric acid-reducing agents including antacids of various brand names, proton pump inhibitors (omeprazole, esomeprazole, lansoprazole, pantoprazole, and rabeprazole), and H(2)-receptor antagonists (ranitidine, famotidine, cimetidine, and nizatidine) was reported in both trials. Lopinavir and ritonavir pharmacokinetic parameters were evaluated. Thirty subjects were considered users of acid-reducing agents at the times of pharmacokinetic evaluation. HIV-infected patients who received gastric acid-reducing agents during administration of lopinavir/ritonavir-based treatment regimens did not appear to have a reduction in lopinavir or ritonavir exposures.
Six symptomless patients aged 64-84 (mean 72) years received antihypertensive therapy from their family doctors. Pretreatment systolic pressures ranged from 160 to 220 mm Hg and disastolic pressures from 80 to 120 mm Hg. Within one week of starting therapy all six patients were admitted as emergencies with epidoses of unconsciousness. Admission systolic pressures ranged from 80 to 150 mm Hg and diastolic pressures from 50 to 90 mm Hg. Before admission each patient had experiences symptoms of postural hypotension and had become housebound. After antihypertensive therapy was stopped, one patient had a residual left homonymous hemianopia but the others recovered completely. A raised systolic and distolic pressure is common in the elderly; potent antihypertensive treatment may seriously impair the quality of life and is often unecessary.
The present study was designed to examine whether or not excessive Zn intake affects systemic blood pressure (BP) levels in a normotensive state.
Systolic BP (SBP) and mean arterial pressure (MAP) before and after administration of the nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor, N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) or the exogenous superoxide scavenger, tempol and the activity of the endogenous superoxide scavenger, Cu/Zn-superoxide dismutase (SOD) and levels of endothelial type (e)NOS mRNA and protein in the thoracic aorta were analyzed in male Sprague-Dawley rats fed a standard diet containing 0.005% Zn or a high Zn diet containing 0.5% Zn for 8 weeks.
SBP and MAP levels observed at the end of dietary conditioning were significantly elevated in rats fed a high Zn diet relative to rats fed a standard diet. Administration of L-NAME caused an increase in MAP levels in rats fed a standard and a high Zn diet, demonstrating the involvement of the vasodilator, nitric oxide (NO) in the regulation of systemic BP in the two groups of rats. However, the expression of eNOS mRNA and protein in the thoracic aorta was not significantly different between rats fed a standard and a high Zn diet. On the other hand, administration of tempol led to a decrease in MAP levels in rats fed a standard and a high Zn diet, indicating the participation of the oxygen free radical, superoxide in the modification of systemic BP in the two groups of rats. As reported recently, the mechanism involved is due likely to a decrease in the action of the vasodilator, NO through the formation of peroxynitrite based on the non-enzymatic reaction of superoxide and NO. In addition, tempol treatment dramatically restored MAP levels in rats fed a high Zn diet to levels comparable with those observed in rats fed a standard diet, indicating that an elevation in systemic BP levels seen in rats fed a high Zn versus a standard diet is presumably brought by a reduction in the action of the vasodilator, NO resulting from an increase in the action of superoxide. The activity of Cu/Zn-SOD in the thoracic aorta was significantly reduced in rats fed a high Zn diet relative to rats fed a standard diet, appearing to at least in part, play a role in an increase in the action of superoxide in the vessel wall of rats fed a high Zn diet.
Excessive Zn intake may be a factor to elevate systemic BP levels in a normotensive state presumably through the oxidative stress caused by superoxide.
A 34-year-old munitions worker suffered an unexplained cardiac arrest on a Sunday morning. In retrospect, the cardiac arrest as well as previous complaints of chest pains during weekends fit the syndrome of withdrawal from occupational exposure to nitroglycerin.
Traditional Chinese medicines have been recognized as a new source of anticancer drugs or chemotherapy adjuvant to enhance the efficacy of chemotherapy and to ameliorate the side effects. Wogonin (WOG) has a potential for therapeutic use in the treatment of antitumor and chemoprophylaxis. 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) is a key systemic chemotherapy drug and widely use in the treatment of solid tumors. In this study, we found that combination of WOG and 5-FU inhibited the viability of MGC-803 cells in a concentration-dependent manner and exhibited a synergistic anticancer effect (CI<1) when 5-FU was used at relatively low concentrations. The pro-apoptotic activity of two-drug combination was much stronger than single. Furthermore, WOG could decrease the mRNA levels of dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD), the metabolic enzymes of 5-FU. WOG could inhibit the NF-kappaB nuclear translocation and I-kappaB phosphorylation. Moreover, combined treatment caused significantly growth inhibition of human tumor xenografts. In addition, WOG markedly enhanced the antitumor activity of low dose 5-FU (i.p. 10mg/kg/day), however there is no toxicity and influence on diet consumption in experimental animals. Taken together, our data's showed that WOG increased 5-FU retention for a prolonged catabolism by modulating 5-FU metabolic enzymes and sensitized the MGC-803 cells to 5-FU induced apoptosis by inhibiting the NF-kappaB nuclear translocation. The anti-gastric cancer effect of two-drug combination was much stronger than that of WOG or 5-FU alone. These results may be relevant to design new clinical therapeutic strategies against gastric cancer in future.
