Even today, heart failure due to doxorubicin-induced dilated cardiomyopathy seems to have a poor prognosis, as it is often irreversible and relatively unresponsive to standard medical treatment. This paper describes the first case of a patient complaining of severe symptoms of congestive heart failure due to doxorubicin-induced dilated cardiomyopathy unresponsive to standard medical treatment (digoxin, diuretics, and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor), who showed complete clinical recovery and significant improvement of left ventricular dysfunction after carvedilol treatment. It also illustrates the possibility that carvedilol may be a first-choice drug for the treatment of this disease.
Despite the major advances in antiepileptic drug (AED) therapeutics, about one third of patients with epilepsy still do not have adequate seizure control with currently available AEDs when prescribed as monotherapy. Typically, in this setting polytherapy with two or more AEDs is used. Zonisamide (ZNS) is a new AED effective in the treatment of refractory epilepsy and since it is only prescribed in polytherapy regimens, its interactions with other AEDs is of particular importance. The aim of this study was to isobolographically determine interactions between ZNS and four conventional AEDs: carbamazepine (CBZ), phenytoin (PHT), phenobarbital (PB), and valproate (VPA), in the mouse maximal electroshock (MES)-induced seizure model. The total brain concentrations of conventional AEDs and ZNS were measured with immunofluorescence and high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC), respectively, in order to determine any pharmacokinetic contribution in any observed interactions. With isobolography, synergistic interactions were observed for the combination of ZNS plus VPA and ZNS plus PHT at the fixed-ratio of 1:1, while additivity was observed for their combinations at the remaining dose ratios of 1:3 and 3:1. In contrast, the interactions between ZNS and PB and between ZNS and CBZ, applied at the fixed-ratios of 1:3, 1:1 and 3:1 proved to be additive. None of these AED combinations were associated with motor and long-term memory impairment. Furthermore, whilst brain AED concentrations were unaffected by ZNS, PHT significantly increased and PB reduced brain ZNS concentrations. Thus, the resultant interactions between ZNS and PHT and between ZNZ and PB were consequent to both pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic components. Finally, one can conclude that because of the synergistic pharmacodynamic interaction between ZNS and VPA, this combination might be useful in clinical practice.
Epidemiological studies have shown a clear association of adverse intrauterine environment and an increased risk of cardiovascular diseases and hypertension in adult life. The present study tested the hypothesis that prenatal cocaine exposure causes reprogramming of vascular reactivity, leading to an increased risk of hypertension in adult offspring. Pregnant rats received cocaine (30 mg kg(-1) day(-1)) or saline from days 15 to 21 of gestational age, and experiments were conducted in 3-month-old offspring. Cocaine had no effect on the baseline blood pressure but significantly increased norepinephrine-stimulated blood pressure and decreased the baroreflex sensitivity in male but not female offspring. The cocaine treatment significantly increased norepinephrine-induced contractions in pressurized resistance-sized mesenteric arteries but not in aortas, which was primarily because of a loss of endothelial NO synthase-mediated inhibition and an enhanced Ca(2+) sensitivity in mesenteric arteries. In addition, the cocaine treatment significantly attenuated the endothelium-dependent relaxation in mesenteric arteries in male but not female offspring. Endothelial NO synthase protein levels in aortas but not mesenteric arteries were significantly increased in the cocaine-treated animals. However, cocaine significantly decreased phosphorylation levels of endothelial NO synthase in both aortas and mesenteric arteries. The results suggest that prenatal cocaine exposure programs vascular contractility via changes in endothelial NO synthase-regulated Ca(2+) sensitivity of myofilaments in the sex- and tissue-dependent manners in resistance arteries leading to an increased risk of hypertension in male offspring.
Mutant mice bearing a targeted disruption of the heparan sulfate (HS) modifying enzyme GlcNAc N-deacetylase/N-sulfotransferase 1 (Ndst1) exhibit severe developmental defects of the forebrain and forebrain-derived structures, including cerebral hypoplasia, lack of olfactory bulbs, eye defects and axon guidance errors. Neural crest-derived facial structures are also severely affected. We show that properly synthesized heparan sulfate is required for the normal development of the brain and face, and that Ndst1 is a modifier of heparan sulfate-dependent growth factor/morphogen signalling in those tissues. Among the multiple heparan sulfate-binding factors potentially affected in Ndst1 mutant embryos, the facial phenotypes are consistent with impaired sonic hedgehog (Shh) and fibroblast growth factor (Fgf) interaction with mutant heparan sulfate. Most importantly, the data suggest the possibility that defects in heparan sulfate synthesis could give rise to or contribute to a number of developmental brain and facial defects in humans.
Two patients with anorexia nervosa who developed progressive haemolytic anaemia during chlorpromazine therapy are presented. In each case, withdrawal of the drug alone led to a prompt haematological response. Drug-induced oxidant damage is proposed as being the underlying haemolytic mechanism.
Amino acid concentrations were measured in the cortex, cerebellum and hippocampus of the mouse brain before and during seizures induced by isoniazid (250 mg/kg i.p.), an inhibitor of L-glutamate-1-decarboxylase (EC 4.1.1.15: GAD). Valproate sodium and diazepam dose-dependently delay the onset of convulsive fits caused by isoniazid. However, neither diazepam nor valproate prevented the decrease in GABA concentrations produced by isoniazid alone. Also, these antiepileptic drugs did not modify the rate of GABA depletion elicited by isoniazid. These results, observed in four different brain structures, strengthen those first obtained with beta-vinyllactic acid, another inhibitor of GAD.
Carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)) is a well-known model compound for inducing chemical hepatic injury. This work characterizes the metabolism disorders of hepatotoxicity induced by CCl(4) in a Wistar rat model with a single dosage of 1 ml/kg. A seven-day long continuous collection of urine was performed in male rats in this experiment. Blood biochemistry and histopathology were examined to identify specific changes of liver hepatotoxicity. At the same time, an integrated analytical approach based on liquid chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry (LC-MS) was developed to map the metabolic response in urine. The current metabonomic approach based on LC-MS indicated 23 endogenous metabolites as biomarkers in urine associated with the hepatotoxicity induced by CCl(4). The underlying regulations of CCl(4)-perturbed metabolic pathways were discussed according to the identified metabolites. The present study proves the great potential of LC-MS based metabonomics in mapping metabolic response for toxicology.
To evaluate the predictive value of HER-2 in a population of advanced breast cancer patients randomly treated either with single-agent doxorubicin (A) or with single-agent docetaxel (T).
Patients from this study participated in a phase III clinical trial in which doxorubicin or docetaxel was administered for advanced disease. HER-2 was evaluated by IHC. In all positive cases, FISH was used to confirm the HER-2 positive status. The different cohorts of patients identified by HER-2 were examined to assess a possible relationship between HER-2 status and treatment effect.
Tumor samples were available for 176 of the 326 patients entered in the clinical trial (54%). HER-2 positivity was observed in 20% of the study population. A statistically significant interaction was found between response rates to the study drugs and HER-2 status, with HER-2 positive patients deriving the highest benefit from the use of T (odds ratio for HER-2 positive patients treated with T = 3.12 (95% CI 1.11-8.80), p = 0.03). The interaction between HER-2 and response rates to A and T was also confirmed by a multivariate analysis. No statistically significant interaction was found between HER-2 and drugs efficacy evaluated in terms of time to progression and overall survival, although in the HER-2 negative cohort A was at least as effective as T in term of overall survival.
These results suggest that in HER-2 positive breast cancer patients docetaxel might be more active than doxorubicin, while in HER-2 negative patients doxorubicin might be at least as effective as docetaxel. Although the present results cannot have an impact on current practice, they allow us to formulate the hypothesis that HER-2 positive breast cancer is a heterogeneous disease with regard to sensitivity to anthracyclines and taxanes, and that this might be dependent upon other molecular markers including the p-53 and topoisomerase II alpha genes. This hypothesis is currently being tested prospectively in two different 'bench to bed-side' clinical trials.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is associated with hyperandrogenism and cardiovascular risks including dyslipidemia and systemic inflammation. In vitro, statins decrease proliferation and steroidogenesis of ovarian theca-interstitial cells.
The study objective was to compare effects of two treatments of PCOS: simvastatin plus oral contraceptive pill (OCP) vs. OCP alone.
In a prospective, crossover trial, 48 women with PCOS were randomized to either simvastatin plus OCP for 12 wk followed by OCP alone for an additional 12 wk, or to OCP alone for 12 wk and, subsequently, simvastatin plus OCP for an additional 12 wk. Evaluations were performed at baseline, after 12 wk (crossover), and after 24 wk. Data were analyzed using a random effects model.
The study was conducted in an academic medical center.
Serum total testosterone was the primary outcome measure.
Total testosterone decreased by 38% after Statin + OCP, whereas OCP alone led to a 26% decrease; the statin-attributable effect was significant (P < 0.004). Free testosterone declined by 58% after Statin + OCP, significantly more than the 35% decline after OCP alone (P = 0.006). Hirsutism decreased by 8.1% after Statin + OCP, a greater effect than the 4.7% decrease after OCP alone (P = 0.02). Statin decreased LH, but not FSH or prolactin. Statin + OCP decreased total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol by 7.5% and 20%, respectively. OCP alone led to a 5% increase of total cholesterol without effect on low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. Statin prevented OCP induced increase of triglycerides. C-reactive protein decreased by 45% after Statin + OCP, a significantly different effect (P = 0.006) than a 6% increase after OCP alone. Soluble vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 decreased by 18% after Statin + OCP, a greater decline than the 10% decrease after OCP alone (P = 0.01).
Simvastatin improved endocrine/clinical aspects of PCOS and had beneficial effects on lipid profile and markers of systemic inflammation.
The feasibility of providing postoperative analgesia using thoracic extradural blockade following thoracotomy has been assessed. Extradural block was produced by intermittent injections of 0.5% bupivacaine with adrenaline 1:200,000 or a continuous infusion of 0.25% or 0.125% bupivacaine. The only toxic symptom was drowsiness which was most frequent after a continuous infusion of 0.25% bupivacaine and with arterial plasma bupivacaine concentrations above 1.5 mug/ml. Arterial hypotension was a troublesome complication with all techniques although stability of arterial pressure was more easily achieved with a continuous infusion technique. However, this produced a high incidence of urinary retention. Practical aspects and effectiveness of providing extradural analgesia in patients following thoracotomy are discussed.
The sequence of morphological changes during foot process effacement in acute puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) nephrosis was examined by means of NaOH maceration and freeze cracking for scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The micrographs of SEM and those of transmission electron microscopy (TEM) were quantitatively analyzed by computerized morphometry, and were correlated with renal function. On day 2 after PAN injection, the slit length was moderately decreased by both shortening and degradation of the foot processes. On day 4, membrane-bounded vesicles were scattered in the lamina rara externa. During foot process effacement, the basal surface of podocytes developed palm-like domains that represented the cytoplasmic areas between interdigitation. The decrease in the length of podocyte cell borders paralleled the decrease of 24-hour creatinine clearance. The development of the palm-like domains on the basal aspects of podocytes estimated by distance class analysis was closely correlated with the sudden onset of proteinuria. We conclude that foot process effacement in PAN nephrosis caused by the retraction and degradation of foot processes leads to the development of palm-like domains, which is correlated with podocyte detachment as well as massive proteinuria.
Adrenomedullin prevents damage of gastric mucosa in either reserpine-treated or pylorus-ligated rats. Pre-treatment with CGRP(8-37) resulted in a decrease of the gastro-protective effect of adrenomedullin in both models and reversed the inhibitory effect of adrenomedullin on gastric acid output in the pylorus-ligated rats. These adrenomedullin actions were less effectively modified by pre-treatment with adrenomedullin(22-52). These data suggest that the anti-ulcer effect of adrenomedullin is mainly related to its anti-secretory action, presumably mediated through CGRP-receptors.
The authors, after a brief discussion of the main effects of the prostaglandins on renal blood flow, report a case of acute renal failure following the ingestion of diclofenac. Although there is little doubt that diclofenac is among the safest NSAIDs the Authors consider that caution is still necessary, especially in the treatment of older and dehydrated patients.
Tumor suppressor gene silencing via promoter hypermethylation is an important event in the pathogenesis of colorectal cancer (CRC). Some aberrant DNA hypermethylation has high tumor specificity, so it may contribute to early diagnosis of CRC. The objective of this study was to establish novel therapeutic and diagnostic strategies against CRC by identifying the novel methylation-related genes.
Two microarray-based approaches were used to identify novel methylation-related genes in CRC. We identified methylation-sensitive genes in colon cancer cell line SW1116 by comparing differential expression genes after treatment with the methylation inhibiting drug, 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-aza-dC) using gene expression microarray. Promoter microarray analysis was performed to identify cancer-specific, methylation-related genes in two patients with CRC. Gene promoter methylation was identified by methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR) (MSP) in primary CRC. Gene expression level was assessed using real-time PCR analysis.
By using gene expression microarray, up-regulation of 253 genes was detected in the CRC cell line, SW1116, after treatment with 5-aza-dC. Of the 253 genes identified by gene expression microarray analysis, LRRC3B (leucine-rich repeat containing 3B) was isolated as a potential methylation-specific gene by promoter microarray analysis. MSP analysis showed frequent methylation of LRRC3B in primary CRC (24/31 cases, 77%). In addition, the LRRC3B methylation intensity was significantly higher in cancer tissues than in the corresponding non-cancerous tissues. Decreased LRRC3B expression (17/31, 55%) was observed in the cancer tissues by real-time PCR.
LRRC3B may be a novel methylation-sensitive tumor suppressor gene in CRC. LRRC3B methylation has significant tumor specificity and may be a biomarker of CRC.
In differentiated axons almost all microtubules (MTs) uniformly point their plus ends towards the axonal tip. The uniform polar pattern provides the structural substrate for efficient organelle transport along axons. It is generally believed that the mass and pattern of MTs polar orientation remain unchanged in differentiated neurons. Here we examined long-term effects of the MTs stabilizing reagent paclitaxel (taxol) over MTs polar orientation and organelle transport in cultured Aplysia neurons. Unexpectedly, we found that rather than stabilizing the MTs, paclitaxel leads to their massive polar reconfiguration, accompanied by impaired organelle transport. Washout of paclitaxel does not lead to recovery of the polar orientation indicating that the new pattern is self-maintained. Taken together the data suggest that MTs in differentiated neurons maintain the potential to be reconfigured. Such reconfiguration may serve physiological functions or lead to degeneration. In addition, our observations offer a novel mechanism that could account for the development of peripheral neuropathy in patients receiving paclitaxel as an antitumor drug.
Cardiovascular deterioration after seizures in tricyclic overdose has long been suspected. The investigators studied a patient with a nortriptyline HCI level of 1,205 ng/mL who had four generalized grand mal seizures, each lasting between 60 and 90 seconds that were immediately followed by hypotension requiring norepinephrine support. When the seizures were controlled with midazolam, the hypotension subsided and norepinephrine was decreased. The metabolic acidosis associated with the seizures may have caused hypotension by direct cardiotoxicity, an increase in bioavailability of tricyclic antidepressant because of changes in protein binding, an alteration of the effects of tricyclic antidepressant on cardiac membrane sodium channels, or a combination of these mechanisms.
Although paraquat (PQ) is widely known to induce pulmonary fibrosis, the molecular mechanisms are poorly understood. Therefore, to bring a new dimension to the elucidation of the mechanisms, we conducted microarray experiments to investigate the expression profiles of 1,090 genes in the lungs during the progressive phase of PQ-induced pulmonary fibrosis in rats. After several s.c. injections of PQ, rats were divided into a fibrogenic group and a non-fibrogenic group. Time-course gene expression analysis of the fibrogenic group showed altered gene regulation throughout the experimental period. The expression levels of many cell membrane channel, transporter, and receptor genes were substantially altered. These genes were classified into two categories: polyamine transporter- and electrolyte/fluid balance-related genes. Moreover, comparative analysis of the fibrogenic and the non-fibrogenic group revealed 36 genes with significantly different patterns of expression, including the pro-apoptotic gene Bad. This indicates that Bad is a key factor in apoptosis and that apoptosis provides a major turning point in PQ-induced pulmonary fibrosis. Notably, subtypes of transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta genes that are considered to play a pivotal role in fibrogenesis showed no differences in expression between the two groups, though TGF-beta3 was markedly induced in both groups. These results provide novel and extensive insights into the molecular mechanisms that lead to pulmonary fibrosis after exposure to PQ.
Permethrin as a topical acaricide cream is widely used to treat scabies. The neuronal voltage-sensitive sodium channel (Vssc), necessary for the generation of action potentials in excitable cells, is the target of pyrethroid acaricides such as permethrin. Pyrethroid resistance has been linked to specific mutations in the Vssc gene. Following the partial sequencing of the Vssc gene in the scabies mite Sarcoptes scabiei (L.) (Astigmata: Sarcoptidae), we compared Vssc gene sequences from permethrin-sensitive and -tolerant S. scabiei var. canis Gerlach mites, and identified a G to A single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in permethrin-tolerant mites resulting in an amino acid change from glycine to aspartic acid in domain III S6. The mutation is in a region of the gene where mutations have been identified in a range of pyrethroid-resistant arthropods. Results of in vitro permethrin exposure assays showed that survival rates for mites bearing the mutation were similar to those previously reported for mites from human subjects where clinical tolerance to permethrin had been observed. A real-time polymerase chain reaction-high-resolution melt (PCR-HRM) assay was developed to detect this SNP. This assay provides a useful methodology for screening for this and other mutations associated with permethrin resistance in scabies mite populations and thus facilitates surveillance for acaricide resistance.
In a group of 465 patients diagnosed as having chronic mercury toxicity (CMT), 32.3% had severe fatigue, 88.8% had memory loss, and 27.5% had depression. A significant correlation was found between CMT and the Apo-lipoprotein E4 genotype (p=0.001). An investigation into an additional 864 consecutively seen general practice patients, resulted in 30.3% having evidence consistent with CMT, and once again a significant correlation was found with the APO-E4 genotype (p=0.001). Removal of amalgam mercury fillings when combined with appropriate treatment resulted in a significant symptom reduction (p<0.001) to levels reported by healthy subjects.
Macrophage-derived inflammatory mediators have been implicated in tissue injury induced by a number of hepatotoxicants. In the present studies, we used transgenic mice with a targeted disruption of the gene for inducible nitric oxide synthase (NOS II) to analyze the role of nitric oxide in inflammatory mediator production in the liver and in tissue injury induced by acetaminophen. Treatment of wild-type mice with acetaminophen (300 mg/kg) resulted in centrilobular hepatic necrosis, which was evident within 3 h and reached a maximum at 18 h. This was correlated with NOS II expression and nitrotyrosine staining of the liver, which was most prominent after 6 h. Expression of mRNA for tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-10 (IL-10), matrix metalloproteinase-9, and connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) also increased in the liver following acetaminophen treatment of wild-type mice. NOS II knockout mice were found to be less sensitive to the hepatotoxic effects of acetaminophen than wild-type mice. This did not appear to be due to differences in acetaminophen-induced glutathione depletion or adduct formation. In NOS II knockout mice treated with acetaminophen, hepatic expression of TNF-alpha, as well as CTGF, was significantly increased compared to wild-type mice. In contrast, IL-10 expression was reduced. These data demonstrate that nitric oxide is important in hepatotoxicity induced by acetaminophen. Moreover, some of its effects may be mediated by altering production of pro- and antiinflammatory cytokines and proteins important in tissue repair.
Eperisone hydrochloride is a centrally acting muscle relaxant, and triazolam is a short-acting benzodiazepine. Although commonly prescribed, cardiotoxicity induced by a single overdose of either drug is comparatively rare. A patient receiving nifedipine developed torsades de pointes (TdP) because of prolongation of the corrected QT (QTc) interval after an overdose of eperisone hydrochloride and triazolam.
A 60-year-old man receiving nifedipine was admitted in a comatose condition 3 h after ingesting 5,000 mg of eperisone and 2.5 mg of triazolam. Electrocardiogram showed sinus rhythm with prolongation of the QTc interval (820 ms). The serum electrolyte levels were as follows: potassium, 3.8 mEq/L; magnesium, 2.4 mg/dL. The serum drug concentrations were high: eperisone, 15,360 ng/mL; triazolam, 110.8 ng/mL. A temporary cardiac pacemaker was implanted immediately after the development of TdP, 11 h after the ingestion. The serum triazolam concentration normalized on day 2. The QTc interval and eperisone concentration normalized on day 6.
Eperisone and triazolam overdose can cause life-threatening cardiotoxicity. Electrocardiographic monitoring and serial determination of QTc interval are likely the best way to observe these patients and evaluate the risk of cardiotoxicity.
The Estradiol Transdermal Estrogen Replacement Patch System (Estraderm) is designed to provide continuous estrogen replacement therapy through a rate-limiting membrane applied to the skin. The relative advantage of the patch over the more commonly prescribed oral medication, Premarin, is that the drug is absorbed directly into the bloodstream without extended metabolism by the digestive system and the liver. Ocular side effects associated with Estraderm, reported in the literature, include fluctuation in corneal curvature and variations of keratitis sicca. Here, a case is presented in which a 50-year-old Caucasian female, without previous ocular sequelae status after hysterectomy and oophorectomy, experienced what appears to be atypical ocular symptoms associated with the Estraderm. To the best of our knowledge, this information has not been reported in the literature. Clinicians should be aware of the unusual symptoms that could accompany the use of the Estradiol Estrogen Replacement Patch and include them among the differential diagnoses. The condition, its associated symptoms, and summary of the literature are discussed.
Several novel urinary kidney biomarkers were recently approved by the US-FDA and EMA for improved detection of nephrotoxicity, but few data regarding their performance are publicly available so far. In this study, we investigated the potential of some of the newly accepted makers (Kim-1, β-2-microglobulin, cystatin C, clusterin) along with six additional urinary key proteins of kidney injury (GST-α, Timp-1, VEGF, calbindin, NGAL/lipocalin-2, osteopontin) to detect proximal tubule damage in the rat model studying either acute drug-induced kidney injury or subchronic nephrotoxicity. Candidate proteins were measured in urine samples obtained from rats treated with gentamicin (0, 60 and 120 mg/kg bw for 7 days), BI-3 [3-pyrrolidineacetic acid, 5-[[[4'-[imino[(methoxycarbonyl) amino]methyl] [1,1'-biphenyl]-4-yl]oxy]methyl]-2-oxo-, methyl ester,(3S-trans)] (0, 100, and 1000 mg/kg bw for up to 14 days) or with the mycotoxin ochratoxin A (OTA) (0, 21, 70 and 210 μg/kg bw for up to 90 days) using a Luminex(®) xMAP(®) platform. Cystatin C and NGAL appeared to be the most sensitive indicators of gentamicin nephrotoxicity, with significant changes occurring as early as day 1, and importantly before alterations in serum creatinine or blood urea nitrogen (BUN). Altered urinary excretion of KIM-1, clusterin, calbindin and Timp-1 accompanied by a rise in BUN was observed in rats with BI-3 at 1000 mg/kg bw for 14 days. In contrast, histopathological alterations induced by OTA, which preceded effects on traditional clinical parameters, were best reflected by changes in urinary Kim-1. Overall, our data confirm increased sensitivity of new markers as compared to traditional clinical chemistry parameters.
To investigate the alteration on the expression levels of protein and messenger RNA (mRNA) of aquaporin-8 (AQP8) in the hepatocytes of pregnant rats with intrahepatic cholestasis induced by ethinylestradiol.
A total number of 20 15-day pregnant rats were randomly divided into two groups: control group, intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy (ICP) group. In ICP group, rats were subcutaneously injected with ethinylestradiol (2.5 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1)) for 5 days to make the model of ICP. In control group, rats received subcutaneous injection of appropriate volume of propylene glycol for 5 days. The protein expression and subcellular localization of AQP8 in the hepatocytes of pregnant rats were detected using immunohistochemical methods. The mRNA expression of AQP8 in the hepatocytes was assayed by RT-PCR method.
The model of ICP of pregnant rats was made successfully. Expressions of AQP8 protein and mRNA were detected in two groups. AQP8 protein level in ICP group was 10.8 +/- 2.4, significantly decreased than in control group 17.1 +/- 2.2 (P < 0.05). AQP8 mRNA level in ICP group was 1.07 +/- 0.11, significantly higher than in control group 0.80 +/- 0.11 (P < 0.05).
Down-regulated AQP8 protein expression and up-regulated AQP8 mRNA expression in the hepatocytes of pregnant rats with intrahepatic cholestasis may contribute to the pathogenesis of ICP.
