Two cases of transitory ischaemic attacks, which occurred during progestogen therapy, are reported. Clinical history and symptoms of both patients suggested migraine disorder. Therefore, the hypothesis is made that also progestogen-only preparations, likewise oestrogen-progestogen oral contraceptives, may cause neurological troubles by vasomotor mechanisms.
The clinical history and biological investigations of a patient presenting an immune complex disease induced by Peroben are reported. Biological signs were those of a drug-induced lupus syndrome. A provocation test allowed disclosure of its pathomechanism, since during Peroben intake a high C1q binding activity occurred and later regressed, while deposits of IgM and C3 were evidenced in the vessel walls. Complete or partial thrombosis succeeded accompanying a leukocytoclastic vasculitis.
Although recent data shows that arsenic trioxide (As2O3) is capable of inducing cell death via cell cycle arrest and apoptosis both in acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) and in non-APL cells, the mechanisms of As2O3-mediated cell death are not fully understood. In this study, we investigated the in vitro effects of As2O3 on cell growth inhibition and cell death in human T-lymphocytic leukemia and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) cell lines. As2O3 significantly inhibited the proliferation of Molt-4 and Mutz-1 cells in dose- and time-dependent manner. Autophagic cell death (programmed cell death type II) and apoptosis (programmed cell death type I) were activated together in leukemia cell lines after exposed to As2O3. Numerous large cytoplasmic inclusions and vacuoles were observed in As2O3-treated cells using electron microscope. Furthermore, 3-methyladenine (an autophagy inhibitor) significantly reduced autophagic cell death and sequentially induced apoptosis. Finally, leukemia cells treated with 4 microM As2O3 showed a considerable up-regulation of Beclin-1 (a Bcl-2-interacting protein) expression, which was independent of transcription of mRNA and required protein synthesis. In addition, Molt-4 cells treated with As2O3 exhibited the down-regulation of Bax protein expression, suggesting that Bax may be involved in accumulating of Beclin-1 and triggering autophagic cell death in As2O3-treated leukemia cells. These results may lead to a better understanding of the mechanism of action of As2O3, and provide a suggestion that As2O3 may be of therapeutic value for the treatment of patients with human T-lymphocytic leukemia and myelodysplastic syndrome.
The aim of this study was to determine the prevalence of cocaine use among individuals presenting for treatment for heroin dependence, describe the clinical profile of heroin users who also use cocaine and to establish the effects of cocaine use on short term outcomes for the treatment for heroin dependence. A longitudinal follow-up of 549 heroin users recruited in Sydney for the Australian Treatment Outcome Study was conducted at 3-month post-baseline interview. At baseline, current cocaine use was common (39%) and was associated with increased drug use, needle risk taking and criminality. The 3-month prevalence of cocaine use declined significantly to 19%. Thirty-five per cent of those who had used cocaine at baseline continued to use at 3 months, while 9% of the sample had commenced cocaine use. Those who entered residential rehabilitation at baseline were less likely than other treatment entrants and the non-treatment group to have used cocaine at follow-up. Treatment retention was not affected by baseline cocaine use status; however, baseline cocaine users (CU) displayed higher levels of heroin use, polydrug use and drug-related problems. A poorer outcome was associated with the commencement or continuation of cocaine use, while cessation of cocaine use resulted in significant improvements on these measures. Cocaine use was common among individuals seeking treatment for heroin dependence and was an important moderator of treatment outcome. It appears that cocaine use has a strong negative effect on treatment outcome over and above that caused by polydrug use generally.
A 36-year-old man who developed hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) associated with mitomycin C (MMC) after the radical operation for early gastric cancer was reported. He was successfully treated with hemodialysis and transfusion of fresh frozen plasma. However, the pathogenesis and the effective treatment of this syndrome are still undetermined. The literature on MMC-induced HUS in Japan was reviewed, and the relationship between the prognosis and the patients conditions, such as sex, age, site of primary cancer, total dose of MMC, latent period from MMC administration, laboratory findings at the time of diagnosis and treatment with steroids or plasma exchange, were analysed. Patients less than 60 years old or treated with plasma exchange were found to be associated significantly with a favorable outcome. The most frequent cause of death was pulmonary edema or respiratory failure. In conclusion, early treatment with plasma exchange appeared to result in a better prognosis.
A 68-year-old woman with metastatic breast cancer presented with slowly progressive visual loss in each eye. Electrophysiology confirmed bilateral optic neuropathies. Investigations to determine the cause of the vision loss were negative. Cessation of tamoxifen resulted in a dramatic improvement in acuity.
Marked obesity is an independent risk factor for multi-system morbidity. The use of anorectic drugs is an aggressive strategy for weight reduction. It appears to be an easy way of dealing with the problem, because the patient needn't change his behavior. However, such treatment is not harmless. At the end of the 60's an outbreak of pulmonary hypertension was associated with the drug aminorex, and it was soon withdrawn from the market. 30 years later it became clear that new-generation anorectic drugs (fenfluramine, dexfenfluramine, phentermine), which were being used world-wide, lead to both pulmonary hypertension and valvular damage. We describe a woman of 70 with both these complications which developed after prolonged anorectic therapy with a fenfluramine-phentermine combination.
The cardiotoxic effects of selective cyclo-oxygenase-2 inhibitors are well documented. Recently, concerns have been raised over the cardiovascular safety of nonselective nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. The aim of this study was to assess the cardiac effects of diclofenac sodium on doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy in rats. Male Wistar rats were treated with doxorubicin (15 mg/kg intraperitoneally, single dose), diclofenac sodium (2.5 and 10 mg/kg/day, respectively, by gavage for 5 days) alone and doxorubicin + diclofenac sodium treatment, 24 hours after doxorubicin administration. Doxorubicin-induced a significant (P < 0.001) increase in the serum lactate dehydrogenase, cardiac thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance and catalase levels and a significant (P < 0.001) decrease in the cardiac glutathione and superoxide dismutase levels, which were significantly (P < 0.001) aggravated by diclofenac sodium treatment. Diclofenac sodium alone also showed a significant change in these parameters compared with the control. Ultrastructural studies showed that doxorubicin causes apoptosis in myocardium, which was characterized by condensation of chromatin network at the margins of nuclear membrane. Apoptosis induced by doxorubicin was exacerbated by diclofenac sodium treatment. Thus, our study indicates that diclofenac sodium, a nonaspirin nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug, is not free from cardiotoxicity and aggravates doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy in rats.
The mechanisms underlying the teratogenicity of methanol (MeOH) in rodents, unlike its acute toxicity in humans, are unclear, but may involve reactive oxygen species (ROS). Embryonic catalase, although expressed at about 5% of maternal activity, may protect the embryo by detoxifying ROS. This hypothesis was investigated in whole embryo culture to remove confounding maternal factors, including metabolism of MeOH by maternal catalase. C57BL/6 (C57) mouse embryos expressing human catalase (hCat) or their wild-type (C57 WT) controls, and C3Ga.Cg-Catb/J acatalasemic (aCat) mouse embryos or their wild-type C3HeB/FeJ (C3H WT) controls, were explanted on gestational day (GD) 9 (plug=GD 1), exposed for 24 h to 4 mg/ml MeOH or vehicle, and evaluated for functional and morphological changes. hCat and C57 WT vehicle-exposed embryos developed normally. MeOH was embryopathic in C57 WT embryos, evidenced by decreases in anterior neuropore closure, somites developed and turning, whereas hCat embryos were protected. Vehicle-exposed aCat mouse embryos had lower yolk sac diameters compared to C3H WT controls, suggesting that endogenous ROS are embryopathic. MeOH was more embryopathic in aCat embryos than WT controls, with reduced anterior neuropore closure and head length only in catalase-deficient embryos. These data suggest that ROS may be involved in the embryopathic mechanism of methanol, and that embryonic catalase activity may be a determinant of teratological risk.
The authors investigated trazodone as a hypnotic for depressed patients who had persistent, exacerbated, or new insomnia while taking either fluoxetine or bupropion.
Seventeen depressed patients who had insomnia while taking fluoxetine or bupropion were given either trazodone or placebo in a double-blind crossover trial. Sleep was assessed by self-report with the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index and the sleep items of the Yale-New Haven Hospital Depressive Symptom Inventory.
Improvement with trazodone, but not with placebo, was shown by the total Pittsburgh index scores and Yale-New Haven inventory total sleep scores and by the Pittsburgh index measures of sleep duration and Yale-New Haven inventory measures of early morning awakening, and there was a trend toward improvement in the Yale-New Haven inventory item regarding middle of the night awakenings. Subjective sleep quality and sleep latency also showed a trend toward improvement, but the Pittsburgh index measures of sleep efficiency and disturbances and the Yale-New Haven inventory item regarding difficulty falling asleep were unaffected by trazodone. One patient dropped out because of excessive daytime sedation with trazodone, and another dropped out because of nonresponse to placebo. Of the completers, 67% experienced overall improvement in sleep with trazodone according to a priori criteria, whereas only 13% experienced improvement with placebo.
Trazodone is an effective hypnotic for patients with antidepressant-associated insomnia.
The effect of oral propranolol on left ventricular performance during early upright exercise was evaluated by ear densitography in patients with arteriographic coronary artery disease (CAD). Measurements of systolic time intervals differentiated 10 unmedicated patients with CAD (group 1) and 15 patients with CAD taking propranolol (group 3). The patients in group 3 had less shortening of preejection period at 1 minute and 4 minutes of exercise than group 1 patients (p less than 0.001 and p less than 0.005, respectively), with propranolol appearing to prevent the abnormal shortening of preejection period seen in the unmedicated group. Group 3 patients, in contrast to group 1 patients, showed reduction of heart rate and heart rate-blood pressure product both at rest and during exercise. Furthermore, PEP/LVET and percentage change in PEP/LVET from control responses were similar to those of subjects free of CAD (group 2). These results indicate that propranolol effects a favorable change in LV performance by postponing early exhaustion of cardiac reserve, despite significant CAD. There was relatively large overlap in percentage change in PEP/LVET from control between group 2 and group 3 in contrast to the clear separation among unmedicated patients. Thus, the excellent diagnostic accuracy of systolic time intervals recorded during exercise is greatly reduced by beta-adrenoceptor blockade.
Amphetamine-like behaviours such as sniffing and head movements were observed in rats intranigrally injected with a pyridinium metabolite of haloperidol (HP+). Photobeam interruptions by rats injected with HP+ were over 200 times more frequent than those of control rats 24 h after the operation. This apparent dopamine agonist effect of HP+ may be relevant to some of the clinical side effects of haloperidol such as acute dystonia and chronic tardive dyskinesia, which have been proposed to be the result of dopaminergic hyperactivity.
Exposure to certain environmental toxicants may be associated with increased risk of developing diabetes. The authors' aim was to investigate the relation between lifetime exposure to specific agricultural pesticides and diabetes incidence among pesticide applicators. The study included 33,457 licensed applicators, predominantly non-Hispanic White males, enrolled in the Agricultural Health Study. Incident diabetes was self-reported in a 5-year follow-up interview (1999-2003), giving 1,176 diabetics and 30,611 nondiabetics for analysis. Lifetime exposure to pesticides and covariate information were reported by participants at enrollment (1993-1997). Using logistic regression, the authors considered two primary measures of pesticide exposure: ever use and cumulative lifetime days of use. They found seven specific pesticides (aldrin, chlordane, heptachlor, dichlorvos, trichlorfon, alachlor, and cyanazine) for which the odds of diabetes incidence increased with both ever use and cumulative days of use. Applicators who had used the organochlorine insecticides aldrin, chlordane, and heptachlor more than 100 lifetime days had 51%, 63%, and 94% increased odds of diabetes, respectively. The observed association of organochlorine and organophosphate insecticides with diabetes is consistent with results from previous human and animal studies. Long-term exposure from handling certain pesticides, in particular, organochlorine and organophosphate insecticides, may be associated with increased risk of diabetes.
Familial dysalbuminemic hyperthyroxinemia (FDH) is the most common form of inherited increase of serum thyroxine in Caucasians. It is the result of increased thyroxine-binding to serum proteins and is inherited as a dominant trait. The entire coding region of the albumin gene of a subject with FDH was sequenced. A single nucleotide substitution, G to A transition in codon 218, was found in one of the two alleles, resulting in the replacement of the normal Arg with His. This mutation was found in 9 affected family members but not in 8 unaffected relatives and 18 unrelated normal individuals. The same missense mutation was found in 12 other subjects with FDH belonging to 7 unrelated families. In every individual with FDH, the mutation was associated with the Sac I+ polymorphism in the albumin gene, strongly suggesting a founder effect.
Considerable evidence has demonstrated that women are more vulnerable than men to the toxic effects of alcohol, although the results as to whether gender differences exist in ethanol-induced brain damage are contradictory. We have reported that ethanol, by activating the neuroimmune system and Toll-like receptors 4 (TLR4), can cause neuroinflammation and brain injury. However, whether there are gender differences in alcohol-induced neuroinflammation and brain injury are currently controversial. Using the brains of TLR4(+/+) and TLR4(-/-) (TLR4-KO) mice, we report that chronic ethanol treatment induces inflammatory mediators (iNOS and COX-2), cytokines (IL-1β, TNF-α), gliosis processes, caspase-3 activation and neuronal loss in the cerebral cortex of both female and male mice. Conversely, the levels of these parameters tend to be higher in female than in male mice. Using an in vivo imaging technique, our results further evidence that ethanol treatment triggers higher GFAP levels and lower MAP-2 levels in female than in male mice, suggesting a greater effect of ethanol-induced astrogliosis and less MAP-2(+) neurons in female than in male mice. Our results further confirm the pivotal role of TLR4 in alcohol-induced neuroinflammation and brain damage since the elimination of TLR4 protects the brain of males and females against the deleterious effects of ethanol. In short, the present findings demonstrate that, during the same period of ethanol treatment, females are more vulnerable than males to the neurotoxic/neuroinflammatory effects of ethanol, thus supporting the view that women are more susceptible than men to the medical consequences of alcohol abuse.
To determine the prevalence of heart disease in outpatient young asymptomatic chronic cocaine users, 35 cocaine users and 32 age-matched controls underwent resting and exercise electrocardiography (ECG) and Doppler echocardiography. Findings consistent with coronary artery disease were detected in 12 (34%) patients and 3 (9%) controls (p = 0.01). Decreased left ventricular systolic function was demonstrated in 5 (14%) patients, but in none of the controls (p = 0.055). Finally, resting and peak exercise abnormal left ventricular filling was detected in 38 and 35% of patients as compared to 19 and 9% of controls, respectively (p = 0.11 and 0.02, respectively). We conclude that coronary artery or myocardial disease is common (38%) in young asymptomatic chronic cocaine users. Therefore, screening ECG and echocardiography may be warranted in these patients.
Adriamycin (ADR) is a potent, broad-spectrum chemotherapeutic agent whose clinical use is limited by its cardiotoxicity. Since the pathogenesis of ADR-induced cardiomyopathy may involve free radicals and lipid peroxidation, the antioxidant, melatonin (MEL) may protect against toxic effects of ADR. We therefore tested this hypothesis using a rat model of ADR-induced cardiomyopathy. Sprague-Dawley rats were given ADR (cumulative dose, 15 mg/kg), MEL (cumulative dose, 84 mg/kg), ADR+MEL, ADR plus probucol (PRB, cumulative dose, 90 mg/kg), or vehicle alone, according to known regimens. The rats were maintained for 3 weeks following treatment, after which their cardiac performance was measured. Following sacrifice, their myocardial ultrastructure was examined, and their myocardial lipid peroxidation was assessed. Mortality was observed only in rats treated with ADR alone. When compared to control rats, surviving rats in the ADR group showed significant decreases in ratio of heart to body weight, arterial pressure, and left ventricular fractional shortening as well as a significant accumulation of ascites. The amount of myocardial thiobarbituric acid reactive substances was significantly higher in ADR-treated than in control rats. Both antioxidants, MEL and PRB, significantly prevented these ADR-induced changes. Electron microscopic examination revealed myocardial lesions indicative of ADR-induced cardiomyopathy in the ADR-treated rats. In contrast, treatment of these rats with MEL or PRB preserved myocardial ultrastructure. By preventing lipid peroxidation, MEL may be highly effective in protecting against ADR-induced cardiomyopathy.
Fifty-two consecutive infants who received intravenous indomethacin, 0.2 mg/kg, were reviewed to determine factors associated with the occurrence of oliguria. Serum creatinine and concentration prior to indomethacin did not predict the occurrence of oliguria. A mean urine output of less than 4.5 mL/kg/hr prior to the administration of indomethacin was the only factor that we determined to be associated with a significant risk of oliguria. Two infants developed symptomatic oliguria and both had a pre-indomethacin urine output less than 1.5 mL/kg/hr.
Adenosine A(3) receptors mediate beneficial effects in experimental colitis, but their involvement in enteric neuromuscular functions during bowel inflammation is undetermined. This study investigated the regulatory role of A(3) receptors on colonic motility in the presence of experimental colitis.
Colitis was induced in rats by 2,4-dinitrobenzenesulfonic acid. A(3) receptors and adenosine deaminase (ADA, adenosine catabolic enzyme) mRNA were examined by RT-PCR. Tissue distribution of A(3) receptors was detected by confocal immunofluorescence. The effects of 2,3-ethyl-4,5-dipropyl-6-phenylpyridine-3-thiocarboxylate-5-carboxylate (MRS1523) (MRS, A(3) receptor antagonist), 2-chloro-N(6) -(3-iodobenzyl)-adenosine-5'-N-methyluronamide (2Cl-IB-MECA) (CIB, A(3) receptor agonist), dipyridamole (DIP, adenosine transport inhibitor) and ADA were assayed on contractile responses evoked by electrical stimulation (ES) or carbachol in colonic longitudinal muscle preparations (LMP).
RT-PCR showed A(3) receptors and ADA mRNA in normal colon and their increased level in inflamed tissues. Immunofluorescence showed a predominant distribution of A(3) receptors in normal myenteric ganglia and an increased density during colitis. MRS enhanced ES-induced cholinergic contractions in normal LMP, but was less effective in inflamed tissues. After pretreatment with dipyridamole plus ADA, to reduce extracellular adenosine, CIB decreased cholinergic motor responses of normal LMP to ES, with enhanced efficacy in inflamed LMP. A(3) receptor ligands did not affect carbachol-induced contractions in LMP from normal or inflamed colon.
Normally, adenosine modulated colonic cholinergic motility via activation of A(3) receptors in the myenteric plexus. A(3) receptor-mediated tonic inhibitory control by adenosine was impaired in inflamed bowel, despite increased density of functioning and pharmacologically recruitable A(3) receptors.
It has been pointed out that only low-dose arsenic trioxide (ATO) presents therapeutic benefits outweighing the toxic side effects. Low-dose ATO can effectively alleviate acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). However, it is quite challenging in treating solid tumors. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of ATO at low concentrations on the metastatic potential of mouse hepatoma H(22) cells and the anti-metastatic mechanism of ATO.
The metastatic potential of H(22) cells was evaluated by adhesion, migration and invasion assays after exposure to a low dose of ATO in vitro. The mouse lung metastatic model induced by injection of H(22) cells via the tail vein was adopted for the evaluation of metastatic potential. Different proteins in the lysate of H(22) cells exposed to ATO at different concentrations were investigated by surface-enhanced laser desorption and ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (SELDI-TOF-MS). Finally, Western blotting analyses were made to detect the expression pattern of MMP-2 and nm23-M1 proteins.
Significant cell death started at ATO concentrations above 2 micromol/L. The growth and adhesion potential of H(22) cells was inhibited in a time- and dose-dependent manner, and the migration and invasion potential of H(22) cells was inhibited in a dose-dependent manner while ATO concentration was below 2 micromol/L. Mice injected with ATO at a dose of 0.5 mg/kg had fewer lung metastases. However, mice injected with ATO at a dose of 2 mg/kg or 4 mg/kg had a high mortality rate and more liver injuries. A total of 15 different protein peaks were identified between the lysate of H(22) cells treated with ATO and controls. Two proteins that peaked at m/z 5302 and 17207 coincided with MMP-2 (fragment) and nm23-M1, respectively. Western blotting analyses demonstrated that MMP-2 and MMP-2 fragments were down-regulated and nm23-M1 was up-regulated in H(22) cells treated with 2 micromol/L ATO for 48 hours.
ATO at a low dose inhibits the metastatic potential of mouse hepatoma H(22) cells in vitro and in vivo, and involves down-regulation of MMP-2 and up-regulation of nm23-M1.
This study investigated the effects of resveratrol, a natural polyphenol with neuroprotective properties, on retinal neuronal cell death mediated by diabetes-induced activation of Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII).
Diabetes was induced in C57BL/6 mice by five consecutive intraperitoneal injections of 55 mg/kg streptozotocin (STZ). Control mice received buffer. All mice were killed 2 months after the injections, and the extent of neuronal cell death, CaMKII, and phospho-CaMKII protein expression levels and CaMKII kinase activity were examined in the retinas. To assess the role of CaMKII in the death of retinal neurons, a small-interfering RNA (siRNA) or specific inhibitor of CaMKII was injected into the right vitreous humor, and vehicle only was injected into the left vitreous humor, 2 days before death. Resveratrol (20 mg/kg) was administered by oral gavage daily for 4 weeks, beginning 1 month after the fifth injection of either STZ or buffer.
The death of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), CaMKII, phospho-CaMKII protein levels, and CaMKII activity were all greatly increased in the retinas of diabetic mice compared with controls, 2 months after induction of diabetes. Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT)-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL)-positive signals co-localized with CaMKII- and phospho-CaMKII immunoreactive RGCs. However, in addition to CaMKII knockdown and inhibition by siRNA or a specific inhibitor, respectively, resveratrol provided complete protection from diabetes-induced retinal cell death.
In the present study, resveratrol prevented diabetes-induced RGC death via CaMKII downregulation, implying that resveratrol may have potential therapeutic applications for prevention of diabetes-induced visual dysfunction.
Osteoarthritis is the most common form of arthritis and is a major cause of pain and disability in the elderly. To search for sequence variants that confer risk of osteoarthritis of the hand, we carried out a genome-wide association study (GWAS) in subjects with severe hand osteoarthritis, using variants identified through the whole-genome sequencing of 2,230 Icelanders. We found two significantly associated loci in the Icelandic discovery set: at 15q22 (frequency of 50.7%, odds ratio (OR) = 1.51, P = 3.99 × 10(-10)) in the ALDH1A2 gene and at 1p31 (frequency of 0.02%, OR = 50.6, P = 9.8 × 10(-10)). Among the carriers of the variant at 1p31 is a family with several members in whom the risk allele segregates with osteoarthritis. The variants within the ALDH1A2 gene were confirmed in replication sets from The Netherlands and the UK, yielding an overall association of OR = 1.46 and P = 1.1 × 10(-11) (rs3204689).
The somatic mutations in a cancer genome are the aggregate outcome of one or more mutational processes operative through the lifetime of the individual with cancer. Each mutational process leaves a characteristic mutational signature determined by the mechanisms of DNA damage and repair that constitute it. A role was recently proposed for the APOBEC family of cytidine deaminases in generating particular genome-wide mutational signatures and a signature of localized hypermutation called kataegis. A germline copy number polymorphism involving APOBEC3A and APOBEC3B, which effectively deletes APOBEC3B, has been associated with modestly increased risk of breast cancer. Here we show that breast cancers in carriers of the deletion show more mutations of the putative APOBEC-dependent genome-wide signatures than cancers in non-carriers. The results suggest that the APOBEC3A-APOBEC3B germline deletion allele confers cancer susceptibility through increased activity of APOBEC-dependent mutational processes, although the mechanism by which this increase in activity occurs remains unknown.
Neuroleptic-induced vacuous chewing movements (VCM) in rats, a putative analogue to tardive dyskinesia in man, may involve degeneration within striatum as well as changes in neurotransmitter and receptor expression. In this study, we measured the expression of dopamine D(1) receptor mRNA by dorsal striatal neurons in rats with high and low level of VCM after treatment with haloperidol for 38 weeks. Both the average integrated density of the in situ hybridization signal and number of cells obtained by the stereological cell counting remained within control level, irrespective of the level of haloperidol-induced oral dyskinesia.
Cardiotoxicity is a potential adverse effect of anthracycline (A) therapy. Radiotherapy (XRT) may also cause a variety of cardiac complications. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate these cardiac side-effects in children and adolescents treated for cancer. We assessed the cardiac status of 91 patients, divided into three groups: Group A (n = 53) had anthracyclines at a mean cumulative dose of 410 mg/m2, group A+XRT (n = 26) had both chest irradiation (XRT) and A (mean 360 mg/m2), and group XRT (n = 12) had XRT alone. The patients differed from the controls in both systolic and diastolic indices of myocardial function. In echocardiography, the left ventricular (LV) contractility was abnormal in 32% in group A, in 50% in group A+XRT, and in 8% in group XRT. In radionuclide cineangiography, the LV ejection fraction was subnormal in 19% in group A, in 24% in group A+XRT, and in 1 patient in group XRT. A higher cumulative dose of A predicted decreased contractility. Treatment with A and/or XRT often leads to cardiotoxicity. Although in most cases this cardiotoxicity seems to be mild and subclinical, the long-term clinical sequelae merit further evaluation.
Maladaptive memories that associate environmental stimuli with the effects of drugs of abuse are known to be a major cause of relapse to, and persistence of, a drug addictive habit. However, memories may be disrupted after their acquisition and consolidation by impairing their reconsolidation. Here, we show that infusion of Zif268 antisense oligodeoxynucleotides into the basolateral amygdala, prior to the reactivation of a well-learned memory for a conditioned stimulus (CS)-cocaine association, abolishes the acquired conditioned reinforcing properties of the drug-associated stimulus and thus its impact on the learning of a new cocaine-seeking response. Furthermore, we show that reconsolidation of CS-fear memories also requires Zif268 in the amygdala. These results demonstrate that appetitive CS-drug memories undergo reconsolidation in a manner similar to aversive memories and that this amygdala-dependent reconsolidation can be disrupted to reduce the impact of drug cues on drug seeking.
