Breast cancer confined within the lactiferous duct or lobule, without invading the stroma, is called ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS), whereas breast cancer that has invaded the stroma through the basal membrane is called invasive cancer. Heparanase, an endo-beta-D-glucuronidase that specifically degrades heparan sulfate proteoglycans (HSPGs) in the extracellular matrix (ECM), plays an important role when breast cancer cells breach the basal membrane. Recently, we have reported that heparanase is involved in angiogenesis through direct induction of cyclo-oxygenase-2 (COX-2). COX-2 induces vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and is thus involved in neovascularization. The present study was undertaken to analyze surgically resected breast cancer specimens for heparanase and COX-2 expression, using specimens from 59 patients with invasive cancer and 85 patients with DCIS (including 41 cases of DCIS adjacent to invasive cancer). This study yielded the following results: a) the distribution of heparanase within tumor tissue was identical to that of COX-2; b) heparanase expression was more frequent in invasive cancer than in non-invasive cancer; c) a close positive correlation was noted between heparanase and COX-2 expression (this correlation was particularly strong in cases of invasive cancer); and d) COX-2 expression was always seen in cases positive for heparanase expression. Our results indicate that heparanase expression increases during the progression of breast cancer into invasive cancer, and that this change is accompanied by increased COX-2 expression. They also suggest that heparanase may play a novel role for COX-2 mediated tumor angiogenesis in breast-cancer progression.
Capesitabine is a orally administered cytotoxic drug metabolized to 5-fluorouracil and is widely used in large intestine cancer and breast cancer therapy. Its adverse effects against the heart have been considered to be rare. We describe four patients, who were diagnosed with an attack of coronary artery disease during capesitabine therapy on the basis of coronary spasm. This adverse effect should be kept in mind as a cause of chest pain symptoms and the medication discontinued in a suspected case.
N-type Ca(2+) channels (CaV2.2) are a nidus for neurotransmitter release and nociceptive transmission. However, the use of CaV2.2 blockers in pain therapeutics is limited by side effects resulting from inhibition of the physiological functions of CaV2.2 within the CNS. We identified an anti-nociceptive peptide (Brittain, J. M., Duarte, D. B., Wilson, S. M., Zhu, W., Ballard, C., Johnson, P. L., Liu, N., Xiong, W., Ripsch, M. S., Wang, Y., Fehrenbacher, J. C., Fitz, S. D., Khanna, M., Park, C. K., Schmutzler, B. S., Cheon, B. M., Due, M. R., Brustovetsky, T., Ashpole, N. M., Hudmon, A., Meroueh, S. O., Hingtgen, C. M., Brustovetsky, N., Ji, R. R., Hurley, J. H., Jin, X., Shekhar, A., Xu, X. M., Oxford, G. S., Vasko, M. R., White, F. A., and Khanna, R. (2011) Suppression of inflammatory and neuropathic pain by uncoupling CRMP2 from the presynaptic Ca(2+) channel complex. Nat. Med. 17, 822-829) derived from the axonal collapsin response mediator protein 2 (CRMP2), a protein known to bind and enhance CaV2.2 activity. Using a peptide tiling array, we identified novel peptides within the first intracellular loop (CaV2.2(388-402), "L1") and the distal C terminus (CaV1.2(2014-2028) "Ct-dis") that bound CRMP2. Microscale thermophoresis demonstrated micromolar and nanomolar binding affinities between recombinant CRMP2 and synthetic L1 and Ct-dis peptides, respectively. Co-immunoprecipitation experiments showed that CRMP2 association with CaV2.2 was inhibited by L1 and Ct-dis peptides. L1 and Ct-dis, rendered cell-penetrant by fusion with the protein transduction domain of the human immunodeficiency virus TAT protein, were tested in in vitro and in vivo experiments. Depolarization-induced calcium influx in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons was inhibited by both peptides. Ct-dis, but not L1, peptide inhibited depolarization-stimulated release of the neuropeptide transmitter calcitonin gene-related peptide in mouse DRG neurons. Similar results were obtained in DRGs from mice with a heterozygous mutation of Nf1 linked to neurofibromatosis type 1. Ct-dis peptide, administered intraperitoneally, exhibited antinociception in a zalcitabine (2'-3'-dideoxycytidine) model of AIDS therapy-induced and tibial nerve injury-related peripheral neuropathy. This study suggests that CaV peptides, by perturbing interactions with the neuromodulator CRMP2, contribute to suppression of neuronal hypersensitivity and nociception.
Cardiovascular events are accelerated in chronic kidney disease (CKD). Although deranged nitric oxide (NO) pathways and asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA) cause endothelial dysfunction, no direct evidence for coronary artery endothelial dysfunction in CKD has been documented. CKD was induced in male dogs by heminephrectomy (1/2Nx) or five-sixths nephrectomy (5/6Nx). After 4 wk, renal ablation reduced GFR (control 76 [54 to 85]; 1/2Nx 38 [29 to 47]; 5/6Nx 15 [12 to 46] ml/min) and elevated plasma ADMA (control 1.88 [1.68 to 2.54]; 1/2Nx 2.51 [2.11 to 3.55]; 5/6Nx 3.84 [2.16 to 3.95] micromol/L). Coronary circulatory responses to acetylcholine revealed marked increases in coronary blood flow in control group (83 +/- 17% increment) but blunted responses in 1/2Nx (34 +/- 8% increment) and 5/6Nx (20 +/- 4% increment). The acetylcholine-induced changes in epicardial arteriolar diameter, using needle-lens probe charge-coupled device videomicroscopy, showed similar results. The responsiveness to sodium nitroprusside did not differ among three groups. Plasma nitrite/nitrate levels decreased in 1/2Nx and 5/6Nx, and the mRNA expressions of dimethylarginine dimethylaminohydrolase-II (DDAH-II), ADMA-degrading enzyme, and endothelial NO synthase (eNOS) in coronary arteries were downregulated in 1/2Nx and 5/6Nx. Finally, 4-wk treatment with all-trans retinoic acid restored the impaired endothelium-dependent vasodilation and reversed the expression of eNOS but not DDAH-II. Coronary endothelial function is impaired in the early stage of CKD. The dysfunction is attributed to the downregulation of eNOS and/or DDAH-II in coronary arteries. Furthermore, the manipulation of NO pathways may constitute a therapeutic strategy for the prevention of coronary dysfunction in CKD.
Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs), a class of widely used flame retardants, are extensively diffused in the environment. Of particular concern are the reported highly sensitivity of PBDEs in children or developmental animals, however, almost no information is available on their potential effects on adults and the mechanisms are still unknown. In the present study, we investigated the neurotoxic effects of sub-chronic PBDE-47 exposure on adult male Sprague-Dawley rats. Thus, PBDE-47, 0.1, 0.5 and 1 mg/kg per day was administered to rats by gavage for 30 days. The learning and memory function was tested by Morris water maze. Further, in order to explore the potential mechanism, the expression of NMDA-receptors was evaluated by using both immunohistochemistry (IHC) and RT-PCR. Our results showed that sub-chronic exposure to PBDE-47 produced learning and memory deficits in male adult rats. Also, significant decrease in the CA1, CA3 and dentate gyrus areas of hippocampus affected by all three doses of PBDE-47 on the expression of NR(1), NR(2)B and Glu were found by IHC. In addition, the evaluation of expression of the NR(1), NR(2)B and NR(2)C showed statistically significant decrease in mRNA expression in rats exposed to PBDE-47. These findings showed that sub-chronic exposure to PBDE-47 could also induce behavioral alterations and the neurotoxic effects might due to the down-regulation expression of NMDA receptors. Our data indicated that the possibility of exposure of adults to PBDE-47 warranted further studies to characterize their potential neurotoxicity.
Doxorubicin is a highly effective antineoplastic drug, but its clinical use is limited by its adverse side effects on the heart. We investigated possible protective effects of erythropoietin against doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy.
Cardiomyopathy was induced in mice by a single intraperitoneal injection of doxorubicin (15 mg/kg). In some cases, human recombinant erythropoietin (5000 U/kg) was started simultaneously. Two weeks later, left ventricular dilatation and dysfunction were apparent in mice given doxorubicin but were significantly attenuated by erythropoietin treatment. Erythropoietin also protected hearts against doxorubicin-induced cardiomyocyte atrophy and degeneration, myocardial fibrosis, inflammatory cell infiltration, and downregulation of expression of GATA-4 and 3 sarcomeric proteins, myosin heavy chain, troponin I, and desmin. Cyclooxygenase-2 expression was upregulated in doxorubicin-treated hearts, and that, too, was attenuated by erythropoietin. No doxorubicin-induced apoptotic effects were seen, nor were any changes seen in the expression of tumor necrosis factor-alpha or transforming growth factor-beta1. Antiatrophic and GATA-4 restoring effects of erythropoietin were demonstrated in the in vitro experiments with cultured cardiomyocytes exposed to doxorubicin, which indicated the direct cardioprotective effects of erythropoietin beyond erythropoiesis. Cardiac erythropoietin receptor expression was downregulated in doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy but was restored by erythropoietin. Among the downstream mediators of erythropoietin receptor signaling, activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase was reduced by doxorubicin but restored by erythropoietin. By contrast, erythropoietin was ineffective when administered after cardiac dysfunction was established in the chronic stage.
The present study indicates a protective effect of erythropoietin against doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy.
Using glyphosate agrochemical components, we investigated their acute toxicity to juvenile Japanese medaka (Oryzias latipes) as well as their toxic impact at gene expression level on the liver tissues of adult medaka using DNA microarray. In our acute toxicity test, juvenile medaka were exposed for 96 hr to each of the following glyphosate agrochemical components: 10~160 mg/l of glyphosate, 1.25~20 mg/l of fatty acid alkanolamide surfactant (DA), and 12~416 mg/l of a fully formulated glyphosate herbicide. As a result, LC(50) values of glyphosate, DA, and the glyphosate herbicide were > 160 mg/l, 8.5 mg/l, and 76.8 mg/l, respectively. On the other hand, adult male medaka fish were exposed to each of the glyphosate agrochemical components for 48 hr at the following concentrations: 16 mg/l of glyphosate, 0.5 mg/l of DA, and 16 mg/l-glyphosate/0.5 mg/l-DA mixture. Interestingly, DNA microarray analysis revealed that there were no significant gene expression changes in the medaka liver after exposure to glyphosate. Nevertheless, 78 and 138 genes were significantly induced by DA and the glyphosate/DA mixture, respectively. Furthermore, we identified five common genes that were affected by DA and glyphosate/DA mixture. These results suggested that glyphosate itself possessed very low toxicity as previously reported by some researchers at least to the small laboratory fish, and the major toxicity of the glyphosate agrochemical resided mainly in DA and perhaps in unintentionally generated byproduct(s) of glyphosate-DA mixture.
The non-competitive NMDA-antagonist, Ketamine, was infused (i.v.) in healthy volunteers to study the effect on central excitability with the presence of cutaneous hyperalgesia. Hyperalgesia was established experimentally on the dorsum of the foot by topical application of capsaicin (1%). Different thermal and mechanical conditioning stimuli were applied to the primary and secondary hyperalgesic areas to modulate the central nociceptive excitability monitored by the nociceptive reflex. When the elicited reflex was combined with an activation of the secondary hyperalgesic area by continuous, non-painful, electrical stimulation, a facilitation of the reflex was observed. This indicates that summation of activity in non-nociceptive and nociceptive afferents can occur under mild pathological conditions. Conditioning thermal stimuli of the primary hyperalgesic area were employed to intensify the allodynia prior to testing this interaction between tactile and nociceptive activity. The same reflex facilitation was inhibited by Ketamine. Furthermore, Ketamine decreased the pain intensity associated with the stimuli eliciting the reflex. Psychophysical measures to single and repeated electrical and thermal (laser) stimuli applied within the hyperalgesic areas were also obtained. The intensity of pain sensations produced by single, painful, electrical stimuli applied to the primary hyperalgesic region was reduced after Ketamine infusion. Finally, five repeated, electrical stimuli applied to the secondary hyperalgesic area were used to assess the temporal summation threshold. Ketamine caused an increase in the summation threshold compared to the placebo treatment. In conclusion, these results demonstrate that (1) summation of activity in non-nociceptive and nociceptive afferents occurs under hyperalgesic conditions and, (2) this summation can be inhibited by NMDA-antagonists. Therefore, the study shows an apparent involvement of NMDA-receptors in some of the central mechanisms underlying secondary hyperalgesia.
Carvedilol and lacidipine have been shown to exert cardioprotective effects in rat models of chronic hypertension. We investigated their effects in an acute model of pressure overload produced by suprarenal aortic constriction, in which enhanced myocardial production of endothelin-1 could play a crucial role. In the absence of drug treatment, after 1 week, aortic banding provoked an increase in carotid pressure associated with left ventricular hypertrophy (29%; P<0.01). These changes were accompanied by increased myocardial expression of preproendothelin-1 (2.5 times; P<0.05) and skeletal alpha-actin (3.6 times; P<0.05), but the expression of cardiac alpha-actin was not modified. Oral administration of carvedilol at a dose of 30 mg. kg(-1). d(-1) to rats with aortic banding normalized carotid pressure and left ventricular weight as well as preproendothelin-1 and skeletal alpha-actin gene expression. Carvedilol at a lower dose (7.5 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1)) and lacidipine 1 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1) had only moderate and nonsignificant effects on carotid pressure but largely prevented left ventricular hypertrophy (P<0.01) and preproendothelin-1 overexpression (P<0.05). Labetalol (60 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1)) tended to exert similar effects but insignificantly. These results show that the antihypertrophic properties of carvedilol and lacidipine are partly independent of their antihypertensive effects and may be related to their ability to blunt myocardial preproendothelin-1 overexpression. Moreover, carvedilol at a dose of 7.5 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1) did not prevent myocardial overexpression of skeletal alpha-actin, which suggests that, in this model, reexpression of a fetal gene can be activated by pressure overload independently of cardiac hypertrophy.
Systemic lidocaine has been reported to be effective in treating several neuropathic pain syndromes. Few reports relate plasma lidocaine concentration to analgesia and the available studies have been complicated by labile plasma lidocaine concentrations. We used a computer-controlled infusion pump (CCIP) to target and maintain stable plasma lidocaine concentrations and study the effect of intravenous lidocaine on (1) pain scores, (2) current perception thresholds, (3) side effects, and (4) pain distribution in patients suffering from peripheral nerve injury pain.
This study used a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled design. Eleven patients suffering from neuropathic pain after peripheral nerve injury received both a lidocaine and saline infusion in separate study sessions. The order of the study sessions was randomized and separated from each other by 1 week. The CCIP was programmed to target plasma lidocaine concentrations of 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, and 2.5 micrograms/ml, each held for 10 min. Pain scores and pain distribution were assessed in the painful area, and electrical current perception thresholds (CPT) of the ring finger were measured using a cutaneous perception threshold neurometer (Neurometer CPT, Neurotron, Baltimore, MD). Side effects were recorded at fixed intervals. Plasma lidocaine concentrations were measured at 4 and 9 min after each step increase in infusion and correlated with the observed effects.
Saline infusion had no effect. However, with lidocaine there was a significant plasma concentration-dependent decrease in pain scores starting at 1.5 micrograms/ml. This effect typically corresponded with a decrease in the size of the receptive field to which the pain was referred. For the electrical stimulus, there was no significant effect on cutaneous perception at 2000-Hz stimulation at the highest concentration examined; however, there was a significant increase in thresholds at 250-Hz (starting at 1.5 micrograms/ml) and 5-Hz (starting at 1.0 micrograms/ml) stimulation. There were no serious side effects. In all, 54.5% of patients reported lightheadedness (average plasma lidocaine concentration: 1.5 micrograms/ml) and one patient reported nausea (2.3 micrograms/ml).
The computer-controlled delivery of intravenous lidocaine results in relatively stable plasma concentrations which allows a more thorough evaluation of the relationship between plasma concentration and patient response. This administration methodology for intravenous lidocaine may prove to be a valuable clinical and research tool.
Previously, we demonstrated that bromodichloromethane (BDCM), a drinking water disinfection by-product, causes pregnancy loss in F344 rats when given on gestational days (GD) 6-10, encompassing the luteinizing hormone (LH)-dependent period of pregnancy (GD 7-10). Pregnancy loss, i.e., full-litter resorption, was associated with reduced serum progesterone levels; however, we were unable to identify an effect on serum LH. Here, we reevaluated serum LH levels using the more sensitive technique, DELFIA(R). We further sought to better define the temporal pattern of endocrine disruption caused by BDCM during pregnancy with more frequent sampling. Lastly, we attempted to prevent BDCM-induced pregnancy loss using exogenous progesterone or human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), an LH-agonist. BDCM, in 10% Alkamuls(R), was dosed at 75 mg/kg/day by gavage to F344 rats on GD 6-10 (plug day = GD 0). BDCM-induced pregnancy loss was associated with marked reductions in serum progesterone and LH on GD 10. The decrease in serum LH consistently preceded the decrease in progesterone. In the hormone replacement studies, BDCM and progesterone were administered on GD 6-10, hCG on GD 8-10. BDCM was delivered at 100 mg/kg/day, progesterone at 10 mg/kg twice daily, and hCG at 0.5 IU/0.2 ml/rat. Both progesterone and hCG prevented BDCM-induced pregnancy loss. Thus, BDCM-induced pregnancy loss was associated with marked GD-10 reductions in serum LH and corresponding decreases in progesterone. Furthermore, coadministration of an LH agonist prevented pregnancy loss, supporting the hypothesis that BDCM-induced pregnancy loss in the rat occurs via an LH-mediated mode of action.
We are confronted with a large and steadily growing number of bioactive compounds, including drugs, pesticides, and industrial by-products. The assessment of target specificity and potential toxic effect on human health and the environment generates a strong demand for robust and cost-effective models with high predictive power. We investigated the potential of the zebrafish embryo as a whole organism, vertebrate model to assess the specificity of compounds that are known to inhibit acetylcholinesterase (AChE). Inhibitors of AChE are widely used as drugs and pesticides. By application of simple assays and comparison with the phenotype of embryos with genetic lesions in the ache gene, we demonstrate that only one of the AChE inhibitors (galanthamine) reproduces the phenotype of ache mutant embryos. The other compounds produced additional effects indicating secondary targets. Our work demonstrates the power of a genetic system for toxicological evaluations. The combination of genetics and transgenesis with the other experimental virtues of the zebrafish embryo, such as small size and low cost, offers a whole organism platform for medium to high throughput compound testing.
Orexin/hypocretin signaling at the orexin 1 receptor (OX(1)R) has recently been implicated in addiction and relapse. We examined the role of the orexin system in cocaine-seeking elicited by a drug-associated context following abstinence or extinction from chronic cocaine self-administration. Male Sprague-Dawley rats self-administered cocaine in 2-h sessions for 10 days, followed by extinction training or extended abstinence in the home cage. The OX(1)R antagonist SB-334867 (SB; 10, 20, or 30 mg/kg, i.p.) was administered prior to re-exposure to the cocaine self-administration environment. We found that pretreatment with SB significantly attenuated cocaine-seeking when rats were placed back into the self-administration environment following either 1 day or 2 weeks of abstinence (no extinction), or following extinction of cocaine-seeking in an alternative environment (distinct from the training environment). These results indicate that orexin signaling at OX(1)R is critical for conditioned cocaine-seeking elicited by a drug-associated context, following either extinction or abstinence.
To study the effect of Daidzein on Antiarrhythmia.
The conventional antiarrhythmia methods were used.
Daidzein was remarkedly effective in preventing ventricular fibrillation induced by chloroform in mice and arrhythmia induced by aconitine in rats. The arrhythmia induced by adrenalin in rabbits was antagonized by Daidzein and it could obviously inhibit the action potential amplitude of isolated sciatic nerves in toads. And it could also prevent ventricular fibrillation induced by calcium chloride in rats, and obviously reduce the death rate of rats. Its anti-arrhythmic effect was dose-dependent.
Daidzein has obvious protective effect on drug-induced arrhythmia, which may be related to its inhibition of Na+ or Ca2+ influx and its blocking beta-adrenergic receptor.
Despite extensive evidence that air pollution affects childhood asthma, state-level and national-level tracking of asthma outcomes in relation to air pollution is limited.
Our goals were to evaluate the feasibility of linking the 2001 California Health Interview Survey (CHIS), air monitoring, and traffic data; estimate associations between traffic density (TD) or outdoor air pollutant concentrations and childhood asthma morbidity; and evaluate the usefulness of such databases, linkages, and analyses to Environmental Public Health Tracking (EPHT).
We estimated TD within 500 feet of residential cross-streets of respondents and annual average pollutant concentrations based on monitoring station measurements. We used logistic regression to examine associations with reported asthma symptoms and emergency department (ED) visits/hospitalizations.
Assignment of TD and air pollution exposures for cross-streets was successful for 82% of children with asthma in Los Angeles and San Diego, California, Counties. Children with asthma living in high ozone areas and areas with high concentrations of particulate matter < 10 microm in aerodynamic diameter experienced symptoms more frequently, and those living close to heavy traffic reported more ED visits/hospitalizations. The advantages of the CHIS for asthma EPHT include a large and representative sample, biennial data collection, and ascertainment of important socio-demographic and residential address information. Disadvantages are its cross-sectional design, reliance on parental reports of diagnoses and symptoms, and lack of information on some potential confounders.
Despite limitations, the CHIS provides a useful framework for examining air pollution and childhood asthma morbidity in support of EPHT, especially because later surveys address some noted gaps. We plan to employ CHIS 2003 and 2005 data and novel exposure assessment methods to re-examine the questions raised here.
Pain is one of the major disadvantages of rocuronium, which is used during induction of anesthesia. Even at subparalyzing doses, 50-100% of patients complain of intense pain. Sudden flexion and withdrawal movement in the wrist or arm have been reported following rocuronium use in many papers. No information about risk factors leading to this withdrawal movement or pain on injection is available and whether this reaction leads to erythema or to venous sequelae (i.e. thrombosis and thrombophlebitis) has not been systematically investigated. However, in both of our cases, visible reactions occurred and both patients were diagnosed with venous superficial thrombophlebitis. Therefore, we believe that rocuronium-related pain may, in part, be because of direct venous injury.
Chronic stimulus subsequent to cell injury plays an important role in cancer development, but the precise mechanisms remain unknown partly because appropriate animal models are lacking. In the present study, the effects of hepatotoxicant carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)) on in vivo mutagenicity were investigated using gpt delta mice with or without p53. Female B6C3F(1) p53-proficient or -deficient gpt delta mice were given a diet containing 300 ppm of 2-amino-3,8-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoxaline (MeIQx) for 13 weeks, concurrently with intraperitoneal injection of 1 ml/kg CCl(4) solution once a week. Mutant frequencies of gpt and red/gam in p53-proficient mice fed MeIQx were both significantly elevated by CCl(4)co-treatment. Enhancing effects of CCl(4) treatment were also noted in p53-deficient mice. In the mutation spectra analysis of gpt mutant colonies, G:C to T:A transversions were predominantly observed regardless of CCl(4) injection, and clonal expansion of gpt colonies were increased in the co-treated group as compared with MeIQx alone group. The present data showing no significant changes in mRNA expression levels of CYP1A2 and GSTa4 between MeIQx-treated groups with and without CCl(4). In the Western blotting analysis, CYP1A2 protein levels were significantly decreased in the co-treated group as compared to MeIQx alone group, and GSTα protein levels were not changed among any groups. It is suggested that the mutant frequency by co-treatment with CCl(4) might result from some factors other than p53 or MeIQx metabolism/excretion. Thus, our data clearly demonstrate that this model could be a powerful tool for identifying the mechanisms underlying combinatorial effects on carcinogenesis.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a noninvasive method to assess brain physiology and plasticity. TMS has shown that nervous system excitability may be altered in myopathy, and it presents with motor disinhibition on cortical and subcortical levels. Eight patients who had colchicine myopathy were observed to have fatigue, but they did not have significant weakness. This study investigated whether there was central reorganization to compensate for their muscle strength.
TMS was applied to study the central compensative mechanism. The TMS parameters included motor evoked potentials, central conduction time, cortical silent period and intracortical inhibition of paired TMS paradigms.
TMS results did not show any significant differences between patient and control groups.
Although central reorganization may occur in patients with hereditary myopathy to compensate for muscular strength, our study did not find any change in cortical excitabilities in acquired myopathy due to colchicine. Muscle fatigue may precede weakness as an early symptom of myopathy.
The present study was designed to investigate the anti-allodynic effects of current analgesic agents, such as pregabalin, amitriptyline, mexiletine, morphine, and diclofenac, in a rat model of streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic neuropathy. Diabetic rats developed a sustained decrease in withdrawal threshold response to the von Frey test within 8 weeks after a single injection of STZ (45 mg/kg, i.v.). The anti-allodynic effects of analgesic agents were examined after a single oral or subcutaneous administration at 3 and 7 weeks after beginning of STZ-treatment. Pregabalin (3-30 mg/kg, p.o.), an antiepileptic agent, dose-dependently blocked the mechanical allodynia in rats treated both at 3 and 7 weeks. Mexiletine (10-100 mg/kg, p.o.), a sodium channel blocker, dose-dependently ameliorated mechanical allodynia in rats treated at 3 weeks; however, the efficacy was diminished at 7 weeks. Morphine (1-10 mg/kg, s.c.) was effective in rats treated at 3 weeks; however, it was ineffective at 7 weeks. Conversely, an antidepressant amitriptyline (0.3-3 mg/kg, p.o.) improved mechanical allodynia in rats treated at 7 weeks, whereas it was ineffective at 3 weeks. Diclofenac, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug, was ineffective at both time points. These results demonstrate that, except for diclofenac, the standard analgesic agents tested can effectively alleviate the mechanical allodynia seen in STZ-induced diabetic neuropathy. Their efficacies varied depending on the duration of the diabetic condition, suggesting that temporal changes in pharmacodynamic factors could affect the responsiveness of this model to analgesic agents.
Mast cells constitute a significant proportion of cells infiltrating nasal polyp tissue, and epithelial cells may release stem cell factor (SCF), a cytokine with chemotactic and survival activity for mast cells. We aimed to assess the expression of SCF in human nasal polyp epithelial cells (NPECs) as related to patients' clinical phenotypes. Nasal polyp tissues were obtained from 29 patients [including nine with aspirin (ASA)-hypersensitivity and 12 with bronchial asthma] undergoing polypectomy for nasal obstruction. Epithelial cells were obtained following 6-week culture of nasal polyps explants. The SCF released into the culture supernatant was assessed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and total SCF mRNA in the polyp tissue was determined by semiquantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). For the whole group of patients, the number of polypectomies correlated with expression of SCF mRNA (r = 0.62; P < 0.005), SCF protein in the NPECs supernatants (r = 0.39; P < 0.05) and with density of mast cells in epithelial layer (r = 0.37; P < 0.05) and stromal layer (r = 0.5; P < 0.01) of nasal polyps. The SCF/beta-actin mRNA ratios were significantly higher in ASA-hypersensitive (AH) asthmatics (median 0.97, range: 0.8-1.5) when compared with ASA-tolerant (AT) patients (median 0.5, range: 0.1-0.7; P < 0.001). The SCF protein concentration in NPEC supernatants was also significantly higher in AH asthmatics (median 1.10 pg/microg DNA, range: 0.4-1.9) when compared with AT patients (median 0.1 pg/microg DNA, range: 0.02-1.2; P < 0.001). In the subpopulation of ASA-sensitive asthmatics the number of polypectomies correlated also with the density of mast cells and eosinophils in the polyp tissue.
Basic fibroblast growth factor is one of a class of heparin-binding growth factors that stimulates endothelial cell proliferation and migration in vitro and angiogenesis in vivo. The purpose of this study was to investigate the expression of basic fibroblast growth factor in chronic periapical lesions of endodontic origin. Ten chronic inflammatory periapical lesions were examined using immunohistochemical staining. The experimental control group consisted of four specimens of uninflamed periodontal ligament tissue. Two independent observers graded the staining intensity for basic fibroblast growth factor. An immunopositive, cytoplasmic, and nuclear reaction for basic fibroblast growth factor, with varying degrees of upregulation was observed in all 10 chronic periapical lesions. We speculate that the formation of granulation tissue and the activation of epithelial cell rests in chronical apical lesions might be associated with a local rise in the tissue level of basic fibroblast growth factor. Therefore, this growth factor could play an important role in the pathogenesis of chronic apical periodontitis and periapical cysts.
Lead is known to disrupt the biological systems by altering the molecular interactions, cell signaling, and cellular function. Exposure to even low levels of lead may have potential hazardous effects on brain, liver, kidneys and testes. The efficacy of Etlingera elatior (torch ginger) to protect hepatotoxicity induced by lead acetate was evaluated experimentally in male Sprague - Dawley rats. Rats were exposed to lead acetate in drinking water (500 ppm) for 21 days and the effects of concurrent treatment with extract of E. elatior on hepatic lipid hydroperoxides (LPO), protein carbonyl content (PCC), total antioxidants (TA), superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GPX) and glutathione S- Transferase (GST) levels and histopathological changes in liver were evaluated. There was a significant decrease in TA and other antioxidant enzymes (p < 0.05) and increase in LPO and PCC (p < 0.05) with lead acetate ingestion. Concurrent treatment with E. elatior extract significantly reduced the LPO and PCC (p < 0.05) in serum and increased the antioxidant enzyme levels (p < 0.05) in the liver. Significant histopathological changes were seen in hepatic tissue with chronic lead ingestion. Treatment with E. elatior significantly reduced these lead-induced changes in hepatic architecture. E. elatior has also reduced the blood lead levels (BLL). Thus, there has been extensive biochemical and structural alterations indicative of liver toxicity with exposure to lead and E. elatior treatment significantly reduced these oxidative damage. Our results suggest that E. elatior has a powerful antioxidant effect against lead-induced hepatotoxicity.
Pemoline is recognized as an efficacious and safe therapeutic agent for children suffering from Attention Deficit Disorder (ADD). A review of adverse experience reports submitted to the manufacturer suggests that Cylert (brand of pemoline) has a limited potential for abuse or dependence. Drug dependence studies in animals have demonstrated that pemoline is not self-administered in naive nor cocaine-dependent animals. Human experience indicates that, despite the fact that the drug has been available in the U.S. since 1975, use is limited and is increasing slowly. A review of the literature revealed no published case reports of euphoria, abuse, dependence or withdrawal. While there have been a few reports of tolerance, it is possible that these were a reflection of inadequate dosing rather than actual tolerance to the drug's therapeutic effects. During the 10 years that Cylert has been available in the United States, there have been only four reports of withdrawal reactions and no reported cases of dependence. Reports of intentional overdose of Cylert are minimal, with no reports involving abuse via the intravenous route.
The combination of irinotecan and a fluoro-pyrimidine is widely accepted as a treatment for advanced colorectal cancer. However, evaluable data on the feasibility of these combinations has not been presented, and an optimal sequence for administration has not been experimentally and clinically determined. The sequential effect of a combination of 5-FU and CPT-11 in the human colon cancer cell line LoVo was evaluated by WST-8 colorimetric assay. The cytotoxicity and cell cycle distributions of each drug were analyzed by apoptosis assay and flow cytometry. Further, the potential mechanisms of the sequence-dependent effects were investigated by a microarray technique, and confirmed by Western blot analysis. The cytotoxicity of 5-FU (10, 100, 1000 microM) followed by CPT-11 (1 microM) was significantly greater than that of CPT-11 (1 microM) followed by 5-FU (10, 100, 1000 microM) (p<0.05). In cell cycle distribution, 5-FU exposure for 24 h increased the S phase fraction in a dose-dependent manner; though there was no significant difference in cell cycle distribution in 24 h CPT-11 (0.01-1 microM) exposure. Microarray analysis revealed that expressions of some apoptosis related genes such as Bcl-2 changed, and were correlated with sequence-dependent cytotoxicity of the 5-FU --> CPT-11 sequence. Western blot analysis confirmed that the Bcl-2/Bax ratio was lower after 5-FU --> CPT-11 sequence than before. The sequence-dependent cytotoxic effect may depend on the sensitizing effect of 5-FU pretreatment on CPT-11 cytotoxicity. 5-FU followed by CPT-11 administration may be an optimal sequence for IFL treatment of advanced colon cancer.
The case histories of four patients who developed choreoathetoid movements during intoxication with phenytoin are presented. Drug intoxication was confirmed in each case by measuring the serum phenytoin concentration. Drug interactions were, in part, responsible for the occurrence of intoxication in three of them. Phenytoin intoxication is not always easy to recognize, particularly when nystagmus is minimal or absent, as in these four patients. The estimation of the serum phenytoin concentration is invaluable in this situation.
To investigate the evolution of metabolic effects associated with intravenous salbutamol infusion given together with 2 doses of intramuscular steroids in the treatment of preterm labour.
Preterm labour was inhibited with an intravenous infusion of salbutamol in 8 women between 26 and 32(+6) weeks with normal singleton pregnancies. Serum glucose concentration, serum potassium, sodium and insulin concentrations, and total white cell count both during the infusion as well as post-therapy, were plotted against time.
Intravenous salbutamol infusion administered at a rate required to inhibit uterine contractions in preterm labour causes a rise in serum glucose and plasma insulin concentrations. The serum glucose and plasma insulin levels peaked soon after cessation of therapy and took 2-3 hours to come to pre-infusion levels. The decline in serum potassium concentration was gradual and plateaued after 2 hours. Once the salbutamol infusion was stopped the potassium levels were back to normal by 2 hours. There is an increase in total white cell count within an hour of the initiation of therapy.
There is no need to administer insulin for hyperglycaemia and/or potassium for hypokalaemia unless the patient is a known diabetic or when a patient needs immediate surgery.
Rats that consumed a high-fat and high-sucrose (HF1) diet or a high-fat (HF2) diet developed hepatic steatosis. The alteration in nutritional status affected hepatic cytochrome P450 and UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) levels. Messenger RNA and protein levels of UGT1A1 and UGT1A6 in the liver but not the jejunum were increased in male rats fed the HF1 diet. These protein levels did not increase in HF2-fed male rats or HF1-fed female rats. In contrast, the CYP1A2 protein level was decreased in the HF1 but not HF2 diet group, whereas CYP2E1 and CYP4A protein levels were elevated in the HF2 but not HF1 diet group. No significant difference in the organic anion transporter polypeptide (Oatp) 1, Oatp2, multidrug resistance-associated protein (Mrp) 2, or Mrp3 protein levels was found between the standard and HF1 diet groups of male rats. Consumption of the HF1 diet affected the in vivo metabolism of acetaminophen (APAP) such that the area under the APAP-glucuronide plasma concentration-time curve was elevated 2.1-fold in male rats but not female rats. In liver cell nuclei of male rats but not female rats, constitutive androstane receptor (CAR) and proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha) protein levels were significantly enhanced by intake of the HF1 diet. Additionally, administration of the PPARalpha agonist clofibrate to male rats up-regulated UGT1A1 and UGT1A6 and down-regulated CYP1A2 in the liver. Taken together, these results indicate that nutritional status may gender-specifically influence the expression and activation of CAR and PPARalpha in liver cell nuclei, and this effect appears to be associated with alterations in UGT1A1 and UGT1A6 expression.
A case of acute and spontaneous spinal epidural hemorrhage is described in which there was no history or evidence of trauma, conventional anticoagulant therapy, hemophilia or vascular anomalies. A recent history of excessive ingestion of an aspirin-containing medication was obtained and the clinical and laboratory picture of an aspirin-induced bleeding disorder was documented. We have discussed the mechanism and hematological considerations of the syndrome of aspirin induced bleeding.
