To report a serious side-effect of intravesical instillations of neomycin in patients with end-stage renal disease.
Three patients (two men and a woman, aged 51.71 and 54 respectively) with end-stage renal disease who had undergone bladder irrigation with neomycin sulphate solution suffered complete irreversible deafness, which was assessed by audiogram.
All three patients developed complete perception deafness after 3, 4 and 10 months, with characteristic changes in the audiogram. The severe progressive hearing loss was maximal in the high-frequency range. A high-pitched tinnitus was the first sign of impending hearing difficulty and two patients developed a spontaneous nystagmus.
In view of the doubtful efficacy and, most importantly, the risk of severe disabling side-effects such as ototoxicity, we recommend the avoidance of intravesical instillation with neomycin whenever possible.
We report the long-term follow-up results of a phase II trial of thalidomide for early-stage multiple myeloma (MM). Patients were eligible if they had smoldering multiple myeloma (SMM) or indolent MM without the need for immediate therapy. Thalidomide was initiated at a dose of 200 mg/day and adjusted as tolerated. Disease progression was defined using modified American Society of Hematology/Food and Drug Administration consensus panel criteria for SMM. Thirty-one patients were enrolled; 29 (19 SMM and 10 indolent MM) were eligible. The median age was 61 years. Median follow-up of living patients was 10.2 years (range, 7.5-11.0 years). Ten patients (34%) had a partial response (PR) and nine had minimal response (MR) for an MR plus PR rate of 66%. The median time to progression (TTP) to symptomatic myeloma was 35 months. Median TTP was 61 months in those achieving PR, 39 months with MR, and 9 months among those failing to achieve either MR or PR, P = 0.005. Median overall survival from diagnosis was 86 months; median survival from onset of symptomatic myeloma was 49 months. Grade 3-4 nonhematologic adverse events were noted in 55% of patients. Randomized trials are needed to determine the role of early therapy in SMM.
Neuroblastoma accounts for 15% of pediatric cancer deaths, and although a few protein-coding genes, such as MYCN, are involved with aggressive pathogenicity, the identification of novel biological targets for therapeutic intervention is still a necessary prerequisite for improving patient survival. Expression profiling of 157 microRNA (miRNA) loci in 35 primary neuroblastoma tumors indicates that 32 loci are differentially expressed in favorable and unfavorable tumor subtypes, indicating a potential role of miRNAs in neuroblastoma pathogenesis. Many of these loci are significantly underexpressed in tumors with MYCN amplification, which have particularly poor prognoses. Interestingly, we found that miRNA expression levels substantially change in a MYCN-amplified cell line following exposure to retinoic acid, a compound which is well known for causing reductions in MYCN expression and for inducing neuroblastoma cell lines to undergo neuronal differentiation. We also show that small interfering RNA inhibition of MYCN by itself causes similar alterations in the expression of miRNA loci. In vitro functional studies of one locus, miR-184, indicate that it plays a significant role in apoptosis. The association of experimentally induced alterations of miRNA expression in neuroblastoma cell lines with differentiation or apoptosis leads us to conclude that these loci play important roles in neuroblastoma pathogenesis. We further suggest that MYCN may mediate a tumorigenic effect, in part, through directly or indirectly regulating the expression of miRNAs that are involved with neural cell differentiation and/or apoptosis, warranting substantial further studies of miRNAs as potential therapeutic targets.
Changes in basement membrane (BM) structure were studied in functioning and hyperplastic endometrium, in adenocarcinomas with various degrees of differentiation and in progesterone-treated adenocarcinomas using electron microscopy and immunohistochemical staining with antibodies against human type IV collagen and laminin. These BM components were distinctly visualized as narrow, continuous bands beneath the epithelium and around the endometrial glands in functioning, atrophic and hyperplastic endometrium. In well-differentiated endometrial carcinomas there was mostly a continuous BM, though occasional disruptions were seen. The undifferentiated tumors, on the other hand, were characterized by the absence of a continuous BM structure, although irregular patches of BM material were found within the neoplasm. Hormonal treatment caused the reappearance of the BM structures. According to these results, the visualization of the BMs in the endometrium not only increases our understanding of tumor behavior, but can also be used as an aid for the classification and treatment of endometrial neoplasms.
We report the results of a meta-analysis of genome-wide association scans for multiple sclerosis (MS) susceptibility that includes 2,624 subjects with MS and 7,220 control subjects. Replication in an independent set of 2,215 subjects with MS and 2,116 control subjects validates new MS susceptibility loci at TNFRSF1A (combined P = 1.59 x 10(-11)), IRF8 (P = 3.73 x 10(-9)) and CD6 (P = 3.79 x 10(-9)). TNFRSF1A harbors two independent susceptibility alleles: rs1800693 is a common variant with modest effect (odds ratio = 1.2), whereas rs4149584 is a nonsynonymous coding polymorphism of low frequency but with stronger effect (allele frequency = 0.02; odds ratio = 1.6). We also report that the susceptibility allele near IRF8, which encodes a transcription factor known to function in type I interferon signaling, is associated with higher mRNA expression of interferon-response pathway genes in subjects with MS.
Exposure to arsenic-contaminated water has been shown to be associated with cardiovascular disease, especially atherosclerosis. We examined the effect of arsenic exposure on atherosclerotic lesion formation, lesion composition and nature in ApoE-/- mice. Early post-natal exposure (3-week-old mice exposed to 49 ppm arsenic as NaAsO(2) in drinking water for 7 weeks) increased the atherosclerotic lesion formation by 3- to 5-fold in the aortic valve and the aortic arch, without affecting plasma cholesterol. Exposure to arsenic for 13 weeks (3-week-old mice exposed to 1, 4.9 and 49 ppm arsenic as NaAsO(2) in drinking water) increased the lesion formation and macrophage accumulation in a dose-dependent manner. Temporal studies showed that continuous arsenic exposure significantly exacerbated the lesion formation throughout the aortic tree at 16 and 36 weeks of age. Withdrawal of arsenic for 12 weeks after an initial exposure for 21 weeks (to 3-week-old mice) significantly decreased lesion formation as compared with mice continuously exposed to arsenic. Similarly, adult exposure to 49 ppm arsenic for 24 weeks, starting at 12 weeks of age increased lesion formation by 2- to 3.6-fold in the aortic valve, the aortic arch and the abdominal aorta. Lesions of arsenic-exposed mice displayed a 1.8-fold increase in macrophage accumulation whereas smooth muscle cell and T-lymphocyte contents were not changed. Expression of pro-inflammatory chemokine MCP-1 and cytokine IL-6 and markers of oxidative stress, protein-HNE and protein-MDA adducts were markedly increased in lesions of arsenic-exposed mice. Plasma concentrations of MCP-1, IL-6 and MDA were also significantly elevated in arsenic-exposed mice. These data suggest that arsenic exposure increases oxidative stress, inflammation and atherosclerotic lesion formation.
Accumulating evidence suggests that peroxynitrite (ONOO(-)) is involved in the pathogenesis of insulin resistance. In the current study, we investigated whether insulin resistance in vivo could be mediated by nitration of proteins involved in the early steps of the insulin signal transduction pathway. Exogenous peroxynitrite donated by 3-morpholinosydnonimine hydrochloride (SIN-1) induced in vivo nitration of the insulin receptor beta subunit (IRbeta), insulin receptor substrate (IRS)-1, and protein kinase B/Akt (Akt) in skeletal muscle of mice and dramatically reduced whole-body insulin sensitivity and muscle insulin signaling. Moreover, in high-fat diet (HFD)-fed insulin-resistant mice, we observed enhanced nitration of IRbeta and IRS-1 in skeletal muscle, in parallel with impaired whole-body insulin sensitivity and muscle insulin signaling. Reversal of nitration of these proteins by treatment with the peroxynitrite decomposition catalyst FeTPPS yielded an improvement in whole-body insulin sensitivity and muscle insulin signaling in HFD-fed mice. Taken together, these findings provide new mechanistic insights for the involvement of peroxynitrite in the development of insulin resistance and suggest that nitration of proteins involved in the early steps of insulin signal transduction is a novel molecular mechanism of HFD-induced muscle insulin resistance.
Guinea pigs (GP) were exposed (head only) in individual plethysmographs to various concentrations of sulfur mustard vapor, determined online, using FTIR attached to flow chamber. The LCt(50) and the inhaled LD(50) were calculated at different time points post exposure. Surviving animals were monitored for clinical symptoms, respiratory parameters and body weight changes for up to 30 days. Clinical symptoms were noted at 3 h post exposure, characterized by erythematic and swelling nose with extensive mucous secretion (with or without bleeding). At 6 h post exposure most of the guinea pigs had breathing difficulties, rhonchi and dyspnea and few deaths were noted. These symptoms peaked at 48 h and were noted up to 8 days, associated with few additional deaths. Thereafter, a spontaneous healing was noted, characterized by recovery of respiratory parameters and normal weight gain with almost complete apparent healing within 2 weeks. Histopathological evaluation of lungs and trachea in the surviving GPs at 4 weeks post exposure revealed a dose-dependent residual injury in both lung and trachea expressed by abnormal recovery of the tracheal epithelium concomitant with a dose-dependent increase in cellular volume in the lungs. These abnormal epithelial regeneration and lung remodeling were accompanied with significant changes in protein, LDH, differential cell count and glutathione levels in the bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL). It is suggested that the abnormal epithelial growth and cellular infiltration into the lung as well as the continuous lung inflammation could cause recurrent lung injury similar to that reported for HD exposed human casualties.
A 4-year-old girl developed severe hepatitis following the fourth administration of halothane in a period of 5 months. She was shown to have a circulating antibody which acted specifically against rabbit hepatocyte previously sensitized to halothane. The patient made a full recovery from the hepatitis, but 5 months later, developed diabetes mellitus.
Diabetic nephropathy is characterized by increased oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction. In the present study, we prepared primary cultures of proximal tubular (PT) cells from diabetic rats 30 days after an ip injection of streptozotocin and compared their susceptibility to oxidants (tert-butyl hydroperoxide, methyl vinyl ketone) and a mitochondrial toxicant (antimycin A) with that of PT cells isolated from age-matched control rats, to test the hypothesis that PT cells from diabetic rats exhibit more cellular and mitochondrial injury than those from control rats when exposed to these toxicants. PT cells from diabetic rats exhibited higher basal levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and higher mitochondrial membrane potential, demonstrating that the PT cells maintain the diabetic phenotype in primary culture. Incubation with either the oxidants or mitochondrial toxicant resulted in greater necrotic and apoptotic cell death, greater evidence of morphological damage, greater increases in ROS, and greater decreases in mitochondrial membrane potential in PT cells from diabetic rats than in those from control rats. Pretreatment with either the antioxidant N-acetyl-l-cysteine or a catalase mimetic provided equivalent protection of PT cells from both diabetic and control rats. Despite the greater susceptibility to oxidative and mitochondrial injury, both cytoplasmic and mitochondrial glutathione concentrations were markedly higher in PT cells from diabetic rats, suggesting an upregulation of antioxidant processes in diabetic kidney. These results support the hypothesis that primary cultures of PT cells from diabetic rats are a valid model in which to study renal cellular function in the diabetic state.
To determine the validity of the non-invasive method of CT perfusion (CTP) in rat model of hepatic diffuse disease.
Twenty-eight Wistar rats were divided into two groups. Liver diffuse lesions were induced by diethylnitrosamine in 14 rats of test group. Rats in control group were bred with pure water. From the 1st to 12th wk after the test group was intervened, both groups were studied every week with CTP. CTP parameters of liver parenchyma in different periods and pathologic changes in two groups were compared and analyzed.
The process of hepatic diffuse lesions in test groups was classified into three stages or periods according to the pathologic alterations, namely hepatitis, hepatic fibrosis, and cirrhosis. During this period, hepatic artery flow (HAF) of control group declined slightly, mean transit time (MTT), blood flow (BF) and volume (BV) increased, but there were no significant differences between different periods. In test group, HAF tended to increase gradually, MTT prolonged obviously, BV and BF decreased at the same time. The results of statistical analysis revealed that the difference in the HAF ratio of test group to control group was significant. The ratio of BV and BF in test group to control group in stage of hepatitis and hepatic cirrhosis, hepatic fibrosis and early stage of hepatic cirrhosis was significantly different, but there was no significant difference between hepatitis and hepatic fibrosis. The main pathological changes in stage of hepatitis were swelling of hepatic cells, while sinusoid capillarization and deposition of collagen aggravated gradually in the extravascular Disse's spaces in stage of fibrosis and early stage of cirrhosis.
The technique could reflect some early changes of hepatic blood perfusion in rat with liver diffuse disease and is valuable for their early diagnosis.
All cases of arrhythmias associated with thioridazine were reviewed (177 cases). No case of severe ventricular arrhythmia was reported in children. In adults, at therapeutic doses, ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation (VT/VF) or torsade de pointes was observed mainly in patients with concomitant risk factors. At doses higher than 800 mg, atrioventricular (A-V) and bundle branch blocks were associated with VT/VF. Mortality was higher in patients with A-V blocks. Although transient cardiac pacing is known to be efficacious to control phenothiazine-induced arrhythmias, it was rarely used.
Gliomatosis cerebri is a rare, diffusely growing neuroepithelial tumor characterized by extensive brain infiltration involving more than two cerebral lobes. Among 13 patients with gliomatosis cerebri (median age, 46 years), biopsies showed features of diffuse astrocytoma (n = 4), oligoastrocytoma (n = 1), anaplastic astrocytoma (n = 5), anaplastic oligoastrocytoma (n = 1), or glioblastoma (n = 2). Molecular genetic investigation showed TP53 mutations in three of seven tumors and both PTEN mutation and epidermal growth factor receptor overexpression in one tumor. Amplification of CDK4 or MDM2 or homozygous deletion of CDKN2A was not detected. Three of 10 patients receiving radiotherapy showed a partial response (one patient) or had stable disease (two patients) lasting for more than 1 year. Four of six patients treated with procarbazine, carmustine, vincristine chemotherapy demonstrated partial remission (one patient), minor response (two patients), or stable disease (one patient). Median survival time from diagnosis was 14 months (range, 4-91+ months). Infratentorial involvement was associated with shorter survival. We conclude that (1) the molecular genetic alterations in gliomatosis cerebri resemble those in diffuse astrocytomas; (2) the prognosis of gliomatosis cerebri is variable but for at least 50% of patients as poor as for glioblastoma; and (3) some patients respond to radiotherapy and/or procarbazine, carmustine, vincristine chemotherapy.
The ENU-induced neurological mutant ataxia3 was mapped to distal mouse chromosome 15. Sequencing of the positional candidate gene Scn8a encoding the sodium channel Na(v)1.6 identified a T>C transition in exon 1 resulting in the amino acid substitution p.S21P near the N terminus of the channel. The cytoplasmic N-terminal region is evolutionarily conserved but its function has not been well characterized. ataxia3 homozygotes exhibit a severe disorder that includes ataxia, tremor, and juvenile lethality. Unlike Scn8a null mice, they retain partial hindlimb function. The mutant transcript is stable but protein abundance is reduced and the mutant channel is not detected in its usual site of concentration at nodes of Ranvier. In whole-cell patch-clamp studies of transfected ND7/23 cells that were maintained at 37 degrees C, the mutant channel did not produce sodium current, and function was not restored by coexpression of beta1 and beta2 subunits. However, when transfected cells were maintained at 30 degrees C, the mutant channel generated voltage-dependent inward sodium currents with an average peak current density comparable with wild type, demonstrating recovery of channel activity. Immunohistochemistry of primary cerebellar granule cells from ataxia3 mice demonstrated that the mutant protein is retained in the cis-Golgi. This trafficking defect can account for the low level of Na(v)1.6-S21P at nodes of Ranvier in vivo and at the surface of transfected cells. The data demonstrate that the cytoplasmic N-terminal domain of the sodium channel is required for anterograde transport from the Golgi complex to the plasma membrane.
Aicardi-Goutières syndrome is a mendelian mimic of congenital infection and also shows overlap with systemic lupus erythematosus at both a clinical and biochemical level. The recent identification of mutations in TREX1 and genes encoding the RNASEH2 complex and studies of the function of TREX1 in DNA metabolism have defined a previously unknown mechanism for the initiation of autoimmunity by interferon-stimulatory nucleic acid. Here we describe mutations in SAMHD1 as the cause of AGS at the AGS5 locus and present data to show that SAMHD1 may act as a negative regulator of the cell-intrinsic antiviral response.
To identify multiple sclerosis (MS) susceptibility loci, we conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) in 1,618 cases and used shared data for 3,413 controls. We performed replication in an independent set of 2,256 cases and 2,310 controls, for a total of 3,874 cases and 5,723 controls. We identified risk-associated SNPs on chromosome 12q13-14 (rs703842, P = 5.4 x 10(-11); rs10876994, P = 2.7 x 10(-10); rs12368653, P = 1.0 x 10(-7)) and upstream of CD40 on chromosome 20q13 (rs6074022, P = 1.3 x 10(-7); rs1569723, P = 2.9 x 10(-7)). Both loci are also associated with other autoimmune diseases. We also replicated several known MS associations (HLA-DR15, P = 7.0 x 10(-184); CD58, P = 9.6 x 10(-8); EVI5-RPL5, P = 2.5 x 10(-6); IL2RA, P = 7.4 x 10(-6); CLEC16A, P = 1.1 x 10(-4); IL7R, P = 1.3 x 10(-3); TYK2, P = 3.5 x 10(-3)) and observed a statistical interaction between SNPs in EVI5-RPL5 and HLA-DR15 (P = 0.001).
Congenital cytomegalovirus brain infection without symptoms at birth can cause a static encephalopathy with characteristic patterns of brain abnormalities. Here we show that loss-of-function mutations in the gene encoding the RNASET2 glycoprotein lead to cystic leukoencephalopathy, an autosomal recessive disorder with an indistinguishable clinical and neuroradiological phenotype. Congenital cytomegalovirus infection and RNASET2 deficiency may both interfere with brain development and myelination through angiogenesis or RNA metabolism.
Nicotine is helpful in stopping smoking but its influence on cardiovascular risk factors is incomplete. Our aim was to determine its effect on blood pressure, routine haematology indices, and coagulation indices relevant to thrombosis. Eighteen subjects were seen whilst smoking (cotinine levels 1119 +/- 414 ng/ml), again after stopping smoking but while using nicotine chewing gum and/or skin patches (392 +/- 198 ng/ml), and again when not using nicotine (cotinine undetectable). There were no significant changes in blood pressures, platelet count, mean platelet volume, viscosity or anti-thrombin III. However, white blood cell count (p = 0.003), lymphocyte count (p = 0.016), red blood cell count (p = 0.02), haemoglobin (p <0.001), fibrinogen (p <0.001) and von Willebrand factor (p = 0.001) all fell between the first and second samples (when still using nicotine) but not between the second and third samples (when off nicotine). Oral and/or transdermal nicotine does not influence blood pressure or the haematology and coagulation indices we have measured.
Dietary animal fat increases the risk of colorectal cancer. A factor in the increased risk is hypothesised to result from the inhibition of isoforms of a colonic epithelial cell enzyme that detoxifies genotoxins, glutathione S-transferase, by one of the major secondary bile acids produced in the colon by fat digestion, lithocholic acid. The inhibition allows mutagens to persist in colonic epithelial cells while proliferation is stimulated by secondary bile acids, with a concomitant greater frequency of neoplasia-associated mutations than when proliferation is stimulated in the absence of the mutagens. Elements in the hypothesis include the ability of relatively low concentrations of lithocholic acid to inhibit isoforms of glutathione S-transferase found in colon epithelial cells, entry of lithocholic acid into the epithelial cells, and the correlation of neoplasia-associated colon pathology with high levels of lithocholic acid in fecal water. Higher pH values in the colonic stream are identified as exacerbating the effects of lithocholic acid by increasing its solubility. Lithocholic acid is suggested to be more inhibitory to glutathione S-transferase than the other major colonic secondary bile acid, deoxycholic acid, on the basis of inhibition-structure relationships.
Combination therapy is increasingly recommended for patients with multiple lipid disorders, especially those at high risk for coronary events. We investigated the long-term safety and effectiveness of a new drug formulation containing once-daily extended-release niacin and lovastatin. A total of 814 men and women (mean age 59 years) with dyslipidemia were enrolled in a 52-week multicenter, open-label study. We used 4 escalating doses (niacin/lovastatin in milligrams): 500/10 for the first month, 1,000/20 for the second, 1,500/30 for the third, and 2,000/40 for the fourth month through week 52. Dose-dependent effects were observed for all major lipid parameters. At week 16, mean low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and triglycerides were reduced by 47% and 41%, respectively; mean high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol was increased by 30% (all p <0.001). LDL/HDL cholesterol and total/HDL cholesterol ratios were also decreased by 58% and 48%, respectively. These effects persisted through week 52, except for the mean increase in HDL cholesterol, which had increased to 41% at 1 year. Lipoprotein (a) and C-reactive protein also decreased in a dose-related manner (by 25% and 24%, respectively, on 2,000/40 mg; p <0.01 vs baseline). Treatment was generally well tolerated. The most common adverse event was flushing, which caused 10% of patients to withdraw. Other adverse events included gastrointestinal upset, pruritus, rash, and headache. Drug-induced myopathy did not occur in any patient. The incidence of elevated liver enzymes to >3 times the upper limit of normal was 0.5%. Once-daily niacin/lovastatin exhibits substantial effects on multiple lipid risk factors and represents a significant new treatment option in the management of dyslipidemia.
Chlorine is an industrial chemical that can cause cutaneous burns. Understanding the molecular mechanisms of tissue damage and wound healing is important for the selection and development of an effective post-exposure treatment. This study investigated the effect of cutaneous chlorine vapor exposure using a weanling swine burn model and microarray analysis. Ventral abdominal sites were exposed to a mean calculated chlorine vapor concentration of 2.9 g/L for 30 min. Skin samples were harvested at 1.5 h, 3 h, 6 h, and 24 h post-exposure and stored in RNAlater(®) until processing. Total RNA was isolated, processed, and hybridized to Affymetrix GeneChip(®) Porcine Genome Arrays. Differences in gene expression were observed with respect to sampling time. Ingenuity Pathways Analysis revealed seven common biological functions among the top ten functions of each time point, while canonical pathway analysis revealed 3 genes (IL-6, IL1A, and IL1B) were commonly shared among three significantly altered signaling pathways. The transcripts encoding all three genes were identified as common potential therapeutic targets for Phase II/III clinical trial, or FDA-approved drugs. The present study shows transcriptional profiling of cutaneous wounds induced by chlorine exposure identified potential targets for developing therapeutics against chlorine-induced skin injury.
Polyvinyl alcohol (PVA)/sodium alginate (SA) hydrogel matrix-based wound dressing systems containing nitrofurazone (NFZ), a topical anti-infective drug, were developed using freeze-thawing method. Aqueous solutions of nitrofurazone and PVA/SA mixtures in different weight ratios were mixed homogeneously, placed in petri dishes, freezed at -20 degrees C for 18h and thawed at room temperature for 6h, for three consecutive cycles, and evaluated for swelling ratio, tensile strength, elongation and thermal stability of the hydrogel. Furthermore, the drug release from this nitrofurazone-loaded hydrogel, in vitro protein adsorption test and in vivo wound healing observations in rats were performed. Increased SA concentration decreased the gelation%, maximum strength and break elongation, but it resulted into an increment in the swelling ability, elasticity and thermal stability of hydrogel film. However, SA had insignificant effect on the release of nitrofurazone. The amounts of proteins adsorbed on hydrogel were increased with increasing sodium alginate ratio, indicating the reduced blood compatibility. In vivo experiments showed that this hydrogel improved the healing rate of artificial wounds in rats. Thus, PVA/SA hydrogel matrix based wound dressing systems containing nitrofurazone could be a novel approach in wound care.
