Primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD) is a genetically heterogeneous autosomal recessive disorder characterized by recurrent infections of the respiratory tract associated with the abnormal function of motile cilia. Approximately half of individuals with PCD also have alterations in the left-right organization of their internal organ positioning, including situs inversus and situs ambiguous (Kartagener's syndrome). Here, we identify an uncharacterized coiled-coil domain containing a protein, CCDC40, essential for correct left-right patterning in mouse, zebrafish and human. In mouse and zebrafish, Ccdc40 is expressed in tissues that contain motile cilia, and mutations in Ccdc40 result in cilia with reduced ranges of motility. We further show that CCDC40 mutations in humans result in a variant of PCD characterized by misplacement of the central pair of microtubules and defective assembly of inner dynein arms and dynein regulatory complexes. CCDC40 localizes to motile cilia and the apical cytoplasm and is required for axonemal recruitment of CCDC39, disruption of which underlies a similar variant of PCD.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a particularly lethal cancer with few treatment options. Since gallium is known to accumulate specifically in HCC tumors but not in non-tumor liver, we investigated two gallium compounds, gallium nitrate (GaN) and gallium maltolate (GaM), as potential new agents for treating HCC.
The anti-proliferative and apoptotic activities of GaN and GaM were assessed in vitro using four HCC cell lines. HCC gene expression data was analyzed to provide a mechanistic rationale for using gallium in the treatment of HCC.
Both compounds showed dose-dependent antiproliferative activity in all four HCC cell lines after 6-day drug exposure (IC50 values range from 60-250 microM for gallium nitrate and 25-35 microM for gallium maltolate). Gallium maltolate at 30 microM additionally induced apoptosis after 6 days. HCC gene expression data showed significantly elevated expression of the M2 subunit of ribonucleotide reductase, which is a target for the antiproliferative activity of gallium.
These data support clinical testing of gallium maltolate, an orally active compound, in the treatment of HCC.
Functional impairment of DNA damage response pathways leads to increased genomic instability. Here we describe the centrosomal protein CEP152 as a new regulator of genomic integrity and cellular response to DNA damage. Using homozygosity mapping and exome sequencing, we identified CEP152 mutations in Seckel syndrome and showed that impaired CEP152 function leads to accumulation of genomic defects resulting from replicative stress through enhanced activation of ATM signaling and increased H2AX phosphorylation.
Crizotinib, an inhibitor of the receptor tyrosine kinase anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK), achieves response rates of 57 % at eight weeks in patients with stage IV non-small cell lung cancer with ALK rearrangements. With such results, the crizotinib followed an accelerated procedure in the United States and obtained the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval based on the results of phase I studies. The results should be confirmed with one phase II study and two phase III studies in patients with ALK rearrangements. In France, the Commission of Authorization for Marketing has granted an Authorization of Temporary Use (ATU) for cohort on the 15 December 2011 to allow its administration in patients before marketing authorization.
Sodium salicylate (NaSAL) has been shown to have a multifactorial protection mechanism against paraquat (PQ)-induced toxicity, due to its ability to modulate inflammatory signalling systems, to prevent oxidative stress and to its capacity to chelate PQ. Considering that currently there is no pharmaceutical formulation available for parenteral administration of NaSAL, the aim of the present study was to evaluate the antidotal feasibility of a salicylate prodrug, lysine acetylsalicylate (LAS), accessible for parenteral administrations. PQ was administered to Wistar rats by gavage (125mg/kg of PQ ion) and the treatment was performed intraperitoneally with different doses (100, 200 and 400mg/kg of body weight) of LAS. Survival rate was followed during 30 days and living animals at this endpoint were sacrificed for lung, kidney, liver, jejune and heart histological analysis. It was shown, that the salicylate prodrug, LAS, available in a large number of hospitals, is also effective in the treatment of PQ intoxications. From all tested LAS doses, 200mg/kg assured animal's full survival. Comparatively to 60% of mortality observed in PQ only exposed animals, the lethality was higher (80%) in the group that received 400mg/kg of LAS 2h after PQ administration. The dose of 100mg/kg of LAS showed only a modest protection (60% of survival). Collagen deposition was observed by histological analysis in survived animals of all experimental groups, being less pronounced in animals receiving 200mg/kg of LAS, reinforcing the importance of this dose against tissue damage induced by PQ. The results allow us to suggest that LAS should be considered in the hospital treatment of PQ poisonings.
In Denmark, 6,000-10,000 persons die annually from sudden cardiac death. The majority of these die on account of ventricular fibrillation. A patient is presented here who suffered from recurrent lipothymic seizures which were primarily diagnosed as epilepsy. On account of absence of paraclinical documentation and because of suspected depression, treatment with a cyclic antidepressive agent was commenced, which further increases the tendency to sudden cardiac death. The patient was then brought to hospital with Lidocaine-resistant ventricular fibrillation which responded partly to Ajmalin and partly to Disopyramide. The lipothymic seizures were then interpreted as being precipitated by intermittent malignant episodes of cardiac arrhythmia. During the subsequent six months, the patient has felt well and has been free from lipothymic seizures while receiving 200 mg Mexiletin thrice daily. Attention is drawn to the value of Holter monitoring in the investigation of lipothymic seizures. Lidocaine (despite the existence of resistant cases) must still be considered to be the preparation of first choice on account of extensive knowledge about and confidence in the preparation.
Recent data suggest that GATA-4 is an antiapoptotic factor required for adaptive responses and a key regulator of hypertrophy and hypertrophy-associated genes in the heart. As a leading cause of chronic heart failure, reversal of postinfarction left ventricular remodeling represents an important target for therapeutic interventions. Here, we studied the role of GATA-4 as a mediator of postinfarction remodeling in rats.
Myocardial infarction, caused by ligating the left anterior descending coronary artery, significantly decreased the DNA binding activity of GATA-4 at day 1, whereas at 2 weeks the GATA-4 DNA binding was significantly upregulated. To determine the functional role of GATA-4, peri-infarct intramyocardial delivery of adenoviral vector expressing GATA-4 was done before left anterior descending coronary artery ligation. Hearts treated with GATA-4 gene transfer exhibited significantly increased ejection fraction and fractional shortening. Accordingly, infarct size was significantly reduced. To determine the cardioprotective mechanisms of GATA-4, myocardial angiogenesis, rate of apoptosis, c-kit+ cardiac stemlike cells, and genes regulated by GATA-4 were studied. The number of capillaries and stemlike cells was significantly increased, and decreased apoptosis was observed.
These results indicate that the reversal of reduced GATA-4 activity prevents adverse postinfarction remodeling through myocardial angiogenesis, antiapoptosis, and stem cell recruitment. GATA-4-based gene transfer may represent a novel, efficient therapeutic approach for heart failure.
The author calls attention to mood-elevation as a side effect of Biperiden HCL and Trihexyphenidyl HCL, two anticholinergic antiparkinsonian agents. This is of significance because of the despondency and anergy often seen in schizophrenics taking antipsychotic medication and because of the difficulty discerning the origin of affective changes in the face of polypharmacy.
Autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder that is often comorbid with seizures. Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) is the main inhibitory neurotransmitter in brain. GABA(B) receptors play an important role in maintaining excitatory-inhibitory balance in brain and alterations may lead to seizures. We compared levels of GABA(B) receptor subunits GABA(B) receptor 1 (GABBR1) and GABA(B) receptor 2 (GABBR2) in cerebellum, Brodmann's area 9 (BA9), and BA40 of subjects with autism and matched controls. Levels of GABBR1 were significantly decreased in BA9, BA40, and cerebellum, while GABBR2 was significantly reduced in the cerebellum. The presence of seizure disorder did not have a significant impact on the observed reductions in GABA(B) receptor subunit expression. Decreases in GABA(B) receptor subunits may help explain the presence of seizures that are often comorbid with autism, as well as cognitive difficulties prevalent in autism.
Chronic and treatment refractory cases of panic disorder are not uncommon. We report on a man completely remitted from panic disorder after olanzapine and paroxetine combined treatment, and the possible modulating anti-anxiety effect of olanzapine is discussed. Olanzapine augmentation in panic and other anxiety disorders is deserving of more clinical attention.
The modifications produced by 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) on the analgesic and toxic effects of morphine have been studied in mice and cats. After intracerebral injections of 6-OHDA, mice had a lower threshold for morphine-induced convulsions. Morphine analgesia assayed by the phenylquinone test was apparently antagonized in the 6-OHDA pretreated mice, but the 6-OHDA mice showed more reactivity to the phenylquinone. Intraventricular injection of 6-OHDA in cats produced an acute syndrome with mydriasis, bradycardia, bradypnea, hypothermia and EEG slowing, which subsided after several days, 6-OHDA was successful in blocking the morphine mania, but the animals died within 24 h.
The hypervascular nature of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has led a number of investigators to explore the potential of anti-angiogenic therapy for this cancer. We aimed to investigate the efficacy of anti-angiogenetic therapy for the prevention and treatment of HCC.
An experimental model of HCC induced by diethylnitrosamine (DEN) was used in this study as a model resembling human HCC. Because endothelial cells play a central role in angiogenesis, FR-118487 (FR) with a direct effect on endothelial cells was selected for use in this study. FR-treated rats were divided into three groups of five animals each according to the timing of FR treatment, i.e., at the initiation of exposure to DEN (group I), after 6 wk of DEN exposure (group II), and after 12 wk of DEN exposure (group III).
No macroscopic nodules were observed in group I. Moreover, no significant difference in the mean maximum diameter and number of HCC nodules were found between the control group at 12 wk and group III at 18 wk. Thus, FR was shown to have a chemopreventive effect in addition to causing dormancy of HCC. The results obtained, including IL-8 levels, reflected the effect on HCC of anti-angiogenic therapy with FR.
Anti-angiogenic therapy may be effective for both chemoprevention and tumor dormancy in HCC associated with chronic liver disease. IL-8 may be useful as a marker of the efficacy of anti-angiogenic therapy for HCC.
The purpose of the present study was to know the incidence and risk factors associated with amikacin nephrotoxicity in a cohort of patients form a general medial center.
Prospective follow-up of a cohort of 104 patients treated with intravenous amikacin for at least 36 hours. We assessed serum creatinine every other day and amikacin plasma levels at 48 and 96 hours after treatment was begun. Patients with other risk factors to develop acute renal failure were excluded. The study was conducted at the Hospital de Especialidades, Centro Médico de Occidente, Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social.
Ten patients developed nephrotoxicity (9.6%). According to the logistic regression model, the most powerful predictor of high nephrotoxicity probability was the serum albumin concentration. The lower the serum albumin concentration, the higher the risk of toxicity. The mean serum albumin in the group of patients with nephrotoxicity was 2.6 +/- 0.55 g/dL, while in the group of patients without toxicity it was 3.5 +/- 0.55 g/dL. No differences were observed in the age, sex, diagnosis, renal function and amikacin doses between both groups. Furthermore, low serum albumin concentration was also associated with amikacin accumulation in plasma. The group of patients with hypoalbuminemia (< or = 3.0 g/dL) had a significantly higher trough amikacin plasma level (assessed at 48 and 96 hours of the initiation of treatment) than those with normal serum albumin, with no differences among the age, sex, baseline renal function and received amikacin doses.
We conclude that serum albumin concentration is the most powerful predictor of amikacin nephrotoxicity. The risk factors observed in the present study are similar to those previously observed by us at the Instituto Nacional de la Nutrición Salvador Zubirán.
Epidemiologic studies have associated estrogens with human neoplasms such as those in the endometrium, cervix, vagina, breast, and liver. Perinatal exposure to natural (17beta-estradiol [17beta-E(2)]) and synthetic (diethylstilbestrol [DES]) estrogens induces neoplastic changes in humans and rodents. Previous studies demonstrated that neonatal 17beta-E(2) treatment of mice results in increased nuclear DNA content of cervicovaginal epithelium that precedes histologically evident neoplasia. In order to determine whether this effect was associated with chromosomal changes in humans, the frequencies of trisomy of chromosomes 1, 7, 11, and 17 were evaluated by the fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) technique in cervicovaginal tissue from 19 DES-exposed and 19 control women. The trisomic frequencies were significantly elevated in 4 of the 19 (21%) DES-exposed patients. One patient presented with trisomy of chromosomes 1, 7, and 11, while trisomy of chromosome 7 was observed in one patient. There were two patients with trisomy of chromosome 1. Trisomy of chromosomes 1, 7, 11, and 17 was not observed in the cervicovaginal tissue taken from control patients. These data suggest that DES-induced chromosomal trisomy may be an early event in the development of cervicovaginal neoplasia in humans.
To examine childhood aggression at age 5 in a multiple risk model that includes cocaine exposure, environmental risk, and gender as predictors.
Aggression was assessed in 206 children by using multiple methods including teacher report, parent report, child's response to hypothetical provocations, and child's observed behavior. Also examined was a composite score that reflected high aggression across contexts.
Multiple regression analyses indicated that a significant amount of variance in each of the aggression measures and the composite was explained by the predictors. The variables that were independently related differed depending on the outcome. Cocaine exposure, gender, and environmental risk were all related to the composite aggression score.
Cocaine exposure, being male, and a high-risk environment were all predictive of aggressive behavior at 5 years. It is this group of exposed boys at high environmental risk that is most likely to show continued aggression over time.
Valproic acid (VPA) is often used to control pain in HIV-related neuropathy. However, the effect of VPA on cognitive functions in advanced HIV-infected individuals is largely unknown. A recent study would suggest that it may have a neuroprotective effect, the doses used were low and the observation period short.
We used a well studied HIV-infected cohort assessed for a median of 15 (range 6-27 months) to determine whether individuals who were receiving VPA showed any cognitive benefits. Multiple regression procedures allowed us to control for the effects of HAART and HIV disease status as well as numbers of visits and variation in VPA intake over-time.
We found a negative effect of VPA (mean dose of 850 mg/d for 18 months on average; range 6-27 months) on cognitive performance in eight advanced HIV-infected individuals compared to 32 advanced HIV-infected individuals on no VPA who had comparable neuropsychological performance at baseline. Control for plasma HIV viral load provided similar results.
Our results suggest that further studies of VPA in advanced HIV-infection should cautiously include high doses over prolonged periods of at least 18 months in order to more accurately determine whether the posited neuroprotective benefit of VPA still occurs or whether it is replaced by toxicity.
Aspirin remains the cornerstone of treatment for juvenile arthritis, although tolmetin may be more effective in controlling the fever of systemic-onset disease. Tolmetin and naproxen appear to be more effective in HLA-B27 positive males with pauciarticular disease. When the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs fail, gold, penicillamine and, occasionally, immunosuppressive agents may be used in the polyarticular forms. Prosthetic joint replacement may be beneficial for patients with extensive disease. The emotional and sexual problems of children with chronic disease require recognition and help.
Massive hypertensive crises relating to cerebrovascular accidents such as strokes or ruptured aneurysms, or cardiovascular dysfunction and toxicity, are an important cause of morbidity and mortality associated with cocaine or methamphetamine use. Experimentally administered, pharmacologically effective doses of cocaine and methamphetamine may serve as a model for studying the effects of these drugs on hemodynamic response and for examining the potential utility of the antihypertensive and dihydropyridine-class calcium channel antagonist isradipine to block these effects. We therefore examined, in two separate experiments of similar design conducted contemporaneously, the hemodynamic effects of cocaine or methamphetamine in the presence and absence of isradipine.
In both experiments (total N = 31), isradipine pretreatment was provided to cocaine- or methamphetamine-dependent male and female subjects before intravenous administration of low and high doses of cocaine (0.325 or 0.650 mg/kg) or methamphetamine (15 or 30 mg), respectively, on separate test days.
Both cocaine and methamphetamine administration produced predicted elevations in blood pressure (with peak response between 1 and 3 min after infusion). Apart from tachycardia, no arrhythmias were reported. Isradipine significantly reduced stimulant-associated increases in all measures of blood pressure except pulse pressure, but tended to enhance the effects of these drugs on heart rate.
Clinical studies are needed to determine whether isradipine is therapeutically efficacious in preventing hypertensive crises and the associated cerebrovascular and cardiovascular sequelae in cocaine- or methamphetamine-dependent individuals. As there is no established pharmacotherapy for treating cocaine or methamphetamine dependence, identification of a medication that reduces the harmful medical consequences of these drugs would be scientifically and clinically important.
Iron is an important catalyst of oxidative radical reactions and promotes the formation of the hydroxyl radical from the superoxide anion radical and hydrogen peroxide. The stimulatory effect of the hydroxyl radical on lipid peroxidation prompted the speculation that free iron may directly promote inflammation and that iron chelating agents may have useful anti-inflammatory properties. This hypothesis is tested in animal models of inflammation with a specific iron chelating agent, desferrioxamine. At low doses (6 . 6 mg/kg) intraperitoneal desferrioxamine stimulated the induction of acute foot pad swelling in rats by monosodium urate but at higher doses (above 200 mg/kg) it suppressed this inflammatory reaction. A similar anti-inflammatory effect was observed in carrageenan-induced foot pad swelling. In guinea-pigs in which a Glynn-Dumonde synovitis was induced with bovine gammaglobulin, desferrioxamine (100 mg/kg) stimulated the acute inflammatory induction phase of this chronic allergic monoarthritis model. Repeated administration of desferrioxamine (100 mg/kg) from the seventh to the twelfth day after intra-articular challenge with bovine gammaglobulin markedly depressed the chronic inflammatory phase. In-vitro experiments suggest that desferrioxamine inhibits iron-catalysed lipid peroxidation when it is poorly saturated with iron, but loses this effect when it is iron saturated. Such an effect may explain our results with desferrioxamine in the animal studies and suggests that effective iron chelation and its removal may modify the inflammatory process in man.
Fluoroquinolones cause myalgia, but this complication is not clearly documented. We describe a patient who developed myalgia and rhabdomyolysis during fluoroquinolone treatment. The patient was a 33-year-old man treated with norfloxacin for common cystitis. He complained of general muscular fatigue, tendon disorders, and articular pain during treatment. When the antimicrobial agent was stopped, symptoms decreased, with persistence of slight myalgia for 10 days. Rhabdomyolysis was detected. Six months later, investigation by 31P magnetic resonance spectroscopy revealed an oxidative disorder and an abnormal abundance of phosphomonoesters. In vitro contracture tests led to a diagnosis of malignant hyperthermia susceptibility. Our case shows that for any subject presenting myalgia with rhabdomyolysis triggered by fluoroquinolone treatment, the presence of a latent myopathy should be investigated.
The ABCB1/MDR1 gene product ABCB1/P-glycoprotein is implicated in the development of colorectal cancer (CRC). NFKB1 encodes transcription factors regulating expression of a number of genes including ABCB1. We have previously found association between the ABCB1 C-rs3789243-T polymorphism and CRC risk and interactions between the ABCB1 C-rs3789243-T and C3435T polymorphisms and meat intake in relation to CRC risk (Andersen, BMC Cancer, 2009, 9, 407). ABCB1 and NFKB1 mRNA levels were assessed in intestinal tissue from 122 CRC cases, 101 adenoma cases (12 with severe dysplasia, 89 with mild-moderate dysplasia) and from 18 healthy individuals, together with gene polymorphisms in ABCB1 and NFKB1. ABCB1 mRNA levels were highest in the healthy individuals and significantly lower in mild/moderate and severe dysplasia tissue (P<0.05 for both), morphologically normal tissues close to the tumour (P<0.05), morphologically normal tissue at a distance from the tumour (P<0.05) and CRC tissue (P<0.001). Furthermore, ABCB1 mRNA levels were lower in adenomas and carcinomas compared to morphologically normal tissue from the same individuals (P<0.01). The ABCB1 C-rs3789243-T and NFKB1 -94ins/del homozygous variant genotypes were associated with low ABCB1 mRNA levels in morphologically normal sigmoid tissue from adenoma cases (P<0.05 for both). NFKB1 mRNA levels were lower in both tumour and normal tissue from cancer patients (P<0.001) as compared to healthy individuals but we were unable to show association between NFKB1 -94ins/del genotype and NFKB1 mRNA levels. This study suggests that low ABCB1 mRNA levels are an early event in CRC development and that the two polymorphisms affect ABCB1 mRNA levels whereas low NFKB1 mRNA levels occur later in carcinogenesis. Low ABCB1 protein levels may promote colorectal carcinogenesis through increasing intracellular exposure to carcinogenic ABCB1 substrates.
Identifying agents that have long-term deleterious impact on health but exhibit no immediate toxicity is of prime importance. It is well established that long-term toxicity of chemicals could be caused by their ability to generate changes in the DNA sequence through the process of mutagenesis. Several assays including the Ames test and its different modifications were developed to assess the mutagenic potential of chemicals (Ames, B. N., Durston, W. E., Yamasaki, E., and Lee, F. D. (1973a). Carcinogens are mutagens: a simple test system combining liver homogenates for activation and bacteria for detection. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 70, 2281-2285; Ames, B. N., Lee, F. D., and Durston, W. E. (1973b). An improved bacterial test system for the detection and classification of mutagens and carcinogens. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 70, 782-786). These tests have also been employed for assessing the carcinogenic potential of compounds. However, the DNA molecule contains within its chemical structure two layers of information. The DNA sequence that bears the ancestral genetic information and the pattern of distribution of covalently bound methyl groups on cytosines in DNA. DNA methylation patterns are generated by an innate program during gestation but are attuned to the environment in utero and throughout life including physical and social exposures. DNA function and health could be stably altered by exposure to environmental agents without changing the sequence, just by changing the state of DNA methylation. Our current screening tests do not detect agents that have long-range impact on the phenotype without altering the genotype. The realization that long-range damage could be caused without changing the DNA sequence has important implications on the way we assess the safety of chemicals, drugs, and food and broadens the scope of definition of toxic agents.
Pure RBC aplasia developed in two renal transplant recipients who were receiving long-term azathioprine therapy. With substitution of cyclophosphamide therapy for azathioprine, erythroid hyperplasia and reticulocytosis developed at three weeks in one patient and at three months in the other. Selective erythroid toxic reaction is a potential problem that must be considered when anemia develops in patients receiving long-term azathioprine therapy.
Lipid emulsion infusion is an emerging antidotal therapy for toxin-induced cardiac arrest. To compare the efficacy of resuscitation from bupivacaine-induced asystole using lipid emulsion infusion vs. vasopressin, alone and with epinephrine.
Prospective, randomized, animal study.
University research laboratory.
Adult, male Sprague-Dawley rats.
Instrumented rats were given an intravenous bolus of 20 mg/kg bupivacaine to induce asystole (zero time). Rats (n = 6 for all groups) were ventilated with 100% oxygen, given chest compressions, and randomized to receive 30% lipid emulsion (L, 5 mL/kg bolus then 1.0 mL/kg/min infusion) and vasopressin 0.4 U/kg bolus alone (V) or combined with epinephrine, 30 microg/kg (V + E); boluses (L, V, or V + E) were repeated at 2.5 and 5 minutes for a rate-pressure product (RPP) less than 20% baseline.
The arterial blood pressure and electrocardiogram were measured continuously for 10 minutes when blood was drawn for arterial blood gas analysis, lactate content, and central venous oxygen saturation (ScvpO2). Hemodynamic parameters of the L group at 10 minutes (30,615 +/- 4782 mm Hg/min; 151 +/- 19.1 mm Hg; 197 +/- 8.6 min; RPP, systolic blood pressure and heart rate, respectively) exceeded those of the V group (5395 +/- 1310 mm Hg/min; 85.8 +/- 12 mm Hg; 61 +/- 10.8 min) and the V + E group (11,183 +/- 1857 mm Hg/min; 75.5 +/- 12.9 min, RPP and heart rate, respectively; systolic blood pressure was not different). Metrics indicated better tissue perfusion in the L group (7.24 +/- 0.02; 83% +/- 3.5%; 2.2 +/- 0.36 mmol/L; pH, ScvpO2, lactate, respectively) than V (7.13 +/- 0.02; 29.9% +/- 4.4%; 7.5 +/- 0.6 mmol/L) and V + E groups (7.07 +/- 0.03; 26.2% +/- 8.9%; 7.7 +/- 1 mmol/L). Wet-to-dry lung ratios in V (8.3 +/- 0.6) and V + E (8.7 +/- 0.2) were greater than that in the L group (6.2 +/- 05) (mean +/- sem; p < 0.05 for all shown results).
Lipid emulsion in this rat model provides superior hemodynamic and metabolic recovery from bupivacaine-induced cardiac arrest than do vasopressors. Systolic pressure was not a useful metric in the vasopressor groups. Vasopressin was associated with adverse outcomes.
We report a case of benign intracranial hypertension associated with monoclonal gammopathy. The course was complicated by superior sagittal sinus thrombosis which we believe to be related to acetazolamide therapy. Response to volume expansion with colloid and crystalloid solutions was dramatic.
Cardiotoxicity is one of the major side effects of doxorubicin therapy. The side effect presents in an acute and chronic form. It has been observed mainly when the cumulative dosage exceeds 450 mg/m2 of body surface. The cardiotoxicity presents with a low left ventricular ejection fraction. We report three patients who developed selective right ventricular dysfunction, expressed by low right ventricular ejection fraction as measured by radionuclide angiography. This complication was observed with rather low cumulative dosages of the drug (105 to 318 mg/m2). Two of the patients received concurrent mitomycin-C chemotherapy and the third patient underwent prior mediastinal irradiation. The possible mechanism for this selective cardiotoxicity is discussed. Monitoring of right ventricular performance by radionuclide angiography during doxorubicin therapy is recommended so that therapy can be discontinued before the left ventricle is damaged.
Hypercholesterolemia (HC) is a common health problem that significantly increases risk of cardiovascular disease. Both statin (S) and resveratrol (R) demonstrated cardioprotection through nitric oxide-dependent mechanism. Therefore, the present study was undertaken to determine whether combination therapy with statin and resveratrol is more cardioprotective than individual treatment groups in ischemic rat heart model. The rats were fed with 2% high cholesterol diet and after 8 weeks of high cholesterol diet the animals were treated with statin (1 mg/kg bw/day) and resveratrol (20 mg/kg bw/day) for 2 weeks. The rats were assigned to: (1) Control (C), (2) HC, (3) HCR, (4) HCS and (5) HCRS. The hearts, subjected to 30-min global ischemia followed by 120-min reperfusion were used as experimental model. The left ventricular functional recovery (+dp/dt(max)) was found to be significantly better in the HCRS (1926+/-43), HCR (1556+/-65) and HCS (1635+/-40) compared to HC group (1127+/-16). The infarct sizes in the HCRS, HCS and HCR groups were 37+/-3.6, 43+/-3.3 and 44+/-4.2 respectively compared to 53+/-4.6 in HC. The lipid level was found to be decreased in all the treatment groups when compared to HC more significantly in HCS and HCRS groups when compared to HCR. Increased phosphorylation of Akt and eNOS was also observed in all the treatment groups resulting in decreased extent of cardiomyocyte apoptosis but the extent of reduction in apoptosis was more significant in HCRS group compared to all other groups. In vivo rat myocardial infarction (MI) model subjected to 1 week of permanent left descending coronary artery (LAD) occlusion documented increased capillary density in HCR and HCRS treated group when compared to HCS treatment group. We also documented increased beta-catenin translocation and increased VEGF mRNA expression in all treatment groups. Thus, we conclude that the acute as well as chronic protection afforded by combination treatment with statin and resveratrol may be due to pro-angiogenic, anti-hyperlipidemic and anti-apoptotic effects and long-term effects may be caused by increased neo-vascularization of the MI zone leading to less ventricular remodeling.
Correlation between aging and doxorubicin-induced congestive heart failure in patients with metastatic breast cancer was studied to determine whether doxorubicin-induced congestive heart failure in elderly patients with metastatic breast cancer is a clinically significant issue.
This was a retrospective study with a median follow-up of 16.8 years. The setting was a comprehensive cancer center in a large city. A group of 682 consecutive patients with metastatic breast cancer presented to The University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center between 1973 and 1980. All patients received doxorubicin by bolus infusion. Patients in group 1 (n = 538) were aged 50 to 64 years; patients in group 2 (n = 144) were aged 65 years and older. Medical records of all patients were reviewed. Patients who had congestive heart failure were identified and analyzed. The diagnosis of doxorubicin-induced congestive heart failure was made and confirmed by a cardiologist at the time of its development. The main outcome measure was the cumulative probability of developing doxorubicin-induced congestive heart failure in elderly patients with metastatic breast cancer compared to a younger age group.
In group 1, 33 patients, and in group 2, 13 patients developed doxorubicin-related congestive heart failure. The cumulative doses of doxorubicin administered to patients with congestive heart failure were 410 mg/m2 (range 150-550 mg/m2) and 400 (range 100-570 mg/m2), respectively. The time interval from the last date of doxorubicin treatment to the development of congestive heart failure was, respectively, 5 months (range < 1-65 months) and 9 months (range < 1-28 months). There was no statistically significant difference between the two congestive heart failure subgroups, nor were we able to identify risk factors that could have increased the risk of congestive heart failure among these patients.
Older patients with metastatic breast cancer and no significant comorbidity can be treated with doxorubicin-based chemotherapy with no added risk of developing congestive heart failure beyond that in the younger age group.
