Oxidative stress as well as opiate addiction has been shown to play a role in the development of complications associated with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection.
We studied the occurrence of apoptosis in mesangial cells derived from control (NTrMC) mice and mice transgenic for HIV-1 genes (HTrMC) under basal and morphine-stimulated states (MSS). We evaluated the effect of free radical scavengers and antioxidants on HTrMC apoptosis and production of superoxide under basal and MSS. In addition, we examined the effect of protease inhibitors (PI) on apoptosis of NTrMCs/HTrMCs as well as morphine-induced superoxide dismutase (SOD) and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (reduced form) (NADPH) oxidase activation.
HTrMCs showed greater apoptosis when compared with NTrMCs. Morphine triggered (P < 0.001) apoptosis of both NTrMCs and HTrMCs. Both antioxidants and free radical scavengers inhibited apoptosis of NTrMCs and HTrMCs under both basal and MSS. Morphine stimulated the production of superoxide by NTrMCs as well as by HTrMCs. Nevertheless, HTrMCs produced a greater (P < 0.001) amount of superoxide when compared with NTrMCs both under basal and MSS. PIs such as saquinavir and Indinavir inhibited HTrMC apoptosis in a dose-dependent manner. Saquinavir also protected HTrMCs against the proapoptotic effect of morphine. Moreover, saquinavir inhibited the production of superoxide by HTrMCs under both basal and MSS. Saquinavir also attenuated the morphine-induced expression of SOD and NADPH oxidase (Gp91phox) by HTrMCs. Interestingly, hemin exacerbated morphine-triggered HTrMC apoptosis.
Oxidative stress seems to play a role in the accelerated rate of HTrMC apoptosis both under basal and MSS. Saquinavir may be inhibiting HTrMC apoptosis by mitigating oxidative stress.
This article reports data on the preventive effect of (-)epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) on lipid metabolism and lipoproteins in isoproterenol (ISO)-induced myocardial infarction (MI) in Wistar rats. The rats were induced MI by ISO (100 mg/kg) at an interval of 24 h for 2 days. EGCG (30 mg/kg) was given to rats as pretreatment for 21 days orally using an intragastric tube. EGCG significantly reduced the increased serum levels of cholesterol, triglycerides, and free fatty acids in the heart and serum phospholipids (PLs) in ISO-treated rats. It also significantly increased the reduced levels of heart PLs in ISO-induced rats. EGCG reduced the levels of serum low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and very low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and increased serum high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol in ISO-treated rats. It also reduced the increased cholesterol/PL ratio and atherogenic index and significantly increased the reduced ratio of HDL-cholesterol/total cholesterol. Also EGCG significantly increased the reduced activity of lecithin cholesterol acyl transferase in ISO-treated rats. Thus, EGCG prevented the accumulation of lipids and altered the levels of lipoproteins in myocardial-infarcted rats.
The degrees of albuminuria induced by nephroangiography in rats with the ionic contrast medium diatrizoate and the non-ionic contrast medium iohexol were compared. Iohexol induced significantly less albuminuria than diatrizoate following angiography.
Etoposide (VP-16-213) has been used in the treatment of many solid tumors and hematologic malignancies. When used in high doses and in conjunction with autologous bone marrow transplantation, this agent has activity against several treatment-resistant cancers including malignant glioma. In six of eight patients (75%) who we treated for recurrent or resistant glioma, sudden severe neurologic deterioration occurred. This developed a median of 9 days after initiation of high-dose etoposide therapy. Significant clinical manifestations have included confusion, papilledema, somnolence, exacerbation of motor deficits, and sharp increase in seizure activity. These abnormalities resolved rapidly after initiation of high-dose intravenous dexamethasone therapy. In all patients, computerized tomographic (CT) brain scans demonstrated stability in tumor size and peritumor edema when compared with pretransplant scans. This complication appears to represent a significant new toxicity of high-dose etoposide therapy for malignant glioma.
Platelet and monocyte activation may contribute to hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia and renal failure associated with the hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) caused by Escherichia coli O157:H7. Since Shiga toxins (Stxs) and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) from this bacterium are implicated in the pathogenesis of HUS, we examined whether stimulation of THP-1 human monocytic cells by Shiga toxin 2 (Stx2) and LPS can lead to the activation of platelet function. We now show that Stx2 causedTHP-1 cells to release the chemokines IL-8, MDC, and RANTES and that the presence of LPS further stimulated this release. IL-8 was produced in greatest amount and was an effective co-agonist for inducing platelet aggregation. Primary human monocytes also released large amounts of IL-8 in response to LPS and Stx2. Factors released byTHP-1 cells exposed to Stx2 and LPS activated platelet function as evidenced by increased aggregation, serotonin secretion, P-selectin exposure and by the formation of stable platelet-monocyte aggregates. Our data therefore show that monocytes exposed to E.coli-derived Stx2 and LPS release factors which activate platelet function.
Widely used chemotherapeutic breast cancer drugs such as Tamoxifen citrate (TC), Capecitabine (CP) and Epirubicin (EP) are known to cause various cardiovascular side-effects among long term cancer survivors. Vascular modulation warrants nitric oxide (NO) signal transduction, which targets the vascular endothelium. We hypothesize that TC, CP and EP interference with the nitric oxide downstream signaling specifically, could lead to cardiovascular dysfunctions. The results demonstrate that while all three drugs attenuate NO and cyclic guanosine mono-phosphate (cGMP) production in endothelial cells, they caused elevated levels of NO in the plasma and RBC. However, PBMC and platelets did not show any significant changes under treatment. This implies that the drug effects are specific to the endothelium. Altered eNOS and phosphorylated eNOS (Ser-1177) localization patterns in endothelial cells were observed following drug treatments. Similarly, the expression of phosphorylated eNOS (Ser-1177) protein was decreased under the treatment of drugs. Altered actin polymerization was also observed following drug treatment, while addition of SpNO and 8Br-cGMP reversed this effect. Incubation with the drugs decreased endothelial cell migration whereas addition of YC-1, SC and 8Br-cGMP recovered the effect. Additionally molecular docking studies showed that all three drugs exhibited a strong binding affinity with the catalytic domain of human sGC. In conclusion, results indicate that TC, CP and EP cause endothelial dysfunctions via the NO-sGC-cGMP pathway and these effects could be recovered using pharmaceutical agonists of NO signaling pathway. Further, the study proposes a combination therapy of chemotherapeutic drugs and cGMP analogs, which would confer protection against chemotherapy mediated vascular dysfunctions in cancer patients.
Exercise training has demonstrated cardioprotection effects. However, the exact mechanism behind this effect is not is clear. The present study evaluated the effects of 12 weeks of previous treadmill training on the levels of oxidative damage, antioxidant enzyme activity and injury in the myocardium of rats submitted to infarction induced by isoproterenol (ISO). Isoproterenol treatment (80 mg/kg given over 2 days in two equal doses) caused arrhythmias and 60% mortality within 24 h of the last injection in the control group (C + ISO) group when compared with the saline control group (saline). Creatine Kinase--MB levels were markedly increased in hearts from ISO-treated animals in the C + ISO group. Twelve weeks of treadmill training reduced superoxide production, lipid peroxidation levels and protein carbonylation in these animals, as well as increasing the activities and expressions of SOD and CAT. Previous training also reduced CK-MB levels and numbers of deaths by 40%, preventing the deleterious effects of ISO. Based on the data obtained in this study, it is suggested that 12-week treadmill training increases antioxidant enzymes, decreases oxidative damage and reduces the degree of infarction induced by ISO in the hearts of male rats.
The present study has been designed and carried out to investigate the protective role of taurine (2-aminoethanesulphonic acid) against NaAsO(2) induced nephrotoxicity. Oral administration of arsenic increased the productions of ROS and RNS, enhanced lipid peroxidation, protein carbonylation and decreased intracellular antioxidant defence in the kidney tissue. Investigating the responsible signalling cascades, it was found that NaAsO(2) administration activates mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) and NF-kappaB in oxidative stress mediated renal dysfunction and induced apoptotic cell death by the reciprocal regulation of Bcl-2/Bad in association with reducing mitochondrial membrane potential and increased cytosolic cytochrome C as well. Treatment with taurine prior to arsenic administration effectively ameliorated As-induced oxidative renal dysfunctions and apoptotic cell death. Histological studies also support the experimental findings. Combining, results suggest that taurine possesses the ability to ameliorate arsenic-induced oxidative insult and renal damage, probably due to its antioxidant activity and functioning via MAPKs/NF-kappaB and mitochondria dependent pathways.
An excess rate of apoptosis could lead to the gradual loss of renal mass. In this study, we investigated the role of apoptosis in the renal damage secondary to hypertension.
Spontaneously hypertensive rats with 5/6 renal mass reduction (subtotal nephrectomy) were distributed to receive no-treatment, 200 mg/L quinapril, 360 mg/L losartan, or triple therapy (200 mg/L hydralazine, 4 mg/L reserpine, and 100 mg/L hydrochlorothiazide) for 5 weeks. Sham-operated spontaneously hypertensive rats served as controls. Age-matched Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats, with or without subtotal nephrectomy, were also studied.
Nontreated spontaneously hypertensive rats + subtotal nephrectomy developed proteinuria, glomerular sclerosis, and tubulointerstitial lesions. In comparison to spontaneously hypertensive rats, an increment in the number of [proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA)]-positive and apoptotic [terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (Tdt)-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate biotin nick end labeling (TUNEL)]-positive tubular and glomerular cells was observed. By contrast, WKY + subtotal nephrectomy rats showed less severe morphologic lesions, and only the number of proliferating cells increased. By Western blot, an up-regulation of renal Bax (apoptosis inducer) was noted both in spontaneously hypertensive rats + subtotal nephrectomy and WKY + subtotal nephrectomy rats. By contrast, Bcl-xL (apoptosis protector) was up-regulated in WKY + subtotal nephrectomy rats but not in spontaneously hypertensive rats + subtotal nephrectomy. The administration of appropriate doses of quinapril, losartan, or triple therapy to spontaneously hypertensive rats + subtotal nephrectomy normalized systolic blood pressure, partially prevented proteinuria, renal lesions and apoptosis, and decreased Bax, but no changes were noted in Bcl-xL. The Bax/Bcl-xL index was significantly increased in spontaneously hypertensive rats + subtotal nephrectomy compared to sham-operated spontaneously hypertensive rats and decreased in treated groups.
The combination of renal mass reduction and hypertension caused severe renal lesions associated to an increment of apoptosis rate, mainly in tubular epithelial cells. Tight blood pressure control decreased the apoptosis rate and morphologic lesions. These studies suggest that changes in the expression of apoptosis-regulatory genes contribute to the progressive damage in hypertensive rats with renal mass reduction.
A patient with chronic renal failure (CRF) developed neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) after administration of risperidone and levomepromazine. In addition to the typical symptoms of NMS, massive intestinal bleeding was observed during the episode. This report suggests that NMS in a patient with CRF may be complicated by intestinal bleeding and needs special caution for this complication.
The effect of amiloride on lithium-induced polydipsia and polyuria and on the lithium concentration in the plasma, brain, kidney, thyroid and red blood cells was investigated in rats, chronically treated with LiCl. Amiloride reduced the drinking and urine volume of rats in an acute (6 or 12 h) and a subacute (3 days) experiment. 6 h after the administration of amiloride, a reduction was observed in the lithium content of the renal medulla but not in the other organs studied. At 12 h, all the tissues showed a slight increase in lithium levels. After 3 days of combined treatment, a marked elevation in plasma and tissue lithium levels accompanied a reduction in water intake. In all the experiments, the attenuation of the lithium-induced diabetes-insipidus-like syndrome by amiloride was accompanied by a reduction of the ratio between the lithium concentration in the renal medulla and its levels in the blood and an elevation in the plasma potassium level. It is concluded that acute amiloride administration to lithium-treated patients suffering from polydipsia and polyuria might relieve these patients but prolonged amiloride supplementation would result in elevated lithium levels and might be hazardous.
Does long-term lithium treatment induce an irreversible renal damage, and does polyuria or changes in the calcium metabolism indicate this? To elucidate these questions GFR, diuresis, S-Ca, S-Mg, S-PTH and bone mineral content (photonabsorptiometry) were determined in 29 consecutive patients on long-term lithium therapy for 2.5--12 years and in 4 patients, who had been admitted to the Renal Clinic with lithium-induced polyuria. Only 1 of the patients had had a known lithium intoxication (S-Li > 2 mmol/l). None had a history of renal disease or significant analgesic consumption. In the consecutive series the GFR was not significantly reduced and no correlations were found between this parameter and the duration of lithium therapy, average S-Li, highest S-Li noted, diuresis or any of the calcium parameters. The morning diuresis was significantly increased in comparison with a control group with normal kidney function. 2 of the 4 polyuric patients had a decreased GFR, but in 1 case it was normalized on desmopressin supplementation. Renal biopsy in the patient with one S-Li of 2.35 and a low GFR in the consecutive series, and in 3 of the polyuric patients, revealed focal interstitial fibrosis and nephron atrophy. The mean S-Ca, S-Mg, S-PTH and bone mineral content were increased, but no significant intercorrelations between these parameters were found. Neither were any intercorrelations found between the calcium parameters and time on lithium therapy, average S-Li, highest S-Li noted or morning diuresis. In conclusion a relatively well-managed lithium therapy for up to 12.5 years does not seem to influence the GFR, even if renal biopsy in 4 of our patients revealed interstitial nephritis and data in the literature indicate a progressive interstitial nephritis. The present study did not support the proposition that polyuria is an alarming sign of pronounced renal lesion. Calcium metabolism is influenced by lithium therapy but from the clinical point of view no negative effects could be found. S-Ca should probably be checked regularly in patients on long-term lithium therapy.
A constantly coupled bigeminal arrhythmia was induced in dogs anesthetized with thiopental-halothane by infusion of epinephrine (1 microgram.kg-1.min-1). The site of origin of the abnormal beat was localized to the interventricular septum by bipolar recordings from the left and right ventricular epicardium and two sites in the septum. Simultaneous echocardiograms showed early movement of the septum with a pattern similar to that seen in the left bundle branch block. Simulation at the recording sites resulted in movement patterns which indicate that assessment of septal and posterior left ventricular motion can be helpful in localization of the origin of ventricular arrhythmias, although only with left ventricular arrhythmias is there potential for anatomic localization to a small area of muscle.
We compared the angiotensin II receptor antagonist valsartan to losartan as an antihypertensive agent in an 8-week trial. Adults with uncomplicated essential hypertension (baseline seated diastolic blood pressure < 115 mm Hg and > or = 95 mm Hg) were randomized to receive 80 mg valsartan, 50 mg losartan, or placebo once daily. After 4 weeks doses of active medication and placebo were doubled. Seated systolic and diastolic blood pressures were measured and the response rate evaluated. Tolerability was assessed by the incidence of adverse events. Both angiotensin II receptor antagonists produced similar significant reductions in mean blood pressures at 4 and 8 weeks compared to placebo. Valsartan produced a significantly higher number of responders (62%) than losartan (55%, P = .02) at the 8 week treatment endpoint. The incidence of adverse experiences (AE) was similar in all three groups, with headache and dizziness reported most often. Valsartan (80/160 mg) monotherapy in this trial was as effective and well tolerated as 50/100 mg losartan in treating mild to moderate essential hypertension, and at 160 mg has a significantly higher responder rate than 100 mg losartan.
Quantification of cutaneous innervation in rat footpad is a useful tool to investigate sensory small-diameter nerve fibers, which are affected early in peripheral neuropathies. The aim of this work was to provide normative reference data on the density of intraepidermal nerve fibers (IENFs) and Langerhans cells in the hindpaw footpad of Sprague-Dawley and Wistar rats. We also evaluated the sensibility of IENF density by comparing neuropathologic findings with neurophysiologic examination and the presence of peripheral neuropathy in two well-characterized animal models of neuropathy. IENF density was quantified in 22 Sprague-Dawley rats and 13 Wistar rats and compared with 19 age-matched Sprague-Dawley rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetic neuropathy and 30 age-matched Wistar rats with cisplatin- or paclitaxel-induced neuropathy. Antidromic tail sensory nerve conduction velocity (SNCV) was assessed in all animals. IENF and Langerhans cell densities were constant in healthy Sprague-Dawley rats at any age, and they were similar to those observed in healthy Wistar rats. In neuropathic rats, both SNCV and IENF density were significantly reduced with respect to controls. Quantification of IENF density was significantly correlated with changes in conduction velocity. Diabetic neuropathy rats alone showed a significantly higher density of Langerhans cells compared with controls. Our study demonstrated that IENF density quantification correlates with SNCV changes and suggests that this might represent a useful outcome measurement in experimental neuropathies.
We evaluated the role of endogenous angiotensin II and III (ANG II and ANG III) at the rostral nucleus reticularis ventrolateralis (NRVL) in the modulation of baroreceptor reflex (BRR) response and the subtype of angiotensin receptors involved in this process. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats anesthetized and maintained with pentobarbital sodium were used. Exogenous application of ANG II or ANG III (10, 20, or 40 pmol) by bilateral microinjection into the NRVL significantly suppressed the BRR response to transient hypertension induced by phenylephrine (5 micrograms/kg i.v.). The suppressive effect of ANG II (20 pmol) was reversed by an equimolar dose (1.6 nmol) of its peptide antagonist, [Sar1, Ile8]ANG II, and the nonpeptide antagonists for AT1 and AT2 receptors, losartan and PD-123319, respectively. On the other hand, the inhibitory action of ANG III (20 pmol) was blunted by its peptide antagonist. [Ile7]ANG III or PD-123319, but not by losartan. Blocking the endogenous activity of the angiotensins by microinjection into the bilateral NRVL of [Sar1, Ile8]ANG II, [Ile7]ANG III, or PD-123319 elicited an appreciable enhancement of the BRR response, whereas losartan produced minimal effect. These results suggest that, under physiological conditions, both endogenous ANG II and ANG III may exert a tonic inhibitory modulation on the BRR response by acting selectively on the AT2 receptors at the NRVL.
Acute pancreatitis subsequent to methomyl (Lannate) had not been reported until 2005, when Markides published the first case. In our study, we report for the first time 2 cases of acute pancreatitis complicating voluntary methomyl intoxication and compare them with 5 cases of pancreatitis subsequent to dichlorvos poisoning admitted to our toxicological unit during the same period, between July 2001 and June 2003.
Patients included in this study were seriously poisoned because all developed muscarinic and nicotinic syndromes. Deep coma and respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation were noted in all methomyl-poisoned patients and in only 3 dichlorvos-poisoned patients. Acute pancreatitis occurred 24 to 72 hours after dosing and was characterized by painless abdominal paralytic ileus and vomiting. Clinical features and laboratory examinations were normalized by the fifth day under medical treatment. Complications such as intrapancreatic fluid collection occurred later between days 10 and 20 in 1 methomyl-poisoned patient who required secondary surgical drainage and in 1 dichlorvos-poisoned patient who was treated conservatively. Outcome was favorable in all cases.
The developing of acute pancreatitis is a serious adverse effect following insecticide intoxication and is better known with dichlorvos than methomyl.
Sulindac exerts its antitumorigenic effects in oral squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) cells by modulating survivin in a Stat3-dependent manner. Immunohistochemistry was used to detect the protein levels of phosphorylated-tyrosine Stat3 (p-tyr Stat3) and survivin in SCC tissues. Western blot, reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction, Annexin-V and cell proliferation assays were used to determine p-tyr Stat3 and survivin protein and mRNA expression, and cell viability following treatment with cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitors, Stat3 siRNA, or the forced expression of Stat3 or survivin. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed an overexpression of p-tyr Stat3 in T1 SCCs. The importance of constitutive Stat3 activation in tumourigenesis was confirmed by siRNA inhibition of Stat3, resulting in cell growth inhibition and apoptosis, via a downregulation of survivin mRNA and protein expression. The forced expression of survivin partially reversed these effects of Stat3 inhibition. Sulindac, but not other COX inhibitors, downregulated Stat3, which correlated to an inhibition of cell proliferation, survival and survivin expression. Transfection of constitutively active Stat3 restored survivin expression and partially rescued SCC cells from sulindac-induced antitumorigenic effects. These data indicate that survivin is a downstream target and effector of oncogenic Stat3 signalling in SCC, which is targeted by sulindac in a COX-2-independent manner.
Gliclazide is a sulphonylurea antidiabetic drug with anti-oxidant effect due to its azabicyclo-octyl ring. We hypothesized that gliclazide may have a beneficial effect on diabetic nephropathy via radical scavenging.
Streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats fed a 4% cholesterol diet [high cholesterol-diabetes mellitus (HC-DM)] (N= 12) were treated with gliclazide (HC-DM + gliclazide) (N= 12) or glibenclamide (HC-DM + glibenclamide) (N= 12) after 2 weeks of the diabetes induction, and normal rat fed with 4% cholesterol served as control [high cholesterol-control (HC-control)] (N= 12). Renal expression of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) and intracellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), oxidative stress production via nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NAD(P)H) oxidase and antioxidant enzyme manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) were evaluated at 4 weeks and renal damage was examined at 8 weeks.
HC-DM showed significant increase in renal NAD(P)H oxidase and reduction in MnSOD with a significant increase in urinary lipid peroxidation products and H2O2 excretion compared to HC-control. Gliclazide treatment, but not glibenclamide, significantly reduced the oxidative products and NAD(P)H oxidase. There was no difference in renal eNOS expression between HC-DM and HC-control rats, and only gliclazide treatment enhanced eNOS expression. Renal damage evaluated by increased glomerular macrophage migration via enhanced ICAM-1 expression, mesangial matrix expansion, and albuminuria was significantly increased in HC-DM, and they were ameliorated by gliclazide but not by glibenclamide.
Gliclazide reduced oxidative stress in diabetic rats fed a high cholesterol diet with reduction of renal NAD(P)H oxidase expression, enhanced MnSOD and eNOS expression, and had a beneficial effect on glomerular macrophage infiltration and mesangial expansion.
Primary lymphoma of the prostate was diagnosed in 3 patients corresponding to 0.1% of those with previously untreated lymphoma and 0.09% of those with previously untreated prostatic malignancy presenting to our cancer center between January 1, 1980 and December 31, 1993. All 3 patients had prostatism at presentation that caused renal failure in 2. After treatment with doxorubicin-based combination chemotherapy appropriate for the stage and the specific histological subtype, all 3 patients achieved a complete remission and remained free of disease after a minimum followup of 3 years. Our results suggest that primary prostatic lymphoma is not necessarily associated with a poor outcome. Review of the literature suggests that the poor prognosis reported for prostatic lymphoma might be explained by treatment that was acceptable at the time but would be considered suboptimal by current criteria. We recommend thorough staging in all patients with prostatic lymphoma and treatment with a doxorubicin-based regimen according to disease stage and histological classification.
The promotive effect of 4,4'-methylenebis(N,N-dimethyl)benzenamine (MDBA) on 2-stage thyroid tumorigenesis induced by N-bis(2-hydroxypropyl)nitrosamine (DHPN) in Wistar male rats was investigated. Animals were given i.p. injections of DHPN, and then a basal diet containing 0.0375% MDBA for 19 weeks. In addition, localization of the thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) in the pituitary gland was investigated. Levels of TSH and T4 in serum were measured by radioimmunoassay (RIA). The addition of MDBA to the diet significantly increased the incidence and numbers of preneoplastic lesion (focal hyperplasia), adenoma and carcinoma of the thyroid. TSH was usually localized in the thyroidectomy-cell in the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland, and the number of TSH-positive cells increased in the group treated with MDBA. Mean circulating levels of TSH were elevated in all MDBA-treated groups, and mean T4 levels in groups treated with MDBA were significantly lower different (P less than 0.05) than those in control groups.
Modafinil is a central nervous system stimulant used to promote wakefulness, and it is being evaluated clinically as an agonist medication for treating stimulant abuse. This is the first report of the effects of modafinil on the abuse-related effects of cocaine in nonhuman primates. The behavioral effects of modafinil were examined in three studies. First, the discriminative stimulus effects of modafinil (3.2-32 mg/kg) were evaluated in rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) trained to discriminate either low (0.18 mg/kg, IM) or high (0.4 mg/kg, IM) doses of cocaine from saline. Modafinil dose-dependently substituted for cocaine in 6 of 7 monkeys. In the second study, the effects of chronically administered modafinil (32-56 mg/kg/day, IV) on food- and cocaine-maintained (0.001-0.1 mg/kg/inj) operant responding were examined. Modafinil was administered 3 times/hr for 23 hr/day to ensure stable drug levels. Chronic treatment with 32 mg/kg/day modafinil selectively reduced responding maintained by intermediate and peak reinforcing doses of cocaine, but responding maintained by higher doses of cocaine was unaffected. Food-maintained behavior did not change during chronic modafinil treatment. In a third study, modafinil (32 and 56 mg/kg/day, IV) was examined in a reinstatement model. Modafinil transiently increased responding during extinction. These findings indicate that modafinil shares discriminative stimulus effects with cocaine and selectively reduces responding maintained by reinforcing doses of cocaine. In addition, modafinil reinstated cocaine-seeking behavior, which may reflect its cocaine-like discriminative stimulus effects. These data support clinical findings and indicate that these preclinical models may be useful for predicting the effectiveness of agonist medications for drug abuse treatment.
To determine if a policy of continuing penicillamine therapy in successfully treated patients with rheumatoid arthritis in the presence of persistent proteinuria, was associated or not with resolution of this adverse effect, a computer record of patients receiving penicillamine for rheumatoid arthritis was searched for patients with persistent proteinuria and the case notes of these patients reviewed. Eleven patients with persistent proteinuria were identified, eight of whom did not have nephrotic syndrome and were continued on penicillamine with close monitoring. In 5 patients proteinuria resolved after 16-21 months; 3 developed peripheral oedema (2) or worsening of pre-existing hypertension and proteinuria (1). In one of these the proteinuria subsequently resolved and one died of unknown cause. Of the 3 initially nephrotic patients, two had resolved at the time of the study. Persistent proteinuria in penicillamine-treated patients with rheumatoid arthritis resolves with continued therapy in the absence of nephrotic syndrome but vigilance is required for the development of any complications.
