Delayed-onset heparin-induced thrombocytopenia is a syndrome in which thrombocytopenia and thrombosis begin several days after heparin discontinuation. Delayed-onset heparin-induced thrombocytopenia is caused by immunoglobulin G antibodies that are reactive against the heparin-platelet factor 4 complex in the absence of circulating heparin. We describe 2 patients with delayed-onset heparin-induced thrombocytopenia who presented to the emergency department. An 88-year-old man and a 62-year-old man experienced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis 9 or more days after heparin cessation and demonstrated a further decrease in platelet count on reexposure to heparin. Delayed-onset heparin-induced thrombocytopenia should be included in the differential diagnosis of a patient with recent heparin exposure who presents with thrombosis or thrombocytopenia.
Oral administration of high dosages of the dithiocarbamate pesticides maneb and mancozeb was teratogenic in rats but not in mice. The malformations, severe limb and craniofacial defects, were pronounced after maneb treatment but less so after mancozeb and propineb, zinc-containing compounds. The teratogenic effect of maneb was progressively reduced by simultaneously administering increasing amounts of zinc acetate. The mechanism of the teratogenic effect may involve the compounds being chelating agents, trapping zinc required for many important enzyme systems.
We measured the effects of four weeks of dietary lithium treatment and of status epilepticus induced by administration of pilocarpine to lithium-treated rats on the concentrations of amino acids in four regions of rat brain: cerebral cortex, hippocampus, striatum, and substantia nigra. To ensure accurate quantitation of the amino acids, animals were sacrificed by focussed beam microwave irradiation and amino acids were measured using a fully validated triple-column ion-exchanged amino acid analyzer with post-column o-phthalaldehyde derivatization and fluorometric detection. The concentrations of four amino acids, threonine, methionine, lysine and tyrosine, were increased significantly in two to four brain regions by chronic lithium treatment. Their concentrations remained elevated, or were further increased, during status epilepticus. The concentrations of eight amino acids and ammonia were not altered by lithium treatment but increased in concentration during status epilepticus in some brain regions. Glycine, serine, arginine and citrulline were decreased by chronic lithium treatment. Status epilepticus increased the concentrations of these four amino acids above that found in the lithium-treated samples in some of the brain regions that were examined. Six amino acids and glutathione were generally unaltered by both treatments. These results are related to the effects of lithium treatment and are compared with changes reported by others following treatment with a variety of convulsive stimuli.
Kaposi's sarcoma occurs in about one third of patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. Although in some patients the tumor is principally a cosmetic problem, other patients have progressive disease with significant morbidity. Twenty-three patients with Kaposi's sarcoma related to the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome were treated with vincristine. Three patients had a coexisting immune thrombocytopenia. Of the 18 patients evaluable for response, 11 had a partial response and 7 had a minor response. The median duration of partial response was 4 + months. All 3 thrombocytopenic patients developed a significant increase in platelet count, which in 2 was sustained with continued treatment for 6 and 9 months, respectively. We conclude that vincristine has antitumor activity in the epidemic form of Kaposi's sarcoma and that it is also effective in the treatment of associated immune thrombocytopenia.
Monozygotic, 17-year-old, female twins exposed to diethylstilbestrol (DES) in utero and discordant for cervicovaginal clear cell adenocarcinoma are reported. Benign teratologic changes were present in both. The twin with cancer was treated by extensive operation and postoperative irradiation. No tumor has appeared in either twin in the 4 years subsequent to therapy. Discordance for cervicovaginal clear cell adenocarcinoma in this situation suggests that factors other than embryonic exposure to DES, extrauterine in location and nongenetic in character, were operative in tumorigenesis. The twins were compared in regard to lifetime radiation exposure and evidence of previous viral disease. The only substantial difference was an elevated titer of antibody in the twin with cancer to the capsid antigen of the Epstein-Barr virus, a herpesvirus with oncogenic capability.
This case report describes a discordant response to in utero exposure to diethylstilbestrol (DES) in a set of assumed monozygotic twins, one of whom contracted clear cell adenocarcinoma of the vagina and one of whom did not. The monozygotic twins were examined at age 17. In both women, there were benign teratologic changes. This discordance suggested that other factors besides in utero exposure to DES may account for the development of cervicovaginal clear cell adenocarcinoma; these factors would necessarily be extrauterine in location and nongenetic in character. When the twins were compared for lifetime exposure to radiation and evidence of previous viral disease in an attempt to determine the other possible etiological considerations, the twin with cancer showed an elevated titer of antibody to the capsid antigen of Epstein-Barr virus, a virus of the herpesvirus group which has been implicated in oncogenicity. The cancerous twin was treated with surgery and radiation, and the tumor has not reappeared; 4 years later the nonaffected twin remains unaffected also.
Both occupational and environmental exposures to lead remain a serious problem in many developing and industrializing countries. When humans are exposed to high levels of lead, there is damage to almost all organs and organ systems (most importantly, the central nervous system, kidneys, and blood), which often culminates in death.
To estimate the prevalence of blood lead levels (BLLs) and to identify the sources of environmental exposure and potential risk factors for elevated BLLs among Saudi schoolchildren.
A cross-sectional survey was conducted from March to May 2010. The study population included 557 Saudi school students of both sexes. A multistage random sampling technique was used. Information about socioeconomic status, house and school construction, and parents' education and employment was collected using questionnaires. Lead was analyzed in a blood sample using an atomic absorption technique and hemoglobin was measured using a Sysmex hematological analyzer.
The mean BLL was 4.94 ± 3.38 μg/dL (range 0.45-26.3 μg/dL). A total of 19% had BLLs <1.0 μg/dL, 16% had BLLs <2.5 μg/dL, 15% had BLLs <5.0 μg/dL, 20% had BLLs <7.5 μg/dL, 25% had BLLs <10.0 μg/dL, and about 6% had BLLs >10.0 μg/dL. Analysis of odds by controlling all risk factors (adjusted odds ratio [OR]) that affect BLLs (≥10 μg/dL) indicated that using cosmetics (OR = 18.5, confidence interval [CI] = 14.4-19.8), putting colored toys in mouth (OR = 15.7, CI = 3.6-16.2), eating canned food (OR = 9.8, CI = 7.0-10.1), and using newspaper during food preparation (OR = 7.6, CI = 6.3-8.2) are risk factors. There were significant correlations between BLLs and family habits (r = 0.225, P = 0.000), personal habits (r = 0.321, P = 0.000), eating habits (r = 0.128, P = 0.002) and school building characteristics (r = 0.469, P = 0.000). There was a significant correlation between BLLs and anemia in age group 6 < 12 years (P = 0.000) and age group 12 to less than 18 years, among males (P = 0.000) and females (P = 0.041).
The BLLs of children are affected by multiple factors. Female students have higher BLLs and lower hemoglobin concentration than males. The possible sources of lead exposure were use of toothpaste, use of kohl, putting colored toys in the mouth, use of both canned food and canned juice, use of lip gloss in females, and different methods of handling newspaper while preparing food.
The principal aim of this study was to assess the efficacy of quinidine in suppressing IKr in vitro and in modulating the rate dependence of the QT interval in the "SQT1" form of the short QT syndrome.
Graded-intensity bicycle exercise testing was performed off drug in three patients and during oral quinidine in two patients with short QT syndrome and compared to a control group of healthy normal subjects. The in vitro effects of quinidine on currents in patch clamp technique were investigated. Off drugs QTpV3/heart rate correlation is much weaker in patients with short QT syndrome, and QTpV3 shortens less with heart rate increase compared to normal subjects. In addition to prolonging the QT interval into the normal range, quinidine restored the heart rate dependence of the QT interval toward a range of adaptation reported for normal subjects. Data from heterologous expression of wild-type and mutant HERG genes indicate the mutation causes a 20-fold increase in IC50 of d-sotalol but only a 5.8-fold increase in IC50 of quinidine.
Oral quinidine is effective in suppressing the gain of function in IKr responsible for some cases of short QT syndrome with a mutation in HERG and thus restoring normal rate dependence of the QT interval and rendering ventricular tachycardia/ventricular fibrillation noninducible.
We investigated the effect of diltiazem on dipyridamole-induced myocardial ischemia in eight patients with coronary artery disease. Dipyridamole was infused at a rate of 0.142 mg/kg/min for 4 min, and 87-lead mapping was performed to determine the number of leads with ischemic ST-segment depression greater than or equal to 0.05 mV (nST). The range of nST was 8-24 (mean, 13.8) in the control study. Of eight patients studied, a single dose of 90 mg diltiazem administered 3 h before dipyridamole infusion inhibited dipyridamole-induced ST-segment depression completely in seven (nST = 0) and incompletely in one (nST = from 24 to 5). It was concluded that diltiazem could suppress the myocardial ischemia following dipyridamole infusion.
The non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate NMDA receptor antagonist ketamine, a dissociative anesthetic capable of inducing analgesia, is known to have psychotomimetic actions, but the detailed mechanisms remain unclear because of its complex properties. The present study elucidated neural mechanisms of the effect of ketamine, at doses that exert psychotomimetic effects without anesthetic and analgesic effects, by evaluating cortical synaptic responses in vivo. Systemic administration (i.p.) of low (1 and 5 mg/kg), subanesthetic (25 mg/kg) and anesthetic (100 mg/kg) doses of ketamine dose-dependently decreased hippocampal stimulation-evoked potential in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) in freely moving rats. The behavioral analysis assessed by prepulse inhibition (PPI) of acoustic startle response showed that ketamine (5 and 25 mg/kg, i.p.) produced PPI deficit. Thus, the psychotomimetic effects observed in ketamine-treated groups (5 and 25 mg/kg, i.p.) are associated with the induction of synaptic depression in the hippocampus-mPFC neural pathway. Based on these results, we further examined the underlying mechanisms of the ketamine-induced synaptic depression under anesthesia. Ketamine (5 and 25 mg/kg, i.p.) caused increases in dialysate dopamine in the mPFC in anesthetized rats. Moreover, the ketamine-induced decreases in the evoked potential, at the dose 5 mg/kg which has no anesthetic and analgesic effects, were indeed absent in dopamine-lesioned rats pretreated with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA; 150 μg/rat, i.c.v.). Ketamine (5 mg/kg, i.p.)-induced synaptic depression was blocked by pretreatment with dopamine D1 receptor antagonist SCH 23390 (10 μg/rat, i.c.v.) but not dopamine D2 receptor antagonist haloperidol (1.5 mg/kg, i.p.), suggesting that dopaminergic modulation mediated via D1 receptors are involved in the synaptic effects of ketamine. Furthermore, ketamine (5 mg/kg, i.p.)-induced synaptic depression was prevented also by GABAA receptor antagonist bicuculline (0.2 or 2 μg/rat, i.c.v.). These findings suggest that ketamine at the dose that exerts psychotomimetic symptoms depresses hippocampus-mPFC synaptic transmission through mechanisms involving dopaminergic modulation mediated via D1 receptors, which may lead to a net augmentation of synaptic inhibition mediated via GABAA receptors.
Following the observation that two patients with depression and essential orthostatic hypotension recovered from the latter affection after yohimbine administration, an open study was conducted to assess the activity of yohimbine in correcting orthostatic hypotension induced by tricyclic antidepressants. Results were conclusive in 10 of the 11 patients treated, and were confirmed in a further 12 cases during a double-blind study. Yohimbine appears to be the most effective treatment for orthostatic hypotension, either essential or induced by thymoanaleptic or neuroleptic therapy.
Although l-DOPA represents the standard of care in Parkinson's disease, long-term treatment may be compromised by l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID), with adverse fluctuations in motor responsiveness and progressive loss of control. Here we show that in rats with 6-hydroxydopamine-induced lesions of the median forebrain bundle, LID correlates with 5-HT levels. Rats were treated with l-DOPA (6 mg/kg) and benserazide (15 mg/kg) daily for 3 weeks to induce the development of abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs). After this chronic l-DOPA treatment, the lesion side of the rats displayed significant changes in striatal dopamine (DA) and 5-HT levels. Striatal DA and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) levels were inversely correlated, and AIMs were strongly positively correlated with DA levels and negatively correlated with 5-HT levels. Axial AIMs were more strongly correlated with DA and 5-HT levels than were the other AIMs subtypes, while locomotive AIMs showed no significant correlation at all. In addition, striatal 5-HT was more strongly (negatively) correlated with the AIMs than striatal DA levels. These results demonstrate that 5-HT contributes to LID and that both striatal DA (positively) and 5-HT (negatively) affect the severity of LID. We suggest that by strategic modification of the serotonin system it may be possible to attenuate the adverse effects of chronic l-DOPA therapy.
Pemetrexed (Alimta) is a new-generation multitargeted antifolate that inhibits several key enzymes in the de novo pathways of pyrimidine and purine biosynthesis, including thymidylate synthase (TS), dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) and glycinamide ribonucleotide formyltransferase (GARFT). Alimta has demonstrated antitumor activity in a broad array of human malignancies, e.g. breast, non-small cell lung cancer, malignant pleural mesothelioma and pancreatic, colorectal, gastric, bladder, head and neck cancer, and is currently in phase III clinical trials. It has been reported that a dose of 600 mg/m2 of pemetrexed showed toxicity to bone marrow and the gastrointestinal system. The aim of this investigation was to evaluate raloxifene (RAL) in combination with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)/pemetrered multitargeted antifolate (MTA) to determine the most effective regimens and cellular mechanism of action to mitigate pemetrexed cytotoxicity in human bone marrow cells.
In order to determine the sequence-dependent interaction between MTA, 5-FU and RAL on proliferation, cell viability was carried out using the Quick Cell Proliferation Assay by exposing the HS-5 and MCF-7 cells to (i) MTA, 5-FU and RAL alone, or (ii) RAL 24 h prior to 5-FU followed 2 h later by MTA, or (iii) 5-FU 2 h prior to MTA followed 24 h later by RAL.
The growth rate in MCF-7 in early RAL was 69 +/- 8.65% and late RAL was 36 +/- 4.6% of the control whereas in bone marrow early RAL was 78 +/- 8.65% and late RAL was 52 +/- 5.49% of the control. The late RAL exhibits significant protection against MTA cytotoxicity in bone marrow. The findings were further supported by cell flow cytometry, apoptosis and Western blot analysis data.
This study suggests that sequence-dependent administration of RAL (5FU/MTA/RAL), in combination with 5-FU/MTA, protects against MTA toxicity in human bone marrow while maintaining the maximum inhibitory effect of pemetrexed in breast cancer.
This laboratory has proposed that the third isoform of the metallothionein gene family (MT-3) might be a biomarker for the development of human bladder cancer. Immunohistochemical staining of MT-3 on archival diagnostic specimens showed that only 2 of 63 (3.17%) benign bladder specimens had even weak reactivity for the MT-3 protein. In contrast, 103 of 107 (96.26%) high-grade urothelial cancers and 17 of 17 (100%) specimens of carcinoma in situ stained positive for the MT-3 protein. For low-grade bladder cancer it was shown that 30 of 48 specimens (62.5%) expressed the MT-3 protein. Using a cell culture model (UROtsa), it was demonstrated that expression of the MT-3 protein was not required for malignant transformation of urothelial cells by either Cd(+2) or As(+3). In contrast, it was shown that the cells transformed by Cd(+2) and As(+3) that did not express the MT-3 gene in cell culture, gained expression of MT-3 when grown as heterotransplants in nude mice. The gain in MT-3 expression when cells were grown as heterotransplants was also shown to occur for the MCF-7, T-47D, Hs 578t, MDA-MB-231 breast cancer, and the PC-3 prostate cancer cell lines. An analysis of MT-3 mRNA and protein expression suggested that a posttranscriptional mechanism was responsible for accumulation of the MT-3 protein. The results provide strong evidence that MT-3 could be a biomarker for the development of high-grade bladder cancer and that the expression of the MT-3 gene is not involved in the in vitro malignant transformation of UROtsa cells by Cd(+2) and As(+3).
The objectives of the present study were to determine the following: (a) the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of melphalan using a 24-h continuous infusion; (b) the clinical toxicity; and (c) the pharmacokinetic characteristics of melphalan at each dose level. Twenty-one patients with refractory solid tumors were enrolled in the study. Melphalan, packaged in 3% sodium chloride, was administered i.v. over a 24-h period. Patients were assigned to one of three escalating dose levels of melphalan: (a) 20 mg/m2 (n = 5); (b) 30 mg/m2 (n = 7); and (c) 40 mg/m2 (n = 6). Each patient underwent pharmacokinetic evaluation during the first cycle of treatment. Melphalan concentrations in plasma were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography. Toxicity was evaluated after each course of chemotherapy. All of the patients were assessable for toxicity and pharmacokinetics, and 20 patients were assessable for response analysis. A total of 50 courses of melphalan was studied. The MTD was 30 mg/m2. The dose-limiting toxicity was neutropenia and thrombocytopenia. Hematotoxicity was reversible (nadir, 14-15 days; recovery, 3.5 and 12.5 days for 30 and 40 mg/m2, respectively), cumulative, and related to the administered dose and to the history of previous therapy. There were six episodes of neutropenic sepsis. Individual pharmacokinetic parameters were estimated using a Bayesian approach and linear elimination kinetics. Data were compatible with a one-compartment model. Relationships have been found between the area under the plasma concentration-time curve and doses and between Css and doses. Moreover, clearance, t1/2 elimination, and volume of distribution did not change statistically with dose, which suggests linear kinetics. Two partial responses were observed in patients with ovarian carcinoma or adenocarcinoma of unknown primary origin, and another patient had stabilization disease. In conclusion, melphalan MTD was determined to be 30 mg/m2 when administered as a 24-h infusion. Hematological toxicity was the dose-limiting toxicity. The most important nonhematological toxicity encountered was nausea and vomiting. The recommended dose for Phase II studies was 30 mg/m2.
Fever is a prominent feature of many diseases, such as infection, inflammation and trauma. In the clinic, fever can be easily judged by measuring the body temperature; however, the pathogenesis of fever is still not fully understood. A febrile response is a systemic pathological process that can cause metabolic disorders. Metabonomics can provide powerful tools to reveal the pathological mechanisms for such a systemic disease. Thus, to reveal subtle metabolic changes under the condition of fever and to explore its mechanism, an ultra performance liquid chromatography coupled with a quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry metabonomics approach was employed to investigate the urine biochemical characteristics of yeast-induced pyrexia rats. The acquired data were subjected to principal component analysis for differentiating the pyrexia rats from the control rats. Potential biomarkers were screened by using orthogonal partial least-squares-discriminant analysis and were identified by accurate mass, database, and MS/MS fragment information obtained from the MS(E) technique. Sixteen metabolites in rat urine were identified as potential biomarkers. The relative intensities of the 15 potential biomarkers were calculated. The thermoregulatory circuitry of "endogenous pyrogen (EP) ↑-hypothalamus Na⁺/Ca²⁺-cAMP↑" was partially confirmed in this study. The results suggested that UPLC/MS-based metabolic profiling of rat urine identifies impaired tryptophan metabolism as the mechanism of yeast-induced fever. This research provided informative data that the impaired tryptophan metabolism might be one of the important reasons in elucidating the biochemical basis of the febrile response.
Recombinant human interleukin-6 (IL-6) has previously been shown to increase platelet counts in normal and sublethally irradiated mice, dogs, and primates. To assess its tolerance and efficacy in clinical use, we performed a randomized phase Ib study in patients with ovarian carcinoma. IL-6 was administered during an initial 7-day cycle before any chemotherapy. Beginning 7 days later, six cycles of chemotherapy containing carboplatin were administered every 3 weeks. During chemotherapy cycles 2 to 6, IL-6 was administered from day 4 through day 17 at escalating dose levels from 0.5 to 10 micrograms/kg/d. At each level, three patients received IL-6 and one patient received a placebo. During the prechemotherapy cycle of IL-6, a dose-dependent increase in platelet count was observed from day 12 to 15 and was maximal on day 15 (r = .77; P < .01). The median ploidy of bone marrow megakaryocytes shifted from 16 N to 32 N after 7 days of the initial prechemotherapy IL-6 administration. Dose-dependent increases in C-reactive protein (CRP) and fibrinogen levels were observed on day 8 (P < .0001 for both). A significant decrease in hemoglobin level occured rapidly after initiation of IL-6 therapy and was maximal on day 8 (P < .001). When given after chemotherapy, IL-6 accelerated platelet recovery after chemotherapy cycles 2 to 6. Postponements of scheduled chemotherapy due to thrombocytopenia were less frequent in patients treated with IL-6. No difference in either neutrophils or peripheral blood progenitor assays was observed during or after IL-6 treatment. Toxicity of IL-6 appeared mild and was not dose-limiting up to 10 micrograms/kg/d. Systemic symptoms such as fever, headache, and myalgia were the main side effects and were easily relieved by acetaminophen administration. No biologic toxicity was observed. The data indicate that IL-6 is a well-tolerated cytokine and capable of accelerating platelet recovery in patients receiving chemotherapy.
1. The distribution and amount of ferritin in the glomeruli following intravenous injection of radiolabeled ferritin (125I-ferritin) was studied in 25 normal rats and in 25 rats with membranous nephropathy. The animals used were male Sprague-Dawley rats weighing 180-200 g at the beginning of the experiment. Membranous nephropathy was induced by repeated iv injections of 1.0 mg cationic bovine serum albumin during 28 days. 2. At the end of the experiment the animals received 125I-ferritin iv and were sacrificed 2, 6, 12, 24 and 36 h later, and the glomeruli were isolated. 3. Mean (+/- SEM) levels of 125I-ferritin in the glomeruli reported as cpm/mg protein in rats injected with cationic bovine serum albumin were: 731.8 +/- 155.6 after 2 h, 946.4 +/- 268.2 after 6 h, 565.4 +/- 143.5 after 12 h, 251.8 +/- 26.5 after 24 h, and 202 +/- 29.1 after 36 h. Mean (+/- SEM) 125I-ferritin in normal rats were: 2 h: 256.2 +/- 44.6; 6 h: 214.2 +/- 8.78; 12 h: 198.2 +/- 32.2; 24 h: 51.5 +/- 3.57; 36 h: 40.6 +/- 5.48. 125I-ferritin levels in the glomeruli isolated from rats injected with cationic bovine serum albumin were significantly higher than in control rats at 2, 6, 24 and 36 h. 4. The distribution of ferritin in the glomeruli was studied by a direct immunofluorescence technique. Normal and nephrotic rats showed ferritin in the glomerular mesangium only, with similar pattern and intensity. 5. These data show that rats with membranous glomerulonephritis induced by cationic bovine serum albumin presented an increased macromolecule uptake by the glomerular mesangium. However, the mechanism underlying this mesangial overloading is still unknown.
Neurotoxicity associated with acyclovir use is infrequently encountered. However, the half-life of acyclovir is greatly prolonged in patients with end-stage renal disease, predisposing these patients to neurological side effects that are generally reversible but occasionally severe. In general, renal dialysis effectively decreases the serum level of acyclovir, which correlates with toxicity. We report an unusual case of delirium and coma in a patient undergoing hemodialysis who was receiving what appeared to be an appropriately adjusted dose of acyclovir.
Free radical-induced gastric mucosal injury was caused by severe depletion of glutathione and alpha-tocopherol. Intravenous infusion of hypoxanthine (HX) via the jugular vein and local intra-arterial infusion of xanthine oxidase (XO) via the left gastric artery caused marked gastric mucosal injury in the antrum and the corpus. This study was performed to determine whether antioxidants in the gastric mucosa are mobilized during oxidative stress in the rat stomach. The level of thiobarbituric acid (TBA) reactive substance in the gastric mucosa was not significantly changed. The levels of total glutathione and alpha-tocopherol in the gastric mucosa significantly decreased. Total superoxide dismutase (Cu/Zn-and Mn-SOD) and glutathione peroxidase activities were not significantly changed. Administration of SOD reversed the glutathione level but not the alpha-tocopherol level in the gastric mucosa. To determine the role of glutathione and alpha-tocopherol in oxidative stress, the stomach was removed from a normal, alpha-tocopherol supplemented, and glutathione-depleted rat and used for experimentation. Frozen slices of the rat stomach were infused with HX-XO then examined histochemically using cold Schiff's reagent for signs of lipid peroxidation. It was found that the alpha-tocopherol supplemented stomach inhibited lipid peroxidation induced by HX-XO. Biochemical measurements and histochemical examination showed that the glutathione-depleted frozen tissue section and the homogenate had increased by lipid peroxidation induced by HX-XO. These findings suggested that alpha-tocopherol and glutathione may play a role in protecting the gastric mucosa against oxygen free radicals.
To describe 7 cases of acute postoperative azotemia in dogs and to examine by use of a case-control study the possible association between this complication and administration of nafcillin.
Retrospective and case-control study.
7 case dogs and 28 matched control dogs.
Cases of acute renal failure or acute renal insufficiency were identified by retrospective study of records of dogs treated between July 1, 1992, and Feb 28, 1995, and from information received from a practitioner. A random sample of records of dogs undergoing invasive procedures between Dec 1, 1992, and Nov 30, 1993, was examined to determine the prevalence of nafcillin use. Each case dog was matched with 4 control dogs, and data were subjected to logistic regression analysis, employing exact conditional inference on the parameter estimates.
Case dogs were between 1 and 9 years old and weighed between 21 and 60 kg. Preoperatively, none of the dogs had a history of renal disease, and BUN concentrations, hematocrit, and plasma protein concentrations were within reference ranges. Postoperatively, each dog became azotemic and had clinical signs consistent with uremia. Hyponatremia was recorded in 6 case dogs. One dog did not respond to treatment and was euthanatized. Two dogs had persistent isosthenuria, and 4 dogs recovered. Nafcillin was used in approximately 502 of 2,184 (23%) dogs that underwent invasive procedures between Dec 1, 1992, and Nov 30, 1993. The use of nafcillin ceased on Nov 30, 1993, and no further cases were recorded in the following 15 months. In the case-control study, the only factor that was significantly associated with the occurrence of acute postoperative azotemia was administration of nafcillin.
Intraoperative use of nafcillin maybe associated with development of acute postoperative azotemia in dogs.
A 59-year-old male underwent a dipyridamole myocardial scintigraphy. During dipyridamole infusion, a marked ST-segment elevation was observed in the inferior leads. After aminophylline injection, a short burst of ventricular tachycardia occurred, then the ST-segment elevation disappeared. The myocardial scintigraphy was consistent with myocardial ischemia of the inferior wall. The coronary angiography revealed no significant coronary lesion. Coronary spasm induced by dipyridamole remained the most probable mechanism for this complication.
The implantable atrial defibrillator (IAD) is designed to detect and treat atrial fibrillation (AF) with low energy synchronized shocks. A patient with a history of persistent AF was implanted with an IAD after ineffective treatment with procainamide and sotalol. Through four months of follow-up, the IAD performed appropriate detection and treatment of AF. During the fifth month, the patient was put on flecainide in an attempt to minimize the AF recurrence rate. On flecainide the patient experienced typical atrial flutter which required IAD reprogramming for appropriate detection and therapy delivery. This case report examines the optimization of the IAD to detect atrial flutter. Six months of follow-up after optimization the IAD has shown appropriate detection of both atrial flutter and AF. During the entire follow-up period the IAD had appropriate detection of sinus rhythm (no false positive detection, i.e. sinus rhythm as AF).
Seven patients, aged between 50 and 69 years, had typical features of nonarteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (NAION) within 36 hours after ingestion of sildenafil citrate (Viagra) for erectile dysfunction. Six patients had vision loss within 24 hours after use of the agent. Final visual acuity in the affected eye ranged from 20/20 to light perception. Both eyes were affected in one individual. All affected individuals had pre-existing hypertension, diabetes, elevated cholesterol, or hyperlipidemia. Seven similar cases have been previously reported. Sildenafil may provoke NAION in individuals with an arteriosclerotic risk profile.
Almotriptan (3-[2-(dimethylamino) ethyl]-5-(pyrrolidin-1-ylsulfonylmethyl)-1H-indole, CAS 154323-57-6) is a new 5-HT1B/1D agonist whose clinical efficacy has been demonstrated in Phase III clinical trials. This study aimed to evaluate the safety of almotriptan with respect to the central nervous system, renal function and respiratory dynamics using preclinical animal models. The results indicate that almotriptan does not cross the blood-brain barrier, since no effects on/interaction with spontaneous locomotor activity, hexobarbital-induced sleeping time, caffeine-induced increase of spontaneous locomotor activity, or hypothermia (caused by stimulation of central 5-HT1D receptors) was observed following treatment. Almotriptan had a mild antiemetic effect and a slight, transient diuretic effect in dogs, although the latter effect is probably of no clinical relevance. In addition, no effect on the respiratory system of conscious guinea pigs was observed following almotriptan treatment. These results indicate that almotriptan has a favourable safety profile with respect to the central nervous, renal and respiratory systems.
We report a patient presenting with transient neurotoxicity who developed edema in the cerebral and cerebellar cortex following bone marrow transplant and administration of FK506, a widely used immunosuppresive agent.
CPAP is widely used in preterm infants on NICUs but it poses a stressful stimulus to the patient, sometimes requiring the use of analgosedative drugs.
The aim of this study is to evaluate the risks and benefits associated with the use of low-dose morphine in preterm infants with CPAP, especially apnea.
Sixty-four CPAP-treated preterm infants, who received a low single dose of morphine (recommended 0.01 mg/kg), were included in this prospective study. Observation-time was 4 h prior to injection, directly before injecting, until 15 min and 15-30 min, 30 min-1 h, 1-2 h, 2-3 h, 3-4 h, 4-5 h and 5-6 h after injection. For all observation periods incidence of apnea, heart rate, respiratory rate and a score for analgesia and for sedation were recorded.
Sixty-four preterm infants (29.6+/-3.3 weeks gestational age (GA), birth weight 1401+/-735 g) received 0.025+/-0.012 mg/kg morphine i.v. on the day 10-13 of life. The decrease in heart and respiratory rate, scores for analgesia and sedation were significant. The overall incidence of apnea did not increase compared to the 4 h pre-morphine period. Six patients (9.3%) experienced considerable delayed apnea. This group was significantly younger in GA (p<0.001) and lighter in birth weight (p=0.002).
Morphine in dosage less than half of recommended dosage has a high analgetic and sedative potential. The danger of delayed severe apnea has to be taken into consideration in the clinical situation, especially in patients<28 weeks.
The acute effects of a single capsule of each of two phenylpropanolamine-containing preparations were determined in a group of healthy young adults, by means of a double-blind comparison with matching placebo preparations. Supine diastolic blood-pressure rose to 100 mm Hg or more in 12 out of 37 subjects taking an anorectic preparation ('Trimolets'; 85 mg phenylpropanolamine per capsule) and in 4 out of 34 subjects taking a decongestant preparation ('Contac 500'; 50 mg phenylpropanolamine per capsule). 20 of the subjects taking trimolets reported adverse side effects. The frequency and extent of the hypertensive response to high-dose phenylpropranolamine-containing preparations suggest that clinical use of such preparations should be reviewed and that their availability without prescription may not be appropriate.
We report two cases of fulminant hepatic failure in HIV-1-infected patients treated with didanosine (ddI). Clinical manifestations including vomiting, diarrhoea and dyspnoea were identical in both cases. Biological data mainly revealed hepatic failure and lactic acidosis. Histological examination of liver biopsies showed diffuse microvesicular steatosis. The outcome was fatal in both patients. The only comparable case previously reported (Lai et al., 1991) showed close similarities in the clinical, biological and histological manifestations with microvesicular steatosis. This prompted us to suspect that ddI might be responsible for fulminant hepatitis in all three AIDS patients. This toxic effect may be added to the list of potential adverse events occurring during ddI therapy.
