The aim of the present study was to assess levodopa (L-Dopa)-induced drowsiness in healthy volunteers using two parameters: choice reaction time and a subjective rating of sedation. Sixteen subjects participated in a randomized, double-blinded, crossover study. A single dose of 200 mg L-Dopa or placebo was administered at 9:00 AM. To limit peripheral side effects connected with L-Dopa, subjects were treated with 20 mg domperidone three times daily. Subjective rating of sedation consisted of visual analogue scale. Reaction time was measured by means of responses to two light-emitting diodes. The illumination of one of these diodes constituted the imperative signal. Manual responses were performed on two buttons located under the right and left index fingers. Results demonstrated a positive correlation between sedation level and reaction time (r = 0.70, p = 0.0026). Adverse events of L-Dopa were nausea (four cases) and excitation (one case). Subjects who did not develop adverse events were faster under L-Dopa than under placebo (p = 0.02), whereas subjects who had nausea or excitation were slower. A single dose of L-Dopa either deteriorated or improved choice reaction time in healthy volunteers according to whether it was sedative and whether it generated disruptive adverse events.
Endometriosis is a very common disease that is characterized by increased formation of estradiol and disturbed progesterone action. This latter is usually explained by a lack of progesterone receptor B (PR-B) expression, while the role of pre-receptor metabolism of progesterone is not yet fully understood. In normal endometrium, progesterone is metabolized by reductive 20α-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenases (20α-HSDs), 3α/β-HSDs and 5α/β-reductases. The aldo-keto reductases 1C1 and 1C3 (AKR1C1 and AKR1C3) are the major reductive 20α-HSDs, while the oxidative reaction is catalyzed by 17β-HSD type 2 (HSD17B2). Also, 3α-HSD and 3β-HSD activities have been associated with the AKR1C isozymes. Additionally, 5α-reductase types 1 and 2 (SRD5A1, SRD5A2) and 5β-reductase (AKR1D1) are responsible for the formation of 5α- and 5β-reduced pregnanes. In this study, we examined the expression of PR-AB and the progesterone metabolizing enzymes in 31 specimens of ovarian endometriosis and 28 specimens of normal endometrium. Real-time PCR analysis revealed significantly decreased mRNA levels of PR-AB, HSD17B2 and SRD5A2, significantly increased mRNA levels of AKR1C1, AKR1C2, AKR1C3 and SRD5A1, and negligible mRNA levels of AKR1D1. Immunohistochemistry staining of endometriotic tissue compared to control endometrium showed significantly lower PR-B levels in epithelial cells and no significant differences in stromal cells, there were no significant differences in the expression of AKR1C3 and significantly higher AKR1C2 levels were seen only in stromal cells. Our expression analysis data at the mRNA level and partially at the cellular level thus suggest enhanced metabolism of progesterone by SRD5A1 and the 20α-HSD and 3α/β-HSD activities of AKR1C1, AKR1C2 and AKR1C3.
Five alkyl carbamates, methyl, ethyl, propyl, hydroxypropyl and ethylhexyl, were tested for initiating and promoting activity in rat liver. The test for initiating activity consisted of administering the carbamate by gavage to male Sprague--Dawley rats at either 6 or 18 h after a 2/3 partial hepatectomy. One week later, the rats received 500 ppm sodium phenobarbital in their drinking water until killed 10 weeks later. None of the carbamates at 1/5 the LD50 induced gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase (GGT)-positive foci, indicating the lack of initiating activity. The tumor promoting activity test consisted of initiation with 80 mmol/kg diethylnitrosamine administered 18 h after a partial hepatectomy. One week later, the rats received one of the the carbamates at either 1/10 or 1/20 the LD50 5 days per week until sacrificed 10 weeks later. The alkyl carbamates increased the volume of the foci, the percent of the liver occupied by the foci, the number of foci/cm3 (except ethylhexyl carbamate), and the number of foci/liver (except ethylhexyl carbamate). These results suggest that the alkyl carbamates are tumor promoters and not tumor initiators in rat liver.
Phonatory and articulatory dysfunctions are frequent observations in Parkinson's disease. We have investigated, using acoustic measures, the effects of levodopa treatment on vocal function in 20 patients with Parkinson's disease before and after levodopa. These patients were also compared with a matched control group. The mean age was 63.5 +/- 9.66 years, Hoehn-Yahr stage was 2.38 +/- 0.45, and onset mean age was 56.5 +/- 10.36 years. Paired Wilcoxon tests were performed to compare measurements before and after levodopa. The acoustic analysis using Computerized Speech Lab and MultiDimensional Voice Program software programs (Kay Elemetrics, Lincoln Park, NJ, USA) showed that measurements of fundamental frequency (p < 0.017) were significantly increased after medication, whereas short-term frequency perturbation jitter (p < 0.033), soft phonation index (noise parameter) (p < 0.015 ), and frequency tremor intensity index (p < 0.018) were significantly decreased after medication. The objective measurements of acoustic analysis are useful in evaluating the dopaminergic pharmacologic response in Parkinson's disease. The improvement in fundamental frequency and other vocal parameters may be a result of decrease in laryngeal hypokinesia and rigidity.
Antipsychotic medications have been associated with significant cardiovascular adverse effects and instances of sudden cardiac death. Recently, we started to evaluate cardiac parameters in medicated patients with schizophrenia using power spectrum analysis of heart rate variability. We present a case of a patient with long-standing schizophrenia who was treated with clozapine. His electrocardiogram revealed minor abnormalities, including a prolonged QT interval. Power spectrum analysis of heart rate variability demonstrated marked abnormalities in autonomic nervous system activity. Two years later, his treatment was switched to olanzapine. We reevaluated his cardiac parameters. Power spectrum analysis studies revealed that heart rate had significantly improved and that power spectrum cardiovascular parameters had returned to normal. Serial electrocardiograms revealed a minimally and asymptomatically prolonged QT interval. This case demonstrates the importance of screening electrocardiograms, even in healthy young patients. It also emphasizes how minor changes in electrocardiogram can be overlooked on standard electrocardiograms. Power spectrum analysis of heart rate variability is useful in this instance because it magnifies the trace and detects even minor disturbances. Care should be taken in prescribing antipsychotic drugs to patients who are prone to cardiovascular side effects, and alternatives to antipsychotics with prominent anticholinergic profile, in particular, should be sought.
1. Six healthy subjects received cilazapril (2.5 mg once daily), propranolol (120 mg once daily), the combination of both and placebo for a period of 1 week each (wash-out phase 1 week). 2. Propranolol and cilazapril reduced systolic and diastolic blood pressure (BP) by 7 mm Hg at peak when compared with placebo. However after the combination, this reduction was more than doubled (18 mm Hg) and lasted longer. 3. There was a trend to lower and later peak concentrations for both drugs after administration of the combination. No clinically relevant pharmacokinetic interactions between cilazapril and propranolol were found. 4. The effects on blood pressure were confirmed in hypertensive patients (BP diastolic greater than 95 mm Hg). Thirteen patients were randomly allocated cilazapril (2.5 mg day-1) or propranolol (120 mg day-1] as part of a cross-over design. This was then followed by the combination. All treatment periods were of 3 weeks duration and all measurements were done 2 h after drug administration. 5. Cilazapril lowered the median sitting diastolic BP by 8 mm Hg, and propranolol by 9 mm Hg, whereas the combination reduced the diastolic BP by 19 mm Hg. 6. The results of these studies, attempting to elucidate drug-drug interactions, showed that combined use of propranolol and cilazapril resulted in a more pronounced and longer lasting blood pressure reduction, in healthy subjects and in patients with hypertension.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors have been reported to be effective in placebo-controlled trials in various subsets of patients with acute myocardial infarction (MI). However, no direct comparisons have been performed between different ACE inhibitors in the same patient population.
This phase III, double-blind, parallel-group, multicenter study compared the safety and efficacy of zofenopril and lisinopril in 1024 thrombolyzed patients with acute MI. Patients, aged 18 to 75 years, were randomized to receive oral zofenopril (30-60 mg/day) or lisinopril (5-10 mg/day), starting within 12 hours of completion of thrombolytic therapy and continuing for 42 days. The primary study end point was the incidence of severe hypotension (systolic blood pressure <90 mm Hg), either cumulative or drug-related. Secondary end points included additional safety and efficacy parameters.
The overall incidence of severe hypotension was slightly 5 more reduced with zofenopril (10.9%) than with lisinopril (11.7%, P =.38). The incidence of drug-related severe hypotension was slightly but significantly lower with zofenopril than with lisinopril (6.7 vs 9.8%, 2-tailed P =.048). The 6-week mortality rate was 3.2% in the zofenopril group and 4.0% in the lisinopril group (P =.38), and no significant differences were observed in the incidence of major cardiovascular complications or any safety variables between the 2 ACE inhibitors.
The SMILE-2 study demonstrates that both zofenopril and lisinopril are safe and associated with a rather low rate of severe hypotension when given in accordance with a dose-titrated scheme to thrombolyzed patients with acute MI. These findings could have a positive clinical impact and increase the proportion of patients with acute MI who can be safely treated with ACE inhibitors.
INTRODUCTION: Non-clinical evaluation of a medication's potential to induce cardiac toxicity is recommended by regulatory agencies. 4-Aminopyridine (fampridine) is a potassium channel blocker with the demonstrated ability to improve walking ability in patients with multiple sclerosis. We evaluated the in vitro effects of 4-aminopyridine on the human ether-à-go-go-related gene (hERG) channel current, since hERG current inhibition is associated with QT interval prolongation-a precursor to torsade de pointes (TdP). METHODS: 4-Aminopyridine was evaluated in concentrations ranging from 0.1 mM to 30 mM in human embryonic kidney 293 cells stably transfected with the hERG gene; terfenadine 60 nM was used as a positive control. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: We observed concentration-dependent inhibition of hERG current with 4-aminopyridine doses between 0.3 and 30 mM. The concentration of 3.8 mM resulting in 50% inhibition (IC(50)) is approximately three orders of magnitude higher than expected therapeutic plasma concentrations, suggesting 4-aminopyridine has low potential for prolonging QT interval or inducing TdP.
To understand the optimal conditions necessary for successful transplantation of normal human amniotic epithelial (HAE) cells in vivo, the factors which influence the cell death were investigated. In this study, the role of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) in HAE cells in vitro was examined.
Normal HAE cells.
The HAE cells were incubated with PGE2 100 nM, 500 nM or 1,000 nM for 8 h.
The PGE2 treated and untreated cells were collected at 2 h, 4 h and 8 h intervals and stained using trypan blue and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling (TUNEL) methods to detect necrosis and apoptosis respectively.
Prostaglandin E2 induced more HAE cell death at 8 h treatment. The percentages of cell death induced by PGE2 100 nM, 500 nM and 1,000 nM at 8 h were 14.0 +/- 0.35 (n=9), 14.9 +/- 0.64 (n=9) and 18.3 +/- 0.65 (n=9) respectively compared to the control (7.0 +/- 0.35; n = 9) (P < 0.001) determined using trypan blue staining method. The apoptotic cell death induced by the above doses of PGE2 at 8 h were 5.7 +/- 0.6 (n=9), 7.14 +/- 0.84 (n=9) and 8.6 +/- 0.67 (n=9) respectively compared to the control (0.86 +/- 0.05; n=9) (P<0.001) determined using TUNEL method. The PGE2 induced high level cell death was via necrosis rather than apoptosis.
These results indicate that PGE2 is an important mediator in HAE cell death.
Paroxetine, like other SSRIs, is reported not to increase the number of malformations in infants exposed to these drugs in utero. However, late pregnancy exposure to SSRIs sometimes leads to perinatal complications resembling the symptoms seen in serotonergic overstimulation. We report here a case of third trimester paroxetine exposure with adverse birth outcome in a newborn. The clinical symptoms in the infant included severe tremor and rigidity as well as loose stools during the first 4 days of life. Plasma paroxetine concentrations in infant plasma were quite low after birth, but she was genotyped to be a poor metabolizer of CYP2D6, the enzyme catalyzing the metabolism of paroxetine. In accordance with an earlier report, we suggest that even low plasma concentrations of paroxetine may be related to perinatal complications in infants exposed to paroxetine during late pregnancy and that the poor metabolizer genotype of CYP2D6 may be a risk factor for these complications.
In the present study the hypothesis of antidepressant-induced subsensitivity of presynaptic dopamine receptors was readdressed. We used the behavioral model of low dose of apomorphine-induced locomotor hypoactivity in rats. Indeed, repeated administration of imipramine and citalopram attenuated the effect of low dose of apomorphine. However, the most interesting finding of the present study was the observation that similar and even stronger attenuation of low dose of apomorphine-induced hypoactivity was obtained by the acute treatment with imipramine, citalopram and amitriptyline, followed by 14 drug free days. That means that the acute antidepressant drug treatment seems to be sufficient to trigger the changes at the level of dopamine D2 presynaptic receptors and/or signal transduction mechanisms as a function of time, regardless of whether the drug is again administered. On the other hand, such the effect of time was not observed in the experiments using D-amphetamine as a motor stimulant. Only the repeated administration of antidepressant drugs enhanced the locomotor hyperactivity induced by D-amphetamine. Acute treatment, neither 2 h nor 14 days after the last dose, changed the D-amphetamine-induced hyperactivity. Such a difference in the time-dependent effects of antidepressant drugs on the locomotor activity induced by either the low dose of apomorphine or D-amphetamine may possibly result from the different mechanisms involved in the regulation of the biosynthesis of dopamine presynaptic and postsynaptic receptors in the rat brain.
Cataleptogenic effects of haloperidol (1 mg/kg i.p.) in rats was antagonized by caffeine and theophylline (10-50 mg/kg i.p.), and by selective adenosine A2 receptor antagonist (3,7-dimethyl-1-propargylxanthine) (3 and 6 mg/kg i.p.). Selective A1-adenosine receptor antagonist (8-cyclopentyltheophylline) (1.5 and 3 mg/kg i.p.) was not able to reduce this effect of haloperidol. These results confirm the antagonistic interaction between adenosine A2A and dopamine D2 receptors, and suggest the involvement of adenosine A2 receptors in the mechanisms of catalepsy.
A 47-year-old man who had been taking minocycline for palmoplantar pustulosis developed fever, myalgias, polyneuropathy, and testicular pain, with elevated C-reactive protein (CRP). Neither myeloperoxidase- nor proteinase-3-antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody was positive. These manifestations met the American College of Rheumatology 1990 criteria for the classification of polyarteritis nodosa. Stopping minocycline led to amelioration of symptoms and normalization of CRP level. To our knowledge, this is the second case of minocycline-induced vasculitis satisfying the criteria. Differential diagnosis for drug-induced disease is invaluable even for patients with classical polyarteritis nodosa.
Pseudoephedrine and dextromethorphan are therapeutic constituents of numerous commonly used, over-the-counter cough and cold preparations. Although this drug combination is generally considered quite safe if utilized in recommended doses, overmedication or overdose can result in serious neurologic and cardiovascular abnormalities that occasionally can be life-threatening. We present a case of a 2-year-old child who developed hyperirritability, psychosis, and ataxia after being overmedicated with a pseudoephedrine/dextromethorphan combination cough preparation, and discuss probable mechanisms of toxicity and risk factors for adverse events.
Arginase (ARG), the enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of arginine to ornithine and urea, is the first and committed step in polyamine biosynthesis in Leishmania. The creation of a conditionally lethal Δarg null mutant in Leishmania mexicana has established that ARG is an essential enzyme for the promastigote form of the parasite and that the enzyme provides an important defense mechanism for parasite survival in the eukaryotic host. Furthermore, human ARGI (HsARGI) has also been implicated as a key factor in parasite proliferation. Thus, inhibitors of ARG offer a rational paradigm for drug design. To initiate a search for inhibitors of the L. mexicana ARG (LmARG), recombinant LmARG and HsARGI enzymes were purified from Escherichia coli. Both LmARG and HsARGI were specific for l-arginine and exhibited no activity with either d-arginine or agmatine as possible substrates. LmARG exhibited a K(m) of 25±4mM for l-arginine, a pH optimum ∼9.0, and was dependent upon the presence of a divalent cation, preferentially manganese. A K(m) of 13.5 ± 2mM for l-arginine was calculated for the HsARGI. A collection of 37 compounds was evaluated against both enzymes. Twelve of these compounds were identified as being either strong inhibitors of both LmARG and HsARGI or differential inhibitors between the two enzymes. Of the 12 compounds, six were selected for further analysis and the type and extent of inhibition determined.
Middle ear microsurgery requires a bloodless operative field, achieved through deliberate hypotension techniques. The present work was designed to analyze the quality of the deliberate hypotension induced by the combination of isoflurane with nicardipine, an injectable calcium channel blocker. Eleven patients, ASA I, 10 minutes after induction of anaesthesia, received nicardipine as a bolus of 25 mg renewed every five minutes (maximum 4) and as a perfusion (5 mg/hour). The bloodless operative field was excellent in all cases with a 29.7% drop in arterial blood pressure after 15 minutes (heart rate: +22.3% after 25 min); values then remained stable until nicardipine was stopped; then hemodynamic data returned to the preanaesthetic values in 66 +/- 56 minutes. No side effect was registered. As a conclusion, deliberate hypotension induced by isoflurane--nicardipine combination provides good conditions for middle ear microsurgery.
Clinical and autopsy studies of 14 patients treated with amphotericin B methyl ester (AME) for focal, disseminated, and nervous system mycotic infections revealed a high incidence of progressive neurologic dysfunction (dementia, akinesia, mutism, hyperreflexia, and tremor) and diffuse white matter degeneration. All of seven patients who received greater than 9.8 g of AME intravenously developed severe neurologic and neuropathologic changes. Two of three patients given 5-7.2 g of AME developed less severe neurologic symptoms; all three had mild diffuse white matter gliosis. Four patients given less than 1.5 g of AME had no bran abnormalities except those related to coccidioidal meningitis. Thirty-one control patients who died on untreated or amphotericin B-treated coccidioidal meningitis showed no diffuse white matter abnormalities. These findings indicate that prolonged administration of AME and/or other contaminating polyenes injures human white matter. Long-term animal studies, with particular attention to nervous system histology, must precede human use of other polyene derivatives.
Lead is still widely used in many industrial processes and is very persistent in the environment. Although toxic effects caused by occupational exposure to lead have been extensively studied, there are still conflicting results regarding its genotoxicity. In a previous pilot study we observed some genotoxic effects in a population of lead exposed workers. Thus, we extended our study analysing a larger population, increasing the number of genotoxicity endpoints, and including a set of 20 genetic polymorphisms related to lead toxicokinetics and DNA repair as susceptibility biomarkers. Our population comprised 148 workers from two Portuguese factories and 107 controls. The parameters analysed were: blood lead levels (BLL) and δ-aminolevulinic acid dehydratase (ALAD) activity as exposure biomarkers, and T-cell receptor (TCR) mutation assay, micronucleus (MN) test, comet assay and OGG1-modified comet assay as genotoxicity biomarkers. Lead exposed workers showed markedly higher BLL and lower ALAD activity than the controls, and significant increases of TCR mutation frequency (TCR-Mf), MN rate and DNA damage. Oxidative damage did not experience any significant alteration in the exposed population. Besides, significant influence was observed for VDR rs1544410 polymorphism on BLL; APE1 rs1130409 and LIG4 rs1805388 polymorphisms on TCR-Mf; MUTYH rs3219489, XRCC4 rs28360135 and LIG4 rs1805388 polymorphisms on comet assay parameter; and OGG1 rs1052133 and XRCC4 rs28360135 polymorphisms on oxidative damage. Our results showed genotoxic effects related to occupational lead exposure to levels under the Portuguese regulation limit of 70 μg/dl. Moreover, a significant influence of polymorphisms in genes involved in DNA repair on genotoxicity biomarkers was observed.
Mutations in the renal K+ channel ROMK (Kir 1.1) cause hyperprostaglandin E syndrome/antenatal Bartter syndrome (HPS/aBS), a severe tubular disorder leading to renal salt and water wasting. Several studies confirmed the predominance of alterations of current properties in ROMK mutants. However, in most of these studies, analysis was restricted to nonmammalian cells and electrophysiologic methods. Therefore, for the majority of ROMK mutations, disturbances in protein trafficking remained unclear. The aim of the present study was the evaluation of different pathogenic mechanisms of 20 naturally occurring ROMK mutations with consecutive classification into mutational classes and identification of distinct rescue mechanisms according to the underlying defect.
Mutated ROMK potassium channels were expressed in Xenopus oocytes and a human kidney cell line and analyzed by two electrode voltage clamp analysis, immunofluorescence, and Western blot analysis.
We identified 14 out of 20 ROMK mutations that did not reach the cell surface, indicating defective membrane trafficking. High expression levels rescued six out of 14 ROMK mutants, leading to significant K+ currents. In addition, two early inframe stop mutations could be rescued by aminoglycosides, resulting in full-length ROMK and correct trafficking to the plasma membrane in a subset of transfected cells.
In contrast to previous reports, most of the investigated ROMK mutations displayed a trafficking defect that might be rescued by pharmacologic agents acting as molecular chaperones. The evaluation of different disease-causing mechanisms will be essential for establishing new and more specific therapeutic strategies for HPS/aBS patients.
In our group of patients suffering from cancer and treated by polychemotherapy and monitored in a complex non-invasive way we obtained data as follows: A normal physical, sensoric and biochemical cardiac finding prior to treatment has been observed in 47 patients out of 68 (69.1%). A pathological cardiac finding prior to treatment has been found in 18 patients out of 68 (26.5%). Pathological changes evidencing for cardiomyopathy (CMP) induced by chemotherapy have been detected in 19 patients out of 68 (27.6%). Out of 18 patients with a pathological report prior to treatment in 8 of them the polycardiographic, echocardiographic, and biochemical alterations deteriorated during the chemotherapy. CMP induced by polychemotherapy has been found altogether in 27 patients out of 68 (39.6%). In this group of patients with clinically and biochemically detected CMP due to antineoplastic treatment, we found a significant decrease of ejection fraction (EF) (values less than 50%) and a marked increase Weisler's index (WI) (values greater than 0.520) approximately in 30% of patients. Our preliminary results show that polycardiographic examinations of systolic time interval (STI), the EF detected echocardiographically, as well as determination of myocardial isoenzyme creatine phosphokinase (CK-MB) activity represent useful non-invasive methods of early detection of any myocardial damage in the course of actinochemotherapy. A systematic monitoring of patients reduces the uncertainty with antitumor chemotherapy so that it enables--in a majority of cases--to bring the planned antineoplastic treatment to a successful end.
Trifluoroacetylated (CF3CO-) proteins, elicited upon exposure of animals or humans to halothane, were recognized by anti-CF3CO antibody, monospecific for the hapten derivative N6-trifluoroacetyl-L-lysine. Anti-CF3CO antibodies cross-reacted with the dihydrolipoamide acetyltransferase (E2 subunit) of pyruvate dehydrogenase, indicating that epitopes on the E2 subunit of pyruvate dehydrogenase molecularly mimic those on CF3CO-proteins. Lipoic acid, the prosthetic group of the E2 subunit of pyruvate dehydrogenase was essential in this process, in that only the lipoylated form of the recombinantly expressed inner lipoyl domain of the human E2 subunit of pyruvate dehydrogenase, but not the unlipolyated form, was recognized by anti-CF3CO antibody. Furthermore, based on a high degree of structural relatedness, both CF3CO-Lys and (6RS)-lipoic acid, as well as the lipoylated peptide ETDK(lipoyl)ATIG specifically inhibited the recognition by anti-CF3CO antibody of the E2 subunit of pyruvate dehydrogenase, of trifluoroacetylated rabbit serum albumin and of human liver CF3CO-proteins. In sera of patients with halothane hepatitis, autoantibodies with properties identical to those of anti-CF3CO antibody were identified which could not discriminate between CF3CO-proteins and the E2 subunit of pyruvate dehydrogenase. These data suggest that the E2 subunit pyruvate of dehydrogenase is an autoantigen in halothane hepatitis and that molecular mimicry of CF3CO-proteins by the E2 subunit of pyruvate dehydrogenase is due to the similar structures of CF3CO-Lys and lipoic acid.
Pain on injection is a well known side-effect of propofol. The present study was designed to assess the efficacy of dolasetron, a 5-HT 3 -antagonist, in prophylaxis of pain on injection of propofol compared with lidocaine and placebo.
Prospective, randomised, double-blinded study including 150 patients randomly assigned to one of three groups: Group A received 12.5 mg dolasetron, group B 40 mg lidocaine and group C saline 0.9 % as placebo. After occluding the venous drainage the test medication was given. The occlusion was released after 1 min and 2.0 mg/kg Propofol was administered over a period of 30 sec. The patients were asked whether they felt any pain during the administration. Pain on injection was judged by using a four-point scale.
Incidence of pain on injection as well as the severity of pain was significantly reduced by lidocaine (62 % pain free) compared with placebo (28 %). Severity, but not incidence of pain on injection was significantly reduced by dolasetron (50 %) compared with placebo. There was no significant difference between dolasetron and lidocaine.
Dolasetron and lidocaine were effective in preventing pain of injection secondary to propofol.
Warfarin is commonly prescribed for prophylaxis and treatment of thromboembolism after orthopedic surgery. During warfarin initiation, out-of-range International Normalized Ratio (INR) values and adverse events are common.
In orthopedic patients beginning warfarin therapy, we developed and prospectively validated pharmacogenetic and clinical dose refinement algorithms to revise the estimated therapeutic dose after 4 days of therapy.
The pharmacogenetic algorithm used the cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2C9 genotype, smoking status, peri-operative blood loss, liver disease, INR values and dose history to predict the therapeutic dose. The R(2) was 82% in a derivation cohort (n = 86) and 70% when used prospectively (n = 146). The R(2) of the clinical algorithm that used INR values and dose history to predict the therapeutic dose was 57% in a derivation cohort (n = 178) and 48% in a prospective validation cohort (n = 146). In 1 month of prospective follow-up, the percent time spent in the therapeutic range was 7% higher (95% CI: 2.7-11.7) in the pharmacogenetic cohort. The risk of a laboratory or clinical adverse event was also significantly reduced in the pharmacogenetic cohort (Hazard Ratio 0.54; 95% CI: 0.30-0.97).
Warfarin dose adjustments that incorporate genotype and clinical variables available after four warfarin doses are accurate. In this non-randomized, prospective study, pharmacogenetic dose refinements were associated with more time spent in the therapeutic range and fewer laboratory or clinical adverse events. To facilitate gene-guided warfarin dosing we created a non-profit website, http://www.WarfarinDosing.org.
Adolescence and excessive intake of saccharin have each been previously associated with enhanced vulnerability to drug abuse. In the present study, we focused on the relationship between these two factors using male adolescent and adult rats selectively bred for high (HiS) and low (LoS) levels of saccharin intake. On postnatal day 25 (adolescents) or 150 (adults), rats were implanted with an intravenous catheter and trained to self-administer cocaine (0.4 mg/kg) using an autoshaping procedure that consisted of two 6-h sessions. In the first 6 h, rats were given non-contingent cocaine infusions at random intervals 10 times per hour, and during the second 6-h session, rats were allowed to self-administer cocaine under a fixed ratio 1 (FR 1) lever-response contingency. Acquisition was defined as a total of at least 250 infusions over 5 consecutive days, and rats were given 30 days to meet the acquisition criterion. Subsequently, saccharin phenotype scores were determined by comparing 24-h saccharin and water consumption in two-bottle tests to verify HiS/LoS status. Adolescent LoS rats had a faster rate of acquisition of cocaine self-administration than adult LoS rats; however, adolescent and adult HiS rats acquired at the same rate. Both HiS and LoS adolescents had significantly higher saccharin phenotype scores than HiS and LoS adults, respectively. Additionally, saccharin score was negatively correlated with the number of days to meet the acquisition criterion for cocaine self-administration, but this was mostly accounted for by the HiS adolescents. These results suggest that during adolescence, compared with adulthood, rats have both an increased avidity for sweets and vulnerability to initiate drug abuse.
We compared the effects of abrupt cessation of nifedipine and isosorbide dinitrate therapy in patients with stable angina pectoris. Eighteen males were studied. Each patient received isosorbide dinitrate and nifedipine continuously for 5 weeks by randomised cross-over technique. Exercise treadmill tests were performed before each treatment period, at the beginning of treatment, 4 weeks after initiation of treatment and on the first and eighth days of drug withdrawal. At the end of treatment the antianginal effect of both agents attenuated (versus acute administration). Abrupt cessation of isosorbide dinitrate caused only a tendency towards decrease in exercise tolerance versus pre-treatment level. Alternatively, abrupt cessation of nifedipine resulted in substantial deterioration in exercise tolerance, which was statistically significant 21 and 24 h after the last dose administration. The number of anginal attacks increased >25% in two patients after cessation of isosorbide dinitrate and in eight patients after cessation of nifedipine. In no patient rest angina episodes appeared after stopping of isosorbide dinitrate, however, after stopping of nifedipine rest angina episodes appeared in three patients. We conclude that withdrawal phenomenon of nifedipine is much more pronounced than that of isosorbide dinitrate and may emerge on the first day of drug cessation. Such a phenomenon may be evident even in patients in whom nifedipine effect have attenuated due to the development of tolerance.
Heterocyclic amines present in cooked foods are known to produce colon tumors in F344 rats at a high incidence, indicating the possibility of involvement of ras gene activation in colon carcinogenesis in rats as in humans. We examined mutations at codons 12, 13, and 61 of the Ki-ras, Ha-ras, and N-ras genes by polymerase chain reaction--direct sequencing in seven colon tumors in F344 rats induced by 2-amino-6-methyldipyrido-[1,2-a:3',2'-d]imidazole (Glu-P-1), 11 induced by 2-amino-3-methylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline, and nine induced by 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine. A Ki-ras gene mutation (G-->T at the second position in codon 12) was found in one Glu-P-1-induced colon adenocarcinoma. None of the other 26 tumors had mutations in any of these three ras family genes. These results indicate that in rats, colon carcinogenesis induced by heterocyclic amines may be induced by alterations of other oncogenes or tumor suppressor genes. We think this experimental system using carcinogens to which humans are exposed is a good model for studying alterations of other genes in human colon tumors in which no Ki-ras alterations are observed.
