Ritonavir (RTV), a protease inhibitor, and carbamazepine (CBZ), an anticonvulsant, were administered concurrently to a patient who had human immunodeficiency virus infection and epilepsy. The combination resulted in elevated serum concentrations of CBZ, with accompanying vomiting, vertigo, and transient liver dysfunction. After discontinuing RTV and reducing the dosage of CBZ, the serum concentration of CBZ returned to the optimal range, symptoms subsided, and liver function returned to baseline. Carbamazepine is metabolized in the liver to a large extent by the cytochrome P450 (CYP) system, especially CYP3A4, 2C8, and 1A2, whereas RTV is metabolized primarily by CYP3A and is a potent inhibitor of this enzyme. Careful clinical monitoring may help prevent adverse drug interactions when these drugs are administered concurrently.
Acute confusion induced by acetazolamide is a well known adverse drug reaction in patients with renal impairment. We report a case of acetazolamide-induced Gerstmann syndrome in a patient with normal renal function, to highlight predisposing factors that are frequently overlooked.
Transgenic mice with a targeted disruption of the tumor necrosis factor receptor 1 (TNFR1) gene were used to analyze the role of TNF-alpha in pro- and anti-inflammatory mediator production and liver injury induced by acetaminophen. Treatment of wild-type mice with acetaminophen (300 mg/kg) resulted in centrilobular hepatic necrosis. This was correlated with expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (NOS II) and nitrotyrosine staining of the liver. Expression of macrophage chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1), KC/gro, interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9), and connective tissue growth factor (CTGF), inflammatory mediators known to participate in tissue repair, as well as the anti-inflammatory cytokine, interleukin-10 (IL-10), also increased in the liver following acetaminophen administration. TNFR1(-/-) mice were found to be significantly more sensitive to the hepatotoxic effects of acetaminophen than wild-type mice. This was correlated with more rapid and prolonged induction of NOS II in the liver and changes in the pattern of nitrotyrosine staining. Acetaminophen-induced expression of MCP-1, IL-1beta, CTGF, and MMP-9 mRNA was also delayed or reduced in TNFR1(-/-) mice relative to wild-type mice. In contrast, increases in IL-10 were more rapid and more pronounced. These data demonstrate that signaling through TNFR1 is important in inflammatory mediator production and toxicity induced by acetaminophen.
Both toxic exposure to cadmium and cancer therapy with cisplatin (CDDP) can induce anemia in patients owing to the insufficient production of erythropoietin (EPO). Therefore, the effects of cadmium chloride (Cd) and CDDP in the Hep3B human hepatoma cell line, which up-regulates EPO expression in response to hypoxia and cobalt (Co), were investigated. The induction of binding activity of the HIF-1 transcription factor and EPO mRNA expression and protein production were suppressed by Cd and CDDP in a dose-dependent manner with no apparent cell damage. Mercuric chloride also suppressed hypoxia- and Co-induced EPO production, mRNA expression, and HIF-1 binding in a manner similar to Cd and CDDP, whereas zinc chloride suppressed Co-induced EPO production, mRNA expression, and HIF-1 binding but did not affect hypoxia induction or that observed after simultaneous exposure to hypoxia and Co. In contrast, lead and tin salts had no effect on HIF-1 activation or EPO expression. These results indicate that Cd and CDDP have a strong and specific inhibitory effect on hypoxia- and Co-induced signaling and EPO induction in hepatic cells. It is likely that these agents cause anemia by directly impacting EPO production in the kidney. (Blood. 2000;96:3743-3747)
Neonatal exposure to polybrominated diphenyl ether (PBDE 153) disrupts spontaneous behaviour, impairs learning and memory, and decreases hippocampal cholinergic receptors in adult mice. Flame retardants are used to suppress or inhibit combustion processes in an effort to reduce the risk of fire. One class of flame retardants, polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs), are present and increasing in the environment and in human milk. The present study shows that neonatal exposure to 2,2',4,4',5,5'-hexaBDE (PBDE 153), a PBDE persistent both in environment and in human milk, can induce developmental neurotoxic effects, such as changes in spontaneous behaviour (hyperactivity), impairments in learning and memory, and reduced amounts of nicotinic receptors, effects that get worse with age. Neonatal NMRI male mice were orally exposed on day 10 to 0.45, 0.9, or 9.0 mg of PBDE 153/kg of body weight. Spontaneous behaviour (locomotion, rearing, and total activity) was observed in 2-, 4-, and 6-month-old mice, Morris water maze at an age of 6 months. The behaviour tests showed that the effects were dose-response and time-response related. Animals showing defects in learning and memory also showed significantly reduced amounts of nicotinic receptors in hippocampus, using alpha-bungarotoxin binding assay. The observed developmental neurotoxic effects seen for PBDE 153 are similar to those seen for PBDE 99 and for certain PCBs. Furthermore, PBDEs appear to as potent as the PCBs.
The onset of epidural anesthesia is accelerated by alkalinization of lidocaine with added epinephrine (LE). The possibility that decreases in systolic blood pressure (SBP) are also enhanced was studied in 21 patients having elective cesarean sections. Ten patients given LE + NaHCO3 (0.1 mEq/ml anesthetic solution) compared with 11 given LE alone had significantly (P less than 0.05) greater decreases in SBP (32% vs 19% from baseline values), as well as a greater rate of SBP decline to those minimum values (9%/min vs 3%/min, respectively). These differences were noted despite the fact that patients given LE + HCO3 received no less ephedrine and no more additional anesthetic than controls. Possible adverse effects of SBP reduction on uteroplacental blood flow suggest that caution be used in the use of alkalinized LE in obstetrical patients.
Dose- and term-dependent differences in the location and nature of brain lesions induced in rats and dogs by 2,5-hexanedione (2,5-HD), misonidazole, clioquinol, and acrylamide are reported. Subchronic neuropathies ("distal axonopathy") were induced by low-dose administration of these neurotoxicants and at high doses, lesions caused by acute or subacute neurotoxicity were found in the central nervous system (CNS). In rats, 2,5-HD induced extracellular edema, nerve cell degeneration, and axonal degeneration in the cerebellar and vestibular nuclei. Similar lesions were observed in misonidazole-treated dogs and clioquinol induced nerve cell degeneration in the hippocampus and malacia in the piriform lobes of these animals. In rats, acrylamide induced degeneration of Purkinje cells. Although the mechanism(s) underlying the differential neurotoxicity of high and low doses of these neurotoxicants remains unclear, we suggest certain biochemical mechanisms, cytotoxic edema and excitotoxicity, as factors in the production of such lesions after high-dose treatment.
Lung cancer and cardiovascular disease (CVD) mortality risks increase with smoking, secondhand smoke (SHS), and exposure to fine particulate matter < 2.5 μm in diameter (PM₂.₅) from ambient air pollution. Recent research indicates that the exposure-response relationship for CVD is nonlinear, with a steep increase in risk at low exposures and flattening out at higher exposures. Comparable estimates of the exposure-response relationship for lung cancer are required for disease burden estimates and related public health policy assessments.
We compared exposure-response relationships of PM₂.₅ with lung cancer and cardiovascular mortality and considered the implications of the observed differences for efforts to estimate the disease burden of PM2.5.
Prospective cohort data for 1.2 million adults were collected by the American Cancer Society as part of the Cancer Prevention Study II. We estimated relative risks (RRs) for increments of cigarette smoking, adjusting for various individual risk factors. RRs were plotted against estimated daily dose of PM₂.₅ from smoking along with comparison estimates for ambient air pollution and SHS.
For lung cancer mortality, excess risk rose nearly linearly, reaching maximum RRs > 40 among long-term heavy smokers. Excess risks for CVD mortality increased steeply at low exposure levels and leveled off at higher exposures, reaching RRs of approximately 2-3 for cigarette smoking.
The exposure-response relationship associated with PM₂.₅ is qualitatively different for lung cancer versus cardiovascular mortality. At low exposure levels, cardiovascular deaths are projected to account for most of the burden of disease, whereas at high levels of PM₂.₅, lung cancer becomes proportionately more important.
Chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection and dietary aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) exposure are etiological factors for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in countries with hot, humid climates. HCC often harbors a TP53 (tumor protein p53) mutation at codon 249 (R249S). In chronic carriers, 1762T/1764A mutations in the HBV X gene are associated with increased HCC risk. Both mutations have been detected in circulating cell-free DNA (CFDNA) from asymptomatic HBV carriers.
We evaluated seasonal variation in R249S and HBV in relation to AFB1 exposure.
R249S was quantitated by mass spectrometry in CFDNA in a cross-sectional survey of 473 asymptomatic subjects (237 HBV carriers and 236 noncarriers) recruited in three villages in the Gambia over a 10-month period. 1762T/1764A HBV mutations were detected by quantitative polymerase chain reaction. In addition, the HBV S gene was sequenced in 99 subjects positive for HBV surface antigen (HBsAg).
We observed a seasonal variation of serum R249S levels. Positivity for R249S and average concentration were significantly higher in HBsAg-positive subjects surveyed during April-July (61%; 5,690 ± 11,300 R249S copies/mL serum) than in those surveyed October-March [32% and 480 ± 1,030 copies/mL serum (odds ratio = 3.59; 95% confidence interval: 2.05, 6.30; p < 0.001)]. Positivity for HBV e antigen (HBeAg) (a marker of HBV replication) and viral DNA load also varied seasonally, with 15-30% of subjects surveyed between April and June HBeAg positive, compared with < 10% surveyed during other months. We detected 1762T/1764A mutations in 8% of carriers, half of whom were positive for R249S. We found HBV genotype E in 95 of 99 HBsAg-positive subjects.
R249S is detectable in CFDNA of asymptomatic subjects. Evidence of temporal and quantitative variations suggests an interaction among AFB1 exposure, HBV positivity, and replication on TP53 mutation formation or persistence.
Fear is a response induced by threatening stimuli and represents an important adaptive system. The serotonin (5-HT) system has been shown to be involved in the modulation of fear responses and anxiety disorders. In preclinical studies, it has been demonstrated that R (+)-8-hydroxy-dipropylaminotetralin (8-OHDPAT), a 5-HT1A agonist, has anxiolytic properties. However, 8-OHDPATs potential role in unconditioned fear has yet to be elucidated. The current study was designed to investigate the effects of 8-OHDPAT on behavioral and HPA axis function in response to an innate fear-inducing stimulus. Pretreatment with 8-OHDPAT resulted in a significant decrease in freezing grooming, and climbing and caused a significant increase in approach after exposure to an extract from fox feces, 2,5-dihyrdo-2,4,5-trimethylthiazoline (TMT), an unconditioned fear-inducing stimulus. Furthermore, 8-OHDPAT pretreatment also resulted in a significant decrease in blood corticosterone levels, a marker of HPA activation. Taken together, these results suggest an additional anxyolitic-like effect of 8-OHDPAT in innate fear paradigms.
Fanconi anemia is a genetic disease characterized by genomic instability and cancer predisposition. Nine genes involved in Fanconi anemia have been identified; their products participate in a DNA damage-response network involving BRCA1 and BRCA2 (refs. 2,3). We previously purified a Fanconi anemia core complex containing the FANCL ubiquitin ligase and six other Fanconi anemia-associated proteins. Each protein in this complex is essential for monoubiquitination of FANCD2, a key reaction in the Fanconi anemia DNA damage-response pathway. Here we show that another component of this complex, FAAP250, is mutant in individuals with Fanconi anemia of a new complementation group (FA-M). FAAP250 or FANCM has sequence similarity to known DNA-repair proteins, including archaeal Hef, yeast MPH1 and human ERCC4 or XPF. FANCM can dissociate DNA triplex, possibly owing to its ability to translocate on duplex DNA. FANCM is essential for monoubiquitination of FANCD2 and becomes hyperphosphorylated in response to DNA damage. Our data suggest an evolutionary link between Fanconi anemia-associated proteins and DNA repair; FANCM may act as an engine that translocates the Fanconi anemia core complex along DNA.
In rodents, social isolation during the early postweaning phase induces several behavioral abnormalities, commonly referred to as the isolation syndrome. We attempted to identify the contribution of the selective deprivation of physical contact to the emergence of the isolation syndrome. To this end, we devised a pseudoisolated housing condition in which male 3-week-old C57BL/6 mice were caged in pairs, but were separated by a transparent perforated partition allowing only nonphysical contact, and compared it with the classical isolation procedure and standard laboratory group housing. Locomotor activity, acoustic startle reactivity, and amphetamine-induced hyperactivity were enhanced by isolation, but neither anxiety nor prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle response was affected. Pseudoisolated mice were comparable to grouped controls in their acoustic startle response and locomotor reactivity to amphetamine, but they were as active as isolated animals in the predrug sessions of the open field. Furthermore, pseudoisolation also exerted its own unique effects, namely, anxiolysis. Our results demonstrated for the first time the relevance of nonphysical contact including its ability to undermine the emergence of the isolation syndrome in mice.
Little is known about the effects of the pro-inflammatory hormone Angiotensin II (Ang II) in inflammatory bowel disease. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of valsartan (Diovan), an Ang II receptor antagonist, in two models of colitis.
Colitis was induced in Sprague-Dawley rats by administration of trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNBS; 30 mg in 50% ETOH i.c.) or 5% Dextran Sulphate Sodium (DSS) in drinking water ad libitum for 5 days. Valsartan was administered orally in drinking water (160 mg/L) during thirty days prior to the induction of the colitis, and for 5 days after. All animals were evaluated for weight change, diarrhea, myeloperoxidase activity, macroscopic and microscopic damage. Cytokine levels in the colon were measured by ELISA, real-time RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry.
In the TNBS model, valsartan reduced the macroscopic damage score, significantly decreased the microscopic damage (p<0.01), and accelerated weight gain after colitis. In the DSS-colitis model, valsartan-treated animals had less diarrhea and microscopic damage. Valsartan reduced the protein levels of TGFbeta (p<0.05), and IL-18 in the TNBS model, and led to over expression of IL-10 mRNA in the DSS model.
These data demonstrate a possible anti-inflammatory effect for valsartan in colitis.
The purpose of this study is to evaluate HER-2 and topoisomerase IIalpha (topo IIalpha) as candidates for predicting the activity of anthracyclines in the adjuvant treatment of breast cancer patients.
In this study, we evaluated HER-2 and topo IIalpha gene aberrations by fluorescence in situ hybridization in a series of 430 primary breast cancer samples. Samples came from node-positive breast cancer patients randomly treated either with one of two anthracycline-based regimens [full-dose epirubicin-cyclophosphamide (HEC) and moderate-dose epirubicin-cyclophosphamide (EC)] or with cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and 5-fluorouracil (CMF) in the context of a Phase III adjuvant therapy trial. Event-free survival comparisons were performed between the three study arms in the subgroups of HER-2-amplified and nonamplified tumors. An explorative analysis was also performed to evaluate the predictive value of topo IIalpha in the cohort of HER-2-amplified patients.
HER-2 amplification was observed in 73 of the 354 evaluable samples (21%), whereas topo IIalpha amplification was found in 23 of the 61 evaluable HER-2-amplified tumors (38%). The three event-free survival comparisons were CMF versus HEC, CMF versus EC, and EC versus HEC. Hazard ratios (HRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were as follows: (a) CMF versus HEC, HR = 1.42 for HER-2-amplified tumors (95% CI, 0.54-3.76; P = 0.48) and 0.84 for HER-2-nonamplified tumors (95% CI, 0.49-1.44; P = 0.53); (b) CMF versus EC, HR = 1.65 for HER-2-amplified tumors (95% CI, 0.66-4.13; P = 0.29) and 0.66 for HER-2-nonamplified tumors (95% CI, 0.39-1.10; P = 0.11); and (c) EC versus HEC, HR = 0.93 for HER-2-amplified tumors (95% CI, 0.31-2.77, P = 0.90) and 1.33 for HER-2-nonamplified tumors (95% CI, 0.82-2.14; P = 0.25). Observed HRs suggest that the anthracycline-based therapy could be more effective than CMF in the subgroup of HER-2-amplified patients, whereas treatments could be equally active in the HER-2-nonamplified cohort. topo IIalpha evaluation suggests that the superiority of anthracyclines over CMF in HER-2-amplified patients could be confined to the subgroup of topo IIalpha-amplified tumors.
HER-2 could have a predictive value for the activity of anthracycline-based regimens in the adjuvant therapy of breast cancer patients. The predictive value of HER-2 would most likely be related to the concomitant amplification of the topo IIalpha gene.
Analysis of the annual pesticide poisoning statistics of the Tygerberg Poison Information Centre (TPIC) for the period 2005-2007 showed an increase in the number of amitraz poisonings. This prompted a 2-year survey (2008-2009) to establish the extent of amitraz poisoning in South Africa. Amitraz is a pesticide used as a tick dip. It acts as an α(2)-adrenoceptor agonist and the principal clinical effects of amitraz poisoning are related to its stimulation of these receptors;
Data from amitraz poisoning cases in humans were evaluated for 2 years and analyzed for: demographic data, type of exposure, type of formulation, and clinical details. Serious cases were followed up;
4.6% of the pesticide poisoning cases were amitraz-related which comprised 0.8% of all TPIC poisoning consultations. Ingestion of amitraz formulations accounted for the majority of the cases (94%). Forty-one percent of cases were children (n = 28) and all were accidental exposures. Of the adult cases (59%), 88% were intentional ingestions. The majority of the cases were from the predominantly rural province of KwaZulu Natal (44.9%). CNS depression was the most common clinical sign (76.8%) followed by bradycardia 34.8%, respiratory depression 27.5%, miosis 27.5%, and hypotension 23.1%. Mechanical ventilation was required in 15.9% of cases. Other commonly reported clinical signs were hypothermia 15.9%, mydriasis 10.1%, and hyperglycaemia 7.2%. Supportive and symptomatic care was shown to be adequate treatment. Amitraz poisoning was misdiagnosed as cholinesterase inhibitor poisoning in 17.4% of cases;
This is the first report of amitraz poisoning in humans in Africa. The data suggest a different demographic pattern in South Africa to that currently reported in the literature. The study identified a very high incidence of intentional poisoning in adults. The misuse of amitraz for deliberate self-harm emphasizes the necessity for continued toxicovigilance.
In the Brown Norway (BN) rat, chemical compounds [mercuric chloride (HgCl2), D-penicillamine or gold salts] induce a T(h)2-dominated autoimmune syndrome with tissue injury in the form of a vasculitis and arthritis. An early phase of vasculitis in the model occurs within 24 h of an injection of HgCl2, is alphabeta T cell independent and involves the mast cell. In addition, HgCl2 induces IL-4 mRNA in mast cells from BN rats. Our recent work has demonstrated that the balance of oxidative/antioxidative influences plays an important role in the modulation of mast cell function (degranulation) in chemically induced autoimmunity. The aim of this study was to determine, in mast cells, whether oxidative status influences IL-4 transcription and translation, which is required for the development of a T(h)2 response. Exposure of the mast cell line RBL-2H3 to HgCl2 enhanced both IL-4 mRNA and its promoter activity. Oxidative stress by hydrogen peroxide mimicked the effects of HgCl2 in enhancing IL-4 promoter activity. The enhancement of IL-4 gene expression by HgCl2 was significantly reduced by antioxidants (both sulphydryl and non-sulphydryl containing). The same pattern of regulation was also observed on IL-4 protein expression in the mast cells. These data suggest a novel mechanism of IL-4 transcriptional up-regulation by oxidative stress. Our results provide evidence to support our hypothesis that alterations in intracellular reactive oxygen species production modulate both IL-4 gene expression and mast cell function.
Triamterene therapy is an unusual cause of nephrolithiasis and, when this agent is found in a stone, generally it is deposited in minor amounts. We report a renal calculus consisting mostly of triamterene and its 2 major metabolites in a patient taking a triamterene-containing drug, and discuss some implications.
Autosomal recessive renal tubular dysgenesis is a severe disorder of renal tubular development characterized by persistent fetal anuria and perinatal death, probably due to pulmonary hypoplasia from early-onset oligohydramnios (Potter phenotype). Absence or paucity of differentiated proximal tubules is the histopathological hallmark of the disease and may be associated with skull ossification defects. We studied 11 individuals with renal tubular dysgenesis, belonging to nine families, and found that they had homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations in the genes encoding renin, angiotensinogen, angiotensin converting enzyme or angiotensin II receptor type 1. We propose that renal lesions and early anuria result from chronic low perfusion pressure of the fetal kidney, a consequence of renin-angiotensin system inactivity. This is the first identification to our knowledge of a renal mendelian disorder linked to genetic defects in the renin-angiotensin system, highlighting the crucial role of the renin-angiotensin system in human kidney development.
D-penicillamine is a potent drug used to treat rheumatoid arthritis, Wilson's disease and cystinuria. D-penicillamine has recently been found to cause myasthenia gravis in certain susceptible patients. We present a typical case of one patient who developed myasthenia while taking D-penicillamine. The withdrawal of D-penicillamine and the institution of short-term anticholinesterase therapy resulted in the resolution of this disease. The literature is reviewed and attention is focused on the point that all patients who developed myasthenia while undergoing D-penicillamine therapy had ocular symptoms.
This study examined whether doxorubicin therapy alters the expression of heart fatty acid binding protein (H-FABP) and organic cation/carnitine transporter (OCTN2) genes in cardiac tissues, and if so, whether these alterations contributes to doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity. Male Wistar albino rats were divided into six groups: group 1 rats were given daily intraperitoneal (i.p.) injections of normal saline for 10 consecutive days; groups 2, 3 and 4 rats were injected every other day with doxorubicin (3 mg/kg, i.p.), to obtain treatments with cumulative doses of 6, 12, and 18 mg/kg. Rats in the fifth group were injected with L-carnitine (200 mg/kg, i.p.) for 10 consecutive days. Animals in the sixth group received doxorubicin (18 mg/kg) and L-carnitine (200 mg/kg). Treatment with doxorubicin resulted in a significant and dose-dependent decrease in H-FABP and OCTN2 mRNA expression, total carnitine and ATP in cardiac tissues and a significant increase in cardiac enzymes. Moreover, doxorubicin treatment showed significant and dose-dependent increase in the expression of apoptotic genes namely P53 and CD95. Interestingly, carnitine supplementation restored doxorubicin-induced inhibition of gene expression of H-FABP and OCTN2, decrease in myocardial carnitine and ATP to the control values. In conclusion, data from this study suggest that: chronic doxorubicin therapy decreased the expression of H-FABP and OCTN2 mRNA expression in cardiac tissues. The progressive increase in cardiotoxicity enzymatic indices and the decrease in H-FABP and OCTN2 expression may point to the possible contribution of H-FABP and OCTN2 as a mechanism during development of doxorubicin cardiotoxicity.
Modafinil is a novel stimulant approved by the FDA for use in the management of excessive sleepiness associated with narcolepsy. Utility for other indications includes attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), depression, and management of cocaine dependence. To investigate the pharmacokinetics of modafinil in these patients, the authors improved and validated an HPLC method to separate and quantitate the separate enantiomers of modafinil in human serum. d- and l-Modafinil and the internal standard 3,3-diphenylpropylamine were extracted from serum, separated by gradient elution on a beta-cyclodextrin column, and then detected by UV absorbance at 225 nm. The elution gradient was developed to eliminate interferences by other drugs used to manage narcolepsy, ADHD, and stimulants of abuse, and endogenous substances in human serum. Validation studies included determination of stability, selectivity, precision, accuracy, and recovery. The method was used to investigate the pharmacokinetics of d- and l-modafinil in a volunteer after receiving 400 mg twice daily of racemic modafinil for 5 days. Interday and intraday assay variability (CV) typically ranged from 3% to 4%. The limits of detection (0.01 microg/mL) and quantitation (0.5 microg/mL) were well below the concentration expected in serum from patients receiving therapeutic doses of modafinil. The method was free from interference by methylphenidate, cocaine, commonly used antidepressants, and amphetamines. An example of apparent stereoselective disposition is presented as d-modafinil was eliminated more rapidly than l-modafinil from human serum. The validation data support the use of this method for human pharmacokinetic studies of modafinil in patients with known or suspected use of common antidepressants, psychostimulants, and drugs of abuse.
The aim of this double-blind cross-over study was to investigate whether treatment with the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, citalopram reduces aggressiveness in chronically violent schizophrenic inpatients. Initially 19 patients were enrolled into this double-blind cross-over study in which the patients were treated for 24 weeks with placebo and 24 weeks with citalopram (20-60 mg/day) as a supplement to their previous neuroleptic medication. Fourteen patients completed the entire study, but sufficient data on 15 patients could be used in the end-point analysis of efficacy. Psychiatric assessments (Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale, Clinical Global Impression Scale for Severity of Illness, Social Dysfunction and Aggression Scale and the Global Aggression Scale) and side effects (UKU Side Effect Scale) were recorded at baseline and 4 times during both periods. Aggressive incidents (Staff Observation Aggression Scale) were recorded throughout the study. During citalopram treatment, the frequency of aggressive incidents was significantly lower and the mental state did not deteriorate. Patients either experienced no side effects or else side effects were equally mild during both periods.
We retrospectively investigated the frequency and severity of adverse events in 124 patients with colorectal cancer who were treated by mFOLFOX6 regimen from August, 2005 to December, 2006. The incidences of grade 3/4 adverse events were; leucopenia 16%, neutropenia 40%, anemia 11%, thrombocytopenia 7%, febrile neutropenia 7%, nausea 3%, vomiting 2%, anorexia 2%, diarrhea 4%, fatigue 7%, and alopecia 0%. The incidences of all grades and grade 3/4 hypersensitivity reaction were 35% and 4%, and the median number of course when it firstly appeared was 6(range, 1-21). The incidences of all grade and grade 3 peripheral sensory neuropathy were 74% and 6%, and the median number of course when it firstly appeared 11(range, 6-16). The incidences of adverse events in this cohort were similar or lower than those reported in Western countries. Our investigation shows that mFOLFOX6 regimen is tolerable in clinical practice in Japan. The informed consent form was revised based on these results. The incidences of adverse events were renewed to provide useful information and improve self-care ability. The symptoms and the time to appearance of the hypersensitivity reaction and peripheral sensory neuropathy were added. We think it is important to provide the information based on the clinical practice.
Humans with drug addiction exhibit compulsive drug-seeking associated with impairment of prefrontal cortex cognitive function. Whether prefrontal cortex dysfunction is a consequence of chronic drug exposure, or mediates the transition from drug use to drug dependence, is unknown. The current study investigates whether a history of escalated vs controlled cocaine intake is associated with specific working memory impairments, and long-lasting alterations of the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex and orbitofrontal cortex in rats. Working memory was assessed in rats with a history of extended (6 h per session) or limited (1 h per session) access to cocaine (0.5 mg/kg per injection), 3-17 days after the last self-administration session, using a delayed nonmatching-to-sample task. The density of neurons, oligodendrocytes, and astrocytes was quantified in the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex and orbitofrontal prefrontal cortex 2 months after the last self-administration session. Working memory impairments were observed after a history of chronic and escalated cocaine intake, but not after repeated limited access to cocaine. Moreover, working memory impairments were correlated with a decreased density of neurons and oligodendrocytes but not astrocytes in the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex, and with a decreased density of oligodendrocytes in the orbitofrontal cortex. Considering the role of the prefrontal cortex in goal-directed behavior, the prefrontal cortex dysfunctions observed here may exacerbate the loss of control associated with increased drug use and facilitate the progression to drug addiction.
A multicenter Phase II trial was performed to investigate the efficacy and tolerance of combined docetaxel and gemcitabine +/- recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) in patients with metastatic breast cancer.
Fifty-two patients participated in this trial, 51 of whom are evaluable for response. Thirty-eight patients received this combination as first-line chemotherapy, and 14 patients received this combination as second-line chemotherapy, including 10 patients who had failed anthracyclines. Therapy consisted of 1500 mg/m2 gemcitabine and 50 mg/m2 docetaxel, both administered on days 1 and 15 every 4 weeks. Depending on the absolute neutrophil counts on the day of scheduled chemotherapeutic drug administration, a 5-day course of 5 microg/kg G-CSF was given.
The overall response rate was 60.5% (95% confidence interval, 43.4-75.9%) in patients receiving docetaxel plus gemcitabine as first-line chemotherapy, including 4 complete responses (10.5%) and 19 partial remissions (50%); 9 patients (24%) had disease stabilization, and only 5 (13%) progressed. Second-line treatment with this regimen resulted in 6 of 14 (43%) objective responses, 5 had stable disease, and 3 progressive disease. The median time to progression was 8.5 months in the first-line setting and 6.6 months in the second-line setting, respectively. After a median follow-up time of 15 months, 36 patients (69%) are still alive with metastatic disease. Myelosuppression was commonly observed; WHO grade 3 or 4 neutropenia, however, occurred in only 15 (29%) patients and was complicated by septicemia in 2 cases; grade 3 anemia was seen in 1 patient (2%). Severe (grade 3) nonhematological toxicity except for alopecia was rarely observed and included nausea/vomiting in 3 (6%), stomatitis in 2 (4%), anaphylaxis in 2, and peripheral neuropathy, skin toxicity, and increase of liver enzymes each in one patient.
Our data suggest that docetaxel and gemcitabine with and without G-CSF is an effective and fairly well-tolerated regimen for the treatment of advanced breast cancer. It might be particularly useful in patients exposed previously to adjuvant or palliative anthracyclines and/or alkylating agents.
ABI-007 is a novel Cremophor-free, protein-stabilized, nanoparticle formulation of paclitaxel. The absence of Cremophor EL may permit ABI-007 to be administered without the premedications used routinely for the prevention of hypersensitivity reactions. Furthermore, this novel formulation permits a higher paclitaxel concentration in solution and, thus, a decreased infusion volume and time. This Phase I study examines the toxicity profile, maximum tolerated dose (MTD), and pharmacokinetics of ABI-007.
ABI-007 was administered in the outpatient setting, as a 30-min infusion without premedications. Doses of ABI-007 ranged from 135 (level 0) to 375 mg/m2 (level 3). Sixteen patients participated in pharmacokinetic studies.
Nineteen patients were treated. No acute hypersensitivity reactions were observed during the infusion period. Hematological toxicity was mild and not cumulative. Dose-limiting toxicity, which occurred in 3 of 6 patients treated at level 3 (375 mg/m2), consisted of sensory neuropathy (3 patients), stomatitis (2 patients), and superficial keratopathy (2 patients). The MTD was thus determined to be 300 mg/m2 (level 2). Pharmacokinetic analyses revealed paclitaxel C(max) and area under the curve(inf) values to increase linearly over the ABI-007 dose range of 135-300 mg/m2. C(max) and area under the curve(inf) values for individual patients correlated well with toxicity.
ABI-007 offers several features of clinical interest, including rapid infusion rate, absence of requirement for premedication, and a high paclitaxel MTD. Our results provide support for Phase II trials to determine the antitumor activity of this drug.
On request of local health officials, the authors investigated isoniazid (INH) hepatitis morbidity and mortality among patients attending an Hispanic prenatal clinic. Among 3,681 women treated with INH during and after pregnancy to prevent tuberculosis (TB), 5 developed INH hepatitis, and 2 of the 5 women died. Comparison with previously collected Public Health Service data concerning 3,948 nonpregnant women, using the Cox proportional hazards model, revealed a 2.5-fold increased risk of INH hepatitis in the prenatal clinic group. The mortality rate was four times higher in the prenatal clinic group. However, statistical power was low because of the small number of cases, and neither of these findings was statistically significant (P greater than 0.05). In the absence of controlled studies, the issue of INH safety during the perinatal period remains unresolved. Nevertheless, current American Thoracic Society-Centers for Disease Control recommendations regarding TB screening, implementation of INH chemoprophylaxis programs, and adequate monitoring of individuals on INH should be adhered to. The results of this investigation raise concern that deviations from existing policy may contribute to unnecessary morbidity and mortality.
