Myocardial mitochondrial function after acute adriamycin exposure was compared in infant and adult mice. Heart mitochondrial were isolated 48 h after an intraperitoneal injection of adriamycin. Concentrations of adriamycin in serum and heart tissue were not significantly different between infant and adult mice. Oxygen consumption (state 3 respiration), and respiratory control ratio (RCR) were studied polarographically. Enzyme activities in the respiratory chain [succinate-cytochrome c reductase (SCCR), NADH-cytochrome c reductase (NCCR), cytochrome c oxidase (CCO)], and adenine nucleotide translocase (ANT) were assayed. After saline injection (control), no significant differences were detected in state 3 respiration, RCR, and enzyme activity of ANT between infant and adult mice. The respective enzyme activities of SCCR, NCCR, and CCO in adult mice were significantly lower than those in infant mice. After adriamycin injection in adult mice, there were significant decreases in state 3 respiration (using glutamate and malate as substrates from 239 +/- 25 to 160 +/- 50 nanoatom O2/min/mg protein), RCR (using glutamate and malate as substrates from 7.2 +/- 1.0 to 4.4 +/- 1.4), and enzyme activities of SCCR (from 279 +/- 30 to 178 +/- 28 nmol/min/mg protein) and NCCR (from 331 +/- 43 to 237 +/- 30 nmol/min/mg protein), but there were no significant changes in infant mice. No significant changes in enzyme activities of CCO and ANT were found in either infant or adult mice following the administration of adriamycin. In conclusion, adriamycin is less toxic on the myocardial mitochondrial function in infant mice than in adult mice.
Resveratrol, a natural antioxidant and polyphenol found in red wine and grapes, has been found to pharmacologically precondition the heart through upregulation of nitric oxide (NO). This study was designed to explore the involvement of NO in the renoprotective effect of resveratrol in renal ischemic preconditioning in rat kidney.
Ischemic preconditioning was induced by three cycles 2-minutes of ischemia followed by 5 minutes of reperfusion before 45 minutes of prolonged ischemia. Resveratrol was given 1 hour before the surgical procedures.
Ischemic preconditioning and resveratrol treatment significantly improved the renal dysfunction, decrease in total NO levels, and oxidative stress induced by 45 minutes of ischemia followed by 24 hours of reperfusion. Histopatholgic examination of the kidneys of ischemic/reperfusion rats revealed severe renal damage, which was attenuated in both preconditioned and resveratrol-treated animals. Preconditioning and resveratrol administration led to a marked increase in NO levels in kidney. Renoprotective effects of resveratrol were abolished when animals were pretreated with NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester, a nonspecific NO synthase inhibitor.
These findings demonstrate an important contributory role of NO in the protection afforded by resveratrol in renal ischemic preconditioning.
It is now well established that brief periods of ischemia followed by reperfusion render a variety of tissues tolerant to subsequent ischemia/reperfusion-induced injury. This phenomenon, referred to as ischemic preconditioning, was first demonstrated in the dog myocardium. The potential for clinical application of such a powerful protective phenomenon has generated enormous interest in identifying the underlying intracellular signaling pathways, with the ultimate aim of pharmacologically exploiting these mechanisms to develop therapeutic strategies that can enhance tolerance to ischemia/reperfusion injury in patients. This study explored the possible involvement of nitric oxide in renal ischemic preconditioning.
Cadmium (Cd) is classified as an environmental pollutant and human carcinogen. Caffeic acid phenethyl ester (CAPE), a biological active component of honeybee propolis extracts, has been used as a folk medicine with no harmful effects on normal cells. Here we investigated the beneficial effect of CAPE on Cd-induced renal damage in mice. Since renal damage induced by Cd (II) is related to oxidative stress, lipid peroxidation (LPO), protein carbonyl (PCO), superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT) and glutathione (GSH) were evaluated. Moreover, the concentrations of Cd and zinc (Zn) in the kidney were analyzed. The intoxication of Cd (II) leads to the enhanced production of LPO and PCO, and the decrease of SOD activity and GSH level, probably due to the serious oxidative stress. However, the activities of CAT in the Cd (II)-induced group showed an elevated tendency, probably relating to an adaptive-response to the oxidative damage. The co-administration of CAPE can attenuate the oxidative stress caused by the intoxication of Cd and restore the altered antioxidant defense system. Based on our data, it is proposed that CAPE may involve in the protection of renal damage induced by Cd (II) owing to its antioxidant capacity and anti-inflammatory effect.
The ischemic pain associated with balloon inflation during coronary angioplasty remains a significant source of procedural discomfort and sets a limit on the duration of percutaneous transluminal intravascular interventions. The present study examined whether intracoronary lidocaine reduced the pain of coronary angioplasty. Sixteen patients undergoing elective coronary angioplasty underwent three 90 sec balloon inflations: the first with administration of no intracoronary agent, and the second and third with administration of one or the other of placebo or an equal volume of lidocaine (10-16 mg). Placebo or lidocaine were randomized in administration sequence and were given just before balloon inflation. During the occlusions, pain was scored on an ordinal scale (0 = no pain; 10 = most severe pain). Lidocaine delayed the onset of pain (23 +/- 4 vs. 48 +/- 7 sec, P < 0.005) and reduced its magnitude (at end-inflation: 7.8 +/- 1.3 vs. 3.2 +/- 1.3, P < 0.01). There were no significant hemodynamic or electrophysiologic effects in this group of patients, although atrioventricular conduction was delayed when lidocaine was administered into the epicardial coronary which had the atrioventricular node artery as a branch. Intracoronary analgesia with lidocaine is safe and effective in a select group of patients with normal ventricular function undergoing elective coronary angioplasty.
The effect of hypotension induced by PGE1 or epidural anesthesia under general anesthesia on cerebral blood volume (CBV), cerebral tissue hemoglobin, cytochrome AA3 was studied using a near infrared spectrophotometry in 20 patients undergoing abdominal operation. In PGE1 group (n = 10), CBV, cerebral oxyhemoglobin (HbO2) and deoxyhemoglobin (Hb) were unchanged during hypotension. However, cerebral HbO2 decreased and Hb increased slightly in a case of severe hypotension more than 40 percent of control, but CBV did not show any significant change. On the other hand, in epidural anesthesia group, HbO2 decreased significantly along with MAP reduction (r = 0.84) and Hb increased slightly. Cytochrome AA3 did not show any significant changes in both groups. From these results, we concluded that PGE1 drip infusion was better than epidural anesthesia to sustain the cerebral blood volume during hypotension.
We evaluated the ability of fenfluramine, a serotonin releaser, to increase the analgesic potency of morphine administered by tailored i.v. infusion. Ten normal volunteers participated in 4 test sessions, involving different treatments on different days: (1) oral placebo/saline infusion, (2) oral placebo/morphine infusion, (3) oral fenfluramine (60 mg)/saline infusion, and (4) oral fenfluramine/morphine infusion. Subjects experienced repetitive painful dental electrical stimuli at strong but tolerable intensities during testing. On the 2 test days involving morphine, the opioid was administered by a computer-pump system that used individual pharmacokinetic parameters to achieve consecutive, steady plasma concentrations near target values of 16, 32 and 64 ng morphine/ml; each morphine concentration plateau was maintained for 45 min. On the saline infusion days, our procedures were identical to morphine test days except that the infused fluid contained no drug. For all sessions outcome measures included subject ratings of pain intensity, dental evoked potential (EP) amplitude, and visual analog scale (VAS) ratings of subjective side-effect intensities (nausea, alertness, dizziness, itching, mood). We obtained these measures during baseline and at each morphine concentration plateau or at corresponding times during saline infusions. Fenfluramine significantly increased the analgesic potency of morphine during the opioid infusion, while fenfluramine alone produced borderline analgesic effects. Fenfluramine alone decreased alertness slightly, but did not significantly increase morphine side effects. Thus, we conclude that fenfluramine enhances the analgesic potency of morphine without a parallel increase in opioid side-effect potency.
Synchronous or metachronous liver metastasis occurs in approximately 15% of colorectal cancer patients and is an important negative prognostic factor. We therefore need an effective therapy to prevent metastasis. It has become apparent that cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 plays an important role in cancer growth, invasion and metastasis and that there is potential for chemoprevention via inhibition of these processes. We injected colon 26, a colorectal cancer cell line, in CDF1 mouse spleen and, from the following day, two kinds of COX-2 inhibitor (etodolac and nimesulide) were administered orally. Two weeks later, the animals were sacrificed, the liver was excised, and we counted the number of metastatic nodules on the liver surface. In addition, COX-2 mRNA, matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-9 mRNA, and tissue inhibitor of MMP (TIMP)-1 mRNA of cancer tissue were measured by means of real-time RT-PCR. The number of metastatic nodules on the liver surface was significantly lower in the etodolac-treated group than in controls (p=0.001), but no significant difference was noted in the nimesulide-treated group. The expression of COX-2 mRNA was also significantly lower in the etodolac-treated group than in controls (p=0.04), but not in the nimesulide-treated group. In addition, the expression of MMP-9 mRNA was significantly lower in the etodolac group than in controls (p=0.02), but not in the nimesulide group. Among the groups, there were no significant differences in TIMP-1 mRNA. Expression of COX-2 mRNA and MMP-9 mRNA correlated significantly (r=0.78, p=0.001), but there was no correlation between either COX-2 mRNA and TIMP-1 mRNA expression or between MMP-9 mRNA and TIMP-1 mRNA expression. These findings indicate that the selective COX-2 inhibitor, etodolac, suppresses liver metastasis by reducing MMP-9 activity.
Multiple myeloma is a malignant disease with high incidence in middle-aged and old-aged population. Bortezomib is a proteasome inhibitor which target mainly is NF-kappaB. This observation is to study the clinical treatment effect of bortezomib in one relapsed multiple myeloma (MM) patient and one primary refractory MM patient. The first patient diagnosed as IgA IIIA stage, whose state of disease became worse after 8 months of autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation. And the disease became further aggressive with 4 courses of chemical therapy regimen including methylprednisolone, Arsenic trioxide, dexamethasone, cyclophosphamide, mitoxantrone, VM-26. Myeloma cells in bone marrow and abnormal monoclonal immunoglobulin in blood plasma both increased. Bone destruction became severe, and there was a plasmacytoma about 5 x 6 cm on the patient's right upper chest wall. Therefore, the patient received therapy of bortezomib combined with doxrubicin, dexamethasone and thalidomide (VADT). After one course of therapy with this VADT regimen, IgA in blood plasma decreased from 54 g/L to 6.6 g/L, and abnormal plasma cells in bone marrow decreased from 40% to 0.6%, and plasmacytoma on the patient's right upper chest wall almost absorbed. But there was no obvious clinical effect after the second course of therapy of VADT, and the disease status became progressive again. The second patient was MM patient with a light chain kappa type, III B stage. There was no any effect after two courses of VAD therapy and one course of MOFP therapy. The patient acquired near complete remission after one course of treatment with VADT. Quantity of kappa protein in urine reduced from 24 - 30 g/24 hours to 1.12 g/24 hours. Blood creatinine reduced from 475.3 micromol/L to 124.2 micromol/L. Beta2-MG reduced from 161g/L to 64 g/L. And this patient got complete remission after three consecutive VADT therapy. The mainly side effects of the bortezomib regimen in the first patient include markedly lassitude, diarrhea, numbness of the end of extremities, marked increase of LDH. All the side effects could be tolerated and became disappeared after contraposing treatment and stopping the bortezomib regimen therapy. The second patient complicated with severe subacute left hemiplegia after the bortezomib dose had been increased to 1.45 mg/m2 at the third time of the first VADT course and the complication became worst at the following day. The upper limb muscle strength was only 1 grade and the lower limb muscle strength was 2 grade. Then the condition improved with the support therapy and gradually recovered after two weeks. Therefore, bortezomib is an effective target drug for therapy in refractory multiple myeloma, and more attentions to the side effects should be paid in order to deal with those side effects in time.
It has been well known for a long time that beta-adrenoreceptor-blocking substances may cause Raynaud's phenomenon in hands and feet if applied orally or parenterally. Nevertheless, vasospastic phenomenons of the "Raynaud"-type have never before been described following local administration. Now a Raynaud's syndrome found in a 58-year old patient, who had been treated for glaucoma with timolol (Chibro-Timoptol-eyedrops), leaves no doubt that there is a risk of systemic vasospasm in ocular application, too. An exposition test was carried out to prove the connection between the application of timolol eyedrops and Raynaud's syndrome. It did reveal that an initially already marginally prolonged warm-up time after exposition to cold water, as measured in the thermographic test, did relevantly get worse after timolol application. At the same time, no change in arterial systolic finger blood pressure could be demonstrated using Doppler sonography. The induction of Raynaud's syndrome by beta-adrenoreceptor-blocking eyedrops may depend on an individual disposition.
Differential sensitivity to neurotoxic effects of methamphetamine on striatal dopaminergic neurones between C57BL/6 and BALB/c mice has been established. In the present studies, the interaction of methamphetamine-induced dopamine release, self-injurious behaviour, the neural immune response, and the long-term (3 day) dopamine depletion were examined in these strains after administration of 8 mg/kg methamphetamine. BALB/c mice showed increased hyperthermia compared to the C57BL/6 strain, as well as induction of interleukin-1beta. Additionally, homovanillic acid (HVA) levels, as well as HVA/DA turnover ratios were elevated in the striatum and frontal cortex of BALB/c mice, both compared to untreated mice and to the C57BL/6 strain after a single injection of methamphetamine. Pretreatment with acetaminophen eliminated the methamphetamine-induced hyperthermia in BALB/c mice and reduced body temperature in C57BL/6 mice. However, acetaminophen pretreatment did not affect any parameters of dopaminergic toxicity in the striatum or frontal cortex of the BALB/c strain following repeated methamphetamine injections. Furthermore, acetaminophen pretreatment did not alter the incidence of self-injurious behaviour in BALB/c mice. Therefore, hyperthermia and methamphetamine-induced toxicity appear to be independent phenomena while self-injurious behaviour may provide a better predictor of toxicity, which, in turn, may be related to dopamine release.
We investigated the ability of ouabain to produce lethal arrhythmias in rats with myocardial hypertrophy resulting from chronic renal hypertension. A gradual pressure overload was produced in female Wistar rats by left renal artery stenosis (two kidney, one clip, Goldblatt hypertension). Hypertension (systolic blood pressure greater than 150 mm Hg) developed within three weeks after clipping of the left renal artery and blood pressure continued to increase for the next five weeks. At ten weeks after the onset of hypertension animals were anesthetized with sodium pentobarbital (40 mg/kg) and artificially ventilated with room air while ECG was continually monitored and recorded. Continuous infusion of ouabain was maintained (0.7 mg/kg/min) through the inferior vena cava. Body weight and heart rate of control animals (C) was not significantly different from hypertensive (H) values, while systolic blood pressure in animals hypertensive for ten weeks was considerably greater (187 +/- 8.4 mm Hg) than their age-matched normotensive counterparts (123 +/- 6.0 mm Hg). Heart weight in hypertensive animals was elevated by 69% +/- 2.5 by time of study. Serological evaluation of both groups of animals revealed no significant differences in electrolytes and blood gases while significant differences were noted in glucose, BUN and creatinine. The average time to the first premature ventricular contraction was significantly shorter in H animals (3.5 +/- 0.2 min) when compared to C rats (6.0 +/- 0.2 min). The average time to ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation and death were also significantly shorter in H rats when compared to C animals (7.5 +/- 0.6 vs. 13.5 +/- 0.3; 13.5 +/- 0.5 vs. 21.0 +/- 0.5; 15.6 +/- 0.4 vs. 24.0 +/- 0.6 min). Thus, the hypertensive hypertrophied myocardium displays an increased propensity for lethal cardiac arrhythmias due to ouabain.
The maternal use of Bendectin (Debendox) in the first trimester of pregnancy was examined in a case-control (n = 1,427 and 3,001, respectively) study of malformed infants whose mothers were interviewed between 1974 and 1976. Mothers of infants with congenital malformation showed an increased likelihood (odds ratio = 1.40) of having used Bendectin, with a stronger association of Bendectin with birth defects for mothers who also smoked (odds ratio = 2.91). A significant association was observed between the occurrence of pyloric stenosis in the infant and exposure to Bendectin in utero (odds ratio = 4.33). When maternal sociodemographic factors, including smoking, and smoking alone, were controlled, the association between Bendectin and pyloric stenosis was further increased (odds ratio = 4.63 and 5.24, respectively). Except for a possible association of Bendectin with heart valve anomalies (odds ratio = 2.99), we were unable to document other significantly increased risks for congenital malformations.
1. Eight healthy Thai males, aged 19-27 years, received quinine or quinidine dihydrochloride 10 mg kg-1 body weight by intravenous infusion over 1 h. At least 1 week later, the alternative alkaloid was administered. 2. The terminal elimination half-time of quinidine was shorter than that of quinine (median [range]; 5.7 [5.0-10.0] vs 9.9 [8.8-15.1] h, P < 0.01), the volume of distribution at steady state (Vss) for quinidine was larger than that for quinine (3.5 [2.5-5.6] vs 3.1 [1.8-4.1] 1 kg-1; P = 0.02) and quinidine was less bound to plasma proteins (% free drug: 22.8 [15.4-47.2] vs 9.4 [7.3-15.0]%, P < 0.01). Total clearance was greater for quinidine (7.7 [3.9-11.4] vs 3.4 [1.8-4.6] ml min-1 kg-1, P < 0.01) but not for clearance of unbound drug (32.2 [14.6-50.4] vs 29.9 [20.2-50.9] ml min-1 kg-1 respectively, P > 0.2). 3. Side-effects, including transient hypotension after quinidine in two cases, were mild. 4. Both drugs produced prolongation of the rate-corrected QT interval (QTc), with similar rates of elimination from the cardiac conduction 'effect' compartment (keo; 4.14 [0.03-15.33] h-1 for quinine, 3.74 [1.63-13.14] h-1 for quinidine, P > 0.19). Using a linear concentration-response model, the intercept ('threshold') for quinidine effect was lower than that for quinine (P = 0.004) but the slopes (change in QTc for a given change in free drug concentration) were similar (P = 0.56).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Two isoforms of cyclooxygenase (COX) are known, and to date most studies have implicated COX-2 in the development and progression of various human cancers. Increasing evidence suggests that COX-1 may also play a similar role. Indeed, we have recently observed that the dual COX-1/COX-2 inhibitor indomethacin induces apoptosis in human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cell lines more effectively than the selective COX-2 inhibitors, possibly implicating COX-1 in HCC. In this study we investigated the expression of COX-1 in non-tumor and malignant human liver tissues, as well as the effects of the highly selective COX-1 inhibitor SC-560 on cell growth and apoptosis in human HCC cell lines. Expression of COX-1 was detected in nearly all the samples assayed, although with a high variability between non-tumoral (NT) and malignant tissues. The percentage of COX-1 positive cells was significantly higher in the NT tissues than in the tumors (p<0.0001). In well-differentiated HCC COX-1 expression was significantly higher than in the poorly-differentiated tissues (p<0.05). SC-560 showed a dose- and time-dependent inhibitory effect on HCC cell growth. The combination of the COX-1 inhibitor with nimesulide and CAY10404, two selective COX-2 inhibitors, resulted in additive effects on cell growth inhibition. SC-560 also inhibited colony formation in soft agar and induced apoptosis in HCC cells in a dose-dependent manner. Moreover, SC-560 decreased the levels of the anti-apoptotic proteins survivin and XIAP and activated caspase-3 and -7 in a dose- and time-dependent fashion. In conclusion, we report for the first time that the selective COX-1 inhibitor SC-560 exhibits anti-tumor and apoptotic effects in human HCC cells. Overall, our previous and present results suggest that both COX-1 and COX-2 inhibitors may have potential therapeutic implications in HCC patients.
In a double-blind study, patients with moderate to severe essential hypertension were treated randomly with either indoramin or propranolol orally. The dose of both drugs was increased as necessary, to a predetermined level, in order to reduce the diastolic (Phase V) blood pressure to 100 mmHg or less. Patients were followed up for 12 weeks. There were 23 patients on propranolol and 27 on indoramin. The blood pressure in 22 patients on propranolol and 25 patients on indoramin was satisfactorily controlled in both the supine and standing positions. Mean supine blood pressure decreased from 181.3 +/- 14.2/116.2 +/- 6.8 mmHg to 140.6 +/- 7.1/95.7 +/- 3.6 mmHg after 12 weeks of treatment in patients receiving propranolol and from 188.3 +/- 18.9/118.4 +/- 8.7 mmHg to 144.7 +/- 7.3/95.7 +/- 2.5 mmHg in those treated with indoramin. There were no significant differences between the effects on supine and standing blood pressures and blood pressure control was maintained throughout the 12-week period in patients receiving indoramin and those receiving propranolol. Propranolol reduced the mean heart rate by approximately 16 beats/min in both the supine and standing positions. The maximum effect was seen 4 weeks after starting treatment and was maintained throughout the study. Sinus bradycardia (heart rate less than 60/min) occurred in 9 (39%) patients receiving propranolol. Indoramin caused a small but significant reduction in mean heart rate of approximately 4 beats/min in both the supine and standing positions. The maximum effect was seen after 2 weeks of treatment and was maintained for the rest of the duration of treatment.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The aim of study was to investigate the combined effect of recombinant mutant human TRAIL (rmhTRAIL) with daunorubicin (DNR) or alone on K562 and U937 leukemia cell lines and its mechanism. The fibroblasts (MRC-5) of normal-human embryonic lung were used as control cells. After being treated with rmhTRAIL and DNR or only with rmTRAIL, the cytotoxic effect and the apoptosis rate in K562, U937 cells were measured by MTT assay. The expression levels of TRAIL death receptor and TRAIL decoy receptor mRNA in these three cell lines were assayed by semiquantitive RT-PCR before and after treatment with DNR. The results indicated that K562 and U937 were sensitive to rmhTRIAL. DNR had synergistic inhibitory effect with rmhTRAIL on the growth of K562 and U937 cell lines (P < 0.05). The expression level of DR4 and DR5 mRNA was significantly higher in K562 and U937 with combined treatment of rmhTRAIL and DNR than that in those alone, while the expressions of DcR1 and DcR2 mRNA were not influenced. It is concluded that in vitro, rmhTRAIL alone or in combination with DNR can obviously inhibit the growth of leukemia cell lines and induce cell apoptosis, DNR and rmhTRAIL have a synergistic inhibitory effect on growth of K562 and U937. The mechanism may correlate with the up-regulation of DR4 and DR5 of K562 and U937.
Despite data linking amphibole asbestos exposure with production of autoantibodies, the role of autoantibodies in subsequent disease is unknown. Residents of Libby, Montana have experienced significant exposure to amphibole asbestos due to the mining of asbestos-contaminated vermiculite near the community over several decades. This population predominantly exhibits pleural disease, and an autoimmune-like disorder that has yet to be well defined. This study sought to determine whether autoantibodies from asbestos-exposed subjects were associated with pleural lesions. Serum samples of subjects from Libby were evaluated for anti-nuclear antibodies (ANA) and mesothelial cell autoantibodies (MCAA) using cell based ELISA. The presence of radiographic abnormalities detected during the time frame of serum collection was determined from screening records. In accord with previous studies, 61.3% (76/124) of the Libby samples were ANA positive, a frequency much higher than expected for a healthy population. The odds of having pleural or interstitial abnormalities in Libby was nearly 3.55 times greater for individuals that tested positive for ANA compared with individuals negative for ANA (p=0.004). MCAA were also detected at a strikingly high frequency (18.5%; 23/124) in samples from Libby. Individuals with MCAA had 4.9 times the risk of having pleural abnormalities compared to MCAA-negative subjects (p=0.044). In conclusion, ANA and MCAA were elevated in a study population that was known to have chronic exposure to asbestos, and these autoantibodies were associated with pleural abnormalities, the predominant finding in the asbestos-exposed population of Libby. Additional research is needed to determine the role these autoantibodies may play in pulmonary disease.
Epidemiological studies have suggested a role of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) in the development of cardiovascular disease. We evaluated liver mRNA expression of 84 genes encoding proteins involved in the atherosclerosis pathway in patients with NAFLD proven through biopsy in a case-control design, and examined the putative role of the histological disease severity in the molecular events associated with the atherogenic profile.
Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), when compared with simple steatosis (SS), significantly increases the expression of TGFB1 (6.8, p<0.005), angiotensin I-converting enzyme (ACE) (2.1, p<0.007), LAMA1 (2.1, p<0.007), SERPINB2 (2.1, p<0.007), CSF2 (2.5, p<0.002), IL1A (2.5, p<0.005), IL3 (2.1, p<0.007), IL4 (2.1, p<0.007), LIF (2.1, p<0.007), and MMP1 (2.1, p<0.007), and decreases the transcript levels of genes involved in the negative regulation of cell-death pathways. A post hoc analysis of liver biopsies of NASH patients who were treated with enalapril monotherapy because of arterial hypertension showed a significant association with lower fibrosis scores in comparison with untreated patients. BIRC3, a severe hypoxia-activated gene, was significantly increased in SS (8.2, p<0.004), when compared with the controls. NASH, but not SS, was also associated with a significant increase in platelet abundance of TGFB1 mRNA. Systems biology analysis revealed highly scored pathways involved in the regulation of programmed cell death, angiogenesis, and immune system, in which TGFB1 was mostly involved.
NASH, but not SS, may increase atherosclerotic and cardiovascular risk by local overexpression of mediators of atherogenesis, endothelial damage, and regulators of blood pressure; this observation may have therapeutic implications, because ACE inhibitors may improve both cardiovascular outcomes and liver fibrosis. Hepatocyte hypoxia seems to have an important role in the molecular events activated by liver steatosis.
Theophylline is a methylxanthine bronchodilator with a narrow therapeutic index and is prone to induce seizures, the mechanisms for which are not clearly defined. Free radicals have considerable neurotoxic potential and the present study evaluated the possible involvement of these bioactive moieties in aminophylline-induced seizures in mice. Aminophylline (50-250 mg/kg) induced convulsions and mortality in mice in a dose-dependent manner. The anti-oxidants, melatonin (25-100 mg/kg) and N-actylcysteine (100 and 200 mg/kg) attenuated aminophylline seizures and mortality. Similar antagonism of aminophylline seizures was also observed after pretreatments with nitric oxide (NO) synthase inhibitors, L-NAME (3 and 10 mg/kg) and 7-nitroindazole (10 and 30 mg/kg). Further, combined treatment with otherwise sub-effective doses of melatonin and L-NAME or 7-nitroindazole produced marked protective effects against these seizures. Aminophylline-induced seizures enhanced malondialdehyde (MDA) concentrations and NO metabolite (NOx) levels in the brain homogenates of mice, and these were attenuated by melatonin and L-NAME pretreatments. The results are suggestive of the possible involvement of free radicals (reactive oxygen and reactive nitrogen species) in the convulsiogenic effects of aminophylline.
Recently, significant concerns have been placed on the widespread use of chemicals with persistent estrogenic activity for their long-term effects on human health. In this communication, we investigated whether fetal exposure to some of these chemicals at doses consumed by people, has any long-term effect on the reproductive functions of the male offspring. Thus, time-pregnant CD-1 mice were fed diethylstilbestrol (DES), bisphenol A (BPA), and aroclor (aroclor 1016) at an average concentration of 100 ng/kg/day, 50 microg/kg/day, and 50 microg/kg/day, respectively, during Days 16-18 of gestation. A high dose of DES (200 microg/kg/day) was also tested to compare the results of the current study with those of others using the high dose only. The offspring were examined at Day 3, Day 21, and Day 60 following birth. We demonstrated that BPA, aroclor, and the lower dose of DES enhanced anogenital distance, increased prostate size, and decreased epididymal weight. No effect was found on the testicular weight or size. The chemicals also permanently increased androgen receptor (AR) binding activity of the prostate at this dosage. This is the first demonstration that environmental chemicals program AR function permanently at the dosage consumed by the general population. The higher dosage of DES, on the other hand, produced an opposite effect, decreasing prostate weight, prostate AR binding, and anogenital distance, thus confirming the previous reports. To investigate whether the above mentioned effects of the chemicals represent direct or indirect effects, we also tested the effect of the chemicals on prostate development in vitro. Thus fetal urogenital sinus (UGS), isolated at the 17th day of gestation was cultured with the chemicals in the presence and absence of testosterone (10 ng/ml) for 6 days, and prostate growth was monitored by determining the size and branching of the specimen following histology. Results showed that these chemicals induced prostate growth in the presence and absence of testosterone. They also increased androgen-binding activity. Thus, the results of the in vivo studies were reproduced in the in vitro experiments, suggesting a direct effect of these chemicals on the development of fetal reproductive organs. This is the first demonstration that estrogenic chemicals induce reproductive malformation by direct interference with the fetal reproductive organs and not by interfering with the maternal or fetal endocrine system. The chemicals are able to induce malformation even in the absence of fetal testosterone; however, they are more effective in the presence of testosterone.
Associations between air pollution and morbidity/mortality from cardiovascular disease are recognized in epidemiologic and clinical studies, but the mechanisms by which inhaled fibers or particles mediate the exacerbation of atherosclerosis are unclear.
To determine whether lung inflammation after inhalation of a well-characterized pathogenic particulate, chrysotile asbestos, is directly linked to exacerbation of atherosclerosis and the mechanisms involved, we exposed apolipoprotein E-deficient (ApoE(-/-)) mice and ApoE(-/-) mice crossed with CD4(-/-) mice to ambient air, NIEHS (National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences) reference sample of chrysotile asbestos, or fine titanium dioxide (TiO(2)), a nonpathogenic control particle, for 3, 9, or 30 days.
ApoE(-/-) mice exposed to inhaled asbestos fibers had approximately 3-fold larger atherosclerotic lesions than did TiO(2)-exposed ApoE(-/-) mice or asbestos-exposed ApoE(-/-)/CD4(-/-) double-knockout (DKO) mice. Lung inflammation and the magnitude of lung fibrosis assessed histologically were similar in asbestos-exposed ApoE(-/-) and DKO mice. Monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) levels were increased in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and plasma, and plasma concentrations correlated with lesion size (p < 0.04) in asbestos-exposed ApoE(-/-) mice. At 9 days, activator protein-1 (AP-1) and nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB), transcription factors linked to inflammation and found in the promoter region of the MCP-1 gene, were increased in aortas of asbestos-exposed ApoE(-/-) but not DKO mice.
Our findings show that the degree of lung inflammation and fibrosis does not correlate directly with cardiovascular effects of inhaled asbestos fibers and support a critical role of CD4(+) T cells in linking fiber-induced pulmonary signaling to consequent activation of AP-1- and NF-kappaB-regulated genes in atherogenesis.
Ischemic stroke temporally related to cocaine abuse has become increasingly common in young adults. Despite this relation, however, the pathogenesis of infarction in many of these patients remains obscure. I report the case of a 39-year-old man who developed occlusion of the frontopolar branches of the left middle cerebral artery 1 hour after intravenous cocaine use. Eleven days later he developed occlusion of the superior division of the right middle cerebral artery. In this case the mechanism of infarction was clearly cardiogenic embolization. Chest radiograph and echocardiogram revealed dilated cardiomyopathy with left ventricular thrombi. No cause other than cocaine abuse was found for his cardiomyopathy. This is the second reported case of cocaine-related cardiomyopathy presenting as embolic stroke and associated with intracavitary thrombus. Such an association may be more common than previously thought. Thorough cardiac evaluation in all patients with ischemic stroke related to cocaine abuse is appropriate.
A 47-year-old woman complained of coughing for over 5 weeks. The coughing was not relieved by bronchodilators (theophylline, beta 2-adrenoceptor agonist; procaterol), anti-allergic agents (azelastine, ozagrel), an inhaled corticosteroid (beclomethasone dipropionate), a macrolide antibiotic (clarithromycin), or codeine phosphate. A peptide leukoriene receptor antagonist (pranlukast) completely abolished the coughing and increased the cough threshold to capsaicin. The patient was given a diagnosis of cough-variant asthma because her sputum contained many eosinophils and her airway responsiveness to methacholine was slightly higher than normal. Peptide leukotriene may have contributed to the coughing. The fact that coughing associated with cough-variant asthma was abolished by a peptide leukotriene receptor antagonist is clinically important.
We recently encountered a 25-year-old white man who died of substance abuse including methadone. The route of administration of the drug(s) appears to have been insufflation. He was found dead at home. There were bottles of prescribed medications and an empty bottle of non-prescribed methadone. There was a grinding device nearby. At autopsy, no needle tracts were identified. Microscopically, the bronchi had desquamated ciliated respiratory epithelium admixed with red-brown pigment, which was found under plane-polarized light to be comprised of birefringent finely-granular material consistent with pulverized pills. Blood toxicology was positive for tetrahydrocannabinol, sertraline, nicotine, and methadone. The cause of death was ruled drug interactions with cerebral and pulmonary edema, the manner of death accidental. The decedent fit a profile of a victim of prescription drug abuse, for whom the mode of administration of drugs may be altered from intended use in as many as 80% of cases.
We have previously shown that tumor necrosis factor (TNF)α produced from primary tumor-induced expression of two endogenous Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) ligands, S100A8 and serum amyloid A3 (SAA3), in pre-metastatic lungs. However, mechanistic details of the signaling network and relevance to pulmonary physiology are poorly understood. Here, we identify Clara cells as a control tower of the network. Clara cell ablation by naphthalene suppressed pulmonary recruitment of CD11b+TLR4+ cells and spontaneous lung metastasis. Clara cells turned out to express TLR4 through which SAA3 was auto-amplified. Reciprocal bone marrow transplantation between wild-type and TLR4 knockout mice demonstrated that pulmonary TLR4+ Clara cells could be derived from bone marrow. SAA3-induced TNFα expression in both alveolar type II cells and macrophages. Primary co-cultures of alveolar type II cells and Clara cells revealed that the induction of TNFα in alveolar type II cells was dependent on the Clara cell-mediated amplification of SAA3. SAA3 induction by bacterial endotoxin also required both Clara cells and TLR4. Thus, pulmonary metastatic soil may feature deregulation of homeostatic inflammatory responses to constant assaults of microbes with endotoxin.
We report on 4 cases of reversible acute renal failure (ARF), appearing within the first days after institution of a sulfinpyrazone treatment (600 mg p. day) early after a myocardial infarction. Urinary data were consistent with an acute tubular necrosis. A renal biopsy, performed in 3 patients, revealed only very discrete tubular and interstitial lesions, not helpful in the understanding of the ARF. Three pathogenetic mechanisms could be evoked. Data in favour of an acute tubular precipitation of uric acid or an immunologically induced acute interstitial nephritis are lacking. More probably this ARF is due to an inhibitory effect of sulfinpyrazone on the renal prostaglandin synthesis. Early after a myocardial infarction, renal prostaglandins could play an important protective role in maintaining the renal circulation. Renal function should be monitored closely when sulfinpyrazone is prescribed, especially early after a myocardial infarction.
A 45 year old female with no stroke risk factors suffered a massive intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) after ingesting Midrin--a combination of isometheptene mucate, dichlorophenazine and acetaminophen. Neuroimaging revealed no evidence of structural disease or underlying vasculopathy. This is the first reported case of isometheptene induced ICH in the absence of underlying cerebrovascular disease. Physicians must be aware of the potential for this complication, and inquire about the use of isometheptene in unexplained cerebral hemorrhages. Neurological communities in countries with nonprescription isometheptene should discourage unsupervised or excessive use of the drug.
