BACKGROUND. Exposure of pregnant women to angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor may have side effects on the fetus or newborn, mainly oligoamnios and impaired renal function. CASE REPORT N zero 1. A 34 year-old woman was given enalapril from the onset of her pregnancy because of hypertension from the age of 18 years. Oligoamnios was diagnosed in the fetus on gestational week 28; enalapril was then replaced by nifedipine but this drug was badly tolerated so that the woman was again given enalapril 8 days later. The baby (1700 g) was born by cesarean section at gestational week 34 because of acute distress syndrome; he developed hypotension, anuria, generalized oedema and was placed in intensive care. Treatment included ventilation, sympathomimetic agents, and diuretics. An exchange-transfusion followed by peritoneal dialysis was performed a few hours later. Renal function returned to normal between the 3rd and 5th day. Unilateral kidney hypoplasia was diagnosed at the age of 2 years. CASE N zero 2. A 24 year-old woman was given enalapril at the third trimester of a twin pregnancy. Delivery was full term at 37 weeks. The first baby, a boy weighing 2610 g, suffered from hypoglycemia and vomiting followed by hypotension and oliguria that required exchange-transfusion and repeated peritoneal dialysis. This boy has developed moderate chronic renal failure and hypertension. The second baby, a girl weighing 2,165 g, suffered from respiratory distress syndrome followed by hypotension and oliguria, but her renal function returned to normal within a few days. CONCLUSIONS. The use of angiotension converting enzyme inhibitor by pregnant women places the fetus at severe risk: treatment with this type of drug should be stopped as soon as pregnancy is confirmed.
Steatohepatitis has recently been increasing as a cofactor influencing the progression of fibrosis, cirrhosis, adenoma and carcinoma in liver; however, the mechanisms by which it contributes to liver injury remain uncertain. We induced steatohepatitis in zebrafish embryos using thioacetamide (TAA). TUNEL assay revealed significant increasing of apoptosis in liver after 5 days post fertilization and the increasing of apoptosis was observed to be associated with the up-regulation of apoptotic genes such as, bad, bax, P-38a, caspase-3 and 8, and JNK-1. Histological sections by oil red O stain showed the accumulation of fatty droplets which causes the pushing of the nucleus towards one side. Up-regulation of steatosis markers such as, ACC, adiponectin, PTL, CEBP- alpha and beta, SREBP-1 was also observed. Furthermore, the elevation of glutathione peroxidase in TAA treated embryos indicated that TAA induces lipid peroxidation which leads to causes liver damage. Zebrafish has already been considered as a good human disease model and in this context; TAA-treated zebrafish may serve as a good animal model to study the molecular pathogenesis of steatohepatitis. Moreover, non-availability of specific drugs to prevent steatohepatitis, this animal model may serve as a powerful preclinical platform to study the therapeutic strategies and for evaluating chemoprevention strategies for this disease.
Anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI), including crizotinib, are effective treatments in preclinical models and in cancer patients with ALK-translocated cancers. However, their efficacy will ultimately be limited by the development of acquired drug resistance. Here we report two mechanisms of ALK TKI resistance identified from a crizotinib-treated non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patient and in a cell line generated from the resistant tumor (DFCI076) as well as from studying a resistant version of the ALK TKI (TAE684)-sensitive H3122 cell line. The crizotinib-resistant DFCI076 cell line harbored a unique L1152R ALK secondary mutation and was also resistant to the structurally unrelated ALK TKI TAE684. Although the DFCI076 cell line was still partially dependent on ALK for survival, it also contained concurrent coactivation of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) signaling. In contrast, the TAE684-resistant (TR3) H3122 cell line did not contain an ALK secondary mutation but instead harbored coactivation of EGFR signaling. Dual inhibition of both ALK and EGFR was the most effective therapeutic strategy for the DFCI076 and H3122 TR3 cell lines. We further identified a subset (3/50; 6%) of treatment naive NSCLC patients with ALK rearrangements that also had concurrent EGFR activating mutations. Our studies identify resistance mechanisms to ALK TKIs mediated by both ALK and by a bypass signaling pathway mediated by EGFR. These mechanisms can occur independently, or in the same cancer, suggesting that the combination of both ALK and EGFR inhibitors may represent an effective therapy for these subsets of NSCLC patients.
Reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome (RPLS) is one of the important side effects of calcineurin inhibitors (CNIs). Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain is useful for the diagnosis of RPLS, showing the edema primarily in the cortex and subcortical white matter of the posterior brain regions. Interruption of CNIs is essential for the treatment of patients with RPLS. Herein we have described 2 cases (1.7%) of RPLS induced by CNIs after kidney transplantation. The first case was a 56-year-old man with chronic renal failure due to diabetic nephropathy who received a living-related kidney transplantation in 2006. Initial immunosuppressive therapy consisted of cyclosporine, mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), prednisolone, and basiliximab. Four months after transplantation, he developed unconsciousness and paralysis. The second case was a 24-year-old woman with end-stage renal disease due to Alport syndrome who received an ABO-incompatible living-related kidney transplantation. Initial immunosuppressive therapy consisted of tacrolimus, MMF, prednisolone, and basiliximab. On postoperative day 3, she developed convulsions and unconsciousness. In both patients, RPLS was diagnosed with neurological symptoms and MRI findings at early stage of the disease, and they recovered rapidly from the disease by the interruption of CNIs. Our data demonstrated that early diagnosis and immediate interruption of CNIs were essential for the treatment of RPLS after kidney transplantation.
Androgenetic alopecia (AGA), or male-pattern baldness, is the most common form of hair loss. Its pathogenesis is androgen dependent, and genetic predisposition is the major requirement for the phenotype. We demonstrate that genetic variability in the androgen receptor gene (AR) is the cardinal prerequisite for the development of early-onset AGA, with an etiological fraction of 0.46. The investigation of a large number of genetic variants covering the AR locus suggests that a polyglycine-encoding GGN repeat in exon 1 is a plausible candidate for conferring the functional effect. The X-chromosomal location of AR stresses the importance of the maternal line in the inheritance of AGA.
To evaluate whether ibutilide can convert atrial fibrillation or flutter in patients in whom amiodarone has failed.
Clinical study in a university hospital intensive care unit (ICU).
Twenty-six patients were studied, in whom atrial fibrillation or flutter persisted for a maximum of 6 h at maximum. Patients were monitored continuously during the arrhythmia. Medical conversion was necessary due to symptomatic or hemodynamic causes.
All patients initially received amiodarone (150 mg i.v.) and after 2 h of persistent arrhythmia ibutilide (1 mg or, without success and body weight > 70 kg, 2 mg i.v.). Before the administration of ibutilide 1 g magnesium was administered, and high normal levels of potassium serum levels were achieved (4.5-5.0 mmol/l). RESULTS. After amiodarone atrial flutter persisted in 73% and atrial fibrillation in 27% of patients. After ibutilide the QT interval was prolonged from 327 +/- 61 to 387 +/- 62 ms. The QTc interval increased from 456 +/-32 to 461 +/- 66 ms. Conversion to normal sinus rhythm was achieved in 22 of 27 of cases. Nonsustained torsade de pointes tachycardia was seen in three patients (11%). No patient showed sustained ventricular tachycardia. Patients with proarrhythmic effects were characterized by a decreased left ventricular function.
In ICU patients ibutilide led to conversion to sinus rhythm in 81.5% of patients in whom amiodarone was unsuccessful. Nonsustained tachycardias were seen in 11%; sustained ventricular tachycardia was not seen. Ibutilide seems to be well suitable for conversion of recent onset atrial fibrillation or flutter and had no severe side effects in this study population.
Since significant neoplasia after initial colonoscopy is low, we conducted this pilot study to compare the predictive role for colorectal neoplasia recurrence of anti-DCC with that of Adnab-9 binding to colonic effluent of high-risk patients. DCC and Adnab-9 effluent ELISA were performed at baseline colonoscopies. The results of follow-up colonoscopies were reviewed. To ensure specificity, immunohistochemistry and Western blot was performed with anti-DCC and for Adnab-9 where optimal fixation times were also evaluated. Mean follow-up was 2.6 years. Of 21 patients, 6 of 10 who progressed to CRN and 2 of 11 who did not had a positive Adnab-9 ELISA result (P=0.08). Despite an initial good correlation with Adnab-9 ELISA results in a smaller dataset, we were unable to obtain consistent subsequent DCC immunohistochemistry or Western blot data using antibody from two different sources. However, the original dataset of Adnab-9 results was reproducible on repetition of the ELISA with a larger set of samples that included this initial dataset and optimal fixation time was 20 min. We conclude that Adnab-9 appears to be a promising prognostic marker for neoplasia in the high-risk population. Industry standards need to be developed for DCC monoclonal antibodies that may have similar utility.
Patients with Gram-negative lower respiratory tract infections (acute exacerbation of chronic bronchitis (n = 23), pneumonia (n = 4), and bronchiectasis (n = 5) were treated with pefloxacin, 400 mg twice daily, given either intravenously or orally. Symptoms, signs and sputum volume and colour were monitored daily. Chest X-rays, sputum culture and Gram-stain examinations were carried out on days 1 and 5, and immediately after the end of the treatment. There was a clinical improvement, as indicated by the incidence of cough, dyspnoea and rales, and by sputum volume and colour in 31 patients (97%). Microbiological improvement, as indicated by the complete elimination of sputum pathogens and pus cells, was achieved in 28 of the patients (88%). In one patient, an adverse effect, renal failure, occurred. These results suggest that pefloxacin is both clinically and microbiologically effective for the treatment of Gram-negative lower respiratory tract infections.
A case of delayed extradural abscess and quadriplegia after extradural steroids is presented. Nine other cases of extradural abscess from the literature are reviewed to illustrate the influence of continuity of hospital admission and informed surveillance on successful outcome when extradural infection arises after extradural medication. A Medic-Alert system is proposed as a means of improving vigilance and neurological outcome for patients at risk. Careful study of the cost-effectiveness of such a scheme is recommended.
It is known from studies in young athletes that creatine supplements have beneficial effects on muscular functional capacity, so it is being widely used as a performance-enhancing substance in both professional and amateur sports men and women. They are approved and considered relatively safe, but there have been a few case reports of renal dysfunction associated with their use. We present the case of a patient who developed acute renal failure and lactic acidosis while using creatine and metformin simultaneously.
We report the case of a 65-year-old man who developed norepinephrine-resistant vasoplegic syndrome after elective off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery (OPCAB). The failure of norepinephrine to improve the patient's hemodynamics prompted us to start treatment with vasopressin; within 30 minutes, the hemodynamics began to improve. After 12 hours, the patient was stable enough to be weaned from the vasopressin. He was discharged from the hospital on the 10th postoperative day. To our knowledge, ours is the 1st report of vasopressin use for vasodilatory shock after OPCAB in the English-language medical literature. Herein, we discuss the pathophysiology and management of vasoplegic syndrome--which is controversial--with special emphasis on the use of vasopressin in this situation.
631 patients treated with azlocillin were evaluated for adverse reactions. Azlocillin doses ranged from 37-714 mg/kg/day (mean 260 mg/kg/day) and duration of treatment ranged from 1 to 276 days (mean 11.1 days). 82% of patients were treated for more than 7 days. 92 (14.6%) experienced systemic and 20 patients (3.2%) experienced local adverse reactions. Hypersensitivity, manifest by drug fever, cutaneous reactions, or eosinophilia occurred in 0.3, 1.8 and 1.1%, respectively. Hypokalemia developed in 0.5% overall and was dose and duration related. Hepatotoxicity occurred in 1.7%, diarrhea in 1.9% and leukopenia in 0.3%. Nephrotoxicity, expressed as elevated serum creatinine, was seen in 0.5%. Bleeding was seen in one group of patients that received cefamandole concomitantly. As these complications were not seen in other patients, these complications are probably due to cefamandole. In comparison with ticarcillin, carbenicillin, piperacillin, and mezlocillin, a similar number and severity of adverse reactions were seen. Although the incidence of certain adverse reactions may be underestimated due to the short duration of therapy, azlocillin appears to be exceptionally safe and well tolerated.
The discrete localization of D3 receptors in the nucleus accumbens and subjacent islands of Calleja bears a close resemblance to the dopamine-sensitive anticonvulsant site in the anteroventral striatum. To determine if these D3 receptors were capable of attenuating limbic motor seizures induced by pilocarpine, dopamine agonists with preferential or non-selective D3 affinity were injected stereotaxically into these limbic brain regions of the rat via indwelling cannulae prior to pilocarpine challenge. Reliable clonic seizures were obtained by administering the proconvulsive dopamine D1 agonist SKF 38393 (10 mg/kg i.p.) followed by a subconvulsant dose of pilocarpine (280-300 mg/kg i.p.). Bilateral intra-accumbens pretreatment with the D3 > D2 agonist RU 24213 (0.2 pmol-7 nmol) significantly delayed the onset of seizures, with a minimum effective dose of 2 pmol, without altering their frequency or severity. The more selective D3 agonist LY 171555 (0.2 pmol-7.8 nmol) was less potent, and only attenuated pilocarpine-induced seizures at a dose (500 pmol) that would have stimulated accumbens D2 receptors as well. Intra-accumbens injections of the highly potent and selective D3 agonist 7-OH-DPAT (20 pmol to 7 nmol) afforded no protection against pilocarpine-induced seizures. Apomorphine, a mixed D1/D2/D3 agonist, delayed seizure onset at 100-500 pmol, but not at higher doses. RU 24213, LY 171555 and 7-OH-DPAT were all modestly anticonvulsant when microinjected into the islands of Calleja at D2/D3 unselective doses. These data support the notion that dopamine systems limit seizure propagation through the limbic forebrain, but suggest this protective effect is mediated by D2 rather than D3 receptors.
In Australia intermittent carbamazepine intoxication that occurs around the expected time of the peak post-dose plasma drug concentrations has been seen more frequently in recent years than in the past. Reworking of pharmacokinetic data from earlier studies of the drug suggests that, between 1977 and 1980, there was a change in the absorption profile of carbamazepine in the most widely used oral Australian preparation of the drug. The drug's absorption rate increased and its peak plasma levels occurred earlier. The reason for this altered absorption profile cannot now be traced, but it seems a possible explanation for the clinical problem that has emerged subsequently in a number of patients.
1. Plasma noradrenaline concentrations and blood pressure were measured in 45 patients with essential hypertension and 34 matched normotensive subjects. Plasma noradrenaline was similar in both groups, but in the hypertensive patients plasma noradrenaline correlated with blood pressure. 2. The increase in forearm flow in response to an intra-arterial infusion of phentolamine was determined in 12 of the hypertensive and 14 of the normotensive subjects to assess the alpha-adrenoceptor-mediated component of vascular resistance. Although the dilator response to phentolamine was similar in both groups, in the hypertensive patients it was correlated with the control plasma noradrenaline (r = 0.83, P less than 0.01) as well as the height of mean blood pressure (r = 0.73, P less than 0.01). 3. These results suggest that in hypertensive patients plasma noradrenaline can be a marker for both sympathetic activity and the alpha-adrenoceptor-mediated component of vascular resistance.
Six patients with angiographically documented coronary artery disease underwent multiple exercise tests before and after randomized double-blind crossover treatment with 200 mg 5,6-dimethoxy-2-(3[(alpha-(3,4-dimethoxy)phenylethyl)methylamino] propyl)-phthalimidine-hydrochloride (AQ-A 39 cl, in the following briefly called AQ-A 39) intravenously. Changes in ST-segment depression, angina pectoris, heart rate and blood pressure were evaluated. After AQ-A 39, the sum of ST-segment depression was significantly reduced compared with control and placebo by 48% (2p less than 0.025) and 42% (2p less than 0.05) respectively, maximal ST-segment depression by 45% (2p less than 0.025) and 35% (2p less than 0.05), respectively; the duration of angina pectoris was reduced by 50% and 33%, respectively. AQ-A 39 reduced heart rate at rest and during exercise; blood pressure, however, was not significantly altered. In conclusion, AQ-A 39 is an antianginal drug, which acts most probably by cardiac mechanisms and not by reduction of afterload. Thus, further studies about AQ-A 39 or its derivatives seem to be useful.
Experimental and clinical studies showed that intraoperative infusion of remifentanil has been associated with postoperative hyperalgesia. Previous reports suggested that spinal N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors may contribute to the development and maintenance of opioid-induced hyperalgesia. In the present study, we used a rat model of postoperative pain to investigate the role of tyrosine phosphorylation of NMDA receptor 2B (NR2B) subunit in spinal cord in the postoperative hyperalgesia induced by remifentanil and the intervention of pretreatment with ketamine.
Intraoperative infusion of remifentanil (0.04 mg/kg, subcutaneous) significantly enhanced mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia induced by the plantar incision during the postoperative period (each lasting between 2 h and 48 h), which was attenuated by pretreatment with ketamine (10 mg/kg, subcutaneous). Correlated with the pain behavior changes, immunocytochemical and western blotting experiments in our study revealed that there was a marked increase in NR2B phosphorylation at Tyr1472 in the superficial dorsal horn after intraoperative infusion of remifentanil, which was attenuated by pretreatment with ketamine.
This study provides direct evidence that tyrosine phosphorylation of the NR2B at Tyr1472 in spinal dosal horn contributes to postoperative hyperalgesia induced by remifentanil and supports the potential therapeutic value of ketamine for improving postoperative hyperalgesia induced by remifentanil.
FD137, a nitrosourea appended to a quinazoline ring, was designed to simultaneously block epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)-mediated signaling and damage genomic DNA in refractory EGF-dependent prostate tumors.
The mixed inhibition of cell signaling and DNA damage by FD137 were determined by Western blotting, RT-PCR, flow cytometry, sulforhodamine B (SRB), and comet assay.
FD137 and its metabolite FD110 induced a dose-dependent increase in inhibition of EGF-stimulated EGFR autophosphorylation and this translated into blockade of c-fos gene expression in DU145 cells. FD137 induced significant levels of DNA damage and showed 150-fold greater anti-proliferative activity than BCNU, a classical nitrosourea. In contrast to BCNU, complete inhibition of EGF-induced cell transition to S-phase was observed at concentrations of FD137 as low as 3 microM.
FD137 could not only damage DNA, but also significantly block downstream EGFR-mediated signaling. The superior activity of FD137 may be imputable to the combined effect of its mixed EGFR/DNA targeting properties. This novel strategy may well represent a new approach to target nitrosoureas to EGFR-overexpressing carcinomas of the prostate.
To investigate the role of transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1)/Smad4 pathway in development of renal fibrosis in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic nephropathy (DN) rats and explore its possible mechanism.
Male Wistar rats weighing 180-220 g were divided into 5 groups: group A (normal control), group B [diabetes mellitus (DM) 2 weeks], group C (DM 4 weeks), group D (DM 8 weeks), and group E (DM 16 weeks). Except for the normal control group, other groups were induced DM by single injection of STZ (55 mg/kg) respectively. Blood glucose level, serum creatinine, and 24-hour urine protein were examined. Expressions of TGF-beta1 and Smad4 protein and mRNA in kidney were detected using immunohistochemical technique, Western blot, and real-time PCR. mRNA expressions of stromelysin-1 (MMP-3), tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1 (TIMP-1), and collagen In in kidney were also detected by real-time PCR.
The levels of blood glucose, serum creatinine, and 24-hour urine protein in rats of group B, C, D, and E were higher than those of the control group. With the progression of renal fibrosis, the expressions of TGF-beta1 and Smad4 protein and mRNA in kidney of diabetic rats elevated. In addition, the renal MMP-3 mRNA expression diminished in diabetic rats, while TIMP-1 and collagen III mRNA increased.
In STZ-induced diabetic rats, the TGF-beta1/Smad4 appears to play an important role in renal fibrosis of DN. The increased expression of TGF-beta1 and Smad4 might result in the transcriptional regulation of downstream target genes of TGF-beta1/Smad4 pathway, which contributes to the progression of renal fibrosis in diabetic rats.
Salicylate and quinine have been shown to reliably induce short-term tinnitus when administered at high doses. The present study compared salicylate and quinine-induced tinnitus in rats using the gap prepulse inhibition of acoustic startle (GPIAS).
Twenty-four rats were divided into 2 groups; the first group (n = 12) was injected with salicylate (300 mg kg d), whereas the second (n = 12) was treated with quinine orally at a dose of 200 mg kg d. Animals were treated daily for 4 consecutive days. All rats were tested for tinnitus and hearing loss before and 2, 24, 48, 72, and 96 hours after the first drug administration. Tinnitus was assessed using GPIAS; hearing function was measured with distortion product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAEs) and auditory brainstem response.
Salicylate treatment induced transient tinnitus with a pitch near 16 kHz starting 2 hours posttreatment, persisting over the 4-day treatment period and disappearing 24 hours later. Animals in the quinine group showed GPIAS changes at a higher pitch (20 kHz); however, changes were more variable among animals, and the mean data were not statistically significant. Hearing function varied across treatments. In the salicylate group, high-level DPOAEs were slightly affected; most changes occurred 2 hours posttreatment. Low-level DPOAEs were affected at all frequencies with a progressive dose-dependent effect. In the quinine group, only high-level DPOAEs were affected, mainly at 16 kHz.
The present study highlights the similarities and differences in the frequency and the time course of tinnitus and hypoacusis induced by salicylate and quinine. Transient tinnitus was reliably induced pharmacologically with salicylate, whereas hearing loss remained subclinical with only minor changes in DPOAEs.
The concomitant occurrence of breast cancer and pregnancy is relatively uncommon. We report the case of a patient with syndactyly, cleft hands, and absence of distal finger phalanges associated with maternal exposure to chemotherapeutic agents during the first trimester of pregnancy. These associations have not been previously described.
The patient was born by normal delivery after 38 weeks of pregnancy. His mother became pregnant while receiving chemotherapy (cyclophosphamide, 5-fluorouracil, and adriamycin) for breast cancer, and the fetus was exposed to these drugs from conception to the 16th week of pregnancy. At birth, anomalies were observed, including a high-arched palate, microcephaly, a flat nasal bridge, bilateral syndactyly in the first and second fingers with a hand cleft between the second and third fingers and hypoplasia of the fifth fingers, and dystrophic nail of the fourth finger of the left hand. The patient's growth and development were deficient.
The malformations associated with in utero exposure to these chemotherapeutic agents are highly variable, but growth deficiency and anomalies of the craniofacial region and limbs are the most common. The pattern of malformations in children who were congenitally exposed to chemotherapeutic agents appears to be directly related to the age at and duration of exposure, rather than to the specific drug itself. Effective contraception is essential for the safe use of a potential teratogen in nonpregnant women of reproductive age.
It has long been recognized that anxiety symptoms and syndromes may be caused by medication and/or substance of abuse. The aim of this report is to present a patient who experienced social phobia following maprotiline, an adverse drug reaction which has not been reported previously with this agent.
A 27 year-old male patient was suffering from dysthymia for 6 years. He received different kinds of pharmacotherapy including TCAs, SSRIs, MAOIs. Due to his poor response, augmenting therapy with liothyronine and lithium and also cognitive therapy have been tried for him. Since he did not respond well to these treatments, maprotiline was administered for him 50 mg daily. His psychological problems improved with maprotiline, however he experienced social phobia that has not experienced yet.
This could underlie the precipitation of social phobia after maprotiline. However there is a need for further studies.
Bortezomib-induced peripheral neuropathy is a dose-limiting toxicity in patients with multiple myeloma, often requiring adjustment of treatment and affecting quality of life. We investigated the molecular profiles of early-onset (within one treatment cycle) versus late-onset (after two or three treatment cycles) bortezomib-induced peripheral neuropathy and compared them with those of vincristine-induced peripheral neuropathy during the induction phase of a prospective phase 3 trial.
In the induction phase of the HOVON-65/GMMG-HD4 trial, patients (aged 18-65 years) with newly diagnosed Salmon and Durie stage 2 or 3 multiple myeloma were randomly assigned to three cycles of bortezomib-based or vincristine-based induction treatment. We analysed the gene expression profiles and single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of pretreatment samples of myeloma plasma cells and peripheral blood, respectively. This study is registered, number ISRCTN64455289.
We analysed gene expression profiles of myeloma plasma cells from 329 (39%) of 833 patients at diagnosis, and SNPs in DNA samples from 369 (44%) patients. Early-onset bortezomib-induced peripheral neuropathy was noted in 20 (8%) patients, and 63 (25%) developed the late-onset type. Early-onset and late-onset vincristine-induced peripheral neuropathy was noted in 11 (4%) and 17 (7%) patients, respectively. Significant genes in myeloma plasma cells from patients that were associated with early-onset bortezomib-induced peripheral neuropathy were the enzyme coding genes RHOBTB2 (upregulated by 1·59 times; p=4·5×10(-5)), involved in drug-induced apoptosis, CPT1C (1·44 times; p=2·9×10(-7)), involved in mitochondrial dysfunction, and SOX8 (1·68 times; p=4·28×10(-13)), involved in development of peripheral nervous system. Significant SNPs in the same patients included those located in the apoptosis gene caspase 9 (odds ratio [OR] 3·59, 95% CI 1·59-8·14; p=2·9×10(-3)), ALOX12 (3·50, 1·47-8·32; p=3·8×10(-3)), and IGF1R (0·22, 0·07-0·77; p=8·3×10(-3)). In late-onset bortezomib-induced peripheral neuropathy, the significant genes were SOD2 (upregulated by 1·18 times; p=9·6×10(-3)) and MYO5A (1·93 times; p=3·2×10(-2)), involved in development and function of the nervous system. Significant SNPs were noted in inflammatory genes MBL2 (OR 0·49, 95% CI 0·26-0·94; p=3·0×10(-2)) and PPARD (0·35, 0·15-0·83; p=9·1×10(-3)), and DNA repair genes ERCC4 (2·74, 1·56-4·84; p=1·0×10(-3)) and ERCC3 (1·26, 0·75-2·12; p=3·3×10(-3)). By contrast, early-onset vincristine-induced peripheral neuropathy was characterised by upregulation of genes involved in cell cycle and proliferation, including AURKA (3·31 times; p=1·04×10(-2)) and MKI67 (3·66 times; p=1·82×10(-3)), and the presence of SNPs in genes involved in these processes-eg, GLI1 (rs2228224 [0·13, 0·02-0·97, p=1·18×10(-2)] and rs2242578 [0·14, 0·02-1·12, p=3·00×10(-2)]). Late-onset vincristine-induced peripheral neuropathy was associated with the presence of SNPs in genes involved in absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion-eg, rs1413239 in DPYD (3·29, 1·47-7·37, 5·40×10(-3)) and rs3887412 in ABCC1 (3·36, 1·47-7·67, p=5·70×10(-3)).
Our results strongly suggest an interaction between myeloma-related factors and the patient's genetic background in the development of treatment-induced peripheral neuropathy, with different molecular pathways being implicated in bortezomib-induced and vincristine-induced peripheral neuropathy.
The atypical antipsychotic drug olanzapine has been proposed for treatment of dopaminergic psychosis in Parkinson's disease (PD). We report on a 68-year-old patient who developed a severe akinetic-rigid extrapyramidal syndrome, accompanied by additional paranoid symptoms, following olanzapine treatment of optic hallucinosis in PD. Olanzapine may also induce clinically relevant extrapyramidal side effects in PD patients.
A triterpene compound lupeol isolated from petroleum ether extract of leaves of Celastrus paniculatus was screened for wound healing activity (8 mg/ml of 0.2% sodium alginate gel) by excision, incision and dead space wound models on Swiss Albino rats (175-225 g). In lupeol treated groups wound healing activity was more significant (17.83+/-0.48) than the standard skin ointment nitrofurazone (18.33+/-0.42). Epithelialization of the incision wound was faster with a high rate of wound contraction (571.50+/-5.07) as compared with the control group. In dead space wound model also the weight of the granulation tissue of the lupeol treated animal was increased indicating increase of collagenation and absence of monocytes. The comparative docking of isolated lupeol molecule and standard drug nitrofurazone to glycogen synthase kinase 3-beta protein by Wnt signaling pathway also supported the wound healing property of lupeol. The activation domain of GSK3-beta consisted of Tyr216, with residues Asn64, Gly65, Ser66, Phe67, Gly68, Val70, Lys85, Leu132, Val135, Asp181 in the active pocket docked with lupeol at the torsional degree of freedom 0.5 units with Lamarckian genetic algorithm showed the inhibition constant of 1.38 x 10(-7). The inhibition constant of nitrofurazone was only 1.35 x 10(-4).
Deoxynivalenol (DON), a trichothecene mycotoxin produced by Fusarium that commonly contaminates food, is capable of activating mononuclear phagocytes of the innate immune system via a process termed the ribotoxic stress response (RSR). To encapture global signaling events mediating RSR, we quantified the early temporal (≤30min) phosphoproteome changes that occurred in RAW 264.7 murine macrophage during exposure to a toxicologically relevant concentration of DON (250ng/mL). Large-scale phosphoproteomic analysis employing stable isotope labeling of amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) in conjunction with titanium dioxide chromatography revealed that DON significantly upregulated or downregulated phosphorylation of 188 proteins at both known and yet-to-be functionally characterized phosphosites. DON-induced RSR is extremely complex and goes far beyond its prior known capacity to inhibit translation and activate MAPKs. Transcriptional regulation was the main target during early DON-induced RSR, covering over 20% of the altered phosphoproteins as indicated by Gene Ontology annotation and including transcription factors/cofactors and epigenetic modulators. Other biological processes impacted included cell cycle, RNA processing, translation, ribosome biogenesis, monocyte differentiation and cytoskeleton organization. Some of these processes could be mediated by signaling networks involving MAPK-, NFκB-, AKT- and AMPK-linked pathways. Fuzzy c-means clustering revealed that DON-regulated phosphosites could be discretely classified with regard to the kinetics of phosphorylation/dephosphorylation. The cellular response networks identified provide a template for further exploration of the mechanisms of trichothecenemycotoxins and other ribotoxins, and ultimately, could contribute to improved mechanism-based human health risk assessment.
Quantitatively evaluating the rapid withdrawal effects of lamotrigine (LTG) and carbamazepine (CBZ) on seizure activity during pre-surgical evaluation in patients with pharmacoresistant complex partial epilepsy. The duration and frequency of seizure activities and electrographic seizure onset of 41 patients totally withdrawing from CBZ monotherapy (n = 20), LTG monotherapy (n = 10) and CBZ + LTG combined therapy (n = 11) were intensively studied by therapeutic intensive seizure analysis (TISA) method. Study phases ran from the baseline phase to the antiepileptic drug (AED) withdrawal phase until the AED free phase, 3 days for each phase. Seizure duration and frequency obviously increased during the withdrawal process in each group (P < 0.05). The duration of secondarily generalized clonic signs markedly increased with the tapering of each drug; tonic signs, however, only in the AED free phase (P < 0.05). The frequency of secondary tonic and clonic signs only increased in the CBZ and CBZ + LTG group. Intergroup comparisons of all variables were insignificant (P > 0.05). There was no change of ictal EEG localization during all withdrawal protocols. All patients experienced more severe seizures during the withdrawal processes. An earlier aggravation of the clonic signs than the tonic signs was observed in each group. Difference between the withdrawal effects of LTG and CBZ monotherapy and LTG + CBZ polytherapy was mainly in the frequency change of ictal signs. The withdrawal process did not influence the ictal EEG localization. This study justified the withdrawal in pre-surgical localization, rationalized precautions for possible accompanying risks, and also aroused attentions in clinical anticonvulsant trials and substitutions involving withdrawal process.
The activity of the neuronal-specific potassium chloride co-transporter KCC2 allows neurons to maintain low intracellular Cl(-) concentrations. These low Cl(-) concentrations are critical in mediating fast synaptic inhibition upon the activation of Cl(-)-permeable ligand-gated ion channels such as type A gamma-aminobutyric acid receptors (GABA(A)Rs). Deficits in KCC2 functional expression thus play central roles in the etiology of epilepsy and ischemia. It is emerging that KCC2 is phosphorylated on tyrosine residues, but the molecular substrates for this covalent modification within KCC2 and its functional significance remain poorly understood. Here we demonstrate that in HEK-293 cells the principal sites of tyrosine phosphorylation within KCC2 are residues 903 and 1087 (Y903/1087), which lie within the major C-terminal intracellular domain of KCC2. Phosphorylation of Y903/1087 decreases the cell surface stability of KCC2 principally by enhancing their lysozomal degradation. We further demonstrate that in cultured hippocampal neurons prolonged activation of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChRs) enhances KCC2 tyrosine phosphorylation and lysozomal degradation. Consistent with our in vitro studies, induction of status epilepticus (SE) in mice using pilocarpine, a mAChR agonist, induces large deficits in the cell surface stability of KCC2 together with enhanced tyrosine phosphorylation. Tyrosine phosphorylation of KCC2 is thus likely to play a key role in regulating the degradation of KCC2, a process that may be responsible for pathological losses of KCC2 function that are evident in SE and other forms of epilepsy.
