The influence of some dopaminergic and noradrenergic agents on seizures induced by chloroquine (45-100 mg/kg, i.p.) was investigated in mice. Apomorphine (0.2-0.8 mg/kg, s.c.). L-dopa (25-50 mg/kg, s.c.) benserazide (5 mg/kg, i.p.) plus L-dopa (50 mg/kg, s.c.), pargyline (100 mg/kg, i.p.), FLA-63 (10-20 mg/kg, s.c.) and FLA-63 (10 mg/kg, s.c.) plus L-dopa (50 mg/kg, s.c.) profoundly shortened the latency of seizures induced by chloroquine (65 mg/kg, i.p.). L-Dopa (50 mg/kg, s.c.) weakly reduced the latency and weakly increased the incidence of chloroquine (50 mg/kg, i.p.)-induced seizures. alpha-Methyl-p-tyrosine (25-100 mg/kg, i.p.) dose-dependently and significantly reduced the incidence and significantly prolonged the latency of chloroquine (65 mg/kg, i.p.)-induced seizures. However, L-dopa (50 mg/kg, s.c.) effectively increased the proportion of animals convulsing and effectively reduced the latency of seizures induced by chloroquine (65 mg/kg, i.p.) in alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine-pretreated mice. Haloperidol (0.25-1.0 mg/kg, i.p.) and pimozide (2-4 mg/kg, i.p.) markedly reduced the incidence and markedly prolonged the latency of seizures induced by chloroquine (65 mg/kg, i.p.) in a dose-related manner. However, apomorphine (0.4-0.8 mg/kg, s.c.) and L-dopa (25-50 mg/kg, s.c.) profoundly attenuated the protective effects of haloperidol (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) and pimozide (4 mg/kg, i.p.) against chloroquine (65 mg/kg, i.p.)-induced seizures.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The risk that antiepileptic drugs may cause damage to the peripheral nervous system led us to investigate 12 patients on carbamazepine and 12 patients on phenobarbital with the thermal threshold test. The heat and cold thresholds were measured at the ankle and wrist and, compared with those in 30 healthy subjects, they proved to be significantly higher. When the two groups of epileptics were compared separately with the controls, their thresholds were always higher. These findings are consistent with a toxic effect of both drugs on fine peripheral nerve fibers.
Hyponatremia secondary to the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) is an uncommon complication of treatment with the new class of antidepressant agents, the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Most of the reported cases were associated with fluoxetine; only 2 have previously been described in association with citalopram. We describe an elderly woman who presented with severe symptomatic hyponatremia caused by the SIADH during therapy with citalopram. Because the use of SSRIs is becoming more popular among elderly depressed patients, the present case and the other 2 reported previously emphasize the need for greater awareness of the development of this serious and potentially fatal complication also in association with citalopram therapy and suggest that serum sodium levels should be monitored closely in elderly patients during treatment with citalopram.
The dependence between the activity parameters of muscarine antagonists in the prevention of haloperidol catalepsy in rats and those in tests characterizing the interaction of ligands and various subtypes of m-cholinoceptors was studied. It was established by constructing the mathematical dependence that blockade of m1-cholinoceptors increases, while that of m2-cholinoceptors reduces the antiparkinsonian activity of the drugs. The activity of the muscarine antagonist pentiphan in the prevention of haloperidol-induced catalepsy in rats exceeds the activity of such traditional antiparkinsonian drugs as cyclodol and amedin.
Bromocriptine (Bc) produces pituitary tumoral mass regression which induces the cellular death that was classically described as apoptosis. However, recent works have related that other mechanisms of cell death could also be involved in the maintenance of physiological and pathological pituitary homeostasis. The aim of this study was to evaluate and characterize the different types of cell death in the involution induced by Bc in experimental rat pituitary tumors. The current study demonstrated that Bc induced an effective regression of estrogen induced pituitary tumors by a mechanism identified as parapoptosis. This alternative cell death was ultrastructurally recognized by extensive cytoplasmic vacuolization and an increased cell electron density, represented around 25% of the total pituitary cells counted. Furthermore, the results obtained from biochemical assays did not correspond to the criteria of apoptosis or necrosis. We also investigated the participation of p38, ERK1/2 and PKC delta in the parapoptotic pathway. An important observation was the significant increase in phosphorylated forms of these MAPKs, the holoenzyme and catalytic fragments of PKC delta in nuclear fractions after Bc administration compared to control and estrogen treated rats. Furthermore, the immunolocalization at ultrastructural level of these kinases showed a similar distribution pattern, with a prevalent localization at nuclear level in lactotrophs from Bc treated rats. In summary, we determined that parapoptosis is the predominant cell death type involved in the regression of pituitary tumors in response to Bc treatment, and may cause the activation of PKC delta, ERK1/2 and p38.
Hypersensitivity syndrome is defined as a drug-induced complex of symptoms consisting of fever, rash, and internal organ involvement. The hypersensitivity syndrome is well recognized as being caused by anticonvulsants. Olanzapine is an atypical antipsychotic agent whose side effects include sedation, weight gain, and increased creatinine kinase and transaminase levels. To date, there have been no reports of hypersensitivity syndrome related to this drug. A 34-year-old man developed a severe generalized pruritic skin eruption, fever, eosinophilia, and toxic hepatitis 60 days after ingestion of olanzapine. After termination of olanzapine treatment, the fever resolved, the skin rash was reduced, eosinophil count was reduced to normal, and the transaminase levels were markedly reduced. Clinical features and the results of skin and liver biopsies indicated that the patient developed hypersensitivity syndrome caused by olanzapine.
Twenty patients with rheumatoid arthritis developing proteinuria when being treated with penicillamine have been studied. In 5 the proteinuria was mild and resolved rapidly. Eleven of the remaining patients have undergone renal biopsy. One was found to have amyloidosis, and in the other 10 there was evidence of an immune complex type of injury, manifested by a granular immunoglobulin deposition within glomerular capillary walls associated with subepithelial deposits, found on electron microscopy. The proteinuria associated with this was mild (mean 2.6 g per 24 h) and occurred on average some eight months after commencing therapy (range 6 weeks to 60 months).
Atorvastatin, a beta-hydroxy-beta-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor, improves neurological functional outcome, reduces cerebral cell loss, and promotes regional cellular plasticity when administered after intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) in rats.
Autologous blood was stereotactically injected into the right striatum in rats, and atorvastatin was administered orally beginning 24 hours after ICH and continued daily for 1 week. At a dose of 2 mg/kg, atorvastatin significantly reduced the severity of neurological deficit from 2 to 4 weeks after ICH. The area of cell loss in the ipsilateral striatum was also significantly reduced in these animals. Consistent with previous study data, higher doses of atorvastatin (8 mg/kg) did not improve functional outcome or reduce the extent of injury. Histochemical stains for markers of synaptogenesis, immature neurons, and neuronal migration revealed increased labeling in the region of hemorrhage in the atorvastatin-treated rats.
Analysis of the data in this study indicates that atorvastatin improves neurological recovery after experimental ICH and may do so in part by increasing neuronal plasticity.
Thirty-seven patients were studied before and during treatment with respect to immune status, clinical response and development of adverse effects and autoantibodies. The baseline immune status was not predictive in terms of the above features, apart from the fact that the group of 7 patients developing proteinuria had a tendency to low or subnormal IgG levels. The most marked clinical improvement was recorded in the group who had augmented skin test responses sometime during the treatment period. These patients also had the largest falls in the IgG, IgA and rheumatoid factor. Antinuclear antibody persisted or increased in titre in 38% of patients, but was not associated with poor prognosis or liability to side-effects. Autoantibodies to striational or smooth muscle occurred in 20% of patients, and there was a much higher incidence of proteinuria in this group. We have previously suggested that penicillamine may act by depressing humoral function, leading to augmentation of cell-mediated immunity. Although the present findings suggest that penicillamine does cause humoral depression in some cases, it is not clear how the drug induces the side-effects described.
Troglitazone (TGZ), an orally active hypoglycemic agent, was found to be associated with severe drug-induced liver failure and was withdrawn from the market in 2000. Although the exact mechanism is not clear, it has been postulated that the formation of its major sulfo-conjugated metabolite (TGZS) plays an important role in its toxicity. TGZS inhibits bile salt export pump (BSEP) that causes accumulation of bile salts in liver. High concentration of bile salts causes cell death and mitochondrial dysfunction via detergent properties. One question arises whether TGZS has direct toxicity effect on human liver cells in addition to BSEP inhibition. In this study, both TGZ and chemically synthesized TGZS were incubated with normal human hepatocytes (THLE-2 cells) for measuring their cytotoxicity in vitro using the MTT assay. Glutathione (GSH) and protein carbonyl (PC) assays were further performed to measure the oxidative stress generated by these two compounds during incubation with THLE-2 cells. The results from this study indicated that TGZS (EC(50)=21.74+/-5.38 microM) was more toxic than TGZ (EC(50)=41.12+/-4.3 microM) in THLE-2 cells. The GSH and PC data further confirmed that TGZS produced greater oxidative stress in THLE-2 cells as compared to TGZ. In conclusion, our study demonstrated for the first time that TGZS has direct toxicity effect on human liver cells and may be partially responsible for the hepatotoxicity of TGZ.
Paraquat (PQ) is a strong redox agent that contributes to the formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and induces toxicity of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system. In this study, we investigated the effect of PQ on the dopaminergic system of four striatal subregions. Male C57BL/6 mice (aged 7 weeks and 23-25 g) were used for this study. The mice were administrated with normal saline or PQ (10mg/kg i.p.) twice weekly for three consecutive weeks, and we evaluated changes in body weight and the performance of motor coordination. We also measured changes in tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunoreactivity, dopamine (DA) and its metabolites, reduced glutathione (GSH), and oxidized glutathione (GSSG) in the striatum. The body weight gain of PQ-treated mice was lower than that of control mice 2 weeks after PQ administration, and this lowering effect was sustained until 4 weeks after PQ administration. In the rota-rod test, PQ had a significant effect on the time it took mice to fall from the rotating rod at 2 weeks after injection as compared to the control rats, and the effect was sustained up to 4 weeks after PQ administration. Additionally, the densities of TH-positive fibers were reduced in dorsal regions of both the striata and ventral subregion of the caudal striatum (RD, CD and CV subregions). The DA level however, decreased in four subregions of the striata. The rate of DA oxidation and O-methylation increased in the RD subregion. After PQ administration, GSH levels were significantly reduced in the RD and CV subregions, but GSSG levels in the RD and CD subregions increased compared to the control rats. The ratio of GSH/GSSG also decreased in the RD and CD subregions. We found that repeated PQ injection altered DA metabolism through the generation of oxidative stress in the striatum, and although the RD subregion showed the most prominent change, the dorsal region of the striatum may be more sensitive to PQ exposure.
Our previous studies have shown that ethanol compromises hypotension produced by centrally acting antihypertensive agents in normotensive and hypertensive male rats. The present study investigated whether female rats are as susceptible as male rats to the deleterious effect of ethanol on centrally evoked hypotension. The study was extended to investigate ethanol effects on the time-domain indices of variability in blood pressure [standard deviation of mean arterial pressure (SDMAP)] and heart rate [standard deviation of beat-to-beat intervals (SDRR) and root mean square of successive differences in R-R intervals (rMSSD)]. The hemodynamic effects of a single intraperitoneal dose of clonidine (30 microg/kg) were evaluated in radiotelemetered ethanol-fed (5%, 12 weeks) and pair-fed control Sprague-Dawley rats. In control rats, clonidine caused a significant reduction in MAP that continued for at least 6 h and was associated with reductions in SDMAP and SDRR but not rMSSD, suggesting inhibition of central sympathetic tone. A maximum hypotensive response of -16.4+/-1.7 mm Hg was demonstrated 40 min after clonidine administration. Ethanol feeding significantly attenuated clonidine hypotension whereas it potentiated the associated reduction in SDMAP. To verify the selectivity of ethanol-clonidine interaction, the effects of ethanol on peripherally mediated hemodynamic responses to hydralazine (0.5 mg/kg ip) were investigated. In contrast to its antagonistic effect on clonidine hypotension, ethanol significantly potentiated the hypotensive effect of hydralazine. Together, these findings demonstrate that chronic ethanol feeding exerts opposite effects on centrally (attenuation) and peripherally (potentiation) evoked hypotension in female rats. The interaction of ethanol with antihypertensive agents may not be related to changes in hemodynamic variability.
Acute lung injury (ALI) still represents a major cause of morbidity and mortality in intensive care units. Beneficial effects have been described after activation of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-alpha by fibrates such as WY 14,643 (WY) in inflammatory models. In the present study, the impact of WY was investigated in a model of endotoxin (lipopolysaccharide; LPS)-induced ALI in mice. Intratracheal LPS challenge dose-dependently resulted in leukocyte invasion, protein leakage and release of tumour necrosis factor-alpha as well as macrophage inflammatory protein-2, prostaglandin E(2) and thromboxane B(2) into the alveolar space after 8 and 24 h. Lung ventilator compliance was reduced at both time-points. In isolated perfused mouse lungs, platelet-activating factor (PAF) induced an acute increase in pulmonary artery pressure (P(pa)) and in capillary filtration coefficient (K(fc)). WY significantly improved all features of ALI in vivo and blunted the increase in K(fc) in isolated perfused mice lungs. In mice with genetic deletion of PPAR-alpha, all characteristics of ALI, P(pa), and K(fc) were not significantly different from wild-type mice but WY failed to improve ALI and PAF-induced increase in K(fc). Activation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha by WY 14,643 reduced acute lung injury and vascular leakage. Fibrates may possess beneficial effects in acute pulmonary diseases beyond their lipid-lowering capability.
Renal transplant (RTX) recipients remain at high-risk for acute kidney injury (AKI) despite having improved renal function and quality of life after transplantation. We sought to identify the incidence and risk factors for contrast-induced AKI in RTX recipients after cardiac catheterization at our institute as identified by electronic records. After excluding patients on dialysis at time of procedure due to failed transplant and who did not have post-exposure creatinine values within 3 days, we reviewed 77 procedures on 57 patients. We studied one case per patient (the most recent procedure). Among the 57 patients, 42 were male, 42 were Caucasian and mean age was 58.2 +/- 10.1 years. Mean serum creatinine 24 h pre-procedure was 1.7 +/- 0.8 mg/dl. Contrast-induced AKI, defined as rise in serum creatinine of 25% or 0.5 mg/dl within 3 days post-catheterization, occurred in 9 procedures (15.8%). One procedure was complicated by AKI requiring dialysis. AKI occurred more frequently with use of low-osmolar contrast (ioxaglate or iohexol) in comparison with iso-osmolar contrast (iodixanol) (9/36 vs. 0/21, p = 0.019). Patients who received prophylactic N-acetylcysteine had lower incidence of AKI than those who did not (4/41 vs. 5/16, p = 0.046). Exact logistic regression analysis revealed odds ratio of developing AKI with use of low-osmolar vs. iso-osmolar contrast to be 7.747 (1.101 - yen); p = 0.0381). Contrast-induced AKI was common in RTX recipients after cardiac catheterization. Iso-osmolar contrast was associated with a lower risk of contrast-induced AKI in comparison with low-osmolar contrast.
Histamine release have been demonstrated in haemorrhagic shock. There are some observations that oxygen free radicals can cause histamine release. Oxygen free radicals play a role in the pathogenesis of gastric mucosal lesions. The goal of this study was to determine whether ranitidine or SOD and allopurinol pretreatment modify the histamine release during and after the haemorrhagic shock in the rat. In the anaesthetized rat 0.1 N HCl was instilled into the stomach and the rat was bled to reduce the blood pressure to 30 mmHg for 20 min. The shed blood was reinfused. Twenty min later the stomach was removed. The area of gastric mucosal lesions were measured, histological grading was made. Blood samples taken from the carotid artery were examined by radioimmunoassay (IMMUNOTECH) to determine the plasma histamine level. Plasma histamine level did not change significantly during the preparative surgery, but there was a significant increase of histamine level by the end of shock period. After the reinfusion of the blood the plasma histamine remained essentially at the same level for five min. Oxygen free radicals did not cause an important histamine release. By the end of the experiment the histamine level decreased dramatically. Ranitidine, allopurinol and SOD pretreatment provided significant protection against the gastric mucosal lesions. Allopurinol and SOD did not influence significantly the histamine level. Ranitidine caused significant histamine release immediately after the injection and every histamine value was significantly higher in this group except for the final value which was lower than the control one. The oxygen free radicals were not found as endogenous histamine releasers in this study.
The H2-receptor antagonist cimetidine (250 micrograms) administered intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) 15 and 30 min before clonidine (25 micrograms kg-1 i.v.), significantly antagonized clonidine-induced hypotension in anaesthetized spontaneously hypertensive rats. The hypertensive response of cimetidine was correlated with the inhibition of clonidine-induced hypotension. In addition, cimetidine (250 micrograms i.c.v.) counteracted the hypotensive effects of pentolinium (5.0 mg kg-1 i.v.), guanethidine (5.0 mg kg-1 i.v.) and minoxidil (1.0 mg kg-1 i.v.) These data do not support previous suggestions that the hypotensive action of clonidine is caused by stimulation of the H2-receptor, but suggest that central administration of cimetidine causes peripheral vasoconstriction and this may offer resistance to the hypotensive action of different antihypertensive agents.
Antidepressants have a controversial role with regard to their influence on cancer and immunity. Recently, we showed that fluoxetine administration induces an enhancement of the T-cell mediated immunity in naïve mice, resulting in the inhibition of tumor growth. Here we studied the effects of fluoxetine on lymphoma proliferation/apoptosis and immunity in tumor bearing-mice. We found an increase of apoptotic cells (active Caspase-3(+)) and a decrease of proliferative cells (PCNA(+)) in tumors growing in fluoxetine-treated animals. In addition, differential gene expressions of cell cycle and death markers were observed. Cyclins D3, E and B were reduced in tumors from animals treated with fluoxetine, whereas the tumor suppressor p53 and the cell cycle inhibitors p15/INK4B, p16/INK4A and p27/Kip1 were increased. Besides, the expression of the antiapoptotic factor Bcl-2 and the proapoptotic factor Bad were lower and higher respectively in these animals. These changes were accompanied by increased IFN-γ and TNF-α levels as well as augmented circulating CD8(+) T lymphocytes in tumor-bearing mice treated with the antidepressant. Therefore, we propose that the up-regulation of T-cell mediated antitumor immunity may be contributing to the alterations of tumor cell proliferation and apoptosis thus resulting in the inhibition of tumor progression.
Mycosis fungoides (MF) is the most frequent cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL). Arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) has recently been shown to be effective against leukemias, so we studied whether As(2)O(3) induces apoptosis of CTCL cells in vitro. We further investigated if As(2)O(3) is effective in a MF mouse model.
Annexin V/7-amino-actinomycin-D stainings were carried out to investigate if As(2)O(3) induced apoptosis of CTCL cell lines. To study the underlying mechanisms, the effects of As(2)O(3) on various transcription factors and apoptosis regulating proteins were analyzed by western blots, electrophoretic mobility shift assays and transcription factor enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. The ability of As(2)O(3) to induce tumor regression was investigated in a MF mouse model.
As(2)O(3)-induced apoptosis was paralleled by a reduction of the DNA-binding activities of transcription factors of the NFkB and signal transducer and activator of transcription gene families and reduced expression of the antiapoptotic proteins bcl-1, bcl-xL and mcl-1. Local injections of 200 muM As(2)O(3) into tumors caused complete remissions in five of six mice and one partial remission.
As(2)O(3) induced apoptosis of CTCL cells by the down-regulation of transcription factors that stimulate the expression of antiapoptotic genes. Local injection of As(2)O(3) into MF tumor-bearing mice resulted in tumor regression.
The minor -588T allele of polymorphism -588C/T of a modifier subunit gene in glutamate-cysteine ligase (GCLM), a rate-limiting enzyme for glutathione (GSH) synthesis, was associated with lower plasma GSH levels and was a risk factor for myocardial infarction.
We examined effects of the -588C/T polymorphism on coronary arterial diameter and blood flow responses to intracoronary infusion of acetylcholine in 157 consecutive subjects who had normal coronary angiograms. In multivariate linear regression analysis with covariates including traditional risk factors, the minor -588T allele had an independent association with impaired dilation or enhanced constriction of epicardial coronary arteries in response to acetylcholine, and it was independently associated with blunted increase in coronary flow response to acetylcholine. In a subgroup of 59 consecutive subjects, constrictor responses of epicardial coronary diameter to intracoronary infusion of NG-monomethyl-l-arginine, reflecting the presence of coronary nitric oxide (NO) bioactivity, had an inverse and independent association with the -588T allele in multivariate analysis.
The -588T polymorphism of the GCLM gene causes a decrease in endothelial NO bioactivity, leading to impairment of endothelium-dependent vasomotor function in large and resistance coronary arteries. The GCL-GSH-NO axis may play a role in the defense system against coronary artery disease.
It is not known to what extent patients with non-cardiac chest pain have esophageal ischemia or motor dysfunction. The aim of this study was to investigate whether chest pain provoked by intravenous edrophonium chloride could be due to esophageal ischemia or to muscular spasm.
Sixteen patients with a history of non-cardiac chest pain took part. Ten patients (32-69 years old) who did not develop chest pain with intravenous edrophonium chloride were compared with six patients (50-71 years old) who did develop edrophonium-provoked chest pain. Esophageal motility was monitored manometrically. Changes in esophageal blood flow, assessed as the rewarming time after esophageal cooling, was measured with a thermistor technique.
The esophageal rewarming time after cooling was the same before and during the edrophonium test in both groups. The esophageal contraction amplitudes and contraction duration were significantly increased only in patients with edrophonium-provoked chest pain.
Strong esophageal contractions and not a decreased blood flow in the esophageal wall seem to be the cause of chest pain provoked by intravenous edrophonium chloride.
AKT-GSK3beta signaling is a target of lithium and as such has been implicated in the pathogenesis of mood disorders. Here, we provide evidence that this signaling pathway also has a role in schizophrenia. Specifically, we present convergent evidence for a decrease in AKT1 protein levels and levels of phosphorylation of GSK3beta at Ser9 in the peripheral lymphocytes and brains of individuals with schizophrenia; a significant association between schizophrenia and an AKT1 haplotype associated with lower AKT1 protein levels; and a greater sensitivity to the sensorimotor gating-disruptive effect of amphetamine, conferred by AKT1 deficiency. Our findings support the proposal that alterations in AKT1-GSK3beta signaling contribute to schizophrenia pathogenesis and identify AKT1 as a potential schizophrenia susceptibility gene. Consistent with this proposal, we also show that haloperidol induces a stepwise increase in regulatory phosphorylation of AKT1 in the brains of treated mice that could compensate for an impaired function of this signaling pathway in schizophrenia.
