Preemptive lamivudine in lymphoma patients undergoing intensive chemotherapy can effectively prevent chemotherapy-related HBV reactivation. Nevertheless, the safety profile after withdrawal of lamivudine and the impact of rituximab-containing chemotherapy on HBV reactivation has not been defined. To illustrate the necessity of prolonged surveillance after cessation of preemptive lamivudine in lymphoma patients treated with rituximab and chemotherapy, four patients with B-cell NHL carrying HBV received rituximab plus CHOP. Preemptive lamivudine therapy was administered 1 week before chemotherapy until 4 weeks after completion of chemotherapy. Serial serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT), total bilirubin, and HBV-DNA levels were prospectively monitored in three patients. The fourth patient was closely monitored for ALT. The HBV DNA was checked after development of clinical overt hepatitis. The peripheral blood CD20+ B-lymphocyte counts were analyzed periodically in two patients. All of the three patients studied prospectively had virological relapses with surgence of HBV DNA 6-8 months after completion of rituximab-plus-CHOP (R+CHOP) therapy. Two of the three patients had biochemical relapses and one of them developed severe hepatitis. Sequencing for HBV polymerase gene in these patients failed to show evident emergence of lamivudine-resistant mutations. The fourth patient developed a hepatitis flare-up 6 months after completion of chemotherapy. The CD2+ lymphocytes were totally depleted when HBV DNA started to increase. Delayed HBV reactivation can occur in lymphoma patients receiving R+CHOP after withdrawal of preemptive lamivudine. More protracted lamivudine therapy may be an alternative to close monitoring following chemotherapy, and further studies are needed to define optimal duration of lamivudine therapy.
Epirubicin is a new derivative of doxorubicin characterized by an improved spectrum of activity and a better therapeutic index. At equimolar doses and in comparative studies, epirubicin proved to induce less acute toxicity than doxorubicin, in particular less vomiting, hair loss and myelotoxicity. While giving a comparable response rate in randomized breast cancer studies, epirubicin also proved to be less cardiotoxic than doxorubicin. The reduced potential for cardiac toxicity of epirubicin versus doxorubicin has been shown both by functional assessment (radionuclide cinecardioangiography) and by histopathologic evaluation (endomyocardial biopsies) at equally myelosuppressive doses or at equal doses (equimolar). The lessened cardiotoxicity of epirubicin versus doxorubicin can be explained by the different pharmacokinetic and metabolic properties of these two agents: epirubicin has been found to have a more rapid pharmacokinetic plasma clearance and an additional metabolic pathway (unique glucuronidation).
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a common and highly heritable disorder, but specific genetic factors underlying risk remain elusive. To assess the role of structural variation in ADHD, we identified 222 inherited copy number variations (CNVs) within 335 ADHD patients and their parents that were not detected in 2026 unrelated healthy individuals. Although no excess CNVs, either deletions or duplications, were found in the ADHD cohort relative to controls, the inherited rare CNV-associated gene set was significantly enriched for genes reported as candidates in studies of autism, schizophrenia and Tourette syndrome, including A2BP1, AUTS2, CNTNAP2 and IMMP2L. The ADHD CNV gene set was also significantly enriched for genes known to be important for psychological and neurological functions, including learning, behavior, synaptic transmission and central nervous system development. Four independent deletions were located within the protein tyrosine phosphatase gene, PTPRD, recently implicated as a candidate gene for restless legs syndrome, which frequently presents with ADHD. A deletion within the glutamate receptor gene, GRM5, was found in an affected parent and all three affected offspring whose ADHD phenotypes closely resembled those of the GRM5 null mouse. Together, these results suggest that rare inherited structural variations play an important role in ADHD development and indicate a set of putative candidate genes for further study in the etiology of ADHD.
Nicotine is the primary addictive compound in tobacco smoke. In this review we summarize nicotine dependence and the genetics of smoking in brief before focusing on cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2A6. In humans nicotine is mainly inactivated to cotinine and CYP2A6 mediates approximately 90% of this conversion. Some, but not all, studies suggest that genetic variation in CYP2A6 may play a role in smoking. We review some of the recent findings on the influence of CYP2A6 genetic polymorphisms on nicotine kinetics, smoking behaviors, and how the gene appears to exert differential effects during various stages of smoking (eg, initiation, conversion to dependence, amount smoked during dependence, and quitting). These new findings will be put in the context of the discrepancies found in the literature. Implications of these recent findings on current and novel treatment approaches for smoking cessation and tobacco-related lung cancer will also be discussed.
Prostate carcinoma is the most commonly occurring malignancy in men. Although 2-chloroethyl-3-sarcosinamide-1-nitrosourea (SarCNU), an analog of the chloroethylnitrosoureas, has been used in the treatment of advanced solid tumors, the molecular mechanisms underlying the antineoplastic activity of this agent are not well understood. In the current study, the authors sought to investigate the effects of SarCNU on prostate carcinoma cell growth in vivo and in vitro.
Male SCID mice underwent subcutaneous implantation (on both flanks) of human CWR-22 and CWR-22R prostate carcinoma xenografts. Mice were treated with either vehicle or 60 or 80 mg SarCNU per kg body weight for 5 days, with tumor growth being assessed every 3 days. Animals were sacrificed 21 days after the final injection, and tumors subsequently were collected, weighed, and processed for analysis. Immunohistochemical analyses were performed to obtain data on the localization of p53 and p21Cip1/Waf1. Cell counting, terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate nick end-labeling (TUNEL) assays, cell cycle analyses, Western blotting, and in vitro kinase assays were performed to determine the effects of SarCNU on growth, apoptosis, cell cycle arrest, cell cycle-regulated protein levels, and Cdc-2 activity, respectively.
SarCNU reduced tumor incidence and inhibited the growth of CWR-22 and CWR-22R xenografts. In addition, treatment with this agent led to increases in p21Cip1/Waf1 levels and p53 phosphorylation at Ser15. In vitro administration of SarCNU to cells with wild-type p53 (LNCaP and primary CWR-22 cells) and cells with mutant p53 (PC-3 cells) resulted in G2/M arrest and the reduction of cellular Cdc-2 activity. Up-regulation of p53 levels, p53 phosphorylation at Ser15, and p21Cip1/Waf1 levels in primary CWR-22 and LNCaP cells, as well as up-regulation of Cdc-2 phosphorylation at Tyr15 in PC-3 cells, was detected.
SarCNU induced G2/M arrest in prostate carcinoma cells via p53-dependent up-regulation of p21Cip1/Waf1 and p53-independent phosphorylation of Cdc-2 at Tyr15. These findings suggest a potential role for SarCNU in the treatment of prostate malignancies.
Endogenous glucocorticoids provide natural differentiation signals for adrenergic neurons, and exposure to high exogenous steroid levels thus disrupts the timing of neuronal maturation. In the current study, pregnant rats were given 0.05, 0.2, or 0.8 mg/kg dexamethasone on gestational days 17, 18, and 19, and the effects on development of cardiac sympathetic function were assessed postnatally in the offspring. Dexamethasone produced a dose-dependent retardation of body and heart weight gains; at the highest dose, heart weight deficits were smaller than those for body weight, producing a relative cardiomegaly. The weight effects were accompanied by abnormalities of noradrenergic innervation, as assessed with measurements of norepinephrine levels and turnover. Norepinephrine levels were significantly reduced at all doses of dexamethasone, with the magnitude of effect exceeding that on heart or body weights; thus the levels were reduced even when corrected for tissue weight (ng norepinephrine/g heart weight). Norepinephrine turnover, a measure of neuronal impulse activity, showed delayed development at the lowest dose of dexamethasone and displayed profound suppression throughout development at the higher doses. Adverse effects of dexamethasone on norepinephrine turnover were still apparent in young adulthood, despite the recovery of weight variables to within 15% of normal values. In light of the release of steroids during maternal stress and the use of steroids in the therapy of neonatal respiratory distress, developing adrenergic neurons are likely to be targeted for adverse effects even when standard growth indices have normalized.
It is widely recognized that mitochondrial dysfunction, most notably defects in the NADH-quinone oxidoreductase (complex I), is closely related to the etiology of sporadic Parkinson's disease (PD). In fact, rotenone, a complex I inhibitor, has been used for establishing PD models both in vitro and in vivo. A rat model with chronic rotenone exposure seems to reproduce pathophysiological conditions of PD more closely than acute mouse models as manifested by neuronal cell death in the substantia nigra and Lewy body-like cytosolic aggregations. Using the rotenone rat model, we investigated the protective effects of alternative NADH dehydrogenase (Ndi1) which we previously demonstrated to act as a replacement for complex I both in vitro and in vivo. A single, unilateral injection of recombinant adeno-associated virus carrying the NDI1 gene into the vicinity of the substantia nigra resulted in expression of the Ndi1 protein in the entire substantia nigra of that side. It was clear that the introduction of the Ndi1 protein in the substantia nigra rendered resistance to the deleterious effects caused by rotenone exposure as assessed by the levels of tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine. The presence of the Ndi1 protein also prevented cell death and oxidative damage to DNA in dopaminergic neurons observed in rotenone-treated rats. Unilateral protection also led to uni-directional rotation of the rotenone-exposed rats in the behavioral test. The present study shows, for the first time, the powerful neuroprotective effect offered by the Ndi1 enzyme in a rotenone rat model of PD.
To study the effects of S-2-(3-aminopropylamino) ethyl phosphorothioic acid (WR-2721, amifostine) on proliferation inhibition and apoptosis of HL-60 human leukemia cell line, the cell apoptosis rate of HL-60 was determined by annexin V/PI double staining method. Cell proliferation and chemotherapy sensitivity were analyzed with XTT assay, and the changes of cell cycle were observed through flow cytometry. The results showed that WR-2721 could significantly inhibit HL-60 cell proliferation. After treatment (30 min, 37 degrees C) with WR-2721, the sensitivity of HL-60 cells to VP16 was enhanced, and the IC(50) descended from 52.5 micro g/ml to 40.5 microg/ml. After 72 hours treatment of HL-60 cells with WR-2721, the early apoptotic cells (annexin V-FITC positive/PI negative) were increased from (5.5 +/- 1.9)% to (48.5 +/- 8.4)% (P < 0.001), late apoptotic cells (annexin V-FITC positive/PI positive) were increased from (1.2 +/- 0.5)% to (39.0 +/- 4.0)% (P < 0.001), and HL-60 cells were arrested in G(2)-M phase. In conclusion, WR-2721 treatment can enhance HL-60 cell chemotherapy sensitivity to VP16, inhibit proliferation, induce apoptosis and accumulation of cells in G(2)-M phase.
The regenerative repair response to folic acid and ischemia-reperfusion injury is characterized by different patterns of renal tubular cell proliferation. The purpose of this study was to examine the time course of the expression of two early growth response genes, c-jun and c-fos, and of the stress response gene hsp70 after such renal injuries and to determine the role played by reactive oxygen species generated during reperfusion, on gene induction. Ischemic injury caused an almost immediate increase of c-jun, c-fos and hsp70 mRNA expression, that reached a maximum at 1 h of reperfusion. Folic acid treatment increased c-fos and hsp70 mRNAs at 2 h, while c-jun accumulated at 1 h, although to a lesser extent. The intravenous administration of two antioxidant drugs, allopurinol or dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), 20 min before ischemia, to prevent the generation of oxygen free radicals during reperfusion, did not cause any change in gene expression. In contrast, the combined administration of allopurinol and DMSO reduced c-jun and c-fos mRNA expression as well as tubular cell damage at 1 h of reperfusion, although not at earlier times while hsp70 mRNA expression remained almost unchanged. Taken together, the results suggest that these scavengers, by reducing reactive oxygen species and renal damage during reperfusion, may affect the expression and/or persistence of transcripts involved in the control of epithelial cell proliferation.
Earlier reports of cocaine-associated cerebral vasculitis have been based primarily on angiographic findings without pathological verification.
We present a case of acute encephalopathy following intravenous and intranasal administration of cocaine. Brain biopsy revealed vascular changes involving primarily small arteries. Findings included lymphocytic infiltration, endothelial thickening, and deposition of proteinaceous amorphous material within and around vessel walls.
These abnormalities are consistent with pathological features of arteritis previously reported in association with amphetamine and multiple-drug abuse. Vasospasm-induced changes are an alternative explanation for the vascular picture seen in this case. The patient made modest improvement with high-dose intravenous steroids.
Earlier studies have implicated the adverse effects of beta- and alpha(1)-adrenergic receptors during cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). Because carvedilol is both a nonselective beta- and alpha1-selective adrenergic receptor-blocking agent, we hypothesized that pretreatment with carvedilol would convert the actions of epinephrine to that of a selective alpha2-agonist.
Ventricular fibrillation (VF) was induced in Sprague-Dawley rats weighing approximately 500 g. Animals were randomized to 4 groups of 5 animals each: (1) placebo pretreatment and epinephrine treatment, (2) carvedilol pretreatment and placebo treatment, (3) carvedilol pretreatment and epinephrine treatment, and (4) placebo pretreatment and placebo treatment. Carvedilol (50 microg/kg) was injected as a bolus into the right atrium 15 minutes before VF was induced. VF was untreated for 8 minutes, after which CPR (chest compression and mechanical ventilation) was begun. Epinephrine (30 microg/kg) was injected into the right atrium 2 minutes after the start of CPR. Electrical defibrillation was attempted after 14 minutes of VF.
All but 2 animals were successfully resuscitated. Approximately equivalent increases in coronary perfusion pressure from 23 +/- 1 mm Hg to 30 +/- 3 mm Hg were observed after the injection of epinephrine independently of carvedilol pretreatment. Carvedilol pretreatment followed by epinephrine treatment reduced early postresuscitation ventricular ectopy (116 +/- 147 vs 834 +/- 380, P < .01) and minimized increases in arterial blood lactate at 5 minutes after resuscitation (10.9 +/- 2.1 mmol/L vs 17.4 +/- 3.5 mmol/L, P < .01). The postresuscitation cardiac index measured 4 hours later was increased (307 +/- 43 mL x min(-1) x kg(-1) vs 210 +/- 6 mL x min(-1) x kg(-1), P < .05). Left ventricular diastolic pressures were decreased (6 +/- 1 vs 14 +/- 1 mm Hg, P < .05). Animals pretreated with carvedilol survived longer (71 +/- 1 vs 45 +/- 22 hours, P < .05) and with less postresuscitation neurologic deficit.
After beta- and alpha1-adrenergic blockade with carvedilol before inducing cardiac arrest, epinephrine administered during CPR yielded better postresuscitation myocardial and neurologic functions and significantly increased postresuscitation survival.
Ninety-five patients undergoing an allogeneic bone marrow transplant (BMT) and developing acute graft-versus-host disease (aGvHD) were randomized to receive low-dose intravenous 6-methylprednisolone (6MPred; 2 mg/kg /d; n = 47) or high-dose 6MPred (10 mg/kg/d; n = 48) for 5 days, with subsequent tapering doses. On day 5 patients not responding or progressing on low-dose 6MPred could be switched to high-dose 6MPred. All patients, aged 1 to 55 years, were recipients of unmanipulated BMT from HLA identical sibling donors. Patients were stratified at randomization for age (</>/= 20 years), disease (acute leukemia, chronic myeloid leukemia [CML], nonneoplastic disease), disease status (early/advanced), and GvHD prophylaxis (cyclosporin/cyclosporin + methotrexate). Primary endpoints were response to treatment and evolution of aGvHD to grade III-IV. Secondary endpoints were cytomegalovirus (CMV) infections, transplant-related mortality (TRM), and relapse. The median interval between BMT and treatment was 12 days (6 to 43). Results in the two groups (2 v 10 mg/kg) were as follows: response of aGvHD 68% versus 71% (P = .9), evolution to aGvHD grade III-IV 17% versus 20% (P = . 6), CMV infections 55% versus 60% (P = .7), 3-year actuarial TRM 28% versus 32% (P = .7), relapse 17% versus 7% (P = .1). The actuarial survival at 3 years was 63% versus 62% (P = .9) with a median follow up of 580 and 778 days. On day 5 of therapy, 26 patients assigned to low-dose (2 mg/kg) 6MPred were switched to a higher dose of 6MPred because of no response or progression. Their actuarial TRM was 46%, which is significantly higher than TRM of patients who responded on 2 mg/kg and continued with tapering doses (TRM = 16%, P = .007). In conclusion, early treatment of acute GvHD with 6MPred 10 mg/kg/d does not improve the response rate as compared with 2 mg/kg/d, nor does it prevent evolution to aGvHD grade III-IV. CMV infections, TRM, and survival were also comparable. A group of patients at high risk of TRM can be identified after 5 days of treatment with 6MPred 2 mg/kg and could be eligible for alternative forms of therapy.
Cadmium exposure has been linked to human cancers, including stomach cancer. In this study, the effects of cadmium on urokinase-type plasminogen activator receptor (uPAR) expression in human gastric cancer cells and the underlying signal transduction pathways were investigated. Cadmium induced uPAR expression in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. Cadmium also induced uPAR promoter activity. Additionally, cadmium induced the activation of extracellular signal regulated kinase-1/2 (ERK-1/2), p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), and the activation of c-Jun amino terminal kinase (JNK). A specific inhibitor of MEK-1 (PD98059) inhibited cadmium-induced uPAR expression, while JNK and p38 MAPK inhibitors did not. Expression vectors encoding dominant-negative MEK-1 (pMCL-K97M) also prevented cadmium-induced uPAR promoter activity. Site-directed mutagenesis and electrophoretic mobility shift studies showed that sites for the transcription factors nuclear factor (NF)-κB and activator protein-1 (AP-1) were involved in cadmium-induced uPAR transcription. Suppression of the cadmium-induced uPAR promoter activity by a mutated-type NF-κB-inducing kinase and I-κB and an AP-1 decoy oligonucleotide confirmed that the activation of NF-κB and AP-1 are essential for cadmium-induced uPAR upregulation. Cells pretreated with cadmium showed markedly enhanced invasiveness and this effect was partially abrogated by uPAR-neutralizing antibodies and by inhibitors of ERK-1/2, NF-κB, and AP-1. These results suggest that cadmium induces uPAR expression via ERK-1/2, NF-κB, and AP-1 signaling pathways and, in turn, stimulates cell invasiveness in human gastric cancer AGS cells.
Angioedema is an uncommon but potentially life-threatening adverse event associated with ACE inhibitor therapy which is believed to be due to potentiation of the vascular effects of bradykinin. Angiotensin receptor antagonists were not expected to produce angioedema, as they do not inhibit the catabolism of bradykinin. However, it is now apparent that angioedema is occasionally associated with angiotensin receptor antagonist therapy and may be more likely to occur in patients who have previously experienced angioedema while receiving ACE inhibitors. Angiotensin receptor antagonists cannot be considered to be a safe alternative therapy in patients who have previously experienced ACE inhibitor-associated angioedema.
We report the results of a phase III open-label, randomized, multicenter trial comparing tacrolimus/methotrexate to cyclosporine/methotrexate for graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis after HLA-identical sibling marrow transplantation in patients with hematologic malignancy. The primary objective of this study was to compare the incidence of moderate to severe (grade II-IV) acute GVHD. Secondary objectives were to compare the relapse rate, disease-free survival, overall survival, and the incidence of chronic GVHD. Patients were stratified according to age (<40 v >/=40) and for male recipients of a marrow graft from an alloimmunized female. There was a significantly greater proportion of patients with advanced disease randomized to tacrolimus arm (P = . 02). The incidence of grade II-IV acute GVHD was significantly lower in patients who received tacrolimus than patients in the cyclosporine group (31.9% and 44.4%, respectively; P = .01). The incidence of grade III-IV acute GVHD was similar, 17.1% in cyclosporine group and 13.3% in the tacrolimus group. There was no difference in the incidence of chronic GVHD between the tacrolimus and the cyclosporine group (55.9% and 49.4%, respectively; P = .8). However, there was a significantly higher proportion of patients in the cyclosporine group who had clinical extensive chronic GVHD (P = . 03). The relapse rates of the two groups were similar. The patients in the cyclosporine arm had a significantly better 2-year disease-free survival and overall survival than patients in the tacrolimus arm, 50.4% versus 40.5% (P = .01) and 57.2% versus 46.9% (P = .02), respectively. The significant difference in the overall and disease-free survival was largely the result of the patients with advanced disease, 24.8% with tacrolimus versus 41.7% with cyclosporine (P = .006) and 20.4% with tacrolimus versus 28% with cyclosporine (P = .007), respectively. There was a higher frequency of deaths from regimen-related toxicity in patients with advanced disease who received tacrolimus. There was no difference in the disease-free and overall survival in patients with nonadvanced disease. These results show the superiority of tacrolimus/methotrexate over cyclosporine/methotrexate in the prevention of grade II-IV acute GVHD with no difference in disease-free or overall survival in patients with nonadvanced disease. The survival disadvantage in advanced disease patients receiving tacrolimus warrants further investigation.
The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that multigenotypic polymorphisms in the folate metabolic pathway, which may result in genomic instability and inbalance of estrogen metabolism, were associated with breast cancer risk.
A population-based nested case-control study of 109 cases with pathologically confirmed invasive breast cancer and 421 cancer-free controls was conducted in Taiwan between 1992 and 2001. The polymorphisms in serine hydroxymethyltransferase (SHMT1 C1420T), 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR C677T), and methionine synthase (MS A2756G) genes were examined using polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism.
There was a trend toward an increased risk of breast cancer in women harboring a greater number of putative high-risk genotypes of these genes. Furthermore, the cancer risk associated with having at least one putative high-risk genotype was more significant in women having been exposed to estrogen for a longer period before first birth.
The present study indicates the significance of multiple low-penetrance alleles of functionally-related folate-metabolizing genes interactive with an estrogenic environment in breast tumorigenesis.
The positive effects of tamoxifen (TAM) on breast cancer recurrence and survival as well as on overall mortality have led to its use as the predominant adjuvant therapy among women with breast cancer. However, the association of TAM intake with undesirable side effects has been reported in numerous studies. This analysis was carried out to assess whether the concentrations of TAM or TAM metabolites, N -desmethyltamoxifen ( N -DMT) and 4-hydroxytamoxifen (4-OHT), were associated with self-reported side effects of TAM. Participants were 99 breast cancer patients who had been taking TAM for at least 30 days. Each participant completed a questionnaire that was used to ascertain whether she experienced certain specific symptoms while taking TAM. In addition, each woman provided a blood sample that was used to measure plasma concentrations of TAM, N -DMT, and 4-OHT by high performance liquid chromatography. Results of the analysis showed that women who experienced at least one TAM-related side effect had significantly higher levels of TAM than women not experiencing any TAM-related side effects. Furthermore, women who reported experiencing visual problems had significantly higher levels of both TAM and N -DMT compared to those women who reported experiencing no visual problems. The levels of 4-OHT were negatively associated with the occurrence of vaginal discharge. The results of this study suggest that the self-reported occurrence of certain symptoms during TAM treatment is related to TAM metabolism. Future studies should assess subgroups of women with specific TAM and TAM metabolite profiles to determine whether alternate, equally effective therapies would decrease their risk of experiencing certain undesirable side effects.
The mode of action of glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) towards thrombus formation in a rat arteriovenous shunt was studied by simultaneous examination of thrombus weight, platelet consumption and thrombin generation during 45 min of blood circulation. A comparison was made between the effects of heparin, the heparinoid Org 10172 (Orgaran), and the chemically synthesized methoxy derivative of the antithrombin III binding pentasaccharide fragment of heparin (Org 31540). All three compounds inhibited thrombus growth by 30% at a dose of 80 anti-Xa U/kg i. v. when assessed after 15 min of circulation through the shunt. In addition, a systemic decrease of 27% of platelet numbers in the placebo group was inhibited by heparin and Orgaran with 63% and by pentasaccharide with 48%. At a later stage, after 45 min of circulation, at comparable plasma anti-Xa levels, thrombi which had formed in the presence of Orgaran or pentasaccharide, but not in the presence of heparin, became less or non thrombogenic. This non-thrombogenicity was reflected by i) an inhibition of the local deposition of [51Cr]platelets of 75% with Orgaran and of 57% with pentasaccharide, and ii) an inhibition of ex-vivo thrombus-induced thrombin generation in pooled rat plasma of 67% with Orgaran and of 52% with pentasaccharide (inhibition compared to placebo). Although the mechanism of inducing non-thrombogenicity of a (developing) thrombus by Orgaran and pentasaccharide requires further investigation, the suppression of the local thrombin generation potency, measured by thrombus-induced thrombin generation in pooled plasma, is much more correlated with thrombus growth than systemic anticoagulant activity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In various types of chronic glomerulonephritis, proliferation of mesangial and endothelial cells is often seen together with extracellular matrix accumulation. In contrast, the proliferation of visceral glomerular epithelial cells (podocytes) has not been detected in any disease in which these cells are the principal target of injury. To examine whether proliferation of podocytes occurs, puromycin aminonucleoside nephropathy was induced in Wistar rats by intraperitoneal injection of puromycin aminonucleoside (15 mg/100 g of bodyweight). In this nephropathy model of nephrotic syndrome with minimal change, the main lesions consisted of vacuolation and flattened foot processes of podocytes, which are the primary target of puromycin aminonucleoside. Urine protein excretion and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) positive cells were examined. The PCNA+ podocytic count reached its maximum on day 3, indicating that the most marked podocytic proliferation occurs just after the injection of PAN. Twenty-four hour urinary excretion in this nephropathy model supported the hypothesis that mitosis of podocytes occurs in association with recovery on day 13.
1-Bromopropane (1-BP), an alternative to ozone-depleting solvents (ODS), exhibits central nervous system (CNS) toxicity in animals and humans. This study was designed to relate CNS damage by Morris water maze (MWM) test and oxidative stress to 1-BP exposure in the rat. Male Wistar rats were randomly divided into 4 groups (n=10), and treated with 0, 200, 400 and 800 mg/kgbw 1-BP for consecutive 12 days, respectively. From day 8 to day 12 of the experiment, MWM test was employed to assess the cognitive function of rats. The cerebral cortex of rats was obtained immediately following the 24h after MWM test conclusion. Glutathione (GSH), oxidized glutathione (GSSG) and total thiol (total-SH) content, GSH reductase (GR) and GSH peroxidase (GSH-Px) activities, malondialdehyde (MDA) level, as well as 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE) and MDA modified proteins in homogenates of cerebral cortex were measured. The obtained results showed that 1-BP led to cognitive dysfunction of rats, which was evidenced by delayed escape latency time and swimming distances in MWM performance. GSH and total-SH content, GSH/GSSG ratio, GR activity significantly decreased in cerebral cortex of rats, coupling with the increase of MDA level. 4-HNE and MDA modified protein levels obviously elevated after 1-BP exposure. GSH-Px activities in cerebral cortex of rats also increased. These data suggested that 1-BP resulted in enhanced lipid peroxidation of brain, which might play an important role in CNS damage induced by 1-BP.
A 37-year-old man with a history of seizures developed periodic alternating nystagmus (PAN) along with other signs of primidone/phenobarbital toxicity. The PAN gradually diminished in cycle length and intensity, finally resolving with gradual discontinuation of the drugs.
Akathisia is an easily treatable but often overlooked extrapyramidal symptom induced by neuroleptic drugs. It causes the patient severe distress due to the feeling of inner disquiet and the inability to sit still or to lie quietly. A case of a demented uncommunicative patient is presented to show its subtlety of diagnosis and to call attention of the possibility of akathisia to any "uncomfortable" patient who is on neuroleptic drugs. The author feels that a therapeutic trial with antiparkinsonian drug is warranted if the case for akathisia is in doubt.
To assess whether long-term dexamethasone therapy for chronic lung disease (CLD) in infancy is associated with any deleterious cardiac structural effects, we conducted a retrospective review of all preterm infants with CLD born between October 1, 1989, and October 1, 1990, who had serial echocardiographic data available. These infants were divided into three groups based on the length of their exposure to dexamethasone. Group 1 contained nine infants with CLD who did not receive dexamethasone. Group 2 was comprised of six infants who received dexamethasone for less than 8 days. Group 3 contained one infant who received a 26-day course, and 13 infants who received at least one 42-day course of dexamethasone for CLD. Left ventricular hypertrophy was noted in 8 of 14 (57%) infants in group 3; hypertrophy usually was noted near the end of the treatment course. Five of these eight affected infants died; the hypertrophic cardiomyopathy was considered to have contributed to mortality in three of these five infants. Regression of the hypertrophy was noted in the three surviving infants in group 3 after the dexamethasone course was completed. We speculate that prolonged dexamethasone treatment for CLD is associated with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in a significant portion of preterm infants.
Lithium inhibits the synthesis of prostaglandin (PG) EI by blocking the mobilisation of dihomogammalinolenic acid (DGLA). Toxicity due to lithium might re related to reduced PGEI formation. In five patients who developed toxic effects on low doses of lithium, linoleic acid in the forms of the safflower oil was given in an attempt to raise levels of the linoleic acid metabolite, DGLA. In al five patients the safflower oil was effective in remitting the symptoms of neurotoxicity. Safflower oil was also effective in a patient with familial tremor.
beta-Blockers are currently being evaluated more intensively to define their role in clinical use as antiarrhythmic agents. beta-Adrenergic blockade has been studied in relation to atrial fibrillation, ventricular arrhythmias, and sudden death; however, it is apparent from a number of studies that not all beta-blockers are equally effective. Randomized clinical trial data, both in heart failure and post-myocardial infarction (MI) patients, have shown differences in mortality benefits in addition to a variable effect on arrhythmias and sudden death. Carvedilol, a third-generation beta-blocker with proven clinical benefit in the management of heart failure and post-MI patients, has properties that may make it an effective antiarrhythmic agent. This paper reviews the current clinical arrhythmia data available for carvedilol from large-scale clinical trials and small studies. The trial evidence demonstrates that carvedilol therapy can be an effective adjunctive rate-control therapy in patients with atrial fibrillation, prevent mortality in patients with heart failure or post-MI with left ventricular dysfunction, with or without atrial fibrillation, and reduce its onset and the incidence of ventricular arrhythmia and sudden death.
Previous research suggests that cocaine abuse may result in neuropsychological deficits. To examine this further, we compared cocaine-withdrawn patients (N = 35) to normal controls (N = 17) on tasks of attention, concentration, perceptual-motor speed, and cognitive flexibility. The withdrawn cocaine patients performed significantly worse on Arithmetic, Grooved Peg Board Dominant and Non-Dominant, and Trails B tests. These findings suggest that withdrawn cocaine-dependent patients have more neuropsychological impairment than normal controls.
Tomato products containing lycopene are believed to be associated with decreased risk of chronic diseases including cancer, and its effects are suggested to be due to antioxidant effect of lycopene. The aim of this research was to study the effects of tomato extract on acetaminophen (APAP), amiodarone (ADN) and cyclosporine A (CsA)-induced liver, lung and kidney toxicity, respectively. Previous studies have shown that free radical reactions may play important roles in toxicity of these drugs. Rats received a single dose of APAP (750mg/kg, i.p.) before treatment with tomato extract (5mg/kg, oral) for seven consecutive days, ADN (100mg/kg, i.p.) plus tomato extract (5mg/kg, oral) for 10 consecutive days, or CsA (250mg/kg, i.p.) plus tomato extract (5mg/kg, oral) for 14 consecutive days. At the end of each treatment, the animals were sacrificed and the related organ tissues were collected for biochemical and histopathological examinations. Simultaneous treatment of tomato extract ameliorated tissue damage, biochemical indices, and oxidative stress parameters against APAP-induced acute hepatotoxicity, but had less beneficial effects on ADN-induced lung toxicity and little effect against CsA-induced nephrotoxicity. Therefore, tomato products may be beneficial for the prevention and therapy of toxicity induced by ADN and APAP.
This experiment was designed to know whether (-)-epigallocatethin-3-O-gallate (EGCG) counteracts caffeine-induced hyperactivity, and its potential mechanisms in mice. EGCG inhibited methamphetamine-induced, cocaine-induced and caffeine-induced horizontal hyperlocomotion and rearing activity. EGCG also inhibited hyperlocomotion and rearing activity induced by apomorphine, a D1/D2-like agonist. Moreover, EGCG inhibited climbing behavior, a typical stereotyped behavior induced by stimulation of dopamine receptors through the activation of those receptors by apomorphine. From this experiment, we suggest that EGCG inhibits hyperactivity induced by psychostimulants including caffeine, in part by modulating dopaminergic transmission, and these inhibitory effects of EGCG counteract the stimulant actions of caffeine in green tea.
