Side effects of spinal anesthesia include arterial hypotension and bradycardia. Both of them may be induced by sympathetic nerve blockade as well as by the Bezold-Jarisch reflex, which may be mediated by peripheral serotonin receptors (5-HT(3) type). The aim of this study was to verify the hypothesis that blockade of type 3 serotonin receptors by intravenous ondansetron administration might reduce hypotension and bradycardia induced by spinal anesthesia.
Seventy-one patients participated in the study; 36 in the ondansetron group (receiving 8 mg intravenous ondansetron), and 35 in the placebo group (receiving isotonic NaCl solution). Measurements of heart rate and arterial blood pressure were taken every 5 minutes after spinal anesthesia was performed with 4 mL 0.5% hyperbaric bupivacaine solution.
Decreases in mean, systolic, and diastolic arterial pressure as well as in heart rate, compared with baseline values were observed in both groups. Minimal systolic and mean blood pressure values obtained over a 20-minute observation period were significantly higher in the ondansetron group. There were no significant differences in diastolic blood pressure and heart rate values between the groups.
Ondansetron given intravenously attenuates the fall of systolic and mean blood pressure, but does not have an influence on diastolic blood pressure or heart rate.
Ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) is a steroid bile acid approved for primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC). UDCA is reported to have "hepato-protective properties". Yet, UDCA has "unanticipated" toxicity, pronounced by more than double number of deaths, and eligibility for liver transplantation compared to the control group in 28 mg/kg/day in primary sclerosing cholangitis, necessitating trial halt in North America. UDCA is associated with increase in hepatocellular carcinoma in PBC especially when it fails to achieve biochemical response (10 and 15 years incidence of 9% and 20% respectively). "Unanticipated" UDCA toxicity includes hepatitis, pruritus, cholangitis, ascites, vanishing bile duct syndrome, liver cell failure, death, severe watery diarrhea, pneumonia, dysuria, immune-suppression, mutagenic effects and withdrawal syndrome upon sudden halt. UDCA inhibits DNA repair, co-enzyme A, cyclic AMP, p53, phagocytosis, and inhibits induction of nitric oxide synthatase. It is genotoxic, exerts aneugenic activity, and arrests apoptosis even after cellular phosphatidylserine externalization. UDCA toxicity is related to its interference with drug detoxification, being hydrophilic and anti-apoptotic, has a long half-life, has transcriptional mutational abilities, down-regulates cellular functions, has a very narrow difference between the recommended (13 mg/kg/day) and toxic dose (28 mg/kg/day), and it typically transforms into lithocholic acid that induces DNA strand breakage, it is uniquely co-mutagenic, and promotes cell transformation. UDCA beyond PBC is unjustified.
The aim of this study was to investigate (1) whether Rhodobryum roseum, a traditional Chinese medicine used to treat cardiac disease, can protect myocardium damage due to isoproterenol-induced injury, (2) whether the cardioprotective effect of the R. roseum extract is related to its antioxidant activity, and (3) to identify the active components of R. roseum using the oxidant-mediated injury in cardiomyocytes. R. roseum was extracted with 95% EtOH (RE-95), 50% EtOH (RE-50) and water (Re-H2O) and the rats were treated orally for 11 days at doses of 250 mg and 63 mg/kg respectively after cardiac necrosis was induced by administering ISO subcutaneously at a dose of 85 mg/kg body weight. Levels of marker enzymes (LDH, GOT and CK) were assessed in serum whilst the antioxidant parameters, superoxide dismutase (SOD), and malondialdehde (MDA) were assayed in heart homogenate. Significant myocardial necrosis, depletion of endogenous antioxidants and an increase in serum levels of marker enzymes was observed in ISO-treated animals when compared with the normal animals. The RE-50 elicited a significant cardioprotective effect by lowering the levels of serum marker enzymes, lipid peroxidation (MDA). To extend this work, we sought to investigate the antioxidant effects of the components of R. roseum, using the neonatal rat cardiomyocytes model of H2O2-induced oxidant injury. Among the four major components, piperine and methyl piperate significantly reduced the medium level of CK and LDH at a variety of dosages. Moreover, piperine and methyl piperate significantly attenuated 2',7'-dichlorofluorescein (DCF) fluorescence by 63.9% and 52.6%, respectively. The present findings demonstrate that the cardioprotective effects of extracted R. roseum in ISO-induced oxidative damage may be due to an augmentation of the endogenous antioxidants and inhibition of lipid peroxidation of the membranes. Moreover, its components piperine and methyl piperate exert significant protectective effects on cardiac myocytes.
This study was carried out to assess the prejunctional effect of non depolarizing muscle relaxants during the onset of neuromuscular blockade using the train-of-four ratio (TR). The prejunctional effect was compared with previous results concerning the ability of the relaxants to prevent suxamethonium-induced fasciculations. Fifty-three adult patients were relaxed with small incremental doses of either alcuronium (0.03 mg.kg-1), atracurium (0.04 mg.kg-1), pancuronium (0.01 mg.kg-1), d-tubocurarine (0.05 mg.kg-1) or vecuronium (0.01 mg.kg-1) during anaesthesia with thiopentone, fentanyl and nitrous oxide in oxygen. The muscle relaxant was given after recovery from an initial suxamethonium blockade needed for tracheal intubation. The evoked integrated EMG response to supramaximal train-of-four (2 Hz) stimulation was recorded every 20 s. TR % was calculated at different first twitch (T1) levels during the onset of neuromuscular blockade. Significant changes occurred at the 100% and 90% T1 levels, alcuronium having the lowest mean TR values. Atracurium, pancuronium and vecuronium gave similar TR values. Results with d-tubocurarine placed it between alcuronium and the others. These train-of-four ratio results were compared with the ability of non depolarizing muscle relaxants to prevent fasciculations. In conclusion, the stronger the train-of-four fade, the greater was the ability of the relaxant to prevent suxamethonium-induced fasciculations. This supports the theory that the blockade of prejunctional cholinergic receptors is the mechanism of action of precurarization.
Docetaxel, a semisynthetic taxane, improves the survival of stage IIIB and IV non-small cell lung cancer patients. However, the 5-year survival remains poor, and few patients experience a complete remission. In this report, we evaluated the effects of exisulind, a novel proapoptotic agent that is a sulfone metabolite of sulindac, in combination with docetaxel on the growth of the human non-small cell lung cancer cell line A549 in vitro and in vivo. Exisulind is a novel sulindac metabolite in that it does not inhibit cyclooxygenase enzymes and has been shown to induce apoptosis in a variety of human cancers by inhibiting cyclic GMP-dependent phosphodiesterase. Exisulind alone increased the fraction of cells in the G(1) phase of the cell cycle from 46% to 65%, whereas it decreased the fraction of cells in the S phase from 38% to 14%. Docetaxel increased the fraction of cells in the S phase from 17% to 19%, and 10 nM docetaxel increased the G2-M phase by 23%. Docetaxel alone induced apoptosis from 11% to 64% at 12-24 h after incubation. The combination of exisulind with concentrations of docetaxel (in concentrations that alone did not alter cell cycle distribution) reduced the G(1) accumulation induced by exisulind, increased the fraction of cells in G(2)-M (9-17%), and increased apoptosis (5-62%). The IC(50) for in vitro growth inhibition by exisulind alone was approximately 200 microM and 2.5 nM for docetaxel. The in vitro combination of exisulind and docetaxel produced an additive to synergistic growth inhibition. In athymic nude rats with A549 orthotopic lung cancers, both exisulind and docetaxel alone moderately prolonged survival, inhibited tumor growth and metastases, and increased apoptosis compared with control animals treated with a carrier. However, the combination of exisulind with docetaxel significantly prolonged survival (P = < 0.0004), inhibited tumor growth and metastases (P = < 0.0001), and increased apoptosis (P = < 0.001) when compared with control animals. These results provide rationale for conducting clinical trials using the combination of exisulind and docetaxel in patients with advanced lung cancer.
Chronic cutaneous small vessel (leukocytoclastic) vasculitis (LCV) is a process believed to be related to the presence of circulating immune complexes. The most frequent causes and associated disorders are medications, infections, collagen vascular disorders, paraproteinemias, and, rarely, neoplasia. Reports of food or food additives as a causative factor for LCV have appeared but are rare. We report a patient with chronic cutaneous LCV in whom the presumed cause was an excipient (a dye) used in the capsule form of lithium carbonate. Furthermore, ingestion of foods containing dyes results in a disease flare in our patient.
Chlorination disinfection by-products (CDBPs) are produced during the treatment of water with chlorine to remove bacterial contamination. CDBPs have been associated with an increased risk of bladder cancer. There is also some evidence that they may increase the risk of pancreatic cancer. We report results from a population-based case-control study of 486 incident cases of pancreatic cancer and 3,596 age- and sex-matched controls. Exposure to chlorination by-products was estimated by linking lifetime residential histories to two different databases containing information on CDBP levels in municipal water supplies. Logistic regression analysis found no evidence of increased pancreatic cancer risk at higher CDBP concentrations (all odds ratios < 1.3). Null findings were also obtained assuming a latency period for pancreatic cancer induction of 3, 8, or 13 years.
The long term safety of beta agonists, particularly in patients with heart disease, has not been fully established.
This study accessed the results of three cohort studies involving: 12,294 patients receiving at least one prescription for nedocromil between November 1986 and September 1988; 15,407 patients prescribed salmeterol between December 1990 and May 1991; and 8098 patients prescribed bambuterol between February 1993 and December 1995. Details of all dispensed prescriptions for these drugs prescribed by general practitioners in England soon after their launch were provided in confidence by the Prescription Pricing Authority. Questionnaires were sent to the prescriber asking for details of events occurring after the first prescription (prescription event monitoring). Rates and relative risks of non-fatal cardiac failure and ischaemic heart disease were calculated, comparing bambuterol and salmeterol with the reference drug nedocromil.
The age and sex adjusted relative risk of non-fatal cardiac failure associated with bambuterol was 3.41 (95% confidence limits (CL) 1.99 to 5.86) when compared with nedocromil. When salmeterol was compared with nedocromil the adjusted relative risk of non-fatal cardiac failure was 1.10 (95% CL 0.63 to 1.91). The adjusted relative risk of non-fatal ischaemic heart disease was 1.23 (95% CL 0.73 to 2.08) and 1.07 (95% CL 0.69 to 1.66) for bambuterol and salmeterol, compared with nedocromil, respectively. However, in the first month of exposure the adjusted relative risk of non-fatal ischaemic heart disease was 3.95 (95% CL 1.38 to 11.31) when bambuterol was compared with nedocromil.
Caution should be exercised when prescribing long acting oral beta agonists to patients at risk of cardiac failure. More definitive evidence would come from prospective randomised trials.
Hypertension is associated with an increased risk of stroke, myocardial infarction and congestive heart failure. Hydralazine is a direct-acting vasodilator which has been used for the treatment of hypertension since the 1950's. Although it has largely been replaced by newer antihypertensive drugs with more acceptable tolerability profiles, hydralazine is still widely used in developing countries due to its lower cost. A review of its relative effectiveness compared to placebo on surrogate and clinical outcomes is justified.
To quantify the effect of hydralazine compared to placebo in randomized controlled trials (RCTs) on all cause mortality, cardiovascular mortality, serious adverse events, myocardial infarctions, strokes, withdrawals due to adverse effects and blood pressure in patients with primary hypertension.
We searched the following databases: Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (to Second Quarter 2009), MEDLINE (2005-June 2009), International Pharmaceutical Abstracts (1970-June 2009) and EMBASE (2007-June 2009). Bibliographic citations from retrieved studies were also reviewed. No language restrictions were applied.
We selected RCTs studying the effect of oral hydralazine compared to oral placebo in patients with primary hypertension. We excluded studies of patients with secondary hypertension or gestational hypertension.
Two reviewers independently extracted data and assessed trial quality using the risk of bias tool. Data synthesis and analysis was performed using RevMan 5.
The search strategy did not yield any randomized controlled trials comparing hydralazine to placebo for inclusion in this review. There is insufficient evidence to conclude on the effects of hydralazine versus placebo on mortality, morbidity, withdrawals due to adverse effects, serious adverse events, or systolic and diastolic blood pressure. Some of the adverse effects related to hydralazine that have been reported in the literature include reflex tachycardia, hemolytic anemia, vasculitis, glomerulonephritis, and a lupus-like syndrome.
Hydralazine may reduce blood pressure when compared to placebo in patients with primary hypertension, however this data is based on before and after studies, not RCTs. Furthermore, its effect on clinical outcomes remains uncertain.
In our research we compared the effect of doxorubicin (DOX) and doxorubicin-transferrin (DOX-TRF) conjugate on the induction of programmed cell death. All experiments were carried out on human leukemia cells: CCRF-CEM, K562 sensitive and resistant to DOX, (K562/DOX), which are the molecular model for the chronic and acute form of hematological malignancies, respectively. At the same time, studies were also performed on normal, peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). The first stages of apoptosis, connected with externalization of phosphatidylserine (PS), were evaluated after comparing the viability of tested cell lines treated with DOX-TRF conjugate or free DOX. Morphological changes of nuclei connected with apoptosis were analyzed by double staining Hoechst 33258/propidium iodide. Subsequently, we conducted a more accurate evaluation of DOX-TRF-trigged cell death by using DNA ladder assay, measuring the activation of caspase-3, -8 and -9 and changes in poly-ADP ribose polymerase (PARP) activity. The percentage of apoptotic cells reached its maximum at 24 and 48 h incubation. Prolonged treatment time with DOX-TRF conjugate progressively increased the level of necrotic cells. At 24-48 h time points, we observed a significant increase in the activity of apoptosis-characterized enzymes (caspases -8, -9, -3). This study provided the evidence that DOX-TRF conjugate triggers apoptotic pathway connected with DNA damage mediated by the activation of pro-caspases and PARP cleavage.
A new silver-carbocysteine (Ccy-Ag) complex [Ag2(Ccy)2(H2O)2] has been synthesized and characterized by using a combination of FTIR, Raman, molar conductivity, (1)H NMR, electronic spectra, thermal analyses, X-ray powder diffraction (XRD) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The infrared spectrum of Ccy-Ag complex in comparison with carbocysteine ligand prove that Ccy behaves as monobasic bidentate chelate to the silver metal ions via the deprotonated carboxylate O atom. The assessments of Ccy and its complexation with Ag(+) in treating COPD, evaluating immune activities through measuring IL-8, TGF-β1, VEGF and TNF-α, antioxidant activities of (Ccy-Ag) complex by measuring SOD, MDA and GPX and bronchial asthma were discussed.
In 20 patients with diagnosis of functional dyspepsia due to dysmotility and/or reflux, the effectivity and tolerance of two prokinetic drugs--metochlopramide (MCP) (10 mg. three daily doses, vo) and cinitrapide (CTP) (1 mg., 3 daily doses, vo)--were assessed using a protocol of a propective and cross-sectional study after a blank period. Following the treatment with MCP and CTP, statistically significant improvements were observed in the intensity/severity of postprandial epigastric fullness, flatulence, epigastralgia, pyrosis, active regurgitations and anorexia. The MCP was more effective for the improvement of vomiting in these patients; however, the number of defecations per week increased significantly only after the CTP therapy. The therapeutical effectivity of both drugs, according to a subjective and objective global assessment was similar, with good results of 60-65% for MCP and 55-60% for CTP. Tolerance of both drugs was good. None of the patients spontaneously referred to the presence of side effects and only 3 patients (15%) treated with MCP and 2 patients (10%) treated with CTP mentioned some of the suggested side effects, which were absent before the onset of treatment. Both drugs produced an increase in the levels of Prolactine, but their average values were within the normal range. Only in two patients treated with MCP and in one patient treated with CTP, values slightly higher than the upper normal limit were observed. No significant differences were observed when comparing the results obtained with MCP therapy and CTP therapy.
Studies with modest numbers of patients have suggested that spinal anesthesia in infants is associated with a very infrequent incidence of complications, such as hypoxemia, bradycardia, and postoperative apnea. Although spinal anesthesia would seem to be a logical alternative to general anesthesia for many surgical procedures, it remains an underutilized technique. Since 1978, clinical data concerning all infants undergoing spinal anesthesia at the University of Vermont have been prospectively recorded. In all, 1554 patients have been studied. Anesthesia was performed by anesthesia trainees and attending anesthesiologists. The success rate for LP was 97.4%. An adequate level of spinal anesthesia was achieved in 95.4% of cases. The average time required to induce spinal anesthesia was 10 min. Oxygen hemoglobin desaturation to <90% was observed in 10 patients. Bradycardia (heart rate <100 bpm) occurred in 24 patients (1.6%). This study confirms the infrequent incidence of complications associated with spinal anesthesia in infants. Spinal anesthesia can be performed safely, efficiently, and with the expectation of a high degree of success. Spinal anesthesia should be strongly considered as an alternative to general anesthesia for lower abdominal and lower extremity surgery in infants.
The purpose of this study was to investigate whether the expression of specific genes in peripheral blood can be used as surrogate marker(s) to detect and distinguish target organ toxicity induced by chemicals in rats. Rats were intraperitoneally administered a single, acute dose of a well-established hepatotoxic (acetaminophen) or a neurotoxic (methyl parathion) chemical. Administration of acetaminophen (AP) in the rats resulted in hepatotoxicity as evidenced from elevated blood transaminase activities. Similarly, administration of methyl parathion (MP) resulted in neurotoxicity in the rats as evidenced from the inhibition of acetyl cholinesterase activity in their blood. Administration of either chemical also resulted in mild hematotoxicity in the rats. Microarray analysis of the global gene expression profile of rat blood identified distinct gene expression markers capable of detecting and distinguishing hepatotoxicity and neurotoxicity induced by AP and MP, respectively. Differential expressions of the marker genes for hepatotoxicity and neurotoxicity were detectable in the blood earlier than the appearance of the commonly used clinical markers (serum transaminases and acetyl cholinesterase). The ability of the marker genes to detect hepatotoxicity and neurotoxicity was further confirmed using the blood samples of rats administered additional hepatotoxic (thioacetamide, dimethylnitrobenzene, and carbon tetrachloride) or neurotoxic (ethyl parathion and malathion) chemicals. In summary, our results demonstrated that blood gene expression markers can detect and distinguish target organ toxicity non-invasively.
Cholinesterase activity is detectable in the Japanese quail embryo, in the yolk and subembryonic liquid, but not in the albumen. Obviously, this enzyme is deposited by the hen into the yolk and from there it is transferred to the subembryonic liquid. In contrast, in the embryo the enzyme is synthesized by itself and the amount increases with the age of the embryo. By using BW284c51 1,5-bis-(4-allyldimethylammoniumphenyl)pentan-3-one bromide and ISO-OMPA tetraisoprophylpyrophosphoramide as inhibitors, it was found that the enzyme in the embryo is predominantly acetylcholinesterase (EC 3.1.1.7), whereas that in the yolk and subembryonic liquid is butyrylcholinesterase (EC 3.1.1.8). Both types are inhibited by dichlorphos. However, the embryonic enzyme activity is restored within 8 hr, whereas that in the subembryonic liquid remained inactive at least for 72 hr after inhibition. Enzyme inhibition leads to retardation of the development, to reduced accumulation of glucose and amino acids in the subembryonic liquid and finally to death of the embryo, suggesting that the developmental retardation is due to the restricted supply of glucose and amino acids. Surprisingly, most of the embryos die when the embryonic enzyme activity has again been restored.
Children of women who smoke cigarettes during pregnancy display cognitive deficits in the auditory-verbal domain. Clinical studies have implicated developmental exposure to nicotine, the main psychoactive ingredient of tobacco, as a probable cause of subsequent auditory deficits. To test for a causal link, we have developed an animal model to determine how neonatal nicotine exposure affects adult auditory function. In adult control rats, nicotine administered systemically (0.7 mg/kg, s.c.) enhanced the sensitivity to sound of neural responses recorded in primary auditory cortex. The effect was strongest in cortical layers 3 and 4, where there is a dense concentration of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) that has been hypothesized to regulate thalamocortical inputs. In support of the hypothesis, microinjection into layer 4 of the nonspecific nAChR antagonist mecamylamine (10 microM) strongly reduced sound-evoked responses. In contrast to the effects of acute nicotine and mecamylamine in adult control animals, neither drug was as effective in adult animals that had been treated with 5 days of chronic nicotine exposure (CNE) shortly after birth. Neonatal CNE also impaired performance on an auditory-cued active avoidance task, while having little effect on basic auditory or motor functions. Thus, neonatal CNE impairs nicotinic regulation of cortical function, and auditory learning, in the adult. Our results provide evidence that developmental nicotine exposure is responsible for auditory-cognitive deficits in the offspring of women who smoke during pregnancy, and suggest a potential underlying mechanism, namely diminished function of cortical nAChRs.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is involved in many aspects of neuronal biology and hippocampal physiology. Status epilepticus (SE) is a condition in which prolonged seizures lead to neuronal degeneration. SE-induced in rodents serves as a model of Temporal Lobe Epilepsy with hippocampal sclerosis, the most frequent epilepsy in humans. We have recently described a strong correlation between TrkB decrease and p75ntr increase with neuronal degeneration (Neuroscience 154:978, 2008). In this report, we report that local, acute intra-hippocampal infusion of function-blocking antibodies against BDNF prevented both early TrkB down-regulation and neuronal degeneration after SE. Conversely, the infusion of recombinant human BDNF protein after SE greatly increased neuronal degeneration. The inhibition of BDNF mRNA translation by the infusion of antisense oligonucleotides induced a rapid decrease of BDNF protein levels, and a delayed increase. If seizures were induced at the time endogenous BDNF was decreased, SE-induced neuronal damage was prevented. On the other hand, if seizures were induced at the time endogenous BDNF was increased, SE-induced neuronal damage was exacerbated. These results indicate that under a pathological condition BDNF exacerbates neuronal injury.
We evaluated 95 hospitalized patients (50 women and 45 men) aged 15 to 45 who had nontraumatic subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Aneurysmal SAH was identified in 75 patients. Other causes for SAH were ruptured arteriovenous malformations (2 cases), amphetamine arteritis (1 case), and leptomeningeal melanoma (1 case). The cause of SAH was undetermined in 16 (17%) patients. Thirteen patients had histories of hypertension, 5 used oral contraceptives, and 4 had consumed large quantities of alcohol during the day before SAH. Only 1 patient had Type I diabetes mellitus. Diagnosis was delayed in 21 patients. Operation was performed in 71 patients, with only 3 (4.2%) deaths. The overall mortality was 8.4% (8 of 95), with all deaths due to neurological causes. Our data suggest that the overall management and surgical results of treatment of ruptured aneurysms in young adults are excellent, diabetes is rare among young adults with SAH, recent alcohol consumption does not seem to be a major factor predisposing to SAH in young adults, and misinterpretation of the early symptoms of SAH continues to be a serious problem.
After a 4-year-old female laboratory cynomolgus monkey manifested neurological abnormalities, including tetanic spasm, after intramuscular injection of 20 mg/kg ketamine, we administered 2 mg/kg xylazine in an attempt to control the seizure. However, the animal continued to display opisthotonus, nystagmus, and symptomatic epilepsia. Analysis of blood chemistry revealed a dramatically increased creatine phosphokinase level. Abnormal histopathological findings included acute neuronal necrosis or glial reaction or both in the cerebral cortex, nucleus lentiformis, hippocampus, cerebellar cortex and nucleus, and medulla oblongata; severe myocardial hemorrhagic necrosis; and hepatic subcapsular hematoma. Although the mechanism of this neuronal damage has not been clarified, it may be attributable to an ischemic condition in the brain, probably due to temporal cardiac arrest or hemorrhagic change in the liver and heart, with subsequent decreased blood pressure, after ketamine and/or xylazine treatment. Because both drugs often are used as general anesthetics in veterinary medicine, attention should be paid to this rare case with neural damage.
Paraquat is one of the most widely used herbicides worldwide. It produces a Parkinson's disease (PD) model in rodents through redox cycling and oxidative stress (OS) and is associated with PD risk in humans. Glutathione transferases provide cellular protection against OS and could potentially modulate paraquat toxicity. We investigated PD risk associated with paraquat use in individuals with homozygous deletions of the genes encoding glutathione S-transferase M1 (GSTM1) or T1 (GSTT1). Eighty-seven PD subjects and 343 matched controls were recruited from the Agricultural Health Study, a study of licensed pesticide applicators and spouses in Iowa and North Carolina. PD was confirmed by in-person examination. Paraquat use and covariates were determined by interview. We genotyped subjects for homozygous deletions of GSTM1 (GSTM1*0) and GSTT1 (GSTT1*0) and tested interaction between paraquat use and genotype using logistic regression. Two hundred and twenty-three (52%) subjects had GSTM1*0, 95 (22%) had GSTT1*0, and 73 (17%; all men) used paraquat. After adjustment for potential confounders, there was no interaction with GSTM1. In contrast, GSTT1 genotype significantly modified the association between paraquat and PD. In men with functional GSTT1, the odds ratio (OR) for association of PD with paraquat use was 1.5 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.6-3.6); in men with GSTT1*0, the OR was 11.1 (95% CI: 3.0-44.6; P interaction: 0.027). Although replication is needed, our results suggest that PD risk from paraquat exposure might be particularly high in individuals lacking GSTT1. GSTT1*0 is common and could potentially identify a large subpopulation at high risk of PD from oxidative stressors such as paraquat.
Puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis (PAN), a rat model of human minimal change nephropathy, is characterized by extensive flattening of glomerular epithelial cell (podocyte) foot processes and by severe proteinuria. For comparison of expression of glomerular membrane proteins of normal and PAN rats, a membrane protein fraction of isolated rat glomeruli was prepared and monoclonal antibodies were raised against it. An IgG-secreting clone designated LF3 was selected that specifically immunolabeled podocytes of normal but not of PAN rats. The antigen of LF3 IgG was identified as a 43-kd glycoprotein. Molecular cloning of its cDNA was performed in a delta gt11 expression library prepared from mRNA of isolated rat glomeruli. The predicted amino acid sequence indicated a 166-amino-acid integral membrane protein with a single membrane-spanning domain, two potential phosphorylation sites in its short cytoplasmic tail, and six potential O-glycosylation sites in the large ectodomain. High amino acid sequence identities were found to membrane glycoproteins of rat lung and bone and mouse thymus epithelial cells as well as to a phorbol-ester-induced protein in a mouse osteoblast cell line and to a canine influenza C virus receptor. In PAN, expression of this 43-kd protein was selectively reduced to < 30%, as determined by quantitative immunogold electron microscopy, immunoblotting, and Northern blotting. These data provide evidence that transcription of the 43-kd transmembrane podocyte glycoprotein is specifically down-regulated in PAN. To indicate that this protein could be associated with transformation of arborized foot processes to flat feet (Latin, pes planus) we have called it podoplanin.
The effects of indomethacin on patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) were retrospectively studied by evaluating 1,600 consecutive infants less than 36 weeks gestation from 1983 to 1986. Two hundred thirteen infants were diagnosed with a PDA, and 102 infants received indomethacin. Indomethacin was associated with successful PDA closure in 81 infants (79%), with 59 infants (58%) closing after a single dose. No cases of renal failure were observed after indomethacin. Nine infants were treated despite a creatinine (Cr) value greater than or equal to 1.5 mg/dl. Cr improved in all these infants after therapy. Blood urea nitrogen values were greater than or equal to 30 mg/dl in 22 infants at the time of treatment; 18 infants (82%) improved. An intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) was detected in 23 infants (22%) by cranial ultrasound prior to indomethacin; there was no progression after treatment. Data suggest that indomethacin is highly associated with closure of a PDA, and therapy did not result in prolonged renal dysfunction or worsening ICH.
Sensory perceptions are modified by amphetamines. Prolonged and heavy use can lead to neuronal damage, neurotransmitter depletion and receptor supersensitivity. Sensorineural deafness had been reported in chronic users of volatile inhalants, alcohol and heroin. There are no reports of hearing problems with amphetamines. Hearing loss was identified in seven amphetamine-dependent inpatients in the detox unit at Al Amal Hospital, Jeddah. Subjects were men aged 18 and over who met DSM IV criteria for substance dependence. The hearing loss was suspected on clinical grounds during the admission interview, and was quite noticeable. Both ears were similarly affected. The symptom mostly appeared three to eight hours after ingestion of the tablets, and did not develop every time the drug was used. Hearing was apparently recovered in every case within four to ten days of cessation of amphetamine use. During the hearing loss, sounds were perceived as less loud and less sharp compared to normal. These cases suggest that chronic amphetamine use may result in reversible hearing loss. The various mechanisms by which this might occur are discussed. The author concludes that these observations should be replicated with a large group of subjects and recommends further investigations to elucidate the nature and site of the damage.
