ACE inhibition and/or blocking of the angiotensin II receptor are recognized as first-line treatment for nephropathy and cardiovascular disease in diabetic patients. However, little information is available about the potential benefits of these drugs on diabetic neuropathy. We examined vascular and neural activity in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats that were treated for 12 weeks with enalapril, an ACE inhibitor, or L-158809, an angiotensin II receptor blocker. A prevention protocol (group 1) as well as three intervention protocols (treatment was initiated after 4, 8, or 12 weeks of diabetes [groups 2, 3, and 4, respectively]) were used. Endoneurial blood flow and motor nerve conduction velocity (MNCV) were impaired in all groups of untreated diabetic rats. In group 1, treatment of diabetic rats with enalapril or L-158809 partially prevented the diabetes-induced decrease in endoneurial blood flow and MNCV. In groups 2-4, intervention with enalapril was more effective in reversing the diabetes-induced impairment in endoneurial blood flow and MNCV than L-158809. The superoxide level in the aorta and epineurial arterioles of diabetic rats was increased. Treatment of diabetic rats with enalapril or L-158809 reduced the superoxide level in the aorta in all groups but was less effective in epineurial arterioles. Acetylcholine and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) cause vasodilation in epineurial arterioles of the sciatic nerve, which was impaired by diabetes. Treatment of diabetic rats (all groups) with enalapril or L-158809 completely prevented/reversed the diabetes-induced impairment in CGRP-mediated vascular relaxation. Treatment with enalapril or L-158809 was also effective in improving impaired acetylcholine-mediated vasodilation, but the efficacy was diminished from groups 1 to 4. These studies suggest that ACE inhibitors and/or angiotensin II receptor blockers may be effective treatments for diabetes and vascular and neural dysfunction. However, the efficacy of these treatments may be dependent on when the treatment is initiated.
A 15-year-old boy was under anti-epileptic medication (diphenylhydantoine, phenobarbital and Na valproate) for more than five years. He was admitted in cerebral coma and died after 24 hours. The histological findings suggest a valproate induced liver toxicity. This long interval between start of treatment and a possibly related hepatic failure has not been described.
In National Toxicology Program 2-year studies, hexavalent chromium [Cr(VI)] administered in drinking water was clearly carcinogenic in male and female rats and mice, resulting in small intestine epithelial neoplasms in mice at a dose equivalent to or within an order of magnitude of human doses that could result from consumption of chromium-contaminated drinking water, assuming that dose scales by body weight(3/4) (body weight raised to the 3/4 power). In contrast, exposure to trivalent chromium [Cr(III)] at much higher concentrations may have been carcinogenic in male rats but was not carcinogenic in mice or female rats. As part of these studies, total chromium was measured in tissues and excreta of additional groups of male rats and female mice. These data were used to infer the uptake and distribution of Cr(VI) because Cr(VI) is reduced to Cr(III) in vivo, and no methods are available to speciate tissue chromium. Comparable external doses resulted in much higher tissue chromium concentrations following exposure to Cr(VI) compared with Cr(III), indicating that a portion of the Cr(VI) escaped gastric reduction and was distributed systemically. Linear or supralinear dose responses of total chromium in tissues were observed following exposure to Cr(VI), indicating that these exposures did not saturate gastric reduction capacity. When Cr(VI) exposure was normalized to ingested dose, chromium concentrations in the liver and glandular stomach were higher in mice, whereas kidney concentrations were higher in rats. In vitro studies demonstrated that Cr(VI), but not Cr(III), is a substrate of the sodium/sulfate cotransporter, providing a partial explanation for the greater absorption of Cr(VI).
Myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1) is the most common muscular dystrophy in adults. It is caused by an expanded (CTG)n tract in the 3' UTR of the Dystrophia Myotonica Protein Kinase (DMPK) gene. This causes nuclear retention of the mutant mRNA into ribonuclear foci and sequestration of interacting RNA-binding proteins (such as muscleblind-like 1 (MBNL1)). More severe congenital and childhood-onset forms of the disease exist but are less understood than the adult disease, due in part to the lack of adequate animal models. To address this, we utilized transgenic mice over-expressing the DMPK 3' UTR as part of an inducible RNA transcript to model early-onset myotonic dystrophy. In mice in which transgene expression was induced during embryogenesis, we found that by two weeks after birth, mice reproduced cardinal features of myotonic dystrophy, including myotonia, cardiac conduction abnormalities, muscle weakness, histopathology and mRNA splicing defects. Notably, these defects were more severe than in adult mice induced for an equivalent period of exposure to RNA toxicity. Additionally, the utility of the model was tested by over-expressing MBNL1, a key therapeutic strategy being actively pursued for treating the disease phenotypes associated with DM1. Significantly, increased MBNL1 in skeletal muscle partially corrected myotonia and splicing defects present in these mice, demonstrating the responsiveness of the model to relevant therapeutic interventions. Furthermore, these results also represent the first murine model for early-onset DM1 and provide a tool to investigate the effects of RNA toxicity at various stages of development.
Electrically kindled rats exhibit myoclonic jerks (1-25/min for 30-90 min) when injected with 200 mg/kg i.p. cysteamine. L-Baclofen, 10 mg/kg i.p. injected 45 min prior was not anticonvulsant but rather exacerbated the myoclonus. Furthermore, baclofen itself induced myoclonus in 29% of kindled rats at 10 mg/kg and in 100% of kindled rats at 15 mg/kg. These findings suggest that caution should be exercised before proposing the use of baclofen as an anticonvulsant or indeed using baclofen in patients who are predisposed to seizures.
Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is a well-recognized complication of recreational cocaine use. The precise mechanism of the cocaine-induced hemorrhagic event is unclear, although multiple factors have been implicated. We report a case of a 62-year-old woman who suffered left parieto-occipital ICH with herniation and death, following a cocaine binge. Microscopic examination also revealed extensive cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) in the vicinity of the hemorrhage. We additionally studied brain tissue in eight subjects between ages of 60 and 80 who were positive for cocaine metabolites at autopsy; of these, none had vascular amyloid-β deposits by immunohistochemistry. Whereas we found no evidence that chronic cocaine use is a risk factor for CAA, given the age-associated nature of CAA and the aging population using cocaine, CAA-induced hemorrhage in the setting of cocaine use may be more common than recognized. This is the first reported case of CAA-associated ICH precipitated by cocaine.
In multiple myeloma (MM), bone marrow angiogenesis parallels tumour progression and correlates with disease activity. Recent studies have proved resveratrol possesses antiangiogenic activity in vitro and in vivo. In this study, we examined the effects of resveratrol on myeloma cell dependent angiogenesis and the effects of resveratrol on some important angiogenic factors of RPMI 8226 cells.
RPMI 8226 cells were cocultured with human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) to evaluate the effects of myeloma cells on angiogenesis. The RPMI 8226 cells were treated with various concentrations of resveratrol (6.25 - 50.00 micromol/L) for different times (12 - 72 hours). Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was used to assay vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), metalloproteinases (MMP)-2 and MMP-9 mRNA. Gelatin zymography was used to analyze MMP-2 and MMP-9 activity. VEGF and bFGF proteins secreted by the cells in the medium were quantified by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).
Cell proliferation, migration and differentiation of HUVECs markedly increased by coculture with RPMI 8226 cells. Resveratrol inhibited proliferation, migration and tube formation of HUVECs cocultured with myeloma cells in a dose dependent manner. Treatment of RPMI 8226 cells with resveratrol caused a decrease in MMP-2 and MMP-9 activity. Resveratrol inhibited VEGF and bFGF protein expression in a dose and time dependent manner. Furthermore, decreased levels of VEGF, bFGF, MMP-2 and MMP-9 mRNA from cells treated with various concentrations of resveratrol confirmed its antiangiogenic action at the level of gene expression.
Resveratrol inhibits multiple myeloma angiogenesis by regulating expression and secretion of VEGF, bFGF, MMP-2 and MMP-9. Resveratrol may be a potential candidate for the treatment of multiple myeloma.
Vigabatrin use in some epilepsy patients has been associated with persistent visual field constriction and retinal dysfunction. The mechanism is unknown, but could be related to vigabatrin, chronic epilepsy, GABA toxicity, or the effect of a metabolite in combination with a predisposing genotype. The aim of this study was to investigate the latter two hypotheses. Levels of brain gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) measured by nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy were similar in subjects taking vigabatrin who developed visual field constriction and those who did not. We tested whether allelic heterogeneity of the ornithine aminotransferase gene occurs in the affected patients. No clinically significant mutation was detected, although a common intronic polymorphism was identified.
The aim of the study was to examine the influence of the blockade of group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) on the haloperidol-induced catalepsy and proenkephalin mRNA expression in the rat striatum. Bilateral, intrastriatal injection of AIDA ((RS)-1-aminoindan-1,5-dicarboxylic acid, 3-15 microg/0.5 microl), a selective antagonist of group I mGluRs, inhibited catalepsy induced by haloperidol (0.5 mg/kg i.p.). Repeated intrastriatal AIDA administrations (3 x 15 microg/0.5 microl, 3 h apart) counteracted the haloperidol-induced (3 x 1.5 mg/kg s.c., 3 h apart) increase in the proenkephalin mRNA expression in that structure. The present study indicates that the blockade of the striatal group I mGluRs may inhibit parkinsonian akinesia by normalizing the function of the striopallidal pathway.
To report a possible case of leukocytoclastic vasculitis associated with clarithromycin therapy.
An 83-year-old white woman was prescribed clarithromycin for pneumonia. Six days after her initial presentation, she developed lesions on her palms. Clarithromycin was discontinued at that time. The following day she developed purpuric eccymotic nonblanching lesions that primarily appeared on the lower extremities, buttocks, and abdomen. Colonoscopy revealed generalized erythema and edema of the bowel mucosa. Gastroscopy revealed duodenitis and gastritis, but no bleeding or ulceration. Skin biopsy of the lesions was compatible with leukocytoclastic vasculitis. Renal function was not affected, although hematuria was noted. All symptoms resolved after drug withdrawal and a short course of corticosteroids.
Searches were performed on MEDLINE, Embase, International Pharmaceutical Abstracts, and major adverse drug reaction databases to identify reports and articles discussing clarithromycin- and macrolide-induced leukocytoclastic vasculitis.
Leukocytoclastic vasculitis is one category of drug hypersensitivity reactions characterized by distinctive patterns of perivascular inflammation. The case described here is consistent with the diagnosis of leukocytoclastic vasculitis, and is similar to the other single published case report associated with clarithromycin.
Leukocytoclastic vasculitis induced by clarithromycin is a rare but serious potential adverse effect.
Previous chronotherapy studies have shown that the circadian pattern of blood pressure (BP) remains unchanged after either morning or evening dosing of several calcium channel blockers (CCB), including amlodipine, isradipine, verapamil, nitrendipine, and cilnidipine. This trial investigated the antihypertensive efficacy and safety profile of the slow-release, once-a-day nifedipine gastrointestinal therapeutic system (GITS) formulation administered at different times with reference to the rest-activity cycle of each participant. We studied 80 diurnally active subjects (36 men and 44 women), 52.1+/-10.7 yrs of age, with grade 1-2 essential hypertension, who were randomly assigned to receive nifedipine GITS (30 mg/day) as a monotherapy for eight weeks, either upon awakening in the morning or at bedtime at night. Patients with uncontrolled BP were up-titrated to a higher dose, 60 mg/day nifedipine GITS, for an additional eight weeks. BP was measured by ambulatory monitoring every 20 min during the day and every 30 min at night for 48 consecutive hours before and after therapy with either dose. The BP reduction after eight weeks of therapy with the lower dose of 30 mg/day was slightly, but not significantly, larger with bedtime dosing. The efficacy of 60 mg/day nifedipine GITS in non-responders to the initial 30 mg/day dose was twice as great with bedtime as compared to morning dosing. Moreover, bedtime administration of nifedipine GITS reduced the incidence of edema as an adverse event by 91%, and the total number of all adverse events by 74% as compared to morning dosing (p=0.026). Independent of the time of day of administration, a single daily dose of 30 mg/day of nifedipine GITS provides full 24 h therapeutic coverage. The dose-dependent increased efficacy and the markedly improved safety profile of bedtime as compared to morning administration of nifedipine GITS should be taken into account when prescribing this CCB in the treatment of essential hypertension.
The clinical characteristics and treatment outcome were determined for 26 patients who presented with early-stage cutaneous leishmaniasis. Illness duration ranged from 8 to 20 days, and the commonest clinical presentation was the presence of a papule with small central crust on a lower extremity. Prominent regional adenopathy was found in 22 (85%) of 26 patients. The results of an intradermal skin test for Leishmania were positive for 96% of those patients, and results of serologic testing were positive for 61% of patients tested. Ten (46%) of 22 patients for whom follow-up data were available developed enlargement and ulceration of the lesion despite early antimony therapy and required additional courses of treatment. Histopathological studies of samples from the lesions of 3 patients showed vasculitis. These data show that early therapy for cutaneous leishmaniasis does not prevent the development of an ulcer in one-half of patients. This unfavorable outcome underlines the relevance of local exacerbated inflammatory and immune response in the pathogenesis of the disease.
We investigated the interaction between nicorandil, a K(+)ATP channel opener, and morphine on motor function after a noninjurious interval of spinal cord ischemia in the rat. Spinal ischemia was induced by aortic occlusion for 6 min with a balloon catheter in Sprague-Dawley rats. All animals received intrathecal (IT) injection of morphine (1-60 microg) 1 h after ischemia. In addition to IT injection of morphine, group M (control), group MN (combination of morphine and nicorandil), and group MNG (combination of morphine, nicorandil, and glibenclamide) received IT saline, nicorandil (10 microg), and both glibenclamide (10 microg) and nicorandil (10 microg) after 150 min of reperfusion, respectively. A quantal bioassay for the effect of IT morphine on neurological function after ischemia was performed to calculate 50% effective dose values (ED50) for inducing paraparesis at 3 h of reperfusion. The ED50 in group M and group MN was 15.1 +/- 4.9 microg and 2.9 +/- 1.0 microg of IT morphine, respectively (P < 0.05). In Group MNG, the dose-response curve shifted back to the right and the ED50 for inducing paraparesis was 11.6 +/- 4.7 microg of IT morphine. The present study demonstrates that IT small-dose morphine combined with nicorandil induces spastic paraparesis after noninjurious interval of spinal cord ischemia in the rat.
Chronic infantile neurological cutaneous and articular (CINCA) syndrome is a severe chronic inflammatory disease of early onset, characterized by cutaneous symptoms, central-nervous-system involvement, and arthropathy. In the present study, we report, in seven unrelated patients with CINCA syndrome, distinct missense mutations within the nucleotide-binding site of CIAS1, a gene encoding cryopyrin and previously shown to cause Muckle-Wells syndrome and familial cold urticaria. Because of the severe cartilage overgrowth observed in some patients with CINCA syndrome and the implications of polymorphonuclear cell infiltration in the cutaneous and neurological manifestations of this syndrome, the tissue-specific expression of CIAS1 was evaluated. A high level of expression of CIAS1 was found to be restricted to polymorphonuclear cells and chondrocytes. These findings demonstrate that CIAS1 missense mutations can result in distinct phenotypes with only a few overlapping symptoms and suggest that this gene may function as a potential inducer of apoptosis.
The authors present two cases of polyneuropathy deficiency among Xavante indians where the sole food was rice in case 1 and almost so in case 2. The rice consumed by these indians was processed or hulled. Intoxication by cyanide from maniot or other vegetable was excluded.
Two indians aged 18 and 25 years with a progressive history of weaness, decrease in muscular force and thinning were observed in their villages. On removal to the Hospital São Paulo, atrophy of the distal musculature of the upper and lower limbs, motor deficit distally with zero degree in the flexor musculature, abolished deep reflexes, plantar cutaneous reflex without response bilaterally, decreased tactile, painful and pallesthetic sensitivity distally in the lower limbs were noted on neurological examination of case 1. On neurological examination of case 2 proximal hyporeflexia in the upper limbs, areflexia in the distal portions of the upper and lower limbs, tactile and painful hypoesthesia in the feet, right hypoacousis were noted. Electromyography showed abnormalities compatible with symmetric sensorimotor polyneuropathy with an axonal demyelination pattern in case 1 and predominantly demyelinizing in case 2. Cerebrospinal fluid tests were normal.
Polyneuropathy was characterized by the clinical history and by neurological, electromyographic and cerebrospinal fluid tests. The diagnosis of polyneuropathy deficiency was established by the clinical history and by electromyography suggesting peripheral polyneuropathy of nutritional origin. This neuropathy deficiency does not fit myeloneuropathies such as ataxic tropical neuropathy, spastic paraparesis and Cuba neuropathy.
The Xavante polyneuropathy deficiency is caused by thiamine (vitamin B1) deficiency, that is dry beriberi, owing to consumption of industrially processed rice as sole or almost sole food. The Xavante polyneuropathy is different from the neuropathy observed among Kreen-Akrore indians and from that of adolescent indians in the Xingu Park.
Bezafibrate is a commonly used medicine for hyperlipidemia, and recently several reports have suggested the efficacy of bezafibrate for the treatment of primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC). To assess its efficacy for other liver diseases, we administered bezafibrate to patients with various categories of hepatobiliary impairment.
Bezafibrate (400 mg/day) was orally administered to 67 patients with chronic liver disease [22 with PBC, six with primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC), 20 with chronic liver disease associated with hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection (CLD-C), seven with auto immune hepatitis (AIH), ten with alcoholic liver injury, and two with drug-induced liver injury].
The levels of biliary enzymes, such as alkaline phosphatase and gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase, decreased promptly and dramatically. The abnormally high level of alanine aminotransferase also showed a gradual decrease over 6 months in five of the eight PBC patients, all three PSC patients, eight of the 17 CLD-C patients, and all seven alcoholic liver injury patients. The level of immunoglobulin M showed a gradual decrease in 17 of the 22 PBC patients.
Bezafibrate significantly reduced the level of biliary enzymes in various chronic liver diseases and may be useful for the treatment of certain liver disease subsets.
Effects of the 5-HT2 receptor antagonist, ritanserin on hyperthermia and depletion of 5-HT induced by the 5-HT-releasing drug, p-chloroamphetamine (PCA) were investigated. Ritanserin significantly suppressed PCA-induced hyperthermia in mice. PCA elicited decreases in 5-HT levels in the mouse frontal cortex. 5-HT reduction elicited by PCA was also attenuated by pretreatment with ritanserin. Since hyperthermia facilitates neurotoxicity induced by amphetamine analogue, ritanserin may inhibit PCA-induced 5-HT neurotoxicity by inhibiting hyperthermia.
Acute chemotherapy-related leukoencephalopathy can present similar to acute stroke with symptoms including aphasia, dysarthria, and hemiplegia. Differentiation based on clinical appearance is challenging, and physicians must distinguish between the 2 conditions rapidly to institute appropriate therapies. An 8-year-old male with acute lymphoblastic leukemia receiving chemotherapy, including intrathecal methotrexate, presented to our emergency center with 2 hours of expressive aphasia and flaccid right hemiplegia. Emergent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was obtained, demonstrating diffusion restriction within bilateral corona radiata and centrum semiovale. Magnetic resonance perfusion revealed mildly increased perfusion, a finding inconsistent with ischemic stroke and previously unreported in acute chemotherapy-related leukoencephalopathy without necrosis. This increased perfusion conclusively eliminated stroke from the clinical differential. Magnetic resonance perfusion imaging proved valuable to rapidly distinguish acute chemotherapy-related leukoencephalopathy from ischemia, and the evaluation of perfusion alterations in this disorder may provide further insight into the pathophysiology of this entity.
Although D-penicillamine has been used for many rheumatologic diseases, toxicity limits its usefulness in many patients. Polymyositis/dermatomyositis can develop as one of the autoimmune complications of D-penicillamine treatment, but its exact pathogenesis remains unclear. We report a patient with primary biliary cirrhosis, who developed polymyositis while receiving D-penicillamine therapy. We described the special clinical course of the patient. Patients receiving D-penicillamine therapy should be followed carefully for the development of autoimmune complications like polymyositis/dermatomyositis.
The clinical utility of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) is limited by their gastrointestinal and renal toxicities. Indomethacin (an NSAID commonly used in toxicity studies) has been shown to induce significant oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction in the rat kidney. The current study was designed to assess the potential of zinc, a known antioxidant, to protect the kidney against these drug-induced effects. Male Wistar rats were pre-treated with zinc sulphate (50 mg/kg) and dosed with indomethacin (20 mg/kg) by oral gavage. Rats were sacrificed 24 h after the dose of indomethacin. Parameters of oxidative stress, mitochondrial function and lipid content of the mitochondrial membranes were measured in the kidneys of these animals. It was found that zinc significantly attenuated indomethacin-induced oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction and changes in the lipids in mitochondrial membranes in the kidney. The content of metallothionein, a cysteine-rich zinc-binding protein, was also determined in the tissue. There was no significant induction of metallothionein in the kidney in zinc-treated animals. Estimation of serum creatinine showed that zinc seemed to hasten functional recovery of the kidney following indomethacin administration. We conclude that pretreatment with zinc is effective in protecting against indomethacin-induced changes in the rat kidney. This protective effect does not appear to be mediated by metallothionein.
In utero methamphetamine (METH) exposure enhances the oxidative DNA lesion 7,8-dihydro-8-oxoguanine (8-oxoG) in CD-1 fetal mouse brain, and causes long-term postnatal motor coordination deficits. Herein we used oxoguanine glycosylase 1 (ogg1) knock-out mice to determine the pathogenic roles of 8-oxoG and OGG1, which repairs 8-oxoG, in METH-initiated neurodevelopmental anomalies. Administration of METH (20 or 40 mg/kg) on gestational day 17 to pregnant +/- OGG1-deficient females caused a drug dose- and gene dose-dependent increase in 8-oxoG levels in OGG1-deficient fetal brains (p < 0.05). Female ogg1 knock-out offspring exposed in utero to high-dose METH exhibited gene dose-dependent enhanced motor coordination deficits for at least 12 weeks postnatally (p < 0.05). Contrary to METH-treated adult mice, METH-exposed CD-1 fetal brains did not exhibit altered apoptosis or DNA synthesis, and OGG1-deficient offspring exposed in utero to METH did not exhibit postnatal dopaminergic nerve terminal degeneration, suggesting different mechanisms. Enhanced 8-oxoG repair activity in fetal relative to adult organs suggests an important developmental protective role of OGG1 against in utero genotoxic stress. These observations provide the most direct evidence to date that 8-oxoG constitutes an embryopathic molecular lesion, and that functional fetal DNA repair protects against METH teratogenicity.
Previously we isolated human PEX16 encoding 336-amino acid-long peroxin Pex16p and showed that its dysfunction was responsible for Zellweger syndrome of complementation group D (group 9). Here we have determined the membrane topology of Pex16p by differential permeabilization method: both N- and C-terminal parts are exposed to the cytosol. In the search for Pex16p topogenic sequence, basic amino acids clustered sequence, RKELRKKLPVSLSQQK, at positions 66-81 and the first transmembrane segment locating far downstream, nearly by 40 amino acids, of this basic region were defined to be essential for integration into peroxisome membranes. Localization to peroxisomes of membrane proteins such as Pex14p, Pex13p, and PMP70 was interfered with in CHO-K1 cells by a higher level expression of the pex16 patient-derived dysfunctional but topogenically active Pex16pR176ter comprising resides 1-176 or of the C-terminal cytoplasmic part starting from residues at 244 to the C terminus. Furthermore, Pex16p C-terminal cytoplasmic part severely abrogated peroxisome restoration in pex mutants such as matrix protein import-defective pex12 and membrane assembly impaired pex3 by respective PEX12 and PEX3 expression, whereas the N-terminal cytosolic region did not affect restoration. These results imply that Pex16p functions in peroxisome membrane assembly, more likely upstream of Pex3p.
Thirty unpremedicated ASA physical status 1-3 patients aged between 18 and 69 years, scheduled for upper limb surgery, received a conventional supraclavicular brachial plexus block using a nerve stimulator and bupivacaine 0.375% 0.5 ml.kg-1. Spirometric measurements of pulmonary function and ultrasonographic assessments of diaphragmatic function were made before the block and at 10-min intervals after injection until full motor block of the brachial plexus had developed. Complete paralysis of the ipsilateral hemidiaphragm occurred in 50% of patients. Seventeen per cent of patients had reduced diaphragmatic movement and the rest (33%) had no change in diaphragmatic movement. Those with complete paralysis all showed significant decreases in pulmonary function, whereas those with reduced or normal movement had minimal change. All patients remained asymptomatic throughout, with normal oxygen saturation on room air.
