Simulated public speaking (SPS) test is sensitive to drugs that interfere with serotonin-mediated neurotransmission and is supposed to recruit neural systems involved in panic disorder. The study was aimed at evaluating the effects of escitalopram, the most selective serotonin-selective reuptake inhibitor available, in SPS. Healthy males received, in a double-blind, randomized design, placebo (n = 12), 10 (n = 17) or 20 (n = 14) mg of escitalopram 2 hours before the test. Behavioural, autonomic and neuroendocrine measures were assessed. Both doses of escitalopram did not produce any effect before or during the speech but prolonged the fear induced by SPS. The test itself did not significantly change cortisol and prolactin levels but under the higher dose of escitalopram, cortisol and prolactin increased immediately after SPS. This fear-enhancing effect of escitalopram agrees with previously reported results with less selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and the receptor antagonist ritanserin, indicating that serotonin inhibits the fear of speaking in public.
The effects of intracerebroventricular injection of endomorphin-1 and 2, endogenous mu-opioid receptor agonists, on the scopolamine-induced impairment of spontaneous alternation performance associated with short-term memory were investigated in mice. Endomorphin-1 (0.03 microg) inhibited scopolamine (1 mg/kg)-induced impairment of spontaneous alternation performance without affecting total arm entries, while endomorphin-2 (0.01-10 microg) failed to significantly influence the scopolamine (1 mg/kg)-induced impairment. Endomorphin-1 (0.03 microg) itself had no marked effects on spontaneous alternation performance in intact mice. Although beta-funaltrexamine (5 microg), a mu-opioid receptor antagonist, did not significantly affect the inhibitory effects of endomorphin-1 (0.03 microg) on the scopolamine (1 mg/kg)-induced impairment, naloxonazine (35 mg/kg), a mu1-opioid receptor antagonist, significantly reversed the inhibitory effects of endomorphin-1 (0.03 microg) on the impairment. Naloxonazine (35 mg/kg) unlike beta-funaltrexamine (5 microg) did not significantly influence the scopolamine (1 mg/kg)-induced impairment of spontaneous alternation performance. These results suggest that endomorphin-1 improves the disturbance of short-term memory resulting from cholinergic dysfunction through the mediation of mu1-opioid receptors.
The distribution of thallium (Tl) in the body and its toxic effect on the histology and function of the liver and kidney of rats after Tl administration were investigated using biochemical and histopathological assays. Male albino rats exhibited a markedly dose-dependent increase in the serum levels of aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) at 16 h after an intraperitoneal injection of 30, 60 or 120 mg/kg Tl. The serum level of creatinine in the rats injected with 30 mg/kg Tl, elevated significantly after 4 days of administration. The distribution of Tl in the tissues of intoxicated rats was uneven. The content of Tl was found to be highest in the kidney, followed by ileum, stomach and liver. Histological examination demonstrated frequent occurrence of hepatocyte necrosis and vacuolation in the liver and pathological changes of renal tubules in the treated rats.
A proper understanding of the mechanisms underlying crystalline silica-induced pulmonary toxicity has implications in the management and potential prevention of the adverse health effects associated with silica exposure including silicosis, cancer and several auto-immune diseases. Human lung type II epithelial cells and rat lungs exposed to crystalline silica were employed as experimental models to determine global gene expression changes in order to understand the molecular mechanisms underlying silica-induced pulmonary toxicity. The differential gene expression profile induced by silica correlated with its toxicity in the A549 cells. The biological processes perturbed by silica exposure in the A549 cells and rat lungs, as identified by the bioinformatics analysis of the differentially expressed genes, demonstrated significant similarity. Functional categorization of the differentially expressed genes identified cancer, cellular movement, cellular growth and proliferation, cell death, inflammatory response, cell cycle, cellular development, and genetic disorder as top ranking biological functions perturbed by silica exposure in A549 cells and rat lungs. Results of our study, in addition to confirming several previously identified molecular targets and mechanisms involved in silica toxicity, identified novel molecular targets and mechanisms potentially involved in silica-induced pulmonary toxicity. Further investigations, including those focused on the novel molecular targets and mechanisms identified in the current study may result in better management and, possibly, reduction and/or prevention of the potential adverse health effects associated with crystalline silica exposure.
Fibrates are effective in hypertriglyceridaemia and hypercholesterolaemia. They affect both triglyceride-rich and cholesterol-rich particles and have at least four separate modes of action. These include limitation of substrate availability for triglyceride synthesis in the liver; promotion of the action of lipoprotein lipase; modulation of low density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor/ligand interaction and stimulation of reverse cholesterol transport. Studies of LDL metabolism suggest the existence of two separate catabolic pathways involving the LDL receptor and scavenger mechanism(s). The former route is anti-atherogenic; the latter pro-atherogenic. At low triglyceride levels, the fractional clearance of LDL by the receptor is high. The action of fibrates is to promote the secretion of LDL which is cleared by a receptor-mediated mechanism. Catabolism of this fraction increases from 40% of the plasma pool per day in untreated to 60% per day in treated subjects. By activating lipoprotein lipase, fibrates also reduce the amount of small dense LDL, the fraction which is most likely to generate peroxidation products. Hence, fibrates stimulate LDL receptor-dependent clearance mechanisms and reduce the amount of LDL available for oxidation.
The FRK tyrosine kinase has previously been shown to transduce beta-cell cytotoxic signals in response to cytokines and streptozotocin and to promote beta-cell proliferation and an increased beta-cell mass. We therefore aimed to further evaluate the effects of overexpression of FRK tyrosine kinase in beta-cells. A transgenic mouse expressing kinase-active FRK under control of the insulin promoter (RIP-FRK) was studied with regard to islet endocrine function and vascular morphology. Mild glucose intolerance develops in RIP-FRK male mice of at least 4 mo of age. This effect is accompanied by reduced glucose-stimulated insulin secretion in vivo and reduced second-phase insulin secretion in response to glucose and arginine upon pancreas perfusion. Islets isolated from the FRK transgenic mice display a glucose-induced insulin secretory response in vitro similar to that of control islets. However, islet blood flow per islet volume is decreased in the FRK transgenic mice. These mice also exhibit a reduced islet capillary lumen diameter as shown by electron microscopy. Total body weight and pancreas weight are not significantly affected, but the beta-cell mass is increased. The data suggest that long-term expression of active FRK in beta-cells causes an in vivo insulin-secretory defect, which may be the consequence of islet vascular abnormalities that yield a decreased islet blood flow.
Tight junctions in the cochlear duct are thought to compartmentalize endolymph and provide structural support for the auditory neuroepithelium. The claudin family of genes is known to express protein components of tight junctions in other tissues. The essential function of one of these claudins in the inner ear was established by identifying mutations in CLDN14 that cause nonsyndromic recessive deafness DFNB29 in two large consanguineous Pakistani families. In situ hybridization and immunofluorescence studies demonstrated mouse claudin-14 expression in the sensory epithelium of the organ of Corti.
MOPP (mechlorethamine, vincristine, procarbazine, prednisone) and ABVD (doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine) are effective therapies for Hodgkin disease (HD) that may cause long-term toxicities in children. APE (cytosine arabinoside, cisplatin, etoposide) is a non-cross-resistant regimen with limited toxicities. We evaluated this regimen for patients with recurrent or refractory disease.
Patients with recurrent Hodgkin disease who were <or=21 years of age and had previously received standard alkylating agent and doxorubicin-based therapy, were treated with APE chemotherapy (cytosine arabinoside 750 mg/m(2), cisplatin 15 mg/m(2), etoposide 20 mg/m(2)) every 12 hr, administered three or four times per cycle. Response, Event-free survival (EFS), and overall survival (OS) were assessed.
Thirty-one patients in first (n = 25) or second (n = 6) relapse of Hodgkin disease were eligible and evaluable. APE chemotherapy was well-tolerated, with the major toxicity consisting of short duration, grade 3/4 hematopoietic toxicity. The CR/PR response rate was 68% (42% CR, 26% PR). Allowing subsequent stem cell transplantation in some patients, 4-year EFS and OS were 27% +/- 8% and 49% +/- 9%, with 8-year EFS and OS of 23% +/- 9% and 34% +/- 10%.
APE is an efficacious regimen with minimal toxicity. Novel regimens are necessary to: (1) re-induce remission, (2) treat newly diagnosed patients, and (3) augment therapy in patients with slow response to standard regimens. This regimen had minimal toxicity and an excellent response rate that facilitated long term survival, often in conjunction with transplantation. The Children's Oncology Group is using a similar regimen to augment therapy for slow responders on a current Hodgkin disease trial.
Autosomal dominant osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) is caused by mutations in the genes (COL1A1 or COL1A2) encoding the chains of type I collagen. Recently, dysregulation of hydroxylation of a single proline residue at position 986 of both the triple-helical domains of type I collagen alpha1(I) and type II collagen alpha1(II) chains has been implicated in the pathogenesis of recessive forms of OI. Two proteins, cartilage-associated protein (CRTAP) and prolyl-3-hydroxylase-1 (P3H1, encoded by the LEPRE1 gene) form a complex that performs the hydroxylation and brings the prolyl cis-trans isomerase cyclophilin-B (CYPB) to the unfolded collagen. In our screen of 78 subjects diagnosed with OI type II or III, we identified three probands with mutations in CRTAP and 16 with mutations in LEPRE1. The latter group includes a mutation in patients from the Irish Traveller population, a genetically isolated community with increased incidence of OI. The clinical features resulting from CRTAP or LEPRE1 loss of function mutations were difficult to distinguish at birth. Infants in both groups had multiple fractures, decreased bone modeling (affecting especially the femurs), and extremely low bone mineral density. Interestingly, "popcorn" epiphyses may reflect underlying cartilaginous and bone dysplasia in this form of OI. These results expand the range of CRTAP/LEPRE1 mutations that result in recessive OI and emphasize the importance of distinguishing recurrence of severe OI of recessive inheritance from those that result from parental germline mosaicism for COL1A1 or COL1A2 mutations.
Clinical studies on the use and activity of drugs often rely on data generated from a relatively small number of patients, and definitive conclusions are drawn that are assumed to represent the population at large. Similarly, interpretation and comparison of studies are made difficult when end points of effectiveness, particularly with antihypertensive agents, are arbitrarily chosen. The results from a clinical study of more than 1400 hypertensive patients after indapamide therapy for 3 months, alone or in combination with a beta blocker, are presented using a different graphic approach. This is based on the assumption that the magnitude of the fall in blood pressure after hypertensive therapy is dependent on initial blood pressure. Diastolic and systolic pressures were plotted as a scattergram against the change in blood pressure. Predetermined response lines were drawn with a slope of 1 and intercepts on the initial blood pressure axis of 90 mm Hg for diastolic and 140 mm Hg for systolic pressures with tolerance limits of +/- 10 mm Hg drawn about it. Subdivisions of response can be achieved by counting the number of patients above and below these lines. This allows a drug to be "finger-printed" in terms of its pattern of activity in all degrees of severity of hypertension and, more relevant, direct comparisons with other drugs can be made. Similarly, the potential activity of the drug can be determined by computing the slope and intercept of the actual regression line through the data points.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The present studies tested the ability of 1,8-cineole to produce inflammatory oedema in the hind paw of the rat and verified the possible involvement of mast cells in the response. Subplantar injection of 1,8-cineole (10, 15 and 20 microl/paw) induced a dose-dependent paw oedema which was apparent within 30 min. At higher doses the oedema effect was persistent, peaked at 2 h, and then decreased gradually but was still pronounced at 24 h post injection. In contrast, the oedema produced by mast cell degranulator compound 48/80 (10 microg/paw) had a rapid onset with a peak effect at the first hour, followed by a gradual decrease thereafter and at 24 h post injection it was almost absent. The oedema response to 20 microl 1,8-cineole was significantly inhibited throughout its time-course in rats pretreated with antihistaminic and antiserotonergic drugs such as diphenhydramine, methysergide and cyproheptadine or with ketotifen, a mast cell stabilizer. A more effective blockade of the oedema response was, however, observed in rats depleted of mast cell granules by systemic treatment with compound 48/80. Furthermore, 1,8-cineole was able to cause rat peritoneal mast cell degranulation (94%) in vitro, in a concentration as low as 0.3 microl/ml, which was almost comparable to that produced by 0.1 microg/ml of compound 48/80. The data provide evidence of a key role for the mast cell in 1,8-cineole-induced hind paw oedema in the rat.
A major area in cancer therapy is the search for protective strategies against cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity. We investigated the protective effect of cilastatin on cisplatin-induced injury to renal proximal tubular cells. Cilastatin is a specific inhibitor of renal dehydrodipeptidase I (DHP-I), which prevents hydrolysis of imipenem and its accumulation in the proximal tubule. Primary cultures of proximal cells were treated with cisplatin (1-30 microM) in the presence or absence of cilastatin (200 microg/ml). Apoptosis and mitochondrial injury were assessed by different techniques. Cisplatin uptake and DNA binding were measured by inductively coupled plasma spectrometry. HeLa cells were used to control the effect of cilastatin on the tumoricidal activity of cisplatin. Cisplatin increased cell death, apoptotic-like morphology, caspase activation, and mitochondrial injury in proximal tubular cells in a dose- and time-dependent way. Concomitant treatment with cilastatin reduced cisplatin-induced changes. Cilastatin also reduced the DNA-bound platinum but did not modify cisplatin-dependent up-regulation of death receptors (Fas) or ligands (tumor necrosis factor alpha, Fas ligand). In contrast, cilastatin did not show any effects on cisplatin-treated HeLa cells. Renal DHP-I was virtually absent in HeLa cells. Cilastatin attenuates cisplatin-induced cell death in proximal tubular cells without reducing the cytotoxic activity of cisplatin in tumor cells. Our findings suggest that the affinity of cilastatin for renal dipeptidase makes this effect specific for proximal tubular cells and may be related to a reduction in intracellular drug accumulation. Therefore, cilastatin administration might represent a novel strategy in the prevention of cisplatin-induced acute renal injury.
The potential neuroprotective benefits of curcumin against cisplatin neurotoxicity were investigated. Curcumin is a polyphenol derived from the rhizome of Curcuma longa whose pharmacological effects include antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and anti-cancer properties. Cisplatin is a potent chemotherapeutic drug with activity against a wide variety of tumors, although it has notorious side effects. Cisplatin neurotoxicity is clinically evident in patients that have undergone a full course of chemotherapy and develop a peripheral neuropathy that may affect the treatment regimen and the patient's qualify of life. In this study, we examined whether curcumin can protect against cisplatin neurite outgrowth inhibition in PC12 cells, which is an indicator of the protective potential against neuropathy. We also investigated whether curcumin affects cisplatin effectiveness by analyzing the modulation of p53 gene expression and its effect on cisplatin cytotoxicity in HepG2 tumor cells. Non-cytotoxic concentrations of curcumin reduced in vitro neurotoxicity of cisplatin in PC12 cells. The treatment of PC12 cells with cisplatin (10μg/mL) significantly reduced neurite outgrowth. The tested concentration of curcumin (1.0 and 10μg/mL) did not result in neurite toxicity but nevertheless diminished cisplatin-induced inhibition of neurite outgrowth by up to 50% (p<0.05). Our results indicate that curcumin does not compromise cisplatin's anticancer activity. Curcumin neither suppressed p53 mRNA transcription nor protected tumor cells against cisplatin cytotoxicity. These results indicate that curcumin may reduce cisplatin-induced neurotoxicity, and clinical studies should potentially be considered.
It is unclear whether the assumed inferiority of atenolol to reduce central (aortic) blood pressure (BP) extends to other β-blockers with vasodilating properties and, within that scope, how these drugs differ from the angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs).
In a retrospective study, we compared three groups of hypertensive patients (aged 35-65 years) chronically treated with either ARBs (n=83, group 1), carvedilol/nebivolol (n=75, 25+25 mg/day/5 mg/day, group 2) or atenolol (n=84, 50-100 mg/day, group 3), matched for age (mean 52 years), sex (61% female), brachial BP and concomitant use of diuretics (75-81%)and dihydropyridine calcium antagonists (27-33%). We measured aortic stiffness by pulse wave velocity (Complior), and central BP, central-peripheral pulse pressure amplification, wave reflection [augmentation index (AIx) corrected for heart rate] and augmentation pressure (Sphygmocor).
For similar age, sex distribution, brachial BP levels (145/85±11/10 mmHg) and pulse wave velocity (10±2 m/s), the atenolol group showed significantly (P<0.03 analysis of variance) higher central systolic BP (139±9 mmHg) versus group 2 (135±10 mmHg) and group 1 (132±11 mmHg), higher AIx (34±12%) versus group 2 (27±7%) and group 1 (23.0±9%), lower pulse pressure amplification (1.16±0.09) versus group 2 (1.22±0.10) and group 1 (1.31±0.11) and lower heart rate beats/min (61±9) versus group 2 (69±11) and group 1 (82±11). The differences on these values, between group 2 and group 1, were also significant (P<0.04). After adjustment for the heart rate, AIx became similar in groups 2 and 1, but still lower (P<0.04) than the atenolol group.
These findings suggest that, for similar brachial BP and aortic stiffness, treatment with either vasodilating β-blockers or angiotensin receptor blockers associates with lower central systolic BP and wave reflections than treatment with atenolol. These findings may suggest that the vasodilating β-blockers may exert more favourable central haemodynamic effects, compared with atenolol, which are more alike, although not completely equal, to those of the ARBs.
1,3-Dichloropropene (1,3-D) is a soil fumigant used primarily for preplanting control of parasitic nematodes. In a previous chronic dietary exposure study, 1,3-D induced an increased incidence of hepatocellular adenomas in male rats at a dose of 25 mg/kg/day. Although the mechanism for tumor induction in the rat liver by 1,3-D has not been specifically elucidated, available data suggested that the observed liver tumorigenesis was through a nongenotoxic mode of action at the tumor promotion stage. Fischer 344 rats containing preneoplastic lesions were treated (via gavage) with 25 mg/kg/day 1,3-D or 80 mg/kg/day phenobarbital (PB) for 30 days and 60 days, or for 30 days followed by a 30-day recovery period (no compound exposure). Following treatment, placental form glutathione S-transferase (GSTP) positive and GSTP-negative liver focal lesions were quantitated as to size and number. 1,3-D treatment had no effect on GSTP-positive foci number or relative size but significantly increased the number, labeling index, and relative size of GSTP-negative focal lesions (identified by H and E staining) after 30 and 60 days of treatment. Following the 30-day recovery period, the number, labeling index, and relative size of the GSTP-negative lesions in 1,3-D-treated animals returned to control levels. As expected, PB treatment produced an increase in number and relative size of the GSTP-positive lesions. The results of this study are consistent with 1,3-D inducing liver carcinogenesis through a nongenotoxic mode of action by functioning as a tumor promoter specifically through induction of a non-GSTP staining focal hepatocyte population.
Clopidogrel requires transformation into an active metabolite by cytochrome P-450 (CYP) enzymes for its antiplatelet effect. The genes encoding CYP enzymes are polymorphic, with common alleles conferring reduced function.
We tested the association between functional genetic variants in CYP genes, plasma concentrations of active drug metabolite, and platelet inhibition in response to clopidogrel in 162 healthy subjects. We then examined the association between these genetic variants and cardiovascular outcomes in a separate cohort of 1477 subjects with acute coronary syndromes who were treated with clopidogrel in the Trial to Assess Improvement in Therapeutic Outcomes by Optimizing Platelet Inhibition with Prasugrel-Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TRITON-TIMI) 38.
In healthy subjects who were treated with clopidogrel, carriers of at least one CYP2C19 reduced-function allele (approximately 30% of the study population) had a relative reduction of 32.4% in plasma exposure to the active metabolite of clopidogrel, as compared with noncarriers (P<0.001). Carriers also had an absolute reduction in maximal platelet aggregation in response to clopidogrel that was 9 percentage points less than that seen in noncarriers (P<0.001). Among clopidogrel-treated subjects in TRITON-TIMI 38, carriers had a relative increase of 53% in the composite primary efficacy outcome of the risk of death from cardiovascular causes, myocardial infarction, or stroke, as compared with noncarriers (12.1% vs. 8.0%; hazard ratio for carriers, 1.53; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.07 to 2.19; P=0.01) and an increase by a factor of 3 in the risk of stent thrombosis (2.6% vs. 0.8%; hazard ratio, 3.09; 95% CI, 1.19 to 8.00; P=0.02).
Among persons treated with clopidogrel, carriers of a reduced-function CYP2C19 allele had significantly lower levels of the active metabolite of clopidogrel, diminished platelet inhibition, and a higher rate of major adverse cardiovascular events, including stent thrombosis, than did noncarriers.
In human trials calcitriol and its analogs displayed unacceptable systemic toxicities including hypercalcemia. This study was designed to evaluate a novel non-hypercalcemic vitamin-D derivative (MT19c) and its anticancer effects in cultured ovarian cancer cell model.
We modified the Ergocalciferol structure to generate MT19c, a heterocyclic vitamin-D derivative. Hypercalcemic liabilities of MT19c were assessed by estimating the blood calcium levels in drug treated animals. VDR agonistic or antagonistic properties of MT19c were determined via a VDR-coactivator binding assay. The anticancer effects of MT19c were evaluated by (i) cytotoxicity studies in cancer cell lines and the National Cancer Institute (NCI(60)) cell lines, (ii) identification of apoptosis markers by microscopy and western blots, (iii) cell cycle analysis, and (iv) by studying the insulin receptor substrate-1/2 (IRS1/2) signaling in ovarian cancer cells (SKOV-3) by western blotting.
MT19c treatment did not cause hypercalcemia in mice and showed minor VDR antagonistic activity. In a NCI(60) screen MT19c revealed cell-type specific growth inhibition. MT19c displayed superior cytotoxicity to cisplatin, calcitriol, EB1089 and Iressa in SKOV-3 cell-lines and was comparable to Taxol in our in vitro assays. In SKOV-3 cells MT19c showed caspase dependent apoptosis, DNA fragmentation and cell cycle arrest. MT19c did not alter VDR but downregulated the IGFR/IRS-1/2-MEK-ras-ERK1/2-pathway via activated TNFα-receptor/SAPK/JNK component.
Our results demonstrate how structural optimization of the vitamin-D scaffold leads to identification of a non-hypercalcemic compound MT19c which exerts cytotoxicity in vitro based on a VDR-independent signaling pathway and displays potent anti-cancer activity in ovarian cancer cell models.
This study involved twleve parkinsonian patients exposed to abnormal movements provoked by L-DOPA. Including six patients with "mid-dose" dyskinesias and six others with "onset and end of dose" dyskinesias, Correlation between the circumstances of onset of abnormal movements and plasma concentrations of DOPA and O-methyl-DOPA, after administration of a dose of L-DOPA + IDC, gave the following results: 1) mid-dose dyskinesias appeared with the highest plasma concentrations of DOPA, at the maximum therapeutic effect; 2) onset and end of dose occurred during rise and fall in plasma levels of DOPA, coinciding with the relief and the reappearance of parkinsonian symptoms respectively; 3) no correlation could be established between plasma concentrations of O-methyl-DOPA and the duration of the period of clinical remission or of abnormal movements. These biochemical data, completed by the neuropharmacological study of one patient with onset and end of dose abnormal movements suggest the predominant role of a disturbance in central dopaminergic mechanisms in the genesis of abnormal movements, whatever their nature.
Vaginal administration of the nitric oxide donor isosorbide mononitrate can induce effective ripening of the human cervix. We investigated whether this drug is associated with fewer side-effects than prostaglandins when used to ripen the cervix before first-trimester surgical termination of pregnancy, and assessed whether the extent of cervical ripening it induces is clinically sufficient.
66 primigravid women scheduled for surgical termination were assigned to receive before surgery, per vaginam, isosorbide mononitrate 40 mg or 80 mg, or the prostaglandin analogue gemeprost 1 mg. The primary measured outcome was onset of new symptoms before termination of pregnancy.
More women remained symptom-free after isosorbide mononitrate than after gemeprost (28/44 [64%] vs 3/22 [14%], p<0.005). Pretreatment with gemeprost resulted in abdominal pain in 73% of women and vaginal bleeding in 32% compared with 3% and 0%, respectively, after isosorbide mononitrate, whereas, more women developed headache after isosorbide mononitrate (27%) than after gemeprost (0%). Cervical resistance and measured intraoperative blood loss were lowest after pretreatment with gemeprost. The measured cervical resistance and intraoperative blood loss with either dose of isosorbide mononitrate did not differ from those in a comparison group of 22 parous women not in the randomised trial.
Pretreatment with isosorbide mononitrate to ripen the cervix before first-trimester termination of pregnancy is associated with fewer side-effects than gemeprost treatment and adequately decreases cervical resistance. Isosorbide mononitrate could be used as an alternative to gemeprost for this indication.
Alterations in the native function of the ryanodine-sensitive Ca2+ release channel complex of sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) isolated from rat cardiac ventricles during acute and chronic exposure to doxorubicin are examined. Compared to control SR, actively loaded SR from animals exposed to a single intravenous dose of doxorubicin exhibit faster rates of doxorubicin-induced Ca2+ release and the occupancy of [3H]ryanodine is significantly enhanced with subsequent exposure of SR membranes to doxorubicin in vitro. One week after acute exposure to doxorubicin in vitro, the EC50 for activation of the binding of [3H]ryanodine by Ca2+ is not significantly different from control SR. However, the persistence of doxorubicin-sensitized SR channels appears to be latent since repeated exposure to doxorubicin in vitro significantly enhances receptor occupancy in SR obtained from the treated rats compared to control SR. Ryanodine receptors from rats chronically exposed to doxorubicin consistently exhibit a higher sensitivity to activation Ca2+ which persists at least 4 weeks following the last injection of drug. Chronic exposure produces a concomitant reduction in the capacity of [3H]ryanodine binding sites. The marked decrease in receptor density observed with SR from doxorubicin-treated rats coincides with significant reduction in body weight, suggesting a possible influence of nutrition. However, sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide electrophoresis indicates no significant loss of the high molecular weight subunit of the ryanodine receptor, suggesting that loss of [3H]ryanodine-binding capacity may be the result of progressive and permanent channel desensitization. Consistent with desensitized receptors, membrane vesicles prepared from rats chronically exposed to doxorubicin take up significantly more Ca2+ and exhibit significantly reduced rates of doxorubicin or Ca2+/ryanodine induced Ca2+ release. The data demonstrates (i) doxorubicin inflicts cumulative SR channel lesions in vivo, (ii) a persistent sensitization of the SR channel to activation by Ca2+ and (iii) a significant and apparently irreversible reduction in the number of functional channel complexes.
The carcinogenic and metastatic processes are thought to consist of a sequence of steps, and animal models featuring highly metastatic lesions are clearly necessary to allow analysis of the whole process of transformation from preneoplastic changes to high grade metastatic tumors, and to access effectiveness of therapeutic treatments of advanced cancers in vivo. The purpose of the present study was to establish a model and to screen for reported genetic alterations in induced lesions. In the present study, it was confirmed that lung metastasis of hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs) induced in male F344 rats by N-nitrosomorpholine (NNM), given in the drinking water at a dose of 120 ppm for 24 weeks, was significantly enhanced by additional carcinogenic pretreatments and that a single i.p. injection of 100 mg/kg body weight N-diethylnitrosamine (DEN) alone was sufficient for that purpose. Molecular biological analyses of the induced lesions revealed point mutations in the p53 gene in 60.9% of HCCs, and elevated expression of mRNAs for p53, c-myc, c-fos, TGF-alpha, TGF-beta1, alpha-fetoprotein, GST-P, and GGT, and decreased mRNA expression of EGF and EGFR in HCCs when compared to controls. No obvious association of gene alterations with metastatic potential of primary tumors was found except for an increase in the incidence of p53 mutations. Since the process of metastasis is thought to be sequential and selective, further comparative analysis of metastatic and primary lesions should clarify the mechanisms involved in the multi-step process of metastasis.
A 54-year-old man experienced weight gain. He was diagnosed as having hyperglycemia, hypertension and liver damage. Liver biopsy showed steatohepatitis. We initially suspected him as having hyperadrenocorticism. However, both adrenocorticotropic hormone and cortisol levels were low. Later, it was revealed that he took medicine to relieve his gonalgia. His hyperglycemia, hypertension and liver damage improved after he discontinued taking the medicine. An analysis of this medicine showed that it contained desoximetasone, a glucocorticoid compound that had not been approved for medical use in Japan. To adequately diagnose clinical conditions, it is necessary to survey the patient's medicinal history in detail.
Chronic beryllium disease (CBD) is a granulomatous disorder that affects the lung after exposure to beryllium. The present study reports short- and long-term evolution of granulomatous and fibrotic components in eight patients with severe CBD receiving corticosteroid therapy. Eight patients with confirmed CBD were studied at baseline, after initial corticosteroid treatment (4-12 months), at relapse and at the final visit. Beryllium exposure, Glu(69) (HLA-DPB1 genes coding for glutamate at position beta69) polymorphism, symptoms, pulmonary function tests (PFT), serum angiotensin-converting enzyme (SACE) and high-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) quantification of pulmonary lesions were analysed. The CBD patients were observed for a median (range) of 69 (20-180) months. After stopping beryllium exposure, corticosteroids improved symptoms and PFT (vital capacity +26%, diffusing capacity of the lung for carbon monoxide +15%), and decreased SACE level and active lesion HRCT score. In total, 18 clinical relapses occurred after the treatment was tapered and these were associated with SACE and active lesion HRCT score impairment. At the final visit, corticosteroids had completely stabilised all parameters including both HRCT scores of active lesions and fibrotic lesions in six out of eight patients. Corticosteroids were beneficial in chronic beryllium disease. They were effective in suppressing granulomatosis lesions in all cases and in stopping the evolution to pulmonary fibrosis in six out of eight patients.
Renal failure secondary to carboplatin therapy is due to acute tubular necrosis and is usually reversible. However, acute renal failure with rapid progression to end-stage renal disease is an exceedingly rare complication of carboplatin therapy. The authors report a case of definitive renal failure secondary to carboplatin chemotherapy for a nasopharyngeal carcinoma. The mechanisms that give rise to the chronic nephropathy are discussed.
Labetalol is a unique antihypertensive agent which is a competitive peripheral antagonist at both alpha- and beta-adrenoceptor sites. Clinically, it possesses about one fourth of the beta-adrenoceptor blocking activity of propranolol and one half of the alpha-adrenoceptor blocking activity of phentolamine with a beta- to alpha-blocking ratio of approximately 7:1. Nowadays, the clinical profile of labetalol is clearly defined. Perorally, it has often been used in the treatment of mild, moderate and severe hypertension and intravenously in the management of hypertensive emergencies. It offers many advantages over beta-blockers with no prominent side-effects. Hemodynamically, labetalol reduces blood pressure, heart rate and, first of all, peripheral resistance with almost no change in resting cardiac output or stroke volume. Labetalol appears to be useful particularly in patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled by beta-blockers alone or combined with a diuretic, but sometimes at the expense of postural hypotensive side-effects. It has proved to be safe in patients with coronary artery disease or after acute myocardial infarction and in pregnant patients, but in phaechromocytoma further clinical experience is needed. In induced hypotension during anesthesia and surgery no invasive blood pressure measurements are needed. The most frequent adverse effects include fatigue, postural hypotension, headache and gastrointestinal complaints. On the whole, labetalol expands the armamentarium of the practising physician in the treatment of hypertension of different origin.
Genetic abnormalities leading to infant leukemias already occur during fetal development and often involve rearrangements of the mixed-lineage leukemia (MLL) gene. These rearrangements resemble the aberrations observed in therapy-related leukemias following treatment with topoisomerase II (topoII)-inhibiting agents such as etoposide. Since flavonoids are potent topoII inhibitors, we examined the role of three widely consumed dietary flavonoids (quercetin, genistein and kaempferol) on the development of MLL rearrangements in primary human CD34(+) cells. Using the neutral Comet assay, we demonstrated a dose-dependent double-strand break (DSB) formation after exposure to flavonoids. An incorrect repair of these DSBs resulted in chromosomal translocations that co-localized with those identified in infant leukemias. Most of these translocations were formed by microhomology-mediated end joining. Moreover, in all but one translocation, SINE/Alu or LINE/L1 repetitive elements were present in at least one side of the breakpoint junction. Beside MLL translocations, fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis demonstrated monosomy or trisomy of MLL in 8-10% of the quercetin-exposed CD34(+) cells. Our study demonstrates that biologically relevant concentrations of flavonoids can induce MLL abnormalities in primary hematopoietic progenitor cells. This is particularly alarming knowing that the differences in metabolism and excretion rate between mother and fetus can lead to a higher flavonoid concentration on the fetal side. Therefore, it is important to raise public awareness and set guidelines for marketing flavonoid supplements to reduce the risk of infant leukemias.
Twenty-two girls with recurrent urinary tract infection and endoscopically proved cystitis cystica were studied prospectively to determine control of infection with long-term, continuous nitrofurantoin or sulfisoxazole (6 to 12 months), effect on the bladder changes and rate of recurrence of infection after discontinuation of medication. Infection was controlled equally with both drugs but, despite adequate control, 24% had evidence of cystic changes upon completion of the treatment period. An additional 44% became reinfected during the 1-year followup with no drugs. Only one-third of those presenting with urinary frequency, urgency and urge incontinence had improvement of these symptoms with control of infection alone. It appears that childhood cystitis cystica is the response of the bladder to long-term, inadequately treated bacterial lower urinary tract infection. Many months to years of continuous medication are required for healing. Toilet retraining, in addition to anticholinergics, also may be necessary to achieve urinary control.
