The acidity of lidocaine used as a local anesthetic during the insertion of Norplant System capsules can cause patient discomfort. Buffering lidocaine with sodium bicarbonate significantly reduced pain scores reported by 46 women who participated in this randomized, double-blind study. Derived from a pain scale of 1 to 10, the mean difference in reported pain scores with and without buffering was 1.17 (P = 0.0098) with women using themselves as controls, for an average reduction in pain of 29%. Because this added step minimized patient discomfort, it might make the Norplant System a more attractive option for women apprehensive about insertion pain.
At the Harbor-UCLA Medical Center in Torrance, California, 46 consecutive women, 17-34 years old, seeking the contraceptive implant Norplant were randomly assigned to either the group that first received three infiltrations of lidocaine buffered with 7.4% sodium bicarbonate (pH 6) followed by 2% unbuffered lidocaine (pH 7.27) or the group that received these medications in reverse order. Researchers aimed to determine whether the addition of sodium bicarbonate to the lidocaine solution would affect the discomfort/pain when providers inserted the Norplant System. 36 of the women were Hispanic. Vaginal childbirth was the worst pain most women (32) had experienced in the past. 30 of the 46 women experienced less pain with the buffered solution than with the unbuffered solution. On the pain scale of 1 (no pain) to 10 (worst pain in their lives), the pain score fell by 1.17 points (29%) with the buffered solution (p = 0.0098). These results suggest that, if providers used buffered lidocaine, women who were apprehensive about insertion pain might be more likely to accept the Norplant system for contraception.
Medulloblastomas (MBs) are the most common malignant brain tumors of childhood. Antitumor agents promoting long-term survival with limited toxicities are thus far lacking. Preliminary findings suggest that retinoic acid (RA) derivatives (retinoids) exert antitumor effects by inhibiting cell proliferation and inducing cell differentiation, apoptosis, and growth arrest, and RAs have been specifically shown to induce apoptosis in some MB cells. However, there is no conclusive evidence of retinoids inducing cell growth arrest in MBs. The aim of this study is to investigate whether retinoids play a role in cell-cycle arrest of MB cells. All-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) was selected for these studies as it is known to have the capacity of inducing cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in other types of cancer cells. Three MB cell lines (DAOY, D283 and D341) were subjected to ATRA treatment. The proportions of cells in the G0/G1 phase of cell cycle and in apoptosis were evaluated. The results showed that cell growth arrest, rather than apoptosis, was the main mechanism by which RA inhibited cell proliferation in the MB cell line DAOY, but not in the others (D283 and D341). Decreased expression of CyclinD1 and C-myc which regulate the transition of cell cycle was observed in DAOY cells following drug treatment, suggesting that these genes might be involved in ATRA retardation of cell cycle progression. Expression of RARbeta, a mediator of the action of retinoids, was also induced by RA in DAOY cells, implying that RAR-beta might also be involved in the mechanism of RA-induced cell cycle arrest. In conclusion, we have provided evidence for the first time that RA may induce cell cycle arrest in vitro in DAOY MB cells via inhibition of CyclinD1 or C-myc.
A 30-year-old Caucasian female was admitted with severe biventricular congestive heart failure secondary to cocaineinduced cardiomyopathy. Contrast-enhanced cardiac magnetic resonance did not reveal myocardial oedema or focal fibrosis. The systolic ventricular function recovered fully after 10 weeks of abstinence from cocaine and supportive medical treatment. This case report is the first to describe findings with magnetic resonance for this condition, and briefly discusses its potential value in the evaluation of patients with cocaine-induced heart failure.
Alterations in the activity of the prefrontal and orbitofrontal cortices of cocaine addicts have been linked with re-exposure to cocaine-associated stimuli.
Using an animal model of relapse to cocaine seeking, the present study investigated the expression patterns of four different activity-regulated genes within prefrontal cortical brain regions after 22 h or 15 days of abstinence during context-induced relapse.
Rats self-administered cocaine or received yoked-saline for 2 h/day for 10 days followed by 22 h or 2 weeks of abstinence when they were re-exposed to the self-administration chamber with or without levers available to press for 1 h. Brains were harvested and sections through the prefrontal cortex were processed for in situ hybridization using radioactive oligonucleotide probes encoding c-fos, zif/268, arc, and bdnf.
Re-exposure to the chamber in which rats previously self-administered cocaine but not saline, regardless of lever availability, increased the expression of all genes in the medial prefrontal and orbitofrontal cortices at both time points with one exception: bdnf mRNA was significantly increased in the medial prefrontal cortex at 22 h only if levers previously associated with cocaine delivery were available to press. Furthermore, re-exposure of rats to the chambers in which they received yoked saline enhanced both zif/268 and arc expression selectively in the orbitofrontal cortex after 15 days of abstinence.
These results support convergent evidence that cocaine-induced changes in the prefrontal cortex are important in regulating drug seeking following abstinence and may provide additional insight into the molecular mechanisms involved in these processes.
Subjects primarily suffering from DSM-III panic disorders (agoraphobia with panic attacks, 13 subjects; panic disorder, one subject) were tested with two drug treatments after a baseline was established using single-blind placebo capsules three times daily for 1 week. Double-blind, 4-week crossover treatments were given with alprazolam, 0.5-6.0 mg/day, and adinazolam mesylate, 10-120 mg/day. Mean final doses in mg/day were 3.1 for alprazolam and 95.5 for adinazolam mesylate. Both were broadly effective in comparison with the baseline condition. Measures included self-rated symptoms and global impressions, physician-rated global impressions, and two forms of challenges, agoraphobic and noradrenergic. The two active drugs were highly similar in overall efficacy across the sample, but alprazolam was favored globally in six subjects, and adinazolam was favored globally in another six subjects. Only two subjects obtained maximal improvement ratings without side effects with both drugs. No diagnostic or demographic factor correlated with the differential in responses to the two active treatments. No clinically significant laboratory abnormalities occurred with either drug.
1. Two oral corticosteroids, prednisolone (8 mg/day) and betamethasone (1 mg/day) have been compared in terms of efficacy and adrenal suppressive activity when used in chronic oral dosage in rheumatoid arthritis. 2. 20 patients were entered to a single blind crossover study receiving each drug for a two-week period. Clinical and laboratory assessments were performed. 3. At this dosage there was no significant difference between any of the clinical parameters assessed for either drug though patient preference was 13 for prednisolone and 7 for betamethasone. 4. At this dosage adrenal suppression was not equivalent, being significantly more marked with betamethasone. 5. The results suggest that prednisolone is the drug of choice for chronic dosage.
Three hundred and fifty-nine US Marines participated in a randomized double-blind clinical trial to assess tolerance of two prophylactic mefloquine regimens [250 mg salt weekly (n = 157) or 250 mg daily for 3 days followed by 250 mg weekly (n = 46)] compared with 300 mg weekly chloroquine (n = 156) over a 12-week period. The study participants were seen daily for four days, then weekly for 11 weeks. On each visit, the subject answered two computerized questionnaires (a review of body systems and an evaluation of mood states), participated in a physician interview, and was administered medications under supervision. A random sample of each group was assigned to either pharmacokinetic sampling or two wear a wrist watch size computerized sleep monitor (actigraph). The frequencies of intercurrent illness and other concomitant medications were tabulated. End study mefloquine plasma levels were obtained on all study participants. The results obtained showed no compromise in function due to dizziness or incoordination in the mefloquine groups. Overall, both weekly mefloquine and loading dose mefloquine were well tolerated. Sleep disturbance and increased dream activity were detected in the mefloquine groups. Depressive feelings were noted in two to three times more individuals in the mefloquine groups than in the chloroquine group early in the course of the study, and resolved in the majority of subjects as tolerance developed. Steady state mefloquine plasma levels were attained rapidly with the loading dose regimen in four days versus seven weeks with weekly mefloquine.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The aim of this study was to test the effectiveness of isosorbide-5-mononitrate (IM) as an adjunct to propranolol (PR) in the prevention of variceal rebleeding.
Seventy-six cirrhotic patients with variceal bleeding were randomly assigned to treatment with PR + IM (34 patients) or PR alone (32 patients).
Seven patients in the PR + IM group and 13 in the PR group had rebleeding during the 1 year after randomization. The actuarial probability of rebleeding 1 years after randomization was lower in the PR + IM group but the difference was not significant (P = 0.09). However, by adding an additional 8 months of follow-up, the decrease in the risk of rebleeding reached statistical significance (P = 0.05). No significant difference was found in rebleeding index and survival. The multivariate Cox analysis indicated both treatment (P = 0.04), severity of liver disease (P = 0.03) and age (P = 0.045) were factors predictive of rebleeding and second, that PR + MI reduced the risk of rebleeding by half (relative risk: 0.54).
These results suggest that the addition of IM improves the efficacy of PR alone in the prevention of variceal rebleeding in cirrhotic patients. However no beneficial effects were observed on other parameters reflecting the efficacy of treatment.
To investigate whether isosorbide-5-mononitrate (Is-5-Mn) given with propranolol reduces hepatic portal pressure more than does propranolol alone in patients with cirrhosis.
A randomized controlled trial.
Fifty patients with cirrhosis and esophageal varices entered and 42 completed the study.
Twenty-one patients received oral propranolol at increasing doses until their resting heart rate was reduced by 25%, and 21 patients received oral propranolol (on the same schedule) plus oral Is-5-Mn, 40 mg twice a day.
Hepatic vein pressure gradient, liver function, and splanchnic and systemic hemodynamics before and after 3 months of continuous therapy.
At 3 months, the hepatic venous pressure gradient decreased more (P less than 0.01) in patients given propranolol plus Is-5-Mn (19%, from 18.4 +/- 3.9 to 14.9 +/- 3.8 mm Hg; 95% CI, -2.4 to -4.5 mm Hg) than in those given propranolol alone (10%, from 18.2 +/- 3.5 to 16.3 +/- 3.1 mm Hg; CI, -1.1 to -2.7 mm Hg). The hepatic venous pressure gradient decreased by more than 20% of the baseline value in 10% of patients receiving propranolol, but in 50% of patients receiving combined therapy (P less than 0.02). There were statistically significant decreases in hepatic blood flow and the intrinsic clearance of indocyanine green after propranolol therapy, but not after combined therapy. The treatments caused similar reductions in azygos blood flow and cardiac output.
The long-term combined administration of propranolol plus Is-5-Mn reduces portal pressure more than propranolol alone without adverse effects on hepatic perfusion and liver function. Whether this greater hemodynamic effect translates into better clinical efficacy should be determined in randomized controlled trials.
Vitamin E (alpha-tocopherol) is a promising chemopreventive and pharmacologically safe agent, which can be exploited or tested against skin cancer. It is an established antioxidant with an ability to ameliorate the UV-induced skin damage and chemically induced inflammation in lungs. However, there are some conflicting reports about its role as a modulator of chemically induced promotion. We evaluated its efficacy in preventing the inflammatory and oxidative stress responses in a double 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) application tumor skin promotion protocol. Double application of TPA was undertaken to produce massive inflammatory and oxidative stress responses. Topical TPA treatment adversely altered many of the marker responses of stage I skin tumor promotion. Vitamin E application 30 min prior to TPA treatment (10 nmol) inhibited induction of hydrogen peroxide, myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity, xanthine oxidase (XO) activity and lipid peroxidation (LPO). Vitamin E also positively modulated altered antioxidants of mouse skin. Histological examination also revealed marked improvement. These results confirm the efficacy of vitamin E against early inflammatory and oxidative stress responses, which are hallmark of tumor promotion and provide rational basis for chemopreventive action of vitamin E in skin cancer.
The interaction between the efficacy and tolerance of amiodarone and the degree of left ventricular (LV) dysfunction was assessed in 126 patients with sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmias. In all patients radionuclide angiographic LV ejection fraction (EF) was measured before and after 8 to 12 months of amiodarone therapy. At baseline mean EF was 25 +/- 13% and 86 patients had an EF of 30% or less. In patients receiving amiodarone at steady state, there was a small but significant increase in EF (23 to 26%, p less than 0.05). Congestive heart failure (CHF) was present in 43 patients before amiodarone therapy. In 16 patients new (9 patients) or worsened (7 patients) CHF developed during the first year of amiodarone therapy. Development of CHF was not consistently related to a change in EF or heart rate. The clinical efficacy and tolerance of amiodarone were affected by the baseline EF and development of CHF. Efficacy and tolerance was 80% in patients with an EF of more than 30% and 60% in those with an EF of 30% or less. Among the 16 patients in whom new or worsened CHF developed, 6 (38%) died and 9 (56%) had recurrent ventricular tachyarrhythmias. Both baseline EF and development of CHF during amiodarone treatment significantly affect the prognosis in patients with ventricular tachyarrhythmias.
Effects of opioids and opioid antagonists on citric acid-induced cough and reflex bronchoconstriction have been examined in conscious guinea pigs. Airway reflexes produced by inhaled citric acid are mediated by capsaicin sensitive sensory neurons, and we examined particularly the possibility that inhibitory effects of opioids can be exerted locally in the airway. As expected, systemically administered codeine (1-10 mg/kg), meperidine (3-30 mg/kg) and morphine (1-10 mg/kg) dose-dependently inhibited cough and bronchoconstriction. However, inhalations of nebulized codeine (10-100 mg/ml) and morphine (10-30 mg/ml) also produced these effects. The potency and rapid onset of action of inhaled codeine suggest that it exerted its effects without first being metabolized to morphine. The opioid receptor antagonist naloxone completely (10-100 micrograms/kg), and nalorphine (a mixed agonist/antagonist) (1-3 mg/kg) partly, inhibited codeine's antitussive and antibronchoconstrictor effects. Nalorphine alone (3-30 mg/kg) inhibited citric acid induced reflexes, whereas naloxone was without effect. Prior inhalation of a quaternary opioid receptor antagonist, levallorphan methyl iodide (10 mg/ml), abolished the inhibitory effects of inhaled codeine (30 mg/ml). The present data suggest that inhibition of cough and reflex bronchoconstriction can be produced by opioids, acting on mu and kappa receptors located in the guinea pig tracheobronchial tree. The possible existence in the airways of a unique opioid receptor mediating inhibition of cough (as described in the central nervous system) cannot be excluded.
Exposure to the environmental toxicant arsenic, through both contaminated water and food, contributes to significant health problems worldwide. In particular, arsenic exposure is thought to function as a carcinogen for lung, skin, and bladder cancer via mechanisms that remain largely unknown. More recently, the Hedgehog signaling pathway has also been implicated in the progression and maintenance of these same cancers. Based on these similarities, we tested the hypothesis that arsenic may act in part through activating Hedgehog signaling. Here, we show that arsenic is able to activate Hedgehog signaling in several primary and established tissue culture cells as well as in vivo. Arsenic activates Hedgehog signaling by decreasing the stability of the repressor form of GLI3, one of the transcription factors that ultimately regulate Hedgehog activity. We also show, using tumor samples from a cohort of bladder cancer patients, that high levels of arsenic exposure are associated with high levels of Hedgehog activity. Given the important role Hedgehog signaling plays in the maintenance and progression of a variety of tumors, including bladder cancer, these results suggest that arsenic exposure may in part promote cancer through the activation of Hedgehog signaling. Thus, we provide an important insight into the etiology of arsenic-induced human carcinogenesis, which may be relevant to millions of people exposed to high levels of arsenic worldwide.
An elderly man with procainamide hydrochloride-induced lupus syndrome had a circulating anticoagulant against factor XI and a biologic false-positive (BFP) test result for syphilis. This was not associated with hemorrhagic problems. The activity of the circulating anticoagulant and the BFP disappeared within days following discontinuation of procainamide and the administration of corticosteroids.
Centrally acting alpha-2 adrenergic agonists are one of several pharmacologic agents used in the treatment of spasticity related to disorders of the central nervous system. In addition to their effects on spasticity, certain adverse cardiorespiratory effects have been reported. Adults chronically treated with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors may have a limited ability to respond to hypotension when the sympathetic response is simultaneously blocked. The authors present a 10-year-old boy chronically treated with lisinopril, an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, to control hypertension who developed hypotension following the addition of tizanidine, an alpha-2 agonist, for the treatment of spasticity. The possible interaction of tizanidine and other antihypertensive agents should be kept in mind when prescribing therapy to treat either hypertension or spasticity in such patients.
Twelve cases have been reported in the literature to have developed acute, largely reversible, global amnesic syndromes some hours after ingesting substantial doses of clioquinol. Two of these cases presented again after asymptomatic intervals of some 12 years. Both had recently developed typical clinical and electroencephalographic evidence of partial epilepsy originating in a temporal lobe. The similarity of clinical events in these two subjects, the absence of any other known cause for their epilepsy and the fact that, in mice, acute clioquinol overdosage causes hippocampal and amygdaloid injury, suggest that the drug was responsible for both the acute encephalopathy and the epilepsy of delayed onset.
Carriers of fragile X premutations were previously considered phenotypically normal but are now known to be at risk for premature ovarian failure (POF). This prompted us to investigate whether premutation carriers (PC) have an increased risk for other diseases. We approached 306 women out of 84 fra(X) families of whom 264 (86.3%) participated in this study. A medical history was taken of these women. Whenever possible, the anamnestic data were verified with medical records. We first evaluated the occurrence of diseases that are commonly associated with menopause in PC and compared this to that in women with either a normal FMR-1 gene or a full mutation. We found no statistically significant differences in the occurrence of diseases known to be associated with menopause, such as cardiovascular diseases and osteoporosis. However, lower bone mineral density was observed only in PC. Subsequently, we compared the occurrence of other medical problems between the two groups by estimating relative risks. PC did not demonstrate other diseases more commonly compared to non-PC from the same families. These findings are important for the counseling of PC. Carriership of the premutation may affect the ovaries, but does not substantially increase the risk for additional medical problems. Once a PC does experience POF, she is at risk for early estrogen deprivation, which may lead to a premature decrease in bone density, when not treated.
The popular diet drugs, fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine, were withdrawn from the market in the United States after the publication of an association of these drugs with valvulopathy in a small series of patients, spontaneous reports to the Food and Drug Administration, and echocardiographic surveys that suggested a valvulopathy prevalence of 32.8% among diet drug users. Subsequent publications suggested that there is an association of these agents with valvulopathy, but that the prevalence seems lower than initially suspected. This review examines the available prevalence data and attempts to account for some of the variability in these data. Potential pathophysiologic mechanisms are discussed and management guidelines for these patients are provided. This is an area of ongoing study and more information about the natural history of these lesions will certainly be forthcoming. A review of the data reveals that the withdrawal of these agents was prudent and likely prevented further harm.
Propiconazole is a mouse hepatotumorigenic fungicide designed to inhibit CYP51, a key enzyme in the biosynthesis of ergosterol in fungi and is widely used in agriculture to prevent fungal growth. Metabolomic studies in mice revealed that propiconazole increased levels of hepatic cholesterol metabolites and bile acids, and transcriptomic studies revealed that genes within the cholesterol biosynthesis, cholesterol metabolism and bile acid biosyntheses pathways were up-regulated. Hepatic cell proliferation was also increased by propiconazole. AML12 immortalized hepatocytes were used to study propiconazole's effects on cell proliferation focusing on the dysregulation of cholesterol biosynthesis and resulting effects on Ras farnesylation and Erk1/2 activation as a primary pathway. Mevalonate, a key intermediate in the cholesterol biosynthesis pathway, increases cell proliferation in several cancer cell lines and tumors in vivo and serves as the precursor for isoprenoids (e.g. farnesyl pyrophosphate) which are crucial in the farnesylation of the Ras protein by farnesyl transferase. Farnesylation targets Ras to the cell membrane where it is involved in signal transduction, including the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway. In our studies, mevalonic acid lactone (MVAL), a source of mevalonic acid, increased cell proliferation in AML12 cells which was reduced by farnesyl transferase inhibitors (L-744,832 or manumycin) or simvastatin, an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, indicating that this cell system responded to alterations in the cholesterol biosynthesis pathway. Cell proliferation in AML12 cells was increased by propiconazole which was reversed by co-incubation with L-744,832 or simvastatin. Increasing concentrations of exogenous cholesterol muted the proliferative effects of propiconazole and the inhibitory effects of L-733,832, results ascribed to reduced stimulation of the endogenous cholesterol biosynthesis pathway. Western blot analysis of subcellular fractions from control, MVAL or propiconazole-treated cells revealed increased Ras protein in the cytoplasmic fraction of L-744,832-treated cells, while propiconazole or MVAL reversed these effects. Western blot analysis indicated that phosphorylation of Erk1/2, a protein downstream of Ras, was increased by propiconazole. These data indicate that propiconazole increases cell proliferation by increasing the levels of cholesterol biosynthesis intermediates presumably through a negative feedback mechanism within the pathway, a result of CYP51 inhibition. This feedback mechanism increases Erk1/2 signaling through mevalonate-mediated Ras activation. These results provide an explanation for the observed effects of propiconazole on hepatic cholesterol pathways and on the increased hepatic cell proliferation induced by propiconazole in mice.
Exposure to estrogenic compounds during critical periods of fetal development could result in adverse effects on the development of reproductive organs that are not apparent until later in life. Bisphenol A (BPA), which is employed in the manufacture of a wide range of consumer products, is a prime candidate for endocrine disruption. We examined BPA to address the question of whether in utero exposure affects the uterus of the offspring and studied the expression and distribution of the estrogen receptors alpha (ERalpha) and beta (ERbeta), because estrogens influence the development, growth, and function of the uterus through both receptors. Gravid Sprague-Dawley dams were administered by gavage either 0.1 or 50 mg/kg per day BPA or 0.2 mg/kg per day 17alpha-ethinyl estradiol (EE2) as reference dose on gestation days 6 through 21. Female offspring were killed in estrus. Uterine morphologic changes as well as ERalpha and ERbeta distribution and expression were measured by immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis. Striking morphologic changes were observed in the uterine epithelium of postpubertal offspring during estrus of the in utero BPA-treated animals (the thickness of the total epithelium was significantly reduced). ERalpha expression was increased in the 50-mg BPA and EE2-treated group. In contrast, we observed significantly decreased ERbeta expression in all BPA- and EE2-treated animals when compared with the control. In summary, these results clearly indicate that in utero exposure of rats to BPA promotes uterine disruption in offspring. We hypothesize that the uterine disruption could possibly be provoked by a dysregulation of ERalpha and ERbeta.
Statins, HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors exert pleiotropic anti-inflammatory properties in vitro and in vivo, and are associated with the risk reduction of colorectal cancer. It remains unknown, however, whether statin is effective for the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Therefore, we investigated anti-inflammatory effects of simvastatin on intestinal epithelial cells (IEC) and on an experimental murine colitis model, and elucidated its molecular mechanisms. Simvastatin (50 micro M) significantly inhibited TNF-alpha-induced IL-8 gene expression in COLO 205 cells. Simvastatin (50 micro M) blocked TNF-alpha-induced NF-kappaB transcriptional activity, IkappaB phosphorylation/degradation and DNA binding activity of NF-kappaB. Administration of simvastatin significantly reduced the severity of dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced murine colitis as assessed by body weight, colon length, DAI, and histology in a dose-dependent manner. These results suggest that simvastatin inhibits proinflammatory gene expression by blocking NF-kappaB signaling in IEC, and attenuates DSS-induced acute murine colitis. Simvastatin could be a potential agent for the treatment of IBD.
1. The objective of the present study was to investigate the arterial structural changes in a salt-sensitive hypertensive rat model induced by treatment with capsaicin. 2. Newborn male Wistar rats were treated with 50 mg/kg capsaicin subcutaneously for 2 days. Control rats were treated with vehicle solution (5% ethanol and 5% Tween 80 in saline). After weaning at 3 weeks, rats were divided into four groups: (i) control with a normal salt diet (0.5% NaCl; CON + NS); (ii) control with a high-salt diet (4% NaCl; CON + HS); (iii) capsaicin plus normal salt diet (CAP + NS); and (iv) capsaicin plus a high-salt diet (CAP + HS). Treatment with different salt diets was initiated at 3 weeks of age and lasted for 18 weeks. Tail-cuff systolic blood pressure (BP) and bodyweight were examined. At the end of the treatment period, blood vessels were prepared by perfusion fixation. Heart weight and vascular dimensions were measured in the thoracic (artery) aorta, renal artery and mesenteric artery. 3. Two weeks after the initiation of the salt diet treatment, BP became significantly higher in the CAP + HS group than in any of the other groups and this difference was maintained until the end of the treatment period. 4. Beginning at 8 weeks after the initiation of the salt diet treatment (11 weeks of age), BP became higher in the CON + HS group than in the CON + NS and CAP + NS groups. Blood pressure was not significantly different between the CON + NS and CAP + NS groups. 5. Media thickness, media thickness to lumen ratio and cross-sectional area of the aorta, renal artery and mesenteric artery were significantly increased in the CAP + HS group compared with the other groups. Heart weight was also increased in the CAP + HS and CON + HS groups compared with the other groups. 6. Similar structural changes in the blood vessels and heart were also found in the CON + HS group compared with the CON + NS group. Lumen diameter was not altered by the treatments in any of the arteries studied. 7. We conclude that treatment with capsaicin increased the sensitivity of the BP of these rats to salt and this increase in BP is correlated with hypertrophy of the arteries (vascular remodelling) with no change in lumen size. A long-term high-sodium load induced hypertension in normal Wistar rats, which was accompanied by cardiovascular hypertrophy.
Fetal Valproate Syndrome (FVS) results from prenatal exposure to valproic acid (VPA). It is characterized by a distinctive facial appearance, a cluster of minor and major anomalies, and central nervous system dysfunction. In this study, two siblings who were exposed to monotherapy with VPA are described with documentation of long-term follow up. Both children had craniofacial findings, multiple systemic and orthopedic abnormalities, an overgrowth pattern, and developmental deficits. The literature from 1978-2000 is reviewed. A total of 69 cases that were solely exposed to VPA with adequate phenotypic description were identified. The clinical manifestations of FVS encompass a wide spectrum of abnormalities including consistent facial phenotype, multiple systemic and orthopedic involvement, central nervous system dysfunction, and altered physical growth. The facial appearance is characterized by a small broad nose, small ears, flat philtrum, a long upper lip with shallow philtrum, and micro/retrognathia. In this review, 62% of the patients had musculoskeletal abnormalities, 30% had minor skin defects, 26% had cardiovascular abnormalities, 22% had genital abnormalities, and 16% had pulmonary abnormalities. Less frequently encountered abnormalities included brain, eye, kidney, and hearing defects. Neural tube defects were seen in 3% of the sample. Twelve percent of affected children died in infancy and 29% of surviving patients had developmental deficits/mental retardation. Although 15% of patients had growth retardation, an overgrowth pattern was seen in 9%. The data from this comprehensive review especially the developmental outcome should be added to the teratogenic risk, that arises in association with the use of VPA during pregnancy.
Resveratrol inhibits herpes simplex virus (HSV) replication by an unknown mechanism. Previously it was suggested that this inhibition may be mediated through a cellular factor essential for HSV replication [Docherty, J.J., Fu, M.M., Stiffler, B.S., Limperos, R.J., Pokabla, C.M., DeLucia, A.L., 1999. Resveratrol inhibition of herpes simplex virus replication. Antivir. Res. 43, 145-155]. After examining numerous cellular factors, we report that resveratrol suppresses NF-kappaB (NF-kappaB) activation in HSV infected cells. Reports have indicated that HSV activates NF-kappaB during productive infection and this may be an essential aspect of its replication scheme [Patel, A., Hanson, J., McLean, T.I., Olgiate, J., Hilton, M., Miller, W.E., Bachenheimer, S.L., 1998. Herpes simplex type 1 induction of persistent NF-kappa B nuclear translocation increases the efficiency of virus replication. Virology 247, 212-222; Gregory, D., Hargett, D., Holmes, D., Money, E., Bachenheimer, S.L., 2004. Efficient replication by herpes simplex virus type 1 involves activation of the IkappaB kinase-IkappaB-RelA/p65 pathway. J. Virol. 78, 13582-13590]. Electromobility shift assays determined that resveratrol, in a dose dependent and reversible manner, suppressed activation of NF-kappaB in Vero cells infected with HSV-1, HSV-2 and acyclovir resistant HSV-1. Furthermore, resveratrol did not protect IkappaBalpha, a cytoplasmic NF-kappaB inhibitor, from degradation in HSV-1 infected cells. Immunohistochemical studies demonstrated that RelA/p65, a component of the dimeric NF-kappaB complex, translocated to the nucleus of HSV-1 infected cells in the presence of resveratrol. Finally, direct effects on viral transcription and DNA synthesis were evaluated. Real-time RT-PCR analysis showed that resveratrol treatment of infected cells resulted in reductions of mRNA for ICP0, ICP4, ICP8 and HSV-1 DNA polymerase by 2.1-, 3.3-, 3.8- and 3.1-fold, respectively. Plus, mRNA for glycoprotein C, an HSV late gene, was completely absent in the presence of resveratrol. Lastly, quantitative PCR showed that resveratrol significantly blocked HSV DNA synthesis. Cumulatively, these data indicate that resveratrol (i) suppresses HSV induced activation of NF-kappaB within the nucleus and (ii) impairs expression of essential immediate-early, early and late HSV genes and synthesis of viral DNA.
The aim of this study is to investigate the efficacy of 1-Hz repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) over the primary motor cortex (M1) on acute pain induced by intradermal capsaicin injection and to elucidate its mechanisms by single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). We compared time courses of a subjective scale of pain induced by intradermal capsaicin injection in seven normal subjects under three different conditions: rTMS over M1, sham stimulation, and control condition (natural course of acute pain without any stimulation). In ten normal subjects, using SPECT, we also studied differences in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) after capsaicin injection between two conditions: rTMS over M1 and the control condition. rTMS over M1 induced earlier recovery from acute pain compared with the sham or control conditions. Under rTMS over the right M1 condition compared with the control condition, the SPECT study demonstrated a significant relative rCBF decrease in the right medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC) corresponding to Brodmann area (BA) 9, and a significant increase in the caudal part of the right anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) corresponding to BA24 and the left premotor area (BA6). A region-of-interest analysis showed significant correlation between pain reduction and rCBF changes in both BA9 and BA24. We conclude that rTMS over M1 should have beneficial effects on acute pain, and its effects must be caused by functional changes of MPFC and caudal ACC.
