Fragile X syndrome (FXS) is the most common single gene inherited form of mental retardation, with behaviours at the extreme of the autistic spectrum. Subjects with FXS and fragile X mental retardation gene knock out (Fmr1 KO) mice, an animal model for FXS, have been shown to exhibit defects in dendritic spine maturation that may underlie cognitive and behavioural abnormalities in FXS. Minocycline is a tetracycline analogue that has been used in clinical trials for stroke, multiple sclerosis and several neurodegenerative conditions.
We evaluated the effects of minocycline on dendritic spine development in the hippocampus of young Fmr1 KO mice, and in primary cultures of hippocampal neurons isolated from those mice. Cognitive effects of minocycline in young WT and Fmr1 KO mice were also evaluated using established behavioural tests for general cognition, activity and anxiety.
Our studies demonstrate that minocycline promotes dendritic spine maturation both in cultures and in vivo. The beneficial effects of minocycline on dendritic spine morphology are also accompanied by changes in the behavioural performance of 3-week-old Fmr1 KO mice. Minocycline treated Fmr1 KO mice show less anxiety in the elevated plus maze and more strategic exploratory behaviour in the Y maze as compared to untreated Fmr1 KO mice. Our data suggest that these effects of minocycline may relate to its inhibitory action on MMP-9 expression and activity, which are higher in the hippocampus of Fmr1 KO mice.
These findings establish minocycline as a promising therapeutic for the treatment of fragile X mental retardation.
FK506-related leukoencephalopathy has been reported to be reversible and readily treated by discontinuation or reduction of FK506. We describe two pediatric cases of FK506-related leukoencephalopathy following allogeneic bone marrow transplantation, which could not be readily controlled. These cases show that FK506-related leukoencephalopathy is not always reversible, and patients may develop epilepsy. Bone Marrow Transplantation (2000) 25, 331-334.
We reviewed the results of serum testosterone and prolactin determination in 1,022 patients referred because of erectile dysfunction and compared the data with history, results of physical examination, other etiological investigations and effects of endocrine therapy to refine the rules of cost-effective endocrine screening and to pinpoint actual responsibility for hormonal abnormalities.
Testosterone and prolactin were determined by radioimmunoassay. Every patient was screened for testosterone and 451 were screened for prolactin on the basis of low sexual desire, gynecomastia or testosterone less than 4 ng./ml. Determination was repeated in case of abnormal first results. Prolactin results were compared with those of a previous personal cohort of 1,340 patients with erectile dysfunction and systematic prolactin determination. Main clinical criteria tested regarding efficiency in hormone determination were low sexual desire, small testes and gynecomastia. Endocrine therapy consisted of testosterone heptylate or human chorionic gonadotropin for hypogonadism and bromocriptine for hyperprolactinemia.
Testosterone was less than 3 ng./ml. in 107 patients but normal in 40% at repeat determination. The prevalence of repeatedly low testosterone increased with age (4% before age 50 years and 9% 50 years or older). Two pituitary tumors were discovered after testosterone determination. Most of the other low testosterone levels seemed to result from nonorganic hypothalamic dysfunction because of normal serum luteinizing hormone and prolactin and to have only a small role in erectile dysfunction (definite improvement in only 16 of 44 [36%] after androgen therapy, normal morning or nocturnal erections in 30% and definite vasculogenic contributions in 42%). Determining testosterone only in cases of low sexual desire or abnormal physical examination would have missed 40% of the cases with low testosterone, including 37% of those subsequently improved by androgen therapy. Prolactin exceeded 20 ng./ml. in 5 men and was normal in 2 at repeat determination. Only 1 prolactinoma was discovered. These data are lower than those we found during the last 2 decades (overall prolactin greater than 20 ng./ml. in 1.86% of 1,821 patients, prolactinomas in 7, 0.38%). Bromocriptine was definitely effective in cases with prolactin greater than 35 ng./ml. (8 of 12 compared to only 9 of 22 cases with prolactin between 20 and 35 ng./ml.). Testosterone was low in less than 50% of cases with prolactin greater than 35 ng./ml.
Low prevalences and effects of low testosterone and high prolactin in erectile dysfunction cannot justify their routine determination. However, cost-effective screening strategies recommended so far missed 40 to 50% of cases improved with endocrine therapy and the pituitary tumors. We now advocate that before age 50 years testosterone be determined only in cases of low sexual desire and abnormal physical examination but that it be measured in all men older than 50 years. Prolactin should be determined only in cases of low sexual desire, gynecomastia and/or testosterone less than 4 ng./ml.
This study was conducted to evaluate the zwitterionic common metabolite of a novel series of N-substituted soft analogs of glycopyrrolate both as racemates and as 2R isomers.
Activities were assessed using both in vitro (receptor binding assay, guinea pig ileum pA2 assay) and in vivo techniques (rabbit mydriatic response, rat cardiac effects). Pharmacokinetic characterizations in rats were also performed.
The metabolite was highly water-soluble and very stable in buffer solutions as well as in rat biological media. Following i.v. administration in rats, it was very rapidly eliminated, mainly through renal excretion with a half-life of about 10 min. Receptor binding and guinea pig ileum assays indicated this metabolite as more than 1 order of magnitude less active than its parent soft drugs or glycopyrrolate. Moderate M3/M2 muscarinic receptor subtype selectivity was observed, further reducing the likelihood of cardiac side effects. The metabolite showed to some extent mydriatic effect and protective effect against carbachol-induced bradycardia, but of much shorter durations than glycopyrrolate; it had, however, no effect on resting heart rate.
N-Substituted zwitterionic metabolites retain some, but only considerably reduced activity of their parent quaternary ammonium ester soft anticholinergic drugs, and they are very rapidly eliminated from the systemic circulation. They are suitable for their assigned role within the framework of inactive metabolite-based soft anticholinergic design.
The acute effect of Ambrosia paniculata was studied in several animal models of epilepsy. Intraperitoneal injections (0.01 mL/g body wt) of a decoction of the dry leaves significantly enhanced the latency to the first convulsion and survival time in mice injected with picrotoxin (7 mg/kg) or isoniazid (210 mg/kg). Epileptic spikes were induced by topical application of penicillin through a glass electrode filled with a penicillin-agar-saline mixture and recorded in sensorimotor and occipital cortices, in rats immobilized with d-tubocurarine. The plant decoction reduced significantly the spike amplitude in both sites. The mentioned effects were elicited at doses that also reduced general motor activity (Irwin test) and exploratory behavior. The decoctions were not effective against electroshock-induced convulsions in mice. The convulsions induced by isoniazid, picrotoxin, and penicillin differed from those induced by electroshock implicating selective disruption of GABAergic neurotransmission. The results suggest that A. paniculata, like several conventional antiepileptic drugs, might act by enhancing GABAergic neurotransmission, a hypothesis that requires further demonstration. These results explain and justify the traditional use of the plant in epilepsy.
Cryptorchidism is the most frequent developmental abnormality in boys, present in more than 1% of infants above three months of age. It is associated with an increased risk of infertility and testicular cancer. The etiological quest is often disappointing, except in bilateral cases or associated malformations. Recent focus is on genetic and environmental aspects. Animal models have revealed the role of genes encoding for proteins implicated in testicular migration (InsI3, Hoxa 10), but in humans results are less convincing. While some degree of endogenous hormonal abnormality is suspeeted in some patients, the endocrine disruptor hypothesis is also tested. It is unclear whether the incidence of cryptorchidism has really increased, or whether there is only a better screening for this condition. However, other male reproductive problems, such as subfertility, hypospadias and testicular cancer seem on the rise. This secular trend suggests the possible in utero impact of hormonally active environmental factors, such as pesticides with estrogenic or antiandrogenic effect, and is consistent with the increased risk of cryptorchidism observed in the sons of mothers exposed to diethylstilbestrol during pregnancy. From a therapeutic point of view, there is an agreement that the correction of cryptorchidism is needed, but there is controversy on the best medical and/or surgical approach and on the optimal timing. There is a recent trend in proposing early therapeutic intervention, before 1 yr of age, in the hope of improving fertility; however, there is no proof that such a strategy can reduce the risk of testicular cancer.
Tramadol is one of the most widely used centrally acting analgesics worldwide. Because of its multimodal analgesic mechanism (opioid plus nonopioid), the adverse effects profile of tramadol, similar to its analgesic profile, can be atypical compared with single-mechanism opioid analgesics. The comparison is often favorable (e.g., less respiratory depression or abuse), but it is sometimes cited as unfavorable in regard to seizure potential. As part of a broader study of this analgesic, we compared seizure induction in mice produced by administration of tramadol, the enantiomers and metabolites [M1 (O-desmethyl tramadol), M2 (N-desmethyl tramadol), M3 (N,N-didesmethyl tramadol), M4 (O,N,N-tridesmethyl tramadol), and M5 (O,N-didesmethyl tramadol)] of tramadol, and opioid and nonopioid reference compounds. We found that tramadol, its enantiomers, and M1 to M5 metabolites were of intermediate potency in this endpoint (on either a milligram per kilogram or millimole per kilogram basis). The SD50 (estimated dose required to induce seizures in 50% of test group) of tramadol to antinociceptive ED50 ratio was almost identical to that of codeine. The enantiomers of tramadol were about equipotent to tramadol on this endpoint. The M1 to M5 metabolites (and M1 enantiomers) of tramadol were less potent than tramadol. The relative potency of tramadol to opioids was not altered by quinidine (an inhibitor of CYP4502D6), noxious stimulus (48 degrees C hot-plate), multiple dosing, or in reserpinized mice. Tramadol seizures were increased by naloxone, principally at high tramadol doses and due to an effect on the (-)enantiomer that overcame the opposite effect on the (+)enantiomer. No synergistic effect on seizure induction was observed between concomitant tramadol and codeine or morphine.
Cocaine abuse may lead to overdose (related to seizures and/or status epilepticus) and to diseases (schizophrenia, depression, and anxiety). This work was designed to study the influence of drugs used to treat psychopathologies associated with cocaine abuse on cocaine-induced seizures and mortality in mice. Fluoxetine (10, 20, 40 mg/kg), imipramine and buspirone (5, 10 mg/kg), pimozide (10, 20 mg/kg), lithium (56.3, 112.5 mg/kg), and naltrexone (25, 50 mg/kg) were administered intraperitoneally, 30 minutes prior to cocaine (90 mg/kg, ip). The animals were observed (30 minutes) to determine: latency to first seizure, number of seizures, and number of deaths after cocaine overdose. Fluoxetine, imipramine, buspirone, and pimozide had pro- or anticonvulsant effects depending on the dose. Smaller doses protected and higher doses increased cocaine-induced seizures and/or mortality. Naltrexone worsened and lithium protected against seizures. Thus, these results suggest that caution should be taken in the selection of pharmacotherapy and dosages for patients with cocaine addiction because of the possibility of potentiating cocaine toxicity.
Prolonged seizures in immature rats result in minimal behavioral consequences when the animals are studied later in life. Likewise, early-onset seizures are associated with minimal morphological changes. However, it is known that seizures early in life result in changes in the brain that make it more vulnerable to subsequent seizure-induced injury (the so-called two-hit hypothesis). Whether this heightened vulnerability occurs immediately after the first seizure is not known. In this study, immature rats were exposed to status epilepticus (SE) followed by a series of 25 flurothyl-induced seizures, SE alone, 25 flurothyl-induced seizures alone, or no seizures. Rats exposed to SE and flurothyl seizures performed significantly poorer in the water maze 2 weeks following the last seizure compared with the other groups. No histological lesions were seen in any of the four groups. This study suggests that SE renders the immature brain vulnerable to further seizure-induced injury and this enhanced vulnerability occurs very quickly after the SE.
Hypoxemia and acidemia (hypoxemia/acidemia) are serious complications in the critically ill and often occur in unstable patients exposed to extracorporeal organ support. Still, little is known about the biocompatibility interactions of hypoxemia/acidemia with extracorporeal circuits (ECC). Existing animal models often include the release of mediator cascades (sepsis-, lung injury models) or are based on small laboratory animals. We established a porcine model of hypoxemia/acidemia without an underlying disease and further challenged the situation with an extracorporeal circuit (ECC).
Hypoxemia/acidemia were induced (3.5 h) and maintained (3 h) in anesthetized pigs (40 kg) by a stepwise reduction in oxygenation, infusion of 0.4 mol.l⁻¹ lactic and hydrochloric acid and by low tidal volume ventilation, targeting an PaO₂ < 70 mmHg, SvO₂ < 65%, pH ~ 7.2. Venovenous hemofiltration (CVVH) operated in recirculation mode without volume exchange was chosen to prove the suitability of the model for studies on ECCs under clinical conditions (ECC group, n=6). Another 6 animals underwent the same protocol except for the CVVH (reference group, n=6).
The median PaO₂ during hypoxemia/acidemia was 62 mmHg, the median SvO₂ was 38%, and the median pH was 7.22. Hypoxemia/acidemia was successfully induced and maintained for 6.5 h in all pigs. CVVH could be performed for 3 h with blood flow rates up to 300 ml.min⁻¹ and filtrate rates up to 60 ml.min⁻¹.
Our model provides hypoxemia/acidemia with blood gas values comparable to critically ill adult patients for several hours, during which it is possible to perform CVVH. Thus, it enables research on the biocompatibility reactions of extracorporeal circuits under intensive care conditions.
A 15-year-old female adolescent with depression developed myoclonus after uninterrupted treatment with sertraline over 6 years. She was also receiving methylphenidate. Withdrawal of sertraline and continuation of methylphenidate did not result in any improvement. Treatment with valproic acid resulted in improvement of the movement disorder. This report suggests that myoclonus may be a side effect of sertraline in some adolescents. Further, we hypothesized that extended treatment over several years, young age, and a compromised central nervous system due to underlying disorders may be risk factors for the development of this side effect.
Changed neuropeptide Y (NPY) system in the hippocampus has been reported in various experimental epileptic models. However, there have been little data concerning the alteration in the NPY system in the epileptic hippocampus following treatment of anti-epileptic drugs (AEDs). In the present study, therefore, we performed analyses of effects of vigabatrin (VGB) and zonisamide (ZNS) treatment on the NPY system in the hippocampus of the seizure sensitive (SS) gerbils. In SS gerbil, NPY immunoreactivity in the hippocampus was lower than that in seizure resistant gerbil. Following VGB treatment, the number of NPY immunoreactive neurons and NPY mRNA expression were increased in the hilus and the hippocampus proper. In contrast, ZNS treatment markedly elevated only the density of NPY immunoreactive fibers in the dentate gyrus, not in the hippocampus proper, as compared with saline-treated animals. These patterns were observed in the dose-dependent manners. These findings suggest that AEDs treatments may distinctly affect the NPY system in the SS gerbil hippocampus.
The growth hormone receptor (GHR) is potentially involved in prostate cancer through its role in stimulating insulin-like growth factor I production and its cellular effects on prostate epithelium. We have used a haplotype-based tagging approach within CAncer Prostate Sweden, a large retrospective case-control study of 2,863 cases and 1,737 controls to investigate if genetic variation in the GHR gene influences prostate cancer risk. One haplotype in the 3' region of the GHR gene was found associated with prostate cancer risk in elderly men (>65 years old at the time of diagnosis), with heterozygote haplotype carriers having an odds ratio of 1.65 (95% confidence interval, 1.21-2.16; P = 0.0009, P(corrected) = 0.03). GHR function has been implicated in the determination of body mass index. Interestingly, the same haplotype associated with risk in the 3' end of the GHR gene was also associated with a decrease in body mass index in controls (P = 0.003, P(corrected) = 0.05), possibly indicating some functionality with this haplotype. These results suggest that whereas genetic variation in the GHR gene does not seem to play a major role in prostate cancer etiology, one haplotype in the 3' region may be potentially relevant to cases with later onset of prostate cancer.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) receptor activation within the basolateral amygdala (BLA) has been relatively unexplored compared with the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA), despite the fact that CRF receptors are more densely distributed in BLA than in CeA. The authors show that infusion of CRF into BLA, but not CeA, decreases feeding and increases grooming. These effects are mediated by CRF-sub-1 receptors, because they are blocked by intra-BLA treatment with NBI27914 (NBI), a CRF-sub-1 antagonist, but not Astressin 2B, a CRF-sub-2 antagonist. Exposure to a stressor results in behaviors identical to those seen after intra-BLA CRF infusion. These stress-induced changes are prevented by pre-stress treatment with NBI but not Astressin 2B. These data demonstrate that stimulation of intra-BLA CRF-sub-1 receptors is both necessary and sufficient for eliciting stress-induced anorexia and grooming.
Sex hormones have been implicated in prostate carcinogenesis and are thought to modulate cell proliferation and growth. To investigate the association between polymorphisms in hormone-related genes and prostate cancer risk, we conducted a two-stage, case-control study within the screening arm of the Prostate, Lung, Colorectal, and Ovarian Cancer Screening Trial. Using DNA extracted from blood specimens, we initially genotyped 14 single nucleotide polymorphisms in genes involved in hormone regulation or metabolism (AKR1C3, CYP1A1, CYP1B1, CYP3A4, ESR1, GNRH1, HSD173B, HSD3B2, SHBG, and SRD5A2) in 488 prostate cancer cases and 617 matched controls. Heterozygotes at SHBG D356N were found to be associated with an increased risk of prostate cancer compared with the homozygous wild type, particularly among non-Hispanic whites (odds ratio, 1.54; 95% confidence interval, 1.13-2.09; P = 0.006). No significant associations were observed with the other polymorphisms. The SHBG D356N polymorphism, which has potential functional significance, was subsequently genotyped in additional 769 cases and 1,168 controls. Overall, SHBG D356N heterozygotes were found to have an increased risk of prostate cancer among whites (odds ratio, 1.34; 95% confidence interval, 1.10-1.63; P = 0.0007). This study suggests that genetic variation in SHBG may influence prostate cancer susceptibility.
Patients receiving chemotherapy for metastatic breast cancer are at high risk of thromboembolic disease. Long-term oral anticoagulant therapy is needed but increases the risk of haemorrhagic complications. We have assessed the safety and efficacy of warfarin in very low doses as prophylaxis. Women receiving chemotherapy for metastatic breast cancer were randomly assigned either very-low-dose warfarin (152 patients) or placebo (159). The warfarin dose was 1 mg daily for 6 weeks and was then adjusted to maintain the prothrombin time at an international normalised ratio (INR) of 1.3 to 1.9. Study treatment continued until 1 week after the end of chemotherapy. The average daily dose from initiation of titration was 2.6 (SD 1.2) mg for the warfarin group and the mean INR was 1.52. The mean time at risk of thrombosis was 199 (126) days for warfarin-treated patients and 188 (137) days for placebo recipients (p = 0.45). There were 7 thromboembolic events (6 deep-vein thrombosis, 1 pulmonary embolism) in the placebo group and 1 (pulmonary embolism) in the warfarin group, a relative risk reduction of about 85% (p = 0.031). Major bleeding occurred in 2 placebo recipients and 1 warfarin-treated patient. There was no detectable difference in survival between the treatment groups. Very-low-dose warfarin is a safe and effective method for prevention of thromboembolism in patients with metastatic breast cancer who are receiving chemotherapy.
Cocoa flavanols (CF) positively influence physiological processes in ways that suggest their consumption may improve aspects of cognitive function. This study investigated the acute cognitive and subjective effects of CF consumption during sustained mental demand. In this randomized, controlled, double-blinded, balanced, three period crossover trial 30 healthy adults consumed drinks containing 520 mg, 994 mg CF and a matched control, with a three-day washout between drinks. Assessments included the state anxiety inventory and repeated 10-min cycles of a Cognitive Demand Battery comprising of two serial subtraction tasks (Serial Threes and Serial Sevens), a Rapid Visual Information Processing (RVIP) task and a 'mental fatigue' scale, over the course of 1 h. Consumption of both 520 mg and 994 mg CF significantly improved Serial Threes performance. The 994 mg CF beverage significantly speeded RVIP responses but also resulted in more errors during Serial Sevens. Increases in self-reported 'mental fatigue' were significantly attenuated by the consumption of the 520 mg CF beverage only. This is the first report of acute cognitive improvements following CF consumption in healthy adults. While the mechanisms underlying the effects are unknown they may be related to known effects of CF on endothelial function and blood flow.
The effects of acetyl salicyclic acid (ASA) on somatosensory evoked potentials (SEP) and neural levels of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), products of lipid peroxidation, were studied in streptozotocin-diabetic rats. ASA (100 mg/kg, in rat chow) was given to diabetic rats (n = 8) after the induction of diabetes for 16 weeks. ASA-treated normal control rats (n = 8), untreated diabetic rats (n = 8) and normal control rats (n = 8) were used for comparison. At the 8 weeks, SEP latency in diabetic group (15.4 +/- 0.5 ms) was significantly longer than that in normal control group (10.0 +/- 0.8 ms, P < 0.05). When compared to levels in diabetic control group, ASA shortened SEP latency significantly (12.7 +/- 0.1 ms; P < 0.05). This effect of ASA was significant in all three measurements from week 8 to 16 (P < 0.05 vs. diabetic control group). Neural TBARS level in diabetic control group (60.1 +/- 2.2 nmol/g) was significantly, higher than that in normal control group (28.5 +/- 3.6 nmol/g, P < 0.05). When compared to levels in diabetic control group, ASA depressed TBARS level significantly (41.5 +/- 12 nmol/g; P < 0.05). TBARS level in ASA-treated diabetic group (27.2 +/- 5.7 nmol/g) was comparable with that in normal control group (NS). These results suggest that ASA has beneficial effect on diabetic neuropathy and this effect may be related in part with prevention of lipid peroxidation.
A 64 year old patient developed severe hepatocellular damage with jaundice and coagulopathy during ingestion of a combination of paracetamol and chlorzoxazone in therapeutic dosage. The risk factors for the development of liver cell necrosis following ingestion of paracetamol in therapeutic dosage are discussed. In particular in patients with risk factors (e.g. alcoholics and patients with heart failure) paracetamol-induced liver failure has to be considered in the presence of high transaminases, even when paracetamol was ingested in therapeutic dosage. Chlorzoxazone itself rarely can induce an idiosyncratic hepatocellular damage.
The estimated mortality rate associated with ambient air pollution based on general population studies may not be representative of the effects on certain subgroups. The objective of the present study was to determine the influence of relatively high concentrations of air pollution on mortality in a general population sample and in the very elderly.
Daily time-series analyses tested the association between daily air pollution and daily mortality in seven Chilean urban centers during 1997-2003. Results were adjusted for day of the week and humidex.
Daily averaged particulate matter with aerodynamic matter < 10 microm (PM(10)) was 84.88 microg/m(3), sulfur dioxide was 14.08 ppb, and carbon monoxide was 1.29 ppb. The 1-hr maximum ozone was 100.13 ppb. The percentage increases in nonaccidental mortality associated with an increase in PM(10) equivalent to its mean were 4.53 (t-ratio 1.52) for those < 65 years and 14.03 (3.87) for those > 85 years. Respective values were 4.96 (1.17) and 8.56 (2.02) for O(3); 4.77 (2.50) and 7.92 (3.23) for SO(2); and 4.10 (2.52) and 8.58 (4.45) for CO.
Our results suggest that the very elderly are particularly susceptible to dying from air pollution. Concentrations deemed acceptable for the general population may not adequately protect the very elderly.
This study examines the effects of a proton pump inhibitor on a rat model of duodenogastric reflux. Duodenoesophageal reflux was induced in 60 rats by performing a duodenesophagostomy. The study group received daily intraperitoneal injections of a proton pump inhibitor for 6 months and the control group received an equivalent injection of saline. Rats were examined at death for macroscopic tumor, dysplasia, adenocystic changes, papillomatosis, and adenocarcinoma. Five out of 19 rats in the study group and three out of 20 rats in the control group developed dysplastic/adenocarcinomatous changes. Ten of the rats in the study group died before the end of the study, as opposed to one in the control group (this is not statistically significant). There was no difference in the number of cancers that developed in the two groups. However, there was an insignificant trend to earlier appearance of detectable disease in the study group.
It is increasingly clear that environmental toxicants target specific human subpopulations. In the current study, we examined the effects of prior developmental exposure to a beta(2)-adrenoceptor agonist used to arrest preterm labor, terbutaline, on the subsequent effects of exposure to the organophosphate insecticide, chlorpyrifos (CPF). Neonatal rats were given terbutaline on postnatal day (PN) 2-5, followed by CPF on PN11-14. Although neither treatment affected growth or viability, each elicited alterations in indices of brain cell differentiation and cholinergic innervation in the immediate posttreatment period (PN15), persisting into adulthood (PN60). Biomarkers of brain cell number (DNA concentration and content), cell size (protein/DNA ratio) and neuritic projections (membrane/total protein) were affected by either agent alone, with patterns consistent with neuronal and neuritic damage accompanied by reactive gliosis. The combined exposure augmented these effects by both additive and synergistic mechanisms. Similarly, choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), a constitutive marker for cholinergic nerve terminals, was affected only by combined exposure to both terbutaline and CPF. Indices of cholinergic synaptic activity [hemicholinium-3 and m(2)-muscarinic acetylcholine receptor binding] showed impairment after exposure to either terbutaline or CPF but the effects were more severe when the treatments were combined. These findings suggest that terbutaline, like CPF, is a developmental neurotoxicant, and that its use in the therapy of preterm labor may create a subpopulation that is sensitized to the adverse neural effects of a subsequent exposure to organophosphate insecticides.
Most preneoplastic lesions are quiescent and do not progress to form overt tumors. It has been proposed that oncogenic stress activates the DNA damage response and the key tumor suppressor p53, which prohibits tumor growth. However, the molecular pathways by which cells sense a premalignant state in vivo are largely unknown. Here we report that tissue-specific inactivation of the stress signaling kinase MKK7 in KRas(G12D)-driven lung carcinomas and NeuT-driven mammary tumors markedly accelerates tumor onset and reduces overall survival. Mechanistically, MKK7 acts through the kinases JNK1 and JNK2, and this signaling pathway directly couples oncogenic and genotoxic stress to the stability of p53, which is required for cell cycle arrest and suppression of epithelial cancers. These results show that MKK7 functions as a major tumor suppressor in lung and mammary cancer in mouse and identify MKK7 as a vital molecular sensor to set a cellular anti-cancer barrier.
Ethyl tertiary butyl ether (ETBE) is used as an additive to gasoline to reduce carbon monoxide emissions in some developed countries. So far, ETBE was not found with positive results in many genotoxic assays. This study is undertaken to investigate the modifying effects of deficiency of aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 (ALDH2) on the toxicity of ETBE in the livers of mice. Eight-week-old wild-type (WT) and Aldh2 knockout (KO) C57BL/6 mice of both sexes were exposed to 0, 500, 1,750, and 5,000 ppm ETBE for 6 h/day with 5 days per weeks for 13 weeks. Histopathology assessments and measurements of genetic effects in the livers were performed. Significantly increased accidences of centrilobular hypertrophy were observed in the livers of WT and KO mice of both sexes in 5,000 ppm group; there was a sex difference in centrilobular hypertrophy between male and female KO mice, with more severe damage in the males. In addition, DNA strand breaks, 8-hydroxyguanine DNA-glycosylase (hOGG1)-modified oxidative base modification, and 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine as genetic damage endpoints were significantly increased in three exposure groups in KO male mice, while these genotoxic effects were only found in 5,000 ppm group of KO female mice. In WT mice, significant DNA damage was seen in 5,000 ppm group of male mice, but not in females. Thus, sex differences in DNA damage were found not only in KO mice, but also in WT mice. These results suggest that ALDH2 polymorphisms and sex should be taken into considerations in predicting human health effects of ETBE exposure.
The food additive butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT) is capable of damaging centrilobular or periportal cells in the liver according to the dose and duration of treatment. The effect of two hepatotoxicity potentiating agents on the site specificity of acute cell damage was investigated in Sprague-Dawley rats. A 500 mg/kg oral dose of BHT did not cause overt hepatic necrosis or alter the cytochrome P450 concentration, but increased ethoxycoumarin-O-deethylation, implying an alteration in the ratio of P450 isoenzymes. Pretreatment with either phenobarbitone (3 X 80 mg/kg, ip) or the glutathione depleting agent buthionine sulfoximine (900 mg/kg, ip) produced liver necrosis in approximately 50% of animals: mainly in centrilobular areas, but with some necrosis in midzonal or periportal areas. Phenobarbitone and BHT did not significantly change the cytochrome P450 concentration, but did alter the ratio of P450 isoenzymes. In phenobarbitone-pretreated rats centrilobular hepatocyte damage was clearly localized in cells with high immunocytochemical staining for the cytochrome P450IIB subfamily. Buthionine sulfoximine and BHT reduced the cytochrome P450 concentration without reducing ethoxycoumarin-O-deethylase activity, implying a different alteration in the ratio of P450 isoenzymes. These results indicate that phenobarbitone-inducible enzymes are capable of activating high doses of BHT to reactive oxidizing intermediates, which in the absence of adequate glutathione can cause cell death. Enzymes of the P450IIB subfamily are implicated in this mechanism.
This study was conducted to determine the effect of bupropion on the sexual functioning of male and female outpatients who developed anorgasmia or delayed orgasm while receiving fluoxetine treatment for depression.
Thirty-nine patients who satisfied criteria for participation in the study discontinued fluoxetine treatment and entered a 2-week washout phase followed by an open 8-week bupropion treatment phase. Three parameters of sexual functioning were followed throughout the study: orgasm function, libido, and satisfaction with overall sexual functioning. Depression was also evaluated at each visit.
All patients reported orgasm delay and/or failure at the time of fluoxetine discontinuation. Orgasm function, libido, and satisfaction with sexual functioning improved during the 2-week fluoxetine washout period and during the bupropion treatment phase. Ninety-four percent of patients (29/31) had complete or partial resolution of their orgasm dysfunction at the end of bupropion treatment, and 81% of patients (25/31) were "much" or "very much" more satisfied with their overall sexual functioning. Most patients entered the study with decreased libido on fluoxetine. Libido was "much" or "very much" increased for 81% of patients (25/31) at the end of the study. In addition, depression scores on the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression and Clinical Global Impressions-Severity scale significantly improved during the bupropion treatment phase. Finally, bupropion was well tolerated by most patients.
Bupropion may be an appropriate antidepressant for patients who develop sexual dysfunction during fluoxetine treatment or for whom sexual dysfunction is a concern.
Dapsone is commonly used for pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) prophylaxis in immunocompromised patients. It has been used as an alternative therapy in the hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) setting in patients who can't tolerate trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. The Sulfone syndrome is not a well-known sequela of dapsone therapy and occurs at various doses, ranging from 50-300 mg/d. In all cases the syndrome occurs within 2 months of initiating therapy. Its clinical manifestations include: fever, methemoglobinemia, hemolytic anemia, exfoliative dermatitis and transaminits. A 51-year old female underwent a matched unrelated hematopoiectic stem cell transplant for acute mylogenous leukemia. Dapsone therapy was initiated on day +28 at a dose of 100 mg/day for PCP prophylaxis secondary to the patient's history of a sulfonamide allergy. On day +59, one month after initiation of therapy she developed hepatitis, hemolytic anemia, fever and methemoglobinemia of 8%. She was transferred to the intensive care unit and subsequently developed an exfoliative dermatitis. We conclude that the clinical presentation of this patient after HSCT on dapsone therapy coincide with the sulfone syndrome not previously described in a patients after HSCT.
