We have investigated the potential for the p16-cyclin D-CDK4/6-retinoblastoma protein pathway to be exploited as a therapeutic target in melanoma. In a cohort of 143 patients with primary invasive melanoma, we used fluorescence in situ hybridization to detect gene copy number variations (CNVs) in CDK4, CCND1, and CDKN2A and immunohistochemistry to determine protein expression. CNVs were common in melanoma, with gain of CDK4 or CCND1 in 37 and 18% of cases, respectively, and hemizygous or homozygous loss of CDKN2A in 56%. Three-quarters of all patients demonstrated a CNV in at least one of the three genes. The combination of CCND1 gain with either a gain of CDK4 and/or loss of CDKN2A was associated with poorer melanoma-specific survival. In 47 melanoma cell lines homozygous loss, methylation or mutation of CDKN2A gene or loss of protein (p16(INK) (4A) ) predicted sensitivity to the CDK4/6 inhibitor PD0332991, while RB1 loss predicted resistance.
Neurological complications post transplant have been described with the use of calcineurin inhibitors. Although tacrolimus may be a better immunosuppressant than cyclosporine, its neurological side effects may be worse. Two children, living-related kidney transplant recipients, were treated with antibody induction, mycophenolate mofetil, prednisone, and tacrolimus. Soon after transplant, they each developed an encephalopathy, which when visualized by magnetic resonance imaging showed that it affected both white and grey matter of the brain. Although the encephalopathy was associated with the use of tacrolimus, there was a complete neurological recovery without cessation of the drug.
A middle-age woman had intermittently had chloroquine as an antimalarial agent for 21 years. Although she had discontinued the drug for more than 10 years due to occurrence of a retinopathy, mild ocular myasthenic symptoms persisted. Cardiac conduction disturbances were detected as well. A quadriceps muscle biopsy revealed mild neurogenic changes and interstitial lymphorrhages. The decremental response after repetitive stimulation was reversed by edrophonium administration. The history suggests that the persisting myasthenia might have been caused by chloroquine intake.
Mercuric chloride (HgCl(2)) induces acute kidney injury (AKI) affecting glomerular hemodynamics and, more specifically, the pars recta (S3 segment) of the proximal tubule. The organic anion transporter 5 (Oat5) is exclusively localized in the apical membranes of S3 segment. Oat5 urinary excretion was recently proposed as potential early biomarker of ischemic AKI. The aim of this study was to evaluate the renal expression and the urinary excretion of the Oat5 in rats exposed to HgCl(2). Male Wistar rats were treated with a single injection of HgCl(2) at different doses of 0, 0.2, 1 and 5 mg/kg body wt (control, Hg0.2, Hg1 and Hg5 groups). The renal expression of Oat5 was evaluated by immunohistochemistry, Western blotting, and real-time PCR. Oat5 and sodium dicarboxylate cotransporter 1 (NaDC1) abundances and alkaline phosphatase activity (AP) were assayed in urine. An HgCl(2) dose-related decrease in Oat5 mRNA levels and in Oat5 protein levels in renal homogenates was observed. Hg5 rats showed an increase in urinary excretion of Oat5 and NaDC1 as well as alterations of other widely used parameters for renal dysfunction and injury (plasma creatinine, plasma urea, urinary AP activity, kidney weight, histological lesions). In Hg0.2 group only an increase of urinary excretion of Oat5 was observed. The increase of Oat5 urinary excretion in Hg1 group was associated to the beginning of tissular injury. These results suggest that urinary excretion of Oat5 might be an early indicator of mercury-induced nephropathy, which predicts the perturbation before the manifestation of histopathological damages.
alpha(1)-Adrenoceptor antagonists such as alfuzosin, doxazosin, tamsulosin and terazosin are first-line agents for the treatment of lower urinary tract symptoms suggestive of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), but are only second-line agents (doxazosin and terazosin only) for the treatment of arterial hypertension. Sexual function is complex and includes multiple domains such as sexual desire (libido), erectile function and ejaculatory function. Erectile and ejaculatory functions are frequently reduced in patients with BPH and can impact on their quality of life. Therefore, the treatment of BPH should aim to maintain or even restore sexual function.alpha(1)-Adrenoceptor antagonists lack major effects on sexual desire in placebo-controlled studies. Reports on erectile function are inconsistent, with both beneficial and adverse effects being reported, but impotence can occur in some patients without clear differences between drugs. Ejaculatory dysfunction during treatment may represent (relative) an ejaculation. It occurs more frequently with tamsulosin than with other drugs of this class, but the differences are not big enough to be consistently detectable in directly comparative studies. We propose that such differences between drugs should be weighed against differences in cardiovascular tolerability when choosing the optimal treatment for each patient.
The authors present a case of early (within 4 days) development of torsade de pointes (TdP) associated with oral amiodarone therapy. Consistent with other reports this case of TdP occurred in the context of multiple exacerbating factors including hypokalemia and digoxin excess. Transient prolongation of the QT during bladder irrigation prompted the episode of TdP. It is well known that bradycardia exacerbates acquired TdP. The authors speculate that the increased vagal tone during bladder irrigation, a vagal maneuver, in the context of amiodarone therapy resulted in amiodarone-induced proarrhythmia. In the absence of amiodarone therapy, a second bladder irrigation did not induce TdP despite hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia.
Mice were trained in a one-way active avoidance task to a criterion of 9/10 avoidances. Immediately following training they were injected with scopolamine hydrochloride (1 mg/kg SC) or with saline. Retention was assessed 3 days after training by 5 test trials on which the UCS was not present. Thirty min prior to the test, groups were injected with different doses of arecoline, d-amphetamine sulphate or with saline. Other scopolamine-treated mice were exposed to the CS or the UCS 24 hr prior to the test. The scopolamine-induced amnesia was attenuated by both 0.5 and 1.0 mg/kg arecoline and by 2.0 mg/kg d-amphetamine. Retention was also improved by exposure to the CS and the UCS. These data show that scopolamine amnesia can be alleviated by treatments which activate retrieval processes.
We have previously found that CHF1/Hey2 prevents the development of phenylephrine-induced cardiac hypertrophy. To determine the role of CHF1/Hey2 in pressure overload hypertrophy, we performed ascending aortic banding on wild-type and transgenic mice overexpressing CHF1/Hey2 in the myocardium. We found that both wild-type and transgenic mice developed increased ventricular weight to body weight ratios 1 week after aortic banding. Wild-type mice also developed decreased fractional shortening after 1 week when compared to preoperative echocardiograms and sham-operated controls. Transgenic mice, in comparison, demonstrated preserved fractional shortening. Histological examination of explanted heart tissue demonstrated extensive fibrosis in wild-type hearts, but minimal fibrosis in transgenic hearts. TUNEL staining demonstrated increased apoptosis in the wild-type hearts but not in the transgenic hearts. Exposure of cultured neonatal myocytes from wild-type and transgenic animals to hydrogen peroxide, a potent inducer of apoptosis, demonstrated increased apoptosis in the wild-type cells. Gene Set Analysis of microarray data from wild-type and transgenic hearts 1 week after banding revealed suppression and activation of multiple pathways involving apoptosis, cell signaling, and biosynthesis. These findings demonstrate that CHF1/Hey2 promotes physiological over pathological hypertrophy through suppression of apoptosis and regulation of multiple transcriptional pathways. These findings also suggest that CHF1/Hey2 and its downstream pathways provide a variety of targets for novel heart failure drug discovery, and that genetic polymorphisms in CHF1/Hey2 may affect susceptibility to hypertrophy and heart failure.
Oral administration of the angiotensin II receptor subtype 1 (AT1) antagonist DuP 753 causes long-lasting lowering of mean arterial pressure in spontaneously hypertensive rats. We examined whether the antihypertensive action of DuP 753 is a result of inhibition of brain angiotensin II. In normal spontaneously hypertensive rats, we found that intracerebroventricular DuP 753 (10 micrograms) blocked the pressor action of intracerebroventricular angiotensin II (100 ng); however, intracerebroventricular DuP 753 (10 micrograms) had no effect on the pressor response to 300 ng/kg angiotensin II administered intravenously (48 +/- 3 mm Hg in the presence of intracerebroventricular DuP 753 versus 49 +/- 4 mm Hg in its absence). In both normal and furosemide-treated spontaneously hypertensive rats (low Na+ diet plus furosemide), intracerebroventricular DuP 753 alone at 10 or 100 micrograms caused transient but significant pressor responses; however, no significant reduction in pressure (versus controls) was observed over the next 48 hours. In contrast to its central effects, we found that oral DuP 753 (10 or 30 mg/kg) in normal spontaneously hypertensive rats resulted in sustained mean arterial pressure decreases of up to -74 mm Hg. These data suggest that, although the pressor effect of brain angiotensin II is mediated by the AT1 receptor, blockade of these receptors does not lower blood pressure in spontaneously hypertensive rats. In the spontaneously hypertensive rat, DuP 753 depresses blood pressure by blockade of peripheral, not central, AT1 receptors.
We report on headache induced by a somatostatin octapeptide analog (octreotide) used for the treatment of acromegaly. This "rebound" headache has severe tension-type characteristics and occurs every 6-8 h. It resolves dramatically within minutes with octreotide administration. This is the first report of headache developing under treatment with octreotide.
Epigenetic silencing of the MGMT gene by promoter methylation is associated with loss of MGMT expression, diminished DNA-repair activity and longer overall survival in patients with glioblastoma who, in addition to radiotherapy, received alkylating chemotherapy with carmustine or temozolomide. We describe and validate a rapid methylation sensitive quantitative PCR assay (MS-qLNAPCR) using Locked Nucleic Acid (LNA) modified primers and an imprinted gene as a reference.
An analysis was made of a database of 159 GBM patients followed between April 2004 and October 2008. After bisulfite treatment, methylated and unmethylated CpGs were recognized by LNA primers and molecular beacon probes. The SNURF promoter of an imprinted gene mapped on 15q12, was used as a reference. This approach was used because imprinted genes have a balanced copy number of methylated and unmethylated alleles, and this feature allows an easy and a precise normalization.
Concordance between already described nested MS-PCR and MS-qLNAPCR was found in 158 of 159 samples (99.4%). The MS-qLNAPCR assay showed a PCR efficiency of 102% and a sensitivity of 0.01% for LNA modified primers, while unmodified primers revealed lower efficiency (69%) and lower sensitivity (0.1%). MGMT promoter was found to be methylated using MS-qLNAPCR in 70 patients (44.02%), and completely unmethylated in 89 samples (55.97%). Median overall survival was of 24 months, being 20 months and 36 months, in patients with MGMT unmethylated and methylated, respectively. Considering MGMT methylation data provided by MS-qLNAPCR as a binary variable, overall survival was different between patients with GBM samples harboring MGMT promoter unmethylated and other patients with any percentage of MGMT methylation (p = 0.003). This difference was retained using other cut off values for MGMT methylation rate (i.e. 10% and 20% of methylated allele), while the difference was lost when 50% of MGMT methylated allele was used as cut-off.
We report and clinically validate an accurate, robust, and cost effective MS-qLNAPCR protocol for the detection and quantification of methylated MGMT alleles in GBM samples. Using MS-qLNAPCR we demonstrate that even low levels of MGMT promoter methylation have to be taken into account to predict response to temozolomide-chemotherapy.
Cadmium telluride quantum dots (Cdte QDs) have received significant attention in biomedical research because of their potential in disease diagnosis and drug delivery. In this study, we have investigated the interaction mechanism and synergistic effect of 3-mercaptopropionic acid-capped Cdte QDs with the anti-cancer drug daunorubicin (DNR) on the induction of apoptosis using drug-resistant human hepatoma HepG2/ADM cells. Electrochemical assay revealed that Cdte QDs readily facilitated the uptake of the DNR into HepG2/ADM cells. Apoptotic staining, DNA fragmentation, and flow cytometry analysis further demonstrated that compared with Cdte QDs or DNR treatment alone, the apoptosis rate increased after the treatment of Cdte QDs together with DNR in HepG2/ADM cells. We observed that Cdte QDs treatment could reduce the effect of P-glycoprotein while the treatment of Cdte QDs together with DNR can clearly activate apoptosis-related caspases protein expression in HepG2/ADM cells. Moreover, our in vivo study indicated that the treatment of Cdte QDs together with DNR effectively inhibited the human hepatoma HepG2/ADM nude mice tumor growth. The increased cell apoptosis rate was closely correlated with the enhanced inhibition of tumor growth in the studied animals. Thus, Cdte QDs combined with DNR may serve as a possible alternative for targeted therapeutic approaches for some cancer treatments.
Coagulase-negative staphylococci (CoNS) have been increasing in importance as a cause of native valve endocarditis (NVE). Most cases of NVE caused by CoNS are attributable to Staphylococcus epidermidis. NVE caused by CoNS acquired in a nosocomial setting may differ from cases acquired in the community in several ways. It may be associated with hemodialysis, the presence of a long-term indwelling central catheter or pacemaker, or a recent invasive procedure; nosocomial cases may have a higher rate of methicillin resistance among CoNS isolates, and so be more likely to be treated with vancomycin. Unfortunately, NVE caused by methicillin-resistant CoNS has been associated with significantly higher rates of persistent bacteremia and in-hospital mortality than methicillin-susceptible isolates. The poor outcomes in these cases point to the need for alternative therapies with potent activity against methicillin-resistant CoNS. In our medical center, a 76-year-old man presented with native-valve endocarditis and positive blood cultures for methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus epidermidis (MRSE). During each of three 6-week courses of treatment with vancomycin, blood cultures were negative, but they once again became positive for MRSE when vancomycin was discontinued. The minimum inhibitory concentration of the MRSE isolates for vancomycin remained stable at 2 microg/mL. Eventually, treatment with daptomycin was initiated (500 mg [7 mg/kg]) 3 times/week for 6 weeks. Over the following year, no positive cultures for MRSE were detected.
Antipsychotic medications are often continued through pregnancy and may have important anesthetic interactions. For example, risperidone is an antipsychotic medication with therapeutic effects mediated by dopaminergic and serotonergic antagonism. However, it also possesses potent alpha-1 adrenergic antagonism. Here we report a case of a parturient with bipolar disease, controlled with lithium and risperidone, undergoing a spinal anesthetic for a cesarean delivery. The parturient developed exaggerated hypotension, refractory to conventional treatment with ephedrine and IV fluids, that eventually responded to large doses of phenylephrine. Risperidone alpha-antagonism should be a consideration for any patient receiving this medication during neuraxial anesthesia. Treatment of significant and refractory hypotension with an alpha-1 agonist such as phenylephrine may be warranted.
Parturients receiving neuraxial blocks may be taking antipsychotic medications. Although the therapeutic effects of antipsychotic medications are mediated by dopaminergic and serotonergic antagonism, many possess alpha-adrenergic antagonist properties. We report a case of exaggerated hypotension during a spinal anesthetic for cesarean delivery that may have been a result of the alpha-adrenergic antagonism of risperidone.
In an attempt to limit toxicities associated with dose-intensive therapy used for transplant regimens, we performed a pilot study using amifostine with high-dose busulfan (12 mg/kg), melphalan (100 mg/m2), and thiotepa (500 mg/m2) in 21 patients with a variety of malignancies. After 3 days of oral busulfan, amifostine was given at 910 mg/m2 IV for 10 minutes, preceding the infusion of each of 2 doses of melphalan and thiotepa given for 4 days. Antiemetic premedication for amifostine was given to all patients. The median patient age was 50 years (range: 32-65 years). Twenty-one patients received 82 separate amifostine infusions. One patient discontinued amifostine after the second dose because of severe nausea and emesis, and two infusions were temporarily held secondary to hypotension. Of these 82 cycles, there was a total of 37 episodes of nausea/vomiting, 28 episodes of sneezing, 11 episodes of flushing, and 1 episode of oral paresthesia. Systolic blood pressure and mean arterial pressure decreased by a mean of 8.4 mm Hg and 5.0 mm Hg, respectively. In general, the infusion was well tolerated. Patients were observed until discharge home (N = 15), until initiation of an additional tandem transplant procedure (N = 4), or until death (N = 2). All twenty-one patients experienced nonhematologic toxicities grade II or greater. Grade II toxicities included mucositis (N = 21), gastrointestinal (N = 3), skin (N = 1), and liver (N = 1), and grade III toxicities included liver (N = 1). Mucositis was also scored according to a detailed toxicity assessment. Mucositis did not appear to be improved with amifostine when compared with a control group of patients not receiving amifostine. Renal dysfunction after transplantation was decreased in the amifostine group, whereas there was no significant effect on posttransplant hepatic dysfunction. Although these data demonstrate the feasibility of delivering parenteral amifostine in conjunction with dose-intensive chemotherapy and autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation, there was no evidence of a significant reduction in nonmarrow toxicities.
A 77-year-old man received cefoxitin for the treatment of peritonitis. He developed hemolytic anemia and became clinically jaundiced. The patient was switched from cefoxitin to doxycycline. His total bilirubin decreased and his hematocrit increased. Several weeks later he developed septicemia. For an infiltration in the left lower lobe, he was treated with cefoxitin and gentamicin. The patient proceeded to develop a mild granulocytopenia and thrombocytopenia. Anemia was not seen because the patient was transfused several times. Bone marrow aspiration showed a mildly hypocellular marrow with a depression of all cell series, suggesting drug-induced bone marrow toxicity. Nine days after discontinuing cefoxitin, his blood elements had gone back to normal. This is the fourth case on file at Merck Sharp & Dohme of hemolytic anemia induced by cefoxitin. There have been several reports of hemolytic anemia or pancytopenia caused by cephalothin, but few, if any, citing the other cephalosporins, particularly cefoxitin. Clinicians should be made aware of the possibility of hematologic toxicities occurring with cefoxitin therapy. Patients should have their erythrocytes, leukocytes, and platelets monitored while on this drug.
Mice lacking expression of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the first and rate-limiting enzyme of the catecholamine biosynthetic pathway, in dopaminergic neuronal cell types were generated by a transgenic rescue approach to clarify the role of dopamine signaling during postnatal development. Introduction of the TH transgene directed by the dopamine beta-hydroxylase gene promoter into TH knockout mice restored noradrenaline and adrenaline synthesis, preventing perinatal lethality and cardiac dysfunction in the knockout mice. Lack of TH expression in the cells that normally express the dopaminergic phenotype resulted in a marked reduction of dopamine accumulation in the tissues, which led to multiple behavioral abnormalities at the juvenile stage. These abnormalities were characterized by a reduction in spontaneous locomotor activity, blockade of methamphetamine-induced hyperactivity, cataleptic behavior, and defects in active avoidance learning. In contrast, development of the pituitary gland as well as production and secretion of the pituitary peptide hormones dependent on hypothalamic dopaminergic control were normally maintained, despite defective dopamine synthesis. These results demonstrate that dopamine neurotransmission is essential for controlling spontaneous and voluntary movement and associative learning during postnatal development through the nigrostriatal and mesocorticolimbic pathways.
In our search for long-acting agents for the treatment of cocaine abuse, a series of optically pure hydroxylated derivatives of 1-[2-[bis(4-fluorophenyl)methoxy]ethyl]-4-(3-phenylpropyl)piperazine (1) and 1-[2-(diphenylmethoxy)ethyl]-4-(3-phenylpropyl)piperazine (2) (GBR 12909 and GBR 12935, respectively) were synthesized and evaluated in vitro and in vivo. The enantiomers of the 2-hydroxylated analogues displayed substantial enantioselectivity. The S enantiomers displayed higher dopamine transporter (DAT) affinity and the R enantiomers were found to interact at the serotonin transporter (SERT) with higher affinity. The two-carbon spacer between the hydroxyl group and the piperazine ring was essential for enantioselectivity, and the length of the alkyl chain between the phenyl group and the piperazine ring influenced binding affinity and selectivity for the DAT and SERT. Phenylethyl analogues had a higher binding affinity for the SERT and a weaker affinity and selectivity for the DAT than the corresponding phenylpropyl analogues. Thus, (S)-(+)-1-[4-[2-[bis(4-fluorophenyl)methoxy]ethyl]piperazinyl]-3-phenylpropan-2-ol (6) displayed the highest affinity to the DAT, and (S)-(+)-1-[4-[2-(diphenylmethoxy)ethyl]piperazinyl]-3-phenylpropan-2-ol (8) had the highest selectivity. The latter (8) is one of the most DAT selective ligands known. In accord with the in vitro data, 6 showed greater potency than 7 in elevating extracellular dopamine levels in a microdialysis assay and in inhibiting cocaine-maintained responding in rhesus monkeys.
The aim of this study was to explore the adverse effects of lindane pesticide on testes and epididymus weight, sperm head counts, sperm motility, abnormal changes in sperm morphology, biochemical changes in endogenous antioxidants and oxidative enzymes in male wistar rats as well as to assess ameliorating role of 'curcumin'. Rats were exposed daily to lindane (30 mg/kg bw) for 14 and 28 days and administered with curcumin (100 mg/kg bw) in pretreatment, post treatment and combination groups. We observed decrease (p < 0.001) in testes and cauda epididymus weight, decrease (p < 0.001) in testicular sperm head count, increase (p < 0.001) in abnormal tail morphology (headless tail, multiple tail, broken tail, coiled tail and bent tail), abnormal head morphology (excessive hook, amorphous head, pin head, short head, blunt hook and detached hook) and decrease (p < 0.001) in sperm motility after lindane exposure, as compared to control. There was (p < 0.01) decline in superoxide dismutase, catalase and glutathione-s-transferase activity on lindane exposure, however, no change (p > 0.05) was observed in glutathione level. Lipid peroxidation was (p < 0.01) enhanced on lindane exposure as compared to control. Curcumin administration was able to ameliorate lindane induced reproductive toxicity in pretreatment, post treatment and combination groups. The study indicated that even after 14 days of metabolism, toxic effects of lindane were evident.
Impaired cardiovascular function in diabetes is partially attributed to pathological overexpression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) in cardiovascular tissues. We examined whether the hyperglycemia-induced increased expression of iNOS is protein kinase C-beta(2) (PKCbeta(2)) dependent and whether selective inhibition of PKCbeta reduces iNOS expression and corrects abnormal hemodynamic function in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats.
Cardiomyocytes and aortic vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC) from nondiabetic rats were cultured in low (5.5 mmol/l) or high (25 mmol/l) glucose or mannitol (19.5 mmol/l mannitol + 5.5 mmol/l glucose) conditions in the presence of a selective PKCbeta inhibitor, LY333531 (20 nmol/l). Further, the in vivo effects of PKCbeta inhibition on iNOS-mediated cardiovascular abnormalities were tested in STZ-induced diabetic rats.
Exposure of cardiomyocytes to high glucose activated PKCbeta(2) and increased iNOS expression that was prevented by LY333531. Similarly, treatment of VSMC with LY333531 prevented high glucose-induced activation of nuclear factor kappaB, extracellular signal-related kinase, and iNOS overexpression. Suppression of PKCbeta(2) expression by small interference RNA decreased high-glucose-induced nuclear factor kappaB and extracellular signal-related kinase activation and iNOS expression in VSMC. Administration of LY333531 (1 mg/kg/day) decreased iNOS expression and formation of peroxynitrite in the heart and superior mesenteric arteries and corrected the cardiovascular abnormalities in STZ-induced diabetic rats, an action that was also observed with a selective iNOS inhibitor, L-NIL.
Collectively, these results suggest that inhibition of PKCbeta(2) may be a useful approach for correcting abnormal hemodynamics in diabetes by preventing iNOS mediated nitrosative stress.
Considerable evidence indicates that ATP, acting intracellularly of as a neurotransmitter, can influence nerve cell physiology in a variety of ways. Defects in the functioning of ATP-metabolizing enzymes could therefore lead to disturbances in neurotransmission and creation of sustained neuronal discharges characteristic of status epilepticus. In this study we investigated synaptosomal ATPase changes in rat brains during lithium/pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus. After 2 h of continuous electroencephalographic spiking, both Mg(2+)- and Ca(2+)-dependent ecto-ATPases were significantly decreased in freshly prepared synaptosomal preparations from the status rats. The intracellularly acting Ca2+Mg(2+)-ATPase (Ca-pump) was also decreased, but no changes occurred in synaptosomal Na+K(+)-ATPase activity. The difference between ecto-ATPase activities of the control and status rat brains was not affected by repeated freezing-thawing and lengthy storage. Possible involvement of reduced synaptosomal divalent cation-dependent ATPases in the pathophysiology of status epilepticus is discussed.
Novel therapeutic strategies are needed to address and to solve the emerging problem of hypoxia-induced resistance to anticancer drugs. N-(4-Hydroxyphenyl)retinamide (4-HPR) exhibits potent anticancer and chemopreventive activities, but its inefficiency under hypoxia, through undetermined mechanisms, may contribute to its lack of activity in clinical trials. In this study, we showed that under normoxia, 4-HPR resulted in apoptosis and ultimate cell death; in contrast, under hypoxia, autophagy was preferentially induced by 4-HPR at an equivalent concentration, accompanied by microtubule associated protein light-chain 3 (LC3) conversion and acidic vesicular organelle formation. Under hypoxia, autophagy inhibition by 3-methyladenine or chloroquine significantly enhanced apoptosis and decreased cell viability in 4-HPR-exposed cells, indicating that autophagy prevents cancer cell death and presumably leads to hypoxia-induced resistance to 4-HPR. Importantly, knockdown of hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α) inhibited autophagy but promoted 4-HPR-induced apoptosis under hypoxia, demonstrating its critical role as a mediator of this protective autophagy. The present study provides the first evidence supporting the hypothesis that autophagy and apoptosis can be differentially induced by 4-HPR under different oxygen conditions; mediated by HIF-1α, 4-HPR-induced autophagy under hypoxia confers a survival advantage to HeLa cells, protects them from 4-HPR-induced death signals, and thus contributes to their hypoxia-induced resistance to this agent. Our data suggest that autophagy inhibition is a potential alternative strategy to overcome hypoxia-induced resistance to 4-HPR and enhance the anticancer activities of this agent.
To report a case of symptomatic syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) secretion associated with azithromycin and review the literature related to this adverse drug reaction.
Review articles identified by a computerized (MEDLINE) (1966-April 1996) and manual (Index Medicus) search.
Azithromycin is a well-tolerated broad-spectrum macrolide antibiotic. We report a symptomatic case of SIADH secretion associated with azithromycin. The patient received two doses of azithromycin before the development of sudden mental status changes associated with severe hyponatremia. All other potential causes were ruled out. No previous reports exist in the literature.
Azithromycin may be associated with symptomatic SIADH secretion. Awareness and attention are required if patients develop mental status changes or hyponatremia while receiving azithromycin so that appropriate diagnostic and therapeutic actions can be implemented.
To report the toxic effects of baclofen in patients with severely impaired renal function.
From 1991 to 1995, nine patients with severely impaired renal function (2 not receiving dialysis, 1 undergoing continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis [CAPD], and 6 receiving maintenance hemodialysis), who exhibited clinical toxicity after baclofen therapy at our hospital were included for analysis. Another seven cases from the literature obtained by computerized (MEDLINE) and manual (Index Medicus) search methods published between 1980 and 1995 were also reviewed.
Among our nine patients, the six undergoing chronic hemodialysis and one not undergoing dialysis received early (< 48 h) hemodialysis after toxic symptoms developed. The patient undergoing CAPD received late hemodialysis (> 72 h), and the other patient who had not undergone dialysis received only supportive care.
A review of these 16 cases revealed that most patients received only small doses and very short-term baclofen therapy. Altered consciousness was the major presenting feature. Severe acute complications, such as seizures and respiratory depression, were relatively uncommon among patients with severely impaired renal function. However, abdominal pain, which has previously rarely been reported, was noted in five of our nine patients. Most patients showed clinical improvement after hemodialysis. An analysis of these nine patients revealed that those who received early hemodialysis had a shorter recovery time than the patient who received only supportive care (2.71 +/- 0.42, respectively, vs. 9 d; p < 0.01). A lag of several hours between the end of the hemodialysis session and an improvement in the level of consciousness was noted.
As most patients with severely impaired renal function developed toxic symptoms soon after initiating a low-dose baclofen regimen, the accumulated dosage was small and severe complications were less common. Abdominal pain may have occurred as a result of the gamma-aminobutyric acid-mediated cholinergic effect exerted by baclofen. The delay in conscious recovery after hemodialysis may be due to a delay in the clearance of baclofen from the central nervous system.
Patients with severely impaired renal function generally develop baclofen intoxication soon after the initiation of low-dose therapy. Thus, the administration of baclofen, regardless of the dosage, in these patients is not appropriate. Abdominal pain, in addition to altered consciousness, is a common presenting feature in patients with renal failure who have baclofen intoxication. Hemodialysis is effective in alleviating the clinical symptoms and shortening the recovery time for such patients.
The effect of guanfacine (2 mg once daily) on ambulatory blood pressure was studied with the Remler M 2000 recorder in 16 elderly hypertensive patients during a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, balanced, cross-over study. Guanfacine significantly reduced heart rate and systolic and diastolic ambulatory blood pressure. The antihypertensive effect was maintained over the whole recording period. Systolic and diastolic blood pressure variability was not changed by guanfacine, neither when defined as standard deviation or variation coefficient of the mean, nor when defined as the range between the highest and lowest ambulatory blood pressure, suggesting that blood pressure variability is unrelated to sympathetic nervous system activity.
Patients with transient ischemic attack (TIA) in the vertebrobasilar artery more often complain of disturbance of equilibrium, such as vertigo or dizziness, than of auditory disorders, such as hearing impairment or tinnitus. The author induced TIA in rabbits by injecting adenosine diphosphate (ADP) into the right vertebral artery. Observations of rotatory nystagmus have shown that a peak level of directional preponderance appeared 1 minute after injection of ADP (0.3mg/kg b.w.) and continued for more than 4 minutes. On the other hand, the amplitude of auditory brainstem responses (ABRs) presented no significant changes following the injection of ADP (0.5mg/kg b.w.). However, greater amounts of ADP (1.0 and 2.0 mg/kg b.w.) were found to reduce the amplitude of ABR-waves, although significant reduction was observed for only less than 1 minute. This change was represented by flattening of the later part of the waves, with the first wave much less affected. Electrocochleogram (E. Coch. G.) have also demonstrated a transient reduction in amplitude 10 seconds after injection of ADP (4.0mg/kg b.w.) with correspondingly rapid recovery. In cases of hypertension due to noradrenaline load or trimethaphan-induced hypotension, reduced amplitudes were more profound and continued longer, returning to its normal range within 1 minute. Differences in susceptibility between the equilibrium system and auditory system in TIA of the vertebrobasilar artery are discussed.
The antihypertensive properties of the new diuretic tienilic acid were investigated. Thirteen previously untreated hypertensive patients took part in a double-blind crossover study in which 30 days' treatment with tienilic acid 250 mg, bendrofluazide 5 mg, and spironolactone 100 mg were compared. Bendrofluazide caused the greatest natriuresis on the first treatment day and the most rapid fall in blood pressure. The ultimate antihypertensive effect of all three drugs was similar. Tienilic acid caused a noticeable reduction in serum urate concentrations and a rise in urate clearance, in contrast to the other two agents, which caused slight urate retention. Tienilic acid and bendrofluazide caused falls and spironolactone a rise in plasma potassium concentrations. No untoward effects were seen from any of the drugs. It is concluded that tienilic acid is a moderately potent diuretic that lowers plasma urate concentrations. It may be the drug of first choice for hypertensive patients who already have gout or are likely to develop it when taking thiazide diuretics.
