Lipin1 protein, a product of the LPIN1 gene, is required for normal adipose tissue development and metabolism. Lipin1 deficiency results in immature adipocyte development in cases of mouse fatty liver dystrophy and human lipodystrophy. Recently, pioglitazone has been reported to increase human adipocyte lipin1 expression. We evaluated the effects of LPIN1 polymorphisms on rosiglitazone response in patients with type 2 diabetes (T2DM). A total of 262 patients were treated with 12 weeks of rosiglitazone (4 mg/day) in addition to their previous drug regimen medications. Six single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) at the LPIN1 locus were genotyped: rs11693809, rs10192566, rs2278513, rs2577262, rs2716610, and rs1050800. Because rs11693809, rs10192566, and rs2278513 are in nearly complete linkage disequilibrium (D'>0.958, r(2) >0.882), we analyzed rs10192566, rs2577262, rs2716610, and rs1050800. Rs10192566 was significantly associated with rosiglitazone treatment response. Patients with the G allele in rs10192566 had a larger decrease in fasting plasma glucose, 2-h postprandial glucose, and HbA1c than those without. This genetic effect remained significant after adjustment for age, sex, and initial body weight. No other SNPs were associated with response. These data suggest that LPIN1 genetic variations can affect rosiglitazone treatment response in T2DM.
Auranofin, an antirheumatic gold compound, is an inhibitor of selenocysteine enzymes, such as thioredoxin reductase and glutathione peroxidase. These enzymes play an important role in protecting cardiac tissue from oxidative stress generated during ischaemia-reperfusion. Auranofin (100 mg/kg) was administered to rats and their hearts were subjected to an in vitro model of ischaemia-reperfusion. The activity of thioredoxin reductase and glutathione peroxidase was determined in liver and heart tissues in an attempt to correlate enzymatic activity with heart recovery after ischaemia-reperfusion. There was significantly less thioredoxin reductase activity in rat liver extracts, whereas the level of glutathione activity remained unchanged, demonstrating that the dose of auranofin used was able to selectively inhibit one of these enzyme systems. Rats administered auranofin displayed significantly impaired recovery from ischaemic insult. The end diastolic pressure was increased, whereas the rate pressure product was significantly decreased. The level of postischaemic apoptosis was also assessed by examining caspase-3 activity in tissue homogenates. Auranofin significantly increased the degree of postischaemic apoptosis, leading to poor postischaemic recovery.
Beta-catenin/T-cell factor (Tcf) signaling is constitutively active in the majority of human colorectal cancers, and there are accompanying changes in Bcl-2 expression. Similarly, 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo(4,5-b)pyridine (PhIP)-induced colon tumors in the rat have increased beta-catenin and elevated Bcl-2. To examine the possible direct transcriptional regulation of rat Bcl-2 by beta-catenin/Tcf, we cloned and characterized the corresponding promoter region and found 70.1% similarity with its human counterpart, BCL2. Bcl-2 promoter activity was increased in response to LiCl and exogenous beta-catenin, including oncogenic mutants of beta-catenin found in PhIP-induced colon tumors. Protein/DNA arrays identified E2F1, but not beta-catenin/Tcf, as interacting most strongly with the rat Bcl-2 promoter. Exogenous E2F1 increased the promoter activity of rat Bcl-2, except in mutants lacking the E2F1 sites. As expected, beta-catenin induced its downstream target c-Myc, as well as E2F1 and Bcl-2, and this was blocked by siRNA to c-Myc or E2F1. These findings suggest an indirect pathway for Bcl-2 over-expression in PhIP-induced colon tumors involving beta-catenin, c-Myc and E2F1.
Rhnull disease, which includes the amorph and regulator types, is a rare genetic disorder characterized by stomatocytosis and chronic hemolytic anemia. We studied here a German family transmitting a putative amorph Rhnull disease gene and identified a rare mutation causing the loss-of-function phenotype. We analyzed the genomic and transcript structure of RH30, RH50, and CD47, the three loci thought to be most critical for expression of the Rh complex in the red blood cell membrane. We showed that in this family the Rh50 and CD47 transcripts were normal in primary sequence. However, the RH30 locus contained an unusual double mutation in exon 7 of the RhCe gene, in addition to a deletion of the RhD gene. The mutation targeted two adjacent codons in multiple arrangements probably via the mechanism of microgene conversion. One scheme entails a noncontiguous deletion of two nucleotides, [ATT(Ile322)-->AT] and [CAC(His323)-->CC], whereas the other involves a T-->C transition [ATT(Ile322)--> ATC] and a dinucleotide deletion [CAC(His323)-->C]. They caused the same shift in open reading frame predicted to encode a shortened protein with 398 amino acids. The loss of two transmembrane domains and gain of a new C-terminal sequence are likely to alter the protein conformation and impair the Rh complex assembly. Our findings establish the molecular identity of an amorph Rhnull disease gene, showing that Rh30 and Rh50 are both essential for the functioning of the Rh structures as a multisubunit complex in the plasma membrane.
To determine whether the presence of thiopurine methyltransferase (TPMT) alleles associated with reduced or absent activity of thiopurine methyltransferase is a major factor for withdrawal of azathioprine (AZA) in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients.
The TPMT genotype, including the variable number of tandem repeats (VNTR) pattern in the 5' untranslated region, was analysed in 111 patients with long-standing RA. Azathioprine (AZA) therapy was used in 40 patients (36%) as a disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug.
Seven out of 111 RA patients (6.3%) were carriers of a mutant allele, TPMT3A (G(460)-->A, A(719)-->G) being the mutant allele observed most frequently. In the group of 40 AZA-treated patients, therapy was discontinued in six patients because of side-effects and in 26 patients because of lack of efficacy. Three patients presented moderate side-effects and were homozygous for the wild-type TPMT allele, whereas the remaining three patients, who developed gastrointestinal effects with severe nausea and vomiting, were TPMT3A carriers.
In this observational study, the absence of response, probably due to the low-dose scheme used, was the major cause of AZA withdrawal in our series of RA patients. TPMT genotyping may allow the use of high doses of AZA in patients with normal TPMT alleles to improve the efficacy of this immunosuppressive drug. Our data support the relationship between gastrointestinal intolerance and thiopurine metabolic imbalance.
Bacterial endotoxin/lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced cachexia is characterized by weight loss, anorexia, and a disturbance in lipid metabolism, namely, hypertriacylglycerolemia. The aim of this study in rats with acute endotoxicity induced by an injection of LPS was to investigate whether bezafibrate, a ligand for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha and a lipoprotein lipase (LPL) activator, improved cachectic conditions, including impaired lipid metabolism. Short-term administration of LPS in the rats resulted in impairment of triacylglycerol clearance in plasma after the intake of fresh cream. In addition, LPS increased whole-body energy expenditure, reduced fasting body weight and caused anorexia in the rats. Bezafibrate treatment resulted in significant improvements in LPS-induced dyslipidemia and anorexia, but had no effect on energy expenditure, respiratory quotient, or fasting body weight in the endotoxic rats. Administration of LPS was also associated with a decrease in the level of messenger RNA (mRNA) expression for LPL in white adipose tissue and skeletal muscle and an increase in the mRNA levels for uncoupling protein 3 in skeletal muscle. Bezafibrate treatment reversed the decline in LPL mRNA levels in white adipose tissue but not in the skeletal muscle tissue of the rats. The enhanced uncoupling protein 3 mRNA level in the endotoxic rats was not affected by bezafibrate treatment. Plasma concentration of leptin was increased by short-term LPS treatment. Bezafibrate decreased the level of plasma leptin significantly without affecting the level of leptin mRNA expression. These results suggest that bezafibrate may be an effective drug not only for impaired triacylglycerol metabolism, but also for anorexia in cachectic states induced by bacterial infections.
To determine the cardiorespiratory effects of preemptive atropine administration in dogs sedated with medetomidine.
Randomized crossover trial.
12 healthy adult dogs.
Dogs underwent 6 treatments. Each treatment consisted of administration of atropine (0.04 mg/kg [0.018 mg/lb] of body weight, IM) or saline solution (0.9% NaCl, 1 ml, IM) and administration of medetomidine (10, 20, or 40 microg/kg [4.5, 9.1, or 18.2 microg/lb], IM) 10 minutes later. Treatments were administered in random order, with a minimum of 1 week between treatments. Cardiorespiratory effects before and after atropine and medetomidine administration were assessed. Duration of lateral recumbency and quality of sedation and recovery were assessed.
Bradycardia (heart rate < 60 beats/min) was seen in all dogs when saline solution was administered followed by medetomidine, and the dose of medetomidine was not associated with severity or frequency of bradycardia or second-degree heart block. However, a medetomidine dose-dependent increase in mean and diastolic blood pressures was observed, regardless of whether dogs received saline solution or atropine. Preemptive atropine administration effectively prevented bradycardia and second-degree heart block but induced pulsus alternans and hypertension. The protective effects of atropine against bradycardia lasted 50 minutes. Blood gas values were within reference limits during all treatments and were not significantly different from baseline values. Higher doses of medetomidine resulted in a longer duration of lateral recumbency.
Preemptive administration of atropine in dogs sedated with medetomidine effectively prevents bradycardia for 50 minutes but induces hypertension and pulsus alternans.
Exposure to perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA), a synthetic perfluorinated compound and an agonist of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor α (PPARα), causes stunted mouse mammary gland development in various developmental stages. However, the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. We found that peripubertal PFOA exposure significantly inhibited mammary gland growth in both Balb/c and C57Bl/6 wild type mice, but not in C57Bl/6 PPARα knockout mice, and Balb/c mice were more sensitive to PFOA inhibition. PFOA caused (1) delayed or absence of vaginal opening and lack of estrous cycling during the experimental period; (2) decreases in ovarian steroid hormonal synthetic enzyme levels; and (3) reduced expression of estrogen- or progesterone-induced mammary growth factors. Supplementation with exogenous estrogen and/or progesterone reversed the PFOA inhibitory effect on mammary gland. These results indicate that PFOA effects on ovaries mediate its inhibition of mammary gland development in Balb/c and C57Bl/6 mice and that PPARα expression is a contributing factor.
The zebrafish embryotoxicity test has previously been combined with an external metabolic activation system (MAS) to assess developmental toxicity of metabolites produced by maternal metabolism. Due to toxicity of MAS the exposure was limited to one early and short period. We have modified the method and included additional testing time points with extended exposure durations. Using the anthelmintic drug albendazole as a model substance, we demonstrated stage-dependent toxic effects at three windows of zebrafish embryo development, i.e. 2-3, 12-14 and 24-28h post fertilization, and showed that MAS, by metabolic deactivation, reduced the toxicity of albendazole at all time points. Chemical analysis confirmed that albendazole was efficiently metabolized by MAS to the corresponding sulfoxide and sulfone, which are non-toxic to zebrafish embryos. To conclude, the modified zebrafish embryotoxicity test with MAS can be expanded for assessment of metabolites at different developmental stages.
Previous work has shown that adult female rats are more sensitive than adult male rats to the reinforcing effects of cocaine, an effect that appears to be due, at least in part, to ovarian hormones.
In this study, we examine sex differences in cocaine self-administration during adolescence, a period of marked hormonal change.
Adolescent male and female Sprague-Dawley rats were trained to self-administer cocaine (0.75 mg/kg per infusion) under a fixed ratio 1 schedule (i.e., each response was reinforced by an infusion of cocaine) beginning on postnatal day 30. After acquisition, responding was assessed under a progressive-ratio schedule until postnatal day 50 with blood sampling occurring before the first five sessions to determine the relationship between gonadal hormones (i.e., estradiol, progesterone, and testosterone) and motivation for cocaine. Estrous cycle phase was monitored throughout the study. Separate groups of adolescent male and female rats were compared on the acquisition of and progressive-ratio responding for sucrose reinforcement.
Females acquired cocaine self-administration more readily than did males, and a greater percentage of females acquired self-administration. Under progressive-ratio testing conditions, adolescent females responded at higher levels than adolescent males to obtain cocaine infusions, and in females, responding was positively associated with levels of estradiol and greatest during estrus. No sex differences were observed for sucrose reinforcement.
These findings suggest that sex differences are relevant during adolescence with evidence implicating circulating estradiol level as a factor that contributes to the enhanced sensitivity in females to the reinforcing effects of cocaine.
Indomethacin, a potent prostaglandin synthesis inhibitor, has been proven to be effective in a number of tubular defects characterized by enhanced prostaglandin (namely, prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) production, but its mechanism of action is poorly understood. To elucidate further the mechanism(s) by which indomethacin reverses the abnormal tubular functions, five children with different tubular defects (nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, three cases; Fanconi syndrome, one case; and pseudohypoaldosteronism, one case) were treated with indomethacin. Indomethacin, 1 mg/kg every eight hours, was given for 1 week to all children and then was given chronically to four of the children who responded to the drug. Its use was suspended in a 10 year-old-boy with nephrogenic diabetes insipidus because it proved ineffective. To assess the site along the nephron where indomethacin affects the solute and water excretion, an acute water load study was performed in three responsive children before and during the treatment. Indomethacin did not significantly alter the glomerular filtration rate but was effective in reducing diuresis and levels of urinary sodium and potassium excretion. In the child with Fanconi syndrome, indomethacin was also effective in controlling the urinary loss of phosphate, urate, glucose, and bicarbonate. Results of the water load studies show that indomethacin decreases the delivery of solute from the proximal tubule, reduces the fractional free water clearance, and increases the urine-plasma osmolar ratio.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection, which causes liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma, remains a major health problem in Asian countries. Recent development of vaccine for prevention is reported to be successful in reducing the size of chronically infected carriers, although the standard medical therapies have not been established up to now. In this report, we encountered a patient with decompensated HBV-related cirrhosis who exhibited the dramatic improvements after antiviral therapy. The patient was a 50-year-old woman. Previous conventional medical treatments were not effective for this patient, thus this patient had been referred to our hospital. However, the administration of lamivudine, a reverse transcriptase inhibitor, for 23 months dramatically improved her liver severity. During this period, no drug resistant mutant HBV emerged, and the serum HBV-DNA level was continuously suppressed. These virological responses were also maintained even after the antiviral therapy was discontinued. Moreover, both hepatitis B surface antigen and e antigen were observed to have disappeared in this patient. The administration of lamivudine to patients with HBV-related cirrhosis, like our present case, should be considered as an initial medical therapeutic option, especially in countries where liver transplantation is not reliably available.
The risk of genotoxicity of retroviral vector-delivered gene therapy targeting hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) has been highlighted by the development of clonal dominance and malignancies in human and animal gene therapy trials. Large-animal models have proven invaluable to test the safety of retroviral vectors, but the detection of clonal dominance may require years of follow-up. We hypothesized that hematopoietic stress may accelerate the proliferation and therefore the detection of abnormal clones in these models. We administered four monthly busulfan (Bu) infusions to induce hematopoietic stress in a healthy rhesus macaque previously transplanted with CD34+ cells transduced with retroviral vectors carrying a simple marker gene. Busulfan administration resulted in significant cytopenias with each cycle, and prolonged pancytopenia after the final cycle with eventual recovery. Before busulfan treatment there was highly polyclonal marking in all lineages. After Bu administration clonal diversity was markedly decreased in all lineages. Unexpectedly, we found no evidence of selection of the MDS1/EVI1 clones present before Bu administration, but a clone with a vector integration in intron 1 of the histone deacetylase-7 (HDAC7) gene became dominant in granulocytes over time after Bu administration. The overall marking level in the animal was increased significantly after Bu treatment and coincident with expansion of the HDAC7 clone, suggesting an in vivo advantage for this clone under stress. HDAC7 expression was upregulated in marrow progenitors containing the vector. Almost 5 years after Bu administration, the animal developed progressive cytopenias, and at autopsy the marrow showed complete lack of neutrophil or platelet maturation, with a new population of approximately 20% undifferentiated blasts. These data suggest that chemotherapeutic stress may accelerate vector-related clonal dominance, even in the absence of drug resistance genes expressed by the vector. This model may both accelerate the detection of abnormal clones to facilitate analysis of genotoxicity for human gene therapy, and help assess the safety of administering myelotoxic chemotherapeutic agents in patients previously engrafted with vector-containing cells.
A new case of spinal cord compression secondary to steroid-induced epidural lipomatosis is reported in a patient treated for dermatomyositis. Computed tomography was performed before the institution of steroid therapy, during spinal cord compression, and after effective surgical treatment. The development of epidural lipomatosis does not require a preexisting lipoma and may occur in a previously normal spine.
Chronic daily administration of cilazapril (1 X 10 mg/kg/day p.o., from age 4 to 14 weeks) to young spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) prevented the development of hypertension. The antihypertensive effect of a single dose of cilazapril persisted greater than 24 h. Discontinuation of long-term treatment resulted in an increase of systolic arterial blood pressure (SAP) to control hypertensive levels within 4 days. Following 10 weeks of drug administration, comparative hemodynamic studies were carried out on age-matched (14 weeks) control SHR and cilazapril-treated SHR. Cilazapril-treated SHR had a significantly lower mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) and total peripheral vascular resistance than did control SHR. The antihypertensive effect of cilazapril was not associated with changes in heart rate (HR). The myocardial performance parameters, cardiac output, and stroke volume, were similar in treated and control SHR, suggesting that the antihypertensive effect of cilazapril following chronic administration to SHR is mainly due to a reduction in peripheral vascular resistance. Vasopressor responses to angiotensin I were significantly lower in cilazapril-treated SHR than in control SHR. By contrast, pressor responses to angiotensin II and a high dose of norepinephrine (1.0 microgram/kg i.v.) were significantly enhanced. Isoproterenol elicited a fall in blood pressure in both groups, the extent of which was dependent upon the magnitude of basal blood pressure levels. Chronic cilazapril treatment resulted in a reduction of heart weight, suggesting that the drug may prevent development of cardiac hypertrophy in SHR. Kidney and adrenal weights were unaffected by the chronic treatment. Specific renin activities (SRA) in tissues of SHR were increased by factors of 20 (plasma) or 2 (kidney and adrenal) following cilazapril administration.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Many patients and physicians interpret episodic headache in the presence or absence of nasal symptoms as "sinus' headache, while ignoring the possible diagnosis of migraine.
The purpose of this study was to assess the efficacy and tolerability of sumatriptan succinate 50-mg tablets in patients with migraine presenting with "sinus" headache.
A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study was conducted in adult (aged 18-65 years) migraine patients presenting with self-described or physician-diagnosed "sinus" headache. From November 2001 to March 2002, patients meeting International Headache Society criteria for migraine (with > or =2 of the following: unilateral location, pulsating quality, moderate or severe intensity, aggravation by moderate physical activity; and > or =1 of: phonophobia and phonophobia, nausea and/or vomiting) and with no evidence of bacterial rhinosinusitis were enrolled and randomized in a 1:1 ratio via computer-generated randomization schedule to receive either 1 sumatriptan 50-mg tablet or matching placebo tablet. The primary efficacy end point was headache response (moderate or severe headache pain reduced to mild or no headache pain) at 2 hours after administration. The presence or absence of migraine-associated symptoms and sinus and nasal symptoms was also measured. Tolerability was assessed through patient-reported adverse events (AEs).
Two hundred sixteen patients with self-described or physician-diagnosed "sinus" headache received a migraine diagnosis and treated 1 migraine attack with sumatriptan 50 mg. The efficacy (intent-to-treat) analysis included 215 patients treated with sumatriptan 50 mg (n = 108; mean [SD] age, 39.6 [12.3] years; mean [SD] weight, 77.7 [17.7] kg; sex, 71% female; race, 69% white) or placebo (n = 107; mean [SD] age, 41.0 [11.3] years; mean [SD] weight 80.7 [20.9] kg; sex, 69% female; race, 64% white). Significantly more patients treated with sumatriptan 50 mg achieved a positive headache response at 2 and 4 hours after administration compared with those treated with placebo (69% vs 43% at 2 hours and 76% vs 49% at 4 hours, respectively; both, P < 0.001). Significantly more sumatriptan-treated patients were free from sinus pain compared with placebo recipients at 2 hours (63% vs 49% placebo, P = 0.049) and 4 hours (77% vs 55%, P = 0.001). All treatments were generally well tolerated. The most common drug-related AEs reported in the sumatriptan and placebo groups, respectively, were dizziness (5% vs < 1%), nausea (3% vs 2%), other pressure/tightness (defined as sense of heaviness; heaviness of upper body, upper extremities; jaw tension; neck tension) (4% vs 0%), and temperature sensations (defined as warm feeling of back of neck, or flushing) (2% vs 0%). No patients experienced any serious AEs.
Sumatriptan 50-mg tablets were effective and generally well tolerated in the treatment of these patients presenting with migraine headaches that were self-described or physician-diagnosed as sinus headaches.
To investigate the pathophysiology of infantile spasms (IS), we measured the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of beta-endorphin (beta-EP), adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), and corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) in 20 patients with IS, including 11 with the secondary form and 9 with the cryptogenic form of the disease. The findings were compared with those obtained in age-matched controls without neurologic disease. The CSF levels of beta-EP and ACTH were significantly lower in patients with IS than those in the controls. The CSF levels of CRH in patients with IS were lower, although, this trend was not significant. These reductions in the CSF levels of these neuropeptides could explain the impairment of the brain-adrenal axis in such patients. These results might support the hypothesis that, instead of originating from an increased abundance of CRH, which can act as a rapid and potent convulsant, some infantile seizures could be caused by an ACTH deficiency.
Calcium antagonists have long been used as first-line drugs for hypertension and angina. However, deleterious effects have also been reported in patients treated with calcium antagonists. Thus, we evaluated the effect of a slow-release twice-daily formulation of nifedipine in 10 patients with severe coronary artery disease. Twenty-four-hour ambulatory electrocardiography (AECG) and blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) were performed simultaneously to detect any association between ischemic episodes on the ECG and changes in blood pressure (BP) and heart rate with and without nifedipine. Increased oxygen demand due to an increased systolic BP and heart rate was associated with ischemic episodes without nifedipine, while those with nifedipine were accompanied by a fall in diastolic BP and a rapid increase in heart rate. This slow-release twice-daily formulation of nifedipine may induce myocardial ischemia through a heart-rate increase and a decrease in coronary blood flow due to lower diastolic BP in patients with severe coronary artery disease. A once-daily formulation of nifedipine might be of great value for such patients.
Statins have beneficial effects in early pre-clinical models of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Our aim was to test the efficacy of pravastatin on the progression of established HCC in rat, and to study its mechanisms.
HCC was induced with diethylnitrosamine and N-nitrosomorpholine. After 14 weeks, all rats developed HCC and then received pravastatin or its solvent for 10 weeks (10 rats/group).
Liver tumor mass was lower in pravastatin group (PG) than control group (CG), as estimated from the number of liver tumors (p<0.004) and the liver weight/body weight ratio (p<0.04). Every CG rat surviving at 24 weeks (4/4) had lung metastasis, against only 5/8 in PG. Moreover, the percentage of lung surface occupied by metastasis was 10-fold smaller in PG than CG (p<0.016). Pravastatin decreased liver matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-9 activity and mostly suppressed MMP-2 activation (p<0.004), likely because it decreased expression of MMP-14 and tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinases-2 (p<0.01), required for MMP-2 activation.
Pravastatin reduces progression and limits metastatic diffusion of established HCC. This could be linked to the decreased MMP activity. These results, obtained in a very aggressive HCC model, further suggest the potential benefit of statins in human HCC.
Multiple chemical sensitivity (MCS) is a chronic medical condition characterized by symptoms that the affect an individual's response to low-level chemical exposure. In this study, we identified a chemical sensitive population (CSP) and investigated the effect of genetic polymorphisms on their risk of chemical sensitivity.
A quick environment exposure sensitivity (QEESI) questionnaire was used to survey 324 Japanese male workers whose DNA samples had been collected and stored. The following genes, which encode enzymes affecting the metabolic activation of a large number of xenobiotic compounds, were selected and analyzed in order to determine their influence on genetic predisposition to CSP: cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2E1, N-acetyl transferase (NAT) 2, glutathione S-transferase (GST) M1, GSTT1, GSTP1, low Km aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH2), and superoxide dismutase (SOD) 2.
Significant case-control distributed differences were observed in SOD2 polymorphisms and allele frequency distribution in high chemical sensitive subjects. Both the significant adjusted OR of 4.30 (95% CI, 1.23-15.03) and 4.53 (95% CI, 1.52-13.51) were observed in SOD2 Ala/Ala and Val/Ala compared to Val/Val and in SOD2 Ala/Ala compared to Val/Ala compared to Val/Val genetic analysis in the high chemical sensitivity case-control study.
We observed that high chemical sensitive individuals diagnosed by using Japanese criteria as MCS patients were more significantly associated with SOD2 polymorphisms.
The use of cocaine may be associated with either acute or chronic toxicity, and approximately 5% to 10% of emergency department visits in the United States are believed to be secondary to cocaine usage. Chest pain is the most common cocaine-related medical problem, leading to the evaluation of approximately 64,000 patients annually for possible myocardial infarction, of which approximately 57% are admitted to the hospital, resulting in an annual cost greater than $83 million. There is a plethora of cocaine-related cardiovascular complications, including acute myocardial ischemia and infarction, arrhythmias, sudden death, myocarditis, cardiomyopathy, hypertension, aortic ruptures, and endocarditis. There is no evidence to suggest that preexisting vascular disease is a prerequisite for the development of a cocaine-related cardiovascular event, although it may be a potentiating factor, as may be nicotine and alcohol.
Eriobotrya japonica has been used as a medicinal plant for a long time, and its leaves are known to have many physiological actions such as anti-inflammatory, antitussive, and expectoran. In contrast, Eriobotrya japonica seeds are only known to contain amygdalin, and almost no investigations of its pharmacological action have been performed. Moreover, some anticancer agents such as adriamycin cause renal disorders as an adverse effect, and the mechanism of the adverse effect is considered to involve oxidative stress. We have reported that Eriobotrya japonica seed extract has an inhibitory effect on liver disorders. In this study, we prepared a 70% ethanol extract of Eriobotrya japonica seeds and administered the extract to rats with renal disorder induced by a single administration of 7 mg/kg body weight adriamycin, and investigated the usefulness of the extract. Increases in indices of renal function, plasma urea nitrogen, were significantly inhibited in rats treated with the Eriobotrya japonica extract compared to rats treated with tap water. In addition, the renal tissue level of reduced glutathione was significantly high in rats that ingested the extract, while the lipid peroxide levels in plasma and renal tissue were significantly low. However, no effect on renal tissue antioxidative enzymes was observed, suggesting that Eriobotrya japonica seed extract has direct antioxidative action. Based on these findings, Eriobotrya japonica seed extract may be effective in reducing the oxidative stress of adriamycin-induced renal disorder. Therefore, ingestion of Eriobotrya japonica seed extract may contribute to a reduction of the adverse effects of adriamycin.
Increased risk of thrombosis, with propitious conditions for fibrin deposition, along with upregulation of inflammation, are important factors that enhance plaque formation in atherosclerosis. Evidence supporting the role of anticoagulant protein C (PC) as an inflammatory agent has emerged, supplementing its well-known function as an anticoagulant. Thus, we sought to examine whether a PC deficiency would lead to an enhanced response to an acute arterial hyperplasic challenge. The presentation of early arterial inflammation was studied using a copper/silicone arterial cuff model of accelerated focal neointimal remodeling in mice with a heterozygous total deficiency of PC (PC+/-). Increased inflammation, cell proliferation, cell migration, fibrin elevation, and tissue necrosis were observed in the treated arteries of PC+/- mice, as compared to arteries of equally challenged age- and gender-matched WT mice. These results indicate that PC+/- mice subjected to this challenge displayed enhanced focal arterial inflammation and thrombosis, leading to larger neointimas and subsequent localized occlusion, as compared to their WT counterparts.
Mycelia of the edible mushroom Lentinus edodes (shiitake) were cultivated in a solid medium, and two fractions were obtained by hot-water extraction (L.E.M.) and then ethanol extraction followed by Sephadex LH-20 column chromatography (ESMe). The L.E.M. and ESMe were then examined for their hepatoprotective effect on dimethylnitrosamine-injured mice. Both fractions decreased the blood aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase levels, partially inhibited the overaccumulation of collagen fibrils, and suppressed the overexpression of genes for alpha-smooth muscle actin and/or heat-shock protein 47 in the mice. Both fractions also inhibited the morphologic change and proliferation of isolated rat hepatic stellate cells (HSCs), which play a central role in liver fibrosis, in a dose-dependent manner and without cytotoxicity. The direct interaction between the extracts and HSCs appears to be important for the hepatoprotective activity. Polyphenols contained in both fractions are considered to be potential candidates for expressing the hepatoprotective effects. The finding of antifibrotic activity in extracts from an edible mushroom is expected to be helpful in the development of hepatoprotective agents with few side effects.
This 8-week, open-label extension of a double-blind study reports on safety data for 171 adolescents with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) who received once-daily OROS methylphenidate (MPH) (18-72 mg/day). Headache, anorexia, and insomnia were the most frequently reported treatment-related adverse events. The incidence of adverse events was not related to dose. OROS MPH was safe and well tolerated at doses up to 72 mg/day.
Glucosamine, generated during hyperglycaemia, causes insulin resistance in different cells. Here we sought to evaluate the possible role of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress in the induction of insulin resistance by glucosamine in skeletal muscle cells.
Real-time RT-PCR analysis, 2-deoxy-D: -glucose (2-DG) uptake and western blot analysis were carried out in rat and human muscle cell lines.
In both rat and human myotubes, glucosamine treatment caused a significant increase in the expression of the ER stress markers immunoglobulin heavy chain-binding protein/glucose-regulated protein 78 kDa (BIP/GRP78 [also known as HSPA5]), X-box binding protein-1 (XBP1) and activating transcription factor 6 (ATF6). In addition, glucosamine impaired insulin-stimulated 2-DG uptake in both rat and human myotubes. Interestingly, pretreatment of both rat and human myotubes with the chemical chaperones 4-phenylbutyric acid (PBA) or tauroursodeoxycholic acid (TUDCA), completely prevented the effect of glucosamine on both ER stress induction and insulin-induced glucose uptake. In both rat and human myotubes, glucosamine treatment reduced mRNA and protein levels of the gene encoding GLUT4 and mRNA levels of the main regulators of the gene encoding GLUT4 (myocyte enhancer factor 2 a [MEF2A] and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma coactivator 1alpha [PGC1alpha]). Again, PBA or TUDCA pretreatment prevented glucosamine-induced inhibition of GLUT4 (also known as SLC2A4), MEF2A and PGC1alpha (also known as PPARGC1A). Finally, we showed that overproduction of ATF6 is sufficient to inhibit the expression of genes GLUT4, MEF2A and PGC1alpha and that ATF6 silencing with a specific small interfering RNA is sufficient to completely prevent glucosamine-induced inhibition of GLUT4, MEF2A and PGC1alpha in skeletal muscle cells.
In this work we show that glucosamine-induced ER stress causes insulin resistance in both human and rat myotubes and impairs GLUT4 production and insulin-induced glucose uptake via an ATF6-dependent decrease of the GLUT4 regulators MEF2A and PGC1alpha.
Second-line chemotherapy with docetaxel improves survival and quality of life (QoL) in patients with nonsmall cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) who fail first-line platinum-based regimens. The authors sought to determine the activity of second-line, low-dose, weekly paclitaxel in patients with NSCLC who failed first-line chemotherapy with carboplatin plus paclitaxel.
Patients with Stage IIIB/IV NSCLC who had received first-line carboplatin/paclitaxel were treated with low-dose (80 mg/m(2)), weekly paclitaxel at the time of disease progression. Response rates, QoL, and survival were outcome end points.
Sixty-two patients were included in this analysis. The median age was 62 years (range, 32-76 years), 55% of patients were male, 89% of patients had Stage IV NSCLC, and the Karnofsky performance status was 90-100% in 31% of patients, 70-80% in 55% of patients, and 60% in 14% of patients. Twenty-six percent of patients experienced disease progression as their best response to first-line carboplatin plus paclitaxel, whereas 52% of patients had stable disease, and 23% of patients had achieved a response. The median time from first-line carboplatin plus paclitaxel to second-line, low-dose, weekly paclitaxel was 9.5 weeks (range, 1-78 weeks). The toxicity profile was extremely favorable, with no Grade 4 toxicity and < 10% Grade 3 hematologic or nonhematologic toxicity in all patients with the exception of neuropathy. Ten percent of patients experienced both Grade 2 and Grade 3 neuropathy. The overall objective response rate was 8%. The median survival was 5.2 months (95% confidence interval [95%CI], 3.6-6.2 months), and the 1-year and 2-year survival rates were 20% (95%CI, 10-30%) and 9% (95%CI, 1-16%), respectively.
Second-line, low-dose, weekly paclitaxel had activity in selected patients with Stage IIIB/IV NSCLC who failed first-line chemotherapy with carboplatin plus paclitaxel. The toxicity profile of this approach is extremely favorable, and outcome expectations are similar to the outcome expectations with other single agents in this setting.
Tremor in rats withdrawn from repeated ethanol administration was analyzed using an electronic device. The ethanol withdrawal tremor appeared in bursts during the first and second day of withdrawal and subsided at the third day of withdrawal. The frequency analysis showed that the mean frequency of withdrawal tremor was 6-7 Hz during the 48 hr observation period used. The frequency spectra of tremor induced by physostigmine (0.7 or 0.9 mg/kg) in control rats revealed that the tremoring frequency encompassed only a narrow peak, which temporarily decreased from 13 Hz to 11 Hz during the tremoring period. Arecoline (25 mg/kg) also induced tremor with a peak frequency at 13 Hz, but this tremor did not show any temporary decrease in peak frequency. The frequency analysis of tremor in ethanol withdrawn rats treated with physostigmine showed that the rats trembled at two frequencies, 6-7 Hz and 13 Hz. These two frequencies, each characteristic for one of the treatments, remained separate during the 48 hr observation period. As these two tremors did not interact with each other, it is suggested that these tremors are mediated by different mechanisms in the central nervous system. Thus it seems unlikely that the central muscarinic cholinergic system is involved in the genesis of tremor during ethanol withdrawal.
One third of patients treated for hypertension attain adequate blood pressure (BP) control, and multidrug regimens are often required. Given the lifelong nature of hypertension, there is a need to evaluate the long-term efficacy and tolerability of higher doses of combination anti-hypertensive therapies.
This study investigated the efficacy and tolerability of valsartan (VAL) or hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ)-monotherapy and higher-dose combinations in patients with essential hypertension.
The first part of this study was an 8-week, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled, parallel-group trial. Patients with essential hypertension (mean sitting diastolic BP [MSDBP], > or =95 mm Hg and <110 mm Hg) were randomized to 1 of 8 treatment groups: VAL 160 or 320 mg; HCTZ 12.5 or 25 mg; VAL/HCTZ 160/12.5, 320/12.5, or 320/25 mg; or placebo. Mean changes in MSDBP and mean sitting systolic BP (MSSBP) were analyzed at the 8-week core study end point. VAL/HCTZ 320/12.5 and 320/25 mg were further investigated in a 54-week, open-label extension. Response was defined as MSDBP <90 mm Hg or a > or =10 mm Hg decrease compared to baseline. Control was defined as MSDBP <90 mm Hg compared with baseline. Tolerability was assessed by monitoring adverse events at randomization and all subsequent study visits and regular evaluation of hematology and blood chemistry.
A total of 1346 patients were randomized into the 8-week core study (734 men, 612 women; 924 white, 291 black, 23 Asian, 108 other; mean age, 52.7 years; mean weight, 92.6 kg). All active treatments were associated with significantly reduced MSSBP and MSDBP during the core 8-week study, with each monotherapy significantly contributing to the overall effect of combination therapy (VAL and HCTZ, P < 0.001). Each combination was associated with significantly greater reductions in MSSBP and MSDBP compared with the monotherapies and placebo (all, P < 0.001). The mean reduction in MSSBP/MSDBP with VAL/HCTZ 320/25 mg was 24.7/16.6 mm Hg, compared with 5.9/7.0 mm Hg with placebo. The reduction in MSSBP was significantly greater with VAL/HCTZ 320/25 mg compared with VAL/HCTZ 160/12.5 mg (P < 0.002). Rates of response and BP control were significantly higher in the groups that received combination treatment compared with those that received monotherapy. The incidence of hypokalemia was lower with VAL/HCTZ combinations (1.8%-6.1%) than with HCTZ monotherapies (7.1%-13.3%). The majority of adverse events in the core study were of mild to moderate severity. The efficacy and tolerability of VAL/HCTZ combinations were maintained during the extension (797 patients).
In this study population, combination therapies with VAL/HCTZ were associated with significantly greater BP reductions compared with either monotherapy, were well tolerated, and were associated with less hypokalemia than HCTZ alone.
