Losartan is the first drug of a new therapeutic class, the angiotensin II (A II)-receptor antagonists, to be clinically studied and become available for the management of hypertension. Clinical experience with losartan from worldwide, double-blind, controlled studies has been obtained in more than 2900 hypertensive patients treated with losartan alone or in combination with hydrochlorothiazide, with 1700 patients receiving treatment for more than a year. The efficacy of losartan was evaluated in the young and old, in different degrees of hypertension, in blacks and nonblacks, and in patients with renal impairment. Tolerability parameters were assessed by subgroup as well. In dose-ranging studies, 50 mg once daily has generally been shown to produce near maximum effects and a dose of 100 mg does not produce additional effects. The efficacy of losartan (50 to 100 mg once daily) has been compared to atenolol (50 to 100 mg once daily), felodipine ER (5 to 10 mg once daily), and enalapril (20 mg once daily). The blood pressure-lowering effect of losartan was comparable to felodipine, enalapril, and atenolol. The efficacy of losartan was demonstrated using ambulatory blood pressure monitoring, which showed that losartan 50 mg once daily produced gradual reduction in blood pressure, providing 24-h control without affecting the body's circadian rhythm. In subgroups of study populations, no differences in efficacy were noted with respect to age, gender and the severity of hypertension. No initial dosage adjustment is necessary in the elderly and patients with renal impairment (even those on dialysis). Among blacks, the mean response of losartan was lower, which is not surprising given the lesser activation of the renin-angiotensin system in this population. A subgroup safety and tolerability analysis confirmed that there were no important differences in adverse events when assessed by age, race, or gender. The data obtained from controlled clinical trials conducted with losartan, the first A II-receptor antagonist, has shown that a single daily 50-mg dose provides adequate 24-h control of blood pressure in most patients with comparable efficacy to other classes and is well tolerated.
The possible role of the endogenous opioid system in the central hypotensive mechanism of action of alpha-methyldopa was investigated. Conscious normotensive Wistar rats were used in this study and all treatments were given intracisternally. Pretreatment with the opiate receptor antagonist naltrexone resulted in a parallel shift to the right of the dose-response curve for alpha-methyldopa, both for blood pressure and heart rate. In addition, when increasing doses of naltrexone and a constant dose of alpha-methyldopa were used the opiate receptor antagonist inhibited dose-dependently alpha-methyldopa-induced hypotension but not the bradycardia. Administration of naltrexone after the injection of alpha-methyldopa failed to reverse or inhibit alpha-methyldopa-induced hypotension, indicating that the interaction between alpha-methyldopa and the endogenous opioid system occurs at the start of the action of alpha-methyldopa. An antiserum against endorphins also inhibited the fall in blood pressure after alpha-methyldopa. These findings indicate that stimulation of opiate receptors, probably by an endorphin, is involved in the mechanism of action of alpha-methyldopa and that this stimulation seems to occur at the start of the action of alpha-methyldopa.
The diurnal variation of folate concentrations in mouse plasma and embryo between day 8.5 and day 9.5 of gestation (light cycle = 0900-2100) were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography. Folate concentrations in the embryo were high during the evening hours, decreased during the night, reached their lowest levels at 0500, and then increased again during the day. High levels of folates may be related to increased food intake by the pregnant mice. Small changes of the two major maternal plasma folate metabolites were observed. The relative amount of each folate metabolite in the embryo, as compared to the total folate concentration, remained in a narrow range. The main metabolites were tetrahydrofolic acid (THF) (32.4% +/- 2.1% of total folates), 5-CHO-THF (24.2% +/- 2.3%), and 10-CHO-THF (17.0% +/- 1.9%). A dramatic alteration of these ratios occurred only between 1100 and 1400. The relative content of THF increased (52.7% +/- 2.5%), whereas the relative concentration of 5-CHO-THF in the embryo decreased (6.5% +/- 1.9%). Before 1000 when the ratios of folate metabolites were stable, the rate of valproic acid-induced neural tube defects was reduced from 49% of living fetuses to 12% by coapplication of folinic acid via subcutaneously implanted minipumps. During the period in which dramatic changes in ratios between the folate metabolites in the embryo occurred, no protective effect of folinic acid on valproic acid-induced exencephaly could be observed. Our results indicate that the diurnal variation of folate metabolism in the embryo is important in regard to valproic acid teratogenesis and its protection by folate supplementation.
We induced acute skeletal muscle necrosis by using bupivacaine hydrochloride in Wistar rats and found that both 2,5- and 2, 3-dihydroxybenzoic acid significantly increased in the skeletal muscle. Dimethyl sulphoxide, a free radical scavenger, was administrated for 5 days, and resulted in significant lowering of the concentrations of 2, 5- and 2, 3-dihydroxybenzoic acid for four days. Histologically, the diameter of the regenerated muscle fiber seemed to grow by using dimethyl sulphoxide. Dimethyl sulphoxide may decrease the muscle degeneration. These results suggest that dimethyl sulphoxide is an effective hydroxyl radical scavenger, and may be a candidate for the treatment of myopathy.
This study has tested whether phentonium bromide, a quaternary ammonium anti-muscarinic agent, could reverse the signs of precipitated opioid withdrawal. Rats were treated with either saline or morphine for 4 days, after which half the rats received naloxone and half saline. Each animal also received one of four doses of phentonium bromide (0, 1, 3 and 9 mg kg(-1), i.p.). Administration of phentonium bromide in rats receiving naloxone after chronic morphine treatment reduced the intensity of withdrawal signs such as increased defecation or micturition, salivation and wet-dog shakes, and elevated the nociceptive threshold values. The effects of administration of phentonium bromide might result from its anti-muscarinic activity interfering peripherally with the mechanisms involved in the regulation of the withdrawal symptoms. The use of this drug is thus suggested as a possible means of controlling some of the signs observed during the acute phase of opioid withdrawal in heroin addicts.
The present study investigated the role of NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptors in the hypersusceptibility to seizures induced by the benzodiazepine inverse agonist DMCM (methyl-6,7-dimethoxy-4-ethyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxylate) during diazepam withdrawal in mice, using behavioral and biochemical approaches. The seizure threshold of DMCM was markedly decreased during diazepam withdrawal, reflecting withdrawal hyperexcitability in response to physical dependence. The decrease in the seizure threshold of DMCM in diazepam-withdrawn mice was inhibited by the non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonists MK-801 ((+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo(a,d)cycloheptan-5,10-imine maleate; 50 microg/kg, s.c.) and ifenprodil (20 mg/kg, i.p.). The effective doses of these compounds were lower than those required to prevent DMCM-induced seizures in chronically vehicle-treated mice. Since MK-801 and ifenprodil do not only bind to NMDA receptors but also to sigma receptors, the present study also investigated the effects of sigma receptor ligands. The decrease in the seizure threshold of DMCM in diazepam-withdrawn mice was not modified by the sigma receptor agonist, (+)-pentazocine (5 mg/kg, s.c.), or the sigma receptor antagonist, NE-100 (N,N-dipropyl-2-[4-methoxy-3-(2-phenylethoxy)phenyl]-ethylamine monohydrochloride; 5 mg/kg, i.p.). Furthermore, the latency to the expression of wild running induced by intracerebroventricular administration of NMDA (60 ng/mouse) was also significantly lower in diazepam-withdrawn mice than in vehicle-treated control mice. On the other hand, there was no difference in the spermidine concentration between vehicle-treated control and diazepam-withdrawn mice. In a receptor binding experiment, the Bmax value for [3H]-MK-801 binding was significantly increased in cerebrocortical tissues from diazepam-withdrawn mice, while the Kd value did not change in either group. However, the acute addition of a high concentration of diazepam (10 and 100 microM) in vitro did not alter [3H]-MK-801 binding in cerebrocortical membrane preparations. The behavioral experiments suggest that NMDA receptor antagonists may suppress benzodiazepine withdrawal responses, while the biochemical study reveals upregulation of the NMDA receptor, which may play an important role in the hypersusceptibility to DMCM-induced seizure in diazepam-withdrawn mice.
Resveratrol is a key component of red wine that has been reported to have anti-carcinogenic and anti-aging properties. Additional studies conducted in vitro and in animal models suggested anti-inflammatory properties. However, data from primary human immune cells and in vivo studies are limited.
A pilot study was performed including 10 healthy volunteers. Plasma cytokine levels were measured over 48h after oral application of 5g resveratrol. To verify the in vivo findings, cytokine release and gene expression in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and/or monocytes was assessed after treatment with resveratrol or its metabolites and stimulation with several toll-like receptor (TLR)-agonists. Additionally, the impact on intracellular signaling pathways was analyzed using a reporter cell line and Western blotting.
Resveratrol treated individuals showed a significant increase in tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) levels 24h after treatment compared to baseline. Studies using human PBMC or isolated monocytes confirmed potentiation of TNF-α production with different TLR agonists, while interleukin (IL)-10 was inhibited. Moreover, we observed significantly enhanced nuclear factor 'kappa-light-chain-enhancer' of activated B-cells (NF-κB) activation using a reporter cell line and found increased phosphorylation of p105, which is indicative of alternative NF-κB pathway activation.
By administering resveratrol to healthy humans and utilizing primary immune cells we were able to detect TNF-α enhancing properties of the agent. In parallel, we found enhanced alternative NF-κB activation. We report on a novel pro-inflammatory property of resveratrol which has to be considered in concepts of its biologic activity.
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) are pentameric proteins that form agonist-gated cation channels through the plasma membrane. AChR agonists and antagonists are potential candidates for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases. Cembranoids are naturally occurring diterpenoids that contain a 14-carbon ring. These diterpenoids interact with AChRs in complex ways: as irreversible inhibitors at the agonist sites, as noncompetitive inhibitors, or as positive modulators, but no cembranoid was ever shown to have agonistic activity on AChRs. The cembranoid eupalmerin acetate displays positive modulation of agonist-induced currents in the muscle-type AChR and in the related gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) type A receptor. Moreover, cembranoids display important biological effects, many of them mediated by nicotinic receptors. Cembranoids from tobacco are neuroprotective through a nicotinic anti-apoptotic mechanism preventing excitotoxic neuronal death which in part could result from anti-inflammatory properties of cembranoids. Moreover, tobacco cembranoids also have anti-inflammatory properties which could enhance their neuroprotective properties. Cembranoids from tobacco affect nicotine-related behavior: they increase the transient initial ataxia caused by first nicotine injection into naive rats and inhibit the expression of locomotor sensitization to repeated injections of nicotine. In addition, cembranoids are known to act as anti-tumor compounds. In conclusion, cembranoids provide a promising source of lead drugs for many clinical areas, including neuroprotection, smoking-cessation, and anti-cancer therapies.
N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone (NMP), which undergoes extensive biotransformation, has been shown in vivo to cause developmental toxicity and, especially after oral treatment, malformations in rats and rabbits. Data are lacking as to whether the original compound or one of its main metabolites is responsible for the toxic effects observed. Therefore, the relative embryotoxicity of the parent compound and its metabolites was evaluated using rat whole embryo culture (WEC) and the balb/c 3T3 cytotoxicity test. The resulting data were evaluated using two strategies; namely, one based on using all endpoints determined in the WEC and the other including endpoints from both the WEC and the cytotoxicity test. On basis of the first analysis, the substance with the highest embryotoxic potential is NMP, followed by 5-hydroxy-N-methyl-pyrrolidone (5-HNMP), 2-hydroxy-N-methylsuccinimide (2-HMSI) and N-methylsuccinimide (MSI). Specific dysmorphogeneses induced by NMP and 5-HNMP were aberrations in the head region of the embryos, abnormal development of the second visceral arches and open neural pores. The second evaluation strategy used only two endpoints of the WEC, i.e. the no observed adverse effect concentration (NOAEC(WEC)) and the lowest concentration leading to dysmorphogenesis in 100% of the cultured embryos (IC(Max WEC)). In addition to these WEC endpoints the IC(50 3T3) from the cytotoxicity test (balb/c 3T3 fibroblasts) was included in the evaluation scheme. These three endpoints were applied to a prediction model developed during a validation study of the European Centre for the Validation of Alternative Methods (ECVAM) allowing the classification of the embryotoxic potential of each compound into three classes (non-, weakly- and strongly embryotoxic). Consistent results from both evaluation strategies were observed, whereby NMP and its metabolites revealed a direct embryotoxic potential. Hereby, only NMP and 5-HNMP induced specific embryotoxic effects and were classified as weakly embryotoxic, whereas the other two metabolites, 2-HMSI and MSI, were determined to be non-embryotoxic.
Neurotoxic amphetamines cause damage to monoamine nerve terminals of the striatum by unknown mechanisms. Microglial activation contributes to the neuronal damage that accompanies injury, disease, and inflammation, but a role for these cells in amphetamine-induced neurotoxicity has received little attention. We show presently that D-methamphetamine, 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA), D-amphetamine, and p-chloroamphetamine, each of which has been linked to dopamine (DA) or serotonin nerve terminal damage, result in microglial activation in the striatum. The non-neurotoxic amphetamines l-methamphetamine, fenfluramine, and DOI do not have this effect. All drugs that cause microglial activation also increase expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). At a minimum, microglial activation serves as a pharmacologically specific marker for striatal nerve terminal damage resulting only from those amphetamines that exert neurotoxicity. Because microglia are known to produce many of the reactive species (e.g., nitric oxide, superoxide, cytokines) that mediate the neurotoxicity of the amphetamine-class of drugs, their activation could represent an early and essential event in the neurotoxic cascade associated with high-dose amphetamine intoxication.
the underlying cause of pathophysiological mechanisms triggering multiple chemical sensitivity (MCS) remains disputed.Recently, alterations in the central nervous system, for example,central sensitization, similar to various chronic pain disorders, have been suggested. Capsaicin is used in experimental pain models to provoke peripheral and central sensitization. In patients with symptoms elicited by odorous chemicals capsaicin-induced secondary hyperalgesia and temporal summation were assessed as markers for abnormal central nociceptive processing together with neurogenic inﬂammation (ﬂare).
sixteen patients fulﬁlling Cullen criteria for MCS and 15 eczema patients with airway symptoms induced by odorous chemicals (EC) were compared with 29 age-matched healthy controls.Participants underwent 2 intradermal injection of capsaicin (3.3 mM and 33 mM). Measurements included pain intensity, ﬂare, pinprick hyperalgesia, temporal summation, and McGill Pain Questionnaire score.
no diﬀerence was found in the ﬂare area between the groups. The capsaicin-evoked pain intensity was higher in MCS patients compared with controls (P<0.01, 33 mM). The area of secondary hyperalgesia was larger in both the patient groups compared with controls (P<0.05) at both capsaicin concentrations. Temporal summation was increased in MCS patients compared with controls(P<0.01). Further, in patients with comorbidity of ﬁbromyalgia, pain and chronic fatigue, pain continued after end stimulation, and the stimulus response function was enhanced compared with patients without comorbidity, and signiﬁcant to controls (P<0.05).
this is the ﬁrst study to show facilitated pain processing in MCS and EC patients with the most abnormal responses in MCS.
We determined change in serum hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), one of the most potent angiogenic factors, after intravenous infusion of heparin in children and reported successful improvement of cardiac ischemia after regular intravenous heparin infusion in an infant with ischemic heart disease (IHD) caused by Kawasaki disease (KD). Intravenous infusion of 50 units/kg of heparin significantly increased serum HGF from 0.8+/-0.6 to 8.4+/-3.4 at 5 min, 8.3+/-2.5 at 30 min, and 4.9+/-1.5 ng/ml at 60 min, respectively. Subsequently, a 16-month-old infant with IHD caused by KD had received regular intravenous infusion of heparin, 100 IU/kg twice a day for 1 month and once a week for subsequent 2 months. With this treatment, his perfusion defect on myocardial scintigraphy disappeared. In conclusion, regular heparin infusion alone can improve myocardial ischemia caused by KD, probably due to facilitated production of HGF.
Familial forms of frontotemporal dementia (FTD) with tauopathy are mostly caused by mutations in the gene encoding the microtubule-associated protein tau (MAPT). However, rare forms of familial tauopathy without MAPT mutations have been reported, suggesting other tauopathy-related genetic defects. Interestingly, two presenilin 1 (PS1) mutations (Leu113Pro and insArg352) recently have been associated with familial FTD albeit without neuropathological confirmation. We report here a novel PS1 mutation in a patient with Pick-type tauopathy in the absence of extracellular beta-amyloid deposits. The mutation is predicted to substitute Gly-->Val at codon position 183 (Gly183Val) and to affect the splice signal at the junction of the sixth exon and intron. Further clinical-genetic investigation showed a positive family history of FTD-like dementia and suggested that Gly183Val is associated with a phenotypically heterogeneous neurodegenerative disorder. Our results suggest PS1 as a candidate gene for Pick-type tauopathy without MAPT mutations.
To determine susceptibility of infants to 3-methylphenol, a repeated dose toxicity study was conducted with oral administration to newborn and young rats. In an 18-day newborn study from postnatal days 4 to 21 at doses of 30, 100 and 300 mg/kg/day, various clinical signs including deep respiration, hypersensitivity on handling and tremors under contact stimulus, and depressed body weight gain were observed at 300 mg/kg. At 100 mg/kg, hypersensitivity and tremors were also noted in a small number of males only on single days during the dosing period. No adverse effects were observed in the 30 mg/kg group. There were no abnormalities of physical development, sexual maturation and reflex ontogeny. The no observed adverse effect level (NOAEL) for newborn rats was considered to be 30 mg/kg/day and the unequivocally toxic level 300 mg/kg/day. In a 28-day study starting at 5 weeks of age, clinical signs and depression of body weight gain, as observed in the newborn rats, appeared in both sexes at 1000 mg/kg but not 300 mg/kg. The NOAEL and the unequivocally toxic level were 300 mg/kg/day and 1,000 mg/kg/day, respectively. From these results, newborn rats were concluded to be 3 to 10 times more susceptible to 3-methylphenol than young rats. However, the realistic no adverse effect dose for the newborn must be slightly lower than 100 mg/kg/day, at which the toxicity incidence was very low, rather than 30 mg/kg/day. Based on this speculation and the equal toxicity at unequivocally toxic levels, the differences in the susceptibility to 3-methylphenol could be concluded to be 3 to 4 times. This is consistent with the results of our previous comparative studies on 4-nitrophenol, 2,4-dinitrophenol and 3-aminophenol, which showed 2 to 4 times differences in the susceptibility between newborn and young rats.
Immediately after a patient with myoclonus epilepsy smoked a nicotine-containing cigarette, tetraparesis and hyperreflexia with ankle clonus developed, but disappeared within several minutes. During paresis, the H-reflex size of the soleus muscle increased, EEG showed more slow waves than before smoking, and the cerebral perfusion increased around the motor cortex as shown by single photon emission CT. A similar effect occurred when the patient chewed nicotine gum, and smoking a cigarette with a high nicotine content induced severe positive and negative myoclonus after the development of tetraparesis. Administration of the C6-type nicotinic antagonist mecamylamine not only countered the smoking effect, but ameliorated the spontaneous positive and negative myoclonus. Mecamylamine may prove useful for the treatment of positive and negative myoclonus in myoclonus epilepsy.
Ramulus Mori, the branch of Morus alba, is widely used in traditional Chinese medicine prescriptions to treat gout and hyperuricemia.
To evaluate the uricosuric and nephroprotective effects of ethanol extract of Ramulus Mori (ERM) and explore its possible mechanisms in hyperuricemic mice.
HPLC analysis was employed to determine the main constituents. Hyperuricemia was induced by potassium oxonate (250 mg/kg) in male mice. ERM (10, 20 and 40 mg/kg) was orally administered to hyperuricemic and normal mice for 7 days. Serum and urine levels of uric acid, creatinine and blood urea nitrogen (BUN) were measured. Simultaneously, renal mRNA and protein levels of mouse urate transporter 1 (mURAT1), glucose transporter 9 (mGLUT9), organic anion transporter 1 (mOAT1) and organic cation/carnitine transporters (mOCT1/2, mOCTN1/2) were analyzed by RT-PCR and Western blotting methods.
ERM mainly contained mulberroside A, oxyresveratrol, 4-hydroxycinnamic acid, resveratrol, 7-hydroxycumarin and morin. ERM significantly reduced serum urate levels and increased 24h-urine urate excretion and fractional excretion of uric acid in hyperuricemic mice. It effectively restored oxonate-induced expression alteration of renal mURAT1, mGLUT9 and mOAT1, resulting in urate excretion enhancement. Moreover, ERM decreased serum creatinine and BUN levels and increased creatinine clearance, and up-regulated expression of mOCT1/2 and mOCTN1/2, contributing to kidney function improvement in this model.
These results suggest that ERM exerts the uricosuric and nephroprotective actions by the regulation of these renal organic ion transporters in hyperuricemic mice, and provide scientific support for the empirical use of Ramulus Mori.
Oculodentodigital dysplasia (ODDD) is a dominant negatively inherited disorder with variable but characteristic anomalies of the fingers and toes, eyes, face and teeth, which are caused by mutations in the connexin 43 (Cx43) gene. All mutations analyzed so far have a negative influence on the conductance through gap junctional channels and hemichannels, as well as trafficking of Cx43 protein in transfected cells. In this study, we inserted the human Cx43G138R point mutation into the mouse Cx43 gene and generated mice conditionally expressing this mutation. All ODDD phenotypic manifestations observed in humans, including syndactyly and enamel hypoplasia as well as craniofacial, bone and heart anomalies, were also observed with significant penetrance in Cx43G138R mice. When this mutation was specifically expressed in cardiomyocytes, characteristic alterations in the electrocardiogram and spontaneous arrhythmias were recorded. In vitro studies with Cx43G138R-expressing cells revealed loss of the Cx43 P2 phosphorylation state, which was also absent in the mutated hearts. This loss has previously been associated with gap junctional dysfunction and increased cellular ATP release. The Cx43G138R mutated mice show significantly increased arrhythmogeneity ex vivo in Langendorff experiments with explanted hearts and in vivo in particular under hypoxic conditions. Our results suggest that the increased activity of ATP-releasing channels in Cx43G138R mutated cardiomyocytes may further reduce the already decreased gap junctional communication and thus aggravate arrhythmogenesis in the mouse mutant.
A rare form of spinal dysraphism, diastematomyelia, was diagnosed in a pregnancy exposed to acyclovir at the time of implantation. The prenatal diagnosis was based on the ultrasound examination of the fetus. Pathologic evaluation of the postabortion fetus confirmed the diagnosis. The use of acyclovir in pregnancy and associated anomalies are reviewed.
To determine whether the neuropathologic changes produced by vigabatrin (VGB; gamma-vinyl GABA) administration in the developing rat brain are reversible.
We injected rats daily with VGB (25-40 mg/kg/day, s.c.) from age 12 days for 2 weeks followed by 2 weeks of a drug-free period. Behavioral testing, magnetic resonance (MR) imaging, biochemical assays, and histologic technique were used to assess the adverse effect of VGB in developing brain and its reversibility.
At the end of 2 weeks' VGB administration: (a) there was a hyperactivity and a shortened latency to escape out of cool water; (b) white matter appeared hyperintense in T2 and diffusion-weighted MR images with 4-15% increases in T2; (c) microvacuolation, TUNEL-positive nuclei, and swollen axons were observed in the corpus callosum; (d) myelin staining indicated a reduction in myelination, as did the reduction in activities of myelin and oligodendrocyte-associated enzymes and the decrease in myelin basic protein on Western blots. Two weeks after stopping VGB administration: (a) MR images were normal, and microvacuolation was no longer in the white matter; (b) reduction in myelination reversed partially; (c) the T2 relaxation time remained elevated in the hypothalamus; and (d) the behavioral response remained abnormal.
Long-term VGB administration to young rats causes brain injury, which recovers partially on its cessation. The observed cell death, disrupted myelination, and alterations in behavior indicate a need for further safety assessment in infants and children.
Angiotensin II (A II), the active component of the renin-angiotensin system, plays a major role in the regulation of blood pressure and renal function. A II actions are mediated by the interaction of this peptide with specific receptors that have been classified into two major types. AT1 and AT2. AT1 receptors have been associated with all of the known cardiovascular and renal effects of A II. Losartan, the first nonpeptide A II-receptor antagonist, exerts its antihypertensive action through the inhibition of A II binding to AT1 receptors. However, additional mechanisms seem to be involved in the actions of losartan in the rat. Administration of the nitric oxide (NO)-synthase inhibitor, NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (LNAME), prevented the hypotensive effect induced by losartan in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). Similarly, pretreatment with LNAME reduced the increases in renal plasma flow and glomerular filtration rate produced by this AT1-receptor antagonist in SHR. Furthermore, concurrent administration of the prostaglandin (PG)-synthesis inhibitor indomethacin attenuated vasodepressor, diuretic, and natriuretic effects of losartan in SHR. Finally, it should be mentioned that losartan was able to reduce the "ex vivo" vasoconstriction induced by phenylephrine in aortic rings from SHR. This effect was not observed in endothelium-denuded rings, suggesting a mediatory role of an endothelium-derived factor in this effect of losartan. Consequently, these data suggest a contributory role of NO and PGs in the vasodepressor and renal actions of AT1-receptor antagonists in SHR.
A case of nitrofurantoin-induced chronic active hepatitis in a woman of 79 years is presented. The patient recovered spontaneously when the drug was withdrawn. Liver function tests should be performed on patients undergoing intermittent treatment with nitrofurantoin.
We investigated antinociceptive activity of botulinum toxin type A (BTX-A) in a model of diabetic neuropathic pain in rats. Male Wistar rats were made diabetic by a single intraperitoneal injection of streptozotocin (80mg/kg). Sensitivity to mechanical and thermal stimuli was measured with the paw-pressure and hot-plate test, respectively. The formalin test was used to measure sensitivity to chemical stimuli. Diabetic animals with pain thresholds lower for at least 25% compared to the non-diabetic group were considered neuropathic and were injected with BTX-A either subcutaneously (3, 5 and 7U/kg) or intrathecally (1U/kg). Mechanical and thermal sensitivity was measured at several time-points. After peripheral application, BTX-A (5 and 7U/kg) reduced mechanical and thermal hypersensitivity not only on ipsilateral, but on contralateral side, too. The antinociceptive effect started 5days following BTX-A injection and lasted at least 15days. Formalin-induced hypersensitivity in diabetic animals was abolished as well. When applied intrathecally, BTX-A (1U/kg) reduced diabetic hyperalgesia within 24h supporting the assumption of retrograde axonal transport of BTX-A from the peripheral site of injection to central nervous system. The results presented here demonstrate the long-lasting pain reduction after single BTX-A injection in the animals with diabetic neuropathy. The bilateral pain reduction after unilateral toxin application and the effectiveness of lower dose with the faster onset after the intrathecal injection suggest the involvement of the central nervous system in the antinociceptive action of BTX-A in painful diabetic neuropathy.
In mice, depression of hepatic uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase (UROD) leading to porphyrin accumulation (uroporphyria) occurs with chlorinated ligands of the aryl hydrocarbon (AH) receptor especially after iron overload. However, in the absence of chlorinated ligands, iron itself will eventually cause uroporphyria, but this response is not associated with the Ahr genotype. These effects are potentiated by administration of the haem precursor 5-aminolaevulinate (ALA). The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of ALA alone. Prolonged administration of 2 mg ALA/mL in the drinking water to SWR mice also led to decarboxylase insufficiency (11% of control) and uroporphyria by 8 weeks, whereas DBA/2 mice did not show reduced enzyme activity. Both strains are considered AH nonresponsive and analysis of the Ahr gene using restriction fragment length polymorphism was consistent with SWR, like DBA/2, possessing the Ahrd allele. Exposure of isolated hepatocytes to ALA (150-500 microM) for up to 48 hr showed a significant accumulation of both uroporphyrin and coproporphyrin in the medium, which for uroporphyrin particularly was significantly greater with SWR than with DBA/2 cells. Basal in vivo CYP1A2 activity, measured as microsomal methoxyresorufin dealkylation, was significantly greater in SWR than in DBA/2 mice (1.3-fold), but it was unclear whether this was sufficient to explain the marked difference in sensitivities of the two strains. Despite SWR mice being AH nonresponsive, uroporphyria and decarboxylase depression after an initial iron overload and ALA for 3 weeks were greatly potentiated by a single dose (100 mg/kg) of hexachlorobenzene (a weak AH ligand). The results demonstrate that there is a genetic difference in mice independent of the Ahr genotype and response to iron, which influences the susceptibility to ALA-induced uroporphyria. Thus chemicals, iron and ALA can act independently, but also together, to cause porphyria in susceptible individuals.
Holoprosencephaly (HPE) is a common, severe malformation of the brain that involves separation of the central nervous system into left and right halves. Mild HPE can consist of signs such as a single central incisor, hypotelorism, microcephaly, or other craniofacial findings that can be present with or without associated brain malformations. The aetiology of HPE is extremely heterogeneous, with the proposed participation of a minimum of 12 HPE-associated genetic loci as well as the causal involvement of specific teratogens acting at the earliest stages of neurulation. The HPE2 locus was recently characterized as a 1-Mb interval on human chromosome 2p21 that contained a gene associated with HPE. A minimal critical region was defined by a set of six overlapping deletions and three clustered translocations in HPE patients. We describe here the isolation and characterization of the human homeobox-containing SIX3 gene from the HPE2 minimal critical region (MCR). We show that at least 2 of the HPE-associated translocation breakpoints in 2p21 are less than 200 kb from the 5' end of SIX3. Mutational analysis has identified four different mutations in the homeodomain of SIX3 that are predicted to interfere with transcriptional activation and are associated with HPE. We propose that SIX3 is the HPE2 gene, essential for the development of the anterior neural plate and eye in humans.
A number of patients with rheumatoid arthritis attending the Rheumatology Clinic at St Luke's Hospital are currently receiving the drug methotrexate as a second line disease-modifying agent. A survey has been conducted to assess the toxicity profile of methotrexate in 33 of these patients who were followed up for at least 1 year or until they developed side effects necessitating discontinuation of treatment. Adverse effects in this group of patients included haematological ones (6%), asymptomatic elevations of liver enzymes (57%), gastrointestinal (6%) and dermatological side effects (3%). These results have been compared to larger studies performed abroad. Regular monitoring of a complete blood count and liver function tests has helped to detect the more serious side effects of methotrexate at an early stage enabling successful intervention in these patients.
Hyperimmunoglobulinaemia D and periodic fever syndrome (HIDS; MIM 260920) is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by recurrent episodes of fever associated with lymphadenopathy, arthralgia, gastrointestinal dismay and skin rash. Diagnostic hallmark of HIDS is a constitutively elevated level of serum immunoglobulin D (IgD), although patients have been reported with normal IgD levels. To determine the underlying defect in HIDS, we analysed urine of several patients and discovered increased concentrations of mevalonic acid during severe episodes of fever, but not between crises. Subsequent analysis of cells from four unrelated HIDS patients revealed reduced activities of mevalonate kinase (MK; encoded by the gene MVK), a key enzyme of isoprenoid biosynthesis. Sequence analysis of MVK cDNA from the patients identified three different mutations, one of which was common to all patients. Expression of the mutant cDNAs in Escherichia coli showed that all three mutations affect the activity of the encoded proteins. Moreover, immunoblot analysis demonstrated a deficiency of MK protein in patient fibroblasts, indicating a protein-destabilizing effect of the mutations.
Blood lithium (Li) levels, renal functional parameters and urine excretion of enzymatic activities having different intracellular sites were investigated on rats submitted to acute and subacute Li chloride administration. In acute experiments increased levels of all detected enzymes were assayed following Li single doses of 5 and 10 mEq/kg b.w. In subacute poisoning, urine output of lactate dehydrogenase, aspartate transaminase and alanine transaminase was significantly over the basal ranges following 15 days in concomitance with marked elevation of plasma Li levels and exhibited progressive increase until 30 days; on the 10th day following Li withdrawal, elevated excretion of enzymatic activities was still assayed. The results are in agreement with data about the localization of the histologic lesions involving different sites of the nephron in acute Li poisoning and the distal tubular tract in subacute toxicity. In subacute administration the output of cytoplasmic and mitochondrial activities can be assumed as an index of damage of the nephron cells which can persist following Li withdrawal. Our findings indicate that the urine enzyme assay is a valuable tool to detect renal damage in experimental Li nephropathy.
