A clinical syndrome consisting of severe acute nocturnal knee arthralgias, absent signs of inflammation, and spontaneous resolution in 12 to 72 h was observed in 3 patients in close temporal relationship to wide swings in corticosteroid dosage. A similar clinical picture has previously been described in several renal transplant recipients. With increasing use of pulse corticosteroid treatment for a variety of medical and surgical conditions, this disorder is likely to be encountered in many different settings and deserves recognition because of its dramatic presentation and self-limited course.
New data support use of levodopa pharmacotherapy with behavioral contingency management (CM) as one efficacious combination in cocaine dependence disorder treatment. A potential mechanism of the combined treatment effects may be related to dopamine-induced enhancement of the saliency of contingently delivered reinforcers. Evidence to support this mechanism was sought by evaluating levodopa-enhancing effects across distinct CM conditions that varied in behavioral targets. A total of 136 treatment-seeking, cocaine dependent subjects participated in this 12-week, randomized, placebo-controlled trial of levodopa (vs. placebo) administered in combination with one of three behavioral CM conditions. In the CM-URINE condition, subjects received cash-valued vouchers contingent on cocaine-negative urine toxicology results. In the CM-ATTEND condition, the same voucher schedule was contingent on attending thrice weekly clinic visits. In the CM-MEDICATION condition, the same voucher schedule was contingent on Medication Event Monitoring Systems- and riboflavin-based evidence of pill-taking behavior. Primary outcomes associated with each CM target behavior were analyzed using generalized linear mixed models for repeated outcomes. CM responding in the CM-ATTEND and CM-MEDICATION conditions showed orderly effects, with each condition producing corresponding changes in targeted behaviors, regardless of medication condition. In contrast, CM responding in the CM-URINE condition was moderated by medication, with levodopa-treated subjects more likely to submit cocaine-negative urines. These findings specify the optimal target behavior for CM when used in combination with levodopa pharmacotherapy.
In 51 healthy young people the carotid arterial pulse wave was registered externally during bicycle-exercise in a lying position. The ejection time in relation to the duration of diastole (not pulse period or heart rate!) increased significantly. These results are compared with measurements made by Schulz (15) who found normal ejection times in tachycardia provoked by pacer-stimulation and shortened values during isoproterenol-induced tachycardia. Women have longer ejection times than men especially under physical stress. In 18 patients suffering from aortic insufficiency, ejection times were slightly prolonged and in 28 patients who had a systolic pressure gradient of more than 20 mm Hg between the left ventricle and the aorta ejection times were markedly prolonged. There is also a significant positive correlation between ejection time and pressure gradient. The authors consider that the autonomic innervation plays an important role in the duration of ejection time in normal subjects while in patients with aortic heart disease the ejection time is predominantly influenced by mechanical factors. For the diagnosis of the severity of aortic stenosis measurements of ejection time are only useful in connection with other clinical parameters (pulse pressure, creast time of the arterial pulse wave).
Germ-line mutations in CYLD are found in patients with familial skin appendage tumours. The protein product functions as a deubiquitinase enzyme, which negatively regulates NF-kappaB and c-Jun N-terminal kinase signalling. Brooke-Spiegler syndrome (BSS) is characterised by cylindromas, trichoepitheliomas and spiradenomas, whereas in familial cylindromatosis (FC) patients present with cylindromas and in multiple familial trichoepitheliomas (MFT) with trichoepitheliomas as the only skin tumour type. Although described as distinct entities, recent studies suggest that they are within the spectrum of a single entity.
To investigate the mutation spectrum of CYLD and possible genotype-phenotype correlations.
25 families including 13 BSS, 3 FC, and 9 MFT families were examined and evaluated for mutations in the CYLD gene.
In total, 18 mutations in CYLD, including 6 novel mutations, were identified in 25 probands (72%). The mutation frequencies among distinct phenotypes were 85% for BSS, 100% for FC, and 44% for MFT. The majority of the mutations were insertions, deletions or nonsense mutations leading to formation of truncated proteins. All mutations were located between exons 9 to 20, encoding the NEMO binding site and the catalytic domain. Genotype-phenotype analysis failed to reveal a correlation between the types of mutations and their location within the gene and the patients' phenotypes and disease severity.
This study provides further evidence on the role of CYLD in the pathogenesis of skin appendage tumours characterised by cylindromas, trichoepitheliomas and/or spiradenomas, but the molecular mechanisms of CYLD in skin tumorigenesis and the reasons for phenotypic variability remain to be explored.
We report the case of a 79-year-old man with mild chronic renal failure who developed severe rhabdomyolysis after combined exposure to simvastatin and colchicine. Colchicine induces myopathy through disruption of microtubular function with subsequent vacuolization and pseudomyelinic body accumulation. Statin therapy is associated with myonecrosis, membranous myeloid bodies, and vacuolization, presumably as a function of impaired isoprenoid metabolism. Vesicle trafficking requires small G-protein prenylation and statins can disrupt cytoskeletal integrity. We propose that synergistic cytoskeletal myotoxicity may account for the extreme elevation of serum creatine kinase not previously reported in pure colchicine myopathy.
We report a female who was diagnosed with Wegener's granulomatosis at 4 years of age with life-threatening intracranial bleeding. The patient's serum was positive for c-antineutrophilic cytoplasmic antibodies, and histologic analysis of the lung biopsy revealed evidence of granulomatous vasculitis. Initial treatment with steroids and cyclophosphamide was successfully converted to a long-term medication regimen consisting of azathioprine, trimethoprim, and sulfamethoxazole. Thereafter the patient showed no signs of disease activity for more than 3 years and manifested only a low-grade neurologic handicap. In February 2001, 5 years after the initial diagnosis, she presented with altered consciousness and myoclonic multifocal seizures. Subsequent diagnostic studies confirmed the diagnosis of disseminated cerebral vasculitis unresponsive to steroid treatment. Acute neurologic symptoms relented immediately after cyclophosphamide pulse therapy. Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain demonstrated complete remission within 8 weeks. Her current treatment includes steroids and monthly pulses of cyclophosphamide.
Motorcycle exhaust (ME) from two-stroke engines contains many toxicants and poses a potential health hazard. The major objectives of the present study were to investigate the male reproductive toxicity of ME and the underlying mechanisms of toxicity. Male Wistar rats were exposed to ME by inhalation 1 h each in the morning and afternoon, Monday through Friday. Exposures to 1:50 diluted ME for 4 weeks or to 1:10 diluted ME for 2 and 4 weeks showed concentration- and time-dependent decreases of testicular weight, spermatid number, and cauda epididymal sperm number. Subsequent studies were done using 4-week exposure to 1:10 diluted ME. ME caused histopathological changes including testicular spermatocytic necrosis and seminiferous tubule atrophy and cauda epididymal formation of clusters of pyknotic and necrotic sperm cells. ME-exposed male rats mated with untreated females showed decreases of male mating index and female fertility index and an increase of implantation site loss. ME decreased 7-ethoxycoumarin O-deethylase and superoxide dismutase activities but induced proinflammatory cytokine interleukin-6 (IL-6) messenger RNA (mRNA) in the testis. Male rats were exposed to ME with or without cotreatment with 50 mg/kg vitamin E orally for 4 weeks. ME decreased serum testosterone concentration. This effect was reversed by cotreatment with vitamin E. ME decreased testicular spermatid number and induced IL-6 mRNA and protein. These effects were also reversed by the vitamin E cotreatment. The present findings show that ME causes male reproductive effects and induces testicular IL-6 in rats by mechanisms involving induction of oxidative stress and inhibition of steroidogenesis.
Chronic exposure to manganese (Mn) may lead to a movement disorder due to preferential Mn accumulation in the globus pallidus and other basal ganglia nuclei. Iron (Fe) deficiency also results in increased brain Mn levels, as well as dysregulation of other trace metals. The relationship between Mn and Fe transport has been attributed to the fact that both metals can be transported via the same molecular mechanisms. It is not known, however, whether brain Mn distribution patterns due to increased Mn exposure vs. Fe deficiency are the same, or whether Fe supplementation would reverse or inhibit Mn deposition. To address these questions, we utilized four distinct experimental populations. Three separate groups of male Sprague-Dawley rats on different diets (control diet [MnT], Fe deficient [FeD], or Fe supplemented [FeS]) were given weekly intravenous Mn injections (3 mg Mn/kg body mass) for 14 weeks, whereas control (CN) rats were fed the control diet and received sterile saline injections. At the conclusion of the study, both blood and brain Mn and Fe levels were determined by atomic absorption spectroscopy and magnetic resonance imaging. The data indicate that changes in dietary Fe levels (either increased or decreased) result in regionally specific increases in brain Mn levels compared with CN or MnT animals. Furthermore, there was no difference in either Fe or Mn accumulation between FeS or FeD animals. These data suggest that dietary Fe manipulation, whether increased or decreased, may contribute to brain Mn deposition in populations vulnerable to increased Mn exposure.
Sirolimus is a novel immunosuppressant with potent antiproliferative actions through its ability to inhibit the raptor-containing mammalian target of rapamycin protein kinase. Sirolimus represents a major therapeutic advance in the prevention of acute renal allograft rejection and chronic allograft nephropathy. Its role in the therapy of glomerulonephritis, autoimmunity, cystic renal diseases and renal cancer is under investigation. Because sirolimus does not share the vasomotor renal adverse effects exhibited by calcineurin inhibitors, it has been designated a 'non-nephrotoxic drug'. However, clinical reports suggest that, under some circumstances, sirolimus is associated with proteinuria and acute renal dysfunction. A common risk factor appears to be presence of pre-existing chronic renal damage. The mechanisms of sirolimus-associated proteinuria are multifactorial and may be due to an increase in glomerular capillary pressure following calcineurin inhibitor withdrawal. It has also been suggested that sirolimus directly causes increased glomerular permeability/injury, but evidence for this mechanism is currently inconclusive. The acute renal dysfunction associated with sirolimus (such as in delayed graft function) may be due to suppression of compensatory renal cell proliferation and survival/repair processes. Although these adverse effects occur in some patients, their occurrence could be minimised by knowledge of the molecular effects of sirolimus on the kidney, the use of sirolimus in appropriate patient populations, close monitoring of proteinuria and renal function, use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin II receptor blockers if proteinuria occurs and withdrawal if needed. Further long-term analysis of renal allograft studies using sirolimus as de novo immunosuppression along with clinical and laboratory studies will refine these issues in the future.
Serositis is a rare complication of methotrexate (MTX) administration. We report a 60-year-old man with rheumatoid arthritis who developed pericarditis after taking his weekly MTX dose, which recurred within hours after 2 subsequent weekly MTX doses. Pericarditis has not recurred after discontinuance of MTX over 3 years ago. We conclude that he had MTX-induced pericarditis, based on the close temporal relationship between MTX ingestion and manifestations of pericarditis on three distinct occasions because of the previous reports of MTX-induced pericarditis and because pericarditis has not recurred after MTX withdrawal.
Burn injury has been shown to impair gut transit, but the exact mechanism remains unknown. The present study investigated whether nitric oxide synthase (NOS) and cyclooxygenase (COX) mediated changes in burn-induced colonic transit. After rats underwent 30% total body surface area burn injury, they were injected with S-methylisothiourea (SMT, selective inducible NOS inhibitor), 7-nitronidazole (7-NI, selective neuronal NOS inhibitor), and nimesulide (NIM, selective COX-2 inhibitor), respectively. The protein and mRNA of NOS and COX-2 were measured by Western blot analysis and real-time RT-RCR, and localization of NOS and COX-2 protein was determined by immunohistochemistry. Our results showed that colonic transit assessed by the geometric center was delayed from 3.47+/-0.28 in controls to 2.21+/-0.18 after burn (P<0.009). SMT and NIM significantly improved colonic transit in burned rats but had no effect in sham-operated rats. 7-NI failed to modify delayed transit in burned rats but significantly delayed colonic transit in sham-operated rats. Both protein and mRNA of inducible NOS and COX-2 increased significantly but not neuronal NOS in burned rats. Inducible NOS protein expression was noted not only in epithelial cells but also in neurons of the myenteric ganglia in burned rats. These findings suggest that nitric oxide (NO) produced by neuronal NOS plays an important role in mediating colonic transit under the physiological condition. NO produced by inducible NOS and prostaglandins synthesized by COX-2 are both involved in the pathogenesis of delayed colonic transit after burn injury. Inducible NOS expression in neurons of the myenteric ganglia may contribute to dysmotility with burn injury.
The broad results of the treatment of patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease who have received levodopa or its variants are reported. 50 patients, 24 males and 26 females, with a mean age of 66.5 years were treated with levodopa, in daily doses ranging from 0.25g to 6.0g or 'Sinemet' in daily doses of 300mg to 750mg. Periods of treatment ranged from 4 months to 8 years, with a mean of 4.02 years. The relationships of patients' age, onset of Parkinsonian symptoms and interval between initial treatment with levodopa and the current clinical state were studied. Patients were classified according to their clnical response into 3 categories: satisfactory response, progressive deterioration or intolerance of levodopa. The proportion of patients in each category was 66%, 22% and 12% respectively. The clinical results of treatment correlated with those of Webster Disability Testing Scale. Analysis showed that the majority of patients tolerated levodopa and showed an initially satisfactory response. Patients who responded well were considerably younger than those who failed to respond. Patients receiving the drug for a shorter period (less than 3 years) showed a better response. After 3 years' treatment, the response declined. Patients who had had Parkinson's disease for more than 4 years appeared to do less well than those with recently diagnosed disease, but many patients responded well even when treatment was initiated 10 years after the onset of symptoms. Patients discontinued levodopa treatment because of psychoses, nausea, dyskinesia or exacerbation of urinary incontinence. The commonest side effects were nausea (34%), postural hypotension (22%), psychoses (10%) and 'on-off' phenomena in 12% of patients.
The efficacy and safety of single doses of 6 mg sumatriptan, self-administered subcutaneously by patients using an auto-injector, for the acute treatment of up to three successive attacks of migraine was investigated in a multicentre, open, uncontrolled study in which 178 patients were enrolled. At attack 1, there was an improvement in headache (from severe or moderate to mild or no headache) in 74% of patients at 1 h, and in 82% at 2 h. The incidence of symptoms associated with migraine was decreased after sumatriptan injection. Nausea, vomiting and photo/phonophobia were reported by 72, 54, and 85% of patients, respectively, before the injection to treat attack 1, but by only 22, 12 and 27%, respectively, 2 h after the injection. Migraine recurred within 24 h in 27% of patients, but in 89% of patients was effectively treated with a further dose of 6 mg sumatriptan. Results for attacks 2 and 3 were similar. About 40% of patients experienced at least one adverse event; most of these were mild or moderate in intensity and were transient. It is concluded that 6 mg sumatriptan, self-administered using an auto-injector, is an effective and well tolerated treatment for migraine. Sumatriptan was as effective at attack 3 as at attack 1, and there was no evidence of a change in the incidence or the nature of adverse events with successive uses of the drug.
Reactive oxygen and nitrogen species have been implicated in the pathogenesis of asbestos fibers-associated pulmonary diseases. By comparing the responses of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) knockout and wild-type mice we investigated the consequences of iNOS expression for the development of the inflammatory response and tissue injury upon intratracheal instillation of asbestos fibers. Exposure to asbestos fibers resulted in an increased iNOS mRNA and protein expression in the lungs from wild-type mice. Moreover, iNOS knockout mice exhibited an exceeded pulmonary expression and production of TNF-alpha as well as a higher influx of neutrophils into the alveolar space than wild-type mice. In contrast, iNOS knockout animals displayed an attenuated oxidant-related tissue injury reflected in a decrease in protein leakage and LDH release into the alveolar space as well as weaker nitrotyrosine staining of lung tissue compared to wild-type mice. Data presented here indicate that iNOS-derived NO exerts a dichotomous role in acute asbestos-induced lung injury in that iNOS deficiency resulted in an exacerbated inflammatory response but improved oxidant-promoted lung tissue damage.
New therapeutic principles in clinical oncology require the adjustment of response criteria to govern therapy decisions. For advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) a new era has recently begun by the approval of the multikinase inhibitor sorafenib. As a unique feature, HCC usually develops in a diseased liver and current imaging technologies employing classical response criteria have not been prospectively evaluated for this new treatment.
MRI signal patterns were assessed in 21 advanced HCC patients receiving sorafenib. MRI was performed at baseline and in short-term intervals thereafter. Signal changes under therapy on T1WI, T2WI and post-gadolinium images including necrosis volume and its ratio to the entire tumor volume were compared to baseline imaging. To assess the association between the categorical variables, Fisher's exact tests were applied for a statistical analysis. Survey time ranged from 2-65 weeks, and a total of 39 target lesions were evaluated.
Signal abnormalities during sorafenib therapy were disclosed by T1WI and T2WI in 15/21 patients. The predominant tumor signal change was hyperintensity on both T1WI and T2WI. Interestingly, most patients developed MRI signal changes within 4 weeks of therapy; in contrast, two non-responders did not show any signal alteration at follow-up. Under therapy, 16/21 patients presented with new or progressive necrosis, whereas 7 patients achieved temporarily >75% tumor necrosis under sorafenib. Significantly associated MRI variables were increase in T1WI signal and tumor necrosis (p = 0.017) as well as increase of tumor necrosis with an elevated ratio of necrotic to vital tumor areas (p = 0.002). Remarkably, some (3/13) of the patients developing necrotic tumor areas showed a relevant (>20%) increase in tumor volume, which should be considered in the assessment of imaging studies.
As sorafenib induces early intralesional necrosis with profound changes in T1WI/T2WI MRI signal intensities and measurable necrotic tumor areas in most HCC patients, early MRI-based evaluation could pave the way for its rationale and cost-effective application.
Limitations of prostate cancer therapy may be overcome by combinations of chemotherapeutic agents with gene therapy directed against specific proteins critical for disease progression. Stathmin is overexpressed in many types of human cancer, including prostate cancer. Stathmin is one of the key regulators of the microtubule network and the mitotic spindle and provides an attractive therapeutic target in cancer therapy. We recently showed that adenovirus-mediated gene transfer of anti-stathmin ribozyme could suppress the malignant phenotype of prostate cancer cells in vitro. In the current studies, we asked whether the therapeutic effects of stathmin inhibition could be further enhanced by exposure to different chemotherapeutic agents. Exposure of uninfected LNCaP human prostate cancer cells or cells infected with a control adenovirus to Taxol, etoposide, 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), or Adriamycin resulted in modest decrease in proliferation and clonogenicity. Interestingly, exposure of cells infected with an anti-stathmin adenovirus to Taxol or etoposide resulted in a complete loss of proliferation and clonogenicity, whereas exposure of the same cells to 5-FU or Adriamycin potentiated the growth-inhibitory effects of the anti-stathmin ribozyme, but the cells continued to proliferate. Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling analysis of uninfected cells or cells infected with a control adenovirus showed modest induction of apoptosis in the presence of different drugs. In contrast, cells infected with the anti-stathmin adenovirus showed a marked increase in apoptosis on exposure to Taxol or etoposide and a modest increase on exposure to 5-FU or Adriamycin. Overall, the effects of combinations of anti-stathmin ribozyme with Taxol or etoposide were synergistic, whereas the effects of combinations of anti-stathmin ribozyme with 5-FU or Adriamycin were additive. Moreover, triple combination of anti-stathmin ribozyme with low noninhibitory concentrations of Taxol and etoposide resulted in a profound synergistic inhibition of proliferation, clonogenicity, and marked induction of apoptosis. This synergy might be very relevant for the treatment of prostate cancer because Taxol and etoposide are two of the most effective agents in this disease. Thus, this combination may provide a novel form of prostate cancer therapy that would avoid toxicities associated with the use of multiple chemotherapeutic agents at full therapeutic doses.
To investigate the relationship between systemic blood pressure (BP) and upper airway dilator muscle activity, we recorded genioglossus electromyograms (EMGgg) during pharmacologically induced acute increases in BP in five healthy humans (ages 27-40 yr). EMGgg was measured with perorally placed fine-wire electrodes; phasic EMGgg was expressed as percentage of baseline activity. Subjects were studied supine, awake, and breathing through a face mask with their mouths taped. End-tidal PCO2 was monitored with a mass spectrometer; minute ventilation was measured with a pneumotachograph. Digital BP was monitored continuously with the Penaz method (Finapres, Ohmeda). Mean arterial pressure (MAP) at baseline was 89 +/- 6 (SD) mmHg. Phenylephrine was infused until MAP reached 15-25 mmHg above baseline (107 +/- 7 mmHg). Recording was continued until MAP returned to baseline (90 +/- 7 mmHg). Elevated BP was associated with a significantly decreased phasic EMGgg (P less than 0.005). With return of MAP to baseline, phasic EMGgg returned toward normal (P less than 0.01). Minute ventilation and end-tidal PCO2 did not differ among conditions. Genioglossus activity appears to be influenced by acute changes in systemic BP. We speculate that BP elevations accompanying obstructive apneas during sleep may decrease upper airway tone and facilitate subsequent apneas.
Acute coronary syndrome after amphetamine use in a young male with myocardial bridging - a case report. A case of a 19-year-old male hospitalised due to acute coronary syndrome following amphetamine use is presented. Coronary angiography revealed the presence of myocardial bridging causing a 90% stenosis of the left anterior descending coronary artery. The patient was treated conservatively and the outcome was uneventful.
Atypical sensations following the use of subcutaneous sumatriptan are common, but of uncertain origin. They are almost always benign, but can be mistaken for a serious adverse event by the patient. Two patients are presented with tingling or burning sensations limited to areas of heat exposure or sunburn. In these individuals, side effects are most likely generated superficially in the skin.
Hypertension is associated with reduced coronary vasodilatory capacity, possibly caused by structural changes in the coronary resistance vessels. Because vasodilatory treatment may correct abnormal structure better than nonvasodilating treatment, we compared whether long-term angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition has a greater effect on coronary reserve and cardiovascular structure than beta-blockade in patients with essential hypertension. Thirty previously untreated hypertensive patients were randomized in a double-blind design to treatment for 1 year with either perindopril (4 to 8 mg per day, n=15) or atenolol (50 to 100 mg per day, n=15) and furthermore compared with normotensive controls. Cardiac output and left ventricular mass were measured with echocardiography and resistance artery structure was determined in vitro. Using positron emission tomography, myocardial perfusion (MP) was determined at rest and during dipyridamole-induced hyperemia while still on medication. Perindopril reduced left ventricular mass by 14+/-4% (P<0.01), peripheral vascular resistance by 12+/-6% (P<0.01), and media thickness-to-lumen diameter ratio of resistance arteries by 16+/-4% (P<0.05), whereas atenolol had no effect. Resting MP was decreased both by perindopril (-11+/-4%, P<0.01) and by atenolol (-25+/-4%, P<0.01) in parallel to the reduction in rate pressure product. Hyperemic MP was unaltered by perindopril (+2+/-6%, P=NS), but reduced by atenolol (-32+/-5%, P<0.01). Compared with atenolol, perindopril treatment resulted in higher coronary reserve (P<0.05). We conclude that compared with beta-blockade, ACE inhibition increases coronary reserve and results in regression of hypertensive resistance artery structure and left ventricular hypertrophy. Vasodilating may thus be superior to nonvasodilating treatment in repairing the hypertensive myocardial microcirculation.
Traditional left ventricular (LV) function curves are frequently depressed in patients with acute lung injury. Similar findings in pentobarbital sodium-anesthetized dogs with oleic acid lung injury (OALI) have been observed. To test the hypothesis that acute OALI produces a significant injury to the heart, the LV mechanics of pentobarbital-anesthetized dogs with (n = 6) and without (n = 6) OALI were evaluated. End-systolic force-length and force-velocity relations determined echocardiographically during afterload manipulation with sodium nitroprusside demonstrated a marked deterioration in LV shortening characteristics over 90 min in both groups of pentobarbital-anesthetized dogs. In contrast, LV mechanics studied using the same protocol in fentanyl-anesthetized dogs were unchanged in both the injured (n = 6) and noninjured (n = 6) lung groups. Comparisons with data acquired over a wide range of LV afterload from six conscious, instrumented dogs showed that LV contractile state was normal to slightly increased with fentanyl and markedly depressed with pentobarbital. Diastolic properties, as assessed by end-diastolic pressure-dimension relations, were essentially unchanged in all anesthetized animals. We conclude that OALI has no effect on LV systolic or diastolic mechanics; the LV dysfunction attributed to OALI in previous studies is due to an acute, severe cardiomyopathy induced by pentobarbital; and unlike pentobarbital, anesthesia with fentanyl has no discernible time-dependent effect on LV mechanics. These findings have important implications for future studies of canine cardiovascular physiology employing anesthetized animal preparations.
Hypersensitivity vasculitis developed in a patient six days after therapy with terbutaline sulfate was initiated. The casual association between the drug and hypersensitivity vasculitis is based on the temporal relationship, a positive lymphocyte transformation test with terbutaline sulfate, and exclusion of other causes. This is, to the best of our knowledge, the first report of a leukocytoclastic vasculitic reaction to terbutaline sulfate.
The influence of theophylline ethylenediamine (100 mg/kg i.p.) on gluconeogenesis was studied in normal and in adrenodemedullated and reserpinized rats after overnight fasting by measuring the time-course of Alanine-14C incorporation into Glucose-14C. In the normal rat, theophylline produced a moderate hyperglycemia associated with an increased conversion of alanine to glucose at all time intervals. In addition, a marked rise of plasma levels of insulin and glucagon was observed. In sympathetctomized rats, plasma glucose and gluconeogenesis were again enhanced by theophylline, but the pattern of these modifications differed from that of normal rats since the peak values occurred earlier. Subsequently, both parameters rapidly declined reaching values lower than controls at the end of the experiment. Insulin response to theophylline was higher in sympathectomized animals in comparison to normal rats, while glucagon response was approximately of the same magnitude in the two groups. From these findings it was concluded that theophylline is able to stimulate gluconeogenesis from alanine both in the normal and sympathectomized rat. The different pattern of alanine conversion to glucose seems to depend on the different participation of insulin and catecholamines in the two groups.
Altered hepatocellular foci of hamster were applied for in vivo short-term (8 weeks) assay for detecting carcinogens using dietary exposure of N-2-fluorenylacetamide (FAA) and oral administration of carbon tetrachloride (CCl4). Although no hepatocellular foci were induced by the treatment with either of two agents (FAA and CCl4) or with their combination, many of the lesions appeared in the hamsters with prior administration of carcinogens, i.e., dimethylnitrosamine, diethylnitrosamine and methylazoxymethanol acetate, all of which have been reported to be carcinogenic in hamsters. A small number of these lesions was also present with the pretreatment of other types of carcinogens, i.e., N-methyl-N-nitrosourea, N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine and azaserine. No such foci were available by N-butyl-N-(4-hydroxybutyl)nitrosamine and 3,3'-dichloro-4,4'-diaminodiphenylmethane, both of which are not known to be clearly carcinogenic in hamsters. The results indicate that hepatocellular foci of hamsters are rapidly inducible under the present protocol and imply that this model could be useful as an assay for screening carcinogens of which hamster is susceptible.
We studied blood pressure and natriuretic responses to acute salt loading, and the effect of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents on these responses, in five healthy normotensive women aged 65 to 71 years. Five women aged 25 to 31 years acted as controls. Intravenous saline loading, with and without prior ingestion of ibuprofen, was 15 ml/kg/h for 3 h. Baseline blood pressures were higher in the elderly. Saline infusion without ibuprofen raised systolic blood pressure (SBP) by about 25 mmHg in the older group only. Ibuprofen increased baseline SBP in the elderly (129 +/- 6 vs. 116 +/- 5 mmHg, p < 0.05). Saline loading after ibuprofen again raised blood pressure by about 25 mmHg in the elderly only. The elderly group showed markedly increased sodium excretion during saline loading, but this was reduced by ibuprofen. Ibuprofen had no effect on SBP or sodium excretion in controls. Ageing appears to increase susceptibility to salt retention and hypertension from non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents.
Buthionine sulfoximine (500 mg/kg, i.p.), a glutathione-depleting agent, was found to increase the acute lethal toxicity and urotoxicity induced by ifosfamide in mice.
Epilepsy is a chronic neurological disorder affecting 1% population worldwide. A number of experimental studies have reported anticonvulsant, neuroprotective and antioxidant activity of certain natural products like curcumin, an active ingredient of turmeric. The present study was designed to explore the effect of acute administration of curcumin at doses 50, 100 and 200 mg/kg, orally (p.o.) pentylenetetrazole-induced kindling in mice. Further two oxidative stress markers viz., malondialdehyde (MDA) and glutathione were estimated in brain tissues of rodents. Curcumin (50, 100 and 200 mg/kg, p.o.) dose dependently suppressed the progression of kindling in mice. In addition, the increased levels of MDA and glutathione were also reduced by curcumin in kindled animals. These results suggest that curcumin appears to possess protective activity against kindling in mice.
Isoproterenol produces myocardial necrosis in rats. To investigate the possible role of oxygen free radicals generated by xanthine oxidase and neutrophils, we examined the effects of the xanthine oxidase inhibitors, 6-mercaptopurine (6MP) and 6-thioguanine (6TG) combined and allopurinol, or of irradiation (to induce leukopenia) on isoproterenol-induced myocardial necrosis (ISOMN). The incidence and severity of ISOMN was significantly reduced by 6MP + 6TG but not by the specific inhibitor of xanthine oxidase, allopurinol, indicating that the protective effects of 6MP + 6TG may be due to its free radical scavenging activity rather than its xanthine oxidase inhibitory activity. Irradiation provided complete protection against ISOMN in all rats. Marked leukopenia or other radiation-induced protective factors could play a role in the mechanism of the protection.
