We have previously reported that continuous infusion of dobutamine into the coronary artery induces positive inotropic effects but induces no detrimental effects in cross-circulated, excised normal rat hearts and even in Ca2+ overload-induced contractile failing rat hearts. However, we hypothesized that some detrimental effects on left ventricular (LV) function are induced after continuous dobutamine infusion and the following clearance of blood dobutamine, as is the case after beta-adrenergic receptor stimulation. To test this hypothesis, we investigated LV mechanical work and energetics in the same type of preparations that underwent continuous dobutamine infusion and clearance of blood dobutamine. We found that both mean end-systolic pressure and systolic pressure-volume area (PVA; a measure of total mechanical energy per beat) at midrange LV volume were significantly (P < 0.01) decreased. The mean myocardial oxygen consumption per beat intercept, which is composed of for the total Ca2+ handling in excitation-contraction coupling and basal metabolism, of the and PVA linear relation was also significantly (P < 0.05) decreased (n=8). The mean slope of the linear relation was unchanged in such hearts. Post-dobutamine basal metabolism was unchanged (n = 5 of the 8 hearts). The moderate proteolysis of a cytoskeleton protein, alpha-fodrin was identified (n = 7 of the 8 hearts with the decreased intercept), after clearance of blood dobutamine. In agreement with our hypothesis, the detrimental effect of the post-beta-adrenergic receptor stimulation was induced by a moderate concentration of dobutamine; we found systolic dysfunction due to the impairment of Ca2+ handling in excitation-contraction coupling in the rat LV and proteolysis of a cytoskeleton protein, alpha-fodrin.
A 34-year-old woman was hospitalized for severe acute arterial insufficiency of the limbs. Overuse of ergotamine derivative was acknowledged by the patient, who had a long history of migraine headaches. An arteriogram showed diffuse arterial spasm and occlusion of right leg distal arteries. Intravenous infusion of a stable prostacyclin analog (Iloprost) was administered. Rapid and complete improvement of arteriospasm was noted within a few hours, confirmed by a further arteriogram. This appears to be one of the rare case reports of successful limb salvage by use of Iloprost for ergotism.
Sodium thiosulfate (STS) provides protection against carboplatin-induced ototoxicity in an animal model. The purpose of this study was to determine the STS dose required for otoprotection, in patients with malignant brain tumors treated with carboplatin in conjunction with osmotic blood-brain barrier disruption. Twenty-nine patients received STS intravenously 2 hr after carboplatin. Doses were escalated from 4 g/m2 to 8, 12, 16 and 20 g/m2 on consecutive months. Audiologic assessment was performed at baseline and monthly. The audiograms were compared with those of 19 similarly treated historical control patients who did not receive STS. The incidence of ototoxicity in the historical control group of patients was 79% (15/19). This group had an average loss of 20.8 +/- 5.9 dB (n = 19) at 8 kHz after one treatment with carboplatin, whereas the STS treatment group lost only 3.7 +/- 2 dB (n = 15) after one treatment. This difference was statistically significant as assessed by Student's t test (P < .05). Furthermore, patients in the STS treatment group with excellent base-line hearing showed little change in hearing thresholds at 8 kHz after the second treatment (8.0 +/- 8.3 dB) (n = 5) compared with the historical control patients with excellent base-line hearing, (40.5 +/- 8.6 dB) (n = 11). Our data support that doses of 16 or 20 g/m2 of STS decrease carboplatin-induced hearing loss without central nervous system entry. Clinical demonstration of an otoprotective effect with a two-compartment system to prevent drug-induced hearing loss, while preserving central nervous system cytotoxicity, has not been reported previously.
AF-DX 116 is a cardioselective M2 receptor antagonist and, thus, it should induce sinus tachycardia. Since normal ventricular automaticity is suppressed by atrial overdriving, AF-DX 116 might become an antiarrhythmic drug and act by increasing the sinus node automaticity. Ventricular arrhythmia models used in this study were induced either by two-stage coronary ligation, digitalis, or adrenaline in beagle dogs. AF-DX 116 (0.3 mg/kg i.v.) tended to increase the sinus rate of the conscious beagles compared to the pre-drug level (although the effect was not significant) but had no antiarrhythmic effect (i.e., there was no decrease in the arrhythmic ratio defined as the number of PVC divided by the total heart rate) on the ventricular tachycardia (VT) induced 24 h after aseptic ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery. AF-DX 116 did not alter the blood pressure. The drug also did not suppress digitalis-induced VT and did not increase the atrial rate, which was already increased to about 210 beats/min by ouabain. AF-DX 116 decreased the arrhythmic ratio, 9 min after bolus injection, and increased the atrial rate in the adrenaline VT model. The maximum plasma concentration of AF-DX 116 reached nearly 1microg/ml 1 min after the bolus injections in the digitalis and adrenaline arrhythmia experiments, which is close to the maximum concentration expected to be attained in the clinical application of this drug. Although AF-DX 116 increased the heart rate, under the present experimental conditions of increased atrial rate, the extent of tachycardia was not strong enough to suppress the 24-h coronary ligation and digitalis-induced arrhythmias. The late onset of the antiarrhythmic effect of AF-DX 116 on adrenaline-induced arrhythmia cannot be explained by the overdrive suppression mechanism.
Vomiting, nausea, inappetence, and diarrhea are common delayed adverse effects of doxorubicin. Maropitant, a neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist, is known to prevent acute vomiting in dogs receiving cisplatin.
To evaluate the efficacy of maropitant in preventing delayed vomiting after administration of doxorubicin to dogs.
Fifty-nine dogs with cancer.
This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study used a cross-over design. Dogs were randomized into 1 of 2 treatment groups. Group A received maropitant after the 1st doxorubicin, and placebo after the 2nd. Group B received placebo first, and maropitant second. Maropitant (2 mg/kg) or placebo tablets were administered PO for 5 days after doxorubicin treatment. Owners completed visual analog scales based on Veterinary Cooperative Oncology Group-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events to grade their pet's clinical signs during the week after administration of doxorubicin. Statistical differences in gastrointestinal toxicosis and myelosuppression between maropitant and placebo treatments were evaluated.
Significantly fewer dogs had vomiting (P=.001) or diarrhea (P=.041), and the severity of vomiting (P<.001) and diarrhea (P=.024) was less the week after doxorubicin when receiving maropitant compared with placebo. No differences were found between maropitant and placebo for other gastrointestinal and bone marrow toxicoses.
Maropitant is effective in preventing delayed vomiting induced by doxorubicin. Its prophylactic use might improve quality of life and decrease the need for dose reductions in certain dogs.
Hereditary spherocytosis (HS) is one of the most frequent and heterogeneous inherited haemolytic anaemias. It is associated with abnormalities of several erythrocyte membrane proteins. We investigated relative mRNA quantification of red blood cell membrane protein genes using real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) in order to better characterize HS cases and to select genes to search for mutations in patients with spherocytosis. qPCR experiments indicated that the spectrin beta gene (SPTB) could be involved in anaemia pathogenesis. DNA analysis of SPTB in the HS subjects with decreased SPTB mRNA levels revealed the presence of five previously undescribed mutations: R1756X, 781delT and IVS22nt-4G>A, 1502insA and IVS20nt-2A>G.
Most antiandrogens appear to act by binding to the androgen receptor and competitively inhibiting the binding of testosterone and cihydrotestosterone to the receptor. Focusing on those compounds which appear to inhibit androgen receptor mediated responses, this review discusses the chemistry of those antiandrogens which have been studied to the extent that their mechanism of action is at least partially understood, outlines the mechanism of androgen action as it is currently understood and suggests how antiandrogens might fit in with this mechanism, indicates the major metabolites of several important antiandrogens, and discusses the clinical applications of several antiandrogens. Cyproterone acetate has been studied extensively as a potential male contraceptive. Although it was recognized that 100 mg of cyproterone acetate per day inhibited spermatogenesis, that dose also reduced libido and potency. Following the administration of 10 or 20 mg of cyproterone acetate per day to 15 males for 26 weeks, the following observations were made: the number of motile sperm was reduced; the quality of their motion was impaired; and the ability of the sperm to penetrate cervical mucus was decreased. Sperm density was also suppressed, but neither it nor sperm motility were inhibited to the extent necessary for contraception. Antiandrogens have been demonstrated to be beneficial in treating 5 clinical syndromes or diseases: acne, seborrhea, hirsutism with or without menstrual abnormalities; precocious puberty; benign prostatic hypertrophy; cancer of the prostate; and sexual deviates. Since 3 of these conditions are very common, effective and safe treatment would have a large market. At this time, antiandrogens are widely used in Europe for treatment of seborrhea, acne, and hirsutism and a large Veterans Administration Cooperative Study in the US was approved but has not yet been funded to compare antiandrogens with other treatments for cancer of the prostate. Studies to assess antiandrogen interaction with other hormones or drugs have been limited. Side effects in the female have been best evaluated when cyproterone acetate was administered in combination with ethinyl estradiol. In 46 women followed over 317 cycles, side effects were similar to those reported with estrogen-progestin contraceptives. Administration of 10-20 mg of cyrproterone acetate per day to males caused no significant side effects, but 100 mg or more/day has caused loss of libido, impotence, gynecomastia, tiredness, weakness, decreased efficiency, weight gain, drying and desquamation of skin over the legs, and loss of hair on the trunk and pubic area.
The evaluation of adverse drug reactions (ADR) in clinical practice is difficult and imprecise. Establishing a causal relationship may not be possible, and data on incidence cannot be obtained because the number of patients treated is not known. This article describes the ADR reported during the clinical trial program of cinoxacin, a synthetic antibacterial drug used to treat urinary tract infections. Results from 2,801 patients who received cinoxacin showed that 5 per cent reported ADR that were probably or definitely drug induced, and 10 per cent reported ADR in which the relationship was uncertain. There was no relationship between number of reports and patient's age, drug dose, or duration of treatment. Adverse drug reactions affecting the gastrointestinal system were reported by 5.5 per cent of the patients, those involving the central nervous system by 4.3 per cent, and hypersensitivity reported by 2.4 per cent. In the comparative studies, patients treated with cinoxacin reported fewer ADR than those treated with nalidixic acid, furadantin, amoxicillin, or trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. Although problems in the assessment and evaluation of ADR still exist, it is hoped that the results from the formal trial program will be representative of those seen in clinical practice.
Lithium inhibits IMPase (inositol monophosphatase) activity, as well as inositol transporter function. To determine whether one or more of these mechanisms might underlie lithium's behavioural effects, we studied Impa1 (encoding IMPase) and Smit1 (sodium-myo-inositol transporter 1)-knockout mice. In brains of adult homozygous Impa1-knockout mice, IMPase activity was found to be decreased; however, inositol levels were not found to be altered. Behavioural analysis indicated decreased immobility in the forced-swim test as well as a strongly increased sensitivity to pilocarpine-induced seizures. These are behaviours robustly induced by lithium. In homozygous Smit1-knockout mice, free inositol levels were decreased in the frontal cortex and hippocampus. These animals behave like lithium-treated animals in the model of pilocarpine seizures and in the Porsolt forced-swim test model of depression. In contrast with O'Brien et al. [O'Brien, Harper, Jove, Woodgett, Maretto, Piccolo and Klein (2004) J. Neurosci. 24, 6791-6798], we could not confirm that heterozygous Gsk3b (glycogen synthase kinase 3beta)-knockout mice exhibit decreased immobility in the Porsolt forced-swim test or decreased amphetamine-induced hyperactivity in a manner mimicking lithium's behavioural effects. These data support the role of inositol-related processes rather than GSK3beta in the mechanism of the therapeutic action of lithium.
This study examined the usefulness of baseline cocaine urine toxicology results and self-reported days of cocaine use in predicting treatment response in cocaine- and opioid-dependent subjects. Ninety-nine male and 52 female subjects, maintained on buprenorphine, participated in a 24-week, randomized, double-blind, four-cell trial that evaluated desipramine (150 mg/d) or placebo plus contingency management or a noncontingent voucher control. Out of 151, 102 (67%) subjects had cocaine-positive and 49 (32%) cocaine-negative urines at the beginning of treatment. For the previous 30 days before study participation, 91 (60%) subjects reported using cocaine 15 or less days (low baseline cocaine use) and 60 (40%) subjects reported more than 15 days (high baseline cocaine use). By using the treatment effectiveness score (TES) as the outcome measure, a negative urine for cocaine at baseline predicted a better outcome during a 24-week trial for cocaine and opioid use. There also was a significant interaction between baseline cocaine urine results and desipramine response with the urine cocaine-negative group showing greater desipramine response than placebo for opioid and cocaine use. Self-reported cocaine use at baseline did not show significant predictive power for TES scores during the clinical trial. These results suggest that baseline cocaine urine results should be considered as stratifying variables in clinical trials for cocaine dependence.
Naringin, a well-known flavanone glycoside of grapefruit and citrus fruits, was found to be as an effective anti-inflammatory compound in our previous lipopolysaccharide-induced acute lung injury mouse model via blockading activity of nuclear factor κB. The current study sought to explore the anti-inflammatory effects of naringin on chronic pulmonary neutrophilic inflammation in cigarette smoke (CS)-induced rats. Seventy Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into seven groups to study the effects of CS with or without various concentrations of naringin or saline for 8 weeks. The results revealed that naringin supplementation at 20, 40, and 80 mg/kg significantly increased body weight of CS-induced rats as compared to that in the CS group. Moreover, naringin of 20, 40, and 80 mg/kg prevented CS-induced infiltration of neutrophils and activation of myeloperoxidase and matrix metalloproteinase-9, in parallel with suppression of the release of cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor-α and interleukin-8 (IL-8). IL-10 in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid was significantly suppressed after CS exposure, but dose dependently elevated by naringin. The results from hematoxylin and eosin staining revealed that naringin dose dependently reduced CS-induced infiltration of inflammatory cells, thickening of the bronchial wall, and expansion of average alveolar airspace. In conclusion, our data suggest that naringin is an effective anti-inflammatory compound for attenuating chronic pulmonary neutrophilic inflammation in CS-induced rats.
The signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT)-3 regulates basic biological processes and it has been reported to be constitutively active in different types of malignant tumours. STAT-3 is active during the regenerative growth of the liver, but there are hardly any data about its presence in liver tumours. We investigated and found a high activity of STAT-3 using an electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) in chemically-induced rat hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs). Dexamethasone treatment downregulated both STAT-3 activity and cell proliferation in the tumours. Therefore, the activity of the STAT-3 signal transduction pathway seems to be required for the growth of HCCs and could be a potential new target for therapeutic trials of this tumour type.
We present a derma-respiratory syndrome in a patient occupationally exposed to trichloroethylene (TCE). At the beginning of its industrial use trichloroethylene was considered harmless. But, in time it showed a high noxious capacity. It produces an important and various pathology, which evolves as acute or chronic disease. The case we present shows that trichloroethylene can induce cutaneous pathology that excels contact dermatitis. It also proves that trichloroethylene can produce systemic effects (obstructive respiratory syndrome). The particularity of the case is based on the succession of the events, first the cutaneous and then the respiratory effects. A long period of time was necessary for the installation of the symptoms (for cutaneous and bronchial sensitization to take place). The case presented is the proof that trichloroethylene's great toxicity cannot be doubted and that the clinical forms due to sensitization to trichloroethylene can be dramatic.
Vincristine-induced vocal cord paralysis is a rare but serious complication. We report 2 patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia who developed progressive stridor during induction chemotherapy. There were no clinical features of peripheral or autonomic neuropathy. Flexible laryngoscopy confirmed the diagnosis of bilateral vocal cord palsy; interestingly, the nerve conduction test revealed axonal motor neuropathy involving the median and common peroneal nerves in both patients. The first patient required prolonged ventilatory support necessitating unilateral cordectomy before extubation, whereas the second only required supplemental oxygen therapy. There was resolution of stridor in the first patient after cordectomy and gradual clinical improvement in the second. These cases illustrate that a high index of suspicion of vincristine-induced vocal cord palsy with prompt otolaryngology consultation for laryngoscopy is required in the diagnostic evaluation of a patient who has received vincristine.
The effects of timolol maleate administered intravenously on coronary and systemic haemodynamics, myocardial metabolism, and plasma catecholamine concentrations were assessed in 10 patients with confirmed coronary artery disease. Rapid atrial pacing to the onset of angina was performed in all patients. Timolol reduced cardiac output at rest and during pacing and reduced resting heart rate but did not affect arterial blood pressure. Left ventricular stroke work index fell during pacing. Coronary sinus blood flow was unchanged, but pulmonary artery diastolic pressure rose after timolol. The drug produced clinical improvement in nine of the 10 patients with prolongation of the mean pacing time to angina. There was evidence of improved myocardial metabolism with a change from production to extraction of lactate: Arterial noradrenaline concentrations at rest rose after timolol. In these patients with coronary artery disease timolol produced an increased tolerance to atrial pacing stress, which appears to be due to a combination of effects including reduced myocardial contractility and decreased lipolysis.
Acute cocaine administration activates behavioral and neuroendocrine processes associated with the stress response. However, much less is known about the effects of chronic, long-term cocaine administration on neuroendocrine adaptations and individual vulnerability to stress. We hypothesized that chronic 'binge' cocaine administration may serve as a chronic pharmacological stressor leading to a hyperactivity of the stress-responsive hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and alterations in its feedback mechanisms. In order to test this hypothesis, the effects of long-term (3 and 6 weeks) 'binge' pattern cocaine administration (3x15 mg/kg cocaine, i.p., daily, during the early phase of the light cycle) on body weight, adrenal gland weight, basal and stress-induced activity of the corticosterone (CORT) and basal plasma testosterone (T) levels were measured. Both 3 and 6 weeks 'binge' cocaine administration decreased body weight gain, increased the weight of adrenal glands and increased basal CORT levels. Plasma T levels were suppressed by both 3 and 6 weeks of cocaine treatment. No correlation was found between elevated CORT and low T levels at any time point. Neither chronic saline nor cocaine administration altered stress-induced CORT secretion. CORT levels 60 min following the restraint stress (recovery) were significantly lower than pre-stress basal levels after 3 and 6 weeks of cocaine, but not saline, administration. Moreover, initial individual differences in stress-induced CORT response, i.e. low and high responsivity to restraint prior to any saline or cocaine injections, were maintained in control rats but became diminished in cocaine-treated rats. These results indicate that chronic binge cocaine administration leads to sustained activation of the HPA axis and alters processes underlying individual vulnerability to stress.
Angioedema is a rare, potentially life-threatening condition that has been associated with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors since their introduction in the 1980s. The Antihypertensive and Lipid-Lowering Treatment to Prevent Heart Attack Trial (ALLHAT), the largest antihypertensive study conducted to date, randomized 42,418 participants to a diuretic (chlorthalidone), a calcium channel blocker (amlodipine), an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (lisinopril), or an alpha-blocker (doxazosin). Patients who developed angioedema were compared for baseline characteristics and changes in antihypertensive drug administration. Fifty-three participants developed angioedema during active follow-up: 55% were black, 60% men, and 70% were assigned to lisinopril (including 62% of black participants with angioedema), 15% to chlorthalidone, 9% to doxazosin, and 6% to amlodipine. Six percent occurred within a day of randomization and 23% within the first week. Over half did not have an increase in their assigned (blinded) antihypertensive drug before angioedema onset; 3 (6%) had a dose increase within a week before onset. One patient died following an angioedema episode. The occurrence of angioedema in the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor arm corresponds with previously reported angioedema-angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor associations.
Endothelin receptor antagonists have been proposed for the treatment of a variety of disorders in which the endothelins may act as pathogenic mediators, such as congestive heart failure, systemic and pulmonary hypertension, and cerebral vasospasm. Bosentan (Ro 47-0203) is a nonpeptide competitive antagonist, which can be a good tool for studying the endothelin system because it may be administered either acutely or chronically. It is specific for the endothelin system and blocks the actions of endothelin at both mammalian receptors (A and B). In experimental models of heart failure bosentan acts as a vasodilator and neurohormonal blocker that improves overall left ventricular performance and reduces renal dysfunction. Furthermore, in chronic studies, bosentan attenuates cardiac remodeling and significantly improves survival. In patients with chronic heart failure bosentan produces pulmonary and systemic vasodilation and may enhance conventional treatment with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Long-term studies are being conducted to characterize the full therapeutic potential of bosentan in chronic heart failure. In experimental models bosentan reverses established pulmonary hypertension. Preclinical efficacy has also been demonstrated in essential hypertension, where bosentan can reduce blood pressure and end-organ damage. Clinical trials in hypertensive patients indicate that bosentan reduces blood pressure without heart rate increase or neurohumoral stimulation. Finally, bosentan is being considered for the treatment of cerebral vasospasm following subarachnoid hemorrhage. Bosentan reverses experimentally induced vasospasm of the basilar artery, and preliminary trials indicate that it can increase cerebral blood flow after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage.
Before commencing the randomized Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction phase II (TIMI II) study, 370 patients were administered intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) within 4 hours of onset of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) and assigned to 2-hour (immediate) percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (n = 33), 18- to 48-hour (delayed) angioplasty (n = 288) or no angioplasty (n = 49) in a nonrandomized, observational pilot study. Left ventricular ejection fraction at rest and during exercise was assessed by gated equilibrium radionuclide ventriculography at hospital discharge and again at 6 weeks. At hospital discharge, ejection fraction averaged 50% at rest and 56% at peak exercise. At 6-week follow-up, ejection fraction averaged 50% at rest and 53% at peak exercise. At 6-week follow-up, resting ejection fraction average 49% in the 2-hour angioplasty group, 49% in the 18- to 48-hour angioplasty group and 55% in the no-angioplasty group. Variables independently predicting "good functional outcome" at 6-week follow-up (survival with resting ejection fraction greater than equal to 50% and no decrease with exercise) in the 18- to 48-hour angioplasty group were fewer leads with ST-segment elevation greater than or equal to 0.1 mV, younger age, rapid normalization during rt-PA infusion of ST segments or dramatic relief of chest pain, absence of arrhythmias within the first 24 hours of treatment initiation, no prior infarction and not a cigarette smoker at entry. Thus, the TIMI II pilot study demonstrates that most patients with AMI of less than or equal to 4-hour duration treated with rt-PA have good ventricular function after AMI.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A 68-year-old man with multiple myeloma was admitted to our hospital complaining of slight fever and dyspnea on effort 4 months after treatment with thalidomide. Chest HRCT findings showed diffuse ground-glass attenuation, small nodules, and interlobular septal thickening in bilateral lungs. BAL showed marked lymphocytosis, and TBLB revealed alveolitis with exudative change, consistent with drug-induced interstitial pneumonitis. His thalidomide treatment was withdrawn and his symptoms and HRCT findings improved. Therefore, we diagnosed thalidomide-induced interstitial pneumonitis. Thalidomide-induced interstitial pneumonitis is rare, and only 4 cases have been reported in the literature. We concluded that we should consider thalidomide-induced interstitial pneumonitis in cases with multiple myeloma following thalidomide treatment.
A 21-year-old woman experienced severe headache and nausea one hour after taking pills containing 160 mg of phenylpropanolamine for common cold. She had no previous history of drug abuse or hypertension. Physical examination revealed slight left-sided hemiparesis. Her blood pressure was 100/52 mmHg. Subcortical hemorrhage was noted in the right frontal lobe with a cranial computed tomography. On the seventh hospital day, cerebral angiography demonstrated with segmental narrowing of a branch of the right anterior cerebral artery, indicating the presence of focal angitis. This finding disappeared on the 35th hospital day. In the majority of the reported cases of the intracerebal hemorrhage associated with the ingestion of phenylpropanolamine, focal angitis rather than induced hypertension is considered to be a causative factor for hemorrhage. Thus, we would like to emphasize that the administration of phenylpropanolamine should be avoided, even to the patients without hypertention or past history of intracerebral hemorrhage.
The Znfn1a1 gene encodes a zinc finger protein called Ikaros, which is criticalfor T-cell development and differentiation. The execution of normal function of Ikaros requires sequence-specific DNA binding, transactivation, and dimerization domains. In this study, exons 3-5 and exon 7 of the Znfn1a1 gene that encode the functional domains of Ikaros were analyzed for point mutations and deletions in murine lymphomas induced by 1,3-butadiene, 2',3'-dideoxycytidine, or phenolphthalein. Missense and frameshift mutations were identified in 11% (11 of 104) of the tumors. Interestingly, 8 of the mutations were identified in the NH2-terminal zinc finger motifs, which are crucial for the DNA-binding function of Ikaros. The other 3 samples carried frameshift mutations in exon 7 that resulted in truncations and abrogation of both transactivation and dimerization domains. One tumor with a missense mutation in the DNA-binding domain also displayed a 45-bp deletion in the dimerization domain. Southern analysis disclosed interstitial homozygous deletions in the functional domains of Ikaros in 4% (3 of 68) of the lymphomas examined. Allelic losses on markers surrounding the Znfn1a1 gene were detected in 27% (12 of 45) of the tumors analyzed. However, only 2 tumors with allelic losses also showed mutations in the Znfn1a1 gene, indicating that other tumor suppressor genes located on this region might be involved as well. Our results suggest inactivation of Ikaros in a subset of chemically induced lymphomas and additionally support the contention of tumor-suppressor activity for Ikaros.
