Diallyl sulfide (DAS), diallyl disulfide (DADS), and diallyl trisulfide (DATS) are major organosulfur compounds exiting in garlic (Allium sativum). These compounds are reported to exhibit various pharmacological properties such as antibacteria, antiangiogenesis, anticancer, and anticoagulation, and they also induce cytotoxicity and induction of apoptosis in human cancer cells. Although these compounds show wide spectrum of biological activities, there are no reports to show that DAS, DADS, and DATS affected migration and invasion of human colon cancer cells, and their exact molecular mechanisms are not well investigated. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to determine whether DAS, DADS, and DATS affected the invasion and migration abilities of colo 205 human colon cancer cells. The results indicate that DAS, DADS, and DATS at 10 and 25 μM inhibited the migration and invasion of colo 205 cells in the order of DATS < DADS < DAS. DATS is the highest for inhibition of migration and invasion of colo 205 cells. DAS, DADS, and DATS induce downregulation expression of PI3K, Ras, MEKK3, MKK7, ERK1/2, JNK1/2, and p38 and then lead to the inhibition of MMP-2, -7, and -9. DAS, DADS, and DATS inhibited NF-κB and COX-2 for leading to the inhibition of cell proliferation. Taken together, these results demonstrated that application of DAS, DADS, and DATS might serve as potential antimetastatic drugs.
The aims of the study were to investigate the efficacy of rescue therapy with lamivudine (LAM) and adefovir (ADV) combination for 6 months followed by ADV monotherapy in lamivudine-resistant chronic hepatitis B (LAM-R CHB) patients, and to analyze the frequency of ADV resistance mutant development in such patients. A total of 170 consecutive LAM-R CHB patients (male/female: 130/40, mean age: 42.9+/-13.4 years) with viral breakthrough under LAM therapy were analyzed. A total of 68 had HBeAg-positive. Patients received rescue therapy with LAM [100 mg (qd)]+ADV [10 mg (qd)] for 6 months after which LAM was discontinued. HBV-DNA was assessed with the HBV-DNA 3.0 bDNA assay. ADV-resistant mutations were identified by sequencing the reverse transcriptase region. The median duration of rescue therapy was 24 months. Cumulative probability of becoming HBV-DNA undetectable was 33.8%, 59.6% and 68.2% after 24, 48 and 96 weeks of treatment, respectively. These figures were 43.2%, 58.0% and 73.1% for ALT normalization. Among 68 HBeAg-positive CHB patients, 10 patients had an e-antigen seroconversion. Low baseline HBV-DNA level (<10(7) copies/mL) was a significant predictor of response to ADV treatment (P<0.01). Cumulative probability of ADV resistance was 1.2%, 15.1% and 37.3% at 12, 24 and 36 months of therapy, respectively. By multivariate analysis, baseline high viral load and primary nonresponse to treatment at week 24 predicted ADV resistance. The data indicate that a time limited add-on strategy does not provide benefit over the switch strategy with respect emergence of ADV resistant mutants in LAM-R CHB patients.
A traditional Chinese mineral medicine, cinnabar, naturally occurring mercuric sulfide (HgS), is still occasionally prescribed, but the neurotoxic effects of HgS have not been elucidated. In this paper, an animal model of the purified HgS intoxication was established in guinea pigs in order to study neurotoxicity and pathophysiology of the vestibular ocular reflex system (VOR). Guinea pigs were dosed with HgS by gastric gavage (0.01, 0.1 and 1.0 g/kg per day) for 7 consecutive days. By means of caloric testing coupled with the electronystagmographic (ENG) recording in guinea pigs, we have found that HgS at a dose of 0.1 g/kg induced reversible caloric hypofunction pattern and at a higher dose of 1.0 g/kg induced irreversible hypofunction of caloric test. Monitoring the mercury contents of various tissues (blood, kidney, liver and cerebellum) by continuous flow and cold vapor atomic absorption spectrometry (AAS) revealed that a certain amount of HgS could be absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and was detectable in these tissues. In addition to the induced dysfunction of VOR system, HgS also caused disturbance of motor performance in guinea pigs. In enzyme assay, Na+/K+-ATPase activity of cerebellum was also significantly inhibited by HgS. Morphological studies showed partial cell loss only in the cerebellar Purkinje cell layer, but not in the granule cell layer, nor in the vestibular labyrinth. All of these findings suggest that cerebellar Purkinje cells are the sensitive target site responsible for HgS-inducing dysfunctions of both VOR system and the motor performance in guinea pigs. Thus, it is concluded that caloric test coupled with ENG recording in VOR system is certainly a sensitive biomarker for monitoring the neurotoxicity of HgS.
We present the case of 54-year-old male who developed bilateral cystoid macular thickening while taking 3 g of niacin per day, and we describe the optical coherence tomography (OCT) features of niacin (nicotinic acid) maculopathy.
Cystoid spaces were seen in both the outer plexiform and inner nuclear layers of both eyes. The cystoid spaces were largest and central in the outer plexiform layer, whereas a broader distribution of smaller cysts was seen in the inner nuclear layer. With cessation of niacin, his vision improved and the OCT features normalized.
Previous studies in our laboratories and elsewhere have shown that some members of Anacardiaceae family possess antiinflammatory, analgesic and hypoglycemic effects in man and mammalian experimental animals. The present study was, therefore, undertaken to examine the antiinflammatory, analgesic and antidiabetic properties of the stem-bark aqueous extract of Mangifera indica Linn., M. indica a member of the Anacardiaceae family, in rats and mice. The stem-bark powder of M. indica was Soxhlet extracted with distilled water and used. The analgesic effect of the plant's extract was evaluated by the hot-plate and acetic acid test models of pain in mice, while the antiinflammatory and antidiabetic effects of the stem-bark extract were investigated in rats, using fresh egg albumin-induced paw edema, and streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetes mellitus, respectively. Morphine (MPN, 10 mg/kg i.p.), diclofenac (DIC, 100 mg/kg i.p.), and chlorpropamide (250 mg/kg p.o.) were used respectively as reference analgesic, antiinflammatory, and hypoglycemic agents for comparison. M. indica stem-bark aqueous extract (MIE, 50-800 mg/kg i.p.) produced dose-dependent and significant (p<0.05-0.001) analgesic effects against thermally and chemically induced nociceptive pain stimuli in mice. MIE (50-800 mg/kg i.p.) also significantly (p<0.05-0.001) inhibited fresh egg albumin-induced paw edema, and caused significant (p<0.05-0.001) hypoglycemic effects in rats. It is suggested that the analgesic effects of MIE (50-800 mg/kg i.p.) may be peripherally and centrally mediated. The different chemical constituents of the plant, especially the polyphenolics, flavonoids, triterpenoids, mangiferin, and other chemical compounds present in the plant may be involved in the observed antiinflammatory, analgesic, and hypoglycemic effects of the plant's extract. However, the results of this experimental animal study lend pharmacological credence to the suggested folkloric uses of the plant in the management and control of painful, arthritic and other inflammatory conditions, as well as in the management of adult-onset type 2 diabetes mellitus in some rural African communities.
The possible relationship between mesangial dysfunction and development of glomerular sclerosis was studied in the puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) model. Five male Wistar rats received repeated subcutaneous PAN injections; five controls received saline only. After 4 weeks the PAN rats were severely proteinuric (190 +/- 80 mg/24 hr), and all rats were given colloidal carbon (CC) intravenously. At 5 months glomerular sclerosis was found in 7.6 +/- 3.4% of the glomeruli of PAN rats; glomeruli of the controls were normal. Glomeruli of PAN rats contained significantly more CC than glomeruli of controls. Glomeruli with sclerosis contained significantly more CC than non-sclerotic glomeruli in the same kidneys. CC was preferentially localized within the sclerotic areas of the affected glomeruli. Since mesangial CC clearance from the mesangium did not change during chronic PAN treatment, we conclude that this preferential CC localization within the lesions is caused by an increased CC uptake shortly after injection in apparent vulnerable areas where sclerosis will develop subsequently. Cluster analysis showed a random distribution of lesions in the PAN glomeruli in concordance with the random localization of mesangial areas with dysfunction in this model. Similar to the remnant kidney model in PAN nephrosis the development of glomerular sclerosis may be related to "mesangial overloading."
Nephrotic syndrome is often accompanied by sodium retention and generalized edema. We hypothesize that dysregulation of the epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) and/or of sodium (co)transporters may be responsible for the increased sodium retention associated with HgCl(2)-induced nephropathy. In addition, we examined the hypothesis that the expression of type 2 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (11betaHSD2) is reduced, contributing to the enhanced mineralocorticoid activity. Membranous nephropathy was induced in Brown Norway rats by repeated injections of HgCl(2) (1 mg/kg sc), whereas the control group received only vehicle. After 13 days of treatment, the abundance of ENaC subunits, sodium (co)transporters, and 11betaHSD2 in the kidney was examined by immunoblotting and immunohistochemistry. HgCl(2) treatment induced marked proteinuria, hypoalbuminemia, decreased urinary sodium excretion, and ascites. The protein abundance of alpha-ENaC was increased in the cortex/outer stripe of outer medulla (OSOM) and inner stripe of the outer medulla (ISOM). The protein abundances of beta-ENaC and gamma-ENaC were decreased in the cortex/OSOM while increased in the ISOM. Immunoperoxidase microscopy demonstrated increased targeting of ENaC subunits to the apical plasma membrane in the distal convoluted tubule, connecting tubule, and cortical and medullary collecting duct segments. Moreover, 11betaHSD2 abundance was decreased in cortex/OSOM and ISOM. The protein abundances of type 3 Na/H exchanger (NHE3), Na-K-2Cl cotransporter (NKCC2), and thiazide-sensitive Na-Cl cotransporter (NCC) were decreased. Moreover, the abundance of the alpha-1 subunit of the Na-K-ATPase was decreased in the cortex/OSOM and ISOM but remained unchanged in the inner medulla. These results suggest that increased apical targeting of ENaC subunits combined with diminished abundance of 11betaHSD2 may contribute to sodium retention associated with HgCl(2)-induced nephrotic syndrome. The decreased abundance of NHE3, NKCC2, NCC, and Na-K-ATPase may play a compensatory role in promoting sodium excretion.
The objectives of this paper are to analyze the case reports of cocaine-induced myocardial infarction and to better define the clinical characteristics of this syndrome. An English language literature search was carried out using MEDLINE, and a bibliographic review of all identified articles and book chapters was conducted. Ninety-one cases of cocaine-induced myocardial infarction were identified. Intranasal, intravenous, and inhalational routes of abuse all resulted in myocardial infarction. Fourty-four percent of patients had previously noted chest pain. Eighty-seven percent of patients were cigarette smokers. Two-thirds of patients had their myocardial infarction within 3 hours of the use of cocaine (with a range of 1 minute to 4 days). Cardiac catheterizations were abnormal in 30 of 54 patients (55%). Of the 24 patients with reported follow-up, 14 (58%) had further ischemic events after discharge. In conclusion, cocaine-induced myocardial infarction identifies a group of young individuals who may be prone to recurrent complications after initial presentation.
Resveratrol (RSV) has various metabolic effects, especially with relatively high-dose therapy. However, the ability of RSV to modulate insulin signaling has not been completely evaluated. Here, we determined whether RSV alters insulin signaling in insulin-responsive cells and tissues. The effects of RSV on insulin signaling in 3T3-L1 adipocytes under both insulin-sensitive and insulin-resistant states and in insulin-sensitive tissues of high fat-fed diet-induced obese (DIO) mice were investigated. Insulin-stimulated insulin receptor substrate-1 tyrosine phosphorylation (Y612) was suppressed in RSV-treated adipocytes compared with untreated adipocytes, as was the insulin-stimulated Akt phosphorylation (Ser473). However, under an insulin-resistant condition that was made by incubating 3T3-L1 adipocytes in the conditioned medium from lipopolysaccharide-stimulated LAW264.7 cells, RSV reduced inducible nitric oxide synthase expression and IκBα protein degradation and improved insulin-stimulated Akt phosphorylation (Ser473). In DIO mice, relatively low-dose RSV (30 mg/kg daily for 2 weeks) therapy lowered fasting blood glucose level and serum insulin, increased hepatic glycogen content, and ameliorated fatty liver without change in body weight. The insulin-stimulated Akt phosphorylation was decreased in the liver and white adipose tissue of DIO mice, but it was completely normalized by RSV treatment. However, in the skeletal muscle of DIO mice, insulin signaling was not improved by RSV treatment, whereas the phosphorylation of adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase α (Thr172) was improved by it. Our results show that RSV enhances insulin action only under insulin-resistant conditions and suggest that the effect of RSV may depend on the type of tissue being targeted and its metabolic status.
It is well established that in susceptible mouse strains, chronic treatment with subtoxic doses of mercuric chloride (HgCl2) induces a systemic autoimmune disease, which is characterized by increased serum levels of IgG1 and IgE antibodies, by the production of anti-nucleolar antibodies and by the development of immune complex-mediated glomerulonephritis. Susceptibility to mercury is partly under the control of major histocompatibility complex genes. To study the susceptibility to mercury further, we investigated the in vivo effects of mercury in young autoimmune disease prone (NZB x NZW)F1 (H-2d/z) mice prior to establishment of spontaneous autoimmune disease. Mercury-susceptible SJL (H-2s) mice and mercury low-responder BALB/c (H-2d) mice were used as positive and negative controls, respectively. In (NZB x NZW)F1 mice, treatment with mercury stimulated an intense antibody formation characterized by increased numbers of splenic IgG1 and IgG3 antibody-producing cells as well as by elevated serum IgE levels. Injection with mercury also induced an increased production of IgG1, IgG2b and IgE antibodies in SJL, but not in BALB/c mice. The mercury-induced IgG1 response in (NZB x NZW)F1 and SJL mice was found to be polyclonal and autoantibodies against double-stranded (ds)DNA, IgG, collagen, cardiolipin, phosphatidylethanolamine as well as antibodies against the hapten trinitrophenol were produced. In addition, SJL, but not (NZB x NZW)F1 or BALB/c mice, produced IgG1 anti-nucleolar antibodies after treatment with mercury. Further studies demonstrated that (NZB x NZW)F1 and SJL mice developed high titers of renal mesangial immune complex deposits containing IgG1 antibodies 3 weeks after injection with mercury. Thus, a mouse strain genetically prone to develop spontaneous autoimmune diseases is highly susceptible to mercury-induced immunopathological alterations.
This phase I study evaluated the feasibility, safety, pharmacokinetics (PK), and preliminary evidence of anticancer activity of the sequential administration of paclitaxel and trabectedin on an every-2-week schedule in patients with refractory solid malignancies. The study also sought to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) level on this schedule, as well as to recommend doses for disease-directed studies.
Twenty-seven patients were treated with paclitaxel (80-120 mg/m(2); 1-hour i.v. infusion, day 1) and trabectedin (0.525-0.775 mg/m(2); 3-hour i.v. infusion, day 2) with doses increased in successive cohorts. Blood sampling for PK and drug-drug interaction studies was done.
Neutropenia, which resulted in treatment delay exceeding 1 week, was the principal dose-limiting toxicity for this paclitaxel-trabectedin regimen and precluded dose escalation above 120 mg/m(2) paclitaxel and 0.650 mg/m(2) trabectedin. At the MTD (120 mg/m(2) paclitaxel and 0.650 mg/m(2) trabectedin), the safety profile was favorable in patients receiving cumulative treatment. Relevant drug-drug PK interactions between paclitaxel and trabectedin were not identified. A patient with soft tissue sarcoma had a complete response and several patients with various refractory solid malignancies showed protracted stable disease as their best response.
The MTD level of sequential paclitaxel 1-hour infusion (day 1) and trabectedin 3-hour infusion (day 2) administered every 2 weeks is 120 and 0.650 mg/m(2), respectively. The manageable toxicities at the MTD, preliminary evidence of antitumor activity, and lack of notable PK drug-drug interactions warrant further disease-directed studies of this regimen in relevant tumor types and settings.
Catalase is an important antioxidant enzyme, which has been shown to provide cardiac protection from acute toxicity induced by doxorubicin, a most effective anticancer agent. Because cumulative dose-dependent chronic cardiomyopathy due to a long-term administration of doxorubicin is a significant clinical problem, the present study was undertaken to test the hypothesis that catalase also provides protection against doxorubicin chronic cardiotoxicity. Transgenic mice containing cardiac catalase activities of 15-, 60-, or 100-fold higher than normal and nontransgenic controls were treated with doxorubicin in a cumulative dose of 45 mg/kg in five equal iv injections (9 mg/kg every other week) over a period of 10 weeks. On the second day after the last injection, the mice were sacrificed for analysis of cardiotoxicity. As compared to nontransgenic controls, doxorubicin-reduced body weight gain was significantly inhibited in the transgenic mice. There were 15% mortality in nontransgenic mice, but no mortality was observed in transgenic mice during the course of treatment. Light microscopic examination revealed that doxorubicin-induced myocardial morphological changes were markedly suppressed in the transgenic mice in an activity-dependent fashion. Under electron microscopy, extensive sarcoplasmic vacuolization and severe disruption of mitochondrial fine structure were observed in nontransgenic cardiomyocytes, but all markedly suppressed in the transgenic mice. The results indicate that catalase elevation in the heart prevents doxorubicin chronic cardiomyopathy.
Arsenic contamination of groundwater is a severe public health crisis in Bangladesh, where the population is exposed to arsenic in drinking water through tube wells used for groundwater collection. In this study, we explored the association between socioeconomic status and arsenic toxicity.
We used baseline data from 11438 men and women who were recruited into the Health Effects of Arsenic Longitudinal Study (HEALS), a prospective cohort study on the health effects of arsenic exposure in Bangladesh. We conducted analyses with logistic regression and generalized estimating equations.
We found a strong dose-response association with all measures of arsenic exposure and skin lesions. We also found that the effect of arsenic was modified by land ownership on a multiplicative scale, with an increased risk among non-land owners associated with well water arsenic (P=.04) and urinary total arsenic concentrations (P=.03).
Our study provides insight into potentially modifiable host characteristics and identifies factors that may effectively target susceptible population subgroups for appropriate interventions.
Renal function and salt and water turnover were studied in SHR during acute and chronic administration of felodipine, which is an efficient antihypertensive vasodilating Ca2+ antagonist. In conscious SHR acute administration of felodipine in hypotensive doses increased renal sympathetic nerve activity but caused renal vasodilation, increases in GFR and a 2-3 fold increase in urinary flow rate and sodium excretion. The fraction of filtered sodium excreted (FENa) was approximately doubled. The diuretic and natriuretic effects of felodipine are therefore suggested to be due to a direct inhibitory action on the renal tubular cells, resulting in reduced sodium reabsorption. Nifedipine also induced diuresis and natriuresis in this system, while minoxidil reduced water and sodium excretion. Throughout 6 months of felodipine treatment, the mean arterial pressure (MAP), remained 25-20 per cent reduced. Felodipine in combination with metoprolol reduced MAP 25-30 per cent and also caused regression of left ventricular hypertrophy, while felodipine alone prevented its further progression. Also during chronic administration, felodipine induced diuresis but had no effect on plasma volume and on sodium or potassium excretion in SHR. It is concluded that in SHR felodipine induces diuresis; on acute treatment this is secondary to reduced tubular sodium reabsorption, although during chronic treatment the sodium loss is compensated for while the diuresis remains. Thus, the cardiovascular and renal effects of Ca2+ antagonists like felodipine differ substantially from those of other potent antihypertensive vasodilators e.g. minoxidil.
The effect of allopurinol pretreatment on the toxicity of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) was examined in a clinical trial. Twenty-three patients were given bolus infusions of 5-FU every two weeks in doses that produced mild toxicity (0.8-1.9 g/m2). On alternate courses patients were pretreated with allopurinol either 300 mg two hours prior to and 10 hours after 5-FU, or 300 mg every 8 hours for 4 doses starting 24 hours before 5-FU. Seventeen and 20 pairs of courses were evaluable from the 2- and 24-hour pretreatment groups, respectively. Allopurinol did not produce a significant degree of protection against 5-FU-induced myelosuppression or mucositis on either dose schedule. Neurotoxicity manifesting as both cerebellar and encephalopathic signs and symptoms was the most important toxicity encountered and was dose-limiting for 5-FU on this schedule. Mean oxipurinol serum concentrations at the time of 5-FU administration were 24 microM and 104 microM for the 2- and 24-hour allopurinol pretreatment schedules respectively. Allopurinol increased the T 1/2 of 5-FU by a mean of 67% in three of the four patients studied. Pretreatment with allopurinol did not reduce the toxicity of 5-FU administered as an intravenous bolus.
The authors compared 4-month treatment outcomes for olanzapine versus risperidone in patients with first-episode schizophrenia spectrum disorders.
One hundred twelve subjects (70% male; mean age=23.3 years [SD = 5.1]) with first-episode schizophrenia (75%), schizophreniform disorder (17%), or schizoaffective disorder (8%) were randomly assigned to treatment with olanzapine (2.5-20 mg/day) or risperidone (1-6 mg/day).
Response rates did not significantly differ between olanzapine (43.7%, 95% CI=28.8%-58.6%) and risperidone (54.3%, 95% CI=39.9%-68.7%). Among those responding to treatment, more subjects in the olanzapine group (40.9%, 95% CI=16.8%-65.0%) than in the risperidone group (18.9%, 95% CI=0%-39.2%) had subsequent ratings not meeting response criteria. Negative symptom outcomes and measures of parkinsonism and akathisia did not differ between medications. Extrapyramidal symptom severity scores were 1.4 (95% CI=1.2-1.6) with risperidone and 1.2 (95% CI=1.0-1.4) with olanzapine. Significantly more weight gain occurred with olanzapine than with risperidone: the increase in weight at 4 months relative to baseline weight was 17.3% (95% CI=14.2%-20.5%) with olanzapine and 11.3% (95% CI=8.4%-14.3%) with risperidone. Body mass index at baseline and at 4 months was 24.3 (95% CI=22.8-25.7) versus 28.2 (95% CI=26.7-29.7) with olanzapine and 23.9 (95% CI=22.5-25.3) versus 26.7 (95% CI=25.2-28.2) with risperidone.
Clinical outcomes with risperidone were equal to those with olanzapine, and response may be more stable. Olanzapine may have an advantage for motor side effects. Both medications caused substantial rapid weight gain, but weight gain was greater with olanzapine.
During bacterial infections, pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) induce cytokine/chemokine release in immunoactive cells. This increases corticosteroid-resistant airway inflammation in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and leads to exacerbations. Anti-inflammatory therapies other than corticosteroids are required and resveratrol is currently under discussion. Resveratrol is an activator of sirtuins, which are class III histone deacetylases (HDACs). We suggested that human airway smooth muscle cells (HASMCs) release COPD-associated cytokines/chemokines in response to lipoteichoic acid (LTA), a major PAMP of gram-positive bacteria and that resveratrol is superior to the corticosteroid dexamethasone in suppressing these cytokines/chemokines. Cultivated HASMCs of patients with COPD were pre-incubated with resveratrol or dexamethasone before stimulation with LTA. CCL2, GM-CSF, IL-6 and IL-8 were analysed in culture supernatants by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Drug effects were investigated in the absence and presence of trichostatin A (TSA), an inhibitor of class I/II HDACs, and EX527, an inhibitor of the sirtuin SIRT1. LTA induced robust cytokine/chemokine release. Resveratrol was superior to dexamethasone in reducing CCL-2, IL-6 and IL-8 in LTA-exposed HASMCs of patients with COPD. Both drugs were equally effective in reducing GM-CSF. Resveratrol effects were partially reversed by EX527 but not by TSA. Dexamethasone effects were partially reversed by TSA but not by EX527. We conclude that HASMCs contribute to the increase in airway inflammation in COPD exacerbations caused by gram-positive bacterial infections. Our data suggest resveratrol as an alternative anti-inflammatory therapy in infection-induced COPD exacerbations. Resveratrol and corticosteroids suppress cytokine/chemokine expression through activation of SIRT1 or interaction with class I/II HDACs, respectively, in HASMCs.
The influence of serotonergic system on the changes in locomotor activity of mice and rats brought about by morphine, fentanyl, codeine and pentazocine and on morphine induced catalepsy in rats was studied. p-Chlorophenylalanine (pCPA) did not affect the behavioral changes produced in mice by morphine, fentanyl, codeine and pentazocine but reduced the behavioral depression produced by these drugs in rats. 5-Hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP) but not tryptophan (TP) reversed the action of pCPA on the effect of morphine and fentanyl. After reserpine the depression produced in rats by morphine and fentanyl was more pronounced. TP did not change the depression produced by combination of reserpine and morphine but counteracted the depression observed after combination of reserpine and fentanyl. In mice reserpine protected against hypermotility produced by morphine or fentanyl and TP potentiated the depression produced by the combination of reserpine and morphine or reserpine and fentanyl. Serotonin precursors, 5-HTP and TP evidently potentiated the morphine induced catalepsy. pCPA counteracted only the enhancement of the catalepsy observed after TP administration. Naloxone abolished the catalepsy after combined treatment with morphine and TP. Similarly but weaker acted cyproheptadine. The results suggest that the serotonin system plays a role in the effects of morphine and fentanyl on rat locomotor activity. An increase in the cerebral serotonin level increases the morphine catalepsy in rats.
To describe a case of delirium associated with use of metoprolol and to analyse 24 such cases including 22 cases reported to Australian Adverse Drug Reaction Advisory Committee and one case previously published (S. Ahmad, Am Fam Physician, 1991;44:1142, 1144).
An 89 year old caucasian man with an acute coronary syndrome who had no psychiatric history and no infections, brain injury, stroke, metabolic nor neoplastic disease developed delirium after two small doses of metoprolol (25 mg). The delirium disappeared within 20 hours after metoprolol was ceased, despite continuing all other medications. THE COMBINED SERIES: Of 24 patients (12 women, mean age 71.8 years), 83% were older than 60 years. The duration of therapy before onset of delirium in 14 (58%) subjects was within one week; 23 of 24 patients were receiving therapeutic amounts of the drug (25-200 mg/day). Clinical features included confusion/disorientation in all subjects, agitation in 13, aggression in 6, visual hallucinations in 7, auditory hallucinations in 1, paranoid delusions in 3, vivid dreams in 2 and language disturbances in 3 persons. Bradycardia was reported in 4 cases, hypotension in 2, fatigue/tiredness in 3, Raynaud's phenomenon in 1 and skin rash in 1 patient.
The mechanism of metoprolol-induced delirium is unclear. It could be due to impairment of hepatic metabolism (especially in the ageing liver) and complex neurotransmitter-related effects on brain beta-adrenoceptors and serotonin (5-HT) receptors.
Physicians should be aware that metoprolol, a widely used beta-blocker, may rarely cause delirium, especially in the elderly population.
In a multicentre prospective study, 261 patients undergoing transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) in 17 urology departments were randomised to receive lubricating jelly containing either 3% tetracaine hydrochloride, 1% lignocaine hydrochloride, or no local anaesthetic. No patient had a history of urethral instrumentation or a previous urethral stricture. After 6 months' follow-up, 25/79 patients (32%) treated with 3% tetracaine jelly developed urethral strictures, as did 4/92 patients (4%) who received 1% lignocaine and 2/90 (2%) who received the jelly without anaesthetic. It was concluded that the use of 3% tetracaine jelly is associated with a high incidence of post-TURP urethral strictures.
α(2)-Adrenoceptors belong to the family of adrenergic receptors, which regulate the neuronal release of norepinephrine as part of a negative feedback loop. Among the α(2)-adrenoceptors, the α(2B)-subtype may also influence developmental signaling pathways involved in angiogenesis of the placenta. Thus, the aim of the present study was to determine whether α(2B)-adrenoceptors are also involved in other developmental processes beyond placental angiogenesis. Ablation of α(2B)-adrenoceptors led to lethality of mutant mice during the first hours after birth. Despite normal breathing and drinking behavior, mutant mice developed cyanosis, which could be traced back to a defect in lung morphology with significantly reduced alveolar volume and thickened interalveolar septi. In α(2B)-deficient lungs and in isolated alveolar type II cells, expression of sonic hedgehog (SHH) was significantly increased, resulting in mesenchymal proliferation. In vitro α(2B)-adrenoreceptor stimulation suppressed expression of sonic hedgehog and the cell cycle genes cyclin D1 and Ki67. In vivo inhibition of enhanced SHH signaling by the smoothened antagonist cyclopamine partially rescued perinatal lethality, lung morphology, and altered gene expression in mutant mice. Thus, α(2B)-adrenoceptors in lung epithelia play an important role in suppressing sonic hedgehog-mediated proliferation of mesenchymal cells and thus prevent respiratory failure.
Data on the long-term safety of lamivudine are limited. The aim of this analysis was to determine the incidence of hepatitis flares, hepatic decompensation, and liver-disease-related (LDR) serious adverse events (SAE) during long-term lamivudine treatment.
We reviewed data on 998 patients with HBeAg-positive compensated chronic hepatitis B who received lamivudine for up to 6 years (median, 4 years) and 200 patients who received placebo for 1 year.
Hepatitis flares occurred in 10% of the lamivudine-treated patients in year 1 and in 18%-21% in years 2-5. A temporal association between hepatitis flares and lamivudine-resistant mutations increased from 43% in year 1 to >80% in year 3. Ten hepatic decompensation events occurred in 8 (<1%) lamivudine-treated patients. Fifty-three (5%) lamivudine-treated patients experienced a total of 60 LDR SAEs. Four patients died, 2 from liver-related causes. The proportion of patients with a documented lamivudine-resistant mutation increased from 23% in year 1 to 65% in year 5. During each year of the study, patients with lamivudine-resistant mutations experienced significantly more hepatitis flares than patients without lamivudine-resistant mutations (P < 0.005). The occurrence of hepatic decompensation (0%-2%) and LDR SAEs (1%-10%) among patients with lamivudine resistance remained stable during the first 4 years with mutations and increased afterward to 6% (P = 0.03) and 20% (P = 0.009), respectively.
This study demonstrated that lamivudine treatment for up to 6 years has an excellent safety profile in patients with HBeAg-positive compensated liver disease, but patients with long-standing lamivudine-resistant mutations may experience worsening liver disease.
Hepatitis B virus reactivation is a serious cause of morbidity and mortality in hepatitis B surface antigen-positive patients treated with chemotherapy. We compared the efficacy of early and deferred preemptive lamivudine therapy in reducing the incidence of hepatitis due to hepatitis B virus reactivation in hepatitis B surface antigen-positive lymphoma patients treated with chemotherapy.
Thirty consecutive hepatitis B surface antigen-positive lymphoma patients undergoing intensive chemotherapy were randomized (1:1) to receive lamivudine 100 mg daily 1 week before chemotherapy (group 1) or to have this treatment deferred until there was serological evidence of hepatitis B virus reactivation on the basis of serial 2-week-interval serum hepatitis B virus DNA monitoring by a Digene Hybrid Capture II assay (group 2).
Eight (53%) patients in group 2 and none in group 1 had hepatitis B virus virological reactivation after chemotherapy (P = 0.002). Seven patients in group 2 still had hepatitis (5 anicteric hepatitis, 1 icteric hepatitis, and 1 hepatic failure). Survival free from hepatitis due to hepatitis B virus reactivation in group 1 patients was significantly longer than that in group 2 (P = 0.002 on the log-rank test). The median onset of hepatitis B virus reactivation in these patients was 16 weeks (range, 4-36 weeks) after the initiation of chemotherapy. Three (13%) of the 23 patients treated with lamivudine had hepatitis B virus-related hepatitis after lamivudine withdrawal.
Lamivudine should be considered preemptively before or at the initiation of chemotherapy for all hepatitis B surface antigen-positive lymphoma patients undergoing intense chemotherapy.
The renal function of 46 outpatients from a lithium-clinic was examined in detail during 5 days of hospitalization on a nephrological ward. Lithium medication was stopped seven days before admission. In approximately 25% of the examined patients, a lithium-induced nephropathia must be assumed. Irreversibility of the disturbances cannot be excluded. The characteristic feature of this patient population is to be seen in an exclusive reduction of the renal concentrating ability. Urine osmolality showed a significant negative correlation to the product of duration of treatment times lithium serum concentration. In all patients with a reduced GFR a preexisting kidney disease could be demonstrated. The degree of polyuria was not related to the observed impairment of renal function. On the average it took seven years until a reduced concentration ability became apparent; the minimal time interval was three years. The lithium-associated nephropathy may be characterized as a rather frequently occurring damage of the kidney interstitium being dependent on serum-lithium concentration and duration of treatment. Progress of these pathological changes is obviously very slow and accompanied by only few and mild clinical symptoms. Kidney biopsy in 4 cases revealed focal fibrosis and tubular degeneration as has been described by other authors.
Obesity is a major global public health problem. In many instances, a combination of diet modification, increased physical activity and behavior therapy fail or are insufficient for sustained weight loss. In these situations, drug therapy may be helpful. However, drug treatment of obesity resulted in unexpected devastating events in recent years. In the late sixties, aminorex caused an epidemic of pulmonary hypertension with high mortality rates. Dexfenfluramine and phentermine were also associated with the development of pulmonary hypertension and with alarming reports of cardiac valvular abnormalities. Therefore, these drugs were withdrawn from the market. Newer drugs, like sibutramine, a serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, and orlistat, a specific lipase inhibitor, reduce body weight significantly compared to placebo. In combination with a hypocaloric diet, weight loss of three to ten kilos can be achieved. Pharmacotherapy is limited to patients with a body mass index greater than 30 kg/m2, if non-pharmacological treatment programs have failed. The drugs should be prescribed under strict medical surveillance only.
The part played by calcium in genesis of essential hypertension may be suspected. Yet, the whole of epidemiological research as well in the animal as in man is still not very convincing. The objective of such a research has been to appreciate the calcium intestinal absorption before and after nicardipine treatment in 11 subjects (5 M/6 F) aged between 32 and 82. The group is made up of 7 hypertensive patients (2 M/5 F) and 4 normotensive ones (3 M/1 F). Subjects showing bone disease, kidney insufficiency and stone in kidneys or under such a treatment as to interfere with calcium metabolism had been excluded. Dosage of calcium and phosphate, Na, K, aldosterone, in blood and urine and PTH and PRA in blood had been effectuated. Estimation of true calcium absorption has been made by double isotope deconvolution method. Blood pressure has been measured by semi-ambulatory monitoring method. Similar evaluation has been made after four weeks treatment (60 mg of nicardipine a day). Without any treatment, normotensive subjects have a lower intestinal absorption coefficient than the hypertensive ones, which is normal (non significative statistical results: NS). Under nicardipine, hypertensive patients seem to get lower intestinal absorption (NS); other clinical, biological parameters show no change, except a rise of apoprotein A after nicardipine treatment (P less than or equal to 0.05). So, the intestinal absorption of calcium would become higher in hypertensive subjects and diminished by calcium antagonist treatment.
