Lafutidine, a histamine H2-receptor antagonist, exhibits gastric mucosal protective action mediated by capsaicin-sensitive afferent neurons, in addition to a potent antisecretory effect. In this study we examined the effect of lafutidine on dextran sulfate Na (DSS)-induced ulcerative colitis in rats, in relation to capsaicin-sensitive afferent neurons. Experimental colitis was induced in rats by daily treatment with 3% DSS in drinking water for 7 days. Lafutidine, capsaicin, and cimetidine were administered per os twice daily for 6 days. The ulceration area, colon length, and myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity were measured on day 7 after the onset of DSS treatment. DSS caused severe mucosal lesions in the colon, accompanied by an increase in MPO activity as well as a decrease in body weight gain and colon length. Daily administration of lafutidine dose-dependently reduced the severity of DSS-induced colitis and significantly mitigated changes in the colon length and MPO activity. The effects of lafutidine were mimicked by daily administration of capsaicin but not cimetidine and were totally abolished by chemical ablation of capsaicin-sensitive afferent neurons. In contrast, desensitization of afferent neurons significantly worsened the colonic inflammation induced by DSS. It was also found that both lafutidine and capsaicin increased the secretion of mucus in the colonic mucosa. These results suggest that lafutidine is effective against the ulcerative colitis induced by DSS through capsaicin-sensitive afferent neurons. This action might be attributable at least partly to the enhancement of colonic mucus secretion.
Extracellular field potentials and the EEG were studied in the dentate gyrus of the rat after intrahippocampal injections of colchicine, which is a relatively selective neurotoxin for dentate granule cells. Injection of colchicine (0.5 microliters of a 5-mg/ml solution of colchicine in deionized water) resulted in granule cell hyperexcitability manifested by multispike field potentials in response to stimulation of the excitatory projections from the entorhinal cortex. In anesthetized rats, this state of granule cell hyperexcitability was occasionally accompanied by interictal epileptic spiking or brief electrographic seizures, but granule cell death was observed even in the absence of epileptic activity. Injection of colchicine into the CA1 area of the hippocampus also resulted in multispike field potentials in response to stimulation of the CA3 commissural pathway, but CA1 pyramidal cells were not destroyed by colchicine. Colchicine has been reported to act as a convulsant agent in the dentate gyrus, but it is a relatively selective neurotoxin for dentate granule cells even in the absence of epileptic activity.
Nephrogenic systemic fibrosis may be caused by gadolinium (Gd)-containing magnetic resonance imaging contrast agents. Most reported cases were associated with one particular agent, gadodiamide. Yet, unidentified cofactors might explain why only a minority of renal failure patients exposed to gadodiamide develop nephrogenic systemic fibrosis.
We conducted a case-control study of 19 histologically verified cases and 19 sex- and age-matched controls. All subjects had chronic renal failure when exposed to gadodiamide. Clinical, biochemical and pharmacological data were retrieved from medical records.
Cases had been exposed to a mean gadodiamide dose of 0.29 mmol/kg (range 0.18-0.50) shortly before first signs of nephrogenic systemic fibrosis. Controls had been exposed to 0.28 mmol/kg (0.13-0.49). Cumulative gadodiamide exposure while in chronic kidney disease stage 5 was significantly higher among cases compared with controls (0.41 vs 0.31 mmol/kg, P = 0.05) and among severe cases (n = 9) compared with non-severe cases (0.49 vs 0.33 mmol/kg, P = 0.02). Severe cases developed primarily among patients in regular haemodialysis therapy at exposure. Cases had higher serum concentrations of ionized calcium and phosphate than controls and tended to receive higher doses of epoietin-beta than controls at time of exposure. Severe cases were treated with higher doses of epoietin-beta than non-severe cases at exposure (10.8 vs 4.4 10(3) IU/week, P = 0.02).
Increasing cumulative gadodiamide exposure, high-dose epoietin-beta treatment, and higher serum concentrations of ionized calcium and phosphate increase the risk of gadodiamide-related nephrogenic systemic fibrosis in renal failure patients. Severe cases seem to develop primarily among patients in regular haemodialysis therapy at exposure.
Glutamate-aspartate transporter (GLAST), a powerful glutamate uptake system, removes released glutamate from the synaptic cleft and facilitates the re-use of glutamate as a neurotransmitter recycling system. Aminoglycoside-induced hearing loss is mediated via a glutamate excitotoxic process. We investigated the effect of aminoglycoside ototoxicity in GLAST knockout mice using the recorded auditory brainstem response (ABR) and number of hair cells in the cochlea. Kanamycin (100 mg/mL) was injected directly into the posterior semicircular canal of mice. Before the kanamycin treatment, there was no difference in the ABR threshold average between the wild-type and knockout mice. Kanamycin injection aggravated the ABR threshold in the GLAST knockout mice compared with the wild-type mice, and the IHC degeneration was more severe in the GLAST knockout mice. These findings suggest that GLAST plays an important role in preventing the degeneration of inner hair cells in aminoglycoside ototoxicity.
The small hepatitis B virus surface antigen (S-HBsAg) is capable of driving the assembly and secretion of hepatitis delta virus (HDV) particles by interacting with the HDV ribonucleoprotein (RNP). Previously, a specific domain of the S-HBsAg protein carboxyl terminus, including a tryptophan residue at position 196 (W196), was proven essential for HDV maturation (S. Jenna and C. Sureau, J. Virol. 73: 3351-3358, 1999). Mutation of W196 to phenylalanine (W196F) was permissive for HBV subviral particle (SVP) secretion but deleterious to HDV virion assembly. Here, the W196F S-HBsAg deficiency was assigned to a loss of its ability for interaction with the large HDV antigen (L-HDAg), a major component of the RNP. Because the overall S-HBsAg carboxyl terminus is particularly rich in tryptophan, an amino acid frequently involved in protein-protein interactions, site-directed mutagenesis was conducted to investigate the function of the S-HBsAg Trp-rich domain in HDV assembly. Single substitutions of tryptophan between positions 163 and 201 with alanine or phenylalanine were tolerated for SVP secretion, but those affecting W196, W199, and W201 were detrimental for HDV assembly. This was proven to result from a reduced capacity of the mutants for interaction with L-HDAg. In addition, a W196S S-HBsAg mutant, which has been described in HBV strains that arose in a few cases of lamivudine-treated HBV-infected patients, was deficient for HDV assembly as a consequence of its impaired capacity for interacting with L-HDAg. Interestingly, the fact that even the most conservative substitution of phenylalanine for tryptophan at positions 196, 199, or 201 was sufficient to ablate interaction of S-HBsAg with L-HDAg suggests that W196, W199, and W201 are located at a binding interface that is central to HDV maturation.
Bupropion was tested for efficacy in increasing weeks of abstinence in methamphetamine-dependent patients, compared to placebo. This was a double-blind placebo-controlled study, with 12 weeks of treatment and a 30-day follow-up. Five outpatient substance abuse treatment clinics located west of the Mississippi participated in the study. One hundred and fifty-one treatment-seekers with DSM-IV diagnosis of methamphetamine dependence were consented and enrolled. Seventy-two participants were randomized to placebo and 79 to sustained-release bupropion 150 mg twice daily. Patients were asked to come to the clinic three times per week for assessments, urine drug screens, and 90-min group psychotherapy. The primary outcome was the change in proportion of participants having a methamphetamine-free week. Secondary outcomes included: urine for quantitative methamphetamine, self-report of methamphetamine use, subgroup analyses of balancing factors and comorbid conditions, addiction severity, craving, risk behaviors for HIV, and use of other substances. The generalized estimating equation regression analysis showed that, overall, the difference between bupropion and placebo groups in the probability of a non-use week over the 12-week treatment period was not statistically significant (p=0.09). Mixed model regression was used to allow adjustment for baseline factors in addition to those measured (site, gender, level of baseline use, and level of symptoms of depression). This subgroup analysis showed that bupropion had a significant effect compared to placebo, among male patients who had a lower level of methamphetamine use at baseline (p<0.0001). Comorbid depression and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder did not change the outcome. These data suggest that bupropion, in combination with behavioral group therapy, was effective for increasing the number of weeks of abstinence in participants with low-to-moderate methamphetamine dependence, mainly male patients, regardless of their comorbid condition.
Conversion from calcineurin inhibitor to sirolimus, rapamycin has become an option in patients with chronic allograft dysfunction (CAD). However, in many cases an increase of proteinuria has been observed. The aim was to characterize the course of this so far unexplained proteinuria after conversion.
In 149 renal transplant patients from various Spanish centres, proteinuria and renal function were analysed 6 months before until 6 months after conversion. Patients were divided into three groups according to mean proteinuria before conversion (1:<or=300 mg/day; 2:>300-3500 mg/day; 3:>3.5 g/day).
Generally patients showed an increase of proteinuria from 864+/-1441 (0-12125) to 1541+/-1878 (0-10976) mg/day after conversion; P<0.001. Group 1: 145+/-92 vs 669+/-868 mg/day, P<0.001; group 2: 1041+/-799 vs 1995+/-2021 mg/day, P<0.001; group 3: 6205+/-3184 vs 4859+/-2122 mg/day, P=NS. Patients with an increase of proteinuria of >500 mg/day (n=60; 40%) had a higher serum creatinine before conversion compared with patients with no or moderate increase (2.5+/-0.8 vs 2.15+/-0.72 mg/dl; P=0.002). The group that experienced an increase>500 mg/day had a higher serum creatinine after conversion compared with the patients with no or moderate increase (2.8+/-1.0 vs 2.1+/-1.2; P<0.001). Of 64 patients, 19 in group 1 showed an increase>500 mg/day.
Conversion for CAD can be associated with an increase of proteinuria in patients with pre-existing renal damage; however, it preserves renal function in patients with better creatinine and proteinuria before conversion, and might not be of benefit if advanced loss of renal function and high proteinuria are already present before conversion.
Sildenafil, a peripherally acting inhibitor of cyclic guanosine monophosphate((cGMP), has been reported highly effective in treating erectile dysfunction of various etiology. Erectile dysfunction is a common sexual side effect of various antidepressants. Various agents have been used in the treatment of antidepressant-induced erectile dysfunction; however, there are no reports on the use of sildenafil for this indication. This case report describes the successful use of sildenafil in fluvoxamine-induced erectile dysfunction. A possible mechanism of action of sildenafil in this type of erectile dysfunction is discussed.
The present studies were performed to investigate the possible mechanism of marked species differences on nephropathy found in the long-term toxicity study of FYX-051, a xanthine oxidoreductase inhibitor. In the twenty-six-week dose toxicity study in the rat, in which FYX-051 was administered by oral gavage at 0.04, 0.2, and 1 mg/kg, xanthine-mediated nephropathy was seen only at 1 mg/kg, despite the presence of xanthine crystals in urine at 0.2 mg/kg and more; however, in the fifty-two-week dose toxicity study in the monkey, in which FYX-051 was administered by oral gavage at 30, 100, and 300 mg/kg, no toxicities were seen, even at 300 mg/kg. These outcomes showed there would be 1500-fold or more differences in the mode of intrarenal xanthine deposition between rats and monkeys. Thus we performed the mechanistic study, and the following outcomes were obtained. First, the amount of urinary purine metabolites was thirty-fold higher in rats than in monkeys. Second, urinary xanthine solubility was sixfold higher in monkeys than in rats. Third, exposure levels of FYX-051 were five-fold higher in rats than in monkeys. Therefore, the present study indicated that the combined effects of purine metabolism, urinary xanthine solubility, and toxicokinetics would contribute to species differences in nephropathy, that is, absence of xanthine-mediated nephropathy in monkeys even at the highest dose of FYX-051.
Our previous work indicated that pretreatment with the selective kappa-opioid receptor (KOPr) agonist, U69593, attenuated the ability of priming injections of cocaine to reinstate extinguished cocaine-seeking behavior. The present study expanded these initial tests to include other traditional KOPr agonists, U50488H, spiradoline (SPR), and salvinorin A (Sal A), an active constituent of the plant Salvia divinorum. Following acquisition and stabilization of cocaine self-administration, cocaine-produced drug-seeking was measured. This test was conducted in a single day and comprised an initial phase of self-administration, followed by a phase of extinguished responding. The final phase examined reinstatement of extinguished cocaine self-administration followed by a priming injection of cocaine (20.0mg/kg, intraperitoneal (I.P.)) in combination with the various KOPr agonists. Cocaine-induced drug-seeking was attenuated by pretreatment with U69593 (0.3mg/kg, subcutaneous (S.C.)), U50488H (30.0mg/kg, I.P.), SPR (1.0, 3.0mg/kg, I.P.) and Sal A (0.3, 1.0mg/kg, I.P.). Sal A (0.3, 1.0mg/kg, I.P.) had no effect on operant responding to obtain sucrose reinforcement or on cocaine-induced hyperactivity. These findings show that Sal A, like other traditional KOPr agonists attenuates cocaine-induced drug-seeking behavior.
Glioblastoma patients have a poor prognosis, even after surgery, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy with temozolomide or 1,3-bis(2-chloroethy)-1-nitrosourea. We developed an in vitro recovery model using neurosphere cultures to analyze the efficacy of chemotherapy treatments, and tested whether glioblastoma neurosphere-initiating cells are resistant. Concentrations of chemotherapy drugs that inhibit neurosphere formation are similar to clinically relevant doses. Some lines underwent a transient cell cycle arrest and a robust recovery of neurosphere formation. These results indicate that glioblastoma neurospheres can regrow after treatment with chemotherapy drugs. This neurosphere recovery assay will facilitate studies of chemo-resistant subpopulations and methods to enhance glioblastoma therapy.
Despite being banned in many countries, dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT) and its metabolites dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene (DDE) and dichlorodiphenyldichloroethane (DDD) continue to be found in fish tissues at concentrations of concern. Like o,p -DDT, o,p -DDE is estrogenic and is believed to exert its effects through binding to the estrogen receptor. The limited toxicologic data for o,p -DDE suggest that it decreases fecundity and fertility of fishes. We conducted an egg injection study using the d-rR strain of medaka and environmentally relevant concentrations of o,p -DDE to examine its effects on sexual differentiation and development. The gonads of exposed fish showed no evidence of sex reversal or intersex. However, other gonad abnormalities occurred in exposed individuals. Females exhibited few vitellogenic oocytes and increased atresia. Male testes appeared morphologically normal but were very small. Gonadosomatic index values for both sexes were lower for exposed fish. Our observations of abnormal female and very small male gonads after in ovo o,p -DDE exposure may be indicative of effects on early endocrine processes important for normal ovarian and testicular development.
Methamphetamine (MA) dependence is associated with deficits in episodic verbal memory, but the cognitive mechanisms underlying such impairments are not known. The authors evaluated a component process model of episodic verbal memory in 87 persons with MA dependence (MA+) and 71 demographically similar non-MA-using controls (MA-). Compared with MA- controls, MA+ participants demonstrated deficient overall learning, free recall, and utilization of semantic clustering, as well as higher rates of repetitions and intrusions. No between-groups differences were evident on measures of serial clustering, retention, or recognition discrimination. Taken together, these findings indicate that MA dependence is associated with deficient strategic (i.e., executive) control of verbal encoding and retrieval, which is consistent with the sequelae of MA-related prefronto-striatal circuit neurotoxicity.
The risk of developing contrast media-induced acute renal failure was studied in 49 randomly selected nonazotemic type 2 adult diabetic patients subjected to IVU. There were 19 men and 30 women in the group whose mean age was 62 +/- 10 years (range, 38 to 82 years). In preparation for IVU, patients were neither dehydrated nor given a laxative. The IVU was performed in the morning, using sodium diatrizoate and meglumine diatrizoate. Serum creatinine levels were measured pre-IVU and on days 1, 3, and 6 after the IVU. A total of three patients (6%) had an elevation of serum creatinine greater than 25% above the baseline by post-IVU day 3. One patient developed oliguria (less than 400 ml/24 hr) that lasted 2 days. Creatinine clearances of the three patients showing contrast media toxicity were 74, 60, and 105 ml/min pre-IVU. In each of the three patients, a return to pre-IVU serum creatinine concentration was noted within 2 weeks. It is concluded that the risk of acute renal failure post-IVU is small in hydrated nonazotemic type 2 diabetic patients.
The prolactin, cortisol and growth hormone (GH) responses to intravenous administration of 25 mg clomipramine (CMI) were studied in young male psychotic patients who had never received neuroleptics and suffered from schizophrenia (13 patients), delusional disorder (three patients) or schizoaffective disorder (one patient). The test was repeated after 1 month in 16 patients who were hospitalized and treated with haloperidol in doses appropriate for best clinical response (range: 7.5-40 mg daily). Symptomatology was assessed by the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS). There was no association of the side effects caused by the administration of CMI (nausea and emesis) to the GH responses. The side effects appeared significantly less in the after treatment trials. Treatment with haloperidol did not influence the response patterns of the three hormones. An indication that high haloperidol doses may inhibit the prolactin response to CMI was obtained when the data were compared between low (7.5-10 mg/day, mean 9.7) and high (15-40 mg/day, mean 22.0) dose subgroups. Significant positive correlations were found between the prolactin and cortisol responses to CMI in the drug-free state, and the scores in the positive symptoms subscale of the BPRS. The degree of improvement did not correlate to any of the hormonal data.
Immunohistochemical detection of Fos, the protein product of the immediate-early gene c-fos, was evaluated as a functional marker of central neurons sensitive to a change of blood pressure/blood volume. Controlled hemorrhage and infusion of the hypotensive agent nitroprusside or hydralazine induced the appearance of Fos-immunoreactivity (Fos-IR) in several prominent groups of central neurons: the piriform cortex, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, islands of Calleja, subfornical organ, central nucleus of the amygdala, parabrachial nucleus, supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei, pontine A5, locus ceruleus, ventrolateral medulla, the nucleus of the solitary tract, area postrema, and intermediolateral cell column in the spinal cord. Elevation of blood pressure by infusion of phenylephrine caused the appearance of Fos-IR in fewer groups of neurons: the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, central nucleus of the amygdala, parabrachial nucleus, the nucleus of the solitary tract and area postrema. The differential distribution of Fos neurons in hypotensive versus hypertensive animals underscores the potential application of Fos as a metabolic marker in identifying a network of neurons responding to a specific cardiovascular challenge. Further, simultaneous characterization of the transmitter phenotype of Fos-containing neurons offers an additional advantage of this method over other conventional tract-tracing techniques.
Dental management for the patient who abuses drugs is always a challenge. The number of patients abusing methamphetamines appears to be increasing. The dentist needs to be aware of the clinical presentation and medical risks presented by these patients and to attempt to get the patient to seek professional help. Additionally, special attention will be necessary for the high prevalence and severity of oral manifestations including rampant caries, enamel erosion, xerostomia, bruxism, and muscle trismus.
The cardiovascular effects of i.v. treatment with 1,8-cineole, a monoterpenic oxide present in many plant essential oils, were investigated in normotensive rats. This study examined (i) whether the autonomic nervous system is involved in the mediation of 1,8-cineole-induced changes in mean aortic pressure (MAP) and heart rate (HR) and (ii) whether the hypotensive effects of 1,8-cineole could result from its vasodilatory effects directly upon vascular smooth muscle. In both pentobarbital-anesthetized and conscious, freely moving rats, bolus injections of 1,8-cineole (0.3-10 mg/kg, i.v.) elicited similar and dose-dependent decreases in MAP. Concomitantly, 1,8-cineole significantly decreased HR only at the highest dose (10 mg/kg). Pretreatment of anesthetized rats with bilateral vagotomy significantly reduced the bradycardic responses to 1,8-cineole (10 mg/kg) without affecting hypotension. In conscious rats, i.v. pretreatment with methylatropine (1 mg/kg), atenolol (1.5 mg/kg), or hexamethonium (30 mg/kg) had no significant effects on the 1,8-cineole-induced hypotension, while bradycardic responses to 1,8-cineole (10 mg/kg) were significantly reduced by methylatropine. In rat isolated thoracic aorta preparations, 1,8-cineole (0.006-2.6 mM) induced a concentration-dependent reduction of the contraction induced by potassium (60 mM). This is the first physiological evidence that i.v. treatment with 1,8-cineole in either anesthetized or conscious rats elicits hypotension; this effect seems related to an active vascular relaxation rather than withdrawal of sympathetic tone.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs predispose to acute renal failure in conditions associated with decreased RBF. Such conditions include advanced age, hypertension, chronic renal insufficiency, diuretic use, and any condition decreasing effective circulating volume. Strenuous exercise also causes marked reductions in RBF. The patient discussed developed severe acute renal failure after strenuous exercise and therapeutic doses of ibuprofen and hydrochlorothiazide-triamterene. Urinalysis showed a nephritic sediment with red blood cell casts. Renal biopsy showed acute tubular necrosis and arteriolar nephrosclerosis. Although exercise-associated acute renal failure is uncommon, susceptible patients with exercise-induced renal ischemia and prostaglandin inhibition may develop this complication.
Although pentamidine isethionate is effective in the treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia, it frequently causes serious adverse reactions. We report a case of reversible pentamidine-induced cardiotoxicity, characterized electrocardiographically by prolongation of the QT interval, T-wave inversion, and electrical alternans of the U-wave. In addition, the patient had repeated episodes of ventricular tachycardia that culminated in torsades de pointes. Our case re-emphasizes the need for close patient monitoring during pentamidine therapy.
The effects of the main constituent ginsenoside Re in ginseng and its metabolite, ginsenoside Rh1, were investigated in 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate (TPA)- and oxazolone-induced mouse ear dermatitis models. Ginsenoside Rh1 potently suppressed the TPA- and oxazolone-induced swellings as well as mRNA expression levels of cyclooxygenase-2, IL-1beta and TNF-alpha, although these were only weakly inhibited by ginsenoside Re.
