We investigated the effect of two diets containing equal amounts of the carcinogen FANFT on the incidence and induction time of murine bladder carcinoma in mice. At each time interval, the tumor incidence in the mice ingesting a purified, high-calorie diet, was equal or greater than the tumor incidence in the animals fed standard mouse chow. The mean animal weight of the mice ingesting the purified diet was consistently higher than that of the mice fed the standard diet. The bladder weights (an index of tumor volume) showed no significant difference between the mice receiving the two diets. Since mice eat to fulfill their caloric requirements, the animals ate less of the purified diet and the cost per year was lower.
Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha signals cell death and simultaneously induces the generation of ceramide, which is metabolized to sphingosine and sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P) by ceramidase (CDase) and sphingosine kinase. Because the dynamic balance between the intracellular levels of ceramide and S1P (the "ceramide/S1P rheostat") may determine cell survival, we investigated these sphingolipid signaling pathways in TNF-alpha-induced apoptosis of primary hepatocytes. Endogenous C16-ceramide was elevated during TNF-alpha-induced apoptosis in both rat and mouse primary hepatocytes. The putative acid sphingomyelinase (ASMase) inhibitor imipramine inhibited TNF-alpha-induced apoptosis and C16-ceramide increase as did the knock out of ASMase. Overexpression of neutral CDase (NCDase) inhibited the TNF-alpha-induced increase of C16-ceramide and apoptosis in rat primary hepatocytes. Moreover, NCDase inhibited liver injury and hepatocyte apoptosis in mice treated with D-galactosamine plus TNF-alpha. This protective effect was abrogated by the sphingosine kinase inhibitor N,N-demethylsphingosine, suggesting that the survival effect of NCDase is due to not only C16-ceramide reduction but also S1P formation. Administration of S1P or overexpression of NCDase activated the pro-survival kinase AKT, and overexpression of dominant negative AKT blocked the survival effect of NCDase. In conclusion, activation of ASMase and generation of C16-ceramide contributed to TNF-alpha-induced hepatocyte apoptosis. NCDase prevented apoptosis both by reducing C16-ceramide and by activation of AKT through S1P formation. Therefore, the cross-talk between sphingolipids and AKT pathway may determine hepatocyte apoptosis by TNF-alpha.
Although endomyocardial biopsy (EMB) plays a crucial role in the final diagnosis in patients with heart failure of unknown etiology, the invasive nature of this technique limits its clinical application in China. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the clinical application of EMB in diagnosing cardiomyopathy with unexplained etiologies in China.
Fifty-three consecutive patients (38 males, age 14 - 67 years, median 43 years) were included in the study who were initially diagnosed as unexplained cardiomyopathy and under EMB biopsy in Peking Union Medical College Hospital from 2006 to 2009. The patients were clinically divided into four groups: dilated, hypertrophic, restrictive and unclassified cardiomyopathy. Biopsies were performed via right internal jugular vein with the use of the bioptome under fluoroscopic guidance. Three to five endomyocardial samples were taken from each patient for light microscopy examination and one sample for electron microscopy was taken if necessary. For each patient, an initial clinical diagnosis, an EMB diagnosis and a final diagnosis prior to discharge were established. All the data were compared and analyzed for the evaluation of clinical utility of EMB in China.
In 26 patients initially diagnosed with restrictive cardiomyopathy (RCM), the etiology of the condition was finally diagnosed using EMB in 15; including 13 amyloidosis and two eosinophilic myocarditis. We employed EMB in 19 patients clinically diagnosed as dilated cardiomyopathy and detected viral myocarditis in one patient, cardiac involvement due to polymyositis in four and doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy in one. In five patients with severe left ventricle hypertrophy undergoing EMB, one patient was diagnosed as autophagic vacuolar cardiomyopathy and one as mitochondrial disease. In the remaining three patients with unclassified cardiomyopathy, EMB revealed infiltration of eosinophils as the cause of atrial ventricular block in one patient. Final diagnoses were made in 24 of the total 53 patients (45%) based on the combination of EMB and clinical data. Transient atrial ventricular block in a patient with prior complete left bundle branch block was the only complication occurred during the procedures.
The clinical application of EMB is safe. The combination of EMB and clinical data produced a better understanding of the mechanisms behind the clinically diagnosed cardiomyopathy in China.
Parenteral quinine is the most effective treatment for severe falciparum malaria. It is not easily available in Switzerland and so dangerous delays treating patients may occur. The antiarrhythmic drug quinidine, usually stocked by hospitals, is an alternative drug for malaria treatment. We report the cases of two patients with severe malaria imported from Kenya. They were treated first with intravenous quinidine sulfate over 3 days and for another 4 days with peroral quinidine sulfate. The therapeutic response was excellent. During the 2 months posttherapeutic period no recrudescence of Plasmodium falciparum occurred. 20 mg/kg b.w./die of quinidine given intravenously seems to be an adequate dose in severe falciparum malaria.
Thirty days after the induction of seizures in 16 rats with lithium (3 mEq/kg) and pilocarpine (30 mg/kg), the numbers of episodes of motor seizures (rapid forelimb clonus) during daily 10-minute observational periods were recorded for 11 months. The proportions of neuronal loss were ranked using two methods by light microscopy for all structures between the posterior and anterior commissures. Amounts of damage within the dentate gyrus, hilus (CA4), and CA3 field were most strongly correlated with numbers of seizures per month about 6 months before the brains were removed. The strongest correlations occurred between the amounts of damage within the right temporal cortices, even after the variance associated with damage within the dentate gyrus had been removed, and the numbers of seizures during the last 2 months. These results may explain the greater proportion of spontaneous seizures that begin with left side forelimb clonus and suggest a particular sensitivity of the right side of the brain to either their initiation or their consequences.
We have studied the effect of vitamin A deficiency on the expression of transforming growth factor alpha (TGF-alpha), hepatocyte growth factor, acidic fibroblast growth factor, and TGF-beta 1 after partial hepatectomy of vitamin A-supplemented and vitamin A-deficient rats. In addition, the expressions of epidermal growth factor receptor and retinoic acid receptors alpha (RAR alpha) and beta (RAR beta) were studied. Partial hepatectomy was performed on the animals from the vitamin A-supplemented and -deficient groups at the age of 10 weeks when the weights of the animals on the deficient diet had reached a plateau. Two animals from each group were sacrificed before the operation and also 12, 24, 48, and 72 h and 5 days after the operation. Partial hepatectomy of the vitamin A-deficient rats leads to a focal necrosis of liver followed by a rapid restoration of liver mass. Expression of the TGF-alpha and epidermal growth factor receptor was highly elevated in the livers of deficient animals after partial hepatectomy. In the vitamin A-supplemented animals, the level of epidermal growth factor receptor was down-regulated following partial hepatectomy. Proliferation of oval cells in vitamin A-deficient livers following partial hepatectomy and subsequent increase in 2.1-kilobase alpha-fetoprotein mRNA was observed, suggesting an activation of the stem cell compartment. Another unexpected result was an inverse relationship between RAR beta and RAR alpha expression, the latter becoming the major species after partial hepatectomy in animals on the vitamin A-deficient regimen.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In former mine workers and residents of Libby, Montana, exposure to amphibole-contaminated vermiculite has been associated with increased incidences of asbestosis and mesothelioma. In this study, long-term effects of Libby amphibole (LA) exposure were investigated relative to the well-characterized amosite asbestos in a rat model. Rat-respirable fractions of LA and amosite (aerodynamic diameter≤2.5 μm) were prepared by water elutriation. Male F344 rats were exposed to a single dose of either saline, amosite (0.65 mg/rat), or LA (0.65 or 6.5 mg/rat) by intratracheal (IT) instillation. One year after exposure, asbestos-exposed rats displayed chronic pulmonary inflammation and fibrosis. Two years postexposure, lung inflammation and fibrosis progressed in a time- and dose-dependent manner in LA-exposed rats, although the severity of inflammation and fibrosis was smaller in magnitude than in animals exposed to amosite. In contrast, gene expression of the fibrosis markers Col 1A2 and Col 3A1 was significantly greater in LA-exposed compared to amosite-exposed rats. There was no apparent evidence of preneoplastic changes in any of the asbestos-exposed groups. However, all asbestos-exposed rats demonstrated a significant increase in the expression of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) 2 yr after instillation. In addition, only LA-exposed rats showed significant elevation in mesothelin (Msln) and Wilms' tumor gene (WT1) expression, suggesting possible induction of tumor pathways. These results demonstrate that a single IT exposure to LA is sufficient to induce significant fibrogenic, but not carcinogenic, effects up to 2 yr after exposure that differ both in quality and magnitude from those elicited by amosite administration at the same mass dose in F344 rats. Data showed that LA was on a mass basis less potent than amosite.
Non-genotoxic hepatocarcinogens share the ability to induce liver growth in rodents. Phenobarbital (PB), as one prototype compound, promotes the development of liver tumors; altered cell foci of the clear-eosinophilic phenotype, also identified by gamma-glutamyltransferase expression, appear to be precursor lesions. These foci seem to over-respond to the growth-inducing effect of PB. In contrast, the question as to whether peroxisome inducers are also tumor promoters is still unsettled. We will present evidence which strongly suggests that the peroxisome inducer, nafenopin (Naf), promotes tumor development in rat livers by stimulating selective growth of a hitherto undescribed subtype of altered foci. This subtype is characterized by weak diffuse cytoplasmic basophilia of its hepatocytes. Initiation in rats by aflatoxin B1 followed by promotion with Naf produced numerous adenomas and carcinomas; their morphology resembled that of the weakly basophilic foci. Both clear-eosinophilic and weakly basophilic foci appear "spontaneously" in the liver of aging rats. Promotion of such lesions by PB-type compounds or peroxisome inducers may explain cancer formation by these non-genotoxic agents.
While prenatal cocaine exposure (PCE) has been associated with arousal dysregulation and attentional impairments in both human and animal studies, the neurobiological bases of these teratogenic effects have not been well characterized. In the current study, we report functional neuroimaging observations of these effects in exposed youth. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we embedded task-irrelevant emotional distracters in a working memory task to examine the interaction of emotional arousal and memory in 33 PCE and 23 non-exposed adolescents. Though with similar behavioral performance, the two groups exhibited different activation patterns associated with emotion-memory interactions. On the one hand, higher memory load attenuated emotion-related amygdala activation in controls but not in the exposed adolescents; on the other hand, prefrontal activation associated with memory load decreased in the presence of emotional distraction in the controls but increased in the exposed group. These group interaction differences suggest neurobiological substrates for arousal-associated neuronal alterations related to prenatal cocaine exposure. Consistent with previous findings in behavioral and physiological studies, the present neuroimaging data provided more in-depth evidence supporting the view that PCE has significant long-term teratogenic effect on arousal regulation system.
The long-term cardiac effects of amiodarone resemble many aspects of hypothyroidism. The anti-arrhythmic potential of amiodarone may therefore be the result of a drug-induced, local hypothyroid-like condition. To investigate this controversial issue, we compared gene expression profiles in the hearts of rats treated with amiodarone with those of rats with hypothyroidism. Wistar male rats were assigned to 3 groups (n=6-8): Control, systemic hypothyroidism (hypothyroidism) and amiodarone treatment (amiodarone, 150 mg/kg/day, p.o., 4 weeks). Electrocardiogram (ECG) recordings, gene profiling by DNA microarray and Northern blotting were carried out. Amiodarone, like hypothyroidism, caused significant prolongation of RR and QT intervals in ECGs. Microarray analysis of 8435 genes in the left ventricular myocardium revealed a significant similarity in expression profiles between hypothyroidism and amiodarone (R=0.63, p<0.00001). The gene expression profiles of hypothyroidism and amiodarone showed closer correlation when top 100 up-regulated and 100 down-regulated genes in hypothyroidism (total 200 genes) were analyzed (R=0.78, p<0.00001). Northern blots of left ventricular myocardium showed a parallel decrease in mRNAs for myosin heavy chain (MHC)-alpha and a parallel increase for myosin heavy chain (MHC)-beta in hypothyroidism and amiodarone. In the liver and pituitary, in contrast, Northern blots showed quite different changes in the transcripts of the representative T3-responsive genes in the hypothyroidism and amiodarone. In conclusion, long-term treatment with amiodarone causes cardioselective hypothyroid-like alterations in gene expression profiles. The potent anti-arrhythmic activity of amiodarone may be attributable, in part at least, to this unique transcriptional remodeling.
Fumonisins are mycotoxins produced by Fusarium verticillioides. They are toxic to animals and exert their effects through mechanisms involving disruption of sphingolipid metabolism. Fumonisins are converted to their hydrolyzed analogs by alkaline cooking (nixtamalization). Both fumonisins and hydrolyzed fumonisins are found in nixtamalized foods such as tortillas, and consumption of tortillas has been implicated as a risk factor for neural tube defects (NTD). Fumonisin B(1) (FB(1)) induced NTD when given (ip) to pregnant LM/Bc mice; however, neither the NTD induction potential of hydrolyzed fumonisin B(1) (HFB(1)) nor its affect on sphingolipid metabolism in pregnant mice have been reported. The teratogenic potential of FB(1) and HFB(1) was therefore compared using the LM/Bc mouse model. Dams were dosed (ip) with 2.5, 5.0, 10, or 20 mg/kg (< or = 49 micromol/kg) body weight (bw) HFB(1) on embryonic day (E)7-E8. Negative and positive control groups were given vehicle or 10 mg/kg (14 micromol/kg) bw FB(1), respectively. The high dose of HFB(1) disrupted sphingolipid metabolism, albeit slightly, but did not cause maternal liver lesions or NTD (n = 8-10 litters per group). In contrast, 10 mg/kg bw FB(1) markedly disrupted maternal sphingolipid metabolism, caused hepatic apoptosis in the dams, increased fetal death rates, and decreased fetal weights. Furthermore, NTD were found in all FB(1)-exposed litters (n = 10), and 66 +/- 24% of the fetuses were affected. The findings indicate that HFB(1) does not cause NTD in the sensitive LM/Bc mouse model and only weakly disrupts sphingolipid metabolism at doses up to sevenfold higher (micromole per kilogram body weight basis) than the previously reported lowest observed adverse effect level for FB(1).
The canonical Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway is critical during early teleost development for establishing the dorsal-ventral axis. Within this pathway, GSK-3β, a key regulatory kinase in the Wnt pathway, regulates β-catenin degradation and thus the ability of β-catenin to enter nuclei, where it can activate expression of genes that have been linked to the specification of the dorsal-ventral axis. In this study, we describe the morphological abnormalities that resulted in zebrafish embryos when axis determination was disrupted by environmental contaminants. These abnormalities were linked to abnormal nuclear accumulation of β-catenin. Furthermore, we demonstrated that the developmental abnormalities and altered nuclear β-catenin accumulation occurred when embryos were exposed to commercial GSK-3β inhibitors. Zebrafish embryos were exposed to commercially available GSK-3 inhibitors (GSK-3 Inhibitor IX and 1-azakenpaullone), or common environmental contaminants (dibutyl phthalate or the polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons phenanthrene and fluorene) from the 2 to 8-cell stage through the mid-blastula transition (MBT). These embryos displayed morphological abnormalities at 12.5 h post-fertilization (hpf) that were comparable to embryos exposed to lithium chloride (LiCl) (300 mM LiCl for 10 min, prior to the MBT), a classic disruptor of embryonic axis determination. Whole-mount immunolabeling and laser scanning confocal microscopy were used to localize β-catenin. The commercial GSK-3 Inhibitors as well as LiCl, dibutyl phthalate, fluorene and phenanthrene all induced an increase in the levels of nuclear β-catenin throughout the embryo, indicating that the morphological abnormalities were a result of disruption of Wnt/β-catenin signaling during dorsal-ventral axis specification. The ability of environmental chemicals to directly or indirectly target GSK-3β was assessed. Using Western blot analysis, the ability of these chemicals to affect enzymatic inhibitory phosphorylation at serine 9 on GSK-3β was examined, but no change in the serine phosphorylation state of GSK-3β was detected in exposed embryos. Furthermore, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and dibutyl phthalate had no direct effect on the in vitro kinase activity of GSK-3β. While developmental abnormalities resulting from these axis-disrupting contaminants were linked to β-catenin accumulation in nuclei, the details of the disruption of this signaling pathway remain unknown. Since phenanthrene and fluorene as well as other hydrocarbons have been shown to disrupt axial development in sea urchin embryos, and since axis determination and the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway are highly conserved, we propose that these environmental contaminants may impact embryo development through a similar mechanism across phyla.
One-hundred-and-twenty visceral leishmaniasis patients, all with demonstrable splenic amastigotes after treatment with sodium stibogluconate and pentamidine, were treated with amphotericin B. The patients were allocated into two equal groups matched by age and sex. Patients in one group received amphotericin B in the traditional incremental dose regimen, i.e. 0.05, 0.10, 0.25, 0.50 and 1.0 mg/kg body weight on days 1, 2, 3, 4, and > 4, respectively. Patients in the other group received amphotericin B at a constant 1 mg/kg bodyweight per day from day 1. Each of the 120 patients received a total dose of 20 mg/kg bodyweight. By the end of treatment the incidence of infusion-related toxicities, such as rigor and fever, and of renal toxicities, such as elevated serum creatinine and low serum potassium, was the same in both groups (P > 0.05). The two treatment regimens were also equally effective; every patient was cured and none relapsed within 6 months' follow-up. It is therefore recommended that amphotericin B be given as the full optimal dose (1 mg/kg) from day 1. There seems no advantage in the incremental regimen; not only does it 'waste' 4 days before the optimal dose is reached but it is more expensive and may encourage the development of drug resistance.
Low dose Aspirin in pregnancy reduces the incidence of intra uterine growth retardation (IUGR) and pregnancy induced hypertension (PIH) in women at risk for these complications. To investigate if this drug, even in a low dose, could expose the newborn to hemorrhagic complications, we studied ten neonates whose mothers had been taking 50 mg/day of Aspirin from the 12th week of pregnancy until delivery and compared them with eight newborns whose mothers didn't take the drug. No hemorrhagic complications (emathemesis, ecchymoses or petechiae, subconjunctival hemorrhage, cephaloematomas etc.) were observed in the fetuses exposed to Aspirin or in the control group. No hemorrhagic lesions were found by ultrasound brain scan on the fourth day of life. Newborns exposed to Aspirin showed a significantly lower thromboxane concentration on the first day of life (median 73 ng/ml versus 217 ng/ml); however on the fourth day the level of serum thromboxane in the cases exposed reached the values of the unexposed ones (median 146 ng/ml versus 143 ng/ml). In conclusion low dose Aspirin in pregnancy can be considered a safe drug without and adverse effect on the newborn.
Drug-induced hepatotoxicity represents a major clinical problem and an impediment to new medicine development. Serum biomarkers hold the potential to provide information about pathways leading to cellular responses within inaccessible tissues, which can inform the medicinal chemist and the clinician with respect to safe drug design and use. Hepatocyte apoptosis, necrosis, and innate immune activation have been defined as features of the toxicological response associated with the hepatotoxin acetaminophen (APAP). Within this investigation, we have unambiguously identified and characterized by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry differing circulating molecular forms of high-mobility group box-1 protein (HMGB1) and keratin-18 (K18), which are linked to the mechanisms and pathological changes induced by APAP in the mouse. Hypoacetylated HMGB1 (necrosis indicator), caspase-cleaved K18 (apoptosis indicator), and full-length K18 (necrosis indicator) present in serum showed strong correlations with the histological time course of cell death and was more sensitive than alanine aminotransferase activity. We have further identified a hyperacetylated form of HMGB1 (inflammatory indicator) in serum, which indicated that hepatotoxicity was associated with an inflammatory response. The inhibition of APAP-induced apoptosis and K18 cleavage by the caspase inhibitor N-benzyloxycarbonyl-Val-Ala-Asp(OMe) fluoromethyl ketone are associated with increased hepatic damage, by a shift to necrotic cell death only. These findings illustrate the initial verification of K18 and HMGB1 molecular forms as serum-based sensitive tools that provide insights into the cellular dynamics involved in APAP hepatotoxicity within an inaccessible tissue. Based on these findings, potential exists for the qualification and measurement of these proteins to further assist in vitro, in vivo, and clinical bridging in toxicological research.
Recent studies have shown the enantioselectivity of chiral pesticides in environmental fate, aquatic toxicity, endocrine disruption and cytotoxicity. Thus it is of significance to investigate the molecular mechanisms of chiral pesticides enantioselectivity in cytotoxicity. In the present study, we used Hep G2 cells as in vitro model to assay cytotoxicity of enantiomers of isocarbophos (ICP), a widely used chiral organophosphorus pesticide. The results of cell viability assay and cytoflow assay indicated an obvious enantioselective hepatocyte toxicity of ICP: (-)-ICP was about two times more toxic than (+)-ICP in Hep G2 cells. We found that (-)-ICP, but not (+)-ICP, up-regulated Bax protein expression and down-regulated Bcl-2 expression levels, which resulted in an increase in Bax/Bcl-2 ratio with the apoptosis co-ordination. Although (-)-ICP enantioselectively activated both ERK and JNK, only the specific inhibitor for JNK could completely reverse (-)-ICP-induced apoptosis of Hep G2 cells. It suggests that (-)-ICP-induced hepatocyte toxicity was more dominantly through the sustained activation of JNK pathway, but only partially via ERK cascade. Furthermore, (-)-ICP induced ROS production, while (+)-ICP had no effect on ROS generation. The antioxidant MnTBAP attenuated (-)-ICP-induced activation of JNK and ERK, indicating that the outcome from challenge with (-)-ICP enantiomer depends on the oxidative stress-induced activation of a series of signaling cascades that promote hepatocyte apoptosis. In conclusion, (-)-ICP enantioselectively causes the change of Bax/Bcl-2 ratio, triggers the generation of intracellular ROS and sequentially induces sustainable activation of JNK, which in turn, results in a decrease in cell viability and an increase in cell apoptosis. Our observations provide further insight into enantiomers toxicity pathway which is able to differentiate between enantiomer activities at molecular level.
Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) is a multifunctional cytokine involved in the expression of many genes integral to the inflammatory response. In addition, it activates both apoptotic and survival pathways, the latter being mediated through the activation of the transcription factor nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB). Protein kinase CK2, a serine-threonine kinase that is universally upregulated in human malignancies, may be involved at multiple levels in this process. However, its role in mediating a survival response within colon cancer cells remains incompletely understood. Here we report that inhibition of CK2 in HCT-116 and HT-29 cells with the use of two specific CK2 inhibitors, 5,6-dichloro-ribifuranosylbenzimidazole (DRB) and apigenin, effected a synergistic reduction in cell survival when used in conjunction with TNF-alpha. Furthermore, there was a demonstrable synergistic reduction in colony formation in soft agar with the use of the same combinations. Western blot analysis showed that poly-ADP ribose polymerase and procaspase-3 cleavage complemented the fluorescence-activated cell sorter analysis findings of significantly increased subdiploid DNA-containing cell populations using these conditions. Remarkably, these events occurred in the absence of any reduction in the expression of the Bcl-2 family members Bcl-2, Mcl-1, and Bcl-xL or any change in the proapoptotic molecules Bad or Bax. One-hybrid NF-kappaB promoter assays utilizing a Gal4-p65 transactivation domain construct revealed that the TNF-induced transactivation was inhibited by both DRB and apigenin. This was associated with a concomitant reduction in the expression of a recognized anti-apoptotic NF-kappaB target, manganese superoxide dismutase, demonstrated by Q-PCR. Our findings indicate a potentially novel strategy for the treatment of colon cancer, one that targets CK2 simultaneous with TNF-alpha administration.
The effects of stress on carcinogenesis have been equivocal. The present work examined the influence of an unpredictable pattern of chronic restraint stress on estradiol-induced pituitary hyperplasia in male Fischer 344 rats. The animals were grouped as follows: (1) control, (2) stressed, (3) estradiol (31 mg), subcutaneous implant for 40 days and (4) estradiol with stress, 1 h daily, randomly, for 40 days. The pituitaries increased markedly in mass in groups 3 and 4 compared to the first two groups. However, the gland weight in rats exposed to estradiol plus stress was significantly (P less than 0.04) reduced as compared to estradiol per se. Prolactin levels increased due to estradiol treatment and decreased following exposure to stress. Weights of adrenal glands increased as a result of estradiol treatment when compared to those in stressed or untreated animals. This adrenal hypertrophy correlated well with plasma corticosterone levels. The data demonstrate that chronic immobilization stress retarded estradiol-induced pituitary prolactinoma. Modulation of the immune response by stress-related factors may play a role in the inhibition of tumorigenesis.
There has been increasing interest in the use of calcium antagonists as arterial vasodilator agents in the management of patients with congestive heart failure. Because congestive heart failure is mostly secondary to coronary artery disease, calcium antagonist drugs seem particularly appealing because of their anti-ischemic properties. The potent vasodilating action of calcium antagonists decreases impedance and improves ejection phase indexes of left ventricle function. However, these drugs interfere with calcium availability for myocardial contraction, and concern has been expressed about their potential depressant effect on myocardial performance. The net hemodynamic effect depends on the relative vascular versus myocardial potency of each calcium antagonist and on the indirect effects of reflex sympathetic activation. Balance between these factors is still influenced by the intrinsic status of left ventricle of the patient. Generally, the negative inotropic direct effect of the calcium antagonists is counteracted by the beneficial influence of the decrease of systemic vascular resistance. Because of its relatively more pronounced negative inotropic action, verapamil is not advisable in patients with left ventricular failure. Limited experience with diltiazem show no significant negative inotropic action. Nifedipine has been studied in its acute and long term effects. The use of sublingual nifedipine is established in the emergency management of acute pulmonary edema, specially in patients with arterial hypertension, or when acute ventricular dysfunction is associated with mitral or aortic insufficiency. Patients with chronic congestive heart failure have shown after nifedipine an increase in stroke volume and cardiac index at rest and during exercise, as well as decreases of pulmonary capillary wedge pressure during exercise.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In 95 patients with active tuberculosis, we investigated in a prospective study the influence of the acetylator phenotype on the hepatotoxic side effects of the antituberculous regimen isoniazid (INH) 10 mg/kg, rifampicin (RMP) 10 mg/kg, and ethambutol (EMB) 25 mg/kg. Besides a much higher incidence of isoniazid hepatitis (SGOT, SGPT greater than 200 U/l) in 12.6% of patients treated--as compared to the incidence reported in large chemoprophylaxis trials with isoniazid monotherapy in the range of 0.5%-1% (IUAT 1969, U.S.P.H.S. 1971)--we observed a significant, higher risk of isoniazid-induced hepatotoxicity in slow acetylators (p less than 0.01): in 26 of 56 slow acetylators (= 46.4%), but only in 4 of 30 rapid acetylators (=13.3%) were transaminases in the serum elevated greater than 50 U/l. The 12 patients with the most severe hepatotoxic side effects (SGOT, SGPT greater than 200 U/l) were all slow acetylators. Women developed severe hepatic injury more often than men (p less than 0.05). In cases with isoniazid hepatitis, triple therapy was either stopped or reduced to a combination RMP, EMB. In cases with less severe liver injury, triple therapy was continued. In all patients transaminases normalized within 2-4 weeks. On return to full triple therapy, none of the patients developed new elevation of transaminases. The constant occurrence of isoniazid hepatitis during the 2nd-4th week (19 +/- 7 days) as well as the normalization without any new hepatotoxic reaction suggest that there may be an interaction between RMP and isoniazid metabolism limited to the early phase of chemotherapy.
Capsaicin, after initial stimulation, induced a long-lasting insensitivity to chemical pain stimuli without reducing the sensitivity to mechanical pain. The effect was peripheral as shown by recording action potentials from sensory nerves. In order to throw light on the receptors responsible for chemogenic pain, the specificity of the capsaicin effect was analysed. 1. In cats, capsaicin given in close arterial injection excited the slowest conducting C2 fibres as measured by the collision technique on the saphenous nerve. In rats, the frequency of action potentials evoked by s.c. injection of capsaicin was sensitized by rapid warming of the skin area, while sudden cooling had a blocking effect. On the human skin, the threshold of thermal pain was shifted from 45 degrees C to 30-31 degrees C; below this skin temperature, the burning pain and hyperalgesia induced by capsaicin treatment disappeared and cold sensation remained unimpaired. 2. On the human tongue, local capsaicin desensitization resulted in an elevated threshold of warm discrimination, while gustatory sensitivity as well as the capacity for discriminating cold or tactile stimuli remained unimpaired. 3. It is concluded that capsaicin is a selective sensory blocking agent which acts by stimulation and subsequent sensory blockage of polymodal nociceptors and warm receptors.
Vertebral and metaphyseal dysplasia, spasticity with cerebral calcifications, and strong predisposition to autoimmune diseases are the hallmarks of the genetic disorder spondyloenchondrodysplasia. We mapped a locus in five consanguineous families to chromosome 19p13 and identified mutations in ACP5, which encodes tartrate-resistant phosphatase (TRAP), in 14 affected individuals and showed that these mutations abolish enzyme function in the serum and cells of affected individuals. Phosphorylated osteopontin, a protein involved in bone reabsorption and in immune regulation, accumulates in serum, urine and cells cultured from TRAP-deficient individuals. Case-derived dendritic cells exhibit an altered cytokine profile and are more potent than matched control cells in stimulating allogeneic T cell proliferation in mixed lymphocyte reactions. These findings shed new light on the role of osteopontin and its regulation by TRAP in the pathogenesis of common autoimmune disorders.
