Capture compound mass spectrometry (CCMS) is a novel technology that helps understand the molecular mechanism of the mode of action of small molecules. The Capture Compounds are trifunctional probes: A selectivity function (the drug) interacts with the proteins in a biological sample, a reactivity function (phenylazide) irreversibly forms a covalent bond, and a sorting function (biotin) allows the captured protein(s) to be isolated for mass spectrometric analysis. Tolcapone and entacapone are potent inhibitors of catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. We aimed to understand the molecular basis of the difference of both drugs with respect to side effects. Using Capture Compounds with these drugs as selectivity functions, we were able to unambiguously and reproducibly isolate and identify their known target COMT. Tolcapone Capture Compounds captured five times more proteins than entacapone Capture Compounds. Moreover, tolcapone Capture Compounds isolated mitochondrial and peroxisomal proteins. The major tolcapone-protein interactions occurred with components of the respiratory chain and of the fatty acid beta-oxidation. Previously reported symptoms in tolcapone-treated rats suggested that tolcapone might act as decoupling reagent of the respiratory chain (Haasio et al., 2002b). Our results demonstrate that CCMS is an effective tool for the identification of a drug's potential off targets. It fills a gap in currently used in vitro screens for drug profiling that do not contain all the toxicologically relevant proteins. Thereby, CCMS has the potential to fill a technological need in drug safety assessment and helps reengineer or to reject drugs at an early preclinical stage.
The p53 tumor suppressor gene encodes a transcriptional activator whose targets include genes that regulate cell cycle progression and apoptosis. Since we have shown that a critical event in the life history of the chondrocyte is programmed cell death, we asked the question: does loss of the p53 gene influence skeletogenesis? Female p53(+/-) mice were mated with p53(+/-) male mice and 17-day-old fetal mice were studied. Exencephaly was the most profound skeletal defect of the p53 null mutation. This defect was due to failure of formation of the bones that comprise the mouse calvarium. There was also loss of the hyoid bone, and defective mineralization of the manubrium sternum and the terminal phalanges. In the homozygous state (-/-), in the absence of exencephaly, the number of skeletal deformities was markedly reduced. Aside from the gross changes associated with null status, the mutants exhibited alterations in bone length and width. Small differences in the size and orientation of the mineral crystals in embryonic bone, as evaluated by small-angle X-ray scattering, were found to disappear after birth. To explain these observations, we evaluated the extent of apoptosis in the tibial growth plates using the TUNEL stain. In the growth plate of the p53(-/-) homozygote, there was minimal labeling of the hypertrophic layer. Since the p53(-/-) TUNEL stain pattern at 17 days was very similar to the pattern of labeling of the p53(+/+) at 15 days, we concluded that the growth defect reflected a delay in cartilage maturation rather than a change in chondrocyte phenotype. On this basis, we predict that after birth, in mice that survive, differences in bone length would become minimal, and at maturity, the length of the long bones of (+/+) and (-/-) mice would be similar.
To distinguish between local and systemic drug effects, we compared pain scores, analgesic consumption and plasma concentrations after local vs i.v. administration of meloxicam 7.5 mg in patients with inguinal hernia repair.
In a double-blind, randomized study 56 patients received either local or i.v. meloxicam 7.5 mg. Postoperative pain was assessed with a visual analogue scale (VAS) at rest, on mobilization, and on coughing, the need for supplementary analgesics (fentanyl i.v. and/or acetaminophen-codeine tablets) was recorded, and blood samples were drawn during 24 hr after meloxicam administration.
No significant differences were found between groups with respect to pain scores, or in the consumption of supplementary analgesics. Following local application of meloxicam, the peak plasma concentration (C(max)) of 0.5 +/- 0.2 mg*L(-1) achieved after 1.8 +/- 0.5 hr was much lower than the C(max) of 2.5 +/- 0.9 mg*L(-1) achieved immediately after i.v. administration (P <0.05). Mean meloxicam plasma concentration after infiltration was significantly lower than after i.v. doses for the first three hours after administration (P <0.05).
We showed no differences in pain scores and analgesic consumption between local and i.v. administration of meloxicam 7.5 mg during the first 24 hr after herniorrhaphy, while plasma concentration of meloxicam was lower after local administration. These results indicate a lack of difference in pain relief after concentrating meloxicam at the hernia wound or after achieving high blood levels rapidly (i.v.). Local administration of meloxicam may confer an advantage over systemic administration by eliciting lower incidences of systemic adverse effects.
Disulfiram has been used since the late 1940s to treat chronic alcoholism. This drug interferes with alcohol metabolism resulting in an acetaldehyde increase. This causes painful symptoms, encouraging abstinence. Side effects include rare cases of bilateral optic neuropathies. Visual recovery occurs frequently upon cessation of therapy.
We retrospectively studied patients referred for visual loss while treated with disulfiram between 1987 and 2005. Fourteen patients (three females, 11 males; aged 35-62 years) complained of visual loss, but a toxic, disulfiram-related, optic neuropathy was diagnosed in only five patients. Following cessation of disulfiram therapy, visual acuity and field improved in all five patients.
and conclusion: When disulfiram toxicity is suspected with optic neuropathy, cessation of treatment is mandatory. Visual prognosis is good in the majority of cases, as illustrated by our series. Disulfiram toxicity can be diagnosed only after excluding all other possible causes of visual loss.
Hyperkinetic movement disorders may occur as side effects of antipsychotic drugs; and a hyperdopaminergic state induced by the neuroleptic compounds is thought to be a cause of extrapyramidal disorders such as tardive dyskinesia. We have observed two cases of the dyskinetic syndrome in patients receiving tricyclic antidepressants (TCA). Because the TCA are known to have little effect on striatal dopamine but do share with the neuroleptics potent anticholinergic activity, these cases appear to support the hypothesis that the drug-induced hyperkinetic disorders are related to a diminution of CNS acetylcholine activity as well as to an increase in dopamine activity.
Clarithromycin is a relatively new macrolide antibiotic that offers twice-daily dosing. It differs from erythromycin only in the methylation of the hydroxyl group at position 6. Although the side-effect profile of erythromycin is established, including gastroenteritis and interactions with other drugs subject to hepatic mixed-function oxidase metabolism, experience with the newer macrolides is still being recorded. Cardiotoxicity has been demonstrated after both intravenous and oral administration of erythromycin but has never been reported with the newer macrolides. We report a case of ventricular dysrhythmias that occurred after six therapeutic doses of clarithromycin. The dysrhythmias resolved after discontinuation of the drug.
Determining the key events in the induction of liver cancer in mice by trichloroethylene (TRI) is important in the determination of how risks from this chemical should be treated at low doses. At least two metabolites can contribute to liver cancer in mice, dichloroacetate (DCA) and trichloroacetate (TCA). TCA is produced from metabolism of TRI at systemic concentrations that can clearly contribute to this response. As a peroxisome proliferator and a species-specific carcinogen, TCA may not be important in the induction of liver cancer in humans at the low doses of TRI encountered in the environment. Because DCA is metabolized much more rapidly than TCA, it has not been possible to directly determine whether it is produced at carcinogenic levels. Unlike TCA, DCA is active as a carcinogen in both mice and rats. Its low-dose effects are not associated with peroxisome proliferation. The present study examines whether biomarkers for DCA and TCA can be used to determine if the liver tumor response to TRI seen in mice is completely attributable to TCA or if other metabolites, such as DCA, are involved. Previous work had shown that DCA produces tumors in mice that display a diffuse immunoreactivity to a c-Jun antibody (Santa Cruz Biotechnology, SC-45), whereas TCA-induced tumors do not stain with this antibody. In the present study, we compared the c-Jun phenotype of tumors induced by DCA or TCA alone to those induced when they are given together in various combinations and to those induced by TRI given in an aqueous vehicle. When given in various combinations, DCA and TCA produced a few tumors that were c-Jun+, many that were c-Jun-, but a number with a mixed phenotype that increased with the relative dose of DCA. Sixteen TRI-induced tumors were c-Jun+, 13 were c-Jun-, and 9 had a mixed phenotype. Mutations of the H-ras protooncogene were also examined in DCA-, TCA-, and TRI-induced tumors. The mutation frequency detected in tumors induced by TCA was significantly different from that observed in TRI-induced tumors (0.44 vs 0.21, p < 0.05), whereas that observed in DCA-induced tumors (0.33) was intermediate between values obtained with TCA and TRI, but not significantly different from TRI. No significant differences were found in the mutation spectra of tumors produced by the three compounds. The presence of mutations in H-ras codon 61 appeared to be a late event, but ras-dependent signaling pathways were activated in all tumors. These data are not consistent with the hypothesis that all liver tumors induced by TRI were produced by TCA.
This study was designed to evaluate the frequency of contact sensitivity to 14 common preservatives among patients with contact dermatitis in Turkey. From 2000 to 2004, 308 patients with the diagnosis of contact dermatitis were patch tested in the Department of Dermatology, Ankara University School of Medicine. All patients were patch tested with European standard series. In addition to the four preservatives included in the standard series, patients were also tested with DMDM hydantoin, imidazolidinyl urea, bromonitropropane diol, diazolidinyl urea, thimerosal, propylene glycol, chlorocresol, chloroxylenol, methyldibromoglutaronitrile/phenoxyethanol (MDBGN/PE) and benzalkonium chloride. Out of the 308 patients suspected of having contact dermatitis, 23 patients were found to have positive reactions to one or more preservatives. Preservatives that were the most frequent cause of positive reactions were thimerosal (1.6%), benzalkonium chloride (1.6%), formaldehyde (1.3%) and MDBGN/PE (0.9%). In our study, 65% of the positive reactions were caused by allergens not present in the standard series, such as thimerosal, benzalkonium chloride and MDBGN/PE. Although thimerosal caused a high rate of contact sensitivity, it may not be considered as an important allergen, because clinical relevance could not be found in any of the patients.
beta-Estradiol 17beta-D-glucuronide (E(2)17G), an endogenous cholestatic metabolite of estradiol, has been identified as a substrate for both hepatic P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and the multispecific organic anion transporter (MOAT), the liver-specific homologue of the multidrug resistance protein. The aim of the present studies was to determine the role of hepatic P-gp and MOAT in E(2)17G-mediated cholestasis and its biliary excretion using the isolated perfused rat liver. A bolus dose of E(2)17G (2 micromol) alone decreased the bile flow maximally from 1.5 to 0.3 microl/min/g liver. In the presence of an infusion of 1.5 microM daunorubicin or 1.0 microM Taxol, P-gp substrates, E(2)17G cholestasis was blocked such that 2 micromol E(2)17G decreased the bile flow from 1.48 to 1.31 or from 1.70 to 1.31 microl/min/g liver, respectively. In the presence of 1 and 3 microM Taxol, the log dose-response curves for E(2)17G cholestasis were shifted to the right 2-fold and 5-fold, respectively, in a parallel manner. Taxol (10 and 50 microM) inhibited the ATP-dependent transport of 10 microM E(2)17G in canalicular plasma membrane vesicles by 46 and 81%, respectively. Daunorubicin (1.5 microM) also shifted the log dose-response curve for E(2)17G cholestasis to the right about 4-fold. Neither Taxol nor daunorubicin decreased the biliary excretion of E(2)17G. Infusion of cyclosporine (6 microM), an inhibitor of both P-gp and MOAT, significantly blocked both E(2)17G cholestasis and biliary excretion, such that 16 micromol E(2)17G decreased the bile flow only 15-20%. In contrast, bromosulfophthalein, a MOAT substrate, had no effect on either E(2)17G-mediated cholestasis or its biliary excretion. These data indicate that P-gp plays an essential role in E(2)17G-mediated cholestasis and suggest that MOAT functions to deliver high concentrations of E(2)17G to P-gp.
Anemia is a common complication during interferon-ribavirin therapy for hepatitis C. While normally a fall in hematocrit in results in an exponential compensatory rise in erythropoietin, such that the correlation between hematocrit and erythropoietin is sharply negative, the erythropoietin response during interferon-ribavirin combination therapy is not known.
We measured the hematocrit and erythropoietin levels before and after about 4 weeks of interferon-ribavirin therapy for hepatitis C (n = 43), and compared their relation to the normal human response to anemia.
The hematocrit fell from an average pre-treatment level of 43.7 +/- 3.7% to 36.9 +/- 5 (P < 0.0001). The erythropoietin level rose from 14.5 +/- 15.1 to 58.5 +/- 94.1 units/L (P < 0.0001), indicating there was an adequate stimulus for erythropoietin release. The rise of erythropoietin was severely impaired in relation to the normal human response to a fall in hematocrit. Using the normal human response to anemia as the population line, for our population there was a significant difference in the slope of hematocrit (x) versus log10 erythropoietin (y) (-8.7 vs. -3.098 respectively, P < 0.001) and y-intercept (4.609 vs. 2.753 respectively, P < 0.001). The Bonferroni adjusted "p" value was derived to be <0.002. There was an approximate 2 log10 reduction in maximal achievable erythropoietin level in subjects exposed to interferon-ribavirin combination.
There is a subnormal rise of erythropoietin after interferon-ribavirin combination therapy for hepatitis C.
The hypothesis that acetaminophen can reduce necrosis during myocardial infarction was tested in male dogs. Two groups were studied: vehicle- (n=10) and acetaminophen-treated (n=10) dogs. All dogs were obtained from the same vendor, and there were no significant differences in their ages (18 +/- 2 mo), weights (24 +/- 1 kg), or housing conditions. Selected physiological data, e.g., coronary blood flow, nonspecific collateral flow, epicardial temperature, heart rate, systemic mean arterial pressure, left ventricular developed pressure, the maximal first derivative of left ventricular developed pressure, blood gases, and pH, were collected at baseline and during regional myocardial ischemia and reperfusion. There were no significant differences in coronary blood flow, nonspecific collateral flow, epicardial temperature, heart rate, systemic mean arterial pressure, or blood gases and pH between the two groups at any of the three time intervals, even though there was a trend toward improved function in the presence of acetaminophen. Infarct size, the main objective of the investigation, was markedly and significantly reduced by acetaminophen. For example, when expressed as a percentage of ventricular wet weight, infarct size was 8 +/- 1 versus 3 +/- 1%(P <0.05) in vehicle- and acetaminophen-treated hearts, respectively. When infarct size was expressed as percentage of the area at risk, it was 35 +/- 3 versus 13 +/- 2% (P <0.05) in vehicle- and acetaminophen-treated groups, respectively. When area at risk was expressed as percentage of total ventricular mass, there were no differences in the two groups. Results reveal that the recently reported cardioprotective properties of acetaminophen in vitro can now be extended to the in vivo arena. They suggest that it is necessary to add acetaminophen to the growing list of pharmaceuticals that possess cardioprotective efficacy in mammals.
Recent studies have suggested glaucomatous loss of retinal ganglion cells and their axons in Alzheimer's disease. Amyloid beta peptides and phosphorylated tau protein have been implicated in the selective regional neuronal loss and protein accumulations characteristic of Alzheimer's disease. Similar protein accumulations are not present on glaucomatous retinal ganglion cells. Neurons die in both Alzheimer's disease and glaucoma by apoptosis, although the signaling pathways for neuronal degradation appear to differ in the two diseases. Alzheimer's disease features a loss of locus ceruleus noradrenergic neurons, which send axon terminals to the brain regions suffering neuronal apoptosis and results in reductions in noradrenaline in those regions. Activation of alpha-2 adrenergic receptors reduces neuronal apoptosis, in part through a protein kinase B (Akt)-dependent signaling pathway. Loss of noradrenaline innervation facilitates neuronal apoptosis in Alzheimer's disease models and may act similarly in glaucoma. Alpha-2 adrenergic receptor agonists offer the potential to slow the neuronal loss in both diseases by compensating for lost noradrenaline innervation.
1. Men and women may differ in their pharmacokinetic responses to tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), in a number of autonomic indices, and in various adrenergic receptor mediated responses. Emerging evidence also suggests that women may have a lower rate of serotonin synthesis in brain and a greater sensitivity to the depressant effects of tryptophan depletion, relative to men. However, sex-related differences in TCA-induced side-effects, including increases in heart rate (HR), dry mouth, constipation, and difficulty urinating, has not been systematically investigated. 2. The authors examined potential sex-related differences in the pattern of side-effects during treatment with nortriptyline (NT), a TCA that is still widely used. Seventy-eight healthy outpatients who met Research Diagnostic Criteria and DSM-III-R criteria for major depression participated in a double-blind, randomized parallel trial of NT versus placebo. 3. Each subject was acutely challenged with either placebo or 50 mg NT prior to and after a 6-week treatment with NT. NT doses were adjusted weekly to maintain therapeutic plasma levels. Patients were assessed at multiple time points to detect the presence of NT-induced side-effects. 4. The initial, single (50 mg) dose of NT significantly increased supine HR. Six-week treatment with NT was found to significantly increase supine and sitting HRs, irrespective of sex. In rechallenge with the single NT dose, there were no significant effects on HR. 5. When sex-related differences were examined, HR increases were greater in men than women during weeks 4 through 6 of the NT treatment, although no sex-related differences were present in plasma NT levels or metabolites. In addition, there was a significant NT to placebo difference in self-rated dry mouth for women during all 6-weeks of treatment, whereas men showed a significant NT-placebo difference during weeks 3 and 5. 6. The results suggest the presence of sex-related differences in elevated supine HR response during the course of 6-week NT treatment. Depressed men may be more susceptible to NT-induced increases in supine HR than women.
Several reports have documented various forms of glomerular diseases in adults with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), but similar reports in children are lacking. We describe two children with MDS-associated with steroid-responsive nephrotic syndrome (NS). Patient 1, who had MDS with myelofibrosis, presented also hepatosplenomegaly, pancytopenia, chronic hepatitis, moderate proteinuria, hypocomplementamia and elevated ANA titer. During initial prednisone treatment proteinuria markedly diminished and partial but transient haematological improvement occurred. Relapse subsequently occurred that was manifested by overt NS and pancytopenia. High doses of prednisolone led to remission of the renal disease but haematological remission did not occur. Persisting pancytopenia and repeated infections terminated in sepsis, two years after the onset of MDS. Patient 2, who had refractory anaemia with clonal monosomy 19, manifested bowel disease, hepatosplenomegaly, anaemia and non-organic specific autoantibodies. Prednisone led to both clinical and haematological remission. Haematologic disease relapsed 12 months later, when nephrotic-range proteinuria, haematuria and mild azotaemia were also found. Corticosteroid treatment led to long-lasting renal and haematologic remission, maintained by a small dosage of prednisone. In both patients, renal biopsy findings were consistent with those seen in idiopathic NS. A Medline search disclosed 16 cases of glomerulopathy in the course of MDS in adult patients. Clinical features included NS, usually accompanied by renal insufficiency with either acute, chronic, or rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis. On biopsy, membranous nephropathy, crescentic or mesangial proliferative glomerulonephritis and AL amyloidosis, were found. We conclude: (1) that glomerular disease may be present and should be searched for in patients with MDS; (2) that MDS can be added to the list of rare conditions associated with corticosteroid-responsive NS in children.
Previous studies have demonstrated that locally administered cannabinoids attenuate allodynia and hyperalgesia through activation of peripheral cannabinoid receptors (CB(1) and CB(2)). However, it is currently unknown if cannabinoids alter the response properties of nociceptors. In the present study, correlative behavioral and in vivo electrophysiological studies were conducted to determine if peripheral administration of the cannabinoid receptor agonists arachidonyl-2'-chloroethylamide (ACEA) or (R)-(+)-methanandamide (methAEA) could attenuate mechanical allodynia and hyperalgesia, and decrease mechanically evoked responses of Adelta nociceptors. Twenty-four hours after intraplantar injection of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA), rats exhibited allodynia (decrease in paw withdrawal threshold) and hyperalgesia (increase in paw withdrawal frequency), which were attenuated by both ACEA and methAEA. The antinociceptive effects of these cannabinoids were blocked by co-administration with the CB(1) receptor antagonist N-(piperidin-1-yl)-5-(4-iodophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophen yl)-4-methyl-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide (AM251) but not with the CB(2) receptor antagonist 6-iodo-2-methyl-1-[2-(4-morpholinyl)ethyl]-1H-indol-3-y l](4-methoxyphenyl)methanone (AM630). ACEA and methAEA did not produce antinociception under control, non-inflamed conditions 24 h after intraplantar injection of saline. In parallel studies, recordings were made from cutaneous Adelta nociceptors from inflamed or control, non-inflamed skin. Both ACEA and methAEA decreased responses evoked by mechanical stimulation of Adelta nociceptors from inflamed skin but not from non-inflamed skin, and this decrease was blocked by administration of the CB(1) receptor antagonist AM251. These results suggest that attenuation of mechanically evoked responses of Adelta nociceptors contributes to the behavioral antinociception produced by activation of peripheral CB(1) receptors during inflammation.
Previous studies have reported on the anti-atherosclerotic effects of Panax notoginseng saponins (PNS). The aim of the present study was to explore the molecular mechanisms responsible for the anti-atherosclerotic effects of PNS and the inflammatory response. Thirty rats were randomly divided into three groups, namely a control group, a group, in which zymosan A was used to induce inflammation (Zym group) and a PNS-treated group. Rats in the three groups were administered liquid paraffin (i.p.), zymosan A (20 mg/kg, i.p., once every 3 days) or zymosan A and PNS (100 mg/kg, i.p., once daily), respectively. All animals were fed a high-fat diet for 9 weeks. At scheduled times, rats were killed, blood was collected and the aorta was removed. Pathological changes in aortas were observed using Sudan IV staining and transmission electron microscopy. Serum lipids were measured enzymatically. Whole-blood viscosity was observed at different shear rates. The expression of cardiovascular disease-specific genes was determined using GEArray (SuperArray, Frederick, MA, USA). Western blotting was used to evaluate the expression levels of nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB/p65 and its inhibitor IkappaBalpha in the aortic wall. In the present study, typical pathological changes associated with atherosclerosis in rats following induction by zymosan A were alleviated by PNS treatment. In the PNS-treated group, there was a marked reduction in total serum cholesterol, triglycerides and blood viscosity. In addition, PNS treatment significantly decreased the gene expression of some inflammatory factors, such as integrins, interleukin (IL)-18, IL-1beta and matrix metalloproteinases 2 and 9. The expression of NF-kappaB/p65 was attenuated, whereas the expression of IkappaBalpha was significantly increased, after treatment with PNS. In conclusion, it appears that PNS exerts its therapeutic effects on atherosclerosis through an anti-inflammatory action and regulation of the blood lipid profile and that an NF-kappaB signalling pathway is involved.
To present a previously unreported African American family with 1 variation and 1 mutation of the homeobox transcription factor gene, VSX1 (RINX), and to describe the clinical features of family members.
Family genotype and clinical studies.
A 3-generation family with 7 available family members.
Blood was drawn from all available family members, and the VSX1 (RINX) gene was sequenced. Craniofacial abnormalities, central nervous system defects, anterior segment features, and retinal and auditory function were assessed.
Main outcome measures included identification and molecular characterization of 1 variation and 1 mutation in VSX1 (RINX) of 4 affected family members (3 adults and 1 child). Craniofacial features were documented. Central neuroimaging was performed. Ophthalmologic findings were described. Retinal and auditory functions were quantified.
Two changes in VSX1 (RINX) were identified: a variation (R131S) not in a critical region and in few controls, and a mutation (A256S) in the critical CVC-domain and not in any controls. Both were present on 1 chromosome at 20p11.2 and were segregated with the 4 affected patients. Clinical features demonstrated extremely variable expressivity. Craniofacial features, including wide interpupillary distance and unusual pinnae, occurred in the 4 affected patients. Neuroimaging demonstrated that the propositus had an empty sella turcica, a posterior fossa cyst, an anterior encephalocele, hypertelorism, and severe hydrocephalus; her mother had a partially empty sella turcica, a small pituitary gland without any subarachnoid extension of fluid, and hypertelorism; and her older sister had hypertelorism but otherwise normal neuroimaging results. Anterior segment anomalies of the corneal endothelium were a constant finding in all affected family members. Electrophysiologic examination provided evidence for abnormal cone bipolar cells (visual evoked response and electroretinogram) in the adult affected patients and for abnormal auditory bipolar cells (audiogram and audio-evoked brainstem response) in the propositus.
The new mutation in the VSX1 (RINX) gene described in this report results in abnormal craniofacial features, absence of the roof of the sella turcica, and anomalous development of the corneal endothelium. This mutation also impacts on the maintenance of cone bipolar cells of the visual system and of bipolar cells of the auditory system.
A case is reported in which unconsciousness and apnoea extending into the postoperative period were noted as a central anticholinergic syndrome caused by chlorprothixene. This compound was employed for preanaesthetic medication in usual clinical dosage. Physostigmine salicylate was effective in reversing the toxic side effects of chlorprothixene - an occasionally active central anticholinergic agent.
We initiated a prospective trial to identify transcriptional alterations associated with acquired chemotherapy resistance from pre- and post-biopsy samples from the same patient and uncover potential molecular pathways involved in treatment failure to help guide therapeutic alternatives.
A prospective, high-throughput transcriptional profiling study was performed using endoscopic biopsy samples from 123 metastatic gastric cancer patients prior to cisplatin and fluorouracil (CF) combination chemotherapy. 22 patients who initially responded to CF were re-biopsied after they developed resistance to CF. An acquired chemotherapy resistance signature was identified by analyzing the gene expression profiles from the matched pre- and post-CF treated samples. The acquired resistance signature was able to segregate a separate cohort of 101 newly-diagnosed gastric cancer patients according to the time to progression after CF. Hierarchical clustering using a 633-gene acquired resistance signature (feature selection at P<0.01) separated the 101 pretreatment patient samples into two groups with significantly different times to progression (2.5 vs. 4.7 months). This 633-gene signature included the upregulation of AKT1, EIF4B, and RPS6 (mTOR pathway), DNA repair and drug metabolism genes, and was enriched for genes overexpressed in embryonic stem cell signatures. A 72-gene acquired resistance signature (a subset of the 633 gene signature also identified in ES cell-related gene sets) was an independent predictor for time to progression (adjusted P = 0.011) and survival (adjusted P = 0.034) of these 101 patients.
This signature may offer new insights into identifying new targets and therapies required to overcome the acquired resistance of gastric cancer to CF.
The aim of this project was to compare the carcinogenicities of 1,3-, 1,6-, and 1,8-dinitropyrene, 1-nitropyrene, and the metabolic phenolic derivatives of 1-nitropyrene. The biochemical goal was to establish how these inert compounds are converted metabolically, by target tissues, to reactive species that can alter the DNA of the susceptible cell. The comparative tumorigenicities were assessed by the use of female CD rats. Control groups consisted of animals that had been given only the solvent, dimethylsulfoxide, which has a low toxicity, to maximize solubility. Equimolar doses (1.7 mumole/ml; 10 mumole/kg body weight) of the compounds were administered to weanling rats by intraperitoneal injection, or by intragastric intubation, three times each week for four weeks, for a total dose of 16 mumoles. Newborn animals were treated by subcutaneous injection of the 1,3-, 1,6-, or 1,8-dinitropyrene or 1-nitropyrene within 24 hours of birth, and at seven weekly intervals, for a total dose of 6.3 mumoles. The possible carcinogenicities of phenolic metabolites of 1-nitropyrene were examined by subcutaneous treatment of newborn animals, and at seven weekly intervals, with 1-nitropyrene, 3-hydroxy-1-nitropyrene, or a mixture of 6-hydroxy-1-nitropyrene and 8-hydroxy-1-nitropyrene (70 mumoles/ml; 100 mumoles/kg body weight; total dose, 63 mumoles). The relative carcinogenicity of 1-nitropyrene in the female Fischer 344 rats was established by the concurrent treatment of appropriate animals. The smaller, inbred Fischer rats received a total dose of 40 mumoles. Subcutaneous and intraperitoneal treatments of weanling female CD rats (70 mumoles/ml; 100 mumoles/kg body weight; 5 weekly injections) with 1-nitropyrene were carried out to explore possible differences because of the different routes of administration in animals of the same age. Dinitropyrenes are much more carcinogenic than 1-nitropyrene (1,6- greater than 1,8- greater than 1,3-dinitropyrene greater than 1-nitropyrene). Phenolic derivatives of 1-nitropyrene are no more carcinogenic than the parent compound. The most likely tumors to be induced in this animal model are malignant fibrous histiocytomas (MFHs), mammary gland tumors, and leukemias. Animals treated with 1,6- or 1,8-dinitropyrene by subcutaneous injection yielded MFHs at the site within 15 weeks of the first injection (i.e., at 15 weeks of age), and this did not permit them to survive more than 20 to 25 weeks. Leukemia developed in these animals within this brief period, but mammary gland tumors were observed only when survival of the animal was not limited by the formation of the more aggressive MFHs.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Inj. Hydroxyprogesterone Co. (EP) was injected i.m. into female Wistar rats, different strains of mice of both sex and Syrian golden hamsters with doses of 5-100 times the human contraceptive dose once or twice a month for 10-32 times. In some experiments EP was combined with whole-body 3 Gy gamma ray radiation once or twice. Results show that EP has obvious carcinogenicity and can enhance the gamma ray carcinogenicity, thereby increasing the tumor incidence or the ratio of malignant to benign tumours. Carcinogenic mechanisms of EP have also been studied.
Concerning any socioprofessional category, some addictive drugs like cocaine are responsible for many complications. The authors relate two case reports of young patients who suffered from cardiovascular accidents due to this drug. The first one was diagnosed with an ischemic stroke caused by carotid artery dissection and a leg distal vascular obliteration, the second one with a myocardial infarction with transient left ventricular dysfunction. Through these two case reports, the authors take stock of the pathophysiological and therapeutic knowledge of cardiovascular accidents after cocaine intake.
Infertile men having numerical or structural sperm defects may carry several genetic abnormalities (karyotype abnormalities, Y chromosome microdeletions, cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene mutations, androgen receptor gene mutations, and abnormalities seen in sperm cells) leading to this situation. First we aimed to investigate the relationship between the numerical and constitutional (morphological) sperm anomalies and the genetic disorders that can be seen in infertile males. Our other aim was to compare two different kinds of kits that we use for the detection of Y chromosome microdeletions. Sixty-three infertile males [44 nonobstructive azoospermic, 8 severe oligozoospermic, and 11 oligoasthenoteratozoospermic] were investigated in terms of somatic chromosomal constitutions and microdeletions of the Y chromosome. Sperm aneuploidy levels were analyzed by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) in sperm cells obtained from the semen of six OAT patients. Microdeletion and sex chromosome aneuploidy (47,XXY) rates in somatic cells were found to be approximately 3.2% and 4.7%, respectively. Sperm aneuploidy rates were determined as 9%, 22%, and 47% in three patients out of six. Two of these three patients also had high rates of head anomalies in semen samples. High correlation was found between sperm aneuploidy rates and sperm head anomalies. Since the introduction of the assisted reproductive techniques for the treatment of severe male infertility, genetic tests and genetic counseling became very important due to the transmission of genetic abnormalities to the next generation. Thus in a very near future, for a comprehensive male infertility panel, it will be essential to include additional genetic tests, such as CFTR gene mutations, sperm mitochondrial DNA mutations, and androgen receptor gene mutations, besides the conventional chromosomal analyses, Y chromosome microdeletion detection, and sperm-FISH analyses.
Bone pain after transplantation is a frequent complication that can be caused by several diseases. Treatment strategies depend on the correct diagnosis of the pain. Nine patients with severe pain in their feet, which was registered after transplantation, were investigated. Bone scans showed an increased tracer uptake of the foot bones. Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated bone marrow oedema in the painful bones. Pain was not explained by other diseases causing foot pain, like reflex sympathetic dystrophy, polyneuropathy, Morton's neuralgia, gout, osteoporosis, avascular necrosis, intermittent claudication, orthopaedic foot deformities, stress fractures, and hyperparathyroidism. The reduction of cyclosporine- or tacrolimus trough levels and the administration of calcium channel blockers led to relief of pain. The Calcineurin-inhibitor Induced Pain Syndrome (CIPS) is a rare but severe side effect of cyclosporine or tacrolimus and is accurately diagnosed by its typical presentation, magnetic resonance imaging and bone scans. Incorrect diagnosis of the syndrome will lead to a significant reduction of life quality in patients suffering from CIPS.
Nifedipine is a short-acting calcium antagonist formulated into several different oral preparations, each of which may have different effects on haemodynamics and autonomic nervous function. We compared the effects of nifedipine controlled-release (CR) and nifedipine retard on 24-h blood pressure, heart rate, rate-pressure product, and power spectral measures of heart rate variability in patients with essential hypertension.
After 4 weeks of a drug-free period, 25 patients were randomized to receive either once-daily treatment with nifedipine CR (20-40 mg daily; 12 patients) or twice-daily treatment with nifedipine retard (20-40 mg daily; 13 patients) for 12 weeks. The ambulatory blood pressure, heart rate, and ECG R-R intervals were measured during a 24-h period using a portable recorder (TM-2425) at the end of the drug-free and the treatment periods. A power-spectral analysis of R-R intervals was performed to obtain the low-frequency (LF) and high-frequency (HF) components.
Nifedipine CR and nifedipine retard reduced 24-h blood pressure significantly by 15.9 +/- 3.2 (SE)/8.7 +/- 1.4 mmHg and by 10.9 +/- 2.8/9.4 +/- 1.7 mmHg, respectively, after the 12-week treatment. Nifedipine CR did not change the 24-h heart rate significantly, while nifedipine retard increased it significantly by 3.9 +/- 2.1 beats min(-1). Nifedipine CR produced a significant reduction in rate-pressure product throughout a 24-h period, while nifedipine retard did not change the rate-pressure product significantly. In addition, nifedipine retard significantly decreased the 24-h and daytime average values of the LF and HF components, while nifedipine CR affected the nighttime LF component alone and did not change the HF component throughout a 24-h period.
These results demonstrate that both nifedipine CR and nifedipine retard are effective as antihypertensive agents, but nifedipine CR has less influence on the autonomic nervous system and heart rate than nifedipine retard.
Prenatal cannabis exposure has been linked to addiction vulnerability, but the neurobiology underlying this risk is unknown.
Striatal dopamine and opioid-related genes were studied in human fetal subjects exposed to cannabis (as well as cigarettes and alcohol). Cannabis-related gene disturbances observed in the human fetus were subsequently characterized with an animal model of prenatal Δ-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) (.15 mg/kg) exposure.
Prenatal cannabis exposure decreased dopamine receptor D2 (DRD2) messenger RNA expression in the human ventral striatum (nucleus accumbens [NAc]), a key brain reward region. No significant alterations were observed for the other genes in cannabis-exposed subjects. Maternal cigarette use was associated with reduced NAc prodynorphin messenger RNA expression, and alcohol exposure induced broad alterations primarily in the dorsal striatum of most genes. To explore the mechanisms underlying the cannabis-associated disturbances, we exposed pregnant rats to THC and examined the epigenetic regulation of the NAc Drd2 gene in their offspring at postnatal day 2, comparable to the human fetal period studied, and in adulthood. Chromatin immunoprecipitation of the adult NAc revealed increased 2meH3K9 repressive mark and decreased 3meH3K4 and RNA polymerase II at the Drd2 gene locus in the THC-exposed offspring. Decreased Drd2 expression was accompanied by reduced dopamine D2 receptor (D(2)R) binding sites and increased sensitivity to opiate reward in adulthood.
These data suggest that maternal cannabis use alters developmental regulation of mesolimbic D(2)R in offspring through epigenetic mechanisms that regulate histone lysine methylation, and the ensuing reduction of D(2)R might contribute to addiction vulnerability later in life.
