The comparison of two invasive studies using intravenous application of the phosphodiesterase enoximone demonstrated unchanged cardiac output in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy NYHA II-III, and increased cardiac output (from 3.22 +/- 1.15 to 5.04 +/- 2.05 l/min; p less than 0.01) in acute heart failure. This comparison of hemodynamic parameters in addition to studies on myocardial oxygen consumption support the use of intravenous enoximone in acute heart failure, whereas the long-term application of enoximone in chronic heart failure is judged to be critical.
Simvastatin, recently introduced in clinical practice for pharmacological treatment of hypercholesterolemia, has been found to cause minor and reversible elevations of serum transaminases. We report a case of acute cholestatic hepatitis during simvastatin therapy. Clinical, biochemical, immunological, and histological findings were consistent with a simvastatin-induced liver damage through an immunological-mediated mechanism. This case suggests a careful monitoring of liver function tests during simvastatin therapy, and caution in continuing simvastatin administration when elevations of serum transaminases take place.
We evaluated the contribution of superoxide anion (O2*-) generated by NADPH oxidase or mitochondria in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM), where sympathetic premotor neurons for arterial pressure maintenance are located, on cardiovascular depression induced by inducible nitric oxide synthase-derived NO after Escherichia coli lipopolysaccharide (LPS) treatment. In Sprague-Dawley rats maintained under propofol anesthesia, microinjection of LPS bilaterally into the RVLM induced progressive hypotension, bradycardia, and reduction in sympathetic vasomotor outflow over our 240-min observation period. This was accompanied by an increase in O2*- production (60-240 min) in the RVLM, alongside phosphorylation of p47(phox) or p67(phox), upregulation of gp91(phox) or p47(phox) protein, and increase in Rac-1 or NADPH oxidase activity (60-120 min), and a depression of mitochondrial respiratory enzyme activity (120-240 min). Whereas inhibition of NADPH oxidase or knockdown of the gp91(phox) or p47(phox) gene blunted the early phase (60-150 min), coenzyme Q10 or mitochondrial K(ATP) channel inhibitor antagonized the delayed phase (120-240 min) of LPS-induced increase in O2*- production in RVLM and cardiovascular depression. We conclude that, whereas NADPH oxidase-derived O2*- in RVLM participates predominantly in the early phase, O2*- generated by depression in mitochondrial respiratory enzyme activity or opening of mitoK(ATP) channels mediates the delayed phase of LPS-induced cardiovascular depression.
Three experiments have been carried out to verify the effectiveness of an immunomodulator, Baypamun (Bayer AG) in limiting the spread of Bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1), the causal agent of infectious bovine rhinotracheitis (IBR). In the first experiment, four calves infected with BHV-1 developed severe disease whereas four calves given Baypamun simultaneously with the virus had less severe disease. Four other calves in contact with the infected calves became severely ill but another four given Baypamun were only mildly affected. In the second experiment three calves infected with BHV-1, which reacted with typical disease, were allowed to remain in contact with six calves. All six calves were given Baypamun at various times following the exposure to BHV-1 infection and all showed a much reduced reaction with two treated for 4 days developing no clinical disease. Finally, in the third experiment one calf vaccinated one month before the start of the experiment did not develop any signs of disease when housed together with a calf experimentally infected with BHV-1. Of four other calves, vaccinated when the infected calf showed the first signs of disease, only the two given Baypamun in addition to the vaccine, were protected from clinical disease whereas the two given vaccine only developed classical signs of IBR. In the three experiments the virus shedding by the Baypamun-treated calves resulted to be significantly reduced.
The N-terminal-pro-B natriuretic peptide (Nt-pro-BNP) is of diagnostic and prognostic value in coronary artery disease (CAD). We assessed the relationship between Nt-pro-BNP and (1) the extent of ischemia on stress myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI), and (2) changes between the basal and postexercise ejection fraction (EF), in stable patients with a normal EF.
One hundred and two patients with stable, documented CAD (EF, 62% +/- 8%) underwent an exercise-rest thallium-201 gated-MPI and serial Nt-pro-BNP assays. Myocardial perfusion imaging produced abnormal results in 57 patients (56%; group 1), and normal results in 45 patients (44%; group 2). Median baseline, immediate postexercise, and 3-hour postexercise Nt-pro-BNP values were higher in group 1 than in group 2: 182 vs 85, 201 vs 86, and 212 vs 99 pg/mL, respectively (P < .001 for all). Postexercise EF decreased in group 1 (53% +/- 11% vs 62% +/- 10%, P < .001), but not in group 2 (61% +/- 9% vs 62% +/- 7%, NS). The Nt-pro-BNP ruled out significant ischemia with a negative predictive value of 0.90, whereas patients within the higher tertile of Nt-pro-BNP had a fivefold higher risk of ischemia compared with patients within the lower tertile.
The post-stress increase in Nt-pro-BNP is related to myocardial ischemia and to postischemic left-ventricular dysfunction, and accurately predicts the presence or absence of myocardial perfusion defects.
Hepatic fibrosis occurs because of injury to the liver parenchyma and biliary system. We have investigated the effect of an organic selenium anti-oxidant, ebselen, in the resolution of experimentally induced hepatic fibrosis, and evaluated its effect on various paradigms involved in hepatic fibrosis.
Following pretreatment with phenobarbitone, liver fibrosis was induced in male Fischer 344 rats by using carbon tetrachloride treatment for 10 weeks. Carbon tetrachloride-treated rats were randomly assigned into two groups: (i) no ebselen; and (ii) ebselen administered for 3 weeks following a 10-week carbon tetrachloride treatment period. Normal controls were: (i) neither carbon tetrachloride nor ebselen treated; or (ii) ebselen treated for 13 weeks. Liver sections were stained with hematoxylin and eosin, Masson trichrome and stained for reticulin by using silver impregnation. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction was used to analyze the steady-state levels of gene(s) involved in: (i) hepatic fibrosis, namely, transforming growth factor-beta1, procollagen I and III, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1 and matrix metalloproteinase-13; (ii) oxidative stress, namely, cytochrome P4502E1; and (iii) preneoplastic liver foci, namely, the placental form of glutathione-S-transferase.
Histological staining showed that ebselen resolves carbon tetrachloride-induced hepatic fibrosis. Treatment with ebselen reduced steady-state levels of transforming growth factor-beta1, procollagen I and III, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1, cytochrome P4502E1 and placental form glutathione-S-transferase transcripts, and increased transcripts of matrix metalloproteinase-13.
These findings provide evidence that ebselen significantly causes the resolution of carbon tetrachloride-induced hepatic fibrosis in rats.
A prospective randomized controlled study has been undertaken to evaluate two different prophylactic treatments against postoperative thromboembolic complications after hip surgery. Patients with hip fracture (77) and patients undergoing elective hip arthroplasty (213) were separately randomized into one of three groups: control, dextran 70, or low-dose heparin. Deep vein thrombosis was diagnosed in both groups with the 125I-fibrinogen test and pulmonary perfusion defects in the arthroplasty group with a combination of pulmonary X-ray and perfusion scintigraphy. The frequency of thrombosis was significantly higher in untreated hip fracture patients than in untreated arthroplasty patients. In hip fracture patients both treatments significantly reduced the frequency of thrombosis. Only dextran reduced the frequency of major thrombosis and in the heparin group one fatal pulmonary embolism occurred. After elective hip surgery the overall frequency of thrombosis was not influenced by the two treatments, but with dextran 70 thigh thrombi were reduced and with low-dose heparin the frequency of bilateral thrombosis was reduced. Two patients in the control group died of pulmonary embolism, but the frequency of pulmonary perfusion defects was not influenced by the treatment. Bleeding and transfusions were the same in the three groups.
Venous thrombosis is a well-recognized complication of lenalidomide therapy in patients with multiple myeloma, but its occurrence during the treatment of other hematologic malignancies is less well described. In this report, we detail the occurrence of corpora cavernosa thrombosis in a patient receiving lenalidomide for the therapy of myelofibrosis. This case highlights the need for clinical vigilance in patients who present with unusual symptoms during investigational therapy, and indicates that the occurrence of venous thrombosis complicating therapy with lenalidomide or related compounds is not isolated to patients with multiple myeloma.
Research has indicated a high correlation between psychostimulant use and tobacco cigarette smoking in human substance abusers. The objective of the current study was to examine the effects of acute and repeated nicotine administration on responding for intravenous methamphetamine (0.03 mg/kg/infusion) in a rodent model of self-administration, as well as the potential of nicotine to induce reinstatement of previously extinguished drug-taking behavior in male Sprague-Dawley rats. In addition, it was assessed whether nicotine-induced reinstatement of methamphetamine-seeking behavior and nicotine-induced locomotor sensitization require that nicotine be temporally paired with the methamphetamine self-administration session or the locomotor activity chamber. Nicotine acutely decreased methamphetamine self-administration, but did not persistently alter responding during the maintenance of methamphetamine self-administration. However, following extinction of methamphetamine self-administration, nicotine administration reinstated methamphetamine-seeking behavior only in rats that had previously been administered nicotine. Nicotine-induced reinstatement and expression of locomotor sensitization were not dependent on a temporal pairing of nicotine with either the methamphetamine self-administration session or the locomotor activity chamber, respectively. These results indicate that nicotine may be acting, at least in part, through a non-associative mechanism to reinstate methamphetamine-seeking behavior.
To investigate the role of antiapoptosis gene, survivin involved in regulating cell sensitivity to taxanes and platinum compounds.
Cultured human epithelial ovarian cancer cell line A2780 and its platinum(DDP)-resistance cell line A2780/DDP were divided into three groups as control, treatment with DDP, and treatment with Taxol Expression of mdr1 and survivin genes in each group was detected by using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Apoptosis in the ovarian cancer cell lines was measured by flow cytometry.
After treatment with DDP for 48 h, relative survivin expression was significantly lower than that of no drug given (p<0.05). In A2780/DDP cells, expression of Survivn was obviously higher than that of the control group (P<0.05) after treatment of DDP for 48 h. Interestingly, survivin mRNA level was significantly decreased after treatment with Taxol for 48 h in the A2780/DDP-Taxol group compared with that in the control group. Apoptosis rate of A2780 cells was significantly increased to 46.21% and 44.46%, respectively, with treatment of DDP and Taxol. However, apoptosis rate in A2780/DDP was only 20.04% after DDP treatment for 48 h, demonstrating the presence of resistance to DDP in A2780/DDP cells.
This study demonstrated that changes in survivin mRNA level were related to the chemotherapy-induced apoptosis. Survivin may be considered as a biological indicator of the chemo-resistance of ovarian cancer.
The efficacy and tolerability profiles of sumatriptan and other 5HT(1B/1D) agonists (triptans) have been well established. However, the determinants for optimal response to sumatriptan are unknown. The Sumatriptan Naratriptan Aggregate Patient (SNAP) database contains data from 128 clinical trials including 28,407 migraine sufferers treating over 130,000 attacks. The authors analyzed these data to identify factors predicting response (headache relief and pain-free response) to sumatriptan.
The authors assessed 24 possible univariate predictors of headache response in 3,706 patients (18 years and older) receiving sumatriptan tablets 100 mg or placebo in a double-blind study using recursive partitioning and logistic regression techniques.
The authors found seven predictors of headache relief 2 hours postdose. Moderate pain at baseline was the strongest predictor (adjusted p = 3.32 x 10(-35)), followed by absence of a disability requiring bedrest (adjusted p = 3.11 x 10(-18)). Other predictors included absence at baseline of vomiting, pulsating pain, nausea, or photophobia/phonophobia, and onset of headache during daytime hours. Logistic regression confirmed that treatment with sumatriptan was the strongest predictor of headache relief, with significant baseline covariates being pain severity, level of disability, and presence or absence of vomiting. A similar pattern of results was reported for predictors of pain-free response 2 hours after taking sumatriptan.
Pretreatment pain severity is the most important predicting factor for response to sumatriptan in migraine attacks: the lower baseline severity, the better.
182 patients treated with cisplatin-based chemotherapy for testicular cancer at Hannover University Medical School who were in complete remission (CR) for more than 1 year after therapy were randomly selected for the evaluation of late vascular toxicity. 90 patients with a mean age of 28 years (19-53) and a median follow-up of 57.9 months (15-159) participated in this examination. Patients were examined clinically and digital photoelectric pulse plethysmography (PP) and Doppler-flow of the digital arteries after cold exposure were performed. Thirty seven per cent of patients developed symptoms of Raynaud's phenomenon (RP) after chemotherapy, which were transient in 7%. PP proved to be highly diagnostic for RP with a sensitivity of 95% and a specificity of 100%. As significant risk factors for the development of RP, the cumulative dose of bleomycin (P < 0.05) and the use of bleomycin in combination with vinblastine (PVB-regimen) instead of etoposide (PEB-regimen) (P < 0.01) were found. A trend for an increased frequency of RP was observed in patients who received bleomycin as a bolus instead of continuous infusion. No significant correlation was seen with the cumulative or single doses of cisplatin, etoposide or vinblastine, serum magnesium levels during or after chemotherapy or a history of smoking. RP was not associated with the occurrence of neuro- or ototoxicity. All 7 patients with hypertensive blood pressure before chemotherapy developed RP. Furthermore, the median postchemotherapy diastolic blood pressure had increased by 8 mmHg compared to prechemotherapy values, leading to significant hypertension in 8 patients (> 20 mmHg increase). 2 patients developed major vascular events with myocardial infarctions at 4 years and 5 years after chemotherapy, respectively. No cerebral infarction was registered. In summary, RP is the main late vascular toxicity affecting one third of patients after curative chemotherapy for testicular cancer. However, the incidence of RP following PEB-therapy in contrast to PVB-therapy appears to be lower. Major vascular events seem to be rare. The prospective evaluation of late toxicity should be part of current chemotherapy treatment for testicular cancer, and long-term follow-up of surviving patients is recommended.
To perform a pilot study to examine a range of cognitive flexibility tasks early in cocaine withdrawal.
Previous neuropsychological investigations of cocaine withdrawal have conflicted regarding whether impaired cognitive flexibility occurs. However, most studies have examined patients later in withdrawal. Anxiety and yohimbine-induced panic are greatest early in withdrawal, and both anxiety and increased noradrenergic tone can impair cognitive flexibility.
Twelve patients acutely withdrawing from cocaine were compared with gender-, age-, and estimated premorbid intelligence-matched control subjects on tests of cognitive flexibility as well as verbal fluency, verbal memory, spatial memory, and attention.
As predicted, impairments were found on the cognitive flexibility tasks. Impairments also were present in verbal fluency and verbal memory but not spatial memory or attention.
We propose that the cognitive flexibility impairment may relate to the increased noradrenergic activation recently described in cocaine withdrawal. Impairments on verbal tasks may also relate to an impaired flexibility in the search of semantic networks. Further research will explore the effects of pharmacologic manipulation of the noradrenergic system on cognition in acute withdrawal. Recently, propranolol has been shown to benefit patients in cocaine withdrawal. Further research will explore whether impaired cognitive flexibility related to altered noradrenergic tone could serve as a mechanism for this treatment response.
Estrogenicity of five brominated flame retardants (BFRs), namely BDE-47, BDE-99, BDE-205, PBB-153 and technical Firemaster BP-6, were assessed by in vitro assays developed to detect chemicals with estrogenic properties. Recombinant yeast cells containing a human estrogen receptor gene failed to give any response to the chemicals tested. However, the positive control compound, estradiol-17beta, showed that the yeast cell assays had worked properly. The freshly separated fish hepatocyte assay based on the synthesis and secretion of vitellogenin from the isolated liver cells produced a clear dose-response curve in the presence of all tested flame retardants except Firemaster BP-6. The toxicity of the BFRs was detected by determining the cell ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase activity (EROD). The BFRs tested induced hepatic EROD activity at low test concentrations, but started to inhibit activity at higher concentrations. The decreased detoxification capacity of the hepatocytes resulted in a decrease in the vitellogenin production of the cells. The capability of in vitro assays to detect estrogenic properties of chemicals seems to vary. Thus, further work is needed to understand the mechanisms responsible for these reactions.
Organochlorine chemical residues and elemental concentrations were measured in piscivorous and benthivorous fish at 111 sites from large U.S. river basins. Potential contaminant sources such as urban and agricultural runoff, industrial discharges, mine drainage, and irrigation varied among the sampling sites. Our objectives were to provide summary statistics for chemical contaminants and to determine if contaminant concentrations in the fish were a risk to wildlife that forage at these sites. Concentrations of dieldrin, total DDT, total PCBs, toxaphene, TCDD-EQ, cadmium, chromium, mercury, lead, selenium, and zinc exceeded toxicity thresholds to protect fish and piscivorous wildlife in samples from at least one site; most exceedences were for total PCBs, mercury, and zinc. Chemical concentrations in fish from the Mississippi River Basin exceeded the greatest number of toxicity thresholds. Screening level wildlife risk analysis models were developed for bald eagle and mink using no adverse effect levels (NOAELs), which were derived from adult dietary exposure or tissue concentration studies and based primarily on reproductive endpoints. No effect hazard concentrations (NEHC) were calculated by comparing the NOAEL to the food ingestion rate (dietary-based NOAEL) or biomagnification factor (tissue-based NOAEL) of each receptor. Piscivorous wildlife may be at risk from a contaminant if the measured concentration in fish exceeds the NEHC. Concentrations of most organochlorine residues and elemental contaminants represented no to low risk to bald eagle and mink at most sites. The risk associated with pentachloroanisole, aldrin, Dacthal, methoxychlor, mirex, and toxaphene was unknown because NOAELs for these contaminants were not available for bald eagle or mink. Risk differed among modeled species and sites. Our screening level analysis indicates that the greatest risk to piscivorous wildlife was from total DDT, total PCBs, TCDD-EQ, mercury, and selenium. Bald eagles were at greater risk to total DDT and total PCBs than mink, whereas risks of TCDD-EQ, mercury, and selenium were greater to mink than bald eagle.
The possible involvement of cell-mediated immune response to liver specific lipoprotein (LSP) in the pathogenesis of liver injury was investigated. The subjects were consisted of one patient with acute hepatitis, five cases with chronic active hepatitis and one case with chronic failure inactive hepatitis. When peripheral blood lymphocytes from these patients were cultured in the presence of LSP and lymphocyte transformation was determined by measuring the uptake of [3H]-thymidine into the acid-insoluble materials, positive blastogenesis was seen in three cases with chronic active hepatitis. Furthermore, when peripheral blood lymphocytes from halothane-induced cholestatic hepatitis were cultured with offending drug in the presence of LSP and lymphocyte transformation was determined, a positive blastogenesis was seen. The factor which activated Kupffer cells (KCAF), a kind of lymphokine, was also detectable in the culture medium of activated lymphocytes from four patients who showed positive blastogenesis by estimating [3H]-glucosamine incorporation into Kupffer cells. The macrophage activating factor (MAF) was detectable in culture medium of activated lymphocytes from three patients who showed positive blastogenesis by estimating [3H]-glucosamine incorporation into macrophages. Furthermore, the KCAF-activated Kupffer cells and MAF-activated macrophages were shown to be cytotoxic for the isolated liver cells causing marked inhibition of albumin synthesis. The observations suggest that Kupffer cell-mediated cytotoxicity and macrophage-mediated cytotoxicity play a role in the pathogenesis of liver disease.
The potential carcinogenicity and toxicity of inhaled nitrobenzene were evaluated following chronic (2-year) exposure in mice and rats. Male and female B6C3F1 mice were exposed to 0, 5, 25, or 50 ppm nitrobenzene, while male and female F344 rats and male CD rats were exposed to 0, 1, 5, or 25 ppm nitrobenzene. All exposures were for 6 hr/day, 5 days/week excluding holidays, for a total of 505 days over 2 years. Survival was not adversely affected by nitrobenzene exposure, and only mild exposure-related decreases in body weights (< 10% of control) were occasionally noted. Nitrobenzene exposure resulted in increased incidence of neoplasia in male B6C3F1 mice (pulmonary alveolar/bronchiolar and thyroid follicular cell neoplasms), female B6C3F1 mice (mammary gland neoplasms), male F344 rats (hepatocellular and renal neoplasms), female F344 rats (endometrial stromal neoplasms), and male CD rats (hepatocellular neoplasms). In addition, there were marginal increases in the incidence of hepatocellular neoplasia in female B6C3F1 mice and thyroid follicular neoplasia in male F344 rats. Groups of nitrobenzene-exposed mice and rats with increased incidence of renal and thyroid neoplasia also had increased incidences of hyperplasia in these tissues. Toxicity resulting from chronic inhalation of nitrobenzene was manifested by methemoglobinemia, anemia, and adaptive or degenerative changes in the nose, liver, and testis. The results indicate that inhaled nitrobenzene is carcinogenic and toxic in mice and rats, and that the spectrum of these responses in animals is dependent on species, sex, and genetic background.
Experiments were designed to test whether the protective effect of N-acetylcysteine against acetaminophen hepatotoxicity precedes arylation of tissue or whether protection occurs after arylation of tissue. Investigation of potential postarylation actions showed that N-acetylcysteine was unable to attenuate the liver necrosis caused by acetaminophen or several other hepatotoxins that act through chemically reactive metabolites. Furthermore, varying the time and route of N-acetylcysteine treatment indicated that the late protection against acetaminophen mortality probably was a consequence of pharmacokinetic factors rather than postarylation intervention in the process of cell death. The antidote was found to inhibit covalent binding of acetaminophen by about 70% when N-acetylcysteine protected against liver necrosis. Treatment regimens that had no effect upon covalent binding also had no effect on acetaminophen hepatotoxicity. Previous failures to detect this relationship apparently occurred because of a failure to consider biological events important in the pathophysiology of acetaminophen-induced necrosis, particularly the marked intrahepatic hemorrhage and vascular congestion with liver engorgement by protein and fluid. These results support the hypothesis that sulfhydryl nucleophiles such as N-acetylcysteine act primarily through prearylation mechanisms to decrease the amount of reactive metabolite available for initiation of hepatic injury.
A 27-year-old parturient developed a severe headache after placement of a labor epidural catheter. A presumptive diagnosis of an occult postdural puncture headache (PDPH) was made, and the patient was treated with an intravenous (IV) infusion of 500 mg of caffeine sodium benzoate (CSB) to vasoconstrict dilated cerebral vessels. Shortly after the infusion was completed, the patient experienced a self-limited grand mal seizure, which recurred later during her hospitalization. Despite a neurologic consultation and extensive testing, no definitive cause for the seizure was found. In light of the temporal relationship between caffeine use and the development of seizure activity, reports implicating caffeine's contribution to seizure activity, and evidence of a prolongation of the substance's half-life during and after pregnancy, we urge caution in the use of this drug in parturients.
We describe four patients who had seizures while receiving ofloxacin; no other causes were evident. Common factors among all patients included advanced age and use of a high-dose regimen. The renal insufficiency of three patients and the timing of the seizures implicate accumulation of ofloxacin as a contributing factor. Other potentially related factors included electrolyte abnormalities and prior neurological insult. Improved awareness of and further investigation into the neurotoxic effects of ofloxacin may enhance its safe use.
To describe an atypical presentation of intraoperative anaphylaxis due to fentanyl.
A 40-yr-old otherwise healthy woman was admitted for abdominal hysterectomy. She denied any drug allergies or past adverse anesthetic reactions. Physical examination, vital signs, and laboratory findings were all within normal limits. Twenty minutes after induction of general anesthesia with propofol, lidocaine, fentanyl, and rocuronium, she developed sudden onset of hypotension and bronchospasm. She was treated with fluids and epinephrine, but nonetheless required mechanical ventilation for 48 hr. Chest x-ray revealed pulmonary edema which resolved over two days. She recovered completely and was discharged home. Subsequent skin testing showed reactions to fentanyl and succinylcholine. Because the patient had not received succinylcholine, the cause of her anaphylaxis was attributed to fentanyl. The patient later returned for her hysterectomy and tolerated spinal anesthesia with bupivacaine and morphine.
Anaphylaxis is a fulminant, unexpected, IgE-mediated allergic reaction which can be triggered by multiple agents. Common causative agents include neuromuscular blocking drugs, latex, antibiotics, colloids, hypnotics, and opioids. Fentanyl, however, is an extremely unusual cause of anaphylaxis. Pulmonary edema, although uncommon in anaphylaxis, can be a prominent feature, as was the case with this patient.
Clusterin has recently been shown to act as an antiapoptotic protein that confers drug-resistance in models of epithelial tumors. The aim of our work was to provide an insight into a possible role of clusterin in the regulation of drug-resistance in melanoma. In tissue samples, clusterin expression was low in nevi, but high in primary melanoma and melanoma metastases. Clusterin was also strongly expressed in melanoma cell lines, but was barely detectable in cultured melanocytes. To elucidate a possible role of clusterin in drug-resistance of melanoma, clusterin expression was regulated by either plasmid-driven overexpression or by antisense-mediated downregulation. Clusterin overexpression was associated with an increase in drug-resistance, i.e., with an increased survival of melanoma cells in the presence of cytotoxic drugs. In contrast, downregulation of clusterin by 2'-O-(2-methoxy)ethyl (2'MOE)-modified antisense oligonucleotides (AS-ODN) directed against clusterin mRNA significantly reduced drug-resistance, i.e., decreased survival of melanoma cells in the presence of cytotoxic drugs. To evaluate the effects of clusterin-antisense treatment in vivo, we applied an SCID-mouse/human-melanoma xenotransplantation model. Pre-treatment of mice with the 2'MOE-modified clusterin AS-ODN was associated with a significantly improved tumor response to dacarbazine as compared with animals pretreated with a scrambled control oligonucleotide. Taken together, we show that clusterin is strongly expressed in melanoma. Downregulation of clusterin reduces drug-resistance, i.e., reduces melanoma cell survival in response to cytotoxic drugs in vitro and in vivo. Thus, reducing clusterin expression may provide a novel tool to overcome drug-resistance in melanoma.
We investigated the influence of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), an anti-tumor agent, on the healing of gastric lesions generated by 0.6 M HCl in rats and the effect of lafutidine, a histamine H(2) receptor antagonist, on the impaired healing. Animals fasted for 18 h were given 1 ml of 0.6 M HCl p.o., fed normally from 1 h later, and killed 1-96 h thereafter. 5-FU was given i.v. twice, 1 h and 24 h after the HCl. The gastric lesions healed spontaneously within 96 h. Although it decreased acid secretion, 5-FU markedly delayed the healing. Lafutidine, but not cimetidine, given p.o. immediately after each dosing of 5-FU significantly reversed the delay in healing by 5-FU, and this effect was attenuated by the chemical ablation of capsaicin-sensitive afferent neurons. Capsaicin also significantly reversed the delay in healing. The mucosal application of 50 mM HCl did not affect gastric mucosal blood flow (GMBF) in the normal stomach, but significantly increased it in the stomach damaged by 0.6 M HCl. The increases in GMBF were attenuated by 5-FU; however, the co-administration of lafutidine significantly restored the response. In addition, 5-FU inhibited both cell proliferation and migration in rat gastric epithelial cells (RGM1) in vitro. These results suggest that 5-FU delayed the healing of gastric lesions generated by 0.6 M HCl, probably through the inhibition of cell migration and proliferation, as well as the impairment of GMBF, and lafutidine reversed the delay in healing, mainly through the amelioration of the GMBF response mediated by capsaicin-sensitive afferent neurons.
Ninety-eight female patients (mean age 54 years) who underwent doxorubicin therapy because of metastatic breast cancer were submitted to radionuclide angiography at rest. Left ventricular ejection fractions (LVEFs) were found to decrease significantly with the increasing cumulative doxorubicin dosage. Patients with prior local radiotherapy showed lower LVEFs at the same dosage level than nonirradiated patients, but the difference was not statistically significant. In a further study, 52 patients (mean age 56 years) were followed up regularly for their history and systolic time intervals prior to each doxorubicin treatment course. Before starting treatment, LVEF values were normal in all cases. Fifteen of these patients complained of dyspnea at some time during the treatment period before the critical cumulative dosage level of 550 mg/m2 was reached. Nine of these 15 patients showed an increase of the PEPI:LVETI ratio (greater than or equal to 0.40) and 12 patients a decrease of the LVEF values at rest at the same time. The rest of the patients did not complain of cardiac symptoms and did not show any significant alterations in systolic-time-interval measurements until the borderline dosage level (550 mg/m2) was attained. To evaluate myocardial function with greater accuracy, these 15 patients were submitted to right-heart catheterization and radionuclide angiography at rest and during exercise. As a result, doxorubicin treatment had to be discontinued in three of these patients because of heart failure of stage III or IV and treatment with methyl digoxin and nifedipine was started. In these three patients cardiotonic medication could produce more or less complete cardiac recompensation. We conclude from our findings that signs of stage-III heart failure in radionuclide angiography performed while the patient is at rest and exercising should be regarded as the upper limit of the therapeutic risk, where further doxorubicin treatment is contraindicated. Cardiotonic medication during cytostatic courses should be avoided, however, because the true functional condition of the myocardium could be masked during a potentially cardiotoxic therapy.
Four patients undergoing urokinase infusion therapy for acute occlusive cerebrovascular disease had intracerebral hemorrhage in the ischemic hemisphere. Three patients died during the acute phase of their illness and an autopsy was performed on two. The pathogenesis of cerebral bleeding in these case reports is discussed.
