Chronic administration of dopaminomimetic drugs, levodopa before all, to patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) is accompanied with numerous complications. Psychiatric complications are not only frequent, but also difficult to manage. Reduction of the daily dose or complete discontinuation of dopaminomimetic therapy and usage of conventional neuroleptic drugs may relieve the psychotic symptoms, but both these approaches are associated with unacceptable deterioration of motor symptoms. The aim of the study is to present our experience in the treatment of levodopa-induced psychoses by clozapine in patients with PD. Clozapine is a non-typical antipsychotic drug with low potential fr inducing extrapyramidal symptoms.
A two-year open study in which clozapine was used as the treatment of choice covered 16 patients with PD and psychosis (8.7% of all patients with PD treated at the Department of CNS Degenerative Diseases, Institute of Neurology, Clinical Centre of Serbia, Belgrade). All patients presented for examination with psychotic manifestations whose severity necessitated hospitalization so that the whole study was conducted on the in-patient basis. Patients with haematological disorders, history of epileptic seizures or major dysfunction of the heart, liver and kidneys were not included in the study. In none of the patients EEG records suggested epileptic focl or other major disorders. The stage of PD was determined according to Hoehn and Yahr scale. After the comprehensive evaluation, the treatment was initiated with a bedtime dose of 6.25-12.5 mg clozapine, with gradual increase in 6.25 mg increments in two or three day intervals until the dose which optimally relieved the psychotic symptoms. The levodopa doses were not reduced, except in cases when clozapine action was not satisfactory after the 50 mg dose had been reached. The patients were subjected to daily evaluation of therapeutic response and adverse effects (particularly in the first 19 days) while the blood count and leukocyte formula were determined twice a week.
A group of 16 patients with PD consisted of 7 women and 9 men, average age 64.8 years (range 51-72), and average duration of PD 13.7 years (range 7-19). All patients received the combination of levodopa and benserazide, mean dose 875.5 mg (range 500-1250 mg), while eight patients received bromocriptine (15 mg), as well. Relief of psychotic symptoms was achieved in 12 (75%) patients in whom the improvement was manifest 5-7 days after the onset of clozapine therapy. The average daily dose of clozapine in this group of patients was 30 mg (range 12.5-100 mg) which was continued even after the discharge of the patients, in the follow-up period of 6-18 months, with unchanged effect. In two patients the therapy was discontinued due to marked orthostatic hypotension and somnolence. In another two patients (13%) the therapy failed to induce the desired effect in spite of the clozapine dose increase to 300 mg.
The basic conclusion of our study is that clozapine effectively suppresses levodopa-induced psychoses in patients with PD. Low daily doses are required, while no reduction of levodopa and other dopaminomimetic drugs is needed. Thus, antipsychotic action of clozapine does not affect the treatment of the underlying disease, i.e. relief of parkinsonism.
Cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity is related to an increase in lipid peroxidation, oxygen-free radicals, and inflammation in kidney. Zinc is an antioxidant and has anti-inflammatory action. To date, the protective role of zinc picolinate on cisplatin-induced renal injury has not been investigated. The purpose of the present study was to examine the effect of zinc picolinate on cisplatin-induced renal injury.
Male Wistar rats (n = 28, 8-week-old, weighing 200 to 220 g) were divided into four groups consisting of 7 rats each: control, zinc picolinate (6 mg Zn kg(-1) BW i.p.), cisplatin (7 mg kg(-1)BW i.p., single dose) and cisplatin plus zinc picolinate.
A single dose of cisplatin resulted in an increase in malondialdehyde, 8-isoprostane, and tumor necrosis factor-α levels of kidney and significantly deranged renal function (urea-N and creatinine; P < .0001). Zinc picolinate treatment significantly reduced urea-N, creatinine, malondialdehyde, 8-isoprostane, and tumor necrosis factor-α -α levels. Concentration of zinc in kidney was increased significantly after zinc picolinate supplementation; however, Fe and Cu levels did not change. Expression of Bax in kidney increased with cisplatin administration, and this could be prevented by zinc picolinate treatment (P < .001). However, bcl-2 expression did not change by zinc or cisplatin treatment (P > .05). The expression of heat shock proteins 60 and 70 in kidney was increased after cisplatin treatment compared with the levels in the control (P < .01), and this increase could be prevented by the zinc picolinate treatment (P < .05).
These results suggest that zinc picolinate may be a potential preventive agent in cisplatin-induced renal injury through decreasing oxidative stress and inflammation.
Studies were made on potential modifying effects of phenobarbital (PB) and carbazole on tumor development induced by N-bis(2-hydroxypropyl)nitrosamine (DHPN), a wide-spectrum carcinogen in rats. Effects on the lung, thyroid, kidney, bladder and liver were investigated. Male F344 rats were given 0.2% DHPN in their drinking water for 1 week and then 0.05% PB or 0.6% carbazole in their diet for 50 weeks. Control animals were treated with either DHPN or PB or carbazole only. Neither PB nor carbazole affected the incidence or histology of lung tumors. However, PB promoted the development of thyroid tumors and preneoplastic lesions of the liver, while carbazole promoted the induction of renal pelvic tumors.
Because of denervation supersensitivity, a miotic pupil in a sympathetically-denervated eye dilates in response to a dilute or weak alpha-1-agonist drug. A reversal of anisocoria after topical apraclonidine is considered as a positive test result that diagnoses a unilateral Horner syndrome.
Two women aged 34 and 46 years with a cocaine-confirmed oculosympathetic defect (Horner syndrome) were tested with 1 % topical apraclonidine on separate days.
In one patient, her miotic Horner pupil dilated marginally but not enough to reverse the baseline anisocoria. Additionally, the upper lid on the same side retracted. There was no discernable effect of apraclonidine on the normal, contralateral eye. In the second patient, there was no pupillary response to apraclonidine but there was resolution of her ptosis.
Neither patient demonstrated a reversal of anisocoria, the current criterion for diagnosing a Horner syndrome using apraclonidine. Thus, these two patients with an established oculosympathetic defect were said to have a "negative test" for Horner syndrome. Yet both women showed subtle pupil and/or lid changes in response to apraclonidine that were consistent with sympathetic denervation supersensitivity. Reversal of anisocoria following topical apraclonidine does not occur in all patients with a unilateral oculosympathetic defect and more specific parameters for defining a positive test result might optimize apraclonidine's utility as a diagnostic test for Horner syndrome.
The radiosensitizing effects of misonidazole (MISO) in combination with D,L-buthionine-S, R-sulfoximine (BSO), an inhibitor of glutathione (GSH) biosynthesis, were studied in NFSa tumors of C3H/He mice. The radiation response of tumors was assayed by the tumor growth delay time. The GSH contents in tissues were assayed by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). GSH content in the tumors decreased to the minimum level (45% of the control), and then gradually recovered to 75% of the control, respectively, 12 and 24 hr after the intraperitoneal injection of 5 mmole/kg BSO. On the other hand, the maximum non-protein sulfhydryl (NPSH) depletion (29% of the control) in the liver of tumor bearing mice was achieved 6 hr after the administration of the same dose of BSO, but fully recovered 24 hr later. When 5 mmole/kg BSO was injected repeatedly 4 times at an interval of 6 hr, GSH content in the tumors decreased to 19% of the control 24 hr after the first injection of BSO. The radiosensitizing effect of 0.5 mmole/kg MISO was markedly increased by this BSO treatment. The enhancement ratio (ER) of this combined treatment was 1.93. On the other hand, ERs of 1.44 and 1.16 were obtained for MISO (0.5 mmole/kg) and for 4 injections of BSO (5 mmole/kg) in combination with radiation, respectively. Although a considerable increase in the radiosensitizing efficiency of MISO in vivo by the treatment with BSO was found without any notable side effects of the combination, more studies on toxicities are needed to get a definite conclusion on the clinical applicability of the combination.
This study was designed to assess the value of a set of potential markers for improved detection of liver injury in preclinical toxicity studies. Male Wistar rats were treated with drug candidates (BAY16, EMD335823, BI-3) that previously failed during development, in part due to hepatotoxicity, at two dose levels for 1, 3 and 14 days. Concentrations of lipocalin-2/NGAL and clusterin, which are frequently overexpressed and released from damaged tissues, and thiostatin, recently identified within PredTox as being elevated in urine in response to liver injury, were determined in rat urine and serum by ELISA. This was supplemented by confirmatory qRT-PCR and immunohistochemical analyses in the target organ. Serum paraoxonase-1 activity (PON1), which has been suggested as a marker of hepatotoxicity, was determined using a fluorometric assay. Clusterin and PON1 were not consistently altered in response to liver injury. In contrast, thiostatin and NGAL were increased in serum and urine of treated animals in a time- and dose-dependent manner. These changes correlated well with mRNA expression in the target organ and generally reflected the onset and degree of drug-induced liver injury. Receiver-operating characteristics (ROC) analyses supported serum thiostatin, but not NGAL, as a better indicator of drug-induced hepatobiliary injury than conventional clinical chemistry parameters, i.e. ALP, ALT and AST. Although thiostatin, an acute phase protein expressed in a range of tissues, may not be specific for liver injury, our results indicate that thiostatin may serve as a sensitive, minimally-invasive diagnostic marker of inflammation and tissue damage in preclinical safety assessment.
Cardiomyopathy was produced by isoprenaline injections to healthy and hydrazinophthalazine-treated rats. The elastin content in the heart muscle and the aortic wall as well as the level of serum elastolytic activity were determined. An increase of elastin content in both tissues was found, and its progress was concomitant with the development of isoprenaline injury. It was also found that the elastolytic activity increased on the second day after the last isoprenaline injection, and on the seventh day of the experiment it began to decrease. Changes in hydrazinophthalazine-treated rats after dosing them with isoprenaline had a similar tendency but they were significantly lower than those found in healthy animals receiving isoprenaline only.
In adult female rats, 2-day pretreatment as well as acute lithium administration led to changes of several functional renal parameters indicating early signs of nephrotoxicity. The infection of lithium (0.3 mmol/100 g b.wt., ip.) provoked a statistically significant decrease of the glomerular filtration rate (creatinine clearance), fractional tubular sodium reabsorption and the excretion of hydrogen ions, whereas blood urea nitrogen concentrations, the renal excretion of potassium and p-aminohippurate were enhanced during the test periods. This lithium-induced damage of kidney functions parallels with alterations in renal hemodynamics (86Rb method). Especially following subacute lithium treatment the normally higher cortical blood flow distribution in the kidney shifted to the medullary regions (OMBF, IMBF), because the intrarenal resistance was diminished there. The results represented, however, must be interpreted in that way that not always a strong correlation between the lithium-induced alterations of renal elimination functions and the changes in renal blood flow distribution could be proved.
Methcathinone, a methyl derivative of cathinone, is an illicit drug also known as ephedrone. It is a stimulant found in the "khat" plant, Catha edulis, which can easily be synthesized from pseudoephedrine. Its intoxication is difficult to diagnose and cure properly for two reasons: (i) target consumers are usually "well-educated people" aware of the risks and precautionary measures and (ii) intoxication by cathinone derivatives of synthetic or natural (derived from the khat) origin induce misleading symptoms. As a result, documented reports of methcathinone intoxication that are based on reliable analyses are rare. This paper describes a case of reiterated coma due to an overdose of methcathinone dissolved in alcohol that was taken with bromazepam. A 29-year-old woman was admitted to an emergency department for a coma of toxic origin. Medical files showed that it was her second such episode to occur that month. Moreover, the family indicated signs of depression, incoherent behaviour and intake of "amphetamine-like" drugs. Clinical examination revealed a Glasgow coma score of 9, symmetrical reactive pupils with mydriasis and no convulsions. The patient presented with rapid respirations and her blood pressure was 93/53 mmHg. The ionogram and the blood gas analyses were normal, while the blood alcohol level was 0.167 g/dL. Urinalysis revealed the presence of benzodiazepines and a high concentration of amphetamines (methcathinone: 17.24 mg/L, ephedrine: 11.60 mg/L and methylephedrine: 11.10 mg/L). In addition, serum analysis revealed bromazepam (8.89 mg/L), methcathinone (0.50 mg/L) and methylephedrine (0.19 mg/L). This case showed that the consumption of bromazepam and alcohol altered the typical clinical symptoms of cathinone derivative intoxication, namely hypertension and convulsions. Methylephedrine, an impurity resulting from the alkylation of a primary amine, can be considered a chemical tag indicating fraudulent synthetic origin of the drug. This case describes a documented example of new addictive behaviour of "well-educated" people involving the intake of methcathinone, a postindustrial psychostimulant intentionally combined with an anticonvulsant benzodiazepine. However, this specific case suggests that in spite of a very high bromazepam concentration in presence of the potentiator alcohol, the vital respiratory function would be probably maintained, thanks to the association with methcathinone.
An overdose of the antiarrhythmic drug, lidocaine hydrochloride, was inadvertently administered to a patient through an arterial pressure monitoring apparatus, resulting in cardiac asystole. This medication error demonstrates to all anesthesia care team members the importance of preventing similar occurrences.
The use of androgenic anabolic steroids in the therapeutic dose range by strength athletes is well documented. The benign side effects of these drugs are well known but more disturbing are the increasingly frequent reports of potentially fatal diseases in association with the therapeutic use of these agents. A review is made of the clinical evidence indicating a direct association between androgenic steroids and peliosis hepatis, heptocellular carcinoma and acute myelogenous leukemia, all potentially fatal disorders.
A 21-year-old male developed massive proteinuria and microscopic hematuria, 1 year after allogeneic BMT for acute lymphoblastic leukemia. These symptoms occurred during an exacerbation of chronic cutaneous graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). Renal biopsy revealed granular deposits of IgG and IgM along the glomerular basement membrane, and subepithelial electron dense deposits. A diagnosis of membranous nephropathy was made. With prednisolone therapy proteinuria decreased gradually, and amelioration of cutaneous lesions was also noted. It was speculated that the disordered immune regulation of chronic GVHD resulted in the development of immune complex nephritis.
Niacin reduces coronary heart disease morbidity and mortality when taken either alone or in combination with statins; however, the incremental impact of adding niacin to background statin therapy is unknown.
This was a double-blind randomized placebo-controlled study of once-daily extended-release niacin (1000 mg) added to background statin therapy in 167 patients (mean age 67 years) with known coronary heart disease and low levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C; <45 mg/dL). The primary end point was the change in common carotid intima-media thickness (CIMT) after 1 year. Baseline CIMT (0.884+/-0.234 mm), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (89+/-20 mg/dL), and HDL-C (40+/-7 mg/dL) were comparable in the placebo and niacin groups. Adherence to niacin exceeded 90%, and 149 patients (89.2%) completed the study. HDL-C increased 21% (39 to 47 mg/dL) in the niacin group. After 12 months, mean CIMT increased significantly in the placebo group (0.044+/-0.100 mm; P<0.001) and was unchanged in the niacin group (0.014+/-0.104 mm; P=0.23). Although the overall difference in IMT progression between the niacin and placebo groups was not statistically significant (P=0.08), niacin significantly reduced the rate of IMT progression in subjects without insulin resistance (P=0.026). Clinical cardiovascular events occurred in 3 patients treated with niacin (3.8%) and 7 patients treated with placebo (9.6%; P=0.20).
The addition of extended-release niacin to statin therapy slowed the progression of atherosclerosis among individuals with known coronary heart disease and moderately low HDL-C.
Recent studies have investigated the anti-obesity effect of resveratrol, but the pathways through which resveratrol resists obesity are not clear. In the present study, we hypothesize that resveratrol exerts anti-obesity effects that are likely mediated by mechanisms of regulating gut microbes, and in turn, improving fat storage and metabolism. Gut microbes, glucose and lipid metabolism in high-fat diet (HF) mice in vivo are investigated after resveratrol treatment. Several biochemical markers are measured. Fluorescence in situ hybridization and flow cytometry are used to monitor and quantify the changes in gut microbiota. The key genes related to fat storage and metabolism in the liver and visceral adipose tissues are measured by real-time PCR. The results show that resveratrol (200 mg per kg per day) significantly lowers both body and visceral adipose weights, and reduces blood glucose and lipid levels in HF mice. Resveratrol improves the gut microbiota dysbiosis induced by the HF diet, including increasing the Bacteroidetes-to-Firmicutes ratios, significantly inhibiting the growth of Enterococcus faecalis, and increasing the growth of Lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium. Furthermore, resveratrol significantly increases the fasting-induced adipose factor (Fiaf, a key gene negatively regulated by intestinal microbes) expression in the intestine. Resveratrol significantly decreases mRNA expression of Lpl, Scd1, Ppar-γ, Acc1, and Fas related to fatty acids synthesis, adipogenesis and lipogenesis, which may be driven by increased Fiaf expression. The Pearson's correlation coefficient shows that there is a negative correlation between the body weight and the ratios of Bacteroidetes-to-Firmicutes. Therefore, resveratrol mediates the composition of gut microbes, and in turn, through the Fiaf signaling pathway, accelerates the development of obesity.
We report two patients, a daughter and a mother, with lipoprotein glomerulopathy (LPG) who were successfully treated with niceritrol. Both patients carried a mutation in the apolipoprotein E (apoE) gene known as ApoE Tokyo/Maebashi. The daughter was found to have proteinuria at the age of 4 years. Four years later, she was diagnosed as having LPG based on a renal biopsy. She was treated with several medications including pravastatin, ethyl icosapentate, enalapril, warfarin and cyclophosphamide, all of which failed to reduce her proteinuria. At the age of 17 years, she exhibited an increase in proteinuria and a decline in renal function, despite ongoing treatment with pravastatin and enalapril. After switching from pravastatin to niceritrol, a marked reduction in the proteinuria and an improvement in renal function were observed. Her mother was found to have proteinuria at the age of 57 years and was diagnosed as having LPG based on a renal biopsy. She was also treated with niceritrol, resulting in an improvement in her proteinuria and renal function. These cases suggest that niceritrol might be a useful therapeutic option for LPG.
The effect of age on hyperalgesia, one of the most common signs of injury, has not been previously examined in humans. A psychophysical study was conducted in 10 young (26.9+/-4.6 years) and 10 older (79. 0+/-5.7 years) healthy volunteers to investigate the effect of age on the development of hyperalgesia induced by topical application of capsaicin (0.1 ml, 5 mg/ml). The capsaicin patch (diameter 2 cm) was applied for 1 h. The intensity of capsaicin-induced spontaneous sensation, mechanical pain threshold, area of flare, heat and punctate hyperalgesia were measured hourly for 3 h after the application. Older adults took a longer period to report first pain. There was no age effect on the magnitude of spontaneous sensation, flare size and area of heat hyperalgesia. The area of heat hyperalgesia rapidly decreased over time in both age groups. In marked contrast, the area of punctate hyperalgesia and associated reduction in the mechanical pain threshold were maintained in older adults over the entire 3 h test period, but resolved rapidly in young adults. We conclude that, given the same intensity of noxious stimulation, older adults display a similar magnitude of hyperalgesia as younger persons. However, once initiated, punctate hyperalgesia appears to resolve more slowly in older people. This finding may indicate age differences in the plasticity of spinal cord neurons following an acute injury.
In a double-blind crossover trial of pseudoephedrine 60 mg and triprolidine 2.5 mg, alone and in combination, on 40 volunteers suffering from allergic rhinitis, both drugs were found superior to placebo in reducing the effects of allergic rhinitis and were of equal efficacy. The combination tablet was consistently better than either drug in several of the assessments and was the treatment which the subjects, as a whole, preferred. Side effects were not a problem with any of the medications.
In order to investigate a medium-term animal model using reporter gene transgenic rodents in which general toxicity, genotoxicity and carcinogenicity are evaluated, F344 gpt delta rats were given a diet containing 0.1% and 0.5% (a carcinogenic dose) safrole for 13 weeks. Serum biochemistry and histopathological examinations revealed overt hepatotoxicity of safrole, in line with previous reports. In the current study, safrole treatment possibly resulted in renal toxicity in male rats. In the in vivo mutation assays, an increase or a tendency to increase of the gpt mutant frequencies (MFs) was observed in both sexes at the carcinogenic dose. The number and area of foci of glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P) positive hepatocytes, ratio of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA)-positive hepatocytes and 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) levels in liver DNA were significantly increased in both sexes of the 0.5% group. The overall data suggested that the present model might be a promising candidate for investigating comprehensive toxicities of the agents. In addition, data demonstrating the base modification and cell proliferation due to exposure to safrole could contribute to understanding safrole-induced hepatocarcinogenesis, which imply expanding in application of this model.
Trichloromethane (chloroform) is widely used for industrial chemical synthesis and also as an organic solvent in laboratories or ingredient of pesticides. Sudden death resulted from cardiac arrhythmias has been reported in clinic with acute trichloromethane intoxication. The present study was designed to investigate ionic mechanisms underlying arrhythmogenic effect (cardiac toxicity) of trichloromethane in isolated rat hearts and ventricular myocytes and HEK 293 cells stably expressing human Nav1.5, HCN2, or hERG channel using conventional electrophysiological approaches. It was found that trichloromethane (5mM) induced bradycardia and atrial-ventricular conduction blockade or ventricular fibrillation, and inhibited cardiac contractile function in isolated rat hearts. It shortened action potential duration (APD) in isolated rat ventricular myocytes, and increased the threshold current for triggering action potential, but had no effect on the inward rectifier K(+) current I(K1). However, trichloromethane significantly inhibited the L-type calcium current I(Ca.L) and the transient outward potassium current I(to) in a concentration-dependent manner (IC(50)s: 1.01 and 2.4mM, respectively). In HEK 293 cells stably expressing cardiac ion channel genes, trichloromethane reduced hNav1.5, HCN2, and hERG currents with IC(50)s of 8.2, 3.3, and 4.0mM, respectively. These results demonstrate for the first time that trichloromethane can induce bradycardia or ventricular fibrillation, and the arrhythmogenic effect of trichloromethane is related to the inhibition of multiple ionic currents including I(Ca.L), I(to), I(Na), HCN2, and hERG channels.
Systemic administration of acetazolamide blocks nociceptive hyperreflexia induced by pentobarbital. The authors assessed the effect of intrathecal carbonic anhydrase inhibitors (CAIs) on nociceptive reflex enhancement by pentobarbital, propofol, and midazolam.
Twenty-seven rats with chronic indwelling subarachnoid catheters were studied. Nociceptive paw reflex latency (PWL) for paw withdrawal from radiant heat was measured in forelimbs and hind limbs. Measurements were obtained under control conditions, 15 min after lumbar intrathecal injection of 10 microl artificial cerebrospinal fluid containing the CAIs acetazolamide or ethoxyzolamide, and during the 55 min after intraperitoneal injection of three sedative drugs: 30 mg/kg pentobarbital, 50 mg/kg propofol, or 1.9 mg/kg midazolam.
Control values of PWL averaged 10.9 +/- 1.5 s in the forelimbs and 11.1 +/- 1.6 s in the hind limbs (P = 0.18). Intrathecal injection of 50 microm ethoxyzolamide reduced PWL by 8% and 4% in the forelimbs and hind limbs, respectively (P = 0.01); all other CAI injections had no effect on PWL. Following anesthetic injection, PWL in the forelimbs was reduced by approximately 35-40% of control values; in the hind limbs, CAI treatment decreased the PWL reduction to 8-16% for pentobarbital (P < 0.001), 30-32% for propofol (P < 0.02), and 9-16% for midazolam (P < 0.001). The hind limb reduction of hyperreflexia by CAI was less for propofol than for midazolam or pentobarbital (P < 0.002).
Spinal carbonic anhydrase contributes to nociceptive hyperreflexia induced by pentobarbital and midazolam and to a lesser extent with propofol. These findings are consistent with a role for carbonic anhydrase in nociceptive signal enhancement by these drugs.
Metastasis formation in colon cancer severely reduces the survival rate in patients. S100A4, a calcium-binding protein, is implicated in promoting metastasis formation in colon cancer.
To identify a transcription inhibitor of S100A4, high-throughput screening of 1280 pharmacologically active compounds was performed using a human colon cancer cell line expressing a S100A4 promoter-driven luciferase (LUC) reporter gene construct (HCT116-S1004p-LUC). Niclosamide, an antihelminthic agent, was identified as a potential candidate. Colon cancer cell lines (HCT116, SW620, LS174T, SW480, and DLD-1) were treated with 1 μM niclosamide to analyze the effect on S100A4 mRNA and protein expression by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and immunoblot assays, and effects on cell migration, invasion, proliferation, and colony formation were also assessed in vitro. The effect of niclosamide on liver metastasis was assessed in a xenograft mouse model of human colon cancer (n = 8 mice) by in vivo imaging. The long-term effect of niclosamide on metastasis formation after discontinued treatment was quantified by scoring, and overall survival (n = 12 mice) was analyzed by Kaplan-Meier method after discontinuation of treatment. All statistical tests were two-sided.
Reduced S100A4 mRNA and protein expression, and inhibited cell migration, invasion, proliferation, and colony formation were observed in niclosamide-treated colon cancer cells in vitro. In vivo imaging of niclosamide-treated mice showed reduced liver metastasis compared with solvent-treated control mice (n = 4 mice per group). Compared with the control group, discontinuation of treatment for 26 days showed reduced liver metastasis formation in mice (n = 6 mice per group) (control vs discontinuous treatment, mean metastasis score = 100% vs 34.9%, mean difference = 65.1%; 95% confidence interval [CI] = 18.4% to 111.9%, P < .01) and increased overall survival (n = 6 mice per group; control vs discontinuous treatment, median survival = 24 vs 46.5 days, ratio = 0.52, 95% CI = 0.19 to 0.84, P = .001).
Niclosamide inhibits S100A4-induced metastasis formation in a mouse model of colon cancer and has therapeutic potential.
Sixteen patients in chronic myeloid leukemia blast crisis entered a phase II trial with vindesine and prednisone. Median duration of the chronic phase was 29 months in 13 patients, one previously had polycythemia vera, and two presented with a primary blast crisis. Eleven patients had myeloblastic features, as evidenced by morphology, cytochemistry, and cell surface antigens; three had a mixture of myeloid and lymphoid blast cells with lymphoblastic predominance; one had blast cells which displayed lymphoid characteristics; and one was classified as undifferentiated. Three patients had complete remissions lasting 1 month (myeloid), 3 months (mixed), and 5 months (lymphoid). Eleven patients had minor responses, with a median duration of 3 weeks (eight with myeloid, two with mixed, and one with undifferentiated). Two patients did not respond to vindesine. Leukopenia and thrombocytopenia were severe and prolonged independent of their morphologic or immunologic phenotype.
Despite the potentially protective effects of estrogen on bone and cardiovascular tissue as well as against kidney diseases, its effects on diabetic nephropathy are unknown. Here, we examined the therapeutic effectiveness of 17beta-estradiol and raloxifene, a selective estrogen receptor modulator, for preventing functional and histological alterations in the kidneys of db/db mice, a model of type 2 diabetes. In the first experiment, ovariectomized female db/db mice were treated with 17beta-estradiol for 8 weeks. The treatment significantly ameliorated albuminuria, attenuated weight gain, and reduced hyperglycemia in diabetic ovariectomized db/db mice. Histologically, the increases in mesangial area and the accumulation of fibronectin were significantly inhibited by 17beta-estradiol. In the second experiment, mice were administered vehicle or raloxifene hydrochloride (3 mg/kg/day) for 8 weeks. Raloxifene significantly reduced mesangial expansion and fibronectin accumulation in db/db mice, but in contrast to 17beta-estradiol, it failed to affect body weight or hyperglycemia. An in vitro experiment further demonstrated that raloxifene inhibited transforming growth factor beta-1-induced fibronectin transcription and AP-1 activity. Thus, our findings suggest that raloxifene, which lacks the harmful effects of estrogen, is useful for the treatment of diabetic nephropathy.
Androgen deprivation is the only effective systemic therapy available for patients with prostatic carcinoma, but is associated with a gradual transition to a hormone-refractory prostate cancer (HRCAP) in which ligand-independent activation of the androgen receptor has been implicated. The beta(2)-adrenergic receptor (beta(2)-AR) is a well-known activator of the androgen receptor.
Prostatic cell lines were analyzed using cDNA micro-array, real time RT-PCR, radioligand binding assay, cAMP measurements, transfection and thymidine incorporation assay. Clinical specimens were studied by immunohistochemistry and Affymetrix microarrays.
Here, we show that beta(2)-AR was transiently down-regulated both at mRNA- and protein levels when hormone-sensitive prostate cancer cells, LNCaP, were cultured in steroid stripped medium (charcoal-stripped fetal calf serum) or when the cells were treated with the anti-androgen, bicalutamide (Casodex). The number of beta-adrenergic receptors was modestly up-regulated in androgen independent cell lines (LNCaP-C4, LNCaP-C4-2 and DU145) compared to LNCaP. Triiodothyronine (T3) increased the level of beta(2)-AR and the effect of T3 was inhibited by bicalutamide. Immunohistochemical staining of human prostate specimens showed high expression of beta(2)-AR in glandular, epithelial cells and increased expression in malignant cells compared to benign hyperplasia and normal tissue. Interestingly, beta(2)-AR mRNA was strongly down-regulated by androgen ablation therapy of prostate cancer patients.
The level of beta(2)-AR was increased by T3 in prostatic adenocarcinoma cells and reduced in prostate cancer patients who had received androgen ablation therapy for 3 months.
Methylene dianiline (DAPM) causes hepatic damage and bile duct necrosis in rats. This has been detected histologically and biochemically. The toxicity was dose related over the range 0-100 mg/kg but the dose response relationship showed a maximum at about 75-100 mg/kg. This was true for both histopathology and biochemical parameters of liver dysfunction. When animals were depleted of taurine using beta-alanine pretreatment, the toxicity of DAPM was increased. Conversely treatment of rats with taurine, significantly attenuated the rise in alanine transaminase (ALT). However depletion of taurine with guanidinoethanesulphonate (GES) attenuated rises in both transaminases. It is concluded that taurine may play a role in the toxicity of DAPM but that GES, although depleting taurine as does beta-alanine, causes additional effects such as increasing glutathione (GSH), perhaps leading to protection.
Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) is a highly lethal, poorly understood neoplasm that is typically associated with asbestos exposure. We performed transcriptional profiling using high-density oligonucleotide microarrays containing approximately 22,000 genes to elucidate potential molecular and pathobiological pathways in MPM using discarded human MPM tumor specimens (n = 40), normal lung specimens (n = 4), normal pleura specimens (n = 5), and MPM and SV40-immortalized mesothelial cell lines (n = 5). In global expression analysis using unsupervised clustering techniques, we found two potential subclasses of mesothelioma that correlated loosely with tumor histology. We also identified sets of genes with expression levels that distinguish between multiple tumor subclasses, normal and tumor tissues, and tumors with different morphologies. Microarray gene expression data were confirmed using quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and protein analysis for three novel candidate oncogenes (NME2, CRI1, and PDGFC) and one candidate tumor suppressor (GSN). Finally, we used bioinformatics tools (ie, software) to create and explore complex physiological pathways. Combined, all of these data may advance our understanding of mesothelioma tumorigenesis, pathobiology, or both.
The aim of this study was to explore the mechanisms of lead neurotoxicity by focusing on the alteration of D-serine metabolism in the hippocampus of mice at the early life. Mother mice and their offspring were exposed to 0, 0.5, 1.0 and 2.0 g/L lead in lead acetate via drinking water from the first day of gestation until the postnatal day (PND) 40. Morris water maze was used to measure the spatial learning and memory ability of PND 40 mice. Expressions of serine racemase (SR), D-amino acid oxidase (DAAO), alanine-serine- cysteine transporter-1 (asc-1) and subunits of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) in the hippocampus of PND 10, 20 and 40 mice were examined by western blot and real time RT-PCR. Findings from this study disclosed that the spatial learning ability of mice tested by place trial could be significantly impaired by 0.5 g/L lead exposure, and the spatial memory ability tested by probe trail could be impaired by 1.0 g/L lead exposure. Exposure to 2.0 g/L lead in the water could significantly inhibit the protein and mRNA expression of SR; conversely enhance the expression of DAAO protein and mRNA in the hippocampus during the early developmental stages. However, the protein expressions of DAAO and asc-1 in the hippocampus were significantly enhanced by 0.5 g/L lead exposure at different developmental stages. On the other hand, the protein and mRNA expressions of both NR1 and NR2A were inhibited significantly by 1.0 g/L lead exposure since PND 10, and by 0.5 g/L lead exposure since PND 20. Noteworthy, the protein expression of NR2B was inhibited significantly by 0.5 g/L lead exposure in PND 10 mice, and by 1.0 g/L lead exposure in PND 20 mice, but there was no significant group difference in PND 40 mice. Meanwhile, expressions of asc-1 and NR2B mRNA were not affected obviously by lead exposure. In conclusion, chronic lead exposure during brain development might affect D-serine metabolism by enhancing its degradation, which might be related to the inhibited expression of NMDAR subunits, and furthermore contribute to deficits in learning and memory ability in mice.
During therapy consisting of 6MP and MTX, metabolites accumulate in the erythrocytes. The erythrocyte levels of metabolites reflect the intensity of therapy. Whether they are associated with hepatotoxicity manifested as histological liver changes is not known. We studied the association of the metabolites and cumulative doses of 6MP and MTX with histological liver disease.
Serial measurements of E-TGN, E-MTX, and ALT during maintenance therapy were performed and cumulative doses of 6MP and MTX were calculated as g/m2 in 16 children with ALL. Each subject underwent a percutaneous liver biopsy at the end of therapy to screen for histological liver disease.
No differences in E-TGN, E-MTX, or cumulative doses of 6MP or MTX were detected in the children with ALL with liver fibrosis compared to those without fibrosis, or in the children with less liver fatty change compared to those with more fatty change. Serum median ALT levels correlated significantly positively with cumulative doses of 6MP during therapy (rS = 0.527, P = 0.036), but not with cumulative doses of MTX, or E-TGN, or E-MTX.
Erythrocyte levels of the metabolites or the cumulative doses of 6MP and MTX do not predict histological liver disease in children treated for ALL.
Exposures to bisphenol-A, a weak estrogenic chemical, largely used for the production of plastic containers, can affect the rodent behaviour. Thus, we examined the relationships between bisphenol-A and the anxiety-like behaviour, spatial skills, and aggressiveness, in 12 toxicity studies of rodent offspring from females orally exposed to bisphenol-A, while pregnant and/or lactating, by median and linear splines analyses. Subsequently, the meta-regression analysis was applied to quantify the behavioural changes. U-shaped, inverted U-shaped and J-shaped dose-response curves were found to describe the relationships between bisphenol-A with the behavioural outcomes. The occurrence of anxiogenic-like effects and spatial skill changes displayed U-shaped and inverted U-shaped curves, respectively, providing examples of effects that are observed at low-doses. Conversely, a J-dose-response relationship was observed for aggressiveness. When the proportion of rodents expressing certain traits or the time that they employed to manifest an attitude was analysed, the meta-regression indicated that a borderline significant increment of anxiogenic-like effects was present at low-doses regardless of sexes (β)=-0.8%, 95% C.I. -1.7/0.1, P=0.076, at ≤120 μg bisphenol-A. Whereas, only bisphenol-A-males exhibited a significant inhibition of spatial skills (β)=0.7%, 95% C.I. 0.2/1.2, P=0.004, at ≤100 μg/day. A significant increment of aggressiveness was observed in both the sexes (β)=67.9,C.I. 3.4, 172.5, P=0.038, at >4.0 μg. Then, bisphenol-A treatments significantly abrogated spatial learning and ability in males (P<0.001 vs. females). Overall, our study showed that developmental exposures to low-doses of bisphenol-A, e.g. ≤120 μg/day, were associated to behavioural aberrations in offspring.
