This study was aimed to determine whether imipramine chronic treatment promotes neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus (DG) and interferes with neuronal death in the CA1 subfield of the hippocampus after transient global cerebral ischemia (TGCI) in rats. After TGCI, animals were treated with imipramine (20mg/kg, i.p.) or saline during 14 days. 5-Bromo-2'-deoxyuridine-5'-monophosphate (BrdU) was injected 24h after the last imipramine or saline injection to label proliferating cells. In order to confirm the effect of TGCI on neuronal death and cell proliferation, a group of animals was sacrificed 7 days after TGCI. Neurogenesis and neurodegeneration were evaluated by doublecortin (DCX)-immunohistochemistry and Fluoro-Jade C (FJC)-staining, respectively. The rate of cell proliferation increases 7 days but returns to basal levels 14 days after TGCI. There was a significant increase in the number of FJC-positive neurons in the CA1 of animals 7 and 14 days after TGCI. Chronic imipramine treatment increased cell proliferation in the SGZ of DG and reduced the neurodegeneration in the CA1 of the hippocampus 14 days after TGCI. Immunohistochemistry for DCX detected an increased number of newly generated neurons in the hippocampal DG 14 days after TGCI, which was not affected by imipramine treatment. Further studies are needed to evaluate whether imipramine treatment for longer time would be able to promote survival of newly generated neurons as well as to improve functional recovery after TGCI.
The present study examined whether the active component in tobacco, nicotine, can modulate cocaine craving in patients with a history of smoking crack cocaine when exposed to crack cocaine related environmental cues. Twenty patients, all cigarette smokers, were randomly assigned to nicotine (two 22 mg transdermal patches) or placebo in a single-dose, placebo-controlled, crossover, double-blind study. Craving and anxiety were measured before and after cocaine cues with visual analog scales for desire to use cocaine and mood. Skin conductance and skin temperature were recorded before and during cocaine cues. Following exposure to cocaine cues, all patients reported an increase in cocaine craving and anxiety relative to the pre-cue measures. Cue exposure also produced an increase in skin conductance and decrease in skin temperature. The cue-induced increase in cocaine craving was strongly enhanced by nicotine, while the increase in anxiety was slightly augmented. Cue-induced skin conductance and temperature responses were unaffected by nicotine. These findings show that cue-induced cocaine craving is enhanced by nicotine. This occurred in the absence of any tobacco smoking-related cues, suggesting that nicotine may have direct psychopharmacological effects on conditioned cocaine craving.
Patients with X-linked hypophosphatemic rickets, which is clinically manifested by growth failure and bowing of the legs, are usually treated with phosphate and a vitamin D preparation. However, the efficacy of this treatment has been disputed, and nephrocalcinosis is a recognized complication of therapy.
We studied 24 patients with X-linked hypophosphatemic rickets (9 boys and 15 girls) ranging in age from 1 to 16 years (median, 5.3). The duration of combination therapy ranged from 0.3 to 11.8 years (median, 3.0). We measured height as a standard-deviation (SD) score (the number of SDs from the mean height for chronologic age). Measurements made before the age of two years or after the onset of puberty were excluded. We compared the results with those reported in 1971 for 16 untreated prepubertal Australian patients. We also determined the severity of nephrocalcinosis (on a scale of 0 to 4, with 0 indicating no abnormalities and 4 stone formation) with renal ultrasonography and whether it could be related to the dosage of phosphate or vitamin D or to other factors.
Patients treated for at least two years before the onset of puberty (n = 19) had a mean height SD score of -1.08, as compared with -2.05 in the untreated historical controls. The 13 patients who had been treated with calcitriol and phosphate for at least two years had an increase in the mean height SD score of 0.33, from -1.58 to -1.25 (95 percent confidence interval, 0 to 0.67; P = 0.05). Nineteen of the 24 patients (79 percent) had nephrocalcinosis detected on renal ultrasonography. The grade of nephrocalcinosis was significantly correlated with the mean phosphate dose (r = 0.60, P = 0.002), but not with the dose of vitamin D or the duration of therapy. All patients had normal serum creatinine concentrations.
Therapy with calcitriol and phosphate may increase the growth of children with X-linked hypophosphatemic rickets. Nephrocalcinosis in these children represents a complication of therapy and is associated with the dose of phosphate received.
Rotenone (an inhibitor of mitochondrial NADH dehydrogenase, a naturally occurring toxin and a commonly used pesticide) appears to reproduce the neurochemical, neuropathological and behavioural feature of Parkinson's disease (PD) in the rat. In this study, rotenone was administrated on a daily basis systemically by intraperitoneal injection of two different doses: 1.5 mg/kg (low dose) and 2.5 mg/kg (moderate dose), over a period of 2 months. This treatment caused depletion of dopamine in the posterior striatum (CPu) and prefrontal cortex and also reduced tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactivity in CPu. Behavioural experiments showed dose-dependent catalepsy in the two treatment groups of rats. Data from this study indicate that in rats rotenone is capable of causing degeneration of dopaminergic neurons and induction of parkinsonian symptoms. It is concluded that the causal mechanisms of neuronal degeneration implicate a complex I deficiency in the aetiology of rotenone-induced and perhaps in some cases of sporadic PD.
Master regulators of protein synthesis such as mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) and p70S6 kinase contribute to left ventricular hypertrophy. These prohypertrophic pathways are modulated by a number of kinase cascades, including the hierarchical LKB1/AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) energy-sensing pathway. Because oxidative stress inhibits the LKB1/AMPK signaling axis to promote abnormal cell growth in cancer cells, we investigated whether oxidative stress associated with hypertension also results in the inhibition of this kinase circuit to contribute to left ventricular hypertrophy.
In the spontaneously hypertensive rat, a well-established genetic model of hypertension and subsequent cardiac hypertrophy, the development of left ventricular hypertrophy is associated with an increase in the electrophilic lipid peroxidation byproduct 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (HNE). Using isolated cardiomyocytes, we show that elevated levels of HNE result in the formation of HNE-LKB1 adducts that inhibit LKB1 and subsequent AMPK activity. Consistent with inhibition of the LKB1/AMPK signaling pathway, the mTOR/p70S6 kinase system is activated, which is permissive for cardiac myocyte cell growth. Treatment of cardiomyocytes with resveratrol prevents HNE modification of the LKB1/AMPK signaling axis and blunts the prohypertrophic p70S6 kinase response. Furthermore, administration of resveratrol to spontaneously hypertensive rats results in increased AMPK phosphorylation and activity and reduced left ventricular hypertrophy.
Our data identify a molecular mechanism in the cardiomyocyte involving the oxidative stress-derived lipid peroxidation byproduct HNE and the LKB1/AMPK signaling pathway that contributes to the development of left ventricular hypertrophy. We also suggest that resveratrol may be a potential therapy for patients at risk for developing pathological cardiac hypertrophy by preventing this prohypertrophic process.
Since its introduction to the market in March 1997, sildenafil acetate (Viagra) has been prescribed to 1.7 million people. Sixteen men who were taking the drug have died, 7 of them during or soon after sexual activity. Most of these data have been derived from the media and not from the scientific literature. There is a general impression that cardiovascular complications of sildenafil occur mainly when the drug is taken concomitantly with nitrates. We describe a 65-year-old man with known coronary artery disease who had an acute myocardial infarction shortly after taking sildenafil and engaging an sexual activity. The patient had not been using nitrates. We suggest that the emotional arousal induced by Viagra, followed by the heavy physical exertion during sexual activity, triggers plaque rupture that leads to acute myocardial infarction.
Although the induction of persistent behavioral alterations by drugs of abuse requires the regulation of gene transcription, the precise intracellular signaling pathways that are involved remain mainly unknown. Extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) is critical for the expression of immediate-early genes in the striatum in response to cocaine and Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol and for the rewarding properties of these drugs. Here we show that in mice a single injection of cocaine (10 mg/kg) activates mitogen- and stress-activated protein kinase 1 (MSK1) in dorsal striatum and nucleus accumbens. Cocaine-induced phosphorylation of MSK1 threonine 581 and cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) serine 133 (Ser133) were blocked by SL327, a drug that prevents ERK activation. Cocaine increased the acetylation of histone H4 lysine 5 and phosphorylation of histone H3 Ser10, demonstrating the existence of drug-induced chromatin remodeling in vivo. In MSK1 knock-out (KO) mice CREB and H3 phosphorylation in response to cocaine (10 mg/kg) were blocked, and induction of c-Fos and dynorphin was prevented, whereas the induction of Egr-1 (early growth response-1)/zif268/Krox24 was unaltered. MSK1-KO mice had no obvious neurological defect but displayed a contrasted behavioral phenotype in response to cocaine. Acute effects of cocaine and dopamine D1 or D2 agonists were unaltered. Sensitivity to low doses, but not high doses, of cocaine was increased in the conditioned place preference paradigm, whereas locomotor sensitization to repeated injections of cocaine was decreased markedly. Our results show that MSK1 is a major striatal kinase, downstream from ERK, responsible for the phosphorylation of CREB and H3 and is required specifically for the induction of c-Fos and dynorphin as well as for locomotor sensitization.
Transthyretin (TTR) is a 55 kD homotetrameric serum protein transporter of retinol binding protein charged with retinol and thyroxine (T4). The highly amyloidogenic human TTR variant in which leucine at position 55 is replaced by proline (L55P TTR) is responsible for aggressive fatal amyloidosis with peripheral and autonomic neuropathy, cardiomyopathy and nephropathy. Mice bearing one or two copies of a 19.2 kB human genomic fragment containing the entire coding sequence and the known control regions of the L55P TTR transgene, failed to develop TTR amyloidosis even though their sera contained mutant human TTR. The frequency of TTR tissue deposition was increased when the L55P TTR transgene was bred onto a murine TTR-null background. Denaturation of sera from the transgenic animals and murine TTR-knockouts expressing the human L55P TTR transgene revealed that the TTR tetramer was much more stable in the presence of the murine protein because the TTR circulates as hybrid human/murine heterotetramers. Intraperitoneal administration of diflunisal, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug that binds to TTR in its T4-binding site and inhibits fibril formation in vitro, to human L55P TTR transgenic animals in which the murine TTR gene had been silenced, also stabilizes the circulating mutant protein to in vitro urea denaturation.
Amoxicillin is a penicillin derivative belonging to a group of beta-lactam antibiotics used in Helicobacter pylori eradication. Clinical application of amoxicillin is underlined by its antibacterial activity, but little is known about its interaction with DNA of human cells. Using the alkaline comet assay we investigated the genotoxicity of amoxicillin in human peripheral blood lymphocytes as well as in H. pylori-infected and non-infected human gastric mucosa cells. To assess the role of reactive oxygen species in the genotoxicity of amoxicillin we employed a set of antioxidant and free radical scavengers, including Vitamins C and E, melatonin and the nitrone spin trap N-tert-butyl-alpha-phenyl-nitrone (PBN). Amoxicillin-induced DNA damage was completely repaired after 60 min. The vitamins, melatonin and the spin trap decreased the extent of the damage. The cells exposed to amoxicillin and treated with endonuclease III and 3-methyladenine-DNA glycosylase II, the enzymes recognizing oxidized bases displayed greater extent of DNA damage than those not treated with these enzymes. H. pylori non-infected gastric mucosa cells exposed to hydrogen peroxide repaired their DNA in a 60 min incubation, but the infected cells were not able to do so. The action of DNA repair enzymes, the vitamins, melatonin and PBN indicated that amoxicillin-induced oxidative DNA damage. The drug did not induce DNA strand breaks in isolated pUC19 plasmid DNA. Our results suggest that amoxicillin can induce DNA damage in human lymphocytes and gastric mucosa cells and this effect may follow from the production of reactive oxygen species. Cellular activation of the drug is needed to induce DNA damage. Free radical scavengers and antioxidants may be used to assist H. pylori eradication with amoxicillin to protect DNA of the host cells. Our results suggest also that H. pylori infection may alter gastric mucosa cells response to DNA-damaging agents and in this way contribute to initiation/promotion of cancer transformation of these cells induced by external or internal carcinogens.
Toxicity from intermediate-dose methotrexate (MTX) is unusual. A severely obese adolescent with acute lymphoblastic leukemia experienced significant, delayed nephrotoxicity from intermediate-dose MTX. Altered MTX disposition may occur as a consequence of other ingestions or conditions such as obesity. The use of radioisotope renography established the diagnosis and followed the resolution of the patient's MTX-induced nephrotoxicity.
There is currently no effective treatment for patients with nonulcer dyspepsia. Helicobacter pylori eradication has no beneficial effect on dyspeptic symptoms. Proton pump inhibitors are superior to placebo in the subset of patients with epigastric pain as the predominant symptom. H(2 )Receptor antagonists have no effect. Patients with dysmotility-like dyspepsia should be treated first with prokinetics. Unfortunately, cisapride no longer can be used to treat patients with functional dyspepsia because of reports of serious cardiovascular side effects and subsequent withdraw from the US market. Therefore, metoclopramide (or domperidone, if available) should be given. Treatment with motilides has no use in the relief of symptoms, even in patients with delayed gastric emptying. If the initial therapy has no effect after 4 weeks, switch treatment (eg, from proton pump inhibitor to metoclopramide or vice versa). If both of these pharmacologic therapies fail, consider treatment with an antidepressant (or with buspirone, an anxiolytic agent) or psychotherapy.
The literature on disulfiram-associated seizures is reviewed. A case report of a disulfiram-induced de novo seizure in a 35-year-old man is presented. Possible mechanisms of seizure facilitation are discussed.
The need for more detail regarding the clinical and morphological features of human heart valves has become evident due to recent controversy regarding anorexigen-associated valvular dysfunction. In the present study, we used quantitative digital image analysis of geometric and compositional features to compare the histopathology of cardiac valves excised from patients treated with anorexigens as compared to normal, floppy, rheumatic and carcinoid valves. Anorexigen-exposed valves had the greatest number of onlays/valve (P<.0001), while rheumatic valves showed the greatest average onlay size and thickness of the comparison groups studied (P=.01). The valve onlays from anorexigen-exposed, carcinoid and floppy valves contained a greater percentage of glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) as compared to normal and rheumatic valves (P=.01). The anorexigen-exposed valve propers contained more GAGs than any other comparison group (P=.02). Vessels were prominent in both onlay and valve proper regions of carcinoid valves, in the anorexigen-exposed valve onlays and in rheumatic valve propers. Thus, the number of onlays, their size, the degree of GAG deposition, and the presence and location of vessels and leukocytes were important features distinguishing anorexigen-exposed valves from normal valves. Discriminant analyses, based on geometry, color composition or color composition, and vessel and leukocyte counts combined, were able to separate the valves into distinguishable groups. Our findings demonstrate that specific microscopic features can be used to separate anorexigen-associated heart valve lesions from normal valves and valve lesions associated with other pathologies, and suggest that a distinctive pathological process may exist in many anorexigen-exposed valves.
The influence of four liver tumor promoters and two structurally related chemicals (non-promoters) on survival of normal adult rat hepatocytes was examined in primary culture. Of the four promoters, butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT), dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT), barbital sodium and phenobarbital sodium, only phenobarbital efficiently prolonged the hepatocyte survival and maintained the morphological features of the cells. Both BHT and DDT were toxic to hepatocytes within the dose ranges tested. Barbital was also ineffective for maintenance of primary cultured hepatocytes but not toxic to the cells. Of the two non-promoters, barbituric acid and amobarbital, barbituric acid also showed no maintenance effect on hepatocytes. However, amobarbital resembled phenobarbital in its effect on the maintenance of hepatocytes in primary culture. DNA synthesis of primary cultured hepatocytes was severely suppressed by phenobarbital in a dose-dependent manner. The results clearly show that the ability to support long-term survival of primary cultured hepatocytes is a common property of some barbiturates but not of liver tumor promoters, and that the maintenance of hepatocytes by phenobarbital is not due to a counterbalance of stimulated proliferation and death of the cells.
Factors determining severity of acute pancreatitis (AP) are poorly understood. Oxidative stress causes acinar cell injury and contributes to the severity, whereas prophylactic probiotics ameliorate experimental pancreatitis. Our objective was to study how probiotics affect oxidative stress, inflammation, and acinar cell injury during the early phase of AP. Fifty-three male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly allocated into groups: 1) control, 2) sham procedure, 3) AP with no treatment, 4) AP with probiotics, and 5) AP with placebo. AP was induced under general anesthesia by intraductal glycodeoxycholate infusion (15 mM) and intravenous cerulein (5 microg.kg(-1).h(-1), for 6 h). Daily probiotics or placebo were administered intragastrically, starting 5 days prior to AP. After cerulein infusion, pancreas samples were collected for analysis including lipid peroxidation, glutathione, glutamate-cysteine-ligase activity, histological grading of pancreatic injury, and NF-kappaB activation. The severity of pancreatic injury correlated to oxidative damage (r = 0.9) and was ameliorated by probiotics (1.5 vs. placebo 5.5; P = 0.014). AP-induced NF-kappaB activation was reduced by probiotics (0.20 vs. placebo 0.53 OD(450nm)/mg nuclear protein; P < 0.001). Probiotics attenuated AP-induced lipid peroxidation (0.25 vs. placebo 0.51 pmol malondialdehyde/mg protein; P < 0.001). Not only was AP-induced glutathione depletion prevented (8.81 vs. placebo 4.1 micromol/mg protein, P < 0.001), probiotic pretreatment even increased glutathione compared with sham rats (8.81 vs. sham 6.18 miccromol/mg protein, P < 0.001). Biosynthesis of glutathione (glutamate-cysteine-ligase activity) was enhanced in probiotic-pretreated animals. Probiotics enhanced the biosynthesis of glutathione, which may have reduced activation of inflammation and acinar cell injury and ameliorated experimental AP, via a reduction in oxidative stress.
An 86-year-old woman presented with anorexia, thirst and nycturia. Laboratory results revealed a hypercalcaemia with renal failure. The patient used 1-6 vitamin A-D tablets daily (1 tablet contains 600 IU retinol palmitate and 200 IU cholecalciferol). The diagnosis was: hypercalcaemia due to chronic vitamin A ingestion. This diagnosis was supported by the finding of the elevated vitamin A concentration in the patient's serum and the exclusion of other causes of hypercalcaemia. In chronic vitamin A ingestion risk factors for vitamin A toxicity are age, body weight and renal insufficiency. The hypercalcaemia caused by chronic vitamin A ingestion is explained through the up-regulation of osteoclasts by retinol metabolites.
Many persons who have developmental disabilities and challenging behaviors are treated with multiple medications combined with nonpharmacological approaches. However, the comparative effects from pharmacotherapy frequently are not assessed empirically, do not include corollary behavioral measures, and are not evaluated in the long term. The present single-case study incorporated behavioral assessment methodology in an "open label" evaluation of anticonvulsant (clonazepam), beta-blocking (propanolol), and antidepressant (sertraline and clomipramine) medications on severe aggression in a child with autism. Clinically significant reductions in aggressive behavior were attained with the administration of clomipramine and the reductive effects from the medication persisted for 1.7 years. In addition, clomipramine was associated with the elimination of crisis intervention procedures that had been required to manage the child's aggression. These findings add to the clinical literature describing effective treatment of serious behavior disorders in persons with developmental disabilities using antidepressant medication.
Oxidative and inflammatory processes are elicited during hepatic post-ischemic reperfusion and generate liver damage. This study investigated the early anti-inflammatory effect of trans-resveratrol (T-res) and its consequences on the late self-aggravating inflammatory process in liver ischemia-reperfusion (I/R). Partial hepatic ischemia was initiated in rats for 1 h and T-res (0.02 and 0.2 mg/kg) was administered intravenously 5 min before starting reperfusion for 3 h. Plasma levels of aminotransferases and cytokines (tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, interleukin (IL)-1beta, IL-6) and hepatic neutrophil recruitment were assessed. Hepatic expression of stress protein (heat-shock protein (HSP-70), heme oxygenase-1(HO-1)) and cytokine (TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, keratinocyte chemoattractant (KC)) mRNA was investigated. I/R caused an increase in aminotransferase levels and increased polymorphonuclear cell infiltration. Post-ischemic treatment with T-res (0.02 and 0.2 mg/kg) resulted in a significant decrease in aminotransferase, IL-1beta and IL-6 plasma levels by about 40%, 60% and 40%, respectively, compared to the vehicle I/R group. Post-ischemic treatment with T-res (0.02 mg/kg) also significantly decreased hepatic neutrophil recruitment. TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, KC and HO-1 hepatic mRNA expression was reduced by T-res without any change in HSP-70 mRNA. This T-res mediated decrease in early release of cytokines and neutrophil recruitment led to a reduction in the late inflammatory process. T-resveratrol might be useful in the prevention of inflammation secondary to hepatic surgery or liver transplantation.
Retinoids show antitumor effects on human acute promyelocytic leukemia and other tumors via retinoid receptors. In dogs, the role of retinoid receptors in inhibiting tumor development remains unclear. To evaluate the correlation between the degree of expression of retinoic acid receptor alpha (RARalpha) mRNA and the antiproliferative effects of all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) treatments, expression analysis of RARalpha mRNA and cell growth inhibition assay were performed on 17 established canine tumor cell lines, including 6 mammary gland tumor (MGT) cell lines, 3 osteosarcoma cell lines, 5 melanoma cell lines, and 3 mast cell tumor (MCT) cell lines. Among the cell lines investigated, all 3 MCT cell lines showed high expression of RARalpha, and the most effective cell growth inhibition was observed in ATRA-treated MCT cell lines. However, remarkable antiproliferative effects of ATRA treatments were not observed on other tumor cell lines with moderate or low RARalpha mRNA expression. As a result of the relationship between RARalpha mRNA expression and ATRA treatment with regression analysis, statistically significant correlation was suggested. Furthermore, real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis of RARalpha was performed on MCT tissue samples of dogs with spontaneous disease, and 5 of 9 tissues showed high expression. These results suggest that ATRA may be an effective antitumor agent for MCT in dogs, and that prior measurement of expression of RARalpha mRNA may be a good indicator of the effectiveness of ATRA treatment.
Lead exposure during intrauterine life was found to result in reduced birth weight, impaired skeletal development and post-natal neurotoxic effects. In this study, the effect of pre-natal exposure to different doses of lead on the development of craniofacial skeleton in rat fetuses was investigated. Vitamin E was tested as a concomitant treatment, aiming to improve the fetotoxic effects of lead. Positively pregnant female rats were randomly divided into four groups; groups I and II (L250 and L500), exposed to lead acetate in doses of 250 and 500 mg/l respectively, group III (L500 + E), exposed to lead acetate (500 mg/l) wit concomitant vitamin E and group IV (Control) which was given sodium acetate only. All the treatments started from the first day of gestation till the 20th day, where all rats were sacrificed and the fetuses were recovered. Fetuses were processed to alizarin red staining for ossified components. Twenty-seven bones of the craniofacial skeleton were studied in each fetus where the ossification was scored as being complete, delayed or absent. In all studied fetuses from all groups, changes were found only in eight bones while the remaining craniofacial bones were normally ossified. In affected bones there was a significant decrease in the number of completely ossified bones; associated with a significant increase of both partially ossified and absent bones in L(250) and L(500) treated groups when compared to the control group. These differences were more significant in the L(500) treated group. Giving vitamin E improved the percentage of completely ossified craniofacial bones and decreased the percentage of both partially ossified and absent bones. The most affected bone was presphenoid, then to a lesser extent supraoccipital, squamosal, parietal, interparietal and frontal bone respectively. In conclusion, lead exposure to rats during pregnancy led to varying degrees of fetal growth retardation as well as delayed ossification of some craniofacial bones which were dose dependent and the concomitant supplementation with vitamin E greatly improved the deleterious effect of lead.
The diltiazem serum concentration and the magnitude and time course of systemic and coronary hemodynamic and ECG responses to intravenous diltiazem (250 micrograms/kg intravenous bolus plus 1.4 micrograms/kg/min infusion) were investigated in 14 patients with chronic stable angina pectoris. After 3, 8, and 15 minutes this dosing schedule produced serum concentrations of 570 +/- 259, 199 +/- 62, and 136 +/- 30 ng/ml, respectively (mean +/- SD). These drug levels were associated with a small, transient increase in heart rate (6 bpm, mean) at 3 minutes, which occurred during the nadir of the blood pressure response. But at 8 and 15 minutes, heart rate was unchanged compared to control rates, although blood pressure remained decreased (19%, p less than 0.01 at 15 minutes). Pressure-rate product was significantly reduced as left ventricular end-diastolic pressure and dP/dT remained unchanged. Systemic resistance decreased 17% (p less than 0.05) and stroke index increased 10% (p less than 0.01). Coronary flow was maintained as coronary resistance declined (14%, p less than 0.01). PR interval prolongation (14%, p less than 0.01) occurred at 15 minutes. Correlations between changes in systolic, diastolic, and mean pressures and drug concentration were significant (r = -0.59, -0.80, and -0.78, respectively, all p less than 0.05). The intercept for each regression line was approximately 96 ng/ml diltiazem concentration, suggesting that this represents the minimum effective diltiazem serum concentration. These results indicate that intravenous diltiazem is well tolerated and promptly reduces blood pressure and both systemic and coronary resistances without oxygen-wasting effects of an increase in heart rate.
Digitalis intoxication is one of the most common adverse drug reactions. Although some arrhythmias are seen more frequently than others, virtually any rhythm disturbance, including ventricular tachycardia, may occur. However, to our knowledge, exercise-induced ventricular tachycardia as a complication of digitalis therapy has never been described before. This case presents a patient with a digitalis-induced ventricular tachycardia occurring exclusively during exercise.
Bisphenol A (BPA) is an estrogen-mimicking endocrine disruptor. Early-life exposures to low doses of BPA exert long-lasting effects on animals' reproductive and brain physiology. However, little is known about the effects of BPA on the stress-response system. Given the interaction of sex and stress hormones, we examined the effect of a low perinatal BPA exposure on the function of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis at rest and upon application of acute stress. Throughout pregnancy and lactation rats received daily 40 μg BPA/kg body weight orally via cornflakes. We studied the effect of this low but chronic exposure to BPA in the male and female offspring at puberty. BPA exposure led to abnormal adrenal histology including reduced zona reticularis especially in male offspring, hyperplasia of zona fasciculata in both sexes, and increased adrenal weight in female offspring. BPA-treated females had increased basal corticosterone and reduced hypothalamic glucocorticoid receptors (GR) levels. Stressed BPA-exposed females exhibited anxiety-like behavioral coping, a less rigorous corticosterone response, and did not downregulate GR in the hypothalamus, compared with control females. BPA-exposed males exhibited a heightened corticosterone stress response compared with females; they also displayed increased pro-opiomelanocortin mRNA levels and retained the prestress levels of pituitary corticotropin-releasing hormone-receptor 1, compared with control males. We found that perinatal chronic exposure to a low dose of BPA perturbs the basal and stress-induced activity of the HPA axis in a sexually dimorphic manner at adolescence. Exposure to BPA might contribute to increased susceptibility to stress-related disorders in later life.
A severely handicapped 14-year-old Japanese girl had epilepsy and was treated with sodium valproate (SV) from the age of 7 years. Although the epileptic seizures were well controlled, she sometimes had a fever and hypokalemia from the age of 13 years. Laboratory examinations revealed metabolic acidosis, hypouricemia, hypophosphatemia, glycosuria, proteinuria and aminoaciduria, thus suggesting Fanconi syndrome. Gallium scanning showed marked renal uptake. A renal biopsy revealed interstitial nephritis without immuno-deposition. SV was replaced since it was considered to be the most probable cause of the renal involvement. Thereafter, she showed marked improvement of the clinical symptoms and the laboratory data gradually, and she never had a fever. Although SV is an effective anti-epileptic drug, we have to pay attention to adverse renal effects such as Fanconi syndrome and interstitial nephritis.
Microscopic features of chloroquine cardiotoxicity are similar to those of Fabry disease. The purpose of the study was to compare clinicopathologic findings in both disorders.
Patients with a diagnosis of chloroquine cardiotoxicity or Fabry disease were identified who had undergone endomyocardial biopsy or autopsy at Mayo Clinic Rochester (1976-2000). Clinical information was collected from medical records and letters from referring physicians. Light and electron microscopy were performed in all cases.
Three patients (two women, one man) with chloroquine cardiotoxicity ranged in age from 53 to 73 years. Chloroquine was given for rheumatoid arthritis in two and systemic lupus erythematosus in one. Three patients (two men, one woman) with Fabry disease ranged in age from 58 to 76 years. Two had angiokeratomas, but only one had a previous diagnosis of Fabry disease. All six patients presented with dyspnea. Light microscopy from all six revealed myocyte enlargement due to perinuclear vacuolization. By transmission electron microscopy, all six showed abundant myelinoid figures within involved myocytes. Curvilinear bodies were observed in two patients with chloroquine cardiotoxicity and in none with Fabry disease.
Patients with cardiac dysfunction due to chloroquine cardiotoxicity or Fabry disease have similar ages, presenting clinical symptoms, cardiac light microscopy and sarcoplasmic myelinoid bodies ultrastructurally. Patients with Fabry disease may not have a personal or family history of the disease. Similarly, a history of chloroquine usage may not be known to the pathologist. In these settings, the presence of curvilinear bodies ultrastructurally is useful for the diagnosis of chloroquine cardiotoxicity.
