Frequent epileptic seizures or prolonged seizure activity (status epilepticus, SE) is known to increase the brain expression of drug efflux transporter genes and proteins, such as P-glycoprotein (Pgp) and members of the multidrug resistance protein (MRP) family, which might reduce brain levels of antiepileptic drugs and, therefore, be involved in drug resistance. However, the time course of alterations in Pgp or MRPs after seizures or SE is only incompletely known.
This prompted us to study the time course of alterations in the expression of different efflux transporter genes (Mdr1a, Mdr1b, MRP1, MRP2, MRP5) at various times after a pilocarpine-induced SE in limbic brain regions, using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) (qPCR).
Unexpectedly, between 6 and 24 h after onset of SE, genes encoding Pgp (Mdr1a, Mdr1b), Mrp1, and Mrp5 were downregulated in hippocampus, amygdala, or piriform cortex. This initial decrease in expression was followed by normalization and then increased expression, which became maximal 2 days after SE. One explanation for the initial decrease in transporter expression could be SE-induced acute inflammatory processes, because proinflammatory cytokines are known to suppress the expression of Pgp and other efflux transporters. To directly address this possibility, we quantified the hippocampal mRNA expression of interleukin-1beta, interleukin-6, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha, showing a marked SE-induced increase in these cytokines, which paralleled the decreased expression of efflux transporters.
Taken together, these findings indicate that alterations in expression of drug efflux transporters after prolonged seizure activity are more complex than previously thought.
Fasting cholesterol, triglyceride, low density lipoprotein cholesterol, high density lipoprotein cholesterol, apoprotein AI, and apoprotein B were measured in 64 patients with systemic lupus erythematosus to assess the risk factors for vascular disease. The relation between the lipid profile, steroid treatment, the presence of anticardiolipin antibodies, and the prevalence of vascular disease was examined. Raised concentrations of triglyceride and apoprotein B were seen in those patients treated with more than the equivalent of 10 mg prednisolone a day in the six months before testing. An increase in vascular disease was found only in the subgroup of patients with increased triglycerides who also expressed anticardiolipin antibodies. This study confirms the association between treatment with high doses of steroids in lupus and the development of an atherogenic plasma lipid profile. The presence of anticardiolipin antibodies compounds the risk of developing vascular disease.
The HMGA2 architectural protein functions in a variety of cellular processes, such as cell growth, transcription regulation, neoplastic transformation, and progression. Up-regulation of HMGA2 protein is observed in many tumors and is associated with advanced cancers with poor prognoses. Although the expression and biochemical properties of HMGA2 protein are regulated by microRNA and phosphorylation, it is unknown whether HMGA2 activity can also be regulated by SUMOylation, and that is what is investigated in this report. We identified HMGA2 as a SUMOylation target and showed that the expression of wild-type HMGA2, but not SUMOylation-defective HMGA2(2K/R), selectively lowered the steady-state level of PML protein. Consequently, the HMGA2-elicited PML down-regulation rendered a reduction in the average number of PML nuclear bodies per cell and the volume of PML assembled per PML nuclear body. Using small interfering RNA to suppress endogenous ubiquitin expression and proteasome inhibitor to repress ubiquitin-mediated protein degradation, we showed that HMGA2 confers PML down-regulation through ubiquitin-proteasome-dependent protein degradation. Importantly, arsenic trioxide treatment stimulated HMGA2 SUMOylation, leading to the formation of HMGA2 nuclear foci surrounding PML nuclear bodies and the stimulation of PML degradation. Collectively, our results unveil a previously unrecognized effect by HMGA2 on the modulation of PML protein level, providing a novel mechanism underlying HMGA2 function and underscoring the molecular basis for oncogenic progression by HMGA2.
Five episodes of acute renal failure due to rifampicin (R-ARF) were observed in four patients and the clinical and histological data were compared with the records of 52 episodes reported in the literature. The bulk of data supports the assumption that the by far most frequent renal injury responsible for R-ARF is acute tubular necrosis produced by a vasomotor mechanism. Nevertheless a few data, above all immunohistological findings, suggest the local presence of allergic process. It may be, that the development of an immunological renal lesion is prevented or blunted by the consequences of vasomotor effects.
During treatment with azithromycin, a 55 year-old woman developed a newly prolonged QT interval and torsade de pointes in the absence of known risk factors. Female gender and acute renal failure may be considerations in patients treated with azithromycin.
The antipsychotic drugs are the best-studied agents shown to reduce symptoms in autism, including hyperactivity, aggression, self-abusive behavior, temper tantrums, lability, irritability, social withdrawal, and stereotypical behaviors. However, significant weight gain has been associated with use of many atypical agents. Ziprasidone has been weight neutral in adult populations, but data from adolescents and patients with autism are sparse. However, ziprasidone administration has been associated with increases in the QTc. The purpose of this study was to collect pilot data on the efficacy and safety of ziprasidone in adolescents with autism, focusing on safety issues of weight gain and QTc.
Twelve adolescents with autism (mean age 14.5 +/- 1.8 years) were treated in a 6-week open pilot study. Ziprasidone dosage ranged from 20 to 160 mg/day (mean, 98.3 +/- 40.4 mg/day). The primary efficacy measure was the Clinical Global Impressions-Improvement item (CGI-I); other efficacy measures included the Aberrant Behavior Checklist and the Children's Psychiatric Rating Scale.
Based on the CGI-I, 9 of 12 (75%) patients were treatment responders. Ziprasidone was weight neutral, and the QTc increased by a mean of 14.7 msec. Two subjects had acute dystonic reactions. Cholesterol decreased and prolactin remained the same.
Ziprasidone shows promise as a treatment for adolescents with autism. More definitive trials are needed.
Diffusion-weighted MR imaging has emerged as a noninvasive tool for the detection of regional neuronal damage. We hypothesize that changes in diffusion-weighted images will correlate with pathophysiologic alterations caused by pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus.
MR images of brain tissues were examined in vivo by use of T2- and diffusion-weighted imaging at 3, 6, 12, and 24 hours after pilocarpine-induced seizures. Histologic verification of neuronal damage was also performed after imaging to assess the extent and the time course of neuronal cell death.
The piriform cortex, amygdala, and retrosplenial (and somatosensory) cortex displayed significant apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) decreases 12 hours after seizure initiation. In contrast, an ADC rise of 19% was observed in the hippocampus 24 hours after seizure induction. Histologic data from the piriform cortex and amygdala confirmed severe neuronal loss, whereas hippocampal damage was much less pronounced at 12 hours. Interestingly, very little histologic damage was seen in the retrosplenial cortex.
This study capitalized on diffusion-weighted imaging as a sensitive technique for the early identification of seizure-induced neuronal damage and differentiation of regional severity of these alterations. Hippocampal neuropathology is slower and longer in duration (approximately 7 days), while the piriform cortex and amygdala exhibit very rapid neurodegenerative alterations (approximately 24 hours) after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus. These histologic changes are reflected in opposing ADC values within these regions.
Baclofen (Lioresal) is a drug of choice to treat spasticity and is increasingly being administered intrathecally via an implantable pump in cases refractory to oral therapy. Emergency physicians will likely treat patients with baclofen withdrawal or overdose as this treatment becomes more widespread. The syndrome of baclofen withdrawal presents with altered mental status, fever, tachycardia, hypertension or hypotension, seizures, and rebound spasticity, and may be fatal if not treated appropriately. Baclofen withdrawal may mimic other diseases including sepsis, meningitis, autonomic dysreflexia, malignant hyperthermia, or neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Treatment consists of supportive care, reinstitution of baclofen, benzodiazepines, and diagnosis and eventual repair of intrathecal pump and catheter malfunction.
Evidence from cell studies indicates that persistent organic pollutants (POP) can induce insulin resistance, an essential component of the metabolic syndrome (MetS). We hypothesized that residential proximity to environmental sources of POP would be associated with the MetS in the population. The present study examined the association between residency in a zip code containing or abutting environmental sources of POP and MetS-related hospitalization rates. Hospitalization data were obtained from the New York Statewide Planning and Research Cooperative System. Relative risks (RR) were calculated as hospitalization rate ratios. Adjusted RR and their 95% confidence intervals (CI) were estimated by multivariable Poisson regression. A higher proportion of African Americans resided in POP zip codes compared to Caucasians (25.9% and 24.3%, respectively, p < 0.01). Residence in POP zip codes was associated with a statistically significant 39.2% increase in MetS-related hospitalization rates, adjusted for race, gender, and age (adjusted RR = 1.392, 95% CI: 1.032-1.879, p = 0.030). Increase in age was independently associated with higher MetS-related hospitalization rates (p for trend < 0.001). Our findings contribute to the body of evidence supporting the hypothesis of POP constituting an environmental risk factor for the MetS. Further studies investigating exposure to POP and insulin resistance are warranted.
Identifying the genes responsible for human diseases requires combining information about gene position with clues about biological function. The recent availability of whole-genome data sets of RNA and protein expression provides powerful new sources of functional insight. Here we illustrate how such data sets can expedite disease-gene discovery, by using them to identify the gene causing Leigh syndrome, French-Canadian type (LSFC, Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man no. 220111), a human cytochrome c oxidase deficiency that maps to chromosome 2p16-21. Using four public RNA expression data sets, we assigned to all human genes a "score" reflecting their similarity in RNA-expression profiles to known mitochondrial genes. Using a large survey of organellar proteomics, we similarly classified human genes according to the likelihood of their protein product being associated with the mitochondrion. By intersecting this information with the relevant genomic region, we identified a single clear candidate gene, LRPPRC. Resequencing identified two mutations on two independent haplotypes, providing definitive genetic proof that LRPPRC indeed causes LSFC. LRPPRC encodes an mRNA-binding protein likely involved with mtDNA transcript processing, suggesting an additional mechanism of mitochondrial pathophysiology. Similar strategies to integrate diverse genomic information can be applied likewise to other disease pathways and will become increasingly powerful with the growing wealth of diverse, functional genomics data.
The lethality and 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase (EROD)-inducing potency of some individual polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) and coplanar polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) in chick embryos were measured in order to compare the mechanisms of action of these compounds. In previous studies it was found that coplanar PCBs and certain PAHs have a high embryolethality in the chicken and that they induce embryonic EROD activity. Although the most potent PAHs were almost as embryolethal as the PCBs when injected into hens' eggs 72 h prior to measurement, they were considerably less potent EROD inducers. In the present study, three coplanar PCBs (3,3',4,4'-tetrachlorobiphenyl (TCB), 3,3',4,4',5-pentachlorobiphenyl (PeCB) and 3,3',4,4',5,5'-hexachlorobiphenyl (HCB)) and four of the most toxic PAHs (benzo[a]anthracene (BaA), benzo[k]fluoranthene (BkF), indeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene (IP) and dibenzo[a, h]-anthracene (DBahA] were administered to chick embryos in different ways, including co-administration. Additive embryolethality was found when BkF and PeCB were co-administered as well as when BaA and DBahA were given simultaneously. The PAHs were more effective as EROD inducers when injected on day 9 (24 h prior to measurement) than when injected on day 7 (72 h prior to measurement). The opposite was found for PeCB and HCB, whereas no difference in potency was noted when comparing TCB injected 24 and 72 h before EROD determination. These substance-related differences were probably due, at least partly, to differences in biotransformation rates. EROD activities found after treatment with high doses of BkF, IP, or DBahA on day 9 were similar to those measured after treatment with PeCB in doses high enough to give maximal induction. Co-administration of high doses of BkF and PeCB did not further increase the activity, indicating that the PAHs and coplanar PCBs induce EROD to a common maximal value. To decrease the influence of metabolization of the PAHs on their EROD-inducing potency, EROD was determined early in development (day 8) and soon after treatment (24 h) in one experiment. In that experiment, the PAHs proved to be only a few times less potent EROD inducers in relation to their embryolethalities compared with the PCBs. The results of the present study, a previously observed similarity in pathology between chick embryos treated with PAHs and embryos treated with coplanar PCBs, and the fact that the most toxic PAHs also are the most avid Ah receptor binders suggest that the coplanar PCBs and the PAHs largely exert their toxicity in chick embryos via an Ah receptor-mediated mechanism. The differences between the compounds in their EROD-inducing potency/embryolethality ratios could probably be explained by their different rates of biotransformation.
Hormone-refractory prostate cancer is characterized by a low response rate following second-line therapy. Encouraging results have been reported in Phase II studies with estramustine associated with vinblastine or etoposide. Vinorelbine is a new semisynthetic vinca alkaloid that has demonstrated activity in prostate cancer. We therefore evaluated the activity of the following schedule: estramustine, 400 mg/m2 orally days 1-42; etoposide, 50 mg/m2 orally days 1-14; and 28-42; vinorelbine, 20 mg/m2 days 1, 8, 28, and 35; cycles being repeated every 8 weeks. Twenty-five patients have been included and are assessable for response and side effects. Patient characteristics were as follows: median age, 71 years (range 55-81); ECOG performance status 0-2; nonosseous disease, 3 cases; bone metastases, 23 cases. Sixty-two cycles have been delivered. Two patients with measurable disease and six patients with bone disease had a partial remission for an overall response rate of 32% (95% confidence interval 15-53%). Seven patients had stabilization of disease and 10 had progression of disease. Median duration of response was 3 months (range 2-5). Prostate-specific antigen in 14 patients (56%) decreased from baseline by at least 50%. Toxicity was manageable. Neutropenia was mild, with only three cases of grade III-IV toxicity. Two patients had severe anemia. The results of this study indicate that the schedule is active and well tolerated in hormone-refractory prostate cancer patients.
Methamphetamine (METH) is a drug of abuse that causes deleterious effects to brain monoaminergic systems. The tumor suppressor gene, p53, is thought to play an important role in cell death. In the present study, we have assessed the participation of p53 in METH-induced serotonergic neurotoxicity, by using the mice lacking the gene for p53 protein. Three dosages (2.5, 5.0 and 10.0 mg/kg x 4) of METH were administered to wild-type (p53+/+), heterozygous (p53+/-) and homozygous (p53-/-) p53-knockout mice. The two lower doses caused no significant changes in serotonin (5-HT) transporters in any of the groups. The highest dose (10.0 mg/kg) caused significant decreases in striatal 5-HT transporters in wild-type (-31%) and heterozygous (-18%) mice. In contrast, 5-HT transporters were not significantly decreased in homozygous mice. These results suggest that the tumor suppressor, p53, plays an important role in METH-induced serotonergic neurotoxicity in mice brain. These data provide further evidence for a role of p53 in the neurotoxic effects of METH.
We conducted a phase II trial of a regimen that combined cisplatin (CDDP), carboplatin (CBDCA), and vindesine (VDS) in previously untreated patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the regimen. Thirty-five patients with inoperable NSCLC entered the study. Cisplatin (CDDP 80 mg/m2) was administered on day 1, and CBDCA 100 mg/m2 and VDS 2 mg/m2) were administered on days 2, 3, and 8. We observed one complete response (CR) and 16 partial responses (PR), with a total response rate of 49% [95% confidence interval (CI) 31-66%]. The overall median survival was 58 weeks; the 1-year survival rate was 60%, and the 2-year survival rate was 23%. Major toxicities were hematologic; leukopenia of grades 3 and 4 occurred in 66% patients, and thrombocytopenia occurred in 23%. Therefore, the dose-intensified regimen of CDDP, CBDCA, and VDS was active in treating patients with inoperable NSCLC, with demonstration of a favorable median survival time.
Combined chemotherapy/radiotherapy treatments appear to yield better results in locally advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) than radiotherapy alone. The optimal induction chemotherapy regimen remains to be established. In the present study, chemotherapy with cisplatin and vinorelbine was used prior to radical radiotherapy in Stage III-B NSCLC. Thirty-three patients were entered prospectively into a Phase II study. Treatment consisted of three cycles of chemotherapy with cisplatin 100 mg/m2 on day 1 and vinorelbine 30 mg/m2 on days 1 and 8, followed by thoracic radiotherapy (60 Gy). Twenty-two percent of the 33 patients had grade 3-4 leukopenia, and there were six episodes (in 4 patients) of neutropenia-associated fever. Gastrointestinal toxicity was generally moderate. Peripheral neuropathy was present in 42% of the patients, although in most of them it was slight. The main radiotherapy toxicity was esophagitis grade I-II. Evaluation of response after the third chemotherapy course showed an objective response in 16 patients (48%), whereas in three patients (9%) the disease progressed during therapy. The median survival of the entire group was 13 months. Cisplatin plus vinorelbine followed by radiotherapy is an effective schedule for patients with locally advanced non-small-cell lung cancer.
A case of kidney failure in a patient with cirrhosis of the liver in the ascitic stage after treatment of a non-steroid anti-inflammatory drug, diflunisal, is reported. The pathogenesis of the kidney impairment, quickly reversed by withdrawal of the drug, is attributed to pharmacological inhibition of cyclo-oxygenase and prostaglandin synthesis with consequent alterations of intrarenal haemodynamics and renal blood flow.
Dimemorfan, an antitussive and a sigma-1 (sigma(1)) receptor agonist, has been reported to display neuroprotective properties. We set up an animal model of ischemic stroke injury by inducing cerebral ischemia (for 1 h) followed by reperfusion (for 24 h) (CI/R) in rats to examine the protective effects and action mechanisms of dimemorfan against stroke-induced damage. Treatment with dimemorfan (1.0 microg/kg and 10 microg/kg, i.v.) either 15 min before ischemia or at the time of reperfusion, like the putative sigma(1) receptor agonist, PRE084 (10 microg/kg, i.v.), ameliorated the size of the infarct zone by 67-72% or 51-52%, respectively, which was reversed by pre-treatment with the selective sigma(1) receptor antagonist, BD1047 (20 microg/kg, i.v.). Major pathological mechanisms leading to CI/R injury including excitotoxicity, oxidative/nitrosative stress, inflammation, and apoptosis are all downstream events initiated by excessive accumulation of extracellular glutamate. Dimemorfan treatment (10 microg/kg, i.v., at the time of reperfusion) inhibited the expressions of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 and interleukin-1beta, which occurred in parallel with decreases in neutrophil infiltration, activation of inflammation-related signals (p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase, nuclear factor-kappaB, and signal transducer and activator of transcription-1), expression of neuronal and inducible nitric oxide synthase, oxidative/nitrosative tissue damage (lipid peroxidation, protein nitrosylation, and 8-hydroxy-guanine formation), and apoptosis in the ipsilateral cortex after CI/R injury. Dimemorfan treatment at the time of reperfusion, although did not prevent an early rise of glutamate level, significantly prevented subsequent glutamate accumulation after reperfusion. This inhibitory effect was lasted for more than 4 h and was reversed by pre-treatment with BD1047. These results suggest that dimemorfan activates the sigma(1) receptor to reduce glutamate accumulation and then suppresses initiation of inflammation-related events and signals as well as induction of oxidative and nitrosative stresses, leading to reductions in tissue damage and cell death. In conclusion, our results demonstrate for the first time that dimemorfan exhibits protective effects against ischemic stroke in CI/R rats probably through modulation of sigma(1) receptor-dependent signals to prevent subsequent glutamate accumulation and its downstream pathologic events.
A systemic lupus erythematosus-like syndrome developed simultaneously with pulmonary reactions of the chronic type in three female patients after treatment with nitrofurantoin for 12, 27 and 38 months, respectively. The syndrome was characterized by elevated ESR, polyclonal hypergammaglobulinaemia, the presence of IgG antinuclear antibodies and a positive latex-fixation test. Two patients had severe arthralgia and one of them peripheral lymphadenopathy. Pleural effusion and a chronic active hepatitis were present in the third patient, in whom interstitial cystitis also developed. All signs and symptoms of the lupus-like syndrome disappeared, without corticosteroid or other medication, when nitrofurantoin was omitted. The diminution of pulmonary infiltrates and the reversal of interstitial cystitis also appeared to be directly related to cessation of nitrofurantoin therapy. Our findings indicate that long-term medication with nitrofurantoin may cause, in addition to pulmonary changes, a simultaneous lupus-like syndrome our data also raise the possibility that interstitial cystitis may occur as an adverse reaction to nitrofurantoin therapy.
Cisplatin, as second-line therapy for metastatic breast cancer (MBC), has at best shown only modest response rates. At high doses, the toxicity profile of this drug may outweigh any potential benefits for MBC patients. We performed a phase II study to determine whether the investigational agent WR2721 would mitigate the toxicity of cisplatin in patients with MBC and to assess the antitumor response of cisplatin as salvage therapy. Thirteen women were enrolled in the study. Cisplatin was administered at a dose of 120 mg/m2 together with WR2721 at a dose of 910 mg/m2 intravenously every 21 days. Response was assessed at the end of two cycles, and toxicity was evaluated after each treatment cycle. No objective antitumor responses were noted. Three patients exhibited toxicity from cisplatin in the form of ototoxicity, nephrotoxicity, myelotoxicity, and persistent delayed nausea and vomiting necessitating discontinuation from the study. There was one death from renal failure. WR2721 itself caused significant but transient hypotension in 46% of the patients. In our experience, salvage chemotherapy with cisplatin in pretreated patients with MBC produced no objective responses. WR2721 did not prevent the occurrence of organ toxicity.
To study the significance of normalization of ventilatory or thermal homeostasis during naloxone reversal, 95 patients were given naloxone after thiopental-N2O-O2-relaxant anaesthesia supplemented with fentanyl (6 microgram/kg/h). If naloxone 0.16 mg was given to combat postoperative apnoea during hypercapnia (end tidal carbon dioxide concentration (ETco2)8%), minute ventilation and respiratory rate were significantly higher during the first minutes as compared to the normocapnic patients. Shivering occurred in 44% in the hypercapnic group, as compared to about 30% if naloxone was given during normocapnia (ETco2 5%). Postoperative pain and restlessness were significantly increased in the hypercapnic group. During normocapnia, untoward reactions were less frequent (40%) if naloxone was given in smaller increments (0.08 + 0.08 mg) rather than in one dose (0.16 mg) (72%). This was mainly due to nausea (8% compared to 32%). The incidence and severity of shivering showed a positive correlation to the duration of anaesthesia (r = 0.42) and to the total amount of fentanyl (r = 0.32), but not to the actual postoperative oesophageal temperature (r = -0.13). The results indicate that though untoward reactions after naloxone reversal are aggravated by naloxone-induced normalization of deranged homeostatic mechanisms, their aetiology probably should be sought in an acute abstinence syndrome.
The role of the endothelial contractile apparatus in the process of brain edema formation after brain trauma is not characterized. Phosphorylation of myosin light chains by myosin light chain kinases (MLCK) activates endothelial contractile elements and results in a rearrangement of the cytoskeleton. This may enhance post-traumatic blood-brain barrier dysfunction. In order to investigate the role of the MLCK on brain edema formation and blood-brain barrier permeability after brain injury, mice were anesthetized and subjected to a controlled cortical impact (CCI). MLCK expression is significantly up-regulated after CCI with a maximum 12 h post-injury. Specific inhibition of MLCK by ML-7 resulted in a reduction of phosphorylation of myosin light chains and improved blood-brain-barrier integrity. Accordingly, ML-7 attenuated post-traumatic brain edema formation and intracranial hypertension 24 h after CCI. Prevention of brain edema formation did not translate into improved neurological outcome or reduced brain lesion. In conclusion, the results confirm that the endothelial contractile apparatus is activated by CCI and opens the endothelial barrier leading to vasogenic brain edema formation. Lack of neurological and histological improvement suggests that specific targeting of vasogenic brain edema at the endothelial level is not sufficient to limit secondary brain damage and has, therefore, to be combined with other potential neuroprotective strategies.
Inhaled corticosteroids may cause various adverse effects ranging from irritation to severe anaphylactic reactions and systemic contact dermatitis. We report a 43-year-old woman who developed sore throat, swelling of the lips and oral cavity and dysphagia, 2 weeks after the use of budesonide spray (Budefat) for treatment of bronchial asthma. The symptoms occurred with a delay of 3-4 h after the treatment x2 daily. There were no immediate reactions on prick and intracutaneous testing with the commercial product used by the patient. However, marked pruritic infiltration developed within 24 h, progressing to coalescing eczematous lesions over the following 2 days. In addition, severe oedema of the right upper eyelid was observed. On patch testing, budesonide was strongly positive at day 2 and 3 in a concentration ranging from 1% to 10 p.p.m. (in petrolatum). Other corticosteroids of group A, B, C and D were completely negative. Repeated open application tests with amcinonide and triamcinolone acetonide cream on the ventral aspect of the upper arm were negative. Bronchial exposure to alternative sprays containing beclomethasone dipropionate (group D), fluticasone-17- propionate (D) and dexamethasone-21-isonicotinate (C) was well tolerated. In conclusion, this case is instructive, because the symptoms which developed after a short period of corticosteroid inhalation suggested a type I allergy. Testing proved a severe type IV contact allergy restricted to budesonide (group B), without cross-reactions to major corticosteroids of other groups.
Commonly reported renal complications of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID) include acute renal failure and/or acute interstitial nephritis; in rare cases a nephrotic syndrome was also observed. In most cases this was due to the development of secondary membranous nephropathy. Following withdrawal of the drug the nephrotic syndrome usually resolved rapidly. We report a 65-year-old woman who developed a nephrotic syndrome and acute renal failure during 6 months of treatment with the NSAID diclofenac. Renal biopsy revealed both, membranous nephropathy and interstitial nephritis. After discontinuation of diclofenac and treatment with prednisone 1 mg/kg/day, furosemide 400 mg/day and simvastatin at a dose of 20 mg/day, creatinine clearance gradually increased and after 5 months of treatment complete remission of the nephrotic syndrome was observed.
We reviewed the frequency of acute coronary syndrome (ACS) in patients presenting to our emergency department (ED) with chest pain after methamphetamine (MAP) use during a 2-year interval. Thirty-three patients (25 males, 8 females; average age 40.4 +/- 8.0 years) with a total of 36 visits met study inclusion criteria: 1) non-traumatic chest pain, 2) positive MAP urine toxicology screen, 3) admission to "rule-out" myocardial infarction, 4) chest radiograph demonstrating no infiltrates. An ACS was diagnosed in 9 patients (25%). Three patients (8%) (2 ACS and 1 non-ACS) suffered cardiac complications (ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia, supraventricular tachycardia, respectively). Age, gender, cardiac risk factors, prior coronary artery disease, initial systolic blood pressure and heart rate did not differ significantly in the ACS and non-ACS groups. The initial and subsequent electrocardiograms (EKG) were normal in 1/9 (11%) patients with ACS and 16/27 (59%) without ACS (p < 0.05). Our findings suggest that: 1) ACS is common in patients hospitalized for chest pain after MAP use, and 2) the frequency of other potentially life-threatening cardiac complications is not negligible. A normal EKG lowers the likelihood of ACS, but an abnormal EKG is not helpful in distinguishing patients with or without ACS.
In a replication of an earlier study, 122 prenatally drug-exposed toddlers were assessed on four cognitive scales and rated by their caregivers on socialization, communication, and daily living skills. A significant number of the sample performed below age expectancy on the cognitive scales and on at least two of the three domains rated by caregivers.
Cutaneous adverse reactions are frequently described with anticonvulsant drugs, especially with aromatic drugs such as carbamazepine, phenytoin, and phenobarbital. Patch tests could be useful for diagnosing this clinical picture. Hypersensitivity to several anticonvulsant drugs is common but unpredictable.
15 patients from our allergy section, suffering from anticonvulsant skin allergy, were included. We describe their analitic alterations, responsible drugs, and anticonvulsants tolerated, the results of patch tests with anticonvulsant drugs (5% pet. and aq.), and skin biopsies wherever carried out.
23 adverse skin reactions with different anticonvulsant drugs occurred in the 15 patients: 13 resulted in fever and generalized cutaneous rash, 7 patients suffered only from cutaneous rash. There was one case of palpable purpura, one of erythema multiforme (target lesions), and another one suffered only cutaneous pruritus. Eosinophilia was found in 5 cases. Liver enzymes were elevated in 9 (7 of whom suffered fever and cutaneous rash). The responsible drugs were carbamazepine (8 adverse reactions), phenytoin (5), lamotrigine (4), phenobarbital (4), sodium valproate (1), and felbamate (1). The drugs tolerated were sodium valproate (6 patients), topiramate (4), vigabatrin (2), lamotrigine (1), clonazepam (1), and gabapentin (1). We found 12 positive patch tests: 6 with carbamazepine, 3 with phenytoin and, 1 each with lamotrigine, sodium valproate and phenobarbital. Skin biopsies were carried out in 5 patients, 4 of whom showed some characteristic findings of erythema multiforme (lymphocytic exocytosis, dyskeratotic cells, vacuolation of basal cells and pigmentary incontinence) and the other one showed a typical leucocytoclastic angitis.
The cutaneous adverse reactions more frequently seen in our allergy section because of anticonvulsant drugs are rashes with fever. Eosinophilia and elevated levels of liver enzymes are frequently associated. This clinical picture is called "anticonvulsant hypersensitivity syndrome." The drugs implicated most frequently are carbamazepine and phenytoin. Hypersensitivity to more than one drug was variable and unpredictable. The best-tolerated drug was sodium valproate, but it was not tolerated by a patient with phenytoin and carbamazepine hypersensitivity. Patch tests are useful for diagnosing anticonvulsant hypersensitivity. The most frequently findings in the skin biopsies were typical of erythema multiforme.
To investigate the change of JNK and c-Jun in lung injury associated with paraquat poisoning of rats.
46 Rats were randomly divided into four groups: PQ group (n = 12), control group (n = 10), PQ + ZnPP group (n = 12) and PQ + Hm group (n = 12). The rats were injected with 2% PQ (25 mg/kg, ip) in PQ group. ZnPP and Hemin (10 mg/kg, 10 mg/ml) were injected through inguinal vein before intraperitoneal administration of 2% paraquat in PQ + ZnPP group and PQ + Hm group respectively. The rats were injected NS (1 ml/kg, ip) in control group. HE dyeing of lung tissue and MDA content of plasma were used for estimating the injury of lung tissue. The content of CO in the lung tissue was determined. The expression of HO-1 mRNA of the lung tissue was detected by the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. The phosphorylation of JNK and c-Jun was evaluated by Western blot analysis.
The degree of lung injury in PQ group and PQ + ZnPP group was higher than that in control group and PQ + Hm group. But in PQ + Hm group the degree of lung injury was lower. The content of MDA in PQ group and PQ + ZnPP group was higher than that in control group and PQ + Hm group (P < 0.01). The content of MDA in PQ + Hm group was higher than that in control group (P < 0.05). The content of CO in lung tissue in PQ group, PQ + ZnPP group and PQ + Hm group was and (1.08 +/- 0.15 mg/L) respectively, and higher than that in control group (P < 0.01). The content of CO in lung tissue in PQ + Hm group was significantly higher than that in PQ + ZnPP group (P < 0.01). The expression of HO-1 and the phosphorylation of JNK (55.24 +/- 9.34, 38.15 +/- 10.71, 128.55 +/- 19.43) and c-Jun (23.16 +/- 4.85, 15.49 +/- 3.13, 44.89 +/- 10.37) were increased remarkably in PQ group, PQ + ZnPP group and PQ + Hm group. Those in PQ + Hm group were higher significantly than PQ group and PQ + ZnPP group (P < 0.01). Those in PQ + ZnPP group were lower than PQ group (P < 0.05).
The increase of CO of lung tissue in rats at the lung injury associated with paraquat poisoning reduces the acute lung injury of rats. The level of JNK and c-Jun phosphorylation increases obviously, especially after Hemin is utilized.
Carboplatin produces progressive damage to auditory nerve fibers, spiral ganglion neurons (SGNs) and inner hair cells (IHC) in the chinchilla cochlea but leaves outer hair cells intact. Within 1 h after injection, many afferent terminals beneath IHCs and myelin lamellae surrounding SGN processes are vacuolated. One day after injection, approximately half of the nerve fibers are missing. IHCs are intact at 2 days, but 20-30% are missing at 3 days. We studied the electrophysiological correlates of this progressive morphological damage by recording cochlear microphonics (CM), distortion product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAE), summating potentials (SP), compound action potentials (CAP) and midbrain evoked potentials (IC-EVP) before and 1 h, 12 h, 1 days, 3 days, 5 days, 7 days and 14 days after carboplatin injection (75 mg/kg IP) in four chinchillas. CM and DPOAEs tended to be unchanged or enhanced. CAP and SP showed little change until Day 3, when amplitudes were reduced in all animals and CAP thresholds were elevated by 9 dB; amplitudes declined further between Days 3 and 5 but not thereafter. IC-EVP amplitudes decreased on Days 3 or 5 but thresholds were relatively unchanged. All animals showed some recovery of IC-EVP between Days 7 and 14, including one with 70% enhancement on Day 14. The results indicate that threshold and amplitude measures fail to detect peripheral pathology until some relatively high threshold level of damage has been exceeded. This has important implications for monitoring peripheral damage and interpreting electrophysiological test results in animals and humans.
