Autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder of complex genetics, characterized by impairment in social interaction and communication, as well as repetitive behavior. Multiple lines of evidence, including alterations in levels of GABA and GABA receptors in autistic patients, indicate that the GABAergic system, which is responsible for synaptic inhibition in the adult brain, may be involved in autism. Previous studies in our lab indicated association of noncoding single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) within a GABA receptor subunit gene on chromosome 4, GABRA4, and interaction between SNPs in GABRA4 and GABRB1 (also on chromosome 4), within Caucasian autism patients. Studies of genetic variation in African-American autism families are rare. Analysis of 557 Caucasian and an independent population of 54 African-American families with 35 SNPs within GABRB1 and GABRA4 strengthened the evidence for involvement of GABRA4 in autism risk in Caucasians (rs17599165, p=0.0015; rs1912960, p=0.0073; and rs17599416, p=0.0040) and gave evidence of significant association in African-Americans (rs2280073, p=0.0287 and rs16859788, p=0.0253). The GABRA4 and GABRB1 interaction was also confirmed in the Caucasian dataset (most significant pair, rs1912960 and rs2351299; p=0.004). Analysis of the subset of families with a positive history of seizure activity in at least one autism patient revealed no association to GABRA4; however, three SNPs within GABRB1 showed significant allelic association; rs2351299 (p=0.0163), rs4482737 (p=0.0339), and rs3832300 (p=0.0253). These results confirmed our earlier findings, indicating GABRA4 and GABRB1 as genes contributing to autism susceptibility, extending the effect to multiple ethnic groups and suggesting seizures as a stratifying phenotype.
Due to the psychiatric comorbidity seen among cocaine addicts, it is of clinical interest to know the personality traits associated to the use of this substance.
Personality-profile comparative study of cocaine users and multiple-substance users obtained through the Multistage Personality Inventory. The study analyzed a sample of 30 cocaine users and 26 users of various substances who asked for treatment at a specialized institution.
Results show the same profile for both groups, with high 8-4-2 scales. According to the Multistage Personality Inventory, this profile corresponds to an antisocial personality disorder with depressive and schizoid traits.
The fact that there is a single profile for different drug users leads us to the hypothesis that there are addictive personality characteristics rather than specific traits related to the use of each substance. These subjects' personality characteristics suggest that the fear to relate to others could make it very difficult to establish a therapeutic link. This, in addition to the acting up tendency seen among users, constitutes a call of alert in terms of their likely abandonment of treatment. Further more, as they take impulses into actions, they build a barrier before words. This could be called acting up, doing instead of saying, which can become an obstacle for the appropriate development of the therapeutic process. The result must consider the size of the sample.
GYKI-23 107 is a new antiarrhythmic substance with local anaesthetic activity. Its specific pharmacological and cardiovascular effects were studied in vivo and its efficacy was compared with that of lidocaine and mexiletine. GYKI-23 107 was effective against chemically (aconitine and ouabain) induced arrhythmias after both parenteral and oral administration. In aconitine-induced arrhythmia in mice the new compound was more active than either mexiletine or lidocaine after i.p. treatment. In ouabain-induced arrhythmia in dogs, the ED50 of GYKI-23 107 was approximately half that of mexiletine after i.v. injection. GYKI-23 107 and mexiletine produced similar elevation of the fibrillation threshold in anaesthetized cats. After oral pretreatment, GYKI-23 107 showed protective effects against coronary ligation-induced arrhythmia in conscious rats. The circulatory side-effects of GYKI-23 107 in anaesthetized and conscious dogs and cats were milder then those of mexiletine. In the antiarrhythmic dose range there were no adverse cardiovascular actions.
Previous studies have suggested that oxidative stress may play a role in the pathophysiology of bipolar disorder (BD). Moreover, recent studies indicate that lithium and valproate exert neuroprotective effects against oxidative stress. We studied the effects of the mood stabilizers lithium and valproate on amphetamine-induced oxidative stress in an animal model of mania.
In the first model (reversal treatment), adult male Wistar rats received d-amphetamine or saline for 14 days, and between the 8th and 14th days, they were treated with lithium, valproate or saline. In the second model (prevention treatment), rats were pretreated with lithium, valproate or saline, and between the 8th and 14th days, they received d-amphetamine or saline. We assessed locomotor activity with the open-field task. We measured thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) and protein carbonyl formation, as parameters of oxidative stress, and superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT), the major antioxidant enzymes, in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus.
Lithium and valproate reversed (reversal treatment model) and prevented (prevention treatment model) amphetamine-induced hyperactivity and reversed and prevented amphetamine-induced TBARS formation in both experiments. However, the co-administration of lithium or valproate with amphetamine increased lipid peroxidation, depending on the brain region and treatment regimen. No changes in protein carbonyl formation were observed. SOD activity varied with different treatment regimens, and CAT activity increased when the index of lipid peroxidation was more robust.
Our findings suggest that lithium and valproate exert protective effects against amphetamine-induced oxidative stress in vivo, further supporting the hypothesis that oxidative stress may be associated with the pathophysiology of BD.
To identify potential tumor suppressor genes involved in lymphoma development, we generated allelotypes of 16 2',3'-dideoxycytidine (ddC and 31 1,3-butadiene (BD)-induced lymphomas from C57BL/6 x C3H/He F1 (hereafter called B6C3F1) mice. Two or more anonymous simple sequence length polymorphisms per autosome were examined for loss of heterozygosity (LOH). Allelic losses throughout the genome were generally infrequent, except for markers on chromosome 2, 4, 11 and 12. The highest frequency of allelic losses was observed on chromosome 12, with 38 and 39% in ddC and BD-induced lymphomas, respectively. The most prevalent LOH was localized to the distal region bounded by markers D12Mit263 and D12Nds2. No known tumor suppressor genes have been mapped to this region, and no obvious candidates could be identified, suggesting the presence of novel suppressor gene(s). LOH on chromosome 2 was observed in 31% of ddC-induced lymphomas but in only 3% (1/31) of BD-induced lymphomas, suggesting a ddC-specific genetic effect. Detailed analysis localized a potential tumor suppressor gene residing on the distal region of chromosome 2, between markers D2Mit147 and D2Mit148. Twenty-five % of ddC-induced and 23% of BD-induced lymphomas showed LOH on chromosome 4, and two discrete regions were identified. One of the regions includes the IFN gene cluster and is syntenic to human chromosome 9p2l-22. Candidate tumor suppressor genes, Mts1 (multiple tumor suppressor 1) and Mts2 have been mapped to this region. The second region is located on the distal part of chromosome 4, which is homologous to human chromosome 1p35-36, a region that is frequently deleted in various types of human tumors. Finally, 19% of ddC-induced and 29% of BD-induced lymphomas revealed LOH on chromosome 11 at the Acrb locus, which lies within 1 cM of p53, suggesting that the p53 tumor suppressor gene also plays a role in lymphomagenesis. These results suggest that multiple potential suppressor loci contribute to lymphoma development in B6C3F1 mice.
Lantana macrophylla Schauer (Verbenaceae) a medicinal plant used to treat menstrual and respiratory disorders was investigated. The ethanolic extract from leaves was subjected to phytochemical and biological analysis. BeWo and JEG-3 cells were used to evaluate human chorionic gonadotropin hormone (hCG) production, syncytial formation, Ca2+ uptake and Ca2+ handling protein expression. The cAMP production and the mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) phosphorylation were also investigated. Phytochemical analysis yield three triterpenes: oleanolic, ursolic and latonolic acid. Viability assay showed no significant cytotoxic effect. A significant decrease in hCG production but not a disturbance on BeWo cell fusion were observed. The cAMP pathway was not affected by L. macrophylla extract alone; although the cAMP production inducted by forskolin was diminished. Both ERK1/2 and p38 MAPKs pathways were activated. Increased intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) was observed after 24 h treatment in a time and dose dependent manner; however only L. macrophylla at 10 μg/mL induced increased [Ca2+]i after 10 min treatment. CaBP28K and PMCA1/4 were modulated at protein and mRNA levels, respectively. This study showed for the first time the effect of triterpenoids from L. macrophylla leaves on trophoblasts-like cells and indicates a potential toxic effect of this plant in the placental development and fetal growth.
Doxapram, routinely used in premature infants treated for apnea of prematurity unresponsive to methylxanthines, has been related to cardiac conduction disorders. This study was designed to evaluate doxapram cardiac and general tolerance and its relationship to drug plasma concentrations in very premature infants.
Forty infants (mean +/- SEM, 28.9 +/- 0.3 weeks of gestation) who were given intravenous doxapram, 0.5 to 1 mg/kg per hour, at 15.9 +/- 2.4 days of life were evaluated prospectively. Electrocardiograms were monitored before and during the first 3 days of treatment. QT interval corrected for heart rate (QTc) longer than 440 ms was regarded as clinically pertinent, given that it is considered a significant risk of conduction disorder leading to torsades de pointes and sudden death. Other side effects were recorded. Toxic plasma concentration of doxapram and ketodoxapram was set at >4 mg/L.
A statistically significant but moderate lengthening of QTc interval has been observed from 394 +/- 4 ms before doxapram to 409 +/- 4 ms at 48 and 72 hours of treatment (P =.0065). For 6 patients, QTc interval became longer than 440 ms without any other rhythm or conduction disorder. Digestive disorders were observed in 20 infants but 9 presented with concomitant septicemia. No relationship was found between presence or absence of adverse effects and drug plasma concentrations.
Our study enlightened the lengthening effect of doxapram on QTc interval in premature infants with a risk of exceeding the 440 ms threshold that is considered life-threatening. This finding emphasizes the need for electrocardiogram follow-up when using doxapram in neonates.
IL-6 abundance in amniotic fluid and uterine tissues increases in late gestation or with infection-associated preterm labor. A role in regulation of labor onset is suggested by observations that IL-6 increases expression of genes controlling prostaglandin synthesis and signaling in isolated uterine cells, but whether IL-6 is essential for normal parturition is unknown. To evaluate the physiological role of IL-6 in parturition in mice, we investigated the effect of Il6 null mutation on the timing of parturition and expression of genes associated with uterine activation. Il6 null mutant mice delivered 24 h later than wild-type mice, although circulating progesterone fell similarly in both genotypes during the prepartal period. Il6 null mutant mice were also refractory to low doses of lipopolysaccharide sufficient to induce preterm delivery in wild-type mice. The characteristic late-gestation elevation in uterine expression of Oxtr mRNA encoding oxytocin receptor, and peripartal increases in Ptgfr and Ptgs2 mRNAs regulating prostaglandin synthesis and signaling were delayed by 24 h in Il6 null mutant mice. Conversely, Ptger4 mRNA encoding the prostaglandin E receptor-4 was abnormally elevated in late-gestation in Il6 null mutant mice. Administration of recombinant IL-6 from d 11.5 postcoitum until term restored the normal timing of delivery and normalized Ptger4 mRNA expression in late gestation. We conclude that IL-6 has a key role in controlling the progression of events culminating in parturition and that it acts downstream of luteolysis in the uterus to regulate genes involved in the prostaglandin-mediated uterine activation cascade.
Certain muscles of the mouse and rat have been studied in order to assess how far a signal from denervated muscle can spread to elicit terminal sprouting from intact endplates. Denervation of the muscles surrounding the rat foot 4th lumbrical muscle caused no terminal sprouting in the 4th lumbrical itself. In the hemidenervated mouse gluteus maximus terminal sprouting was restricted to the central region of the muscle where innervated and denervated fibres intermingle. There was no enhancement of such sprouting if the underlying and closely apposed gluteus medius was simultaneously denervated. Hemidenervation of the mouse diaphragm and interscutularis, where intact endplates lie near to denervated muscle fibres, produced no terminal sprouting. Hemidenervation of the mouse platysma, where intact endplates often lie adjacent to denervated muscle fibres, similarly produced no significant response. However, all muscles were capable of producing extensive terminal sprouting in response to paralysis induced by botulinum toxin. The stimulus for terminal sprouting produced by an inactive muscle fibre must therefore be effective only on the fibre's own terminal or immediately adjacent terminals.
To investigate the effects of caspase-3 siRNA on the neurobehavior of mice exposed to aluminum.
Male KunMing mice (3 months old) were randomly divided into 4 groups by weight:blank control group (4 microl normal saline), Al group (4 microl 0.5% AlCl3), Al plus empty vector group(3 microl 0.5% AlCl3 plus control siRNA expression vector)and Al plus RNAi group (3 microl 0.5% AlCl3 plus targeted siRNA expression vector). All groups were treated by lateral cerebral ventricle micro-injection for 5 days. The neurobehavior was tested by the Morris water maze test, Open-field and Step-down tests for all treated mice. Pathological changes in hippocampus was observed by electron microscopy, the caspase-3 gene expression levels were detected using RT-PCR.
The results of Step-down test indicated that as compared with control group, the latent time [LT, (44.67 +/- 10.60) s] in A1 group decreased significantly, the error number (3.63 +/- 0.52) in Al group increased significantly and the LT [(68.00 +/- 14.70) s] in Al plus empty vector group decreased significantly (P<0.05). the LT [(239.50 +/- 19.36) s] in Al plus RNAi group increased significantly and the error number in Al plus RNAi group decreased significantly, as compared with Al group (P<0.05). The results of Morris water maze test showed that as compared with control group, the LT in Al group increased significantly, and residence time in the former platform quadrant decreased significantly and the LT in Al plus empty vector group increased significantly (P<0.05). The LT in Al plus RNAi group was significantly longer than that in Al group (P<0.05). The results of open-field test demonstrated that as compared with control group, the time in the central grid in Al group and Al plus empty vector group increased significantly, the rearing number and the modification number in Al group and Al plus empty vector group decreased significantly (P< 0.05). As compared with Al group, the time in the central grid in Al plus RNAi group decreased, the inter-cell number, the rearing number and the modification number increased significantly (P<0.05). The results of electron microscopic examination exhibited that a slight change of hippocampal cells appeared in control group, the obvious pathological changes of hippocampal cells appeared in Al group and Al plus empty vector group, but the pathological changes of hippocampal cells in Al plus RNAi group significantly reduced as compared with Al group. The results of thionin staining indicated that the layers of neural cells of hippocampal CA3 were more clear and there was not obvious denatured injury of neural cells of hippocampal CA3 in control group. The number and Nissl body color of neural cells of hippocampal CA3 in Al group and Al plus empty vector group decreased significantly. After RNA interference, the number and Nissl body color of neural cells of hippocampal CA3 increased obviously. The expression levels of caspase-3 gene in Al group and Al plus empty vector group were 2.24 +/- 0.57 and 2.28 +/- 0.33, respectively, which were significantly higher than that (1.00 +/- 0.00) in control group (P<0.05). The expression level of caspase-3 gene in Al plus RNAi group was 0.44 +/- 0.08, which was significantly lower than those in Al group and control group (P<0.05).
Aluminum can decrease the learning and memorizing ability, and inhibited the activity or exploration function of mice. It is suggested that Caspase-3 siRNA may reduce the neurotoxicity induced by aluminum to a certain extent.
Cocaine-related fatalities can pose forensic challenges, particularly when accompanied by excited delirium (ED) syndrome and interventions by law enforcement and medical personnel. A recent report concluded that elevated heat shock protein 70 (HSP70) expression in autopsy brain samples constitutes a reliable forensic biomarker for the identification of ED as a cause of death. The present study quantified the abundance of both HSPA1A and HSPA1B gene (HSP70-encoding) transcripts in midbrain specimens from a series of cocaine-related fatalities and matched drug-free control subjects. HSP70 expression was increased significantly in cocaine abusers as a group compared to control subjects, irrespective of the presence or absence of ED. Furthermore, elevated HSP70 expression was predictive of a period of survival between cocaine use and death that included medical and/or police intervention. The present data do not support the assertion that HSP70 expression is a reliable brain biomarker for identifying ED as a cause of death.
Paclitaxel chemotherapy frequently induces neuropathic pain during and often persisting after therapy. The mechanisms responsible for this pain are unknown. Using a rat model of paclitaxel-induced painful peripheral neuropathy, we have performed studies to search for peripheral nerve pathology. Paclitaxel-induced mechano-allodynia and mechano-hyperalgesia were evident after a short delay, peaked at day 27 and finally resolved on day 155. Paclitaxel- and vehicle-treated rats were perfused on days 7, 27 and 160. Portions of saphenous nerves were processed for electron microscopy. There was no evidence of paclitaxel-induced degeneration or regeneration as myelin structure was normal and the number/density of myelinated axons and C-fibres was unaltered by paclitaxel treatment at any time point. In addition, the prevalence of ATF3-positive dorsal root ganglia cells was normal in paclitaxel-treated animals. With one exception, at day 160 in myelinated axons, total microtubule densities were also unaffected by paclitaxel both in C-fibres and myelinated axons. C-fibres were significantly swollen following paclitaxel at days 7 and 27 compared to vehicle. The most striking finding was significant increases in the prevalence of atypical (swollen and vacuolated) mitochondria in both C-fibres (1.6- to 2.3-fold) and myelinated axons (2.4- to 2.6-fold) of paclitaxel-treated nerves at days 7 and 27. Comparable to the pain behaviour, these mitochondrial changes had resolved by day 160. Our data do not support a causal role for axonal degeneration or dysfunction of axonal microtubules in paclitaxel-induced pain. Instead, our data suggest that a paclitaxel-induced abnormality in axonal mitochondria of sensory nerves contributes to paclitaxel-induced pain.
A clear cell adenocarcinoma of the vaginal remnant in a diethylstilbestrol (DES)-exposed woman developed 20 years after anterior exenteration for a histologically similar stage II vaginal cancer. Arguments favoring a new primary cancer over a late recurrence are presented. This case probably represents the first report of a second primary vaginal clear cell cancer after DES exposure in utero. The implications of a second vaginal primary and the need for long-term surveillance in DES-exposed women are discussed.
(S)-Emopamil is a calcium channel blocker of the phenylalkylamine class, having potent serotonin S2 antagonistic properties and high blood-brain barrier penetrability. Previous studies have documented cerebroprotective effect in animal models of both focal and global ischemia. The present study was undertaken to define the postischemic "window" of therapeutic efficacy for this agent. Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to permanent proximal middle cerebral artery occlusion, combined with an initial 30-minute period of halothane-induced hypotension (50 mm Hg). (S)-Emopamil (20 mg/kg) was administered intraperitoneally either 20-30 minutes prior to middle cerebral artery occlusion or 1 hour, 2 hours, or 3 hours following occlusion. Treated groups received a second similar dose 2.5 hours later and twice daily for 2 days thereafter. Brains were perfusion-fixed on the third day. Planimetric analysis of hemotoxylin and eosin-stained coronal brain sections documented a cortical infarct averaging 72.9 +/- 33.3 mm3 (mean +/- SD) in untreated rats. Cortical infarct volume was reduced by 48% (to 37.6 +/- 27.6 mm3) when therapy was initiated 1 hour postischemia (p less than 0.05). When treatment was deferred to 2 hours postichemia, mean cortical infarct volume was reduced by 34%, but this difference did not attain statistical significance. Infarct volume in rats with treatment initiated at 3 hours postischemia was indistinguishable from that in controls. Striatal infarct volume was similar in all groups. These results document a postischemic therapeutic window of cerebroprotection for (S)-emopamil lying between 1 and 2 hours after middle cerebral artery occlusion.
Prostaglandins (PG) derived from COX-1 are essential for the maintenance of mucosal integrity but COX-2 isoform synthesizes PG at a site of inflammation. Recently, COX-2 mRNA expression was demonstrated at the ulcer edge during healing of chronic gastric ulcers but the role for expression of COX-2 and its products such as PGE(2) and cytokines including interleukin (IL-1beta) and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) in ulcer healing remains unknown. In this study, Wistar rats with gastric ulcers produced by serosal application of acetic acid (ulcer area 28 mm(2)) received daily treatment either with: (1) vehicle (saline); (2) NS-398 (10 mg/kg-d i.g.) and Vioxx (5 mg/kg-d i.g.), both, highly specific COX-2 inhibitors; (3) meloxicam (5 mg/kg-d i.g.), a preferential inhibitor of COX-2; (4) resveratrol (10 mg/kg-d i.g.), a specific COX-1 inhibitor; (5) indomethacin (5 mg/kg-d i.g); and (6) aspirin (ASA; 50 mg/kg-d i.g.), non-selective inhibitors of both COX-1 and COX-2. At day 3, 7, and 14 after ulcer induction, the animals were sacrificed and the area of gastric ulcers was determined by planimetry and histology, gastric blood flow (GBF) at ulcer base and margin was measured by H(2) clearance technique, and blood was withdrawn for measurement of plasma IL-1beta and TNFalpha levels. The mucosal biopsy samples were taken for the determination of PGE(2) generation by RIA and expression of COX-1, COX-2, IL-1beta, and TNFalpha mRNA by RT-PCR. In vehicle-treated rats, gastric ulcers healed progressively and at day 14 the healing was completed, accompanied by a significant rise in the GBF at ulcer margin. The IL-1beta, TNFalpha, and COX-1 mRNA were detected in intact and ulcerated gastric mucosa, whereas COX-2 mRNA were upregulated only in ulcerated mucosa with peak observed at day 3 after ulcer induction. The plasma IL-1beta level was significantly increased at day 3 and 7 but then declined at day 14 to that measured in vehicle-controls. Indomethacin and ASA, which suppressed PGE(2) generation both in the non-ulcerated and ulcerated gastric mucosa, significantly delayed the rate of ulcer healing and this was accompanied by the fall in GBF at ulcer margin and further elevation of plasma IL-1beta and TNFalpha levels, which was sustained up to the end of the study. Treatment with NS-398 and Vioxx, which caused only a moderate decrease in the PGE(2) generation in the non-ulcerated gastric mucosa, delayed ulcer healing and attenuated significantly the GBF at ulcer margin and PGE(2) generation in the ulcerated tissue, while raising the plasma IL-1beta and TNFalpha similarly to those observed in indomethacin- and ASA-treated rats. Resveratrol, which suppressed the PGE(2) generation in both non-ulcerated and ulcerated gastric mucosa, prolonged ulcer healing and this was accompanied by the fall in the GBF at the ulcer margin and a significant increase in plasma IL-1beta and TNFalpha levels. We conclude that (1) classic NSAID delay ulcer healing due to suppression of endogenous PG, impairment in GBF at ulcer area, and excessive cytokine expression and release, and (2) this deleterious effect of classic NSAID on the healing of pre-existing ulcers can be reproduced by selective COX-1 and COX-2 inhibitors, suggesting that both COX isoforms are important sources of PG that appear to contribute to ulcer healing.
Amiodarone is an effective antiarrhythmic agent whose utility is limited by many side-effects, the most problematic being pneumonitis. The pulmonary toxicity of amiodarone is thought to result from direct injury related to the intracellular accumulation of phospholipid and T cell-mediated hypersensitivity pneumonitis. The clinical and radiographic features of amiodarone-induced pulmonary toxicity are characteristic but nonspecific. The diagnosis depends on exclusion of other entities, such as heart failure, infection, and malignancy. While withdrawal of amiodarone leads to clinical improvement in majority of cases, this is not always possible or advisable. Dose reduction or concomitant steroid therapy may have a role in selected patients.
Iprodione (C13H13Cl2N3O3) is a broad spectrum dicarboximide fungicide used on a wide variety of crop diseases. It is used on vegetables, ornamentals, pome and stone fruit, root crops, cotton and sunflowers, to control a variety of fungal pests. Iprodione inhibits the germination of spores and the growth of the fungal mycelium. Experimental studies with mice have indicated that exposure to iprodione at dose levels 5 to 15 folds greater than the LOAEL for liver injury, induces microsomal enzyme activities, hepatocyte proliferation, hepatomegaly, centrilobular hypertrophy, diffuse hypertrophy, and an increase in lauric acid hydroxylation. Currently, there is no toxicological data available on human health effects associated with exposure to iprodione. In this research, we performed the MTT Assay for cell viability to assess the cytotoxicity of iprodione, and the CAT-Tox (L) assay to measure the induction of stress genes in thirteen recombinant cell lines generated from human liver carcinoma cells (HepG2). The cytotoxicity data indicated a strong concentration-response relationship with regard to iprodione toxicity. The percentages of cell viability were 100 +/- 0%, 128.0 +/- 41.4%, 97.5 +/- 37.7%, 70.1 +/- 35.4%, 33.5 +/- 16.1%, and 5.1 +/- 3.7% in 0, 31.3, 62.5, 125, 250, and 500 microg/mL, respectively. The LC50 was 208.3 +/- 83.3 microg/mL. Data obtained from the CAT-Tox (L) assay showed that iprodione is able to induce a significant number of stress genes in HepG2 cells. At 250 ug/mL exposure, the induction levels were 1.2 +/- 0.4, 50.1 +/- 17.8, 3.9 +/- 1.2, 16.8 +/- 7.2, 10.7 +/- 0.7, 1.8 +/- 0, 26.3 +/- 10.0, 7.2 +/- 2.4, 1.8 +/- 0.0, 6.8 +/- 1.3, 6.7 +/- 0.5, and 4.3 +/- 1.8 for CYP1A1, GSTYa, XRE, HMTIIA, c-fos, NF-kBRE, HSP70, CRE, RARE, GADD153, GADD45, and GRP78, respectively. These results indicate that the metabolism of iprodione involves Phase II biotransformation in the liver (XRE, GSTYa), and that this chemical has the potential to cause cell proliferation and/or inflammatory reactions (c-fos, NF-kB), proteotoxic effects (HSP70, GRP78), metabolic disruption (CRE), and DNA damage (GADD45, GADD153).
Incidence of melanoma continues to rise, and a better understanding of its genetics will be critical to improve diagnosis and develop new treatments. Here, we search for novel melanoma-specific genes that may serve as biomarkers and therapeutic targets by using an in vitro genetic screen. One identified cDNA encoded TROY, a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily (TNFRSF). TROY is widely expressed during embryogenesis, but in adults expression is restricted to hair follicles and brain. However, TROY had never been associated with melanoma, and it was selected for further study. First we show that expression in melanoma is specific by semiquantitative RT-PCR analysis of a large panel of established tumor cell lines. Next, specificity of expression was evaluated by immunohistochemistry analysis of primary cell cultures and patient tissues. TROY is expressed in 2/2 primary melanoma cells and 45/45 melanoma tissue samples (p < 0.0001). With the exception of sebaceous glands, TROY is not expressed in normal skin biopsies (p < 0.0001) or primary skin cell cultures that contain keratinocytes and epidermal melanocytes, nor is it expressed in other skin tumor cells (p < 0.0001). Finally, we show that TROY regulates melanoma growth, because replication of melanoma cells with reduced TROY levels through treatment with short-interfering RNA was significantly decreased relative to control cells (p < 0.004). In summary, TROY is the first TNFRSF member that is a biomarker for melanoma. TROY also presents a potentially novel cell surface signaling target for inhibitors, cell and/or antibody-based immunotherapies.
The present study demonstrates the anti-tumor effects of combined supplementations of dietary fish oil (Maxepa) and 1alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D(3) (vitamin D(3)) on 7,12-dimethylbenz(alpha)anthracene (DMBA)-induced rat mammary carcinogenesis. Female Sprague-Dawley rats at 50 days of age were treated with 7,12-dimethylbenz(alpha)anthracene (DMBA; 0.5mg/100g body weight) by a single tail vein injection in an oil emulsion. Both fish oil (rich in EPA and DHA) and vitamin D(3) were administered orally at a dose of 0.5 ml/day/rat and 0.3 microg/100 microL propylene glycol twice a week respectively and continued to 35 weeks after DMBA administration. Fish oil in combination with vitamin D(3) resulted in a significant reduction in incidence, multiplicity and volume of mammary tumors. These supplementation also inhibited DMBA-induced mammary 7-methylguanine DNA adducts formation, which was measured by HPLC-fluorescence assay (at four sequential time points; ANOVA, F=42.56, P<0.0001). Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that the effect of fish oil and vitamin D(3) occurred through suppression of cell proliferation (BrdU-LI: P<0.0001). Fish oil and vitamin D(3) together also reduced the mRNA expression of iNOS (84%, P<0.05). In view of their natural availability, non-toxicity and acceptability; combined supplementation of fish oil and vitamin D(3) might be effective for chemoprevention of mammary carcinogenesis.
Phenolphthalein (800 and 2400 mg/kg/day by gavage and 2400 mg/kg/day by diet) and bisacodyl (800-500, 4000-2000, and 8000 mg/kg/day by gavage) were administered to 15 male and 15 female and 20 male and 20 female p53(+/-) mice respectively for 26 weeks to investigate the potential carcinogenicity of each compound. Toxicokinetic analyses confirmed systemic exposure. p-Cresidine was administered by gavage (400 mg/kg/day) and served as the positive control agent in each study. Dietary phenolphthalein reduced survival in both sexes and early deaths were attributed to thymic lymphoma. No bisacodyl-related neoplasms were observed. Regardless of route of administration to p53(+/-) mice, phenolphthalein but not bisacodyl was unequivocally genotoxic, causing increased micronuclei in polychromatic erythrocytes. In the Syrian hamster embryo (SHE) cell transformation assay, phenolphthalein caused increases in morphologically transformed colonies, thereby corroborating NTP's earlier reports, showing phenolophthalein has potential carcinogenic activity. Bisacodyl was negative in the SHE assay. Results of these experiments confirm an earlier demonstration that dietary phenolphthalein causes thymic lymphoma in p53(+/-) mice and show that (1) phenolphthalein causes qualitatively identical results in this transgenic model regardless of route of oral administration, (2) phenolphthalein shows evidence of micronucleus induction in p53(+/-) mice for up to 26 weeks, (3) phenolphthalein induced transformations in the in vitro SHE assay, and (4) bisacodyl in p53(+/-) mice induces neither drug-related neoplasm, nor micronuclei in polychromatic erythrocytes, and did not induce transformations in the in vitro SHE assay.
Urinary kidney injury molecule 1 is a recently discovered early biomarker for renal damage that has been proven to be correlated to urinary cadmium in rats. However, so far the association between urinary cadmium and kidney injury molecule 1 in humans after long-term, low-dose cadmium exposure has not been studied.
We collected urine and blood samples from 153 non-smoking men and women aged 60+, living in an area with moderate cadmium pollution from a non-ferrous metal plant for a significant period. Urinary cadmium and urinary kidney injury molecule 1 as well as other renal biomarkers (alpha1-microglobulin, beta2-microglobulin, blood urea nitrogen, urinary proteins and microalbumin) were assessed.
Both before (r = 0.20; p = 0.01) and after (partial r = 0.32; p < 0.0001) adjustment for creatinine, age, sex, past smoking, socio-economic status and body mass index, urinary kidney injury molecule 1 correlated with urinary cadmium concentrations. No significant association was found between the other studied renal biomarkers and urinary cadmium.
We showed that urinary kidney injury molecule 1 levels are positively correlated with urinary cadmium concentration in an elderly population after long-term, low-dose exposure to cadmium, while other classical markers do not show an association. Therefore, urinary kidney injury molecule 1 might be considered as a biomarker for early-stage metal-induced kidney injury by cadmium.
We report on a patient who presented with a Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia. Intravenous pentamidine (4 mg/kg/day) was given for 14 days without the occurrence of adverse effects. During this treatment, the mean (+/- SD) serum pentamidine trough concentration was 94 +/- 16 ng/ml. Three days later, the patient was admitted because of fever, and pentamidine (4 mg/kg/day) was again started. Fasting hypoglycemia and azotemia then occurred; the mean serum trough pentamidine level was 190 +/- 10 ng/ml during this week of treatment. We conclude that the occurrence of hypoglycemia and azotemia during pentamidine therapy may not be idiosyncrasic, but seemed associated in our patient with high levels of serum pentamidine.
In a patient with carmofur-induced leukoencephalopathy with a fairly good prognosis, serial MR images demonstrated reversible abnormal signal intensity areas located in the cerebral white matter surrounding the lateral ventricles. These findings suggested that the edematous change together with demyelination of the white matter is important in the pathogenesis underlying carmofur-induced leukoencephalopathy.
Manufactured multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNT) have attracted a great deal of attention due to their unique structural, chemical, and physical characteristics. This study utilized a 1x 6h inhalation exposure protocol followed by a 3 months post-exposure period. Wistar rats were nose-only exposed to 11 and 241 mg/m(3) MWCNT (Baytubes) of respirable, solid aerosol. MWCNT depleted of residual metals (depletion from 0.53% to 0.12% Co) were compared at 11 mg/m(3). Rats similarly exposed to air and alpha-quartz (248 mg/m(3)) served as negative and positive controls, respectively. Pulmonary response was characterized by bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL), lung histopathology, organ burden determinations, and gene expression analyses of lung homogenates with emphasis on extracellular matrix components. This acute inhalation exposure protocol was suitable to characterize and distinguish acute deposition-related effects from the long-term sequelae of retained MWCNT. Subtle differences in acute pulmonary toxic potency due to differences in metal contaminations could be revealed by this protocol. Consistent with the long retention halftime of poorly soluble particles, even short-term inhalation studies may require post-exposure periods of at least 3 months to reveal MWCNT-specific dispositional and toxicological characteristics relative to alpha-quartz. Distinct differences in the time course of pulmonary inflammation of MWCNT and alpha-quartz could be demonstrated. Transcriptomics proved to be a useful tool to analyze the etiopathology of collagen detected by BAL and histopathology. In summary, the pulmonary inflammogenicity following exposure to MWCNT was concentration-dependent with evidence of regression over time. Conversely, alpha-quartz resulted in progressive changes over time. The time course of pulmonary inflammation associated with retained MWCNT was independent on the concentration of residual cobalt. This supports the conclusion that the predominant response to inhaled MWCNT is principally related to the assemblage structure and not catalyst impurities (if in the range of < or = 0.5%).
The nerve agent VX is most likely to enter the body via liquid contamination of the skin. After percutaneous exposure, the slow uptake into the blood, and its slow elimination result in toxic levels in plasma for a period of several hours. Consequently, this has implications for the development of toxic signs and for treatment onset. In the present study, clinical signs, toxicokinetics and effects on respiration, electroencephalogram and heart rate were investigated in hairless guinea pigs after percutaneous exposure to 500 microg/kg VX. We found that full inhibition of AChE and partial inhibition of BuChE in blood were accompanied by the onset of clinical signs, reflected by a decline in respiratory minute volume, bronchoconstriction and a decrease in heart rate. Furthermore, we investigated the therapeutic efficacy of a single dose of atropine, obidoxime and diazepam, administered at appearance of first clinical signs, versus that of repetitive dosing of these drugs on the reappearance of signs. A single shot treatment extended the period to detrimental physiological decline and death for several hours, whereas repetitive administration remained effective as long as treatment was continued. In conclusion, percutaneous VX poisoning showed to be effectively treatable when diagnosed on time and when continued over the entire period of time during which VX, in case of ineffective decontamination, penetrates the skin.
In a previous 13-week study of o-nitrotoluene, a chemical-related increase in liver weight, hepatocellular vacuolization, and oval cell hyperplasia in male F344 rats was reported. In this study, the occurrence and change in number and size of hepatic foci in male F344 rats fed a diet containing 5000 ppm o-nitrotoluene or a control diet for 13 weeks, 26 weeks, and 13 weeks followed by a 13-week recovery period (26-week stop-exposure) were evaluated. The livers were stained immunohistochemically for placental glutathione S-transferase (PGST), a marker of hepatic preneoplasia, and quantified stereologically using computer-assisted image analysis. Exposure to o-nitrotoluene induced PGST-positive (PGST-positive (PGST+) liver foci in all treatment groups. The 26-week continuous-exposure group produced more PGST+ liver foci (961.4 foci/cm3 versus 445.4 foci/cm3) and greater mean focus volume (4.34 microns3 versus 1.34 microns3) than the 13-week continuous-exposure group. In the 26-week stop-exposure group, there were fewer PGST+ liver foci (181.4 foci/cm3) than observed with continuous exposure at 13 weeks or 26 weeks; however, the mean focal volume in the stop-exposure group at 26 weeks (5.33 microns3) was greater than that at 13 weeks (1.34 microns3) or 26 weeks of continuous exposure (4.34 microns3). These findings demonstrate that (1) PGST+ foci are observed after only 13 weeks of exposure to o-nitrotoluene; (2) the number and size of foci increase with continued exposure for 26 weeks; and (3) although the number of PGST+ foci decreases with time after chemical exposure is discontinued, many PGST+ foci do not regress but increase in size during the recovery of 13 weeks. The persistence and increase in size of these foci, even in the absence of chemical exposure, suggest the potential for a hepatocarcinogenic effect in long-term studies for o-nitrotoluene.
