Type 2 diabetes has been related to a decrease of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) content. In this study, we show increased expression of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha (PPARalpha) and its target genes involved in fatty acid metabolism in skeletal muscle of Zucker Diabetic Fatty (ZDF) (fa/fa) rats. In contrast, the mRNA levels of genes involved in glucose transport and utilization (GLUT4 and phosphofructokinase) were decreased, whereas the expression of pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 4 (PDK-4), which suppresses glucose oxidation, was increased. The shift from glucose to fatty acids as the source of energy in skeletal muscle of ZDF rats was accompanied by a reduction of subunit 1 of complex I (NADH dehydrogenase subunit 1, ND1) and subunit II of complex IV (cytochrome c oxidase II, COII), two genes of the electronic transport chain encoded by mtDNA. The transcript levels of PPARgamma Coactivator 1 (PGC-1) showed a significant reduction. Treatment with troglitazone (30 mg/kg/day) for 15 days reduced insulin values and reversed the increase in PDK-4 mRNA levels, suggesting improved insulin sensitivity. In addition, troglitazone treatment restored ND1 and PGC-1 expression in skeletal muscle. These results suggest that troglitazone may avoid mitochondrial metabolic derangement during the development of diabetes mellitus 2 in skeletal muscle.
In a double-blind trial comparing two thrombolytic agents as treatment for acute myocardial infarction, we randomized 270 consecutive patients an average (+/- SD) of 2.5 +/- 0.6 hours after the onset of chest pain from a first myocardial infarction--135 to receive intravenous streptokinase (1.5 million units over 30 minutes) and 135 to receive intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) (100 mg over three hours). The primary end point was left ventricular function as assessed by cineangiography performed three weeks after infarction. The effects of the two agents on left ventricular function were similar. The ejection fraction was identical (58 +/- 12 percent) in both groups. The end-systolic volume was 61 +/- 29 ml in the streptokinase group and 66 +/- 31 ml in the rt-PA group (P not significant). Patency rates at three weeks for the infarct-related artery were also similar (75 percent in the streptokinase group and 76 percent in the rt-PA group). Reinfarction rates at 30 days were the same (5 percent) in both groups. One patient had a fatal intracerebral hemorrhage 13 hours after receiving rt-PA, and another had a fatal cerebellar hemorrhage 21 hours after receiving rt-PA for reinfarction nine days after treatment with streptokinase. An intention-to-treat analysis revealed that mortality at 30 days was 3.7 percent in the rt-PA group as compared with 7.4 percent in the streptokinase group (P greater than 0.2). Follow-up for a mean of 9.0 months revealed no significant difference in survival; we observed 12 deaths (8.9 percent) in the streptokinase group and 8 deaths (5.9 percent) in the rt-PA group (P = 0.34). We conclude that rt-PA and streptokinase, in the doses given, have similar effects on left ventricular function after a first myocardial infarction. Because of the small number of deaths, it is not possible to determine whether their effects on mortality are similar.
The standard assay for the detection of chromium sensitization, the patch test, does not allow discrimination between patients with and without clinical symptoms of allergy.
The aim of this study was to prove whether cellular in vitro tests are predictive of chromium allergy.
Chromium-sensitized volunteers with and without clinically manifest allergy and non-sensitized healthy controls (n=37, 19, and 26, respectively) were analysed by cellular in vitro methods using tri- and hexavalent chromium (chromium chloride and potassium dichromate) as stimuli. The results were correlated with clinical and anamnestic data.
Sensitized individuals with an allergy displayed significantly higher lymphocyte transformation test (LTT) responses than sensitized volunteers without allergy and controls (P<0.05 and P<0.01, respectively). 12.5 microg/mL of chromium chloride and 50 ng/mL of potassium dichromate were found to be optimal to discriminate between sensitized individuals with and without allergy. Combining the results of chromium chloride and potassium dichromate LTT, a positive reaction to at least one of the stimuli was highly predictive of allergy [sensitization with vs. without allergy: Odds ratio (OR)=6.4, P=0.004; sensitization with allergy vs. controls: OR=11.5, P<0.0001]. On the contrary, IFN-gamma, IL-2, IL-4, IL-10, and IL-12 production to the ELISpot, patch test results, sensitization against other metals, and atopy score did not significantly discriminate between sensitization with and without allergy. However, IFN-gamma responses towards chromium chloride were significantly correlated with the strength of patch test reactivity (r=0.49, P=0.002). By IFN-gamma ELISpot, the average precursor cell frequency reactive to trivalent chromium could be defined as 26, 15, and 11 : 10(6) in volunteers with sensitization and allergy, with sensitization without allergy, and controls, respectively.
In contrast to the patch test, the LTT appears to be a method that is predictive of chromium allergy.
The efficacy of conventional treatment (CT) in 20 controls was compared to that of heparin chronotherapy (HC) in 40 patients with chronic pyelonephritis. The results were indicative of the advantages of HC when heparin was given at the time of maximal clotting activity and platelet aggregation over CT when heparin daily dose was divided into 4 portions 5000 U each. A persistent clinical and laboratory effect with a pronounced trend to normalization of chronostructure of hemocoagulation circadian rhythms became evident on day 19 in patients on CT and on day 14 on HC. Side effects in CT appeared less frequent.
A functional promoter variant of the gene encoding the MET receptor tyrosine kinase alters SP1 and SUB1 transcription factor binding, and is associated with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Recent analyses of postmortem cerebral cortex from ASD patients revealed altered expression of MET protein and three transcripts encoding proteins that regulate MET signaling, hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), urokinase plasminogen activator receptor (PLAUR) and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (SERPINE1). To address potential risk conferred by multiple genes in the MET signaling pathway, we screened all exons and 5' promoter regions for variants in the five genes encoding proteins that regulate MET expression and activity. Identified variants were genotyped in 664 families (2,712 individuals including 1,228 with ASD) and 312 unrelated controls. Replicating our initial findings, family-based association test (FBAT) analyses demonstrated that the MET promoter variant rs1858830 C allele was associated with ASD in 101 new families (P=0.033). Two other genes in the MET signaling pathway also may confer risk. A haplotype of the SERPINE1 gene exhibited significant association. In addition, the PLAUR promoter variant rs344781 T allele was associated with ASD by both FBAT (P=0.006) and case-control analyses (P=0.007). The PLAUR promoter rs344781 relative risk was 1.93 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.12-3.31) for genotype TT and 2.42 (95% CI: 1.38-4.25) for genotype CT compared to genotype CC. Gene-gene interaction analyses suggested a significant interaction between MET and PLAUR. These data further support our hypothesis that genetic susceptibility impacting multiple components of the MET signaling pathway contributes to ASD risk.
Methylphenidate (MP) and amphetamine, which are the mainstay for the treatment of ADHD, have raised concerns because of their reinforcing effects and the fear that their chronic use during childhood or adolescence could induce changes in the brain that could facilitate drug abuse in adulthood.
Here we measured the effects of chronic treatment (8 months) with oral MP (1 or 2 mg/kg), which was initiated in periadolescent rats (postnatal day 30). Following this treatment, rats were tested on cocaine self-administration. In addition at 2 and 8 months of treatment we measured dopamine D2 receptor (D2R) availability in the striatum using [(11)C]raclopride microPET (microPET) imaging.
Animals treated for 8 months with 2 mg/kg of MP showed significantly reduced rates of cocaine self-administration at adulthood than vehicle treated rats. D2R availability in the striatum was significantly lower in rats after 2 months of treatment with MP (1 and 2 mg/kg) but significantly higher after 8 months of MP treatment than in the vehicle treated rats. In vehicle treated rats D2R availability decreased with age whereas it increased in rats treated with MP. Because low D2R levels in the striatum are associated with a propensity for self-administration of drugs both in laboratory animals and in humans, this effect could underlie the lower rates of cocaine self-administration observed in the rats given 8 months of treatment with MP.
Eight month treatment with oral MP beginning in adolescence decreased cocaine-self administration (1 mg/kg) during adulthood which could reflect the increases in D2R availability observed at this life stage since D2R increases are associated with reduced propensity for cocaine self administration. In contrast, two month treatment with MP started also at adolescence decreased D2R availability, which could raise concern that at this life stage short treatments could possibly increase vulnerability to drug abuse during adulthood. These findings indicate that MP effects on D2R expression in the striatum are sensitive not only to length of treatment but also to the developmental stage at which treatment is given. Future studies evaluating the effects of different lengths of treatment on drug self-administration are required to assess optimal duration of treatment regimes to minimize adverse effects on the propensity for drug self administration.
Self-resolving inflammatory exudates and lipid mediator metabolomics recently uncovered a new family of potent anti-inflammatory and proresolving mediators biosynthesized by macrophages (MΦs), denoted maresins. Here we determined that maresin 1 (MaR1) produced by human MΦs from endogenous docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) matched synthetic 7R,14S-dihydroxydocosa-4Z,8E,10E,12Z,16Z,19Z-hexaenoic acid. The MaR1 alcohol groups and Z/E geometry of conjugated double bonds were matched using isomers prepared by total organic synthesis. MaR1's potent defining actions were confirmed with synthetic MaR1, i.e., limiting polymorphonuclear neutrophil (PMN) infiltration in murine peritonitis (ng/mouse range) as well as enhancing human macrophage uptake of apoptotic PMNs. At 1 nM, MaR1 was slightly more potent than resolvin D1 in stimulating human MΦ efferocytosis, an action not shared by leukotriene B(4). MaR1 also accelerated surgical regeneration in planaria, increasing the rate of head reappearance. On injury of planaria, MaR1 was biosynthesized from deuterium-labeled (d(5))-DHA that was blocked with lipoxygenase (LOX) inhibitor. MaR1 dose-dependently inhibited TRPV1 currents in neurons, blocked capsaicin (100 nM)-induced inward currents (IC(50) 0.49±0.02 nM), and reduced both inflammation- and chemotherapy-induced neuropathic pain in mice. These results demonstrate the potent actions of MaR1 in regulating inflammation resolution, tissue regeneration, and pain resolution. These findings suggest that chemical signals are shared in resolution cellular trafficking, a key process in tissue regeneration. Moreover, immunoresolvents of the innate immune response, such as MaR1, offer new opportunities for assessing MΦs and their local DHA metabolome in the return to tissue homeostasis.
Previously, we have shown that opioids acting via specific receptors inhibit the growth of human lung cancer cells while nicotine, acting through nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, reverses this inhibition. Therefore, we studied the role of apoptosis in these processes. Treatment of human lung cancer cells with 0.1-1 microM morphine or methadone resulted in morphological changes and cleavage of DNA into nucleosome-sized fragments characteristic of apoptosis. Quantitation of DNA fragmentation showed that a dose-dependent increase occurred within 2 h of opioid treatment and was blocked by the antagonist naloxone. The apoptotic effect of opioids was suppressed by nicotine, while the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor antagonists, hexamethonium and decamethonium, reversed this suppression. In contrast, sphingosine, a protein kinase C inhibitor, caused significant DNA fragmentation which was not suppressed by nicotine. Unexpectedly, the combination of hexamethonium and opioids or hexamethonium and nicotine stimulated apoptosis. We found that nicotine, like phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate, increased total protein kinase C (PKC) activity, while morphine and sphingosine decreased PKC activity, and nicotine reversed morphine inhibition of PKC activity. In contrast, methadone unexpectedly increased PKC activity. These results indicate that engagement of opioid receptors in human lung cancer cells induces apoptosis, while engagement of nicotine receptors suppresses apoptosis, which in some cases appear to be working through a PKC pathway. They also suggest complexities in the system where blockade of C6 or C10 nicotinic receptors can lead to facilitation of apoptosis. These findings suggest new strategies for treatment and prevention of cancer using opioids or nicotine receptors antagonists and are consistent with the idea that nicotine functions as a tumor promoter.
Environmental exposure to endocrine-disrupting chemicals (EDCs) is one cause of premature ovarian failure (POF). Hexavalent chromium (CrVI) is a heavy metal EDC widely used in more than 50 industries, including chrome plating, welding, wood processing, and tanneries. Recent data from U.S. Environmental Protection Agency indicate increased levels of Cr in drinking water from several American cities, which potentially predispose residents to various health problems. Recently, we demonstrated that gestational exposure to CrVI caused POF in F1 offspring. The current study was performed to identify the molecular mechanism behind CrVI-induced POF. Pregnant rats were treated with 25 ppm of potassium dichromate from Gestational Day (GD) 9.5 to GD 14.5 through drinking water, and the fetuses were exposed to CrVI through transplacental transfer. Ovaries were removed from the fetuses or pups on Embryonic Day (ED) 15.5, ED 17.5, Postnatal Day (PND) 1, PND 4, or PND 25, and various analyses were performed. Results showed that gestational exposure to CrVI: 1) increased germ cell/oocyte apoptosis and advanced germ cell nest (GCN) breakdown; 2) increased X-prolyl aminopeptidase (Xpnpep) 2, a POF marker in humans, during GCN breakdown; 3) decreased Xpnpep2 during postnatal follicle development; and 4) increased colocalization of Xpnpep2 with Col3 and Col4. We also found that Xpnpep2 inversely regulated the expression of Col1, Col3, and Col4 in all the developmental stages studied. Thus, CrVI advanced GCN breakdown and increased follicle atresia in F1 female progeny by targeting Xpnpep2.
The mechanism by which clonidine suppresses plasma renin activity (PRA) was investigated in dogs anesthetized with pentobarbital. Injection of clonidine (1 micrograms/kg) into the cisterna magna decreased PRA from levels stimulated by prior hemorrhage into a blood reservoir to reduce mean blood pressure by 25% (21.7 ng/ml/hr +/- 6.6 SE leads to 11.1 ng/ml/hr +/- 2.4 SE; p less than 0.05). Clonidine reduced heart rate but mean arterial pressure remained constant due to fluid movement between the reservoir and the arterial circulation of the dog. These effects could not be attributed to leakage of clonidine from the cerebrospinal fluid since intravenous administration of the same dose had no effect on PRA. In animals bilaterally splanchnicotomized at the level of the diaphragm, elevated PRA was not reduced by intracisternal clonidine. When return of reservoir fluid was prevented, animals became hypotensive after central clonidine and renin tended to increase. These results indicate that clonidine reduces stimulated renin by a central mechanism that is dependent upon the integrity of the sympathetic innervation of the kidney. Other stimuli for renin release may override the inhibitory effect of central clonidine.
To label specific anionic sites on glomerular capillary wall structures, biotin was covalently linked to sialic acid residues by sequential treatment with mild peroxidation and biotin hydrazide, while carboxyl groups were biotinylated by exposure to the combination of biotin hydrazide and a water-soluble carbodiimide reagent. Optimal specific labeling of rat glomerular structures was obtained with in situ perfusion of the biotinylation reagents, followed by fixation in 4% phosphate-buffered paraformaldehyde, embedment in LR White resin, and post-embedment detection of biotinylated sites using a sequence of anti-biotin antibodies followed by a secondary antibody-colloidal gold conjugate. Attempts to use streptavidin-gold conjugates were not successful. Specificity of labeling was confirmed by enzymatic (neuraminidase) pre-treatment or by modification of carboxyl groups, as evaluated by electron microscopy and by solid-phase assays of solubilized glomerular basement membrane (GBM) components. In two rats with heavy proteinuria induced by doxorubicin (Adriamycin), a marked reduction in sialic acid residues within the GBM and on the epithelial cell surfaces was found, suggesting that reduced charge density attributable to abnormal sialylation may be important in the pathogenesis of nephrotic proteinuria.
1. The catalepsy induced by dopamine antagonists has been tested and the possible dopamine subtypes involved in catalepsy was determined. 2. Dopamine antagonist fluphenazine, D-1 antagonist SCH 23390 or D-2 antagonist sulpiride induced catalepsy. The effect of fluphenazine and sulpiride was dose-dependent. Combination of SCH 23390 with sulpiride did not induce catalepsy potentiation. 3. D-1 agonist SKF 38393 or D-2 agonist quinpirole decreased the catalepsy induced by fluphenazine, SCH 23390 or sulpiride. 4. Combination of SKF 38393 with quinpirole did not cause potentiated inhibitory effect on catalepsy induced by dopamine antagonists. 5. The data may indicate that although D-2 receptor blockade is involved in catalepsy, the D-1 receptor may plan a role.
A retrospective study of congenital malformations in the offspring of 20 women who received antiepileptic drugs during pregnancy is presented. Of 56 births, 9 children (16%) were born with malformations. Four children were born dead or died shortly after delivery. Congenital heart disease, cleft lip with or without cleft palate, neural tube defects, and skeletal abnormalities were the commonest anomalies found. One child had a recognizable pattern of multiple malformations. The increased perinatal mortality was mainly due to congenital malformations and spontaneous hemorrhage. The teratogenic activity of anticonvulsant drugs is mediated by interference with folic acid metabolism, and such activity might be influenced by hereditary and environmental factors. Bearing in mind the importance of anticonvulsant therapy in epilepsy, there is certainly need for an investigation of the problem in a larger and more representative birth population than that described.
Twenty-seven hypertriglyceridemic patients were recruited for an open placebo-controlled, 7-month study of the effect of bezafibrate (CAS 41859-67-0, Bezalip, Cedur) on lipids, lipoproteins, apolipoproteins, and platelet aggregation. Patients received 3 placebo tablets a day for a stabilization period of 2 months, followed by a treatment period of 5 months during which one group received bezafibrate 200 mg 3 times a day, and a control group continued to receive placebo. Values measured at the end of the stabilization period were considered as the baseline values. Bezafibrate therapy significantly reduced triglycerides by 43%, and increased HDL-cholesterol by 22%. Apolipoprotein A-1 increased by 14%, and apolipoprotein A-2 by 42%. There was a small reduction of cholesterol (6%), and of apolipoprotein B (11%). A small increase occurred in LDL-cholesterol (2%), suggesting increased catabolism of high VLDL levels which were converted to LDL-cholesterol. Platelet aggregation was measured by the degree of light transmission through a platelet suspension. The improvement of the lipoprotein profile was associated with significant reduction of platelet aggregation in vitro, stimulated by adenosine diphosphate (ADP) at concentrations of 1.15 mumol/ml and 0.75 mumol/ml, and by collagen 2.0 micrograms/ml. Average decrease of platelet reactivity was 45%, 30% and 42%, respectively. The decrease of light transmission with ADP concentration of 2.3 mumol/ml was not significant, suggesting that the aggregatonic effect of the higher ADP concentration overcame the attenuating effect of bezafibrate. The control groups, displayed no significant changes in the blood constituents and platelet functions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Vacuous chewing movements in rats may be an animal analogue of the human motor disorder, tardive dyskinesia. The movements are phenomenologically and pharmacologically similar to tardive dyskinesia. The pathophysiology of these involuntary oral movements, and perhaps of tardive dyskinesia, are likely to include both dopamine receptor changes, and alterations in GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid) system function. In an attempt to test the involvement of GABA system dysfunction in these movements, we treated rats chronically with water alone, haloperidol alone, the GABA agonist progabide alone, and haloperidol plus progabide. Sprague-Dawley rats received haloperidol (1.5 mg/kg per day) in their drinking water and progabide (100 mg/kg per day) in their food for 12 months. After 12 months of treatment, haloperidol had induced vacuous chewing movements when administered alone, but the prevalence of the movements was decreased by 40% with the coadministration of progabide. Moreover, the haloperidol-progabide-treated animals did not merely demonstrate movement suppression but actual inhibition of movement onset, as determined by an additional progabide-withdrawal experiment. These data would suggest that progabide and perhaps other GABAmimetic compounds can prevent the development of tardive dyskinesia in man.
Some subjects infected by Helicobacter pylori have enlarged folds in the gastric body, the precise mechanism of which remains obscure. The aim of this study was to clarify the association of tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNFA) gene polymorphism with susceptibility to hyper-rugosity. We also examined the association of TNFA polymorphism with gastric carcinoma.
Four hundred and seventy-two subjects (male/female = 351/121, aged 26-81 years) without gastric carcinoma (control group), and 300 patients (male/female = 218/82, aged 32-91 years) with gastric carcinoma. Barium meal roentgenograms were performed in 396 subjects in the control group and fold width was measured at the greater curvature of the middle portion of the gastric body. Fasting plasma anti-H. pylori IgG titres, pepsinogens (PGs) I and II were analysed, and TNFA -857 promoter polymorphism was distinguished by the 5' nuclease polymerase chain reaction assay and polymerase chain reaction restriction fragment length polymorphism using HincII in both groups.
Adjusted odds ratios of TNFA -857 T/T genotype and H. pylori seropositivity for hyper-rugosity (fold width = 6.0 mm) were 6.7 (95% confidence interval (CI) 1.5-28, P < 0.01) and 18.2 (95% CI 4.2-78, P < 0.0001), respectively. There were no significant differences in any genotype or allele frequencies between the control and total gastric carcinoma group. In a subgroup of gastric carcinoma patients who were negative for the PG assay, however, the odds ratio of the T allele was 1.4 (95% CI 1.0-2.0, P < 0.05).
The TNFA -857 T/T genotype and H. pylori infection were strongly associated with rugal hyperplastic gastritis. The TNFA -857 T allele may promote gastric carcinoma without severe atrophy.
Aberrant methylation of promoter CpG islands (CGI) is involved in silencing of tumor suppressor genes and is also a potential cancer biomarker. Here, to identify CGIs aberrantly methylated in human melanomas, we did a genome-wide search using methylation-sensitive representational difference analysis. CGIs in putative promoter regions of 34 genes (ABHD9, BARHL1, CLIC5, CNNM1, COL2A1, CPT1C, DDIT4L, DERL3, DHRS3, DPYS, EFEMP2, FAM62C, FAM78A, FLJ33790, GBX2, GPR10, GPRASP1, HOXA9, HOXD11, HOXD12, HOXD13, p14ARF, PAX6, PRDX2, PTPRG, RASD1, RAX, REC8L1, SLC27A3, TGFB2, TLX2, TMEM22, TMEM30B, and UNC5C) were found to be methylated in at least 1 of 13 melanoma cell lines but not in two cultured normal melanocytes. Among these genes, Peroxiredoxin 2 (PRDX2) was expressed in normal melanocytes, and its expression was lost in melanomas with methylation. The loss of expression was restored by treatment of melanomas with a demethylating agent 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine. In surgical melanoma specimens, methylation of PRDX2 was detected in 3 of 36 (8%). Furthermore, immunohistochemical analysis of PRDX2 showed that disappearance of immunoreactivity tends to associate with its methylation. PRDX2 was recently reported to be a negative regulator of platelet-derived growth factor signaling, and its silencing was suggested to be involved in melanomas. On the other hand, 12 CGIs were methylated in >or=9 of the 13 melanoma cell lines and are considered as candidate melanoma biomarkers.
A phase I trial has been performed in patients with advanced non-small lung cancer without prior chemotherapy in order to determine the optimal administration schedule of a combination of high dose cisplatin and paclitaxel (Taxol). Those drugs have been evaluated at respective dosages of 100-120 mg/m2 and of 135-170-200 mg/m2, the later being given over a 3-hour infusion. Seventeen patients have been treated in 4 different steps, without occurrence of an acute limiting toxicity, neither hematological, neither of another type. No major acute hypersensitivity reaction has been observed but three cases of potential cardiac toxicity including one death were documented. The regime appeared to be active with an objective response rate of 47% (8/17) but a severe polyneuropathy occurred lately, avoiding further treatment administration in the majority of responders (5/7). In conclusion, the combination can only be recommended for short treatment.
Rats whose mothers received hydroxyurea (HU, 1 or 2 g/kg) at 14 days of gestation had a 30% deficit in both brain and body weight at birth, when compared with controls. Number of brain cells at birth (mainly neurons) was reduced by 33-34%. A severe reduction in postnatal whole brain growth (31-33% in adulthood) was observed, but the cerebellum was relatively spared. In the Hebb-Williams maze text in adulthood HU animals made 28% more errors than controls over 12 problems. The differences were much more marked on certain problems and for HU animals with particularly small brains. In a T-maze spatial discrimination test in adulthood HU rats learned the initial response normally but, when required to reverse this response, showed a significant tendency to make more perseverative errors than controls.
A multicenter prospective randomized trial of four versus six weeks of amphotericin B, 0.3 mg/kg per day, plus flucytosine, 150 mg/kg per day, was performed with 194 patients with cryptococcal meningitis. One or more toxic drug reactions developed in 103 patients: azotemia (51), renal tubular acidosis (two), leukopenia (30), thrombocytopenia (22), diarrhea (26), nausea/vomiting (10), and hepatitis (13). The four- and six-week regimens were complicated by toxicity in 44 percent and 43 percent of cases, respectively. Toxicity appeared during the first two weeks of therapy in 56 percent and during the first four weeks in 87 percent. Azotemia did not occur more frequently in renal transplant recipients or diabetic patients. Cytopenias did not appear more often in patients with hematologic malignancies or those receiving immunosuppressive therapies. Toxic reactions that contributed to death developed in five patients (two with azotemia, one with pancytopenia, one with hepatitis, one with ileus). Amphotericin B-induced azotemia was not a significant risk factor for the subsequent development of bone marrow, gastrointestinal, or hepatic toxicity attributable to flucytosine. Flucytosine toxicity was associated with peak serum flucytosine levels of 100 micrograms/ml or more during two or more weeks of therapy (p = 0.005). Peak 5-fluorouracil levels were not predictive of toxicity. An initial dose of flucytosine is recommended based on the creatinine clearance: 150 mg/kg per day at a creatinine clearance above 50 ml/minute, 75 mg/kg per day at a creatinine clearance of 26 to 50 ml/minute, and 37 mg/kg per day at a creatinine clearance of 13 to 25 ml/minute. The serum creatinine level should be monitored twice weekly and the creatinine clearance weekly during therapy in order to anticipate changes in serum flucytosine concentration. In addition, it is recommended that the serum flucytosine level be determined two hours after an oral dose once a week, and that the dose be adjusted to maintain a level of 50 to 100 micrograms/ml.
Masseter muscle rigidity after suxamethonium, usually occurring in children induced with halothane, is associated with malignant hyperthermia. A case is reported in which masseter muscle rigidity occurred in an adult following vecuronium. From the limited data available, this and two similar reported cases, it appears that non-depolarizing muscle relaxants can, very rarely, cause masseter muscle rigidity in adults. This masseter muscle rigidity may complicate airway management, but is unlikely to progress to generalized rigidity and malignant hyperthermia.
We report on a primiparous woman who suffered recurrent seizure activity after repeated small doses of epidural morphine to highlight the neuroexcitation potential of neuraxial opioids in the epileptic patient.
Seizure activities as a complication of opioid administration have been reported in laboratory animals and humans. We report the case of a 30-yr-old primiparous woman with a history of epilepsy under carbamazepine treatment, who had epidural anesthesia for elective Cesarean section at 38 weeks gestation. Postoperatively, 1.5 mg of morphine were administered epidurally for pain control. Three hours later the patient suffered from clonic movements of the right arm without loss of consciousness. One day later, she again received 1 mg of epidural morphine twice at a 12-hr interval and similar seizure episodes recurred eight hours after each dose. A relation between the administration of morphine and seizure activity was suspected and the use of opioids for pain control was stopped. The patient was discharged on the fifth postoperative day and, more than one year after the last episode, she remains free of any seizure activity.
Our report indicates that even a remote history of epilepsy carries a pro-convulsant potential in the peripartum period, even following the administration of small doses of epidural morphine.
In clinical use, a single infusion of oxaliplatin, widely used to treat metastatic colorectal cancer, induces specific sensory neurotoxicity signs triggered or aggravated by exposure to cold. To study the pathophysiology of these symptoms, we developed and characterized an animal model that reproduces the effects of a single intraperitoneal oxaliplatin administration (3, 6 and 12 mg/kg). Significant allodynia and hyperalgesia to cold stimuli were rapidly observed from 24 h to day 5 with a maximum lowering of 76% at t+30 h versus control. Other behavioral assessments revealed rapid persistent mechanical allodynia, but no thermal hyperalgesia or allodynia to heat and no hyperalgesia to mechanical stimuli. An immunohistochemical study in the superficial layers of the spinal dorsal horn revealed a marked increase in substance P immunoreactivity versus controls (12% versus 4%), whereas calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) immunoreactivity was unchanged. This new animal model for the first time closely mimics the effects observed in humans after a single oxaliplatin infusion, especially onset and highly intense sensory disturbances, hypersensitivity to cold with allodynia and hyperalgesia signs. This model may help to elucidate the mechanisms of this thermal hypersensitivity, especially the possible involvement of small-diameter A-fibers in cold allodynia symptoms. These selective effects may clue up the mechanistic basis for the acute oxaliplatin neuropathy leading to a better understanding of the clinical condition and to optimize its treatment.
Gastric acid secretion is important for absorption of dietary non-haem iron, and iron deficiency is common in gastric hyposecretory states such as after gastric resection. It is not known if prolonged, continuous treatment with potent acid suppressants such as omeprazole will lead to iron deficiency or lower body iron stores.
To assess iron stores and the occurrence of iron deficiency anaemia in patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome (ZES) treated long-term with gastric antisecretory drugs.
One hundred and nine patients with ZES but without previous gastric resections were studied. All patients underwent assessment of acid control on antisecretory agents, determination of tumour extent, evaluation of haematological parameters (Hct, haemoglobin, WBC, MCV, MCHC), and determination of serum iron parameters (iron, ferritin, transferrin, iron/ transferrin ratio). Acid control values for the last 4 years were reviewed, the presence or absence of acid hyposecretion determined using three different criteria and this result correlated with haematological and iron parameters.
Eighty-nine patients were taking omeprazole, nine patients were taking histamine H2-antagonists and 11 patients were taking no drugs following curative resection. The mean duration of omeprazole treatment was 5.7 years (range 0.7-12.5 years) and total duration of any treatment was 10.1 years (range 0.7-21 years). Acid hyposecretion was present by at least one criterion in 45% of patients. There were no significant differences between patients with or without acid hyposecretion, taking or not taking omeprazole, having different durations of omeprazole treatment or different durations of total time receiving any antisecretory treatment, for any serum iron parameter, haematological parameter, or for the frequency of iron deficiency. Males and females did not differ in percentage with low ferritin levels or percentage with iron deficiency.
Continuous treatment with omeprazole for 6 years or continuous treatment with any gastric antisecretory drug for 10 years does not cause decreased body iron stores or iron deficiency. These results suggest that, in contrast to recent results which show yearly monitoring of vitamin B12 in such patients is needed, such monitoring for iron parameters is not necessary.
To explore the role of intrapulmonary neuropeptides in the development of airway hyperresponsiveness, we established an animal model of airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR) in rabbits by using ozone exposure. With the model, after test of the mechanics of respiration and bronchoalveolar lavage assay, the levels of vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) in the lungs were determined by radioimmunoassay, and the expression of mRNA coding receptors of these two neuropeptides was evaluated by reverse transcriptional-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). At the same time, the distribution of VIP receptor-1 (VIPR1) and CGRP receptor-1 (CGRPR1) in lung tissues and its time-course were examined by in situ hybridization. The results showed: (1) in ozone-stressing groups, airway resistance increased significantly and typical inflammatory pathological changes were observed in pulmonary tissue slides, including neutrophil and eosinophil infiltration, mucus exudation and bronchial epithelial cells (BECs) shedding; (2) with elongation of ozone exposure, the levels of VIP and CGRP in the lungs increased at first, reaching a peak on d 2 to 4, then decreased slowly, and CGRP peaked somewhat earlier than VIP; (3) mRNA expression of the two neuropeptide receptors in the lungs changed in a similar manner like VIP and CGRP, but the high level of mRNA expression of VIPR1 lasted longer than that of CGRPR1; and (4) in situ hybridization for neuropeptide receptors demonstrated that, in unstressed control, VIPR1 and CGRPR1 positive cells appeared in the airway epithelium, pulmonary interstitial and focal areas of airway and vascular smooth muscles. With the elongation of ozone exposure, hybridization stained deeper and the majority of positive cells were located around the vessels and bronchus except a few in the alveoli. At 8 d, only a small number of positive cells were seen in the lungs. From the results, it is concluded that ozone-stressing can induce the development of AHR, in which VIP and CGRP may play important roles. That implies, through binding to CGRPR1, CGRP stimulates an early inflammation response which contributes in cleaning up of irritants, while VIP exerts a later dampening of pulmonary inflammation response. These two neuropeptides may play sequential and complementary roles in the development of AHR.
