Elevated transforming growth factor (TGF)-β signaling has been implicated in the pathogenesis of syndromic presentations of aortic aneurysm, including Marfan syndrome (MFS) and Loeys-Dietz syndrome (LDS). However, the location and character of many of the causal mutations in LDS intuitively imply diminished TGF-β signaling. Taken together, these data have engendered controversy regarding the specific role of TGF-β in disease pathogenesis. Shprintzen-Goldberg syndrome (SGS) has considerable phenotypic overlap with MFS and LDS, including aortic aneurysm. We identified causative variation in ten individuals with SGS in the proto-oncogene SKI, a known repressor of TGF-β activity. Cultured dermal fibroblasts from affected individuals showed enhanced activation of TGF-β signaling cascades and higher expression of TGF-β-responsive genes relative to control cells. Morpholino-induced silencing of SKI paralogs in zebrafish recapitulated abnormalities seen in humans with SGS. These data support the conclusions that increased TGF-β signaling is the mechanism underlying SGS and that high signaling contributes to multiple syndromic presentations of aortic aneurysm.
Accumulation of lipids in the heart may cause cardiac dysfunction in various disorders, such as obesity and diabetes. In the current study, we have investigated whether administration of angiotensin II or norepinephrine induces accumulation of lipids and/or changes in the expression of genes related to lipid metabolism in the rat heart. Lipid deposition was found in myocardial, vascular wall, and perivascular cells of the angiotensin II-infused rat heart, and superoxide generation was increased in these lipid-positive cells. By contrast, intracardiac lipid deposition was not found in the heart of norepinephrine-induced hypertensive rats. Triglyceride content in the heart tissue of angiotensin II-infused rats increased more than 3-fold as compared with untreated controls. Losartan completely, but hydralazine only partially, suppressed the angiotensin II-induced intracardiac lipid deposition and increase in tissue triglyceride content. Administration of angiotensin II upregulated the mRNA expression of sterol regulatory element-binding protein-1c and fatty acid synthase, but downregulated that of uncoupling protein 2 and 3, in a manner dependent on the angiotensin AT(1) receptor. Collectively, these results suggest that angiotensin II may be involved in modulating both intracardiac lipid content and lipid metabolism-related gene expression, in part via an angiotensin AT(1) receptor-dependent and pressor-independent mechanism.
The authors sought to determine whether fluphenazine dose or plasma level predicts clinical improvement or side effects during acute treatment.
Oral fluphenazine was given in fixed, randomized, double-blind doses (10, 20, or 30 mg/day) for 4 weeks to 72 inpatients with acute schizophrenic exacerbations. Outcome measures included percentage improvement in ratings of positive symptoms (hallucinations, delusions, and thought disorder), percentage improvement in negative symptoms, and maximum score for extrapyramidal symptoms. Response was defined as an improvement in positive symptoms of 40% or more.
The 42 responders had a shorter duration of illness, less chronic course, and lower rate of akathisia. Plasma level and dose did not differentiate responders and nonresponders, but they did predict percentage improvement in positive symptoms within the responder subgroup. Akathisia was more common and extrapyramidal symptoms were more severe at higher plasma levels.
Responders showed the greatest improvement at fluphenazine plasma levels above 1.0 ng/ml and doses above 0.20-0.25 mg/kg per day. Since the literature suggests that optimal plasma levels are similar during acute and maintenance treatment, monitoring of plasma levels may thus be useful. Conditions for applying the "responder-only" analytic strategy in future studies are discussed.
Cisplatin is one of the most potent and widely used antitumor drugs. However, the use of cisplatin is limited by its side effect, nephrotoxicity. Evidence has shown an increased incidence and severity of acute kidney injury (AKI) in the elderly. Previous studies from our laboratory demonstrate a decrease in α(E)-catenin expression in aged kidney. In this study, we investigated whether the loss of α(E)-catenin may increase cisplatin nephrotoxicity. To study the effects of reduced α(E)-catenin, a cell line with stable knockdown of α(E)-catenin (C2 cells) was used; NT3 is nontargeted control. C2 cells exhibited a significant loss of viability as determined by MTT assay compared with NT3 cells after cisplatin challenge, but showed no difference in lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) leakage. Increased caspase 3/7 activation and PARP cleavage was observed in C2 cells after cisplatin treatment. Z-VAD, a pan-caspase inhibitor, abolished the difference in susceptibility between NT3 and C2 cells. Interestingly, the expression of α(E)-catenin was further decreased after cisplatin treatment. Furthermore, in vivo data demonstrated a significant increase in serum creatinine at 72 h after a single dose of cisplatin in 24-month-old rats, but not in 4-month-old rats. Increased expression of KIM-1 and in situ apoptosis were also detected in aged kidney after cisplatin challenge. Taken together, these data suggest that loss of α(E)-catenin increases apoptosis of tubular epithelial cells which may contribute to the increased nephrotoxicity induced by cisplatin in aged kidney.
We performed a phase I study of escalating dosages of 2',3'-dideoxyinosine (didanosine; ddI) in 19 patients with AIDS or AIDS-related complex in order (1) to establish the maximal tolerated dosage, (2) to determine the nature of toxic adverse effects, (3) to measure changes in levels of circulating human immunodeficiency virus p24 antigen and in CD4+ cell counts, and (4) to evaluate the pharmacokinetics of ddI. Almost all patients had received zidovudine therapy previously. The maximal tolerated dosage of ddI was found to be approximately 12 mg/(kg.d) when it was administered orally for 28 weeks. The major dosage-limiting adverse effects encountered were neuropathy, pancreatitis, and hepatitis. These occurred at dosages higher than those associated with decreases in levels of p24 antigen. The major toxic effects of ddI are different from those associated with zidovudine. At the proper dosage, ddI may prove to be an effective agent for the chronic treatment of infection with human immunodeficiency virus and should be especially useful in the treatment of patients who cannot tolerate zidovudine.
Metabotropic glutamate receptor type 5 (mGluR5) modulates dopamine and glutamate neurotransmission at central synapses. In this study, we addressed the role of mGluR5 in l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia, a movement disorder that is due to abnormal activation of both dopamine and glutamate receptors in the basal ganglia. A selective and potent mGluR5 antagonist, 3-[(2-methyl-1,3-thiazol-4-yl)ethynyl] pyridine, was tested for its ability to modulate molecular, behavioural and neurochemical correlates of dyskinesia in 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats treated with l-DOPA. The compound significantly attenuated the induction of abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) by chronic l-DOPA treatment at doses that did not interfere with the rat physiological motor activities. These effects were paralleled by an attenuation of molecular changes that are strongly associated with the dyskinesiogenic action of l-DOPA (i.e. up-regulation of prodynorphin mRNA in striatal neurons). Using in vivo microdialysis, we found a temporal correlation between the expression of l-DOPA-induced AIMs and an increased GABA outflow within the substantia nigra pars reticulata. When co-administered with l-DOPA, 3-[(2-methyl-1,3-thiazol-4-yl)ethynyl] pyridine greatly attenuated both the increase in nigral GABA levels and the expression of AIMs. These data demonstrate that mGluR5 antagonism produces strong anti-dyskinetic effects in an animal model of Parkinson's disease through central inhibition of the molecular and neurochemical underpinnings of l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia.
2',3'-Dideoxyinosine (didanosine; ddI) was administered to 37 adults with AIDS or AIDS-related complex in an escalating-dose phase I study. Groups of three or four patients received intravenous dosages of 0.4 mg/(kg.d) to 25.6 mg/(kg.d) divided into two or three daily doses for 2 weeks, followed by oral ddI at twice the intravenous dosages. When given with antacids, ddI was well absorbed by the oral route and penetrated into the cerebrospinal fluid. The patients had an increase in mean number of CD4+ cells from 114/mm3 at entry to 161/mm3 at week 6 (P = .00004). They also had an increase in the CD4+/CD8+ ratio and in total number of lymphocytes. Sixteen of 18 evaluable patients had a decrease in levels of human immunodeficiency virus p24 antigen by week 6 (P = .0034). Many patients reported increased energy and appetite and gained weight. Dose-limiting toxicities at high dosages were painful peripheral neuropathy and sporadic pancreatitis. However, dosages up to 9.6 mg/(kg.d) have been tolerated in patients for 11-14 months. Thus, ddI has activity against human immunodeficiency virus at dosages that can be tolerated for approximately 1 year. However, life-threatening pancreatitis is a possible complication even at low dosages, and the best ways to manage and avoid adverse effects are still under study.
In a phase I dosage-finding trial, 2',3'-dideoxyinosine (didanosine; ddI) was administered once daily to 36 patients with AIDS or AIDS-related complex for up to 65 weeks (mean, 32.1 weeks) at six dosage levels. Thirteen of 18 patients previously treated with zidovudine had developed hematologic intolerance. The maximal tolerated dosage of ddI was 12 mg/(kg.d); dose-limiting toxicities were pancreatitis and peripheral neuropathy. Other toxicities included elevation in hepatic transaminase levels, rash, cardiac conduction abnormality, and asymptomatic hyperuricemia. Eighty-six percent of patients who completed 6 weeks of treatment showed improvement in constitutional symptoms and significant weight gain. In patients treated with ddI, the mean number of CD4+ lymphocytes increased from 124/mm3 at baseline to 199/mm3 at 24 weeks (P = .0027) and the mean leukocyte count, total lymphocyte count, and hemoglobin level showed increases (all P less than .01) after 12 weeks. Serum levels of viral p24 antigen decreased greater than or equal to 50% in 14 of 19 assessable patients. No differences between the responses of patients previously treated with zidovudine and those of zidovudine-naive patients were observed. These results indicate that ddI has significant antiretroviral activity in vivo and a toxicity profile different from that of zidovudine.
Twenty-one patients with AIDS or AIDS-related complex (ARC) received 2',3'-dideoxyinosine (didanosine; ddI) intravenously and then orally (initial dosages of 0.4 mg/kg and 0.8 mg/kg every 12 hours, respectively) for 6-44 weeks in an escalating-dose study. The major dose-limiting effects were peripheral neuropathy (three patients) and pancreatitis (two patients), which were observed at dosages greater than or equal to 20 mg/(kg.d). Hyperuricemia occurred at greater than or equal to 30 mg/(kg.d). No hematologic toxicity developed except for possible sporadic thrombocytopenia (two patients). Significant decreases in serum levels of p24 antigen and increases in CD4+ and CD8+ lymphocytes were noted at 2, 6, and 10-20 weeks and over a wide range of dosages, including the lowest given. Most patients had an increased feeling of well-being and/or a weight gain of greater than or equal to 2 kg at 6 weeks. For this population, ddI has promise as a therapeutic agent, thus warranting further study of this agent in controlled clinical trials.
In the United Kingdom, about 40% of patients with asthma are homozygous for the glycine-16 beta(2)-adrenoceptor polymorphism, which predisposes them to agonist-induced down-regulation and desensitization of the beta(2)-adrenoceptor. We assessed the effects of adding treatment with either a long-acting beta(2)-agonist (inhaled formoterol, 12 microg twice daily) or a leukotriene receptor antagonist (oral zafirlukast, 20 mg twice daily) to inhaled corticosteroid therapy in patients with this genotype.
We enrolled 24 patients with mild to moderate asthma who were being treated with inhaled corticosteroids. Patients were randomly assigned to receive one of three treatments (placebo, zafirlukast, or formoterol in addition to inhaled corticosteroids) for 1 week each in a crossover fashion, separated by a 1-week placebo run-in and washout period. Measurements of bronchoprotection (measured as the provocative dose of methacholine that produced a 20% decline in forced expiratory volume in 1 second [FEV(1)]), exhaled nitric oxide (a surrogate marker of airway inflammation), and symptoms were made before each treatment and 12 hours after the last dose of each treatment.
Both formoterol and zafirlukast were equally effective in maintaining asthma control compared with placebo: the geometric mean-fold difference in the methacholine provocative dose was 1.5-fold (95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.1- to 2.2-fold) for zafirlukast and 1.9-fold (95% CI: 1.2- to 2.9-fold) for formoterol. As compared with placebo, zafirlukast caused a significant suppression in exhaled nitric oxide (1.7-fold difference in geometric mean values, 95% CI: 1.1- to 2.6-fold) but formoterol did not (1.2-fold difference, 95% CI: 0.8- to 1.9-fold). Diary cards showed significant (P <0.05) improvements in the peak flow with formoterol (morning and evening) and zafirlukast (evening) as compared with placebo.
Formoterol and zafirlukast maintained asthma control in patients who might be genetically predisposed to fare worse with long-acting beta(2)-agonists. The reduction in exhaled nitric oxide with zafirlukast suggests that it may have anti-inflammatory effects in addition to those seen with inhaled corticosteroids.
Mutations in the ATP7B gene, encoding a copper-transporting P-type adenosine triphosphatase, lead to excessive hepatic copper accumulation because of impaired biliary copper excretion in Wilson's disease. In human liver, ATP7B is predominantly localized to the trans-Golgi network, which appears incompatible with a role of ATP7B in biliary copper excretion. The aim of this study was to elucidate this discrepancy.
Immunofluorescence and electron-microscopic methods were used to study the effects of excess copper on ATP7B localization in polarized HepG2 hepatoma cells.
ATP7B is localized to the trans-Golgi network only when extracellular copper concentration is low (<1 micromol/L). At increased copper levels, ATP7B redistributes to vesicular structures and to apical vacuoles reminiscent of bile canaliculi. After copper depletion, ATP7B returns to the trans-Golgi network. Brefeldin A and nocodazole impair copper-induced apical trafficking of ATP7B and cause accumulation of apically retrieved transporters in a subapical compartment, suggesting continuous recycling of ATP7B between this vesicular compartment and the apical membrane when copper is increased.
Copper induces trafficking of its own transporter from the trans-Golgi network to the apical membrane, where it may facilitate biliary copper excretion. This system of ligand-induced apical sorting provides a novel mechanism to control copper homeostasis in hepatic cells.
Wilson's disease (Wd) is a genetic disorder resulting in Cu2+ accumulation, and is caused by mutations in the ATP7B gene, the copper transporter. In vivo studies show a correlation between Cu2+ accumulation and malfunction of the heme biosynthesis pathway. In this study, we describe multiple effects of Cu2+ accumulation on heme synthesis, which, in turn, affect proteasomal activity. Cu2+ toxicity was examined in two hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines, HepG2 and Hep3B, with Hep3B cells containing an integrated hepatitis B virus genome. Exposure of HepG2 and Hep3B cells to Cu2+ inhibited the enzymes PBGD and ALAD of the heme synthesis pathway and, in parallel, upregulated heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1). Proto-porphyrin IX (PpIX) and the heme pool were reduced as a result of these processes. PpIX synthesis was found to be lower in cells expressing the mutant ATP7B (P1134P), compared to those expressing the WT enzyme. Proteasomal activity was inhibited under Cu2+ treatment in HepG2 cells; however, Cu2+ induced marked proteosomal acceleration in Hep3B cells. Under these conditions, Ub-conjugated proteins were gradually accumulated, whereas treatment with bathocuproine disulfonic acid (BCS), a Cu2+ chelator, reversed this effect. In conclusion, our data suggest that copper downregulates the heme synthesis pathway in hepatocellular cells and further reduces it in the presence of mutated ATP7B.
An experiment was performed to test whether inclusion of phenobarbital in a choline-devoid diet would increase the hepatocarcinogenicity of the diet. Groups of 5-week old male Fischer-344 rats were fed for 7-25 months semipurified choline-devoid or choline-supplemented diets, containing or not 0.06% phenobarbital. No hepatic preneoplastic nodules or hepatocellular carcinomas developed in rats fed the plain choline-supplemented diet, while one preneoplastic nodule and one hepatocellular carcinoma developed in two rats fed the same diet containing phenobarbital. The incidence of preneoplastic nodules and of hepatocellular carcinomas was 10% and 37%, respectively, in rats fed the plain choline-devoid diet, and 17% and 30%, in rats fed the phenobarbital-containing choline-devoid diet. The results evinced no enhancement of the hepatocarcinogenicity of the choline-devoid diet by phenobarbital. Sporadic neoplastic lesions were observed in organs other than the liver of some of the animals, irrespective of the diet fed.
The present study was conducted to compare the efficacy of unirradiated beta-glucan (UBG) and gamma irradiated beta-glucan (GIBG) against acetaminophen (APAP) induced hepatotoxicity in mice. Mice of BALB/c strain were pretreated with UBG and GIBG (50mg/kg, p.o.) for 7 days and on the 8th day they received an overdose of APAP (500 mg/kg, i.p.). Eight hours after the APAP injection, the levels of serum aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) were measured and liver, kidney and lung tissue were examined for morphological changes. A significant elevation (p<0.001) of the levels of AST and ALT was observed in mice toxicated with APAP. Histology data revealed severe liver centrilobular necrosis, portal vein damage with apparent toxicity in renal glomerulus and lung inflammation associated with edema. However, a significant inhibition (p<0.05) in the elevation of AST and ALT was observed in mice that received UBG and GIBG compared with APAP-treated mice. Histology examination revealed the non-statistical difference between the protective effects of GIBG and UBG against acetaminophen challenge. In conclusion, it was demonstrated that gamma irradiation induced no severe alteration in the protective activity of beta-glucan against APAP-induced hepatotoxicity.
Natural flavonoids have broad biological activity, including anticancer. In this study, a series of novel flavone derivatives were synthesized with the substitutions of chlorine, isopropyl, methoxy, and nitro groups on the benzene ring of flavone skeleton to develop effective anticancer agents. Antiproliferative assays showed that the synthesized chemicals possess notable activity against hepatocarcinoma cells (HepG-2); in particular, the compound 6f with chlorine and dimethoxy modifications at the two benzene rings showed an IC(50) at 1.1 microM to HepG-2. The 6f also displayed marked anticancer activity towards a panel of cancer cells, including nasopharyngeal carcinoma cells (CNE-2 and CNE-1), breast adenocarcinoma cell (MCF-7), and epithelial carcinoma cells (Hela). Exposing HepG-2 cells to compound 6f at 10 microM induced chromatin condensation, nuclear disassembly, and DNA fragmentation. In 6f-treated HepG-2 cells, the sub-G(0) population was remarkably increased; and in these cells, both caspase-8 and caspase-9 activity was significantly increased, which in turn activated caspase-3. In addition, proapoptotic Bax was upregulated by compound 6f while the antiapoptotic Bcl-2 was downregulated. Taken together, our data suggest that the new flavonoid derivative 6f triggers apoptosis through both death-receptor and mitochondria-dependent intrinsic pathways, being a potent therapeutic agent against hepatocarcinoma.
Several factors may contribute to post-transplant cholestatic complications after liver transplantation. These include ischemic reperfusion injury, hypoperfusion, bile duct strictures, and hepatotoxic drugs. Up to now, there have been no publications on tacrolimus cholestatic toxicity in clinical transplantation when the drug was used in therapeutic doses. We describe six pediatric liver graft recipients in whom cholestatic complications developed under a tacrolimus-based immunosuppression following liver transplantation and all of them suffered from previous steroid-resistant graft rejection. The overall incidence of cholestatic syndrome was 5.4% in children receiving tacrolimus. The immunosuppression was switched back to cyclosporine and prednisolone in all six patients resulting in completely resolved clinical signs and laboratory findings. We conclude from our observations that a cholestatic syndrome following pediatric liver transplantation may be caused by tacrolimus therapy following steroid-resistant graft rejection, even if given in therapeutic doses.
The aim of this study was to investigate the hepatoprotective effects of anthocyanidin delphinidin in carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4))-induced liver fibrosis in mice. Male Balb/C mice were treated with CCl(4) dissolved in olive oil (20%, v/v, 2mL/kg) intraperitoneally (i.p.), twice a week for 7 weeks. Delphinidin was administered i.p. once daily for next 2 weeks, in doses of 10 and 25mg/kg of body weight. The CCl(4) control group has been observed for spontaneous reversion of fibrosis. CCl(4)-administration induced an elevation in serum transaminase and alkaline phosphatase levels and increased oxidative stress in the liver. Delphinidin has successfully attenuated oxidative stress, increased matrix metalloproteinase-9 and metallothionein I/II expression and restored hepatic architecture. Furthermore, the overexpression of tumor necrosis factor-alpha and transforming growth factor-beta1 has been withdrawn by delphinidin. Concomitantly, the expression of alpha-smooth muscle actin indicated returning of hepatic stellate cells (HSC) into inactive state. Our results suggest the therapeutic effects of delphinidin in CCl(4)-induced liver fibrosis by promoting extracellular matrix degradation, HSC inactivation and down-regulation of fibrogenic stimuli, with strong enhancement of hepatic regenerative capability.
Early afterdepolarizations (EADs) have been linked to the mechanism of torsades de pointes in long QT syndrome. The purpose of this study was to investigate the role of EADs in Class IA induced torsades de pointes. We studied nine patients with Class IA induced torsades de pointes at the time this arrhythmia was present (acute period, n = 7) and after Class IA therapy was discontinued (chronic period, n = 6). ECGs and monophasic action potentials were recorded in both periods. In the chronic period, electrophysiological studies were performed before and after disopyramide infusion. In the acute period, QTc interval was markedly prolonged (655 +/- 32 ms1/2), and EAD-like activity was recorded in all patients. QTc interval returned to normal (428 +/- 45 ms1/2) and EAD-like activity disappeared after discontinuation of IA drug. Although, in the chronic period, disopyramide infusion prolonged QTc interval from 428 +/- 48 ms1/2 to 479 +/- 31 ms1/2 and induced EAD in three of six patients, the degree was not as marked as observed in the acute period. EADs may play an important role in the genesis of long QT and torsades de pointes. Disopyramide infusion in the chronic period could not reproduce marked repolarization abnormalities and torsades de pointes.
Rotenone induces neurotoxicity but its correlation with biochemical and cerebral changes in rat brain regions are not well defined. In the present study rotenone was administered (3, 6 and12mug/mul) intranigrally in adult male SD rats and its effect was assessed on neuromuscular coordination and in different brain areas viz. striatum (STR), mid-brain (MB), frontal cortex (FC) and hippocampus (HP) cerebral and biochemical changes on 1st and 7th day after treatment. All the doses of rotenone significantly impaired neuromuscular coordination performance on Rota rod test on 1st and 7th day. TTC staining showed significant increase in cerebral injury volume on 1st and 7th day after rotenone treatment indicating mitochondrial enzyme deficiency but increase after 7th day was less that after 1st day. Rotenone treated rats showed significant decrease in GSH and increase in MDA in different brain regions though the pattern was varied. After 1 day of rotenone (6 and 12mug) treatment significant decrease in GSH was observed in STR and MB while MDA was significantly increased only in MB. The maximal effect on GSH and MDA was obtained in STR and MB on 7th day after treatment with 12mug dose of rotenone. Thus, based on the occurrence of changes, it may be suggested that impairment of neuromuscular coordination is inked to oxidative stress rather than mitochondrial enzyme deficiency, all the processes are correlated with each other with the progression of time. MB appeared as most sensitive brain area towards rotenone toxicity.
We conducted a 10-center, double-blind trial to compare the efficacy and toxicity of four antiepileptic drugs in the treatment of partial and secondarily generalized tonic-clonic seizures in 622 adults. Patients were randomly assigned to treatment with carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, or primidone and were followed for two years or until the drug failed to control seizures or caused unacceptable side effects. Overall treatment success was highest with carbamazepine or phenytoin, intermediate with phenobarbital, and lowest with primidone (P less than 0.002). Differences in failure rates of the drugs were explained primarily by the fact that primidone caused more intolerable acute toxic effects, such as nausea, vomiting, dizziness, and sedation. Decreased libido and impotence were more common in patients given primidone. Phenytoin caused more dysmorphic effects and hypersensitivity. Control of tonic-clonic seizures did not differ significantly with the various drugs. Carbamazepine provided complete control of partial seizures more often than primidone or phenobarbital (P less than 0.03). Overall, carbamazepine and phenytoin are recommended drugs of first choice for single-drug therapy of adults with partial or generalized tonic-clonic seizures or with both.
The pathogenesis of aspirin-induced asthma (AIA) is presumed to involve the aspirin/non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID)-induced abnormal metabolism of arachidonic acid, resulting in an increase in 5-lipoxygenase (5-LO) metabolites, particularly leukotriene C(4) (LTC(4) ). However, the role of LTC(4) in the development of AIA has yet to be conclusively demonstrated.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the contribution of the lipid product LTC(4) secreted by the 5-LO pathway to the pathogenesis of AIA.
To evaluate antigen-induced airway inflammation, the concentrations of T-helper type 2 cytokine in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) obtained from LTC(4) synthase-transgenic (Tg) and wild-type (WT) mice after challenge with ovalbumin were measured. Subsequently, the ex vivo and in vivo effects of the NSAID sulpyrine were investigated in these Tg and WT mice by measuring the secretion of LTC(4) from sulpyrine-treated BAL cells and the levels of LTC(4) in BALF following challenge with sulpyrine. Finally, the sulpyrine-induced airway response by the administration of pranlukast, an antagonist of the cysteinyl (cs)-LT1 receptor, was analysed.
The concentrations of IL-4, -5, and -13 in BALF from Tg mice were significantly higher than those in WT mice. In addition, sulpyrine augmented the secretion of LTC(4) in BALF and by BAL cells in Tg mice, but not in WT mice. Additionally, the increased airway resistance induced by sulpyrine could be reduced by treatment with pranlukast. Furthermore, the secretion of LTC(4) from mast cells, eosinophils, and macrophages was increased in the allergen-stimulated LTC(4) synthase gene Tg mice, even in the absence of sulpyrine, as well as in BAL cells after sulpyrine.
The over-expression of the LTC(4) synthase in a mouse asthma model also replicates the key features of AIA. And our study supports that cys-LTs play a major role in the pathogenesis of AIA in patients with chronic asthma.
Stroke triggers an inflammatory cascade which contributes to a delayed cerebral damage, thus implying that antiinflammatory strategies might be useful in the treatment of acute ischaemic stroke. Since two unrelated peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARgamma) agonists, the thiazolidinedione rosiglitazone (RSG) and the cyclopentenone prostaglandin 15-deoxy-Delta(12,14)-prostaglandin J2 (15d-PGJ2), have been shown to possess antiinflammatory properties, we have tested their neuroprotective effects in experimental stroke. Rosiglitazone or 15d-PGJ2 were administered to rats 10 mins or 2 h after permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). Stroke outcome was evaluated by determination of infarct volume and assessment of neurological scores. Brains were collected for protein expression, gene array analyses and gene shift assays. Our results show that both compounds decrease MCAO-induced infarct size and improve neurological scores. At late times, the two compounds converge in the inhibition of MCAO-induced brain expression of inducible NO synthase and the matrix metalloproteinase 9. Interestingly, at early times, complementary DNA microarrays and gene shift assays show that different mechanisms are recruited. Analysis of early nuclear p65 and late cytosolic IkappaBalpha protein levels shows that both compounds inhibit nuclear factor-kappaB signalling, although at different levels. All these results suggest both PPARgamma-dependent and independent pathways, and might be useful to design both therapeutic strategies and prognostic markers for stroke.
Typical antipsychotics such as the dopamine D(2) receptor antagonist, haloperidol are known to cause movement disorders or catalepsy in experimental animals. Catalepsy is believed to result from blockade of dopamine D(2) receptors. In this study two drugs that differ in antipsychotic potency but are similar in blocking dopamine D(2) receptors were used to investigate the mechanism for catalepsy and its sensitization. Metoclopramide is a strong postsynaptic dopamine D(2) receptor blocker with no antipsychotic potency. At low doses of 5 or 10 mg/kg given subcutaneously (s.c.), metoclopramide did not produce catalepsy or movement disturbance for seven days after drug treatment. Also metoclopramide at 10 mg/kg given for five days, failed to induce catalepsy. Haloperidol, another potent dopamine D(2) receptor blocker at 0.5 mg/kg (s.c.) rapidly produced catalepsy and suppressed movement 1 h after a single dose of the drug. Chronic as well as acute treatment with metoclopramide caused sensitization of haloperidol-induced catalepsy. Neurochemical analyses revealed significant dopamine D(2) receptor up-regulation in both frontal cortex and striatum of rats chronically treated with metoclopramide. However, no changes in dopamine D(2) receptor numbers were noted in these areas after chronic treatment with low doses of haloperidol. Significant increases in N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor numbers were observed in both frontal cortex and striatum of metoclopramide treated animals, while haloperidol elicited significant decreases in NMDA receptor numbers in both brain areas. These observations plus previous reports have led us to propose a model for catalepsy and its sensitization. According to this model the increase in NMDA receptors by metoclopramide sensitizes the brain to haloperidol-induced catalepsy. Thus, catalepsy appears to be elicited by simultaneous activation of glutamatergic NMDA and dopamine D(1) receptors as well as a blockade of dopamine D(2) receptors.
Tic disorders can be effectively treated by atypical antipsychotics such as risperidone, olanzapine and ziprasidone. However, there are two case reports that show tic-like symptoms, including motor and phonic variants, occurring during treatment with quetiapine or clozapine. We present a 15-year-old girl schizophrenic who developed frequent involuntary eye-blinking movements after 5 months of amisulpride treatment (1000 mg per day). The tic-like symptoms resolved completely after we reduced the dose of amisulpride down to 800 mg per day. However, her psychosis recurred after the dose reduction. We then placed her on an additional 100 mg per day of quetiapine. She has been in complete remission under the combined medications for more than one year and maintains a fair role function. No more tic-like symptoms or other side effects have been reported. Together with previously reported cases, our patient suggests that tic-like symptoms might occur in certain vulnerable individuals during treatment with atypical antipsychotics such as quetiapine, clozapine, or amisulpride.
