Seventy-seven patients with progressive metastatic breast cancer refractory to prior therapy participated in a prospective randomized trial designed to compare the efficacy and toxicity of doxorubicin and epirubicin administered as single agents. In arm 1, 60 mg/m2 of doxorubicin and, in arm 2, 90 mg/m2 of epirubicin were administered by 48-h continuous i.v. infusion every 3 weeks. In arm 3, 90 mg/m2 of epirubicin was administered by bolus every 3 weeks. Patients in the three groups had similar characteristics, except that in arm 3 more patients were premenopausal, had more extensive disease, and fewer patients had been exposed to doxorubicin. Objective remission rates were 29, 26, and 13%, respectively for the three arms. Median response durations ranged from 4-6 months. No significant differences occurred in response rate, remission duration, or survival among patients in the three arms. The incidence of gastrointestinal toxicity and alopecia was evenly distributed. Hematologic toxicity was more severe in arms 2 and 3, and there was a higher incidence of infectious complications in arms 2 and 3 compared to arm 1 (p = 0.05). Two episodes of congestive heart failure occurred in arm 1, one in arm 2, and three in arm 3. Although the total cumulative anthracycline dosage was highest in the arm 2 group, they had the lowest incidence of cardiac toxicity. Epirubicin by bolus and doxorubicin administered by continuous infusion have similar potential for cardiac toxicity. Epirubicin administered by continuous infusion appears less cardiotoxic than doxorubicin by either method of administration or epirubicin given by bolus. Epirubicin appears equally active and less cardiotoxic than the parent compound doxorubicin in patients with metastatic breast cancer.
Creatine plays a pivotal role in brain energy homeostasis, and altered cerebral energy metabolism may be involved in the pathophysiology of depression. Oral creatine supplementation may modify brain high-energy phosphate metabolism in depressed subjects.
Eight unipolar and two bipolar patients with treatment-resistant depression were treated for four weeks with 3-5 g/day of creatine monohydrate in an open add-on design. Outcome measures were the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale, Hamilton Anxiety Scale, and Clinical Global Impression scores, recorded at baseline and at weeks 1, 2, 3 and 4.
One patient improved considerably after one week and withdrew. Both bipolar patients developed hypomania/mania. For the remaining seven patients, all scale scores significantly improved. Adverse reactions were mild and transitory.
This small, preliminary, open study of creatine monohydrate suggests a beneficial effect of creatine augmentation in unipolar depression, but possible precipitation of a manic switch in bipolar depression.
To investigate the effectiveness and safety of various agents on paroxysmal atrial fibrillation in the elderly over 75 years old.
Totally 264 in-patients (75-91 years old, 185 males and 79 females) with atrial fibrillation history of less than 7 days were enrolled in this study. A total of 611 atrial fibrillation episodes were recorded, but 130 episodes (22.3%) of atrial fibrillation were auto-converted to sinus rhythm. The rest 481 episodes of atrial fibrillation were divided into six groups based on the drug used.
The cardioversion ratio of atrial fibrillation were 9.5%, 46.9%, 71.7%, 55.9%, 32.7%, and 73.6% in control, cedilanid, amiodarone, propafenone, verapamil, and quinidine groups, respectively. Ventricular rate control were 5.4%, 83.6%, 84.9%, 77.9%, 78.8%, and 11.3% in those groups, respectively. The total effective rates of amiodarone and cedilanid groups were the highest. When the ventricular rate was controlled to below 90 bpm, the patients would almost complain of no discomfort. No severe side-effect was observed in each group.
Amiodarone and cedilanid may be the proper drugs for the treatment of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation in the elderly. The above antiarrhythmics in each therapeutic group were relatively safe and effective.
Previous studies showed that prior administration of kappa-opioid agonists decreased the development of sensitization to some of the behavioral effects of cocaine. The present study sought to determine whether the development of sensitization to cocaine's reinforcing effects was also sensitive to antagonism by kappa-opioid agonists. During a pretreatment phase, the kappa-opioid agonist, U69593 (0.0 or 0.32 mg/kg) was administered prior to (1) 2 daily injections of cocaine (0.0 or 20.0 mg/kg), or (2) cocaine or saline administered via a yoking procedure. Cocaine pretreatment decreased the latency to acquisition of cocaine self-administration. However, prior administration of U69593 during the pretreatment phase failed to attenuate the development of this sensitized response to cocaine's reinforcing effect. In other groups, the effect of acute U69593 pretreatment on the maintenance of cocaine self-administration was examined during a 10 hr session. During training and testing, a stimulus was associated with each self-administered cocaine infusion for one group whereas responding of another group was reinforced by a cocaine infusion alone. On the test day, pretreatment with U69593 (0.32 mg/kg) decreased responding during each hour of the 10 hr session for the group that was reinforced with cocaine plus the cocaine-associated stimulus. U69593 failed to produce a long-lasting disruption of cocaine self-administration for rats that were trained and tested without the cocaine-associated stimulus. These data suggest that the acquisition and maintenance of cocaine self-administration are differentially sensitive to manipulations of kappa-opioid systems. Further, the disruption of cocaine self-administration by U69593 may be due to interactions with mechanisms that underlie facilitative effects of stimuli that have been associated with self-administered cocaine infusions.
Ci 744 (20 mg/kg, given intramuscularly (IM) produced a reliable level of surgical anesthesia in both dogs and cats. Animals anesthetized in this way did not have an increased sensitivity to cardiac fibrillation after they were given epinephrine. Epinephrine-induced ventricular arrhythmia observed in C1 744-anesthetized animals was eliminated in cats and was markedly reduced in dogs by bilateral vagotomy. Myocardial fibrillation was not produced by epinephrine (0.1 to 100 mug/kg, intravenously (IV) in dogs and cats anesthetized with C1 744 alone. Pentobarbital anesthesia, like C1 744 anesthesia, did not sensitize the heart, whereas a significant number of thiamylal-halothane-anesthetized animals died from cardiac fibrillation after they had been given epinephrine. Additional dogs were anesthetized with C1 744 or pentobarbital and given a series of pressor and depressor agents (isoproterenol, epinephrine, tyramine, 1, 1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazium iodide (DMPP) plus bilateral carotid occlusion) before and after vagotomy. The responses with either anesthetic were similar with the exception that the reflex bradycardia to pressor agents was more evident in C1 744- than in pentobarbital-anesthetized dogs.
Prostaglandins (PGs) are bioactive lipids that modulate a broad spectrum of biologic processes including reproduction and circulatory homeostasis. Although reproductive functions of mammals are influenced by PGs at numerous levels, including ovulation, fertilization, implantation, and decidualization, it is not clear which PGs are involved and whether a single mechanism affects all reproductive functions. Using mice deficient in 1 of 4 prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) receptors -- specifically, the EP2 receptor -- we show that Ep2(-/-) females are infertile secondary to failure of the released ovum to become fertilized in vivo. Ep2(-/-) ova could be fertilized in vitro, suggesting that in addition to previously defined roles, PGs may contribute to the microenvironment in which fertilization takes place. In addition to its effects on reproduction, PGE2 regulates regional blood flow in various vascular beds. However, its role in systemic blood pressure homeostasis is not clear. Mice deficient in the EP2 PGE2 receptor displayed resting systolic blood pressure that was significantly lower than in wild-type controls. Blood pressure increased in these animals when they were placed on a high-salt diet, suggesting that the EP2 receptor may be involved in sodium handling by the kidney. These studies demonstrate that PGE2, acting through the EP2 receptor, exerts potent regulatory effects on two major physiologic processes: blood pressure homeostasis and in vivo fertilization of the ovum.
Adhesion molecules such as intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) are thought to contribute to the airway inflammation and airway hyper-responsiveness (AHR) of allergic asthma. Some differences from allergic asthma have been noted, including airway neutrophilia, and the involvement of ICAM-1 in toluene diisocyanate (TDI) asthma is currently unclear.
We utilized mice lacking ICAM-1 expression (ICAM-1(-/-)) to investigate the role of ICAM-1 in airway inflammation and AHR in TDI-induced asthma.
Male C57BL/6J mice (ICAM-1(+/+)) and ICAM-1(-/-) mice were intranasally sensitized to TDI solution or solvent alone. Airway inflammation, AHR and cytokine secretion were assessed 24 h after challenge by TDI or solvent. The production of antigen-specific IgG and IgE by TDI sensitized and non-sensitized mice was determined.
TDI challenge to ICAM-1(+/+) mice induced an increase in airway inflammatory cell numbers, AHR and cytokine secretion of TNF-alpha, macrophage inflammatory protein-2 (MIP-2), IL-4, IL-5 and IFN-gamma into the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid. All these pathophysiological changes were reduced in ICAM-1(-/-) mice. Serum levels of TDI-specific IgG and IgE of ICAM-1(-/-) and ICAM-1(+/+) mice were comparable.
These results suggest that ICAM-1 plays an essential role in airway inflammation and AHR in TDI-induced asthma.
Because exposure to intravenously administered bupivacaine may alter cardiovascular reflexes, the authors examined bupivacaine actions on baroreflex control of heart rate in conscious rats.
Baroreflex sensitivity (pulse interval vs. systolic blood pressure in ms/mmHg) was determined before, and 1.5 and 15.0 min after rapid intravenous administration of bupivacaine (0.5, 1.0, and 2.0 mg/kg) using heart rate changes evoked by intravenously administered phenylephrine or nitroprusside. The actions on the sympathetic and parasympathetic autonomic divisions of the baroreflex were tested in the presence of a muscarinic antagonist methyl atropine and a beta-adrenergic antagonist atenolol.
Within seconds of injection of bupivacaine, mean arterial pressure increased and heart rate decreased in a dose-dependent manner. Baroreflex sensitivity was unaltered after administration of 0.5 mg/kg bupivacaine. In addition, 1 mg/kg bupivacaine at 1.5 min depressed phenylephrine-evoked reflex bradycardia (0.776 +/- 0.325 vs. 0.543 +/- 0.282 ms/mmHg, P < 0.05) but had no effect on nitroprusside-induced tachycardia. Bupivacaine (2 mg/kg), however, depressed reflex bradycardia and tachycardia (phenylephrine, 0.751 +/- 0.318 vs. 0.451 +/- 0.265; nitroprusside, 0.839 +/- 0.256 vs. 0.564 +/- 0.19 ms/mmHg, P < 0.05). Baroreflex sensitivity returned to prebupivacaine levels by 15 min. Bupivacaine (2 mg/kg), in the presence of atenolol, depressed baroreflex sensitivity (phenylephrine, 0.633 +/- 0.204 vs. 0.277 +/- 0.282; nitroprusside, 0.653 +/- 0.142 vs. 0.320 +/- 0.299 ms/mmHg, P < 0.05). In contrast, bupivacaine did not alter baroreflex sensitivity in the presence of methyl atropine.
Bupivacaine, in clinically relevant concentrations, inhibits baroreflex control of heart rate in conscious rats. This inhibition appears to involve primarily vagal components of the baroreflex-heart rate pathways.
Treatment with the antidepressant nefazodone has been associated with clinical idiosyncratic hepatotoxicty. Using membranes expressing human bile salt export pump (BSEP), human sandwich hepatocytes, and intact rats, we compared nefazodone and its marketed analogs, buspirone and trazodone. We found that nefazodone caused a strong inhibition of BSEP (IC(50) = 9 microM), inhibition of taurocholate efflux in human hepatocytes (IC(50) = 14 microM), and a transient increase in rat serum bile acids 1 h after oral drug administration. Buspirone or trazodone had no effect on biliary transport system. Nefazodone produced time- and concentration-dependent toxicity in human hepatocytes with IC(50) = 18 microM and 30 microM measured by inhibition of protein synthesis after 6 h and 24 h incubation, respectively. Toxicity was correlated with the amount of unmetabolized nefazodone. Partial recovery in toxicity by 24 h has been associated with metabolism of nefazodone to sulfate and glucuronide conjugates. The saturation of nefazodone metabolism resulted in sustained decrease in protein synthesis and cell death at 50 microM. The toxicity was not observed with buspirone or trazodone. Addition of 1-aminobenzotriazole (ABT), an inhibitor of CYP450, resulted in enhancement of nefazodone toxicity at 10 microM and was associated with accumulation of unmetabolized nefazodone. In human liver microsomes, ABT also prevented metabolism of nefazodone and formation of glutathione conjugates. We suggest that inhibition of bile acid transport by nefazodone is an indicator of potential hepatotoxicity. Our findings are consistent with the clinical experience and suggest that described methodology can be applied in the selection of nonhepatotoxic drug candidates.
Mutational incidence and spectra for genes examined in both human and mouse lung and liver tumors were analyzed using the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS) Genetic Alterations in Cancer (GAC) knowledge system. GAC is a publicly available, web-based system for evaluating data obtained from peer-reviewed studies of genetic changes in tumors associated with exposure to chemical, physical, or biological agents, as well as spontaneous tumors. In mice, mutations in Kras2 and Hras-1 were the most common events reported for lung and liver tumors, respectively, whether chemically induced or spontaneous. There was a significant difference in Kras2 mutation incidence for spontaneous versus induced mouse lung tumors and in Hras-1 mutation incidence and spectrum for spontaneous versus induced mouse liver tumors. The major gene changes reported for human lung and liver tumors were in KRAS2 (lung only) and TP53. The KRAS2 mutation incidence was similar for spontaneous and asbestos-induced human lung tumors, while the TP53 mutation incidence differed significantly. Aflatoxin B1, hepatitis B virus, hepatitis C virus, and vinyl chloride all caused TP53 mutations in human liver tumors, but the mutation spectrum for each agent differed. The incidence of KRAS2 mutations in human compared to mouse lung tumors differed significantly, as did the incidence of Hras and p53 gene mutations in human compared to mouse liver tumors. Differences observed in the mutation spectra for agent-induced compared to spontaneous tumors and similarities in spectra for structurally similar agents support the concept that mutation spectra can serve as a "fingerprint" of exposure based on chemical structure.
Left ventricular (LV) function and survival can be improved with captopril when initiated later than 24 hours after acute myocardial infarction. Animal studies suggest additional benefits may be obtained with earlier initiation of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. The effects on LV function of captopril and enalapril initiated within 24 hours of myocardial infarction were studied. Two hundred twenty-five patients with acute myocardial infarction were enrolled within 24 hours of the onset of chest pain. They were randomized to receive either captopril 25 mg three times daily, enalapril 5 mg three times daily, or placebo. LV ejection fraction (EF) and volumes were measured by radionuclide ventriculography at baseline during treatment and at 3 months after a 3-day withdrawal from therapy. The ACE inhibitor group had a significant increase in EF (45 +/- 1 to 47 +/- 1%; p = 0.005) and significantly attenuated LV dilatation compared with results in the placebo group (175 +/- 6 to 189 +/- 7 ml in the placebo group vs 168 +/- 4 to 172 +/- 4 ml in the ACE inhibitor group; p = 0.051 for LV end-diastolic volume; and 99 +/- 6 to 108 +/- 7 ml in the placebo group vs 94 +/- 3 to 94 +/- 4 ml; p = 0.026 for LV end-systolic volume). The beneficial effects of ACE inhibitor therapy on LV function were observed irrespective of the degree of initial LV dysfunction and were comparable in both the captopril and enalapril groups.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Complete withdrawal from headache medication is the treatment of choice for medication-overuse headache. Discontinuation of the overused headache medication, however, results in the development of withdrawal headache, often associated with nausea, vomiting, and sleep disturbances.
In a prospective study of 95 patients, the authors investigated the duration and severity of withdrawal headache after overuse of various headache drugs, including single and combination analgesics, ergots, and triptans. All patients underwent standard inpatient withdrawal therapy for 14 days.
The duration of withdrawal headache was shorter in patients overusing triptans (4.1 days) than in patients overusing ergots (6.7 days) or analgesics (9.5 days; p < 0.002). The mean headache intensity on the first day of withdrawal did not differ between the groups (p = 0.821). By day 14, however, it was lower in patients overusing triptans (0.08) than in patients overusing ergots (0.4) or analgesics (0.9; p < 0.005). Rescue medication was requested less by patients undergoing triptan withdrawal (0.25 requests) than by patients undergoing ergot withdrawal (1.25) or analgesic withdrawal (1.85; p < 0.05). Similar to findings in the entire patient population, withdrawal headache was shorter and less severe in migraineurs overusing triptans than in those overusing ergots or analgesics. Because only patients with migraine, but no patient with tension-type headache, overused triptans, withdrawal headache was shorter in the group of patients with migraine alone (6.7 days versus 9.6 days for patients with tension-type headache and 8.5 days for patients with combination headache, p < 0.02).
The duration and severity of withdrawal clearly depend on the type of overused headache drug only.
The aim of this study was to examine the prevalence of activation cluster adverse events (AC-AEs) in youths treated with the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) fluvoxamine for anxiety and the relationship of AC-AEs to SSRI blood levels.
Data from the Research Units on Pediatric Psychopharmacology (RUPP) Anxiety Study were examined for 45 youths (22 active fluvoxamine, 23 placebo) treated for Diagnostic and Statistical Manual for Mental Disorders, 4(th) edition (DSM-IV) anxiety disorders at the Johns Hopkins University site with an 8-week forced-flexible titration schedule. As part of the double-blind placebo-controlled trial, AC-AEs were recorded by clinicians at weekly patient visits. AC-AEs were defined as hyperactivity, activation, and disinhibition. Demographic characteristics, daily doses, and week-8 blood levels were examined in relation to the presence of AC-AEs. The prevalence of AC-AE and time to first event were established for those who experienced this side effect.
AC-AEs were found in 10 of 22 participants (45%) receiving fluvoxamine and only 1 of 23 in the placebo group (4%). The onset of AC-AEs occurred from week 1 to week 8, with the majority occurring at or before week 4. The mean fluvoxamine blood level at week 8 in subjects with AC-AEs was higher than in subjects without AC-AEs (n = 16, t = -2.61, p = 0.04). Neither the age of the participants nor family history of bipolar or anxiety disorder differed between those who did and did not develop an AC-AE.
AC-AEs were common side effects of fluvoxamine, often appeared during the first 8 weeks of treatment, and were associated with higher fluvoxamine blood levels. Close monitoring for AC-AEs, not only when initiating SSRI treatment but also throughout dose titration, is recommended for early identification of activation.
Glomerular epithelial protein 1 (GLEPP1) is a podocyte receptor membrane protein tyrosine phosphatase located on the apical cell membrane of visceral glomerular epithelial cell and foot processes. This receptor plays a role in regulating the structure and function of podocyte foot process. To better understand the utility of GLEPP1 as a marker of glomerular injury, the amount and distribution of GLEPP1 protein and mRNA were examined by immunohistochemistry, Western blot and RNase protection assay in a model of podocyte injury in the rat. Puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis was induced by single intraperitoneal injection of puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN, 20 mg/100g BW). Tissues were analyzed at 0, 5, 7, 11, 21, 45, 80 and 126 days after PAN injection so as to include both the acute phase of proteinuria associated with foot process effacement (days 5-11) and the chronic phase of proteinuria associated with glomerulosclerosis (days 45-126). At day 5, GLEPP1 protein and mRNA were reduced from the normal range (265.2 +/- 79.6 x 10(6) moles/glomerulus and 100%) to 15% of normal (41.8 +/- 4.8 x 10(6) moles/glomerulus, p < 0.005). This occurred in association with an increase in urinary protein content from 1.8 +/- 1 to 99.0 +/- 61 mg/day (p < 0.001). In contrast, podocalyxin did not change significantly at this time. By day 11, GLEPP1 protein and mRNA had begun to return towards baseline. By day 45-126, at a time when glomerular scarring was present, GLEPP1 was absent from glomerulosclerotic areas although the total glomerular content of GLEPP1 was not different from normal. We conclude that GLEPP1 expression, unlike podocalyxin, reflects podocyte injury induced by PAN. GLEPP1 expression may be a useful marker of podocyte injury.
To investigate the possible protective effects of nitric oxide (NO) inhalation in newborns with meconium aspiration, 18 10-12-d-old piglets were studied for 6h after an intratracheal bolus (3 ml/kg) of a 65-mg/ml mixture of human meconium. Twelve of the piglets were treated with continuous NO inhalation at a dose of 1 ppm (n = 6) or 10 ppm (n = 6), started 30 min before the insult. Pulmonary haemodynamics and systemic oxygenation were followed, and lung tissue samples were studied for signs of inflammation, evidence of ultrastructural injury and apoptotic cell changes. Inhalation of 10 ppm NO, in contrast to 1 ppm NO, significantly delayed the meconium-induced pulmonary pressure rise and the increase in intrapulmonary shunt fraction, and maintained better oxygenation in the piglets. Histologically and biochemically, treatment with 1 or 10 ppm NO inhalation did not protect the lungs against meconium-induced inflammatory injury. Further, ultrastructural lung tissue analysis revealed a significant amount of alveolar exudate and oedematous alveolar epithelium and endothelium after meconium instillation, also in the lungs treated with NO inhalation. However, the increase in apoptotic epithelial cell deaths, previously shown to be stimulated by intratracheal meconium, was significantly impeded after inhalation of 10 ppm. These results thus show that early continuous NO inhalation controls the rise in pulmonary artery pressure and improves the efficiency of arterial oxygenation, and further prevents the increase in epithelial apoptosis, but does not protect against early inflammatory damage caused by meconium aspiration.
Magnesium sulphate and ritodrine are commonly used drugs in the prevention of preterm delivery. However, the effects of these treatments on the newborn are controversial. It has previously been suggested that antenatal tocolytic magnesium sulphate decreases the incidence of cerebral palsy, but increases paediatric mortality. On the other hand, antenatal ritodrine treatment has been reported to increase the incidence of neonatal peri-intra-ventricular haemorrhage (PIVH). We investigated the cerebral ultrasonographic findings, neurological outcome and apparent life-threatening events (ALTE) among 63 infants, born before 33 wk of gestation, whose mothers were antenatally treated for premature birth with ritodrine or magnesium sulphate, and for pre-eclampsia with magnesium sulphate. Cerebral ultrasonography was performed during the first week of life and repeated before hospital discharge. The pathological findings were confirmed by a paediatric radiologist. A paediatrician and a physiotherapist performed the neurological follow-up examination of the survivors at 6 mo of age. We found Grade 3-4 PIVH in 15% of the infants exposed to maternal ritodrine treatment, in 9% of the infants whose mothers received tocolytic magnesium treatment, and in none of those exposed to maternal magnesium treatment for pre-eclampsia (p = 0.19). However, no differences were observed in 6-mo development or in the rate of paediatric mortality and ALTE among these three study groups. Because of the retrospective design and the limited number of subjects, the results of this study must be interpreted with caution.
Phenylephrine and ephedrine are both used to maintain arterial blood pressure during spinal anesthesia for cesarean delivery. Usually, either drug is given alone but several previous studies have described combining the drugs. However, the effect of varying the proportion of vasopressors in such combinations has not been reported.
One-hundred-twenty-five parturients having spinal anesthesia for elective cesarean delivery were randomized to receive an IV infusion of phenylephrine and ephedrine combined in one of five different concentration ratios. Assuming phenylephrine 100 microg to be approximately equipotent to ephedrine 8 mg, the groups contained the proportional potency equivalent of 100%, 75%, 50%, 25% or 0% of phenylephrine and 0%, 25%, 50%, 75% or 100%, respectively, of ephedrine. The infusions were adjusted to maintain systolic blood pressure (SBP) near baseline until uterine incision. Hemodynamic changes and umbilical cord blood gases were compared.
As the proportion of phenylephrine decreased and proportion of ephedrine increased among the groups, the following significant trends were detected: the incidences of hypotension and nausea/vomiting increased, the median magnitude of deviations of SBP above or below baseline and the bias for SBP to be above baseline increased, maternal heart rate was faster, fetal pH and base excess decreased, umbilical arterial oxygen content decreased and umbilical venous Po2 increased.
When varying combinations of phenylephrine and ephedrine were given by infusion to maintain arterial blood pressure during spinal anesthesia for cesarean delivery, as the proportion of phenylephrine decreased and the proportion of ephedrine increased, hemodynamic control was reduced and fetal acid-base status was less favorable. Combinations of phenylephrine and ephedrine appear to have no advantage compared with phenylephrine alone when administered by infusion for the prevention of hypotension associated with spinal anesthesia for cesarean delivery.
Although nitric oxide (NO) has been postulated to play important roles in host defense mechanisms against tumor cells, a direct evidence supporting this hypothesis is lacking. To obtain molecular insights into the antitumor action of NO, its metabolism and effect on ascites hepatoma (AH-130) cells were investigated in tumor-bearing rats. Kinetic analysis revealed that substantial amounts of nitrite and nitrate, metabolites of NO, appeared in plasma and ascites of AH-130-inoculated rats. Western blot analysis revealed that a large number of macrophages that expressed inducible type of NO synthase (iNOS) appeared in cancerous ascites, particularly during 1 to 2 weeks after inoculation of AH-130 cells. When NO generation by peritoneal macrophages increased, a significant fraction of AH-130 in ascites fluid underwent apoptosis as judged from the fragmentation of their nuclear DNA. Kinetic analysis revealed that NO strongly inhibited mitochondrial electron transport and changed calcium status in AH-130 cells, particularly under low oxygen tensions such as in cancerous ascites. Intraperitoneal injection of NO donor strongly enhanced DNA fragmentation of AH-130 cells. Antimycin A, a specific inhibitor for mitochondrial electron transport, also induced DNA fragmentation of AH-130 cells by a mechanism that was inhibited by adding ascorbate and tetramethyl-p-phenylene diamine (TMPD) as electron donors. These results indicate that NO derived from peritoneal macrophages inhibits mitochondrial electron transport and disturbs calcium homeostasis in ascites hepatoma AH-130 cells, thereby inducing their apoptosis in vivo.
Myostatin, a member of the TGF-beta superfamily of proteins, is known to suppress skeletal muscle mass and myocyte proliferation. The muscular component of the uterus is the myometrium, a tissue that regulates its mass in response to different physiological conditions under the influence of sex steroids. Recently, our laboratory reported effects of activin-A, another TGF-beta family member, on signalling and proliferation of rat uterine explants and human myometrial cell lines in culture. Here, we explore the expression, actions, and regulation of myostatin in uterine smooth muscle. Myostatin mRNA was demonstrated to be expressed in a myometrial cell line, pregnant human myometrial 1 cell line (PHM1). Functional assays showed that myostatin induced phosphorylation of Smad-2 and reduced proliferation of PHM1 number in a time and dose-dependent manner. Furthermore, myostatin activated smad-2 specific signalling pathways in rat uterine explants. To expand on our in vitro findings, we found that myostatin is expressed in rat uterus and determined that myostatin mRNA expression varies as a function of the phase of the estrous cycle. Uterine levels of myostatin peaked during late estrus and were the lowest at proestrus. Ovariectomy increased myostatin expression; estrogen treatment strongly decreased myostatin levels, whereas progesterone weakly decreased myostatin expression. In conclusion, myometrial cells are myostatin sensitive, myostatin mRNA levels are modulated in vivo in rats during the estrous cycle, and in response to steroid deprivation and replacement.
Trihexyphenidyl, a synthetic anticholinergic, used to control extrapyramidal symptoms arising from neuroleptic drug therapy has been a subject of controversy regarding the need for continuous antiparkinsonian therapy. In a group of 22 psychiatric patients receiving long-term antipsychotic medication concurrently with trihexyphenidyl the effects of trihexyphenidyl withdrawal were studied double-blind and placebo controlled. Anxiety, psychotic symptoms, extrapyramidal symptoms and salivary flow were monitored. Blood pressure, pulse, sleep duration, weight and body temperature were recorded daily. The result was a recognizable withdrawal syndrome indicated by an increase in anxiety with various physical complaints, as well as evidence of orthostatic hypotension and tachycardia. A temporary deterioration was noted in psychotic symptomatology and extrapyramidal symptoms. The majority of the parameters regained baseline values, indicating the symptoms were related to the discontinuation of trihexyphenidyl and supporting the existence of a withdrawal syndrome.
This study investigated the influence of hormone therapy on affect in a double blind crossover trail. The sample consisted of 49 women who had previously undergone hysterectomy and bilateral oophorectomy. Therapy consisted of 3 mth each of ethynyl oestradiol-50 micron/day, levonorgestrel-250 micron/day, "Nordial"-a combination of these two substances, and placebo. Affect was measured by the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale, verbal reports by women and self-ratings on visual analogue scales. Ethinyl oestradiol was found to have a beneficial influence on aspects of affect such as Hamilton scores, anxiety irritability and insomnia. The influence of hormones on Hamilton scores could be partly but not fully explained by the alleviation of hot flushes. Norgestrel showed less favourable changes initially but these tended to diminish by the third therapy month. Most of the women studied were not clinically depressed. Anxiety symptoms were the major features exhibited in the group of women investigated. The results of this study suggest that visual analogue rating scales are of questionable validity in assessing affect in patients without any appreciable psychiatric morbidity.
This study investigated the influence of hormone therapy on affect in a double blind crossover trial. The sample consisted of 49 women who had previously undergone hysterectomy and bilateral oophorectomy. Therapy consisted of 3 mth each of ethinyl estradiol--50 mcg/day; levonorgestrel--250 mcg/day; "Nordial"--a combination of these 2 substances; and placebo. Affect was measured by the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale, verbal reports by women and self-ratings on visual analogue scales. Ethinyl estradiol was found to have a beneficial influence on aspects of affect such as Hamilton scores, anxiety, irritability, and insomnia. The influence of hormones on Hamilton scores could be partly but not fully explained by the alleviation of hot flushes. Norgestrel showed less favorable changes initially but these tended to diminish by the 3rd therapy month. Most of the women studied were not clinically depressed. Anxiety symptoms were the major features exhibited in the group of women investigated. The results of this study suggest that visual analogue rating scales are of questionable validity in assessing affect in patients without any appreciable psychiatric morbidity.
The rapid delivery of drugs of abuse to the brain is thought to promote addiction, but why this occurs is unknown. In the present study, we characterized the influence of rate of intravenous cocaine infusion (5-100 sec) on three effects thought to contribute to its addiction liability: its ability to block dopamine (DA) uptake, to activate immediate early gene expression, and to produce psychomotor sensitization. Rapid infusions potentiated the ability of cocaine to block DA reuptake, to induce c-fos and arc mRNA expression, especially in mesocorticolimbic regions, and to produce psychomotor sensitization. Thus, the rate at which cocaine is delivered influences both its neurobiological impact and its ability to induce a form of drug experience-dependent plasticity implicated in addiction. We propose that rapidly delivered cocaine may be more addictive, in part, because this more readily induces forms of neurobehavioral plasticity that lead to the compulsive pursuit of drugs.
Recently, we have shown that a knockout mouse strain lacking the bradykinin B2-receptor gene exhibits an accelerated heart rate (HR) under basal conditions, this alteration being associated with mildly elevated blood pressure (BP) levels and ultimately with the development of cardiomyopathy. The goal of the present study was to determine whether genetic disruption of the B2-receptor alters autonomic cardiovascular reflexes to acute or chronic changes in BP. The direct mean BP and HR levels of unrestrained B2 knockout mice (B2-/-) were higher than those of wild type (B2+/+) controls (131 +/- 2 vs. 105 +/- 2 mm Hg and 480 +/- 5 vs. 414 +/- 8 beats/min, P < 0.01 for both comparisons). The difference in HR observed between groups under basal conditions was nullified by the acute administration of propranolol and atropine as well as by hexamethonium; it was attenuated by long-term blockade of angiotensin AT1 receptors. In B2-/- mice, the presence of an alteration in baroreceptor regulation of HR was supported by a reduced gain in the HR responses to acute nitroprusside-induced hypotension or phenylephrine-induced hypertension (slope of the regression line: 0.82 +/- 0.07 vs. 5.58 +/- 0.08 beats/min per mmHg in B2+/+, P < 0.01), as well as by an exaggerated tachycardic response to chronic hypertension induced by clipping of the left renal artery (60 +/- 3 vs. 15 +/- 3 beats/min in B2+/+, P < 0.01). Our findings indicate that disruption of the bradykinin B2-receptor gene is associated with an impaired baroreflex control of HR. The combination of chronically elevated resting HR and impaired baroreflex control could contribute to the development of cardiomyopathy in these animals.
Treatment with low drug doses is generally recommended in the elderly. However, the efficacy of low dose 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG CoA) reductase inhibitor treatment in elderly hypercholesterolemic patients has never been examined. Therefore, we compared the effect of low-dose with standard dose pravastatin, an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor, on the incidence of cardiovascular events (CVEs) in elderly patients with hypercholesterolemia in a randomized prospective trial. Subjects aged > or = 60 years (73 +/- 6 years) with serum total cholesterol (TC) levels of 220-280 mg/dL were randomized to the low-dose (groupL, 5 mg/day; n=334) or standard dose (groupS, 10-20mg/day; n= 331). Baseline TC levels were similar in the 2 groups (253 +/-15 mg/dL). Patients were followed for 3-5 years (mean 3.9 years). TC levels decreased from baseline by 11-13% in group L and by 15-17% in groupS. TC levels at 1 year in S and L group were 209 +/- 2 mg/ dL (16 +/- 1% decrease) and 221+/- 2 mg/dL (12 +/- 1% decrease), respectively. Forty two and 29 CVEs occurred in group L and S, respectively. The incidence of CVEs was significantly lower in group S than in group L (P = 0.046, generalized Wilcoxon test; P = 0.096, log-rank test). The risk ratio for group S compared with group L was 0.674 (95% confidence interval: 0.423-1.074). Subgroup analyses suggested that the difference in the incidence of CVEs between the 2 groups was more clear in subjects without diabetes mellitus, with TC levels of < 253 mg/dL, and with TG levels of > or = 133 mg/dL. The incidence of CVEs in group S was significantly lower than that in group L in subjects without both diabetes mellitus and previous cardiovascular disease (P = 0.026, generalized Wilcoxon test; P = 0.032, log rank test). These findings suggest that standard-dose pravastatin (10-20 mg/day) is more effective in reducing the incidence of CVEs in the elderly than low dose pravastatin (5 mg/ day), especially in nondiabetic elderly patients with mild hypercholesterolemia or previous cardiovascular disease.
ras genes are known critical DNA targets for chemical carcinogens. Exocrine pancreatic cancer (EPC) is the human tumor with the highest prevalence of K-ras mutations at diagnosis. We analyzed the relationship between past occupational exposure to dyes, metals, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) and other agents and mutations in codon 12 of the K-ras gene in 107 incident cases of EPC. Information on occupational and life-style factors was obtained from personal interviews conducted during hospital stay. Occupational exposures were examined using industrial hygienists (IH) assessment and the Finnish job-exposure matrix (Finjem). Specific occupational exposures among K-ras mutated EPC cases (n = 83) were compared to those of K-ras wild-type EPC cases (n = 24) (case-case analysis). Multivariate-adjusted odds ratios (OR) and their corresponding 95% confidence limits were estimated by unconditional logistic regression. Cases with K-ras mutations were significantly more likely than wild-type cases to have been exposed to dyes and organic pigments (OR 4.8; p<0.05). There was some indication of weaker associations between K-ras mutations and occupational exposure to lead, PAHs, benzo[a]pyrene, gasoline, nickel, inhalatory exposure to chromium and sedentary work. The association with chromium compounds was stronger for G to T transversions, a finding compatible with experimental studies on mutation spectra for chromium. Results lend moderate support to the hypothesis of indirect relationships between occupational exposure to dyes and organic pigments and the activation of the K-ras gene in the etiopathogenesis of human exocrine pancreatic cancer.
Ischaemia and reperfusion result in mitochondrial dysfunction, with decreased oxidative capacity, loss of cytochrome c and generation of reactive oxygen species. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of a methanol extract of Desmodium gangeticum (L) DC (Fabaceae) (DG) on lipid peroxidation and antioxidants in mitochondria and tissue homogenates of normal, ischaemic and ischaemia-reperfused rats. Myocardial lipid peroxidation products (thiobarbituric acid reactive substances; TBARS) in cardiac tissue homogenates and mitochondrial fractions were significantly increased during ischaemia reperfusion. Antioxidant enzymes (superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and glutathione reductase) in the myocardial tissue homogenate and mitochondria decreased significantly during ischaemia reperfusion, accompanied by a decreased activity of mitochondrial respiratory enzymes. Daily pretreatment of rats with DG (50 or 100 mgkg(-1)) orally for 30 days had a significant effect on the activity of mitochondrial and antioxidant enzymes. In-vitro studies showed that DG inhibited lipid peroxidation, and also scavenged hydroxyl and superoxide radicals. The concentrations required to scavenge 50% of the superoxide and hydroxyl radicals were 21 and 50.5 microgmL(-1), respectively. Administration of DG to normal rats did not have any significant effect on any of the parameters studied. The results of our study showed that DG possesses the ability to scavenge the free radicals generated during ischaemia and ischaemia reperfusion and thereby preserves the mitochondrial respiratory enzymes that eventually lead to cardioprotection.
