The overshoot effect can be reduced by temporary hearing loss induced by aspirin or exposure to intense sound. The present study simulated a hearing loss at 4.0 kHz via pure-tone forward masking and examined the effect of the simulation on threshold for a 10-ms, 4.0-kHz signal presented 1 ms after the onset of a 400-ms, broadband noise masker whose spectrum level was 20 dB SPL. Masker frequency was 3.6, 4.0, or 4.2 kHz, and masker level was 80 dB SPL. Subject-dependent delays were determined such that 10 or 20 dB of masking at 4.0 kHz was produced. In general, the pure-tone forward masker did not reduce the simultaneous-masked threshold, suggesting that elevating threshold with a pure-tone forward masker does not sufficiently simulate the effect of a temporary hearing loss on overshoot.
To evaluate clinical parameters that may affect the incidence of headache recurrence or the time to headache recurrence, or both, in migraineurs treated with naratriptan, 2.5-mg tablets.
The incidence of headache recurrence within 24 hours of treatment with naratriptan, 2.5-mg tablets (17%-28%), is lower than that reported for other currently available selective serotonin agonists. Identifying clinical parameters that influence headache recurrence may further reduce the incidence of headache recurrence or prolong the time to recurrence, or both, for naratriptan-treated patients.
We examined the effects of three clinical parameters (predose pain severity, headache duration prior to treatment, and relief status 4 hours post dose) on the incidence of and time to headache recurrence across four placebo-controlled naratriptan clinical trials. The impact of these parameters on headache recurrence was examined individually and in combination.
Predose pain severity had no effect on the incidence of headache recurrence (overall 23%; moderate 22%, severe 23%). The median time to recurrence was longer for patients with moderate pain before treatment compared with patients with severe pain before treatment (14.5 hours versus 9.3 hours, respectively). Overall time to headache recurrence was 11.8 hours. Patients with headache recurrence reported a longer time until they treated the headache compared with patients without headache recurrence (median, 145 minutes versus 97.5 minutes). Patients who treated headache pain within 3 hours of onset had a lower incidence of headache recurrence (20%) than patients who treated their headache more than 3 hours after onset (28%). Patients with no pain 4 hours post dose had a lower incidence of and a longer time to headache recurrence compared with patients with mild pain 4 hours post dose (17% versus 32%; median, 17.8 hours versus 8.1 hours, respectively). The interaction of all three clinical parameters was significant in predicting headache recurrence.
The overall incidence of headache recurrence is low after naratriptan, 2.5 mg, compared with other currently available selective serotonin agonists. Predose pain severity, time to treatment, and 4-hour relief status appear related to the incidence of or time to headache recurrence, or both. Treating less severe migraine attacks, treating earlier within an attack, and obtaining complete relief post dose may enhance the low incidence of headache recurrence and achieve longer times to recurrence with naratriptan, 2.5 mg.
The extract of the leaves of Alchornea cordifolia (AC) is extensively used in ethnomedicine for ulcers, rheumatic pains, febrile convulsions and for enhancing physical performance. In this study, the anti-stress and anticonvulsant activities of the aqueous leaf extract of Alchornea cordifolia were investigated in mice.
The anti-stress activity was assessed based on the ability of the extract to alter the duration of immobility, in the forced swim endurance test, whilst a picrotoxin-treated animal, was employed as the model for convulsive seizures.
The extract (100-400 mg/kg) given orally was found to significantly (p<0.05) reduce the duration of immobility, which suggest an anti-stress/anti-fatigue property. However, AC when tested at doses between 100 and 400 mg/kg did not prevent convulsions induced by picrotoxin in mice. The acute toxicity study carried out in mice revealed that the extract was well tolerated by the animals, as no death was observed at oral doses of 500-4000 mg/kg.
The results of this preliminary study provide evidence, which may support the use of Alchornea cordifolia against stress or fatigue in ethnomedicine.
Combination therapy with interferon (IFN)-alpha and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) has been reported to show an improved therapeutic efficacy in patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) but the mechanism behind this has not been completely elucidated. We examined the molecular events underlying the antiproliferative effects of IFN-alpha and 5-FU in combination using six human HCC cell lines. When the antiproliferative effects of administering IFN-alpha and 5-FU together were analyzed using isobolograms, we found that the cell lines could be divided into two groups: the S-group containing three cell lines, which showed synergistic effects, and the A-group, containing the remaining three cell lines, which showed additive effects. Real-time RT-PCR and Western blot analyses revealed that the expression levels of type I IFN receptor subunits, IFNAR1 and IFNAR2, were specifically up-regulated by 5-FU in all three cell lines of the S-group with the exception of IFNAR2 in one cell line, but not in those of the A-group. IFN-alpha modulated the protein expression levels of six enzymes regulating sensitivity to 5-FU, but none of them were down- or up-regulated in the same way in all members of the S- or A-group. In conclusion, the 5-FU-induced modulation of IFN receptor expression could play a pivotal role in the therapeutic efficacy of IFN-alpha combined with 5-FU. Measuring the expression levels of IFN receptors, and their ability to be up-regulated, may be a promising method for selecting HCC patients for this type of combination therapy.
Four separate groups of patients have been studied: (1) The effect of high-dose methotrexate (MTX) administration on glomerular filtration rate was determined by pre- and posttreatment inulin and creatinine clearances in nine patients. Measurements were made prior to and 24-40 hr after drug administration. Inulin and creatinine clearances both decreased a mean of 43%. No signs of systemic toxicity occurred. (2) Three other patients given high-dose courses of MTX developed MTX toxicity. Their creatinine clearance decreased an average of 61%. (3) In a separate group of five patients undergoing weekly MTX treatment, comparison of serum MTX pharmacokinetics with and without alkalinization of the urine demonstrated no significant difference in peak serum MTX levels or serum MTX decay. (4) Eight additional patients with severe renal dysfunction secondary to MTX were treated with increased doses of leucovorin and a continuous infusion of thymidine (8 g/m2/day) once renal failure was recognized. When high-dose leucovorin and thymidine were begun 48-72 hr after the MTX infusion, severe toxicity in the form of leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, diffuse mucositis, stomatitis, or skin rash was averted. We concluded the following: (1) high-dose MTX causes a subclinical decrease in glomerular filtration rate with each administration, even in nontoxic courses; (2) alkalinization of the urine with sodium bicarbonate does not alter plasma MTX decay, while volume expansion (hydration) is maintained constant; and (3) rigorous monitoring of serum creatinine and serum MTX levels 24-48 hr after MTX administration allows for the institution of rescue measures, including leucovorin and thymidine, which will abort the systemic toxicity that accompanies MTX-induced renal failure.
We present the case of a 29-year-old man with a long history of migraine with aura, in whom migraine with prolonged aura was induced after the sudden withdrawal of prophylactic therapy.
We report an elderly patient who developed severe delirium and extrapyramidal signs after initiation of lithium-olanzapine combination. On hospital admission, serum levels of lithium were found to be 3.0 mM/L which were far above toxic level. Immediate discontinuation of both drugs resulted in complete resolution of most of the symptoms except for perioral dyskinesia which persisted for three more months. We critically discussed the differential diagnosis of lithium intoxication and assessed confounding factors which induce delirium and extrapyramidal signs related with combination therapy of lithium and olanzapine.
To investigate the effect of antiepileptic drugs, especially carbamazepine and valproate, on intelligence in prenatally exposed children of mothers with epilepsy.
Intelligence of 182 children of mothers with epilepsy (study group) and 141 control children was tested in a blinded setting at preschool or school age using Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence-Revised or Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Revised. Data on maternal antiepileptic treatment and seizures during pregnancy were gathered prospectively. The study group represented approximately 50% of the children born to mothers with epilepsy in Uusimaa province during 1989 through 1994. One hundred seven children were exposed to antiepileptic monotherapy: 86 to carbamazepine and 13 to valproate. Thirty children were exposed to polytherapy: 23 combinations included carbamazepine, and 17 included valproate. The median maternal doses and blood levels during the second half of pregnancy were 600 mg and 26 micro mol/L for carbamazepine and 950 mg and 300 micro mol/L for valproate.
The mean verbal and nonverbal IQ scores in the children exposed in utero to carbamazepine monotherapy were 96 (95% CI, 93-100) and 103 (95% CI, 100-106). They did not differ from control subjects, whose mean verbal and nonverbal IQ scores were 95 (95% CI, 92-97) and 102 (95% CI, CI, 100-105). Significantly reduced verbal IQ scores were found in children exposed to valproate (mean, 82; 95% CI, 78-87) and to polytherapy (mean, 85; 95% CI, 80-90) compared with the other study group children and control subjects.
Carbamazepine monotherapy with maternal serum levels within the reference range does not impair intelligence in prenatally exposed offspring. Exposures to polytherapy and to valproate during pregnancy were associated with significantly reduced verbal intelligence. The independent effects of valproate remain unconfirmed because the results were confounded by low maternal education and polytherapy.
We have studied the effects of graded infusion rates of propofol (0.2-0.5 mg kg-1 min-1) on left ventricular global and regional function, in eight acutely instrumented dogs. Global function was assessed by measurement of aortic and left ventricular pressure, LV dP/dtmax, aortic blood acceleration and stroke volume. Regional function was assessed by measurement of systolic shortening and the end-systolic pressure-length relationship. The response of the coronary circulation to short periods of occlusion was also assessed. Administration of propofol significantly reduced left ventricular preload, as indicated by reductions in end-diastolic pressure and length; contractility was depressed, the depression being greater in the apex than in the base of the left ventricle. High infusion rates impaired relaxation. Regulation of coronary blood flow was not disrupted. Reductions in preload and contractility contributed to the propofol-induced hypotension. After 60 min, recovery from the greatest infusion rate was incomplete.
The effects of verapamil (220 micrograms/kg per min i.v.) on blood pressure and heart rate were studied in sinoaortic baroreceptor denervated and sham-operated rats. In the conscious animals the verapamil-induced hypotension was accompanied by a significant heart rate increase in the first group (from 352 +/- 7 to 422 +/- 10 beats/min) and a decrease in the second group (from 485 +/- 13 to 400 +/- 9 beats/min). The verapamil-induced tachycardia observed in sham-operated rats was prevented by atropine plus propranolol but not by adrenal demedullation. Tachycardia was present in urethane-anesthetized sham-operated rats, similar to the sinoaortic baroreceptor-denervated rats. After verapamil a significant heart rate reduction was observed in sham-operated but not in sinoaortic baroreceptor-denervated rats. The results in conscious rats suggest that the direct inhibitory action of this drug on sinus node automaticity is suppressed by baroreflex tachycardia and that anesthesia masks this response.
Prazosin at doses of 100 or 1000 nmol/kg i.v. induced bradycardia in urethane-anaesthetized rats. The bradycardia was completely abolished by atropine pretreatment or vagotomy. Prazosin also stimulated gastric acid secretion. This effect was completely abolished by vagotomy. The maximal hypotensive effect after prazosin i.c.v. occurred 10 min later than with i.v. administration. It is concluded that prazosin possesses vagal a stimulating property that may in part explain its modest tachycardiac effect seen in clinical use. The mechanism of vagal stimulation by prazosin remains unclear. The present findings suggest that prazosin does not exert any direct effects on central vagal structures accessible from the ventricular space.
The pathological findings in four nerves and muscles and in one skin biopsies from four patients treated with perhexiline maleate for angina pectoris are reported. In every case, a muscular denervation atrophy and a decrease in the large diameter myelinated fibers were observed. Only one case showed a decrease of the total number of myelinated fibers, on quantitative studies. The electron microscopic study of each nerve displayed findings consistent with a predominant schwannian degeneration, associated with a few onion bulbs formations and, in two cases, with a mild wallerian degeneration. The most striking finding consisted in the presence of polymorphous membrane-bound inclusions reminding the morphology of lysosomal complex lipids. These structures were very abundant in Schwann cells, but they were seen also in fibrocytes, endothelial and pericytic cells. Similar inclusions were present in the single muscle and skin biopsies studied by electron microscopy. In the muscle, they were seen in muscular cells as well as in endothelial and pericytic cells. In the skin, similar inclusions were observed in endothelial, smooth muscle and sweat gland cells. These inclusions were difficult to identify in one micron thick sections, emphazing the need of ultrastructural study for diagnostic purposes.
The authors performed a number of experiments aiming at quantifying the infarct size in Sprague-Dawley male rats. The experimental model employed was isoproterenol (ISP) induced, infarctlike myocardial lesions. In quantifying the extent of the infarct area they compared the cross reliability of enzymatic and histological methods. ISP was administered in two subcutaneous injections (50 mg/100 Gm body weight) at a 24 hour interval. At the peak of the necrotic process (48 hrs after the first injection), the heart was subjected to enzymatic or histological studies. Thus, a group of infarcted animals (n = 25) and their controls (n = 15) underwent the assessment of creatine kinase (CK) content in the homogenate of the myocardium. Another group of animals (n = 15) was used for histological observations, including measurement of infarct size by planimetry from histological sections. A good relationship was observed between the percentage of necrotic tissue calculated on the basis of CK values (69.11 +/- 2.39%) and the infarction area assessed by planimetry (72.37 +/- 2.69%) (mean +/- standard error of the mean [SEM]). Thus, the present study confirms that ISP-induced myocardial lesions are a simple and reliable model for experimental infarct. Moreover, the assessment of the CK content in the heart is correlated with histological studies by planimetry, and is suggested as a direct enzymatic method to quantify the extent of myocardial necrosis.
The compounds 3-amino-1,4-dimethyl-5H-pyrido[4,3-b]indole and 3-amino-1-methyl-5H-pyrido[4,3-b]indole, which are potent mutagens in a tryptophan pyrolyzate, ar hepatic carcinogens when given orally to mice at concentrations of 200 parts per million in a pellet diet. Female mice showed higher susceptibilities to both compounds than male mice.
Acute kidney injury (AKI) can occur from the toxic side-effects of chemotherapeutic agents such as cisplatin. Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) have demonstrated wide therapeutic potential often due to beneficial factors they secrete. The goal of this investigation was to evaluate in vitro the effect of human MSCs (hMSCs) secretome on cisplatin-treated human kidney cells, and in vivo the consequence of hMSCs intraperitoneal (ip) implantation in mice with AKI. Our results revealed that hMSCs-conditioned media improved survival of HK-2 human proximal tubular cells exposed to cisplatin in vitro. This enhanced survival was linked to increased expression of phosphorylated Akt (Ser473) and was reduced by a VEGF-neutralizing antibody. In vivo testing of these hMSCs established that ip administration in NOD-SCID mice decreased cisplatin-induced kidney function impairment, as demonstrated by lower blood urea nitrogen levels and higher survival. In addition, blood phosphorous and amylase levels were also significantly decreased. Moreover, hMSCs reduced the plasma levels of several inflammatory cytokines/chemokines. Immunohistochemical examination of kidneys showed less apoptotic and more proliferating cells. Furthermore, PCR indicated the presence of hMSCs in mouse kidneys, which also showed enhanced expression of phosphorylated Akt. In conclusion, our study reveals that hMSCs can exert prosurvival effects on renal cells in vitro and in vivo, suggests a paracrine contribution for kidney protective abilities of hMSCs delivered ip, and supports their clinical potential in AKI.
This study was conducted to evaluate the effects of umbelliferone (UF) and 4-methylumbelliferone (mUF) on high-fat diet-induced hypertriglyceridemia and hyperglycemia in mice. The mice were assigned to normal control, high-fat control, and high-fat with UF or mUF groups. For UF or mUF groups, the high-fat diet was supplemented with UF or mUF at 0.02% (wt/wt) for 12weeks. Both UF and mUF significantly decreased plasma triglyceride, free fatty acid and glucose levels, adipocyte size, white adipose tissue weights, and hepatic phosphatidate phosphohydrolase activity and significantly increased plasma adiponectin levels and hepatic fatty acid β-oxidation activity compared with the high-fat control group. UF and mUF improved glucose intolerance and hepatic steatosis in the high-fat fed mice. Long-term high-fat diet intake induced an increase in hepatic CYP2E1 activity and lipid peroxide and cytosolic hydrogen peroxide contents and suppressed superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase activities, which were reversed by UF and mUF supplementation. These results indicate that UF and mUF similarly ameliorate hypertriglyceridemia and hyperglycemia partly by modulating hepatic lipid metabolism and the antioxidant defense system along with increasing adiponectin levels.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors are associated with angioedema episodes that are potentially life-threatening. Few data are available on the outcome of patients reporting this adverse effect when they are switched to another drug. Scattered reports of angioedema associated with angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) use question the safety of using these drugs in patients with ACE inhibitor-related angioedema. We describe 64 consecutive patients with ACE inhibitor-related angioedema, the outcome after discontinuing this treatment, and the safety of using ARBs.
Retrospective analysis of 64 consecutive patients (January 1993 to June 2002) presenting with angioedema onset while receiving treatment with an ACE inhibitor.
Patients were recommended to stop ACE inhibitor use, substituting it upon advice of the physician. Fifty-four patients were available for follow-up (median follow-up, 11 months; range, 1-80 months): 26 had switched to an ARB, 14 to a calcium antagonist, and 14 to other antihypertensive drugs. Angioedema disappeared or drastically reduced upon withdrawal of the ACE inhibitor in 46 patients (85%). For the remaining 8 patients, angioedema was due to a cause other than ACE inhibitor use in 2; angioedema persisted independent of the treatment and without apparent cause (idiopathic angioedema) in 4; angioedema persisted after switching to an ARB and disappeared upon its withdrawal in 2.
Stopping ACE inhibitor use without further assessments is a successful measure in the large majority of patients developing angioedema while taking this drug. Only a small percentage of patients with ACE inhibitor-related angioedema continue with this symptom when switched to an ARB.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are uncommonly used due to their high frequency of adverse effects, including tachycardia and hypertension. Recently, there has been renewed interest in the role of this class of drugs in treating a variety of psychiatric disorders. The clinical features of MAOI overdose are poorly characterised. This paper describes a novel cardiac complication of phenelzine toxicity in a previously healthy young adult with no history of cardiovascular disease.
A 23-year-old woman presented to hospital after massive phenelzine overdose, and the clinical features and pathological findings are discussed in light of existing literature.
Clinical features of phenelzine toxicity included reduced consciousness level, seizures, and tachycardia, in keeping with previous reports. Unexpectedly, the patient developed severe and unexplained hypotension and impaired left ventricular function, and died 3 days after initial presentation. Post-mortem examination confirmed high serum phenelzine concentrations (4.1 mg/L) and histopathological features that were consistent with drug-induced acute myocarditis.
Acute myocarditis was attributed to phenelzine in the absence of any plausible alternative explanation. This possible complication should be considered in patients who develop unexplained hypotension after phenelzine overdose.
Fructose feeding induces a moderate increase in blood pressure levels in normal rats that is associated with insulin resistance, hyperinsulinemia, and hypertriglyceridemia. The sympathetic nervous system seems to participate in the alterations of this model. To further explore the mechanisms underlying fructose-induced hypertension, the effects of the AT1 receptor antagonist losartan on blood pressure, insulin resistance, renal function, and vascular reactivity in mesenteric vascular beds were studied. Sprague-Dawley rats were fed for 4 weeks with diets containing 60% fructose or 60% starch (control), and half of each group received losartan (1 mg/kg per day) in the drinking water. Fructose-fed rats showed higher (P < .05) blood pressure levels and plasma concentrations of triglycerides and insulin than those of controls. Losartan treatment prevented both blood pressure elevation and hyperinsulinemia in fructose-fed rats but not elevation of plasma triglycerides. Plasma glucose and insulin levels in response to an oral glucose load were higher (P < .05) in fructose-fed rats than in controls. These exaggerated responses were prevented by losartan treatment. No differences in the constrictor responses of mesenteric vascular beds to KCl (60 mumol), angiotensin II (1 nmol), phenylephrine (10(-5) mol/L), or endothelin-1 (10 pmol) were found between the two groups. Relaxing responses to acetylcholine or sodium nitroprusside in phenylephrine-precontracted mesenteric vascular beds and constrictor response to the nitric oxide synthesis inhibitor NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (100 nmol) were comparable in both groups. Losartan blunted angiotensin II constriction and reduced (P < .05) responses to phenylephrine in all groups.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Warfarin sodium is highly effective for prevention of embolic stroke, particularly in nonvalvular atrial fibrillation, but its expected benefit can be offset by risk of intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). We studied the determinants of ICH outcome to quantify the independent effect of warfarin.
Consecutive patients with supratentorial ICH treated in a tertiary care hospital with a neurointensive care unit were prospectively identified during a 7-year period, and data on hemorrhage location, clinical characteristics, and warfarin use were collected. Independent predictors of 3-month mortality were determined using multiple logistic regression analysis.
Of 435 consecutive patients aged 55 years or older, 102 (23.4%) were taking warfarin at the time of ICH. Three-month mortality was 25.8% for those not taking warfarin and 52.0% for those taking warfarin. Independent predictors of death were warfarin use (odds ratio [OR], 2.2; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.3-3.8), age 70 years or older (OR, 2.4; 95% CI, 1.4-4.0), and presence of diabetes mellitus (OR, 1.8; 95% CI, 1.0-3.3). Although 68.0% of all warfarin-related hemorrhages occurred at an international normalized ratio (INR) of 3.0 or less, increasing degrees of anticoagulation were strongly associated with increasing risk of death compared with no warfarin use.
Patients taking warfarin had a doubling in the rate of intracerebral hemorrhage mortality in a dose-dependent manner. The data suggest that careful control of the INR, already known to limit the risk of warfarin-related ICH, may also limit its severity.
When lithium serum levels were within the (human) therapeutic range, young and old adult male and female rats (housed singly or in groups) all displayed faster limbic seizure onset times in response to a muscarinic cholinergic agonist (pilocarpine 20 mg/kg) if a single systemic dosage of chlorpromazine was injected 24 hours previously. The effect was comparable to injecting an additional 10 mg/kg of pilocarpine. These results strongly suggest that cholinergic rebound from chlorpromazine administrations during lithium treatment could facilitate subclinical electrical lability and very localized neuronal necrosis within the limbic system of clinical patients, resulting in normalization of psychiatric symptoms.
Whole-day ambulatory blood pressure monitoring is used to confirm the diagnosis of hypertension and assess the response to antihypertensive therapy. Neither of these has been applied to patients with type II diabetes mellitus, in whom it has been proposed that the desirable blood pressure should be lower than in nondiabetics. This multicenter study was designed to examine whether there are differences in the efficacy of a first-line antihypertensive drug when assessed by casual and ambulatory blood pressure determinations in patients with type II diabetes mellitus in whom 24-hour ambulatory monitoring confirms or fails to confirm the diagnosis of hypertension. Forty-three patients (mean age, 57.7 years) with stable type II diabetes mellitus and mild hypertension (casual diastolic pressure, 90 to 104 mm Hg on at least two visits) were treated with an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (benazepril, 10 to 20 mg, once a day) for 8 weeks. Antihypertensive drug efficacy was assessed by casual (trough) and 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring. Diabetic patients were classified as nonconfirmed hypertensive if the mean 24-hour ambulatory diastolic pressure was below 85 mm Hg. Antihypertensive treatment significantly decreased both systolic and diastolic pressures when determined by either casual measurement (from a mean of 162.7/98.0 to 153.9/89.2 mm Hg; P < .001) or ambulatory monitoring (from a mean of 143.1/84.4 to 137.0/81.5 mm Hg; P < .05). Twenty-one patients (49%) were classified as confirmed hypertensive and 22 as nonconfirmed hypertensive. In confirmed hypertensive patients benazepril significantly reduced systolic and diastolic pressures when assessed by either casual or 24-hour ambulatory monitoring.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Incidence of severe depression is very common in Parkinson's disease (PD). Use of antidepressants in such cases is known to improve or worsen the existing PD. However, prediction of the effect of antidepressant on symptoms of PD is limited due to lack of suitable animal model. The present study examines the possibility of using haloperidol-induced catalepsy model in rats for this purpose. Antidepressants showed distinct effect on haloperidol-induced catalepsy, although most of them reduced forced-swimming induced immobility. In general, antidepressants with greater noradrenergic reuptake inhibition (desipramine, imipramine, amitriptyline, nortriptyline, protriptyline and maprotiline) reduced, whereas those with serotonergic reuptake inhibition (fluoxetine and clomipramine) increased haloperidol-induced catalepsy. Mianserin, an atypical antidepressant, and alprazolam, a benzodiazepine receptor analogue had no effect on haloperidol-induced catalepsy. The results suggest that haloperidol-induced catalepsy model in rats needs to be incorporated in the screening procedure when evaluating the utility of antidepressant drugs for the treatment of depression associated with PD.
Thromboembolic complications secondary to psychiatric therapy are known but relatively rare. Four pulmonary embolisms happening in a few months' time in our services have lead us to reconsider the incidence of psychotropes on thrombogenesis, and more particularly on the aggregability of blood-platelets. We have found hyperaggregability curves for a significant number of cases in patients undergoing treatment in comparison with reference patients undergoing no treatment. We have tried to explain the difference in the results of works concerning the aggregability of blood-platelets and psychotropes by problems of dosage and of level of action of these medications and of their metabolites, the effects often oposite for a limit dose, the danger of extrapolating in vivo the results found in vitro, finally the complexity and numerous unknown elements in the working of aggregation of blood-platelets.
To evaluate the safety and hematologic tolerance of 2'-3'-dideoxyinosine (didanosine, ddI) in subjects with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) or AIDS-related complex and prior hematologic intolerance to zidovudine.
A Phase I trial with two dose groups at a single-center, university-affiliated hospital ambulatory care center. Of 30 subjects enrolled, 21 had AIDS and nine had AIDS-related complex. All had CD4 lymphocyte counts less than 0.2 x 10(9)/L at entry. Didanosine was administered orally twice daily at a total daily dose of 750 mg or 1,500 mg for 12 weeks. Subjects who completed the 12-week study continued to receive ddI at the lower dose. All subjects were monitored for toxicity. Virologic and immunologic response markers were also measured.
For the group as a whole, there was no significant decrease in mean hemoglobin level or leukocyte or platelet counts. The dose-limiting toxicity was peripheral neuropathy. Other significant toxicities included pancreatitis and hypocalcemia. Uric acid elevations were common but were without clinical consequence. A sustained decrease in serum p24 antigen of at least 50% was noted in 42% of subjects who were p24 antigen-positive at entry. The mean CD4 lymphocyte count showed an initial increase that was not sustained over the 12-week study. All subjects remained anergic to skin testing.
Didanosine is well tolerated hematologically in some patients with prior significant hematologic intolerance to zidovudine. The toxicity profile for ddI differs from that of zidovudine and includes peripheral neuropathy and pancreatitis. Changes in CD4 lymphocyte number and HIV p24 antigen levels in some patients suggest antiviral activity of ddI in this population.
AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) plays a central role in controlling hepatic lipid metabolism through modulating the downstream acetyl CoA carboxylase (ACC) and sterol regulatory element-binding protein-1c (SREBP-1c) pathway. Saponins, particularly platycodin D, from the roots of Platycodon grandiflorum (Changkil saponins, CKS) have a variety of pharmacological properties, including antioxidant and hepatoprotective properties. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of CKS on hepatic lipogenesis and on the expression of genes involved in lipogenesis, and the mechanisms involved. CKS attenuated fat accumulation and the induction of the lipogenic genes encoding SREBP-1c and fatty acid synthase in the livers of HFD-fed rats and in steatotic HepG2 cells. Blood biochemical analyses and histopathological examinations showed that CKS prevented liver injury. CKS and platycodin D each increased the phosphorylation of AMPK and acetyl-CoA carboxylase in HFD-fed rats and HepG2 cells. The use of specific inhibitors showed that platycodin D activated AMPK via SIRT1/CaMKKβ in HepG2 cells. This study demonstrates that CKS or platycodin D alone can regulate hepatic lipogenesis via an AMPK-dependent signalling pathway.
A 61-year-old woman with hyperlipidemia was treated with gemfibrozil. She also had insulin-treated diabetes mellitus and chronic renal failure and was admitted because of severe chest pain. The ST segment was depressed and creatine kinase levels were elevated. The original diagnosis was acute myocardial infarction. In the presence of increasing chest pain, the onset of limb muscle tenderness, and increasing levels of creatine kinase, the diagnosis of myopathy secondary to gemfibrozil therapy was made and the drug was discontinued. All symptoms then subsided and creatine kinase levels returned to normal. Myopathy is a well-known complication of blood lipid-lowering drugs, especially in patients with renal failure.
