Neurophysiologic disorders developed in three patients after discontinuation of transdermal fentanyl (TDF) at a daily dose of 0.6 mg (2.5 mg per a patch), although direct removal of a 2.5 mg patch is permitted by the manufacturer as the formulation has the lowest fentanyl content among all the commercially available patch formulations. These observations indicate that the discontinuation of TDF carries a risk for developing withdrawal symptoms even when using a 2.5 mg patch. To avoid such adverse events, we considered the necessity of gradual reduction in the daily fentanyl requirements. For this purpose, we covered part of the application surface of the patch with an insulating tape, and then increased the covered area in a stepwise manner. There were no apparent withdrawal signs during the procedure described above.
The involvement of complement (C) in inflammatory diseases has driven the search for agents capable of inhibiting dysregulated complement activation. Many of these reagents inhibit the C3 convertases during the early stages of the cascade. However, a drawback of total systemic C inhibition, particularly in longterm treatment of chronic disease, is potentiation of infection and immune complex disease due to an inability to opsonize complexes and foreign cells and to lyse pathogens. Recent identification of a C5-binding protein in the salivary gland of the soft tick Ornithodoros moubata has enabled development of a terminal pathway-specific reagent, OmCI, with potential to ameliorate disease while leaving key physiological processes unaffected. Here we demonstrated that OmCI has broad cross-species activity. When given intravenously to rodents, OmCI totally ablated complement hemolytic activity, which gradually restored as C5 was resynthesized. The circulating half-life of OmCI was 30 h, demonstrating a much slower clearance than other small, biological agents. Using C5-sufficient and C5-deficient mice we showed that prolonged half-life was due to binding to plasma C5. Surface plasmon resonance analysis of C5 binding to OmCI confirmed a high binding affinity with a slow dissociation rate. OmCI was effective in preventing experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis induced by passive transfer in normal Lewis rats. OmCI ablated clinical disease, reduced C3 and C9 deposition at the neuro-muscular junction, and effected a marked reduction in cellular infiltration at this site. These data offer exciting prospects for targeted treatment of complement-mediated diseases without the detrimental inhibition of the opsonic roles of complement.
Treatment with arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) results in a wide range of cellular effects that includes induction of apoptosis, inhibition of cell growth, promotion or inhibition of cellular differentiation, and inhibition of angiogenesis through a variety of mechanisms. The mechanisms of As(2)O(3)-induced cell death have been mainly studied in hematological cancers, and those mechanisms in solid cancers have yet to be clearly defined. In this study, the mechanisms by which As(2)O(3) induces apoptosis in human colorectal adenocarcinoma HT-29 cells were investigated.
To examine the levels of apoptosis, HT-29 cells were treated with As(2)O(3) and then we measured the percentage of Annexin V binding cells, the amount of ROS production and the mitochondrial membrane potential. Western blot analysis was performed to identify the activated caspases after As(2)O(3) exposure, and we compared the possible target molecules of apoptosis. As(2)O(3) treatment induced the loss of the mitochondrial membrane potential and an increase of ROS, as well as activation of caspase-3, -7, -9 and -10.
As(2)O(3) induced apoptosis via the production of reactive oxygen species and the loss of the mitochondrial membrane potential. As(2)O(3) induced the activation of caspase-3, -7, -9 and -10. Furthermore, As(2)O(3) treatment downregulates the Mcl-1 and Bcl-2 expressions, and the release of cytochrome c and an apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF). Pretreating the HT-29 cells with N-acetyl-L-cysteine, which is a thiol-containing antioxidant, inhibited the As(2)O(3)-induced apoptosis and caspase activation.
Taken together, these results suggest that the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) by As(2)O(3) might play an important role in the regulation of As(2)O(3)-induced apoptosis. This cytotoxicity is mediated through a mitochondria-dependent apoptotic signal pathway in HT-29 cells.
The authors used the Fagan Test of Infant Intelligence (J. F. Fagan, L. T. Singer, J. E. Montie, & P. A. Shepherd, 1986) to examine preferences for novelty and to evaluate several indicators of attention (off- and on-task indexes and durations) in 6- and 9-month-old infants who had been prenatally exposed to cigarette smoke only or to cocaine plus other substances. The infants were matched for socioeconomic status. The authors found no group differences in preference for novelty, but the off-task distractibility index and duration were affected by exposure history and showed effects of dosage at the 9-month test time. Infants exposed to cocaine had a higher off-task index and a shorter average off-task look duration than did infants in the other groups. The authors interpreted this pattern of behavior as an indicator of distractibility or stimulation seeking. There were no group differences in measures involving on-task looks or duration at either test time. Correlations between the off-task look index and duration and teratogen use produced moderate correlations at 9 months of age. The authors calculated partial correlations between teratogen exposure and the off-task index at each trimester. Cocaine use during the 1st and 2nd trimesters was significantly correlated with the off-task index at 9 months of age, even when the authors controlled for neonatal measures (e.g., gestational age, birth weight) and during the 1st trimester when they controlled for alcohol and cigarette exposure.
The purpose of our study was to examine the altered gene expression associated with nongenotoxic chemical-mediated liver hypertrophy and successive liver tumor promotion. Five-week-old male rats were fed a basal diet or a diet containing phenobarbital (PB) or clofibrate (CF) for 3 days, 4 weeks, and 13 weeks. Hepatic expression profiling of cell growth- and stress-related genes, as well as those involved in xenobiotic metabolism, was performed by DNA microarray and/or real time quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. The induction of liver hypertrophy and hepatic cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoforms (CYP2B1/2B2 for PB and CYP4A1 for CF) by PB and CF were clearly observed at all the treatment periods examined. Genes encoding DNA damage-inducible 45 (GADD45) family proteins, in particular GADD45g (GADD45 gamma) were down-regulated by treatment with either PB or CF for 4 and 13 weeks. The chemical-mediated development of liver hypertrophy, induction of hepatic CYPs, and suppression of hepatic GADD45g gene at week 13 disappeared at 4 weeks following cessation of the chemical treatment. Additionally, DNA microarray data indicated that cell cycle-related genes such as cyclins CCNB1 and CCNA2 and cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor CDKN3 were also down-regulated by treatment with either PB or CF at 13 weeks. Since GADD45 functions as a chemical and radiation stress sensor by interacting with cyclins and cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors, the decrease in the gene expression of GADD45g mRNA observed in this study, may be associated with nongenotoxic chemical-induced tumor promotion of hepatocarcinogenesis rather than liver hypertrophy.
Methamphetamine use has become a growing problem in a number of countries over the past two decades, but has only recently emerged in South Africa. This study investigated the prevalence of methamphetamine use among high-school students in Cape Town and whether students reporting methamphetamine use were more likely to be at risk for mental health and aggressive behavior problems.
A cross-sectional survey of 15 randomly selected high schools in Cape Town, of 1561 males and females grade 8-10 students (mean age 14.9), was conducted using the Problem Oriented Screening Instrument for Teenagers (POSIT) and the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI).
Findings indicated that 9% of the students had tried methamphetamine at least once. Ordinal logistic regression analyses showed that methamphetamine use in the past year was significantly associated with higher aggressive behavior scores (OR=1.81, 95% CI: 1.04-3.15, p<0.05), mental health risk scores (OR=2.04, 95% CI: 1.26-3.31, p<0.01) and depression scores (OR=2.65, 95% CI: 1.64-4.28, p<0.001).
Methamphetamine use has become a serious problem in Cape Town, particularly among adolescents. Screening adolescents in school settings for methamphetamine use and behavior problems may be useful in identifying youth at risk for substance misuse, providing an opportunity for early intervention. These findings have implications for other parts of the world where methamphetamine use may be occurring at younger ages and highlight the importance of looking at co-morbid issues related to methamphetamine use.
Auranofin, a disease-modifying gold compound, has been empirically applying to the management of rheumatoid arthritis. We investigated a protective effect of auranofin against hepatic injury induced by cocaine. Cocaine (75 mg/kg) markedly increased serum alanine amino transferase (ALT) (4,130 IU/l) and aspartate amino transferase (AST) (1,730 IU/l) activities at 16 hr after treatment, and induced hepatic necrosis surrounding central veins in mice. Concurrently, overexpression of heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), a rate-limiting enzyme for heme degradation and an oxidative stress marker, was identified at the edges of cocaine-mediated necrotic area. Auranofin (10 mg/ml, i.p.) significantly induced hepatic HO-1 protein in mice from 12 hr after treatment. Interestingly, pretreatment with auranofin resulted in the prevention of the increase of serum ALT and AST activities in a dose-dependent manner. On the other hand, although cocaine increased tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα) gene expression in mouse livers, cocaine-induced liver injury was observed in TNFα deficient mice as well as wild-type mice. Auranofin-inducted HO-1 gene expression was observed in human primary hepatocytes as well as mouse primary hepatocytes. The present findings suggest that auranofin is effective in preventing cocaine-induced hepatic injury, and HO-1 may contribute to protect against chemically-induced cytotoxicity.
To examine a New Zealand case series of clozapine-associated myocarditis.
All cases of myocarditis in the Intensive Medicines Monitoring Programme's (IMMP) clozapine database were identified and reviewed.
25 cases of myocarditis associated with the use of clozapine have been reported to the IMMP. The majority of cases (84%) were male and the mean age was 35.5 years. Myocarditis occurred at daily clozapine doses ranging from 12.5 mg to 500 mg. Eighty percent of the cases developed within 1 month of starting the medicine, although in three cases the onset was more than a year after commencing clozapine. Of the 25 cases, 2 patients died.
This New Zealand case series of clozapine-associated myocarditis is similar to a recent Australian case series. Clozapine-associated myocarditis most often occurs within 1-2 months of starting clozapine, but it may develop at any time while on the medicine, and can occur even at very low doses. A data-linkage study using national morbidity and mortality datasets could estimate the incidence of clozapine-associated myocarditis in New Zealand.
Neuropsychological studies support the association between severity of drug intake and alterations in specific cognitive domains and neural systems, but there is disproportionately less research on the neuropsychology of emotional alterations associated with addiction. One of the key aspects of adaptive emotional functioning potentially relevant to addiction progression and treatment is the ability to recognize basic emotions in the faces of others. Therefore, the aims of this study were: (i) to examine facial emotion recognition in abstinent polysubstance abusers, and (ii) to explore the association between patterns of quantity and duration of use of several drugs co-abused (including alcohol, cannabis, cocaine, heroin and MDMA) and the ability to identify discrete facial emotional expressions portraying basic emotions. We compared accuracy of emotion recognition of facial expressions portraying six basic emotions (measured with the Ekman Faces Test) between polysubstance abusers (PSA, n=65) and non-drug using comparison individuals (NDCI, n=30), and used regression models to explore the association between quantity and duration of use of the different drugs co-abused and indices of recognition of each of the six emotions, while controlling for relevant socio-demographic and affect-related confounders. Results showed: (i) that PSA had significantly poorer recognition than NDCI for facial expressions of anger, disgust, fear and sadness; (ii) that measures of quantity and duration of drugs used significantly predicted poorer discrete emotions recognition: quantity of cocaine use predicted poorer anger recognition, and duration of cocaine use predicted both poorer anger and fear recognition. Severity of cocaine use also significantly predicted overall recognition accuracy.
A 42-year-old man with aspirin-induced asthma also developed Prinzmetal's variant angina shortly after aspirin ingestion suggesting a possible physiologic relationship between bronchospasm and coronary spasm in aspirin-sensitive patients.
The dipyridamole stress test is used with thallium-201 to detect areas of inhomogeneity of blood flow that point to coronary artery disease (CAD). It is unclear whether dipyridamole produces inhomogeneous perfusion only or whether it actually decreases net flow in the obstructed vessels and produces true ischemia. It is also unclear what effect dipyridamole has on global and segmental left ventricular function. Therefore, ejection fraction, segmental wall motion and ventricular volume equivalents were measured before and after dipyridamole in 113 patients and 32 normal subjects. Ejection fraction responded in an abnormal fashion in 98 patients (87%), decreasing from 49 +/- 11% to 43 +/- 13% (p less than 0.0001), whereas it increased in 29 normal subjects (90%) from 57 +/- 6% to 64 +/- 10% (p less than 0.0001). Wall motion worsened distinctly in 75 patients (66%), and pressure/volume ratio deteriorated in 72%. The effect of dipyridamole lasted between 10 and 25 minutes, but was promptly reversed by aminophylline. These findings indicate that dipyridamole generally induces true ischemia in CAD. Furthermore, the degree of dysfunction is related to the angiographically assessed severity of CAD. The shortness of breath (seen in 10% of patients) may be partially explained by the findings, and it seems advisable to give aminophylline to every patient in order to promptly correct left ventricular dysfunction.
Thiethylperazine is a commonly used anti-emetic drug during pregnancy in Hungary. One experimental study in mice and rats found an increased occurrence of cleft palate after the use of thiethylperazine during pregnancy but the human data of thiethylperazine have not been reported. Thus, the aim of the study was to investigate the possible human teratogenic effect of thiethylperazine.
Case-control approach.
The teratogenic potential of thiethylperazine was evaluated in the population-based large data set of the Hungarian Case-Control Surveillance of Congenital Abnormalities between 1980 and 1996.
Of 38,151 newborn infants without any congenital abnormalities (control group), 746 (2.0%) had mothers who were treated with thiethylperazine, while of 22,843 cases with congenital abnormalities, 411 (1.8%) had mothers who were treated with thiethylperazine during pregnancy.
Case-control pair analysis.
Different congenital abnormalities.
The pairs of cases with congenital abnormalities and their matched controls without congenital abnormalities were compared and this approach showed a somewhat higher rate of cleft lip +/- palate (OR: 2.0 with 95% CI: 1.0-4.0) in infants born to mothers with thiethylperazine treatment during the first trimester of pregnancy.
Our data do not indicate clear teratogenic effect of thiethylperazine, however, a weak association was found between thiethylperazine use and cleft lip +/- palate.
To assess the efficacy of ondansetron and the incidence of headache when used as prophylaxis for postoperative vomiting.
Studies were identified using MEDLINE (January 1990 to July 1997) with the key words: "vomiting," "ondansetron," and "surgery" and/or "anesthesia."
All prospectively randomized trials in which ondansetron and placebo had been administered for prevention of postoperative vomiting.
Data on patient numbers, gender and ages, drug dosage, outcomes (incidence of vomiting and incidence of headache), time of outcome (up to 8 hrs or up to 48 hrs postoperatively), and baseline risk for vomiting according to type of surgical intervention were extracted.
48 trials involving 12,078 patients (10,390 adults and 1688 children) met the selection criteria. No evidence was found that the drug became more effective at doses larger than 4 mg. The dose of 8 mg was not statistically demonstrated to be superior (p = 0.558), while that of 1 mg was barely effective. The meta-analysis indicated that when the incidence of vomiting is elevated (e.g., the combined average of the placebo groups of 48%), on the statistical (i.e., hypothetical) grounds of six patients being treated with 4 mg of ondansetron, one will not vomit due to the treatment and, of the rest, two patients would have vomited despite the treatment and three patients would not have vomited anyway. The overall incidence of headache was 7.05% in ondansetron groups versus 6.16% in placebo groups.
While ondansetron is an effective antiemetic with minimal adverse effects, the data obtained on the numbers needed to be treated calculation for prophylaxis of postoperative vomiting should be considered in future cost-effective strategies of postoperative management.
Experimental studies have shown that doxofylline is endowed with a remarkable bronchodilator activity with less extra-respiratory effects than theophylline. This trial was designed to compare the efficacy and safety of doxofylline, theophylline, and placebo in patients with chronic reversible bronchial asthma.
Three hundred forty-six patients were randomly assigned to a 12-week oral treatment with either doxofylline 400 mg t.i.d. (high dose), doxofylline 200 mg t.i.d. (low dose), theophylline 250 mg t.i.d. (active control) or placebo. Pulmonary function tests (PFTs) were performed biweekly. Patients kept records of peak flow meter (PFM) measurements, asthma attack rate and beta-2-agonist use (albuterol).
Changes in FEV1 2 hours after the administration of treatments versus baseline exhibited statistically significant differences between doxofylline 400 mg t.i.d. and placebo and between theophylline and placebo. Similar differences were monitored on the other variables (FVC, PFER, FEF(25-75%). Asthma attack rate and use of albuterol decreased remarkably with doxofylline 400 mg t.i.d. and theophylline. There were few statistically significant differences between doxofylline 200 mg t.i.d. and placebo. Significantly more patients had to interrupt treatment because of adverse events under theophylline than under doxofylline 400 mg t.i.d. (p=0.001). With doxofylline 400 mg t.i.d., the number of patients treated to spare one drop-out due to theophylline was 5.
This study provides evidence that doxofylline 400 mg t.i.d. is an effective treatment for relieving airway obstruction and displays a better safety profile with respect to theophylline 250 mg t.i.d. with a favorable risk-to-benefit ratio.
Five children, admitted with acute psychotic reactions after use of Scopolamine eye drops 0.2%, are presented. The predominant symptoms were visual hallucinations, strange behaviour, and restlessness. In one case peripheral symptoms were observed. Recovery was complete in 24 h. Prescription of Scopolamine eye drops should be followed by information of possible adverse effects. Cyclopentolate might be used instead.
To evaluate the effect of controlled hypotension combined with hemodilution on gastric intramural pH in the clinical setting.
Randomized, prospective study.
Inpatient surgery at Nagasaki Rosai Hospital.
30 ASA physical status I and II patients scheduled for total hip arthroplasty.
Patients were randomly divided into two groups. Group A (n = 15) received controlled hypotension with mild hemodilution. Group B (n = 15) received controlled hypotension with moderate hemodilution. Hemodilution was carried out after induction of anesthesia. Drawn blood was replaced with 6% hydroxyethyl starch solution. Final hematocrit values were 32 +/- 2% (mean +/- SD) in Group A and 23 +/- 2% in Group B. Controlled hypotension was induced with prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) to maintain mean arterial blood pressure at 55 mmHg for 80 minutes.
Measurements included gastric intramural pH (pHi), arterial blood pH (pHa), and plasma lactate. These indices were measured before hemodilution, after hemodilution, 80 minutes after starting hypotension, 60 minutes after recovery from hypotension, and on the first postoperative day. The value of pHi was measured by tonometry. The pHa and lactate values showed no change in either Group A or Group B throughout the time course. Gastric pHi values showed no change in Group A throughout the time course. The pHi value in Group B showed a significant decrease from 7.420 +/- 0.028 to 7.339 +/- 0.034 (p < 0.05) after hemodilution, while it showed no further decrease at 80 minutes after starting hypotension (7.331 +/- 0.039) and 60 minutes after recovery from hypotension (7.330 +/- 0.048).
The results suggest that moderate hemodilution, such as 23% of hematocrit value, might impair oxygenation in gastrointestinal mucosa, whereas controlled hypotension induced by PGE1 combined with the hemodilution would not increase this impairment.
Bisphosphonates inhibit the activity of osteoclasts and demonstrate antitumor effect, involving induction of plasmocyte apoptosis, blocking of angiogenesis, stimulation of Tgd lymphocytes and inhibition of metalloproteinases. Bisphosphonates combined with thalidomide, a drug possessing confirmed anti-myeloma activity, seem to have potential favorable effect in patients with treatment-resistant multiple myeloma with advanced osteolytic lesions.
13 patients with treatment-resistant multiple myeloma with advanced osteolytic lesions received combined pamidronate and thalidomide therapy. All the patients underwent detailed clinical and laboratory control once a month. Pamidronate was used at 90 mg i.v. dose administered at 4-week intervals, and thalidomide at doses escalated from 200 mg/d in the first week to 400 mg/d after 3 weeks of the therapy. The mean duration of treatment was 12 weeks with a range of 3 to 36 weeks.
7 patients (53%) receiving pamidronate and thalidomide therapy demonstrated good response involving at least 25% reduction of monoclonal protein levels in comparison with baseline. All these patients reported improvement of osteodynia symptoms, and 3 of them - their complete regression. 70% patients experienced side effects (dizziness, constipation, somnolence, polyneuropathy) due to thalidomide administration
Good response to combined pamidronate and thalidomide therapy can be expected in at least 50% of patients with treatment-resistant multiple myeloma with advanced osteolytic lesions.
Vimang is the brand name of formulations containing an extract of Mangifera indica L., ethnopharmacologically used in Cuba for the treatment of some immunopathological disorders, including bronchial asthma, atopic dermatitis and other allergic diseases. However, the effects of Vimang on allergic response have not been reported until now. In this study, the effects of Vimang and mangiferin, a C-glucosylxanthone isolated from the extract, on different parameters of allergic response are reported. Vimang and mangiferin showed a significant dose-dependent inhibition of IgE production in mice and anaphylaxis reaction in rats, histamine-induced vascular permeability and the histamine release induced by compound 48/80 from rat mast cells, and of lymphocyte proliferative response as evidence of the reduction of the amount of B and T lymphocytes able to contribute to allergic response. In these experiments, ketotifen, promethazine and disodium cromoglicate were used as reference drugs. Furthermore, we demonstrated that Vimang had an effect on an in-vivo model of inflammatory allergy mediated by mast cells. These results constitute the first report of the anti-allergic properties of Vimang on allergic models, as well as suggesting that this natural extract could be successfully used in the treatment of allergic disorders. Mangiferin, the major compound of Vimang, contributes to the anti-allergic effects of the extract.
The effects of age on multi-organ carcinogenesis induced by 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl (DMAB) in male F344 rats were examined. Groups of 5-, 35-, and 65-week-old animals were given 4 weekly sc injections of DMAB at a dose of 200 or 150 mg/kg body weight. Prostate carcinomas were induced in 8 to 19% of rats treated, no significant differences in the incidence between different ages being observed. Tumors in the small intestine, skin, pancreas and peritoneum, however, developed more frequently in young than in old animals, whereas higher incidences of testis, preputial and mammary gland lesions were found in the 35- and/or 65-week-old groups. Colon and Zymbal gland carcinogenesis did not reveal any age dependence.
Bisphenol A (BPA) is an estrogenizing endocrine disruptor compound of concern. Our objective was to test whether lifelong BPA would impact cardiac structure/function, calcium homeostasis protein expression, and the DNA methylation of cardiac genes. We delivered 0.5 and 5.0 µg/kg/day BPA lifelong from gestation day 11 or 200 µg/kg/day from gestation day 11 to postnatal day 21 via the drinking water to C57bl/6n mice. BPA 5.0 males and females had increased body weight, body mass index, body surface area, and adiposity. Echocardiography identified concentric remodeling in all BPA-treated males. Systolic and diastolic cardiac functions were essentially similar, but lifelong BPA enhanced male and reduced female sex-specific differences in velocity of circumferential shortening and ascending aorta velocity time integral. Diastolic blood pressure was increased in all BPA females. The calcium homeostasis proteins sarcoendoplasmic reticulum ATPase 2a (SERCA2a), sodium calcium exchanger-1, phospholamban (PLB), phospho-PLB, and calsequestrin 2 are important for contraction and relaxation. Changes in their expression suggest increased calcium mobility in males and reduced calcium mobility in females supporting the cardiac function changes. DNA methyltransferase 3a expression was increased in all BPA males and BPA 0.5 females and reduced in BPA 200 females. Global DNA methylation was increased in BPA 0.5 males and reduced in BPA 0.5 females. BPA induced sex-specific altered DNA methylation in specific CpG pairs in the calsequestrin 2 CpG island. These results suggest that continual exposure to BPA impacts cardiac structure/function, protein expression, and epigenetic DNA methylation marks in males and females.
Accumulating evidence from molecular oncology indicates that carcinogens may induce tumors through characteristic mutations in characteristic genes for each agent. Identification of specific mutations induced by heterocyclic amines (HCAs), food-borne carcinogens, should facilitate risk assessment of HCAs in man. Identification of characteristic genes affected by HCAs will lead to identification of the genes involved in human carcinogenesis. We therefore examined tumors induced by various HCAs from these two viewpoints. With regard to forestomach tumors induced in CDF1 mice by 2-amino-3,4-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (MeIQ), mutations of Ha-ras and p53 were observed in four of eight and two of four tumors, respectively. One papilloma examined had mutations in both Ha-ras and p53, whereas two carcinomas had only one or the other. For Zymbal gland tumors induced in F344 rats by IQ, mutations of Ha- or Ki-ras were observed in both of two papillomas and in 10 of 13 squamous cell carcinomas (SCCs), while p53 mutations were limited to only four of the SCCs. The ras mutation was thus suggested to be an early event, while p53 mutation was more associated with malignancy. In liver tumors induced in F344 rats by 2-amino-3,8-dimethylimidazo[4, 5-f]quinoxaline (MeIQx), mutations of p53 were observed in one of two moderately-differentiated and two of two poorly-differentiated hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs). No such changes were found in any of nine well-differentiated HCCs, suggesting p53 mutation to be a very late event. In colon tumors induced in F344 rats by 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) (nine adenocarcinomas), 2-amino-3-methylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (IQ) (two adenomas and nine adenocarcinomas), or 2-amino-6-methyldipyrido[1,2-a:3', 2'-d]imidazole (Glu-P-1) (seven adenocarcinomas), a Ki-ras mutation was found in only one Glu-P-1-induced adenocarcinoma. No p53 mutations could be detected. In mammary gland carcinomas induced in F344 rats by PhIP, Ha-ras was activated in three of 17 carcinomas and p53 was mutated in one of 10 carcinomas. We therefore concluded that other genes were involved in colon and mammary carcinomas. G:C base pairs were involved in all 42 positive cases of the present study, and 36 of them were guanine base mutations. This indicates that the changes in IQ, MeIQx, PhIP and Glu-P-1 tumors were mainly caused by non-transcribed strand modifications through their major DNA adducts, N2-(guanin-8-yl)HCAs. Ha-ras mutations in the forestomach tumors induced by MeIQ were all G to T transversions at the second position of codon 13. Mutation sites of p53 did not appear to be specific in the forestomach, Zymbal gland and liver tumors.
Amiodarone is used commonly in patients with cardiac diseases. Common side effects include thyroid dysfunction and hepatic abnormalities. However, recently there has been concern for developing liver cirrhosis secondary to amiodarone therapy. We present two cases of liver cirrhosis in patients taking amiodarone. Their clinical presentation as well as histological features are discussed in detail.
In a case of phenytoin (PHT) encephalopathy a correlation was found between rising PHT serum levels and increase in seizure frequency. Supporting the correlation was the concomitant increase of E.E.G. spike and wave activity to 25% of the registration time. The rise in the PHT serum levels was possibly related to a drug interaction with carbamazepine. In addition neuropsychological assessment indicated reversible mental deterioration and deficits in motor skills and visual perception.
Montelukast is a leukotriene receptor antagonist administered orally once daily for treatment of chronic asthma in adults and children. A comprehensive analysis of safety data from double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trials with montelukast has not been previously reported.
A pooled analysis of safety data from 11 multicentre, randomized, controlled montelukast Phase IIb and III trials and five long-term extension studies was performed. A total of 3386 adult patients (aged 15-85 years) and 336 paediatric patients (aged 6-14 years) were enrolled in the trials; 2031 adults received montelukast for up to 4.1 years, and 257 children received montelukast for up to 1.8 years. Summary statistics comparing incidences of adverse events among treatment groups were calculated.
The overall incidence of clinical and laboratory adverse events among montelukast-treated patients, both adult and paediatric, was similar to that among patients receiving placebo. There were no clinically relevant differences in individual adverse events, including infectious upper respiratory conditions and transaminase elevations, between montelukast and placebo groups. Discontinuations due to adverse events occurred with similar frequencies during placebo, montelukast and inhaled beclomethasone therapy. No dose-related adverse effects of montelukast were observed in adults treated with dosages as high as 200 mg per day (20 times the recommended dose) for 5 months. This tolerability profile montelukast observed in clinical trials has been generally reflected in the post-marketing safety experience seen to date.
These data indicate a tolerability profile for montelukast similar to placebo during both short-term and long-term administration, even at doses substantially higher than the recommended clinical dose of 10 mg once daily for adults and 5 mg once daily for children aged 6-14 years.
