Recent findings indicate that glucose antagonizes several behavioral effects of cholinergic antagonists and augments those of cholinergic agonists. For example, scopolamine elicits increased locomotor activity, an action which is attenuated by glucose and by combined treatment with glucose and physostigmine at doses which are individually without effect. Opiate and catecholamine agonists, such as morphine and amphetamine, also elicit hyperactivity. The present study examined interactions of glucose and physostigmine with morphine- and amphetamine-induced hyperactivity. Mice received saline, morphine (10 mg/kg), or amphetamine (1 mg/kg) 50 min prior to testing, followed by saline, physostigmine (0.01, 0.05, 0.1, or 0.2 mg/kg), or glucose (10, 50, 100, or 500 mg/kg) administered 20 min prior to activity testing in an open field. Physostigmine significantly attenuated both morphine- and amphetamine-induced increases in activity, but higher doses were required to attenuate the effects of amphetamine. Like physostigmine, glucose significantly attenuated morphine-induced activity levels, but unlike physostigmine, glucose did not attenuate amphetamine-induced activity. Thus, the behavioral effects of morphine were more susceptible to modification by physostigmine and glucose than were the effects of amphetamine. The attenuation of morphine-induced hyperactivity demonstrates a similarity between glucose and cholinergic agonists, and also indicates that glucose may inhibit, directly or indirectly, opiate functions. More generally, these findings add to the evidence that circulating glucose levels selectively influence a growing list of behavioral and neurobiological functions.
A case is reported in which spinal intrathecal administration of clonidine produced pain. The interaction between clonidine and tricyclic antidepressants is discussed, and is suggested as the basis for this observation.
DNA topoisomerase II-alpha (Topo-IIalpha) is the inducible form of the enzyme responsible for the first step in the modification of DNA topology. Topo-IIalpha upregulation has been demonstrated in different tumors. Topo-IIalpha products may modulate tumoral growth, metastasis and immunosuppression, inhibit apoptosis and cause resistance to chemotherapy. Moreover, the antitumoral effect ofTopo-IIalpha inhibitors has been documented.
We studied the immunohistochemical expression and the prognostic value of Topo-IIalpha on 57 surgical specimens ofglioma. Furthermore, we evaluated the correlation between the immunohistochemical expression of Topo-IIalpha and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA).
A statistically significant correlation with survival time was found, there was no statistically significant difference in survival between patients receiving or not receiving carmustine-based combined chemotherapy (p > 0.05), regardless of histological type. A significant correlation between Topo-IIalpha and PCNA was documented (r = 0.9245, p < 0.001).
Our findings show that gliomas immunohistochemically express Topo-IIalpha that is correlated with PCNA expression, and which is significantly less frequent in long survivors. The presence of a statistical correlation with survival time and tumor histological grade encourages further studies on a larger series to verify the prognostic value of Topo-IIalpha expression in gliomas.
Plasma and red cell cyanide, and plasma thiocyanate, concentrations were measured in 30 patients undergoing elective nitroprusside-induced hypotension. One randomly selected group (n = 15), who received 0.21-0.70 mg kg-1 over periods of 50-160 min, were given a bolus of sodium thiosulphate 10.6-38.5 mg kg-1 immediately on cessation of the nitroprusside administration. The other group, who received infusions of 0.11-0.85 mg kg-1 for periods of 59-197 min, received no antidote. Cyanide concentrations, expressed as a percentage of the immediate post-infusion values, were significantly lower in the treated group in all subsequent blood samples (at 10, 30 and 60 min; plasma cyanide P less than 0.05; red cell cyanide P less than 0.001). Improved cyanide metabolism was further demonstrated by a sharp increase in mean plasma thiocyanate concentration (P less than 0.05) in the group receiving the antidote.
The aim of the present study was to compare the dose related effects of fenoterol and salbutamol on cardiac beta 1 and beta 2 receptors using the beta 1 selective antagonist atenolol, in order to dissect out relative beta 1/beta 2 mediated responses.
Fourteen normal volunteers were randomised to receive pretreatment with either atenolol 25 mg or placebo, followed by inhaled fenoterol or salbutamol in equal doses by weight (cumulative doses of 1 mg and 4 mg). Measurements were made 30 minutes after inhaling each dose of beta 2 agonist. Values (mean and 95% CI) were expressed as a change from baseline.
At 4 mg fenoterol produced equivalent falls in serum potassium and increases in tremor to salbutamol. The mean (95% CI) increase in heart rate (beats/min) with fenoterol at 4 mg after placebo was 47 (41-53) and after atenolol was 34 (28-40), with values for salbutamol being 46 (40-52) after placebo and 30 (24-36) after atenolol. The inotropic response (stroke distance) after atenolol at the 4 mg dose was 5.0 (3.9-6.1) cm for fenoterol and 4.7 (3.5-5.9) cm for salbutamol. There were no significant differences in heart rate or stroke distance response between the two drugs after either placebo or atenolol. Furthermore, ECG effects (Q-Tc and T wave) of fenoterol and salbutamol were comparable at both doses.
These results show that there is no difference in the respective chronotropic or inotropic activities of fenoterol and salbutamol on cardiac beta 1 or beta 2 receptors when given at higher than conventional doses.
In a randomised double-blind trial carried out on fit, unpremedicated patients undergoing standard minor operations with early postoperative mobility, using a standard form of anaesthesia, pretreatment with diazepam 0.15 mg/kg or midazolam 0.1 mg/kg failed to reduce significantly the incidence of postoperative muscle pains following suxamethonium 1 mg/kg. By contrast, tubocurarine 0.05 mg/kg proved to be effective as a pretreatment. Neither benzodiazepine influenced the incidence or severity of fasciculations seen with suxamethonium or the duration of neuromuscular block. Tubocurarine virtually abolished visible fasciculation and, in the dose used, reduced the intensity and duration of the neuromuscular block. There were no clinically significant changes in serum potassium, creatinine phosphokinase or aldolase after suxamethonium, although 5 out of 47 showed an atypical rise in creatinine phosphokinase.
Bicalutamide is a non-steroidal anti-androgen commonly used in the treatment of prostate carcinoma. We analysed the transcriptional response to bicalutamide treatment with the aim of explaining the inhibition of telomerase in the androgen-sensitive cell line LNCaP and the effects of bicalutamide on the androgen-insensitive cell line DU145. Cells treated with 80 muM bicalutamide in steroid-depleted medium for 1 day were analysed in duplicate by Affymetrix Human Genome Focus Arrays. Response to bicalutamide in LNCaP cells was represented by downregulation of androgen-regulated genes, activation of the p53 pathway and inhibition of telomerase, which was associated with downregulation of v-myc avian myelocytomatosis viral oncogene homologue (MYC) and telomerase reverse transcriptase subunit. In DU145 cells we observed the influence of cell density on bicalutamide effectivity such that highly confluent cells showed lesser sensitivity than low confluent ones. In conclusion, we provide an explanation for telomerase inhibition after androgen receptor blockade in LNCaP cells and we also report activation of the p53 pathway in LNCaP cells and in-vitro sensitivity to bicalutamide of low confluent androgen-insensitive DU145 cells. These findings might have implications for both experimental and clinical research into prostate cancer. In particular, activation of the p53 pathway after treatment with 80 microM bicalutamide could justify usage of bicalutamide dosages higher than 150 mg daily in androgen-sensitive carcinoma therapy.
In the present study, we analyzed the components of the extracellular matrix (ECM) and its arrangement at the level of the papillary muscles in the adult rat heart using light and transmission and scanning electron microscopy techniques. Our results reveal that after a single dose (6 mg/kg) of dexorubicin to cause a significant decrease and disorganization of the endomysium and perimysium in the first week after injection, affecting the endomysial struts and perimysial strands. Degenerating myocytes and alterations of the coiled perimysial fibers were characteristic 4 weeks after treatment. After 8 weeks, ultrastructural alterations at the level of the plasma membrane of the myocytes and adjacent collagen network were present in the tip of the papillary muscles. These alterations may be responsible for the inefficiency of the valvular apparatus as an initial factor implicated in doxorubicin-induced congestive heart failure. Experimental hypertension, produced by constriction of the abdominal aorta, induced hypertrophy of the left ventricle, with increased perimysium and endomysium of the ECM at the level of the papillary muscles 4 weeks after aortic banding. Interstitial and perivascular fibrosis were observed 8 weeks after surgical treatment, and macrophages around the degenerating myocytes were characteristic 16 weeks after treatment. These alterations of the ECM network have been correlated with their possible implication in ventricular biomechanical properties.
Tamoxifen, a synthetic triphenyl-ethylene compound, is a member of a class of anticancer drugs known as selective estrogen receptor modulators. It may block tumor growth by mimicking estrogen and binding to the estrogen receptors, preventing cancerous growth. Clinical studies have demonstrated that a combination chemo/hormonal therapy regimen with tamoxifen and O(6)-alkylating drugs increased the tumor response rate in cancer patients. The mechanism of action of this combined regimen remains undefined. In this study, we demonstrated that treatment of human colorectal HT-29 carcinoma cells with tamoxifen decreased the repair activity and expression level of O(6)-methylguanine DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) protein in a concentration- and time-dependent manner. This inhibition was also shown in other malignant human cells, regardless of their estrogen receptor status. Furthermore, MGMT inactivation by tamoxifen was associated with a significantly increased susceptibility of cells to 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU). No alteration in MGMT mRNA levels was observed in tamoxifen-treated cells. The half-life of MGMT protein was markedly decreased in the presence of tamoxifen. Tamoxifen-induced MGMT degradation could be blocked by MG-132, a proteasome inhibitor. An increased level of ubiquitinated MGMT protein was found after tamoxifen treatment. We conclude that tamoxifen decreased the MGMT protein level by accelerating protein degradation through the ubiquitin-dependent proteasomal pathway. These findings provide a strong rationale for combined chemo/hormonal therapy with tamoxifen and BCNU in the treatment of human cancers.
Aldo-keto reductase family 1 B10 (AKR1B10), a member of aldo-keto reductase superfamily, is overexpressed in human hepatocellular carcinoma, lung squamous cell carcinoma and lung adenocarcinoma. Our previous study had demonstrated that the ectopic expression of AKR1B10 in 293T cells promotes cell proliferation. To evaluate its potential as a target for cancer intervention, in the current study we knocked down AKR1B10 expression in HCT-8 cells derived from a colorectal carcinoma, using chemically synthesized small interfering RNA (siRNA). The siRNA 1, targeted to encoding region, downregulated AKR1B10 expression by more than 60%, and siRNA 2, targeted to 3' untranslational region, reduced AKR1B10 expression by more than 95%. AKR1B10 silencing resulted in approximately a 50% decrease in cell growth rate and nearly 40% suppression of DNA synthesis. More importantly, AKR1B10 downregulation significantly reduced focus formation rate and colony size in semisolid culture, indicating the critical role of AKR1B10 in HCT-8 cell proliferation. Recombinant AKR1B10 protein showed strong enzymatic activity to acrolein and crotonaldehyde, with K(m) = 110.1 +/- 12.2 microM and V(max) = 3,122.0 +/- 64.7 nmol/mg protein/min for acrolein and K(m) = 86.7 +/- 14.3 microM and V(max) = 2,647.5 +/- 132.2 nmol/mg protein/min for crotonaldehyde. AKR1B10 downregulation enhanced the susceptibility of HCT-8 cells to acrolein (25 microM) and crotonaldehyde (50 microM), resulting in rapid oncotic cell death characterized with lactate dehydrogenase efflux and annexin-V staining. These results suggest that AKR1B10 may regulate cell proliferation and cellular response to additional carbonyl stress, thus being a potential target for cancer intervention.
Ivermectin, a mixture of 22,23-dihydroavermectin B1a (> or = 80%) and B1b (< or =20%), is produced by Streptomyces avermectilis, an actinomycete. It is a macrocyclic lactone disaccharide, a member of the avermectin family, and is used as an antiparasitic drug. Previous studies performed in our laboratory showed that doramectin, another avermectin drug, interferes with GABAergic-related behaviours, leading to anxiety and seizures. The objective of the present study was to examine the effects of ivermectin (0.5 and 1.0 mg/kg) on the central nervous system of rats, using behavioural models related to GABAergic neurotransmission. A known anxiolytic drug, diazepam, was used as a positive control. Open field and elevated plus-maze behaviours, as well as conflict behaviour to a conditioned response, were assessed. The effects of ivermectin and diazepam in reversing the anxiety induced by picrotoxin was studied. The protective effects of ivermectin on pentylenetetrazole- and picrotoxin-induced seizures were also investigated. In the open field, 1.0 mg/kg ivermectin decreased locomotion frequency at 15 and 60 min of observation, rearing behaviour showed a biphasic effect at 15 and 30 min and duration of immobility was increased in all sessions after 1.0 mg/kg ivermectin. These data suggest anxiolytic or sedative effects. Ivermectin and diazepam both had a tendency to cause an increase both in the number of entries into the open arms and on the time spent in the open arms of an elevated plus-maze. Picrotoxin on its own reduced the number of entries as well as the time spent in the open arms. Both diazepam and ivermectin reversed these effects of picrotoxin. In conflict behaviour analysis, ivermectin and diazepam gave the classic effect of an anxiolytic drug, reversing the conditioned response to shock. Ivermectin protected rats from the convulsant effects of pentylenetetrazole but not from those of picrotoxin. Thus, ivermectin had the pharmacological profile of an anxiolytic drug with GABAergic properties. The lack of effect on seizures induced by picrotoxin suggests that the action of ivermectin is different from that of the benzodiazepine drugs.
The authors report a case of acute organic brain syndrome in a patient being treated with clonidine and fluphenazine that cleared when clonidine was discontinued. Theoretical considerations of dopamine-norephinephrine interactions are discussed in the context of the drug-drug interaction.
Long-term ingestion of 5 mg/kg body weight ethinylestradiol per esophageal tube induces preneoplasms in the liver of Albino-Wistar-rats. The hepatocellular proliferations could be observed after a test period of 19.5 to 24.5 months. There was no sex difference.
A patient thought to be normal was admitted with premature labor at 29+ weeks' gestation. Treatment with the beta-mimetic ritodrine hydrochloride appeared to provoke symptoms of myotonic muscular dystrophy. Neurological history and examination confirmed the presence of previously unsuspected myotonic dystrophy in the patient, her father, and paternal grandfather. Discontinuation of the drug led to improvement in myotonia symptoms but worsening premature labor. Magnesium sulfate did not provoke the same symptoms but was unsuccessful in controlling premature contractions. Long-term management with bed rest, phenytoin, and isoxsuprine hydrochloride resulted in term delivery. Subsequently, maternal symptoms of myotonia disappeared. Congenital myotonia was suspected in the fetus because of the ultrasonic demonstration of polyhydramnios and reduced fetal movements. This was confirmed at delivery. The mechanism by which ritodrine unmasked the myotonia is unclear but may be related to changes in the cell membrane (chloride conductance, the sodium-potassium pump, or membrane polarization).
A hypertensive episode precipitated by avocados in a patient on tranylcypromine is described. The patient complained of severe throbbing headache, chest pain, and diaphoresis upon visiting the emergency room. Intravenous phentolamine was administered repeatedly to treat elevated blood pressure. Approximately 4 1/2 hours later, the patient's blood pressure stabilized, and he was released after a short period of observation. This is the first documented case of avocado induced hypertensive crisis.
Adverse drug reactions (ADRs) represent a significant clinical challenge with respect to patient morbidity and mortality. We investigated the hepatotoxicity and systems level metabolic phenotype of methotrexate (MTX) in the context of a prevalent liver disease; non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). A nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopic-based metabonomic approach was employed to analyze the metabolic consequences of MTX (0, 10, 40, and 100 mg/kg) in the urine and liver of healthy rats (control diet) and in a model of NASH (methionine-choline deficient diet). Histopathological analysis confirmed baseline (0 mg/kg) liver necrosis, liver inflammation, and lipid accumulation in the NASH model. Administration of MTX (40 and 100 mg/kg) led to liver necrosis in the control cohort, whereas the NASH cohort also displayed biliary hyperplasia and liver fibrosis (100 mg/kg), providing evidence of the synergistic effect of MTX and NASH. The complementary hepatic and urinary metabolic phenotypes of the NASH model, at baseline, revealed perturbation of multiple metabolites associated with oxidative and energetic stress, and folate homeostasis. Administration of MTX in both diet cohorts showed dose-dependent metabolic consequences affecting gut microbial, energy, nucleobase, nucleoside, and folate metabolism. Furthermore, a unique panel of metabolic changes reflective of the synergistic effect of MTX and NASH was identified, including the elevation of hepatic phenylalanine, urocanate, acetate, and both urinary and hepatic formiminoglutamic acid. This systems level metabonomic analysis of the hepatotoxicity of MTX in the context of NASH provided novel mechanistic insight of potential wider clinical relevance for further understanding the role of liver pathology as a risk factor for ADRs.
1. The effects of intracisternal (i.c.) application of putative 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)1A antagonists on the reflex bradycardia evoked by injection of phenylbiguanide (i.v.) were investigated in anaesthetized, atenolol-pretreated rats. 2. Intracisternal application of spiperone (100 micrograms kg-1) reversibly attenuated the reflex bradycardia whilst the same dose given i.v. had no effect. The bradycardia was also attenuated by i.c. methiothepin (200 micrograms kg-1), (+/-)-pindolol (100 micrograms kg-1) and buspirone (200 micrograms kg-1) but was not attenuated by antagonists selective for alpha 1-adrenoceptors (alfuzosin; 100 micrograms kg-1), 5-HT2-receptors (BW 501C67; 100 micrograms kg-1) or dopamine D2-receptors ((-)-sulpiride; 100 micrograms kg-1) given i.c. 3. It is concluded that the 5-HT1A-receptor antagonist action of intracisternally applied spiperone, methiothepin, (+/-)-pindolol and buspirone is responsible for the ability of these drugs to attenuate reversibly the excitation of cardiac vagal motoneurones caused by activation of the von Bezold-Jarisch reflex.
The depressor responses to intravenous injections of arachidonic acid, prostacyclin (PGI2), prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and sodium nitroprusside were studied in chronically nicotine-treated rats. Arachidonic acid, PGI2, PGE2 and sodium nitroprusside decreased the diastolic blood pressure dose-dependently in the control animals. The vasodepressor effect of arachidonic acid was significantly enhanced in rats given nicotine 5 and 25 micrograms/ml in their drinking water for 10 days but remained unchanged in the animals treated with 1 microgram/ml nicotine for 10 days or given 1 mg/kg i.v. nicotine 10 min before administration of arachidonic acid. Indometacin abolished arachidonic-acid-induced depressor responses in both the control and nicotine-treated rats. Hypotension induced by PGI2, PGE2 and sodium nitroprusside was of similar magnitude in the control and nicotine-treated animals. It is suggested that the enhancement by chronic nicotine treatment of depressor responses to arachidonic acid could be due to changes in the formation and/or removal of its vaso-active metabolites (i.e. prostacyclin and/or thromboxane A2).
The patient was a 70-year-old man with a recurrent pituitary tumor. Three surgeries were performed but the tumor recurred. Based on histologic, immunohistochemical and ultrastructural studies, the diagnosis of oncocytic gonadotrophic pituitary adenoma was made. The tumor was a macroadenoma partly immunopositive for LH. Immunohistochemistry for O6 Methylguanine-DNA Methyl-Transferase (MGMT) showed an admixture of immunopositive and immunonegative cells. After recurrence following operations, the patient was treated with Temozolomide, an imidazotetrazine derivative, DNA-alkylating drug. Following Temozolomide administration the MRI demonstrated significant tumor necrosis. A few months later, the patient died of massive pulmonary embolism. No autopsy was performed. The present case indicates that benign, typically slow-growing pituitary adenomas of oncocytic gonadotrophic type may respond to Temozolomide even when the tumor consists of an admixture of MGMT immunopositive and immunonegative cells.
The promotional effect of phenobarbital and 1-hydroxymethyl-pyren on enzyme altered lesions in the rat liver were quantified within the framework of two separate multipath/multistage models. The experiment analyzed followed an initiation-promotion protocol in which female Wistar rats were initiated with a single dose of diethylnitrosamine at 0.15 mumol/g body wt followed by a 3 week treatment-free period. A promotor, 1-hydroxymethyl-pyren or phenobarbital was then administered continuously in the diet for 120 days. All animals were sacrificed 3 weeks after treatment and their livers were examined for enzyme histological changes. Focal lesions were classified into three phenotype categories: adenosine triphosphatase altered (ATPase), sulfotransferase altered (ST) and jointly altered lesions (ATPase and ST). Quantitative methods were used to analyze the data, which consisted of the number and sizes of these enzyme-altered lesions. Both multipath/multistage models fitted to the data clearly demonstrate that phenobarbital promotion produced more observable and larger foci than promotion via 1-hydroxymethyl-pyren and that the growth kinetics of the jointly altered lesions were elevated relative to the lesions expressing a single marker. It was not possible with these data to determine if there was a predominant sequence in the formation of jointly altered lesions.
Isolated angioedema of the small intestine is a rare entity. The cases described have been related with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers, or C1 esterase inhibitor deficiency. We present a case of small intestine angioedema caused by calcium channel blockers (CCBs) and a review of the literature.
Over the course of approximately 2 years, a 56-year-old African American woman presented to our hospital with 8 similar episodes of diffuse, intermittent abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea. The diagnostic workup was extensive and included normal stool studies, anticardiolipin antibodies, antinuclear antibodies, antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies, cryoglobulin studies, complement levels, urinary 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid, and serum markers for inflammatory bowel diseases. A computed tomographic angiogram was normal. Abdominal computed tomographic scans showed prominent mural thickening of different intestinal segments, always involving the ileum. An esophagogastroduodenoscopy showed patchy edematous, violaceous folds in the second portion of the duodenum. Colonoscopy revealed a markedly edematous and erythematous distal ileum. The recurrences subsided after CCBs were discontinued in this patient and reoccurred when they were incidentally restarted.
Our case demonstrates that CCBs can cause isolated intestinal angioedema with distinctive endoscopic findings. The discontinuation of the involved medication is the key for both diagnosis and treatment.
The present study investigates the influence of low-dose and short- term administration of corticosteroids and muscle relaxants on the muscular mass (MM) in hemiplegic ICU patients, with the aid of ultrasonography (U/S).
Thirty-seven patients hospitalised in the ICU for 18.6+/-3.6 days, were included in the study. Sixteen patients did not receive either drug (group A), five patients received dexamethasone (24 mg/day) for 4 days (group B), eight patients received dexamethasone (24 mg/day) for 4 days and atracurium (0.3-0.6 mg/kg/h) for 2.8+/-0.4 days (group C), whereas eight other non-hemiplegic ICU patients comprised the control group. MM was measured in cm by U/S and serum Albumin (ALB, g/l) at the first and the tenth ICU hospitalisation day. The corresponding differences (DeltaMM, DeltaALB) were compared between the four groups of patients.
MM and ALB decreased significantly in all groups. DeltaMM was significantly higher in group C in comparison to all other groups, while DeltaMM was also higher in group B, when compared to the control and A groups. DeltaALB did not show significant inter-group differences. DeltaMM was significantly related to patients' age (r=0.41,P =0.001).
Muscular atrophy of the ICU hemiplegic patients is significantly influenced by the synchronous treatment with muscle relaxants and corticosteroids at low doses and for short term. This myopathy should be taken into account for the better prognosis and the safer outcome of the patient and U/S is suitable for accurate and non-invasive monitoring of MM.
