Bortezomib is a new proteasome inhibitor with a high antitumor activity, but also with a potentially severe peripheral neurotoxicity. To establish a preclinical model and to characterize the changes induced on the peripheral nerves, dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and spinal cord, bortezomib was administered to Wistar rats (0.08, 0.15, 0.20, 0.30 mg/kg/day twice [2q7d] or three times [3q7d] weekly for a total of 4 weeks). At baseline, on days 14, 21 and 28 after the beginning the treatment period and during a 4-week follow-up period sensory nerve conduction velocity (SNCV) was determined in the tail of each animal. Sciatic nerve, DRG and spinal cord specimens were processed for light and electron microscope observations and morphometry. At the maximum tolerated dose bortezomib induced a significant reduction in SNCV, with a complete recovery at the end of the follow-up period. Sciatic nerve examination and morphometric determinations demonstrated mild to moderate pathological changes, involving predominantly the Schwann cells and myelin, although axonal degeneration was also observed. Bortezomib-induced changes were also observed in DRG and they were represented by satellite cell intracytoplasmatic vacuolization due to mitochondrial and endoplasmic reticulum damage, closely resembling the changes observed in sciatic nerve Schwann cells. Only rarely did the cytoplasm of DRG neurons has a dark appearance and clear vacuoles occurring in the cytoplasm. Spinal cord was morphologically normal. This model is relevant to the neuropathy induced by bortezomib in the treatment of human malignancies and it could be useful in increasing our knowledge regarding the mechanisms underlying bortezomib neurotoxicity.
In Alzheimer's disease (AD) there are dramatic reductions in the content of corticotropin releasing factor (CRF), reciprocal increases in CRF receptors, and morphological abnormalities in CRF neurons in affected brain areas. Cognitive impairment in AD patients is associated with a lower cerebrospinal fluid concentration of CRF, which is known to induce increases in learning and memory in rodents. This suggests that CRF deficits contribute to cognitive impairment. The identification in post-mortem brain of CRF-binding protein (CRF-BP), a high-affinity binding protein that inactivates CRF, and the differential distribution of CRF-BP and CRF receptors, provides the potential for improving learning and memory without stress effects of CRF receptor agonists. Here we show that ligands that dissociate CRF from CRF-BP increase brain levels of 'free CRF' in AD to control levels and show cognition-enhancing properties in models of learning and memory in animals without the characteristic stress effects of CRF receptor agonists.
Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON) predominantly affects young men between 10 and 30 years of age. However, two cases of LHON during ethambutol administration have been reported in older men and one case in an older woman. We now report a second case of an older woman in whom administration of ethambutol triggered the development of LHON.
A 70-year-old woman received ethambutol, rifampicin, isoniazid, and pyrazinamide for the treatment of tuberculosis.
Three months after the beginning of this treatment, a marked decrease in visual acuity occurred in both eyes and ethambutol was discontinued. Her corrected visual acuity was 0.03 in both eyes. There was no hyperemia, swelling of the optic disc, or capillary dilatation in either eye. Centrocecal scotomas were found bilaterally. After 1 month, her visual acuity had further decreased to 0.01, and the scotomas had enlarged. At this time, genetic analysis revealed a point mutation in mitochondrial DNA 11778.
Ethambutol can be a risk factor for LHON because the number of reported ethambutol-related LHON cases has increased to four, including the present one. Ethambutol administration to patients with a family history of LHON should be avoided.
Hyperhomocysteinemia, an independent cardiovascular risk factor, is present in the majority of hemodialysis patients. Among the postulated mechanisms of toxicity, protein homocysteinylation is potentially able to cause significant alterations in protein function. Protein homocysteinylation occurs through various mechanisms, among which is the post-translational acylation of free amino groups (protein-N-homocysteinylation, mediated by homocysteine (Hcy) thiolactone). Another type of protein homocysteinylation occurs through the formation of a covalent -S-S- bond, found primarily with cysteine residues (protein-S-homocysteinylation). Scant data are available in the literature regarding the extent to which alterations in protein homocysteinylation are present in uremic patients on hemodialysis, and the effects of folate treatment are not known. Protein homocysteinylation was measured in a group of hemodialysis patients (n=28) compared to controls (n=14), with a new method combining protein reduction, gel filtration and Hcy derivatization. Chemical hydrolysis was performed, followed by high-pressure liquid chromatography separation. The effects of folate treatment on protein homocysteinylation, as well as in vitro binding characteristics were evaluated. Plasma Hcy, protein-N-homocysteinylation and protein-S-homocysteinylation were significantly higher in patients vs controls. Plasma Hcy and protein-S-homocysteinylation were significantly correlated. After 2 months of oral folate treatment, protein-N-homocysteinylation was normalized, and protein-S-homocysteinylation was significantly reduced. Studies on albumin-binding capacity after in vitro homocysteinylation show that homocysteinylated albumin is significantly altered at the diazepam-binding site. In conclusion, increased protein homocysteinylation is present in hemodialysis patients, with possible consequences in terms of protein function. This alteration can be partially reversed after folate treatment.
A 60-year-old man with a history of Graves' disease, treated with propylthiouracil (PTU), presented with a rash, pancytopenia, and lymphadenopathy. The patient subsequently developed acute renal failure and diffuse alveolar hemorrhage. Despite discontinuation of PTU and aggressive therapy including high-dose steroids, cyclophosphamide, and plasma exchange, the patient died. PTU-induced antineutrophilic cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA)-positive vasculitis has been well described in the literature. Patients with this condition are almost always positive for pANCA or anti-myeloperoxidase (MPO). Patients can have varying presentations, and symptoms usually resolve with discontinuation of the drug. Some patients, however, require high-dose steroids, immunosuppressives, or plasmapheresis. Rarely, fatalities can occur from this condition. The mechanism of PTU-induced vasculitis is not well understood.
We present a case of a 47-year-old patient with arterial hypertension and progressive ST segment changes with a T wave inversion during 2 years of observation. Coronary angiography showed myocardial bridging of LAD and no significant coronary artery stenosis. During subsequent two last years the patient was repeatedly hospitalised due to chest pain. During the last hospitalisation a dobutamine stress testing was performed which provoked an increased left ventricular outflow tract gradient. This finding may be attributed to an early phase of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, or dobutamine specific phenomenon.
Clinical studies have shown clozapine to be effective in the treatment of schizophrenia and associated with an extremely low incidence of extrapiramidal side effects. Diverse studies indicate that clozapine is an atypical neuroleptic with a preferential activity on the mesolimbic structures and a lower affinity for striatal D2 receptors than the classical antipsychotics. The purpose of this study was to assess the behavioral properties of clozapine, especially its effects on aggressive and motor behaviors. Individually housed male mice of the OF1 strain were exposed to anosmic "standard opponents" 30 minutes after the last drug administration. One category of animals received a single IP dose of the compound (0.2, 0.5, 1 or 1.5 mg/kg). Another category received daily doses (0.5, 1 or 1.5 mg/kg) for 21 days. Encounters were videotaped and behavior evaluated using an ethologically based analysis. Clozapine, in the acute treatment condition, produced a significant decrease in "attack" and "threat" behaviors without "immobility" being significantly increased. These results suggest a rather specific antiaggressive action of the compound with little motor impairment. In the chronic administration, no significant change in aggressive behavior was observed which may be attributed to the development of some degree of tolerance.
The present study compared the immunolocalization of Kim-1, renal papillary antigen (RPA)-1, and RPA-2 with that of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and nitrotyrosine in kidneys of gentamicin sulfate (Gen)- and cisplatin (Cis)-treated rats. The specificity of acute kidney injury (AKI) biomarkers, iNOS, and nitrotyrosine was evaluated by dosing rats with valproic acid (VPA). Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were injected subcutaneously (sc) with 100 mg/kg/day of Gen for six or fourteen days; a single intraperitoneal (ip) dose of 1, 3, or 6 mg/kg of Cis; or 650 mg/kg/day of VPA (ip) for four days. In Gen-treated rats, Kim-1 was expressed in the epithelial cells, mainly in the S1/S2 segments but less so in the S3 segment, and RPA-1 was increased in the epithelial cells of collecting ducts (CD) in the cortex. Spatial expression of iNOS or nitrotyrosine with Kim-1 or RPA-1 was detected. In Cis-treated rats, Kim-1 was expressed only in the S3 segment cells, and RPA-1 and RPA-2 were increased in the epithelial cells of medullary CD or medullary loop of Henle (LH), respectively. Spatial expression of iNOS or nitrotyrosine with RPA-1 or RPA-2 was also identified. These findings suggest that peroxynitrite formation may be involved in the pathogenesis of Gen and Cis nephrotoxicity and that Kim-1, RPA-1, and RPA-2 have the potential to serve as site-specific biomarkers for Gen or Cis AKI.
Thirty-six schizoaffective patients were treated with haloperidol plus lithium or haloperidol plus placebo. Standard statistical analysis showed greater improvement in those treated with lithium plus haloperidol, as published previously. The Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS) scores were reanalyzed in the present study using a nonparametric technique for multidimensional scaling of symptom profiles. The differential outcome after haloperidol with or without added lithium is determined both by symptom dimension and by type of drug. Added lithium prevents a depressive shift after haloperidol treatment on the dimension of "cognitive disorganization--depressive preoccupation."
A 51-year-old obese woman who had just undergone a second osteotomy for arthrosis of the hip joint was given unfractionated heparin, 7,500 IU subcutaneously three times daily, as thrombosis prophylaxis. Signs of fulminant pulmonary embolism occurred on the 16th postoperative day with a platelet count of 33,000/microliters. Suspected heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis (HITT) was confirmed by platelet tests. When heparin had been discontinued immunoglobulin G was administered, seven times 5 g intravenously, in view of the immunological genesis of HITT. In addition thrombolysis treatment with streptokinase combined with phenprocoumon was undertaken, until satisfactory anticoagulation was achieved after 4 days. Platelet count rose to 136,000/microliters within 20 hours of the first immunoglobulin dose. Complete clinical normality was restored, scintigraphy showed no perfusion deficit in the lungs.
To determine the risk factors that induce an elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) after trans-Tenon retrobulbar injections of triamcinolone acetonide.
We retrospectively reviewed the medical records of 49 consecutive patients (49 eyes) with choroidal neovascularization or diffuse diabetic macular edema who had received one trans-Tenon retrobulbar injection of triamcinolone acetonide (20 mg) between June 2003 and September 2004, while being treated at Kagawa University Hospital or Okayama Saiseikai General Hospital. Diabetes mellitus had been diagnosed in ten of the patients. Steroid responders were defined as having a relative increase in intraocular pressure (IOP) of >6 mmHg and an absolute IOP >20 mmHg with an anatomically open anterior chamber angle. The mean follow-up time was 4.2 +/- 0.2 months (range, 3-6 months).
Nine patients were responders and 40 patients were nonresponders. The elevation of the IOP occurred 1 to 4 weeks after the injection. The only preoperative predictive factor for the steroid responders was the presence of diabetes mellitus (multiple logistic regression analysis, odds ratio = 32.78, P = 0.006). After topical glaucoma medication, the IOP returned to acceptable levels in all responders.
Our results suggest an association between diabetes mellitus and elevated IOP after a trans-Tenon retrobulbar triamcinolone acetonide injection.
Oxidative damage contributes to microbe elimination during macrophage respiratory burst. Nuclear factor, erythroid-derived 2, like 2 (NRF2) orchestrates antioxidant defenses, including the expression of heme-oxygenase-1 (HO-1). Unexpectedly, the activation of NRF2 and HO-1 reduces infection by a number of pathogens, although the mechanism responsible for this effect is largely unknown. We studied Trypanosoma cruzi infection in mice in which NRF2/HO-1 was induced with cobalt protoporphyrin (CoPP). CoPP reduced parasitemia and tissue parasitism, while an inhibitor of HO-1 activity increased T. cruzi parasitemia in blood. CoPP-induced effects did not depend on the adaptive immunity, nor were parasites directly targeted. We also found that CoPP reduced macrophage parasitism, which depended on NRF2 expression but not on classical mechanisms such as apoptosis of infected cells, induction of type I IFN, or NO. We found that exogenous expression of NRF2 or HO-1 also reduced macrophage parasitism. Several antioxidants, including NRF2 activators, reduced macrophage parasite burden, while pro-oxidants promoted it. Reducing the intracellular labile iron pool decreased parasitism, and antioxidants increased the expression of ferritin and ferroportin in infected macrophages. Ferrous sulfate reversed the CoPP-induced decrease in macrophage parasite burden and, given in vivo, reversed their protective effects. Our results indicate that oxidative stress contributes to parasite persistence in host tissues and open a new avenue for the development of anti-T. cruzi drugs.
Mercuric chloride induces a biphasic autoimmune glomerulonephritis in Brown-Norway (BN) rats but not in Lewis (LEW) rats. The genetic control of susceptibility to both phases was investigated by testing the response of segregants between BN and LEW rats and of congenic LEW.1N rats. It was confirmed that susceptibility to the first phase, characterized by the appearance of anti-glomerular basement membrane antibodies, depends on several genes one of which is RT1 linked. Susceptibility to the second phase, which is an immune complex type glomerulonephritis, was found to depend on one major RT1 linked gene or cluster of genes with a role for other(s) non-RT1 linked gene(s) controlling the magnitude of the response. However, congenic LEW.1N rats were found to be resistant. This suggests that the disease gene has been lost during the strain derivation. The question of whether both phases are two different diseases or expression of the same process cannot be definitely answered; data however indicate a dissociation of both disease processes.
Idiopathic hypercalciuria (IH) has been speculated to have a predisposing role in the development of urinary tract infection (UTI), due to the uroepithelial cell damage it leads to. In this study, we aimed to investigate the effects of hypercalciuria on the bladder, ureters, and kidneys in rats with experimentally induced hypercalciuria.Normocalcemic hypercalciuria was induced by furosemide (60 mg/100 mL of drinking water) administration to 16-week-old male Wistar Albino rats for 14 days. Calciuria (calcium/creatinine ratio, mg/mg, Ca/Cr) increased from 0.07+/-0.01 at the beginning of administration to 0.41+/-0.1 on day 14 (p=0.000). The Ca/Cr ratio was 0.14+/-0.06 at the beginning of the study and 0.25+/-0.06 on day 14 in the control group rats (p=0.002 vs. the hypercalciuric group rats on day 14). Bladder, ureter, and kidney specimens of the rats, dissected on the 14th day, were fixed in 10% formalin and 2.5% gluteraldehyde solutions for light and electron microscopic examination, respectively. Histopathological and ultrastructural examination of the hypercalciuric rats revealed proliferation and apical cytoplasmic vacuole formation in transitional epithelial cells, mitotic activity in the intermediate cell line, vasodilatation, edema, and separation of collagen fibers in the bladder and ureter specimens. Light microscopic examination of the kidney specimens revealed a lot of erythrocyte in the glomerular capillary lumen, while electron microscopy revealed vacuolization of proximal and distal tubules, tubular degeneration, interstitial edema, and vasodilatation.In this study, hypercalciuria was observed to have adverse effects on the cell architecture of the uroepithelium and disruption of the epithelial barrier of the bladder and ureters and all kidney structures, especially on the proximal epithelial cells.
Photodynamic therapy has been developed as an alternative therapy of cancer. The aim of this study was to examine whether PDT with hexenyl ester of 5-aminolaevulinic acid (ALA-hx) inhibits the proliferation of the salivary gland adenocarcinoma SGT cells. Cell proliferation was examined by MTT assay. The gene expression of Coproporphyrinogen oxidase (CPO) and ROS production was also examined. Flow cytometry and in vivo Chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) assay was performed. ALA-hx PDT inhibited effectively the proliferation of SGT cells. Treatment of ALA-hx induced CPO mRNA expression and ROS was produced by ALA-hx PDT in SGT cells. Flow cytometry and LDH assay showed that ALA-hx PDT induced necrotic cell death rather than apoptosis in SGT cells. In vivo CAM assay showed that ALA-hx PDT induced tumor destruction by inducing necrosis. These results indicate that ALA-hx PDT effectively inhibits the proliferation of SGT cells by inducing necrosis.
Adenosine inhibits proliferation of cardiac fibroblasts and hypertrophy of cardiomyocytes, both of which may play crucial roles in cardiac remodeling. In the present study, we investigated whether chronic stimulation of adenosine receptors begun after myocardial infarction (MI) prevents cardiac remodeling.
MI was produced in Wistar rats by permanent ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery. One week after the onset of MI, animals were randomized into 8 groups: vehicle, dipyridamole (DIP; the adenosine uptake inhibitor, 50 mg/kg), 2-chroloadenosine (CADO; the stable analogue of adenosine, 2 mg/kg), and CADO in the presence of the nonselective adenosine receptor antagonist 8-sulfophenyltheophylline (8-SPT) or the selective antagonist for adenosine A1, A2a, A2b, or A3 receptor. Three weeks after treatment, hemodynamic and echocardiographic parameters in the DIP and CADO groups were significantly improved compared with the vehicle group. These hemodynamic and echocardiographic improvements were blunted by either 8-SPT or the selective adenosine A2b antagonist MRS1754 but not by the selective antagonists for other subtypes of adenosine receptors. The collagen volume fraction was smaller, and gene expression of the molecules associated with cardiac remodeling such as matrix metalloproteinase in noninfarcted areas was reduced in the DIP and CADO groups compared with the vehicle group, both of which were attenuated by either 8-SPT or MRS1754.
Long-term stimulation of adenosine A2b receptors begun after MI attenuates cardiac fibrosis in the noninfarcted myocardium and improves cardiac function. Drugs that stimulate adenosine A2b receptors or increase adenosine levels are new candidates for preventing cardiac remodeling after MI.
The urinary excretion of albumin and retinol-binding protein was determined by means of sensitive immunochemical methods in a 2-year longitudinal study of 22 lithium-treated patients. During lithium treatment, there were no significant changes in the median albumin:creatinine ratios or retinol-binding protein:creatinine ratios. However, the median albumin:creatinine ratios were significantly higher in lithium-treated patients than in 22 normal subjects, which indicates that glomerular permeability is increased; no correlation with serum lithium level or duration of lithium treatment could be shown. In patients treated with slow-release tablets, the urinary excretion of albumin was significantly higher after 2 years than in patients given lithium carbonate. The median retinol-binding protein:creatinine ratios did not differ significantly between lithium-treated patients and normal subjects, suggesting that lithium does not affect the catabolism of low-molecular-weight proteins in the proximal tubules. In conclusion, the study supports the hypothesis that lithium treatment produces a small but significant and nonprogressive elevation of the urinary excretion of albumin.
Sigma and 5-HT(1A) receptor stimulation can increase acetylcholine (ACh) release in the brain. Because ACh release facilitates learning and memory, we evaluated the degree to which OPC-14523 (1-[3-[4-(3-chlorophenyl)-1-piperazinyl]propyl]-5-methoxy-3,4-dihydro-2[1H]-quinolinone monomethane sulfonate), a novel sigma and 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist, can augment ACh release and improve learning impairments in rats due to cholinergic- or age-related deficits. Single oral administration of OPC-14523 improved scopolamine-induced learning impairments in the passive-avoidance task and memory impairment in the Morris water maze. The chronic oral administration of OPC-14523 attenuated age-associated impairments of learning acquisition in the water maze and in the conditioned active-avoidance response test. OPC-14523 did not alter basal locomotion or inhibit acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity at concentrations up to 100 microM and, unlike AChE inhibitors, did not cause peripheral cholinomimetic responses. ACh release in the dorsal hippocampus of freely moving rats increased after oral delivery of OPC-14523 and after local delivery of OPC-14523 into the hippocampus. The increases in hippocampal ACh release were blocked by the sigma receptor antagonist NE-100 (N,N-dipropyl-2-[4-methoxy-3-(2-phenylethoxy)-phenyl]-ethylamine). Thus, OPC-14523 improves scopolamine-induced and age-associated learning and memory impairments by enhancing ACh release, due to a stimulation of sigma and probably 5-HT(1A) receptors. Combined sigma/5-HT(1A) receptor agonism may be a novel approach to ameliorate cognitive disorders associated with age-associated cholinergic deficits.
Heparin, first used to prevent the clotting of blood in vitro, has been clinically used to treat thrombosis for more than 50 years. Although several new anticoagulant drugs are in development, heparin remains the anticoagulant of choice to treat acute thrombotic episodes. The clinical effects of heparin are meritorious, but side effects do exist. Bleeding is the primary untoward effect of heparin. Major bleeding is of primary concern in patients receiving heparin therapy. However, additional important untoward effects of heparin therapy include heparin-induced thrombocytopenia, heparin-associated osteoporosis, eosinophilia, skin reactions, allergic reactions other than thrombocytopenia, alopecia, transaminasemia, hyperkalemia, hypoaldosteronism, and priapism. These side effects are relatively rare in a given individual, but given the extremely widespread use of heparin, some are quite common, particularly HITT and osteoporosis. Although reasonable incidences of many of these side effects can be "softly" deduced from current reports dealing with unfractionated heparin, at present the incidences of these side effects with newer low molecular weight heparins appear to be much less common. However, only longer experience will more clearly define the incidence of each side effect with low molecular weight preparations.
The phytochemical, curcumin, has been reported to play many beneficial roles. However, under diabetic conditions, the detail mechanism of its beneficial action in the glucose homeostasis regulatory organ, pancreas, is poorly understood. The present study has been designed and carried out to explore the role of curcumin in the pancreatic tissue of STZ induced and cellular stress mediated diabetes in eight weeks old male Wistar rats. Diabetes was induced with a single intraperitoneal dose of STZ (65 mg/kg body weight). Post to diabetes induction, animals were treated with curcumin at a dose of 100 mg/kg body weight for eight weeks. Underlying molecular and cellular mechanism was determined using various biochemical assays, DNA fragmentation, FACS, histology, immunoblotting and ELISA. Treatment with curcumin reduced blood glucose level, increased plasma insulin and mitigated oxidative stress related markers. In vivo and in vitro experimental results revealed increased levels of proinflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL1-β and IFN-γ), reduced level of cellular defense proteins (Nrf-2 and HO-1) and glucose transporter (GLUT-2) along with enhanced levels of signaling molecules of ER stress dependent and independent apoptosis (cleaved Caspase-12/9/8/3) in STZ administered group. Treatment with curcumin ameliorated all the adverse changes and helps the organ back to its normal physiology. Results suggest that curcumin protects pancreatic beta-cells by attenuating inflammatory responses, and inhibiting ER/mitochondrial dependent and independent pathways of apoptosis and crosstalk between them. This uniqueness and absence of any detectable adverse effect proposes the possibility of using this molecule as an effective protector in the cellular stress mediated diabetes mellitus.
This study evaluates the relationship between cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A5 genotype and vincristine-induced peripheral neuropathy (VIPN) in children with precursor B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (preB ALL). We have shown in vitro that vincristine is metabolized significantly more efficiently by CYP3A5 than by CYP3A4. We also found that vincristine neurotoxicity is less common in African-Americans (70% express CYP3A5) than in Caucasians. We test the hypothesis that CYP3A5 expressers experience less vincristine neuropathy than do CYP3A5 non-expressers.
This study of pharmacogenetics of vincristine neuropathy in children with preB ALL was completed at Indiana University Simon Cancer Center. Whole blood for DNA extraction and genotyping was collected as well as plasma from a single time-point for analysis of vincristine and primary metabolite (M1) concentrations. Vincristine neuropathy was captured via chart review and graded per the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, version 3.0.
Eighty-nine percent of CYP3A5 expressers experienced neurotoxicity versus 100% of non-expressers (P = 0.03). The proportion of treatment months with neurotoxicity was significantly different between the expressers and non-expressers (16% vs. 27%, P = 0.0007). Limited pharmacokinetic data suggest different rates of vincristine metabolism between CYP3A5 genotype groups with higher primary metabolite (M1) plasma concentrations (P = 0.0004) and lower metabolic ratios ([vincristine]/[M1]) (P = 0.036) in the CYP3A5 expressers compared to the CYP3A5 non-expressers. M1 concentration was also inversely related to severity of neuropathy (P = 0.0316).
In children with preB ALL, CYP3A5 expressers experience less VIPN, produce more M1, and have lower metabolic ratios compared to CYP3A5 non-expressers.
Hepatic venous occlusive disease is a severe side effect after administration of busulfan before hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. The syndrome is characterized by liver enlargement, fluid retention, jaundice, and weight gain. Endothelial injury has been described as the precipitating factor. The link between busulfan administration and endothelial damage has not been established thus far.
Complementary deoxyribonucleic acid expression arrays were used to screen for busulfan responsive genes in ECV304 cells. Specific messenger ribonucleic acid and protein levels were examined by real-time polymerase chain reaction and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, respectively. Serum samples of 15 pediatric patients with leukemia were analyzed for busulfan and cytokine levels.
We identified a member of the transforming growth factor beta superfamily, activin A, to be induced in the human cell line ECV304 after exposure to busulfan in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. Maximum effects were observed at 120 and 168 hours for activin A messenger ribonucleic acid and protein, respectively. Preincubation with the protein kinase C inhibitor bisindolylmaleimide I (10 nmol/L) abolished activin A induction by busulfan (P <.05). Activin receptors were detected in ECV304. Both tissue factor and cyclooxygenase 2 were significantly induced by busulfan (P <.05). In a parallel in vivo study a significant increase in serum activin A concentration was found 4.5 hours after the second dose of busulfan.
The data demonstrate that busulfan induces activin A both in vitro and in vivo. In view of the multiple targets of activin A (inflammation, proliferation, apoptosis, and coagulation), these findings may be of relevance to our understanding of venous occlusive disease.
Knowing that hyperglycemia is a hallmark of vascular dysfunction in diabetes and that neonatal streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats (n-STZ) present reduced inflammatory response, we decided to evaluate the effect of chlorpropamide-lowered blood glucose levels on carrageenan-induced rat paw edema and pleural exudate in n-STZ.
Diabetes was induced by STZ injection (160 mg/kg, ip) in neonates (2-day-old) Wistar rats.
n-STZ diabetic rats were treated with chlorpropamide (200mg/kg, 15d, by gavage) 8 weeks after STZ injection.
Carrageenan-induced paw edema and pleural exudate volumes were assessed concomitantly with peripheral and exudate leukocyte count. We also evaluated the expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) in lungs of all experimental groups.
Chlorpropamide treatment improved glucose tolerance, beta-cell function (assessed by HOMA-beta), corrected paw edema, and pleural exudate volume in n-STZ. Neither leukocyte count nor iNOS expression were affected by diabetes or by chlorpropamide treatment.
Chlorpropamide treatment by restoring beta-cell function, reducing blood sugar levels, and improving glucose tolerance might be contributing to the correction of the reduced inflammatory response tested as paw edema and pleural exudate in n-STZ diabetic rats.
We studied 113 patients treated with intravenous amikacin to determine the value of determining serial trough and peak amikacin levels in plasma for predicting nephrotoxicity. Thirteen patients (11.5%) developed renal toxicity, with significant increases from 48 to 96 h in both peak and trough amikacin levels (6.7 +/- 4.7 [standard deviation] days before the serum creatinine rose). The nontoxicity group had no change or even showed decrements in amikacin levels in plasma. A higher nephrotoxicity risk was seen in patients with increments greater than 1 microgram/ml between 48 and 96 h, with odds ratios of 16.4 for trough, 8 for peak, and 7.2 for both levels. We suggest that an increment of at least 1 microgram/ml in amikacin levels in plasma from 48 to 96 h may predict the appearance of renal toxicity.
Indomethacin is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug used frequently to control chronic or temporary pain. In the kidney, indomethacin decreases medullary and cortical perfusion, resulting in hypoxia. Kidney hypoxia has many effects, including changes in gene expression, and is a strong stimulus for angiogenesis. Other angiogenic factors include vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF-2), transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGFbeta1), and platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF). Our goal was to examine the influence of indomethacin on mRNA expression of these factors and their selected receptors in the renal cortex of healthy rats. Groups of 8 healthy, male, six-week-old Wistar rats received either indomethacin (5 mg/kg/day) or placebo orally for three months. RNA from renal cortex biopsies was analyzed by real-time polymerase chain reaction to quantify the mRNA levels of each cytokine. We observed significantly higher mRNA levels for VEGF (1.73-fold), FGF-2 (5.6-fold) and TGFbeta receptor III (2.93-fold), PDGF receptor alpha (2.93-fold) and receptor beta (2.91-fold) in rats receiving indomethacin compared to rats given placebo (p < 0.05). Amounts of mRNA for TGFbeta1, PDGF, FGF receptors 1 and 2 and TGFbeta receptor I did not differ between analysed groups. Our data indicates that indomethacin may regulate the expression of potent angiogenic factors VEGF and FGF-2.
