Fifty-eight acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) patients (11 newly diagnosed and 47 relapsed) were studied for arsenic trioxide (As2O3) treatment. Clinical complete remission (CR) was obtained in 8 of 11 (72.7%) newly diagnosed cases. However, As2O3 treatment resulted in hepatic toxicity in 7 cases including 2 deaths, in contrast to the mild liver dysfunction in one third of the relapsed patients. Forty of forty-seven (85.1%) relapsed patients achieved CR. Two of three nonresponders showed clonal evolution at relapse, with disappearance of t(15;17) and PML-RARalpha fusion gene in 1 and shift to a dominant AML-1-ETO population in another, suggesting a correlation between PML-RARalpha expression and therapeutic response. In a follow-up of 33 relapsed cases over 7 to 48 months, the estimated disease-free survival (DFS) rates for 1 and 2 years were 63.6% and 41.6%, respectively, and the actual median DFS was 17 months. Patients with white blood cell (WBC) count below 10 x 10(9)/L at relapse had better survival than those with WBC count over 10 x 10(9)/L (P =.038). The duration of As2O3-induced CR was related to postremission therapy, because there was only 2 of 11 relapses in patients treated with As2O3 combined with chemotherapy, compared with 12 of 18 relapses with As2O3 alone (P =.01). Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis in both newly diagnosed and relapsed groups showed long-term use of As2O3 could lead to a molecular remission in some patients. We thus recommend that ATRA be used as first choice for remission induction in newly diagnosed APL cases, whereas As2O3 can be either used as a rescue for relapsed cases or included into multidrug consolidation/maintenance clinical trials.
Oxidative stress is implicated in the etiology of Parkinson's disease (PD), the second most common neurodegenerative disease. PD is treated with chronic administration of l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (levodopa, L-DOPA), and typically, increasing doses are used during progression of the disease. Paradoxically, L-DOPA is a pro-oxidant and induces cell death in cellular models of PD through disruption of sulfhydryl homeostasis involving loss of the thiol-disulfide oxidoreductase functions of the glutaredoxin (Grx1) and thioredoxin (Trx1) enzyme systems [Sabens, E. A., Distler, A. M., and Mieyal, J. J. (2010) Biochemistry 49 (12), 2715-2724]. Considering this loss of both Grx1 and Trx1 activities upon L-DOPA treatment, we sought to elucidate the mechanism(s) of L-DOPA-induced apoptosis. In other contexts, both the NFκB (nuclear factor κB) pathway and the ASK1 (apoptosis signaling kinase 1) pathway have been shown to be regulated by both Grx1 and Trx1, and both pathways have been implicated in cell death signaling in model systems of PD. Moreover, mixed lineage kinase (MLK) has been considered as a potential therapeutic target for PD. Using SHSY5Y cells as model dopaminergic neurons, we found that NFκB activity was not altered by L-DOPA treatment, and the selective MLK inhibitor (CEP-1347) did not protect the cells from L-DOPA. In contrast, ASK1 was activated with L-DOPA treatment as indicated by phosphorylation of its downstream mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK), p38 and JNK. Chemical inhibition of either p38 or JNK provided protection from L-DOPA-induced apoptosis. Moreover, direct knockdown of ASK1 protected from L-DOPA-induced neuronal cell death. These results identify ASK1 as the main pro-apoptotic pathway activated in response to L-DOPA treatment, implicating it as a potential target for adjunct therapy in PD.
We have evaluated the changes in contractile activity and oxidant damage of corpus cavernosum, urinary bladder, kidney and aorta after chronic nicotine administration in rats. The effects of melatonin on these parameters were investigated also. Male Wistar albino rats were injected intraperitoneally with nicotine hydrogen bitartrate (0.6 mg kg(-1) daily for 21 days) or saline. Melatonin (10 mg kg(-1), i.p.) was administered either alone or with nicotine injections. Corpus cavernosum, bladder and aorta were used for contractility studies, or stored with kidneys for the measurement of malondialdehyde and glutathione levels. Corpus cavernosum, bladder, and aorta samples were examined histologically and the extent of microscopic tissue damage was scored. In the nicotine-treated group, the contraction of corpus cavernosum, bladder and aorta samples and the relaxation of corporeal and aorta tissues decreased significantly compared with controls. However, melatonin treatment restored these responses. In the nicotine-treated group, there was a significant increase in the malondialdehyde levels of the corporeal tissue, bladder, kidney and aorta, with marked reductions in glutathione levels compared with controls. Melatonin treatment reversed these effects also. Melatonin administration to nicotine-treated animals caused a marked reduction in the microscopic damage of the tissues compared with those of the untreated group. In this study, nicotine-induced dysfunction of the corpus cavernosum, bladder and aorta of rats was reversed by melatonin treatment. Moreover, melatonin, as an antioxidant, abolished elevation in lipid peroxidation products, and reduction in the endogenous antioxidant glutathione, and protected the tissues from severe damage due to nicotine exposure.
Resveratrol, extracted from Chinese herbal medicine Polygonum cuspidatum, is known to inhibit invasion and metastasis of human colorectal cancer (CRC), in which long non-coding Metastasis Associated Lung Adenocarcinoma Transcript 1 (RNA-MALAT1) also plays an important role. Using MALAT1 lentiviral shRNA and over-expression constructs in CRC derived cell lines, LoVo and HCT116, we demonstrated that the anti-tumor effects of resveratrol on CRC are through inhibiting Wnt/β-catenin signaling, thus the expression of its target genes such as c-Myc, MMP-7, as well as the expression of MALAT1. In detail, resveratrol down-regulates MALAT1, resulting in decreased nuclear localization of β-catenin thus attenuated Wnt/β-catenin signaling, which leads to the inhibition of CRC invasion and metastasis. This finding of ours surely provides important pre-clinical evidence supporting future use of resveratrol in prevention and treatment of CRC.
Genes of the HoxD cluster play a major role in vertebrate limb development, and changes that modify the Hoxd12 locus affect other genes also, suggesting that HoxD function is coordinated by a control mechanism involving multiple genes during limb morphogenesis. In this study, mutant phenotypes were produced by treatment of mice with a chemical mutagen, N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU). We analyzed mutant mice exhibiting the specific microdactyly phenotype and examined the genes affected.
We focused on phenotype characteristics including size, bone formation, and digit morphology of ENU-induced microdactyly mice. The expressions of several molecules were analyzed by genome-wide screening and quantitative real-time PCR to define the affected genes.
We report on limb phenotypes of an ENU-induced A-to-C mutation in the Hoxd12 gene, resulting in alanine-to-serine conversion. Microdactyly mice exhibited growth defects in the zeugopod and autopod, shortening of digits, a missing tip of digit I, limb growth affected, and dramatic increases in the expressions of Fgf4 and Lmx1b. However, the expression level of Shh was not changed in Hoxd12 point mutated mice.
These results suggest that point mutation rather than the entire deletion of Hoxd12, such as in knockout and transgenic mice, causes the abnormal limb phenotype in microdactyly mice. The precise nature of the spectrum of differences requires further investigation.
Thirteen acute psychotic patients received continuous oral treatment with perphenazine for a period of 8 weeks. Blood samples for quantification of perphenazine, perphenazine sulphoxide and prolactin were drawn twice weekly. Simultaneously, the therapeutic outcome and the degree of extrapyramidal side effects were recorded. The following conclusions were made: 1. In accordance with results achieved in one of our earlier investigations, a high risk of provoking extrapyramidal side effects was associated with plasma levels of perphenazine exceeding about 3 nmol/l. 2. An excellent therapeutic outcome was associated with plasma concentrations of perphenazine above 1.5 nmol/l. 3. Plasma concentrations of perphenazine and prolactin were poorly correlated to each other (R = 0.49). 4. A significant correlation (R = 0.85) was shown between the scores for the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale and the Comprehensive Psychopathological Rating Scale.
Postoperative ileus (POI) is a transient loss of coordinated peristalsis precipitated by surgery and exacerbated by opioid pain medication. Ileus causes a variety of symptoms including bloating, pain, nausea, and vomiting, but particularly delays tolerance of oral diet and liquids. Thus POI is a primary determinant of hospital stay after surgery. 'Fast-track' recovery protocols, opioid sparing analgesia, and laparoscopic surgery reduce but do not eliminate postoperative ileus. Alvimopan is a mu opioid receptor antagonist that blocks the effects of opioids on the intestine, while not interfering with their centrally mediated analgesic effect. Several large randomized clinical trials have demonstrated that alvimopan accelerates the return of gastrointestinal function after surgery and subsequent hospital discharge by approximately 20 hours after elective open segmental colectomy. However, it has not been tested in patients undergoing laparoscopic surgery and is less effective in patients receiving nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents in a narcotic sparing postoperative pain control regimen. Safety concerns seen with chronic low dose administration of alvimopan for opioid bowel dysfunction have not been noted with its acute use for POI.
To determine whether lipoic acid (LA) will reduce oxidative stress in diabetic peripheral nerves and improve neuropathy.
We used the model of streptozotocin-induced diabetic neuropathy (SDN) and evaluated the efficacy of LA supplementation in improving nerve blood flow (NBF), electrophysiology, and indexes of oxidative stress in peripheral nerves affected by SDN, at 1 month after onset of diabetes and in age-matched control rats. LA, in doses of 20, 50, and 100 mg/kg, was administered intraperitoneally five times per week after onset of diabetes.
NBF in SDN was reduced by 50%; LA did not affect the NBF of normal nerves but improved that of SDN in a dose-dependent manner. After 1 month of treatment, LA-supplemented rats (100 mg/kg) exhibited normal NBF. The most sensitive and reliable indicator of oxidative stress was reduction in reduced glutathione, which was significantly reduced in streptozotocin-induced diabetic and alpha-tocopherol-deficient nerves; it was improved in a dose-dependent manner in LA-supplemented rats. The conduction velocity of the digital nerve was reduced in SDN and was significantly improved by LA.
These studies suggest that LA improves SDN, in significant part by reducing the effects of oxidative stress. The drug may have potential in the treatment of human diabetic neuropathy.
The influence of 0.535% phenacetin in the diet or mechanical perforation of the renal pelvis and urinary bladder of male Sprague-Dawley rats in FANFT-induced urinary tract carcinogenesis was studied. The 151 rats were divided into 5 experimental and one control group. The rats were followed for up to 80 weeks. FANFT administered at 0.2% in the diet for 11 weeks resulted in a high incidence of urinary tract tumors particularly of the renal pelvis. Similar results were obtained by administration of 0.2% FANFT for 6 weeks followed by 0.535% phenacetin while FANFT for 6 weeks preceded or followed by mechanical perforation of the renal pelvis resulted in a significantly lower incidence of renal pelvic tumors. Phenacetin appeared to enhance the development of renal pelvic tumors in FANFT-induced urinary tract carcinogenesis. In contrast no effect of phenacetin on the urinary bladder could be detected.
1. In the presence of genotoxic stress poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1) leads to NAD(+) and ATP depletion, participating in the pathogenesis of several disorders including inflammation. Accordingly, chemical inhibitors of PARP-1 are efficacious anti-inflammatories, albeit the underlying molecular mechanisms are still under debate. 2. This study investigated the effect of the PARP-1 inhibitors 6(5H)-phenanthridinone and benzamide as well as that of benzoic acid, an inactive analogue of benzamide, on development of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) in rats. Both 6(5H)-phenanthridinone and benzamide attenuated development of EAE, reducing clinical score, neuroimmune infiltration and expression of inflammatory mediators such as inducible nitric oxide synthase, interleukin-1beta and -2, cyclooxygenase-2, tumour necrosis factor-alpha and interferon-gamma in the spinal cord of myelin-immunized rats. Importantly, no evidence of NAD(+) and ATP depletion as well as poly(ADP-ribose) formation was detected in the spinal cord. 3. By contrast, a robust formation of poly(ADP-ribose) occurred in B- and T-cell areas in lymph nodes of myelin-immunized rats and was suppressed by the treatment with 6(5H)-phenanthridinone and benzamide. In cultures of activated rat lymphocytes, 6(5H)-phenanthridinone and benzamide reduced the DNA-binding activity of NF-kappaB and AP-1 and transcription of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin-2, interferon-gamma and tumour necrosis factor-alpha. 4. Notably, benzoic acid did not reproduce the in vivo and in vitro effects of its parent compound. 5. These findings indicate that PARP-1 promotes transcriptional activation in lymphocytes and inhibitors of its enzymatic activity are useful for the treatment of autoimmune disorders of the central nervous system.
Three infants with supraventricular tachycardia and congestive cardiac failure were given verapamil intravenously. In two of the infants, the rhythm was converted to sinus, but the third infant required direct current cardioversion. However, each infant demonstrated hemodynamic decompensation shortly after verapamil administration and required cardiopulmonary resuscitation. All three patients were stabilized and their tachycardia was controlled with digoxin. All three were doing well at the time of follow-up evaluation, and there was no evidence of structural heart disease. The risk of cardiac decompensation in infants with supraventricular tachycardia and congestive cardiac failure should be kept in mind prior to administration of verapamil. Alternative methods for conversion of supraventricular tachycardia should be considered.
Cloxacillin is a semisynthetic penicillin widely used in nonmethicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus infections. Several hypersensitivity reactions to cloxacillin have been reported, although IgE-mediated allergic reactions to the drug are rare and there is little information about possible tolerance to other semisynthetic penicillins or cephalosporins in patients with cloxacillin allergy. We present 2 patients with demonstrated IgE-mediated allergy to cloxacillin and tolerance to amoxicillin and cefuroxime.
Case 1. A 47-year-old woman began treatment with cloxacillin due to acute cellulitis. After ingesting 500 mg of the drug, she experience generalized maculopapular eruption and facial angioedema. Case 2. A 55-year-old woman presented an episode of acute urticaria and labial angioedema 60 minutes after ingesting 500 mg of cloxacillin for a skin abscess.
Skin prick tests were positive to cloxacillin in case 1 and negative in case 2. However, an intradermal test was positive to cloxacillin (2 mg/ml) in case 2. Simple-blind oral challenge tests with amoxicillin (1 g) and cefuroxime (500 mg) were well-tolerated by both patients.
We present 2 patients allergic to cloxacillin with normal tolerance to other betalactam antibiotics, confirming that cross-reactivity among these antibiotics seems to be uncommon. Complete allergy study, including an oral challenge test, should be considered in these patients.
Elevated plasma homocysteine has been identified as a risk factor for cardiovascular disease and non-alcoholic liver disease, which are major complications of diabetes. Hence, hepatic homocysteine metabolism has become a major focus of diabetes research. However, little information is available regarding plasma homocysteine levels in non-obese diabetic animals. Therefore, we investigated the hepatic metabolism of sulfur-amino acids in non-obese type-2 diabetic Goto-Kakizaki rats. The experiments were performed using 9-week-old Goto-Kakizaki rats and age-matched Wistar rats. The major finding of this study is that homocysteine levels in the liver and plasma are maintained by a balance between the up-regulation of betaine homocysteine methyltransferase and the inhibition of cystathionine β-synthase in non-obese type-2 diabetic rats. Hepatic levels of cysteine and its metabolites, such as hypotaurine, taurine, and glutathione, were increased despite inhibition of the transsulfuration of homocysteine to cysteine. The elevated hepatic taurine and glutathione levels may be attributed to the up-regulation of cysteine dioxygenase expression and increased cysteine availability for glutathione synthesis. Inhibition of hepatic methionine adenosyltransferase activity in Goto-Kakizaki rats was associated with a decrease in hepatic S-adenosylmethionine, which serves as an allosteric activator of cystathionine β-synthase. The non-obese type-2 diabetic condition results in profound changes in hepatic sulfur-amino acid metabolism and raises the possibility that sulfur-amino acid metabolism may be regulated by obesity- as well as diabetes-associated factors. Further study to elucidate the pathological significance of sulfur-amino acid metabolism in chronic liver disease in type-2 diabetic animals is underway in this laboratory.
Sixteen opioid agonists were studied for their capacity both to maintain responding previously reinforced by codeine and to suppress the withdrawal syndrome induced by morphine deprivation in rhesus monkeys. All compounds, which included examples from each of the major chemical families of opioids, maintained responding at rates above those maintained by saline. There were differences among the compounds in the maximal response rates maintained, and large differences in their potencies in maintaining responding. In morphine-dependent monkeys, the abstinence signs that developed 14 h after the last morphine dose were suppressed completely by all of the compounds except codeine. There was a strong positive correlation (r = 0.92) between the potency of a compound in maintaining drug-reinforced responding and the potency of the compound in suppressing the morphine withdrawal syndrome.
A new class of platinum(II) coordination complexes and their dye tagged conjugates has been synthesized from N-substituted diaminocyclohexane ligands. The in vitro anticancer activities of the platinum compounds have been validated against the breast cancer cell-line MCF-7 and the normal cell-line MCF-10A via sulforhodamine B and colony formation assay. The platinum compounds and the corresponding metal-free ligands exhibited higher drug efficiencies than cisplatin and oxaliplatin against MCF-7 cells. Cellular uptake and DNA-bound Pt were demonstrated by atomic absorption spectroscopy. The platinum complexes displayed increased cellular accumulation and DNA binding as compared with cisplatin. Real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction assay was employed to investigate drug effects on mRNA expression in MCF-7 cells. The results indicated that the study compounds are effective in regulating cyclin D1, Bcl-2, and p53 genes; yet, oxaliplatin is less effective in manipulating those genes. The luminescent probe that was integrated into the platinum complexes made it possible to monitor cellular drug distribution using optical imaging. Targeting of tumor cell nuclei by the study compounds was confirmed by confocal microscopy. Taken together, these new platinum(II)-based antitumor agents are different from marketed platinum drugs in several critical aspects and could have potential in cancer therapy.
Oxidative stress and inflammation are two major etiological factors that are suggested to play key roles in the development of ethanol induced liver injury. Release of proinflammatory cytokine like tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and activation of nuclear factor kappa-B (NFκ-B) may strongly intensify inflammation and cell damage. Additionally, reactive oxygen species (ROS) also exerts significant effect in this whole cell signaling machinery. The present study was designed to investigate the protective effects of perillyl alcohol (POH) on ethanol-induced acute liver injury in Wistar rats and its probable mechanism. We have successfully demonstrated that pre-treatment with POH, besides exerting antioxidant activity might be able to modulate TNF-α release and NFκ-B activation. Rats were divided into five groups and treated with ethanol or POH via an intragastric tube for one week. Control group was treated with vehicle, and ethanol treated group was given ethanol (5 g/kg body wt). Animal of treatment groups were pretreated with POH (50 & 100 mg/kg body wt) and have been given ethanol. Serum aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase and lactate dehydrogenase and hepatic malondialdehyde were increased significantly by ethanol treatment. Ethanol administration decreased hepatic reduced glutathione content and various antioxidant enzymes activity. TNF-α production and NFκ-B activation was also found to be increased after ethanol administration. POH pre-treatment significantly ameliorates ethanol induced acute liver injury possibly by inhibition of lipid peroxidation, replenishment of endogenous enzymatic and non-enzymatic defense system, downregulation of TNF-α as well as NFκ-B.
Induced hypotension is commonly used during surgery to decrease arterial pressure. Sodium nitroprusside and isoflurane are well-known hypotensive agents. The use of self-tuning adaptive control of induced hypotension was assessed with the use of sodium nitroprusside and isoflurane as hypotensive agents. Nineteen surgical patients were studied during closed-loop control of hypotension induced with sodium nitroprusside. This group of patients was compared with 10 similar patients in whom infusions of sodium nitroprusside were controlled manually by an anesthesiologist. Although the results of the two studies varied, no conclusion could be drawn regarding the superiority of either manual or closed-loop control. When manual versus automatic control of isoflurane-induced hypotension was assessed in a similar fashion, the two methods of induction were found to be comparable.
An increasing and serious heroin overdose problem in Oslo has mandated the increasing out-of-hospital use of naloxone administered by paramedics. The aim of this study was to determine the frequencies and characteristics of adverse events related to this out-of-hospital administration by paramedics.
A one-year prospective observational study from February 1998 to January 1999 was performed in patients suspected to be acutely overdosed by an opioid. A total of 1192 episodes treated with naloxone administered by the Emergency Medical Service system in Oslo, were included. The main outcome variable was adverse events observed immediately after the administration of naloxone.
The mean age of patients included was 32.6 years, and 77% were men. Adverse events suspected to be related to naloxone treatment were reported in 45% of episodes. The most common adverse events were related to opioid withdrawal (33%) such as gastrointestinal disorders, aggressiveness, tachycardia, shivering, sweating and tremor. Cases of confusion/restlessness (32%) might be related either to opioid withdrawal or to the effect of the heroin in combination with other drugs. Headache and seizures (25%) were probably related to hypoxia. Most events were non-serious. In three episodes (0.3%) the patients were hospitalized because of adverse events.
Although adverse events were common among patients treated for opioid overdose in an out-of-hospital setting, serious complications were rare. Out-of-hospital naloxone treatment by paramedics seems to save several lives a year without a high risk of serious complications.
1. Thirty-six patients with essential hypertension, were randomly allocated to double-blind treatment with either metoprolol (100--200 mg/day) or pindolol (5--10 mg/day). The effects upon blood pressure and peripheral blood flow were determined. Both drugs reduced blood pressure significantly. 2. Heart rate was significantly reduced by metoprolol but not by pindolol. 3. Vascular resistance at maximal dilatation was not changed by either pindolol. 4. At rest, pindolol reduced vascular resistance in the calf by 14% (P less than 0.05) but metoprolol tended to increase the resistance slightly. The difference in effect was also significant (P less than 0.005). 5. During leg muscle work there were no changes in vascular resistance in the forearm with either compound. 6. We conclude that pindolol appears to reduce blood pressure at least partly through vascular mechanisms, in contrast to metoprolol. The response to sympathetic stimulation induced by physical exercise does not differ between metoprolol- and pindolol-treated patients.
5-Hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) activates colonic splanchnic afferents, a mechanism by which it has been implicated in generating symptoms in postinfectious and postinflammatory states in humans. Here we compared mechanisms of colonic afferent activation by 5-HT and mechanical stimuli in normal and inflamed rat colon, and after recovery from inflammation. Colonic inflammation was induced in rats by dextran sulphate sodium. Single-fibre recordings of colonic lumbar splanchnic afferents revealed that 58% of endings responded to 5-HT (10(-4) m) in controls, 88% in acute inflammation (P<0.05) and 75% after 21 days recovery (P < 0.05 versus control). Maximal responses to 5-HT were also larger, and the estimated EC50 was reduced from 3.2 x 10(-6) to 8 x 10(-7) m in acute inflammation and recovered to 2 x 10(-6) m after recovery. Responsiveness to mechanical stimulation was unaffected. 5-HT3 receptor antagonism with alosetron reduced responses to 5-HT in controls but not during inflammation. Responses to the mast cell degranulator 48/80 mimicked those to 5-HT in inflamed tissue but not in controls, and more 5-HT-containing mast cells were seen close to calcitonin gene-related peptide-containing fibres in inflamed serosa. We conclude that colonic serosal and mesenteric endings exhibit increased sensitivity to 5-HT in inflammation, with both an increase in proportion of responders and an increase in sensitivity, which is maintained after healing of inflammation. This is associated with alterations in the roles of 5-HT3 receptors and mast cells.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) regulate gene expression. It has been suggested that obtaining miRNA expression profiles can improve classification, diagnostic, and prognostic information in oncology. Here, we sought to comprehensively identify the miRNAs that are overexpressed in lung cancer by conducting miRNA microarray expression profiling on normal lung versus adjacent lung cancers from transgenic mice. We found that miR-136, miR-376a, and miR-31 were each prominently overexpressed in murine lung cancers. Real-time RT-PCR and in situ hybridization (ISH) assays confirmed these miRNA expression profiles in paired normal-malignant lung tissues from mice and humans. Engineered knockdown of miR-31, but not other highlighted miRNAs, substantially repressed lung cancer cell growth and tumorigenicity in a dose-dependent manner. Using a bioinformatics approach, we identified miR-31 target mRNAs and independently confirmed them as direct targets in human and mouse lung cancer cell lines. These targets included the tumor-suppressive genes large tumor suppressor 2 (LATS2) and PP2A regulatory subunit B alpha isoform (PPP2R2A), and expression of each was augmented by miR-31 knockdown. Their engineered repression antagonized miR-31-mediated growth inhibition. Notably, miR-31 and these target mRNAs were inversely expressed in mouse and human lung cancers, underscoring their biologic relevance. The clinical relevance of miR-31 expression was further independently and comprehensively validated using an array containing normal and malignant human lung tissues. Together, these findings revealed that miR-31 acts as an oncogenic miRNA (oncomir) in lung cancer by targeting specific tumor suppressors for repression.
Following a reduced pressure in the left ventricle, elevated concentrations of sodium ions enhanced by half the contraction force of the rat isolated heart. This effect was shown to be independent of the Na-channels blockers or Na/H exchange of caffeine but quite susceptible to sodium channel blockers, caffeine, and the blocking agent for Na-Ca exchange Ni2+. A decrease in potassium concentration amplified, and elevation of K+ level attenuated the positive inotropic effect of the elevated concentration of sodium ions. The effect was preserved even after heart arrest induced by verapamil. The findings suggest that elevated concentration of sodium ions may affect the Na+/Ca2+ exchange and provoke Ca2+ release from sarcoplasmic reticulum by means of changing the sodium gradient. These data corroborate the Leblanc and Hume hypothesis of the sodium-induced calcium ions release from sarcoplasmic reticulum.
The role of humoral factors in the pathogenesis of gentamicin and tobramycin aminoglycoside-induced acute renal failure was studied in rats. Renal function was evaluated after inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis with indomethacin and inhibition of the kallikrein-kinin system with aprotinin. Plasma and urinary kallikrein levels were measured in aminoglycoside-treated rats, as was in vitro effect of of these antibiotics on plasma kallikrein activity and prekallikrein activation by dextran sulfate. Indomethacin treatment (2 mg kg-1 day-1, ip, for 13 days) of rats which received gentamicin or tobramycin (40 mg kg-1 day-1, ip, for 10 days) caused a further fall in glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and renal blood flow and an impressive increase in renal resistance. The effect of indomethacin on GFR was more evident for gentamicin- than tobramycin-treated animals. Aprotinin administration had no additional effects on the renal function of antibiotic-treated rats. Plasma and urinary kallikrein levels in aminoglycoside-treated rats were significantly lower than in untreated controls. Both aminoglycosides at concentrations of 0.1 mg/ml inhibited dextran sulfate activation of plasma prekallikrein, and 2.0 micrograms/ml tobramycin, but not gentamicin, inhibited the hydrolysis of H-D-Pro-Phe-Arg-p-nitroanilide by rat plasma. These data suggest that prostaglandins may protect against aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity.
Smad1 is a receptor-activated intracellular signaling protein, which mediates signal transduction of bone morphogenetic proteins. Current study investigated the expression and transcriptional activity of Smad1 during hepatic stellate cell (HSC) activation. Rat HSCs were isolated from rats at 1, 2, 3 and 4 days after gavaged with carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)) or corn oil. RT-PCR, Western blot, gel-shift assay and luciferase assay were employed to examine Smad1 expression and transcriptional activity, respectively. CCl(4)-cirrhotic liver fat-storing cells-8B (CFSC-8B) cells were infected with recombinant adenoviruses of Smad1 and/or Smad1 shRNA. Both mRNA and protein levels of Smad1 were significantly increased at 48 h after gavage of CCl(4). Gel shift assays demonstrated a significant increase in nuclear Smad1 in day 9 HSCs. Transfection of HSCs with Smad1 responsible luciferase indicated an increase in Smad1 transcriptional activity in day 6 HSCs (1.563 +/- 0.229 in day 6 versus 0.785 +/- 0.192 in day 3). When CFSC-8B cells were infected with adenoviruses with Smad1 or Smad1 short hairpin RNA (shRNA), there was an increase or decrease in Smad1 mRNA and protein, respectively. Smooth muscle alpha-actin expression was increased or decreased according to induction or reduction of Smad1. In conclusion, there were significantly increases in Smad1 expression and transcriptional activity during in vivo activation of hepatic stellate cells.
Repeated inhalation exposure and 1-generation reproduction studies have been conducted in the rat to address the adequacy of the 10 ppm occupational exposure limit established for 1,2,3-trichloropropane (TriCP). Groups of 5 rats per sex were exposed for 6 h/d, 5 d/wk up to 4 wk to target TriCP concentrations of 0-900 ppm. Nine of 10 rats died after a single exposure at 900 ppm. Additional deaths were seen in the 300 (1 death) and 600 (3 deaths) ppm test groups. Mean body weights for all TriCP-treated groups were lower than control values. Liver weights were increased in animals of both sexes at 600 ppm and lower. For females ovary weights for the 300 and 600 ppm groups and spleen weights for the 300 ppm group were lower than those of controls. Males exhibited decreased testes weights only at the 600 ppm TriCP level (not evaluated at 900 ppm). Results of a 13-wk exposure, 6 h/d, 5 d/wk of 15 rats/sex.group to TriCP target vapor concentrations of 5, 15, or 50 ppm also resulted in liver weight increases at all test levels. Histopathologic examination showed hepatocellular hypertrophy in male rats at all TriCP levels. Other microscopic findings related to treatment in rats exposed to 15 ppm and to 5 ppm TriCP included lung hyperplasia (both sexes) and splenic extramedullary hematopoiesis (females only) and parallel observed organ weight increases. No treatment-related deaths were observed in this study, nor were there apparent effects on the hematology or clinical chemistries. Group mean body weights at 50 ppm (both sexes) and 15 ppm (females only) TriCP were reduced when compared to controls. In a 13-wk follow-up study in rats at 0, 0.5, and 1.5 ppm TriCP, no gross or microscopic findings related to treatment were found. Groups of 10 male and 20 female rats were exposed 6 h/d, 5 d/wk to 0, 5, or 15 ppm TriCP vapor during premating and mating. Females also were exposed during gestation. Low mating performance was observed in all groups of female rats including the controls, although fewer females in the 15-ppm group mated than in other study groups. Mating and fertility indices of male rats in both treated and control groups were generally low. All measured progeny indices appeared unaffected by treatment. A follow-up study of the same design was conducted at levels of 0, 0.5, and 1.5 ppm TriCP.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
