D-Penicillamine and captopril, two drugs that induce autoimmune manifestations in man, were administered orally for 5 to 10 months to various strains of rats. Three to eight weeks after D-penicillamine administration in a dosage of 20 to 50 mg per day, 73% of Brown Norway (BN) rats became ill. The disease was characterized by weight loss, dermatitis, and a high mortality presumably caused by disseminated intravascular coagulation. Microscopy revealed widespread granulomatous and necrotic lesions. The plasma of these animals contained antinuclear antibodies and immune complexes. In the kidney deposits of IgG were found in a linear pattern along the glomerular basement membrane. IgG eluted from diseased kidneys bound both "in vitro" and "in vivo" to kidney basement membranes. BN rats initially receiving 5 mg of D-penicillamine per day and subsequently 20 and 50 mg per day did not develop disease. No adverse effects were noted in Lewis (LEW) and Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats treated with 20 or 50 mg of D-penicillamine per day, nor in BN and LEW rats treated with 20 mg of captopril per day.
Peroxisomal disorders appear with a frequency of about 1:5000 in newborns. Peroxisomal D-bifunctional protein (D-BP), encoded by the HSD17B4 gene (gene ID: 3294; locus tag: HGNC:5213, chromosome 5q2; official symbol: HSD17B4; name: hydroxysteroid (17-beta) dehydrogenase; gene type: protein coding) (OMIM *601860), comprises an 80 kDa multifunctional enzyme involved in peroxisomal beta-oxidation of certain fatty acids and the synthesis of bile acids. Its deficiency causes a very severe, Zellweger-like clinical phenotype and most patients die within the first year of life. In this paper, we report a case of D-BP deficiency in a patient with two heterozygous trinucleotide deletions (233_235 del AAG and 824_826 del AGA) in the HSD17B4 gene. The patient suffered from a peculiar epileptic phenotype (i.e. a West syndrome with a "modified hypsarrhythmic pattern"--Hrachovy et al. Epilepsia 1984;25:317-25), clinically appearing as drug-resistant asymmetric spasms. Vigabatrin seemed the most effective among the antiepileptic drugs. The patient died at the age of 23 months owing to respiratory complications. To date, only a few patients with D-BP deficiency have been described in the literature. This case adds to our knowledge of the clinical presentation of bifunctional protein deficiency.
To study the clinical outcome, adverse effect and treatment cost of homoharringtonine (HHT) in combination with all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) and arsenic trioxide (AS2O3) for newly diagnosed with patients acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL).
Clinical data of treatment of newly diagnosed patients with APL in experimental group (HHT + ATRA + AS2O3, n = 14) and control group \[Idarubicin (IDA) + ATRA + AS2O3, n = 21\] were analyzed retrospectively. The therapeutic effects, side effects and costs during induction therapy were compared between the two groups.
(1) The complete remission (CR) rate were 92.9% (13/14) and 95.2% (20/21) in experimental group and control group, respectively. The time to achieve CR were (28.1 ± 3.8) and (31.7 ± 4.2) days, respectively (P > 0.05). The negative rate of PML-RARα fusion gene at the time of CR were 76.9% (10/13) and 75.0% (15/20), respectively, and that in CR patient at the end of the first cycle treatment were 100.0% (13/13) and 95.0% (19/20), respectively (P > 0.05). (2) 5-year overall survival (OS) rate were (92.6 ± 0.6)% and (89.9 ± 0.5)%, respectively (P > 0.05), 5-year disease free survival (DFS) rate were 100.0% and (86.8 ± 0.6)%, respectively (P > 0.05). (3) During induction therapy, the incidence of infection in experimental and control group were 23.1% (3/13), 60.0% (12/20), respectively (P < 0.05). The amount of platelet transfusion were (54.7 ± 29.6) and (76.5 ± 25.6) units, respectively (P > 0.05), and that of fresh frozen plasma were (1157.1 ± 238.4) and (1423.5 ± 324.6) ml, respectively (P > 0.05). The total medical costs (excluding HHT and IDA) in experimental and control group were (36074.9 ± 1245.6) and (50564.5 ± 3658.4)CNY, respectively (P < 0.05).
HHT in combination with ATRA and AS2O3 regimen for newly diagnosed APL has a better efficacy, a higher long-term survival rate, and a lower costs, which is one of the reasonable choice.
The aim of the present work was to study the potential involvement of melanocortin system in the anorectic mechanism of fluoxetine, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, in obese Zucker rats. Male obese Zucker (fa/fa) rats were administered fluoxetine (10 mg/kg; i.p.) daily for two weeks. The control group was given 0.9% NaCl solution. RT-PCR for pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC), Agouti gene related peptide (AgRP) and melanocortin receptor 4 (MC4-R) in the hypothalamus, as well as regional immunostaining for alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) and MC4-R were carried out. Fluoxetine administration increased POMC expression and reduced MC4-R expression in the hypothalamus, without changes in AgRP mRNA levels. Moreover, an increase in the numbers of alpha-MSH positively immunostained neural cells in the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus (ARC), as well as a significant decrease in the numbers of neural cells positively immunostained for MC4-R in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN), without changes in lateral hypothalamic area (LHA), were observed. These results suggest the involvement of alpha-MSH in central fluoxetine anorectic action.
The purpose of the present study was to determine the acute effects of the beta-carboline norharman on cocaine dependence. Male Wistar rats were allowed to self-administer cocaine for 3 h for seven sessions. A single injection of norharman (0.2-20 mg/kg, i.p.) was given 30 min before the onset of the seventh session. It was shown that norharman decreased the cocaine intake in a U-shaped manner with the dose of 10 mg/kg having the most potent effect. These results indicate that several receptor mechanisms mediate the effects of norharman. In addition, 15 min following the administration of norharman on session 7, motor and sensory skill tests were performed. Six naïve animals were tested with the dose, which has the most pronounced effect on cocaine self-administration intake, in order to examine whether the observed effects were due to norharman or due to the combination of norharman and cocaine. It was observed that norharman in both the naïve and cocaine-exposed animals significantly increased the response time in the somato-sensory orienting test. However, only in the naïve animals a significant effect of norharman on the grasp reflex was observed.
This study investigated whether patients developing pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) after exposure to the appetite suppressants fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine have mutations in the bone morphogenetic protein receptor 2 (BMPR2) gene, as reported in primary pulmonary hypertension. BMPR2 was examined for mutations in 33 unrelated patients with sporadic PAH, and in two sisters with PAH, all of whom had taken fenfluramine derivatives, as well as in 130 normal controls. The PAH patients also underwent cardiac catheterisation and body mass determinations. Three BMPR2 mutations predicting changes in the primary structure of the BMPR-II protein were found in three of the 33 unrelated patients (9%), and a fourth mutation was found in the two sisters. No BMPR2 mutations were identified in the 130 normal controls. This difference in frequency was statistically significant. Moreover, the mutation-positive patients had a somewhat shorter duration of fenfluramine exposure before illness than the mutation-negative patients, a difference that was statistically significant when the two sisters were included in the analysis. In conclusion, the present authors have detected bone morphogenetic protein receptor 2 mutations that appear to be rare in the general population but may combine with exposure to fenfluramine derivatives to greatly increase the risk of developing severe pulmonary arterial hypertension.
Growing evidence indicates that antagonists of the 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin) receptor(6) (5-HT(6)) improve memory and reverse amnesia although the mechanisms involved are poorly understood. Hence, in this paper RT-PCR was used to evaluate changes in mRNA expression of 5-HT(6) receptor in trained and untrained rats treated with the 5-HT(6) receptor antagonist SB-399885 and amnesic drugs scopolamine or dizocilpine. Changes in mRNA expression of 5-HT(6) receptor were investigated at different times in prefrontal cortex, hippocampus and striatum. Data indicated that memory in the Pavlovian/instrumental autoshaping task was a progressive process associated to reduced mRNA expression of 5-HT(6) receptor in the three structures examined. SB-399885 improved long-term memory at 48h, while the muscarinic receptor antagonist scopolamine or the non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist dizocilpine impaired it at 24h. Autoshaping training and treatment with SB-399885 increased 5-HT(6) receptor mRNA expression in (maximum increase) prefrontal cortex and striatum, 24 or 48h. The scopolamine-induced amnesia suppressed 5-HT(6) receptor mRNA expression while the dizocilpine-induced amnesia did not modify 5-HT(6) receptor mRNA expression. SB-399885 and scopolamine or dizocilpine were able to reestablish memory and 5-HT(6) receptor mRNA expression. These data confirmed previous memory evidence and of more interest is the observation that training, SB-399885 and amnesic drugs modulated 5-HT(6) receptor mRNA expression in prefrontal cortex, hippocampus and striatum. Further investigation in different memory tasks, times and amnesia models together with more complex control groups might provide further clues.
We review the published data relating to intake of coffee and caffeine on blood pressure in man. We also refer to studies on the possible mechanisms of actions of these effects of caffeine.
The MEDLINE and Current Contents databases were searched from 1966 to April 1999 using the text words 'coffee or caffeine' and 'blood pressure or hypertension'. Controlled clinical and epidemiologic studies on the blood pressure effects of coffee or caffeine are reviewed. We also refer to studies on the possible mechanisms of action of these effects of caffeine.
Acute intake of coffee and caffeine increases blood pressure. Caffeine is probably the main active component in coffee. The pressor response is strongest in hypertensive subjects. Some studies with repeated administration of caffeine showed a persistent pressor effect, whereas in others chronic caffeine ingestion did not increase blood pressure. Epidemiologic studies have produced contradictory findings regarding the association between blood pressure and coffee consumption. During regular use tolerance to the cardiovascular responses develops in some people, and therefore no systematic elevation of blood pressure in long-term and in population studies can be shown.
We conclude that regular coffee may be harmful to some hypertension-prone subjects. The hemodynamic effects of chronic coffee and caffeine consumption have not been sufficiently studied. The possible mechanisms of the cardiovascular effects of caffeine include the blocking of adenosine receptors and the inhibition of phosphodiesterases.
We report a case of transitional cell carcinoma in the left renal pelvis, which occurred in a 24-year-old man. He had been treated with cyclophosphamide (CPM) for a period of 27 months for retroperitoneal rhabdomyosarcoma diagnosed at the age of 10. At first 1.2 g CPM had been given twice intravenously for 3 months, followed by oral administration of 41 g CPM for 23 months. Drip infusion pyelography revealed a filling defect in the left renal pelvis. A left renal pelvic tumor was strongly suspected on computerized tomography and magnetic resonance imaging. Left nephroureterectomy was then performed. Histological diagnosis of the left renal pelvic tumor was transitional cell carcinoma, grade 2, pT1N0M0. No recurrence was defected 17 months later. This case seems to be the second case of cyclophosphamide-induced upper urothelial carcinoma reported in Japan.
This study was designed to clarify whether chronic administration of metoprolol had any influence on cardiac beta-adrenergic receptors (BAR) in doxorubicin (DOX)-induced cardiac damage. DOX was injected through the tail vein into rats (3 mg/kg/week, n = 22) for 5 weeks. One week after the final injection, the rats were randomly divided into two groups, M (with metoprolol, 10 mg/kg/day subcutaneously, s.c.; n = 11) and D (without metoprolol; n = 11). After 3-week infusion, plasma norepinephrine (NE) levels and BAR density [[125I]iodocyanopindolol (ICYP) binding on crude membranes] were measured. Left and right ventricular end-diastolic pressure (LVEDP, RVEDP) and myocardial NE levels were also measured, and the results were compared with those from an age-matched control group (C n = 11). Decreased BAR density and increased plasma NE levels were evident in group D, indicating downregulation. In group M, BAR density and plasma NE levels were similar to those in group C. The myocardial NE levels were decreased in group D, but were higher in group M than in group D. The LVEDP and RVEDP were increased in group D, but were almost normal in group M. These results suggest that metoprolol is a promising drug for treatment of DOX-induced cardiac damage.
Antiapoptotic Bcl-2 proteins are overexpressed in a number of cancers, including leukemias, and are frequently associated with resistance to conventional chemotherapeutic drugs. ABT-737, a Bcl-2 homology domain 3 mimetic (for structure, see Nature 435:677-681, 2005) inhibits the prosurvival function of Bcl-2, Bcl-X(L), and Bcl-w. We show that ABT-737 was effective as a single agent against a panel of pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) xenografts, previously established, from patient biopsies, in immunodeficient mice. Although in vitro resistance of leukemia cell lines correlated with expression of the prosurvival protein Mcl-1, there was no relationship between Mcl-1 expression and in vivo xenograft response to ABT-737. However, expression of the pro-apoptotic protein Bim, and the extent of its association with Bcl-2, significantly correlated with in vivo ABT-737 sensitivity. ABT-737 potentiated the antileukemic effects of L-asparaginase, topotecan, vincristine, and etoposide against drug-resistant xenografts in vitro and in vivo. Finally, we show that the combination of L-asparaginase (by specifically down-regulating Mcl-1 protein levels), topotecan (by activating p53 via DNA damage), and ABT-737 (by inhibiting antiapoptotic Bcl-2 family members) caused profound synergistic antileukemic efficacy both in vitro and in vivo. Rational targeting of specific components of the apoptotic pathway may be a useful approach to improve the treatment of refractory or relapsed pediatric ALL. Overall, this study supports the inclusion of the clinical derivative of ABT-737, ABT-263 (for structure, see Cancer Res 68:3421-3428, 2008), into clinical trials against relapsed/refractory pediatric ALL.
Spinal anaesthesia has been in use since the turn of the late 19th century. The most serious complication of this technique is damage to the spinal cord or nerve roots resulting in lasting neurologic sequelae. Such serious adverse effects seldom happen. There has been an increase in the number of reports during the last nine years implicating lidocaine as a possible cause of temporary and permanent neurologic complications after spinal anaesthesia. Follow-up of patients who received uncomplicated spinal anaesthesia revealed that some of them developed pain in the lower extremities after an initial full recovery. This painful condition that occurs in the immediate post-operative period was named "transient neurologic symptoms" (TNS).
The objectives of this review were to study the frequency of TNS and neurologic complications after spinal anaesthesia with lidocaine, compared to other local anaesthetics.
Trials were identified by computerized searches of the Cochrane Controlled Trials Register (4th Quarter 2002), MEDLINE (1966 - January 2003), LILAC database, EMBASE (1980 - week 51, 2002), and by checking the reference lists of trials and review articles.
All randomized and pseudo-randomized studies comparing the frequency of TNS and of neurologic complications after spinal anaesthesia with lidocaine as compared to other local anaesthetics.
Two reviewers independently evaluated the quality of the relevant studies and extracted the data from the included studies.
Fourteen trials, reporting 1,349 patients, 117 of whom developed transient neurologic symptoms, were included in the analysis. The use of lidocaine for spinal anaesthesia increased the risk of developing TNS. There was no evidence that this painful condition was associated with any neurologic pathology as it was clearly documented that no positive neurologic findings were present in any patient with TNS; the symptoms disappeared spontaneously by the fifth postoperative day. The relative risk for developing TNS after spinal anaesthesia with lidocaine as compared to other local anaesthetics (bupivacaine, prilocaine, procaine and mepivacaine) was 4.35 (95% Confidence Interval: 1.98, 9.54).
The risk of developing TNS after spinal anaesthesia with lidocaine was significantly higher than when bupivacaine, prilocaine and procaine were used. The term "TNS", which implies a positive neurologic finding, should not be used for this painful condition, which is in fact comparable to another common adverse effect after spinal anaesthesia - lower back pain. How much the pain in the lower extremities influences patient satisfaction is not elucidated clearly in the literature.
The potential influence of the multidrug resistance 1 (MDR1) gene and the cytochrome P450 (CYP) genes, CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, on the oral clearance (CL/F) of tacrolimus in adult living-donor liver transplant patients was examined. Furthermore, the development of renal dysfunction was analyzed in relation to the CYP3A5 genotype.
Sixty de novo adult liver transplant patients receiving tacrolimus were enrolled in this study. The effects of various covariates (including intestinal and hepatic mRNA levels of MDR1 and CYP3A4, measured in each tissue taken at the time of transplantation, and the CYP3A5*3 polymorphism) on CL/F during the first 50 days after surgery were investigated with the nonlinear mixed-effects modeling program.
CL/F increased linearly until postoperative day 14, and thereafter reached a steady state. The initial CL/F immediately after liver transplantation was significantly affected by the intestinal MDR1 mRNA level (P<0.005). Furthermore, patients carrying the CYP3A5*1 allele in the native intestine, but not in the graft liver, showed a 1.47 times higher (95% confidence interval, 1.17-1.77 times, P<0.005) recovery of CL/F with time than patients having the intestinal CYP3A5*3/*3 genotype. The cumulative incidence of renal dysfunction within 1 year after transplantation, evaluated by the Kaplan-Meier method, was significantly associated with the recipient's but not donor's CYP3A5 genotype (*1/*1 and *1/*3 vs. *3/*3: recipient, 17 vs. 46%, P<0.05; donor, 35 vs. 38%, P=0.81).
These findings suggest that the CYP3A5*1 genotype as well as the MDR1 mRNA level in enterocytes contributes to interindividual variation in the CL/F of tacrolimus in adult recipients early after living-donor liver transplantation. Furthermore, CYP3A5 in the kidney may play a protective role in the development of tacrolimus-related nephrotoxicity.
The cytogenetic findings in 11 patients with multiple myeloma in whom a myelodysplastic syndrome or an acute nonlymphocytic leukemia developed are reported. All patients were treated with oral melphalan for 2-9 years in a total dose of 0.5-4.1 g. When examined during the myelodysplastic or leukemic phase, all patients had an abnormal bone marrow karyotype, hypodiploid in nine of the 11 cases. The chromosome abnormalities were clearly nonrandom and comprised a 5q deletion in three cases, monosomy 5 in four cases, deletion 7q--in two cases, and monosomy 7 in three cases. Loss of material from the long arm of chromosomes 5, 7, or both was found in eight patients. The different chromosome abnormalities were not associated with any specific morphological or clinical features.
The effects of 1-O-hexyl-2,3,5-trimethylhydroquinone (HTHQ), green tea catechins (GTC), alpha-tocopherol, beta-carotene, chlorophyllin, phenylethylisothiocyanate (PEITC), 3-O-ethylascorbic acid (EAsA), 3-O-dodecylcarbomethyl ascorbic acid (DAsA), n-tritriacontane-16,18-dione (TTAD) and d-limonene on 2-amino-6-methyldipyrido[1,2-a:3',2'-d]imidazole (Glu-P-1)- or dimethylnitrosamine (DMN)-induced hepatocarcinogenesis, and the dose dependence of HTHQ inhibition of Glu-P-1- or 2-amino-3,8-dimethylimidazo [4,5-f]quinoxaline (MeIQx)-influence on lesion development were examined in a rat medium-term liver bioassay system featuring diethylnitrosamine initiation and partial hepatectomy. At the end of week 8, the number and total area of glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P) positive liver foci in rats treated with 0.03% Glu-P-1 alone were increased significantly (46.8 +/- 11.0 and 12.0 +/- 5.6 respectively) as compared to the control values (3.8 +/- 1.6 and 0.4 +/- 0.2). Combined treatment with 1% HTHQ remarkably reduced both of these parameters (8.1 +/- 2.1 and 0.6 +/- 0.2). GTC (1%), PEITC (0.1%), beta-carotene (0.1%) and DAsA (1%) also demonstrated inhibition but less than HTHQ. On the other hand, these antioxidants did not influence development of foci initiated by 0.002% DMN. In the dose-response study, up to 0.125% HTHQ significantly reduced the effects of 0.02% Glu-P-1 or 0.03% MeIQx on the number and area of foci. These results indicate that several antioxidants exert chemopreventive effects against heterocyclic amine (HCA)-induced hepatocarcinogenesis, and particularly HTHQ which thus deserves further attention as a chemopreventor in the contest of the environmentally important HCA group of carcinogens.
We studied nociceptive behavior and the effects of analgesics in Wistar (Wist) and Sprague Dawley (SPD) rats and in CB1 receptor-deficient mice with neuropathic pain experimentally. Neuropathic pain was induced by loose ligation of the sciatic nerve (chronic constriction injury, CCI). In CCI rats from both strains, cold allodynia and a reduced thermal pain threshold were detected, whereas no effect was found in the hot plate test. Thermal pain threshold was used to study the antinociceptive effects of morphine, gabapentin, and parecoxib 5 days after surgery. Doses of gabapentin and morphine which had no effect on sham-operated animals provoked antinociceptive activity in CCI rats from both strains. An antinociceptive effect of parecoxib was only found in CCI Wist rats. No pharmacokinetic differences were detected between the two strains in parecoxib metabolism. Antinociceptive activity caused by parecoxib was attenuated by the CB1 antagonist rimonabant. To further clarify parecoxib-CB1 interaction, the effect of parecoxib was investigated in CB1-deficient mice and wild-type animals. CCI did not affect thermal pain threshold and mechanical pain threshold was decreased. Parecoxib normalized the altered mechanical pain threshold in CCI wild-type animals, whereas it had only a marginal effect in CB1 receptor deficient mice. Receptor binding experiments showed increased CB1 binding in parecoxib-treated CCI Wist rats. Levels of the CB1 receptor mRNA remained constant in both strains of rats 5 days after surgery. Differences in antinociceptive activity might be due to modification of the cannabinoid system.
Esophageal carcinoma is the most rapidly increasing tumor in the United States and has a dismal 15% 5-year survival. Immunotherapy has been proposed to improve patient outcomes; however, no immunocompetent esophageal carcinoma model exists to date to test this approach. We developed two mouse models of esophageal cancer by inoculating immunocompetent mice with syngeneic esophageal cell lines transformed by cyclin-D1 or mutant HRAS(G12V) and loss of p53. Similar to humans, surgery and adjuvant chemotherapy (cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil) demonstrated limited efficacy. Gene-mediated cyototoxic immunotherapy (adenoviral vector carrying the herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase gene in combination with the prodrug ganciclovir; AdV-tk/GCV) demonstrated high levels of in vitro transduction and efficacy. Using in vivo syngeneic esophageal carcinoma models, combining surgery, chemotherapy and AdV-tk/GCV improved survival (P=0.007) and decreased disease recurrence (P<0.001). Mechanistic studies suggested that AdV-tk/GCV mediated a direct cytotoxic effect and an increased intra-tumoral trafficking of CD8 T cells (8.15% vs 14.89%, P=0.02). These data provide the first preclinical evidence that augmenting standard of care with immunotherapy may improve outcomes in the management of esophageal carcinoma.
The carcinogenicities of 1-nitropyrene (1-NP), 4-nitropyrene (4-NP), 1,3-dinitropyrene (1,3-DNP), 1,6-dinitropyrene (1,6-DNP), 1,8-dinitropyrene (1,8-DNP), 3-hydroxy-1-nitropyrene (3-OH-1-NP) and a mixture of 6- and 8-hydroxy-1-nitropyrene (6/8-OH-1-NP) were investigated in newborn female rats. Newborn female CD rats were treated s.c. eight times at weekly intervals with a total dose of 6.3 mumol 1-NP,1,3-DNP,1,6-DNP or 1,8-DNP; control animals received only dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO). The experiment was terminated at 67 weeks. With the exception of 1,6-DNP- and 1,8-DNP-treated animals, which had average survival periods of 149 and 164 days respectively, the animals administered the other compounds did not show decreased survival. Malignant fibrous histiocytomas were observed in 12%, 100% and 100% of the rats treated with 1,3-, 1,6- and 1,8-DNP respectively. Leukemia was found in 20% and 22% of the animals treated with 1,6- and 1,8-DNP respectively. No control rats developed these tumors. Additionally, mammary tumors were induced in rats treated with 1-NP. Newborn female CD rats were similarly treated with 1-NP, 4-NP, 3-OH-1-NP, 6/8-OH-1-NP or DMSO and newborn female F344 rats were treated with 1-NP or DMSO. The experiment was terminated at 86 weeks, 1-NP and 4-NP produced mammary adenocarcinoma in CD rats. Although 1-NP did not produce mammary adenocarcinoma in F344 rats, it induced leukemia. 4-NP also induced malignant fibrous histiocytomas in CD rats. This study demonstrates that 4-NP is more carcinogenic than 1-NP and that CD rats are more susceptible than F344 rats to mammary carcinogenesis by 1-NP. Additionally, 1,6- and 1,8-DNP are more potent than 1-NP in inducing malignant fibrous histiocytomas and leukemia.
An empirically established chemoimmunotherapy for metastatic melanoma combines the systemic administration of the chemotherapeutic agent dacarbazine (DTIC) with the epifocal application of the contact sensitizer 2,4-dinitrochlorobenzene (DNCB) on cutaneous metastases. Although this therapy yields high response rates resulting in prolonged survival, the mechanisms involved remain unknown. Here, we investigated whether treatment of tumor-bearing mice with DTIC and DNCB resulted in a specific immune response against the tumor. Subcutaneous (s.c.) tumors and lung metastases were induced in C57BL/6 mice by injecting syngeneic B16-melanoma cells s.c. or into the lateral tail vein, respectively. Mice were treated with intraperitoneal injections of DTIC followed by epifocal application of DNCB. This therapeutic approach significantly reduced the growth of s.c. tumors as well as lung metastases. Our data showed that the effector mechanisms involved are dependent on T cells. No therapeutic effect was observed in immunodeficient RAG-1(-/-) mice, or when the contact sensitizer DNCB was replaced by skin irritants (croton oil or tributyltin). Splenic lymphocytes obtained from treated mice displayed a three-fold higher specific cytolytic activity against B16 cells than in tumor-bearing controls. Both CD8(+) and CD4(+) T cells were able to lyse B16 cells. No changes were observed in natural killer (NK) cell activity. Likewise, tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) of treated mice showed higher cytolytic activity than that of controls. Analysis of cytokine expression in s.c. tumors revealed increased mRNA levels of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), and interleukin-6 (IL-6) in treated tumors. Together, these findings demonstrate the ability of DTIC/DNCB treatment to induce an effective T cell-dependent host immune response against a syngeneic tumor.
Enuresis is an embarrassing rare side effect of clozapine treatment. Using single-blind placebo-control design, the antienuretic activity of the calcium channel blocker verapamil (up to 80 mg/day per os, at 21.00 hours) was evaluated in a schizophrenic patient with comorbid obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) who developed nocturnal functional enuresis during clozapine treatment. Verapamil (80 mg/day) displayed antienuretic activity. No correlation between the bradycardiac effect and the antienuretic activity of verapamil was detected.
Oxidative stress and inflammation are two important pathological mechanisms involved in cerebral ischemia and reperfusion injury. In pathological conditions such as cerebral infarction, the free radical production is greater than that of elimination by endogenous anti-oxidant system, by this undesirable effect brain is highly injured. Resveratrol is reported to have anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory, athero-protective activities. Therefore, the aim of the present study is to evaluate the therapeutic potential of resveratrol against cerebral infarction induced by ischemia and reperfusion injury in Wistar rats. Bi-common carotid occlusion followed by 4 h reperfusion model was used to induce cerebral infarction. Percent infarction, oxidative stress markers (malondialdehyde, catalase, superoxide dismutase) and inflammatory markers (myeloperoxidase, TNF-α, IL-6, ICAM-1 and IL-10) were measured. TNF-α, IL-6, IL-10, and intracellular adhesive molecule-I (ICAM-1) levels were quantified by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Resveratrol produced significant dose-dependent reduction in percent cerebral infarct volume. At resveratrol 20 mg/kg dose, there was a significant reduction in oxidative stress and inflammatory markers like malondialdehyde, TNF-α, IL-6, myeloperoxidase and ICAM-I and in contrast there was a significant increase in anti-oxidants and anti-inflammatory markers like superoxide dismutase, catalase and IL-10 levels. Resveratrol showed significant cerebroprotective action mediated by anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory mechanisms.
Earlier research indicated that a 10-session mood management (MM) intervention was more effective than a 5-session standard intervention for smokers with a history of major depressive disorder (MDD). In a 2 x 2 factorial design, the present study compared MM intervention to a contact-equivalent health education intervention (HE) and 2 mg to 0 mg of nicotine gum for smokers with a history of MDD. Participants were 201 smokers, 22% with a history of MDD. Contrary to the earlier findings, the MM and HE interventions produced similar abstinence rates: 2 mg gum was no more effective than placebo. History-positive participants had a greater increase in mood disturbance after the quit attempt. Independent of depression diagnosis, increases in negative mood immediately after quitting predicted smoking. No treatment differences were found in trends over time for measures of mood, withdrawal symptoms, pleasant activities and events, self-efficacy, and optimism and pessimism. History-positive smokers may be best treated by interventions providing additional support and contact, independent of therapeutic content.
Simvastatin's properties are suggestive of a potential pathophysiologic role in pulmonary hypertension. The objectives of this study were to investigate changes of pulmonary pathology and gene expressions, including endothelin (ET)-1, endothelin receptor A (ERA), inducible nitric oxide synthase (NOS2), endothelial nitric oxide synthase (NOS3), matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) 2, tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinases (TIMP) and caspase 3, and to evaluate the effect of simvastatin on monocrotaline (M)-induced pulmonary hypertension.
Six week old male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated, as follows: control group, subcutaneous (sc) injection of saline; M group, sc injection of M (60 mg/kg); and simvastatin group, sc injection of M (60 mg/kg) plus 10 mg/kg/day simvastatin orally.
On day 28, right ventricular hypertrophy (RVH) significantly decreased in the simvastatin group compared to the M group. Similarly, right ventricular pressure significantly decreased in the simvastatin group on day 28. From day 7, the ratio of medial thickening of the pulmonary artery was significantly increased in the M group, but there was no significant change in the simvastatin group. The number of muscular pulmonary arterioles was significantly reduced in the simvastatin group. On day 5, gene expressions of ET-1, ERA, NOS2, NOS3, MMP and TIMP significantly decreased in the simvastatin group.
Administration of simvastatin exerted weak inhibitory effects on RVH and on the number of muscular pulmonary arterioles, during the development of M-induced pulmonary hypertension in rats. Simvastatin decreased gene expressions on day 5.
The case described here is that of a 34-year-old woman with a psychiatric disorder who was referred to the local surgical receiving unit with abdominal pain and vomiting. She remained well and fully mobile but refused blood investigations until the day following admission. At that time the tests showed a picture of acute renal failure. With the development of increasing abdominal tenderness and pyrexia she was persuaded to have a laparotomy which demonstrated a small tear at the dome of the bladder. Her deranged blood biochemistry returned to normal within 11 h following surgery. The important points demonstrated in this case study are the special clinical difficulties encountered in psychiatric patients, which may consequently lead to delay in diagnosis. This delay allowed significant peritoneal reabsorption of urea and creatinine, which masqueraded as 'acute renal failure' on biochemical testing. The case also highlights the use of procyclidine, commonly used in patients with psychiatric disorders; urinary retention is a recognised side effect of this drug--and it is possible that such retention together with a minor and hence easily overlooked episode of trauma, may have contributed to the patient's condition.
Epidemiological studies demonstrate the possible increased risk of Reye's syndrome after aspirin ingestion in children suffering from viral influenza or chicken pox. This study was conducted to determine whether the possible association between aspirin and Reye's syndrome in viral influenza and chicken pox deterred pediatricians and pharmacists in a large American city (Columbus, Ohio) from prescribing or recommending aspirin to their pediatric patients suffering from other causes of fever or pain. The results indicate that 90.6 percent of pediatricians and 97.8 percent of pharmacists no longer recommend aspirin to their pediatric patients, and an almost identical percentage recommend acetaminophen instead of aspirin. This change in prescribing habits of health professionals is reflected in a drop in sales of pediatric aspirin products with a simultaneous rise in sales of pediatric acetaminophen products reported by 93.3 percent of pharmacies. However, only 69.8 percent of pediatricians and 86.7 percent of pharmacists noted that their abstention from prescribing or recommending aspirin to children was rooted in a belief in a possible association between aspirin and Reye's syndrome.
