The liver-selective nitric oxide (NO) donor, O(2)-vinyl 1-(pyrrolidin-1-yl)diazen-1-ium-1,2-diolate (V-PYRRO/NO), is metabolized by P-450 enzymes to release NO in the liver, and is shown to protect the liver from tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha)-induced apoptosis and D-glactosamine/endotoxin-induced hepatotoxicity. This study was undertaken to examine the effects of V-PYRRO/NO on acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity in mice. Mice were given V-PYRRO/NO via osmotic pumps (1.8-5.4 mg/mL, 8 microL/h) 4 to 16 hours before a hepatotoxic dose of acetaminophen (600 mg/kg, intraperitoneally [ip]). V-PYRRO/NO administration dramatically reduced acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity in a dose- and time-dependent manner, as evidenced by reduced serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) activity, reduced hepatic congestion, apoptosis, and improved hepatocellular pathology. The protection afforded by V-PYRRO/NO does not appear to be caused by a decrease in the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites, which consumes glutathione (GSH), because V-PYRRO/NO did not alter acetaminophen-induced hepatic GSH depletion. Acetaminophen-induced lipid peroxidation, as determined by the concentrations of 4-hydroxyalkenals (4-HNE) and malondialdehyde (MDA), was reduced significantly by V-PYRRO/NO treatment. Although pretreatment was most effective, administration of V-PYRRO/NO simultaneously with acetaminophen also was able to reduce acetaminophen hepatotoxicity. Genomic analysis of the liver samples 10 hours after acetaminophen intoxication showed the enhanced expression of genes associated with stress/oxidative stress, apoptosis/cell death, and DNA damage/repair. Acetaminophen-induced alterations in gene expression were attenuated significantly by V-PYRRO/NO. Real-time reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and Western-blot analysis confirmed microarray results. In conclusion, V-PYRRO/NO is effective in blocking acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity in mice. This protection may involve the reduction of oxidative stress, the inhibition of apoptosis, and possibly the maintenance of hepatic vasculature to prevent congestion.
Mood disturbances in methamphetamine (MA) abusers likely influence drug use, but the neurobiological bases for these problems are poorly understood.
To assess regional brain function and its possible relationships with negative affect in newly abstinent MA abusers.
Two groups were compared by measures of mood and cerebral glucose metabolism ([18F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography) during performance of a vigilance task.
Participants were recruited from the general community to a research center.
Seventeen abstaining (4-7 days) MA abusers (6 women) were compared with 18 control subjects (8 women).
Self-reports of depressive symptoms and anxiety were measured, as were global and relative glucose metabolism in the orbitofrontal, cingulate, lateral prefrontal, and insular cortices and the amygdala, striatum, and cerebellum.
Abusers of MA provided higher self-ratings of depression and anxiety than control subjects and differed significantly in relative regional glucose metabolism: lower in the anterior cingulate and insula and higher in the lateral orbitofrontal area, middle and posterior cingulate, amygdala, ventral striatum, and cerebellum. In MA abusers, self-reports of depressive symptoms covaried positively with relative glucose metabolism in limbic regions (eg, perigenual anterior cingulate gyrus and amygdala) and ratings of state and trait anxiety covaried negatively with relative activity in the anterior cingulate cortex and left insula. Trait anxiety also covaried negatively with relative activity in the orbitofrontal cortex and positively with amygdala activity.
Abusers of MA have abnormalities in brain regions implicated in mood disorders. Relationships between relative glucose metabolism in limbic and paralimbic regions and self-reports of depression and anxiety in MA abusers suggest that these regions are involved in affective dysregulation and may be an important target of intervention for MA dependence.
Sirtuin 6 (SIRT6) is involved in regulation of glucose and fat metabolism. However, its possible contribution to cardiac dysfunction remains to be determined. In the present study, the effect of SIRT6 on cardiac hypertrophy induced by angiotensin II (AngII) and the underlying molecular mechanisms were investigated.
The expression and deacetylase activity of SIRT6 were measured in hypertrophic cardiomyocytes induced by AngII. After SIRT6 overexpression by transfection, or depletion by RNA interference in neonatal rat cardiomyocytes, cellular hypertrophy was monitored by measuring cell surface area and the mRNA levels of hypertrophic biomarkers. Further, the interaction between SIRT6 and the transcription factor NF-κB was investigated by co-immunoprecipitation, confocal immunofluorescence microscopy and luciferase reporter gene assay. The expression and deacetylase activity of SIRT6 were measured in vivo, using the abdominal aortic constriction (AAC) model of cardiac hypertrophy in rats.
In AngII-induced hypertrophic cardiomyocytes and also in AAC-induced hypertrophic hearts, the expression of SIRT6 protein was upregulated, while its deacetylase activity was decreased. Overexpression of wild-type SIRT6 but not its catalytically inactive mutant, attenuated AngII-induced cardiomyocyte hypertrophy. We further demonstrated a physical interaction between SIRT6 and NF-κB catalytic subunit p65, whose transcriptional activity could be repressed by SIRT6 overexpression.
Our findings suggest that SIRT6 suppressed cardiomyocyte hypertrophy in vitro via inhibition of NF-κB-dependent transcriptional activity and that this effect was dependent on its deacetylase activity.
A 70-year-old man with alcoholic cardiomyopathy underwent 99mtechnetium-sestamibi (MIBI), iodine-123-labeled metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) scintigraphy and Iodine-123-labeled beta-methyl-iodophenyl pentadecanoic acid (BMIPP) scintigraphy. 99mtechnetium-MIBI identified myocardial damage in the inferior wall of left ventricle. (123)I BMIPP showed low uptake in the inferior wall of the myocardium, concordant to perfusion. (123)I BMIPP and (123)I MIBG showed reduced uptake in the inferior segment of the myocardium, indicating impairment of fatty acid metabolism and sympathetic abnormalities. Damaged myocardium was demonstrated in alcoholic cardiomyopathy. Beta blocker (carvedilol) and angiotensin-receptor blocker (valsartan) were started at low doses, then increased gradually, leading to the improvement of cardiac performance. Cardiac sympathetic nerve function, impaired due to alcoholic cardiomyopathy, was improved with beta-blocker therapy. Cardiac scintigraphy may be useful to assess the extent of myocardial improvement and the response to therapy.
The prolonged noradrenaline treatment of rats (total dosage from 1 week--25 mg/kg), results in greatly reduced cardiac pump function and heart rate with a pronounced increase in left ventricular diastolic stiffness. These functional changes are associated with a deficiency of energy supply, especially depletion of phosphocreatine content. The taurine administration (100 mg/kg prior to 20 min noradrenaline injection) is accompanied by reliably less essential cardiac insufficiency. Moreover, the ATP, ADP level is normal and phosphocreatine content enhances by 15%.
The baroreflex mechanism is a central part of the regulation of the cardiovascular system, particularly in the control of vagal and sympathetic outflow to the heart and the peripheral circulation. Failure of the baroreflex is a rare cause of secondary hypertension. It is characterized by drastic changes in sympathetic activation and blood pressure following complete denervation of the baroreflex. Here, we report a case of baroreflex failure following bilateral carotid artery surgery and radiation. Moreover, postoperative orthostatic hypotension with recurrent syncope suggests a rare subform, the selective baroreflex failure, where efferent parasympathetic activity is preserved. Both high blood pressure and orthostatically induced syncope improved substantially after treatment with clonidine.
Lercanidipine is a vasoselective dihydropyridine calcium antagonist which causes systemic vasodilation by blocking the influx of calcium ions through L-type calcium channels in cell membranes. It is a highly lipophilic drug and as such has a slower onset and longer duration of action than a number of other calcium antagonists. Preclinical evidence suggests that lercanidipine has antiatherogenic potential and it may also protect against end-organ damage. In well controlled clinical studies, once daily administration of lercanidipine 10 or 20mg effectively reduced blood pressure (BP) compared with placebo in patients with mild to moderate hypertension without affecting heart rate. Response rate (percentage of patients with diastolic BP < or =90mm Hg or reduced by > or =10mm Hg from baseline) ranged from 50 to 66% with lercanidipine 10 mg/day and up to 86% with lercanidipine 20 mg/day. The drug had a long duration of action: clinical measurements for diastolic BP yielded a trough/peak ratio of >0.8 for both lercanidipine dosages in 1 study. Comparative trials, either published in full or as abstracts, found lercanidipine 10mg once daily for > or =4 weeks to be at least as effective as atenolol 50mg once daily, candesartan cilexetil 16 mg/day, captopril 25mg twice daily, enalapril 20 mg/day, hydrochlorothiazide 12.5mg once daily, irbesartan 150 mg/day and slow release nifedipine 20mg twice daily in patients with mild to moderate hypertension. In addition, lercanidipine 20 mg/day was as effective as amlodipine 10 mg/day. Lercanidipine is effective in the treatment of elderly patients (aged 60 to 85 years) with mild to moderate essential hypertension and in those with isolated systolic hypertension. In addition, monotherapy with lercanidipine 20 or 40 mg/day has shown efficacy in patients with severe hypertension, and add-on therapy helped control BP in a large proportion of patients with severe hypertension not responding sufficiently to beta-blockers, diuretics or ACE inhibitors. Unpublished data indicate that the drug reduces blood pressure in patients with type 2 (non-insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus, without adversely affecting glucose homeostasis. Lercanidipine was well tolerated in clinical trials, with most treatment-related adverse events typical of dihydropyridine calcium antagonists, namely headache, flushing, dizziness and ankle oedema.
Lercanidipine is an effective and well tolerated once daily antihypertensive agent in patients with mild to moderate hypertension. In addition, the drug may reduce BP when used as monotherapy in patients with severe hypertension or when used adjunctively in patients with resistant hypertension. Importantly, lercanidipine appears to be at least as effective and well tolerated as other commonly used antihypertensive agents. The drug therefore represents a useful therapeutic option in the management of patients with hypertension and will be particularly useful in patients not responding to, or intolerant of, antihypertensive agents from other drug classes.
Type 2 diabetes is associated with an increased risk for developing fatty liver disease, which results in an increased incidence of diabetic nephropathy. Hence, the present study was conceived to identify transcriptional changes in the liver that can provide molecular mediators for increased risk of developing nephropathy associated with type 2 diabetes. Type 2 diabetes was rendered in male SD rats using both high-fat diet and low dose of streptozotocin (35 mg/kg, intraperitonially, i.p.). Hepatic gene expression profiling was performed in animals after development of diabetic nephropathy. The gene expression data were validated by RT-PCR, protein expression, and immunohistochemistry. Gene expression profiling data revealed dramatic increase in expression of PKC epsilon, TNF-alpha-induced protein (four- to seven-folds), and decrease in the expression of DGK eta in the liver of diabetic nephropathic rats. Furthermore, there was an increase in expression of genes regulating Rho signaling pathway, which was further confirmed by increase in Rho kinase activity. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report which shows the involvement of PKC epsilon, DGK eta, Tnfaip, and Rho kinase in the liver of type 2 diabetic rats and its association with diabetic nephropathy.
Acute myocardial infarction as a complication of dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE) is described in two patients during or shortly after undergoing the procedure. Both clinical events resulted in characteristic elevations in cardiac enzymes and the development of new electrocardiographic Q waves in the inferior leads. Subsequent coronary angiography was performed in both cases; one patient required two-vessel coronary artery bypass grafting to his first obtuse marginal and posterior descending arteries, and the other underwent successful angioplasty of an occluded proximal right coronary artery. Only two cases of DSE-associated myocardial infarction have been reported previously in the literature.
The Valsartan Heart Failure Trial (Val-HeFT) demonstrated the favorable effects of the addition of valsartan to prescribed heart failure (HF) therapy on HF hospitalization, and functional and physiological parameters. As the prevalence of HF morbidity and mortality are increased in the elderly, the effect of valsartan in the elderly is of clinical significance.
In this post-hoc analysis, morbidity, mortality, left ventricular (LV) size and function, brain natriuretic peptide (BNP), aldosterone, norepinephrine (NE), quality of life, and treatment effect with valsartan were examined by subgroups of 2350 elderly (>or= 65 years) and 2660 non-elderly (< 65 years) patients enrolled in Val-HeFT.
While the overall incidence of morbidity and mortality was higher in the elderly, valsartan produced beneficial effects in reducing risk of morbidity in the elderly by 11.8% (P = .07), and the non-elderly by 14.6% (P = .09). Valsartan had no effect on mortality compared to placebo in the non-elderly, 15.2% vs 15.0% (P = .87), and elderly, 25.1% vs 24.0%, (P = .64). Valsartan had statistically significant beneficial effects in both the elderly and non-elderly on LV size and function, BNP, aldosterone and quality of life. Beneficial effects on NE were also observed with valsartan in both subgroups with statistically significant reductions produced in the non-elderly.
Val-HeFT demonstrated that elderly patients present with more advanced HF as evidenced by higher morbidity and mortality along with greater neurohormonal activation. In Val-HeFT, valsartan produced a consistent beneficial effect on morbidity, LV function and size, quality of life, and neurohormonal levels in both the elderly and non-elderly.
Little is known about the effects of intravenous abuse of cocaine, especially on the inner ear. We report on a 26-year-old man who presented to our outpatient department with a sudden severe hearing loss after intravenous injection of cocaine. The audiogram on admission showed symmetric air conduction levels up to 80 dB at 4 kHz. After treatment with intravenous sodium chloride, prednisolone, and pentoxifylline, the audiogram 2 days later showed a bilateral normacusis. A review of the literature on the topic is given and possible reasons for inner ear damages caused by cocaine are discussed.
Development of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID) remains a major problem in the long-term treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). Sensitization to L-DOPA correlates with ectopic expression of D3 dopamine receptors in the striatum, implicating D3 receptors in development of LID. We demonstrate that the selective D3 antagonist S33084 abolishes development of LID over 30 days in MPTP-lesioned marmosets without effecting the anti-parkinsonian actions of L-DOPA. Furthermore, following a 14 day washout, when challenged with L-DOPA in the absence of S33084, these animals continued to exhibit reduced LID. In the 6-OHDA-lesioned rat, S33084 similarly attenuated development of behavioural sensitization to L-DOPA. Additionally, L-DOPA-induced elevations in striatal pre-proenkephalin-A (PPE-A) (but not PPE-B, phospho[Thr(34)]DARPP-32, D1, and D2 receptor mRNA or D3 receptor levels) were reduced in S33084 treated animals. Our data suggest a role for D3 receptors in the development of LID and suggest that initiating L-DOPA treatment with a D3 antagonist may reduce the development of LID in PD.
Epidermal growth factor receptor antibody (EGFRAb) conjugated silica nanorattles (SNs) were synthesized and used to develop receptor mediated endocytosis for targeted drug delivery strategies for cancer therapy. The present study determined that the rate of internalization of silica nanorattles was found to be high in lung cancer cells when compared with the normal lung cells. EGFRAb can specifically bind to EGFR, a receptor that is highly expressed in lung cancer cells, but is expressed at low levels in other normal cells. Furthermore, in vitro studies clearly substantiated that the cPLA2α activity, arachidonic acid release and cell proliferation were considerably reduced by pyrrolidine-2 loaded EGFRAb-SN in H460 cells. The cytotoxicity, cell cycle arrest and apoptosis were significantly induced by the treatment of pyrrolidine-2 loaded EGFRAb-SN when compared with free pyrrolidine-2 and pyrrolidine-2 loaded SNs in human non-small cell lung cancer cells. An in vivo toxicity assessment showed that silica nanorattles and EGFRAb-SN-pyrrolidine-2 exhibited low systemic toxicity in healthy Balb/c mice. The EGFRAb-SN-pyrrolidine-2 showed a much better antitumor activity (38%) with enhanced tumor inhibition rate than the pyrrolidine-2 on the non-small cell lung carcinoma subcutaneous model. Thus, the present findings validated the low toxicity and high therapeutic potentials of EGFRAb-SN-pyrrolidine-2, which may provide a convincing evidence of the silica nanorattles as new potential carriers for targeted drug delivery systems.
In the present study, we report on the application of two specific polyclonal antibodies to different intracellular domains of the CB1 cannabinoid receptor to define the expression of the neural CB1 cannabinoid receptor at the histochemical level in frontal cortex and related limbic areas of the obese Zucker rats. Higher levels of CB1 receptor expression in frontal, cingulated and piriform cortex, without differences in temporal, parietal and occipital cortex, were observed in obese Zucker rats, with respect to their lean littermates. CB1 phosphorylated receptor (CB1-P) levels were also higher in frontal, temporal, parietal and occipital cortex in obese rats with respect to lean controls. Potential involvement of brain cortical CB1 cannabinoid receptors in the long-term effects of fluoxetine was studied. Experimental animals were administered with fluoxetine (10 mg/kg, i.p.) daily for 3 weeks, whereas the control group was given 0.9% NaCl solution. In obese Zucker rats, a significant decrease in CB1 receptor levels, measured by western blot, was observed in brain cortex after fluoxetine treatment. Immunostaining for CB1 receptor expression was also carried out, showing a significant decrease in the density of neural cells positive for CB1 receptor in frontal, cingulate and piriform cortex, without changes in parietal, temporal and occipital regions. Regional prosencephalic immunostaining for CB1-P receptor level showed a significant decrease in the density of stained neural cells in frontal, temporal and parietal cortex, without changes in cingulated, piriform and occipital cortex. These results suggest the involvement of endocannabinoid system in the chronic effects of fluoxetine, especially in the frontal cortex.
Local pain at the site of intravenous (iv) injection of propofol remains a considerable problem in clinical anaesthesiology, and particularly so in infants. The aim of the present study was to compare the influence of two different emulsions of propofol on local pain following iv administration.
Eighty adult patients (ASA I-II) scheduled for ear-nose-throat or plastic surgery were randomly allocated into two study groups: A and B. A 1.0-mm teflon cannula (BD, Helsingborg, Sweden) was inserted into a dorsal vein on each hand. Each patient was given two 3.0-ml iv bolus injections of two different propofol emulsions of 10 mg ml(-1) over 2 s, one in each cannula, at 5-min intervals. The first study drug administered was Diprivan (AstraZeneca, Södertälie, Sweden) in group A (n = 34) and Propofol-Lipuro (Braun, Melsungen, Germany) in group B (n = 39). Each patient was then asked by a blinded investigator to score maximal pain intensity on a visual analogue scale (VAS).
The maximal intensity of propofol-induced local pain was significantly (P < 0.0001) lower after Propofol-Lipuro than after Diprivan--median 1 (25th percentile: 0; 75th percentile: 2) range 0-6 vs. 3 (0; 5) 0-9 VAS units.
The considerably lower intensity of local pain found to be associated with iv administration of the new drug formula Propofol-Lipuro indicates that emulsions of propofol based on medium- and long-chain triglycerides have a clinical advantage over traditional ones for induction of anaesthesia.
Cigarette smoking is a key factor for the development and progression of different cancers including mammary tumor in women. Resveratrol (Res) is a promising natural chemotherapeutic agent that regulates many cellular targets including p21, a cip/kip family of cyclin kinase inhibitors involved in DNA damage-induced cell cycle arrest and blocking of DNA replication and repair. We have recently shown that cigarette smoke condensate (CSC) prepared from commercially available Indian cigarette can cause neoplastic transformation of normal breast epithelial MCF-10A cell. Here we studied the mechanism of Res mediated apoptosis in CSC transformed (MCF-10A-Tr) cells in vitro and in vivo. Res mediated apoptosis in MCF-10A-Tr cells was a p21 dependent event. It increased the p21 protein expression in MCF-10A-Tr cells and MCF-10A-Tr cells-mediated tumors in xenograft mice. Res treatment reduced the tumor size(s) and expression of anti-apoptotic proteins (e.g. PI3K, AKT, NFκB) in solid tumor. The expressions of cell cycle regulatory (Cyclins, CDC-2, CDC-6, etc.), BER associated (Pol-β, Pol-δ, Pol-ε, Pol-η, RPA, Fen-1, DNA-Ligase-I, etc.) proteins and LP-BER activity decreased in MCF-10A-Tr cells but remain significantly unaltered in isogenic p21 null MCF-10A-Tr cells after Res treatment. Interestingly, no significant changes were noted in SP-BER activity in both the cell lines after Res exposure. Finally, it was observed that increased p21 blocks the LP-BER in MCF-10A-Tr cells by increasing its interaction with PCNA via competing with Fen-1 after Res treatment. Thus, Res caused apoptosis in CSC-induced cancer cells by reduction of LP-BER activity and this phenomenon largely depends on p21.
A previous randomized controlled trial evaluating the use of spironolactone in heart failure patients reported a low risk of hyperkalemia (2%) and renal insufficiency (0%). Because treatments for heart failure have changed since the benefits of spironolactone were reported, the prevalence of these complications may differ in current clinical practice. We therefore sought to determine the prevalence and clinical associations of hyperkalemia and renal insufficiency in heart failure patients treated with spironolactone.
We performed a case control study of heart failure patients treated with spironolactone in our clinical practice. Cases were patients who developed hyperkalemia (K(+) >5.0 mEq/L) or renal insufficiency (Cr >or=2.5 mg/dL), and they were compared to 2 randomly selected controls per case. Clinical characteristics, medications, and serum chemistries at baseline and follow-up time periods were compared.
Sixty-seven of 926 patients (7.2%) required discontinuation of spironolactone due to hyperkalemia (n = 33) or renal failure (n = 34). Patients who developed hyperkalemia were older and more likely to have diabetes, had higher baseline serum potassium levels and lower baseline potassium supplement doses, and were more likely to be treated with beta-blockers than controls (n = 134). Patients who developed renal insufficiency had lower baseline body weight and higher baseline serum creatinine, required higher doses of loop diuretics, and were more likely to be treated with thiazide diuretics than controls.
Spironolactone-induced hyperkalemia and renal insufficiency are more common in our clinical experience than reported previously. This difference is explained by patient comorbidities and more frequent use of beta-blockers.
The goal of this study was to compare the efficacy and safety of olanzapine versus haloperidol in the treatment of agitation and aggression in patients with dementia. The subjects were 58 out-patients with dementia and agitation. After baseline assessments and, if necessary, a period of wash-out of a previous antipsychotic drug, they were randomly assigned to 5 weeks of double-blind treatment with either olanzapine or haloperidol. The first 2 weeks were used for dose titration. Subsequently, the patients received a fixed dose of either olanzapine (average dose 4.71 mg) or haloperidol (average dose 1.75 mg) from day 14 to day 35. Both olanzapine and haloperidol decreased agitation significantly (decrease in Cohen-Mansfield Agitation Inventory scores), but there was no significant difference between the two drugs. The two drugs had comparable effects on all secondary outcome measures. They were well tolerated and had a similar side-effect pattern. Our study could not demonstrate the superiority of olanzapine, compared to haloperidol, for the treatment of agitation in patients with dementia.
Neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (NCL) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease characterized by brain and retinal atrophy and the intracellular accumulation of autofluorescent lysosomal storage bodies resembling lipofuscin in neurons and other cells. Tibetan terriers show a late-onset lethal form of NCL manifesting first visible signs at 5-7 years of age. Genome-wide association analyses for 12 Tibetan-terrier-NCL-cases and 7 Tibetan-terrier controls using the 127K canine Affymetrix SNP chip and mixed model analysis mapped NCL to dog chromosome (CFA) 2 at 83.71-84.72 Mb. Multipoint linkage and association analyses in 376 Tibetan terriers confirmed this genomic region on CFA2. A mutation analysis for 14 positional candidate genes in two NCL-cases and one control revealed a strongly associated single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the MAPK PM20/PM21 gene and a perfectly with NCL associated single base pair deletion (c.1620delG) within exon 16 of the ATP13A2 gene. The c.1620delG mutation in ATP13A2 causes skipping of exon 16 presumably due to a broken exonic splicing enhancer motif. As a result of this mutation, ATP13A2 lacks 69 amino acids. All known 24 NCL cases were homozygous for this deletion and all obligate 35 NCL-carriers were heterozygous. In a sample of 144 dogs from eleven other breeds, the c.1620delG mutation could not be found. Knowledge of the causative mutation for late-onset NCL in Tibetan terrier allows genetic testing of these dogs to avoid matings of carrier animals. ATP13A2 mutations have been described in familial Parkinson syndrome (PARK9). Tibetan terriers with these mutations provide a valuable model for a PARK9-linked disease and possibly for manganese toxicity in synucleinopathies.
The ability to achieve and maintain penile erection is necessary for successful copulation. Studies have demonstrated that dopamine receptor stimulation in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus induces penile erection in rodents, and the dopamine agonist apomorphine has been used to treat erectile dysfunction. The aim of this study was to determine the electrophysiological characteristics of PVN neuronal firing activity in anaesthetised rodents during apomorphine-induced erection. Our findings can be placed in two categories; those effects that occur immediately upon apomorphine administration and continue for up to several minutes prior to penile erection, deemed 'pre-erectile', and those effects that were only observed during penile erection and seminal emission. In the pre-erectile period, apomorphine acts on two different populations of PVN neurons to increase or decrease firing rates and increases alpha1 frequency band power in local field potentials. Decreased delta and increased theta frequency power in PVN local field potentials occur only during penile erection and seminal emission. These studies provide further understanding of the coordinated neuronal activity that occurs in the PVN during apomorphine-induced penile erection.
5-fluorouracil (5-FU) is an antimetabolite that acts during the S phase of the cell cycle. Dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) is the initial and rate-limiting enzyme in the pathway that catabolises the pyrimidines. 5-fluorouracil and its oral prodrug capecitabine are used in the treatment of a number of solid tumors, including colorectal, breast, gastric, pancreatic, prostate, and bladder cancers. Common side effects include leukopenia, diarrhea, stomatitis, nausea, vomiting, and alopecia. Cardiotoxicity is a relatively uncommon side effect of 5-fluorouracil and capecitabine.
This article reports the case of a 63-year-old male with locally invasive pancreatic cancer who developed recurrent chest pain and ischemic electrocardiogram changes after treatment with 5-fluorouracil and capecitabine. Full sequencing of the dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPYD) gene and analysis of the thymidylate synthetase (TYMS) gene promoter region was performed. Pharmacogenetic testing revealed p453L (1358C>T) type DPYD germ line mutation. This mutation has not been reported previously in association with 5-fluorouracil induced cardiotoxicity.
Cardiotoxicity associated with 5-fluorouracil and capecitabine administration is infrequently reported in the literature and appears to be dose and schedule dependent. Genetic variations such as polymorphic abnormality of DPYD are potential causative factors for a significant portion of serious adverse reactions to 5-fluorouracil-based therapy.
Nitroglycerin-induced NF-kappaB activation in trigeminal nucleus caudalis is believed to be partly involved in the pathogenesis of migraine. Atorvastatin, an inhibitor of HMG-CoA reductase, is thought to have pleiotropic effects in various neurologic diseases. Moreover, there are several lines of evidences that atorvastatin inhibits NF-kappaB activation in peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Thus, this study aims to explore whether atorvastatin attenuates NF-kappaB activation in trigeminal nucleus caudalis in a nitroglycerin-induced migraine model. A significant increase in nuclear content of p65, an indicator of NF-kappaB activation, was detected in trigeminal nucleus caudalis in rats following injection with nitroglycerin. However, the nitroglycerin-induced NF-kappaB activation in trigeminal nucleus caudalis was attenuated by pretreatment with atorvastatin in a dose-dependent fashion. These results suggest that atorvastatin may be a novel and promising candidate for future treatment or prophylaxis of migraine via attenuating activation of NF-kappaB in trigeminal nucleus caudalis.
A case of nontraumatic dissecting aneurysm of the basilar artery in association with hypertension, smoke, and oral contraceptives is reported in a young female patient with a locked-in syndrome.
To assess the prognostic and predictive significance of p53 and Bcl-2 protein expression in high risk patients with breast cancer treated with dose-dense sequential chemotherapy.
From June 1997 until November 2000, 595 patients were randomized to three cycles of epirubicin (E) 110 mg/m2 followed by three cycles of paclitaxel (P) 250 mg/m2 followed by three cycles of 'intensified' CMF (cyclophosphamide 840 mg/m2, methotrexate 47 mg/m2 and fluorouracil 840 mg/m2) or to four cycles of E, followed by four cycles of CMF. p53 and Bcl-2 expression was investigated by immunohistochemistry in 392 and 397 patients respectively.
Positive expression of p53 was detected in 104 (26.5%) patients and was significantly associated with negative hormonal status, worse histologic grade, higher incidence of disease relapse and higher rate of death. p53 positive expression was a significant negative predictor of overall survival (OS) (P = 0.002) and disease-free survival (DFS) (P = 0.001). Negative expression of Bcl-2 was detected in 203 (51%) patients and was significantly associated with negative hormonal status. Multivariate analysis revealed that, positive p53 expression, higher number of positive nodes and worse tumor grade were related to significantly poorer OS and DFS.
For both treatments, p53 positive expression was a significant negative prognostic factor for OS and DFS while Bcl-2 was not. No predictive ability of p53 status or Bcl-2 status for paclitaxel treatment was evident.
Penicillamine and derivatives of this drug were tested for lymphocyte-activating properties. D- as well as L-penicillamine induced in vitro DNA synthesis in mouse splenocytes, whereas D-penicillamine methyl ester, N-acetyl-D-penicillamine and D-penicillamine disulfide were devoid of stimulatory properties. Lymphocytes from athymic mice were also responsive. However, we were unable to detect an increased antibody secretion in mouse spleen cell cultures exposed to penicillamine. Human peripheral blood lymphocytes from healthy individuals as well as from patients with penicillamine-induced myasthenia gravis only gave minor proliferative responses after in vitro penicillamine exposure. Furthermore, there were no differences in proliferative capacity between these two groups. Cultivated human peripheral blood or spleen cells were not activated to antibody secretion in the presence of penicillamine. There were no signs of myasthenia gravis using single-fiber electromyography recordings in patients with rheumatoid arthritis being on penicillamine treatment or in mice from several different mouse strains receiving penicillamine in their drinking water. However, NZB/NZW hybrid mice receiving penicillamine had increased amounts of antinuclear and anti-dsDNA antibodies.
