1. In the present study, we have (i) measured basal blood pressure by telemetry in wild-type (WT) and glucocorticoid receptor knockout (GRKO) mice; (ii) investigated whether or not adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) can induce hypertension in GRKO mice; and (iii) investigated the effect of mineralocortocoid receptor blockade on the cardiovascular physiology of GRKO mice. 2. Male WT and GRKO mice were treated with ACTH (2mg/kg per day s.c.) or spironolactone (100mg/kg per day s.c.) for 1-2weeks. Blood pressure (BP) was measured using a radiotelemetry system. Urinary Na:K, blood glucose concentrations and haematocrit were also measured during the treatment period. 3. Baseline systolic blood pressure (SBP) was higher in GRKO mice (126±4 mmHg, mean±SEM, n=11) than WT mice (114±2mmHg, n=10; P<0.05). There was no significant difference in baseline haematocrit, blood glucose and urine Na:K ratio in WT and GRKO mice. ACTH raised SBP in WT (135±8mmHg, n=8; P<0.05), but not in GRKO mice (113±9mmHg, n=6). Spironolactone treatment did not alter SBP. 4. Basal SBP was higher in GRKO than WT mice; ACTH raised blood pressure in WT, but not GRKO mice; and spironolactone did not alter BP in GRKO or WT mice. These data, together with a previous study showing both ACTH and corticosterone are increased in GRKO mice, show that the GR is required for the development of ACTH-induced hypertension in mice. Increased endogenous ACTH levels in this model might contribute to the increased basal SBP in GRKO mice, possibly through residual fragments of GR. Mineralocorticoid receptors do not appear to play a critical role in maintaining BP in glucocorticoid receptor deficient mice.
To observe the effect of octreotide on apoptosis rate of human pancreatic cancer cells PC-3 after transfected with somatostatin receptor type 2 (SST2) gene.
SST2 plasmid was transfected into PC-3 cells by liposome. Result of transfection was detected by immunocytochemical staining and Western blotting. Apoptosis rates of PC-3 cells under different dosages of octreotide were measured by MTT assay and flow cytometry (FCM).
Apoptosis rate caused by octreotide of transfected PC-3 cells was 7.56+/-1.06% at the dosage of 0.20 microg/mL, 9.25+/-1.73% at the dosage of 0.40 microg/mL and 14.18+/-2.71% at the dosage of 0.80 microg/mL. Apoptosis rate caused by octreotide of non-transfected PC-3 cells was 5.76+/-0.75% at the dosage of 0.20 microg/mL, 6.69+/-0.80% at the dosage of 0.40 microg/mL and 7.26+/-1.28% at the dosage of 0.80 microg/mL. Transfected PC-3 cells growth inhibition rate caused by octreotide was 9.36+/-1.34% at the dosage of 0.20 microg/mL, 12.03+/-1.44% at the dosage of 0.40 microg/mL and 20.23+/-4.21% at the dosage of 0.80 microg/mL. Non-transfected PC-3 cells growth inhibition rate caused by octreotide was 6.44+/-0.66% at the dosage of 0.20 microg/mL, 7.65+/-0.88% at the dosage of 0.40 microg/mL and 9.29+/-1.32% at the dosage of 0.80 microg/mL. We found that octreotide caused higher apoptosis rate and inhibition rate in transfected groups than in non-transfected groups (P<0.05) at the tested dosages (0.20, 0.40 and 0.80 microg/mL).
Deficiency of SST2 was probably the major reason why octreotide had little effect on PC-3 cells. Transfecting SST2 gene could strengthen the ability of octreotide of killing PC-3 cells. It provided an experimental evidence for using both octreotide and transfection with SST2 gene on clinical treatment of pancreatic cancer.
Proarrhythmic effects have been observed with the selective histamine1 (H1) receptor antagonist drug astemizole, a widely prescribed antihistamine. The metabolites of astemizole and those of other antihistamine compounds have not been implicated as causative agents of cardiac arrhythmias. The purpose of this study was to examine whether desmethylastemizole, the principal metabolite of astemizole, blocks delayed rectifier potassium (K+) channels.
QT interval prolongation and torsade de pointes are associated with astemizole intake and have been ascribed to block the repolarizing K+ currents, specifically the rapidly activating component of the delayed rectifier iKr. Astemizole undergoes extensive first-pass metabolism, and its dominant metabolite, desmethylastemizole, has a markedly prolonged elimination time. We report the clinical observation of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes in a patient with undetectable serum concentrations of astemizole (< 0.5 ng/ml) and "therapeutic" concentrations of desmethylastemizole (up to 7.7 ng/ml or 17.3 nmol/liter).
The perforated patch clamp recording technique was used to study the effects of desmethylastemizole (20 nmol/liter) on action potentials and iKr in isolated rabbit ventricular myocytes.
Desmethylastemizole produced action potential prolongation and the induction of plateau early afterdepolarizations. Under voltage clamp conditions, desmethylastemizole suppressed iKr amplitude by approximately 65%. The drug E-4031 (100 nmol/liter), which selectively blocks iKr, had a similar effect on current amplitude.
Desmethylastemizole, the major astemizole metabolite, blocks the repolarizing K+ current iKr with high affinity. The clinical observation of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes found with astemizole intake may principally be caused by the proarrhythmic effects of its metabolite desmethylastemizole.
Fenfluramine and phentermine have been individually approved as anorectic agents by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). When used in combination the drugs may be just as effective as either drug alone, with the added advantages of the need for lower doses of each agent and perhaps fewer side effects. Although the combination has not been approved by the FDA, in 1996 the total number of prescriptions in the United States for fenfluramine and phentermine exceeded 18 million.
We identified valvular heart disease in 24 women treated with fenfluramine-phentermine who had no history of cardiac disease. The women presented with cardiovascular symptoms or a heart murmur. As increasing numbers of these patients with similar clinical features were identified, there appeared to be an association between these features and fenfluramine-phentermine therapy.
Twenty-four women (mean [+/-SD] age, 44+/-8 years) were evaluated 12.3+/-7.1 months after the initiation of fenfluramine-phentermine therapy. Echocardiography demonstrated unusual valvular morphology and regurgitation in all patients. Both right-sided and left-sided heart valves were involved. Eight women also had newly documented pulmonary hypertension. To date, cardiac surgical intervention has been required in five patients. The heart valves had a glistening white appearance. Histopathological findings included plaque-like encasement of the leaflets and chordal structures with intact valve architecture. The histopathological features were identical to those seen in carcinoid or ergotamine-induced valve disease.
These cases arouse concern that fenfluramine-phentermine therapy may be associated with valvular heart disease. Candidates for fenfluramine-phentermine therapy should be informed about serious potential adverse effects, including pulmonary hypertension and valvular heart disease.
Uncontrolled cell growth and tissue invasion define the characteristic features of cancer. Several growth factors regulate these processes by inducing specific signaling pathways. We show that FGF16, a novel factor, is expressed in human ovary, and its expression is markedly increased in ovarian tumors. This finding indicated possible involvement of FGF16 in ovarian cancer progression. We observed that FGF16 stimulates the proliferation of human ovarian adenocarcinoma cells, SKOV-3 and OAW-42. Furthermore, through the activation of FGF receptor-mediated intracellular MAPK pathway, FGF16 regulates the expression of MMP2, MMP9, SNAI1, and CDH1 and thus facilitates cellular invasion. Inhibition of FGFR as well as MAPK pathway reduces the proliferative and invasive behavior of ovarian cancer cells. Moreover, ovarian tumors with up-regulated PITX2 expression also showed activation of Wnt/β-catenin pathway that prompted us to investigate possible interaction among FGF16, PITX2, and Wnt pathway. We identified that PITX2 homeodomain transcription factor interacts with and regulates FGF16 expression. Furthermore, activation of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway induces FGF16 expression. Moreover, FGF16 promoter possesses the binding elements of PITX2 as well as T-cell factor (Wnt-responsive), in close proximity, where PITX2 and β-catenin binds to and synergistically activates the same. A detail study showed that both PITX2 and T-cell factor elements and the interaction with their binding partners are necessary for target gene expression. Taken together, our findings indicate that FGF16 in conjunction with Wnt pathway contributes to the cancer phenotype of ovarian cells and suggests that modulation of its expression in ovarian cells might be a promising therapeutic strategy for the treatment of invasive ovarian cancers.
In patients with congestive heart failure (CHF), continuous diuretic therapy may result in acute renal insufficiency (ARI). This study examines factors contributing to this complication.
We analyzed clinical data from 318 consecutive patients who were hospitalized for CHF. All were treated with diuretics and had echocardiography performed within 4 days of hospitalization. Systolic left ventricular (LV) dysfunction is defined as an ejection fraction less than 50%, and diastolic LV dysfunction, as an ejection fraction of 50% or greater in the presence of LV hypertrophy and a reversed E/A ratio.
ARI, defined as a 25% increase in serum creatinine level, occurred in 110 patients (35%) after diuretic therapy. Risk factors for ARI on univariate analyses were older age, higher baseline serum creatinine level, lower baseline serum sodium level, lower mean arterial pressure (MAP) during diuretic therapy, and greater doses and longer duration of diuretic therapy. In multivariate analyses, ARI occurred more frequently in patients with systolic (40%) than diastolic dysfunction (28%). The use of digoxin in patients with systolic LV dysfunction was observed to decrease the risk for ARI by 61%, independent of other agents used for the treatment of patients with CHF.
Age, baseline renal function and serum sodium concentration, MAP, and intensity of diuretic therapy can identify individuals at risk for ARI while receiving diuretic therapy for CHF. This complication is observed more often in individuals with systolic dysfunction, and its risk may be decreased with the use of digoxin.
Neuropsychiatric symptoms are increasingly recognised as a significant problem in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). These symptoms may be due to 'sensitisation' following repeated levodopa treatment or a direct effect of dopamine on the disease state. The levodopa-treated MPTP-lesioned marmoset was used as a model of neuropsychiatric symptoms in PD patients. Here we compare the time course of levodopa-induced motor fluctuations and neuropsychiatric-like behaviors to determine the relationship between duration of treatment and onset of symptoms.
Marmosets were administered 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (2.0 mg/kg s.c.) for five days, resulting in stable parkinsonism. Levodopa (15 mg/kg and benserazide, 3.75 mg/kg) p.o. b.i.d, was administered for 30 days. Animals were evaluated for parkinsonian disability, dyskinesia and on-time (motor fluctuations) and neuropsychiatric-like behaviors on Day 0 (prior to levodopa) and on Days 1, 7, 13, 27 and 30 of treatment using post hoc DVD analysis by a trained rater, blind to the treatment day.
The neuropsychiatric-like behavior rating scale demonstrated high interrater reliability between three trained raters of differing professional backgrounds. As anticipated, animals exhibited a progressive increase in levodopa-induced motor fluctuations, dyskinesia and wearing-off, that correlated with the duration of levodopa therapy. In contrast, levodopa-induced neuropsychiatric-like behaviors were present on Day 1 of levodopa treatment and their severity did not correlate with duration of treatment.
The data suggest that neuropsychiatric disorders in PD are more likely an interaction between levodopa and the disease state than a consequence of sensitisation to repeated dopaminergic therapy.
We reviewed all the publications concerning methadone-associated Torsades de Pointes (TdP) (polymorphic ventricular tachycardia) in opioid-dependent patients in order to characterize the clinical circumstances leading to this serious complication.
Our literature search yielded 14 reports on 40 patients with methadone-associated TdP. We gathered and recorded the risk factors for TdP mentioned in those reports, among other clinical aspects.
The most prevalent risk factors for TdP were high-dose methadone (n = 39, 97.5%) and concomitant use of agents that increase serum methadone levels or trigger TdP (n = 22, 55%). HIV infection (n = 16), hypokalaemia (n = 14), female sex (n = 13), liver cirrhosis or renal failure (n = 11) and heart disease (n = 9) were also described. All the patients had at least one and 34 (85%) had two or more risk factors for TdP during methadone treatment.
We wish to raise the level of awareness of risk factors for TdP among physicians in heroin-treatment clinics who frequently prescribe methadone.
Inhaled pollutants induce the release of vasoactive factors into the systemic circulation, but little information is available regarding the nature of these factors or their receptors. The pattern recognition receptor CD36 interacts with many damage-related circulating molecules, leading to activation of endothelial cells and promoting vascular inflammation; therefore, we hypothesized that CD36 plays a pivotal role in mediating cross talk between inhaled ozone (O3)-induced circulating factors and systemic vascular dysfunction. O3 exposure (1 ppm × 4h) induced lung inflammation in wild-type (WT) mice, which was absent in the CD36 deficient (CD36(-/-)) mice. Acetylcholine (ACh)-evoked vasorelaxation was impaired in isolated aortas from O3-exposed WT mice but not in vessels from CD36(-/-) mice. To delineate whether vascular impairments were caused by lung inflammation or CD36-mediated generation of circulating factors, naïve aortas were treated with diluted serum from control or O3-exposed WT mice, which recapitulated the impairments of vasorelaxation observed after inhalation exposures. Aortas from CD36(-/-) mice were insensitive to the effects of O3-induced circulating factors, with robust vasorelaxation responses in the presence of serum from O3-exposed WT mice. Lung inflammation was not a requirement for production of circulating vasoactive factors, as serum from O3-exposed CD36(-/-) mice could inhibit vasorelaxation in naïve WT aortas. These results suggest that O3 inhalation induces the release of circulating bioactive factors capable of impairing vasorelaxation to ACh via a CD36-dependent signaling mechanism. Although lung inflammatory and systemic vascular effects were both dependent on CD36, the presence of circulating factors appears to be independent of CD36 and inflammatory responses.
Beta-Adrenoceptor agonists, such as isoproterenol, produce ventricular fibrillation and myocardial necrosis in rats. After the initial insult, a resistance develops to the lesion-inducing effects of subsequent doses of the drug. Cyclic AMP has been considered to play a major role in beta-adrenergic amine-induced myocardial necrosis as well as in the genesis of ventricular fibrillation. In the present studies, we investigated the ventricular fibrillation threshold and the responsiveness of myocardium to cAMP formation in isoproterenol-sensitive and resistant rats. Myocardial necrosis was induced in male Sprague-Dawley rats by subcutaneous injection of isoproterenol at 50 micrograms/kg for 2 consecutive days to make them resistant to subsequent challenges. Control rats received saline. Both groups were challenged 10 days later with graded doses of isoproterenol and ECGs were recorded. In another experiment, hearts from rats similarly treated were used for histopathology and cAMP determinations. The incidence of ventricular fibrillation and death was significantly lower in resistant rats compared with isoproterenol-sensitive rats. All rats pretreated with isoproterenol showed healed myocardial necrosis. The basal myocardial cAMP levels and the levels after in vitro isoproterenol stimulation were not significantly different between isoproterenol- and saline-pretreated rats. Moreover, no significant differences in the responsiveness of myocardium to cAMP formation were noted between the more sensitive apical and less sensitive ventricular regions in resistant or sensitive rats. These data indicate that the altered myocardial sensitivity or the mechanism for the increased ventricular fibrillation threshold in isoproterenol resistance appears to involve factors other than cAMP.
Recent evidence of a potential interaction between clopidogrel and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) is discussed.
The American College of Cardiology and the American Heart Association recommend use of gastroprotective agents, specifically PPIs, in patients receiving aspirin, a thienopyridine, or the combination who have an increased risk for recurrent gastrointestinal bleeding. Available evidence from one small, short-term, randomized, double-blind trial evaluating platelet aggregation and several observational studies suggests that there is a potential for a clinically significant interaction between clopidogrel and PPIs. A post hoc analysis of a large, randomized, double-blind trial found no evidence of a clinically significant drug interaction at 28 days, though a significant difference was observed at one year. The authors concluded that the use of PPIs, regardless of clopidogrel use, increases the risk of adverse cardiovascular events.
Although data are limited, observational studies and prospective trials involving surrogate markers of platelet reactivity suggest a clinically significant interaction between clopidogrel and PPIs. Until further studies are completed to delineate the specifics of the interaction between clopidogrel and PPIs, the risks and benefits of concomitant treatment should be carefully weighed to determine the most appropriate treatment for each individual patient.
XRCC1 and APE1 are enzymes involved in the repair of DNA strand breaks and base damage that arise from various endogenous and exogenous oxidants. We determined whether polymorphisms in XRCC1 and APE1 increase the risk of prostate cancer.
We performed a case-control study in 228 white American men, 124 black American men, and 335 age, sex and race matched controls. Polymorphisms at codon 399 in XRCC1, and at codons 51 and 148 in APE1 were determined using an restriction fragment length polymorphism method. Frequencies were compared between cases and controls.
A significantly increased risk of prostate cancer was observed in white men with the XRCC1(399Gln) allele (OR 1.6, 95% CI 1.1 to 2.4). When APE1 and XRCC1 polymorphisms were evaluated together, we found an increased risk of the XRCC1(399Arg/Gln+Gln/Gln)/APE1(51Gln/Gln) (OR 4.0, 95% CI 1.3 to 12.5) and XRCC1(399Arg/Gln+Gln/Gln)/APE1(148Asp/Asp) (OR 2.9, 95% CI 1.4 to 6.1) genotypes in white men. Significant associations were found between combined genotypes and prostate cancer risk with a dose-effect relationship in white men (trend test p = 0.035 and 0.039, respectively). No significant associations were observed between polymorphisms in these genes and prostate cancer risk in black men.
Our results suggest that inherited variability in DNA repair capacity, as reflected by polymorphisms in XRCC1 and APE1, is a risk factor for prostate cancer.
De-regulations in insulin and insulin-like growth factor (IGF) pathways may contribute to hepatocellular carcinoma. Although intracellular insulin receptor substrate-2 (IRS-2) is the main effector of insulin signaling in the liver, its role in hepatocarcinogenesis is unknown. Here, we show that IRS-2 was overexpressed in two murine models of hepatocarcinogenesis: administration of diethylnitrosamine and hepatic overexpression of SV40 large T antigen. In both models, IRS-2 overexpression was detected in preneoplastic lesions and at higher levels in tumoral nodules. IRS-2 overexpression associated with IGF-2 and IRS-1 overexpression and with GSK-3beta inhibition. Increased expression of IRS-2 was also detected in human hepatocellular carcinoma specimens and hepatoma cell lines. In murine and human hepatoma cells, IRS-2 protein induction associated with increased IRS-2 mRNA levels. The functionality of IRS-2 was demonstrated in Hep 3 B cells, in which IRS-2 tyrosine phosphorylation and its association with phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase were induced by IGF-2. Moreover, down-regulation of IRS-2 expression increased apoptosis in these cells. In conclusion, we demonstrate that IRS-2 is overexpressed in human and murine hepatocellular carcinoma. The emergence of IRS-2 overexpression at preneoplastic stages during experimental hepatocarcinogenesis and its protective effect against apoptosis suggest that IRS-2 contributes to liver tumor progression.
This report deals with a 54-year-old man with loss of memory. His impaired memory was found to be due to the atenolol he was on and he made a complete recovery on withdrawing the beta-blocker. This patient's experience stresses the need to consider beta-blockers as a potentially reversible cause of memory impairment.
This study aimed to identify new diabetic nephropathy (DN)-related proteins and renal targets of the copper(II)-selective chelator, triethylenetetramine (TETA) in streptozotocin-diabetic rats. We used the recently developed iTRAQ technology to compare renal protein profiles among non-diabetic, diabetic, and TETA-treated diabetic rats. In diabetic kidneys, tubulointerstitial nephritis antigen (TINag), voltage-dependent anion-selective channel (VDAC) 1, and VDAC2 were up-regulated in parallel with alterations in expression of proteins with functions in oxidative stress and oxidative phosphorylation (OxPhos) pathways. By contrast, mitochondrial HSP 60, Cu/Zn-superoxide dismutase, glutathione S-transferase alpha3 and aquaporin-1 were down-regulated in diabetic kidneys. Following TETA treatment, levels of D-amino acid oxidase-1, epoxide hydrolase-1, aquaporin-1, and a number of mitochondrial proteins were normalized, with concomitant amelioration of albuminuria. Changes in levels of TINag, collagen VIalpha1, actinin 4alpha, apoptosis-inducing factor 1, cytochrome C, histone H3, VDAC1, and aquaporin-1 were confirmed by Western blotting or immunohistochemistry. Changes in expression of proteins related to tubulointerstitial function, podocyte structure, and mitochondrial apoptosis are implicated in the mechanism of DN and their reversal by TETA. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that this new experimental therapy may be useful for treatment of DN.
Inorganic arsenic has been associated with increased risk of atherosclerotic vascular disease and mortality in humans. A functional GT-repeat polymorphism in the heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) gene promoter is inversely correlated with the development of coronary artery disease and restenosis after clinical angioplasty. The relationship of HO-1 genotype with arsenic-associated cardiovascular disease has not been studied. In this study, we evaluated the relationship between the HO-1 GT-repeat polymorphism and cardiovascular mortality in an arsenic-exposed population. A total of 504 study participants were followed up for a median of 10.7 years for occurrence of cardiovascular deaths (coronary heart disease, cerebrovascular disease, and peripheral arterial disease). Cardiovascular risk factors and DNA samples for determination of HO-1 GT repeats were obtained at recruitment. GT repeats variants were grouped into the S (<27 repeats) or L allele (≥ 27 repeats). Relative mortality risk was estimated using Cox regression analysis, adjusted for competing risk of cancer and other causes. For the L/L, L/S, and S/S genotype groups, the crude mortalities for cardiovascular disease were 8.42, 3.10, and 2.85 cases/1000 person-years, respectively. After adjusting for conventional cardiovascular risk factors and competing risk of cancer and other causes, carriers with class S allele (L/S or S/S genotypes) had a significantly reduced risk of cardiovascular mortality compared to non-carriers (L/L genotype) [OR, 0.38; 95% CI, 0.16-0.90]. In contrast, no significant association was observed between HO-1 genotype and cancer mortality or mortality from other causes. Shorter (GT)n repeats in the HO-1 gene promoter may confer protective effects against cardiovascular mortality related to arsenic exposure.
We investigated the underlying mechanisms of L-leucine and L-isoleucine mediated promotion of bladder carcinogenesis using an initiation-promotion model. Rats were administered N-butyl-N-(4-hydroxybutyl) nitrosamine for 4 weeks and then fed AIN-93G basal diet or diet supplemented with L-leucine or L-isoleucine for 8 weeks followed by the basal diet for another 8 weeks. At the end of the experiment, week 20, there was a significant elevation of papillary and nodular (PN) hyperplasia multiplicity in the amino acid groups. L-Leucine and L-isoleucine transporters were up-regulated in PN hyperplasias and/or bladder tumors compared with concomitant normal-appearing bladder urothelium at weeks 12 and/or 20 in all groups. In addition, in normal-appearing bladder urothelium, significantly increased mRNA levels of y+LAT1, LAT2, LAT4, and 4F2hc were observed in the amino acid groups compared with the BBN control group at both weeks 12 and 20, and increased mRNA levels of LAT1 were observed at week 20. Furthermore, up-regulation of TNF-α, c-fos, β-catenin, p53, p21(Cip1/WAF1), cdk4, cyclin D1 and caspase 3 in the amino acid groups was detected in normal-appearing bladder urothelium. Overall, our results indicate that supplementation with l-leucine or l-isoleucine enhanced growth of bladder urothelial tumors by triggering expression of amino acid transporters and tumorigenesis-associated genes.
Alverine citrate is a commonly used smooth muscle relaxant agent. A MEDLINE search on January 2004 revealed only 1 report implicating the hepatotoxicity of this agent. A 34-year-old woman was investigated because of the finding of elevated liver function tests on biochemical screening. Other etiologies of hepatitis were appropriately ruled out and elevated enzymes were ascribed to alverine citrate treatment. Although alverine citrate hepatotoxicity was related to an immune mechanism in the first case, several features such as absence of predictable dose-dependent toxicity of alverine citrate in a previous study and absence of hypersensitivity manifestations in our patient are suggestive of a metabolic type of idiosyncratic toxicity.
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a common complication of obesity that can progress to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), a serious liver pathology that can advance to cirrhosis. The mechanisms responsible for NAFLD progression to NASH remain unclear. Lack of a suitable animal model that faithfully recapitulates the pathophysiology of human NASH is a major obstacle in delineating mechanisms responsible for progression of NAFLD to NASH and, thus, development of better treatment strategies. We identified and characterized a novel mouse model, middle-aged male low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR)(-/-) mice fed a high-fat diet (HFD), which developed NASH associated with four of five metabolic syndrome (MS) components. In these mice, as observed in humans, liver steatosis and oxidative stress promoted NASH development. Aging exacerbated the HFD-induced NASH such that liver steatosis, inflammation, fibrosis, oxidative stress, and liver injury markers were greatly enhanced in middle-aged versus young LDLR(-/-) mice. Although expression of genes mediating fatty acid oxidation and antioxidant responses were up-regulated in young LDLR(-/-) mice fed HFD, they were drastically reduced in MS mice. However, similar to recent human trials, NASH was partially attenuated by an insulin-sensitizing peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARγ) ligand, rosiglitazone. In addition to expected improvements in MS, newly identified mechanisms of PPARγ ligand effects included stimulation of antioxidant gene expression and mitochondrial β-oxidation, and suppression of inflammation and fibrosis. LDLR-deficiency promoted NASH, because middle-aged C57BL/6 mice fed HFD did not develop severe inflammation and fibrosis, despite increased steatosis.
MS mice represent an ideal model to investigate NASH in the context of MS, as commonly occurs in human disease, and NASH development can be substantially attenuated by PPARγ activation, which enhances β-oxidation.
Studies of pharmacotherapy for agitation in dementia have primarily been limited to single-drug trials and have not determined if some forms of agitated behaviors are more responsive to treatment than others.
The goal of this study was to determine if manifestations of agitation (ie, physical aggression, physically nonaggressive behavior, and verbally agitated behaviors) show different degrees of response to divalproex sodium (extended release or sprinkles) alone or in combination with second-generation antipsychotic agents.
This was a 6-week, open-label, naturalistic pilot study of patients aged >60 years recruited from a geriatric psychiatry inpatient unit, 2 nursing homes, and 4 assisted living residences. Patients were referred for study if they displayed Behavioral and Psychological Symptoms of Dementia. The primary outcome measure was the Cohen-Mansfield Agitation Inventory (CMAI), an instrument whose subscales allow measurement of physically aggressive behaviors, physically nonaggressive behaviors (eg, wandering), and verbally agitated behaviors. The Neuropsychiatric Inventory-Nursing Home version (NPI-NH) was also used to assess patients' behavior.
Fifteen patients were included in the study (10 men, 5 women; mean [SD] age, 81.9 [7.7] years). Total CMAI improved by 17.1% at week 1, showed an additional improvement of 3.4% at week 3, and no further improvement by week 6 (total score dropped by 1.1%). Aggressive behavior improved at weeks 3 and 6 while physically nonaggressive and verbally agitated behaviors improved at weeks 1 and 3, and lost much of the gains by week 6. The NPI-NH agitation/aggression score decreased a mean (SE) of 1.3 (0.5) points (P = 0.03), the irritability/lability subscale decreased a mean (SE) of 2.3 (0.6) points (P = 0.005), and the disinhibition subscale decreased a mean (SE) of 1.4 (0.4) points (P < 0.01). Seven patients were on divalproex monotherapy and 8 patients were on combination therapy. Daily doses of divalproex (mean dose, 656 mg/d) in combination with a second-generation antipsychotic were 28% lower than divalproex monotherapy (mean dose, 914 mg/d). The most common adverse events were somnolence (7 of 15) and gait disturbance (5 of 15). One death was observed in the study; the death was due to a prior medical condition and was judged unlikely to be study related.
Patients with higher levels of agitation receiving divalproex had reduced agitation on the physical aggression subscale of the CMAI. Divalproex was less effective on physically nonaggressive behavior and verbal agitation. Irritability, as measured on the NPI-NH, was also reduced. Patients who received both divalproex and an antipsychotic agent were responsive at lower doses of divalproex. In either case, the effective dosage of divalproex was lower than that commonly used for epilepsy or mania in elderly patients. The most common adverse events included somnolence and gait disturbance.
Previous studies have shown that mice deficient in the tyrosine kinase domain (TK-/-) of the receptor Mst1r have an increased susceptibility to nickel (Ni)-induced acute lung injury (ALI). Mst1r TK-/- mice have decreased survival times, alterations in cytokine and nitric oxide regulation, and an earlier onset of pulmonary pathology compared with control mice, suggesting that Mst1r signaling, in part, may regulate the response to ALI. To examine the role of Mst1r in ALI in more detail, we compared the gene expression profiles of murine lung mRNA from control and Mst1r TK-/- mice at baseline and after 24 h of particulate Ni sulfate exposure. Microarray analyses showed a total of 343 transcripts that were significantly changed, either by Ni treatment, or between genotypes. Genes responsible for inflammation, edema, and lymphocyte function were altered in the Mst1r TK-/- mice. Interestingly, the genes for several granzymes were increased in Mst1r TK-/- mice before Ni exposure, compared with controls. In addition, the Mst1r TK-/- lungs showed clusters of cells near the vascular endothelium and airways. Immunohistochemistry indicates these clusters are composed of macrophages, T cells, and neutrophils, and that the clusters display granzyme protein production. These results suggest that Mst1r signaling may be involved in the regulation of macrophage and T-lymphocyte activation in vivo during injury. This assessment of gene expression indicates the importance of genetic factors in contributing to lung injury, and points to strategies for intervention in the progression of inflammatory diseases.
We have studied the effects of serotonin (5-HT) 5-HT3 receptor agonists 1-phenylbiguanide (1-PBG) and 1-(m-chlorophenyl)biguanide (mCPBG), and antagonists 3-tropanyl-3,5-dichlorobenzoate (MDL-72222) and tropisetron (3-tropanyl-indole-3-carboxylate HCl; ICS-205930) on apomorphine-induced aggressive behaviour in normal or DSP-4 [N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine hydrochloride] pre-treated male Wistar rats. DSP-4 (50 mg/kg) pre-treatment significantly accelerated the development of apomorphine-induced aggressive behaviour. mCPBG (1.0 and 10 mg/kg) did not modify the aggressiveness, but 1-PBG (3.0 and 30 mg/kg) attenuated the aggressiveness in normal but not DSP-4 pre-treated rats. MDL-72222 (0.4 and 4.0 mg/kg) attenuated the aggressive behaviour in normal rats, tropisetron (0.3 mg/kg) had an antiaggressive effect only by citalopram (10 mg/kg) challenge. MDL-72222 and tropisetron were ineffective in DSP-4 pre-treated rats. In conclusion, our results indicate that the 5-HT3 receptors modulate the apomorphine-induced aggressive behaviour and the 5-HT3 receptor antagonists have moderate antiaggressive effect in this test.
A 77-year-old man who had taken ranitidine for several years for dyspepsia was prescribed alternative therapy with famotidine 20 mg twice/day. He subsequently developed mental status changes, with confusion, disorientation, and nightmares. The symptoms dissipated after he discontinued famotidine for 2 days. He rechallenged himself and experienced return of the symptoms shortly thereafter, with additional visual hallucinations. His therapy was changed to lansoprazole, and his symptoms again disappeared and have not recurred. Case reports of central nervous system effects with other histamine2 antagonists have been published. Eight cases occurred with famotidine, all of which were in hospitalized patients receiving intravenous famotidine. We believe this is the first report of mental status changes in an ambulatory patient taking oral famotidine. The elderly may be particularly susceptible to such changes.
Transduction of tumor cells with a cyclophosphamide (CPA)-activating cytochrome P-450 (P450) gene provides the capacity for localized prodrug activation and greatly sensitizes solid tumors to CPA treatment in vivo. The therapeutic impact of this P450-based cancer gene therapy strategy can be substantially enhanced by cotransduction of P450 reductase, a rate-limiting component of P450-dependent intratumoral CPA activation. The present study examined the possibility of further improving P450/P450 reductase-based gene therapy by using a novel schedule of CPA administration, involving repeated CPA injection every 6 days and previously shown to have an antiangiogenic component. 9L gliosarcoma cells transduced with the CPA-activating enzyme couple P450 2B6/P450 reductase and grown s.c. in immunodeficient severe combined immunodeficient (scid) mice were repeatedly challenged with 140 mg/kg CPA every 6 days. Full tumor regression leading to eradication of six of eight tumors was observed when the tumor size at the time of initial drug treatment was approximately 400 mm(3) (approximately 1.5% of body weight). Little or no overt toxicity of the repeated CPA treatment regimen was observed. The same CPA schedule was much less effective in inducing regression of 9L tumors that were not transduced with P450/P450 reductase. Repeated CPA treatment of mice bearing large, late-stage P450/P450 reductase-transduced tumors (approximately 9-16% of body weight) resulted in major (> or =95%) regression in 15 of 16 tumors, with tumor eradication observed in 2 cases. Although CPA resistance was found to emerge in the population of P450/P450 reductase-transduced tumors, this resistance primarily involved a loss of expression of the transduced P450 and/or P450 reductase gene, rather than development of intrinsic cellular resistance to the activated form of CPA. These findings demonstrate that repeated CPA treatment on a 6 day schedule can be highly effective when combined with P450/P450 reductase gene therapy and suggest that repeated transduction of tumors with prodrug-activation genes may be necessary to achieve tumor eradication and a sustained therapeutic response.
