The effects of thymosin (THN) alpha1 were investigated using the urethane injection carcinogenesis A/J mouse model. Lung adenomas were observed 2.5, 3, and 4 months after urethane injection (400 mg/kg i.p.) into female A/J mice. Daily administration of THNalpha1 (0.4 mg/kg, s.c.) reduced lung adenoma multiplicity significantly, by approximately 45, 40, and 17%, respectively, 2.5, 3, and 4 months after urethane injection. Animals treated with THNalpha1 had a significantly greater white cell density than control A/J mice. Endogenous THNalpha1-like peptides were detected in the mouse lung. By radioimmunoassay and by Western blot, prothymosin alpha was detected in the mouse lung. By immunocytochemistry, THNalpha1-like peptides were detected in all lung compartments including the bronchus, adenoma, bronchioles, and alveoli. These results indicate that exogenous THNalpha1 prevents lung carcinogenesis in A/J mice.
Nootropic effect of alcoholic (ALE; 50, 75, 100 mg/kg) and aqueous (AQE; 100, 200, 400 mg/kg) extracts of P. tuberosa was evaluated by using Elevated Plus Maze (EPM), scopolamine-induced amnesia (SIA), diazepam-induced amnesia (DIA), clonidine-induced (NA-mediated) hypothermia (CIH), lithium-induced (5-HT mediated) head twitches (LIH) and haloperidol-induced (DA- mediated) catalepsy (HIC) models. Piracetam was used as the standard drug. A significant increase in inflexion ratio (IR) was recorded in EPM, SIA and DIA models. A significant reversal effect was observed on rectal temperature in CIH model, reduction of head twitches in LIH models. However no significant reduction in catalepsy scores in HIC models were observed with test extracts and standard piracetam. The results indicate that nootropic activity observed with ALE and AQE of tuber extracts of P. tuberosa could be through improved learning and memory either by augmenting the noradrenaline (NA) transmission or by interfering with 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) release. Further, the extracts neither facilitated nor blocked release of the dopamine (DA). Thus ALE and AQE elicited significant nootropic effect in mice and rats by interacting with cholinergic, GABAnergic, adrenergic and serotonergic systems. Phytoconstituents like flavonoids have been reported for their nootropic effect and these are present in both ALE and AQE extracts of tubers of P. tuberosa (Roxb) and these active principles may be responsible for nootropic activity.
Hepatitis C viral infection is a global health problem that affects approximately 4 million people in the United States. Combination treatment with pegylated interferon (IFN)-alpha plus ribavirin has been shown to be most effective in treating patients with chronic hepatitis C (CHC). Despite its efficacy, one of the most common side effects of this regimen is depression. Whereas IFN-alpha has been found to induce depression in chronic myelogenous leukemia, melanoma, and renal cell carcinoma, CHC patients may be especially prone to develop IFN-induced depression. This review includes a summary of differences between IFN-alpha and IFN-beta and addresses whether pegylation of IFN (versus nonpegylated IFN) gives rise to a treatment with reduced potential to induce depressive symptoms. Consideration is also given to evidence showing that treatment with ribavirin may contribute to IFN-induced depression. Thyroid disorders and anemia (as well as other medical conditions) have also been associated with IFN exposure and may account for some incidences of depression in CHC patients. Evidence is reviewed indicating that prior psychiatric and mood disorders (especially previous episodes of major depressive disorder), just prior to IFN treatment, contribute to the propensity to develop depression during treatment. In addition, a brief description is provided of potential biological mechanisms of IFN-induced depression (ie, monoamines, hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical [HPA] axis, proinflammatory cytokines, peptidases, intercellular adhesion molecule-1, and nitric oxide). Finally, a discussion is provided on the use of antidepressants as a preventative versus restorative treatment, including a commentary on risks of using antidepressants in this patient population.
To report a case of systemic corticosteroid toxicity resulting from topical and periocular therapy.
Treatment and follow-up of an 11-year-old male with uveitis are illustrated. Initial presentation of the patient was bilateral iridocyclitis, for which he was treated with prednisolone acetate 1% every 2 hours for 6 months. Subsequently, posterior uveitis developed, necessitating posterior subtenon injections.
After initial topical corticosteroid therapy, the patient developed a cushingoid habitus accompanied by increased lanugo hair, acanthosis nigricans, posterior subcapsular lens opacities, and increased intraocular pressure. Cushingoid stigmata worsened after administration of posterior subtenon injection of corticosteroids. The patient's truncal obesity worsened, and his linear growth stopped.
Systemic toxic effects may develop as a result of topical and local use of ophthalmic corticosteroid preparations in susceptible patients.
Although indapamide has been used for many years as a first-line treatment of hypertension, it is only recently that some of its activities on the changes of the cardiovascular system, brought on by age and high blood pressure, have been studied. Indapamide appears to reduce blood pressure by a combined diuretic and direct vascular activity reducing vascular reactivity and total peripheral resistance. In addition, it has discrete effects on a number of interrelated systems that may protect the cardiovascular system. Indapamide reduces intracellular calcium levels, maintains magnesium ions, but reduces phosphate ions that may be involved in arterial rigidity. Circulating catecholamines remain unchanged but there is a reduction in normetanephrine, suggesting a reduction in sympathetic tone. It stimulates prostacyclin synthesis, increases levels of circulating prostacyclin, reduces platelet aggregation and stimulates the vasodilation elicited by endothelium-derived relaxing factor in the presence of bradykinin. In addition, it inhibits the formation of the vasoconstrictor prostanoid, thromboxane A2. The free radical scavenging activity of indapamide could also protect the vascular smooth muscle from the reperfusion injury of cerebral and myocardial ischemia. Indapamide induces a reduction in cerebral ischemia after carotid ligation. Unlike some other antihypertensives, it does not upset the high-density/low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol balance, reducing the possible risk of atherosclerosis. Moreover, the combination of binding to elastin and reduction in uptake of calcium and phosphate into the smooth muscle could be a mechanism for reducing arterial rigidity seen in the elderly and hypertensive patient. In hypertensive patients, these properties induce an improvement in arterial compliance, and in the long term a reduction in left ventricular hypertrophy. These pharmacologic and clinical results, together with a good antihypertensive efficacy and acceptability, suggest that indapamide may be a preferential agent in the long-term cardiovascular protection of the hypertensive patient.
NP260 was designed as a first-in-class selective antagonist of α4-subtype GABAA receptors that had promising efficacy in animal models of pain, epilepsy, psychosis, and anxiety. However, development of NP260 was complicated following a 28-day safety study in dogs in which pronounced elevations of serum aminotransferase levels were observed, although there was no accompanying histopathological indication of hepatocellular injury. To further investigate the liver effects of NP260, we assayed stored serum samples from the 28-day dog study for liver specific miRNA (miR-122) as well as enzymatic biomarkers glutamate dehydrogenase and sorbitol dehydrogenase, which indicate liver necrosis. Cytotoxicity assessments were conducted in hepatocytes derived from dog, rat, and human liver samples to address the species specificity of the liver response to NP260. All biomarkers, except ALT, returned toward baseline by Day 29 despite continued drug treatment, suggesting adaptation to the initial injury. In vitro analysis of the toxicity potential of NP260 to primary hepatocytes indicated a relative sensitivity of dog>human>rat, which may explain, in part, why the liver effects were not evident in the rodent safety studies. Taken together, the data indicate that a diagnostic biomarker approach, coupled with sensitive in vitro screening strategies, may facilitate interpretation of toxicity potential when an adaptive event masks the underlying toxicity.
We reported previously that pterostilbene, a natural analogue of resveratrol from blueberries, strongly suppressed lipopolysaccharide-induced up-expression of inducible NO synthase (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) in murine macrophages. In this study, we further investigated pterostilbene's molecular mechanism of action and its anti-tumor properties. Pretreatment with pterostilbene has resulted in the reduction of 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA)-induced nuclear translocation of the nuclear factor-κB (NFκB) subunits. Pterostilbene also reduced TPA-induced phosphorylation of IκBα and p65 and caused subsequent degradation of IκBα. Moreover, pterostilbene markedly suppressed TPA-induced activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)1/2, p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK)1/2, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) and Akt, which are upstream of NFκB and activator protein 1 (AP-1). Furthermore, pterostilbene significantly inhibited 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA)/TPA-induced skin tumor formation measured by the tumor multiplicity of papillomas at 20 weeks. The presented data has, for the first time, revealed that pterostilbene is an effective anti-tumor agent that functions by downregulating inflammatory iNOS and COX-2 gene expression in mouse skin. It is suggested that pterostilbene is a novel functional agent capable of preventing inflammation-associated tumorigenesis.
Twenty-one patients with various advanced neoplasms were treated with 60 to 75 mg/m2 of doxorubicin every 3 to 4 weeks and monitored by ECG and systolic time intervals (PEP/LVET) with the aim to establish whether a pretreatment with beta-methyldigoxin, administered intermittently, could prevent doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity. It was found that until patients received digitalis pretreatment the PEP/LVET ratio did not change significantly from mean basal values even after the highest cumulative dosages of doxorubicin. However, after interruption of the therapy with both drugs, PEP/LVET increased reaching a value not significantly different from that observed in a comparable group of patients treated only with doxorubicin. Moreover, of 9 patients who reached the cumulative limiting dose, 2 developed congestive heart failure. These results question the possibility that digitalis administered according to an intermittent treatment scheme may prevent doxorubicin cardiomyopathy.
A multicenter study was performed to assess the efficacy and the acceptability of indapamide in hypertensive patients previously untreated, or treated and unsatisfactorily controlled with either angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor or beta-blocking therapy. Four centers participated in the study, which included patients whose supine diastolic blood pressure was between 95 and 115 mmHg with no treatment (group I, n = 40), those taking captopril (group II, n = 40) or those taking propranolol (group III, n = 40). After a 2-week single-blind placebo run-in period, patients received indapamide either alone (group I) or in combination with the previous therapy (groups II and III) for 4 months. Blood pressure, heart rate, weight, and clinical and biochemical acceptability were measured before and after 2 and 4 months of treatment. At the same time points, quality of life was determined using standardized questionnaires completed by the patient (20 items) and the physician (10 items) and a visual analog scale completed by the patient. In all groups, administration of indapamide induced a clinically and statistically significant reduction in both systolic and diastolic blood pressures in the supine position after 2 months. Indapamide alone controlled blood pressure in 82% of the patients previously untreated, and indapamide in combined therapy controlled blood pressure, respectively, in 67 and 85% of patients previously uncontrolled with ACE inhibitors or beta blockers. In all groups, questionnaires on quality of life showed a progressive and significant improvement in general well-being. After 4 months of treatment, the percentage of improvement in the physician questionnaire was 77.1% in group I, 60.6% in group II and 71.4% in group III.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The skeletal muscle cells are one of the main sites of glucose uptake through glucose transporter 4 (GLUT4) in response to insulin. In muscle cells, 5' adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is known as another GLUT4 translocation promoter. Natural compounds that activate AMPK have a possibility to overcome insulin resistance in the diabetic state. Piceatannol is a natural analog and a metabolite of resveratrol, a known AMPK activator. In this study, we investigate the in vitro effect of piceatannol on glucose uptake, AMPK phosphorylation and GLUT4 translocation to plasma membrane in L6 myocytes, and its in vivo effect on blood glucose levels in type 2 diabetic model db/db mice. Piceatannol was found to promote glucose uptake, AMPK phosphorylation and GLUT4 translocation by Western blotting analyses in L6 myotubes under a condition of insulin absence. Promotion by piceatannol of glucose uptake as well as GLUT4 translocation to plasma membrane by immunocytochemistry was also demonstrated in L6 myoblasts transfected with a glut4 cDNA-coding vector. Piceatannol suppressed the rises in blood glucose levels at early stages and improved the impaired glucose tolerance at late stages in db/db mice. These in vitro and in vivo findings suggest that piceatannol may be preventive and remedial for type 2 diabetes and become an antidiabetic phytochemical.
To determine prevalence of seizures after use of iohexol for myelography and identify associated risk factors in dogs.
Retrospective study.
182 dogs that received iohexol for myelography in 1998.
Medical records were reviewed for age, breed, sex, weight, dose and total volume of iohexol, injection site, number of injections, lesion type and location, total duration of anesthesia, duration from time of iohexol injection to recovery, presence and number of seizures, and whether surgery followed the myelogram.
39 (21.4%) dogs had at least 1 generalized seizure during or after myelography. Injection site was strongly associated with prevalence of seizures, and risk of seizure was significantly higher after cerebellomedullary injections, compared with lumbar injections. Mean total volume of iohexol administered to dogs that had seizures was significantly higher, compared with that administered to dogs that did not have seizures, although dosage did not differ between groups. Weight was significantly correlated with risk of seizure, and dogs that weighed > 20 kg (44 lb) had higher prevalence of seizures than dogs that weighed < 20 kg.
It is preferential to administer iohexol via the L5-6 intervertebral space to minimize the risk of seizures. Higher prevalence of seizures in large dogs, compared with smaller dogs, may be caused by administration of larger total volumes of contrast agent per volume of CSF.
We have determined the presence of transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta)-like polypeptides in mammary adenocarcinomas induced by medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) in BALB/c mice. In hormone-dependent tumors (HD) from nontreated and MPA-treated mice a high molecular weight (43 kDa) transforming activity was purified by Bio-Gel P-60 chromatography. This TGF was able to confer the neoplastic phenotype on NRK-49F cells without the addition of epidermal growth factor (EGF), though its activity was potentiated by EGF. It did not compete for binding to the EGF receptor, had no mitogenic activity on monolayer cultures of NRK fibroblasts, and was a potent inhibitor of DNA synthesis induced in these cells by EGF and insulin. In HD and hormone-independent tumors (HI) another TGF with a Mr of 13 kDa was isolated. This transforming activity showed the same biological properties as 43 kDa TGF, with the exception that in the absence of EGF it did not stimulate soft agar growth of NRK-49F cells. The synthesis of both factors in 'in vivo' HD tumors seems to be under MPA control, since it is much lower in HD tumors from MPA-treated mice. Further purification of the 13 and 43 kDa TGFs by hydrophobic interaction HPLC demonstrated that each one eluted in a different position, and that their elution profile differed from the TGF-beta from human platelets. The biological activity of the 13 and 43 kDa TGFs was not neutralized by a specific anti-TGF-beta antibody.
The biotoxin okadaic acid (OA), produced by dinoflagellates in marine environment, can accumulate in sponges and shellfish. Consumption of contaminated shellfish induces acute toxic effects such as diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, and abdominal pain. CYP3A4, one of the most important human xenobiotic metabolizing enzymes, is supposed to be involved in the metabolism of OA. Aim of our study was to evaluate the role of CYP3A4 in OA in vitro metabolism as well as in cell cytotoxicity in parallel. Therefore, a metabolic competent HepaRG cell line was exposed to OA with and without addition of the CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole. Without the inhibitor, two mono-hydroxylated metabolites could be identified, whereas in its presence, no metabolites could be detected. Confirmation of the formed metabolites was accomplished by measuring the exact masses and investigating the fragmentation pattern. Data obtained from cytotoxicity assays showed that OA cytotoxicity is reduced when CYP3A4 is active. Thus, hydroxylation appears to be a crucial step for metabolic OA detoxification.
A 69-year-old man with ulcerative colitis (UC) developed sensorimotor polyneuropathy. First, he received salazosulphapyridine (SASP) as treatment for the UC. The symptoms of UC disappeared immediately, but he developed skin eruptions and dysesthesia in his lower limbs. When SASP was changed to 5-aminosalicylic acid (5-ASA), his skin eruptions were resolved, however, he developed weakness and atrophy in his right arm as well as progressive worsening of the dysesthesia in his legs and gait disturbance. Deep tendon reflexes (DTR) were absent in all extremities. After 5-ASA was discontinued, the polyneuropathy symptoms recovered gradually. This clinical course suggests that the sensorimotor polyneuropathy may have been caused by 5-ASA.
Hepatic arterial infusion of fluoropyrimidines has been widely used for the treatment of hepatic metastasis from colorectal cancer. One major complication of such treatment is biliary sclerosis resembling primary sclerosing cholangitis, which has an incidence ranging from 8% to 26%.
We evaluated the efficacy and long-term outcome of endoscopic therapy in the management of chemotherapy-induced sclerosing cholangitis (CISC).
With the use of an endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) database, all patients with a diagnosis of CISC who had endoscopic therapy between March 1995 and March 2005 were identified. The indications, findings, therapies, and complications for all patients undergoing ERCP were recorded in this database. Additional information was obtained by review of medical records.
Eleven patients (six men and five women) were identified. The mean age at presentation was 59.5 years (range, 36-76 years). Cholangiogram findings revealed stricture confined to the common hepatic duct in two patients, involving the hilum in seven patients, involving the right and/or left main hepatic ducts in nine patients, and extending to the intrahepatic radicals in two patients. All patients had successful endoscopic therapy to alleviate the presenting symptom. The grade and extent of biliary strictures did not change in five patients, improved in one patient, recurred in two patients, and progressed in two patients over the follow-up period of 28.2 months (range, 4-60 months).
Although long-term follow-up of patients with CISC is limited by the dismal prognosis of the underlying malignancy, CISC has a recalcitrant pattern that rarely improves with endoscopic therapy. However, endoscopic therapy seems to be an effective method of palliation.
To investigate late cardiotoxicity in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) survivors after induction treatment with or without daunorubicin (DNR; 25 mg/m(2), i.v., weekly, x4, cumulative dose 100 mg/m(2)).
Cardiac function was assessed in 90 event-free survivors of childhood ALL, 11.4-17.8 years (median 14.8 years) after treatment according to the DCLSG protocol ALL V. In this protocol patients were randomized to receive (group B) or not to receive (group A) DNR 25 mg/m(2)/week i.v. during the first 4 weeks of induction treatment. Age at diagnosis was 1.2-14.9 years (median 4.5 years). The cardiac evaluation consisted of a history, physical examination, electrocardiogram (ECG), 24 hr ambulatory ECG, and echocardiography.
Electrocardiographic data, arrhythmias, left ventricular dimensions, left ventricular contractility, wall stress, and diastolic function were within normal limits in both groups. No difference could be shown between data from group A (n = 40) and group B (n = 50).
No late cardiac damage was demonstrated in childhood ALL survivors after induction treatment including a cumulative dose of 100 mg/m(2) DNR, compared to survivors who received the same treatment but without DNR. DNR 100 mg/m(2) given in 4 doses of 25 mg/m(2)/week appears to be a safe dose in induction treatment of ALL.
We evaluated 126 patients with inducible sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmias to assess whether the response to procainamide during electrophysiologic study could predict responses to other conventional antiarrhythmic agents and combinations of agents. Thirty of 42 patients in whom tachycardia was not inducible after the administration of procainamide and 69 of 84 patients in whom ventricular tachycardia was inducible after procainamide underwent serial electrophysiologic studies. Forty-three of 67 antiarrhythmic regimens (64%) tested in the patients in whom ventricular tachycardia could not be induced after procainamide prevented induction of ventricular tachycardia, compared with 10 of 145 regimens (7%) tested in the patients in whom ventricular tachycardia could be induced after procainamide. Sixty of the 69 patients in whom ventricular tachycardia remained inducible after procainamide had ventricular tachycardia induced on all other conventional antiarrhythmic regimens tested. By comparison, of the 30 patients in whom ventricular tachycardia became noninducible after procainamide, 25 had no ventricular tachycardia inducible on at least one other antiarrhythmic regimen tested. Thus, the response to procainamide accurately predicted the response to other conventional antiarrhythmic agents during electrophysiologic study.
The CD19 protein forms a complex with CD21, CD81, and CD225 in the membrane of mature B cells. Together with the B-cell antigen receptor, this complex signals the B cell to decrease its threshold for activation by the antigen.
We evaluated four patients from two unrelated families who had increased susceptibility to infection, hypogammaglobulinemia, and normal numbers of mature B cells in blood. We found a mutation in the CD19 gene in all four patients. The CD19 gene in the patients and their first-degree relatives was sequenced, and flow-cytometric immunophenotyping of B cells, immunohistochemical staining of lymphoid tissues, and DNA and messenger RNA analysis were performed. B-cell responses on the triggering of the B-cell receptor were investigated by in vitro stimulation; the antibody response after vaccination with rabies vaccine was also studied.
All four patients had homozygous mutations in the CD19 gene. Levels of CD19 were undetectable in one patient and substantially decreased in the other three. Levels of CD21 were decreased, whereas levels of CD81 and CD225 were normal, in all four patients. The composition of the precursor B-cell compartment in bone marrow and the total numbers of B cells in blood were normal. However, the numbers of CD27+ memory B cells and CD5+ B cells were decreased. Secondary follicles in lymphoid tissues were small to normal in size and had a normal cellular composition. The few B cells that showed molecular signs of switching from one immunoglobulin class to another contained V(H)-C(alpha) and V(H)-C(gamma) transcripts with somatic mutations. The response of the patients' B cells to in vitro stimulation through the B-cell receptor was impaired, and in all four patients, the antibody response to rabies vaccination was poor.
Mutation of the CD19 gene causes a type of hypogammaglobulinemia in which the response of mature B cells to antigenic stimulation is defective.
μ-Conotoxin KIIIA (μ-KIIIA) blocks mammalian voltage-gated sodium channels (VGSCs) and is a potent analgesic following systemic administration in mice. Previous structure-activity studies of μ-KIIIA identified a helical pharmacophore for VGSC blockade. This suggested a route for designing truncated analogues of μ-KIIIA by incorporating the key residues into an α-helical scaffold. As (i, i+4) lactam bridges constitute a proven approach for stabilizing α-helices, we designed and synthesized six truncated analogues of μ-KIIIA containing single lactam bridges at various locations. The helicity of these lactam analogues was analyzed by NMR spectroscopy, and their activities were tested against mammalian VGSC subtypes Na(V)1.1 through 1.7. Two of the analogues, Ac-cyclo9/13[Asp9,Lys13]KIIIA7-14 and Ac-cyclo9/13[Lys9,Asp13]KIIIA7-14, displayed μM activity against VGSC subtypes Na(V)1.2 and Na(V)1.6; importantly, the subtype selectivity profile for these peptides matched that of μ-KIIIA. Our study highlights structure-activity relationships within these helical mimetics and provides a basis for the design of additional truncated peptides as potential analgesics.
Tricyclic antidepressant drugs are known to cause often electrocardiographic abnormalities and to induce sometimes cardiac rhythm disturbances. We report a case of a patient on antidepressant therapy (Desipramine Hydrochloride, 50 mg/die, and Dothiepin Hydrochloride, 150 mg/die), without any underlaying heart disease, admitted to our Coronary Care Unit for recurrent syncopal episodes. An ECG on admission showed Sinus Tachycardia with Ectopic Ventricular Beats and recurrent runs of Torsade de Pointes, a distinctive form of Ventricular Tachycardia. Lignocaine i.v. was only transiently effective. Both Isoprenaline and Atropine Sulphate i.v. were uneffective. Ventricular Fibrillation occurred and cardioversion was achieved by a single DC shock. Amiodarone i.v. and electrical overdrive only temporarily suppressed ventricular arrhythmias. Magnesium Sulphate i.v. (bolus + infusion) induced a definitive suppression of Torsades de Pointes. One day later no more arrhythmias were present.
Nonsteroidal analgesics are frequently used in obstetrics. We present two cases where nonsteroidal analgesics contributed to significant elevations in blood pressure in postpartum women. We review the literature and consider the pathophysiologic causes for such a phenomenon.
Marked renal potassium and magnesium wasting, alkalosis, and a progressive increase in plasma renin and eventual hyperaldosteronemia developed during a 15-month course of in-hospital capreomycin therapy that was necessary for drug-resistant pulmonary tuberculosis. A prominent feature of the present case was renal chloride wasting, a feature of the capreomycin syndrome that has previously received little attention. Similar potentially life-threatening metabolic abnormalities, which resemble those found in Bartter's syndrome, can occur during prolonged therapy with the antibiotic gentamicin. In the present case, electrolyte abnormalities were unaffected by three days of indomethacin therapy but were partially corrected by large doses of spironolactone. Capreomycin, viomycin (an antibiotic closely related to capreomycin), and gentamicin are highly basic polypeptide antibiotics that may induce strikingly similar and potentially fatal syndromes of renal tubular dysfunction that can feature multiple electrolyte abnormalities.
The neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) is a life-threatening complication of neuroleptic treatment. To elucidate the pathogenesis of NMS, an animal model has been developed. Experimental rabbits treated with haloperidol (1 mg/kg) by intramuscular injection, were studied for the diagnostic symptoms of increased muscle rigidity, elevated body temperature, and high serum creatine phosphokinase (CPK) level. Administration of haloperiodol (1 mg/kg) and atropine (0.4 mg/kg), and exposure to high ambient temperature (35 degrees C) induced a significant increase in electromyographic activity with muscle rigidity similar to that observed in patients with NMS. Such rabbits also showed elevated body temperature and serum CPK value. In addition to the similarity of the signs and symptoms, all parameters measured (muscle rigidity, body temperature, and serum CPK level) were normalized by dantrolene treatment. The effectiveness of dantrolene in the experimental animal partially confirms the validity of this animal model for NMS. This experimental animal model for NMS may be useful to elucidate the pathogenesis of NMS.
Hepatic centrilobular necrosis developed in rats pretreated with triiodothyronine (T3) and then anesthetized with halothane, 1 per cent, for two hours at an ambient oxygen concentration. Increasing oxygen concentrations decreased the severity of the lesion, there being a significantly (P less than 0.05) less severe lesion with oxygen, 99 per cent, as compared with 21 per cent. Pretreatment with phenobarbital alone resulted in hepatic necrosis only when hypoxia (FIO2 0.14) was also present, and there was no significant worsening of the T3-induced lesion when phenobarbital was added at any oxygen concentration studied. However, the lesion produced by T3 and oxygen, 14 per cent, was significantly worse than the lesion produced by phenobarbital and oxygen, 14 per cent. Glutamic pyruvic transaminase (SGPT) was significantly elevated to 776 (+/- 226) U/1 in the T3-treated rats (10 mg/kg/day, orally) immediately after halothane anesthesia. There was a significant decrease in glutathione to 1.48 (+/- 0.06) mg/g liver 24 hours after T3 administration (1 mg/kg subcutaneously for five days), but no further decrease with continued T3 pretreatment or with halothane anesthesia. Pretreatment with T3 caused a significant decrease in cytochrome P-450 to 0.41 (+/- 0.01) nmol/mg microsomal protein, and halothane anesthesia caused a further significant decrease to 0.27 (+/- 0.04) nmol/mg microsomal protein. The mechanism for the hepatic toxicity of halothane in this model remains to be determined.
Bisphosphonates are currently the most important class of antiresorptive drugs used for the treatment of metabolic bone diseases. Although the molecular targets of bisphosphonates have not been identified, these compounds inhibit bone resorption by mechanisms that can lead to osteoclast apoptosis. Bisphosphonates also induce apoptosis in mouse J774 macrophages in vitro, probably by the same mechanisms that lead to osteoclast apoptosis. We have found that, in J774 macrophages, nitrogen-containing bisphosphonates (such as alendronate, ibandronate, and risedronate) inhibit post-translational modification (prenylation) of proteins, including the GTP-binding protein Ras, with farnesyl or geranylgeranyl isoprenoid groups. Clodronate did not inhibit protein prenylation. Mevastatin, an inhibitor of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutatyl (HMG)-CoA reductase and hence the biosynthetic pathway required for the production of farnesyl pyrophosphate and geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate, also caused apoptosis in J774 macrophages and murine osteoclasts in vitro. Furthermore, alendronate-induced apoptosis, like mevastatin-induced apoptosis, could be suppressed in J774 cells by the addition of farnesyl pyrophosphate or geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate, while the effect of alendronate on osteoclast number and bone resorption in murine calvariae in vitro could be overcome by the addition of mevalonic acid. These observations suggest that nitrogen-containing bisphosphonate drugs cause apoptosis following inhibition of post-translational prenylation of proteins such as Ras. It is likely that these potent antiresorptive bisphosphonates also inhibit bone resorption by preventing protein prenylation in osteoclasts and that enzymes of the mevalonate pathway or prenyl protein transferases are the molecular targets of the nitrogen-containing bisphosphonates. Furthermore, the data support the view that clodronate acts by a different mechanism.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is the most important immunological drug reaction that patients face today. Being unfractionated heparin the standard anticoagulation used in haemodialysis, acute or chronic uremic patients starting haemodialysis are at risk of developing HIT. Through the accurate description of two patients, one with chronic and the other with acute uraemia, who developed this complication at the start of haemodialysis, we compare the distinct clinical problems of haemodialysis-related HIT with the general clinical features of HIT. We report the occurrence of repeated clotting of both dialysers and catheters, as well as thrombosis of the central veins where the catheters are placed and of the fistulas. We also report an accurate review of the literature on haemodialysis-related HIT. We have observed that HIT seems to be particularly rare in haemodialysis patients. Since newly treated haemodialysis patients are at risk of developing HIT, and most of the studies were made on long-term chronic haemodialysis patients, we assume that the syndrome is poorly documented. Our own experience on 37 haemodialysis patients who developed HIT is reported by focusing on both the clinical presentation of HIT as well as the long-term follow up of the patients. We present some considerations on the treatment options of acute HIT in uremic patients as well as on the problem of heparin re-exposure subsequent to the HIT episode, a very prominent problem in chronic haemodialysis patient.
The in vitro pharmacological profiling of drugs using a large panel of cloned receptors (e.g., G protein-coupled receptors, ligand-gated ion channels, Na(+)-dependent monoamine transporters), an approach that has come to be known as 'receptorome screening', has unveiled novel molecular mechanisms responsible for the actions and/or side effects of certain drugs. For instance, receptorome screening has been employed to uncover novel molecular targets involved in the actions of antipsychotic medications and the hallucinogenic mint extract salvinorin A. This review highlights the recent application of receptorome screening to discover why the anorexigen fenfluramine causes serious cardiopulmonary side effects. Receptorome screening has implicated N-deethylation of fenfluramine and serotonin 5-hydroxy-t-ryptamine 2B receptors in the adverse effects of the drug; subsequent studies corroborated this finding. The results discussed highlight the utility of determining the potential activity of drugs -- and, importantly, of their in vivo metabolites -- at as many molecular targets as possible in order to reliably predict side effect profiles. Receptorome screening represents one of the most effective methods for identifying potentially serious drug-related side effects at the preclinical stage, thereby avoiding significant economic and human health consequences.
Early life exposure to estrogens and estrogen like contaminants in the environment is thought to contribute to the early onset of puberty and consequently increases the risk of developing breast cancer in the exposed female. The results of this study show that in utero exposure to the metalloestrogen arsenite altered mammary gland development prior to its effect on puberty onset. In the prepubertal gland, in utero exposure resulted in an increase in the number of mammosphere-forming cells and an increase in branching, epithelial cells, and density. In the postpubertal gland, in utero exposure resulted in the overexpression of estrogen receptor-alpha (ERα) that was due to the increased and altered response of the ERα transcripts derived from exons O and OT to estradiol. These results suggest that, in addition to advancing puberty onset, in utero exposure to arsenite alters the pre- and postpubertal development of the mammary gland and possibly, the risk of developing breast cancer.
