Nurse monitors collected clinical and laboratory data from 204 hospitalized patients receiving furosemide (122 men and 82 women; mean age 69.6 years). Biochemical abnormalities and clinical problems definitely or probably induced by any drug occurred in 70.6% and 49.0% respectively of the patients, and were attributed to furosemide in 81.3% and 13.0% respectively of these patients. The most important clinical events were dehydration and hypotension. Furosemide-induced hypochloremia, hypokalemia and hyponatremia occurred in 35.8%, 25.0% and 24.5% of the patients respectively. Most of the biochemical changes were slight, and only 3.9% of the patients had a furosemide-induced decrease in the serum potassium concentration to less than 3.0 mmol/L. Surprisingly, 24.5% of the patients also manifested drug-induced hyperkalemia. Administration potassium supplements or spironolactone, or both, concurrently with furosemide was responsible in most cases for the development of hyperkalemia. The occurrence of drug-induced adverse effects after 2 weeks of hospitalization was significantly associated (P less than 0.05) with subsequent prolongation of hospitalization. The high frequency of drug-induced events warrants careful monitoring of all patients receiving furosemide in spite of the low frequency of serious toxic effects produced by the drug.
The effect of terbutaline, a "selective" beta2-receptor stimulator, was compared with that of placebo in 30 patients in premature labor. Treatment consisted of an intravenous infusion for at least 8 hours, and then of subcutaneous injections four times daily for 3 days together with peroral treatment, which was continued until the end of week 36 of pregnancy. In 12 of 15 terbutaline-treated patients (80 per cent) premature labor was arrested beyond the treatment period, compared with three of 15 in the placebo group (20 per cent). This difference is statistically significant (p less than 0.01). No serious side effects were observed. During infusion, there was an increase in maternal heart rate. This was more pronounced in the terbutaline group (30 per cent) than in the placebo group (9 per cent). There were no adverse effects on blood pressure, but fetal tachycardia was observed more frequently in the terbutaline than in the placebo group. The results suggest that terbutaline is a safe, potent, and well-tolerated inhibitor of premature labor.
In the present study, the effects of dexamethasone on cadmium-induced toxicity were evaluated in isolated rat hepatocytes. Hepatocytes were cultured for 24 h in William's E medium containing fetal calf serum (10%), insulin (0.1 IU/ml), and glucagon (0.01 microM) in the absence or presence of 0.1 microM dexamethasone. Cadmium chloride, 5 or 10 microM, was added to the medium and the toxicity was evaluated for up to 48 h after treatment. Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release, the reduced and oxidized glutathione ratio (GSH/GSSG), protein-SH groups, and lipid peroxidation levels were evaluated. Cadmium induced a dose- and time-dependent LDH release in control hepatocytes at 24 h (Cd 10 microM 42%) while hepatocytes pretreated with dexamethasone showed lower necrosis (Cd 10 microM 12% at 24 h). GSH/GSSH ratio and protein-SH groups were higher while lipid peroxidation was lower in dexamethasone-treated hepatocytes as compared with untreated cells. In conclusion, cadmium toxicity was associated with an increase in intracellular oxidative stress responsible for accelerated cell death. The use of dexamethasone prevented cadmium damage, suggesting that the cytoprotective action of this hormone is related to its effect in preventing changes in thiols such as glutathione and protein-SH groups.
To report 5-fluorouracil in combination with folinic acid as a cause of severe nonischemic heart failure and to demonstrate the potential usefulness of an intra-aortic balloon pump.
Case report.
An adult, 19-bed medical/surgical intensive care unit of a university hospital.
A patient, who developed severe heart failure secondary to 5-fluorouracil infusion with low-dose folinic acid, which was introduced to treat a rectal cancer, was transferred from a cancer institute to our intensive care unit 4 days after the treatment was initiated.
Electrocardiography, determination of level of cardiac enzymes, echocardiography, radial arterial catheterization, mechanical ventilatory support, continuous venovenous hemodialysis, vasopressors, and secondary intra-aortic balloon pump.
During shock, the patient's systolic blood pressure progressively decreased to 70 mm Hg, despite inotropic agents and vasopressors. Transesophageal echocardiography showed a calculated left ventricular ejection fraction within 20% with global hypokinesia. Electrocardiography showed sinus tachycardia with only nonspecific ST-T changes. Results of serial determination of levels of cardiac enzymes were not significant for myocardial infarction. Treatment with an intraaortic balloon pump was initiated and resulted in a dramatical improvement within 48 hrs. The patient was gradually weaned from vasopressors and the intra-aortic balloon pump. By the tenth day, echocardiography showed a septoapical hypokinesia with a 50% left ventricular ejection fraction. On the 30th day, the echocardiography was considered normal.
Intravenous 5-fluorouracil in combination with low doses of folinic acid can induce severe nonischemic heart failure. In such a case, an intra-aortic balloon pump could be useful by providing left ventricular function support when inotropic agents and vasopressors fail to restore normal hemodynamics.
We examined 116 stage I-IIIA non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients for intra-tumoral expression of thymidylate synthase (TS) and dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) using TaqMan reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) assay to clarify the correlation between gene expression and the efficacy of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) in patients with NSCLC. Patients who were administered 5-FU alone after surgery comprised the 5-FU group (n = 30), and those who underwent only surgery comprised the control group (n = 86). When dichotomized at the mean TS and DPD mRNA level, patients with low-DPD tumors who were administered 5-FU had a significantly better prognosis than those who did not receive adjuvant treatment (p = 0.041). In addition, in the 5-FU group, 10 patients with both low-TS and low-DPD tumors have not had any relapse, whereas 8 of the 20 patients with either high-TS or high-DPD tumors developed distant metastasis after surgery. Based on these results, the quantitation of TS and DPD mRNA levels may predict the efficacy of 5-FU after surgery for patient with NSCLC.
Regarding the mechanisms of ifosfamide (IFO)-induced urinary toxicity, several hypotheses have been put forward, among which oxidative stress and depletion of glutathione are suggested. This investigation elucidates the role of free radicals in IFO-induced toxicity and the protection by resveratrol, a natural phytoalexin. Wistar albino rats were injected intraperioneally with saline (0.9% NaCl; control), saline+resveratrol (RVT; 10 mg/kg/day), ifosfamide (IFO; 50 mg/kg/day) or IFO+RVT for 5 days. Urine was collected for 24 h during the 5th day, and at the 120th h after the first injections, animals were killed by decapitation and trunk blood was collected. Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity, total antioxidant capacity (AOC) and pro-inflammatory cytokines TNF-alpha, IL-beta and IL-6 were assayed in plasma samples. Kidney and bladder tissues were obtained for biochemical and histological analysis. Formation of reactive oxygen species in the tissue samples was monitored by using chemiluminescence (CL) technique with luminol and lucigenin probes. The results demonstrated that IFO induced a Fanconi syndrome characterized by increased urinary sodium, phosphate, glucose and protein, along with increased serum creatinine and urea levels. On the other hand, RVT markedly ameliorated the severity of renal dysfunction induced by IFO. Furthermore IFO caused a significant decrease in plasma AOC, which was accompanied with significant increases in the levels of the pro-inflammatory mediators and LDH activity, while RVT treatment reversed all these biochemical indices. In the saline-treated IFO group, glutathione levels were decreased significantly, while the malondialdehyde levels, myeloperoxidase activity and collagen content were increased in both tissues, which were in parallel with the increases in CL values. In the RVT-treated IFO group, all of these oxidant responses were prevented significantly. Our results suggest that IFO causes oxidative damage in the renal and bladder tissues and resveratrol, via its antioxidant effects, protects these tissues. Therefore, its therapeutic role in preventing the development of chemotherapeutic drug-induced major toxicity in the urinary system requires further elucidation.
1. Sheep hearts have been used to study the effects of beta-adrenoceptor (beta-AR) agonists in order to better understand the effects of common asthma treatment drugs on heart rate, cardiac power output and cardiac pathology. Hearts have been examined both in vivo and in vitro. 2. In whole anaesthetized sheep, isoprenaline, fenoterol and salbutamol induced dose-dependent increases in heart rate. Hypokalaemia in response to salbutamol was accentuated in hypoxia. Many of these hearts showed significant myocardial lesions. Hypoxia alone caused no significant cardiac response. 3. As expected, the beta 1-AR agonist dobutamine caused dose-dependent increases in heart performance (heart rate and cardiac power output). Both responses were blocked by metoprolol and propranolol. The beta 2-AR agonist salbutamol caused dose-dependent increases in heart rate and although cardiac output increased, cardiac power output remained unchanged as a consequence of the fall in peripheral resistance. The heart rate changes were blocked by metoprolol. Importantly, propranolol blocked both the heart rate response and the fall in peripheral resistance. 4. Isolated atrial strips showed a right shift of their dose-response curve to isoprenaline in the presence of the highly selective beta 2-AR antagonist ICI 118,551 at concentrations above 1 x 10(-8) mol/L. 5. We conclude that the sheep heart shows many pharmacological characteristics of the human heart which makes it a good pharmacological model in addition to its being amenable to many common techniques available for humans.
In the present study we tested the hypothesis that baclofen, a GABA-B receptor agonist, attenuates methamphetamine self-administration. Fifteen rats were trained to self-administer i.v. injections of methamphetamine (0, 0.0625, 0.125 and 0.25 mg/kg/injection) on a progressive ratio schedule of reinforcement, and then were tested under the influence of two doses of baclofen (2.5 or 5.0 mg/kg, i.p.). Baclofen significantly reduced break points at all doses of methamphetamine, producing a dose-orderly shift of the methamphetamine dose-response function to the right. These data suggest that pretreatment with baclofen reduces methamphetamine reward. These data are consistent with other studies showing impairment of drug reward after pretreatment with baclofen and add further support to the idea that GABA-B agonists may be useful in the treatment of drug addiction.
This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study was undertaken to evaluate the efficacy and safety of entecavir in Chinese patients with lamivudine-refractory chronic hepatitis B.
One hundred forty-five lamivudine-refractory patients with chronic hepatitis B were randomized to double-blind treatment with oral entecavir 1 mg (n = 116) or placebo (n = 29) daily for 12 weeks, followed by 36 weeks of open-label entecavir treatment. The primary efficacy endpoint was the mean change from baseline in serum hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay at week 12.
At week 12, the mean change from baseline in serum HBV DNA by PCR assay was -4.30 log(10) copies/ml for patients on entecavir compared to -0.15 log(10 )copies/ml for patients on placebo (P < .0001). Among patients with baseline serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) >1 x upper limit of normal (ULN), a higher proportion of entecavir than placebo patients (68% vs. 6%, respectively) achieved ALT normalization by week 12 (P < .0001). After 48 weeks of entecavir treatment, the mean change in HBV DNA by PCR assay was -5.08 log(10) copies/ml, and 85% of patients with baseline ALT >1 x ULN had achieved ALT normalization. The safety profile of entecavir was similar to that of placebo during the first 12 weeks of blinded dosing. Entecavir was also well tolerated during 36 weeks of open-label treatment.
Lamivudine-refractory chronic hepatitis B patients treated with entecavir demonstrated marked HBV DNA reduction and normalization of ALT in most cases. Entecavir treatment for 48 weeks was well tolerated.
We describe the clinical and neurophysiological findings in a case of hyperammonemic encephalopathy. A 72-year-old woman taking valproate (VPA), as monotherapy for her partial epilepsy developed urinary tract infection. She was treated with pivmecillinam 600 mg daily. The following days she deteriorated and became stuporous. At admission her serum ammonia level was increased (113 mmol/l) but the liver function appeared normal. EEG showed bilateral triphasic waves and continuous high-amplitude delta-theta wave. The patient recovered rapidly after discontinuation of VPA and i.v. treatment with cefuroxime for her urinary tract infection. VPA-induced hyperammonemic encephalopathy in adults is a rare phenomenon, especially when VPA is used as monotherapy. It has been suggested that the VPA-induced hyperammonemic encephalopathy is due to reduced serum carnitine concentration. Pivmecillinam, a widely used antibiotic for treatment of urinary tract infections, is also known to decrease the serum carnitine concentration. Our case shows that caution is required when treatment with VPA is combined with pivmecillinam due to the risk of developing hyperammonemic encephalopathy.
We studied the effects of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-benzodiazepine receptor agonists and glutamate receptor antagonists on levofloxacin (LVFX)- and ciprofloxacin (CPFX)-induced convulsions using intrathecal (i.t.) injections in mice. We also studied the effects of these agonists and antagonists on exacerbated convulsions induced by coadministration of the quinolone with 4-biphenylacetic acid (BPAA). The agonists or antagonists were injected i.t. 5 min and BPAA was administered orally 30 min before a single i.t. injection of the quinolone (10 microliters per animal). The animals were observed for clonic convulsion and death, and latency times to the appearance of convulsion were determined. Among the agonists, baclofen showed marked inhibition of both LVFX- and CPFX-induced convulsions, while other compounds such as GABA, muscimol, diazepam, and 3-aminopropylphosphonic acid had slight effects. Among the antagonists, kynurenic acid showed the strongest inhibition of convulsions caused by all doses of LVFX and CPFX and prolonged latency times; gamma-glutamyl-aminomethylsulfonic acid (GAMS) also markedly inhibited convulsions. The antagonists D-AP-5, AP-7, and 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (DNQX) had slight effects. Additionally, GAMS, DNQX, and MK-801 significantly lowered the incidence of death in the groups treated with CPFX. The enhanced convulsive activities of LVFX or CPFX by pretreatment with BPAA were clearly blocked by baclofen, kynurenic acid, GAMS, and DNQX. D-AP-5 and AP-7 also showed clear effects on the activity of LVFX. These results suggest that LVFX has fewer effects on the brains than CPFX and that convulsions induced by these quinolones alone and by these quinolones administered with BPAA may be mediated largely through glutamate and GABA(B) rather than GABA(A) receptors in mice.
The modifying effects of concurrent treatment with high or low doses of butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA) on wide-spectrum carcinogen-induced carcinogenesis were studied in male F344 rats. Groups of 20 animals were treated with 2 or 0.04% BHA for 24 weeks. Starting 2 weeks after the commencement of BHA treatment, they were given s.c. injection of 50 mg/kg body weight 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl (DMAB) once a week, i.g. administrations of 200 mg/kg body weight 2,2'-dihydroxy-di-n-propylnitrosamine (DHPN) once every 2 weeks, or i.p. injection of 15 mg/kg body weight N-methylnitrosourea (MNU) once every 2 weeks for 22 weeks. Further groups of rats were treated with DMAB, DHPN, MNU, or 2 or 0.04% BHA alone. All surviving animals were killed 24 weeks after the beginning of the experiment and the target organs examined histopathologically. The BHA treatment dose-dependently decreased the incidence of DMAB-induced liver preneoplastic lesions but was associated with significant tumor induction in the forestomach (papillomas, 40%, P less than 0.01) and urinary bladder (papillomas, 53%, P less than 0.001; carcinomas, 80%, P less than 0.001), where no lesions were observed in the group given only DMAB. Concurrent administration of 2% BHA also significantly inhibited the development of alveolar hyperplasia (P less than 0.001) of the lung in DHPN-treated animals, while enhancing induction of forestomach papillomas (P less than 0.05) and simple hyperplasia in the urinary bladder. Neither MNU nor 2% BHA alone induced forestomach carcinoma or papillary or nodular hyperplasia (PN hyperplasia) in the urinary bladder. However, these lesions were observed in 100% (P less than 0.001) and 55% (P less than 0.001) of animals respectively, receiving the two compounds in combination. These results demonstrated that concurrent treatment with BHA not only inhibits but can also strongly enhance carcinogenesis depending on the organ, irrespective of whether the carcinogens act directly or require metabolism. The finding that BHA potently modified carcinogenesis at 0.04% in diet, 1/50 of the carcinogenic dose, suggests that actual dietary levels close to the human situation might play a significant role in tumor development in man.
Acute renal insufficiency associated to cocaine consumption is well known, and normally secondary to rhabdomyolisis. The possibility that renal failure is related to hypertension and to renal histopathological findings indistinguishable of other malignant hypertension conditions is a not as well known fact. Certain derivatives of cocaine are powerful vasospasm inducers, which could be the key of the origin of the ischemic lesions that appears not only in the kidney but in other organs, especially in the nervous system. We present four patients with acute renal insufficiency, two of them because of malignant hypertension, another one because of cocaine consumption with very severe ischemic neurological lesions, but reversible with the withdrawal of the drug, and another one because of rhabdomyolisis. The latest patient had a different evolution probably related to the different habit of consumption and perhaps as a consequence of different derivatives of cocaine.
BMI-1 is a member of the polycomb group of genes (PcGs), and it has been implicated in the development and progression of several malignancies, but its role in osteosarcoma remains to be elucidated.
In the present study, we found that BMI-1 was overexpressed in different types of osteosarcomas. Downregulation of BMI-1 by lentivirus mediated RNA interference (RNAi) significantly impaired cell viability and colony formation in vitro and tumorigenesis in vivo of osteosarcoma cells. BMI-1 knockdown sensitized cells to cisplatin-induced apoptosis through inhibition of PI3K/AKT pathway. Moreover, BMI-1-depletion-induced phenotype could be rescued by forced expression of BMI-1 wobble mutant which is resistant to inhibition by the small interfering RNA (siRNA).
These findings suggest a crucial role for BMI-1 in osteosarcoma pathogenesis.
No clinical parameter other than "sufficient" dopamine denervation and exposure to exogenous levodopa has been unquestionably linked to dyskinesia in levodopa-treated Parkinson's disease patients.
We retrospectively analyzed data on 100 consecutive patients treated with levodopa for 1 to 18 years to identify clinical risk factors for dyskinesia. The cumulative dyskinesia-free survival probability in relation to levodopa therapy was assessed using the Kaplan-Meier method.
Overall, 56% of patients developed dyskinesia after a mean of 2.9 years, a figure similar to the average duration of levodopa treatment in the non-dyskinetic group. Dyskinetic patients were significantly younger at disease onset, but their mean latency to dyskinesia induction after levodopa initiation was not different from older dyskinetic individuals and the overall dyskinesia-free survival of younger subjects was not worse either. Dyskinetic patients were on a higher daily levodopa dose than non-dyskinetic subjects when dyskinesia emerged, but the cumulative levodopa dose used prior to dyskinesia did not discriminate dyskinetic from non-dyskinetic patients. A delay in initiating levodopa therapy of more than three years after disease onset and levodopa treatment initiation in Hoehn-Yahr stage II compared to stage I patients did not increase the probability of developing dyskinesia over time.
Since withholding levodopa therapy did not increase the risk for dyskinesia in our patients and can delay the emergence of dyskinesia after onset of parkinsonian symptom, a trial with a dopaminomimetic agonist as initial treatment appears logical.
Associations of functional single nucleotide polymorphisms in cytochrome P450 1B1, epoxide hydrolase 1, NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase 1, glutathione S-transferase Pi-1 and deletions of glutathione S-transferases Mu-1 and θ-1 with colorectal cancer risk were investigated in a hospital-based case-control study on 495 matched pairs of Czech Caucasians. Polymorphisms were assessed by polymerase chain reaction restriction fragment length polymorphism-based methods, allele-specific multiplex and allelic discrimination by real-time polymerase chain reaction. Carriers of variant Ser allele in codon 453 of cytochrome P450 1B1 (rs1800440) were at a significantly lower risk of colorectal cancer compared to carriers of the wild-type allele (adjusted odds ratio, aOR=0.68, CI=0.51-0.89, p=0.006). The combination of polymorphisms in codons 453 and 432 (rs1056836) of cytochrome P450 1B1 further increased the protective effect (aOR=0.53, CI=0.34-0.83, p=0.005). The glutathione S-transferase Mu-1 deletion was associated with a moderately elevated colorectal cancer risk (aOR=1.30, CI=1.01-1.68, p=0.044). Combination of glutathione S-transferase Mu-1 and θ-1 deletion was associated with a significantly higher colorectal cancer risk compared to the presence of both full-length genes (aOR=1.58, CI=1.01-2.47, p=0.044). Genetic polymorphisms in glutathione S-transferase Pi-1, NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase 1, epoxide hydrolase 1 and deduced epoxid hydrolase 1 activity did not modify the risk of colorectal cancer. These results provide further evidence that interaction between metabolic gene variants contributes to colorectal carcinogenesis.
Kindling has been suggested as a possible mechanism for cocaine-induced seizures in chronic cocaine abusers, even though no convincing examples have been reported. We report a 37-year-old woman who initially experienced generalized tonic-clonic seizures (GTC) only immediately after "crack" use. She had a normal examination, negative family or past history for seizures, and normal cranial computed tomography and EEG. After she had abused cocaine almost daily for 2 years, her EEG demonstrated bitemporal slowing with independent spikes, and seizures were no longer temporally associated with acute cocaine use. Thereafter, despite complete abstinence from cocaine and treatment with phenytoin, she continued to experience four to six GTC a month. In light of the lack of other predisposing factors for epilepsy, this case may represent an example of cocaine-induced kindling in humans.
Chronic exposure to carbon disulfide (CS2) can induce polyneuropathy in occupational worker and experimental animals, but underlying mechanism for CS2 neurotoxicity is currently unknown. In the present study, male Wistar rats were randomly divided into two experimental groups and one control group. The rats in two experimental groups were treated with CS2 by gavage at dosages of 300 and 500 mg/kg per day, respectively, five times per week for 12 weeks. The contents of neurofilament triplet proteins (NF-H, NF-M, NF-L) and two calpain isoforms (m-calpain and u-calpain) in sciatic nerves were determined by immunoblotting. In the meantime, the mRNA levels of NF-H, NF-M and NF-L in spinal cords were quantified by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, and the total activity of calpains in sciatic nerves was measured by fluorescence assay. Results showed that the contents of NF-M and NF-L in CS2-treated rats sciatic nerves increased significantly except NF-M in low dose group. The contents and activity of m-calpain and u-calpain in sciatic nerve also demonstrated a significant elevation. Furthermore, the levels of mRNA expression of NFH, NFM and NFL genes were up-regulated consistently in spinal cords of treated rats. These findings suggested that CS2 intoxication was associated with the disruption of neurofilaments homeostasis and activiation of calpains in rat sciatic nerves, which might be involved in the development of CS2-induced peripheral neuropathy.
Renal function in 32 patients treated with lithium for an average period of 10 years was reexamined 2 years after the first examination. A markedly influenced tubular function leading to increased urine volume (average 3 litres/24 h) and decreased renal concentrating capacity was still found, whereas glomerular function remained unimpaired in nearly all of the patients. No statistically significant changes in renal functions were observed at the follow-up examination. The results were compared with the same renal functional tests obtained from a control group consisting of 53 patients with affective disorders never treated with lithium. The control group had a significantly lower urine output (average 2 litres/24 h), but lithium-treated patients on a one-dose schedule had an average urine volume of only 500 ml/24 h more than the controls. In conclusion, this prospective study found no evidence of a progressive impairment of glomerular or tubular function in lithium-treated patients reexamined after 2 years. Patients with affective disorders never treated with lithium had normal renal concentrating capacity.
A clinical case of a patient in whom seizure developed after topical application of lidocaine to the oropharyngeal region was described. The exploratory studies on the optimal dosage of lidocaine in the surgery under laryngomicroscope was performed in 22 patients. During the application of 2% lidocaine viscous and 4% lidocaine solution to the oropharyngeal region, the patient was instructed to expectorate the excess intermittently to avoid absorption. In addition, the oropharyngeal region was swabbed with gauze. The serum lidocaine concentrations after application were less than 1.8 micrograms/ml. The total application dose of the drug was within the range of 324 to 640 mg, and the total recovery rate from the saliva and gauze was 52% to 81%. We found a good correlation between net application dose (total application dose minus excessive lidocaine dose) and serum lidocaine concentration. In this study, it was shown that the safe and effective net application dose of lidocaine for the surgery may be within the range of 127 to 260 mg.
Inflammatory and oxidative events are present in neurodegenerative disorders and appear to contribute to initiation and/or progression of the disease. Within the brain, redox-active metals, such as manganese, play an important role as components of proteins essential for neural function. However, increasing evidence implies its participation in neurodegenerative diseases involving immune modulation. Prostaglandins (PGs) are lipid mediators that participate in the regulation of physiological and pathophysiological processes, particularly during brain inflammation. In this study, we investigated whether the immune modulating action of manganese involved regulation of PGE2 production in cortical astrocytes. Within non-toxic concentrations, manganese caused an elevation in the expression of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) mRNA and protein and increased PGE2 release. Manganese potentiated COX-2 expression and PGE2 generation by lipopolysaccharide/interferon-gamma-activated astrocytes. The inductive action of manganese was accompanied by generation of oxidative stress, activation of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), AKT, and protein kinase C-alpha (PKC-alpha), and increased NF-kappaB and AP-1 DNA binding activities. The generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) was critical to manganese-induced changes in astrocytes, including MAPKs, PKC-alpha, NF-kappaB, AP-1, and COX-2 expression but not AKT. Collectively, these data indicate that manganese might cause changes in neural activity through the modulation of oxidative and inflammatory events in astrocytes.
We retrospectively evaluated three fluent asthmatic children who developed speech dysfluency following administration of theophylline. The dysfluency ceased in all three, following discontinuation of the medication. The medication was re-instituted in two patients, prompting return of dysfluency. It is unknown whether the patients had characteristics of "acquired stuttering" or "developmental stuttering." We urge appropriate testing should this complication again occur. This might then provide pharmacologic information regarding stuttering.
Calcitriol is increasingly used for therapy of secondary hyperparathyroidism in patients with end-stage renal disease. Its therapeutic efficacy, however, often has been limited by the associated increase in intestinal calcium and phosphorus absorption. Previous studies reported that these side effects could be avoided by intermittent administration of calcitriol in high doses, subsequently referred to as pulse therapy. The present study was designed to investigate pulse oral calcitriol therapy in a patient subgroup especially susceptible to the development of hypercalcemia and hyperphosphatemia under standard continuous calcitriol treatment. We examined 15 peritoneal dialysis patients with moderate degrees of hyperparathyroidism (intact parathyroid hormone [iPTH] levels, 150 to 903 pg/mL) ingesting between 1.5 and 6 g of calcium salts as the sole phosphate binders. Treatment consisted of 0.5 microgram calcitriol twice weekly. Eight of these patients had been previously converted to low calcium dialysate to tolerate the necessary doses of phosphate-binding calcium salts. During the study period, comprising 8 pretreatment weeks and 8 weeks of therapy, dialysates and doses of calcium salts were not changed, so that only calcitriol influenced the determined parameters. As expected, iPTH levels decreased rapidly in all patients (P < 0.0001). However, within 4 weeks of treatment a marked increase in calcium phosphorus products was observed (P < 0.0001). Overt hypercalcemia developed in five patients. We concluded that pulse oral calcitriol has to be carefully monitored in peritoneal dialysis patients receiving high doses of calcium salts because of the increased risk for hypercalcemia and hyperphosphatemia.
A 34-year-old obese woman with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection diagnosed a year earlier was seen because of nausea, vomiting, and intermittent diarrhea for 3 weeks. Her current medications included zidovudine. Physical examination revealed tachypnea and tender hepatomegaly. Computed tomography of the abdomen showed hepatomegaly with fatty infiltration. Liver enzymes were within normal range except for elevated lactate dehydrogenase (LDH). The serum bicarbonate value was low, with a lactate level three times normal. The tachypnea and dyspnea worsened as lactate concentrations rapidly increased to 15 times normal. Although her Po2 and cardiac index were initially adequate, the patient had acute respiratory failure. She died with multiorgan dysfunction, including hepatic failure, severe lactic acidemia, disseminated intravascular coagulation, and renal failure. Autopsy revealed hepatomegaly and massive steatosis. Physicians should consider lactic acidosis in patients taking zidovudine and having unexplained tachypnea, dyspnea, and low serum bicarbonate concentrations.
Benzene is known to produce hematotoxicity in occupational exposure workers. This study examined the utility of metabonomic biomarkers to ascertain subacute toxicity produced by benzene in male C3H/He mice. A 30-d intermittent collection of urine was obtained from mice in this experiment. The relative organ weights, blood parameters, and bone marrow smears were examined to identify specific changes of benzene-induced toxicity. In addition, an integrated analytical approach based on liquid chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry (LC-MS) was developed to map metabolic responses in urine. Five endogenous metabolites, hypoxanthine, spermidine, 4-aminohippuric acid, indolelactic acid, and glutamylphenylalanine, were identified as potential biomarkers of benzene-induced toxicity, indicating that pathways of purine, spermidine, fatty acid, tryptophan, and peptides metabolism might be disturbed in benzene-exposed mice. Our findings showed that the use of urine metabonomics was a more sensitive tool to detect benzene-induced toxicity compared to body weight or blood parameter changes.
We report a case of a 35-year-old patient with acute pancreatitis after administration of ceftriaxone. She was given ceftriaxone (2g/day) for 9 days because of diverticulitis of the colon. She was admitted to our hospital again because of epigastralgia 12 days after the first administration of ceftriaxone. Laboratory examination showed markedly elevated serum amylase, and CT scan demonstrated findings consistent with acute pancreatitis, in addition to sludge in the common bile duct and gall bladder, which was not identified before the administration of ceftriaxone. We should be aware of the fact that administration of ceftriaxone sometimes results in the formation of biliary sludge and can cause severe adverse events such as cholecystitis and pancreatitis, not only in children, but also in adult patients.
The relationship of arthritis and sexual dysfunction was investigated among 169 patients with rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis and spondyloarthropathy, 130 of whom were pair-matched to controls. Assessments of marital happiness and depressed mood were also made using the CES-D and the Azrin Marital Happiness Scale (AMHS). Sexual dysfunctions were found to be common among patients and controls, the majority in both groups reporting one or more dysfunctions. Impotence was more common among male patients than controls and was found to be associated with co-morbidity and the taking of methotrexate. Depressed mood was more common among patients and was associated with certain sexual difficulties, but not with impotence. Marital unhappiness, as indicated by AMHS scores, was not associated with arthritis but was associated with sexual dysfunction, sexual dissatisfaction and being female.
Radon and radon progeny inhalation exposure are recognized to induce lung cancer. To explore the role of mitochondria in radon-induced carcinogenesis in humans, an in vitro partially depleted mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) cell line (ρ-) was generated by treatment of human bronchial epithelial (HBE) cells (ρ+) with ethidium bromide (EB). The characterization of ρ- cells indicated the presence of dysfunctional mitochondria and might thus serve a reliable model to investigate the role of mitochondria. In a gas inhalation chamber, ρ- and ρ+ cells were exposed to radon gas produced by a radium source. Results showed that apoptosis was significantly increased both in ρ- and ρ+ cells irradiated by radon. Moreover, apoptosis in ρ- cells showed a lower level than in ρ+ cells. Radon was further found to depress mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) of HBE cells with knockdown mtDNA. Production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) was markedly elevated both in ρ- and ρ+ cells exposed to radon. The distribution of phases of cell cycle was different in ρ- compared to ρ+ cells. Radon irradiation induced a rise in G2/M and decrease in S phase in ρ+ cells. In ρ- cells, G1, G2/M, and S populations remained similar to cells exposed to radon. In conclusion, radon-induced changes in ROS generation, MMP and cell cycle are all attributed to reduction of apoptosis, which may trigger and promote cell transformation, leading to carcinogenesis. Our study indicates that the use of the ρ- knockdown mtDNA HBE cells may serve as a reliable model to study the role played by mitochondria in carcinogenic diseases.
