The aim of this study was to examine the antitumour activity of resveratrol in human colorectal cancer cell lines (HCT116 and Caco2) and to explore its mechanism of action assuming that it is by calorie-restriction effect. Resveratrol inhibited the proliferation of colon cancer cells with half maximal inhibitory concentration (IC(50)) equal to 50 and 130 μM for HCT116 and Caco2, respectively. Caco2 cells appeared with significant time-dependent increase in the glycolytic pathway, a behaviour that was absent in HCT116 cells. Resveratrol (100 μM) significantly decreased the glycolytic enzymes (pyruvate kinase and lactate dehydrogenase) in Caco2 cells, while an increase in citrate synthase activity and a decrease in glucose consumption were observed in both cell lines. Moreover, resveratrol downregulated the expressions of leptin and c-Myc, and decreased the content of vascular endothelial growth factor. The apoptotic markers, caspases 3 and 8, were activated and the Bax/BCl2 ratio was increased. The study suggested a promising anticancer activity of resveratrol, calorie-restriction pathway may be one of the driving forces for this activity.
A case of recurarization in the recovery room is reported. Accumulation of atracurium in the intravenous line led to recurarization after flushing the line in the recovery room. A respiratory arrest with severe desaturation and bradycardia occurred. Circumstances leading to this event and the mechanisms enabling a neuromuscular blockade to occur, following the administration of a small dose of relaxant, are discussed.
Thrombotic complications of heparin administration were observed in eight patients during a two year period. At sites of subcutaneous heparin injection, six patients developed areas of the skin and subcutaneous necrosis. Systemic thrombotic events and thrombocytopenia were observed in two of these patients when they received intravenous heparin and in two other patients who did not have primary skin necrosis. The complications included peripheral ischemia in three patients (two requiring amputation), myocardial infarction in two, and a cerebral infarction in one. All patients were receiving heparin for at least six days before complications occurred. Seven patients received heparin of bovine origin. Heparin-induced in vitro platelet aggregation was present in all six of the eight patients tested. (It was marked in four of these patients). It is theorized that skin necrosis and the other thrombotic complications observed are the result of heparin-induced in vivo platelet aggregation followed by intravascular thrombosis. Heparin-induced skin necrosis is a rare but serious hazard encountered with prophylactic heparin regimens. If heparin-induced thrombosis is present, the further use of heparin is contraindicated in most instances.
Manganese superoxide dismutase (SOD2) is an enzyme that catalyses the dismutation of superoxide in the mitochondria, leading to reduced levels of reactive oxygen species. Reduced expression levels of SOD2 have been shown to result in increased DNA damage and sod2 heterozygous mice have increased incidences of cancer. It has also been shown that SOD2 expression is lost in pancreatic cell lines, with reintroduction of SOD2 resulting in decreased rate of proliferation. The mechanism of decreased SOD2 expression in pancreatic carcinoma has not been previously determined. We demonstrate, through sodium bisulphite sequencing, that the sod2 locus is methylated in some pancreatic cell lines leading to a corresponding decrease in SOD2 expression. Methylation can be reversed by treatment with zebularine, a methyltransferase inhibitor, resulting in restored SOD2 expression. Furthermore, we demonstrate that sensitivity of pancreatic carcinoma cell lines to 2-methoxyestradiol correlates with SOD2 expression and SOD2 modulation can alter the sensitivity of these cells. Using both genomics and proteomics, we also identify molecular consequences of SOD2 expression in MIA-PaCa2 cells, including dephosphorylation of VEGFR2 and the identification of both SOD2-regulated genes and transcription factors with altered binding activity in response to SOD2 expression.
Several lines of evidence indicate a role for neurokinin3 receptors (NK3-Rs) in behavioural activation and mechanisms governing reinforcement processes. In this study we investigated the effect of pretreatment with the NK3-R antagonist, SR142801, (0.2 and 2.0 mg/kg) on the cocaine-induced (10.0 mg/kg i.p.) increase in extracellular dopaminergic activity in the nucleus accumbens (NAc). In vivo microdialysis in the NAc of freely moving rats showed that cocaine increased concentrations of dopamine (DA) to approximately 350% in the core and approximately 450% in the shell. Pre-treatment with SR142801 significantly potentiated this effect in the core (to approximately 550%), whereas this effect was not found in the shell. We also investigated the effects of NK3-Rs antagonism on cocaine-induced hyperactivity and conditioned place preference. SR142801 blocked the hyperactivity, but neither the conditioned place preference nor the conditioned locomotor activity induced by cocaine, although there was a slight tendency towards a reduced place preference. When given alone, SR142801 had no effects on behaviour or extracellular dopamine concentrations in any of the structures investigated. These data provide evidence for a contribution of NK3-Rs in the acute behavioural and neurochemical effects of cocaine, involving dopaminergic activity in the core of the nucleus accumbens.
The sequential changes of cell morphology and the ratio distribution of the different types of cells which exist in tubular cysts induced by methylprednisolone acetate have been studied by light, transmission and scanning electron microscopy. We have also studied the blood levels of sodium and potassium by flame photometry. In both control and cystic ducts, at the level of the outer cortex, the first intercalated cells (IC) were not observed until the 4th postnatal day. Some intermediate cell configurations were observed during the 3rd postnatal day, suggesting that some primitive principal cells (PC) are transformed into IC. Development of IC seems to be independent of both the effects of corticoids and the blood levels of potassium. The ratio distribution and the types of IC observed throughout the period studied was similar in both normal and cystic ducts. The type of IC characterized by the presence of a huge apical process, which has gone previously undescribed with either TEM or SEM, was observed in both control and cystic ducts. We propose to name these cells as cells with surface pattern type V. During the period of regression of the tubular cysts dead and migrating cells were observed closely associated with cilia of the PC. Both types of cells do not seem to represent, based in their localization and frequency, abnormal cell types of the cyst wall. Our results support the hypothesis that renal cysts are giant collecting ducts which conserve both the morphology and the function of the epithelium.
Cocaine affects sensory perception and attention, but little is known about the neural substrates underlying these effects in the human brain. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and a sustained visuospatial attention task to assess if the visual attention network is dysfunctional in cocaine abusers (n=14) compared to age-, gender-, and education-matched controls (n=14). Compared with controls, cocaine abusers showed (1) hypo-activation of the thalamus, which may reflect noradrenergic and/or dopaminergic deficits; (2) hyper-activation in occipital and prefrontal cortices, which may reflect increased visual cortical processing to compensate for inefficient visual thalamic processing; and (3) larger deactivation of parietal and frontal regions possibly to support the larger hemodynamic supply to the hyper-activated brain regions. These findings provide evidence of abnormalities in thalamo-cortical responses in cocaine abusers that are likely to contribute to the impairments in sensory processing and in attention. The development of therapies that diminish these thalamo-cortical deficits could improve the treatment of cocaine addiction.
Linezolid, a fluorinated oxazolidinone, is the first of a new class of antimicrobials designed to target resistant gram-positive cocci. Hematologic adverse effects, including reversible thrombocytopenia, were reported during phase III comparator-controlled trials. A 66-year-old man developed sternal osteomyelitis due to methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus after undergoing coronary artery bypass graft surgery. Methicillin-resistant S. aureus bacteremia developed after several surgical debridements and courses of vancomycin failed to improve the patient's condition. Oral linezolid 600 mg twice/day was begun; 17 days later, a complete blood count revealed that his hematocrit had decreased from 37.4% to 24.8%, and his platelet count had decreased from 234 x 10(3)/mm3 to 149 x 10(3)/mm3. Both values returned to normal after linezolid was discontinued. Complete blood counts should be monitored closely in patients taking linezolid, especially if therapy continues for more than 14 days.
Gram-negative septicemia due to central venous catheter-related infection is a leading cause of mortality and morbidity among patients who undergo hemodialysis. Antibiotic-heparin locks are valuable for preserving access sites and lowering the cost and inconvenience associated with central venous catheter replacement and surgical interventions. The optimal duration of use of an antibiotic-heparin lock is unknown. Prolonged use of an amikacin-heparin lock may lead to severe irreversible sensory-neural hearing loss. Patients at risk for this complication should be monitored for its emergence to facilitate early detection. A 43-year-old man with diabetic end-stage renal disease received hemodialysis through a permanent catheter. After 16 weeks of using an amikacin-heparin lock, he suddenly developed sensory-neural hearing loss of 40 dB, which affected high frequencies. His condition progressed relentlessly within 1 week despite immediate discontinuation of the amikacin-heparin lock. The patient developed severe irreversible hearing loss below 80 dB for both high and low frequencies.
We analyzed the clinical, laboratory, and radiologic data in nine patients who sustained an intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) after receiving intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) and heparin for treatment of acute myocardial infarction (MI). Our purpose was to delineate the clinical and radiologic features of the ICHs, as well as to determine their potential risk factors and mechanisms.
Among 1,700 patients with an acute MI treated with an investigational two-chain rt-PA, duteplase (Burroughs Wellcome Co., Research Triangle Park, NC), nine (0.53%) developed symptomatic ICH. Neurologic symptoms occurred between 7 and 96 hours after onset of rt-PA therapy. All patients received heparin concomitantly for prevention of coronary reocclusion. The activated partial thromboplastin times (aPTTs) in five of eight (63%) patients at onset of ICH were excessively prolonged (greater than two times control); hypofibrinogenemia occurred in only one of five (20%) patients tested; and thrombocytopenia was present in only one of the nine (11%) patients. Fibrin degradation products (FDPs) were elevated in all five patients tested. Minor hemorrhage (not requiring transfusion) outside the central nervous system occurred in five of the nine patients with ICH. The ICHs were often of lobar location and of moderate to large size. They occurred at multiple sites in three patients, and were fatal in four instances (44%).
The incidence of ICH in this series was low, and consistent with figures reported from studies with alteplase in patients with acute MI. The mechanisms of these hemorrhages remain unclear; while hypofibrinogenemia was not a uniform finding, excessive prolongation of the aPTT and elevated FDPs may have contributed to the occurrence of ICH in some patients. Still unidentified local cerebrovascular factors may play an additional role in causing ICH. In order to further clarify the mechanisms of ICH in the setting of thrombolytic therapy, prospective data collection on probable risk factors for ICH in patients with acute MI treated with rt-PA will be required.
An elderly patient with a history of chronic migraine was hospitalized with systolic hypertension and significant mental status changes, including increasing confusion, combative behavior, and remarkably detailed auditory hallucinations of several weeks' duration. Daily increased consumption of a product containing ergotamine 1 mg and caffeine 100 mg coincided with both onset and increasing severity of symptoms. To our knowledge, this is the first case reported in the contemporary literature of severe mental status changes and hallucination possibly due to ergotamine-caffeine.
Hypertriglyceridemia is a well-recognized complication of protease inhibitor therapy, specifically ritonavir. Fibrate derivatives are recommended as first-line therapy for isolated triglyceride elevations, and gemfibrozil has been successful for managing protease inhibitor-induced lipid changes. A 35-year-old man experienced sexual dysfunction 3 weeks after starting gemfibrozil. The temporal relationship and improvement in sexual function after the drug was discontinued suggest that gemfibrozil may have been responsible for his sexual dysfunction.
Two patients experienced amnesia after taking zolpidem 5 and 10 mg. Neither patient could recall telephone conversations that took place within an hour of taking the drug. The first patient placed a call shortly after ingestion; the second took the dose, fell asleep, and was awakened by the call. Health care providers should be aware of the possibility that in some patients, sedative-hypnotic agents such as zolpidem may produce amnesia that begins a short time after ingestion and may persist into the sleep cycle. This may be particularly important in individuals who, after taking a hypnotic agent, may have to make significant decisions that they must be able to remember.
Sertraline is a member of the newest class of antidepressants, the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. Due to its inherent selectivity and its lack of action with norepinephrine, dopamine, monoamine oxidase, and cholinergic receptors, this drug is unlikely to have any cardiovascular activity. A patient receiving sertraline for depression developed dizziness and orthostatic hypotension on repeated attempts to discontinue the drug. All other organic factors were ruled out. The hypotension was proved to be secondary to sertraline by repeated rechallenges. After a variety of attempted treatments, the agent was discontinued successfully through an extended titration period. This report should guide clinicians in treating patients with a similar problem.
BACKGROUND: We investigated trends in antidepressant use, as well as broader changes in depression treatment, following the availability of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). METHOD: Using data from the National Disease and Therapeutic Index, a nationally representative survey of U.S. office-based physicians conducted by IMS HEALTH, we analyzed trends in antidepressant prescribing patterns from 1987 through the third quarter of 2001. Annual sample sizes of physician visits by patients reported to have depression ranged from 3901 visits in 1987 to 6639 in 1998. Outcomes examined included the frequency of depression visits, the likelihood of antidepressant therapy, and the use of specific medications. RESULTS: The estimated national number of physician visits by patients with depression increased from 14.4 million visits in 1987 to 24.5 million in 2001 (annualized). The rate of antidepressant medication treatment in these patients also increased from 70% in 1987 to 89% in 2001. In 1987, tricyclic antidepressants were prescribed to 47% of patients with depression. The most common individual antidepressants were amitriptyline (14%), trazodone (12%), doxepin (8%), and desipramine (6%). In 1989, a year after its introduction, fluoxetine was prescribed to 21% of patients with depression. The introduction of other SSRIs led aggregate SSRI use to grow to 38% in 1992, 60% in 1996, and 69% in 2000. In 2001, sertraline (18%), paroxetine (16%), fluoxetine (14%), citalopram (13%), and bupropion (9%) were the leading antidepressants, while tricyclics were used in only 2% of patients. The use of benzodiazepines in depression declined from 21% of patients in 1987 to 8% in 2001. CONCLUSION: The increasing therapeutic dominance of SSRIs may have contributed to other changes in depression treatment, including declining benzodiazepine use, increased aggregate antidepressant treatment rates, and increased reporting of depression.
(1) Bupropion, which is also called amfebutamone, is an amphetamine marketed to assist with smoking withdrawal. (2) A registry of pregnancies exposed to bupropion has shown a higher-than-expected frequency of neonatal cardiac malformations: 7 of the 10 newborns with malformations had cardiac anomalies (70% of malformations), compared to about 25% in the general population. (3) An increased risk of birth defects, particularly cardiac malformations, is also suspected after exposure to amphetamine derivatives during pregnancy. (4) In practice, these disturbing data are one more reason not to use bupropion, a drug with a negative risk-benefit balance, even outside of pregnancy.
A strong negative correlation between polyphenols consumption and coronary heart disease has been extensively documented. These results prompted investigations on the mechanisms responsible for polyphenols effects in cardiovascular disease. The aim of this work was to investigate in apoE KO mice the effect of P183/1 (a mixture of cathechin, caffeic acid and resveratrol) on atherosclerosis and gene expression patterns in the vascular wall. ApoE KO mice were fed a diet supplemented with P183/1, 40 and 160 mg/kg body weight/day for 8 weeks. The supplementation with the high dose of P183/1 significantly reduced the presence of atherosclerotic plaque by 40 and 36% in the aortic sinus and in the ascending aorta, respectively. This reduction was associated with a reduced expression of markers for macrophages, lymphocytes (both Th1 and Th2) and of MCP-1, MIP-1alpha, MIP-1beta, CCR1, CCR2 and ET1 in the vascular wall. In conclusion, P183/1 supplementation significantly decreases atherosclerosis in ApoE KO mice by affecting inflammatory cells recruitment and expression of pro-inflammatory chemokines in the vascular wall.
Previous studies have shown that dietary copper deficiency causes cardiac hypertrophy and depression of vascular epithelial growth factor (VEGF) expression in mouse model. Copper replenishment in the diet reverses cardiac hypertrophy and restores VEGF expression. The present study was undertaken to specifically determine the role of VEGF in copper effect on cell hypertrophy. Embryonic rat cardiac H9c2 cells were exposed to hydrogen peroxide to develop hypertrophy, determined by increases in cell size and total protein content. Copper addition at 5 microM in cultures suppressed cell hypertrophy. In the presence of anti-VEGF antibody, copper inhibitory effect on cell hypertrophy was blunted, and VEGF alone mimicked the inhibitory effect of copper. The results thus demonstrated that VEGF is critically involved in copper inhibition of cell hypertrophy induced by hydrogen peroxide in the H9c2 cells.
It is unclear whether the mechanism of death from local anesthetic (LA) intoxication is primarily a consequence of cardiac arrhythmias or myocardial contractile depression, and whether LAs might differ in this susceptibility to these two mechanisms. By using programmable electrical stimulation (PES) protocols in anesthetized, ventilated dogs, we compared the arrhythmogenic potential of bupivacaine (BUP), ropivacaine (ROP), levobupivacaine (LBUP), and lidocaine (LIDO). Open-chest dogs were randomized to receive escalating incremental infusions of the four local anesthetics until cardiovascular collapse. We assumed a concentration relationship of 4:1 for LIDO/BUP, LBUP, and ROP. The effective refractory period did not change significantly until the dose increment corresponding to target concentrations of 8 and 32 microg/mL for BUP, LBUP, ROP, and LIDO, respectively. Thirty percent to 50% increases in effective refractory period occurred in surviving dogs at this dose. The incidence of spontaneous or PES-induced ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation did not differ among groups. Compared with LIDO, the incidence of PES-induced extrasystoles was more frequent for BUP- and LBUP-treated dogs (P: < 0.05). ROP-treated dogs did not differ from LIDO-treated dogs with respect to PES-induced extrasystoles. At the dose increment preceding cardiovascular collapse, all LAs produced significant increases in heart rate and reductions in blood pressure compared with their respective baseline values. The incidence of programmable electrical stimulation-induced ventricular tachycardia and fibrillation with BUP does not differ from the incidence that occurs with the single S:(-) enantiomers LBUP and ROP, providing further evidence against stereoselective arrhythmogenesis as a primary component of local anesthetic-induced cardiotoxicity.
Progressive bupivacaine intoxication in anesthetized, ventilated dogs does not produce early arrhythmogenic events. The incidence of programmable electrical stimulation-induced ventricular tachycardia and fibrillation with bupivacaine does not differ from the incidence that occurs with the single S:(-) enantiomers levobupivacaine and ropivacaine, providing further evidence against stereoselective arrhythmogenesis as a primary component of local anesthetic-induced cardiotoxicity.
Neurobiological research has implicated the dopamine and serotonin systems in the pathogenesis of autism. Open-label reports suggest that the serotonin2A-dopamine D2 antagonist risperidone may be safe and effective in reducing the interfering symptoms of patients with autism.
Thirty-one adults (age [mean+/-SD], 28.1+/-7.3 years) with autistic disorder (n=17) or pervasive developmental disorder not otherwise specified (n=14) participated in a 12-week double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of risperidone. Patients treated with placebo subsequently received a 12-week open-label trial of risperidone.
For persons completing the study, 8 (57%) of 14 patients treated with risperidone were categorized as responders (daily dose [mean+/-SD], 2.9+/-1.4 mg) compared with none of 16 in the placebo group (P<.002). Risperidone was superior to placebo in reducing repetitive behavior (P<.001), aggression (P<.001), anxiety or nervousness (P<.02), depression (P<.03), irritability (P<.01), and the overall behavioral symptoms of autism (P<.02). Objective, measurable change in social behavior and language did not occur. Nine (60%) of 15 patients who received treatment with open-label risperidone following the double-blind placebo phase responded. Other than mild, transient sedation, risperidone was well tolerated, with no evidence of extrapyramidal effects, cardiac events, or seizures.
Risperidone is more effective than placebo in the short-term treatment of symptoms of autism in adults.
To identify risk factors for the development of seizures and cardiac arrhythmias after chronic, unintentional theophylline intoxication we monitored the clinical course of 72 consecutive patients referred to a regional poison center with chronic theophylline intoxication (serum theophylline concentration, greater than or equal to 167 mumol/L after protracted use). The median age of the sample was 47.5 years (range, 4 days to 91 years). Median peak theophylline concentration was 239 mumol/L, with a range of 167 to 722 mumol/L. A life-threatening event (LTE) occurred in 28 patients (39%) that included seizures in eight and a major cardiac arrhythmia in 22. The median peak (theophylline) of patients who had an LTE vs those who did not was 235.8 vs 238.7 mumol/L. However, the median age of patients with an LTE compared with those without an LTE was significantly greater (70.5 vs 18.0 years). Stratification of data by chronologic age revealed a stepwise increase in the frequency of LTE with advancing years: patients more than 75 years old had a 16.7-fold greater risk of LTE than patients less than 25 years old (95% confidence interval, 3.56, 77.5) despite comparable intergroup median serum (theophylline). These data suggest the primary determinant of LTEs after chronic theophylline intoxication is chronologic age. Elderly patients have an inordinately greater risk of LTE than younger patients. Peak serum theophylline concentration cannot predict which patients with chronic theophylline intoxication will have an LTE. Finally, these data indicate that theophylline should be used cautiously and with frequent monitoring of serum theophylline concentrations in elderly patients.
In an effort to reduce the frequency of central nervous system (CNS) progression in patients with metastatic melanoma with ongoing systemic response to biochemotherapy, we modified our standard concurrent biochemotherapy regimen by replacing dacarbazine (DTIC) with oral temozolomide.
Patients received cisplatin, vinblastine, and temozolomide (20 mg/m(2) cisplatin and 1.2 mg/m(2) vinblastine i.v., days 1-4; 150 mg/m(2) p.o. temozolomide, days 1-4) concurrent with interleukin 2 (9 MIU/m(2)/day) by continuous i.v. infusion on days 1-4 and IFN-alpha (5 MU/m(2)/day) on days 1-5, 8, 10, and 12. Prophylactic antibiotics and a maximum of four cycles were administered. Routine granulocyte-colony stimulating factor and aggressive antiemetics were also provided. Tumor staging included torso computed tomography scans and brain magnetic resonance imaging pretreatment, after cycle 4 and then every 3 months for 2 years. Torso computed tomography scans were also performed after cycle 2.
A total of 147 treatment cycles were administered to 48 patients. No patients had received prior chemotherapy or interleukin 2; however, 19 (40%) had received prior adjuvant IFN-alpha. Significant toxicities included 2 deaths from cardiac events (pericarditis al tamponade and posttreatment myocardial infarction with associated ventricular arrhythmia) and 3 gastrointestinal serious adverse events (pancreatitis, appendicitis, and upper GI bleed). No other nonhematological grade 4 toxicities were observed. Tumor responses were seen in 22 of 47 evaluable patients (relative risk, 47%) with 7 complete responses (15%). Response durations ranged from 1 to 29+ months with 1 currently ongoing. Median survival was 7.5 months. The CNS was the initial site of progression in 2 responding patients. An additional 6 responding patients developed CNS progression within 3 months of systemic progression. Initial CNS progression was significantly less frequent what was seen with the prior DTIC-based biochemotherapy regimen (2 of 22 versus 12 of 19; P = 0.001).
This regimen appears to be active and reasonably well tolerated in patients with metastatic melanoma. Although the substitution of temozolomide for DTIC reduced the incidence of initial CNS progression, this effect did not appear to result in an improved overall outcome.
1. This study examines the effects of chronic lithium administration on changes induced by amphetamine administration and withdrawal on open field locomotor activity of rats, and considered as an animal model of behaviors displayed in bipolar disorders. 2. For 21 days, rats were administered either single daily intraperitoneal injections (IP) of 0.9% saline, 0.15 mEq/kg, or 1.5 mEq/kg lithium chloride (LiCl). From day 7 to day 16, half of the animals in each group consisting of 12 rats were administered twice daily IP injections of either 1.5 mg/kg d-amphetamine or 0.9% saline. From day 17 to 21, d-amphetamine was withdrawn. 3. Neither dose of LiCl significantly altered the increases in activity levels produced by amphetamine. The withdrawal of amphetamine lead to an immediate return to baseline activity levels which neither dose of LiCl significantly affected. 4. The absence of interactive effects suggests that the influence of lithium and amphetamine on activity are mediated by different neurotransmitter systems.
This case reports hypotension under general anesthesia in a patient taking pemoline. Vigilance for unexpected hypotension is important in patients who are treated with psychostimulants. If hypotension occurs, vasopressors that act directly on adrenergic receptors should be used.
Amiodarone-induced thyrotoxicosis (AIT) develops in 3% of amiodarone-treated patients in North America. AIT is classified as type 1 or type 2. Type 1 AIT occurs in patients with underlying thyroid pathology such as autonomous nodular goiter or Graves' disease. Type 2 AIT is a result of amiodarone causing a subacute thyroiditis with release of preformed thyroid hormones into the circulation.
To review the literature and present an overview of the differentiation between and management of type 1 and type 2 AIT.
PubMed, the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature and Medscape searches of all available English language articles from 1983 to 2006 were performed. Search terms included 'amiodarone -induced thyrotoxicosis', 'complications', 'management', 'treatment' and 'colour flow Dopper sonography'.
There is evidence to suggest that to differentiate between type 1 and type 2 AIT, a careful history and physical examination should be performed to identify pre-existing thyroid disease. An iodine-131 uptake test and colour flow Doppler sonography should be performed. Patients with type 2 AIT should receive a trial of glucocorticoids, whereas those with type 1 should receive antithyroid therapy. For patients in whom the mechanism of the thyrotoxicosis is unclear, a combination of prednisone and antithyroid therapy may be considered.
Patients undergoing liver transplantation for hepatitis B-related liver disease are prone to recurrence. The mainstay of prophylaxis has been passive immunotherapy with hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG). Antiviral therapy with lamivudine has proven effective in lowering hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA and improving histology in patients with hepatitis B infection; its role in prophylaxis against hepatitis B recurrence following liver transplantation is under investigation. Viral breakthrough and resistance, however, are a significant problem with monotherapy with either HBIG or lamivudine. The efficacy of combination lamivudine/HBIG prophylaxis has not been reported. Fourteen patients underwent transplantation for decompensated liver disease owing to hepatitis B. Lamivudine (150 mg p.o./d) was begun before transplantation in 10 patients, including 4 who were HBV DNA-positive. In addition, 1 patient was HBV DNA-positive when transplanted. HBIG was given perioperatively and continued thereafter; treatment with lamivudine was maintained or initiated at the time of transplantation and continued indefinitely. The median follow-up was 387 days. Actuarial 1-year patient and graft survival was 93% (1 patient died of unrelated causes). At a median interval of 28 days following lamivudine treatment, all 5 HBV DNA-positive patients cleared HBV DNA from the serum; 1 went on to clear hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg), before transplantation, at day 148 of lamivudine treatment. By the highly sensitive polymerase chain reaction (PCR), at a median of 346 days (range, 130-525 days) following transplantation, all 13 surviving patients had no detectable serum HBV DNA. Lamivudine suppresses HBV replication in patients awaiting liver transplantation. At a median follow-up of 1.1 years, combination prophylaxis with lamivudine and HBIG prevented hepatitis B recurrence following liver transplantation.
Most corticosteroid-allergic patients react to several corticosteroids. Irrefutable proof for the existence of cross-reactions is provided by reactions to substances to which the patient has never been exposed. Four groups of cross-reactions have been proposed, and our own observations support this. However, we have found that budesonide, in particular, tends to be involved not only in cross-reactions with corticosteroids of its own group (group B) but also with those of the ester group (group D). To test clinical observations on patients sensitive to corticosteroids and to establish a molecular basis for cross-reactivity patterns, a statistical analysis of our cases and a conformational study of major corticosteroids were performed.
Statistically highly significant positive or negative correlations were found for the combination of tixocortol pivalate plus hydrocortisone and hydrocortisone plus budesonide, respectively. This indicates that budesonide and hydrocortisone or tixocortol pivalate detect different groups of corticosteroid-sensitive patients. Moreover, significant positive correlations were found between budesonide and amcinonide, both molecules belonging to the acetonide group C, and also between budesonide and some esters of group D such as hydrocortisone-17 butyrate and alclometasone dipropionate. These clinical observations were fully supported by a conformational analysis of the electronic shape of corticosteroids involved in this study. Groups A, B, and D were found to be highly homogeneous within each group in terms of molecular structures, while significant differences were observed among the groups. The special behavior of budesonide can be fully explained on the base of its unique molecular structure. Finally, molecular characteristics have been defined for each group. This could be useful for the prediction of potential cross-reactions to new corticosteroid molecules.
The statistical analysis confirms that tixocortol pivalate and hydrocortisone contact allergies are definitely associated, while reactions to budesonide are strongly correlated with the reactions to both the acetonide group and the ester group. These clinical observations are fully supported by the conformational analysis of the molecules involved in this study. Tixocortol pivalate and budesonide should certainly be added to the standard series for the detection of patients sensitized to corticosteroids.
Mustard gas is known to have mutagenic and carcinogenic effects on animal and human cells. In this report, 1,632 male Japanese who worked in poison gas factories at some time between the years 1927 and 1945 were studied to determine comparative risk for development of cancer, the reference population being data on Japanese males overall. The standardized mortality ratio (SMR) for lung cancer in workers directly and indirectly involved in the production of mustard gas was significantly elevated. In addition, SMR for lung cancer in worker who had worked for more than 5 years was also significantly elevated. Thus, poison gas workers who had engaged in the production of mustard gas or related work for more than 5 years are a high-risk group for lung cancer. Under the cancer preventive program, Nocardia rubra cell-wall skeleton (N-CWS) was administered to 146 former poison gas workers. During a 4.5 year observation period, development of cancers was found in 7 treated workers and 17 untreated controls. After elimination of the influence of smoking level, a significant suppression of development of cancers was noted in the N-CWS-treated workers as compared to the untreated controls. Although the molecular mechanisms of carcinogenesis in former poison gas workers remains unclear, our study proposes the possible effect of biological response modifiers in the prevention of cancer development in high-risk human subjects.
