We investigated the kinetics of chemokines and their receptors in mercuric chloride-treated brown Norway (BN) rats from the viewpoint of its relation to the development of tubulointerstitial fibrosis with mononuclear cell infiltration. BN rats were injected subcutaneously with 1 mg/kg b.w. of mercuric chloride one or three times. The kidney was examined histopathologically and the kinetics of chemokines and their receptors in the kidney were also examined using immunohistochemistry and RT-PCR. As a result, mercuric chloride induced tubular injury and subsequent tubulointerstitial fibrosis accompanied with mononuclear cell infiltration. Macrophages were the most predominant population of infiltrating cells and lymphocytes were the next. In the lesions, the expression of MCP-1 mRNA was most prominently elevated, and those of RANTES and IP-10 mRNAs also increased, and their proteins were localized in tubular epithelium. As to their receptors, the levels of CCR1, CCR2, and CXCR3 mRNAs showed significant and prominent elevations, CCR5 mRNA also increased moderately, and their receptor protein-expressing cells also increased. The present findings suggest that MCP-1, RANTES, and IP-10 may participate in the pathogenesis of mercuric chloride-induced tubulointerstitial fibrosis with mononuclear cell infiltration, via CCR2, CCR1 or CCR5, and CXCR3, respectively.
Organophosphates (OPs) affect behavior by inhibiting acetylcholinesterase (AChE). While the cognitive short-term effects may be directly attributed to this inhibition, the mechanisms that underlie OP's long-term cognitive effects remain controversial and poorly understood. Accordingly, two experiments were designed to assess the effects of OPs on cognition, and to ascertain whether both the short- and long-term effects of are AChE-dependent. A single subcutaneous dose of 250 mg/kg chlorpyrifos (CPF), 1.5mg/kg diisopropylphosphorofluoridate (DFP) or 15 mg/kg parathion (PTN) was administered to male Wistar rats. Spatial learning was evaluated 72 h or 23 weeks after exposure, and impulsive choice was tested at 10 and 30 weeks following OPs administration (experiment 1 and 2, respectively). Brain soluble and membrane-bound AChE activity, synaptic AChE-S mRNA, read-through AChE-R mRNA and brain acylpeptide hydrolase (APH) activity (as alternative non-cholinergic target) were analyzed upon completion of the behavioral testing (17 and 37 weeks after OPs exposure). Both short- and long-term CPF treatment caused statistically significant effects on spatial learning, while PTN treatment led only to statistically significant short-term effects. Neither CPF, DFP nor PTN affected the long-term impulsivity response. Long-term exposure to CPF and DFP significantly decreased AChE-S and AChE-R mRNA, while in the PTN treated group only AChE-S mRNA levels were decreased. However, after long-term OP exposure, soluble and membrane-bound AChE activity was indistinguishable from controls. Finally, no changes were noted in brain APH activity in response to OP treatment. Taken together, this study demonstrates long-term effects of OPs on AChE-S and AChE-R mRNA in the absence of changes in AChE soluble and membrane-bound activity. Thus, changes in AChE mRNA expression imply non-catalytic properties of the AChE enzyme.
Emerging infections caused by vancomycin-intermediate Staphylococcus aureus (VISA) isolates are more likely to be associated with treatment failures than infections caused by other types of S. aureus. We present a case of pacemaker lead infective endocarditis caused by a non-daptomycin-susceptible strain of VISA. After 8 weeks of parenteral telavancin therapy, the patient achieved microbiological and clinical cure.
Survivin, a member of the inhibitor of apoptosis protein family, is widely expressed in a variety of human cancer tissues. Survivin inhibits activation of caspases, and its overexpression can lead to resistance to apoptotic stimuli. In this study, survivin protein expression was assessed by immunohistochemical staining of 195 invasive breast cancer specimens. Overall, 79.5% of the tumors were positive for survivin. The expression of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) family, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) and EGFR, was also examined in 53 cases, and consequently, it was indicated that survivin positivity might be correlated with the coexpression of HER2 and EGFR. To clarify the regulatory mechanism of survivin expression in breast cancer cells, the effect of HER2 and/or EGFR expression on the survivin levels was examined. It was revealed that the survivin protein level was up-regulated by the coexpression of HER2 and EGFR, leading to the increased resistance against etoposide-induced apoptosis in breast cancer cells. Conversely, survivin levels and apoptosis resistance were decreased when cells were treated with HER2-specific inhibitor, Herceptin. Although Herceptin could down-regulate both phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/AKT signal and mitogen-activated protein/extracellular signal-related kinase (ERK) kinase 1 (MEK1)/ERK signal in HER2-positive breast cancer cells, PI3K-specific inhibitor but not MEK1-specific inhibitor could decrease the survivin levels. The present study clarified the regulatory mechanism of HER2 in the expression of survivin protein in breast cancer cells.
Thirty-five separate episodes of acute bronchial asthma were studied in 21 asthmatic children. The bronchodilator, cardiovascular, and tremorogenic responses following three modes of administration of salbutamol were compared: open continuous nebulization (ON), closed-port intermittent nebulization (CN), and oral route (OR), for a period of 8 hours. Eleven acute attacks were treated by ON, 11 by CN, and 13 by OR. Pulmonary function was evaluated by clinical assessment and by the spirometric indices FEV1 and FEF25-75. Tremor was objectively measured, as well as heart rate (HR), respiratory rate (RR), and blood pressure (BP). Fastest onset of bronchodilator action, maximal response, and longest duration were seen when the drug was administered by the CN. Onset of tremorogenic effect was registered at 5 minutes when salbutamol was used by CN and ON and at 30 minutes when used by OR. During the first 30 minutes, tremor was significantly greater when salbutamol was used by CN than by OR. There were minor cardiovascular effects, except regarding HR after CN, which was significantly greater than after OR, at 5 and 30 minutes. Our findings indicate the inhaled route as the most effective route for administration of salbutamol to treat acute bronchospasm in children. The use of CN is a good alternative to jet nebulizers, but the greater dose of drug effectively administered by this system can briefly cause more tremor and heart acceleration.
Three cases of drug-induced liver injury (DILI) have been reported after desflurane anesthesia. However, no previous reports have detected serum autoantibodies such as that reported with DILI from halothane or isoflurane.
We describe the first documentation of cytochrome P450 2E1 IgG4 autoantibodies, as well as 58 kDa endoplasmic reticulum protein and trifluoroacetyl chloride hapten-specific IgG4 antibodies, in a patient who developed DILI after desflurane anesthesia.
These findings suggest that allergic and autoimmune mechanisms have critical roles in the development of desflurane DILI.
This study evaluated the ability of the selective MAO-B inhibitor, L-deprenyl, to reverse cognitive impairments appearing in aged rats, using the reference memory, Morris Water Maze paradigm. L-Deprenyl significantly improved learning and memory deficits associated with old age in doses of 1.25 and 5 mg/kg PO (escape latency measure) and doses of 1.25, 2.5 and 5 mg/kg PO (path length measure). L-Deprenyl also improved reversal learning impairments in doses of 1.25, 2.5 and 5 mg/kg PO, as expressed by the escape latency measure. The data suggest that L-deprenyl possesses potential cognitive enhancement abilities probably due to an increase in dopaminergic activity.
The behavioral and electroencephalographic (EEG) effects of intramuscular fluphenazine decanoate (Fl-D) were investigated in rats and compared with those of fluphenazine enanthate (Fl-E) and fluphenazine HCl (Fl-HCl). It was clearly observed that 1) these two depot type neuroleptics reduced open-field activity, 2) antagonized methamphetamine-induced hyperactivity, 3) inhibited the conditioned avoidance response, and 4) produced catalepsy, for a substantially long period of time (4-35 d). Although both Fl-D and Fl-E significantly inhibited muricide in olfactory bulbectomized rats and impaired rotarod performance, these effects were relatively weak in potency and short-lasting (4 h-2 d). The EEG was changed to a drowsy pattern which consisted of high voltage slow waves following the injection of Fl-D and Fl-E. Fl-D significantly inhibited the EEG arousal response to auditory stimulation, but Fl-E did not. However, neither Fl-D nor Fl-E inhibited the EEG arousal response to electrical stimulation of the midbrain reticular formation and posterior hypothalamus. These results indicate that Fl-D has the same spectrum of pharmacological activity as Fl-E, except for its longer duration of action in antagonizing methamphetamine as well as in inhibiting the EEG arousal response to auditory stimulation.
Inhalation steroid therapy can cause ocular hypertension or open angle glaucoma. The authors describe the case of a young girl who presented with raised intraocular pressure and headaches due to the prolonged administration of nasal and inhalation steroids. The ophthalmologist should monitor the intraocular pressure in patients who use inhalation or nasal steroid therapy on a regular base. The physician or paediatrician should be aware of this complication in children with headaches or diminished visual acuity.
This 5-week, multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group investigation is the first fixed-dose study to evaluate efficacy and tolerability of three doses of (10, 20, or 30 mg, once daily [o.d.]) dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride (HCl) extended-release (d-MPH XR; Focalin XR) across multiple settings to treat pediatric attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
ADHD pediatric outpatients (n = 253) diagnosed according to Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 4(th) edition, criteria were randomized (1:1:1:1) to receive d-MPH XR (10, 20, or 30 mg o.d.) or placebo. Treatment with d-MPH XR significantly (p < 0.001) reduced the mean score (change from baseline) on Conners'-ADHD/DSM-IV Scales (CADS) as assessed by the teacher CADS-T (dose [mean];10 mg [18], 20 mg [16.9], 30 mg [20.7]) and parents, CADS-P (dose [mean];10 mg [15.8]; 20 mg [17.8]; 30 mg [20.5]) compared to placebo (mean CADS-T [5.7]; CADS-P [4.6]). A significant (p < 0.001) proportion of patients in the three d-MPH XR treatment groups showed improvement on the clinician-rated, Clinical Global Impressions-Improvement (CGI-I) scales (10 mg [73.8%]; 20 mg [71.2%]; 30 mg [77.2 %]) and severity ratings (CGI-S) compared to the placebo group (CGI-I, 22.2%). Adverse events were mild to moderate in severity and similar to previous observations for this class of neurostimulants.
All three doses of d-MPH XR (10, 20, or 30 mg o.d), were significantly more effective than placebo in improving ADHD symptoms as confirmed by the teacher, parent and clinician. Additionally, d-MPH XR was well tolerated and demonstrated a consistent safety profile.
Chlorhexidine (CHX) is the most widely used antiseptic for wound, skin disinfection, and dental hygiene. The aim of this study is to investigate the possible correlation between CHX-induced cytogenotoxicity and alterations in normal cell cycle on RAW264.7 macrophages. The cytotoxicity, mechanism of cell death, mitotic activity, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation were determined by tetrazolium bromide reduction assay, flow cytometry, cytokinesis-block proliferation index, and superoxide dismutase-inhibitable reduction of ferricytochrome c, respectively. The genotoxicity was measured using comet assay and cytokinesis-block micronucleus assay. The cytotoxicity of CHX in RAW264.7 cells presented a dose- and time-dependent manner (p < 0.05). The mode of cell death shifted from apoptosis to necrosis when the dosage of CHX increased. The genotoxicity of CHX in RAW264.7 cells had shown DNA damage in a dose-dependent manner (p < 0.05). Prolongation of cell cycle and the increase of ROS generation also expressed in a dose-dependent manner (p < 0.05). Taken together, the data suggested that CHX-induced cytotoxicity and genotoxicity on macrophages may be via ROS generation.
To investigate the role of hypermethylation of p16 gene in the pathogenesis of multiple myeloma (MM) and the effect of arsenic trioxide (As2O3) induced p16 gene demethylation.
Methylation status of p16 gene in MM and U266 cell line exposed to As2O3 were detected the nested-methylation specific PCR. The expression of p16 gene mRNA was determined with RT-PCR. The induced growth inhibition of U266 cell by growth curve and MTT and the DNA content of U266 cell were analyzed with flow cytometry after exposure to As2O3.
Hypermethylation of CpG island of p16 gene was observed in 54.8% of the MM patients in our group. p16 gene fail to express in U266 cell line after methylation. As compared with beta-actin, the expression of p16 gene mRNA in U266 cell was increased to 0.22 +/- 0.10, 0.59 +/- 0.11, 0.68 +/- 0.09 after exposure to 0.5 micromol/L, 1.0 micromol/L and 2.0 micromol/L As2O3 for 72 h.
These results indicate that methylation of p16 gene is essential important in the pathogenesis of MM and may provide a new diagnostic technique and drug target for the treatment of MM. As2O3 may activate the expression of p16 gene by demethylation.
Neural tube defects (NTDs) are severe congenital malformations caused by failure of the neural tube to close during neurulation. Their etiology is complex involving both environmental and genetic factors. We have recently reported three mutations in the planar cell polarity gene VANGL1 associated with NTDs. The aim of the present study was to define the role of VANGL1 genetic variants in the development of NTDs in a large cohort of various ethnic origins. We identified five novel missense variants in VANGL1, p.Ser83Leu, p.Phe153Ser, p.Arg181Gln, p.Leu202Phe and p.Ala404Ser, occurring in sporadic and familial cases of spinal dysraphisms. All five variants affect evolutionary conserved residues and are absent from all controls analyzed. This study provides further evidence supporting the role of VANGL1 as a risk factor in the development of spinal NTDs.
Twelve dogs with poorly controlled idiopathic epilepsy were entered into a prospective, open-label, noncomparative study. Oral zonisamide was administered as an additional therapy at a dosage adequate to achieve serum drug concentrations of 10 to 40 microg/mL. Seizure frequency before and after initiation of zonisamide therapy was recorded. A dosing interval of q 12 hours was sufficient to maintain serum zonisamide concentrations within the therapeutic range. The mean dosage of zonisamide required was 8.9 mg/kg q 12 hours. Seven (58%) dogs responded favorably, experiencing a mean reduction in seizures of 81.3%. Five dogs had an increase in seizure frequency. Mild side effects (e.g., transient sedation, ataxia, vomiting) occurred in six dogs.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is known to be resistant to chemotherapy. Survivin, a member of the inhibitor of apoptosis proteins, is overexpressed in most cancers but is absent in most normal adult tissue. The aim of this study was to investigate whether expression of survivin contributes to resistance to cisplatin-induced apoptosis. We confirmed induction of survivin expression in hepatoma in the N-diethylnitrosamine (DEN) induced rat and in the rat hepatoma cell line (K-251). We examined cell proliferation after treatment with cisplatin (CDDP) in the presence and absence of siRNA or the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitor LY294002 to suppress survivin or PI3K/Akt, respectively. Survivin was expressed in DEN-induced rat HCC with RT-PCR and Western blotting. Expression of survivin was observed primary in the nuclei and in the cytoplasm with immunohistochemistry. However, survivin was not detected in non-tumor tissues. Expression of survivin was also observed primarily in the nuclei and in the cytoplasm of the K-251 rat hepatoma cell line. CDDP induced survivin expression, which was blocked by siRNA. LY294002 also attenuated survivin expression induced by CDDP. Our results indicate that survivin expression via PI3K contributes to resistance to CDDP-induced apoptosis in a rat hepatoma cell line.
Despite the clinical reports, few studies have focused on reducing the cardiotoxicity of cisplatin. In the present study, cardiotoxicity was examined after a single ip injection of cisplatin (7mg/kg) in rats. Apocynin was given in drinking water (600mg/L) for five successive days before and after cisplatin injection. At the end of the experiment, hemodynamic parameters were recorded, animals were sacrificed and serum creatine kinase-MB activity was determined. The whole ventricle was isolated for estimation of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) content, NADPH oxidase, myeloperoxidase and caspase-3 activities in addition to nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) and nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) gene expressions. Furthermore, oxidative stress markers and antioxidant enzymes were measured in postmitochondrial and mitochondrial fractions. Mitochondrial membrane potential, nuclear DNA fragmentation and cardiomyocyte cross-sectional area were also evaluated. Apocynin was effective against cisplatin-induced decrement in heart rate and blood pressure. Moreover, pretreatment with apocynin notably ameliorated the state of oxidative stress, mitigated inflammation and preserved mitochondrial membrane potential. Apocynin provided also a significant cardioprotection as revealed by alleviating the overexpression of Nrf2, HO-1 and NF-κB, the elevation of caspase-3 activity, the prominent nuclear DNA fragmentation and the decreased cardiomyocyte cross-sectional area. This study highlights the potential role of apocynin in inhibiting cisplatin-induced hemodynamic changes, postmitochondrial and mitochondrial damage as indicated by improvement in the state of oxidative stress, inflammation and apoptosis.
Plasma neuroleptic levels in 41 patients (21 men, 20 women, aged 18 to 74) on haloperidol therapy were examined in relation to their age by means of radioreceptor assay. There was no significant difference among three age groups (below 45 years, 46 to 60 years, over 60 years) in the ratio of the plasma neuroleptic level to daily dose (nM/mg/kg), but a significant difference in the plasma neuroleptic level was found between the average values in parkinsonian (19.1 +/- 8.5 nM, M +/- SD) and nonparkinsonian (5.5 +/- 3.0 nM, M +/- SD) patients. There was, however, no significant difference in the incidence of parkinsonian symptoms between the young (below 60 years) and the old (over 60 years) age groups. These results suggest that in contrast to the previously reported study with chlorpromazine, the plasma neuroleptic level of haloperidol is not altered with aging and that parkinsonian symptoms induced by haloperidol occur simply in a plasma-neuroleptic-level-dependent manner.
The U.S. EPA's Integrated Risk Information System (IRIS) completed an updated toxicological review of dichloromethane in November 2011.
In this commentary we summarize key results and issues of this review, including exposure sources, identification of potential health effects, and updated physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) modeling.
We performed a comprehensive review of primary research studies and evaluation of PBPK models.
Hepatotoxicity was observed in oral and inhalation exposure studies in several studies in animals; neurological effects were also identified as a potential area of concern. Dichloromethane was classified as likely to be carcinogenic in humans based primarily on evidence of carcinogenicity at two sites (liver and lung) in male and female B6C3F1 mice (inhalation exposure) and at one site (liver) in male B6C3F1 mice (drinking-water exposure). Recent epidemiologic studies of dichloromethane (seven studies of hematopoietic cancers published since 2000) provide additional data raising concerns about associations with non-Hodgkin lymphoma and multiple myeloma. Although there are gaps in the database for dichloromethane genotoxicity (i.e., DNA adduct formation and gene mutations in target tissues in vivo), the positive DNA damage assays correlated with tissue and/or species availability of functional glutathione S-transferase (GST) metabolic activity, the key activation pathway for dichloromethane-induced cancer. Innovations in the IRIS assessment include estimation of cancer risk specifically for a presumed sensitive genotype (GST-theta-1+/+), and PBPK modeling accounting for human physiological distributions based on the expected distribution for all individuals 6 months to 80 years of age.
The 2011 IRIS assessment of dichloromethane provides insights into the toxicity of a commonly used solvent.
This study was designed to determine the gastroprotective effect of a Mangifera indica leaf decoction (AD), on different experimental models in rodents. The administration of AD up to a dose of 5 g/kg (p.o.) did not produce any signs or symptoms of toxicity in the treated animals, while significantly decreasing the severity of gastric damage induced by several gastroprotective models. Oral pre-treatment with AD (250, 500 or 1000 mg/kg) in mice and rats with gastric lesions induced by HCl/ethanol, absolute ethanol, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) or stress-induced gastric lesions resulted in a significant decrease of said lesions. Phytochemical analyses of AD composition demonstrated the presence of bioactive phenolic compounds that represent 57.3% of total phenolic content in this extract. Two main phenolic compounds were isolated, specifically mangiferin (C-glucopyranoside of 1,3,6,7-tetrahydroxyxanthone) and C-glucosyl-benzophenone (3-C-beta-D-glucopyranosyl-4',2,4,6-tetrahydroxybenzophenone). These findings indicate the potential gastroprotective properties of aqueous decoction from M. indica leaves.
ABCG2 is an efflux transporter conferring multidrug resistance (MDR) on cancer cells. However, the initial molecular events leading to its up-regulation in MDR tumor cells are poorly understood. Herein, we explored the impact of drug treatment on the methylation status of the ABCG2 promoter and consequent reactivation of ABCG2 gene expression in parental tumor cell lines and their MDR sublines. We demonstrate that ABCG2 promoter methylation is common in T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) lines, also present in primary T-ALL lymphoblast specimens. Furthermore, drug selection with sulfasalazine and topotecan induced a complete demethylation of the ABCG2 promoter in the T-ALL and ovarian carcinoma model cell lines CCRF-CEM and IGROV1, respectively. This resulted in a dramatic induction of ABCG2 messenger RNA levels (235- and 743-fold, respectively) and consequent acquisition of an ABCG2-dependent MDR phenotype. Quantitative genomic polymerase chain reaction and ABCG2 promoter-luciferase reporter assay did not reveal ABCG2 gene amplification or differential transcriptional trans-activation, which could account for ABCG2 up-regulation in these MDR cells. Remarkably, mimicking cytotoxic bolus drug treatment through 12- to 24-hour pulse exposure of ABCG2-silenced leukemia cells, to clinically relevant concentrations of the chemotherapeutic agents daunorubicin and mitoxantrone, resulted in a marked transcriptional up-regulation of ABCG2. Our findings establish that antitumor drug-induced epigenetic reactivation of ABCG2 gene expression in cancer cells is an early molecular event leading to MDR. These findings have important implications for the emergence, clonal selection, and expansion of malignant cells with the MDR phenotype during chemotherapy.
Increasingly vigorous chemotherapy of cancer including primary and metastatic central nervous system disease has resulted in prolonged good-quality survival. However, there has been an associated increase in neurotoxicity from both radiation therapy and chemotherapy. All classes of chemotherapeutic agents contain drugs that are potentially neurotoxic, often only at high doses. Mechlorethamine, the first nitrogen mustard, is not neurotoxic at conventional dosage, but at high doses, it may produce both an acute and a delayed encephalopathy. Methotrexate administered intrathecally often induces reversible aseptic meningitis, but chronic administration, either intrathecally or high-dose intravenously, may produce fatal leukoencephalopathy. 5-Fluorouracil at high dosage may cause cerebellar ataxia, but may also do so at low dosage when combined with thymidine infusions. Cytosine arabinoside at high dosage may also produce cerebellar ataxia. Vincristine produces a peripheral neuropathy, and less commonly causes both autonomic and cranial neuropathy. The enzyme L-asparaginase can produce a dose-related reversible encephalopathy. BCNU, now the mainstay of glioma chemotherapy, may combine with radiation to produce long-term cerebral atrophy. Both intracarotid and high-dose intravenous BCNU administration may cause encephalopathy. Several other chemotherapeutic agents have also been reported to cause neurotoxicity under certain circumstances.
Numerous data have indicated that competitive and non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists attenuate the development of tolerance to the analgesic effect of morphine. This study extends these findings on the effects of glycine(B) site antagonist, L-701.324. Tolerance to the analgesic effect of morphine was measured in hot-plate test in Wistar rats. For 9 days, animals were first injected with vehicle or glycine(B) receptor antagonist, L-701.324 (2.5 and 5 mg/kg, po). The non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, MK-801 (0.05 or 0.1 mg/kg, ip) was used as a reference compound. The injection of L-701.324, MK-801 or saline was followed, 20 min later, by the injection of morphine (10 mg/kg, sc). Hot-plate latencies were determined 20 min after the second injection on odd-numbered days. The results indicated that chronic administration of glycine(B) site antagonist, L-701.324 decreased the analgesic effect of morphine and they may suggest that this substance at both used doses increased the development of morphine tolerance, whereas non-competitive NMDA antagonist, MK-801 at the dose of 0.1 mg/kg potentiated the analgesic effect of morphine and attenuated the development of morphine tolerance.
Advanced glycation endproducts (AGEs) and its precursor methylglyoxal are associated with diabetic nephropathy (DN). Mangiferin has many beneficial biological activities, including anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidative and anti-diabetic effects. We investigated the effect of mangiferin on DN and its potential mechanism associated with glyoxalase 1 (Glo-1), a detoxifying enzyme of methylglyoxal, in streptozotocin-induced rat model of DN. Diabetic rats were treated orally with mangiferin (15, 30, and 60 mg/kg) or distilled water for 9 weeks. Kidney tissues were collected for morphologic observation and the determination of associated biochemical parameters. The cultured mesangial cells were used to measure the activity of Glo-1 in vitro. Chronic treatment with mangiferin significantly ameliorated renal dysfunction in diabetic rats, as evidenced by decreases in albuminuria, blood urea nitrogen, kidney weight index, periodic acid-schiff stain positive mesangial matrix area, glomerular extracellular matrix expansion and accumulation, and glomerular basement membrane thickness. Meanwhile, mangiferin treatment caused substantial increases in the enzymatic activity of Glo-1 in vivo and in vitro, and protein and mRNA expression of Glo-1, reduced levels of AGEs and the protein and mRNA expression of their receptor (RAGE) in the renal cortex of diabetic rats. Moreover, mangiferin significantly attenuated oxidative stress damage as reflected by the lowered malondialdehyde and the increased glutathione levels in the kidney of diabetic rats. However, mangiferin did not affect the blood glucose and body weight of diabetic rats. Therefore, mangiferin can remarkably ameliorate DN in rats through inhibiting the AGEs/RAGE aix and oxidative stress damage, and Glo-1 may be a target for mangiferin action.
Cell proliferation is critically dependent on the regulated movement of ions across various cellular compartments. The antimycotic drug clotrimazole (CLT) has been shown to inhibit movement of Ca2+ and K+ across the plasma membrane. Our results show that CLT inhibits the rate of cell proliferation of normal and cancer cell lines in a reversible and dose-dependent manner in vitro. Moreover, CLT depletes the intracellular Ca2+ stores and prevents the rise in cytosolic Ca2+ that normally follows mitogenic stimulation. In mice with severe combined immunodeficiency disease (SCID) and inoculated intravenously with MM-RU human melanoma cells, daily subcutaneous injections of CLT induced a significant reduction in the number of lung metastases. Modulation of early ionic mitogenic signals and potent inhibition of cell proliferation both in vitro and in vivo are new and potentially useful clinical effects of CLT.
A 54-year-old man was hospitalised because hypercalcaemia and associated renal failure were suspected. He had a history suggesting gastric ulcer, with nonspecific back and shoulder pain and spontaneously passed kidney stone. On admission the patient reported reduction in physical fitness, fatigue, headache and nausea without vomiting. Physical examination was unremarkable except for pain on pressure over the thoracic and lumbar vertebrae.
Hypercalcaemia of 3.9 mmol/l was found while parathormone was low. Serum creatinine concentration was 2.8 mg/dl. Malignancy was excluded after extensive tests. A florid gastric ulcer was demonstrated, together with Helicobacter pylori infection. Computed tomography revealed stippled calcifications in the kidneys.
Renal function markedly improved, the hypercalcaemia disappeared and the parathormone level rose within four days of the administration of sodium chloride (2.51 daily of a 0.9% solution) and of furosemide (40 mg daily). Repeat questioning of the patient revealed that because of stomach pains he had for four years been taking up to 6 g calcium carbonate daily in the form of a prescription-free antacid. He was thereupon treated for a milk-alkali syndrome. Calcium concentration became normal, while renal function has remained slightly impaired a year later. The ulcer has healed without recurrence on eradication of the Helicobacter pylori infection with amoxicillin and omeprazole.
The danger of some "over the counter" prescription-free medications should not be underestimated and patients should be routinely questioned about them. Absorbable antacids should no longer be taken in the treatment of peptic complaints now that effective antacids, H2-receptor antagonists and proton-pump inhibitors have become available.
Circulating levels of activin A are significantly increased in women with preeclampsia when compared with those with a normal pregnancy. The mechanisms underlying these increased levels are unknown. We undertook these studies to explore whether oxidative stress might be the mechanism. We exposed trophoblast explants, human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) and peripheral blood monocytes to oxidative stress in vitro using xanthine/xanthine oxidase (X/XO), measuring activin A and isoprostane in conditioned media and mRNA for activin beta(A) in explants and HUVECs. We also measured isoprostane and activin A in serum from 21 women with preeclampsia and from 20 women with a normal pregnancy. Treatment with X/XO significantly increased 8-isoprostane production from placental explants, HUVECs and monocytes, indicative of oxidative stress, and significantly increased activin A output from placental explants (139.1 +/- 27.4 per mg wet weight vs 322.9 +/- 89.7 pg/ml per mg wet weight, P = 0.02) and from HUVECs (1.2 +/- 0.2 vs 3.2 +/- 1.8 ng/ml, P = 0.04). There was no effect on activin A output from monocytes. X/XO significantly increased beta(A) mRNA in placental explants but not in HUVECs. Maternal plasma levels of 8-isoprostane and activin A were significantly higher in women with preeclampsia when compared with controls (333.8 +/- 70 vs 176.3 +/- 26.2 pg/ml, P = 0.04 and 49.5 +/- 7 vs 13.1 +/- 1.2 ng/ml, P < 0.001 respectively). In the women with preeclampsia, but not in those with a normal pregnancy, circulating levels of 8-isoprostane and activin A were significantly and positively correlated (r(2) = 0.72; P < 0.001). These data suggest that oxidative stress may be one of the mechanisms underlying increased circulating activin A in preeclampsia.
Of the 605 patients seen since 1973, 336 patients have been treated with sodium valproate (VPA) alone or in combination with drugs other than carbamazepine (CBZ). Of these 336, 240 have been on monotherapy, of whom 200 are seizure-free. Follow up has been longer than 3 years in 78%. Complete control of seizures has been achieved in more than 80% of patients with absence, myoclonic, and primary tonic-clonic seizures, in 72% of those with photosensitive epilepsy including eyelid myoclonia, and in 47% of partial epilepsies, for which carbamazepine was the initial drug of choice. Only 21% of those with myoclonic astatic epilepsy have become free from seizures. At first VPA was given twice daily, but in recent years it was given once daily, as this was more effective. Reasons for failure of VPA therapy are given. Side effects in 436 patients (100 more patients were added for this assessment only) were uncommon, though where they did occur, weight increase was the most frequent. Platelets were reduced without clinical problems. There were no severe hepatic disorders. Serum levels were assessed in seizure-free patients, and the optimum level was between 60 and 120 mg/L (most patients received between 20 and 30 mg/kg). VPA was given during 30 pregnancies, and there was no evidence of teratogenicity on monotherapy. VPA is most effective in primary generalized epilepsy, especially if given as the sole antiepileptic drug. If the daily dose does not exceed 40 mg/kg or 2.5 g, it is singularly free from serious side effects.
Ecstasy (MDMA) street tablets often contain several other compounds in addition to MDMA, particularly caffeine. Then, it becomes necessary to study the consequences of caffeine plus MDMA combination. MDMA (1 mg/kg) elicited an analgesic response both at the spinal and supraspinal levels. However, when associated, MDMA and caffeine did not show any synergistic interaction. When caffeine was administered prior to MDMA, a potentiation of locomotor activity was observed, which consisted in an increase in maximal values and in a prolonged time of activity. In the neurotoxicity studies, a hyperthermic effect of MDMA was observed. Although caffeine alone failed to alter body temperature, it potentiated MDMA-induced hyperthermia. This association also significantly increased MDMA lethality (from 22% to 34%). Following administration of MDMA to rats, there was a persistent decrease in the number of serotonin transporter sites in the cortex, striatum and hippocampus, which was potentiated by caffeine co-treatment. This MDMA toxicity in rats was accompanied by a transient dopaminergic impairment in the striatum, measured as decreased [(3)H]WIN35428 binding sites, by 31% 3 days after treatment, which was not modified by caffeine. A transient down-regulation of 5-HT(2) receptors occurred in the cortex of MDMA-treated rats, whose recovery was slowed by co-treatment with caffeine. In conclusion, the association of MDMA with caffeine does not generate any beneficial effects at the antinociceptive level. The acute effects stemming from this association, in tandem with the final potentiation of serotonergic terminals injury, provide evidence of the potentially greater long-term adverse effects of this particular recreational drug combination.
