There are multiple lines of evidence supporting that chronic inflammation is linked to carcinogenesis. Nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB), a major redox-sensitive transcription factor responsible for the induction of a wide array of pro-inflammatory genes, is frequently overactivated in many tumors. Moreover, constitutive activation of IkappaB kinase (IKK), a key regulator of NF-kappaB signaling, has been implicated in inflammation-associated tumorigenesis. Piceatannol (trans-3,4,3',5'-tetrahydroxystilbene; PIC) derived from grapes, rhubarb and sugarcane exhibits immunosuppressive and antitumorigenic activities in several cell lines, but the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. In the present study, we found that PIC inhibited migration and anchorage-independent growth of human mammary epithelial cells (MCF-10A) treated with the prototypic tumor promoter, 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-aceate (TPA). PIC treatment suppressed the TPA-induced activation of NF-kappaB and expression of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) in MCF-10A cells. We speculate that an electrophilic quinone formed as a consequence of oxidation of PIC bearing the catechol moiety may directly interact with critical cysteine thiols of IKKbeta, thereby inhibiting its catalytic activity. In support of this speculation, the reducing agent dithiothreitol abrogated the inhibitory effects of PIC on TPA-induced activation of NF-kappaB signaling and expression of COX-2. In addition, the inhibitory effects of PIC on NF-kappaB activation and COX-2 induction were blunted in cells expressing mutant IKKbeta (C179A) in which cysteine 179 was replaced by alanine. In conclusion, our results show that direct modification of IKKbeta by PIC, presumably at the cysteine 179 residue, blocks NF-kappaB activation signaling and COX-2 induction in TPA-treated MCF-10A cells and also migration and transformation of these cells.
Sevoflurane-induced seizures are most often described during mask induction of anesthesia when high concentrations of the volatile agent are administered concomitant with alveolar hyperventilation. The occurrence of seizure-like activity during emergence from sevoflurane anesthesia has been rarely reported.
We describe a patient who developed several episodes of generalized tonic-clonic seizure-like activity during and immediately after emergence from sevoflurane anesthesia and discuss the potential factors that contributed to this unusual complication. The patient was treated with intravenous propofol, midazolam, and phenytoin and required intensive care management before his neurologic status stabilized.
The report emphasizes that sevoflurane is capable of producing excitatory central nervous system (CNS) phenomena in spite of causing primarily CNS depressant effects.
We demonstrated that inhibition of neutral endopeptidase (NEP), a protease that degrades vaso- and neuroactive peptides, improves vascular and neural function in diabetic animal models. In this study we explored the role of NEP in neuropathy related to either insulin-deficient diabetes or diet-induced obesity using NEP deficient (-/-) mice. Initial studies showed that streptozotocin, in the absence of subsequent hyperglycemia, did not induce nerve conduction slowing or paw thermal hypoalgesia. Glucose disposal was impaired in both C57Bl/6 and NEP -/- mice fed a high fat diet. Thermal hypoalgesia and nerve conduction slowing were present in both streptozotocin-diabetic and high fat fed C57Bl/6 mice but not in NEP -/- mice exposed to either streptozotocin-induced diabetes or a high fat diet. These studies suggest that streptozotocin does not induce neurotoxicity in mice and that NEP plays a role in regulating nerve function in insulin-deficient diabetes and diet-induced obesity.
Vinyl fluoride (VF) is an inhalation carcinogen at concentrations of 25 ppm or greater in rats and mice. The main neoplastic lesion induced in rodents was hepatic hemangiosarcomas, and mice were more sensitive than rats. In a first set of experiments, groups of three rats or five mice were exposed to VF in a closed-chamber gas uptake system at starting concentrations ranging from 50 to 250 ppm. Chamber concentrations of VF were measured every 10-12 min by gas chromatography. Partition coefficients were determined by the vial equilibration technique and used as parameters for a physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) model. Mice showed a higher whole-body metabolic capacity compared to rats (Vmax = 0.3 vs 0.1 mg/hr-kg). Both species had an estimated Km of < or = 0.02 mg/liter. The specificity for the oxidation of VF in vivo was determined by selective inhibition or induction of CYP 2E1. Inhibition with 4-methylpyrazole completely impaired VF uptake in rats and mice, whereas induction with ethanol (rats only) increased the metabolic capacity by two- to threefold. The pharmacokinetics of VF were also investigated in vitro. Microsomes from rat and mouse liver were incubated in a sealed vial with VF and an NADPH-regenerating system. Headspace concentrations (10-300 ppm) were monitored over time by gas chromatography. Consistent with the in vivo data, VF was metabolized faster by mouse microsomes than by rat microsomes (Vmax = 3.5 and 1.1 nmol/hr-mg protein, respectively). The rates of metabolism by human liver microsomes were generally in the same range as those found with rat liver microsomes (Vmax = 0.5-1.3 nmol/hr-mg protein), but one sample was similar to mice (Vmax = 3.3 nmol/ hr-mg protein). Metabolic rates in human microsomes were found to correlate with the amount of CYP 2E1 as determined by Western blotting and by chlorzoxazone 6-hydroxylation. It is concluded that the greater metabolic capacity of mice for VF both in vivo and in vitro may contribute to their greater susceptibility to tumor formation. CYP 2E1 is clearly the main isozyme involved in the oxidation of VF in all species tested. VF pharmacokinetics and metabolism in humans may depend upon the interindividual variability in the expression level of CYP 2E1. The excellent correspondence between in vivo and in vitro kinetics in rodents improves. substantially the degree of confidence for human in vivo predictions from in vitro data.
The purpose of this study was to determine the efficacy of novel recombinant adeno-associated viral (AAV) vector constructs in correcting metabolic defects in the liver in two strains of ornithine transcarbamylase (OTC)-deficient mice (spf and spf-ash). AAV vectors expressing mouse OTC were produced with capsids from AAV2 and the novel serotypes AAV7, 8, and 9. OTC-deficient mice were infused with these vectors as well as a control AAV2/8 vector expressing LacZ. In vivo activity of OTC was assessed by measuring a surrogate marker, urine orotate. The novel vectors restored orotate levels to virtually normal 15 days after infusion, and each persisted to 1 year posttreatment. Liver OTC enzyme activity in spf mice was substantially higher in animals receiving novel vectors compared to those receiving AAV2 vectors. Animals receiving novel OTC-expressing vectors lived longer than those treated with AAV2 OTC or untreated controls, and they were tolerant to a challenge with NH3 at 21 days and beyond, which caused severe morbidity in control OTC-deficient animals. Numerous mice, representative of all treatment groups followed for +250 days, were observed to have either nodules or discrete tumors in the liver, the etiology of which is the subject of a companion paper.
We present preclinical studies that demonstrate in vitro the feasibility and efficacy of lentivirus-based vector antisense gene therapy for control of HIV replication in primary T lymphocytes isolated from HIV-infected patients discordant for clinical status. VRX496 is a VSV-G-pseudotyped HIV-based vector that encodes an antisense payload against the HIV envelope gene. The antisense payload is under the control of the native LTR promoter, which is highly transactivated by tat upon HIV infection in the cell. Transfer of autologous CD4(+) T lymphocytes genetically modified with VRX496 (VRX496T) into HIV-infected patients is intended to provide a reservoir of cells capable of controlling HIV, potentially delaying AIDS onset. To determine the patient population likely to respond to VRX496 for optimal efficacy, we examined the ability of our research vector, VRX494, to modify and suppress HIV in vitro in lymphocytes isolated from 20 study subjects discordant for CD4 count and viral load. VRX494 is analogous to the clinical vector VRX496, except that it contains GFP as a marker gene instead of the 186-tag marker in the clinical vector. To transfer VRX494 to target cells we developed a novel scalable two-step transduction procedure that has been translated to the clinic in an ongoing clinical trial. This procedure achieved unprecedented transduction efficiencies of 94 +/- 5% in HIV(+) study subject cells. In addition the vector inhibited HIV replication >/=93% in culture regardless of the viral load or CD4 count of the subject or tropism of the virus strain with which they were infected. These findings demonstrate that VRX496T therapy is expected to be beneficial to patients that differ in their status in term of CD4 count and viral load. The methods described represent significant technical advances facilitating execution of lentivirus vector-mediated gene therapy for treatment of HIV and are currently being employed in the first trial evaluating lentivirus vector safety in humans.
Murine models of lysosomal storage diseases provide an opportunity to evaluate the potential for gene therapy to prevent systemic manifestations of the disease. To determine the potential for treatment of mucopolysaccharidosis type I using a gene delivery approach, a recombinant adeno-associated virus (AAV) vector, vTRCA1, transducing the human iduronidase (IDUA) gene was constructed and 1 x 10(10) particles were injected intravenously into 1-day-old Idua(-/-) mice. High levels of IDUA activity were present in the plasma of vTRCA1-treated animals that persisted for the 5-month duration of the study, with heart and lung of this group demonstrating the highest tissue levels of gene transfer and enzyme activity overall. vTRCA1-treated Idua(-/-) animals with measurable plasma IDUA activity exhibited histopathological evidence of reduced lysosomal storage in a number of tissues and were normalized with respect to urinary GAG excretion, craniofacial bony parameters, and body weight. In an open field test, vTRCA1-treated Idua(-/-) animals exhibited a significant reduction in total squares covered and a trend toward normalization in rearing events and grooming time compared to control-treated Idua(-/-) animals. We conclude that AAV-mediated transduction of the IDUA gene in newborn Idua(-/-) mice was sufficient to have a major curative impact on several of the most important parameters of the disease.
Azathioprine is commonly prescribed for autoimmune hepatitis and inflammatory bowel disease. An acute gastroenteritis-like syndrome has been ascribed to azathioprine use, but chronic diarrhea has not. We report a patient with autoimmune hepatitis who developed severe small-bowel villus atrophy and chronic diarrhea after azathioprine was initiated (50 mg/day). We present a case report of a patient followed up prospectively. Duodenal mucosal histology and expression of brush border enzyme dipeptidyl peptidase IV and peptide transporter PepT1 messenger RNA levels were determined before and after azathioprine discontinuation. Chronic diarrhea developed several weeks after the initiation of azathioprine and resulted in micronutrient depletion and severe protein-calorie malnutrition, which was unresponsive to oral pancreatic enzyme therapy or a gluten-free diet. Severe malabsorption required parenteral nutrition support for longer than 1.5 years; this was complicated by unstable blood glucose control, acute calculous cholecystitis, catheter sepsis, and severe venous thrombosis. When the temporal association between azathioprine and diarrhea was identified, the drug was tapered while the patient consumed an unrestricted diet. Within 2 weeks after azathioprine was discontinued, diarrhea had completely resolved, and parenteral nutrition was discontinued. Mucosal biopsies obtained before and 4 months after azathioprine discontinuation showed complete reversal of severe duodenal villus atrophy and marked up-regulation of mucosal dipeptidyl peptidase IV and PepT1 messenger RNA. The patient has subsequently maintained normal liver function tests on low-dose prednisone alone, with normal stools and stable nutritional status for longer than 4 years. Azathioprine can induce severe small-bowel villus atrophy, diarrhea, and malabsorption that is reversible with drug discontinuation.
We report the occurrence of recurrent severe generalized seizures during induction of anesthesia with propofol in a patient with syringomyelia receiving baclofen for flexor spasms undergoing neurosurgery. We discuss the possible epileptogenic interaction between baclofen and propofol in our patient.
Reproductive effects have been observed in experimental animals treated with di(n-butyl)phthalate (DBP), one of phthalate esters used in soft plastics and a variety of consumer products. In this study, we investigated whether testicular toxicity of DBP is influenced by diminished renal function. To generate an experimental condition reflecting chronic renal disease in man, adult male F344 rats were given five consecutive weekly subcutaneous injections of folic acid at a dose of 300 mg/kg and then a diet containing 1200, 5000, and 20,000 ppm of DBP for 4 weeks. These concentrations roughly correspond to 60, 250, and 1000 mg/kg per day per rat, respectively. Folic acid clearly induced interstitial nephritis accompanied by impairment of renal function. Seminiferous degeneration, diminished spermatogenesis and increase in the number of morphologically abnormal sperm were more prominent in rats given folic acid and then 20,000 ppm DBP as compared to those exposed to DBP alone. These data suggest that DBP-induced male reproductive toxicity can be increased by folic acid-induced renal dysfunction.
Here we investigated the in vivo effect of morin (500ppm in diet) in fostering apoptosis in diethylnitrosamine (DEN) (200mg/kg bodyweight) mediated experimental hepatocellular carcinogenesis model. We analyzed the expression of cytosolic protein Akt and their important apoptotic downstream targets like caspase-9, Bcl-2, Bax, GSK-3betain vivo, by immunoblot analysis. In silico docking studies indicated that morin could serve as a better inhibitor than the classical PI3K inhibitor LY294002. The results obtained from in vivo studies confirm this. We also demonstrate here that morin's interaction with a defined set of amino acids of PI3K p110gamma catalytic subunit resulted in the down-regulation of p-Akt(Ser473), p-Akt(Thr308) and total Akt causing the attenuation of its downstream targets in DEN-induced hepatocellular carcinoma. Further, morin caused the up-regulation of tumor suppressor PTEN, an important negative regulator of Akt, thus initiating apoptosis. Supplementation of morin to experimental animals modulated Bcl-2/Bax ratio causing the release of cyt C and up-regulation of caspase-3 and -9. Morin was also found to prevent the Akt-mediated suppression of GSK-3beta possibly causing cell cycle arrest at the G1/S phase. These observations were supported by the DNA fragmentation and transmission electron microscopy results, which showed the occurrence of apoptosis. In conclusion, our findings demonstrate that morin begets apoptosis in DEN-induced hepatocellular carcinoma.
Leptin, a pleiotropic hormone regulating food intake and metabolism, plays an important role in the regulation of inflammation and immunity. We previously demonstrated that serum leptin levels are profoundly increased in mice which received azoxymethane (AOM) and dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) as tumor-initiator and -promoter, respectively, in a colon carcinogenesis model. In this study, we attempted to address underlying mechanism whereby leptin is up-regulated in this rodent model. Five-week-old male ICR mice were given a single intraperitoneal injection of AOM (week 0), followed by 1% DSS in drinking water for 7 days. Thereafter, the weights of visceral fats and the serum concentration of leptin were determined at week 20. Of interest, the relative epididymal fat pad and mesenteric fat weights, together with serum leptin levels in the AOM and/or DSS-treated mice were markedly increased compared to that in untreated mice. In addition, leptin protein production in epididymal fat pad with AOM/DSS-treated mice was 4.7-fold higher than that of control. Further, insulin signaling molecules, such as protein kinase B (Akt), S6, mitogen-activate protein kinase/extracellular signaling-regulated kinase 1/2, and extracellular signaling-regulated kinase 1/2, were concomitantly activated in epididymal fat of AOM/DSS-treated mice. This treatment also increased the serum insulin and IGF-1 levels. Taken together, our results suggest that higher levels of serum insulin and IGF-1 promote the insulin signaling in epididymal fat and thereby increasing serum leptin, which may play an crucial role in, not only obesity-related, but also -independent colon carcinogenesis.
Tamoxifen resistance is one of the overarching challenges in the treatment of patients with estrogen receptor (ER)-positive breast cancer. Through a genome-wide RNA interference screen to discover genes responsible for tamoxifen resistance in vitro, we identified insulin-like growth factor binding protein 5 (IGFBP5) as a determinant of drug sensitivity. Specific knockdown of IGFBP5 by retroviral infection with short hairpin RNA-expressing cassette in MCF7 human breast cancer cells (pRS-shIGFBP5) conferred tamoxifen resistance in vitro due to concomitant loss of ERalpha expression and signaling. IGFBP5 expression was also reduced in MCF7 cells selected for tamoxifen resistance in culture (TAMR). Both tamoxifen-resistant MCF7-TAMR and MCF7-pRS-shIGFBP5 cells could be resensitized to drug by treatment with exogenous recombinant IGFBP5 (rIGFBP5) protein. Treatment with rIGFBP5 protein in mouse tumor xenografts reversed the in vivo tamoxifen resistance of MCF7-pRS-shIGFBP5 cell-derived tumors by reducing tumor cell proliferation. IGFBP5 immunohistochemical staining in a cohort of 153 breast cancer patients showed that low IGFBP5 expression was associated with shorter overall survival after tamoxifen therapy. Thus, IGFBP5 warrants investigation as an agent to reverse tamoxifen resistance.
To determine the efficacy of nifedipine combined with propranolol in the treatment of hypertension, 23 patients with essential hypertension uncontrolled while they were receiving propranolol, 120 mg/d, entered a dose response trial of four 8-week periods while continuing propranolol therapy. Therapy during the four periods consisted respectively of a placebo, 30 mg/d of nifedipine, 30 or 60 mg/d of nifedipine, and 30 or 60 mg/d of nifedipine along with only 60 mg/d of propranolol. Studies of forearm blood flow and venous compliance were carried out in nine of the patients. Ten patients dropped out after the first period. The mean blood pressures while the patients were recumbent after the first, second and third periods were 163 +/- 17/100 +/- 6, 147 +/- 13/89 +/- 10 and 141 +/- 19/84 +/- 10 mm Hg respectively. There was no evidence of tolerance in the four patients who received 30 mg/d of nifedipine during the third period. There was a significant dose-diastolic pressure response (p less than 0.0006) without a change in heart rate in the eight who received 60 mg/d of nifedipine during this period. After 16 weeks of therapy with nifedipine 11 patients had a diastolic pressure less than 90 mm Hg while recumbent. While mean blood pressure and heart rate for the group were not significantly increased at the end of the fourth period, in three of the patients the diastolic pressure while recumbent increased to over 90 mm Hg. This suggests that 120 mg/d of propranolol is the minimum dose required for concomitant therapy. Adverse symptoms were mild and transient. Forearm plethysmography showed that nifedipine induced arteriolar but not venous dilation and that propranolol attenuated the vasodilator effect of nifedipine. The author concludes that nifedipine was safe and effective in combination with propranolol in this group of patients with essential hypertension.
The reduced cardiac toxicity of the dextro-(d-) stereoisomer of verapamil (dexverapamil; Knoll Pharmaceuticals, Whippany, NJ) warrants its study as a potential multidrug-resistance (MDR) reversal agent.
Twenty-three patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) were treated with vinblastine at a dose of 0.11 mg/kg intravenous (IV) bolus injection on days 1 and 2 every 21 days. Dexverapamil was added to subsequent cycles after resistance had been demonstrated. Dexverapamil treatment was begun 18 hours before day 1 of vinblastine administration and was given orally every 6 hours for 12 doses. Patients in group A were treated with a dose of 120 mg/m2, and those in group B were treated with 180 mg/m2 plus dexamethasone; plasma concentrations achieved in patients were correlated with in vitro effects.
Toxicities included hypotension, asymptomatic bradycardia, and mild atrioventricular conduction delays, although one patient had dexverapamil discontinued for grade IV congestive heart failure. There were no partial or complete responses. The mean day-1 serum dexverapamil plus norverapamil plasma concentrations were 2,575 ng/mL (range, 697 to 6,015 ng/mL) for group A and 1,654 ng/mL (range, 710 to 4,132 ng/mL) for group B at the time of vinblastine administration. These concentrations were in the range of those that reversed vinblastine resistance in vitro.
The advantage of dexverapamil as an MDR reversal agent is its potential for achieving desired blood levels with substantially less toxicity than the racemic mixture of verapamil. Based on tolerability, it is a suitable drug for further study in clinical trials of malignancies other than RCC that attempt to achieve MDR reversal. The dose of 120 mg/m2 given orally every 6 hours, with dose escalation based on individual tolerance, represents a feasible schedule to be considered for such studies.
The authors describe the neurological manifestations of a female patient with hypercholesterolemia who developed myopathy in the course of her treatment with clofibrate. After the drug was tapered off, the neurological signs and symptoms disappeared. Therefore, attention is called for the importance of the differential diagnosis of iatrogenic myopathies with polymyositis.
A phase I/II study of oral all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA; tretinoin), administered every other week alone and then in combination with interferon (IFN) alfa-2a, was undertaken to evaluate the activity, toxicity, and pharmacokinetics of this regimen in patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-associated Kaposi's sarcoma (KS).
Thirteen patients with HIV-associated KS, eight of whom had more than 100 CD4 cells/microL, were entered. The protocol initially called for patients to receive 150 mg/m2/d of ATRA every other week. However, this regimen was associated with headaches, and the initial dose of ATRA was reduced to 40 mg/m2/d orally in three divided doses, increasing to a maximum of 100 mg/m2/d. After 12 weeks, IFN alfa-2a could be added.
The principal toxicities from ATRA were headaches (12 patients) and dry skin or lip (seven patients). Of 12 assessable patients, 10 had progressive disease and two had stable disease on ATRA alone. One of eight assessable patients who went on to receive ATRA plus IFN alfa-2a had partial response (PR). There were no overall changes in the serum HIV p24 antigen (Ag) level or CD4 count during treatment with ATRA alone. Peak ATRA levels decreased during the week of continuous ATRA therapy, but rebounded when treatment was resumed after a week without the drug.
Intermittent ATRA therapy was reasonably well tolerated and provided a means to circumvent the low plasma exposure found with continuous ATRA therapy. However, we were unable to document antitumor activity in patients with HIV-associated KS.
To examine the effects of heavy metals such as cadmium and mercury on calcium homeostasis, plasma calcium and calcitonin were measured in goldfish. Cadmium induced hypocalcemia both at 4 and at 8 days. In methylmercury-treated goldfish, the plasma calcium level increased at 2 days and then decreased at 8 days. The plasma calcitonin level increased in correspondence with the increased plasma calcium by methylmercury treatment, although cadmium did not cause a significant change. To elucidate the mechanism in detail, fish scales, which have both osteoclasts and osteoblasts and are similar to mammalian membrane bone, were used in the present study. We measured tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP) and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity as respective indicators of activity in both types of cells. TRAP activity in the scales decreased by treatment of cadmium and methylmercury at 6 h incubation. Particularly, cadmium (even at 10(-13) M) significantly suppressed TRAP activity, suggesting that this system is utilized as an acute biosensor for cadmium. ALP activity decreased after exposures of 64 and 96 h, although the activity did not change after 6, 18, and 36 h. In addition, mRNA expression of the estrogen receptor and insulin-like growth factor 1, which participate in osteoblastic growth and differentiation, was less than the control values by treatment with both metals. This study demonstrates that mercury directly acts on the bone cells and influences calcium homeostasis and indicates that, in a short-term exposure, mercury has a different action from that of cadmium and induces hypercalcemia.
Cyclo(L-Trp-L-Pro) has shown potential for use in the treatment of cardiovascular dysfunction. The aim of the study was to determine the effects of the isomers of cyclo(Trp-Pro) - cyclo(L-Trp-L-Pro), cyclo(L-Trp-D-Pro), cyclo(D-Trp-L-Pro) and cyclo(D-Trp-D-Pro) - on heart and ion-channel activity. The effects on L-type Ca(2+)-channel, Na(+)-channel and inward rectifier K(+)-channel activity were determined by using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique on myocytes of guinea-pig origin. Dependence on the membrane potential in terms of Ca(2+)-channel activity was also investigated. A modified Langendorff method was used to determine the effects of the isomers on heart rate, coronary flow, duration of ventricular tachycardia and arrhythmia, time to sinus rhythm and QRS interval on the rat isolated heart. Cyclo(L-Trp-L-Pro), cyclo(L-Trp-D-Pro) and cyclo(D-Trp-D-Pro), 100 microM, showed agonism towards Ca(2+)-channel activity, while cyclo(D-Trp-L-Pro) caused a blockage of the current. The action of cyclo(D-Trp-L-Pro) was shown to be independent of membrane potential. No significant effect (P > 0.05) on the inward rectifier K(+) current was observed in the presence of cyclo(L-Trp-D-Pro) and cyclo(D-Trp-D-Pro), while antagonism was noted in the presence of cyclo(L-Trp-L-Pro) and cyclo(D-Trp-L-Pro). All isomers showed antagonist effects on the Na(+) channel. No adverse effects were noted on chronotropic effects in the presence of 200 microM cyclo(L-Trp-L-Pro) and cyclo(D-Trp-D-Pro) (P > 0.05), while cyclo(L-Trp-D-Pro) significantly increased the heart rate. Cyclo(D-Trp-L-Pro) significantly reduced the heart rate (P < 0.05). In addition, no significant effects were observed on the coronary flow rate in the presence of the isomers. All isomers significantly reduced the duration of ventricular tachycardia and arrhythmia, as well as the time to sinus rhythm. Furthermore, no change in the QRS intervals was noted in the presence of the isomers in comparison with the control, with a significant increase being noted for cyclo(D-Trp-D-Pro) (P < 0.05) in reference to the other isomers. The isomers thus show antiarrhythmic potential and may manifest as novel agents in the treatment of cardiovascular dysfunction, since a decrease in ventricular fibrillation may reduce the mortality rates in acute myocardial infarction.
Twenty consecutive weekly sc injections of 50 mg/kg body weight of 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl (DMAB), a multipotential carcinogen, were given to male F344 rats and subsequently groups of animals were treated with dietary ethinyl estradiol (EE, 2.5 ppm) or methyltestosterone (MT, 300 ppm) for up to 40 weeks. Prostate carcinomas were found in 4 out of 32 rats given DMAB followed by MT and in 2 out of 29 rats given DMAB alone. Atypical hyperplasia of the prostate epithelium in these two groups was found in 22% and 14%, respectively. Neither carcinoma nor atypical hyperplasia was seen in the prostate of animals given DMAB followed by EE. In other organs, tumors were frequently found in the ear duct, skin, and large intestine and less frequently in the lung, preputial glands, small intestine and liver. EE significantly suppressed tumor incidence of the ear duct and sebaceous glands while increasing the incidence of liver tumor and mesothelioma. The present data indicates DMAB to be a useful carcinogen for the induction of prostate carcinomas in rats.
The mechanism of lithium-induced diabetes insipidus was investigated in 96 patients and in a rat model. Polydipsia was reported by 40% and polyuria (more than 3 liter/day) by 12% of patients receiving lithium. Maximum concentrating ability after dehydration and vasopressin was markedly impaired in 10 polyuric patients and was reduced in 7 of 10 nonpolyuric patients studied before and during lithium therapy. Severe polyuria (more than 6 liter/day) was unresponsive to trials of vasopressin and chlorpropamide, but improved on chlorothiazide. Rats receiving lithium (3-4 meq/kg/day) developed massive polyuria that was resistant to vasopressin, in comparison to rats with comparable polyuria induced by drinking glucose. Analysis of renal tissue in rats with lithium polyuria showed progressive increase in the concentration of lithium from cortex to papilla with a 2.9-fold corticopapillary gradient for lithium. The normal corticopapillary gradient for sodium was not reduced by lithium treatment. The polyuria was not interrupted by brief intravenous doses of vasopressin (5-10 mU/kg) or dibutyryl cyclic AMP (10-15 mg/kg) capable of reversing water diuresis in normal and hypothalamic diabetes insipidus rats (Brattleboro strain). The present studies suggest that nephrogenic diabetes insipidus is a common finding after lithium treatment and results in part from interference with the mediation of vasopressin at a step distal to the formation of 3',5' cyclic AMP.
A case report of a 26-year old woman on chronic hemodialysis for pyelonephritis who took 10 mg of norethisterone acetate daily for suppression of menstruation. 1 week before admission colic-like pains appeared in right upper abdominal quadrant which were relieved by spasmolytics. Laboratory parameters (except those related to renal insufficiency), physical examination, x-rays of chest, stomach and biliary tract showed no abnormalities. Sonography revealed various round space-occupying lesions in the lower liver lobe. Before further studies could be initiated and following a hemodialysis session patient died of an intrahepatic hemorrhage confirmed by ultra-sonic and CAT-scan. Autopsy showed a large hematoma with more than 700 ml coagulated blood which caused rupture of the right liver lobe. Round adenomas were found in both lobes. The relationship between oral contraceptives and primary liver adenomas in young women without previous liver disease has been reported in the literature since 1973. 200 cases were found in the literature since 1977. Although mostly estrogens are blamed for liver adenomas, in this case it was a pure progestogen preparation. In another study of women with primary liver adenomas only 1 in 100 women used a pure progestin contraceptive. A relationship between androgens or anabolic steroids has been found in a number of case reports in the literature. It can be assumed that both combination preparations with estrogen components, and pure progestin preparations play a similar role in the pathogenesis of benign liver tumors.
Opioid withdrawal is known to facilitate aggressive behavior in laboratory rodents. Aggression develops as the somatic signs disappear and thus may reflect protracted withdrawal-related behavioral alterations. Antagonists acting at the NMDA receptor are known to attenuate the expression of morphine withdrawal syndrome in laboratory animals.
The present study aimed to evaluate the effects of low-affinity NMDA receptor channel blockers (memantine and MRZ 2/579) on aggression facilitated by morphine withdrawal in mice.
Significant increases in aggressive behavior were observed 48 h after repeated morphine administration (8 days, b.i.d., 10-80 mg/kg, s.c.) was discontinued. Separate groups of mice were treated intraperitoneally with vehicles or different doses of memantine (1, 3, 10 or 30 mg/kg) or MRZ 2/579 (1, 3 or 10 mg/kg) 48 h after the last morphine injection.
Both compounds dose-dependently reduced the expression of aggressive behavior while having no significant effect upon the intensity of non-aggressive social contacts. Memantine significantly diminished the occurrence of all recorded components of aggressive behavior (attacks/bites, threats, tail rattling) while MRZ 2/579 affected mainly the appetitive events of aggressive bursts (threats, tail rattling). For both compounds, anti-aggressive effects occurred at dose levels that did not produce motor impairment in the Rotarod test.
Taken together with the evidence on the lack of selective anti-aggressive effects of these drugs in morphine-naive mice, attenuation of the aggression observed in the present study may be due to specific interaction with morphine withdrawal-triggered processes.
12 children with the Wolff-Parkinson-White (WPW) syndrome underwent electrophysiologic study before and after the intravenous administration of isoproterenol. Effective refractory period of the accessory pathway and shortest paced cycle length with 1:1 atrioventricular (A-V) conduction via the accessory pathway were shortened after intravenous isoproterenol in all patients. Orthodromic reciprocating tachycardia was induced after isoproterenol in one patient who did not documented tachycardia attack or palpitation before. Anterograde A-V conduction via A-V node and retrograde V-A conduction via accessory pathway were enhanced. Thus, tachycardia cycle length was shortened. Potential high risk group patient who develop hazardous atrial fibrillation during exercise in the WPW syndrome may be selected by isoproterenol infusion.
Dexverapamil is a competitive inhibitor of the P-glycoprotein (Pgp) efflux pump, a potent mechanism of multidrug resistance (mdr-1) in vitro. We performed a phase I study to determine the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) and pharmacokinetics of dexverapamil with etoposide, prednisone, vincristine, cyclophosphamide, and doxorubicin (EPOCH) chemotherapy.
Eligible patients had relapsed or refractory lymphoma or sarcoma. Patients initially received EPOCH alone, and those with stable or progressive disease were crossed-over to received dexverapamil on subsequent cycles of EPOCH. Dexverapamil was administered orally for 6 days and escalated over eight dose levels ranging from 240 to 1,200 mg/m2/d. Pharmacokinetics of dexverapamil and its active metabolite, nor-dexverapamil, were obtained in most patients. In seven patients, pharmacokinetics of doxorubicin, doxorubicinol, and etoposide were determined on paired cycles of EPOCH with or without dexverapamil.
Sixty-five patients received 130 cycles of dexverapamil/EPOCH chemotherapy. The MTD of dexverapamil was 150 mg/m2 every 4 hours (900 mg/m2/d), and hypotension was the principal dose-limiting toxicity. The dexverapamil area under the curve (AUC) increased proportionally with dexverapamil dose, but significant interpatient variation occurred. At the MTD, the median plasma average concentrations of dexverapamil and nor-dexverapamil were 1.2 and 1.4 mumol/L, respectively. Dexverapamil did not affect the steady-state concentration (Css) of etoposide, but increased the Css of doxorubicin and doxorubicinol nearly twofold. The absolute neutrophil and platelet nadirs were significantly lower on the dexverapamil cycles compared with cycles of EPOCH alone, but other chemotherapy-related toxicities did not change.
The phase II recommended dose of dexverapamil with EPOCH is 150 mg/m2 every 4 hours. This dose was well tolerated on an outpatient basis and achieved plasma concentrations of dexverapamil and nor-dexverapamil within the effective range for Pgp inhibition in vitro. Although dexverapamil increased the hematopoietic toxicity of EPOCH, it was mild, readily reversible, and offset by EPOCH dose reductions. Dexverapamil should be considered for further study.
