Probucol, 4,4'-(isopropylidenedithio)bis(2,6-di-tert-butyl-phenol), has been shown to inhibit atherogenesis in genetically hypercholesterolemic (Watanabe) rabbits. Since atherosclerotic lesions contain macrophages capable of screting interleukin 1 (IL 1) and other cytokines that could contribute to the pathogenesis of the disease, we have investigated whether probucol affects IL 1 secretion. Resident peritoneal macrophages from mice dosed with probucol secreted 40-80% less IL 1 than macrophages from control animals when stimulated in vitro with lipopolysaccharide (LPS). The inhibitory effect of probucol was observed when IL 1 was assayed by the standard bioassay, the thymocyte proliferation assay, or a competitive IL 1 receptor binding assay. Probucol treatment had no effect on LPS-induced membrane IL 1 expression; secretion of tumor necrosis factor (TNF); Con A-induced splenic interleukin 2 (IL 2) and interleukin 3 (IL 3) release; and prostaglandin- or zymosan-induced secretion of prostacyclin, leukotriene C4, acid phosphatase, or superoxide anion. In contrast to the effect of oral administration, direct addition of probucol to macrophage cultures did not inhibit IL 1 release. Probucol administration did, however, inhibit the fall in serum zinc level induced by intravenous injection of LPS in zymosan-primed mice but had no effect on the LPS-induced increase in serum triglyceride levels, which indirectly confirms that probucol administration inhibits IL 1 but not TNF secretion. Paw granuloma induced in mice by heat-killed mycobacteria was inhibited by oral administration of probucol, an effect that may be attributable to inhibition of IL 1 secretion. Probucol neither reduced zymosan-induced liver granulomata in mice nor inhibited adjuvant-induced arthritis in rats. We suggest that inhibition of IL 1 secretion from macrophages by probucol contributes to its therapeutic effects in atherosclerosis and may also result in beneficial activity in some chronic inflammatory diseases.
Emodin (1,3,8-trihydroxy-6-methylanthraquinone), a major constituent of rhubarb, has a wide range of therapeutic applications. Previous studies have established that emodin inhibits cell proliferation and induces caspase 3-dependent apoptosis. However, its side-effects, particularly those on embryonic development, have not been well characterized as yet. In the current study, we examined the cytotoxic effects of emodin on mouse embryos at the blastocyst stage, subsequent embryonic attachment and outgrowth in vitro, and in vivo implantation by embryo transfer. Blastocysts treated with 25-75 μM emodin exhibited significantly increased apoptosis and a corresponding decrease in total cell number. Notably, the implantation success rate of blastocysts pretreated with emodin was lower than that of their control counterparts. Moreover, in vitro treatment with 25-75 μM emodin was associated with increased resorption of post-implantation embryos and decreased fetal weight. With the aid of an in vivo mouse model, we showed that consumption of drinking water containing emodin led to apoptosis and decreased cell proliferation, and inhibited early embryonic development to the blastocyst stage. Our findings support a degree of selective inhibition of retinoic acid receptors in blastocysts treated with emodin. In addition, emodin appears to induce injury in mouse blastocysts through intrinsic apoptotic signaling processes to impair sequent embryonic development. These results collectively indicate that emodin has the potential to induce embryonic cytotoxicity.
To evaluate the efficacy, median time to progression (TTP), quality of life and toxicity in the patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), treated with thalidomide plus vinorelbine and cisplatin (NP) or NP alone.
Sixty six patients with advanced NSCLC were divided randomly into two groups, the trial and control groups. The trial group was treated with vinorelbine 25 approximately 30 mg/m(2) i.v. on D1 and D8, cisplatin 70 approximately 80 mg/m(2) i.v. on D1 (NP regimen), and thalidomide 200 mg orally and daily from D1. The control group received vinorelbine and cisplatin as above described.
Of 66 assessable patients, the overall response rate was 51.5% in the trial group and 36.4% in the control group (P = 0.22). The median TTP was 6.0 months for the trial group, and 3.6 months for the control group (P < 0.001). The score of quality of life in trial group was higher than that in the control group, but no significant difference was observed between the two groups (P > 0.05). There were no significant differences in toxicities between the two groups (P > 0.05).
NP regimen combined with thalidomide can significantly prolong the median time to tumor progression in patients with advanced NSCLC. Thalidomide may have a synergic activity with NP regimen without increased toxicities.
The anticonvulsant activity of calmodulin antagonist W-7, was investigated on convulsions induced in mice by the insecticide lindane and by the calcium channel agonist BayK-8644. We also studied the inhibitory effect of W-7 on on c-fos mRNA expression induced by both convulsants. We observed a good correlation between doses and the acute convulsive effects of lindane and BayK-8644. The incidence rate and time to onset were clearly dose-dependent. W-7 antagonized the convulsive effects of lindane and BayK-8644 in all the parameters studied. A significant decrease in the incidence rate and time to onset were observed when they are compared with the values obtained with the ED100 of lindane- and BayK-8644 induced seizures. Both were able to activate the mRNA expression of the proto-oncogene. The pattern of this expression displayed by in situ hybridization was very similar. A dramatic increase was found in dentate gyrus and high levels of mRNA expression also occurring in hippocampal fields and cortical regions. In accordance with the behavioural results, W-7 antagonized also the c-fos expression induced by lindane and BayK-8644. Our results suggest that lindane as BayK-8644 may activate voltage-dependent calcium channels leading to calmodulin activation.
This report describes an acute dystonic reaction that occurred after dexamphetamine was discontinued from a drug regimen that included risperidone. This is the second report that has revealed a possible rebound dystonia when a stimulant medication is withdrawn from a patient taking risperidone. We also discuss the neurophysiological hypotheses and implications for treatment.
Carboplatin is one of most commonly used chemotherapeutic agents in clinical oncology practice. We presented a case of subacute cardiotoxicity supposedly due to carboplatin. A patient with ovarian cancer had been treated with carboplatin based chemotherapeutic agent for about a month before surgery. Although she had not shown symptoms of cardiac failure, severe pulmonary edema developed immediately after general anesthesia. It disappeared within a week. For three days following the administration of carboplatin alone for two weeks after surgery, arrhythmias (SVT, SVPB and VPB) and hypotension appeared. Symptoms of congestive heart failure, resembling dilated cardiomyopathy, lasted for one month. It required about two months to restore the normal cardiac functions. Carboplatin seems to have infrequent but possible cardiotoxicity as many other chemotherapeutic agents.
Uncontrolled increase in intracranial pressure (ICP) continues to be one of the most significant causes of early death in patients with acute liver failure (ALF). In this study, we aimed to determine the effects of indomethacin on ICP and cerebral perfusion pressure in twelve patients with ALF and brain edema (9 females/3 males, median age 49,5 (range 21 to 64) yrs.). Also changes in cerebral perfusion determined by transcranial Doppler technique (Vmean) and jugular bulb oxygen saturation (SvjO2) were measured, as well as brain content of lactate and glutamate by microdialysis technique. Finally, we determined the cerebral blood flow autoregulation before and after indomethacin injection. We found that indomethacin reduced ICP from 30 (7 to 53) to 12 (4 to 33) mmHg (P < 0.05). The cerebral perfusion pressure increased from 48 (0 to 119) to 65 (42 to 129) mmHg (P < 0.05), while Vmean and SvjO2 on average remained unchanged at 68 (34 to 126) cm/s and 67 (28 to 82) %, respectively. The lactate and glutamate in the brain tissue were not altered (2.1 (1.8 to 7.8) mmol/l and 34 (2 to 268) micromol/l, respectively) after injection of indomethacin. Cerebral blood flow autoregulation was impaired in all patients before injection of indomethacin, but was not restored after administration of indomethacin. We conclude that a bolus injection of indomethacin reduces ICP and increases cerebral perfusion pressure without compromising cerebral perfusion or oxidative metabolism in patients with ALF. This finding indicates that indomethacin may be valuable as rescue treatment of uncontrolled intracranial hypertension in fulminant hepatic failure.
The aim of our study was to compare three different anesthesiological techniques with regard to hemodynamics, recovery, and postoperative morbidity, for craniofacial surgery. One hundred twenty patients with American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) classification of I or II patients, 18 to 32 years old, and undergoing maxillary and mandibular osteotomies were randomly assigned to receive anesthesia with propofol-remifentanil (group P), desflurane-remifentanil (group D), or sevoflurane-remifentanil (group S). All patients were given premedication: midazolam 0.03 mg/kg, atropine 0.007 mg/kg, desametasone 0.1 mg/kg, NaCl 0.9% 100 mL + 2 mg/kg ketoprofene + 1.5 mg/kg ranitidine + 1 microg/kg clonidine. Anesthesia was induced by O2/air (FiO2 0.5), remifentanil 0.5 microg/kg/min, propofol 2 mg/kg, rocuronium 0.6 mg/kg. Maintenance group P received O2/air (FiO2 0.5), remifentanil 0.25 to 1.5 microg/kg/min, propofol 6 to 10 mg/kg/h; groups D and S received O2/air (FiO2 0.5), remifentanil 0.25 to 1.5 microg/kg/min, and respectively, sevoflurane or desflurane 0.5 minimum alveolar anesthetic concentration. The dosage of propofol, desflurane, and sevoflurane, obtained with a value of bispectral index (BIS) 40, was kept unchanged throughout the course, and remifentanil was titrated to maintain controlled hypotension: systolic arterial blood pressure 70 to 90 mmHg and mean arterial blood pressure 50 to 65 mmHg. A 24-hour elastomeric infusion system (ketoprofene 320 mg) was started 60 minutes before induction and cloridrat ondansetron 0.1 mg/kg was administered 30 minutes before the end of surgery. Hypotension was successfully obtained in all three groups with a bloodless surgical field, and there was no need for additional use of a potent hypotensive agent. Early and late recovery were faster and more complete in the D group; P < 0.05. Postoperative morbidity (nausea, vomiting, shivering, pain, and edema) was slight and did not significantly differ among the groups.
We describe two patients who developed levodopa-responsive parkinsonism without dementia at least 4 years after beginning chronic valproate (VPA) treatment for seizures. Parkinsonism disappeared in less than 3 months after VPA substitution with carbamazepine.
Fatty acid synthase (FAS) is overexpressed in lung cancer, and we have investigated the potential use of FAS inhibitors for chemoprevention of lung cancer.
Expression of FAS was evaluated in preinvasive human lung lesions (bronchial squamous dysplasia and atypical adenomatous hyperplasia) and in murine models of lung tumorigenesis [4-(methylnitrosamino)-I-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone-induced and urethane-induced lung tumors in A/J mice]. Then, the ability of pharmacologic inhibitors of FAS to prevent development of the murine tumors was investigated. Finally, the effect of the FAS inhibitor treatment of levels of phosphorylated Akt in the murine tumors was evaluated by immunohistochemistry.
Immunohistochemical studies show that human bronchial dysplasia and atypical adenomatous hyperplasia express high levels of FAS compared with normal lung tissues, suggesting that FAS might be a target for intervention in lung carcinogenesis. FAS is also expressed at high levels in chemically induced murine lung tumors, and the numbers and sizes of those murine tumors are significantly reduced by treating carcinogen-exposed mice with pharmacologic inhibitors of FAS, C75 and C93. C93 treatment is associated with reduced levels of phosphorylated Akt in tumor tissues, suggesting that inhibition of this signal transduction pathway might be involved in the chemopreventative activity of this compound.
We conclude that increased levels of FAS are common in human preinvasive neoplasia of the lung. Based on studies in mouse models, it seems that inhibiting FAS is an effective strategy in preventing and retarding growth of lung tumors that have high expression of this enzyme.
High-dose cyclophosphamide (HD-CY; 7 g/m2) was administered to patients suffering from high risk multiple myeloma (MM). The safety of this procedure, the recirculation and collection of peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) and the effect of rhGM-CSF and HD-CY were studied. Group I patients (n = 21) were treated with HD-CY alone. Group II patients (n = 10) received 5 micrograms/kg/day rhGM-CSF iv after HD-CY. Neutropenia was shorter in group II (p = 0.01). In group II, the number of circulating colony forming units (CFU-GM) after 14 days was correlated with the number of circulating CFU-GM after 7 days (r = 0.85, p < 0.0001) and with the number of CD34+ cells (r = 0.839, p = 0.01). The total number of mononuclear cells (MNC) and CFU-GM collected per patient was two and seven-fold higher, respectively, in group II (p = 0.01 and p = 0.03). Recovered MNC and CFU-GM were 1.7 and 7-fold higher, respectively, in group II (p = 0.01 and p = 0.004). Our data show that HD-CY is an efficient means of collecting functional PBSC in MM. We suggest that rhGM-CSF is able to further enhance this yield in MM.
Labetalol (Trandate; Allen & Hanbury) was administered to 17 hypertensive patients with angina pectoris, which had persisted despite blood pressure control on treatment including beta-blocking agents. In comparison with placebo, labetalol significantly reduced the frequency and severity of attacks of angina pectoris, without further improvement in control of blood pressure at rest, during isotonic exercise or on performance of the cold pressor test. Labetalol significantly reduced blood pressure levels during isometric exercise but did not reduce the systolic pressure- heart rate product. Labetalol improved the angina without evidence of causing a reduction of cardiac work (and presumably oxygen consumption by the myocardium) in comparison with the other antihypertensive agents used in this study. A possible mechanism whereby labetalol increases myocardial blood supply in hypertensive patients with angina pectoris is by an increase in coronary perfusion due to its vasodilator action.
Purine analogues are major drugs in the treatment of inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD). We present four cases of nodular regenerative hyperplasia of the liver (NRH) developed in patients with IBD treated with azathioprine. All patients had either abnormal liver tests and/or low platelet count. Although biochemical and hematological abnormalities regressed after azathioprine withdrawal, the long term evolution of the hepatic lesions (and the risk to develop further complications including portal hypertension) remains to be determined. Male gender seems to be a major risk factor by providing a predisposing pharmacogenetic profile of purine analogue metabolism. Clinicians should be aware of this serious complication which may occur with any of the purine analogues (azathioprine, 6-mercaptopurine, and 6-thioguanine).
Previous studies have shown an effect of the tranquilizer lorazepam on visual perception. We explored the effects of the drug on binocular vision, visual acuity and accommodation.
Twenty-four paid healthy volunteers (13 women, 11 men) were recruited from the University of Strasbourg (mean age: 23.6 years, mean weight: 66.8 Kg). They were randomly assigned to one of two parallel groups of 12 subjects each (a placebo group and a lorazepam 0.038 mg/kg group). Visual acuity was measured for each eye separately (Snellen chart and Parinaud scale). Binocular vision was studied using the cover tests, measurement of the fusional amplitudes (with Berens prisms), and the Duane Scale Test (near point rule) measuring convergence and/or accommodation in centimeters or diopters as a function of age.
Regarding vision, there was no lorazepam effect, at either 33 cm or 5 m. An esophoria was observed after the intake of lorazepam (0Delta before intake and 2.8Delta after intake, p=0.001). Both fusional convergence and fusional divergence amplitudes decreased by lorazepam, (p=0.008, and p=0.002). Lorazepam also impaired the near point of convergence but did not affect accommodation.
A single dose of lorazepam induces an esophoric oculomotor imbalance and impaired fusional convergence and divergence amplitudes without impairing visual acuity or accommodation.
Bortezomib (Velcade), a dipeptide boronate proteasome inhibitor, is a novel anti-cancer agent registered for multiple myeloma (MM). It has also shown promising clinical activity in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Clinical experience with bortezomib so far indicates that overall incidence of cardiac failure associated with bortezomib therapy remains incidental. Nevertheless, acute development or exacerbation of congestive cardiac failure has been associated with bortezomib treatment.
We present here a case of severe, but reversible, congestive cardiac failure in a lung cancer patient who had no prior cardiac history, after receiving an experimental treatment of bortezomib combined with chemotherapy. Elevated levels of N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP), as retrospectively measured in archived serum samples, were suggestive of pre-existent (sub-clinical) left ventricular dysfunction.
Based on literature, we hypothesize that baseline presence of sub clinical cardiomyopathy, characterized by a dysregulation of the ubiquitin-proteasome system, could have predisposed this patient for a cardiac side effect induced by systemic proteasome inhibition. Patients with heart disease or risk factors for it should be closely monitored when being submitted to treatment with proteasome inhibition therapy such as bortezomib. Caution is therefore warranted in lung cancer patients who often present with cardiac comorbidities.
Besides cardioprotective effects, the AT1R (angiotensin-II type 1 receptor) antagonist losartan protects the liver from IRI [IR (ischaemia/reperfusion) injury], but the mechanism has not been fully determined. The HIF (hypoxia inducible factor)-1α and Wnt/β-catenin signalling pathways have been reported to be involved in the mechanism of liver IRI. Therefore the aim of the present study was to determine whether the Wnt/HIF axis is part of the mechanism of the positive effect of AngII inhibition by losartan in liver IRI in rats. Various measurements were made in MCD/HF-NASH (methionine- and choline-deficient-diet/high-fat-diet-induced non-alcoholic steatohepatitis) rats with liver IRI. Acute losartan pre-administration markedly reversed the IR-suppressed levels of the hepatic-protective factors IL (interleukin)-6, IFN (interferon)-γ, Wnt3a, β-catenin and HIF-1α, and decreased hepatic blood flow and IR-elevated serum ALT (alanine aminotransferase), hepatic TNF (tumour necrosis factor)-α, IL-1α, hepatic congestion, vacuolization and necrosis, hepatic Suzuki IRI scores, necrotic index and levels of TBARS (thiobarbituric acid-reacting substances) in MCD/HF-NASH rats. Furthermore, acute Wnt3a pre-treatment significantly inhibited IR-elevated serum ALT, hepatic Suzuki IRI scores and TBARS, and restored the IR-depleted β-catenin/HIF-1α activity in MCD/HF-NASH rats. Simultaneous acute sFRP2 (secreted frizzled-related protein 2; a Wnt3a inhibitor) pre-treatment eliminated the losartan-related beneficial effects in MCD/HF-NASH rats with liver IRI, which was accompanied by a decrease in hepatic HIF-1α/β-catenin activity. Losartan-induced up-regulation of HIF-1α and Wnt/β-catenin signalling was associated with the recovery of IR-inhibited hepatic Bcl-2, Mn-SOD (manganese superoxide), Cu/Zn-SOD (copper/zinc superoxide) and GSH levels, and the suppression of IR-increased hepatic catalase and caspase 3/caspase 8 levels in MCD/HF-NASH rats. In conclusion, up-regulation of the HIF-1α and Wnt/β-catenin signalling pathways are part of the mechanism of the positive effects of losartan-related AngII inhibition in MCD/HF-NASH rats with liver IRI. Our study highlights the potential of the dual-organ protective agent losartan in NASH patients with steatotic livers and cardiovascular risk.
The present study was done to evaluate the pituitary-testicular activities of rats subjected to chronic nicotine treatment. The testicular key androgenic enzymes activities, plasma and intratesticular testosterone (ITT) concentrations, and plasma concentration of gonadotropin were significantly reduced by nicotine treatment along with the decreased sperm counts and the disruption of spermatogenesis indicated by significant reduction in the number of different generations of germ cells at stage VII of the spermatogenesis cycle with increased sperm head abnormalities. The Western blot and the reverse transcriptase-PCR analysis revealed that the nicotine induced a marked decrease in the expression of testicular steroidogenic acute regulatory (StAR) protein, which helps in the transfer of cholesterol in mitochondria for the testosterone biosynthesis. The increased testicular lipid peroxidation, plasma concentration of corticosterone, with enhanced hydrogen peroxide and hydroxyl radical generations, as well as decreased glutathione level, reduced antioxidant enzymes activities, and mitochondrial membrane potential (Deltapsi(m)) of testis, were noted after nicotine treatment in rats. Human chorionic gonadotropin or taurine supplementation with nicotine prevented the degeneration of germ cells to some extent, restored spermatogenesis moderately with decreased sperm head abnormalities, and enhanced sperm counts, accompanied with increase in plasma and ITT concentrations, testicular StAR gene expression, and key androgenic enzymes activities. Moreover, taurine supplementation to nicotine-treated animals resulted in the diminution of testicular lipid peroxidation, hydrogen peroxide and hydroxyl radical generations, with the elevation in glutathione level as well as different antioxidant enzymes activities and Deltapsi(m) in testis. The results indicated that nicotine caused testicular toxicity by germ cell degeneration, inhibition of StAR gene expression along with androgen production in adult male rats probably by affecting pituitary gonadotropin, and/or modulating the extent of testicular antioxidant status.
The factors contributing to substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) dopamine (DA) neuron death and striatal DA depletion in Parkinson's disease (PD) are still poorly understood. However, mitochondrial dysfunction, cellular energy depletion and oxidative stress appear to play important roles in the pathogenesis of PD. In view of this, the current study examined the potential of nicotinamide, a form of the B-complex vitamin niacin, to protect against 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced SNc cell loss and striatal DA depletion in two mouse MPTP models that respond differently to putative neuroprotective agents. Adult male C57Bl/6 mice received nicotinamide (125, 250 or 500 mg/kg i.p.) prior to either acute (four injections in 1 day at 2-h intervals) or sub-acute (two injections per day at 4-h intervals for 5 days) MPTP administration. Striatal DA levels, changes in numbers of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)- and cresyl violet-stained cells in the SNc at 2 and 6 weeks following the last MPTP exposure were analyzed. Nicotinamide administration resulted in a dose-dependent sparing of striatal DA levels and SNc neurons in acute MPTP-treated animals. Only the highest dose of nicotinamide had similar effects in sub-acute MPTP-treated animals. At 6 weeks after MPTP exposure, there was some spontaneous recovery of striatal DA levels in both models: neuroprotective effects were still apparent in acute but not sub-acute MPTP-treated animals. These results show neuroprotective effects of nicotinamide in different mouse Parkinson models associated with different forms of cell death and suggest that nicotinamide may have broad neuroprotective potential in PD.
Chronic urticaria/angioedema is a common phenotype in patients with aspirin sensitivity; however, its genetic mechanism is not understood. Transforming growth factor (TGF)beta1 is a key regulatory cytokine involved in allergic inflammation.
We examined the association of a TGFbeta1 genetic polymorphism with aspirin-intolerant chronic urticaria (AICU) and aspirin-tolerant chronic urticaria (ATCU) in a Korean population.
A promoter polymorphism in the TGFbeta1 gene, TGFbeta1 -509C>T, was analysed in 112 AICU patients, 153 ATCU patients and 457 normal controls (NC), and the frequency was compared among the groups. Serum TGFbeta1 levels were measured by ELISA.
The minor allele frequency of the -509C>T polymorphism was significantly higher in patients with AICU compared with the other two groups (P < 0.02 for AICU vs. NC; P < 0.05 for AICU vs. ATCU). Among the AICU patients, those with the T allele tended to have lower serum TGFbeta1 levels.
These findings suggest that the -509C>T polymorphism in the TGFbeta1 promoter may contribute to the development of the AICU phenotype.
Cyclophosphamide (CYC) is a classical drug for the treatment of severe Wegener's granulomatosis (WG). However as it causes substantial toxicity alternative agents should be considered if optimal therapeutic CYC dose is not tolerated by an individual patient. We report the successful use of mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) in a 35-year-old patient with renal biopsy-proven pANCA WG and lung involvement. Despite a good clinical and biological response to the standard induction of remission therapy the patient developed persistent severe CYC-related leucopoenia after two months of treatment. Thus CYC was replaced by MMF; and during the three and a half years of follow-up the patient never required haemodialysis. He has remained in complete clinical remission for the last two years without MMF-related adverse effects.
The effects of acute and repeated administration of antidepressive drugs on apomorphine-induced aggressive behavior and [3H]citalopram binding were studied. In acute behavioral experiments with apomorphine pretreated (1.0 mg/kg, once daily) animals, desipramine (10 mg/kg) and clomipramine (10 mg/kg) enhanced, buspirone (2.5 and 5.0 mg/kg) completely blocked, but fluoxetine, amitriptyline, imipramine (10 mg/kg), and citalopram (10 and 20 mg/kg) had no effect on the intensity of aggressive behavior. Repeated concomitant apomorphine (1.0 mg/kg) and citalopram (10 mg/kg) administration reduced the affinity (Kd) of the 5-HT transporter binding sites in three brain regions. This finding was confirmed by an additional experiment as the effect of citalopram treatment. Repeated apomorphine (1.0 mg/kg) or apomorphine (1.0 mg/kg) plus desipramine (10 mg/kg) treatment had no unidirectional effect on Kd, the maximal number of apparent binding sties (Bmax) was unchanged in all experiments. Our study indicates that the 5-HT reuptake blockade has no major influence on the apomorphine-induced aggressive behavior, but the 5-HT1A receptor subtype may be involved in the mediation of the aggressive behavior in this paradigm.
To evaluate the long-term risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) in survivors of testicular cancer (TC).
We compared CVD incidence in 2,512 5-year survivors of TC, who were treated between 1965 and 1995, with general population rates. Treatment effects on CVD risk were quantified in multivariate Cox regression analysis.
After a median follow-up of 18.4 years, 694 cardiovascular events occurred, including 141 acute myocardial infarctions (MIs). The standardized incidence ratio (SIR) for coronary heart disease was 1.17 (95% CI, 1.04 to 1.31), with 14 excess cases per 10,000 person-years. The SIR for MI was significantly increased in nonseminoma survivors with attained ages of less than 45 (SIR = 2.06) and 45 to 54 years (SIR = 1.86) but significantly decreased for survivors with attained ages of 55 years or older (SIR = 0.53). In Cox analysis, mediastinal irradiation was associated with a 3.7-fold (95% CI, 2.2- to 6.2-fold) increased MI risk compared with surgery alone, whereas infradiaphragmatic irradiation was not associated with an increased MI risk. Cisplatin, vinblastine, and bleomycin (PVB) chemotherapy (CT) was associated with a 1.9-fold (95% CI, 1.7- to 2.0-fold) increased MI risk, and bleomycin, etoposide, and cisplatin (BEP) CT was associated with a 1.5-fold (95% CI, 1.0- to 2.2-fold) increased CVD risk and was not associated with increased MI risk (hazard ratio = 1.2; 95% CI, 0.7 to 2.1). Recent smoking was associated with a 2.6-fold (95% CI, 1.8- to 3.9-fold) increased MI risk.
Nonseminomatous TC survivors experience a moderately increased MI risk at young ages. Physicians should be aware of excess CVD risk associated with mediastinal radiotherapy, PVB CT, and recent smoking. Intervention in modifiable cardiovascular risk factors is especially important in TC survivors. Whether BEP treatment increases CVD risk should be evaluated after more prolonged follow-up.
The mechanism of Tris-BP or Bis-BP (a metabolite of Tris-BP) induced nephrotoxicity was investigated by determining urinary excretion of enzymes and selected metabolites. Rats received single oral doses of 0, 71.7, 143.4 and 286.8 mumol/kg tris (2,3-dibromopropyl) phosphate (Tris-BP) or bis (2,3-dibromopropyl) phosphate (Bis-BP). Urine was collected over a 24 h period and subjected to biochemical examinations. Comparative studies on Tris-BP- and Bis-BP-induced nephrotoxicities were carried out for abnormal patterns of urinary excretion. The urinary excretion of glucose was higher in Bis-BP than Tris-BP at a dose of 143.4 mumol/kg, but this pattern reversed at a dose of 286.8 mumol/kg. Peak lactate excretion occurred later than peak glucose excretion with 143.4 and 286.8 mumol/kg Tris BP and 143.4 mumol/kg Bis-BP. Bis-BP 286.8 mumol/kg caused a transient urinary elevation of lactate on Day 2. Uric acid was excreted at higher levels for Bis-BP than Tris-BP on day 2 of urine collection. Activities of urinary enzymes including alkaline phosphatase, aspartate aminotransferase and gamma-glutamyltransferase, were different on the first day of post-treatment for Tris-BP and Bis-BP. Leucine aminopeptidase and lactate dehydrogenase levels differed on the second day. Activities of the former enzymes on the day 2 urine suggested a transformation of Tris-BP to Bis-BP. Urinary patterns of lactate dehydrogenase isoenzymes (LDH-1-LDH-5) were different between Tris-BP and Bis-BP when rats were treated with the dose of 286.8 mumol/kg: Tris-BP caused a higher excretion of LDH-4 and LDH-5 in urine on day 1 and all five isoenzymes into the day 2 urine. Bis-BP caused slightly higher excretion of LDH-5 and LDH-4 into the day 1 and 3 urine, respectively. Bis-BP but not Tris-BP caused abnormally urinary excretion of sodium ion. Histopathologically, the nephrotoxic effect of Tris-BP appeared one day later and was more obvious than that of Bis-BP in rats after single oral administration.
A 44-year-old woman with ovarian cancer and normal renal function developed gross hematuria after carboplatin therapy. Laboratory investigation revealed elevated blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine values. Computed tomography scan of the abdomen and pelvis with or without contrast revealed bilateral hydronephrosis with high-attenuation material within the left renal pelvis and both ureters consistent with blood. Delayed images at 3 hours revealed intense nephrogram with delayed excretion of contrast bilaterally. She underwent cystoscopy and placement of ureteral stent bilaterally. She had brisk diuresis with associated progressive decrease in serum creatinine to baseline value.
A model for focal bladder carcinoma in rats was developed with the use of an isograft technique. Bladder tumors developed by carcinogen induction with FANFT or MNU were grafted to bladders of syngeneic rats. Ninety-six per cent (56 our of 58) of the grafts were taken and 83 per cent (34 out of 41) of the grafted tumors remained neoplastic. Most of the grafts from FANFT-induced tumor remained localized at the original site whereas many from the MNU-induced tumor spread beyond the original graft area. The model system may be useful for the evaluation of chemotherapeutic agents as well as for the studies of basic mechanisms of tumor growth and spreading.
Abrupt withdrawal of calcium channel blocking agents has been associated with symptoms of ischemic heart disease, but acute myocardial infarction has not been noted. Herein is described a severely uremic patient who had an acute myocardial infarction shortly after discontinuance of diltiazem, although results of subsequent coronary arteriography were normal. It is postulated that myocardial damage occurred because of increased intracellular calcium flux, augmented myocardial contractility, and/or drug withdrawal-related coronary spasm.
