This study investigates age-related macular degeneration (AMD) genetic risk factors through identification of a functional single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) and its disease association. We chose ERCC6 because of its roles in the aging process, DNA repair, and ocular degeneration from the gene disruption. Bioinformatics indicated a putative binding-element alteration on the sequence containing C-6530>G SNP in the 5' flanking region of ERCC6 from Sp1 on the C allele to SP1, GATA-1, and OCT-1 on the G allele. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays displayed distinctive C and G allele-binding patterns to nuclear proteins. Luciferase expression was higher in the vector construct containing the G allele than that containing the C allele. A cohort of 460 advanced AMD cases and 269 age-matched controls was examined along with pathologically diagnosed 57 AMD and 18 age-matched non-AMD archived cases. ERCC6 C-6530>G was associated with AMD susceptibility, both independently and through interaction with an SNP (rs380390) in the complement factor H (CFH) intron reported to be highly associated with AMD. A disease odds ratio of 23 was conferred by homozygozity for risk alleles at both ERCC6 and CFH compared with homozygozity for nonrisk alleles. Enhanced ERCC6 expression was observed in lymphocytes from healthy donors bearing ERCC6 C-6530>G alleles. Intense immunostaining of ERCC6 was also found in AMD eyes from ERCC6 C-6530>G carriers. The strong AMD predisposition conferred by the ERCC6 and CFH SNPs may result from biological epistasis, because ERCC6 functions in universal transcription as a component of RNA pol I transcription complex.
During a survey for hemoglobinopathies in over 9000 residents of Hiroshima Prefecture, Japan, a fast moving hemoglobin was identified in eight members of three generations in a Japanese family. The abnormal hemoglobin, named Hb Hiroshima, constitutes about 50% of the total hemoglobin in hemolysates from the carriers who have a mild erythremia but are otherwise apparently clinically unaffected. All preparations of Hb Hiroshima have increased affinity for oxygen, by either tonometric or oxygen electrode determinations. At pH 7.0, the oxygen pressure, P(50) required to half saturate an unfractionated hemolysate from a carrier was one-half that of Hb A, and the P(50) of a purified sample containing no Hb A was one-fourth that of Hb A. The pH dependence of the oxygen equilibrium (Bohr effect) is below normal, as shown by the absolute value of the Bohr effect factor which is about half that of Hb A, in the pH range between 7.0 and 7.4. The Hill constant, n, for Hb Hiroshima between pH 7.0 and 7.4 is 2-2.4, compared to 2.8-3 for Hb A under the same conditions, indicating reduction of, but not complete abolition of heme-heme interaction. Urea dissociation and canine hybridization tests located the biochemical lesion in the beta chain. Fingerprints (Ingram), carboxypeptidase digestion, and amino acid analysis demonstrated that the substitution was at residue 143 in the beta chain, where histidine was replaced by aspartic acid.In contrast to other recently described high oxygen affinity mutants that show intact Bohr effects, all three of the major characteristics of the reversible combination of hemoglobin with oxygen (oxygen equilibrium, heme-heme interaction, and pH dependence) are affected in Hb Hiroshima. A tentative interpretation of these effects, relating structure to function, is offered in terms of recently developed models of normal hemoglobin.
To test the hypothesis that impaired activity of the bile canalicular organic anion transporting system mrp2 (cmoat) is a key event in the etiology of 17alpha-ethinylestradiol (EE)-induced intrahepatic cholestasis in rats, EE (5 mg/kg subcutaneously daily) was administered to male normal Wistar (NW) and mrp2-deficient Groningen Yellow/Transport-deficient Wistar (GY/TR-) rats. Elevated plasma bilirubin levels in GY/TR- rats increased upon EE-treatment from 65 +/- 8.4 micromol/L to 183 +/- 22.7 micromol/L within 3 days, whereas bilirubin levels remained unaffected in NW rats. Biliary bilirubin secretion was 1.5-fold increased in NW rats but remained unaltered in GY/TR- rats. Plasma bile salt concentrations remained unchanged in both strains, although hepatic levels of the sinusoidal Na+-taurocholate cotransporting protein (ntcp) were markedly reduced. Biliary secretion of endogenous bile salt was not affected in either strain. A clear reduction of mrp2 levels in liver plasma membranes of NW rats was found after 3 days of treatment. The bile salt-independent fraction of bile flow (BSIF) was reduced from 2.6 to 2.0 microL/min/100 g body weight in NW rats with a concomitant 62% reduction of biliary glutathione secretion. The absence of mrp2 and biliary glutathione in GY/TR- rats did not prevent induction of EE-cholestasis; a similar absolute reduction of BSIF, i.e., from 1.1 to 0.6 microL/min/100 g bodyweight, was found in these animals. EE treatment caused a reduction of the maximal biliary secretory rate (S(RM)) of the mrp2 substrate, dibromosulphthalein (DBSP), from 1,040 to 695 nmol/min/100 g body weight (-38%) in NW rats and from 615 to 327 nmol/min/100 g body weight (-46%) in GY/TR- rats. These results demonstrate that inhibition of mrp2 activity and/or biliary glutathione secretion is not the main cause of EE-induced cholestasis in rats. The data indicate that alternative pathways exist for the biliary secretion of bilirubin and related organic anions that are also affected by EE.
Riddelliine is a naturally occurring pyrrolizidine alkaloid that induces liver hemangiosarcomas in male and female F344 rats and male B6C3F1 mice. We previously reported that eight dehydroretronecine (DHR)-derived DNA adducts were formed in liver DNA of rats treated with riddelliine. In order to examine the relationship between DNA adduct levels and the incidence of hemangiosarcomas, we have measured DHR-derived DNA adduct levels in purified rat and mouse liver endothelial cells, the cells of origin for the hemangiosarcomas. F344 rats and B6C3F1 mice were treated by gavage 5 days per week for 2 weeks with riddelliine at 1.0 mg/kg for rats and 3.0 mg/kg for mice. One, 3, 7, and 28 days after the last dose, liver parenchymal and endothelial cell fractions were isolated, and the quantities of DHR-derived DNA adducts were determined by 32P-postlabeling/HPLC. The DHR-derived DNA adduct levels in the endothelial cells were significantly greater than in the parenchymal cells. The DNA adduct levels in rat endothelial cells were greater than in the mouse endothelial cells. These results indicate that the levels of riddelliine-induced DNA adducts in specific populations of liver cells correlate with the preferential induction of liver hemangiosarcomas by riddelliine.
Two classes of oncogenic mutations of the c-kit tyrosine kinase have been described: the juxtamembrane domain V560G mutation, which is preferentially found in gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs), and the kinase domain D816V mutation, which is highly representative of systemic mastocytosis (SM). Here we show that both mutations constitutively activate the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathway. Surprisingly, the mTOR inhibitor rapamycin induces only apoptosis in HMC-1 cells bearing the D816V but not the V560G mutation. In support of this unexpected selectivity, rapamycin inhibits the phosphorylation of 4E-BP1, a downstream substrate of the mTOR pathway, but only in D816V HMC-1 cells. Importantly, D816V mast cells isolated from SM patients or from transgenic mice are sensitive to rapamycin whereas normal human or mouse mast cells are not. Thus, rapamycin inhibition appears specific to the D816V mutation. At present there is no effective cure for SM patients with the D816V mutation. The data presented here provide a rationale to test whether rapamycin could be a possible treatment for SM and other hematologic malignancies with the D816V mutation.
To analyze cases of clozapine-induced myocarditis for clinical and diagnostic trends.
A case definition was developed by a multidisciplinary group using reports of myocarditis with clozapine submitted to the Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration. The definition uses for diagnosis either histology or the combination of new signs of cardiac dysfunction combined with a cardiac-specific diagnostic parameter occurring within 45 days of starting clozapine. Potential cases of clozapine-related myocarditis occurring between January 1993 and September 2008 and a comparative group of long-term clozapine users were documented from the patients' medical records.
Thirty-eight of 59 reviewed cases met the case definition. Three patients died, and the diagnosis for these was confirmed on cardiac histology. Nearly all of the remaining patients had persistent tachycardia and elevated troponin level. The time to onset was 14-22 days in all except 2 patients. Of the patients who survived, 66% (23 cases) had eosinophilia occurring 0-7 days (mean, 4.0) after the peak in troponin. C-reactive protein (CRP) level was elevated to above 100 mg/L (952 nmol/L) in 79% (23 cases), and some had elevated levels of CRP when troponin level was still normal. None of the control group (47 patients) met the case definition.
Eosinophil counts should not be relied on for diagnosis of clozapine-related myocarditis, but elevated CRP may be an early indicator of developing myocarditis. Patients starting clozapine should be actively monitored for myocarditis during the first 4 weeks, with extra care taken during week 3.
The case of a 48-year-old woman in whom focal nodular hyperplasia of the liver developed after busulfan therapy was administered for essential thrombocytosis is described. Focal nodular hyperplasia is a reactive disorder related to a circulation disorder. The close temporal relation between the haematological disease, busulfan treatment and the appearance of hyperplastic diseases of the liver in our patient supports the possibility that the association of the events might not be casual.
The adsorptive behavior of the anti-inflammatory drug meloxicam was studied by cyclic, differentia-pulse and square-wave voltammetry on a hanging mercury drop electrode (HMDE). The drug was accumulated at HMDE and a well-defined stripping peak current was obtained at -1.42 V vs. Ag/AgCl (saturated KCl) electrode in acetate buffer solution (pH 5.0). A voltammetric procedure was developed for the determination of meloxicam using square-wave cathodic adsorptive stripping voltammetry (SW-CASV). The optimum working conditions for the determination of the drug were established. The analysis of meloxicam in human plasma was carried out satisfactorily.
Vasopressor agents are used to correct anesthesia-induced hypotension. We describe the effect of phenylephrine and ephedrine on frontal lobe oxygenation (S(c)O(2)) following anesthesia-induced hypotension.
Following induction of anesthesia by fentanyl (0.15 mg kg(-1)) and propofol (2.0 mg kg(-1)), 13 patients received phenylephrine (0.1 mg iv) and 12 patients received ephedrine (10 mg iv) to restore mean arterial pressure (MAP). Heart rate (HR), MAP, stroke volume (SV), cardiac output (CO), and frontal lobe oxygenation (S(c)O(2)) were registered.
Induction of anesthesia was followed by a decrease in MAP, HR, SV, and CO concomitant with an elevation in S(c)O(2). After administration of phenylephrine, MAP increased (51 +/- 12 to 81 +/- 13 mmHg; P < 0.001; mean +/- SD). However, a 14% (from 70 +/- 8% to 60 +/- 7%) reduction in S(c)O(2) (P < 0.05) followed with no change in CO (3.7 +/- 1.1 to 3.4 +/- 0.9 l min(-1)). The administration of ephedrine led to a similar increase in MAP (53 +/- 9 to 79 +/- 8 mmHg; P < 0.001), restored CO (3.2 +/- 1.2 to 5.0 +/- 1.3 l min(-1)), and preserved S(c)O(2).
The utilization of phenylephrine to correct hypotension induced by anesthesia has a negative impact on S(c)O(2) while ephedrine maintains frontal lobe oxygenation potentially related to an increase in CO.
The centrally mediated cardiovascular changes induced by clonidine were studied in conscious rats. Clonidine administered intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.), and intravenously (i.v.) caused hypotension following an initial pressor response. I.v. clonidine caused significant greater hypotension than i.c.v. clonidine (30 micrograms/kg; p less than 0.05). With the 30 micrograms/kg i.c.v. dose, a tachycardia was observed in all rats following initial transient bradycardia. No tachycardia was observed when clonidine was administered i.v. Propranolol (3 mg/kg i.v.) did not modify the cardiovascular actions of i.c.v. clonidine except initial pressure response. While combined treatment with propranolol (3 mg/kg i.v.) and atropine (1 mg/kg i.v.) abolished both the bradycardic and tachycardic actions of i.c.v. clonidine (30 micrograms/kg), but did not modulate the hypotensive action. Yohimbine (30 micrograms/kg i.c.v.) converted the hypotension induced by i.c.v. clonidine (30 micrograms/kg) to hypertension, attenuated the bradycardia but did not modulate the tachycardia. The same dose of i.c.v. yohimbine attenuated the hypotensive effect of i.v. clonidine (30 micrograms/kg) but did not affect the initial pressor response. Prazosin (30 micrograms/kg i.c.v.) did not modulate either phase of the heart rate response to i.c.v. clonidine. These results provide evidence of centrally mediated pressor and tachycardic actions of clonidine in conscious rats. The tachycardia appears to be mediated through the inhibition of parasympathetic tone and is not dependent on alpha-adrenoceptor mechanism. In conscious rats the opposing influence of centrally mediated pressor and depressor actions may result in the apparently low hypotensive potency of i.c.v. clonidine.
Imipenem and meropenem CSF diffusion was comparable in DBA/2 mice but only imipenem induced convulsions, not related to CSF concentration.
Heart diseases requiring glycoside therapy are often associated with coronary artery disease. This study evaluated quantitatively the effect of an intravenous bolus injection of digoxin (0.8 mg) on diameters of epicardial coronary arteries in 11 patients with coronary artery disease. Coronary angiograms were taken up to 30 min following intravenous administration of glycosides. The maximum decrease in mean diameters of angiographically normal coronary segments was 10.0 +/- 3.5% (p < or = 0.001) compared to control. Maximum reduction in minimal diameters of stenotic segments was 22.1 +/- 13.1% (p < or = 0.001). This vasoconstriction could be reversed with nitroglycerin. Thus, intravenous administration of digoxin induces vasoconstriction of normal and stenotic coronary arteries, which could cause ischemic complications in the presence of high-grade stenoses. Since digoxin-induced vasoconstriction could be reversed with nitroglycerin, concomitant vasodilator therapy is recommended.
The aim of this study was to examine differences in the improvement of clinical psychopathology and in fine motor functions at 2 doses of risperidone in first-episode, acutely psychotic patients.
In a double-blind, fixed-dose study, 49 acutely psychotic, neuroleptic-naive patients who were admitted for the first time and who met DSM-IV criteria for schizophrenia, schizophreniform disorder, or schizoaffective disorder were randomly assigned to 2 or 4 mg/day of risperidone. Treatment efficacy was measured using the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale, the Scale for the Assessment of Negative Symptoms, The Clinical Global Impressions scale, and the Social and Occupational Functioning Assessment Scale. Fine motor functions were assessed using a computerized device (the Vienna Test System) and were compared with those of a control group of 20 healthy subjects who were matched for age, gender, and educational level.
Treatment with doses of 2 and 4 mg of risperidone daily significantly reduced positive (p < .0001) and negative (p < .01) symptoms at 8 weeks. Although there were no significant differences in motor movements as measured using the Barnes Akathisia Scale and the Simpson-Angus Scale, computerized fine motor assessment showed significantly less motor dysfunction in the 2-mg/day group at 8 weeks. No significant correlations to plasma concentration of active moiety were found for data on psychopathology and fine motor functions.
The 2 doses of risperidone did not differ in terms of clinical improvement, but the 2-mg/day dose produced fewer fine motor dysfunctions. These results suggest that a dose as low as 2 mg/day of risperidone may be effective for patients with first-episode psychosis.
The case histories of two patients with acute lymphocytic leukemia, who developed central nervous system complication during combined chemotherapy are described. The neurological picture could be characterized by symptoms of headache, mental deterioration, hemiparesis and seizures. Following L-asparaginase administration one patient had intracranial thrombosis with focal seizures and hemiparesis associated with clotting abnormalities, including severe hypofibrinogenemia and decreased antithrombin III activity. In the other patient, it was after intrathecal administration of Methotrexate when mental deterioration associated with the symptoms of progressive leukoencephalopathy occurred. It arises the possibility that with increasing complexity of combined chemotherapy the occurrence rate of neurological complications will also increase.
Inhibition of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) may cause angioneurotic oedema. In order to define the clinical spectrum of this important adverse effect, we analysed data on 60 patients with angioneurotic oedema notified to the Drug Commission of the German Medical Association, after taking captopril (n = 24), enalapril (n = 25) or lisinopril (n = 11). In 48 cases the oedema affected the face, tongue and pharynx, while swelling of the extremities (n = 4), the trunk (n = 2) or the genitalia (n = 1) was observed less frequently. While oedema appeared most often after 1 to 21 days, it started within an hour in one patient, and only after 6 months of therapy in five patients. After discontinuation of the ACE inhibitor, the angioneurotic oedema resolved within 72 hours; additional therapeutic measures (glucocorticoids, antihistamines, adrenaline, C1 inhibitors) did not shorten the recovery time. In view of the increasing use of ACE inhibitors, the features of this unusual adverse reaction need to be widely recognized, since angioneurotic oedema of the larynx is potentially life-threatening.
A large series of patients was treated for impotence with intracorporeal injections of papaverine and phentolamine with no major complications and no deaths reported. We report on a 45-year-old black man with advanced multiple sclerosis who died after such therapy. When the first self-administered injection of phentolamine and papaverine failed to produce an adequate erection the patient injected a second dose that resulted in priapism and death of massive pulmonary embolism.
Deficits in gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) signaling have been described in the prefrontal cortex, limbic system, and cerebellum in individuals with schizophrenia. The purpose of the present study was to further investigate cerebellar gene expression alterations as they relate to decreases in GABAergic transmission by examining the expression of GABAergic markers, N-methyl-d-aspartic-acid (NMDA) receptor subunits, and cerebellum neuromodulators in individuals with schizophrenia.
Subjects were postmortem men with a diagnosis of schizophrenia (N=13) and a postmortem interval-matched non-psychiatric male comparison group (N=13). The authors utilized real-time-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to measure mRNA levels of the following GABAergic markers: glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) 65 and 67; GABA plasma membrane transporter-1 (GAT-1); GABA type A (GABA(A)) receptor subunits alpha(6), beta(3), and delta; and parvalbumin. In addition, real-time-quantitative PCR was utilized to assess mRNA levels of the NMDA receptor (NR) subunits NR1, NR2-A, NR2-B, NR2-C, and NR2-D as well as the cerebellar neuromodulators glutamate receptor (GluR)-6, kainate-preferring glutamate receptor subunit-2 (KA2), metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR)-2 and mGluR3, and neuronal nitric oxide synthase. Measurements for mRNA levels were determined using lateral cerebellar hemisphere tissue from both schizophrenia and comparison subjects.
Schizophrenia subjects showed significant decreases in mRNA levels of GAD(67), GAD(65), GAT-1, mGluR2, and neuronal nitric oxide synthase. Increases in GABA(A)-alpha(6 )and GABA(A)-delta as well as GluR6 and KA2 were also observed. Medication effects on the expression of the same genes were examined in rats treated with either haloperidol (Sprague-Dawley rats [N=16]) or clozapine (Long-Evans rats [N=20]). Both haloperidol and clozapine increased the levels of GAD(67) in the cerebellum and altered the expression of other cerebellar mRNAs.
These findings suggest that GABA transmission is decreased in the cerebellar cortices in individuals with schizophrenia and additional gene expression changes may reflect an attempt to increase GABA neurotransmission at the cerebellar glomerulus.
Niacin dilates cutaneous blood vessels, resulting in a pronounced skin flush in most people. The flush response to niacin is attenuated in schizophrenia, but the quantification and physiological mechanism of this abnormality have not been described in detail. It is not clear whether the mechanism involves changes in the pharmacological sensitivity to niacin, or whether there is a reduced ability of the vasculature to dilate adequately in subjects with schizophrenia. We address this question in the present study by characterizing the dose-response relationship between topically applied alpha-methylnicotinate (AMN) and cutaneous blood flow changes, which were quantified by laser Doppler flowmetry. The dose-response curve was shifted to the right in subjects with schizophrenia. The EC(50) value of AMN was significantly increased in the schizophrenia group (mean: 1.66 mM; 95% confidence interval: 1.04-2.65 mM) as compared to the control group (mean: 0.38 mM; 95% confidence interval: 0.263-0.547 mM). The blood flow responses to higher AMN doses were lower in the schizophrenics; however, there was no statistically significant difference in the extrapolated maximal blood flow response value (F(max)) between the two groups. The results suggest that the skin flush abnormality in schizophrenia primarily reflects reduced pharmacological sensitivity to niacin rather than an inadequate cutaneous vasodilatory response to the stimulus. Since vasodilatation in response to niacin requires the release of prostaglandins, the data from this study suggest that schizophrenia is associated with abnormalities in enzymes, receptors, or signal transduction mechanisms that affect the synthesis, release, or response to vasodilatory prostaglandins.
198 patients with Parkinson's disease on long-term treatment with L-dopa were evaluated for the presence of dyskinesias and psychiatric side-effects of the treatment. Dyskinesias were present in 53% of the patients. In a majority of them they appeared already during the first 2 years of the treatment. Younger patients seemed more susceptible to develop dyskinesias. Hallucinations, confusion, or delusions were observed in 22.2% of the patients. Older patients seemed more susceptible to develop these side-effects of the treatment. It seems that parkinsonian patients with later and earlier onset of the disease have different type of neuronal lesion responsible for the central side-effects of L-dopa.
Isoflurane is known to produce slight tachycardia in humans. This study examined the effects of isoflurane on cardiovascular parameters in dogs. Four groups, with six dogs per group, were anesthetized with isoflurane. Prior to isoflurane administration, a femoral artery catheter was inserted. Group 1 was anesthetized with isoflurane alone. Group 2 was pretreated with fentanyl prior to administration of isoflurane. Group 3, anesthetized with isoflurane alone, had a Swan-Ganz catheter introduced through the external jugular vein. Group 4 was pre-treated with fentanyl prior to administration of isoflurane, and had a Swan-Ganz catheter. Physiologic parameters were recorded at 15-min intervals as isoflurane was reduced from 3.5% to 1.5% by 0.5% increments. Heart rate increased while blood pressure decreased during induction (8.5 min) in Group 1 and then returned to control values. In Group 2, heart rate declined with no changes in blood pressure over all isoflurane concentrations. The induction time (time from initiation of the anesthetic until intubation was achieved) was 2 min. In Group 3, the heart rate increased and the blood pressure decreased, with an induction time of 10 min. Cardiac output and pulmonary artery pressure varied inversely to the isoflurane concentration. In Group 4, heart rate decreased with a minimal decrease in blood pressure, and an induction time of 3.5 min. Cardiac output and pulmonary artery pressure varied inversely to the isoflurane concentration. A fifth group of 6 dogs was monitored for heart rate only, while a mask was placed over their noses to simulate the procedure for the administration of an anesthetic. The heart rate increased similar to that of the dogs in Groups 1 and 3, but the tachycardia was abolished with the administration of fentanyl. Increased heart rate could not be directly attributed to isoflurane but was probably due to catecholamines released during induction. Fentanyl blocked this effect, resulting in a decrease in heart rate.
A study was undertaken to determine the impact of different doses of inhaled terbutaline on peak flow rates, spirometric parameters, functional exercise capacity, and quality of life in patients with chronic airflow limitation.
A double blind, randomised, placebo controlled, multiple crossover trial was conducted with treatment periods of one week. Patients with a clinical diagnosis of chronic airflow limitation and FEV1 below 70% predicted after administration of bronchodilator were recruited from secondary care respiratory practices, and the effect of 500, 1000, and 1500 micrograms inhaled terbutaline four times daily on spirometric parameters (FEV1, FVC), maximum inspiratory pressures, six minute walking distance, and health-related quality of life (Chronic Respiratory Disease Questionnaire, Quality of Well Being, Standard Gamble) was measured.
Twenty five patients completed the trial. Peak flow rates and FEV1 showed statistically significant but clinically trivial improvement on the higher drug doses. Results of maximum inspiratory pressure measurements, walk test distance, and quality of life measures showed minimal differences on the different dosages, and none of the differences approached conventional statistical significance.
Regular use of beta agonists in doses higher than two puffs four times a day is very unlikely to provide additional functional or symptomatic benefit to patients with chronic airflow limitation.
Aluminum phosphide (AlP) is a solid fumigant widely used in Iran as a grain preservative. When reacted with water or acids, AIP produces phosphine gas, a mitochondrial poison that interferes with oxidative phosphorylation and protein synthesis. Poisoning by AIP is one of the most important causes of fatal chemical toxicity in Iran. There are few studies in the medical literature addressing prognostic factors associated with AlP poisoning. In this prospective study conducted across a 14-month period commencing on 21st March 2006, we enrolled all patients admitted to the ICU of Loghman-Hakim Hospital Poison Center (Tehran, Iran) with AIP poisoning, no history of diabetes mellitus diagnosed before hospitalization, and normal body mass index. We recorded patient-specific demographic information, blood glucose level on presentation (before treatment), arterial blood gas (ABG) analysis, time elapsed between ingestion and presentation, ingested dose, duration of intensive care admission, and outcome data related to each presentation. We enrolled the group of patients who survived the intoxication as a control group and compared their blood glucose levels with those who died because of AlP poisoning. Data were analyzed by Statistical Product and Service Solutions (SPSS) software (Version 12; Chicago, Ilinois, USA) using logistic regression, Pearson correlation coefficient and Student's t-test. P values of 0.05 or less were considered as the statistical significant levels. Forty-five patients (21 women and 24 men) with acute AlP poisoning were included in the study. The mean age was 27.3 +/- 11.5 years (range: 14-62 years). Thirteen patients survived (29%) and 32 expired (71%). AlP poisoning followed deliberate ingestion in all patients. The time elapsed between ingestion and arrival at the hospital was 3.2 +/- 0.4 h. There was no significant difference between survived and non-survived groups according to age, gender, and time to treatment. However, the difference between mean blood glucose levels in survived (143.4 +/- 13.7 mg/dL) and non-survived (222.6 +/- 20 mg/dL) cases was statistically significant (P = 0.021). There was no significant correlation between blood glucose level and time to treatment, age, gender, pH, HCO3 concentration, and ingested dose. Twenty-three (71.9%) of non-survived and four (30.8%) of survived patients had a blood glucose level greater than 140 mg/dL. After adjusting according to age, gender, ingested dose, pH and HCO3 concentration The odds ratio for hyperglycemia as a risk factor for death was 5.7 (CI of 1.4-23.4). In our study, patients who succumbed to AIP poisoning had significantly higher mean blood glucose levels than those who survived. This correlation of hyperglycemic effect and mortality suggests that it may be useful in guiding risk assessment and treatment of AIP poisoning. Management of hyperglycemia may have a useful role in treatment of these patients by allowing increased entrance of glucose into cells and reducing oxygen consumption.
This study compares the antihypertensive efficacy and tolerability of valsartan, a novel angiotensin II antagonist, given with hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) vs placebo or vs valsartan or HCTZ alone.
871 adult out-patients with essential hypertension participated in this double-blind study. Patients were randomised in equal number to receive either combination therapy of valsartan (80 mg or 160 mg) and HCTZ (12.5 mg or 25 mg), or valsartan (80 mg or 160 mg) or HCTZ (12.5 mg or 25 mg) alone, or placebo. Patients were treated once daily for 8 weeks and assessed at 2, 4 and 8 weeks after randomisation.
The primary efficacy variable was change from baseline in mean sitting diastolic blood pressure (MSDBP) at end-point. The secondary variable was change in mean sitting systolic blood pressure (MSSBP) from baseline to end-point.
All active treatments produced a statistically significant difference in MSDBP (P < 0.001) from baseline to end-point compared with placebo. Similar results were obtained for MSSBP. All combination regimens produced a statistically significantly greater reduction in MSDPB and MSSBP than the corresponding monotherapies. Dizziness and headache were the most common treatment-related adverse experiences reported. Hypokalaemia, associated with the use of thiazide diuretics, was more commonly reported in the higher dose HCTZ 25 mg groups.
Valsartan 80 mg and 160 mg act additively with HCTZ 12.5 mg or 25 mg to lower MSDBP and MSSBP in patients with essential hypertension. The addition of HCTZ to valsartan 80 mg or 160 mg was well tolerated.
NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1) has been known to protect cells against stressors, including the diabetogenic reagent streptozotocin (STZ). The present study demonstrated that NQO1 deficiency resulted in increased pancreatic β-cell death induced by multiple low dose of STZ (MLDS) injections. NQO1 knockout (KO) mice showed hyperglycemia, body weight loss, impaired glucose clearance rate and a lower plasma insulin level after MLDS treatment. Moreover, β-cell mass and pancreatic insulin content were significantly lower in KO mice than in wild-type (WT) mice after MLDS treatment. Five days after the first STZ treatment, the islets of KO mice had substantially more TUNEL-positive β-cells than those of WT mice, but there was no difference in the regeneration of β-cells between KO mice and WT mice. At the same time, MLDS-treated KO mice showed significantly increased apoptotic markers in β-cells, including cleaved caspase 3, Smac/DIABLO and AIF (apoptosis inducing factor) in the cytoplasm. These results suggest that mice deficient in NQO1 are vulnerable to MLDS-induced β-cell destruction and diabetes, caused by increase of β-cell apoptosis in pancreas.
