Direct or indirect stimulation of dopamine receptors increases locomotor activity in mice. Determining the role played by D1 and D2 dopamine receptors in the mediation of this activity can be difficult due to the wide variety of experimental paradigms used to investigate these phenomena.
This study set out to compare the role of selective antagonism of dopamine D1 and D2 receptors on the hyperactivity induced by a range of stimulants.
Mice were habituated to perspex locomotor activity boxes (30 x 30 x 30 cm) and activity was measured via photobeam interrupts.
Haloperidol and clozapine both reduced the hyperactivity induced by MK-801. Haloperidol did so only at a dose that also decreased spontaneous activity (0.1 mg/kg), whereas clozapine reduced MK-801-induced hyperactivity at a dose that had no effect on spontaneous activity (1.25 mg/kg). The D1 antagonist SCH23390 (0.01 mg/kg) reduced hyperlocomotion induced by amphetamine (2.5 mg/kg), cocaine (10 mg/kg) and C-APB (1.0 mg/kg) at doses that did not consistently alter spontaneous activity, whereas the selective D2 antagonist raclopride only attenuated the hyperlocomotion induced by amphetamine, cocaine and C-APB at doses in excess of the minimum dose required to attenuate spontaneous locomotor activity significantly. The latency to peak levels of hyperlocomotion induced by MK-801 (0.3 mg/kg) was delayed by SCH23390 (0.1 mg/kg) but peak levels of activity were not reduced.
The results of the present study suggest that selective blockade of D1 receptors suppresses amphetamine and cocaine-induced hyperactivity in mice but not MK-801-induced locomotor activity.
A hyperthyroid patient treated with methimazole for three weeks developed proximal muscle weakness, myalgia, arthralgia, and fever, and thyrotoxic myopathy was diagnosed. The signs and symptoms spontaneously abated when antithyroid medication was discontinued. This case identified a complication of thionamide treatment mimicking thyrotoxic myopathy and points to the therapeutic necessity of making such a differentiation.
This study investigates (by means of bioassays and ELISA using an antibody against recombinant cHH) the variation of cHH levels in the eyestalks and haemolymph of Palaemon elegans (Decapoda, Caridea) following exposure to various stresses (heavy metals and lipopolysaccharide), and correlates them with the variation in amount and time course of blood glucose. The dose-relationship between exposure to copper and quick release of cHH from the eyestalk into haemolymph was confirmed by variation of blood glucose with a dose-related hyperglycaemia, that peaked 2 h after immersion in contaminated seawater. Animals exposed to a sublethal concentration of mercury showed the same dose relation between toxicant, release of cHH from the eyestalk, increment of circulating hormone level and subsequent hyperglycaemia as observed for copper contamination. It is of note that although the highest lethal mercury concentration induced the release of cHH from the eyestalk into the haemolymph, it was not followed by a significant variation of blood glucose. Step doses of a bacterial contaminant [such as lipopolysaccharide (LPS) from E. coli injected into shrimps] confirmed the dose-relationship and convergent chain of events that bring about hyperglycaemia. These are the first data that relate the release of cHH from the eyestalk, the circulating hormone level and the consequent glycaemic response to stress. Moreover, they confirm the dose-related pathway that leads to variation of blood glucose as a quantitative biomarker of environmental quality, even at sublethal toxicant concentrations.
Corticosteroids are elevated in certain neuropsychiatric disorders and this may contribute to the neuropsychological impairments reported in these disorders.
To examine the effects of hydrocortisone on learning, memory and executive function.
Hydrocortisone 20 mg was administered twice daily for 10 days to normal male volunteers in a randomized, placebo control, crossover, within-subject design. Learning, memory and executive function were measured using selected subtests from the Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery.
Hydrocortisone caused impairments of visuo-spatial memory. These included increased within search errors and impaired use of strategies on the spatial working memory subtest. In addition, administration of hydrocortisone was associated with more errors in the paired associate learning subtest, although no effect was found on the Tower of London. Hydrocortisone speeded response latencies in certain tests (pattern and spatial recognition memory).
These results indicate that chronic administration of hydrocortisone leads to deficits in certain tests of cognitive function sensitive to frontal lobe dysfunction and may contribute to the cognitive impairment reported in certain neuropsychiatric disorders.
Patients undergoing penile surgery often have postoperative erections that can be painful and may interfere with wound healing. In retrospective studies ketoconazole has been shown to decrease the number and pain of postoperative erections. We conducted a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled study to evaluate the efficacy of ketoconazole in the prevention of postoperative erections.
Patients undergoing penile reconstructive surgery were randomized to receive ketoconazole (400 mg 3 times a day) or placebo starting 2 days before surgery and continuing for 7 days after surgery. We recorded the number and characteristics of each erection on a standardized log. Liver function tests were drawn before and after surgery.
Of the 40 patients enrolled 20 were randomized to the ketoconazole group and 20 to placebo. In the ketoconazole group 81.25% reported postoperative erections compared to 83% in the placebo group. Of those patients who had postoperative erections 85% in the ketoconazole group reported painful erections compared to 80% in the placebo group. These differences were not statistically significant (p >0.99). In the ketoconazole group 3 patients (15.8%) withdrew early because of nausea and 1 in the ketoconazole group had a transient increase in liver function tests.
To our knowledge this is the only prospective, double-blind, placebo controlled study to evaluate the use of ketoconazole in the prevention of postoperative erections. While prior retrospective reports showed promise for this medication, our study suggests that ketoconazole is not effective in preventing postoperative erections.
An association between zolpidem administration and sleep-related eating disorder (SRED) has been suggested. The authors observed zolpidem-induced SRED in restless legs syndrome (RLS). With the review of previous reports, we identified a common occurrence of RLS in zolpidem-induced SRED.
The 5-hydroxy-3,6,7,3',4'-pentamethoxyflavone (artemetin) from Cordia verbenacea DC (Boraginaceae) showed marked anti-inflammatory activity using various experimental models in rats. Artemetin significantly inhibited carrageenin-induced paw edema following oral doses from 30.4 to 153.9 mg.kg-1. The doses of 102.6 and 153.9 mg.kg-1 showed an inhibitory effect similar to that of 50.0 mg.kg-1 of calcium phenylbutazone. The ED50 value of artemetin in rats was estimated to be 67.07 mg.kg-1. Repeated administration of artemetin at doses of 67.07 mg.kg-1 for a 6-day period reduced granuloma formation with a response comparable to that of 20.0 mg.kg-1 of calcium phenylbutazone. This same dose of artemetin also reduced the vascular permeability to intracutaneous histamine. Sub-acute toxicological experiments indicated a very low toxicity.
The purpose of this study was to clarify the extent of neuropsychological impairment previously found among amphetamine users (McKetin and Mattick, 1997) by comparing them with a non-drug-using control group. Amphetamine users who were classified as low dependence (n = 15) or high dependence (n = 11) according to the severity of dependence scale (SDS) were compared to non-drug-using control subjects (n = 9) on indices of the Wechsler Memory Scale-Revised (WMS-R). Dependent amphetamine users (high dependence group) performed approximately one half of a standard deviation worse than controls on the verbal memory, attention/concentration and delayed recall indices of the WMS-R but amphetamine users who were less dependent (low dependence group) showed no impairment.
Chronic treatment of antipsychotic drugs can modulate gene expression in the brain, which may underscore their clinical efficacy. Aripiprazole is the first approved antipsychotic drug of the class of dopamine D2 receptor partial agonist, which has been shown to have similar efficacy and favourable side-effects profile compared to other antipsychotic drugs. This study aimed to identify differential gene expression induced by chronic treatment of aripiprazole. We used microarray-based gene expression profiling technology, real-time quantitative PCR and Western blot analysis to identify differentially expressed genes in the frontal cortex of rats under 4 wk treatment of aripiprazole (10 mg/kg). We were able to detect ten up-regulated genes, including early growth response gene 1, 2, 4 (Egr1, Egr2, Egr4), chromobox homolog 7 (Cbx7), cannabinoid receptor (Cnr1), catechol-O-methyltransferase (Comt), protein phosphatase 2c, magnesium dependent (Ppm2c), tachykinin receptor 3 (Tacr3), Wiscott-Aldrich syndrome-like gene (Wasl) and DNA methyltransferase 3a (Dnmt3a). Our data indicate that chronic administration of aripiprazole can induce differential expression of genes involved in transcriptional regulation and chromatin remodelling and genes implicated in the pathogenesis of psychosis.
Valproic acid (VPA) is reported to be effective for the control of absence seizures in 75% of children. The aim of this study was to determine the clinical and socio-demographic factors associated with VPA response in newly diagnosed childhood absence epilepsy (CAE) and to determine if these factors also influence the chances of achieving long-term seizure freedom.
Medical charts of 180 children with CAE were retrospectively reviewed. Clinical, electroencephalographic and imaging findings were recorded to correlate with complete VPA response and long-term epilepsy outcome. Factors associated with non-responsiveness were identified individually and in a multivariable logistic regression analysis.
Treatment was successful in 112 (58.3%) children. More children that were non-responsive to VPA experienced generalized tonic clonic seizures (GTCS) (33.8% vs. 13.4% for responders; p=0.001) and 52.9% had a pre-treatment seizure frequency greater than 10/day (vs. 27.0% for responders; p<0.001). Finally, responders were older at time of diagnosis versus non-responders (p=0.001). Absence of long-term seizure freedom was linked to the presence of GTCS, the absence of initial response and the need for multiple AEDs to control seizures.
Our results suggest that clinical phenotypes are associated with reduced response rates to VPA. This should be taken into account when counselling families of children with newly diagnosed absence epilepsy.
This open study compares an accelerated 5-day lofexidine regimen with orthodox 10-day lofexidine and methadone regimens in the treatment of opiate withdrawal in 61 polysubstance abusing opiate addicts. Significant differences in levels of withdrawal symptoms were found on days 11, 13-15 and 17-20, symptoms resolving most rapidly in the 5-day lofexidine treatment group, whilst withdrawal responses in the 10-day lofexidine treatment group were intermediate between the 5-day lofexidine and standard methadone treatment conditions. When the two lofexidine regimens were separately compared with methadone the 5-day lofexidine treatment was significantly more effective on day 10, 11 and 13-20, whilst the 10-day lofexidine treatment was not significantly different from methadone. There were no significant differences in rates of completion of detoxification between the three treatments. Both the lofexidine treatment regimens had a similar effect on blood pressure. Five patients experienced side effects which resolved with dose reduction, all remaining in the study. An accelerated 5-day lofexidine regimen may attenuate opiate withdrawal symptoms more rapidly than conventional 10-day lofexidine or methadone treatment schedules without exacerbating hypotensive side effects.
We demonstrated that stereotyped behavior and tremor induced by methamphetamine (MA) were potentiated by pretreatment with phenytoin (PNT) in mice. Similar enhancing effects were obtained by pretreatment with carbamazepine. Gas chromatographic study demonstrated that pretreatment with PNT increased MA concentrations in the brain to approximately 2.5 times of control level. The increased MA concentrations were thought to be a major factor for the observed potentiation of MA-induced behavior by PNT. However, all MA-induced behavior were not equally potentiated; tremor was enhanced more than stereotypy. These results suggest that central neuronal mechanisms may also be involved in PNT-potentiated MA-induced behavior in mice.
The nephrotoxic drug cisplatin has been used successfully in treating some cancers. Patients with suspected carcinoma frequently undergo examinations with contrast media. We examined whether ionic and nonionic radiologic and magnetic resonance contrast media would have any effect on cisplatin nephropathy in rats.
Urine and serum profiles were monitored for 24 days after intravenous (i.v.) injections of saline, diatrizoate, iohexol, gadopentetate dimeglumine, and gadodiamide in high doses (4.59 mmol/kg body weight) in rats that received a weekly intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of cisplatin (1 mg/kg) for 10 weeks. There were 10 rats in each group. Another 10 rats injected with both i.p. and i.v. saline served as control subjects. After euthanization, rats' kidneys were removed for examination by light microscopy and electron microscopy.
Light and electron microscopy showed severe morphologic changes, including tubular dilatation, atrophy, and necrosis induced by cisplatin; however, the contrast media did not induce any additional morphologic changes. Gadopentetate dimeglumine, diatrizoate, and iohexol significantly increased (3-20 times) albuminuria compared with i.v. saline in cisplatin nephropathy, whereas gadodiamide did not. Albuminuria was highest after diatrizoate injection. All four contrast media caused an immediate and transient significant increase in the excretion of the brush border enzymes alkaline phosphatase and gamma-glutamyltransferase (125-500 times) and the cytoplasmatic enzymes alanine aminopeptidase and lactate dehydrogenase (16-100 times). Compared with saline, the ionic agents significantly increased the excretion of both glucose (two times) and sodium (three to five times), whereas the nonionic agents did not.
High doses of radiologic and magnetic resonance contrast agents cause temporary dysfunction in rats with cisplatin nephropathy. Gadodiamide caused the least dysfunction and diatrizoate the most.
(1) Clozapine, a neuroleptic known to carry a risk of agranulocytosis, can also induce myocarditis and dilated myocardiopathy. (2) Patients taking clozapine who develop dyspnoea, fatigue, chest pain or collapse should be screened for myocarditis, especially during the first weeks of treatment.
Neuroblastoma (NB) is one of the most common extracranial tumors in children. The chemotherapeutic doxorubicin (Dox) remains a mainstay for treatment. However, the emergence of drug resistance seriously limits treatment efficacy. Numerous Dox analogues have been designed to more potently kill drug naive as well as drug-resistant NB. We have shown that the Dox analogue WP744 has enhanced the killing activity of NB compared to Dox, but the mechanism(s) of action is unclear.
MTT assays were used to characterize the relative potencies of Dox and WP744 against SH-SY5Y NB cells. Western blotting was used to assess activation of caspases-3, -9, anti-poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase, p53, p21, AIF, IkappaBalpha, Bcl-2, Bcl-X(L), and cyclin D1. Nuclear factor (NF-kappaB) activation was assessed by electrophoretic mobility shift assay.
After WP744 treatment, enhanced apoptosis and cell death were seen, associated with cleavage of caspases-3, -9, and anti-poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase, an increase in p53 protein levels, and the induction of p21. WP744 also induced translocation of apoptosis-inducing factor from mitochondria to nuclei. Most remarkably, WP744 was 50-fold more potent than Dox in activating NF-kappaB. WP744 treatment also resulted in the down-regulation of expression of downstream targets of NF-kappaB.
WP744 is a novel Dox analogue that triggers apoptosis and cell killing by activation of proapoptotic mediators in NB cells. Enhanced cytotoxicity of this novel drug compared with Dox may be related to more effective activation of NF-kappaB and apoptosis-inducing factor in tumor cells.
Adnab-9 binding in colonic tissue and effluent has been associated with an increased risk for colorectal neoplasia. We investigated if fecal binding by Adnab-9 may be used as a marker for colorectal neoplasia. A fecal-Adnab-9 ELISA was performed on samples of 249 patients and colonoscopic pathology results correlated. Fecal Adnab-9 binding was seen in 63% of patients with colorectal neoplasia (59% with colorectal cancer and 83% with adenoma), 33% with inflammatory bowel disease, 0% with hyperplastic polyps and 10% of controls. We conclude that fecal Adnab-9 binding is a promising risk marker for colorectal neoplasia.
This study examined the effect of genistein isolated from Hydrocotyle sibthorpioides on chronic alcohol-induced hepatic injury and fibrosis. Rats underwent intragastric administration of alcohol (5.0-9.5g/kg) once a day for 24 weeks. A subset of rats were also intragastrically treated with genistein (0.5, 1 or 2mg/kg) once a day. Genistein significantly decreased the plasma alcohol concentration, inhibited the activities of alanine and aspartate aminotransferases and decreased levels of inflammatory mediators, including interleukin 6, tumor necrosis factor-α and myeloperoxidase, via down-regulation of nuclear factor-κB. Moreover, genistein effectively inhibited collagen deposition and reduced pathological tissue damage as determined by hepatic fibrosis biomarkers, such as total hyaluronic acid, laminin, and type III collagen. Mechanistically, studies showed that genistein markedly reduced lipid peroxidation, recruited the anti-oxidative defense system, inhibited CYP2El activity, promoted extracellular matrix degradation by modulating the levels of tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase-1 and matrix metalloproteinase-2, induced HSC apoptosis by down-regulating B-cell lymphoma 2 mRNA, and inhibited the expression of α-smooth muscle actin and transforming growth factor β(1) proteins. In conclusion, genistein exerts a preventative effect to ameliorate developing liver injury and even liver fibrosis induced by chronic alcohol administration in rats.
We have reported that pretreatment by stomach tube with 8-methoxypsoralen (methoxsalen; 8-MOP), a potent human CYP2A6 inhibitor, strongly suppresses lung tumorigenesis by 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK) in female A/J mice (Cancer Res. 2003). Here, we examined inhibitory effects with administration in the diet. When the mice were 7 weeks of age, they received dietary supplementation with 8-MOP at concentrations of 1, 10 or 100 ppm for 3 days prior to a single dose of NNK (2mg/0.1 ml saline/mouse, i.p.) or an equal volume of saline (vehicle control). The experiment was terminated 16 weeks after the first 8-MOP treatment and lung proliferative lesions were analyzed. The incidences and multiplicities in the 8-MOP 100 ppm-treated group were significantly reduced as compared with values for the NNK alone group (P<0.001). Multiplicities of NNK-induced lung proliferative lesions were also reduced in a dose dependent manner (Spearman rank correlation coefficient; rho=-0.806, correction P<0.0001). Mouse CYP2A4 and CYP2A5 differ from each other only 11 amino acids, and are closely related to the human CYP2A6. One hour after the last of three daily doses of 8-MOP (0.5, 5 or 50mg/kg body weight in 0.2 ml corn oil, given by stomach tube) or an equal volume of corn oil (vehicle control), given to the mice at 7 weeks of age, isolation of lung and liver RNAs demonstrated no effects on CYP2A4 and CYP2A5 mRNA levels with 8-MOP. In conclusion, the results of this study showed that clear dose response inhibitory effects of 8-MOP on NNK-induced lung tumorigenesis in female A/J mice fed diets containing 8-MOP, due to inhibition of enzyme activity of CYP2A4 and CYP2A5, rather than their gene expression.
Citalopram (20 mg/day for 42 days) was given to 20 patients (mean age 54.4+/-2.5 years) with depression after myocardial infarction. This was associated with substantial antidepressive effect (50% and more lowering of the total score of the Beck depression questionnaire) in 89% of patients, reduction of number and severity of somatic complaints, and improvement of parameters of quality of life. Citalopram did not affect blood pressure and according to Holter ECG monitoring data produced no arrhythmogenic or proischemic effects. Overall tolerability of citalopram was good however 21% of patients experienced slight drowsiness, dizziness or sweating.
Pinosylvin, a naturally occurring trans-stilbenoid mainly found in Pinus species, has exhibited a potential cancer chemopreventive activity. However, the growth inhibitory activity against cancer cells and the underlying molecular mechanisms remain to be elucidated. Therefore, the anti-proliferative activity of pinosylvin was investigated in human colorectal HCT 116 cancer cells. Pinosylvin inhibited the proliferation of HCT 116 cells by arresting transition of cell cycle from G1 to S phase along with the downregulation of cyclin D1, cyclin E, cyclin A, cyclin dependent kinase 2 (CDK2), CDK4, c-Myc, and retinoblastoma protein (pRb), and the upregulation of p21(WAF1/CIP1) and p53. Pinosylvin was also found to attenuate the activation of proteins involved in focal adhesion kinase (FAK)/c-Src/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signaling, and phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt/ glycogen synthase kinase 3β (GSK-3β) signaling pathway. Subsequently, pinosylvin suppressed the nuclear translocation of β-catenin, one of downstream molecules of PI3K/Akt/GSK-3β signaling, and these events led to the sequential downregulation of β-catenin-mediated transcription of target genes including BMP4, ID2, survivin, cyclin D1, MMP7, and c-Myc. These findings demonstrate that the anti-proliferative activity of pinosylvin might be associated with the cell cycle arrest and downregulation of cell proliferation regulating signaling pathways in human colorectal cancer cells.
The purpose of this study was to investigate genistein's influence on the relationship between the activation of uridine diphosphate glucuronosyltransferase (UGTs) and the protection against acetaminophen-induced liver toxicity. Animal experimental results revealed that genistein (50, 100 or 200mg/BWkg) significantly ameliorated the biomarkers alanine aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, lactate dehydrogenase and malondialdehyde, as indicators of acute liver damage caused by APAP (200mg/BWkg). The level of GSH declined sharply after treatment with APAP within 1h in both the liver and blood with and without genistein. However, after 16h, the levels approached or returned to the original level. Genistein may accelerate and promote APAP glucuronidation as the results showed that APAP-glucuronide increased by 18.44%, 46.79%, and 66.49% for 4h of treatment with genistein dosages of 50, 100 or 200mg/BWkg, respectively, compared with the APAP-only treatment. The activation of UGTs and glutathione peroxidase and the inhibition of CYP2E1 by genistein were observed, and UGTs mRNA expression level with genistein was measured. These findings suggest that genistein can prevent and protect against APAP-induced liver toxicity due to the inhibition of APAP biotransformation and the resistance to oxidative stress via the modulation of the activities of metabolism and the antioxidant enzyme.
Six rhesus monkeys responding under a three-component multiple schedule were administered haloperidol to determine its effects on cocaine self-administration and on cocaine's disruptive effects on the repeated acquisition and performance of response chains. In the absence of haloperidol, 0.0032-0.032 mg/kg/infusion of cocaine increased response rate and the number of infusions in the self-administration component when compared to saline administration, whereas 0.1-0.32 mg/kg/infusion decreased response rate and the number of infusions. When compared to saline administration, the two lowest infusion doses of cocaine had little or no effect on responding in the acquisition and performance components; however, higher infusion doses of cocaine dose-dependently decreased response rate in these components. In addition, the higher doses of cocaine also increased the percentage of errors in the acquisition and performance components. Pretreatment with haloperidol (0.0032 or 0.01 mg/kg, i.m.) antagonized the effects of low doses of cocaine on the number of infusions in the self-administration component, whereas only the 0.01-mg/kg dose antagonized the effects of high doses of cocaine on the number of infusions. Neither dose of haloperidol antagonized the rate-decreasing effects of cocaine on responding in the acquisition and performance components significantly; the highest dose of haloperidol alone decreased rates of responding in each component. Antagonism of cocaine's error-increasing effects by haloperidol was only evident at one dose of cocaine (0.032 mg/kg/infusion), and was more complete in the performance components than in the acquisition components. Together, these data show the limited suitability of haloperidol for selectively antagonizing cocaine self-administration in the context of a multiple schedule involving transition behavior, and show the lack of uniform antagonism across operant behaviors.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) are both relentlessly progressive and ultimately fatal neurological disorders. ALS is familial in approximately 10% of cases and FTD in approximately 30%. Inheritance is usually autosomal dominant with variable penetrance. Phenotypic overlap between ALS and FTD can occur within the same kindred. Mutations in copper/zinc superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) are found in approximately 20% of familial and approximately 3% of sporadic ALS cases but are not associated with dementia. Mutations in microtubule associated protein tau (MAPT) are detected in approximately 30% of familial FTD kindreds. Dominant ALS with FTD has previously been linked to 9q21 and pure ALS to loci on 16q21, 18q21, 20p13. Here we report the results of a genome-wide linkage study in a large ALS and FTD kindred using Affymetrix 10K GeneChip microarrays. Linkage analysis of single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) data identified consistently positive log of the odds (LOD) scores across chromosome 9p (maximal LOD score of 2.4). Fine mapping the region with microsatellite markers generated a maximal multipoint LOD score of 3.02 (theta = 0) at D9S1878. Recombination narrowed the conserved haplotype to 12 cM (11 Mb) at 9p13.2-21.3 (flanking markers D9S2154 and D9S1874). Bioinformatic analysis of the region has identified 103 known genes.
To explore the causes of abnormal uterine bleeding following termination of early pregnancy using mifepristone.
19 specimens were obtained by curettage on the day immediately after expulsion of gestational sac, 40 specimens on the 7th postabortal day and 20 specimens during 2-12 weeks after induced abortion using mifepristone respectively. The histopathologic changes of the specimens were observed by HE staining, and the expression of human choronic gonadotropin (hCG) and human placental lactogen (hPL) by immunohistochemical studies as well as phloxine-tartrazine staining and Gordon Sweets staining.
It showed that decidua shedding retarded, especially basal decidua. Immunohistochemical studies demonstrated the trophoblasts were still active and might affect pathological changes of local endometrium. The specific granules of endometrial granulocytes disappeared, together with disintegration of the reticular fibers. But in the group which curettage was indicated for abnormal bleeding 2 weeks after abortion, the main cause was incomplete abortion.
In addition to incomplete abortion, the retardation of decidua shedding and the impairment of endometrium regeneration were responsible for the abnormal uterine bleeding following termination of early pregnancy using mifepristone. The incomplete dissolution of the reticular fibers in basal decidua may induce decidua shedding retardation and incomplete abortion.
Capillary malformation (CM), or "port-wine stain," is a common cutaneous vascular anomaly that initially appears as a red macular stain that darkens over years. CM also occurs in several combined vascular anomalies that exhibit hypertrophy, such as Sturge-Weber syndrome, Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome, and Parkes Weber syndrome. Occasional familial segregation of CM suggests that there is genetic susceptibility, underscored by the identification of a large locus, CMC1, on chromosome 5q. We used genetic fine mapping with polymorphic markers to reduce the size of the CMC1 locus. A positional candidate gene, RASA1, encoding p120-RasGAP, was screened for mutations in 17 families. Heterozygous inactivating RASA1 mutations were detected in six families manifesting atypical CMs that were multiple, small, round to oval in shape, and pinkish red in color. In addition to CM, either arteriovenous malformation, arteriovenous fistula, or Parkes Weber syndrome was documented in all the families with a mutation. We named this newly identified association caused by RASA1 mutations "CM-AVM," for capillary malformation-arteriovenous malformation. The phenotypic variability can be explained by the involvement of p120-RasGAP in signaling for various growth factor receptors that control proliferation, migration, and survival of several cell types, including vascular endothelial cells.
Videotapes of patients with Huntington's chorea, tardive dyskinesia (TD), and L-DOPA-induced chorea in Parkinson's disease were taken while the patients were seated with their legs dangling. The videotapes were scored in a blinded fashion for suppressibility of dyskinesias. Most patients with TD or L-DOPA-induced chorea substantially suppressed their involuntary movements, whereas most patients with Huntington's chorea did not. There was a small overlap between the TD and Huntington's chorea groups and suppressibility therefore could not absolutely distinguish between them. Suppressibility testing may nonetheless be a valuable clinical tool since a good, excellent, or complete suppressibility rating was highly suggestive of TD but not Huntington's chorea. TD and L-DOPA-induced chorea may be more pathophysiologically similar to each other than either is to Huntington's chorea.
The clinical and autopsy findings in a premature baby who died of acute renal failure after therapy with gentamicin (5 mg/kg/day) and penicillin are presented. The serum gentamicin concentration had reached toxic levels when anuria developed. Numerous periodic acid Schiff (PAS) positive, diastase resistant cytoplasmic inclusion bodies which appeared as myelin figures in cytosegresomes under the electron microscope were identified in the proximal convoluted tubules. The pathological changes induced by gentamicin in the human neonatal kidneys have not been previously reported.
