Hyperinsulinism of infancy is a genetically heterogeneous disease characterized by dysregulation of insulin secretion resulting in severe hypoglycemia. To date, mutations in five different genes, the sulfonylurea receptor (SUR1, ABCC8), the inward rectifying potassium channel (K(IR)6.2, KCNJ11), glucokinase (GCK), glutamate dehydrogenase (GLUD1), and short-chain 3-hydroxyacyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase (SCHAD), have been implicated. Previous reports suggest that, in 40% of patients, no mutation can be identified in any of these genes, suggesting additional locus heterogeneity. However, previous studies did not screen all five genes using direct sequencing, the most sensitive technique available for mutation detection. We selected 15 hyperinsulinism of infancy patients and systematically sequenced the promoter and all coding exons and intron/exon boundaries of ABCC8 and KCNJ11. If no mutation was identified, the coding sequence and intron/exon boundaries of GCK, GLUD1, and SCHAD were sequenced. Seven novel mutations were found in the ABCC8 coding region, one mutation was found in the KCNJ11 coding region, and one novel mutation was found in each of the two promoter regions screened. Functional studies on beta-cells from six patients showed abnormal ATP-sensitive K+ channel function in five of the patients; the sixth had normal channel activity, and no mutations were found. Photolabeling studies using a reconstituted system showed that all missense mutations altered intracellular trafficking. Each of the promoter mutations decreased expression of a reporter gene by about 60% in a heterologous expression system. In four patients (27%), no mutations were identified. Thus, further genetic heterogeneity is suggested in this disorder. These patients represent a cohort that can be used for searching for mutations in other candidate genes.
Prolonged exposure to environmentally relevant amounts of CdCl2 results in cadmium accumulation in dopamine-rich brain regions, such as striatum. Exposure to these low levels of cadmium also diminishes cocaine-induced hyperactivity and conditioned reinforcement. The goal of the present study was to assess the effect of cadmium on amphetamine pharmacology. Direct application of cadmium (0.1-100 microM), within the concentrations reported in brain after chronic exposure, to preloaded rat striatal slices did not alter D-amphetamine-evoked [3H]dopamine release. To determine the effect of dietary cadmium exposure on amphetamines, rats received ad libitum access to diet containing CdCl2 (10 or 100 ppm) or to control diet for 30 days and then D-amphetamine-evoked [3H]dopamine release and methamphetamine-induced hyperactivity were measured. Dietary CdCl2 exposure produced a marked increase in cadmium blood and brain levels, approximate to environmental metal exposure. Dietary cadmium exposure was associated with decreased potency of D-amphetamine to evoke [3H]dopamine release. Cadmium-exposed rats were also less sensitive to the locomotor-activating effect of acute methamphetamine (0.3 or 1.0 mg/kg) injection. The present findings demonstrate that the presence of cadmium in brain is not sufficient for the inhibition of D-amphetamine-evoked dopamine release. This suggests that cadmium does not directly interfere with the mechanism of action for amphetamine pharmacology; rather, it suggests that long-term cadmium exposure induces a change in the number and/or function of striatal neurons.
The purpose of this study is to determine the characteristic clinical features, radiologic findings, and precipitating and prognostic factors in the patients with breast cancer and with 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU)-induced leukoencephalopathy. We reviewed the medical records of six breast cancer patients who developed leukoencephalopathy after chemotherapy which included 5-FU and also evaluated thorough neurological examinations including mini-mental status examination, cerebrospinal fluid studies, brain images and brain biopsies. Six patients exhibited slowly progressing neurologic symptoms characterized by the impairment of cognitive function, abulia, ataxic gait, and/or akinetic mutism. None of the patients had any specific causes or etiologic factors for leukoencephalopathy. Brain MRI in all patients showed diffuse periventricular white matter changes in the T2-weighted MR image. Brain biopsy in Patient 1 showed fragmented axonal fiber and minimally deprived myelination with many scattered macrophages. Five patients who treated with steroids at the onset of neurological symptoms showed clinical improvement, regardless of their age, sex, the pathology and stage of breast cancer, or the total dosage of chemotherapeutic agents. We conclude that leukoencephalopathy in these cases could be attributable to 5-FU neurotoxicity and suggest that the administration of steroids might be the treatment of choice.
Tacrine, an acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitor that has been used in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, increases available acetylcholine (Ach) levels in the synaptic cleft thereby enhancing the activity of cholinergic pathways. However, excessive stimulation of nicotinic receptors at the neuromuscular junction results in muscle deterioration. We tested whether reversible AChE inhibitors such as tacrine may induce similar effects. In the present study, tacrine administration (7.5 mg/kg twice daily) to rats produces a 20 and 30-fold increase in the number of degenerating cells in leg and diaphragm muscle, respectively, as compared to control. This myopathy is significantly decreased by co-administration of tacrine with the nitric oxide (NO) synthase inhibitor L-NAME. These results show that tacrine can induce myopathy which may be mediated by increased NO production.
This phase II trial was planned to study the efficacy and toxicity of a fixed dose of cisplatin plus paclitaxel (Taxol; Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, NJ) given over 1 hour with intrapatient dose escalation. Patients with advanced epithelial ovarian cancer (stages IIB-IV); Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status < or = 2; normal renal, liver, and bone marrow function; and evaluable residual disease after debulking surgery were accrued. Paclitaxel was given over 1-hour infusion and dose was escalated from 175 to 200 and 225 mg/m2 if nadir neutrophil counts were > or = 1000/microL, platelets were > or = 100,000/microL, and neurotoxicity was less than grade 2. Cisplatin was given after paclitaxel at a fixed dose of 80 mg/m2. Six courses at 3-week intervals were planned. From May 1995 to August 1996, 68 patients were entered. Paclitaxel could not be escalated in six patients, another six received up to 200 mg/m2, and 45 received 225 mg/m2. Three hundred seventy-five courses were given: 27.7% at 175 mg/m2, 19.2% at 200 mg/m2, and 53.1% at 225 mg/m2. All patients were evaluable for toxicity, and 67 were evaluable for response. Thirty-five patients had a complete clinical response (51.4%), 20 had a partial response (29.4%), six had stable disease (8.9%), and six progressed on therapy (8.9%). Overall response rate was 80.8 (95% confidence interval, 71.3% to 90.1%). Second-look laparotomy was performed in 32 patients, and 20 of them (62.5%) had a pathologic complete remission. Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia was seen in 26 patients (38%), but only one had fever. Severe thrombocytopenia was not seen. Peripheral neurotoxicity (grade 1, 39.7%; grade 2, 42.6%; and grade 3, 8.8%) was dose-limiting. It is too early to report on time to progression and survival, and these data are not yet available. This combination of cisplatin with escalating doses of paclitaxel is feasible and very active, but the high incidence of peripheral neurotoxicity may limit its use.
Previous research suggests that cocaine dysregulates dopamine D3 receptors. The present study examined the time course of changes in dopamine D3 receptor binding after terminating a cocaine self-administration regimen. [125I]-7-hydroxy-2-[N-propyl-N-(3'-iodo-2'-propenyl)-amino]-tetralin was used to label dopamine D3 receptors in rats that had undergone testing for cocaine-seeking behavior reinstated by a cocaine priming injection (15 mg/kg, i.p.; the behavior results have been previously published), and were killed 24 h after the test at time points that were either 2, 8, or 31-32 days after their last cocaine self-administration session. The results indicated a time-dependent increase in D3 receptor binding relative to controls that received saline yoked to the delivery of cocaine in an experimental animal. Specifically, there was no significant change in D3 receptor binding in cocaine-experienced rats killed at the 2- or 8-day time points relative to controls, but there was an increase in D3 receptor binding in the nucleus accumbens core and ventral caudate-putamen in rats killed at the 31- to 32-day time point. In a subsequent experiment, we replicated the increase in D3 receptor binding in rats that underwent a less extensive self-administration regimen, then were tested for cocaine-primed reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior, and then were killed 24 h later at a time point of 22 days after their last self-administration session. Furthermore, the increase in binding was attenuated by repeated 7-hydroxy-N,N-di-n-propyl-2-aminotetralin administration (1 mg/kg/day, s.c. for 14 days), a regimen that also reduces cocaine-seeking behavior in animals when tested in a nondrug state. Collectively, the findings suggest that regulatory responses of D3 receptors may be functionally related to changes in propensity for cocaine-seeking behavior.
Since publication of the results of the Gynecologic Oncology Group III study, the combination of cisplatin/paclitaxel (Taxol; Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, NJ) has been widely adopted as standard treatment for advanced ovarian cancer. Further attempts to optimize first-line chemotherapy with platinum and taxanes include the substitution of cisplatin with carboplatin, individualization of the carboplatin dose by calculating it according to the area under the concentration-time curve, and reduction of paclitaxel infusion duration. These attempts have led to the initiation of several phase I/II trials evaluating the combination of carboplatin/paclitaxel. The promising results of these small studies have prompted the initiation of three phase III trials comparing carboplatin/paclitaxel with the standard combination of cisplatin/paclitaxel. The interim analysis after 15 months' accrual of the prospectively randomized German Arbeitsgemeinschaft Gynäkologische Onkologie (AGO) study is presented here. As of January 1997, 518 of 660 planned patients have been recruited. The interim analysis is based on data from 449 evaluable patients. The preliminary data indicate that hematologic toxicity occurred more frequently in arm A (carboplatin/paclitaxel), whereas nonhematologic toxicity occurred slightly more frequently in arm B (cisplatin/paclitaxel). Dose-intensity analysis did not reveal cumulative dose reductions or an increased need for colony-stimulating factors over subsequent courses in both arms. Forty-four patients with measurable disease following surgery completed chemotherapy and were evaluable for response, which remains blinded at this time and is reported for the group as a whole. So far, there have been 18 complete responses (41%) and 15 partial responses (34%), for an overall response rate of 75%. Retrospective comparison reveals no significant difference in response rates between patients in the cisplatin/paclitaxel arm of Gynecologic Oncology Group III and those in the Arbeitsgemeinschaft Gynäkologische Onkologie study. Overall, this interim analysis did not reveal any reason for an early termination of this study. Accrual is ongoing and is expected to be completed this year.
Tamoxifen has been widely used for treatment, and more recently, for the prevention of breast cancer. Since breast carcinomas are composed of heterogeneous populations of estrogen receptor-positive (ER+) cells, we hypothesized that tamoxifen may suppress tumor growth by differentially affecting cell proliferation and apoptosis. ER+ mammary tumors were induced in Sprague-Dawley rats by N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU) and when they became palpable, the animals were treated for 5, 10, or 20 days with tamoxifen, 1.0 mg/kg body weight. Tamoxifen induced a time-dependent decrease in proliferating (BrdU-labeled) cells, arrested the cells in G1/0 phase, and differentially decreased the cyclin E and cyclin D1 expression at mRNA and protein levels. In the same tumors, apoptotic cells increased during the first 10 days of treatment, but their number remained unchanged with extension of the treatment to 20 days. Thus, we provide data that tamoxifen may differentially affect cell proliferation and apoptosis in mammary tumors and that the expression levels of cyclin D1 and cyclin E might also be considered potential intermediate biomarkers of response of mammary tumors to tamoxifen and possibly to other selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs).
Paclitaxel (Taxol; Bristol-Myers Squibb Company; Princeton, NJ) is an antineoplastic agent that inhibits microtubular function and has shown efficacy in several solid tumors, mainly ovarian tumors, in which 20% to 40% response rates in previously treated patients were observed. We conducted a study to assess survival, response rate, and toxicity associated with paclitaxel treatment in patients with advanced ovarian cancer resistant to platinum therapy. Between September 1994 and November 1996, 38 patients were admitted for study and 37 were evaluable. All had disease progression or relapse within 1 year of receiving platinum-containing first-line chemotherapy. Mean age was 59 years (range, 30 to 75 years), all had bulky disease, and 18 showed increased carbohydrate antigen-125 at admission. They were treated every 3 weeks with paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 as a 3-hour infusion, preceded by standard premedication. Response rate was 51.3%, with a median response duration of 10.0 months and a median survival rate of 16.8 months. Mild to moderate hematologic toxicity was observed with only one episode of grade 4 neutropenia, without fever. Gastrointestinal toxicity was moderate and peripheral neuropathy was mild, except for two patients who had concomitant pathologies or previous treatment, which might have caused some neuropathy. We concluded that paclitaxel given as a 3-hour infusion was easily administered for ambulatory treatment, with mild to moderate toxicity and promising results based on rate and duration of response as well as survival.
Advanced transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) of the urothelial tract is usually fatal despite high response rates to platinum-based chemotherapy regimens. Paclitaxel (Taxol; Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, NJ) has demonstrated marked single-agent activity in TCC, and combinations of carboplatin and paclitaxel have been well tolerated in other solid tumors. Methotrexate is also active in TCC. Due to unexpectedly severe myelosuppression and mucositis when methotrexate and paclitaxel were combined, we undertook a phase I trial of paclitaxel, carboplatin, and escalating doses of methotrexate with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor and leucovorin support in advanced TCC to determine the feasibility of this combination. Nineteen previously untreated patients with locally advanced or metastatic TCC were eligible. Median age was 62 years. In sequence, paclitaxel 200 mg/m2 (3-hour infusion), carboplatin dosed to an area under the concentration-time curve of 6 mg/mL x min, and methotrexate 10 mg/m2, increasing in 10-mg/m2 increments, were administered on day 1 every 21 days. Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor 300 microg/d or 480 microg/d (in patients <60 kg or >60 kg, respectively) was administered on days 2 through 11 and leucovorin 15 mg orally every 6 hours for 3 days. At this time, the methotrexate dose has been escalated to 50 mg/m2. There were no dose-limiting toxicities in cycle 1. Sixty-eight cycles have been administered (range, one to eight cycles; median, three cycles). Significant hematologic toxicity including neutropenic sepsis (two episodes) occurred in subsequent cycles, but was infrequent. The major nonhematologic toxicity was neuropathy. Sixteen patients are evaluable for response. One patient has achieved a complete response, seven are partial responders, seven have stable disease, and one progressed on therapy. The overall response rate is 50% (95% confidence interval, 25% to 75%). The combination of paclitaxel, carboplatin, and methotrexate holds promise to be well tolerated and active in advanced TCC.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the combination of paclitaxel (Taxol; Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, NJ) and carboplatin in patients with endometrial cancer known to be resistant to standard therapy. Subjects were taken from three groups: (1) recurrent or persistent disease following surgery and/or radiation, (2) advanced disease at diagnosis, and (3) high-risk histology. The combination of carboplatin (pharmacologically dosed at an area under the concentration-time curve of 5) and paclitaxel (135 to 175 mg/m2 over 3 hours) was given intravenously every 4 weeks for eight courses. Data about response, overall and progression-free survival, and toxicity were collected. Response and toxicity were evaluated by physical examinations, x-ray films, and blood tests. Twenty patients have participated to date, including eight considered evaluable for response. Due to limited follow-up, survival and progression-free intervals are not yet assessable. Of patients with measurable disease, five of eight (63%) have had significant reduction in the size of evaluable tumor masses, constituting a partial response. Although two patients had clinical and radiographic complete responses, occult disease was found at surgery. There were no complete responders. Fifteen patients had grade 3 or 4 hematologic toxicity, but none had neutropenic fever or hospitalization for sepsis. One patient was taken off study for grade 3 neuropathy. There was one possible treatment-related death. In this preliminary report, this combination is active against tumors of the endometrium, with acceptable levels of toxicity. Further follow-up will be required to determine the duration of response and whether progression-free and overall survival are influenced by treatment with these drugs.
Three patients with inflammatory or immunologically mediated disease manifested striking behavioral abnormalities in association with long-term alternate-day prednisone regimens. Of particular note was the fact that differences in the abnormalities depended on the day that the patients received their drug: the symptoms that appeared on a treatment day were opposite those present on a day of no therapy. These symptoms were reminiscent of rapid mood cycling in some patients with manic-depressive affective disorder. The phenomenon was dose related and markedly diminished in two patients as the dosage of corticosteroid was decreased, despite the fact that the alternate-day regimen was continued.
All-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) is a natural vitamin A derivative that has a profound effect on the regulation of cell growth, differentiation and death.
To investigate the tissue dynamic and cellular invasion effects of ATRA in choriocarcinoma (CCA), an aggressive trophoblastic tumour, by using a three-dimensional organotypic culture model system and cell invasion assay, respectively.
An organotypic culture model of two CCA cell lines, JAR and JEG, was established. The effects of 1 microM ATRA on proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis on this CCA model were assessed by morphological assessment of the mitotic and apoptotic figures as well as by Ki-67 and caspase-related M30 cytoDeath antibody immunohistochemistry and the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate nick end labelling (TUNEL) assay. The effect of ATRA on p53 and its regulated protein product, WAF1/Cip1, was also evaluated with DO7 and p21(WAF1) antibodies, respectively. Moreover, the effect of ATRA on cellular (CCA) invasion was also investigated with Cell Invasion Kit on the JEG cell line.
ATRA was found to induce marked apoptosis in organotypic cultures of both cell lines, as evidenced by increased M30-positive cells (p<0.0001) and increased TUNEL-positive cells (p<0.0001) in treated cultures; to decrease proliferation, as evidenced by decreased Ki-67-positive cells (p<0.0001); and to decrease p53-DO7 immunoreactivity (p<0.0001) and increase p21(WAF1) (p<0.0001) immunoreactivity. 1.5 microM ATRA was found to effectively inhibit JEG cell invasion in the cell invasion assay.
ATRA treatment was found to inhibit invasion and proliferation and enhance apoptosis, probably by the activation of caspases and induction of differentiation. ATRA and synthetic retinoids may be alternative agents for the treatment of CCA.
The potential for chemical weapons to be used in terrorism is a real possibility. Classes of chemical weapons include nerve agents, vesicants (blister agents), choking agents, incapacitating agents, riot control agents, blood agents, and toxic industrial chemicals. The nerve agents work by blocking the actions of acetylcholinesterase leading to a cholinergic syndrome. Nerve agents include sarin, tabun, VX, cyclosarin, and soman. The vesicants include sulfur mustard and lewisite. The vesicants produce blisters and also damage the upper airways. Choking agents include phosgene and chlorine gas. Choking agents cause pulmonary edema. Incapacitating agents include fentanyl and its derivatives and adamsite. Riot control agents include Mace and pepper spray. Blood agents include cyanide. The mechanism of toxicity for cyanide is blocking oxidative phosphorylation. Toxic industrial chemicals include agents such as formaldehyde, hydrofluoric acid, and ammonia.
Although doxorubicin [adriamycin (ADM)] ototoxicity has not been detected to date, it has been reported that neurotoxicity in the central nervous system was induced by chemotherapy with ADM in patients receiving chronic cyclosporin A (CsA) treatment. ADM ototoxicity may be induced by combination therapy with CsA because extrusion of ADM from the inner ear by p-glycoprotein (p-gp), which acts as an extrusion pump and is expressed on the surface of endothelial cells of capillary blood vessels, might be inhibited by CsA. resulting in significant accumulation of ADM in the inner ear. ADM (10 mg/kg) was administered to FVB mice either with or without CsA (200 mg/kg). Auditory brainstem responses (ABRs) were recorded before and after treatment. ABR changes were not observed in mice treated with either ADM or CsA alone. Threshold elevation, elongation of wave I-V latencies and interpeak latencies of waves I-II, I-III, I-IV and I-V were detected in mice treated with ADM in combination with CsA. These changes reached their peak values 3 weeks after treatment, and then recovered to pre-treatment levels. In normal mice, ADM is extruded by p-gp from the inner ear and auditory pathway, thus preventing hearing disorder. However, ADM ototoxicity was induced by combination therapy with CsA, indicating that CsA has an inhibitory action on p-gp function in the auditory pathway, including the inner ear. After organ transplantation, therefore, clinical administration of ADM in combination with CsA should be performed with caution.
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of 2 years' treatment of moderate benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) with finasteride.
Double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled, multicentre, prospective randomized study.
Outpatient care in 28 centres across Canada.
Men aged 45 to 80, in good health, with moderate BPH and no evidence of prostate cancer. A total of 613 men were entered into the study; 472 completed the 2 years of treatment.
After 1 month of receiving a placebo (run-in period), patients were given either finasteride (5 mg/d) or a placebo for 2 years.
changes from baseline in BPH symptom scores, maximum urinary flow rates and prostate volume.
onset, course and resolution of all adverse events during the treatment period.
In the efficacy analyses the mean BPH symptom scores decreased 2.1 points (from 15.8 to 13.7) in the finasteride group, as compared with a decrease of 0.7 points (from 16.6 to 15.9) in the placebo group (P < or = 0.01). The maximum urinary flow rate increased by a mean of 1.4 mL/s (from 11.1 to 12.5 mL/s) in the finasteride group, as compared with an increase of 0.3 mL/s (from 10.9 to 11.2 mL/s) in the placebo group (p < or = 0.01). The mean prostate volume decreased by 21% (from a mean volume of 44.1 cm3 at baseline) in the treatment group; it increased by 8.4% (from a mean volume of 45.8 cm3 at baseline) in the placebo group (p < or = 0.01). In the safety analysis, the proportion of patients who experienced any adverse event was similar in the two groups (81.0% in the treatment group and 81.2% in the placebo group). However, the incidence of adverse events related to sexual dysfunction were significantly higher in the finasteride group than in the placebo group (ejaculation disorder 7.7% v. 1.7% and impotence 15.8% v. 6.3%; p < or = 0.01 for both parameters).
Finasteride is a well-tolerated and effective alternative to watchful waiting in the treatment of moderate BPH.
A double-blind survey versus a placebo was carried out with C.P.V. protocole on 25 patients treated for lymphosarcoma or reticulosarcoma; its aim was to appraise the preventive action of isaxonine on the appearance of neuropathy induced by vincristine. The frequency of such neuropathy was clearly lower in the isaxonine group (3/10) than in the placebo group (8/10) in a statistically significant manner. The protective effect of isaxonine was particularly striking on tendon reflexes and on the number of motor units recorded at musculus extensor digitirum pedis brevis; on the contrary, the patients treated with the placebo showed real denervation.
Acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) is an unique subtype of acute myeloid leukemia typically carrying a specific reciprocal chromosome translocation, t(15;17), leading to the expression of a leukemia-generating fusion protein, PML-RARalpha. APL patients are responsive to APL-selective reagents such as all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) or arsenic trioxide and non-selective cytotoxic chemotherapy. Nearly all de novo APL patients undergo clinical remission when treated with ATRA plus chemotherapy or with the combinational selective therapy, ATRA plus As2O3. Combining ATRA with As2O3 as an induction followed by chemotherapy consolidation results in more profound clinical remissions compared to treatment with any agent alone or any of the other possible combinations. The mechanism of action of each of these agents differs. ATRA induces APL cell differentiation and PML-RARalpha proteolysis. As2O3 induces APL cell partial differentiation, PML-RARalpha proteolysis, and apoptosis. Chemotherapy, mainly using anthracyclines, induces APL cell death. The combined effects of selective APL therapy (ATRA and As2O3) and/or non-selective chemotherapy in APL cells in vitro and their mechanisms in relation to clinical protocol design are discussed.
Exposure to various xenobiotics, including oxidant gases, diesel exhaust, and certain pesticides, has been reported to exacerbate pulmonary allergic hypersensitivity responses. Increased lymphocyte proliferative responses to parasite antigens or increased antibody responses to sheep erythrocyte have also been reported in rats exposed to TCDD before infection or immunization. As a result, these studies were conducted to test the hypothesis that TCDD exposure exacerbates the allergic response to house dust mite antigen. Brown Norway rats were injected, ip, with 0, 1, 10, or 30 microg TCDD/kg 7 days before intratracheal (it) sensitization to semipurified house dust mite allergen (HDM). Fourteen days later, rats were challenged with HDM and immediate bronchospasm was measured. At this time point, plus 2 and 7 days later, inflammatory cells in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF), HDM-specific IgE levels in serum, and HDM-driven cell proliferation in bronchial lymph nodes and spleen were evaluated. TCDD exposure decreased both immediate bronchoconstriction and specific IgE synthesis after the HDM challenge; 7 days later, HDM-specific IgE responses remained suppressed. Total serum IgE levels were similar in all groups. HDM challenge alone significantly increased cellular and biochemical indicators of lung injury, both of which were suppressed by TCDD exposure. The proliferative response of lymph node cells, but not of spleen cells, to HDM was also suppressed at the highest TCDD dose, although the splenic response to Concanavalin A was elevated. It appears that early events in the response to HDM are affected by TCDD exposure, since message for IL5 was dramatically reduced 2 days after sensitization, but not after challenge. We therefore conclude that TCDD exposure suppressed, rather than enhanced the development of allergic immune responses and the expression of immune-mediated lung disease.
Topical bladder instillation of adriamycin was evaluated in FANET produced rat tumors produced by diets containing (N-[4-(5-Nitro-2-Furyl)-2-Thiazolyl] Formamide). The drug was ineffective in either preventing or eradicating tumors. The failure of response in this animal model may be related to drug schedule, biological potential of this tumor, or ineffectiveness of Adriamycin in this tumor.
Excess iodine and some iodine-containing compounds are known to affect various parameters of thyroid function. Lecithin-bound iodine (LBI) is a compound which induces involution of an enlarged thyroid. LBI was tested for its ability to affect thyroid ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity and apoptosis.
LBI was given orally to propylthiouracil-pretreated rats and the changes in ODC activity and apoptosis were observed. The thyroid apoptosis was detected by DNA laddering and flow cytometry.
LBI suppressed the thyroid ODC activity within one hour after its administration and lowered slightly but significantly the thyroid putrescine levels at 3 h. The DNA cleavage ladder was evident at 3-6 h after LBI treatment. Propylthiouracil induced thyroid enlargement was reduced significantly at 3 days after chronic treatment with LBI. The thyroidal content of putrescine was also decreased after chronic treatment. These effects of LBI were essentially the same as those of excess iodide, while other iodinated compounds including amiodarone, iopanoic acid and erythrosine had no effect on the thyroid ODC activity.
These results suggest that LBI may exert its anti-goitrous effects, consisting of the inhibition of ODC activity and apoptosis, in the form of inorganic iodide in vivo.
2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) exposure produces hydronephrosis and cleft palate in mice. These responses are correlated with disruption of expression of epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor ligands, primarily EGF and transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha), and altered epithelial cell proliferation and differentiation. This research examined the role of these growth factors in TCDD-induced teratogenicity by using wild type (WT) and knockout (-/-) mice that do not express EGF, TGF-alpha, or both EGF and TGF-alpha. Pregnant females were weighed on GD 12 and dosed by gavage with either corn oil or TCDD at 24 microg/kg, 5 ml/kg. On GD 17.5, the maternal parameters evaluated included body weight, body weight gain, liver weight (absolute and adjusted for body weight). The number of implantations, live and dead fetuses, early or late resorptions, the proportion of males, fetal body weight, fetal absolute and relative liver weight, placenta weight, incidence of cleft palate, and the severity and incidence of hydronephrosis were recorded. TCDD did not affect maternal weight gain, fetal weight, or survival, but maternal and fetal liver weights and liver-to-body weight ratios were increased in all genotypes. The WT and TGF-alpha (-/-), but not the EGF (-/-) and EGF + TGF-alpha (-/-) fetuses, developed cleft palate after exposure to 24 microg TCDD/kg. Hydronephrosis was induced by TCDD in all genotypes, with the incidence in EGF + TGF-alpha (-/-) fetuses comparable to that of the WT. The incidence and severity of this defect was substantially increased in EGF (-/-) and TGF-alpha (-/-). In conclusion, this study demonstrated that expression of EGF influences the induction of cleft palate by TCDD. Also, EGF and TGF-alpha are not required for the induction of hydronephrosis, but when either is absent the response of the fetal urinary tract to TCDD is enhanced.
Reversible complication of intrathecal morphine delivered by an implanted pump is described in one patient. The patient was evaluated initially using a contrast CT of the thoracic spine as well as urodynamics studies. After decreasing the intrathecally administered morphine from 2 mg/24 hr to .5 mg/24 hr, the patient's neurogenic bladder reversed within 4 days. Implanted pumps to deliver intrathecal narcotic medications are being used currently to treat intractable pain. This is a case report of reversible urinary retention secondary to the intrathecal narcotic.
DDB2 exhibits a high affinity toward UV-damaged DNA, and it is involved in the initial steps of global genome nucleotide excision repair. Mutations in the DDB2 gene cause the genetic complementation group E of xeroderma pigmentosum, an autosomal recessive disease manifested clinically by hypersensitivity to sunlight exposure and an increased predisposition to skin cancer. Here we found that, in human cells, the initiating methionine residue in DDB2 was removed and that the N-terminal alanine could be methylated on its α-amino group in human cells, with trimethylation being the major form. We also demonstrated that the α-N-methylation of DDB2 is catalyzed by the N-terminal RCC1 methyltransferase. In addition, a methylation-defective mutant of DDB2 displayed diminished nuclear localization and was recruited at a reduced efficiency to UV-induced cyclobutane pyrimidine dimer foci. Moreover, loss of this methylation conferred compromised ATM (ataxia telangiectasia mutated) activation, decreased efficiency in cyclobutane pyrimidine dimer repair, and elevated sensitivity of cells toward UV light exposure. Our study provides new knowledge about the posttranslational regulation of DDB2 and expands the biological functions of protein α-N-methylation to DNA repair.
Dexamethasone contributes to high cure rates in paediatric acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) but significantly and adversely alters sleep and fatigue. Herein we explored three mechanisms (pharmacokinetics, serum albumin and pharmacogenetics) through which dexamethasone may cause debilitating fatigue and disrupted sleep.
We enrolled 100 patients on a 10-d study: 5-d of no dexamethasone (OFF DEX) followed by 5-d of dexamethasone (ON DEX) during continuation chemotherapy. Sleep variables were collected with continuous actigraphy on days 1 through 5, both OFF DEX and ON DEX. On days 2 and 5 of each 5-d period, parents and patients 7 years of age and older completed a sleep diary and Fatigue Scale questionnaire. Blood was collected at 0 (pre-dexamethasone), 1, 2, 4 and 8 h after the first oral dexamethasone dose for pharmacokinetic analysis. Serum albumin concentration was retrospectively analysed in stored samples. Patient DNA was genotyped for 99 polymorphic loci in candidate genes associated with glucocorticoid metabolism.
Dexamethasone clearance was significantly greater in younger patients than in older ones and in lower risk patients. In multiple regression models, risk group was significantly related to pharmacokinetic parameters. We found that polymorphisms in three genes (AHSG, IL6, POLDIP3) were significantly associated with sleep measures but not with fatigue.
Risk group had the most significant relationship with disrupted sleep in patients while on dexamethasone. Serum albumin levels had neither a direct relationship with sleep or fatigue variables nor an indirect relationship through systemic exposure to dexamethasone. We identified candidate genes that may help explain the adverse events of disrupted sleep in paediatric patients receiving dexamethasone.
Acute ischemic stroke is a clinical condition accompanied by inflammation and oxidative stress. In this study, we compared levels of plasma lipophilic antioxidants and inflammation markers between patients with stroke and healthy controls and assessed the associations of antioxidants, inflammation markers, and neurologic deficits among patients with stroke.
We measured plasma levels of lipophilic antioxidant vitamins (retinol, lycopene, alpha-carotene, beta-carotene, alpha-tocopherol, and gamma-tocopherol), inflammation markers (high-sensitivity C-reactive protein [hs-CRP], fibrinogen, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and white blood cell count), and neurologic deficits (indicated by the score of the National Institute of Health Stroke Scale) in 68 patients with acute ischemic stroke within 48 h after stroke onset in comparison with 41 normal controls.
Plasma alpha- and beta-carotene concentrations were lower and levels of inflammation markers were higher among patients with acute ischemic stroke compared with normal controls. Levels of alpha- and beta-carotene in patients with stroke were negatively associated with hs-CRP level (R = -0.29 and -0.41, respectively, P < 0.01) and with neurologic deficits (R = -0.28 and -0.27, respectively, P < 0.05). The negative association between neurologic deficits and combined plasma levels of alpha- and beta-carotene remained after adjustment for age and sex (P = 0.04). However, the magnitude of association decreased after adjustment of hs-CRP (P = 0.08).
Plasma concentrations of alpha- and beta-carotene are lower in patients with acute ischemic stroke than in healthy controls and are negatively correlated with hs-CRP level and neurologic deficits. The negative association between neurologic deficits and combined plasma alpha- and beta-carotene levels is confounded by hs-CRP.
Safety monitoring is a critical element of clinical trials evaluating treatment for substance dependence, but is complicated by participants' high levels of medical and psychiatric comorbidity. This paper describes AEs reported in a large (N = 286), 29-week outpatient study of behavioral interventions for heroin and cocaine dependence in methadone-maintained outpatients. A total of 884 AEs were reported (3.1 per patient, 0.12 per patient-week), the most common being infections (26.8%), gastrointestinal (20.5%), musculoskeletal (12.3%), and general (10%) disorders. Serious AEs were uncommon (1.6% of total). Female participants reported significantly higher rates of AEs (incidence density ratio, IDR = 1.38, p < 0.0001); lower rates of AEs were reported by African Americans (IDR = 0.73, p<0.0001) and participants over age 40 reported lower rates of AEs (IDR = 0.84, p = 0.0095). AE incidence was not associated with the study intervention or with psychiatric comorbidity. Further work is needed to adapt AE coding systems for behavioral trials for substance dependence; the standard Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities, International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Associations (MedDRA) coding system used in this report did not contain a separate category for one of the most common types of AE, dental problems. Nonetheless, the data reported here should help provide a context in which investigators and IRBs can interpret the patterns of AEs they encounter.
