Drug-alcohol interactions in patients who present to emergency departments with a severe "disulfiram-like" illness (including vomiting, diarrhea, flushing, tachycardia, and hypotension) must be recognized and treated appropriately. We report a case of such an interaction caused by oral griseofulvin and alcohol. Emergency physicians should be aware of this potential interaction.
Osteolytic bone diseases such as osteoporosis have a common pathological feature in which osteoclastic bone resorption outstrips bone synthesis. Osteoclast formation and activation are regulated by receptor activator of nuclear factor κB ligand (RANKL). The induction of RANKL-signaling pathways occurs following the interaction of RANKL to its cognate receptor, RANK. This specific binding drives the activation of downstream signaling pathways; which ultimately induce the formation and activation of osteoclasts. In this study, we showed that a natural immunomodulator, mangiferin, inhibits osteoclast formation and bone resorption by attenuating RANKL-induced signaling. Mangiferin diminished the expression of osteoclast marker genes, including cathepsin K, calcitonin receptor, DC-STAMP, and V-ATPase d2. Mechanistic studies revealed that mangiferin inhibits RANKL-induced activation of NF-κB, concomitant with the inhibition of IκB-α degradation, and p65 nuclear translocation. In addition, mangiferin also exhibited an inhibitory effect on RANKL-induced ERK phosphorylation. Collectively, our data demonstrates that mangiferin exhibits anti-resorptive properties, suggesting the potential application of mangiferin for the treatment and prevention of bone diseases involving excessive osteoclastic bone resorption.
Intra-arterial digital subtraction angiography (DSA) can produce coronary artery opacification with isotonic contrast media. In this study we have examined the importance of electrolyte composition in isotonic formulations on the incidence of fibrillation. Right coronary injections of media were made for 25 s in anesthetized dogs. Isotonic meglumine diatrizoate and iohexol produced fibrillation in more than 68% of the injections, while sodium diatrizoate, saline, meglumine/sodium ioxaglate and iohexol with added sodium diatrizoate never produced fibrillation. These animal studies demonstrate a significantly higher risk of fibrillation (p less than 0.005) with isotonic nonionic and ionic media not containing sodium ions.
Inflammatory bowel disease is a chronic, relapsing, and tissue-destructive disease. Resveratrol (3,4,5-trihydroxy-trans-stilbene), a naturally occurring polyphenol that exhibits beneficial pleiotropic health effects, is recognized as one of the most promising natural molecules in the prevention and treatment of chronic inflammatory disease and autoimmune disorders. In the present study, we investigated the effect of resveratrol on dextran sodium sulfate (DSS)-induced colitis in mice and found that it effectively attenuated overall clinical scores as well as various pathological markers of colitis. Resveratrol reversed the colitis-associated decrease in body weight and increased levels of serum amyloid A, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin (IL-6), and IL-1beta. After resveratrol treatment, the percentage of CD4(+) T cells in mesenteric lymph nodes (MLN) of colitis mice was restored to normal levels, and there was a decrease in these cells in the colon lamina propria (LP). Likewise, the percentages of macrophages in MLN and the LP of mice with colitis were decreased after resveratrol treatment. Resveratrol also suppressed cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) expression induced in DSS-exposed mice. Colitis was associated with a decrease in silent mating type information regulation-1 (SIRT1) gene expression and an increase in p-inhibitory kappaB expression and nuclear transcription factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) activation. Resveratrol treatment of mice with colitis significantly reversed these changes. This study demonstrates for the first time that SIRT1 is involved in colitis, functioning as an inverse regulator of NF-kappaB activation and inflammation. Furthermore, our results indicate that resveratrol may protect against colitis through up-regulation of SIRT1 in immune cells in the colon.
This study was aimed to determine whether there was any relationship between consumption of chillies and postoperative symptoms after closed anal sphincterotomy in patients with chronic anal fissure.
Patients were randomly assigned to receive analgesics and fiber supplement alone (control patients) or consumption of 1.5 g chilli powder twice daily along with identical fiber and analgesics (chilli group). The evaluation of symptoms (pain, anal burning, and pruritus) during the postoperative period was assessed by means of patients' self-questionnaires. The amount of analgesic tablets consumed and the frequency of stool during the study period were also noted.
28 patients were recruited in each arm. Postoperative symptoms were higher in the group consuming chillies during the first postoperative week. The global scores for postoperative pain (7.60 in chilli group and 2.95 in control group, p < 0.001) and for anal burning (8.85 for the chilli group vs. 4.21 for the control group, p < 0.0001) were significant.
This study shows that consumption of red chillies after anal fissure surgery should be forbidden to avoid postoperative symptoms.
Ketoconazole, a new broad-spectrum oral antifungal agent, has proved most useful in the treatment of superficial and systemic fungal infections. Chronic conditions like mucocutaneous candidiasis can be treated with but few side effects. An increasing number of cases have, however, been noted of severe toxic hepatitis, following ketoconazole treatment. A new case (a 61-yr-old woman treated for onychomycosis) is reported here.
The etiology of ulcerative colitis (UC) remains unknown, although the risk of developing UC is apparently higher in non-smokers and ex-smokers. We have demonstrated in a colitis animal model that exposure to tobacco smoke could attenuate UC pathogenesis. The present study aimed to investigate and compare between the modes of action of nicotine and different fractions of tobacco smoke extract in the development of experimental colitis. The hapten 2,4-dinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (DNBS) was used to induce colitis in Sprague-Dawley rats. Results indicated that both tobacco smoke exposure and subcutaneous nicotine differentially reduced colonic lesion size, myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity, luminol-amplified free radical generation, and leukotriene B4 formation in the inflamed colon of colitis animals. These phenomena were accompanied by the downregulation of colonic interleukin (IL)-1beta and monocyte chemoattractant protein (MCP)-1 protein expression. By treating the colitis animals with various tobacco extracts, we further discovered that ethanol extract from filtered tobacco smoke could attenuate DNBS-evoked colonic damage and the elevated MPO activity, while at the same time it downregulated colonic IL-1beta and MCP-1 protein expression. In contrast, the highest dose of the chloroform extract from the cigarette filter caused aggravating effects and overexpression of the pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines. These data suggest that effective attenuation of DNBS-induced colitis by tobacco smoke could be due to its nicotine content and possibly other flavonoid components found in the ethanol smoke extract.
The effects of nifedinpine and isosorbide dinitrate on the frequency of angina and consumption of nitroglycerin were studied in 19 patients with coronary arterial spasm. After a lead-in phase, the patients were randomized to treatment with either nifedipine or isosorbide dinitrate. After dose titration (40 to 120 mg/day) and evaluation, they were given the alternate therapy. During the initial segment of the double-blind phase, one patient died suddenly (nifedipine phase), one dropped out of the study (nifedipine phase) and another was unable to tolerate therapy (isosorbide dinitrate phase). In the other 16 patients, the mean frequency of angina was less during therapy with both nifedipine (0.69 episode/day, p less than 0.05) and isosorbide dinitrate (0.77 episode/day, p less than 0.05) phases than during the lead-in phase (1.71 episodes/day). The mean frequency of angina was similar in the nifedipine and isosorbide dinitrate phases. A 50 percent or greater decrease in frequency of angina compared with lead-in phase values occurred in 13 of 18 patients during treatment with nifedipine and in 10 of 16 during treatment with isosorbide dinitrate. Of the 16 patients who completed both double-blind phases, 7 showed greater improvement (that is, a 50 percent or greater decrease in frequency of angina) with nifedipine than with isosorbide dinitrate); 6 others showed greater improvement with isosorbide dinitrate, and the other 3 had a less than 50 percent difference in frequency of angina with the two drugs. These findings in a limited number of patients suggest that both nifedipine and isosorbide dinitrate are effective in certain patients with coronary spasm but that neither drug is clearly superior.
Isoproterenol and propranolol, in a single dose, caused hyperglycemia after 15 and 30 min, either in the conscious rat or in the anesthetized dog. In this latter species no modifications of the serum potassium were observed. Adrenaline, 5 microgram/kg, iv provoked hyperglycemia at the same intervals and hyperkalemia at min 1st and 2nd with further hypokalemia until 90 min. The beta-adrenergic blocker, sotalol, 5 mg/kg, iv, administered prior to adrenaline suppressed the increase in glycemia and the late decrease in serum potassium, but not the early hyperkalemia. In the isolated hind limb of the dog the intra femoral artery administration of adrenaline, 3 microgram/kg, produced similar hyperglycemia either in the artery or in the femoral vein, starting from the 15 min. Contrarily, the serum concentration of potassium was significantly less in the vein than in the artery at the 1st min. These findings suggest that different receptors are involved in the glucose and potassium response to adrenaline, and the skeletal muscle plays an important role in the regulation of the early hyperkalemia.
An 82-year-old woman was admitted to the hospital with dyspnea and fatigue. She had been given amlodipine, furosemide, candesartan, pravastatin and roxatidine acetate for two months in an other hospital. Chest CT showed patchy consolidations throughout the entire lungs. We suspected drug-induced pneumonia, and treated her with prednisolone under mechanical ventilation. The pulmonary consolidations eventually improved, but on the 15th hospital day the patient developed thrombocytopenia and disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC). Heparin flushes had been performed since the first hospital day. After these were stopped, her platelet count became normal and the patient recovered from DIC. The clinical course, and the fact that testing for heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) antibodies was positive, supported the diagnosis of HIT and DIC. We report a rare case of HIT and DIC during treatment for drug-induced pneumonia.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) have been connected to developmental toxicity in the early life-stages of many species by their ability to bind to the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR), which dimerizes with ARNT (AHR nuclear translocator) to induce transcription of genes such as CYP1A1. ARNT also dimerizes with HIF (hypoxia-inducible factor alpha) to induce transcription of genes such as VEGF (vascular endothelial growth factor), suggesting that PAHs may interfere with transcription of VEGF by competing for ARNT. Herein, we address the molecular and developmental effects of exposures to the weak AHR agonist pyrene on the early life-stages of the sheepshead minnow Cyprinodon variegatus. Embryos were exposed under flow-through conditions to 0, 20, 60, or 150 ppb pyrene up to 432 hours post-fertilization (hpf). RNA was extracted at 5 time points (12, 24, 48, 96, and 432 hpf) and changes in CYP1A1 and VEGF expression were assessed by real-time RT-PCR. Since few genes have been documented for the sheepshead minnow, we first cloned and sequenced CYP1A1, VEGF and internal standard 18S rRNA. Pyrene significantly induced the AHR-regulated gene, CYP1A1, in a time- and dose-dependent manner, while pyrene failed to alter the HIF-regulated gene, VEGF. However, VEGF was found to change during various stages of normal development in this study. Although a normal hatch time (5 dpf) was observed for all treatments, pyrene-treated embryos showed dose-dependent abnormalities such as severe dorsal body curvature, mild pericardial and yolk-sac edema, and increased mortality. Taken together, these data indicate that embryonic exposure of sheepshead minnows to pyrene disrupts normal development and alters expression of an AHR/ARNT-regulated gene. In addition, embryonic exposure to pyrene failed to provide evidence of possible AHR-HIF pathway cross-talk since developmental expression of VEGF was unaltered.
Homozygous (PIZZ) alpha-1-antitrypsin (alpha(1)-AT) deficiency is associated with the development of liver damage in children as well as chronic liver injury and hepatocellular carcinoma in adults. The alpha(1)-AT mutant Z gene encodes a mutant protein that accumulates in the endoplasmic reticulum of hepatocytes rather than being secreted appropriately into serum. Liver injury is caused by the accumulation of alpha(1)-AT mutant Z protein in hepatocytes, which triggers downstream intracellular injury pathways. However, development of clinical liver disease among PIZZ homozygotes is highly variable, suggesting other genetic or environmental factors contribute to liver injury. In this study, we tested whether nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) could be a comorbid factor in the development of liver injury in alpha(1)-AT deficiency using the PiZ mouse. This mouse model is transgenic for the mutant Z allele of the human alpha(1)-AT gene, in which alpha(1)-ATZ expression is regulated by the human promoter regulatory sequences. Our results showed that administration of indomethacin to PiZ mice resulted in increased hepatic injury, indicated by increased hepatocellular proliferation and increased activation of caspase 9. This indomethacin-induced injury was associated with activation of IL-6-STAT3 signaling, increased expression of alpha(1)-AT mRNA, and greater accumulation of mutant polymerized alpha(1)-ATZ protein in livers of indomethacin-treated PiZ mice compared to vehicle-treated PiZ animals. In conclusion, environmental factors, such as exogenous medication administration, can significantly potentiate the liver injury associated with alpha(1)-ATZ hepatic accumulation; NSAIDs may be especially injurious to patients with alpha(1)-AT deficiency, possibly by increasing the expression and accumulation of the hepatotoxic mutant protein.
Metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors modulate synaptic transmission in the central nervous system and represent promising therapeutic targets for symptomatic treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). Among the eight mGlu receptor subtypes, mGlu7 receptor is prominently expressed in the basal ganglia, but its role in restoring motor function in animal models of PD is not known. The effects of N,N'-dibenzhydrylethane-1,2-diamine dihydrochloride (AMN082), the first selective allosteric activator of mGlu7 receptors, were thus tested in different rodent models of PD. Here, we show that oral (5 mg/kg) or intrastriatal administration (0.1 and 0.5 nmol) of AMN082 reverses haloperidol-induced catalepsy in rats. AMN082 (2.5 and 5 mg/kg) reduces apomorphine-induced rotations in unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned rats. In a more complex task commonly used to evaluate major akinetic symptoms of PD patients, 5 mg/kg AMN082 reverses the increased reaction time to respond to a cue of bilateral 6-OHDA-lesioned rats. In addition, AMN082 reduces the duration of haloperidol-induced catalepsy in a mGlu7 receptor-dependent manner in wild-type but not mGlu7 receptor knockout mice. Higher doses of AMN082 (10 and 20 mg/kg p.o.) have no effect on the same models of PD. Overall these findings suggest that mGlu7 receptor activation can reverse motor dysfunction associated with reduced dopamine activity. Selective ligands of mGlu7 receptor subtypes may thus be considered as promising compounds for the development of antiparkinsonian therapeutic strategies.
In congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH), high mortality rates are attributed to severe pulmonary hypoplasia. The insulinlike growth factor receptor type 1 (IGF-1R) and type 2 (IGF-2R) play a critical role in the alveologenesis during lung development. The IGF-1R null mutation mice die after birth because of respiratory failure. The IGF-2R knockout mice showed retarded lungs with poorly formed alveoli. We hypothesized that IGF-1R and IGF-2R gene expression levels are downregulated in the nitrofen-induced CDH model.
Pregnant rats were exposed to either olive oil or 100 mg of nitrofen on day 9.5 (D9.5) of gestation. Fetuses were harvested on D18 and D21 and divided into control and nitrofen groups. Relative messenger RNA (mRNA) levels of IGF-1R and IGF-2R were determined using real time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. Immunohistochemistry was performed to determine protein expression.
Relative levels of IGF-1R mRNA were significantly decreased in the nitrofen group (2.91 +/- 0.81) on D21 compared to controls (5.29 +/- 2.59) (P < .05). Expression levels of IGF-2R mRNA on D21 were also significantly decreased in nitrofen group (1.76 +/- 0.49) compared to controls (3.59 +/- 2.45) (P < .05). Immunohistochemistry performed on D21 showed decreased IGF-1R and also IGF-2R expression in nitrofen group.
Downregulation of IGF-1R and IGF-2R gene expression may interfere with normal alveologenesis causing pulmonary hypoplasia in the nitrofen-induced CDH model.
Many patients display elevated levels of serum cortisol following acute ischemic stroke. Given that glucocorticoids may potentiate some forms of insult, these studies examined the effects of corticosterone or dexamethasone exposure on cytotoxicity following oxygen-glucose deprivation in the cerebellum, a brain region susceptible to stroke. In organotypic cerebellar slice cultures prepared from neonatal rat pups, 90-min of oxygen-glucose deprivation at 15 days in vitro resulted in significant cytotoxicity at 24-, 48-, and 72-h post-oxygen-glucose deprivation, as measured by uptake of propidium iodide. Exposure of cultures following oxygen-glucose deprivation to the antioxidant trolox (500 microM), but not to the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist RU486 (10 microM), completely blocked oxygen-glucose deprivation-induced cytotoxicity. Corticosterone (1 microM) or dexamethasone (10 microM) exposure alone did not significantly increase propidium iodide uptake above levels observed in control cultures. However, corticosterone or dexamethasone exposure after oxygen-glucose deprivation potentiated oxygen-glucose deprivation-mediated propidium iodide uptake at each time point. Trolox, as well as RU486, co-exposure of cultures to corticosterone or dexamethasone after oxygen-glucose deprivation abolished all cytotoxicity. In conclusion, these data demonstrated that glucocorticoid exposure modulated oxygen-glucose deprivation-mediated propidium iodide uptake, which likely involved glucocorticoid receptor activation and pro-oxidant effects.
Continuous incisional infusion of local anesthetic through an extrapleural catheter to achieve an intercostal nerve block is a safe and effective adjunct to control postoperative pain after thoracotomy. Local and systemic complications are rare. Here we present a case of an acute, reversible, post-thoracotomy Horner syndrome associated with the use of local anesthetic infusion via an intraoperatively placed extrapleural catheter.
Septic cavernous sinus thrombosis (CST) is an uncommon clinical syndrome. Although Staphylococcus aureus (S aureus) is the most common bacterial pathogen causing CST, it is infrequent as a cause of meningitis. We report the first case of CST and meningitis from Bengaluru, Karnataka, caused by community-acquired epidemic methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus-15 (EMRSA-15), in a previously healthy individual without known risk factors; the patient recovered following treatment with vancomycin. The isolate was genotyped as belonging to staphylococcal cassette chromosome mec type IV and sequence type 22 and carried the panton-valentine leucocidin gene. It is the first Indian EMRSA-15 disease isolate from a case of meningitis. EMRSA-15 has been a major problem in hospitals in UK and it is a cause for great concern in Indian hospitals too.
Phenformin causes lactic acidosis in clinical situations due to inhibition of mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I. It is reportedly taken up by hepatocytes and exhibits mitochondrial toxicity in the liver. In this study, uptake of phenformin and [(14)C]tetraethylammonium (TEA) and complex I inhibition by phenformin were examined in isolated liver and heart mitochondria. Uptake of phenformin into isolated rat liver mitochondria was higher than that into heart mitochondria. It was inhibited by several cat ionic compounds, which suggests the involvement of multispecific transport system(s). Similar characteristics were also observed for uptake of TEA; however, uptake of phenformin into mitochondria of organic cation/carnitine transporter 1 (OCTN1) knockout mice was lower than that in wild-type mice, whereas uptake of TEA was comparable between the two strains, suggesting the involvement of distinct transport mechanisms for these two cations in mitochondria. Inhibition by phenformin of oxygen consumption via complex I respiration in isolated rat liver mitochondria was greater than that in heart mitochondria, whereas inhibitory effect of phenformin on complex I respiration was similar in inside-out structured submitochondrial particles prepared from rat livers and hearts. Lactic acidosis provoked by iv infusion of phenformin was weaker in octn1(-/-) mice than that in wild-type mice. These observations suggest that uptake of phenformin into liver mitochondria is at least partly mediated by OCTN1 and functionally relevant to its inhibition potential of complex I respiration. This study was, thus, the first to demonstrate OCTN1-mediated mitochondrial transport and toxicity of biguanide in vivo in rodents.
The main goal of the present work was to better understand the molecular mechanisms underlying liver hypertrophy (LH), a recurrent finding observed following acute or repeated drug administration to animals, using transcriptomic technologies together with the results from conventional toxicology methods. Administration of 5 terminated proprietary drug candidates from participating companies involved in the EU Innomed PredTox Project or the reference hepatotoxicant troglitazone to rats for up to a 14-day duration induced LH as the main liver phenotypic toxicity outcome. The integrated analysis of transcriptomic liver expression data across studies turned out to be the most informative approach for the generation of mechanistic models of LH. In response to a xenobiotic stimulus, a marked increase in the expression of xenobiotic metabolizing enzymes (XME) was observed in a subset of 4 studies. Accumulation of these newly-synthesized proteins within the smooth endoplasmic reticulum (SER) would suggest proliferation of this organelle, which most likely is the main molecular process underlying the LH observed in XME studies. In another subset of 2 studies (including troglitazone), a marked up-regulation of genes involved in peroxisomal fatty acid β-oxidation was noted, associated with induction of genes involved in peroxisome proliferation. Therefore, an increase in peroxisome abundance would be the main mechanism underlying LH noted in this second study subset. Together, the use of transcript profiling provides a means to generate putative mechanistic models underlying the pathogenesis of liver hypertrophy, to distinguish between subtle variations in subcellular organelle proliferation and creates opportunities for improved mechanism-based risk assessment.
There is strong evidence demonstrating that coagulation system activation contributes to wound healing and promotes organ fibrosis. Several epidemiological studies have now shown that prothrombotic status, including carriage of the factor (F)V Leiden mutation, is associated with rapid progression of hepatic fibrosis.
To assess the effect of a procoagulant state on progression of hepatic fibrosis in a controlled environment and to test whether anticoagulation could attenuate fibrogenesis.
We investigated the effects of coagulation status on liver fibrosis development in a mouse model of chronic toxic liver injury. Prothrombotic FV Leiden mutant mice, C57BL/6 control animals and anticoagulated mice were studied after chronic exposure to carbon tetrachloride.
Carriage of the FV Leiden mutation caused a significant increase in hepatic fibrosis. Anticoagulation with warfarin significantly reduced fibrosis progression in wild-type mice but was less effective against the profibrotic FV Leiden mutation. Changes in the fibrosis scores were mirrored by changes in liver hydroxyproline content and hepatic stellate cell activation detected by alpha-smooth muscle actin expression.
These results demonstrate that coagulation status has a strong influence on hepatic fibrogenesis. It is likely that thrombin signaling through the proteinase-activated receptor 1 (PAR(1)) receptor expressed on hepatic stellate cells is responsible for this relationship. These results represent the first reported use of anticoagulation to slow hepatic fibrogenesis and suggest a potential novel anti-fibrotic therapeutic approach for the future.
Extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) are common with conventional antipsychotics. Clozapine and other novel antipsychotic substances with lower in vitro affinity for dopamine-2 (D(2)) receptors have a lower propensity to induce EPS.
We investigated whether striatal D(2) receptor occupancy predicted the occurrence of EPS with atypical antipsychotics and the typical neuroleptic haloperidol.
[(123)I]Iodobenzamide (IBZM) and single photon emission tomography (SPECT) were used to quantify receptor occupancy in 71 patients treated with antipsychotics. EPS were rated according to the Simpson-Angus scale (SAS). EPS were deemed clinically relevant, if the SAS score was > or = 5 and/or anticholinergic medication was required. Patients received atypical antipsychotic monotherapy for at least 14 days with amisulpride ( n=2), clozapine ( n=6), haloperidol ( n=10), olanzapine ( n=6), quetiapine ( n=4), risperidone ( n=14), sertindole ( n=13), or zotepine ( n=16).
The striatal D(2) receptor occupancy ranged from < 20% to almost saturation. The lowest occupancy was seen with quetiapine and clozapine, the highest with haloperidol. Twenty-two of 71 patients (29%) experienced clinically relevant EPS. These patients displayed significantly higher mean striatal D(2) receptor occupancy (77%) than those without EPS (61%; P=0.002). We found a positive correlation between the percentage of striatal D(2) receptor occupancy and the SAS score ( r=0.28; P=0.02), despite 18 of these patients receiving anticholinergics, thus lowering their SAS score.
Striatal D(2) receptor occupancy as measured with [(123)I]IBZM and SPECT predicted the occurrence of EPS in patients treated with atypical antipsychotics and haloperidol. In vivo imaging of brain receptors with SPECT may provide a useful clinical tool to titrate doses individually and avoid motor side effects in patients treated with novel antipsychotics.
Until recently, neonatal hyperthyroidism has been considered to be related to the transplacental passage of thyroid-stimulating Ig present in the serum of the mother. We report here the case of a newborn who presented with severe hyperthyroidism, diffuse goiter, and important ocular signs (eyelid retraction and possibly proptosis). However, the absence of thyroid pathology in the parents and the lack of antithyroid antibodies in the mother and in the patient led us to suspect a nonimmune aetiology. Direct genomic sequencing of the last exon of the TSH receptor in the patient revealed a T-->C transversion yielding to a Met453-->Thr heterozygous substitution in the second transmembrane domain of the receptor. The mutation was absent in both parents. Eukaryotic expression analysis in COS-7 cells yielded a mutated receptor that produced constitutive activation of adenylate cyclase without enhancement of phospholipase C activity.
Autosomal dominant spinocerebellar ataxias (SCAs) are genetically heterogeneous neurological disorders characterized by cerebellar dysfunction mostly due to Purkinje cell degeneration. Here we show that AFG3L2 mutations cause SCA type 28. Along with paraplegin, which causes recessive spastic paraplegia, AFG3L2 is a component of the conserved m-AAA metalloprotease complex involved in the maintenance of the mitochondrial proteome. We identified heterozygous missense mutations in five unrelated SCA families and found that AFG3L2 is highly and selectively expressed in human cerebellar Purkinje cells. m-AAA-deficient yeast cells expressing human mutated AFG3L2 homocomplex show respiratory deficiency, proteolytic impairment and deficiency of respiratory chain complex IV. Structure homology modeling indicates that the mutations may affect AFG3L2 substrate handling. This work identifies AFG3L2 as a novel cause of dominant neurodegenerative disease and indicates a previously unknown role for this component of the mitochondrial protein quality control machinery in protecting the human cerebellum against neurodegeneration.
Intracavernous injection of vasoactive drugs for the treatment of erectile impotence has become a standard therapeutic technique. Previous reports detailing experience with this treatment are based on patient populations significantly younger than most patients who suffer from impotence. The geriatric population, which comprises the majority of patients with importance, is unique due to the physical, psychological and social changes associated with the aging process. To characterize better elderly men with impotence, and determine whether intracavernous injection therapy is safe and effective in this age group, a retrospective analysis was performed upon patients attending the male sexual dysfunction clinic at our university medical center who received a standard papaverine and phentolamine mixture (30 mg. papaverine and 1.0 mg. phentolamine per ml.). The etiology of impotence, degree of patient satisfaction and complication rate of 65 patients 65 years or older (mean age 70 years) undergoing papaverine plus phentolamine self-injection therapy were compared to a similar size group of impotent men approximately 20 years younger (mean age 47 years). Significant differences in etiology of impotence were evident between the 2 groups. Treatment response rates were equal for the 2 age groups although elderly patients required a higher dose of papaverine and phentolamine to obtain an erection, and used the medication less frequently. Complications were few, of minimal consequence and occurred with equal frequency between the 2 age groups.
Eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE) is an allergic disorder characterized by the accumulation of eosinophils in the esophagus. We report association of EoE with variants at chromosome 5q22 encompassing TSLP and WDR36 (rs3806932, combined P = 3.19 x 10(-9)). TSLP is overexpressed in esophageal biopsies from individuals with EoE compared with unaffected individuals, whereas WDR36 expression is unaltered between the two groups. These data implicate the 5q22 locus in the pathogenesis of EoE and identify TSLP as the most likely candidate gene in the region.
Dopamine (phasic release) is implicated in conditioned responses. Imaging studies in cocaine abusers show decreases in striatal dopamine levels, which we hypothesize may enhance conditioned responses since tonic dopamine levels modulate phasic dopamine release. To test this we assessed the effects of increasing tonic dopamine levels (using oral methylphenidate) on brain activation induced by cocaine-cues in cocaine abusers. Brain metabolism (marker of brain function) was measured with PET and (18)FDG in 24 active cocaine abusers tested four times; twice watching a Neutral video (nature scenes) and twice watching a Cocaine-cues video; each video was preceded once by placebo and once by methylphenidate (20 mg). The Cocaine-cues video increased craving to the same extent with placebo (68%) and with methylphenidate (64%). In contrast, SPM analysis of metabolic images revealed that differences between Neutral versus Cocaine-cues conditions were greater with placebo than methylphenidate; whereas with placebo the Cocaine-cues decreased metabolism (p<0.005) in left limbic regions (insula, orbitofrontal, accumbens) and right parahippocampus, with methylphenidate it only decreased in auditory and visual regions, which also occurred with placebo. Decreases in metabolism in these regions were not associated with craving; in contrast the voxel-wise SPM analysis identified significant correlations with craving in anterior orbitofrontal cortex (p<0.005), amygdala, striatum and middle insula (p<0.05). This suggests that methylphenidate's attenuation of brain reactivity to Cocaine-cues is distinct from that involved in craving. Cocaine-cues decreased metabolism in limbic regions (reflects activity over 30 minutes), which contrasts with activations reported by fMRI studies (reflects activity over 2-5 minutes) that may reflect long-lasting limbic inhibition following activation. Studies to evaluate the clinical significance of methylphenidate's blunting of cue-induced limbic inhibition may help identify potential benefits of this medication in cocaine addiction.
1. Twenty-four hours after lindane exposure (5-60 mg/kg) a dose-dependent increase in the serum and hepatic levels of the insecticide was observed. Both the basal rate of O2 consumption and the sinusoidal efflux of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) by the perfused rat liver was enhanced after the administration of 20-60 mg lindane/kg. 2. The administration of low doses of lindane (5-20 mg/kg) increased carbon uptake and the carbon-induced O2 consumption by the perfused liver, effects that were abolished by pretreatment with the Kupffer cell inactivator gadolinium chloride (GdCl3). These parameters were not modified at the higher doses of lindane used (40-60 mg/kg). 3. In the dose range of 20-60 mg lindane/kg, carbon infusion led to a further increase in liver LDH efflux over values found in its absence, an effect that was markedly diminished by GdCl3 in rat treated with 20 mg lindane/kg, being unaltered by GdCl3 in animals given 60 mg/kg. 4. It is concluded that lindane induces a dose-dependent biphasic effect on Kupffer cell function, which could be conditioned by differential membrane perturbation actions of the insecticide that progressively accumulates in the liver, thus altering receptor-mediated and enzymatic processes related to colloidal carbon phagocytosis. Increased Kupffer cell function at low doses of lindane leads to enhanced liver injury. However, this feature of lindane intoxication at higher doses (60 mg/kg) is independent of Kupffer cell activity and seems to be determined by an oxidative stress mechanism induced at the parenchymal cell level.
The long-term efficacy of adefovir dipivoxil in combination with lamivudine to chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is still unclear.
Virological response and hepatocarcinogenesis during lamivudine + adefovir were investigated in 183 lamivudine-resistant Japanese patients with chronic genotype C-dominant HBV infection. As the predictors of virological response, an assessment of clinical parameters and a nucleotide (nt) sequence analysis of the negative regulatory element to core gene (nt 1611-2450) were performed at the start of adefovir.
The cumulative HBV-DNA non-detectable and ALT normalization rates were 93.6 and 97.6% at the end of 3 years, respectively. Multivariate analysis identified total bilirubin, AST, and nt substitutions (nt 1762, 1768, 1846, 1896, 2134, 2288, 2441) as determinants of early non-detectable HBV-DNA. The yearly incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) during the first 3 years was 2.7%. At the diagnosis of HCC, ALT normalization, HBV-DNA non-detectable, and HBeAg-seronegative conversion rates were 75.0, 83.3, and 57.1%, respectively. Furthermore, the cumulative HBV-DNA non-detectable and ALT normalization rates were not significantly different according to the development of HCC or not.
Lamivudine-resistant patients treated with lamivudine + adefovir could achieve the excellent virological response and biochemical response, but the low hepatitis activity was not enough to suppress hepatocarcinogenesis.
