The backgrounds and behaviour of 40 prenatally cocaine exposed children referred to the child psychiatry program of an inner-city teaching hospital are explored. The population described is unique to the literature in these ways: (1) Most of the children were not detected as cocaine-exposed at birth, and were disclosed as cocaine-exposed by historical account. (2) Most of the children had lived within drug-dominated home environments for varying lengths of time. Findings indicated that the children receiving intervention early in life, whether detected as cocaine-exposed at birth or by historical account, fared much better socially and emotionally as measured by rate of abuse and severity of psychiatric symptoms. It is concluded that instances of prenatal cocaine exposure should be ascertained at the earliest possible point to intervene in potentially deleterious environmental outcome and associated psychiatric morbidity. Four illustrative cases are presented.
Prior reports show that nebulized lidocaine might be an effective treatment for asthma.
We sought to determine the anti-inflammatory and spasmolytic effects of lidocaine and its analogue, JMF2-1, which we have synthesized for reduced local anesthetic activity.
Blockade of Na(+) currents was assayed in cultured GH(3) cells by using the patch-clamp technique, whereas anesthesia was assessed in a cutaneous pinching test in rats. Lidocaine and its analogue were nebulized into sensitized rats for evaluation of their effectiveness on airways spasm and inflammation induced by methacholine and allergen, respectively. Tissue histamine release and tracheal spasm triggered by allergen challenge in the absence and presence of these treatments were also examined in vitro.
The 50% inhibitory concentration values for blockade of Na(+) currents after treatment with JMF2-1 (25.4 mM) was remarkably higher than that of lidocaine (0.18 mM), which is consistent with the weak anesthetic capacity of this analogue. In contrast, JMF2-1 was more potent than lidocaine in inhibiting allergen-induced histamine release and tracheal spasm. In in vivo settings methacholine-induced increase in lung resistance (145%) significantly reduced to 72% and 47% after lidocaine and JMF2-1 treatment, respectively. Both treatments inhibited by about 81% allergen-evoked eosinophil accumulation into the lung tissue.
Replacement of the 2,6-dimethyl radicals by the 2-trifluormethyl group on the benzene ring of lidocaine significantly reduces anesthetic activity, preserving its ability to prevent key aspects of the allergic inflammatory response in the lung.
Nebulized JMF2-1 might be a means of achieving the antiasthmatic effects of lidocaine without the anesthetic effects.
It has been accepted that neuroinflammation, oxidative stress and glial activation are involved in the central sensitization underlying neuropathic pain. Vimang is an aqueous extract of Mangifera indica L. traditionally used in Cuba for its analgesic, anti-inflammatory, antioxidant and immunomodulatory properties. Several formulations are available, and also for mangiferin, its major component. Preclinical studies demonstrated that these products prevented tumor necrosis factor α -induced IκB degradation and the binding of nuclear factor κB to DNA, which induces the transcription of genes implicated in the expression of some mediators and enzymes involved in inflammation, pain, oxidative stress and synaptic plasticity. In this paper we propose its potential utility in the neuropathic pain treatment. This hypothesis is supported in the cumulus of preclinical and clinical evidence around the extract and mangiferin, its major component, and speculates about the possible mechanism of action according to recent advances in the physiopathology of neuropathic pain.
Use of the antiepileptic drug vigabatrin is associated with an elevated risk of visual field loss.
To determine the frequency of, and risk factors for, vigabatrin-attributed visual field loss (VAVFL) in the setting of a large-scale, multinational, prospective, observational study.
A comparative, open-label, parallel-group, multicentre study.
Hospital outpatient clinics at 46 centres in five countries.
734 patients with refractory partial epilepsy, divided into three groups and stratified by age (8-12 years; >12 years) and exposure to vigabatrin. Group I comprised patients treated with vigabatrin for > or =6 months. Group II comprised patients previously treated with vigabatrin for > or =6 months who had withdrawn from the drug for > or =6 months. Group III comprised patients never treated with vigabatrin. Patients underwent perimetry at either 4- or 6-month intervals, for up to 36 months. Visual field outcome was evaluated masked to drug exposure.
Perimetry.
The visual field outcome at each of four analysis points: (i) at enrolment (i.e. baseline, all patients); (ii) for patients exhibiting a conclusive outcome at the initial visual field examination; (iii) for patients exhibiting at least one conclusive outcome to the visual field examinations; and (iv) at the last conclusive outcome to the visual field examinations.
Of the 734 patients, 524 yielded one or more conclusive visual field examinations. For Group I, the frequency of VAVFL at the last conclusive examination was 10/38 (26.3%) for those aged 8-12 years and 65/150 (43.3%) for those aged >12 years. For Group II, the respective frequencies were 7/47 (14.9%) and 37/151 (24.5%). One case resembling VAVFL was present amongst the 186 patients in Group III at the last conclusive examination. The frequency of VAVFL in Groups I and II combined was 20.0% for those aged 8-12 years and 33.9% for those aged >12 years. VAVFL was associated with duration of vigabatrin therapy (odds ratio [OR] up to 15.2; 95% CI 4.4, 51.7), mean daily dose of vigabatrin (OR up to 26.4; 95% CI 2.4, 291.7) and male gender (OR 2.51; 95% CI 1.5, 4.1). VAVFL was more frequently detected with static than with kinetic perimetry (OR up to 0.43; 95% CI 0.24, 0.75).
Since the probability of VAVFL is positively associated with treatment duration, careful assessment of the risk-benefit ratio of continuing treatment with vigabatrin is recommended in patients currently receiving this drug. All patients continuing to receive vigabatrin should undergo visual field examination at least every 6 months for the duration of treatment. We recommend two-level (three-zone), gradient-adapted, suprathreshold static perimetry of the peripheral field together with threshold perimetry of the central field out to 30 degrees from fixation. The frequency of ophthalmological and perimetric examinations should be increased in the presence of VAVFL.
Thirty-eight (51%) of 75 patients treated with CHOP for diffuse histiocytic lymphoma achieved complete remission. Twenty-three of the complete responders are currently alive in complete remission 24-78 months (median, 38 months) after discontinuing therapy. Eleven patients died from recurrent lymphoma and four patients died in complete remission from other causes. Evaluation of the 23 patients alive in complete remission found them mostly well and without serious sequelae to therapy. Comparison with 20 patients who were in the same age range, were disease free after surgery, and had no other therapy for colon cancer revealed only an increased frequency of sexual dysfunction in the chemotherapy-treated lymphoma patients. Sixty-one percent of patients who achieved complete remission with the CHOP regimen are long-term disease-free survivors and are generally well except for an apparently high frequency of sexual dysfunction.
Ha-ras activation in forestomach squamous cell carcinomas of CDF1 mice induced by 2-amino-3,4-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (MeIQ), one of the heterocyclic amines isolated from broiled sardine was analyzed. Mutations were detected in two of three primary original carcinomas and two of four cell lines derived from other independent carcinomas by the polymerase chain reaction followed by analysis of single strand conformation polymorphism and direct sequencing. All the mutations detected were G----T transversions at the second letter of codon 13 resulting in an amino acid change from Gly to Val. This finding together with the previous reports on squamous cell carcinomas of the rat Zymbal gland suggest that MeIQ induces a specific type of mutation at a specific site of the Ha-ras gene during squamous cell carcinogenesis, in a species-independent manner.
Teprotide, a nonapeptide isolated from the venom of a Brazilian pit viper, Bothrops jararaca, was the first angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor to be discovered and tested. It was found to be an effective, non-toxic antihypertensive agent as well as an afterload-reducing agent for patients with congestive heart failure (CHF). The primary activity of teprotide resulted from blockade of the angiotensin I converting enzyme--the pivotal step in the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS), and consequent reductions in angiotensin II levels. There was limited clinical testing for teprotide because of: its scarcity; the need for parenteral administration; and the subsequent discovery and synthesis of captopril, the first orally active angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor. Captopril is the prototype oral angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor and has been extensively studied since the initiation of formal studies in 1976. Perhaps one of the most closely researched drugs in modern times, the experience with captopril now includes more than 12,000 patients studied in formalized trials and over 4,000,000 patients treated world-wide by physicians for hypertension and congestive heart failure. Enalapril (MK421) is the first of what appears to be a growing number of analogues which are structurally and pharmacodynamically different from captopril; yet, they possess the same capacity for inhibiting the activity of angiotensin converting enzyme. The side effect profile of enalapril (and presumably future) angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors appears to be similar to captopril, though clearly more experience is needed with newer agents. The initial use of captopril was troubled by a relatively high incidence of side effects which will form the focus of this discussion. Partially the result of incomplete pharmacokinetic information, captopril was administered in early studies at dosages now recognised to be far in excess of those necessary for drug action. In addition, dosages were given without regard for deficiencies of renal function, now known to be the main excretory route of captopril. The population of those patients studied frequently had chronic, treatment-resistant hypertension, often associated with concomitant end-organ disease (especially renal disease); and many additional factors further complicating the clinical setting, e.g. a relatively high incidence of collagen vascular disease and immunosuppressive treatments.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Groups of 20-25 male Wistar rats (Cpb:WU), nine groups of 4-week-old rats, and nine groups of 8-week-old rats, were given cyproterone acetate (CA) s.c. or by gavage daily for 18 days at a dose of 50 mg/kg/day. Directly following CA treatment, the rats received 3 daily s.c. injections with testosterone propionate (TP) at a dose of 100 mg/kg/day. On the day after the last TP administration, a single dose of one of the following carcinogens was given to 3 groups: N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU), 50 mg/kg i.v.; 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene, 30 mg/kg i.v.; 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl, 250 mg/kg s.c. Three other groups received the same carcinogen treatments after 7 days of recovery from the CA administration. The last 3 groups received carcinogen without TP treatment, but immediately after CA pretreatment was stopped. A 25% incidence of invasively growing, metastasizing adenocarcinomas was found in the dorsolateral prostate region of 8-week-old rats that had received MNU after treatment with CA plus TP. In addition, this group had a 5% incidence of carcinoma in situ and a 5% incidence of atypical hyperplasia in the dorsolateral prostate. Lower incidences of adenocarcinoma of the dorsolateral prostate region and of carcinoma in situ and atypical hyperplasia of the dorsolateral prostate were found in other groups that were treated with MNU or 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene after pretreatment with CA, followed by TP or recovery, but never in rats that had been treated with CA only. In the groups treated with 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl, which is slowly metabolized, these lesions were also found in groups that were pretreated with only CA. The carcinomas seemed to originate from the dorsolateral prostate and their average latency time was approximately 61 weeks. The 8-week-old rat given a MNU injection after sequential treatment with CA and TP may provide a relevant animal model for human prostatic cancer.
The gross behavioural, electrocortical and neuropathological effects of kainate (10 mg/kg i.p,) and ouabain (1 micrograms, given into one dorsal hippocampus) were studied in rats. The effects of these treatments on nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity in homogenates of hippocampus and cortex were also studied. Administration of kainate or ouabain produced motor and electrocortical seizures similar for latency to onset (approximately 15 min) and intensity (in all instances 80-100% of the treated rats showed behavioural and electrographic seizures). These effects were accompanied at 24 h by severe damage to all subsectors of the hippocampal formation and this concerned a similar proportion of the treated rats (n = 4-8 per treatment). No significant changes in nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity were noted in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus of rats receiving injections of kainate and ouabain. In addition, pretreatment with N omega-Nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (300 micrograms, given into one lateral cerebral ventricle 15 min previously) was ineffective in preventing the effects of kainate and ouabain. In conclusion, present data suggest that excessive production of NO is not involved in the mechanisms triggering seizures and neurodegeneration produced by kainate or ouabain.
Exacerbation is a critical event in asthma management. We investigated whether exacerbation of symptoms is associated with farming exposures among agricultural pesticide applicators with asthma.
Participants were pesticide applicators with active asthma (wheezing and breathing problems in past 12 months) who completed enrollment questionnaires for the Agricultural Health Study (AHS). Exacerbation of asthma was defined as having visited a hospital emergency room or doctor for an episode of wheezing or whistling in the past 12 months. Exposures of interest were using 36 specific pesticides in the past 12 months and conducting various agricultural activities. Adjusted odds ratios (ORs) were estimated by logistic regression while controlling for potential confounders.
The 926 AHS adult pesticide applicators with active asthma included 202 (22%) with exacerbation. Inverse associations with exacerbation were observed for two herbicides [glyphosate, odds ratio (OR) = 0.5, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.3, 0.8, and paraquat, OR = 0.3, 95% CI 0.1, 0.9] and several agricultural activities (repairing engines, grinding metal, driving diesel tractors, and performing veterinary procedures). Only asthma cases with allergies (i.e., doctor-diagnosed hay fever or eczema, 46%) had positive exacerbation-pesticide associations, with OR = 2.1 (95% CI 1.1, 4.1) for the herbicide pendimethalin and OR = 10.2 (95% CI 1.9, 55) for the insecticide aldicarb.
The inverse associations with two pesticides and specific farm activities are consistent with the possibility that asthma cases prone to exacerbation may avoid exposures that trigger symptoms. Although limited by small sample size and a cross-sectional design, our study suggests that use of specific pesticides may contribute to exacerbation of asthma among individuals with allergies.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are enzymes involved in the degradation of the extracellular matrix. MMP-2 and MMP-9 have been implicated in a variety of pathological conditions including cardiovascular and neoplastic diseases, and recent studies have shown that circulating concentrations of MMP-9 may be a marker helping in the diagnosis and prognosis of cardiovascular and neoplastic diseases. We investigated whether there is an association between plasma MMP-2 and MMP-9 activities and the concentrations of lead in whole blood (blood Pb) or plasma (plasma Pb) from 40 lead-exposed persons (22 men and 18 women). Plasma Pb was determined by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) and blood Pb by graphite furnace atomic absorption spectrometry (GF-AAS). Plasma MMP-2 and MMP-9 activities were measured by gelatin zymography. We found a significant correlation between pro-MMP-9 activity in plasma and blood Pb (r=0.454; P=0.003), and between pro-MMP-9 activity in plasma and plasma Pb (r=0.312; P=0.049). No significant correlations were found between blood Pb or plasma Pb and plasma MMP-2. The association between pro-MMP-9 activity in plasma and both blood Pb and plasma Pb concentrations suggests a mechanism through which low lead exposure may increase the susceptibility to cardiovascular and neoplastic diseases. A causal relationship, however, remains to be proved.
Activation of the microvasculature is a major component of the inflammatory response. During inflammation the vascular endothelium not only becomes more permeable to plasma proteins but also develops adhesion molecules that initiate the local immigration of leukocytes. We describe herein the in vivo changes in the three major vascular adhesion molecules during the development and healing of two types of rabbit dermal inflammatory lesions: (1) acute lesions produced in rabbits by the topical application of 1% sulfur mustard (SM, the military irritant/toxicant); and (2) chronic (immune-mediated) lesions produced in rabbits by intradermal injections of Mycobacterium bovis (BCG), the vaccine strain of tubercle bacillus. In each case, frozen tissue sections were made from lesions of various ages and stained immunohistochemically for von Willebrand (vW) factor to measure the total functional microvasculature. The sections were also stained immunohistochemically for the vascular endothelial adhesion molecules ICAM-1, ELAM-1 (E-selectin), and VCAM-1, and for the leukocyte ligands for ICAM-1: LFA-1 (CD11a/CD18) and Mac-1 (CD11b/CD18). Infiltrating monocytes and lymphocytes expressed the LFA-1 ligand and infiltrating PMN expressed the MAC-1 ligand. The area of stained microvasculature per square millimeter of tissue section was determined with the use of a computerized image analyzer. Edema and cell infiltration spread apart the microvessels, changing the number of microvessels per square millimeter of tissue section. Three methods of assessing such changes are presented. In SM lesions, endothelial ICAM levels were decreased from normal by about 50% at 1 and 2 days (when the lesions reached their peak size) and returned to normal at 3 and 6 days (during the healing process). ELAM rose in peak SM lesions and remained high during healing. VCAM levels, however, were only elevated in the 6-day (almost healed) lesions. In BCG lesions the levels of endothelial ICAM and VCAM (and to a lesser extent ELAM) were increased at 9 days and remained so as the size of the lesions peaked at 23 days. During the healing phase at 37 days, the elevated ICAM and VCAM levels decreased but the slightly increased ELAM levels persisted. These findings indicate that ELAM plays a major role in acute inflammation and that VCAM and ICAM play major roles in chronic inflammation. VCAM is known to be monocyte and lymphocyte selective.
Tumorigenic effect in rat liver was increased when phenobarbital was given chronically after N-nitrosomorpholine. In these rats the liver parenchyma surrounding pre- and neo-plastic lesions demonstrated distinct, mainly centrilobular zones of hypertrophic hepatocytes with abundant eosinophilic, filamentous cytoplasm, increase in nucleic acids and decrease in DNase activity. These alterations might be considered as signs of tumor-promoting activity of phenobarbital.
The Inhibitors of Apoptosis (IAPs) are negative regulators of apoptosis and their overexpression renders cells resistant to a variety of apoptotic stimuli. We investigated the mRNA expression levels of IAPs in a panel of bladder tumour cells, selected as being sensitive or resistant to death receptor-mediated apoptosis.
The mRNA expression of IAPs was quantified in a RNase protection assay (RPA). Apoptosis was induced by recombinant killerTRAIL, agonistic anti-CD95 mAbs or doxorubicin and quantified by TUNEL and MTT assays. Stable expression of cIAP-2 was obtained by retroviral transduction.
The expression of cIAP-2 mRNA was highly correlated with resistance to TRAIL-mediated apoptosis. Overexpression of cIAP-2 conferred resistance to previously sensitive cell lines and made cells less susceptible to doxorubicin. Treatment with doxorubicin in combination with TRAIL or anti-CD95 resulted in a synergistic cytotoxic effect, which was not possible to reverse by overexpression of cIAP-2.
cIAP-2 is an important regulator of apoptosis in bladder cancer and its overexpression may make tumours less susceptible to therapy involving apoptosis. The combination of immunotherapy and chemotoxic agents may represent a valid strategy to potentiate anti-tumour therapy, in particular treating tumours resisting conventional chemotherapy.
In a multicentre study of zidovudine therapy in Australia commencing in June 1987, 308 homosexual or bisexual men with AIDS started on zidovudine by 30 June 1988. Using follow-up data collected through 31 December 1988, the outcome of the first 18 months of zidovudine therapy in these patients has been analysed in terms of efficacy, expressed as survival and as time to development of a new AIDS-defining condition, and in terms of safety, expressed as toxicity. Median survival from time of diagnosis of AIDS was 124 weeks, significantly longer (P less than 0.001, logrank statistic) than the median survival of 44 weeks in historical controls representing AIDS patients prior to the availability of zidovudine therapy. Median survival time from starting zidovudine has not been reached in these patients, while 172 (56%) developed new AIDS-defining conditions, with median time to progression of 48 weeks. Anaemia requiring transfusion was experienced by 155 patients (50%). Significant differences (P less than 0.01, logrank statistic) in survival were found in favour of patients who commenced zidovudine therapy (Dx-zidovudine time) within 12 weeks of diagnosis and had baseline Karnofsky scores greater than or equal to 80, haemoglobin greater than or equal to 11 g/dl, CD4+ cell counts greater than or equal to 50 x 10(6)/l. Therapy-related significant differences (P less than 0.01, logrank statistic) in survival were found in favour of patients with no weight loss and who received the full zidovudine dose (1.2g) during the first 52 weeks of therapy.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Ticlopidine and phenytoin are two drugs which are widely used in everyday clinical practice, the first as a platelet anti-aggregant and the second as an anti-epileptic agent. Their association is not uncommon, since there is a high incidence of epileptic crises of vascular origin in adults.
We present the case of a 77 year old man who had been treated for twenty years with phenytoin for partial crises secondary to a left frontal hematoma. He then followed treatment with ticlopidine for a femoropopliteal bypass, and the dose was later increased because of a vertebro-basilar ictus. On both occasions he presented with ataxia, dysarthria and nausea due to phenytoin intoxication. The blood levels of this drug were above the therapeutic level. The symptoms disappeared and the patient returned to normal after reduction of the dose of phenytoin and suspending treatment with ticlopidine.
The mechanism of action of ticlopidine at cytochrome P450 level, inhibiting the metabolic clearance of phenytoin, was responsible for this interaction. We have found only three other cases of interaction between these drugs in the literature, and ours is the first to be published in Spain.
We emphasize the importance of checking plasma phenytoin levels when starting treatment with ticlopidine, since it may be necessary to reduce the dose of phenytoin.
In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover trial, diltiazem and nifedipine were compared in 10 patients with stable angina pectoris and mild to moderate hypertension (supine diastolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 90 mm Hg). Patients received placebo for 2 weeks, then increasing doses of diltiazem (90 to 360 mg/day) or nifedipine (30 to 120 mg/day) in 3 daily divided doses over 2 weeks, followed by 1 week of therapy at the maximal dose, a 1-week placebo "washout," then crossover to the other drug. Heart rate and blood pressure at rest and during exercise, anginal frequency, nitroglycerin consumption and treadmill exercise tolerance were assessed. Compared with placebo, anginal frequency and nitroglycerin consumption were reduced with both diltiazem and nifedipine (p less than 0.01) and exercise tolerance was increased with both drugs (p less than 0.01). Standing blood pressure at rest was reduced by diltiazem and nifedipine (146.6 +/- 11.4/97.7 +/- 5.3 mm Hg at placebo, baseline reduced to 129.6 +/- 15.2/79.5 +/- 13.7 mm Hg with diltiazem, and to 122.2 +/- 9.9/82.0 +/- 7.1 with nifedipine, p less than 0.01 for both). Compared with placebo, diltiazem and nifedipine also reduced exercise diastolic blood pressure (p less than 0.01), but not systolic blood pressure. Diltiazem lowered the heart rate at rest from 88.5 +/- 14.4 beats/min at placebo baseline to 79.7 +/- 17.9 beats/min (p less than 0.01); the heart rate with diltiazem was 11 beats/min lower than that with nifedipine (p less than 0.05). Both diltiazem and nifedipine had similar effects on the heart rate-blood pressure product at rest and during exercise.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In chronic atrophic gastritis atrophy of the stomach glands leads to intrinsic factor deficit, with consequent failure to absorb vitamin B12 and gastric achylia, which predisposes to Giardia infection which in itself leads to depletion of vitamin B12. We describe the case of a patient with peripheral and central nervous system pathology due to lack of vitamin B12 secondary to the combined effect of these two disorders.
A 54 year old woman consulted us for paraesthesia and weakness of the legs which had been progressive for the previous two years. She presented with tactile hypoaesthesia, hypoparaesthesia, distal hyperreflexia and dysymmetry of the legs, ataxic-spastic gait and a positive Romberg sign. The investigations carried out showed the serum vitamin B12 level to be 3 pg/ml (N: 180-900), hemoglobin 13 g/dl and MCV 111 fl with MCHC 348/dl; neurophysiological studies: compatible with demyelinating motor polyneuropathy. Schilling test: deficit of absorption of vitamin B12 which was corrected on administration of intrinsic factor; gastroscopy; atrophic gastritis which confirmed the morbid anatomy findings. There was also flora containing Helicobacter and massive Giardia infection. Replacement and antibiotic therapy was followed by complete remission of the clinical picture.
We emphasize the excellent clinical response to treatment in spite of the time elapsed since onset of symptoms.
Increments in heart rate during the TNG test (sublingual nitroglycerin with assumption of upright posture), passive head-up tilt, and postrecumbency standing were compared to the effects of intravenous isoproterenol in 15 mild hypertensives during administration of placebo and two dosage levels of propranolol. TNG test results correlated with responsiveness to isoproterenol, but nitroglycerin tachycardia was reduced only about 50% during propranolol treatment. The TNG response was almost maximally inhibited by 160 mg/day of propranolol while the response to postrecumbency standing was inhibited only by a dose of 320 mg/day. The results indicate that: (1) the TNG test is of limited value in the assessment of beta adrenergic blockade in hypertensive patients, and (2) propranolol in a dose of 160 mg/day induces near-maximal cardiac blockade.
A 14-year-old girl with a unique type of progressive spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia, corneal clouding, and no evidence of neurological abnormality, was found to have a remarkable deficiency of acid beta-galactosidase activity in cultured skin fibroblasts and in leucocyte preparations. In fibroblasts, ganglioside GM1 beta-galactosidase activity averaged 7% of the normal mean while asialofetuin beta-galactosidase and 4-methylumbe lifery-beta-galactosidase averaged 1.4% and 3.5%, respectively. Activities for all three substrates in leucocytes from both her parents were close to 50% of the normal mean indicating that the patient is homozygous for a mutation (or mutations) affecting GM1 beta-galactosidase.
Ataxia, sedation, amnesia, ethanol and barbiturate potentiation, loss of efficacy (tolerance), development of dependence, and the potential for drug abuse limit the clinical use of benzodiazepines (BZDs) for long-term treatment of epilepsy or anxiety. BZD ligands that are in current use act as full allosteric modulators of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-gated chloride channels and, on long-term administration, trigger a functional uncoupling between the GABAA and BZD recognition sites. Partial allosteric modulators, which have a low intrinsic activity at the BZD recognition site of the GABAA receptor, might eventually overcome the limitations of full agonists such as diazepam (DZP).
In the present study, the new low-affinity partial BZD-receptor agonist ELB 138 [former name AWD 131-138; 1-(4-chlorophenyl)-4-morpholino-imidazolin-2-one] was evaluated in a dog seizure model and in epileptic dogs with spontaneously recurrent seizures.
ELB 138 was shown to increase potently the pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) seizure threshold in dogs. Prolonged oral administration with twice-daily dosing of ELB 138 with either 5 or 40 mg/kg over a 5-week period was not associated with loss of anticonvulsant efficacy in the PTZ dog model. To study whether physical dependence developed during long-term treatment, the BZD antagonist flumazenil was injected after 5 weeks of treatment with ELB 138. Compared with prolonged treatment with DZP, only relatively mild abstinence symptoms were precipitated in dogs treated with ELB 138, particularly at the lower dosage (5 mg/kg, b.i.d.). In a prospective trial in dogs with newly diagnosed epilepsy, ELB 138 markedly reduced seizure frequency and severity without significant difference to standard treatments (phenobarbital or primidone) but was much better tolerated than the standard drugs. In dogs with chronic epilepsy, most dogs exhibited a reduction in seizure frequency and severity during add-on treatment with ELB 138.
The data demonstrate that the partial BZD receptor agonist ELB 138 exerts significant anticonvulsant efficacy without tolerance in a dog seizure model as well as in epileptic dogs with spontaneously recurrent seizures. These data thus substantiate that partial agonism at the BZD site of GABAA receptors offers advantages versus full agonism and constitutes a valuable approach for treatment of seizures.
The effects of an oral dipyridamole suspension were studied in 400 consecutive patients to determine if certain subsets of patients were at greater risk of suffering major complications. Most patients (69%) experienced at least one side effect. Severe chest pain, severe hypotension, and severe dyspnea occurred in 9%, 2.5%, and 0.3% of patients respectively. Two patients were hospitalized for persistent chest pain but none suffered a myocardial infarction, malignant ventricular arrhythmia, or death. The test was found to be safe for patients over 70 yr old. Severe dyspnea was rare even among patients with lung disease who were withdrawn from theophylline prior to testing. Patients with three-vessel coronary artery disease were more likely to experience severe chest pain and those with significant left ventricular dysfunction were more likely to develop severe hypotension. In 99.5% of patients, side effects were promptly reversed by aminophylline. Dipyridamole-thallium imaging has an acceptable safety profile for a wide variety of patients, including those with severe coronary disease and/or left ventricular dysfunction.
Supplementary introduction of a phenobarbital (PB) promotion step after the Solt and Farber procedure dramatically increases the number of phenotypically-altered hepatocytes. These hepatocytes occupy approximately 40% of the liver volume after one week of PB treatment. These areas constitute a relatively uniform cellular population with altered histological phenotype and with distinct histochemical markers used by other authors for the detection of premalignancy. This procedure leads to the appearance of numerous hepatocellular carcinomas at approximately the 36 weeks stage. It was suggested that the early hepatocellular alterations after the initiation/selection procedure followed by PB might correspond to the hyperplasia of phenotypically-altered epidermal cells at the conversion step of mouse skin tumor promotion.
Despite possibility of idiosyncratic reaction development, felbamate (FBM) is recommended in Lennox-Gastaut syndrome and partial refractory epilepsy. The aim of this study was to evaluate the profile of interactions between FBM and four conventional antiepileptic drugs (AEDs): clonazepam (CZP), ethosuximide (ESM), phenobarbital (PB), and valproate (VPA), in pentylenetetrazole (PTZ)-induced convulsions in mice, a model of myoclonic seizures in humans.
Data obtained from PTZ-evoked seizures were compared by use of two basic procedures, the subthreshold method and isobolographic analysis. Results of the chimney test (evaluating motor coordination) also were elaborated isobolographically. Thus it was possible to determine both median toxic dose (TD50) and protective index (PI) for each drug combination.
FBM reduced the clonic seizure activity [with an ED50 of 9.7 mg/kg; TD50, 439.1 mg/kg; and PI, 45.3]. FBM at the dose of 10 mg/kg, but not 7.5 mg/kg, significantly reduced PTZ-induced convulsions in mice. In the subthreshold method, FBM (7.5 mg/kg) did not affect the protective activity of conventional AEDs used in the study. However, when applied at 10 mg/kg, it enhanced the protective activity of PB and ESM, but not that of VPA or CZP. The nature of these interactions could not be precisely estimated with this method. The exact profile of drug interactions was determined with the use of isobolography. In terms of seizure inhibition, antagonism was found between FBM and VPA applied at the fixed-dose ratio of 3:1. Synergy was detected between FBM and PB (1:3). Combinations of FBM with VPA (1:3, 1:1), PB (1:1, 3:1), and ESM or CZP (1:3, 1:1, 3:1) led to additive interactions. As regards motor impairment, the combinations of FBM with VPA (1:3) or CZP (1:1, 3:1) were synergistic. Remaining combinations exhibited pure additivity. Pharmacokinetic events may influence FBM/ESM and FBM/CZP interactions, because FBM lowered the brain concentration of ESM and increased that of CZP.
The profitable benefit index was found only for the combination of FBM with PB (1:3). Conversely, the combinations of FBM with either VPA (1:3) or CZP (1:1, 3:1) do not seem promising for the therapy of refractory myoclonic convulsions. Isobolographic analysis provides more reliable clues to be considered by the clinicians willing to introduce AED combinations for the therapy of epilepsy.
The bradycardia-inducing effects of clonidine were examined in anesthetized or spinal rats by injecting the drug intracisternally (i.c.) or intravenously (i.v.). Clonidine (1-25mug i.c.) caused a bradycardia dose-dependently in anesthetized rats. The bradycardia in response to clonidine (5mug i.c.) was significantly reduced after a treatment with phentolamine (100 mug i.c.), but not influenced with atropine (1 mg i.v.) or sectioning bilateral cervical vagal nerves. In spinal rats, an acceleration in heart rate by electrical stimulation of cervical sympathetic nerves was frequency-dependent and that due to desmethylimipramine (DMI) was dose-dependent. Clonidine (30 mug i.v.) significantly inhibited the acceleration induced by electrical stimulations only at a low frequency (0.3-3 Hz) or DMI (0.3 mg i.v.). This inhibition by clonidine was antagonized by phentolamine (5 mg i.v.). Clonidine (30 mug i.v.) did not significantly influence the acceleration in heart rate of spinal rats induced by norepinephrine (1 mug i.v.), tyramine (100 mug i.v.) or 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazinium (DMPP, 50 mug i.v.). Therefore, it is suggested that clonidine causes a bradycardia by stimulating both peripheral and central alpha-adrenoceptors, the sympathetic trunk is the main pathway, and that the peripheral mechanism for clonidine-induced bradycardia is different from the action of guanethidine or hexamethonium on a release of catecholamines from the cardiac nerve terminals.
