Renal tight junctions (TJ) play a central role in modulating the paracellular pathway. We examined the function, quantity and distribution of TJ proteins: occludin and claudin-2 (cln-2), on proximal tubule in a model of acute renal failure (ARF) associated with oxidative damage. Since ERK1/2-p modulates TJ integrity, we studied their participation in dichromate (Cr(6+)) toxicity. We evaluated whether co-administration of the antioxidant alpha-tocopherol (alpha-TOC) prevents Cr(6+) toxicity in TJ. Female Wistar rats received potassium dichromate 15 mg/kg, s.c. (5.3 mg/kg of Cr(6+)) single dose, with or without alpha-TOC (125 mg/kg, p.o., daily). Two and 7 days after Cr(6+) treatment, oxidative damage was assessed by renal lipid peroxidation (LPO), proximal function was estimated by sodium and glucose fractional excretions. Occludin, cln-2, and ERK1/2-p were detected by immunofluorescence and Western blot. ARF induced by Cr(6+) provoked augment in the sodium and glucose urinary looses, increases in occludin quantity (6.6- and 15-fold on days 2 and 7, respectively) and the mislocation of cln-2. Electrophoresis migration showed a higher molecular weight band only in the Cr(6+)-administered groups, suggesting occludin hyperphosphorylation. Alpha-TOC treatment diminished the LPO, improved tubular function, and preserved TJ location and expression. In summary, we show disruption of occludin and cln-2 in ARF induced by Cr(6+)-intoxication. This study provides evidence of the beneficial effect of alpha-TOC on TJ structure and function undergoing oxidative damage, and we suggest the participation of ERK1/2 in the mechanisms leading to protection by the antioxidant.
Genetic factors have been implicated in the pathophysiology of the movement disorder tardive dyskinesia, which may involve dopamine-serotonin interaction. Case-control association studies have identified the T102C polymorphism of the 5-HT2A receptor gene as being associated with schizophrenia and responsiveness to clozapine. In this study, we examine the association of this polymorphism in the 5-HT2A receptor gene as a risk factor for developing schizophrenia and tardive dyskinesia from prolonged treatment with neuroleptics.
Ninety-seven healthy control subjects with no history of mental illness and 221 schizophrenic patients (87 with tardive dyskinesia, 134 without) were genotyped by PCR-RFLP.
Comparison between cases and control subjects revealed no significant association between the C allele and schizophrenia. There was significant difference in allele frequency (p = .044, OR = 1.54 95% CI = 1.02-2.33) between patients who developed tardive dyskinesia and those who did not. Significant difference remains even after adjusting for age and neuroleptic dosage (p = .041) with the odds ratio at 1.64 (95% CI = 1.02-2.62).
A genetic variant of the 5-HT2A receptor may be associated with neuroleptic-induced tardive dyskinesia in schizophrenia. Further studies are needed to replicate the finding. The role of 5-HT2A receptor in the etiology of tardive dyskinesia or treatment-resistant schizophrenia should be further investigated.
Oxidative stress induced lipid peroxidation has been a significant contributing factor for schizophrenia. Older antipsychotics, like haloperidol , were found to increase lipid peroxidation, whereas, the newer atypical antipsychotics, like olanzapine, did not generate free radicals as metabolic end products.
The interrelationship of the antioxidant vitamins and antioxidant enzymes, and their overall effect on regulation of oxidative stress induced by haloperidol as compared to olanzapine were analyzed in present study.
It was an open randomized cross sectional study that consisted of two groups of fifty schizophrenic patients treated by haloperidol and olanzapine, respectively for at least six months.
Serum thiobarbituric acid reacting substances (TBARS) was selected as marker of lipid peroxidation, whereas, serum tocopherols, plasma ascorbate and plasma superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity, were selected to assess the antioxidant vitamin and antioxidant enzyme status, respectively. All measurements were done by standard photometric methods.
Statistical analysis was performed to find out the significance for the differences of means between two groups. Bivariate and partial correlation coefficients for assessing the interrelationship between different parameters were done by using statistical package for social sciences (SPSS) software.
Results showed significantly higher serum TBARS and lower antioxidant values in the haloperidol treated patients. Significant positive correlations among the individual antioxidant parameters and significant negative correlation between all of the antioxidant parameters and serum TBARS were found only in haloperidol treated patients. Plasma SOD activity correlated to plasma ascorbate in both groups. Partial correlation results revealed that the serum tocopherol decreased linearly with an increase in serum TBARS significantly in olanzapine treated patients when effect of plasma ascorbate was controlled.
Haloperidol caused more oxidative stress along with a significant reduction of important antioxidant parameters. Plasma ascorbate was found to be the chief antioxidant on which the activity of both plasma SOD and alpha tocopherol were dependent under oxidative stressful conditions.
ICR mice were injected with ketamine for 1, 3 and 6 months and the kidneys and urinary bladders were excised and processed for histology. Starting from 1 month, all addicted mice showed invasion of mononuclear white cells, either surrounding the glomerulus or the other tubules in the kidney. The aggregation of these cells extended all the way to the pelvis and ureter. As well, in the urinary bladder, the epithelium became thin and there was submucosal infiltration of mononuclear inflammatory cells. Silver staining revealed a loss of nerve fibers amongst the muscles of the urinary bladder of the treated. Immunohistochemistry on choline acetyltransferase which is a marker for cholinergic neurons also demonstrated a decrease of those cells. We hypothesized that prolonged ketamine addiction resulted in the animals prone to urinary infection.
A grand mal convulsion occurred in a patient with decompensated cor pulmonale. Although only modest doses of oral theophylline were being administered at the time of the convulsion the serum theophylline level was markedly raised and the theophylline clearance was very low. After treatment for cor pulmonale theophylline clearance improved; however, with the subsequent onset of fever and pneumonia the clearance decreased again, illustrating the potential lability of theophylline clearance.
ACE inhibitors are group of drugs whose use over the last ten years has largely expanded. New members of this group of drugs are developed and registered and today in Croatia exist a dozen ACE inhibitors from different pharmaceutical companies like lisinopril, cilazapril, ramipril, trandolapril, enalapril etc. Notable side effects of ACE inhibitors are: hypotension, dry cough, rash, angioneurotical edema, impaired renal function and acute renal failure. The aim of the article was to present a 72 year old patient with reversible impairment of renal function during treatment with ACE inhibitor lisinopril.
To examine the literature pertaining to the cardiovascular effects of methamphetamine and discuss the implications for methamphetamine users.
Relevant literature was identified through comprehensive MEDLINE and EMBASE searches.
There is sufficient clinical and experimental evidence to suggest that methamphetamine can have adverse and potentially fatal effects on the cardiovascular system. The existing literature suggests that: (1) methamphetamine users are at elevated risk of cardiac pathology; (2) risk is not likely to be limited to the duration of their methamphetamine use, because of the chronic pathology associated with methamphetamine use; (3) the risk of cardiac pathology is greatest among chronic methamphetamine users; (4) pre-existing cardiac pathology, due to methamphetamine use or other factors, increases the risk of an acute cardiac event; and (5) methamphetamine use is likely to exacerbate the risk of cardiac pathology from other causes, and may therefore lead to premature mortality.
We present 3 patients who had episodes of orofacial pain compatible with cluster headache, the differential diagnosis being established with pulp pain of dental origin. Cocaine inhalation triggered pain in the premolar zone of the upper jaw, followed by spread of pain to the periorbital region on the same side. The pain episodes were very intense and lasted between 30 and 120 minutes. The patients presented conjunctival injection and lacrimation of the affected eye during these episodes. The crises were always unilateral. In one patient, pain shifted sides from one crisis to another within the same symptomatic or cluster period, affecting the side through which the drug was inhaled. Pain usually appeared 1 to 2 hours after cocaine consumption, though it disappeared 5 to 10 minutes after again inhaling the drug. None of our patients acknowledged cocaine consumption at the first visit; drug inhalation was only admitted at subsequent visits, once a degree of confidence had been established with the physician.
We studied the use of aminoglycosides at King Abdulaziz University Hospital (KAUH), Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, including prescriptions, dosage, serum levels, toxic factors and treatment outcome. Two hundred and fifty-six patients on aminoglycosides were involved in the study period November-December 1994: 24 (9.4%) patients were on amikacin and 232 (90.6%) patients were on gentamicin. The serum concentration was below the therapeutic range in 75% of the patients on amikacin and 50% on gentamicin. Serum concentrations within the therapeutic range (> 20 micrograms/ml; < 35 micrograms/ml for amikacin, and > 6 micrograms/ml and < 10 micrograms/ml for gentamicin) were achieved in 4% and 44% of patients respectively. The dosage was adjusted during therapy for 57% of the patients because of low levels, and for 43% of the patients because of toxic levels. More than 30% of the patients had their serum monitored for the first time 3 days after starting aminoglycoside therapy. Aminoglycosides were discontinued before the end of the course in 157 (62%) patients because 24% of them had developed toxic levels and 24% had not responded to the treatment. Successful outcome was achieved in 170 (66%) of the patients, however, 50% of them had inappropriate serum levels. The risk factors that are significantly associated with aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity were duration of therapy (P = 0.008), renal, liver diseases and ampicillin given concurrently with the aminoglycosides (P = < 0.05).
The authors report toxicity caused by valacyclovir in a patient on hemodialysis. After initial recuperation resulting from treatment with hemodialysis, the patient experienced a relapse of neurologic symptoms, again necessitating hemodialysis. Although acyclovir and its analogues are generally safe drugs, they should be used with caution in patients with end-stage renal disease. Therapeutic drug monitoring may be indicated.
Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) is an aggressive B-cell lymphoma with poor clinical outcome. Although front therapy induces a high rate of complete remission (CR), relapse is inevitable and new regimens are much needed for relapsed MCL. The proteasome inhibitor bortezomib (BTZ) induces apoptosis and sensitizes MCL cells to chemotherapy in relapsed MCL, but CR rates are low, with a short duration of response and severe toxicity. Here we evaluated whether BTZ is additive or synergistic with cyclophosphamide (CTX) and rituximab (RTX). Increasing doses of BTZ with a fixed dose of RTX and CTX (BRC regimen) resulted in markedly synergistic growth inhibition of MCL cells. BRC significantly enhanced apoptosis in MCL cell lines and primary tumor cells compared with single-agent treatment. Furthermore, western blotting analysis indicated that BRC induces apoptosis earlier via activation and cleavage of caspases-8, -9 and -3, and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase, than single-agent treatment. The pan-caspase inhibitor completely blocked apoptosis induced by BRC. In vivo studies showed that BRC eradicated subcutaneous tumors in MCL-bearing SCID mice and significantly prolonged the long-term event-free survival in 70% of the mice. Hence, our study demonstrates that cytoreductive chemotherapy with both BTZ and anti-CD20 antibody may offer a better therapeutic modality for relapsed MCL.
epsilon-Aminocaproic acid (EACA) is an antifibrinolytic agent used to prevent rebleeding in aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Although studies have found that a decrease in rebleeding with long-term antifibrinolytic therapy is offset by an increase in ischemic deficits, more recent studies have indicated that early, short-term therapy may be beneficial.
We instituted a protocol for acute EACA administration starting at diagnosis and continued for a maximum duration of 72 hours after subarachnoid hemorrhage onset. We compared 73 patients treated with EACA with 175 non-EACA-treated patients. We sought to identify differences in the occurrence of rebleeding, side effects, and outcome.
Baseline characteristics were similar in the 2 groups. There was a significant decrease in rebleeding in EACA-treated patients (2.7%) versus non-EACA patients (11.4%). There was no difference in ischemic complications between cohorts. There was a significant 8-fold increase in deep venous thrombosis in the EACA group but no increase in pulmonary embolism. There was a nonsignificant 76% reduction in mortality attributable to rebleeding, a 13.3% increase in favorable outcome in good-grade EACA-treated patients, and a 6.8% increase in poor-grade patients.
When used acutely, short-term EACA treatment resulted in decreased rebleeding without an increase in serious side effects in our selected group of patients. Randomized placebo-controlled trials are needed to determine whether acute antifibrinolytic therapy should be accepted as the standard of care in all patients.
Thirty untreated patients, median age 69 years (range 60 - 75 years), with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (B-DLCL) were treated with a pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (PL-doxorubicin) modified CHOP-rituximab regimen. PL-doxorubicin 30 mg/m2, was given in combination with standard dosage of prednisone, vincristine, cyclophosphamide, rituximab (according to CHOP-R regimen) every 21 days for six courses. Cardiac toxicity was evaluated by mean of echocardiography for left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) evaluations and serum troponin-I levels. Overall response and complete response rates were 76% and 59%. Projected two year event free survival and overall survival are 65.5% and 68.5%. No treatment-related mortality was documented. WHO grade III-IV neutropenia and thrombocytopenia were 86% and 3%. Extra-hematological III-IV toxicity was represented, respectively, by a single case of infection, mucositis, and bleeding. LVEF evaluations and the troponin levels did not show significant changes over the course of the treatment. One patient with a previous history of atrial fibrillation experienced a single episode of arrhythmia. None of the patients developed palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia. This regimen appears an active regimen for the treatment of elderly patients with B-DLCL. The replacement of conventional doxorubicin with PL-doxorubicin seems to be associated with a negligible incidence of extra-hematological toxicity, in particular cardiac and infectious complications.
To observe the clinical effects of Jianwei Yuyang Granule (JYG) in treating patients with gastric ulcer and its influence on interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) mRNA expression in gastric mucosa for exploring the therapeutic mechanism.
Fifty-six patients with confirmed gastric ulcer unader gastroscope and differentiated as Gan-stagnant Pi-deficient syndrome were randomly assigned to two groups, the treated group (26 cases) treated with JYG and the control group (30 cases) treated with famotidine and sucralfate, 4 weeks as one therapeutic course. The changes before and after treatment in clinical compliance, symptom integral, ulcer-healing rate, clinical effective rate, and HP-clearance rate were observed. And the gastric mucosa biopsy was fetched for morphological examination and IL-1beta and bFGF mRNA expression detection by RT-PCR as well.
The clinical compliance rate in the treated group was 100 %, which was obviously better than that in the control group (86.7 %, P< 0.01); the improvement on symptom integral in the former was also better (P < 0.01); no statistical significance was shown in ulcer-healing rate, clinical effective rate and HP-clearance rate between the two groups. Morphological observation showed markedly decreased inflammatory cell infiltration, epithelial cell regeneration and rather regular glandular arrangement in both groups. The IL-1beta mRNA expression level decreased and that of bFGF increased in both groups after treatment significantly ( P < 0.01), but showed insignificant difference between the two groups.
JYG, with its good clinical compliance, has favorable effects in relieving clinical symptoms, promoting endoscopic ulcer healing and HP clearance, decreasing the expression of IL-1beta mRNA and increasing the expression of bFGF, therefore, it could promote the recovering of gastric ulcer.
We report a case of aseptic meningitis thought to be associated with chronic sulindac use in a patient with osteoarthritis. The patient was hospitalized with an acute onset of headache, nuchal rigidity, nausea, and blurred vision. Brain imaging was unremarkable and a lumbar puncture revealed a lymphocytic pleocytosis. No infectious source was identified. The patient reported taking sulindac over the past year, it was discontinued, and symptoms promptly resolved. This case underscores the importance of obtaining a thorough drug history in conjunction with the knowledge of causative medications associated with aseptic meningitis. Given the widespread use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, clinicians must recognize that aseptic meningitis is a possible adverse effect of these medications.
To investigate the apoptosis in esophageal cancer cells induced by resveratrol, and the relation between this apoptosis and expression of Bcl-2 and Bax.
In in vitro experiments, MTT assay was used to determine the cell growth inhibitory rate. Transmission electron microscope and TUNEL staining method were used to quantitatively and qualitively detect the apoptosis status of esophageal cancer cell line EC-9706 before and after the resveratrol treatment. Immunohistochemical staining was used to detect the expression of apoptosis-regulated gene Bcl-2 and Bax.
Resveratrol inhibited the growth of esophageal cancer cell line EC-9706 in a dose-and time-dependent manner. Resveratrol induced EC-9706 cells to undergo apoptosis with typically apoptotic characteristics, including morphological changes of chromatin condensation, chromatin crescent formation, nucleus fragmentation and apoptotic body formation. TUNEL assay showed that after the treatment of EC-9706 cells with resveratrol (10 mmol/L) for 24 to 96 hours, the AIs were apparently increased with treated time (P<0.05). Immunohistochemical staining showed that after the treatment of EC-9706 cells with resveratrol (10 mmol/L) for 24 to 96 hours, the PRs of Bcl-2 proteins were apparently reduced with treated time (P<0.05) and the PRs of Bax proteins were apparently increased with treated time (P<0.05).
Resveratrol is able to induce the apoptosis in esophageal cancer. This apoptosis may be mediated by down-regulating the apoptosis-regulated gene Bcl-2 and up-regulating the expression of apoptosis-regulated gene bax.
We examined the association between amphetamine use and HIV incidence for 2991 men who have sex with men (MSM) who tested anonymously for HIV in San Francisco. HIV incidence among 290 amphetamine users was 6.3% per year (95% CI 1.9-10.6%), compared with 2.1% per year (95% CI 1.3-2.9%) among 2701 non-users (RR 3.0, 95% CI 1.4-6.5). HIV prevention programmes in San Francisco should include efforts to reduce amphetamine use and associated high-risk sexual behaviors.
Tumor infiltration by lymphocytes is essential for cell-mediated immune elimination of tumors in experimental systems and in immunotherapy of cancer. Presence of lymphocytes in several human cancers has been associated with a better prognosis. We present evidence that individual propensity to tumor infiltration is genetically controlled. Infiltrating lymphocytes are present in 50% of lung tumors in O20/A mice, but in only 10% of lung tumors in OcB-9/Dem mice. This difference has been consistent in experiments conducted over 8 years in two different animal facilities. To test whether this strain difference is controlled genetically, we analyzed the presence of infiltrating lymphocytes in N-ethyl-N-nitroso-urea (ENU) induced lung tumors in (O20 x OcB-9) F(2) hybrids. We mapped four genetic loci, Lynf1 (Lymphocyte infiltration 1), Lynf2, Lynf3, and Lynf4 that significantly modify the presence and intensity of intra-tumoral infiltrates containing CD4(+) and CD8(+) T lymphocytes. These loci appear to be distinct from the genes encoding the molecules that are presently implicated in lymphocyte infiltration. Our findings open a novel approach for the assessment of individual propensity for tumor infiltration by genotyping the genes of the host that influence this process using DNA from any normal tissue. Such prediction of probability of tumor infiltration in individual cancer patients could help considerably to assess their prognosis and to decide about the application and the type of immunotherapy.
We describe 53 patients with primary gastric non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (38 stage IE,15 stage IIE) treated with surgery as a primary procedure. According to the Working Formulation, 13 cases had low, 21 had intermediate and 19 had high grade malignancy. 34 patients considered at high risk received postoperative polychemotherapy. The overall 10-year disease-related survival is 91%. Median follow-up is 52 months. 7 patients relapsed (13%). The 10-year disease-free survival rate of the 19 patients initially treated with surgery is 60%, as compared with 92% in the patients who also received chemotherapy (P = 0.004). However, overall survival did not differ between the two groups, since two-thirds of the patients who relapsed after surgery alone were rescued with chemotherapy. Stage, age, sex and histology did not correlate with survival. In our experience, surgery was an adequate first step procedure; the addition of chemotherapy significantly reduced relapses and increased the disease-free survival rate in patients with unfavourable prognostic factors.
The flame retardant tris(2,3-dibromopropyl)phosphate (TDBP), once used in cotton sleep wear for children, is presently banned from commerce. It produces tumors in rodents in both a sex- and tissue-specific manner. The kidney is the main target for tumor formation in male and female rats, as well as in male mice. In contrast, tumors are formed in the liver of female animals. We have used lacI transgenic male B6C3F1 mice (Big Blue) to examine the induction of mutation in kidney, liver, and stomach after exposure to 150 mg/kg (2 days), 300 mg/kg (4 days), and 600 mg/kg (4 days) of TDBP. At the highest dose, the mutant frequency was approximately 50% above control values in the kidney (P < 0.01). A smaller increase was observed in the liver (P = 0.07), while no increase was seen in the stomach (P = 0.28). Sequence analysis of the recovered mutants showed a TDBP-specific change in mutation spectrum in kidney, which was not observed in liver and stomach. In kidney, a dose-dependent decrease in G:C-->A:T transitions, including at 5'-CpG-3' sites, was observed. This was accompanied by an increase in the loss of single G:C base pairs from approximately 3% to 15%. These results illustrate both the sensitivity and specificity of the lacI transgenic system in the analysis of tissue-specific mutation. This study also reinforces the importance of examining mutational spectra when mutant induction levels are low.
Resveratrol is a natural polyphenol enriched in Polygonum cuspidatum and has diverse biological activities. There is only limited information about the antidepressant-like effect of resveratrol. The present study assessed whether resveratrol treatment (20, 40 and 80mg/kg, i.p., 21days) has an antidepressant-like effect on the forced swim test (FST) and tail suspension test (TST) in mice and examined what its molecular targets might be. The results showed that resveratrol administration produced antidepressant-like effects in mice, evidenced by the reduced immobility time in the FST and TST, while it had no effect on the locomotor activity in the open field test. Resveratrol treatment significantly reduced serum corticosterone levels, which had been elevated by the FST and TST. Moreover, resveratrol increased brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) protein and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) phosphorylation levels in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus. All of these antidepressant-like effects of resveratrol were essentially similar to those observed with the clinical antidepressant, fluoxetine. These results suggest that the antidepressant-like effects of resveratrol in the FST and TST are mediated, at least in part, by modulating hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, BDNF and ERK phosphorylation expression in the brain region of mice.
To compare fotemustine and dacarbazine (DTIC) in terms of overall response rate (ORR) as primary end-point and overall survival, duration of responses, time to progression, time to occurrence of brain metastases (BM), and to assess safety and quality of life in patients with disseminated cutaneous melanoma.
Patients received either intravenous fotemustine 100 mg/m2 weekly for 3 weeks or DTIC 250 mg/m2/d for 5 consecutive days every 4 weeks (two cycles). Nonprogressive patients received a maintenance treatment every 4 weeks (fotemustine 100 mg/m2 or DTIC 250 mg/m2 for 5 days).
Two hundred twenty-nine patients were randomly assigned to fotemustine or DTIC arms. The best ORR was higher in the fotemustine arm than in the DTIC arm in the intent-to-treat population (n=229; 15.2% v 6.8%; P=.043) and in full analysis set (n=221) (15.5% v 7.2%; P=.053). Similar median durations of responses (5.8 months with fotemustine v 6.9 months with DTIC) and time to progression (1.8 v 1.9 months, respectively) were observed. In patients without BM at inclusion, the median time to BM was 22.7 months with fotemustine versus 7.2 months with DTIC (P=.059). Median survival was 7.3 months with fotemustine versus 5.6 months with DTIC (P=.067). The main toxicity was grade 3 to 4 neutropenia (51% with fotemustine v 5% with DTIC) and thrombocytopenia (43% v 6%, respectively). No significant difference was noted for quality of life between arms.
ORR was higher in the fotemustine arm compared to the DTIC arm in first-line treatment of disseminated melanoma. A trend in favor of fotemustine in terms of overall survival and time to BM was evidenced.
The purpose of this study was to compare surgical conditions, including the amount of intraoperative bleeding as well as intraoperative blood pressure, during functional endoscopic sinus surgery (FESS) using flexible reinforced laryngeal mask airway (FRLMA) versus endotracheal tube (ETT) in maintaining controlled hypotension anesthesia induced by propofol-remifentanil total i.v. anesthesia (TIVA).
Sixty normotensive American Society of Anesthesiologists I-II adult patients undergoing FESS under controlled hypotension anesthesia caused by propofol-remifentanil-TIVA were randomly assigned into two groups: group I, FRLMA; group II, ETT. Hemorrhage was measured and the visibility of the operative field was evaluated according to a six-point scale.
Controlled hypotension was achieved within a shorter period using laryngeal mask using lower rates of remifentanil infusion and lower total dose of remifentanil.
In summary, our results indicate that airway management using FRLMA during controlled hypotension anesthesia provided better surgical conditions in terms of quality of operative field and blood loss and allowed for convenient induced hypotension with low doses of remifentanil during TIVA in patients undergoing FESS.
To investigate the effect of Tiangui Gengnian soft capsule (TGC), which mainly consists of seabuckthorn fatty acid, on serum estrogen and estrogen receptor (ER) in multiple target tissues as uterus, liver and bone, in aged female rats, in order to explore its mechanism from the aspects of receptor and cytokines.
Low (0.72 g/kg), middle (1.80 g/kg) and high (4.50 g/kg) dose of TGC were administered by gastrogavage to young and aged (22 months old) female rats with osteoporosis for 45 days, and diethylstilbestrol (0.02 mg/kg) was used as a positive control. The levels of serum estradiol (E2), transforming growth factor beta1 (TGF-beta1), insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) were measured by radioimmunoassay and ELISA method, the protein expression of their receptor in bone, uterus and liver was detected by SABC immunohistochemistry, and the mRNA expression of E2 in uterus and liver detected by in situ hybridization with digoxin probe.
Intervention of TGC could cause increase of serum E2, IGF-1 and TGF-beta1 levels, the TGF-beta1 reached 90.63 +/- 18.71 pg/L in the group administered with high dose, which was significantly different to that in the aged group (P < 0.01). There was no obvious effect of the mRNA expression of E2 in uterus and liver, and no effect of TGF-beta1 and IGF-1 in liver in rats.
TGC could improve the postmenopausal bone metabolism, alleviate and correct the bone loss, it is possibly realized by way of side-secreting/auto-secreting of E2 receptor and cytokines (TGF-beta1 and IGF-1) to improve the osteogenesis and inhibit the destruction of bone.
The therapeutic effects and metabolism of mesalazine (5-aminosalicylic acid) in patients with inflammatory bowel disease require intracellular accumulation of the drug in intestinal epithelial cells and hepatocytes. The molecular mechanisms of mesalazine uptake into cells have not been characterized so far. Using human embryonic kidney cells stably expressing uptake transporters of the organic anion-transporting polypeptide (OATP) family, which are expressed in human intestine and/or liver, we found that mesalazine uptake is mediated by OATP1B1, OATP1B3, and OATP2B1 but not by OATP1A2 and OATP4A1. Moreover, genetic variations (*1b, *5, *15) in the SLCO1B1 gene encoding OATP1B1 reduced the K(m) value for mesalazine uptake from 55.1 to 16.3, 24.3, and 32.4 μM, respectively, and the respective V(max) values. Finally, budesonide, cyclosporine, and rifampin were identified as inhibitors of OATP1B1-, OATP1B3-, and OATP2B1-meditated mesalazine uptake. These in vitro data indicate that OATP-mediated uptake and its modification by genetic factors and comedications may play a role for mesalazine effects.
This article describes the implementation of a simple method of drug surveillance set up at a hospital emergency ward. From a total of 48,678 patients admitted, the medical records of those presenting with one or more of a pre-established list of admission diagnoses (n = 7728; 15.8%) were checked. Of these 554 (1.1%) were diagnosed as experiencing an adverse drug reaction. When the medical record suggested an adverse drug reaction, drugs taken before admission were ascertained by interviewing the patients with a structured questionnaire. After excluding upper gastrointestinal bleeding (226 cases) and certain bone marrow blood dyscrasias (42 cases), 286 patients with drug-induced events leading to hospital admission were identified in 2 years. Fatal adverse drug reactions, previously undescribed reactions, and some specific examples, such as digoxin-amiodarone interaction, drug-induced pancreatitis, nicardipine-induced AV block, severe skin reactions, and NSAID-induced bronchospasm, are described. Basically, this method consists of assembling series of cases systematically, and is therefore devoid of selective bias. In addition, it allows a more in-depth clinical and anamnesic study of specific diseases, as compared with voluntary reporting.
Ageing of the skin is of growing concern. People living in the Far East are exposed to bright sunlight all year round so photoageing of exposed skin is inevitable. Visible signs of photoageing include hyperpigmentation, which is an early and prominent feature. In contrast, wrinkling and coarseness are late and inconspicuous features. Tretinoin has been shown to be effective in the improvement of these visible signs. The adverse effects of tretinoin present in the early phase of treatment: with adequate counselling from the dermatologist, and patience and preseverence on the part of the patient, these effects are only temporary and disappear with prolonged treatment. It seems that the longer the treatment and the stronger the concentration of tretinoin, the better the result.
Mangiferin is a polyphenol compound obtained from mango and has been reported to possess antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties.
We propose to evaluate the influence of mangiferin in preventing and treating experimental periodontitis induced in Wistar rats.
Periodontitis was induced in rats by applying a ligature around the lower right first molar. After ligature, groups of animals were submitted orally to the following treatments: saline 10 mL/kg, piroxicam 20 mg/kg or mangiferin 100 mg/kg. On days 1, 4 or 7 after ligature application the alveolar bone loss (ABL) was determined. We evaluated the effect of mangiferin on ABL by histological techniques (alveolar bone loss and cellularity), enzyme immunoassay (lipoxin A(4)), intravital microscopy (rolling leukocytes and endothelial-leukocyte adhesion), zymographic analyses (metalloproteinases, MMPs 2 and 9), immunohistochemistry (PCNA, COX-2 and CXCR4) and toxicology.
Oral administration of mangiferin significantly reduced ABL. We also observed the reduction of cellularity in mangiferin-treated rats. Treatment with mangiferin inhibited COX-2 expression and the rolling and adhesion of leukocytes, while maintaining normal lipoxin A(4) levels. The mangiferin did not interfere in the activity of MMP-2 or -9. The mangiferin-treated rats presented an earlier peak of cell proliferation and augmented angiogenesis in the injured region.
Our results have demonstrated promising therapeutic potential of mangiferin both in the prevention and treatment of periodontitis.
The side effects of the anti-cancer drug carboplatin on the cochlea in 65 patients with head and neck cancer were examined in the present study. A possible dependence of ototoxicity on the patient's age, the effect of pre-existing audiometric changes and the carboplatin dose were investigated. A therapy-induced sensory hearing loss was found in 32% of the patients. The average hearing loss was 15 dB and primarily involved the frequency ranges from 4 to 8 kHz. The degree of the hearing defects incurred was not influenced by the patient's age or pre-existing hearing defects but depended on the carboplatin dose used. The severity of carboplatin cochlear ototoxicity was moderate, so that no patient suffered a lack of hearing that was of social significance.
