The case of a 42-year-old man is reported, who on four occasions developed a hypokalaemic periodic paralysis after an intramuscular injection of "Ambene". The detailed examination of this patient shows, that it is the primary, autosomal dominant inherited form of hypokalaemic periodic paralysis, and not the secondary form, which is caused by a renal or gastrointestinal loss of potassium. Clinical and electrophysiological, as well as histopathological and electron microscopic findings are presented, showing the typical vacuolar myopathy with submicroscopic tubular structures. In the literature there is evidence for an increased sensitivity of the muscle membrane to insulin with an increased potassium-shift inside the cell in hypokalaemic periodic paralysis. "Ambene" is a combination, which contains amongst other substances dexamethasone and the local anaesthetic drug lidocain. In the present case the paresis was possibly caused by a combined effect of dexamethasone with a consequent hyperglycaemia and lidocain with a change in the excitability of the muscle membrane. The pathophysiological mechanism of hypokalaemic periodic paralysis is discussed in terms of the release by the combination of these two drugs. It has not previously been reported that "Ambene" can provoke a hypokalaemic periodic paralysis. This is a severe side effect because of the resulting cardiac and respiratory problems.
Fetal alcohol syndrome is caused by excessive ethanol consumption during pregnancy. We investigated the effect of black ginseng (red ginseng that is subjected to 9 cycles of 95-100 degrees C for 2-3h) on ethanol-induced teratogenesis using an in vitro whole embryo culture system. Postimplantational mouse embryos at embryonic day 8.5 were exposed to ethanol (1 microl/ml) in the presence or absence of black ginseng (1, 10, and 100 microg/ml) for 2 days, and then morphological scoring and real-time PCR analysis were carried out. In ethanol-treated embryos, the total morphological score and individual scores for flexion, heart, fore-, mid-, and hindbrains, otic, optic, and olfactory systems, branchial bars, maxillary and mandibular processes, caudal neural tube, and somites were significantly lower than the control group (p<0.05). Treatment with black ginseng improved most of the morphological scores significantly as compared to ethanol-treated embryos (p<0.05). The mRNA levels of the antioxidant enzymes cytosolic glutathione peroxidase (GPx), phospholipid hydroperoxide GPx, and selenoprotein P were significantly decreased in ethanol-treated embryos, but co-treatment with black ginseng restored the mRNA levels to those of control embryos. These results indicate that black ginseng has a protective effect on ethanol-induced teratogenesis through the augmentation of antioxidative activity in embryos.
Four newborn babies developed acute heart failure a few hours after circumcision at 8 days. During this procedure, a sponge soaked in epinephrine was applied to the circumcision site and left there for several hours. Treatment was with digoxin and diuretics and signs of heart failure disappeared within 24-72 hours.
To determine whether brains irradiated at different stages of prenatal development also have different postnatal susceptibility to seizures evoked by pilocarpine.
Pregnant Wistar rats were exposed to a single 1.0-Gy dose of gamma rays on gestation days 13, 15, 17, or 19 (E13, E15, E17, and E19, respectively). On postnatal day 60, their offspring received i.p. pilocarpine injections to evoke status epilepticus. Behavior of the animals was observed continuously for 6 h after the injection, and motor manifestations of seizure activity were rated, and survival times recorded. After 7-day survival, the animals were killed, and their brains were weighed.
The average brain weight of animals exposed to irradiation at earlier prenatal stages (E13 or E15) was significantly lower than that after irradiation on E17 or E19. However, effects of the irradiation on the susceptibility to pilocarpine-induced seizures were quite opposite. The intensity of status epilepticus evoked in rats irradiated on E13 or E15 was significantly lower than that in nonirradiated controls or in those irradiated on E17 or E19. Moreover, after irradiation on E13 or E15, survival of the animals was significantly higher in relation not only to other irradiated groups but also to the controls.
The results suggest than the extent of neuronal deficit, even if relatively greater, cannot always lead to higher susceptibility of the dysplastic brain to seizures. Functional consequences of the deficit, even if its magnitude is relatively smaller but involving specific brain areas, appear to be critical for the epileptogenesis.
Panic disorder (PD) has been associated with an increased risk for cardiovascular (CV) morbidity and mortality. There are inconsistent reports of increased low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in patients with PD. Studies have reported a correlation between cholesterol levels and the intensity and frequency of panic attacks (PAs), suggesting that an elevation in cholesterol could be due to physiological and neurochemical changes that occur during and after a PA. The objective of our study was to show that the occurrence of a PA is associated with an increase in LDL-C.
We used a double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover design with randomized injections of placebo and pentagastrin in 18 patients with PD (11 men, 7 women) and 33 healthy-control subjects (24 men, 9 women).
Pentagastrin-induced PAs were associated with a statistically significant 10.4% delayed (24 h) increase in LDL-C levels in male subjects. Such an effect was not observed in female subjects.
LDL-C levels are directly affected by the occurrence of a PA in males. These findings, in association with previous reports of increased cholesterol levels in PD patients, suggest that a chronic increase in LDL-C as a result of frequent PAs may be one of the mechanisms that contributes, at least in male patients, to previously reported increased CV risk in patients with PD. The gender difference and the temporal association between PAs and increased LDL-C may explain the inconsistency in the findings of previous investigations of cholesterol levels in PD patients.
A two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE)-based proteomic approach was used to study a transgenic mouse model of acerbated dilated cardiomyopathy in which the small monomeric GTPase, Rac1, was constitutively expressed exclusively in the myocardium. A subfractionation procedure allowed for the focused analysis of both cytoplasmic and myofilament protein-enriched extracts of ventricular tissue from Rac1 transgenic and age-matched nontransgenic (NTG) mice. The majority of these mice displayed severe hypertrophy (heart-to-body weight ratios >2-fold greater in the Rac1 mice) and died from overt heart failure between days 14 and 17. Comparative 2-DE analysis (pH 3-10, 12% SDS-PAGE) derived from Rac1 (n = 4) and NTG (n = 4) groups revealed differences in mean protein spot intensities. Twelve proteins from the cytoplasmic protein-enriched extract met our criteria for robustness and spot resolution and were identified. These proteins represent a broad distribution of cellular functions with only some previously implicated in myocardial hypertrophy. The myofilament subproteome displayed no change in posttranslational modification, but further analysis by one-dimensional Western blot showed increased quantities of myofilament proteins in the Rac1 mouse ventricles. Additionally, three proteins with different functionality that were altered in the cytoplasmic protein-enriched subproteome, tubulin beta-chain, manganese superoxide dismutase, and malate dehydrogenase, were analyzed at days 7, 9, and 11 to assess their role in the development of the dilated cardiomyopathic phenotype. The quantity of all three proteins peaked at day 9, suggesting an early response in cardiac hypertrophic failure.
One-hundred and forty-one patients with clinical signs of acute deep venous thrombosis (DVT) in the legs were randomly allocated to receive heparin either as two daily subcutaneous injections (s.c.) or as continuous intravenous infusion (i.v.). The thrombi extended into the popliteal or femoral veins in 83% of the patients. Verification of diagnosis and evaluation of therapy was performed by phlebography, plethysmography and thermography. The results showed that heparin administered s.c. twice daily was as efficient as continuous i.v. infusion in preventing extension of the thrombus. In two patients the s.c. administration was stopped due to local haematomas at the injection sites. Retroperitoneal or intramuscular bleedings occurred in four patients, two in each group. Two major, non-fatal pulmonary emboli occurred, one in each group.
Although most commonly associated with actions at cannabinoid CB1 receptors on the extracellular surface of the plasma membrane, the endocannabinoid anandamide (AEA) is also transported into the cell, by the putative anandamide membrane transporter (AMT), and activates the vanilloid receptor 1 (TRPV1) at an intracellular site. AEA is then inactivated by fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH). As systemic administration of TRPV1 ligands reduces locomotor activity in normal rodents, we hypothesised that activation of TRPV1 by endocannabinoids could play a role in the control of voluntary movement and that such actions could be regulated by AMT and FAAH. Motor activity was assessed in normal, in reserpine-treated, and in reserpine-treated rats treated with L-DOPA. In normal rats, the TRPV1 agonist capsaicin (1 mg/kg) or the FAAH inhibitor URB597 (10 mg/kg) caused a significant reduction in movement in both the horizontal (locomotion) and vertical (rearing) planes (-45% and -53% respectively with capsaicin; -33% and -37% for URB597). Capsaicin-induced hypolocomotion was attenuated by the TRPV1 antagonist, capsazepine. There was no effect of capsaicin, URB597 or the AMT inhibitor OMDM-2 on motor activity in reserpine-treated rats. L-DOPA treatment of reserpine-treated rats elicited high levels of motor activity in both the horizontal and vertical planes. Horizontal activity was attenuated by capsaicin (1 mg/kg, -60%), but not by URB597 (10 mg/kg) or OMDM-2 (5 mg/kg). Vertical activity was attenuated by capsaicin (1 mg/kg, -61%) and by URB597 (10 mg/kg, -54%), but not by OMDM-2. These data suggest that activation of the TRPV1 system can suppress spontaneous locomotion in normal animals and modulates several L-DOPA-induced behaviours in reserpine-treated rats.
Morin (3,5,7,2',4'-pentahydroxyflavone), a plant-derived flavonoid belonging to the subclass of flavonol is believed to play a role in chemoprevention and cancer chemotherapy. In this study, we found that the cotreatment of morin (500 ppm in diet) for 16 weeks to N-nitosodiethylamine-induced (200 mg/kg bodyweight in drinking water) rats provides protection against the oxidative stress caused by the carcinogen and thereby prevents hepatocellular carcinogenesis. On administration of the carcinogen, the level of lipid peroxidation increased markedly, but was found to be significantly lowered by morin treatment. On the contrary, the antioxidant levels in both liver and serum were decreased in carcinogen-administered animals, which was improved to normalcy upon morin administration. Cotreatment with morin prevented the elevation of marker enzymes induced by N-nitrosodiethylamine. The body weight of the animals decreased and their relative liver weight increased significantly on N-nitrosodiethylamine administration when compared to control group. However, cotreatment with morin significantly prevented the decrease of the body weight and increase in relative liver weight caused by DEN. Histological observations of liver tissue too correlated with the biochemical observations. In conclusion, these findings indicate that morin prevents lipid peroxidation, hepatic cell damage and protects the antioxidant system in N-nitrosodiethylamine-induced hepatocellular carcinogenesis.
We describe a patient with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) who was successfully induced into remission with all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) and idarubicin, but developed myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) with monosomy 7 shortly after conclusion of maintenance therapy with idarubicin alternating with 6-mercaptopurine, vincristine, methotrexate and prednisone. Patients on combination regimens of ATRA or other retinoids and chemotherapy, which are being increasingly used in recent years, should be closely monitored for the development of potentially new complications including MDS.
Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) is central to synaptic transmission. Here we show that synaptic CaMKIIalpha binds to the N-terminal region of the third intracellular loop of the limbic dopamine D3 receptor (D3R). This binding is Ca(2+) sensitive and is sustained by autophosphorylation of CaMKII, providing an unrecognized route for the Ca(2+)-mediated regulation of D3Rs. The interaction of CaMKIIalpha with D3Rs transforms D3Rs into a biochemical substrate of the kinase and promotes the kinase to phosphorylate D3Rs at a selective serine site (S229). In accumbal neurons in vivo, CaMKIIalpha is recruited to D3Rs by rising Ca(2+) to increase the CaMKIIalpha-mediated phosphorylation of D3Rs, thereby transiently inhibiting D3R efficacy. Notably, the D3R inhibition is critical for integrating dopamine signaling to control behavioral sensitivity to the psychostimulant cocaine. Our data identify CaMKIIalpha as a recruitable regulator of dopamine receptor function. By binding and phosphorylating limbic D3Rs, CaMKIIalpha modulates dopamine signaling and psychomotor function in an activity-dependent manner.
A case of fatal torsade de pointes in a 53 year old patient treated with disopyramide is described. The arrhythmia followed the development of acute hepatocellular dysfunction and may have been due to failure of the liver to efficiently degrade the drug to its metabolites.
Plasma levels of protein C and protein S antigens were measured in eight children who developed thrombosis following asparaginase-prednisone-vincristine treatment for acute lymphoblastic leukaemia and in nine similarly treated children without this complication. Protein C antigen levels were below normal in three of the eight patients with thrombosis and in three of the nine patients without the complication (P = 0.38). Low protein S antigen levels were found in five of six patients with thrombosis and in two of seven patients without thrombosis (P = 0.10). Plasma factor IX and factor X antigen levels, other vitamin K dependent factors, were also measured in the two groups of patients. In general, reduced levels of protein C, protein S or both antigens (anticoagulant vitamin K dependent proteins) were associated with reduced levels of factor IX, factor X, or both of these factors (procoagulant vitamin K dependent clotting proteins). The ratios of protein C and protein S antigens to each other and to factor IX and factor X antigens did not differ between the two groups. Thus, there is no clear evidence that reduced levels of protein C and (or) protein S cause thrombosis in leukaemia patients treated with this drug combination.
The anti-oestrogenic drug tamoxifen has been under investigation as a breast cancer chemopreventive agent for at least a decade. However, its use for this purpose is still debatable since it is able to induce liver tumours in rats via a mechanism involving metabolic activation to a DNA adduct-forming electrophilic intermediate. The metabolic activation and adduct-forming properties of tamoxifen are now well characterized but less is known about its ability to induce hepatic cell proliferation, which is also essential for the carcinogenic process. The effects of tamoxifen on liver weight and cell proliferation were compared in female Fischer 344 (F344), Wistar and Lewis rats given the drug in the diet for up to 26 weeks. The onset and duration of hepatic cell proliferation varied between the strains of rat. In Wistar and Lewis but not F344 rats there was a marked increase in hepatocellular proliferation during the first 4 weeks of tamoxifen administration. In the Wistar strain this was associated with an increase in DNA adduct levels; no such increase was observed in the F344 strain. The onset of the proliferative response was delayed until the 13 week time point in the F344 strain. By the 13 and 26 week time points, cell proliferation in tamoxifen-treated Wistar and Lewis rat liver had returned to normal, but the amount of apoptotic activity in these livers was elevated. This suggests that excess cells generated during the proliferative phase of tamoxifen treatment were being eliminated by apoptosis. In the F344 strain, however, increased proliferative activity was associated with relatively low apoptotic activity at the 26 week time point, suggesting that the delayed proliferative response had yet to be balanced by apoptotic deletion. This is consistent with the fact that tamoxifen-induced hepatocellular tumours develop very late, towards the end of the lifespan, in this strain. The cell proliferative activity of tamoxifen in the Wistar rat liver was compared with that of a non-mutagenic analogue, toremifene. Tamoxifen induced increased cell cycle activity in the livers of rats following gavage dosing at all sampling times (1-12 weeks), whereas toremifene had no effect on the incidence of cycling in hepatic cells, demonstrating that the hepatic cell proliferation is not a general response to anti-oestrogen treatment. These observations suggest that the rate of promotion of liver tumours by tamoxifen is a function of the rate, time of onset and duration of increased cell replication. The susceptibility of rat strains to the hepatocarcinogenic effects of tamoxifen appears to depend upon the balance between initiation via DNA adduct formation, promotion via increased cell proliferation and cell deletion via apoptosis. Our findings suggest that an early proliferative response to tamoxifen is important in this process.
Brucine is an alkaloid derived from the seeds of Strychnos nux-vomica Linn. which have long been used as a traditional medicine for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in China. HCC prognosis can be greatly influenced by metastasis. There has thus far been little research into brucine as a source of anti-metastasis activity against HCC. In this study, we revealed that brucine dramatically repressed HepG2 and SMMC-7721 HCC cell migration with few cytotoxic effects. Hypoxia inducible factor 1 (HIF-1) is a key transcription factor mediating cell migration and invasion. Brucine suppressed HIF-1-dependent luciferase activity in HepG2 cells. The transcriptions of four known HIF-1 target genes involved in HCC metastasis, i.e., fibronectin, matrix metallopeptidase 2, lysyl oxidase, and cathepsin D, were also attenuated after brucine treatment. Experiments in vivo showed that an intraperitoneal injection of 5 and 15 mg/kg of brucine resulted in dose-dependent decreases in the lung metastasis of H22 ascitic hepatoma cells. Moreover, a dosage of brucine at 15 mg/kg exhibited very low toxic effects to tumor-bearing mice. Consistently, brucine downregulated expression levels of HIF-1 responsive genes in vivo. Our current study demonstrated the capacity of brucine in suppressing HCC cell migration in vitro and lung metastasis in vivo. The inhibition of the HIF-1 pathway is implicated in the anti-metastasis activity of brucine.
Muramyl dipeptide is the smallest biologically active fragment of the lipopolysaccharide (LPS) moiety of gram-negative bacteria cell walls. The present report demonstrates that this product, associated with the immune response to bacterial infection, can modify CNS activity. Specifically, it is demonstrated that 6-0-stearoyl-muramyl dipeptide (MDP) can attenuate opiate withdrawal severity in a dose-dependent fashion when injected directly into areas of the brain essential for this phenomenon. In addition, MDP alters both baseline and postnarcotic electrophysiologic responses of four brain areas essential for various opioid activities. Similar findings have been reported for interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha), a peptide associated with the immune response to virus. Yet, even though MDP and IFN are shown to exert similar effects on opioid activity, there are also some very distinct differences in the actions of both of these immune response products. These observations suggest that central opioid systems may provide targets for the perception as well as the differentiation of afferent immunologic sensory input to the brain.
In this study we postulated that during acute renal failure induced by gentamicin the transient or dynamic response of blood vessels could be affected, and that antioxidants can prevent the changes in dynamic responses of blood vessels. The new approach to ex vivo blood vessel experiments in which not only the end points of vessels response within the time interval is considered, but also dynamics of this response, was used in this paper. Our results confirm the alteration in dynamic response of blood vessels during the change of pressure in gentamicin-treated animals. The beneficial effects of vitamin C administration to gentamicin-treated animals are also confirmed through: lower level of blood urea and creatinine and higher level of potassium. The pressure dynamic responses of isolated blood vessels show a faster pressure change in gentamicin-treated animals (8.07 +/- 1.7 s vs. 5.64 +/- 0.18 s). Vitamin C administration induced slowdown of pressure change back to the control values. The pressure dynamic properties, quantitatively defined by comparative pressure dynamic and total pressure dynamic, confirm the alteration in dynamic response of blood vessels during the change of pressure in gentamicin-treated animals and beneficial effects of vitamin C administration.
The treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia with all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) sometimes results in a syndrome characterized by fever, respiratory distress, weight gain, pleural and pericardial effusion, and pulmonary infiltrates. We report the radiologic features of ATRA syndrome.
During the past 5 years, 69 patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia were treated with ATRA. Of this group, 15 patients developed ATRA syndrome. Serial chest radiographs of the 15 patients with ATRA syndrome were evaluated retrospectively for the presence of pleural effusion, pulmonary nodules, consolidation, ground-glass opacity, septal lines, increased pulmonary blood volume, peribronchial cuffing, and air bronchogram. Also, we measured the cardiothoracic ratio and the vascular pedicle width.
Chest radiographs showed increased cardiothoracic ratio in 13 of the 15 patients, increased vascular pedicle width in 13, increased pulmonary blood volume in 13, septal lines in nine, peribronchial cuffing in nine, ground-glass opacity in nine, consolidation in seven, and nodules in seven. Pleural effusion was noted in 11 of the 15 patients, and air bronchogram was noted in five of the 15 patients. Pulmonary hemorrhage developed in three patients who were being treated with ATRA; they showed bilateral, diffuse, poorly defined nodules and ground-glass opacity on radiography.
Most patients with ATRA syndrome have abnormal findings on chest radiographs, and the abnormalities are similar to those of pulmonary edema.
Our previous studies demonstrated that the frequency of gene instability in lung cancer of chromate workers was very high, but the frequencies of the p53 and ras gene mutations were low. To clarify the carcinogenesis of chromate in the lung, we established a chromate-induced cancer model in the rat proximal airway and examined the relationship between chromium accumulations and the chromium-induced cancer and premalignant bronchial lesions of the rat.
Fifteen male, bred, 12-week-old Jcl-Wister rats were used. A pellet of strontium chromate were inserted into the bronchus of the rats. The rats were sacrificed 9 months after the pellet was inserted. We pathologically examined the region of the bronchi to which the pellet was attached. We quantified the amount of chromium accumulation in the bronchial lesions using a microscopic X-ray fluorescence analyzer.
Of the 15 rats, 1 rat had a lesion of squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), 7 rats had carcinoma in situ (CIS) or dysplasia, 8 rats had squamous metaplasia, and 5 rats had goblet cell hyperplasia. The amounts of chromium accumulation in normal epithelium (n=24), goblet cell hyperplasia (n=14), squamous metaplasia (n=8), and dysplasia plus CIS plus SCC (n=9) were 500+/-1354, 713+/-1062, 941+/-1328, and 3511+/-4473 (mean+/-SD) counts/s/mA, respectively. The amount of chromium accumulation was significantly increased according to the progression of malignant change of the bronchial epithelium (Spearman's correlation coefficient by ranks, rs=0.454, P<0.01).
The amount of chromium accumulation was significantly increased according to the progression of malignant change of the bronchial epithelium. Examining the genetic alterations of histologic changes in this model was helpful in elucidating the process of carcinogenesis of chromium in the lung.
Reports of vascular changes in renal biopsies of transplant patients treated with cyclosporine prompted review of our own renal biopsies and examination of human endothelial cell cultures exposed to cyclosporine in vitro. Endothelial cells were isolated from human umbilical cords by collagenase digestion and cultured in Medium 199 with Earle's salts plus 20% pooled human serum in the absence of antibiotics. Cultures exposed to cyclosporine (0, 0.4, 1.0, 5.0, 10.0 micrograms/ml) for 0, 3, 7, 10, and 14 days were subsequently fixed in 2% glutaraldehyde in 0.1 M cacodylate buffer. Vascular thrombosis was seen in renal biopsies of cyclosporine- and azathioprine-treated patients but the incidence was the same in both groups. No change in the morphology of endothelial cell cultures was observed until 7 days when an increase in size and number of cytoplasmic inclusions became apparent in both control and cyclosporine-treated cultures. By electron microscopy, these inclusions were identified as secondary lysosomes. Their number and size increased with the length of time in culture but did not appear to correlate with the concentration of cyclosporine in the medium. No other morphologic change was identified. It is concluded that the appearance of increased numbers of secondary lysosomes in human endothelial cell cultures is a function of culture age as opposed to cyclosporine exposure. Furthermore, the data indicate that small vessel thrombosis is not specific to treatment with cyclosporine.
Chronic pulmonary inflammation is associated with increased lung cancer risk, but the underlying process remains unknown. Recently, we showed that activated neutrophils inhibit nucleotide excision repair (NER) in pulmonary epithelial cells in vitro via the release of myeloperoxidase (MPO). To evaluate the effect of neutrophils on NER in vivo, mice were intratracheally instilled with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) (20 microg), causing acute lung inflammation and associated neutrophil influx into the airways. Three days post-exposure, phenotypical NER capacity was assessed in lung tissue homogenate. LPS exposure inhibited pulmonary NER by approximately 50%. This finding was corroborated by down-regulation of the NER-associated genes Xpa and Xpf. To further elicit the role of neutrophils and MPO in this process, we utilized MPO-deficient mice as well as mice in which circulating neutrophils were depleted by antibody treatment. LPS-induced inhibition of pulmonary NER was not affected by either Mpo(-/-) or by depletion of circulating neutrophils. This contrasts with our previous in vitro observations, suggesting that inhibition of pulmonary NER following acute dosing with LPS is not fully mediated by neutrophils and/or MPO. In conclusion, these data show that LPS-induced pulmonary inflammation is associated with a reduction of NER function in the mouse lung.
