In order to investigate to the contribution of K+ channels on the peripheral antinociception induced by diclofenac, we evaluated the effect of several K+ channel blockers, using the rat paw pressure test, in which sensitivity is increased by intraplantar injection (2 microg) of prostaglandin E2. Diclofenac administered locally into the right hindpaw (25, 50, 100 and 200 microg) elicited a dose-dependent antinociceptive effect which was demonstrated to be local, since only higher doses produced an effect when injected in the contralateral paw. This blockade of PGE2 mechanical hyperalgesia induced by diclofenac (100 microg/paw) was antagonized in a dose-dependent manner by intraplantar administration of the sulphonylureas glibenclamide (40, 80 and 160 microg) and tolbutamide (80, 160 and 320 microg), specific blockers of ATP-sensitive K+ channels, and it was observed even when the hyperalgesic agent used was carrageenin, while the antinociceptive action of indomethacin (200 microg/paw), a typical cyclo-oxygenase inhibitor, over carrageenin-induced hyperalgesia was not affected by this treatment. Charybdotoxin (2 microg/paw), a blocker of large conductance Ca2+-activated K+ channels and dequalinium (50 microg/paw), a selective blocker of small conductance Ca2+-activated K+ channels, did not modify the effect of diclofenac. This effect was also unaffected by intraplantar administration of non-specific voltage-dependent K+ channel blockers tetraethylammonium (1700 microg) and 4-aminopyridine (100 microg) or cesium (500 microg), a non-specific K+ channel blocker. The peripheral antinociceptive effect induced by diclofenac was antagonized by NG-Nitro L-arginine (NOarg, 50 microg/paw), a NO synthase inhibitor and methylene blue (MB, 500 microg/paw), a guanylate cyclase inhibitor, and this antagonism was reversed by diazoxide (300 microg/paw), an ATP-sensitive K+ channel opener. We also suggest that an endogenous opioid system may not be involved since naloxone (50 microg/paw) did not affect diclofenac-induced antinociception in the PGE2-induced hyperalgesia model. This study provides evidence that the peripheral antinociceptive effect of diclofenac may result from activation of ATP-sensitive K+ channels, possible involving stimulation of L-arginine/NO/cGMP pathway, while Ca2+-activated K+ channels, voltage-dependent K+ channels as well as endogenous opioids appear not to be involved in the process.
Estrogen has been suggested to trigger breast cancer development via an initiating mechanism involving its metabolite, catechol estrogen (CE). To examine this hypothesis, we carried out a multigenic case-control study of 469 incident breast cancer patients and 740 healthy controls to define the role of important genes involved in the different metabolic steps that protect against the potentially harmful effects of CE metabolism. We studied the 3 genes involved in CE detoxification by conjugation reactions involving methylation (catechol-O-methyltransferase, COMT), sulfation (sulfotransferase 1A1, SULT1A1), or glucuronidation (UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 1A1, UGT1A1), one (manganese superoxide dismutase, MnSOD) involved in protection against reactive oxidative species-mediated oxidation during the conversion of CE-semiquinone (CE-SQ) to CE-quinone (CE-Q), and 2 of the glutathione S-transferase superfamily, GSTM1 and GSTT1, involved in CE-Q metabolism. Support for this hypothesis came from the observations that (i) there was a trend toward an increased risk of breast cancer in women harboring a greater number of putative high-risk genotypes of these genes (p < 0.05); (ii) this association was stronger and more significant in those women who were more susceptible to estrogen [no history of pregnancy or older (> or =26 years) at first full-term pregnancy (FFTP)]; and (iii) the risks associated with having one or more high-risk genotypes were not the same in women having experienced different menarche-to-FFTP intervals, being more significant in women having been exposed to estrogen for a longer period (> or =12 years) before FFTP. Furthermore, because CE-Q can attack DNA, leading to the formation of double-strand breaks (DSB), we examined whether the relationship between cancer risk and the genotypic polymorphism of CE-metabolizing genes was modified by the genotypes of DSB repair genes, and found that a joint effect of CE-metabolizing genes and one of the two DSB repair pathways, the homologous recombination pathway, was significantly associated with breast cancer development. Based on comprehensive CE metabolizing gene profiles, our study provides support to the hypotheses that breast cancer can be initiated by estrogen exposure and that increased estrogen exposure confers a higher risk of breast cancer by causing DSB to DNA.
Aromatase plays an important role in breast cancer development through its role in the synthesis of estrogen. Aromatase expression in breast tissue can be regulated by several mechanisms. The major promoter usage for aromatase expression in breast tumors (i.e. cAMP-stimulated promoters I.3 and II) is different from that in normal breast tissue (i.e. glucocorticoid-stimulated promoter I.4). Recent characterization of transcription factors that interact with the two important regulatory elements near promoters I.3 and II, i.e. S1 and CREaro, helps us better understand the mechanism of the switch of promoter usage between normal breast tissue and cancer tissue. It is thought that in normal breast tissue, the function of promoters I.3 and II is suppressed through the binding of EAR-2, COUP-TFI, and EARgamma to S1, and through the binding of Snail/Slug proteins to their binding site that quenchs the CREaro activity. In cancer tissue, the expression levels of EAR-2, COUP-TFI, EARgamma, Snail, and Slug decrease, and aromatase expression is then up regulated through the binding of ERRalpha-1 to S1 and the binding of CREB or related factors to CREaro. Results from this and other laboratories reveal that aromatase activity in aromatase expressing cells can also be modified by treatment with aromatase inhibitors and the antiestrogen ICI 182, 780. While aromatase inhibitors are used to treat breast cancer, the treatment has been found to increase the level of aromatase in the breast tissue of some patients. The enhancement of aromatase activity by aromatase inhibitors is thought to be due to a decrease of aromatase protein degradation by enzyme-inhibitor complex formation, up-regulation of the aromatase gene transcription through a cAMP-mediated mechanism, and an induction of aromatase expression by gonadtropins that are released from the pituitary in response to a reduction of estrogen levels in circulation in premenopausal women. Antiestrogen ICI 182, 780 has been found to suppress aromatase expression, but the mechanism has not yet been determined. In addition, aromatase activity and expression can be affected by environmental chemicals. A detailed structure-function study has revealed that flavones, but not isoflavones, are inhibitors of aromatase. It was found that flavones bind to the active site of aromatase in an orientation in which their rings-A and -C mimic rings-D and -C of the androgen substrate. The modulation of aromatase expression by endocrine disrupting chemicals is exemplified by two organochlorine pesticides (i.e. toxaphene and chlordane) that have been found to be antagonists of ERRalpha-1 orphan receptor. These compounds reduce ERRalpha-1 activity, resulting in a suppression of aromatase expression.
Type 1 diabetes results from irreversible damage of insulin-producing beta-cells. In laboratory animals, diabetes can be induced with alloxan (ALX), a 2,4,5,6-tetraoxopyrimidine. ALX is a potent generator of reactive oxygen species (ROS), which can mediate beta-cell toxicity. However, the initial lesions on essential beta-cell structures are not known. In this study, we report that the glucose transporter 2 (GLUT2) and glucokinase (GK) are target molecules for ALX. Ex vivo, a gradual decrement of both GLUT2 and GK mRNA expression was found in islets isolated from ALX-treated C57BL/6 mice. This reduction was more pronounced for GLUT2 than for GK. The mRNA expression of beta-actin was also slightly affected with time after ALX exposure, the proinsulin mRNA, however, remained unaffected as well as the pancreatic total insulin content. Pretreatment with D-glucose (D-G) protected the mRNA expression of GLUT2 and GK against ALX toxicity and prevented diabetes. Yet, in these euglycemic mice, an impaired oral glucose tolerance persisted. Pretreatment with 5-thio-D-glucose (5-T-G) failed to prevent ALX diabetes, administration of zinc sulfate (Zn(2+))-enriched drinking water, however, reduced ALX-induced hyperglycemia. In conclusion, ALX exerted differential toxicity on beta-cell structures similar to in vitro results reported from this laboratory. Furthermore, the present results differ from those reported for the diabetogen streptozotocin (STZ). Injections of multiple low doses (MLD) of STZ reduced GLUT2 expression only, but failed to affect expression of GK and proinsulin as well as beta-actin as internal control. MLD-STZ diabetes was prevented by pretreatment with both D-G and 5-T-G and administration of Zn(2+)-enriched drinking water. Apparently, ALX and MLD-STZ exert diabetogenicity by different pathways requiring different interventional schedules for prevention.
To investigate the expression pattern of myocilin in the trabecular meshwork of normal and dexamethasone-induced ocular hypertensive rat eyes.
An ocular hypertension model was generated by application of topical dexamethasone to rat eyes 4 times daily for 1, 2, and 4 weeks. Age-matched untreated eyes served as controls. The intraocular pressure (IOP) was monitored by electronic Tono-pen under anesthesia. The protein and mRNA levels of myocilin in the trabecular meshwork and endothelial lining of Schlemm's canal were investigated by immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization, respectively. For semiquantitative evaluation, areas with positive staining were analyzed by a computer-assisted image-processing system with NIH software.
The IOP in rat eyes was elevated after 2 weeks of topical dexamethasone treatment. Despite the IOP elevation, the protein and mRNA levels of myocilin in the trabecular meshwork and around Schlemm's canal in the steroid-treated eyes were not different from those of controls.
No discernible changes in myocilin expression in the chamber angle indicate that myocilin may not be directly linked to ocular hypertension, at least not in rat eyes after relatively short-term steroid application.
Eugenol is the active component of essential oil isolated from clove (Syzigium aromaticum). Eugenol has antimutagenic, antigenotoxic, anti-inflammatory properties. The anticarcinogenic effect of eugenol was evident in different types of cell lines. However, its anticarcinogenic effect in in vivo has not yet been fully explored.
The aim of this study is to evaluate the chemopreventive potential of eugenol in an experimental skin carcinogenesis mice model system.
Skin tumor was induced by topical application of DMBA croton oil in Swiss mice. To assess the chemopreventive potential of eugenol, it was orally administered 15 days prior carcinogen treatment. The development of skin carcinogenesis was confirmed by histopathological analysis. Cellular proliferation and apoptosis in the skin tumor were analyzed by in situ cellular proliferation and in situ cell death assay. Expression of some proliferation and apoptosis associated genes was analyzed by RT-PCR and protein expression was analyzed by Western blot.
Reduction in incidence and sizes of skin tumors along with overall increase in survival of mice were seen due to eugenol treatment. Restriction of skin carcinogenesis at the dysplastic stage along with reduced rate of cellular proliferation and increase in apoptosis were evident in eugenol treated skin tumors. Eugenol treatment led to the downregulation of c-Myc, H-ras and Bcl2 expression along with upregulation of P53, Bax and active Caspase-3 expression in the skin lesions.
Restriction of skin carcinogenesis at dysplastic stage by eugenol was due to attenuation of c-Myc, H-ras and modification of some p53 associated gene expression.
Cintredekin besudotox (CB), a recombinant cytotoxin consisting of interleukin-13 and truncated Pseudomonas exotoxin, binds selectively to interleukin-13R alpha2 receptors overexpressed by malignant gliomas. This study assessed the safety of CB administered by convection-enhanced delivery followed by standard external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) with or without temozolomide (Temodar; Schering-Plough, Kenilworth, NJ) in patients with newly diagnosed malignant gliomas.
After gross total resection of the tumor, two to four intraparenchymal catheters were stereotactically placed and CB (0.25 or 0.5 microg/mL) was infused for 96 hours. This was followed, 10 to 14 days later, by EBRT (5940-6100 cGy, 5 d/wk for 6-7 wk) with or without temozolomide (75 mg/m/d, 7 d/wk during EBRT). Safety was assessed during an 11-week observation period after catheter placement
Twenty-two patients (12 men, 10 women; median age, 55 yr; 21 with glioblastoma multiforme and one with an anaplastic mixed oligoastrocytoma) were enrolled. None of the patients experienced dose-limiting toxicities in the first two cohorts (0.25 microg/mL CB + EBRT [n = 3] and 0.25 microg/mL CB + EBRT + temozolomide [n = 3]). One patient experienced a dose-limiting toxicity (Grade 4 seizure) in the third cohort (0.5 microg/mL CB + EBRT [n = 6]). Six patients in the final cohort (0.5 microg/mL CB + EBRT + temozolomide [n = 10]) completed treatment, and one patient experienced a dose-limiting toxicity (Grade 3 aphasia and confusion). Four patients were not considered evaluable for a dose decision and were replaced. CB related adverse events occurring in more than one patient were fatigue, gait disturbance, nystagmus, and confusion. No Grade 3 to 4 hematological toxicities were observed.
CB (0.5 microg/mL) administered via convection-enhanced delivery before standard radiochemotherapy seems to be well tolerated in adults with newly diagnosed malignant gliomas. Further clinical study assessment is warranted.
Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) may activate hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1α, which up-regulates cytokine expression and the lethality of LPS-induced shock. We investigated the effect of propofol on HIF-1α expression and acute lung injury in LPS-treated mice.
A series of both positive and negative control experiments were performed. We injected BALB/C mice with propofol or vehicle i.p. immediately and 12 h after an LPS challenge. After 24 h, we examined the lung wet/dry weight ratio, neutrophil infiltration, and HIF-1α mRNA expression and inflammatory cytokines in the lung tissue. Survival was determined for 48 h after LPS injection. In vitro, we determined the responses of A549 cells, with and without HIF-1α silenced, to treatment with LPS alone and LPS plus propofol.
Propofol prolonged survival and attenuated acute lung injury and decreased the expression of HIF-1α, interleukin (IL)-6, keratinocyte-derived chemokine, and tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) in the lungs of endotoxaemic mice. In HIF-1α knockdown-A549 cells, LPS-induced TNF-α, IL-6, and the pro-apoptotic gene, BNIP3 expression and apoptosis were reduced. Propofol, but not an inhibitor of nuclear factor κB, reduced HIF-1α expression in LPS-stimulated A549 cells. Propofol also down-regulated, in A549 cells, the expression of IL-6, IL-8, and TNF-α, Bcl-2/adenovirus E1B 19 kDa interacting protein 3 (BNIP3), and apoptosis.
Propofol reduces apoptosis in LPS-stimulated lung epithelial cells by decreasing HIF-1α, BNIP3, and cytokine production. Using propofol to inhibit HIF-1α expression may protect against the acute lung injury caused by LPS-induced sepsis.
We investigated whether patients with mild heart failure due to left ventricular systolic dysfunction were at risk of worsening during digoxin withdrawal.
Deterioration during digoxin withdrawal is often believed to be restricted to patients with moderate to severe clinical evidence of heart failure. To test this hypothesis, we studied the outcome of patients categorized by treatment assignment and a clinical signs and symptoms heart failure score in two rigorously designed clinical heart failure trials: the Prospective Randomized Study of Ventricular Function and Efficacy of Digoxin (PROVED) and the Randomized Assessment of Digoxin and Inhibitors of Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme (RADIANCE) trial.
Potential differences in treatment failure, left ventricular ejection fraction and exercise capacity were evaluated in three groups of patients: those with mild heart failure (score < or = 2) who were withdrawn from digoxin (Dig WD Mild); those with moderate heart failure (score > 2) who were withdrawn from digoxin (Dig WD Moderate); and patients who continued receiving digoxin regardless of heart failure score (Dig Cont).
Heart failure score at randomization did not predict outcome during follow-up in Dig Cont-group patients. Dig WD Mild-group patients were at increased risk of treatment failure and had deterioration of exercise capacity and left ventricular ejection fraction compared with that in Dig Cont-group patients (all p < 0.01). Patients in the Dig WD Moderate group were significantly more likely to experience treatment failure than patients in either the Dig WD Mild or Dig Cont group (both p < 0.05).
Patients with systolic left ventricular dysfunction were at risk of clinical deterioration after digoxin withdrawal despite mild clinical evidence of congestive heart failure.
The process for evaluating chemical safety is inefficient, costly, and animal intensive. There is growing consensus that the current process of safety testing needs to be significantly altered to improve efficiency and reduce the number of untested chemicals. In this study, the use of short-term gene expression profiles was evaluated for predicting the increased incidence of mouse lung tumors. Animals were exposed to a total of 26 diverse chemicals with matched vehicle controls over a period of 3 years. Upon completion, significant batch-related effects were observed. Adjustment for batch effects significantly improved the ability to predict increased lung tumor incidence. For the best statistical model, the estimated predictive accuracy under honest fivefold cross-validation was 79.3% with a sensitivity and specificity of 71.4 and 86.3%, respectively. A learning curve analysis demonstrated that gains in model performance reached a plateau at 25 chemicals, indicating that the size of current data set was sufficient to provide a robust classifier. The classification results showed that a small subset of chemicals contributed disproportionately to the misclassification rate. For these chemicals, the misclassification was more closely associated with genotoxicity status than with efficacy in the original bioassay. Statistical models were also used to predict dose-response increases in tumor incidence for methylene chloride and naphthalene. The average posterior probabilities for the top models matched the results from the bioassay for methylene chloride. For naphthalene, the average posterior probabilities for the top models overpredicted the tumor response, but the variability in predictions was significantly higher. The study provides both a set of gene expression biomarkers for predicting chemically induced mouse lung tumors and a broad assessment of important experimental and analysis criteria for developing microarray-based predictors of safety-related end points.
It was demonstrated in rat experiments that in modelling the akinetico-rigid parkinsonian syndrome by injecting kainic acid into the caudate nuclei the phases of wakefulness and light slow-wave sleep decreased while the phase of deep slow-wave sleep increased. In the tremorogenic from of the parkinsonian syndrome induced by reserpine the phases of wakefulness and deep slow-wave sleep decreased in the rats while the phases of light slow-wave and paradoxical sleep increased. In destruction of the substantia nigra with kainic acid the phase of paradoxical sleep reduced. The results of the study are discussed from the standpoint of the generator mechanisms of the development of neuropathological syndromes and the mechanisms of the interrelations of parkinsonism and epilepsy.
Children with acute lymphocytic leukemia were examined for evidence of intracranial calcifications with roentgenograms of the skull and computerized tomography. Of 39 children in their initial complete remission, ten were found to have subcortical cerebral calcifications. Significant associations were found between the presence of cerebral calcifications and systemic treatment with large cumulative doses of methotrexate.
Aprepitant is a new neurokinin-1 (NK(1) ) receptor antagonist developed as a treatment for chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV). To evaluate the efficacy and safety of aprepitant used in combination with standard therapy (granisetron and dexamethasone), we conducted a multicenter, phase II, placebo-controlled, double-blind, randomized study in Japanese cancer patients who received cancer chemotherapy including cisplatin (≥70mg/m(2) ). Aprepitant was administered for 5days. A total of 453 patients were enrolled. In the three study groups, (i) standard therapy, (ii) aprepitant 40/25mg (40mg on day 1 and 25mg on days 2-5) and (iii) aprepitant 125/80mg (125mg on day 1 and 80mg on days 2-5), the percentage of patients with complete response (no emesis and no rescue therapy) was 50.3% (75/149 subjects), 66.4% (95/143 subjects) and 70.5% (103/146 subjects), respectively. This shows that efficacy was significantly higher in the aprepitant 40/25mg and 125/80mg groups than in the standard therapy group (χ(2) test [closed testing procedure]: P=0.0053 and P=0.0004, respectively) and highest in the aprepitant 125/80mg group. The delayed phase efficacy (days 2-5) was similar to the overall phase efficacy (days 1-5), indicating that aprepitant is effective in the delayed phase when standard therapy is not very effective. In terms of safety, aprepitant was generally well tolerated in Japanese cancer patients. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00212602.)
To investigate cardiac effects of arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) at conventional dosage in acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) patients.
The basical heart rate, electrocardiograph, plasma As(2)O(3) concentration of APL patients were dynamically monitored. The action potential duration and current of I(Ca-L) in guinea pig cardiac ventricular myocytes were assayed by patch clamp technique, and the elevated cytosolic [Ca(2+)]i of guinea pig ventricular myocytes induced by As(2)O(3) by laser confocal microscopy.
Approximately 52.5% - 35% of 40 APL patients manifested poor cardiac effects of different degree when As(2)O(3) intravenous infused at conventional doses in the initial 1 or 2 weeks with fast heart rate or prolonged QT interval. As(2)O(3) at concentration of 1, 2, 5 micro mol/L prolonged action potential duration from (563.0 +/- 55.8) ms to (737.7 +/- 131.7), (842.4 +/- 115.6) and (1103.2 +/- 96.3) ms respectively (P < 0.05, P < 0.01, P < 0.01), and increased I(Ca-L) of guinea pig cardiac ventricular myocytes as well as the respectively cytosolic [Ca(2+)]i. Calcium channel blocking agent can cut-out the effect.
As(2)O(3) intravenous infusion at conventional doses can cause tachycardia and prolong QT interval. The probable mechanism might be that As(2)O(3) affects the ion channels and cytosolic calcium.
The cocaine-induced reinstatement (priming) of cocaine self-administration occurs when the cumulative concentration of cocaine reaches a threshold level that we have previously termed the cocaine priming threshold. The present studies used a modified procedure to measure the cocaine priming threshold over 4-8-month periods in individual rats. The values for the priming threshold varied between days but there was no evidence of a systematic change in the priming threshold over time, indicating that neither tolerance nor sensitization occurred. The frequency distribution of the priming threshold was significantly different from a normal distribution but was not significantly different from a log-normal distribution. Therefore, the geometric mean with its associated variance estimates, but not the arithmetic mean, appropriately describe the distribution of the cocaine priming threshold. The estimate of the geometric mean value of the priming threshold for this group of Sprague-Dawley rats was 284 (CI(95): 234-344) microg/kg of cocaine. The log-normal distribution of equieffective doses of cocaine is typical of agonist-induced pharmacological responses. In the presence of the D(1) dopamine receptor-selective antagonist SCH23390, the geometric means of the cocaine priming threshold were significantly increased in a dose-dependent manner, implying a role for D(1) dopamine receptors in the priming response. This technique provides a quantitative method for the measurement of antagonist-induced increases in the cocaine priming threshold.
We investigated whether the combination of zoledronic acid and doxorubicin induced apoptosis of breast and prostate cancer cell lines, and if synergistic interaction was present. We investigated whether the levels of cell death altered depending on the sequence in which the drugs were administered and the possible mechanism of action responsible for the increased cell death following combined treatments. Breast and prostate cancer cells were treated with zoledronic acid alone, doxorubicin alone, or drugs in sequence (doxorubicin before, after, or with zoledronic acid), and the levels of apoptotic death were determined by evaluation of nuclear morphology. We found that clinically relevant concentrations of doxorubicin and zoledronic acid induced sequence- and schedule-dependent apoptosis of breast and prostate cancer cells. For maximal apoptosis, cells had to be pretreated for 24 hr with doxorubicin before immediate treatment with zoledronic acid for 1 hr. This observation is a characteristic feature of cell cycle phase-specific synergistic effect. Replacing zoledronic acid with the nonnitrogen-containing bisphosphonate clodronate did not induce increased apoptosis. Induction of apoptosis was mainly via inhibition of the mevalonate (MVA) pathway, as addition of the MVA pathway intermediary geranylgeraniol inhibited the induction of apoptosis by doxorubicin followed by zoledronic acid. In conclusion, combined treatment of breast and prostate cancer cell lines with clinically relevant doses of doxorubicin and zoledronic acid induces apoptosis in a synergistic fashion. These findings may have relevance for the clinical setting, particularly breast cancer patients receiving these drugs in the adjuvant setting.
To investigate the efficacy and safety of single-pill amlodipine/atorvastatin therapy for the simultaneous treatment of hypertension (HTN) and dyslipidemia in African Americans.
Conducted between July 19, 2004, and August 9, 2005, the Clinical Utility of Caduet in Simultaneously Achieving Blood Pressure and Lipid End Points trial was a 20-week, open-label, noncomparative, multicenter trial of the efficacy and safety of single-pill amlodipine/atorvastatin in controlling elevated blood pressure (BP) and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in African Americans with concomitant HTN and dyslipidemia and either no additional risk factors, 1 or more cardiovascular risk factors, or coronary heart disease or a risk equivalent. Eight dosage strengths of single-pill amlodipine/atorvastatin were flexibly titrated. The primary efficacy assessment of the main trial was the percentage of patients who attained the LDL-C treatment goals of both the Seventh Report of the Joint National Committee on the Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure and the National Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panel III.
Of the 1170 African American patients screened, 501 were enrolled in the study and 499 received drug therapy. At end point, 236 (48.3%) of 489 patients reached both their BP and LDLC goals (vs 4 [0.8%] of 484 at baseline); 280 (56.8%) of 493 reached BP goals (vs 7 [1.4%] of 494 at baseline); and 361 (73.7%) of 490 reached LDL-C goals (vs 138 [28.5%] of 484 at baseline). Among the 499 patients receiving drug therapy, common treatment-related adverse events were peripheral edema (17 patients [3.4%]), headache (11 [2.2%]), myalgia (11 [2.2%]), and constipation (10 [2.0%]).
Single-pill amlodipine/atorvastatin therapy was well tolerated and effectively targeted HTN and dyslipidemia in this population of African Americans who were at risk of cardiovascular disease.
Regional analgesia for labor often is initiated with an intrathecal injection of a local anesthetic and opioid. The purpose of this prospective, randomized, blinded study was to determine the optimal dose of intrathecal sufentanil when combined with 2.5 mg bupivacaine for labor analgesia.
One hundred seventy parous parturients with cervical dilation between 3-5 cm were randomized to receive intrathecal 0 (control), 2.5, 5.0, 7.5, or 10.0 microg sufentanil combined with 2.5 mg bupivacaine, followed by a lidocaine epidural test dose, for initiation of analgesia (34 patients in each group). Visual analog scores and the presence of nausea, vomiting, and pruritus were determined every 15 min until the patient requested additional analgesia. Fetal heart rate tracings were compared between groups.
Groups were similar for age, height, weight, oxytocin dose, duration of labor, and baseline visual analog scores. Duration of action was significantly shorter for control patients (39 +/- 25 min [mean +/- SD]) compared with those administered sufentanil, all doses (93 +/- 32, 93 +/- 47, 94 +/- 33, 97 +/- 39 min), but was not different among groups administered 2.5, 5.0, 7.5, or 10.0 microg sufentanil. More patients who received 10 microg sufentanil reported nausea and vomiting than did control patients. The severity of pruritus increased with administration of 7.5 and 10.0 microg sufentanil. There was no difference in fetal heart rate changes among groups.
Intrathecal bupivacaine (2.5 mg) without sufentanil did not provide satisfactory analgesia for parous patients. However, bupivacaine combined with 2.5 microg sufentanil provided analgesia comparable to higher doses, with a lower incidence of nausea and vomiting and less severe pruritus.
The development of suitable animal models of neuropathic pain is essential to understand the pathophysiological mechanisms responsible for this condition. This study presents the alterations in nociception observed in rats suffering from a peripheral neuropathy induced by 10 daily repeated intravenous injections of vincristine at doses of 50 or 75 microg/kg (total dose 500 or 750 microg/ kg). The rats present both mechanical hyperalgesia, allodynia and a loss of sensitivity (thermal hypoalgesia). Conservation of good health, the fast appearance of symptoms which correspond well with human responses and the easy induction of nociceptive symptoms are favourable criteria for using this model at 50 microg/kg vincristine dose in the future.
Epidemiologic evidence suggests that pulmonary diseases with a prominent chronic inflammatory component elevate lung cancer risk. Genetic manipulations of mouse models of lung inflammation and tumorigenesis can be used to investigate this association. The genes encoding pro-inflammatory tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha) and antiinflammatory IL-10 cytokines map within quantitative trait loci that regulate susceptibility to lung tumor development in mice; sensitive A/J and resistant C57BL/6J (B6) mice have different Tnfa and Il-10 alleles. Genetic ablation studies were performed to examine whether these genes would qualify as candidate tumor modifiers. Tnfa null (-/-) mice on a B6 background and B6.129 Il-10(-/-) mice were intercrossed with A/J mice and subjected to urethane carcinogenesis; lung tumor multiplicity was determined 20 weeks later. In the absence of one copy of Tnfa, tumor number. Male Il-10(+/+) mice developed more tumors than did female mice (P < 0.001), absence of one copy of Il-10 raised tumor number in female mice to that observed in +/+ males, but no change in multiplicity occurred in Il-10 hemizygous males. Thus, a deficit of pro-inflammatory TNFalpha decreased the number of tumors, whereas diminished gene copy number of anti-inflammatory IL-10 increased tumorigenesis; manifestation of an effect of Il-10 haploinsufficiency is gender dependent. These studies support a role for inflammation in lung cancer susceptibility.
Combined modalities are currently used for cancer therapy, although their mechanisms of activity remain incompletely deciphered. The design of new drug combinations suffers from our inability to anticipate accurately their efficacy or toxicity. They can be evaluated in vivo, using human tumors grafted into immunodeficient mice, as we did here with combined protocols used in the clinical setting. Xenografts of small cell lung carcinoma (SCLC) from eight patients were used to test the tumor sensitivity to etoposide (VP16; 12-16 mg/kg/days, days 1, 2, and 3), cisplatin (CDDP; 6-9 mg/kg/day, day 1) and ifosfamide (IFO; 90-210 mg/kg/day, days 1, 2, and 3) as single agents and to evaluate the efficacy of the two-drug or three-drug combinations. Five xenografts came from untreated patients (SCLC-61, SCLC-6, SCLC-10, SCLC-41, and SCLC-96) and three after treatment (SCLC-74, SCLC-101, and SCLC-108). p53 was inactivated in all of them. Tumor growth inhibition, growth delay, and the survival rate of tumor-bearing mice reflected individual SCLC chemosensitivity. As single agents, IFO inhibited tumor growth in a dose-dependent manner, whereas CDDP and VP16 had little or no effect. Both CDDP and IFO potentiated VP16, inducing complete regressions in the most sensitive SCLCs; VP16-IFO was more effective than VP16-CDDP, with complete regressions in six versus three of the eight tumors tested, respectively. CDDP-IFO was less effective than VP16-IFO, with three of eight SCLCs giving complete regressions. The three-drug combination led to modest improvement over the best two-drug combination but only for sensitive SCLCs. Because drug-responses distinguished two classes of SCLCs, as sensitive or refractory, MDR1, glutathione S-transferase pi, lung-related multidrug resistance protein, multidrug resistance protein, and topoisomerase IIalpha mRNA expression was studied by semiquantitative reverse transcription. There was no correlation with SCLC sensitivity; topoisomerase IIalpha and multidrug resistance protein was expressed in all cases, lung-related multidrug resistance protein and glutathione S-transferase pie in seven of eight, and MDR1 gene in four of eight. In conclusion, these SCLC xenografts displayed a pattern of chemotherapy response close to that observed in patients. This model confirmed that in two-drug combinations, each component potentiated the effects of the other, with VP16-IFO tending to be the best two-drug combination, both of which were more effective than VP16-CDDP and better tolerated than CDDP-IFO. The addition of a third agent gave a modest, if any, therapeutic benefit in the responders but none in refractory SCLCs. There was no correlation between the extent of response and resistance markers.
Ritodrine, a beta2-adrenergic agonist with a selective effect on the uterine muscle, is prescribed to prevent premature labor and to treat a hypertonic uterus. At therapeutic doses ritodrine has chronotropic and peripheral vasodilator effects. At high doses it has been related to sporadic cases of subendocardial necrosis, pulmonary edema, and death in pregnancy. We report the case of a pregnant woman who had a non-Q wave acute myocardial infarction after administration of ritodrine.
Hydroquinone (HQ) is a rodent carcinogen and a potential human carcinogen. Glutathione conjugation of HQ enhances its biological reactivity, and 2,3,5-tris-(glutathion-S-yl)hydroquinone (TGHQ) is a potent nephrotoxicant and nephrocarcinogen in the Eker rat. Moreover, a single exposure of primary epithelial cells derived from Eker rat kidneys to TGHQ transforms these cells into an immortalized phenotype (quinol-thioether transformed rat renal epithelial (QT-RRE) cells). The Eker rat bears a mutation in one allele of the tuberous sclerosis-2 (Tsc-2) tumor suppressor gene, which predisposes the animals to the development of spontaneous and chemical-induced renal cell carcinoma. Thus, the Eker rat provides a unique model for elucidating the mechanisms of renal tubular epithelial carcinogeneisis. cDNA microarray analysis of QT-RRE3 cells and of tumor tissue derived from the kidneys of Eker rats treated with TGHQ revealed alterations (by threefold or greater) in the expression of a total of 80 genes. Fifteen percent of these genes exhibited similar expression patterns in both QT-RRE cells and tumor tissue. The differentially expressed genes primarily participate in three major areas: (1) signal transduction or in the regulation of signal transduction (extracellular signal regulated kinase 2 (ERK2); protein kinase CK2; protein kinase B; c-jun; NF-kappaB; ras-related GTPases; annexins), (2) stress response, tissue remodeling, and DNA repair (glutathione-S-transferases; procollagen c proteinase enhancer; plasminogen activator; tissue inhibitor of metalloprotease 3; apurinic/apyrimidic endonuclease), and (3) electron transport and energy homeostasis (cytochrome c oxidase subunits). The changes in the expression of many of these genes was confirmed by reverse transcription (RT)-polymerase chain reactions (PCR) using primers specific for the differentially expressed genes. As an example, the annexin I and II genes, implicated in signal transduction, were highly induced in tumor tissue and also in dysplastic lesions isolated from the kidneys of rats treated chronically with TGHQ. The annexin I and II proteins were also upregulated in tumor tissue, which probably play an important role in TGHQ-induced nephrocarcinogenesis. Moreover, in the present study, a tumorigenicity assay using athymic nude mice revealed that QT-RRE cell lines formed tumors when injected in the subcutis of nude mice, providing evidence that the cells are malignantly transformed. Histopathological analysis further indicated that the tumors were composed of neoplastic cells, resembling renal carcinoma cells with varying degrees of atypia, with the presence of apoptotic and mitotic figures.
Cis-diamminedichloroplatinum II (CDDP)-induced nephrotoxicity is associated with the overproduction of reactive oxygen species. tert-Butylhydroquinone (tBHQ) is a compound widely used as food antioxidant. The purpose of this study was to investigate the ability of tBHQ to prevent the nephrotoxic effect of CDDP in rats as well as the mechanisms involved. Thirty-six Wistar rats divided in the following groups were used: control, tBHQ (12.5mg/kg), CDDP (7.5mg/kg) and tBHQ+CDDP. Twenty-four h urine was collected at the beginning and at the end of the experiment and the rats were sacrificed 72h after CDDP-administration. Histological studies were performed and markers of renal function and oxidative/nitrosative stress were measured. In addition, the activity of the following antioxidant enzymes was measured: glutathione peroxidase (GPx), superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione reductase (GR) and glutathione-S-transferase (GST). CDDP-induced renal dysfunction, structural damage and oxidative/nitrosative were prevented by tBHQ. In addition, tBHQ completely prevented the CDDP-induced fall in GPx and GST activities. In conclusion, the present study indicates that the antioxidant activity of tBHQ is associated with its nephroprotective effect against CDDP-induced acute kidney injury in rats.
Twenty-two patients with primary biliary cirrhosis were treated with ursodeoxycholic acid, 10 mg/kg per day. Fourteen patients with stages I/II were treated for 4-12 years (mean 7.5), and eight patients with stages III/IV for 5-12 years (mean 6.5). Twelve of 13 patients with early stages became asymptomatic. Aminotransferases, cholestasis-indicating enzymes and IgM improved (p < 0.01) and remained low during the whole treatment period. Ursodeoxycholic acid was the predominant serum bile acid, and lithocholic acid did not increase in the serum but did increase in the stool. Of eight patients with stages III/IV, seven were symptomatic, and four became asymptomatic. In all eight patients, laboratory data improved. Of these eight patients three experienced haemorrhage from oesophageal varices, two had to be transplanted, and one of them died. In one patient splenic rupture occurred, and in three liver function tests deteriorated. Although the number of patients was small, this is the longest treatment period so far reported. Ursodeoxycholic acid had no side effects for up to 12 years, and in patients with early stages it seemed to have a beneficial effect on symptoms and the progression of the disease. However, even with up to 12 years of therapy, ursodeoxycholic acid did not cause antimitochondrial antibodies to disappear either in the early or in the late stages, it was unable to prevent rebound effects during therapy intermission even after more than 5 years of continuous therapy, there was no decisive influence on liver histology and it did not cure the disease. Finally, although ursodeoxycholic acid improved life quality and laboratory data in all patients with late stages of the disease, it did not prevent complications due to cirrhosis.
The chromophore-modified derivative of doxorubicin, 4-demethyl-6-O-methyl-doxorubicin, has been tested for antitumor activity in a range of experimental murine tumor systems. In contrast to the inactive 6-O-methyl derivative of daunorubicin, 4-demethyl-6-O-methyl-doxorubicin provided antitumor effects comparable to that of the parent compound. In addition, detailed DNA-interaction studies showed that the doxorubicin derivative retains the ability to bind DNA by the intercalation mechanism. However, the binding affinity was appreciably reduced following structural modification in the anthraquinone chromophore. On the basis of the proposed models of intercalation, these results could be rationalized in terms of steric influence of the bulky methoxy group. The results of this study are in agreement with the correlation already observed between DNA binding and relative antitumor activity of anthracyclines.
