To determine the role of amifostine as a protectant against cisplatin-induced ototoxicity in patients with average-risk (AR) medulloblastoma treated with craniospinal radiotherapy and four cycles of cisplatin-based, dose-intense chemotherapy and stem-cell rescue.
The primary objective was to determine whether, in patients with AR medulloblastoma (n = 62), amifostine would decrease the need for hearing aids (defined as >or= grade 3 ototoxicity in one ear) compared with a control group (n = 35), 1 year from initiating treatment. Ninety-seven patients received craniospinal irradiation (23.4 Gy) followed by 55.8 Gy to the primary tumor bed using three-dimensional conformal technique, and four cycles of high-dose cyclophosphamide (4,000 mg/m(2)/cycle), cisplatin (75 mg/m(2)/cycle), and vincristine (two 1.5 mg/m(2) doses/cycle) and stem-cell rescue. When used, amifostine (600 mg/m(2)/dose) was administered as a bolus immediately before and 3 hours into the cisplatin infusion.
The median age of the 97 patients was 8.7 years (range, 3.2 to 20.2 years). The study and control groups were similar in age and sex distribution. Amifostine was well-tolerated. One year after treatment initiation, 13 patients (37.1%) in the control group versus nine (14.5%; one-sided chi(2) test P = .005) of the amifostine-treated patients had at least grade 3 ototoxicity, requiring hearing aid in at least one ear.
Amifostine administered before and during the cisplatin infusion can significantly reduce the risk of severe ototoxicity in patients with AR medulloblastoma receiving dose-intense chemotherapy.
To assess the safety and efficacy of sunitinib in patients with bevacizumab-refractory metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC) and explore biomarkers for sunitinib response.
Patients with mRCC and disease progression after bevacizumab-based therapy received oral sunitinib 50 mg once daily in 6-week cycles on a 4/2 schedule (4 weeks with treatment followed by 2 weeks without treatment) in a phase II multicenter study. The primary end point was objective response rate (ORR). Secondary end points included progression-free survival (PFS), duration of response (DR), overall survival (OS), and safety. Plasma soluble proteins (vascular endothelial growth factor [VEGF]-A, VEGF-C, soluble VEGF receptor [sVEGFR]-3, and placental growth factor [PlGF]) levels were measured.
Sixty-one patients were enrolled. The ORR was 23.0% (95% CI, 13.2% to 35.5%), median PFS was 30.4 weeks (95% CI, 18.3 to 36.7 weeks), median DR was 44.1 weeks (95% CI, 25.0 to 102.7 weeks), and median OS was 47.1 weeks (95% CI, 36.9 to 79.4 weeks). Mean plasma VEGF-A and PlGF levels significantly increased whereas VEGF-C and sVEGFR-3 levels decreased with sunitinib treatment. Lower baseline levels of sVEGFR-3 and VEGF-C were associated with longer PFS and ORR. Most treatment-related adverse events were of mild-to-moderate intensity and included fatigue, hypertension, and hand-foot syndrome.
Sunitinib has substantial antitumor activity in patients with bevacizumab-refractory mRCC and modulates circulating VEGF pathway biomarkers. These data support the hypothesis that sunitinib inhibits signaling pathways involved in bevacizumab resistance. Baseline levels of sVEGFR-3 and VEGF-C may have potential utility as biomarkers of clinical efficacy in this setting.
Anaplastic gliomas constitute a heterogeneous group of tumors with different therapeutic responses to adjuvant chemotherapy with alkylating agents. O6-Methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT), a DNA repair protein, is one of the implicated factors in glioma chemoresistance. The prognostic value of MGMT remains controversial due in part to the fact that previous published studies included heterogeneous groups of patients with different tumor grades. The aim of this study was to evaluate the prognostic significance of MGMT in patients with anaplastic glioma.
Ninety-three patients with anaplastic glioma were analyzed for MGMT protein expression by immunohistochemistry. In addition, for those patients from whom a good yield of DNA was obtained (n = 40), MGMT promoter methylation profile was analyzed by methylation-specific PCR. MGMT prognostic significance was evaluated together with other well-known prognostic factors.
Fifty-one tumors (54.8%) showed nuclear staining of MGMT. There was a trend towards longer overall survival for those patients with negative MGMT immunostaining (hazard ratio, 1.66; P = 0.066). In a secondary analysis including those patients who actually received chemotherapy (n = 72), the absence of MGMT expression was independently associated with better survival (hazard ratio, 2.12; P = 0.027). MGMT promoter methylation was observed in 50% of the analyzed tumors. No statistical correlation between MGMT expression and MGMT promoter hypermethylation was observed.
Unlike previous studies, we did not find a correlation between MGMT promoter methylation and survival. However, we observed a correlation between MGMT protein expression and survival in those patients who received chemotherapy thus suggesting that the absence of MGMT expression is a positive predictive marker in patients with anaplastic glioma.
This is a case report of transient neurologic symptoms (TNS) after spinal anesthesia with 4% hyperbaric mepivacaine,which have not been reported before. The patient was a 44-year-old man with a meniscus lesion who received spinal anesthesia with 80 mg 4% mepivacaine while undergoing knee arthroscopy. A L3-L4 mid-line approach was used with a 26-gauge Quincke needle and a 21-gauge introducer. The local anaesthetic was injected over approximately 30 s with the aperture of the Quincke needle in a cephalad direction. A transient pain syndrome was observed 4 h after spinal anesthesia, which included symmetric pain and/or dysesthesia in the buttocks and posterior thighs appearing 4 h after recovery from the spinal anesthesia and had a duration of 2 days. The patient stated that the pain radiated through the hips, buttocks, and posterior thighs and extended past the buttocks and lower legs. The pain was described as strong and aching,occasionally decreasing when walking around. It responded well to NSAID and resolved spontaneously within 3 days. No other neurologic symptoms or signs were noted.
Hepatocyte tight junctions (TJs), the only intercellular barrier between the sinusoidal and the canalicular spaces, play a key role in bile formation. Although hepatocyte TJs are impaired in cholestasis, attempts to localize the precise site of hepatocyte TJ damage by freeze-fracture electron microscopy have produced limited information. Recently, several TJ-associated proteins like ZO-1 and 7H6 have been identified and characterized. Immunolocalization of 7H6 appears to closely correlate with paracellular permeability. We used rat models of intrahepatic cholestasis by ethinyl estradiol (EE) treatment and extrahepatic cholestasis by bile duct ligation (BDL) to precisely determine the site of TJ damage. Alterations in hepatocyte TJs were assessed by double-immunolabeling for 7H6 and ZO-1 using a confocal laser scanning microscope. In control rats, immunostaining for 7H6 and ZO-1 colocalized to outline bile canaliculi in a continuous fashion. In contrast, 7H6 and ZO-1 immunostaining was more discontinuous, outlining the bile canaliculi after BDL. Immunostaining for 7H6, not ZO-1, decreased and predominantly appeared as discrete signals in the submembranous cytoplasm of periportal hepatocytes after BDL. After EE treatment, changes in immunostaining for 7H6 and ZO-1 were similar to those seen in periportal hepatocytes after BDL, but distributed more diffusely throughout the lobule. This study is the first to demonstrate that impairment of hepatocyte TJs occurs heterogenously in the liver lobule after BDL and suggests that BDL and EE treatments produce different lobular distributions of increased paracellular permeability.
In three parallel groups, brief and intermittent administration and withdrawal of triazolam, 0.5 mg, temazepam, 30 mg, and placebo were assessed in a 12-night sleep laboratory study of 18 subjects with insomnia. With this intermittent schedule both drugs improved sleep, with about one-third reduction in total wake time; this reduction was significant for temazepam but not for triazolam. Even though the periods of drug administration were quite brief, withdrawal of triazolam consistently produced rebound insomnia, with increases in total wake time above baseline of 61% and 51%, respectively, for the first night of each withdrawal period. With temazepam this effect was more variable, with total wake time increased only with the second withdrawal period (39%). Thus these findings indicate that even under conditions of brief, intermittent use and withdrawal, triazolam and, to a lesser degree, temazepam produce rebound insomnia after abrupt withdrawal, thereby predisposing to drug-taking behavior and increasing the potential for drug dependence.
To clarify the potential usefulness of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, NSAIDs, for patients with overactive bladder, we examined the effect of NSAIDs on urodynamic parameters in normal and cystitis rats and compared their ulcerogenic activity in the gastrointestinal mucosa. Cystometry was performed after administration of the conventional NSAIDs, aspirin, indomethacin, or ketoprofen. Prostaglandin levels were measured in the bladder of cystitis rats pretreated with NSAIDs. Furthermore, the ulcerogenic responses were examined. NSAIDs increased bladder capacity without any effect on micturition pressure in normal rats in the following rank order of potency: ketoprofen > or = indomethacin > or = aspirin. In cystitis rats, bladder capacity was increased and micturition frequency was decreased. The levels of prostaglandin were significantly increased in cystitis rats. All NSAIDs inhibited the increment of prostaglandin levels at doses equal to that effective in the improvement of bladder functions. When administered intraduodenally, both ketoprofen and indomethacin induced lesions in the gastrointestinal mucosa. However, aspirin had no significant effect. We demonstrate that NSAIDs are effective in animal models of disease, most likely by suppressing by prostaglandin synthesis. Since aspirin, in contrast to ketoprofen or indomethacin, did not cause any gastrointestinal lesions, aspirin might be the NSAIDs treatment of choice for overactive bladder.
The HSP90 chaperone and immunophilin FKBPL is an estrogen-responsive gene that interacts with estogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) and regulates its levels. In this study, we explored the effects of FKBPL on breast cancer proliferation. Breast cancer cells stably overexpressing FKBPL became dependent on estrogen for their growth and were dramatically more sensitive to the antiestrogens tamoxifen and fulvestrant, whereas FKBPL knockdown reverses this phenotype. FKBPL knockdown also decreased the levels of the cell cycle inhibitor p21WAF1 and increased ERalpha phosphorylation on Ser(118) in response to 17beta-estradiol and tamoxifen. In support of the likelihood that these effects explained FKBPL-mediated cell growth inhibition and sensitivity to endocrine therapies, FKBPL expression was correlated with increased overall survival and distant metastasis-free survival in breast cancer patients. Our findings suggest that FKBPL may have prognostic value based on its impact on tumor proliferative capacity and sensitivity to endocrine therapies, which improve outcome.
A bioassay of 2-aminoanthraquinone for possible carcinogenicity was conducted using Fischer 344 rats and B6C3F1 mice. 2-Aminoanthraquinone was administered in the feed, at either of two concentrations (except for female rats), to groups of 50 male and 50 female animals of each species. The time-weighted average dietary concentrations used in the chronic bioassay were 0.69 and 0.35 percent for high and low dose male rats, respectively, 0.2 percent for the treated female rats, and 1.0 and 0.5 percent, respectively, for high and low dose mice of both sexes. After a 78-week period of chemical administration (80 weeks for high dose mice), observation of the rats continued for up to an additional 32, weeks and observation of the mice continued for up to an additional 16 weeks. In both species adequate numbers of animals in all groups, except the treated female rats, survived sufficiently long to be at risk from late-developing tumors. The survival among treated female rats was poor and, as a result, no conclusions could be made regarding the carcinogenicity of the compound in these animals. When male rats having either hepatocellular carcinomas or neoplastic nodules of the liver were combined and the resulting tumor incidences were analyzed statistically, there was a significant positive association between dosage and the incidences of these combined neoplasms. Hepatocellular carcinomas were observed at significantly higher incidences when dosed mice were compared to controls. There was a significantly higher incidence of malignant hematopoietic lymphomas in high dose female mice when compared to controls. Under the conditions of this bioassay, dietary administration of 2-aminoanthraquinone was carcinogenic in male Fischer 344 rats, causing a combination of hepatocellular carcinomas and neoplastic nodules of the liver. The compound was also carcinogenic in B6C3F1 mice, causing hepatocellular carcinomas in both sexes and malignant hematopoietic lymphomas in females.
The subjects of the study were 94 patients with pulmonary arterial thromboembolism (PATE). The prevalence of thrombophilic conditions (TC) among these patients was studied, and their role in the development of an unfavorable clinical course of PATE was evaluated. A three-year prospective study revealed that pre-thrombotic conditions had been diagnosed in 90% of PATE patients. There is a strong correlation between an unfavorable course of PATE and the presence of isolated or combined genetic mutations, or a combination of those with an increase of factor VIII level, and a high titer of cardiolipin antibodies with a mutation in factor V gene. Occurrence of PATE in patients less than 40 years of age who suffer from an idiopathic type of venous thrombosis and have a family background of thrombophilic conditions, which requires a detailed hematological examination, is a predictor of unfavorable course of PATE in the post-hospital period. Purposeful pharmaceutical correction of thrombophilic conditions lowers the frequency of venous thrombosis recurrence from 39% to 17%, the frequency of cava-filter thrombosis recurrence from 24% to 3.7%, and the frequency of PATE recurrence from 15% to 5.6%.
Garlic constituent diallyl trisulfide (DATS) inhibits growth of cancer cells in vitro and in vivo by causing apoptosis, but the sequence of events leading to cell death is not fully understood. We now show that DATS treatment triggers mitochondria-mediated apoptosis program in human prostate cancer cells (LNCaP, LNCaP-C81, LNCaP-C4-2) irrespective of their androgen responsiveness. Interestingly, a normal prostate epithelial cell line (PrEC) is significantly more resistant to apoptosis induction by DATS compared with prostate cancer cells. The DATS-induced apoptosis in LNCaP cells correlated with the collapse of mitochondrial membrane potential, modest increase in protein level of Bak, and down-regulation of Bcl-2 and Bcl-xL protein levels. The DATS-induced apoptosis was significantly attenuated by knockdown of Bax and Bak proteins, but not by ectopic expression of either Bcl-2 or Bcl-xL. The DATS treatment caused generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in LNCaP cells, but not in PrEC, which was attenuated by pretreatment with antioxidant N-acetylcysteine. The N-acetylcysteine pretreatment conferred significant protection against DATS-mediated disruption of the mitochondrial membrane potential and apoptosis. In conclusion, the present study reveals that the mitochondria-mediated cell death by DATS is associated with ROS generation and regulated by Bax/Bak but independent of Bcl-2 or Bcl-xL.
All patients taking methotrexate for treatment of psoriasis over the past 5 yr have been reviewed. Thirty-eight patients have had pretreatment liver biopsies and at least 1 repeat liver biopsy. Of the 38, nine (24%) have developed significant liver fibrosis or cirrhosis, and have stopped treatment. The high incidence of fibrosis is attributed to synergism between methotrexate and other hepatotoxic factors, particularly alcohol, the use of a baseline biopsy to identify subsequent changes, and the early detection of fibrosis by sensitive histological techniques.
Blockage of the metastasis process remains a significant clinical challenge, requiring innovative therapeutic approaches. For this purpose, molecules that inhibit matrix metalloproteinases activity or induce the expression of their natural inhibitor, the tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases (TIMPs), are potentially interesting. In a previous study, we have shown that synthetic ligands binding to cell surface nucleolin/nucleophosmin and known as HB 19 for the lead compound and NucAnt 6L (N6L) for the most potent analog, inhibit both tumor growth and angiogenesis. Furthermore, they prevent metastasis in a RET transgenic mice model which develops melanoma. Here, we investigated the effect of N6L on the invasion capacity of MDA-MB-435 melanoma cells. Our results show that the multivalent pseudopeptide N6L inhibited Matrigel invasion of MDA-MB-435 cells in a modified Boyden chamber model. This was associated with an increase in TIMP-3 in the cell culture medium without a change in TIMP-3 mRNA expression suggesting its release from cell surface and/or extracellular matrix. This may be explained by our demonstrated N6L interaction with sulfated glycosaminoglycans and consequently the controlled bioavailability of glycosaminoglycan-bound TIMP-3. The implication of TIMP-3 in N6L-induced inhibition of cell invasion was evidenced by siRNA silencing experiments showing that the loss of TIMP-3 expression abrogated the effect of N6L. The inhibition of tumor cell invasion by N6L demonstrated in this study, in addition to its previously established inhibitory effect on tumor growth and angiogenesis, suggests that N6L represents a promising anticancer drug candidate warranting further investigation.
Asthma is one of the most common chronic diseases in children and adults. Recent studies have shown that in asthmatic patients treated with inhaled corticosteroids there is a better disease’s control when adding a second drug, than increasing the corticosteroid’s dose. The aim of this study has been to evaluate the effectiveness and tolerance of zafirlukast, a leukotriene receptor antagonist, versus budesonide in clinically steady patients with mild persistent bronchial asthma. We have enrolled 36 subjects non smokers, with mild persistent bronchial asthma and 12 healthy subjects as control group. At the beginning of this study and at the end of the treatment (8 weeks), all patients underwent complete clinical work-up, pulmonary function testing (FEV1, PEF and FVC) and methacholine challenge test. The patients were divided into 3 groups: group A) 20 mg of zafirlukast twice a day; group B) 400 mg of budesonide twice a day; group C) 20 mg of zafirlukast twice a day and 400 mg of budesonide twice a day. Basal FEV1 and PEF presented no significant statistical differences between control subjects and patients of group A, B and C. After eight weeks there were no significant changes for FEV1 and PEF among the three groups. After therapy a strong significant increase of PD20 was documented in group A (p&#x003C;0.005), group B (p&#x003C;0.001) and group C (p&#x003C;0.005), respect to baseline values. The antileukotriene drugs could be taken as an alternative drug, or in association with low-dose inhaled corticosteroids, in patients with mild persistent asthma, both for their clinical effectiveness and their easy ingestion, which is confirmed in compliance studies on inhaled steroids.
Bleeding is the main adverse effect of all vitamin K antagonists. Fluindione, an indanedione derivative, can also have serious immunoallergic adverse effects. Several hypersensitivity reactions affecting various organ systems have been reported in detail in patients taking fluindione, mainly cutaneous, hepatic or renal disorders, often associated with fever. Cases of isolated kidney and liver damage have also been reported. Fluindione has been linked to cases of acute generalised exanthematic pustulosis. An immunoallergic mechanism is suspected, based on several factors, including the involvement of several organs, the types of damage, the chronological sequence of events, outcome after fluindione withdrawal, and cases of positive rechallenge. About a hundred reports of non-haemorrhagic adverse effects attributed to fluindione were recorded in the French pharmacovigilance database during the course of a single year (July 2008 to June 2009). In practice, when anticoagulant therapy with a vitamin K antagonist is needed, it is better to use warfarin, the best-assessed oral anticoagulant. If fluindione is nonetheless prescribed, the patient must not only be taught how to manage vitamin K antagonist therapy but also how to recognise signs of hypersensitivity.
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome, a rare but potentially fatal side effect of antipsychotic medications, has often proven refractory to conventional antiparkinsonian medications. The authors report a dramatic response of this syndrome to the dopamine agonist bromocriptine mesylate in a patient receiving fluphenazine decanoate.
The bioassay of nithiazide for possible carcinogenicity was conducted using Fischer 344 rats and B6C3F1 mice. Nithiazide was administered in the diet, at either of two concentrations, to groups of 50 male and 50 female animals of each species. The high and low concentrations of nithiazide utilized were, respectively, 1,250 and 625 ppm for rats and 5,000 and 2,500 ppm for mice. Dosed rats received feed containing nithiazide for 38 weeks, and as a result of a shortage of nithiazide, the animals were not fed the dosed feed for the next 9 weeks. The dosed feed diet was then resumed and continued for 56 weeks, after which time a 1-week observation period followed. Dosed mice received feed containing nithiazide for 61 weeks and, due to a shortage of nithiazide, the animals were not fed dosed feed for the next 9 weeks. The dosed feed diet was then resumed and continued for 33 weeks, followed by a 1-week observation period. Twenty animals of each sex and species were placed on test as controls. In both species, adequate numbers of animals survived sufficiently long to be at risk from late-developing tumors. There was no significant positive association between dosage and mortality for either rats or mice. Compound-related mean body weight depression occurred in both sexes of each species. Statistically significant incidences of hepatocellular adenomas and carcinomas were found in high dose male mice but not in female mice. Although the increased incidences of these tumors in dosed female mice were not statistically significant, the evidence presented was strongly suggestive of carcinogenicity to the liver in female B6C3F1 mice. Statistically significant increased incidences of a combination of mammary and skin fibroadenomas and cystadenomas NOS were found in the high dose female rats. No unusual tumors were observed in either species. Under the conditions of this bioassay, nithiazide was carcinogenic in male and probably female B6C3F1 mice, causing a combination of hepatocellular carcinomas and hepatocellular adenomas. Nithiazide was also carcinogenic in female Fischer 344 rats, causing an increase in the incidence of mammary neoplasms. The compound was not carcinogenic in male Fischer 344 rats.
We report the case of a 25-year-old black female from Zaire with AIDS diagnosed 2 years earlier. Nine months before her death, she was treated for a disseminated Kaposi sarcoma with vincristin, adryamycin and bleomycin. At that time, visual acuity was normal and ophthalmologic examination was unremarkable except for the presence of bilateral Drusen and a cotton wool spot OS. Three months after the onset of chemotherapy, the patient complained of progressive visual field constriction, which progressed to blindness within a 4 month period. Five months after the onset of the tri-therapy a bilateral CMV retinitis developed, which was successfully treated by intravitreous injections of ganciclovir. This therapy was stopped as soon as blindness was established, with subsequent massive bilateral recurrence of the CMV retinitis. Histologic examination showed complete atrophy of the retinal ganglion cells and areas of CMV retinitis. The optic nerve was demyelinated and exhibited astrocytic gliosis. Immunohistochemistry confirmed the presence of CMV in infected retina and revealed the absence in the optic nerve of the class III beta-tubulin isotype and of the 200 kd neurofilament subunit. In contrast, oculomotor nerves appeared intact. The presence of HIV in the eye and in the optic nerve was excluded using PCR technique. The retinal ganglion cell loss and optic nerve atrophy appeared to be purely degenerative in nature, since there was no evidence of vascular occlusion, inflammation or retrobulbar compressive process. We therefore conclude that blindness was caused by vincristine therapy. The patient actually received 22 mg of vincristin intravenously in 11 courses over 7 months, although discontinuation was recommended by us after 5 months.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To explore the relationship between genetic polymorphisms of XPD gene and susceptibility to chronic benzene poisoning.
A case control study was conducted. Eighty patients diagnosed with chronic benzene poisoning and 62 workers occupationally exposed to benzene who were engaged in the same working time and job title as patients were investigated. PCR-RFLP was used for detecting the single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) on codon156, codon312 and codon751 of XPD gene.
There was a 2.903 times (95% CI: 1.054 - 7.959, P = 0.039 2) increased risk of chronic benzene poisoning in the subjects carrying XPD 751Gln variant allele compared with those carrying XPD 751Lys/Lys genotype, after adjusted for sex, length of service, smoking and drinking status.
The subjects with XPD 751Gln variant allele are more susceptive to benzene.
Changes in mitochondrial and sarcoplasmic proteins using proteinomics and Western blotting in hearts from copper-deficient rats were explored in this study. Also, key enzymes that are involved in cardiac energy metabolism via glycolysis and fatty acid oxidation and related transcription factors were determined. Rats were fed one of two diets: a copper-adequate diet containing 6 mg Cu/kg diet or a diet with less than 1 mg Cu/kg diet for 5 weeks. Copper deficiency was confirmed by low liver copper levels, decreased hematocrit levels and cardiac hypertrophy. Proteinomic data revealed that of the more than 50 proteins identified from the mitochondrial fraction of heart tissue, six were significantly down-regulated and nine were up-regulated. The proteins that were decreased were beta enolase 3, carbonic anhydrase 2, aldose reductase 1, glutathione peroxidase, muscle creatine kinase and mitochondrial aconitase 2. The proteins that were up-regulated were isocitrate dehydrogenase, dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase, transferrin, subunit d of ATP synthase, transthyretin, preproapolipoprotein A-1, GRP 75, alpha-B crystalline and heat shock protein alpha. Follow-up Western blots on rate-limiting enzymes in glycolysis (phosphofructose kinase), fatty acid oxidation (medium chain acyl dehydrogenase, peroxisome proliferator-actvator receptor-alpha or PPARalpha) and gluconeogenesis (phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase) did not reveal changes in metabolic enzymes. However, a significant increase in peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma coactivator (PGC)-1alpha protein, as well as the transcript, which increased 2.5-fold, was observed. It would appear that increased mitochondrial biogenesis known to occur in copper deficiency hearts is caused by an increased expression in the master regulator of mitochondrial biogenesis, PGC-1alpha.
In a double-blind, crossover study, 103 patients with Parkinson's disease and nocturnal and/or early-morning disabilities took a bedtime dose of either Madopar CR (controlled-release levodopa plus benserazide) or standard Madopar, in addition to their usual daytime levodopa regimen. The mean optimum dosages were as follows: Madopar CR, 2.4 125 mg capsules; standard Madopar, 2.2 125 mg capsules. Assessment by daily patient diary and the doctor's record showed that nocturnal and early-morning disability was reduced by both treatments compared with at the start of the study, the difference being statistically significant. Improvement occurred in a similar number of patients when taking Madopar CR or standard Madopar (nocturnal disability improved in 61% on Madopar CR, and 57% on standard Madopar: early-morning disability improved in 46% on Madopar CR, and 44% on standard Madopar) and the percentage of patients wishing to continue on each treatment was also similar (64% on Madopar CR, and 55% on standard Madopar). However, in two-thirds of all cases, both doctor and patient felt that there was a difference between the treatments. Both Madopar CR and standard Madopar were of benefit to patients with nocturnal disability and, to a lesser extent, to those with early-morning problems. However, some patients responded better to Madopar CR and some to standard Madopar.
Southeast Asia is experiencing an epidemic of methamphetamine use, a drug associated with risky sexual behaviors, putting a large segment of the population at increased risk for sexually transmitted infections (STIs) and HIV and in need of prevention efforts. Incidence estimates of STIs are rare in Southeast Asia, especially among newer risk groups.
We enrolled methamphetamine users aged 18 to 25 years in a 12-month randomized behavioral intervention trial in Chiang Mai, Thailand in 2005. Behavioral questionnaires were administered at visits every 3 months, and biologic specimens were collected at baseline and 12 months to test for common STIs (chlamydia, gonorrhea, HSV-2, and HIV). Poisson regression with robust variance was used to determine risk factors for incident STIs.
Overall, 12.7% of 519 participants acquired at least 1 STI. Chlamydia was the most common (10.6%), followed by HSV-2 (4.0%), gonorrhea (2.9%), and HIV (0.6%). Risk factors for both men and women included self-reported incarceration and having a casual sex partner during follow-up, and having a prevalent STI at baseline. Additionally, among women, having 2 or more heterosexual partners, and among men, having a greater frequency of drunkenness were risk factors for STI acquisition.
Although HIV incidence is low in this population, incidence of other STIs is high compared with previous studies of young Thai adults. Risk factors for acquisition emphasize the need for new prevention strategies targeted toward current populations at risk.
Furan is a chemical hepatocarcinogen in mice and rats. Its previously postulated cancer mode of action (MOA) is chronic cytotoxicity followed by sustained regenerative proliferation; however, its molecular basis is unknown. To this end, we conducted toxicogenomic analysis of B3C6F1 mouse livers following three week exposures to non-carcinogenic (0, 1, 2mg/kgbw) or carcinogenic (4 and 8mg/kgbw) doses of furan. We saw enrichment for pathways responsible for cytotoxicity: stress-activated protein kinase (SAPK) and death receptor (DR5 and TNF-alpha) signaling, and proliferation: extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs) and TNF-alpha. We also noted the involvement of NF-kappaB and c-Jun in response to furan, which are genes that are known to be required for liver regeneration. Furan metabolism by CYP2E1 produces cis-2-butene-1,4-dial (BDA), which is required for ensuing cytotoxicity and oxidative stress. NRF2 is a master regulator of gene expression during oxidative stress and we suggest that chronic NFR2 activity and chronic inflammation may represent critical transition events between the adaptive (regeneration) and adverse (cancer) outcomes. Another objective of this study was to demonstrate the applicability of toxicogenomics data in quantitative risk assessment. We modeled benchmark doses for our transcriptional data and previously published cancer data, and observed consistency between the two. Margin of exposure values for both transcriptional and cancer endpoints were also similar. In conclusion, using furan as a case study we have demonstrated the value of toxicogenomics data in elucidating dose-dependent MOA transitions and in quantitative risk assessment.
The protective effect of eugenol and its possible mechanisms were investigated in rats with acute doxorubicin cardiotoxicity. Cardiac toxicity was induced by a single intraperitoneal injection of doxorubicin (20 mg/kg). Eugenol treatment (5 mg/kg/day, orally) was started 2 days before doxorubicin administration and continued for five consecutive days. Eugenol significantly reduced the elevated serum creatine kinase and lactate dehydrogenase levels, and restored the electrocardiographic disturbances resulted from doxorubicin administration. Also, eugenol reversed doxorubicin-induced deficits in the antioxidant defense mechanisms, decreased lipid peroxidation and attenuated the elevations in cytosolic Ca(2+) and nitric oxide levels in cardiac tissue. In addition, doxorubicin-induced cardiac tissue damage observed by histopathological examination was markedly ameliorated with eugenol. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that eugenol prevented the doxorubicin-induced activation of caspase-3 in cardiomyocytes. The cardioprotective effect afforded by eugenol was not significantly inhibited by prior administration of capsazepine, the transient potential vanilloid receptor-1 antagonist. It was concluded that eugenol, through its antioxidant activity and its ability to reduce cardiac Ca(2+) accumulation and nitric oxide levels, is a potential candidate to protect against acute doxorubicin cardiotoxicity, a major and dose-limiting clinical problem.
Metoclopramide hydrochloride (MCPH) is dopamine antagonist antiemetic drug that binds D2 receptor at the central nervous system and peripheral levels, which stimulates the upper gastrointestinal tract motility. It is often used in the management of some forms of nausea and vomiting (1-3). Occupational allergy to drugs is seldom reported. No case of occupational allergy to MCPH have been reported, to date. We present a case of airborne allergic asthma in a worker employed in the synthesis of Metoclopramide hydrochloride.
