O(6)-Alkylguanine-DNA alkyltransferase (AGT) mediates tumor resistance to alkylating agents that generate guanine O(6)-chloroethyl (Onrigin™ and carmustine) and O(6)-methyl (temozolomide) lesions; however, the relative efficiency of AGT protection against these lesions and the degree of resistance to these agents that a given number of AGT molecules produces are unclear. Measured from differential cytotoxicity in AGT-ablated and AGT-intact HL-60 cells containing 17,000 AGT molecules/cell, AGT produced 12- and 24-fold resistance to chloroethylating (90CE) and methylating (KS90) analogs of Onrigin™, respectively. For 50% growth inhibition, KS90 and 90CE generated 5,600 O(6)-methylguanines/cell and ∼300 O(6)-chloroethylguanines/cell, respectively. AGT repaired O(6)-methylguanines until the AGT pool was exhausted, while its repair of O(6)-chloroethylguanines was incomplete due to progression of the lesions to AGT-irreparable interstrand DNA cross-links. Thus, the smaller number of O(6)-chloroethylguanine lesions needed for cytotoxicity accounted for the marked degree of resistance (12-fold) to 90CE produced by AGT. Transfection of human or murine AGT into AGT deficient transplantable tumor cells (i.e., EMT6, M109 and U251) generated transfectants expressing AGT ranging from 4,000 to 700,000 molecules/cell. In vitro growth inhibition assays using these transfectants treated with 90CE revealed that AGT caused a concentration dependent resistance up to a level of ∼10,000 AGT molecules/cell. This finding was corroborated by in vivo studies where expression of 4,000 and 10,000 murine AGT molecules/cell rendered EMT6 tumors partially and completely resistant to Onrigin™, respectively. These studies imply that the antitumor activity of Onrigin™ stems from guanine O(6)-chloroethylation and define the threshold concentration of AGT that negates its antineoplastic activity.
Fluoxetine, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, has been reported to be superior in its antiaggressive properties as compared with other antidepressants. The objective of the study was to investigate whether the effect of a minimal effective dose of fluoxetine could be potentiated by the alpha2-adrenergic agonist clonidine.
Vehicle (1.0 mL/kg), clonidine (0.1 mg/kg), fluoxetine (10 mg/kg), and their combination [clonidine (0.1 mg/kg) plus fluoxetine (10 mg/kg)] were injected into apomorphine-pretreated (1.0 mg/kg, once daily during 12 days) aggressive adult male Wistar rats.
Repeated apomorphine treatment induced a gradual development of aggressive behavior. Combined clonidine and fluoxetine treatment attenuated the intensity of aggressive behavior, while these drugs alone had only a weak tendency toward reduction of aggression. Latency before the first attack was unchanged.
Our experiments confirm that combined clonidine and fluoxetine treatment elicits an additive antiaggressive effect on apomorphine-induced aggressive behavior in rats.
An association between the administration of paracetamol and relative hypotension in critically ill intensive care patients has been reported anecdotally by nursing staff working in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of Prince Henry Hospital. An observational study was therefore undertaken, to determine whether there is a temporal association between the administration of paracetamol and changes in blood pressure. A dose of 1 gram of paracetamol was administered orally or by feeding tube. Blood pressure was recorded 30 minutes prior to paracetamol administration, at the time of administration and then at 15-minute intervals for the first hour and at half-hour intervals for the second hour after administration. Analysis of data from 37 individuals using a repeated measures ANOVA showed that systolic arterial pressure (SAP) and mean arterial pressure (MAP) were reduced significantly over the observation period (p < 0.0001 for both). SAP and MAP fell by an average of approximately 10 and 7 per cent respectively, with maximum falls of 36 and 34 per cent respectively. Paracetamol administration may be indicated for the control of fever in critically ill patients, thereby reducing oxygen demand. However, this must be balanced against the possibility of causing a significant fall in blood pressure.
Swallow syncope is an often misdiagnosed rare disorder due to enhanced vagal tone during eating in patients with underlying esophageal and/or cardiac abnormalities. We present three cases of this disorder, one related to digitalis toxicity and the other two with diffuse esophageal spasm. The investigation, differential diagnosis, prognosis and management of swallow syncope are discussed.
The ontogeny and substrates of amphetamine-induced changes in flurothyl-induced myoclonic and clonic seizure thresholds were investigated in 2 selectively bred lines of mice. The long-sleep mice exhibited dose-dependent increases in myoclonic and clonic susceptibility following amphetamine, irrespective of age. The noradrenergic agonist clonidine and the dopaminergic agonist apomorphine produced increases in susceptibility comparable to those seen with amphetamine. The short-sleep mice, however, exhibited a dichotomous myoclonic response to amphetamine that was age-dependent. Between 15 and 35 days of age amphetamine decreased seizure susceptibility whereas increases in susceptibility were noted at later ages. With the exception of 80 days, amphetamine did not affect clonic thresholds. In respect to myoclonus, clonidine persisted in producing effects similar to those seen in the long-sleep mice whereas apomorphine exhibited the same ontogenetic alteration in effect seen with amphetamine. These results confirm that the short-sleep mice might be a naturally occurring animal model of preadolescent hyperkinesis. Furthermore, the neuropharmacological tests demonstrate that the paradoxical response to amphetamine in the young short-sleep mice is mediated via a dopaminergic mechanism that must undergo dramatic change during ontogeny.
Although the exact cause of Alzheimer's disease remains elusive, many possible risk factors and pathological alterations have been used in the elaboration of in vitro and in vivo models of this disease in rodents, including intracerebral infusion of streptozotocin (STZ). Using this model, we evaluated spatial cognitive deficit and neurochemical hippocampal alterations, particularly astroglial protein markers such as glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and S100B, glutathione content, nitric oxide production, and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) S100B. In addition, prevention of these alterations by aminoguanidine administration was evaluated. Results confirm a spatial cognitive deficit and nitrative stress in this dementia model as well as specific astroglial alterations, particularly S100B accumulation in the hippocampus and decreased CSF S100B. The hippocampal astroglial activation occurred independently of the significant alteration in GFAP content. Moreover, all these alterations were completely prevented by aminoguanidine administration, confirming the neuroprotective potential of this compound, but suggesting that nitrative stress and/or glycation may be underlying these alterations. These findings contribute to the understanding of diseases accompanied by cognitive deficits and the STZ-model of dementia.
To investigate major congenital and neural crest malformations (NCM; craniofacial and conotruncal defects) in the offspring of laboratory employees.
Data for 1951 females was linked to the Medical Birth Register (3003 pregnancies). Exposure information was based on questionnaires. Odds ratios (ORs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated.
The prevalence of "major malformations" were 2.3% (n = 41; exposed) and 1.9% (n = 23; unexposed). For the major malformations, solvent exposure before the third trimester gave an OR of 1.8 (CI = 1.0-2.9); "laboratory work in general," of 1.2 (CI = 0.7-2.0) unadjusted. OR for benzene use around conception/organogenesis was 5.3 (CI = 1.4-21.1) for NCM.
No significant risk for laboratory work in general was seen, but there was an increased ratio for NCM relative to solvents, especially benzene. These results are based on small numbers and should be interpreted cautiously.
A case of dermatomyositis developing during the course of treatment with D-penicillamine in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis is described. Complete remission occurred on withdrawal of the drug. Possible alternative diagnoses are discussed.
Yohimbine is an indole alkaloid obtained from the yohimbe tree, a common tree in West Africa. We describe a forty-two-year black man in whom a generalized erythrodermic skin eruption, progressive renal failure, and lupus-like syndrome developed following treatment with the drug, yohimbine. A literature review failed to reveal any reported association of these side effects. We review current information on yohimbine's use in male impotence, reported side effects, and its role as a drug allergen.
The authors report a case of unexpected sudden death in a woman receiving relatively high dose of haloperidol. They postulate that drug-induced laryngeal spasm leading to cardiac arrest via vagal reflexes may represent the mechanism of neuroleptic sudden death in some cases.
We describe a young child with tuberous sclerosis and cardiac rhabdomyoma who developed reversible heart block after being placed on carbamazepine treatment for seizures. Patients of any age with known or suspected intrinsic cardiac disease should be monitored for conduction disturbance if they are treated with carbamazepine.
Famciclovir is a novel guanosine nucleoside analogue with activity against herpes viruses and hepatitis B virus (HBV). Several preliminary reports have described efficacy of famciclovir in patients with recurrent hepatitis B after orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT). This report describes the largest study to date of long-term famciclovir treatment in patients with de novo or recurrent hepatitis B post-OLT. One hundred thirty patients with detectable serum HBV DNA after OLT received oral famciclovir 500 mg tid on a compassionate-use basis. Safety analyses included all treated patients; efficacy was assessed in all patients and a subgroup of 73 patients with complete baseline HBV DNA and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) data who had received > or =6 months of treatment. Efficacy parameters included serum levels of HBV DNA, ALT, and anti-HBe or anti-HBs seroconversion rates. Of the 70 patients treated for > or =6 months who could be evaluated for response/non-response to famciclovir, 52 (74%) were responders, defined as patients who experienced a 70% decrease or more in HBV DNA levels from baseline, or who became HBV DNA-negative, for at least two consecutive visits. In famciclovir responders, HBV DNA levels decreased by a median of 91% after 12 weeks of treatment, 95% after 6 months and >99% after 18 months of treatment. Marked differentiation between responders and non-responders could be made soon after the onset of treatment. Among anti-HBe positive patients with evidence of HBV replication, 12/13 were responders. Patients with high baseline ALT levels experienced more rapid suppression of HBV DNA during therapy with famciclovir. Famciclovir therapy was safe and well tolerated; serious adverse events were reported infrequently. Famciclovir treatment may be beneficial in patients with hepatitis B infection post-OLT.
To examine the rate and duration of response of anaplastic oligodendrogliomas to a dose-escalated combination chemotherapy regimen consisting of procarbazine, lomustine (CCNU), and vincristine (PCV) and to evaluate the side effects of this treatment.
In this single-arm multicentered phase II study, patients with measurable, newly diagnosed or recurrent, contrast-enhancing anaplastic oligodendrogliomas were treated with up to six cycles of PCV. Central pathology and radiology review were mandatory, and rigorous response criteria based on imaging were used.
Thirty-three patients entered the trial; nine were excluded subsequently, seven due to ineligible pathology. Eighteen of 24 eligible patients (75%) responded, nine completely (38%), four had stable disease (SD), and two progressed during the first cycle of PCV. Responses were observed in nine of 10 patients (90%) with a preexisting low-grade oligodendroglioma and 10 of 15 (67%) with necrotic tumors, called glioblastoma multiforme by some. Previously irradiated patients were as likely to respond to PCV as those newly diagnosed (11 of 15 [73%] v seven of nine [78%]). The median time to progression will be at least 25.2 months for complete responders, and was 14.2 months for partial responders and 6.8 months for stable patients. Four ineligible patients also responded to PCV; all had gliomas with oligodendroglial differentiation. All responders, eligible or ineligible, were stable or improved neurologically, but nine of 22 (41%) experienced a decline in Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status of one grade while on PCV. Adverse events on treatment included a death from Pneumocystis pneumonia, a severe reversible encephalopathy due to procarbazine, an intratumoral hemorrhage, and a subdural hematoma. All other acute toxicities were anticipated and manageable.
Anaplastic oligodendrogliomas are chemosensitive brain cancers. Patients with these tumors respond predictably, durably, and often completely to PCV, and many tolerate a dose-escalated formulation. Cooperative group and randomized trials will be necessary to explore fully the role of chemotherapy in the treatment of aggressive oligodendrogliomas.
The present investigation was undertaken to study the alterations in free radical generation and release of nitric oxide (NO) from polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNLs) following thrombosis. Thrombosis was induced in rats by intravenous injection of collagen and adrenaline. PMNLs were separated from rat blood by using dextran sedimentation and Ficoll-Hypaque. Arachidonic acid (AA), formyl methionine leucine phenylalanine (FMLP) and opsonized zymosan (OZ) induced free radical generation was estimated as luminol (LCL) and Lucigenin (LUCDCL) dependent chemiluminescence. PMNLs nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity and NO release were measured by using [14C] L-Arginine (L-Arg) and oxy-hemoglobin respectively. LCL and LUCDCL responses in rat PMNLs were significantly attenuated following thrombosis. There was no change in the release of myeloperoxidase enzyme (MPO) from PMNLs obtained following thrombosis. PMNLs NOS activity and NO release were also found to be increased after thrombosis. Pretreatment of rat PMNLs with 10 mM L-NAME (NO precursor) or 100 microM sodium nitroprusside (NO donor), resulted in significant reduction of AA induced LCL response. Results obtained indicate that NO release form PMNLs was augmented while free radical generation response was attenuated after the induction of thrombosis.
Liver cancer is the fifth most common cancer worldwide and unlike certain other cancers, such as colon cancer, a mutational model has not yet been developed. We have performed gene expression profiling of normal and neoplastic livers in C3H/HeJ mice treated with diethylnitrosamine. Using oligonucleotide microarrays, we compared gene expression in liver tumors to three different states of the normal liver: quiescent adult, regenerating adult, and newborn. Although each comparison revealed hundreds of differentially expressed genes, only 22 genes were found to be deregulated in the tumors in all three comparisons. Three of these genes were examined in human hepatocellular carcinomas and were found to be upregulated. As a second method of analysis, we used Representational Difference Analysis (RDA) to clone mRNA fragments differentially expressed in liver tumors versus regenerating livers. We cloned several novel mRNAs that are differentially regulated in murine liver tumors. Here we report the sequence of a novel cDNA whose expression is upregulated in both murine and human hepatocellular carcinomas. Our results suggest that DEN-treated mice provide an excellent model for human hepatocellular carcinomas.
1. Overexpression of the c-myc oncogene is associated with a variety of both human and experimental tumours, and cooperation of other oncogenes and growth factors with the myc family are critical in the evolution of the malignant phenotype. 2. Double transgenic mice bearing fusion genes consisting of mouse albumin enhancer/promoter-mouse c-myc cDNA and mouse metallothionein 1 promoter-human transforming growth factor (TGF-alpha) cDNA were generated to investigate the interaction of these genes in hepatic oncogenesis and to provide a general paradigm for characterizing the interaction of nuclear oncogenes and growth factors in tumourigenesis. 3. Coexpression of c-myc and TGF-alpha as transgenes in the mouse liver resulted in a tremendous acceleration of neoplastic development in this organ as compared to expression of either of these transgenes alone. The two distinct cellular reactions that occurred in the liver of the double transgenic mice prior to the appearance of liver tumours were dysplastic and apoptotic changes in the existing hepatocytes followed by emergence of multiple focal lesions composed of both hyperplastic and dysplastic cell populations. 4. These observations suggest that the interaction of c-myc and TGF-alpha, during development of hepatic neoplasia contributes to the selection and expansion of the preneoplastic cell populations which consequently increases the probability of malignant conversion. 5. We have now extended these studied and examined the interaction of hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) with c-myc during hepatocarcinogenesis in the transgenic mouse model. While sustained overexpression of c-myc in the liver leads to cancer, coexpression of HGF and c-myc in the liver delayed the appearance of preneoplastic lesions and prevented malignant conversion. Similarly, tumour promotion by phenobarbitone was completely inhibited in the c-myc/HGF double transgenic mice whereas phenobarbitone was an effective tumour promoter in the c-myc single transgenic mice. 6. The results indicate that HGF may function as a tumour suppressor during early stages of liver carcinogenesis, and suggest the possibility of therapeutic application for this cytokine. Furthermore, we show for the first time that interaction of c-myc with HGF or TGF-alpha results in profoundly different outcomes of the neoplastic process in the liver.
Tramadol is a weak centrally acting analgesic and it might provide efficacious postoperative pain relief with minimal sedative effects in the use of intravenous patient-controlled analgesia (PCA). Sixty women scheduled to undergo microvascular breast reconstruction under standard general anaesthesia were enrolled in a study on the performance of patient-controlled analgesia with tramadol or morphine with special emphasis on drug- and technique-related side-effects. Seven patients were re-operated within the same day, leaving 25 patients in the tramadol group and 28 in the morphine group for comparison. When postoperative pain occurred, loading doses of either 10 mg tramadol or 1 mg morphine intravenous increments were administered in a double-blind fashion until the pain control was judged to be satisfactory by the patient. After that the patients received tramadol or morphine by a PCA apparatus (lockout 5 min, tramadol 450 microg kg-1, morphine 45 microg kg-1 bolus). In addition, all patients received 500 mg paracetamol rectally, three times a day. The potency ratio of tramadol to morphine was found to be between 8.5 : 1 (loading) and 11 : 1 (PCA). There was neither a significant difference between the groups in the overall satisfaction of the analgesic medication nor in the visual analogue and verbal rate scales for pain. Women in the tramadol group had more nausea and vomiting during the administration of loading doses (P < 0.05) and more patients in the tramadol group (7) than in the morphine group (3) (NS) wanted to discontinue the PCA therapy before the end of the study due to nausea. Sedation or blurred vision prevented the performance of the psychomotor tests in 22 and 32% of the tramadol and morphine patients, respectively. The remaining patients performed similarly in the Digit Symbol Substitution Test. In women receiving intravenous PCA for analgesia after microvascular breast reconstruction tramadol and morphine provided comparable postoperative analgesia with similar sedative effects. However, tramadol was associated with a disturbingly high incidence of nausea and vomiting.
Phenylpropanolamine is a sympathomimetic agent present in over 100 proprietary and prescription anorectics, nasal decongestants, psychostimulants and treatments for premenstrual syndrome. It is often found in street drugs prepared to look like amphetamines. Phenylpropanolamine has precipitated paranoid psychosis, severe anxiety, cerebrovascular accidents and hypertensive crises. Hypertensive crises can be treated with phentolamine. Psychiatric symptoms and anxiety are managed with benzodiazepines.
Zidovudine can induce a mitochondrial myopathy with ragged-red fibers and partial cytochrome c oxidase deficiency. In an attempt to improve histological assessment of zidovudine myopathy, we evaluated cytochrome c oxidase histochemical reaction in the muscle of 10 patients with biopsy-proven zidovudine myopathy (Group 1), 10 myopathic zidovudine receivers without typical histopathological features of zidovudine myopathy (Group 2), and 10 human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected patients not treated by zidovudine who had an immunohistological profile of HIV-associated myopathy or other neuromuscular disorders (Group 3). Among zidovudine receivers, cytochrome c oxidase deficiency was found in 10 of 10 patients from Group 1 and 7 of 10 from Group 2. No cytochrome c oxidase deficiency was observed in patients not treated by zidovudine. When present, cytochrome c oxidase-negative fibers accounted for 2 to 28% of fibers, and there was no difference for the number of cytochrome c oxidase-negative fibers between Group 1 and Group 2. Most patients with cytochrome c oxidase deficiency that could be evaluated clinically after muscle biopsy improved after withdrawal of zidovudine (5 of 7 in Group 1, 5 of 5 in Group 2). Patients who did not improve had an HIV-associated myopathy concurrently with zidovudine myopathy. We conclude that cytochrome c oxidase reaction may be used as a reliable marker of zidovudine mitochondrial toxicity in HIV-infected patients with muscular symptoms.
Childhood cancer is the leading cause of disease-related death in children aged 1-14 years in Canada and the USA and it has been hypothesized that transplacental exposure to environmental carcinogens such as benzene may contribute to the etiology of these cancers. Our objectives were to determine if transplacental benzene exposure increased tumor incidence in mouse offspring and assess fetal benzene metabolism capability. Pregnant CD-1 and C57Bl/6N mice were given intraperitoneal injections of corn oil, 200 mg/kg, or 400 mg/kg benzene on gestational days 8, 10, 12 and 14. A significant increase in tumor incidence was observed in CD-1, but not C57BL/6N, 1-year-old offspring exposed transplacentally to 200 mg/kg benzene. Hepatic and hematopoietic tumors were predominantly observed in male and female CD-1 offspring, respectively. Female CD-1 offspring exposed transplacentally to 200 mg/kg benzene had significantly suppressed bone marrow CD11b(+) cells 1 year after birth, correlating with reduced colony-forming unit granulocyte/macrophage numbers in 2-day-old pups. CD-1 and C57Bl/6N maternal blood benzene levels and fetal liver benzene, t, t-muconic acid, hydroquinone and catechol levels were analyzed by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. Significant strain-, gender- and dose-related differences were observed. Male CD-1 fetuses had high hydroquinone levels, whereas females had high catechol levels after maternal exposure to 200 mg/kg benzene. This is the first demonstration that transplacental benzene exposure can induce hepatic and hematopoietic tumors in mice, which may be dependent on fetal benzene metabolism capability.
Gemfibrozil is a widely prescribed hypolipidemic agent in humans and a peroxisome proliferator and liver carcinogen in rats. Three-month feed studies of gemfibrozil were conducted by the National Toxicology Program (NTP) in male Harlan Sprague-Dawley rats, B6C3F1 mice, and Syrian hamsters, primarily to examine mechanisms of hepatocarcinogenicity. There was morphologic evidence of peroxisome proliferation in rats and mice. Increased hepatocyte proliferation was observed in rats, primarily at the earliest time point. Increases in peroxisomal enzyme activities were greatest in rats, intermediate in mice, and least in hamsters. These studies demonstrate that rats are most responsive while hamsters are least responsive. These events are causally related to hepatotoxicity and hepatocarcinogenicity of gemfibrozil in rodents via peroxisome proliferator activated receptor-α (PPARα) activation; however, there is widespread evidence that activation of PPARα in humans results in expression of genes involved in lipid metabolism, but not in hepatocellular proliferation.
The cytoprotective effect of prostaglandin E(1) (PGE(1)) has been demonstrated experimentally and clinically against hepatic ischemia and reperfusion injury and against the effects of partial hepatectomy in both individual and combined models of noncirrhotic livers. Cirrhotic livers are more vulnerable to ischemia/reperfusion injury during hepatectomy than are noncirrhotic livers, and postoperative malfunctioning complicates life with multiple organ failure. Cirrhotic livers with tumors have mostly been treated conservatively because extended hepatectomy with induced ischemia during surgery is impossible. The purpose of our study was to document postoperative surgical adaptation in inoperable cases with improved survival after extended hepatectomy in a rat model of cirrhosis treated by PGE(1). Cirrhosis was induced by intraperitoneal injections of 1% dimethylnitrosamine. The liver was subjected to 15 minutes of total ischemia by occluding the hepatoduodenal ligament. Hepatectomy was performed during ischemia. Pretreatment with PGE(1) (0.4 microg/kg/min) (or without it in the controls) was given for 15 minutes by intravenous infusion prior to inducing ischemia and during reperfusion. Portal venous flow (PVF) and liver tissue blood flow (LTBF) were measured during reperfusion. At the end of 60 minutes of reperfusion, venous blood was collected for liver function tests. The animals were followed up regarding survival for 48 hours. The PVF and LTBF were significantly improved in the PGE(1) group. The blood chemical analysis indicated that PGE(1) significantly suppressed posthepatectomy liver dysfunction. Most importantly, PGE(1) treatment markedly improved the survival rate, from 42% in the controls to 75% in the test animals at 24 hours after hepatectomy and from 17% in the controls to 58% in the test animals at 48 hours. We concluded that short-term administration of PGE(1) makes extensive hepatectomy possible under ischemic conditions in cirrhotic livers.
Many complementary or alternative medicines are being used for the treatment of menopausal symptoms but most have not been properly tested for efficacy or for safety. This study examined the effect of a Chinese herbal preparation (Dang Gui Buxue Tang) on menopausal symptoms in Hong Kong Chinese women.
A 6-month randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of the effect of Dang Gui Buxue Tang (a 1 : 5 combination of Dang Gui (Angelicae sinensis) and Huang Qi (Astragalus membranaceus)) on acute menopausal symptoms. A total of 103 symptomatic women were enrolled. Three failed to meet inclusion criteria, leaving 50 subjects for inclusion in each group.
Overall, mild hot flushes were reported more frequently than either moderate or severe flushes. In analysis by severity of flushes, there was a significant reduction in the number of mild hot flushes per month in the treatment group but not in the placebo group (from 18.9 +/- 23.5 at baseline to 8.6 +/- 17.1 at 6 months in the treatment group (p < 0.01) and from 26.0 +/- 43.5 to 12.4 +/- 17.6 in the placebo group (p = 0.062)). For moderate flushes, there was a significant reduction in the placebo group compared with the treatment group (from 18.9 +/- 28.7 at baseline to 11.1 +/- 29.9 at 6 months in the placebo group (p < 0.05) and from 10.5 +/- 22.3 to 6.0 +/- 16.0 in the treatment group (p = 0.107)). There was no significant change in either treatment or placebo groups in the reporting of severe hot flushes. Episodes of night sweats decreased significantly in the placebo but not in the treatment group (from 6.8 +/- 10.0 at baseline to 1.9 +/- 5.7 at 6 months in the placebo group (p < 0.05) and from 5.4 +/- 8.9 to 3.2 +/- 8.5 in the treatment group (p = 0.471)). In the vasomotor domain of the Menopause Specific Quality of Life, there was a significant reduction in scoring in the placebo group (from 2.8 +/- 1.6 to 1.7 +/- 1.3, p < 0.01) but not in the treatment group (from 2.8 +/- 2.1 to 2.3 +/- 1.6, p = 0.247).
This study found overall no significant difference between Dang Gui Buxue Tang and placebo in the treatment of vasomotor symptoms in Hong Kong Chinese women. The frequency of mild, moderate and severe hot flushes decreased in both treatment and placebo groups, but Dang Gui Buxue Tang was statistically superior to placebo only in the treatment of mild hot flushes. There were no serious adverse events attributable to treatment during the study period.
