Previous studies have suggested some benefits of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) use in patients with chronic viral hepatitis. We evaluated potential effects of indomethacin in asymptomatic carriers of hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg).
Randomized, placebo-controlled, double-masked clinical trial.
One hundred and twelve patients who were confirmed to be HBsAg carriers for at least 6 months and had normal liver function tests, normal abdominal sonography, and no sign of cirrhosis were randomly assigned into two groups. One group (56 participants, mean age (+/-SD) 31.7 (+/-9.6) yr, 29 male, mean serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) (+/-SD) 24.9 (+/-9.2)) received indomethacin capsules (25 mg) three times daily and the other group (56 participants, mean age (+/-SD) 33.8 (+/-10.2) yr, 33 male, mean serum ALT (+/-SD) 24.5 (+/-8.7)) took placebo capsules with identical package and appearance. All participants were under treatment for 6 months and were followed 3 months thereafter. Statistical analyses were performed both by intention-to-treat and on-treatment methods.
Nine participants in the indomethacin group (16%) and 8 in the placebo group (14%) did not complete the trial. HBsAg seroconversion did not differ by treatment group (2 subjects in each group became seronegative). Hepatitis B virus DNA (HBV-DNA) became negative in sera of 7 participants in the indomethacin group but only in 1 in the placebo group (intention-to-treat p= 0.06; on-treatment p= 0.03). Seroconversion of HBeAg to anti-HBe occurred only in 5 participants in the indomethacin group (intention-to-treat p= 0.06; on-treatment p= 0.03). Adverse events included one case of hepatotoxicity and two cases of gastritis in the indomethacin group and one suspected gastritis in the placebo group.
We suggest use of indomethacin only in the subgroup of asymptomatic HBsAg carriers who have detectable HBV-DNA or HBeAg in their sera.
The present study was undertaken to evaluate the combined effect of the preservative methyldibromo glutaronitrile (MDBGN) and sodium lauryl sulfate (SLS) on the elicitation response of allergic contact dermatitis. 20 volunteers with contact allergy to MDBGN were patch tested with 5 concentrations (10, 50, 100, 500 and 1000 p.p.m.) of MDBGN alone and in combination with 0.25% SLS on the upper arms for 24 h. Skin reactions were evaluated by clinical scoring, and data were evaluated by logistic dose-response models. Additionally, evaluation of skin reactions was performed by measurement of transepidermal water loss (TEWL) and skin colour. Measurements were obtained at baseline and at D3 and D7. As evaluated by clinical assessment, allergic reactions to MDBGN were elicited at lower concentrations when applied in combination with SLS than when applied alone. The response was augmented by a factor of 6.4. An increased response to combined exposure to SLS and MDBGN as compared with MDBGN alone was confirmed by TEWL and colour measurements. Effects of exposure time and concentration of the detergent are discussed. In conclusion, an augmented response was found after concurrent application of MDBGN and SLS. The response was augmented by a factor of 6.4, with confidence limits of 2.8-14.6 (P < 0.0001). This result is important in relation to the determination of threshold values and the risk assessment of contact allergens in consumer and industrial products, where allergens are often present in combination with surfactants.
The clinical disorder of recessive congenital methemoglobinemia (RCM, OMIN 250800) is associated with mutations in NADH:cytochrome b5 reductase (cb5r) and manifests as cyanosis from birth. Screening a cyanotic infant indicated elevated methemoglobin levels and decreased cb5r activity suggesting RCM. Sequencing the DIA1 gene encoding cb5r revealed a novel mutation, C27161T (NCBI accession number: NT_011520), resulting in replacement of proline at amino acid 275 with leucine (P275L). To understand how this mutation would affect cb5r's function, the P275L variant was expressed in a heterologous expression system and spectroscopic, thermodynamic, and thermostability studies were performed. The leucine substitution at residue 275 was found to significantly decrease the affinity towards the physiological reducing substrate, NADH, without affecting the activity of the P275L variant. From the rat model, residue 275 is predicted to be part of a conserved "CGPPPM" motif important for the binding and correct positioning of the NADH reducing substrate. Thus P275 influences the interaction with NADH which was confirmed by the change in affinity towards the physiological reducing substrate.
As a result of chronic ergotamine abuse, reversible arterial narrowing has been documented angiographically in peripheral, but not in coronary arteries. We report on a patient with no cardiovascular risk factors, but because of chronic ergotamine abuse suffered on acute myocardial infarction, complicated by ventricular fibrillation. Coronary angiography performed 3 days after resuscitation revealed a distal occlusion of the left anterior descending artery. Three months later, spontaneous recanalization had occurred, and no residual narrowing was seen angiographically. Thus, surveillance of patients with migraine headache to avoid chronic ergotamine abuse is recommended to prevent cardiovascular complications.
Olopatadine (AL-4943A; KW-4679) [(z)-11-[3-(dimethylamino)propylidene]-6, 11-dihydrodibenz[b,e]oxepine-2 acetic acid hydrochloride] is an anti-allergic agent which inhibits mast cell mediator release and possesses histamine H1 receptor antagonist activity. Studies were conducted to characterize the in vitro and in vivo pharmacological profile of this drug relevant to its topical ocular use. AL-4943A inhibits histamine release in a concentration-dependent fashion (IC50 = 559 microM) from human conjunctival mast cell preparations in vitro. Histamine release was not stimulated by AL-4943A at concentrations as high as 10 mM. In contrast, ketotifen stimulated histamine release at concentrations slightly higher than effective inhibitory concentrations. AL-4943A did not display any in vitro cyclooxygenase or 5-lipoxygenase inhibition. Topical ocular application of AL-4943A effectively inhibits antigen- and histamine-stimulated conjunctivitis in guinea pigs. Passive anaphylaxis in guinea pig conjunctiva was attenuated by AL-4943A applied 30 min prior to intravenous or topical ocular antigen challenge (ED50 values 0.0067% and 0.0170%, w/v, respectively). Antihistaminic activity in vivo was demonstrated using a model of histamine-induced vascular permeability in guinea pig conjunctiva. AL-4943A applied topically from 5 min to 24 hrs prior to histamine challenge effectively and concentration-dependently inhibited the vascular permeability response, indicating the compound has an acceptable onset and a long duration of action. Drug concentrations 5-fold greater than those effective against histamine-stimulated conjunctival responses failed to inhibit vascular permeability responses induced with either serotonin or Platelet-Activating-Factor. These data indicate that the anti-histaminic effect observed with AL-4943A is specific. These anti-allergic/antihistaminic activities of AL-4943A observed in preclinical model systems have been confirmed in clinical trials in allergic patients.
One-year lamivudine therapy significantly suppressed hepatitis B virus (HBV) replication, improved hepatic necroinflammatory activity, and prevented progression of fibrosis. However, the effects of prolonged therapy are unknown.
A total of 334 Asian patients with chronic hepatitis B from a previously reported 1-year study were randomized to receive either lamivudine (100 or 25 mg) or placebo for another year. The effects of treatment on serum HBV-DNA suppression, alanine transaminase (ALT) normalization, and hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) seroconversion were measured. The presence of YMDD variant HBV and its effect were also determined.
A significantly greater proportion of patients achieved sustained HBV-DNA suppression and ALT normalization with 100 mg lamivudine daily for 2 years compared with lamivudine for 1 year followed by placebo for the second year (P<0.001). Daily lamivudine therapy for 2 years was safe and resulted in incremental HBeAg seroconversion from 17% at week 52 to 27% at week 104. HBeAg seroconversion during continued lamivudine therapy increased linearly with increasing pretherapy ALT levels (P< 0.001). Despite the emergence of YMDD mutant in 38% of the patients, they continued to clear serum HBeAg and maintain lower median serum HBV-DNA and ALT levels than baseline values. In contrast, ALT levels increased 8-12 weeks after switching from lamivudine to placebo, but returned to normal once lamivudine treatment was resumed.
Treatment with lamivudine for 2 years is both well tolerated and efficacious in patients with chronic hepatitis B.
Subclinical and clinical bleomycin-induced pulmonary toxicity (BIP) were investigated retrospectively in 109 patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma treated by combination chemotherapy containing bleomycin. A decrease in carbon monoxide diffusing capacity (DLCO) was found in 12.8% of patients. The cumulative risk of abnormal DLCO increased with the increasing total cumulative dose of bleomycin. No significant difference in the rate of BIP was observed between patients receiving bleomycin/Adriamycin/cyclophosphamide/vincristine/prednisone (BACOP; bleomycin given at 10 mg/m2 for 4 weeks) and bleomycin/Adriamycin/cyclophosphamide/vincristine/dexamethasone/methotre xate/ folinic acid (m-BACOD; bleomycin given at 4 mg/m2 for 3 weeks, methotrexate given at 200 mg/m2. Monitoring for subclinical BIP should be considered in patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma even if only a low dose of bleomycin was given in the presence of other chemotherapeutic agents.
The transient receptor potential ankyrin receptor 1 (TRPA1) is a cation channel, co-expressed with the pro-tussive transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1) channel in primary sensory neurons. TRPA1 is activated by a series of irritant exogenous and endogenous alpha,beta-unsaturated aldehydes which seem to play a role in airway diseases. We investigated whether TRPA1 agonists provoke cough in guinea pigs and whether TRPA1 antagonists inhibit this response.
Animals were placed in a Perspex box, and cough sounds were recorded and counted by observers unaware of the treatment used.
Inhalation of two selective TRPA1 agonists, allyl isothiocyanate and cinnamaldehyde, dose-dependently caused cough in control guinea pigs, but not in those with airway sensory nerves desensitized by capsaicin. Coughs elicited by TRPA1 agonists were reduced by non-selective (camphor and gentamicin) and selective (HC-030031) TRPA1 antagonists, whereas they were unaffected by the TRPV1 antagonist, capsazepine. Acrolein and crotonaldehyde, two alpha,beta-unsaturated aldehydes recently identified as TRPA1 stimulants and contained in cigarette smoke, air pollution or produced endogenously by oxidative stress, caused a remarkable tussive effect, a response that was selectively inhibited by HC-030031. Part of the cough response induced by cigarette smoke inhalation was inhibited by HC-030031, suggesting the involvement of TRPA1.
A novel pro-tussive pathway involves the TRPA1 channel, expressed by capsaicin-sensitive airway sensory nerves and is activated by a series of exogenous (cigarette smoke) and endogenous irritants. These results suggest TRPA1 may be a novel target for anti-tussive medicines.
The possibility of a coexistence of coronary arteriolar constriction mediated by the renin-angiotensin system and myocardial ischemia was evaluated. Left anterior descending coronary artery was cannulated and perfused at normal (mean aortic), intermediate (50 mm Hg), and low (30-40 mm Hg) pressure in analogy to a progressive coronary stenosis. Lactate production was present at low coronary pressure indicating myocardial ischemia. In control animals (n = 18), mean coronary conductance was higher (p less than 0.005) at intermediate than at high coronary pressure consistent with autoregulation at coronary flow. Coronary conductance was lower (p less than 0.05) at low than at intermediate coronary pressure, indicating coronary constriction during myocardial ischemia. Adenosine (20 micrograms/kg per min i.c., n = 6) resulted in higher coronary conductance, suggesting coronary vasodilator reserve even at low coronary pressure. Indomethacin (5 mg/kg i.v., n = 12) resulted in low coronary conductance; however, the increase at intermediate (autoregulation) and the decrease (constriction) at low pressure was maintained. Plasma renin activity increased, and saralasin (0.1 microgram/kg per min i.c.) and captopril (0.25 mg/kg i.v.) acted as coronary vasodilators in various models of myocardial ischemia. Captopril limited myocardial infarct size at 6 hours of coronary occlusion, diminished flow repayment and prevented lactate production after 30 s of coronary occlusion, and abolished the deterioration of myocardial function during myocardial ischemia induced by coronary hypoperfusion and atrial pacing. Thus, myocardial ischemia does not generally represent a state of maximal coronary dilatation. The renin-angiotensin system is activated by myocardial ischemia and may exert a coronary constrictive tone. Captopril was beneficial in experimental myocardial ischemia.
The molecular pathogenesis of renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is poorly understood. Whole-genome and exome sequencing followed by innovative tumorgraft analyses (to accurately determine mutant allele ratios) identified several putative two-hit tumor suppressor genes, including BAP1. The BAP1 protein, a nuclear deubiquitinase, is inactivated in 15% of clear cell RCCs. BAP1 cofractionates with and binds to HCF-1 in tumorgrafts. Mutations disrupting the HCF-1 binding motif impair BAP1-mediated suppression of cell proliferation but not deubiquitination of monoubiquitinated histone 2A lysine 119 (H2AK119ub1). BAP1 loss sensitizes RCC cells in vitro to genotoxic stress. Notably, mutations in BAP1 and PBRM1 anticorrelate in tumors (P = 3 × 10(-5)), [corrected] and combined loss of BAP1 and PBRM1 in a few RCCs was associated with rhabdoid features (q = 0.0007). BAP1 and PBRM1 regulate seemingly different gene expression programs, and BAP1 loss was associated with high tumor grade (q = 0.0005). Our results establish the foundation for an integrated pathological and molecular genetic classification of RCC, paving the way for subtype-specific treatments exploiting genetic vulnerabilities.
The current study examined whether environmental enrichment alters the effects of monoamine-depleting doses of methamphetamine on subsequent methamphetamine-induced hyperactivity and conditioned place preference. Rats were raised in either an enriched or isolated condition from 21 to 55 days of age and then were treated with monoamine-depleting doses of methamphetamine (10 mg/kg, four injections at 2 h intervals) or saline. Eight days later, rats were assessed for methamphetamine-induced (0.3 or 1.0 mg/kg) hyperactivity and conditioned place preference. Results indicated that the monoamine-depleting dose regimen produced a similar hyperthermic response in enriched and isolated rats. Enriched and isolated rats also displayed a similar depletion of dopamine in the striatum and serotonin in nucleus accumbens. The monoamine-depleting dose regimen, however, enhanced methamphetamine hyperactivity across repeated conditioning sessions in enriched rats, but not in isolated rats. In contrast to isolated rats, enriched rats failed to display significant conditioned place preference to the low dose of methamphetamine (0.3 mg/kg) following the monoamine-depleting dose regimen, suggesting that the rewarding effect of methamphetamine was blunted by the combined effect of enrichment and methamphetamine treatment. Thus, environmental enrichment may exacerbate the behavioral consequences of monoamine-depleting doses of methamphetamine.
We describe an HIV1-positive patient under long-term tenofovir treatment who developed a severe, biopsy-proven, acute tubular necrosis with proximal tubule (PT) dysfunction, precipitated by the very recent start of diclofenac, a nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID). Recent studies show that NSAIDs not only alter glomerular filtration but also multidrug resistance protein (MRP) 4-mediated PT secretion of several substrates. Since the patient tolerated tenofovir well for several years prior to diclofenac use, our observation suggests that diclofenac interfered with tenofovir clearance, thereby favoring its nephrotoxicity. NSAIDs should be avoided in patients under tenofovir.
Migraine without aura is the most common form of migraine, characterized by recurrent disabling headache and associated autonomic symptoms. To identify common genetic variants associated with this migraine type, we analyzed genome-wide association data of 2,326 clinic-based German and Dutch individuals with migraine without aura and 4,580 population-matched controls. We selected SNPs from 12 loci with 2 or more SNPs associated with P values of <1 × 10(-5) for replication testing in 2,508 individuals with migraine without aura and 2,652 controls. SNPs at two of these loci showed convincing replication: at 1q22 (in MEF2D; replication P = 4.9 × 10(-4); combined P = 7.06 × 10(-11)) and at 3p24 (near TGFBR2; replication P = 1.0 × 10(-4); combined P = 1.17 × 10(-9)). In addition, SNPs at the PHACTR1 and ASTN2 loci showed suggestive evidence of replication (P = 0.01; combined P = 3.20 × 10(-8) and P = 0.02; combined P = 3.86 × 10(-8), respectively). We also replicated associations at two previously reported migraine loci in or near TRPM8 and LRP1. This study identifies the first susceptibility loci for migraine without aura, thereby expanding our knowledge of this debilitating neurological disorder.
A toxic-allergic skin reaction of the face, neck and arms due to accidental contact with methylenedianiline (syn: 4-4'-diaminodiphenylmethane) is reported in a cleaner at a chemical plant. Patch tests revealed sensitization to chemicals of the para-group. Earlier exposure to it was unlikely. Previous sensitization to related chemicals and possible cross-sensitization was considered to be the primary cause of the allergy and the clinical manifestations.
Nevus sebaceous is a common congenital cutaneous malformation. Affected individuals may develop benign and malignant secondary tumors in the nevi during life. Schimmelpenning syndrome is characterized by the association of nevus sebaceous with extracutaneous abnormalities. We report that of 65 sebaceous nevi studied, 62 (95%) had mutations in the HRAS gene and 3 (5%) had mutations in the KRAS gene. The HRAS c.37G>C mutation, which results in a p.Gly13Arg substitution, was present in 91% of lesions. Nonlesional tissues from 18 individuals had a wild-type sequence, confirming genetic mosaicism. The HRAS c.37G>C mutation was also found in 8 of 8 associated secondary tumors. Mosaicism for HRAS c.37G>C and KRAS c.35G>A mutations was found in two individuals with Schimmelpenning syndrome. Functional analysis of HRAS c.37G>C mutant cells showed constitutive activation of the MAPK and PI3K-Akt signaling pathways. Our results indicate that nevus sebaceous and Schimmelpenning syndrome are caused by postzygotic HRAS and KRAS mutations. These mutations may predispose individuals to the development of secondary tumors in nevus sebaceous.
Exposure of the developing foetus to drugs of abuse during pregnancy may lead to persistent abnormalities of brain systems involved in drug addiction. Mice prenatally exposed to cocaine (25 mg/kg), physiological saline or non-treated during the last 7 days of pregnancy were evaluated in adulthood for the rewarding properties of cocaine (3, 25 and 50 mg/kg), using the conditioned place preference procedure. Dams treated with physiological saline gained significantly less weight over the course of gestation than controls; no other differences were observed in the maternal and offspring data. All the animals developed preference to 3 and 25 mg/kg of cocaine, but those treated prenatally with cocaine did not develop preference after receiving the highest cocaine dose. In these mice, the motor activity in response to 50 mg/kg showed a small decrease. Although a reduced response to the highest cocaine dose can be argued, we suggest that the lack of preference obtained is more likely attributable to an increased sensitivity to the environmental cues associated during training to an aversive effect of this cocaine dose. The aversive properties of cocaine seem to be more apparent and to prevail over the rewarding action of the highest dose in exposed animals. These findings indicate that recurrent gestational cocaine exposure results in permanent (mal)adaptations of the structure and function of brain reward systems.
To assess the influence of oral contraceptives (OC) on the risk of cerebral thrombosis and transient cerebral ischemic attacks, a 5-year case-control study including all Danish hospitals was conducted. All women 15-44 years old who suffered a cerebral thromboembolic attack (CTA) during the period 1994-95 and 1200 age matched control subjects were included. Of 309 patients and 1200 control subjects questionnaires sent out, 271 patients (87.7%) and 1074 control subjects (89.5%) responded and agreed to participate. After exclusion of women with nonvalid diagnoses, previous thromboembolic diseases, or current pregnancy, 219 patients and 1041 control subjects were available for analysis. After confounder control and with nonusers as reference, current users of first generation OC (50 micrograms of ethinyl estradiol [EE] or estrans) had an odds ratio (OR) of CTA of 1.86 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.88-3.92); users of second generation OC (levonorgestrel or norgestimate) had an OR of 2.37 (1.35-4.16); and users of third generation OC (desogestrel or gestodene) had an OR of 1.32 (0.78-2.22). Users of OC with 50, 30-40, or 20 micrograms EE had OR of 2.65 (1.11-6.34), 1.60 (1.05-2.43), and 1.59 (0.57-4.58), respectively. Odds ratios for specific progestin types were as follows: estrans 1.37 (0.60-3.13), levonorgestrel 2.43 (1.40-4.21), norgestimate 7.09 (1.87-26.8), desogestrel 1.62 (0.72-3.63), and gestodene 1.24 (0.67-2.30). Duration of use was without significant influence on the risk and the OR were constant across the age bands. Compared with women who had never used OC, former users had an OR of CTA of 0.95 (0.66-1.51). In conclusion, use of OC with 50 micrograms of EE and OC with second generation progestins increased the risk of CTA significantly. OC with third generation progestins did not have any significant influence on the risk of CTA. The risk of CTA among former users of OC was not increased.
In this study, we have reviewed our experience with anticoagulation-associated intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH). Our goal was to determine if IVH is also an independent prognosticator of fatal outcome in patients with anticoagulation-associated intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH).
This study is a retrospective analysis of medical records and computed tomographic imaging. Eighty-eight patients with warfarin-associated ICH were analysed, including eight patients with predominant IVH.
There was a very low rate of hemorrhage extension in patients with predominant IVH. Despite that, those patients had 50% 30 day mortality. Overall patients with ICH had 45% 30 day mortality. Ventricular extension raised mortality in ICH patients to 75%, while the absence of ventricular extension carried only 23% 30 day mortality. IVH was significantly associated with 30 day mortality (p<0.001). Panventricular extension was uniformly fatal in patients with ICH and carried 75% 30 day mortality in patients with predominant IVH. On a multivariate logistic regression model including age, ICH volume and IVH, ICH volume (p<0.001) and IVH (p = 0.003) remained independently associated with early mortality.
Extension of anticoagulation-associated ICH into ventricular system caused a high mortality, especially in patients with panventricular involvement. IVH is an independent predictor of early death in these patients. In our experience, the majority of IVH do not expand over time and poor outcome appears to be related to the magnitude of the initial insult.
Using exome sequencing, we identify SERAC1 mutations as the cause of MEGDEL syndrome, a recessive disorder of dystonia and deafness with Leigh-like syndrome, impaired oxidative phosphorylation and 3-methylglutaconic aciduria. We localized SERAC1 at the interface between the mitochondria and the endoplasmic reticulum in the mitochondria-associated membrane fraction that is essential for phospholipid exchange. A phospholipid analysis in patient fibroblasts showed elevated concentrations of phosphatidylglycerol-34:1 (where the species nomenclature denotes the number of carbon atoms in the two acyl chains:number of double bonds in the two acyl groups) and decreased concentrations of phosphatidylglycerol-36:1 species, resulting in an altered cardiolipin subspecies composition. We also detected low concentrations of bis(monoacyl-glycerol)-phosphate, leading to the accumulation of free cholesterol, as shown by abnormal filipin staining. Complementation of patient fibroblasts with wild-type human SERAC1 by lentiviral infection led to a decrease and partial normalization of the mean ratio of phosphatidylglycerol-34:1 to phosphatidylglycerol-36:1. Our data identify SERAC1 as a key player in the phosphatidylglycerol remodeling that is essential for both mitochondrial function and intracellular cholesterol trafficking.
The Brugada syndrome is an arrhythmogenic disease caused in part by mutations in the cardiac sodium channel gene, SCN5A. The electrocardiographic pattern characteristic of the syndrome is dynamic and is often absent in affected individuals. Sodium channel blockers are effective in unmasking carriers of the disease. However, the value of the test remains controversial.
We studied 147 individuals representing 4 large families with SCN5A mutations. Of these, 104 were determined to be at possible risk for Brugada syndrome and underwent both electrocardiographic and genetic evaluation. Twenty-four individuals displayed an ECG diagnostic of Brugada syndrome at baseline. Of the remaining, 71 received intravenous ajmaline. Of the 35 genetic carriers who received ajmaline, 28 had a positive test and 7 a negative ajmaline test. The sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values of the drug challenge were 80% (28:35), 94.4% (34:36), 93.3% (28:30), and 82.9% (34:41), respectively. Penetrance of the disease phenotype increased from 32.7% to 78.6% with the use of sodium channel blockers. In the absence of ST-segment elevation under baseline conditions, a prolonged P-R interval, but not incomplete right bundle-branch block or early repolarization patterns, indicates a high probability of an SCN5A mutation carrier.
In families with Brugada syndrome, the data suggest that ajmaline testing is valuable in the diagnosis of SCN5A carriers. In the absence of ST-segment elevation at baseline, family members with first-degree atrioventricular block should be suspected of carrying the mutation. An ajmaline test is often the key to making the proper diagnosis in these patients.
The effects of N-(2,6-dimethyl-phenyl)-2-(2-oxo-1-pyrrolidinyl) acetamide (DM-9384), a new pyrrolidone derivative, were investigated on ethanol- and chlordiazepoxide (CDP)-induced amnesia animal model using the passive avoidance task in comparison with aniracetam, another pyrrolidone derivative. Pretraining administration of DM-9384 attenuated ethanol- and CDP-induced amnesia, whereas aniracetam failed to do so. The effects of DM-9384 on CDP-induced amnesia were antagonized by bicuculline, a GABAA receptor antagonist, but not by scopolamine, a muscarinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist and flumazenil, a benzodiazepine receptor antagonist. These results suggest that DM-9384 attenuates CDP-induced amnesia by interacting with the GABAergic neuronal system.
The effects of different peripheral doses of four dopamine (DA) receptor antagonists on general activity and maternal behavior were examined in lactating female rats. Administration of the classic D1-like and D2-like DA receptor blocker haloperidol (0.1 and 0.05 mg/kg) disrupted pup retrieval and nest-building behaviors and reduced motor activity. Pimozide (0.5 and 0.2 mg/kg), which has more affinity for DA D2-like receptors, mildly disrupted pup retrieval while showing no significant influence on open-field behaviors. The putative DA D(4) receptor blocker, clozapine (1.5 and 1.0 mg/kg) reduced motor activity significantly, while only 1.0 mg/kg dose significantly decreased percent of rats displaying nest building. The DA D1-like receptor blocker SKF-83566 (0.2 and 0.1 mg/kg) significantly reduced pup retrieval, nest building and motor activity. These results suggest a role for DA receptors in ongoing maternal behavior that correlates directly with general activity.
Hepatoportal sclerosis (HPS) is one of several entities known to cause noncirrhotic portal hypertension. To date, its etiology is unknown. There have been increasing reports of HPS occurring in patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), and the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recently issued an advisory regarding the development of noncirrhotic portal hypertension in association with didanosine (ddI) use. We report on a patient with HIV who had taken ddI for 4 years and who developed portal hypertension. Histopathological review of paired liver biopsies showed an initial drug hepatotoxicity, microvascular liver injury, and the presence of HPS. Despite cessation of ddI, the latter biopsy showed resolution of the drug-induced injury, but it also showed progression of the HPS. The patient's portal hypertension also progressed suggestive of an unremitting vascular injury. This case demonstrates the development of HPS resulting from a drug-induced microvascular injury. The paired biopsies demonstrate that the initial vascular injury may disappear but that the portal hypertension and HPS progress.
Heparin is an effective, widely used treatment for unstable angina. Among patients enrolled in a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial comparing intravenous heparin, aspirin, both treatments, and neither during the acute phase of unstable angina, we encountered patients in whom unstable angina was reactivated after heparin was discontinued.
The study population included 403 of the original 479 patients in the trial who had completed six days of blinded therapy without refractory angina or myocardial infarction. After the discontinuation of therapy, clinical events, including reactivation of unstable angina and myocardial infarction occurring within 96 hours after hospitalization, were closely monitored.
Early reactivation occurred in 14 of the 107 patients who received heparin alone, as compared with only 5 patients in each of the other three study groups (P less than 0.01). These reactivations required urgent intervention (thrombolysis, angioplasty, or coronary-bypass surgery) in 11 patients treated with heparin alone, but in only 2 patients in the other groups combined (P less than 0.01). Four of the six patients who had a myocardial infarction during a reactivation of their disease were in the heparin group. Reactivations in this group occurred in a cluster a mean (+/- SD) of 9.5 +/- 5 hours after the discontinuation of the study drug but were randomly distributed over the initial 96 hours in the other three groups.
Although heparin is beneficial in treating unstable angina, the disease process may be reactivated within hours of the discontinuation of this drug. Concomitant therapy with aspirin may prevent this withdrawal phenomenon.
A prospective assessment of the pharyngeal colonization prevalence rates for Streptococcus pyogenes and Streptococcus pneumoniae before and after an azithromycin chemoprophylaxis intervention clinical trial in a cohort of US Marine Corps trainees. In addition, the minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) for all streptococcal isolates, for azithromycin, penicillin, erythromycin and cefotaxime are reported.
Between November 1994 and March 1995, 1108 asymptomatic male US Marine Corps trainees, located in Southern California, were randomly assigned to one of three intervention groups: (1) weekly oral azithromycin, 500 mg (n = 362); (2) 1.2 MU benzathine penicillin G, intramuscularly once (n = 374); or (3) no chemoprophylaxis (n = 372). Subjects provided both a pre- and post-training pharyngeal culture and microbial analysis was conducted to determine the colonization status of each study subject.
The pretraining colonization prevalence was 1.2% for S. pneumoniae and 2.4% for S. pyogenes. There was no statistical difference in pretraining prevalence between the three treatment groups for either organism. Post-training pharyngeal cultures revealed an overall prevalence of 1.1% with no difference between treatment arms. However, the overall post-training prevalence of S. pyogenes colonization increased to 4.8%, with the azithromycin group having significant evidence of protection (0.7%) in comparison with the no-treatment group (8.2%). The Etest method demonstrated no significant difference in the MIC50, MIC90, and MIC ranges between pre- and post-training isolates for any of the tested drugs.
The use of azithromycin as a chemoprophylactic agent to reduce the colonization and subsequent infection of streptococcal respiratory disease among healthy adult male military recruits may be beneficial.
Commonly used sedatives/analgesics can increase the risk of postoperative complications, including delirium. This double-blinded study assessed the neurobehavioral, hemodynamic, and sedative characteristics of dexmedetomidine compared with morphine-based regimen after cardiac surgery at equivalent levels of sedation and analgesia.
A total of 306 patients at least 60 yr old were randomized to receive dexmedetomidine (0.1-0.7 microg x kg(-1) x h(-1)) or morphine (10-70 microg x kg(-1) x h(-1)) with open-label propofol titrated to a target Motor Activity Assessment Scale of 2-4. Primary outcome was the prevalence of delirium measured daily via Confusion Assessment Method for intensive care. Secondary outcomes included ventilation time, additional sedation/analgesia, and hemodynamic and adverse effects.
Of all sedation assessments, 75.2% of dexmedetomidine and 79.6% (P = 0.516) of morphine treatment were in the target range. Delirium incidence was comparable between dexmedetomidine 13 (8.6%) and morphine 22 (15.0%) (relative risk 0.571, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.256-1.099, P = 0.088), however, dexmedetomidine-managed patients spent 3 fewer days (2 [1-7] versus 5 [2-12]) in delirium (95% CI 1.09-6.67, P = 0.0317). The incidence of delirium was significantly less in a small subgroup requiring intraaortic balloon pump and treated with dexmedetomidine (3 of 20 [15%] versus 9 of 25 [36%]) (relative risk 0.416, 95% CI 0.152-0.637, P = 0.001). Dexmedetomidine-treated patients were more likely to be extubated earlier (relative risk 1.27, 95% CI 1.01-1.60, P = 0.040, log-rank P = 0.036), experienced less systolic hypotension (23% versus 38.1%, P = 0.006), required less norepinephrine (P < 0.001), but had more bradycardia (16.45% versus 6.12%, P = 0.006) than morphine treatment.
Dexmedetomidine reduced the duration but not the incidence of delirium after cardiac surgery with effective analgesia/sedation, less hypotension, less vasopressor requirement, and more bradycardia versus morphine regimen.
Alvimopan is a selective, competitive mu-opioid receptor antagonist with limited oral bioavailability which may be used to reduce length of post-operative ileus.
The study compared alvimopan with placebo following bowel resection or total abdominal hysterectomy.
A meta-analysis of randomized-controlled trials published between 2001 and 2006 of alvimopan vs. placebo was performed. The primary efficacy end-points were composite measures of passage of flatus, stool, and tolerance of solid food (GI-3) and passage of stool and tolerance of solid food (GI-2). The incidence of treatment emergent adverse events was assessed.
Five trials matched the selection criteria, reporting on 2195 patients. A total of 1521 (69.3%) had alvimopan and 674 (30.7%) placebo. GI-3 significantly improved (hazard ratio 1.30; 95% confidence intervals 1.16, 1.45, P < 0.001), as did GI-2 (hazard ratio 1.61; 95% confidence intervals 1.26, 2.05, P < 0.001) on alvimopan 12 mg. Time to discharge (hazard ratio 1.26; 95% confidence intervals 1.13, 1.40, P < 0.001), time to bowel motion (hazard ratio 1.74; 95% confidence intervals 1.29, 2.35, P < 0.001), and time to solid food (hazard ratio 1.14; 95% confidence intervals 1.01, 1.30, P < 0.04) also improved significantly. No difference was noted in the incidence of treatment emergent adverse events.
Alvimopan showed significant advantages over placebo in restoring gastro-intestinal function, and reduced time to discharge following major abdominal surgery, with acceptable side effects.
We report a case of acute hepatotoxicity in a 42-year-old woman after administration of clindamycin for a dental infection. After 6 d of treatment, she had fatigue, nausea, vomiting, anorexia, pruritus and jaundice. Her laboratory analysis showed alanine aminotransferase (ALT), 1795 IU/L (normal range 0-40); aspartate aminotransferase (AST), 1337 IU/L (normal range 5-34); alkaline phosphatase (ALP), 339 IU/L (normal range 40-150); gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT), 148 IU/L (normal range 9-64 IU/L); total bilirubin, 4.1 mg/dL; direct bilirubin, 2.9 mg/dL and prothrombin time (PT), 13.5 s, with international normalized ratio (INR), 1.04. She was hospitalized, with immediate drug discontinuation. Her liver biopsy specimen showed mixed-type (both hepatocellular and cholestatic) hepatic injury, compatible with a diagnosis of drug-induced hepatitis. An objective causality assessment using the Naranjo probability scale suggested that clindamycin was the probable cause of the acute hepatitis. In susceptible individuals, clindamycin use may lead to acute mixed-type liver toxicity. Complete recovery may be possible if the drug is discontinued before severe liver injury is established.
A controversy has existed for several years concerning the physiological relevance of the nicotinic receptor measured by alpha-bungarotoxin binding. Using mice derived from a classical F2 and backcross genetic design, a relationship between nicotine-induced seizures and alpha-bungarotoxin nicotinic receptor concentration was found. Mice sensitive to the convulsant effects of nicotine had greater alpha-bungarotoxin binding in the hippocampus than seizure insensitive mice. The binding sites from seizure sensitive and resistant mice were equally affected by treatment with dithiothreitol, trypsin or heat. Thus it appears that the difference between seizure sensitive and insensitive animals may be due to a difference in hippocampal nicotinic receptor concentration as measured with alpha-bungarotoxin binding.
