The present study evaluates the response to the L-type voltage gated calcium channel agonist Bay K 8644 in two forms of experimental hypertension (mineralocorticoid- and hypertension induced by the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor N omega-nitro-L-arginine (N-Nitro arginine)) and under conditions of acute stretch. These studies test the hypothesis that increased L-type calcium channel activity in vasculature is a hallmark or general characteristic of hypertension. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were made hypertensive by subcutaneous implantation of deoxycorticosterone acetate (200 mg/kg DOCA) and given normal or high salt water (1% NaCl + 0.2% KCl); other rats were made hypertensive by ingestion of N-Nitro arginine (2% in water). Systolic blood pressures (SBP) were taken by the standard tail cuff method. Following development of hypertension, rats were anesthetized, and aortae or mesenteric arteries were isolated for measurement of isometric contractile force. Cumulative concentration response curves to Bay K 8644 (10(-10) to 10(-6) M), KCl (6 to 100 mM), or phenylephrine (10(-10)-3 x 10(-7) M) were evaluated. Isolated mesenteric arteries from rats given both DOCA and salt were most sensitive to Bay K 8644 (SBP = 191 +/- 6 mmHg, -log EC50 = 7.78 +/- 0.13), followed by rats receiving high salt alone (SBP = 118 +/- 6 mmHg, -log EC50 = 7.30 +/- 0.17), DOCA alone (SBP = 152 +/- 2 mmHg, -log EC50 = 7.25 +/- 0.15), and finally normal sham rats (SBP = 111 +/- 5 mm Hg, -log EC50 > or = 6.80 +/- 0.10). These data indicate that both DOCA and salt intake can independently influence responsiveness to Bay K 8644.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Glutathione peroxidase (GPX) mimic ebselen and superoxide dismutase (SOD) mimic copper diisopropylsalicylate (CuDIPs) were used to rescue impaired glucose-stimulated insulin secretion (GSIS) in islets of GPX1 and(or) SOD1-knockout mice.
Ebselen improved GSIS in islets of all four tested genotypes. The rescue in the GPX1 knockout resulted from a coordinated transcriptional regulation of four key GSIS regulators and was mediated by the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator 1 alpha (PGC-1α)-mediated signaling pathways. In contrast, CuDIPs improved GSIS only in the SOD1 knockout and suppressed gene expression of the PGC-1α pathway.
Islets from the GPX1 and(or) SOD1 knockout mice provided metabolically controlled intracellular hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) and superoxide conditions for the present study to avoid confounding effects. Bioinformatics analyses of gene promoters and expression profiles guided the search for upstream signaling pathways to link the ebselen-initiated H2O2 scavenging to downstream key events of GSIS. The RNA interference was applied to prove PGC-1α as the main mediator for that link.
Our study revealed a novel metabolic use and clinical potential of ebselen in rescuing GSIS in the GPX1-deficient islets and mice, along with distinct differences between the GPX and SOD mimics in this regard. These findings highlight the necessities and opportunities of discretional applications of various antioxidant enzyme mimics in treating insulin secretion disorders. REBOUND TRACK: This work was rejected during standard peer review and rescued by Rebound Peer Review (Antioxid Redox Signal 16: 293-296, 2012) with the following serving as open reviewers: Regina Brigelius-Flohe, Vadim Gladyshev, Dexing Hou, and Holger Steinbrenner.
A Black employee exposed to industrial nitroglycerin (NG) in an explosives factory presented with severe precordial pain. The clinical presentation was that of significant transient anteroseptal and anterolateral transmural myocardial ischaemia which responded promptly to sublingual isosorbide dinitrate. Despite being removed from exposure to industrial NG and receiving therapy with long-acting oral nitrates and calcium antagonists, the patient continued to experience repeated attacks of severe retrosternal pain, although transient myocardial ischaemia was not demonstrated electrocardiographically during these episodes. Cardiac catheterization revealed a normal myocardial haemodynamic system and selective coronary arteriography delineated coronary arteries free from any obstructive lesions. An ergonovine (ergometrine) maleate provocative test failed to elicit coronary artery spasm, although this was undertaken while the patient was on nitrate and calcium-blocker therapy. Clinical records of previous significant constrictive pericarditis (probably due to tuberculosis) with resultant abnormalities on the ECG complicated the diagnosis. Evaluation was further hindered by the known "variant pattern' seen on the ECGs of members of the Black population. We postulate that this patient's clinical features were a direct result of severe vasospasm affecting the left coronary artery; it is also strongly suggested that withdrawal from contact with industrial NG precipitated this potentially lethal coronary vasospasm. The role played by industrial NG in ischaemic heart disease is reviewed, as well as the importance of the "normal variant pattern' in the assessment of cardiac disease in Black patients. As far as we are aware this is the first time that the use of the ergonovine maleate provocative test has been documented in the industrial NG withdrawal syndrome.
Persistent sequelae of lithium intoxication gained clinical attention in the 1980s and were named Syndrome of Irreversible Lithium-Effectuated Neurotoxicity (SILENT). The authors review the published cases of SILENT reported in the literature and discuss various clinical manifestations.
The authors' inclusion criteria included persistence of sequelae for at least 2 months after the cessation of lithium administration. They conducted a MEDLINE and Pub Med search for journal articles from the year 1965 to 2004. They also cross-referenced available papers.
The authors identified 90 cases of SILENT in peer-reviewed publications. Persistent cerebellar dysfunction was the most commonly reported sequela. Other atypical presentations have also been reported.
Although the biologic mechanism remains unclear, the authors hypothesize that the putative cause of SILENT is demyelination caused by lithium at multiple sites in the nervous system, including the cerebellum. Recent advances in the understanding of the molecular basis of lithium-induced neurotoxicity may be able to provide a means of defining a pathway associated with the long-term prophylactic properties of lithium, distinct from its toxicity profile. This identification of differential gene expression patterns that distinguish between therapeutic and toxic actions of lithium may help in the discovery of new drugs for mood stabilization. Clinically and heuristically, it is important to raise the awareness of this syndrome so that clinicians are able to avoid it. A precise definition, operational diagnostic criteria, and a descriptive name will aid in the early identification and prevention of SILENT.
This study investigated associations between occupational pesticide exposure and renal cell carcinoma (RCC) risk. To follow-up on a previous report by Buzio et al., we also considered whether this association could be modified by glutathione S-transferase M1 and T1 (GSTM1 and GSTT1) genotypes. About 1097 RCC cases and 1476 controls from Central and Eastern Europe were interviewed to collect data on lifetime occupational histories. Occupational information for jobs held for at least 12 months duration was coded for pesticide exposures and assessed for frequency and intensity of exposure. GSTM1 and GSTT1 gene deletions were analyzed using TaqMan assays. A significant increase in RCC risk was observed among subjects ever exposed to pesticides [odds ratio (OR): 1.60; 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.00-2.55]. After stratification by genotypes, increased risk was observed among exposed subjects with at least one GSTM1 active allele (OR: 4.00; 95% CI: 1.55-10.33) but not among exposed subjects with two GSTM1 inactive alleles compared with unexposed subjects with two inactive alleles (P-interaction: 0.04). Risk was highest among exposed subjects with both GSTM1 and GSTT1 active genotypes (OR: 6.47; 95% CI: 1.82-23.00; P-interaction: 0.02) compared with unexposed subjects with at least one GSTM1 or T1 inactive genotype. In the largest RCC case-control study with genotype information conducted to date, we observed that risk associated with pesticide exposure was exclusive to individuals with active GSTM1/T1 genotypes. These findings further support the hypothesis that glutathione S-transferase polymorphisms can modify RCC risk associated with occupational pesticide exposure.
We examined the effect of sulfapyridine on mast cell-mediated immediate-type allergic reactions. Sulfapyridine (1 and 10 microg/kg) significantly inhibited systemic allergic reaction induced by compound 48/80 in rats. Sulfapyridine (1 and 10 microg/kg) also inhibited significantly local mast cell-mediated immediate-type allergic reactions activated by anti-dinitrophenyl (DNP) IgE. Moreover, sulfapyridine inhibited histamine release dose-dependently in the rat peritoneal mast cells (RPMC) activated by compound 48/80 or anti-DNP IgE. When sulfapyridine was added, the level of cAMP in RPMC, transiently and significantly increased about 4-fold compared with that of basal cells. These results indicate that sulfapyridine inhibits mast cell-mediated immediate-type allergic reactions in vivo and in vitro.
To investigate the effects of occupational exposures and residence near to industrial sites on lung cancer mortality in an area in Italy.
234 cases of lung cancer and 729 controls matched by sex, age, and date of death were enrolled. Environmental exposure was evaluated using historical residence data. A geographical information system was used to compute distances from residence to pollution source (cement factory, power plants, harbour) and an average distance was computed for each subject. Odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) in a logistic regression model were used to estimate the relative risk of lung cancer associated with the risk factors (smoking habits and occupational exposure) collected by questionnaire; ORs for distances from pollution sources and from city centre were computed, adjusting for smoking habits, education, and occupation.
Smoking habits (< or =10 cigarettes/day, OR = 2.28; 11-20, OR = 4.64; >20, OR = 6.61) and occupational exposure to asbestos (OR = 3.50) were significantly associated with lung cancer risk. Reported traffic level of area of residence and residence near the four sources were not associated with increased risk of lung cancer. There was a significantly increased risk for those residing outside the city centre, in the southern outskirts (OR = 1.51).
The increased lung cancer risk observed in the area can partly be explained by occupational exposures. The increased risk in the outskirts of the city is consistent with the results of dispersion models that indicate high levels of pollutant deposition in the same area.
The acute onset of chorea was seen in a ten week-old male following abrupt cessation of a seven-day course of sedation with diazepam and pentobarbital. These movements slowly resolved over a six-day period and the infant was without neurologic sequelae one week after his chorea resolved. A cerebral MRI was normal. We speculate that the mechanism by which chorea may occur as a withdrawal phenomenon to benzodiazepine/barbiturate treatment is by a functional overactivity of the dopaminergic system in the basal ganglia.
The data we present here suggest that agonists of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARgamma) can attenuate the effects of beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta). Alzheimer's disease is associated with elevated levels of Abeta, and enhanced expression of PPARgamma. In this study, we determined that application of Abeta([1-40]) could impair hippocampal post-tetanic potentiation (PTP) and long-term potentiation (LTP) in vitro. We investigated the effects of PPARgamma agonists; troglitazone, ciglitazone and 15-deoxy-delta(12,14) prostaglandin J2 (PGJ2) on synaptic transmission and plasticity in area CA1. Both ciglitazone and PGJ2 increased baseline synaptic transmission significantly, without altering paired-pulse facilitation. PGJ2 produced a significant reduction in LTP, whereas ciglitazone and troglitazone had no significant effect. In addition, prior application of each ligand attenuated the previously observed Abeta([1-40])-mediated impairment of LTP. The effect of troglitazone on the Abeta([1-40])-mediated impairment of LTP was not reversed by the PPARgamma antagonist, GW-9662. These findings demonstrate that PPARgamma agonists attenuate the effects of Abeta on LTP, and support the potential use of these agents to alleviate the symptoms of Alzheimer's disease. We also suggest that PPARgamma agonists may regulate expression of hippocampal LTP in vitro.
There is evidence that the gene for the B isozyme of creatine kinase is regulated during cell differentiation, is under hormonal control, and is activated in a small cell lung carcinoma. In order to investigate further the mechanisms of these processes, the human gene was isolated and the structure of the promoter region was determined. A human DNA fragment of 8 kilobase pairs was shown to encompass the entire coding region and 850 base pairs (bp) of the 5'-flanking sequence. This fragment was transfected into three cell lines and shown to express functional enzyme. The 5'-end of the gene is split by a 230-bp intron that is located 12 bp upstream of the initiator ATG codon. Transcription initiation occurs at a site that is approximately 69 bp upstream of the 5'-end of this intron. The DNA sequence in the region upstream of the 5'-end of the mRNA is suggestive of two superimposed promoters that contain additional sequence elements that are known to regulate expression of other eukaryote genes. The 5'-region also has a remarkable homology to the overlapping promoters of the adenovirus EIIaE gene. These elements collectively form the basis for initial investigations of how this gene is controlled.
The incidence of sexual dysfunction due to antidepressant drugs reported in pre-marketing clinical efficacy trials is often several times lower than in subsequent clinical experiences and independent reports. Although it is commonly believed that the reason for this discrepancy is that the nonleading questions employed in conventional clinical trials underestimate sexual dysfunction while the direct questioning used in independent trials provides more accurate data, few studies have actually compared these 2 methods.
In this study, 119 patients with a DSM-IV-defined major depressive episode (82 women and 37 men) who had been treated with but not responded to a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI; either citalopram or paroxetine) were assessed regarding sexual functioning by means of open-ended questions and direct questioning at baseline (after SSRI treatment only) and after 4 weeks of SSRI treatment plus buspirone or placebo.
More patients reported sexual dysfunction in response to direct questioning (41%) as compared with spontaneous report (6%) (p < .001). Sexual dysfunction correlated with the duration of the depressive episode, but not with age, dose of SSRI, plasma level of SSRI, duration of SSRI treatment, or any measurement of depression. No statistically significant differences regarding the incidence of sexual dysfunction were found between the citalopram and the paroxetine groups.
Open-ended questions are an insufficient tool to estimate sexual dysfunction, and premarketing clinical trials should therefore include basic explicit assessments. The failure to find a correlation between treatment duration and sexual dysfunction adds to the notion that sexual side effects due to SSRIs do not abate over time.
Adrenomedullin (ADM) is a member of the calcitonin family of regulatory peptides, and is reported to have anti-inflammatory effects in animal models of Crohn's disease (CD). We investigated the therapeutic effects of daikenchuto (DKT), an extracted Japanese herbal medicine, on the regulation of endogenous ADM in the gastrointestinal tract in a CD mouse model.
Colitis was induced in mice by intrarectal instillation of 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS); afterwards, DKT was given orally. Colonic damage was assessed on day 3 by macroscopic and microscopic observation, enzyme immunoassays of proinflammatory cytokines in the colonic mucosa, and serum amyloid A (SAA), a hepatic acute-phase protein. To determine the involvement of ADM, an ADM antagonist was instilled intrarectally before DKT administration. The effect of DKT on ADM production by intestinal epithelial cells was evaluated by enzyme immunoassay and real-time PCR.
DKT significantly attenuated mucosal damage and colonic inflammatory adhesions, and inhibited elevations of SAA in plasma and the proinflammatory cytokines TNFα and IFNγ in the colon. Small and large intestinal epithelial cells produced higher levels of ADM after DKT stimulation. A DKT-treated IEC-6 cell line also showed enhanced ADM production at protein and mRNA levels. Abolition of this effect by pretreatment with an ADM antagonist shows that DKT appears to exert its anti-colitis effect via up-regulation of endogenous ADM in the intestinal tract.
DKT exerts beneficial effects in a CD mouse model through endogenous release and production of ADM. Endogenous ADM may be a therapeutic target for CD.
A review of 84 patients with cutaneous leishmaniasis treated with sodium stibogluconate (Pentostam) at our institution revealed that three had developed herpes zoster during or shortly after receiving therapy. Because zoster has been associated with depressed cellular immunity, we prospectively followed serial lymphocyte subpopulations in eight patients with cutaneous leishmaniasis who received Pentostam. By day 7 of therapy, the white blood cell count had fallen by a median of 1.15/mm3, the total lymphocyte count by a median of 804/mm3, and the CD4+ lymphocyte count by a median of 306/mm3 (67% of baseline; confidence interval, 52%-78%). An in vitro cell-viability assay demonstrated that Pentostam is not toxic to human mononuclear cells. The administration of Pentostam for the treatment of cutaneous leishmaniasis results in lymphopenia that may be related to the subsequent occurrence of herpes zoster.
Cinnarizine, a calcium antagonist that produces parkinsonism in humans, induces behavioural changes such as alopecia, buco-lingual dyskinesia and reduction of motor activity in female parkin knock out (PK-KO) mice but not in wild-type (WT) controls. PK-KO mice have high striatal dopamine levels and increased dopamine metabolism in spite of low reduced tyrosine hydroxylase protein. Cinnarizine, which blocks dopamine receptors and increases dopamine release, further increased dopamine metabolism. PK-KO mice increased GSH levels as a compensatory mechanism against enhanced free radical production related to acceleration of dopamine turnover. Neuronal markers, such as beta-tubulin slightly increased in PK-KO and furthermore with cinnarizine. Astroglial markers were decreased in PK-KO mice, and this effect was potentiated by cinnarizine, suggesting abnormal glia in these animals. Microglia was hyperactivated in PK-KO midbrain, suggesting inflammation in these animals. Proapoptotic proteins were increased by cinnarizine and, to a lesser extent, in PK-KO mice. Our data indicate that mutation of parkin is a risk factor for drug-induced parkinsonism.
The primary results of a three-year prospective, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in non-insulin-dependent diabetic (NIDDM) patients show that an anti-hypertensive regimen, which includes the ACE inhibitor enalapril, preserves renal function to a greater extent than therapy with antihypertensive agents excluding ACE inhibitors (J Am Soc Nephrol 3:335, 1992). The influence of baseline urinary albumin excretion on the renal protective effects of enalapril treatment in these subjects was the objective of this further analysis. Adequate data were available in 121 patients of the 165 hypertensive NIDDM individuals studied [baseline glomerular filtration rate (GFR) 30 to 100 ml/min/1.73 m2]. Twenty-four hour urinary excretion of albumin (UAE), protein, urea nitrogen, creatinine and isotopically determined GFR were measured at baseline and six month intervals. Glycemic control and blood pressure regulation were assessed every three months. The rate of loss of GFR was significantly greater in patients with overt proteinuria at baseline (UAE > 300 mg/24 hr) as compared to patients with baseline sub-clinical proteinuria (UAE < or = 300 mg/24 hr). Antihypertensive treatment with enalapril preserved GFR significantly better (P < 0.01) in the patients with sub-clinical proteinuria at baseline (UAE < or = 300 mg/24 hr) than other antihypertensive treatments which excluded the ACE inhibitor. Furthermore, only 7% of the enalapril-treated group progressed to clinical albuminuria compared to 21% of control treated patients. Although the enalapril-treated group had a lower mean blood pressure during the maintenance period, no correlation between blood pressure (systolic, diastolic or mean arterial) and rate of change of GFR was observed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Both infection with the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV) and zidovudine (formerly called azidothymidine [AZT]) cause myopathy. To identify criteria for distinguishing zidovudine-induced myopathy from that caused by primary HIV infection, we reviewed the histochemical, immunocytochemical, and electron-microscopical features of muscle-biopsy specimens from 20 HIV-positive patients with myopathy (15 of whom had been treated with zidovudine) and compared the findings with the patients' clinical course and response to various therapies. Among the zidovudine-treated patients, the myopathy responded to prednisone in four, to the discontinuation of zidovudine in eight, and to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs in two. Numerous "ragged-red" fibers, indicative of abnormal mitochondria with paracrystalline inclusions, were found in the biopsy specimens from the zidovudine-treated patients but not in those from the other patients. The number of these fibers appeared to correlate with the severity of the myopathy. All the patients, regardless of whether they had been treated with zidovudine, had inflammatory myopathy characterized by degenerating fibers, cytoplasmic bodies, and endomysial infiltrates consisting of CD8+ cells (mean +/- SD, 60.7 +/- 6.4 percent) and macrophages (39.2 +/- 6.4 percent) associated with Class I major histocompatibility complex (MHC-I) antigens (HLA-A, -B, and -C antigens) in the muscle fibers. The numbers and percentages of CD8+ cells and macrophages were similar in both the zidovudine-treated and the untreated HIV-positive patients. Specimens obtained on repeat muscle biopsy from two patients in whom the myopathy responded to the discontinuation of zidovudine showed remarkable histologic improvement. We conclude that long-term therapy with zidovudine can cause a toxic mitochondrial myopathy, which coexists with a T-cell-mediated inflammatory myopathy that is restricted to MHC-I antigen, and is indistinguishable from the myopathy associated with primary HIV infection or polymyositis in HIV-seronegative patients.
Several open trials and case studies have reported beneficial effects following the addition of risperidone for partial responders to clozapine. The purpose of this study was to carry out a placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blind trial of the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of adjunctive treatment with risperidone in patients with schizophrenia partially responsive to clozapine.
In this 6-week double-blind study, 30 patients with DSM-IV schizophrenia who had partial response to clozapine despite being treated for a mean of 32 months were randomly assigned to risperidone (N = 16) up to 6 mg/day or placebo (N = 14). Efficacy assessments included the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS), the Calgary Depression Scale, the Clinical Global Impressions-Severity of Illness scale, the Global Assessment of Functioning scale, and the Quality of Life Scale. A variety of safety and tolerability measures were also obtained. Data were collected between November 2001 and July 2003.
Significant improvement was noted in both groups on a variety of measures of psychopathology, but there was significantly greater improvement in the placebo-treated patients on the primary outcome measure, the PANSS positive symptom subscale. There were no significant differences between the treatment groups regarding extrapyramidal symptoms, weight gain, vital signs, serum clozapine levels, and QTc interval. The only side effect significantly more severe in risperidone-treated compared to placebo-treated patients was sedation. The patients treated with risperidone developed significant increases in plasma prolactin levels.
Adjunctive risperidone treatment in schizophrenia patients partially responsive to clozapine does not significantly improve psychopathology or quality of life compared to placebo in a 6-week period.
Disc swelling and hemorrhages appeared in three eyes of two men receiving amiodarone hydrochloride for cardiac arrhythmias. The initial diagnosis was ischemic optic neuropathy, but visual acuity was preserved, and visual field changes were present in only one eye. Amiodarone is a cationic amphiphilic compound, and other drugs with this property have keratopathy, retinopathy, and optic neuropathy as side effects. We believe our patients had an amiodarone-induced papillopathy.
Autosomal dominant cataract is a clinically and genetically heterogeneous lens disorder that usually presents as a sight-threatening trait in childhood. Here we have mapped dominant pulverulent cataract to the beta-crystallin gene cluster on chromosome 22q11.2. Suggestive evidence of linkage was detected at markers D22S1167 (LOD score [Z] 2.09 at recombination fraction [theta] 0) and D22S1154 (Z=1.39 at theta=0), which closely flank the genes for betaB1-crystallin (CRYBB1) and betaA4-crystallin (CRYBA4). Sequencing failed to detect any nucleotide changes in CRYBA4; however, a G-->T transversion in exon 6 of CRYBB1 was found to cosegregate with cataract in the family. This single-nucleotide change was predicted to introduce a translation stop codon at glycine 220 (G220X). Expression of recombinant human betaB1-crystallin in bacteria showed that the truncated G220X mutant was significantly less soluble than wild type. This study has identified the first CRYBB1 mutation associated with autosomal dominant cataract in humans.
Intravenous iron is widely used to maintain adequate iron stores and prevent iron deficiency anemia in patients with chronic kidney disease, yet concerns remain about its long-term safety with respect to oxidative stress, kidney injury, and accelerated atherosclerosis, which are the subjects of this review. Three parenteral iron formulations are available for use in the United States: Iron dextran, iron gluconate, and iron sucrose. Iron dextran, especially the high molecular form, has been linked with anaphylactoid and anaphylactic reactions, and its use has been declining. A portion of intravenous iron preparations is redox-active, labile iron available for direct donation to transferrin. In vitro tests show that commonly available intravenous iron formulations have differing capacities to saturate transferrin directly: Iron gluconate > iron sucrose > iron dextran. Intravenous iron treatment produces oxidative stress, as demonstrated by increases in plasma levels of lipid peroxidation products (malondialdehyde), at a point that is much earlier than the time to peak concentration of catalytically active iron, suggesting a direct effect of iron sucrose on oxidative stress. Furthermore, iron sucrose infusion produces endothelial dysfunction that seems to peak earlier than the serum level of free iron. Intravenous iron sucrose infusion also has been shown to produce acute renal injury and inflammation as demonstrated by increased urinary albumin, enzyme (N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase), and cytokine (chemokine monocyte chemoattractant protein-1) excretions. Although the long-term dangers of intravenous iron are unproved, these data call for examination of effects of intravenous iron on the potential for long-term harm in patients with chronic kidney disease.
In 1997, the Intergruppo Italiano Linfomi started a randomized trial to evaluate, in unfavorable stage IA and IIA Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL) patients, the efficacy and toxicity of the low toxic epirubicin, vinblastine and etoposide (EVE) regimen followed by involved field radiotherapy in comparison to the gold standard doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine and dacarbazine (ABVD) regimen followed by the same radiotherapy program.
Patients should be younger than 65 years with unfavorable stage IA and IIA HL (i.e. stage IA or IIA with bulky disease and/or subdiaphragmatic disease, erythrocyte sedimentation rate higher than 40, extranodal (E) involvement, hilar involvement and more than three involved lymph node areas).
Ninety-two patients were allocated to the ABVD arm and 89 to the EVE arm. Complete remission (CR) rates at the end of treatment program [chemotherapy (CT) + RT] were 93% and 92% for ABVD and EVE arms, respectively (P = NS). The 5-year relapse-free survival (RFS) rate was 95% for ABVD and 78% for EVE (P < 0.05). As a consequence of the different relapse rate, the 5-year failure-free survival (FFS) rate was significantly better for ABVD (90%) than for EVE (73%) arm (P < 0.05). No differences in terms of overall survival (OS) were observed for the two study arms.
In unfavorable stage IA and IIA HL patients, no differences were observed between ABVD and EVE arms in terms of CR rate and OS. EVE CT, however, was significantly worse than ABVD in terms of RFS and FFS and cannot be recommended as initial treatment for HL.
We describe a case of acute promyelocytic leukaemia where the combined use of all-trans retinoic acid and an antifibrinolytic (aprotinin) may have contributed to worsening of coagulopathy.
Aicardi-Goutières syndrome (AGS) presents as a severe neurological brain disease and is a genetic mimic of the sequelae of transplacentally acquired viral infection. Evidence exists for a perturbation of innate immunity as a primary pathogenic event in the disease phenotype. Here, we show that TREX1, encoding the major mammalian 3' --> 5' DNA exonuclease, is the AGS1 gene, and AGS-causing mutations result in abrogation of TREX1 enzyme activity. Similar loss of function in the Trex1(-/-) mouse leads to an inflammatory phenotype. Our findings suggest an unanticipated role for TREX1 in processing or clearing anomalous DNA structures, failure of which results in the triggering of an abnormal innate immune response.
Inflammation is now considered critical in the pathogenesis of myocardial infarction. One of the mechanisms regulating the inflammatory process is the ubiquitin-proteasome system. We investigated whether variants of the 20S proteasome are associated with susceptibility to myocardial infarction and found a common SNP (minor allele frequency of 0.35) in the proteasome subunit alpha type 6 gene (PSMA6) conferring risk of myocardial infarction in the Japanese population (chi(2) = 21.1, P = 0.0000044, 2,592 affected individuals versus 2,851 controls). We replicated this association in another panel of myocardial infarction and control subjects, although its relevance to other ethnic groups remains to be clarified. The SNP, located in the 5' untranslated region of exon 1 in this gene, enhanced the transcription of PSMA6. Moreover, suppression of PSMA6 expression using short interfering RNA in cultured cells reduced activation of the transcription factor NF-kappaB by stabilizing phosphorylated IkappaB. Our results implicate this PSMA6 SNP as a previously unknown genetic risk factor for myocardial infarction.
Acute toxic effects of three commonly used insecticidal preparations of the organophosphates chlorpyrifos, diazinon, and dichlorvos were examined in mixed breed broiler chicks, and cholinesterase activity in plasma and brain were measured. The acute (24 h) oral median lethal doses (LD50) of chlorpyrifos, diazinon, and dichlorvos were 10.79 mg kg(-1), 6.32 mg kg(-1), and 6.30 mg kg(-1), respectively, as determined by the up-and-down method in chicks. Signs of cholinergic toxicosis in the chicks appeared within two hours after dosing, and they included salivation, lacrimation, gasping, frequent defecation, drooping of wings, tremors, convulsions, and recumbency before death. Halving the oral LD50 of chlorpyrifos (5 mg kg(-1)), diazinon (3 mg kg(-1)), and dichlorvos (3 mg kg(-1)) caused immobility and wing drooping, but not the clinical signs of cholinergic toxicity. However, at full LD50 doses of these insecticides, chicks showed clinical signs of cholinergic toxicity similar to those seen in the LD50 experiments. Two out of six chicks died within two hours after treatment with LD50 doses of chlorpyrifos and dichlorvos, whereas LD50 dosing with diazinon caused death in three out of six chicks. Compared to control values, the insecticides reduced plasma and whole brain cholinesterase activities by 29% to 84% and 18% to 77%, respectively, depending on the dose. The decrease in plasma cholinesterase correlated well (r=0.82) with that of the brain. These data suggest that organophosphate insecticides administered orally at LD50 doses induce clinical signs of cholinergic poisoning and concurrently reduce brain and plasma cholinesterase activities in chicks.
Zaleplon (N-[3-(3-cyanopyrazolo[1,5-a] pyrimidin-7-yl) phenyl]-N-ethyl acetamide) is a non-benzodiazepine recently introduced for clinical use. This agent is indicated for the short-term treatment of insomnia. Preclinical studies have shown that the benzodiazepines triazolam and Ro17-1812 can substitute for zaleplon in animals trained to distinguish zaleplon from saline. The benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil can antagonise the discriminative stimulus effect of zaleplon. These findings suggest that zaleplon is recognised by animals as a benzodiazepine agent. Zaleplon is active after ip. and oral administration in a variety of motor performance tests, including locomotor activity, rotarod and the loaded grid. Zaleplon has been shown to be active in a number of different anticonvulsant models, including the pentylenetetrazole, isoniazid and electroshock models. The compound is also reported to be active against convulsions induced by bicuculline, picrotoxin and strychnine. Studies in anxiolytic models suggest that zaleplon may have weak anxiolytic activity. From preclinical studies, it appears zaleplon possesses a reduced risk of tolerance compared to triazolam, is less likely to potentiate the effects of ethanol and is unlikely to produce amnestic effects. In man, zaleplon is rapidly absorbed and undergoes extensive presystemic metabolism. The compound has a plasma half-life of approximately one hour and is metabolised primarily via the aldehyde oxidase system to form 5-oxo-zaleplon. This metabolite, along with other minor metabolites formed in vivo, do not appear to contribute to the activity of zaleplon. Metabolites of zaleplon are excreted primarily via the urine. Phase I studies suggest that single daytime doses of zaleplon up to 15 mg are well-tolerated. Short-term impairment of performance occurs when zaleplon is administered during the day at doses epsilon 20 mg. However, given the short half-life of the compound, significant impairment of daytime performance is unlikely if zaleplon is administered at bedtime or shortly after retiring for the evening. Results from Phase II/III studies suggest that zaleplon (5 - 20 mg) produces a dose-dependent reduction in sleep latency in patients suffering from primary insomnia. The clinical efficacy of zaleplon persists for at least four weeks at doses of 10 mg and 20 mg. Studies in patients with a history of drug abuse suggest that the abuse potential of zaleplon (at doses above the therapeutic dose range) is similar to that seen with the benzodiazepine triazolam.
Cutaneous cis-urocanic acid (cUCA) or ultraviolet B exposure has been shown to cause diminished cutaneous contact hypersensitivity (CH) and to induce systemic tolerance (increased regulatory T lymphocytes) in mice. Permethrin is also a known CH inhibitor, but the molecular mechanisms are currently poorly understood. In this study, CH was evaluated in four strains of mice: an immunosensitive strain (C57BL/6N), an immunoresistant strain (SvImJ), a strain developed from C57BL/6N mice but genetically altered at both the tumor necrosis factor-alpha receptors (TNFalphap55R and p75R), and a strain developed from C57BL/6N but genetically deleted at the interferon-gamma (IFNgamma) locus.
CH was evaluated in each group via oxazolone challenge following a 5-day exposure to intradermal (ID) cUCA or a single exposure to topical permethrin, or co-exposure to both chemicals in 5-week-old female C57BL/6N, SvImJ, and C57BL/6N mice genetically altered at the TNFalpha or IFNgamma locus.
A 5-day exposure to ID cUCA or a single exposure to topical permethrin resulted in diminished CH response in C57BL/6N mice, and this effect was exacerbated with concurrent exposure to both chemicals. CH in SvImJ was both cUCA- and permethrin-resistant relative to C57BL/6N mice, as 5-day cUCA or a single exposure to permethrin did not diminish CH, nor did concurrent exposure to cUCA and permethrin. Mice deleted at both TNFalphaR loci displayed similar but somewhat blunted diminished CH responses to cUCA or permethrin. This trend became significant with combined chemical exposure. IFNgamma knockout mice displayed similar diminished CH responses to cUCA or permethrin alone. Unlike C57BL/6N mice, the IFNgamma knockout mice did not show a further reduction in CH with combined chemical exposure.
These results suggest the following: (1)Mouse strains show variable susceptibility to permethrin- and cUCA-induced immunomodulation. (2)TNFalpha may be involved in the immunomodulatory effects of cUCA and permethrin. (3)IFNgamma may be required for the more than additive depression of CH caused by cUCA+permethrin.
