We present a genome-wide association study of metabolic traits in human urine, designed to investigate the detoxification capacity of the human body. Using NMR spectroscopy, we tested for associations between 59 metabolites in urine from 862 male participants in the population-based SHIP study. We replicated the results using 1,039 additional samples of the same study, including a 5-year follow-up, and 992 samples from the independent KORA study. We report five loci with joint P values of association from 3.2 × 10(-19) to 2.1 × 10(-182). Variants at three of these loci have previously been linked with important clinical outcomes: SLC7A9 is a risk locus for chronic kidney disease, NAT2 for coronary artery disease and genotype-dependent response to drug toxicity, and SLC6A20 for iminoglycinuria. Moreover, we identify rs37369 in AGXT2 as the genetic basis of hyper-β-aminoisobutyric aciduria.
Endothelin is elevated in heart failure and contributes to neurohormonal activation, hemodynamic deterioration, and cardiovascular remodeling. Here, we examined its prognostic value in a large population of patients with chronic heart failure.
Big endothelin-1 (Big ET-1) and 4 other neurohormones were measured at study entry in 2359 patients enrolled in the Valsartan Heart Failure Trial (Val-HeFT) and their concentrations related to outcome over a median follow-up of 23 months. Baseline concentration of Big ET-1 (median 0.80 pmol/L) was proportional to severity of disease (New York Heart Association class, left ventricular structure and function). High circulating concentrations of brain natriuretic peptide (BNP), creatinine and bilirubin, advanced New York Heart Association class, elevated body mass index, and the presence of atrial fibrillation were independently associated to higher concentrations of Big ET-1. Big ET-1 (ranking second just behind BNP among neurohormonal factors) was an independent predictor of outcome defined as all-cause mortality (hazard ratio 1.49, 95% CI 1.20-1.84, P = .0003) or the combined endpoint of mortality and morbidity (hazard ratio 1.43, 95% CI 1.20-1.69, P < .0001) and provided incremental prognostic value compared with BNP.
In a large population of patients with symptomatic heart failure, the circulating concentration of Big ET-1, a precursor of the paracrine and bioactive peptide ET-1, was an independent marker of mortality and morbidity. In this setting, BNP remained the strongest neurohormonal prognostic factor.
The biological basis for regional and inter-species differences in cerebral cortical morphology is poorly understood. We focused on consanguineous Turkish families with a single affected member with complex bilateral occipital cortical gyration abnormalities. By using whole-exome sequencing, we initially identified a homozygous 2-bp deletion in LAMC3, the laminin γ3 gene, leading to an immediate premature termination codon. In two other affected individuals with nearly identical phenotypes, we identified a homozygous nonsense mutation and a compound heterozygous mutation. In human but not mouse fetal brain, LAMC3 is enriched in postmitotic cortical plate neurons, localizing primarily to the somatodendritic compartment. LAMC3 expression peaks between late gestation and late infancy, paralleling the expression of molecules that are important in dendritogenesis and synapse formation. The discovery of the molecular basis of this unusual occipital malformation furthers our understanding of the complex biology underlying the formation of cortical gyrations.
Cimetidine, the first of a new class of pharmacologic agents that dramatically inhibit basal gastric acid secretion, is achieving widespread use for the treatment of such acid peptic disorders as duodenal ulcers, gastritis, and reflux esophagitis. Three patients are presented who experienced agitation, disorientation, and hallucinations while being treated with cimetidine. A review of the literature revealed that central nervous system side effects of cimetidine can occur within 24 hours of treatment with the drug; are often unrecognized or misdiagnosed by clinicians, and are reversed within 12 to 48 hours after the discontinuation of the medication.
The chronic administration of phenobarbital (180 mg/day p.o.) alters the binding, bioavailability, metabolism and pharmacokinetics of propranolol. Consequently, phenobarbital affects the pharmacological activity of propranolol as measured by inhibition of isoproterenol tachycardia in dogs. Altered binding affects beta blockade in two ways; a reduction in the free fraction and the volume of distribution. To separate the effects of active metabolites from the parent drug, we have used an integrated form of the equation (DR -- 1) = K.(p), where DR is the dose ratio and p is the concentration of the free (unbound) propranolol in plasma. The activity due to propranolol itself is subtracted from the total observed amount of beta blockade. In this way, phenobarbital was shown to increase the amount of beta blockade which was due to active metabolites. Phenobarbital treatment shortened the time course of beta blockade. The beta blocking half-life for propranolol followed its pharmacokinetic half-life closely for a variety of experimental conditions. This suggests that pharmacological activity data could be used to describe pharmacokinetics without measuring blood concentrations.
Lorazepam, an anxiolytic drug, was evaluated in a 2-mg dose using a 16-night protocol including 7 nights of drug trial. Initially and with continued use the drug was moderately effective in inducing and maintaining sleep. Side effects included episodes of memory impairment and confusion in 2 subjects and group mean increases in daytime anxiety and tension with continued drug use. Following drug withdrawal, there was a marked and significant worsening of sleep above baseline levels (rebound insomnia) on the third night as well as significant increases in tension and anxiety the next day. The peak degree of withdrawal sleep disturbance was several times the peak degree of sleep improvement with drug administration.
To study the association between Parkinson disease (PD) and 2 polymorphisms in ABCB1 among subjects enrolled in the French health system for agricultural workers (Mutualité Sociale Agricole), as well as the interaction between ABCB1 and organochlorine insecticides.
Case-control study.
Mutualité Sociale Agricole.
Patients with PD were examined by a neurologist and were matched to a maximum of 3 controls. Participants were classified as never users, users for gardening, and professional users of pesticides. Detailed information on pesticides lifelong use was obtained for professional users by occupational health physicians.
DNA was obtained and 2 ABCB1 polymorphisms (exon 21: G2677[A,T]; exon 26: C3435T) associated with altered P-glycoprotein function were genotyped.
Among 207 cases and 482 matched controls, ABCB1 polymorphisms were not associated with PD (C3435T, P = .43; G2677[A,T], P = .97). Among 101 male cases and 234 matched controls, the odds ratio for organochlorines was 3.5 (95% confidence interval, 0.9-14.5) times higher among homozygous carriers of variant G2677(A,T) alleles than noncarriers. Among cases only, we found an association between carrying 2 variant G2677(A,T) alleles and organochlorines (odds ratio, 5.4, 95% confidence interval, 1.1-27.5) as well as with the number of cumulative lifetime number of hours of exposure (P = .005; analyses restricted to subjects exposed to organochlorines, P = .03).
Our findings suggest that the ABCB1 gene and exposure to organochlorine insecticides interact to increase PD risk: in subjects professionally exposed to organochlorines, polymorphisms associated with a decreased ability of ABCB1 to clear xenobiotics from the brain increased the risk of PD. These findings support the hypothesis of gene x pesticides interactions in PD.
To explore effects of valsartan on expression changes of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and its receptor Flk-1 in diabetic rat kidney.
To establish the diabetic nephropathy (DN) rat models and divide the experiment rats into three groups--the DN group, the valsartan group and the control group, and use the reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), Western Blotting and immunohistochemical techniques to detect the expression of VEGF and Flk-1, and detect the urine protein and glomerular area and volume, then analyze the relationship of the data.
The mRNA and protein expression of VEGF and Flk-1, the urine protein and glomerular area and volume in the DN were higher than those in the control group and valsartan group (P < 0.05). VEGF and Flk-1 were positively correlated with the urine protein and glomerular area and volume (P < 0.05).
VEGF and Flk-1 play an important role in the pathogenesis of DN, of which over-expression may lead to the damage of kidney. The angiotensin II receptor antagonist--valsartan can protect kidney through the non-hemodynamic mechanism of inhibiting the abnormal expression of VEGF and Flk-1.
Cardiac subacute toxicity induced by ciprofloxacin (1-cyclopropyl-6-fluoro-1,4-dihydro-4-oxo-7-(1-piperazinyl)-3-quinoline carboxylic acid, CAS 86393-32-0) a relatively new quinolone carboxylic acid derivative with an extensive antibacterial spectrum was investigated in healthy rats using serum biochemical parameters. Toxicological evaluation was performed in serum samples following the administration of the therapeutic dose regimens of the compound. Cardiac subacute toxicity was evaluated by measuring serum enzyme activity of creatine kinase, creatine kinase isoenzyme-MB (muscular-brain), lactate dehydrogenase and aspartate aminotransferase. The serum biochemical parameters indicated that the cardiac subactue toxicity of ciprofloxacin was: Cipro 1.2 (250 mg) = Cipro 2.4 (500 mg) < Cipro 4.3 (750 mg).
Angiogenesis plays a central role in wound healing. Among many known growth factors, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is believed to be the most prevalent, efficacious, and long-term signal that is known to stimulate angiogenesis in wounds. The wound site is rich in oxidants, such as hydrogen peroxide, mostly contributed by neutrophils and macrophages. We proposed that oxidants in the wound microenvironment support the repair process. Proanthocyanidins or condensed tannins are a group of biologically active polyphenolic bioflavonoids that are synthesized by many plants. Previously we have reported that a grape seed proanthycyanidin extract containing 5000 ppm resveratrol (GSPE) potently upregulates oxidant and tumor necrosis factor-alpha inducible VEGF expression in human keratinocytes (Free Radic. Biol. Med. 31:38-42, 2001). Our current objective was to follow up on that finding and test whether GSPE influences dermal wound healing in vivo. First, using a VEGF promoter-driven luciferase reporter construct we observed that the potentiating effect of GSPE on inducible VEGF expression is at the transcriptional level. The reporter assay showed that GSPE alone is able to drive VEGF transcription. Next, two dermal excisional wounds were inflicted on the back of mice and the wounds were left to heal by secondary intention. Topical application of GSPE accelerated wound contraction and closure. GSPE treatment was associated with a more well-defined hyperproliferative epithelial region, higher cell density, enhanced deposition of connective tissue, and improved histological architecture. GSPE treatment also increased VEGF and tenascin expression in the wound edge tissue. Tissue glutathione oxidation and 4-hydroxynonenal immunostaining results supported that GSPE application enhanced the oxidizing environment at the wound site. Oxidants are known to promote both VEGF as well as tenascin expression. In summary, our current study provides firm evidence to support that topical application of GSPE represents a feasible and productive approach to support dermal wound healing.
Administration of caffeine in the evening produces poor sleep. Patients with insomnia have characteristic electrocardiogram (ECG) changes, including increased heart rate (HR), increased sympathetic activity, and decreased parasympathetic activity. Fifteen young adult normal subjects slept in the laboratory for several nights prior to randomization into a caffeine protocol where subjects received caffeine 400 mg 30 min prior to one night of sleep and placebo randomly prior to another night. ECG was sampled at a rate of 500 Hz and recorded onto a PC. Data samples of 256-s periods of the ECG trace were taken from wake (before sleep), stage II, and REM for placebo and caffeine conditions. A peak detection algorithm was used to identify the R-R intervals (in milliseconds) from the ECG. A common QT variability algorithm was used to find the QT interval for each beat using the time-stretch model. The powers for HR and QT series were integrated in the bands of LF (low frequency: 0.04-0.15 Hz) and HF (high frequency: 0.15-0.5 Hz) bands. There was a significant caffeine by sleep stage interaction for LF/HF ratios (F = 4.0; df = 2, 18; P = .04). LF/HF ratios were significantly higher during REM following caffeine administration. There was also a significant caffeine by sleep stage interaction for QTvi (QT variability normalized for mean QT interval divided by HR variability normalized for mean HR; F = 5.6; df = 2, 12; P = .02). QTvi was also significantly higher during REM following caffeine administration. The higher LF/HF ratios and QTvi during REM are most likely due to the sympathetic effects of caffeine. These findings suggest that excessive caffeine intake may result in adverse cardiovascular events in vulnerable subjects.
Methotrexate (MTX) may induce liver damage, which in some psoriatics will lead to fibrosis or cirrhosis. Studies performed 10 years ago on 25 patients with MTX-induced liver cirrhosis indicated that this type of cirrhosis was not of an aggressive nature.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the present status of surviving patients 10 years later, together with the latest clinical and histological data on patients who had died.
The investigations were carried out on 186 liver biopsies and 5 autopsies. All biopsies were studied by the same pathologist. Eleven surviving patients were also studied by analysis of serum aminoterminal propeptide of type III procollagen (PIIINP), which is an indicator of fibrogenesis, which is especially suitable for follow-up of fibrotic liver disease.
Thirteen patients had died; 1 of these died of liver failure. Another patient died form an overdose due to misunderstanding of the prescribed dosage given elsewhere. The remaining deaths were non-MTX related, but all 5 autopsies showed some degree of cirrhosis. On the other hand, 13 patients had no histologically verified liver cirrhosis in their latest biopsy, and PIIINP was within the normal range in all 11 patients investigated, this in spite of total cumulative MTX doses from 1,120 to 18,645 mg (mean 7,171 mg).
This study confirmed that in most patients MTX-induced liver cirrhosis is not aggressive. However, continued low-dose MTX led, in spite of normal liver tests, 8 years after the last biopsy to liver failure and death in 1 of our patients. Our data support the continued use of liver biopsies in the surveillance of MTX-treated psoriatics.
In comparison with four tumor cell lines and three non transformed cell types, chronic myeloid leukemia K562 cells were selectively sensitive to proliferation inhibition by the oxoindole derivative XJW20, as determined by the MTT assay. Further investigation revealed that XJW20 selectively induced G2/M arrest and apoptosis in K562 cells. At the molecular level, XJW20-induced G2/M arrest was accompanied by up-regulation of cyclin B1 and phospho (p)-Cdc25C (Ser216) and down-regulation of CDK1. There is no change in the expression of CDK2. The increased apoptotic activity by XJW20 was characterized by an increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation, the mitochondrial transmembrane potential (DeltaPsi(m)) dissipation, cytochrome C releasing, apoptotic nuclei (AO/EB double staining) and nuclei condensation (DAPI-staining). The down-regulation of phosphorylated ERK was also found in XJW20-treated K562 cells. These molecular events induced by XJW20 may provide insight into the mechanism of action that led to growth arrest and apoptosis.
Three patients had severe amphotericin B-induced rigors refractory to conventional prophylactic measures. Rigors improved or disappeared when dantrolene sodium was given prophylactically or during an episode. These observations suggest that dantrolene is useful as an alternative or adjuvant agent for severe rigors associated with amphotericin 3 infusion.
Congestive heart failure (CHF) is among the most serious toxicities of doxorubicin, a potent cancer chemotherapeutic agent. Serial left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) monitoring during doxorubicin therapy for preventing CHF was proposed over 20 years ago. The current utility and cost-effectiveness of this approach in the present era are not known.
Clinical and follow-up data of 265 patients with cancer (age, 53 +/- 14 years; 76% women) undergoing doxorubicin chemotherapy with serial equilibrium radionuclide angiocardiography (ERNA) monitoring (> or =2 studies) were analyzed retrospectively. Patients with a normal baseline LVEF (> or =50%) and a 10% or greater point fall in LVEF to a final value of less than 50% during doxorubicin therapy were considered "at risk" for CHF (n = 41). Over 679 +/- 426 days of follow-up, 7 patients (2.6%) had CHF develop and 90 (34%) died (all cancer-related deaths, with none due to CHF). A comparison of "at-risk" (n = 41 [15%]) and "low-risk" (n = 224 [85%]) groups showed a higher incidence of CHF (12% vs 0.9%, P <.0001), lower baseline LVEF (58% +/- 8% vs 64% +/- 8%, P <.0001), lower value for the lowest LVEF (42% +/- 8% vs 57% +/- 7%, P <.0001), and higher rate of cancer-related deaths (59% vs 29%, P =.0003) in the former despite similar cumulative doxorubicin dose (304 +/- 124 mg/m(2) vs 284 +/- 110 mg/m(2), P = not significant). There were no differences in age, gender, cancer type, and co-morbidity. Cost analysis showed the overall cost of ERNA studies to be lower than the 1-year cost of caring for additional cases of CHF that would potentially be prevented by routine LVEF monitoring.
An incipient fall in LVEF detected on serial ERNA during doxorubicin therapy provides an appropriate and cost-effective approach for predicting and preventing impending CHF. Use of this approach was associated with a low incidence of CHF (2.6%) and no CHF-related mortality in this study.
We report three cases of hepatic steatosis associated with lactic acidosis occurring in HIV positive patients and due to a toxicity of antiviral nucleoside analogues. The clinico-pathological presentation was similar associating digestive signs (vomiting and abdominal pain), polypnea, lactic acidosis, a lethal clinical course, and an hepatomegaly with a diffuse macrovacuolar steatosis. The ultrastructural study performed in two cases showed mitochondrial alterations in hepatocytes. The toxicity of antiviral nucleoside analogues is due to a mitochondrial DNA polymerase inhibition. The incidence of this disease is actually low but probably underestimated. The diagnosis should be rapidly performed and the treatment immediatly interrupted.
Isolated adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) deficiency (IAD) is a rare cause of adrenocortical insufficiency, especially in children, and may be an underestimated cause of neonatal death. Early postnatal diagnosis may prevent hypoglycemic seizures, Addisonian crises, and death. There are also occasional reports of prenatal diagnosis of IAD by findings on the maternal triple-marker screen (TMST), a combined serum analyte test that measures levels of alpha-fetoprotein, human chorionic gonadotropin, and unconjugated estriol for the detection of Down syndrome and open neural-tube defects. An isolated low estriol level is usually correlated with compromised uteroplacental perfusion and frequently associated with fetal death. A low estriol level in the context of normal fetal sonography and growth, after exclusion of placental sulfatase deficiency and Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome, should raise the suspicion of deficient fetal steroidogenesis, which leads to decreased production of adrenal dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate. We describe 2 brothers with adrenal insufficiency resulting from IAD. The parents are first cousins whose first son is healthy. During the pregnancy of the second son, who died at the age of 7 weeks as a result of presumed cardiomyopathy, a low estriol level on the TMST was ignored because of a normal fetal ultrasound. In the third pregnancy, a low level was found again, and the mother was referred to our tertiary center. Ultrasonography revealed no abnormalities, and karyotype was normal. Normal levels of steroid sulfatase activity and 7-dehydrocholesterol ruled out X-linked ichthyosis and Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome, respectively. Postnatally, basal and stimulated cortisol and ACTH levels were low. Other pituitary functions were normal, suggesting the diagnosis of IAD. The patient was treated with a stress dose of hydrocortisone on day 2 of life, which was tapered to a maintenance dose. At the time of this writing, he was 7 months old, with normal growth and development. Recently, loss-of-function mutations in the human TPIT gene were detected in autosomal recessive IAD. TPIT is a cell-restricted T-box transcription factor that is important for the terminal differentiation of pituitary corticotrophs. Therefore, we performed molecular analysis of the TPIT gene, which revealed a new mutation (IVS4+1G>A) that affects the first nucleotide of the splice site at the 5' end of the fourth intron. This stop codon probably leads to loss of TPIT function by nonsense-mediated mRNA decay, as it does for other TPIT nonsense mutations. We recommend that pregnant women with an isolated low estriol level of unexplained etiology be referred for additional evaluation by a multidisciplinary team that includes a geneticist and pediatric endocrinologist. Prompt ACTH testing in the first postnatal days will allow for early diagnosis. The immediate institution of glucocorticoid therapy, with proper instructions for stress management, can prevent unnecessary neonatal death secondary to an easily treatable disease.
A previous study of 86 thalidomide-affected subjects with ophthalmic manifestations revealed the unexpected finding of autism in 4 of the 5 severely retarded individuals. The subjects had anomalies associated with an early gestational effect of thalidomide, including facial nerve palsy and incomitant strabismus. Because autism has been observed in a few cases of Möbius sequence (Möbius syndrome), a condition characterized by involvement of the sixth and seventh cranial nerves, the similarity to early thalidomide embryopathy suggested a relation between cranial nerve involvement and autism. The present study was undertaken to further evaluate the association of autism with patients manifesting findings of Möbius syndrome.
A prospective study of 25 Swedish patients with Möbius sequence was conducted. The patients had a complete multidisciplinary evaluation, including ophthalmologic and psychiatric examinations and standard testing for autism. Findings associated with autism were compared with the ocular and systemic anomalies of the 4 thalidomide-affected subjects.
In the Möbius group 6 patients had autism, achieving the criteria for autism according to all the diagnostic manuals that were used. One patient showed autistic-like conditions meeting fewer numbers of the criteria. A few were too young to be meeting evaluated. Incomitant strabismus ranging from primary abduction defects alone to a horizontal gaze paresis pattern was noted in these patients, in addition to characteristic findings of seventh nerve paresis. Aberrant lacrimation was observed in many cases, especially often associated with autism.
The common group of anomalies noted in both cases of thalidomide embryopathy and Möbius sequence suggests that brain-stem damage probably early in embryogenesis can sometimes be associated with autism.
Intravenous injection of the selective cannabinoid receptor agonist HU-210 in doses of 0.05 and 0.25 mg/kg increased heart resistance to arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine, while intracerebroventricular infusion of this substance had no effect on the incidence of epinephrine-induced arrhythmia. The selective antagonist of type I cannabinoid receptors SR141716A in a dose of 3 mg/kg and ganglion blocker hexamethonium in a dose of 10 mg/kg did not modify the antiarrhythmic effect of HU-210. This effect of HU-210 is probably related to activation of type II peripheral cannabinoid receptors.
Arterial compliance has been recognized to be pressure-dependent. Its variation due to changing systolic and diastolic blood pressures in hypertension and subsequent vasodilation has not been investigated. The authors examined this aspect by combining an animal experiment and a recently established nonlinear windkessel model of the arterial system that incorporates a pressure-dependent arterial compliance, C(P). Aortic pressure and flow were simultaneously measured in experimental dogs during control and during methoxamine-induced hypertension and nitroprusside-induced vasodilation. A numerical procedure was implemented to compute the nonlinear compliance and account for the pressure dependence. Results show that within the cardiac cycle, C(P) reached its maximum at end-systole and increased in diastole when diastolic aortic pressure decayed. The magnitude of C(P) and its variation within the cardiac cycle was larger at low pressures, while the reverse was found when blood pressure was high. C(P) decreased significantly in hypertension and increased during subsequent vasodilation.
Oxidative stress is a major source of injury from cerebral ischemia and reperfusion. We hypothesized that a catalytic antioxidant AEOL 10150 [manganese (III) meso-tetrakis (di-N-ethylimidazole) porphyrin] would attenuate changes in brain gene expression in a mouse model of transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). C57BL/6J mice were subjected to either sham surgery or 60 min of right MCAO. AEOL 10150 or phosphate-buffered saline was given intravenously 5 min after onset of reperfusion (n = 6 per group). Six hours later, parenchyma within the MCA distribution was harvested. RNA from the six brains in each group was pooled and mRNA expression determined using an Affymetrix murine MG_U74A v. 2.0 expression microarray. Each experiment was performed three times. The largest changes in expression occurred in stress response and inflammatory genes such as heat shock protein, interleukin-6, and macrophage inflammatory protein-2. Treatment with AEOL 10150 attenuated only the increase in expression of inflammatory genes. This suggests that AEOL 10150 protects brain by attenuating the immune response to ischemia and reperfusion.
Targeted deletion of c-jun amino terminal kinase-2 (jnk-2) upregulates the activator protein-1 transcription factor system. We hypothesized that this would lead to induction of hemeoxygenase-1 (HO-1) and confer protection from hepatic ischemia reperfusion injury.
Wild-type and jnk-2 -/- animals were subjected to hepatic ischemia reperfusion insults in two models: a total hepatic ischemia model involving timed Pringle maneuver, and a partial hepatic ischemia model involving selective occlusion of the portal pedicle supplying the left hepatic lobe. Optimal durations of injury were calibrated for each model. After 24 hr, animals were killed, and blood and tissues were collected for alanine aminotransferase, histologic injury scoring, and other analyses. Before total or partial hepatic ischemia reperfusion insults, some animals were subject to HO-1 inhibition with chromium mesoporphyrin IX or Kupffer cell depletion with liposomal clodronate. Bone marrow-derived monocytes were grown from hemopoietic progenitors taken from wild-type and jnk-2 -/- mice before stimulation with lipopolysaccharide and measurement of tumour necrosis factor-alpha production.
Jnk-2 -/- animals were protected from hepatic ischemia reperfusion injury. HO-1 expression and activity was elevated in jnk-2 -/- animals (2.2-fold; P=0.006). Most HO-1 was expressed in Kupffer cells. Inhibition of HO-1 in jnk-2 -/- animals led to the loss of protection from ischemia. Depletion of Kupffer cells using liposomal clodronate led to loss of hepatic HO-1 expression and much more severe injury in wild-type and jnk-2 -/- animals. In vitro studies of cultured macrophages demonstrated reduced tumour necrosis factor-alpha secretion after lipopolysaccharide stimulus, an effect lost after HO-1 inhibition.
In the present study, we developed a reference material (RM) using authentic hair samples for the determination of methamphetamine (MA) and its main metabolite, amphetamine (AP) in human hair. MA abusers' hair samples were collected, homogenized and finally bottled. The concentration of each bottle was determined using two extraction methods, agitation with 1% HCl in methanol at 38 degrees C and ultrasonication with methanol/5M HCl (20:1), followed by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC-MS) after derivatization with trifluoroacetic anhydride (TFAA). Both analytical procedures were fully validated and their extraction efficiency was compared. The homogeneity of analytes was evaluated and their property values were determined with their uncertainties. The two methods were acceptable to analyze MA and AP in human hair through the validation and comparative studies using spiked and authentic hair samples as well as NIST SRM 2379 certified reference material. Satisfying homogeneity was reached for MA and AP in the prepared RM. Finally, a human hair RM containing MA and AP is prepared at the level of 7.64+/-1.24 and 0.54+/-0.07 ng/mg, respectively. This material can be useful in forensic laboratories for internal quality control and external quality assurance.
The case of a patient who developed megaloblastic anemia caused by folate deficiency during treatment with primidone is reported. The serum level of folic acid was significantly low. Two causes able to produce folate deficiency have been discovered: chronic assumption of primidone, and low dietary intake of folic acid. The anemia was completely reversed by oral supplementation of folic acid. It has already been recognized that additional nutritional deficiency is required to precipitate a frank megaloblastic anemia during therapy with antiepileptic drugs.
Cimetidine, a histamine 2 (H2) antagonist, produces a decrease in arterial pressure due to vasodilatation, especially in critically ill patients. This may be because cimetidine acts as a histamine agonist. We, therefore, investigated the effects of the histamine 1(H1) receptor antagonist, diphenhydramine, on the haemodynamic changes observed after cimetidine in ICU patients. Each patient was studied on two separate days. In a random fashion, they received cimetidine 200 mg iv on one day, and on the other, a pretreatment of diphenhydramine 40 mg iv with cimetidine 200 mg iv. In the non-pretreatment group, mean arterial pressure (MAP) decreased from 107.4 +/- 8.4 mmHg to 86.7 +/- 11.4 mmHg (P less than 0.01) two minutes after cimetidine. Also, systemic vascular resistance (SVR) decreased during the eight-minute observation period (P less than 0.01). In contrast, in the pretreatment group, little haemodynamic change was seen. We conclude that an H1 antagonist may be useful in preventing hypotension caused by iv cimetidine, since the vasodilating activity of cimetidine is mediated, in part, through the H1 receptor.
Factors underlying genetic predisposition for development of sporadic colorectal cancer are largely unknown. The fact that this cancer is more common in patients suffering from inflammatory bowel disease raises the question of the relationship between chronic inflammation and cancer. Toll-like receptors 2 (TLR2) and 4 (TLR4) are critical in initiating innate immune response and inflammation toward various bacteria commonly found in the intestine. Recent evidence about the association of polymorphisms in these genes with ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease, as well as other inflammatory conditions, was the basis for our investigation of their role in sporadic colorectal cancer. We assessed genotype and allele frequencies of TLR2 GT microsatelite polymorphism, TLR2 Arg753Gln, TLR4 Asp299Gly and TLR4 Thr399Ile polymorphisms in 89 colorectal cancer patients and 88 age- and sex-matched controls. The frequency of TLR2 GT microsatelite alleles with 20 and 21 GT repeats was decreased (p = 0.0044 and p = 0.001, respectively), while the frequency of the allele with 31 GT repeats was increased (p = 0.0147) in patients. The mutant allele Asp299Gly of TLR4 gene was slightly more frequent in colorectal cancer patients (p = 0.0269). In conclusion, we report an association of microsatelite GT polymorphisms of TLR2 gene and Asp299Gly polymorphism of the TLR4 gene with sporadic colorectal cancer among Croatians.
