Heroin, with a plasma half-life of approximately 5 min, is rapidly metabolized to 6-acetylmorphine (6-AM). 6-AM, a specific marker for heroin use, which also has a short half-life of only 0.6 h, is detected in urine for only a few hours after heroin exposure. Ingestion of poppy seeds and/or licit opiate analgesics can produce positive urine opiate tests. This has complicated the interpretation of positive opiate results and contributed to the decision to raise opiate cutoff concentrations and to require 6-AM confirmation in federally mandated workplace drug-testing programs. Microgenics Corp. has developed the CEDIA 6-AM assay, a homogeneous enzyme immunoassay for semiquantitative determination of 6-AM in human urine, in addition to its CEDIA DAU opiate assay. Urine specimens were collected 3 times per week from 27 participants enrolled in a clinical research trial evaluating a contingency management treatment program for heroin and cocaine abuse. Of the 1377 urine specimens screened, 261 (18.9%) were positive for opiates at > or = 300 ng/mL, 153 (11.1%) were positive for opiates at > or = 2000 ng/mL, and 55 (4.0%) were positive for 6-AM at > or = 10 ng/mL. For opiate-positive screens > or = 300 and > or = 2000 ng/mL, 91.3% and 80.8% confirmed positive for morphine or codeine at the respective gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) cutoffs. All specimens screening positive for 6-AM also confirmed positive by GC-MS at > or = 10 ng/mL. Increasing the opiate screening and confirmation cutoffs for the federal workplace drug-testing program resulted in 8% fewer opiate-positive tests; however, recent heroin use was not affected by this change.
Three cases are described in which bladder outflow obstruction was produced by ipratropium bromide, a widely used anticholinergic bronchodilator which has been regarded as virtually free from systemic side effects. Many patients treated with ipratropium bromide are elderly males in whom prostatic hypertrophy is common and in these circumstances, large doses should be used with caution.
Electrical stimulation of a single cervical vagus nerve produces neurogenic inflammation on the stimulated side of the bronchial tree, including the first (main) to the 4th order bronchi. In the contralateral bronchial tree, in contrast, only the proximal part of the main bronchus exhibits inflammatory changes, suggesting that vagal sensory axons present in the bronchi largely originate from the ipsilateral vagus nerve. Intravenous administration of capsaicin can evoke neurogenic inflammation in bilateral bronchial trees. Sensory axons from various sources are thought to be stimulated by this irritant. The extent to which neurogenic inflammation in both bronchial trees might be reduced by unilateral vagotomy is not known. In the present study, we sought to characterize the effect of unilateral cervical vagotomy on capsaicin-induced changes in plasma extravasation and secretory activity of goblet cells in the bronchial trees of both sides. To quantify the magnitude of neurogenic plasma extravasation, Evans blue was used as a tracer dye to measure spectrophotometrically its amount in the bronchial wall. Another tracer dye, Monastral blue, was used to localize the distribution of leaky blood vessels and to measure morphometrically their area density in the whole mounts. To investigate cell and tissue responses of the mucosa, histological methods were employed. After 2 or 4 postoperative weeks, the rats were intravenously administered with a single dose of capsaicin, 150 micrograms/kg. This resulted in different magnitudes of Evans blue extravasation in the bronchi of the two sides in vagotomized rats. Extravasation of Evans blue dye in the bronchial tree ipsilateral to vagotomy was one-half to two-thirds of that of the contralateral bronchial tree.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Modafinil (Provigil) is a wake-promoting drug characterized by cognitive enhancing abilities. Recent clinical data have supported the use of modafinil for treatment of chronic psychostimulant addiction and relapse prevention.
We used an intravenous methamphetamine (meth) self-administration procedure to assess the dose-dependent effects of modafinil on reinstatement following abstinence and after extinction on conditioned-cue and meth-primed reinstatement of meth seeking.
Modafinil attenuated active lever responding in multiple reinstatement conditions-context-induced, conditioned cue, and meth prime. The most pronounced and consistent effect was on meth-primed reinstatement, and modafinil did not reinstate meth seeking when tested alone.
These findings support clinical findings in humans that modafinil may be an effective therapeutic agent for the prevention of relapse in abstinent meth users.
The responses in the left ventricular systolic time intervals following digoxin administration (0.5 mg i.v.) were studied in 11 patients with chronic renal failure and hypertension. The control group comprised 11 patients with mild essential hypertension. There were no clinical signs of congestive heart failure in any of the patients. Before digoxin administration total electromechanical systole (QS2), the pre-ejection period (PEP) and the PEP/LVET ratio were greater, while the left ventricular ejection time (LVET) was shorter than in the control group (P < 0.001). In patients with chronic renal failure digoxin administration induced a reduction in QS2, PEP and PEP/LVET ratio and a prolongation of LVET (P < 0.001). These data suggest latent heart failure in the group of patients studied with chronic renal failure. It seems to be advisable to use digitalis preparations in patients with chronic renal failure despite the absence of clinical signs of heart failure.
We describe a patient with lithium-induced nephrogenic diabetes insipidus in whom detailed investigations of distal tubular function were performed. Clearance of free water during water diuresis was found to be augmented. This suggests proximal suppression of sodium reabsorption by lithium. Reabsorption of free water during high solute clearance was impaired. Acidification of the urine following ammonium chloride loading was abnormal, and this was corrected by sodium sulfate infusion. The cellular mechanism of lithium was investigated by means of indomethacin, an inhibitor of prostaglandin synthesis. Indomethacin caused a partial reversal of the nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, suggesting that the primary cellular action of lithium may be to inhibit the formation of cyclic AMP in the collecting duct cell, although a direct action of indomethacin in increasing solutes in the renal medulla could not be ruled out. It is possible that the lithium-induced polyuria is partially due to an enhancement by lithium of renal prostaglandin action.
We describe a patient with seropositive erosive rheumatoid arthritis (RA) who developed accelerated nodulosis, pleural effusion, and pericardial tamponade during methotrexate (MTX) therapy while her arthritis remained inactive. MTX is an effective therapy for the articular manifestations of RA. However, on occasion it may result in triggering the development of extraarticular manifestations of RA.
This study documented elevated rates of emergency room (ER) visits for acute upper and lower respiratory infections and asthma-related conditions in the children of Quito, Ecuador associated with the eruption of Guagua Pichincha in April of 2000.
We abstracted 5169 (43% females) ER records with primary respiratory conditions treated from January 1-December 27, 2000 and examined the change in pediatric ER visits for respiratory conditions before, during, and after exposure events of April, 2000. We applied a Poisson regression model adapted to time series of cases for three non-overlapping disease categories: acute upper respiratory infection (AURI), acute lower respiratory infection (ALRI), and asthma-related conditions in boys and girls for three age groups: 0-4, 5-9, and 10-15 years.
At the main pediatric medical facility, the Baca Ortiz Pediatric Hospital, the rate of emergency room (ER) visits due to respiratory conditions substantially increased in the three weeks after eruption (RR = 2.22, 95%CI = [1.95, 2.52] and RR = 1.72 95%CI = [1.49, 1.97] for lower and upper respiratory tract infections respectively. The largest impact of eruptions on respiratory distress was observed in children younger than 5 years (RR = 2.21, 95%CI = [1.79, 2.73] and RR = 2.16 95%CI = [1.67, 2.76] in boys and girls respectively). The rate of asthma and asthma-related diagnosis doubled during the period of volcano fumarolic activity (RR = 1.97, 95%CI = [1.19, 3.24]). Overall, 28 days of volcanic activity and ash releases resulted in 345 (95%CI = [241, 460]) additional ER visits due to respiratory conditions.
The study has demonstrated strong relationship between ash exposure and respiratory effects in children.
Clevudine is an effective antiviral nucleoside analogue, but there are few data regarding its long-term effects, resistance, and safety. The aim of this study was to evaluate the long-term clinical efficacy of clevudine over a 1-year treatment period in nucleos(t)ide-naive and lamivudine-experienced chronic hepatitis B patients.
Nucleos(t)ide-naive (group A, n=196) and lamivudine-experienced (serum hepatitis B virus, HBV DNA >2,000 copies/mL without resistant mutants at the start of clevudine therapy, group B, n=75) patients were included in this study. Basic clinical characteristics including age, sex, the presence of cirrhosis, laboratory data, and hepatitis B surface antigen (HBeAg) positivity were similar between the two groups. Pretreatment serum levels of HBV DNA were 7.4 and 6.6 log(10) copies/mL (P<0.001). The mean treatment duration was 8 months for both groups (range for group A: 3-21 months; range for group B: 3-20 months). Genotypic analysis for resistant mutations in the reverse transcriptase of HBV was performed after viral breakthrough.
After 1 year of therapy, 75.0% and 51.9% of groups A and B, respectively, had HBV DNA levels of <2,000 copies/mL (P=0.032), and HBeAg seroconversion rates were 16.9% and 16.7%, respectively. The rates of viral breakthrough at 1 year were 10.0% (8/80) and 44.4% (12/27), respectively (P<0.001). Proven sites of mutation of HBV DNA polymerase in naive patients were, for example, L80I, L180M, A181V/T, M204I and V207I. Ten patients complained of prominent fatigue and revealed elevated serum levels of aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and creatine phosphokinase (CPK). Two of these patients presented with severe myopathy from which they recovered completely after quitting clevudine.
Clevudine is one of the recommended first-line medicines for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B, but it is not free from resistance, particularly in patients with a history of previous lamivudine treatment, but also in naive patients. Clevudine should be avoided in previously lamivudine-exposed patients. In addition, reelevation of serum AST and CPK levels is not a rare occurrence, and close observation and follow-up tests are essential.
A 63-year-old male experienced sudden diplopia after 9 weeks of administration of pegylated interferon (IFN) alpha-2b and ribavirin for chronic hepatitis C (CHC). Ophthalmologic examinations showed ptosis on the right upper lid and restricted right eye movement without any other neurological signs. A brain imaging study and repetitive nerve stimulation test indicated no abnormality. The acetylcholine receptor antibody titer and response to acetylcholinesterase inhibitors were negative, and the results of thyroid function tests were normal. The patient's ophthalmological symptoms improved rapidly 3 weeks after discontinuation of pegylated IFN alpha-2b and ribavirin. The ocular myasthenia associated with combination therapy of pegylated IFN alpha-2b and ribavirin for CHC is very rarely reported; therefore, we present this case with a review of the various eye complications of IFN therapy.
To prospectively compare the protective effect of acetylcysteine, theophylline, and both agents combined in patients who are admitted to the intensive care unit with at least one risk factor for contrast material-induced nephropathy and who receive at least 100 mL of iodinated contrast medium.
Institutional ethics review board approval and informed consent were obtained. A total of 91 patients (mean age, 58.5 years+/-14.8 [standard deviation]; 31 women, 60 men; 150 examinations) were admitted to the intensive care unit with at least one risk factor for contrast-induced nephropathy and received either (a) 200 mg theophylline 30 minutes before contrast medium administration (group T), (b) 600 mg acetylcysteine twice daily on the day of and (if possible) the day before the examination (group A), or (c) both agents combined (group AT). The primary endpoint for this study was the incidence of contrast-induced nephropathy (chi2 test).
Groups T, A, and AT were comparable with regard to baseline creatinine levels and the amount of contrast medium administered. The incidence of contrast-induced nephropathy in groups T, A, and AT was 2%, 12%, and 4%, respectively, and was significantly lower in group T than in group A (P=.047). There was no significant difference in the incidence of contrast-induced nephropathy between groups A and AT (P=.148) or between groups T and AT (P=.53). For group A, serum creatinine did not change after 12, 24, or 48 hours compared with baseline. Creatinine levels in group T decreased 12 hours (1.19 mg/dL+/-0.58; P=.008) and 48 hours (1.16 mg/dL+/-0.55; P=.034) after contrast material injection compared with baseline (1.25 mg/dL+/-0.61). In group AT, creatinine significantly decreased 24 hours (1.21 mg/dL+/-0.74; P=.003) and 48 hours (1.17 mg/dL+/-0.69; P<.001) after contrast material injection compared with baseline (1.28 mg/dL+/-0.74). Group A had significantly higher maximal increases in creatinine than groups T and AT (P=.014).
For prophylaxis of contrast-induced nephropathy in patients who are admitted to the intensive care unit and who receive 100 mL or more of contrast medium, theophylline is superior to acetylcysteine.
To evaluate the preventive effects of Schistosoma japonicum ova on trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced colitis and bacterial translocation in mice.
BALB/c mice were randomly divided into three groups: control group; TNBS(+)Ova(-) group; and TNBS(+)Ova(+) group. Mice of the TNBS(+)Ova(+) group were exposed to 10 000 freeze-killed S. japonicum ova by i.p. injection on day 1 and day 11. On day 15, mice were challenged with TNBS to induce colitis. The following variables were assessed: colon pathological changes; serum expression of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), gamma-interferon (IFN-gamma) and interleukin-10 (IL-10); expression of Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) in colon; IFN-gamma, IL-10 and TLR4 mRNA expression in colon; and the bacterial translocation rate.
Compared to TNBS(+)Ova(-) group, the colonic inflammation in the TNBS(+)Ova(+) group were relieved. A highly significant elevation of IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha were observed in the TNBS-induced colitis group. After exposure to the eggs, IFN-gamma was significantly decreased, while TNF-alpha was similar to that of the TNBS(+)ova(-) group. No obvious variation was seen in IL-10 expression in TNBS-induced colitis, compared to the controls. Exposure to the eggs led to a significant upregulation of IL-10 expression. TLR4 expression was elevated after injected with TNBS and was downregulated in the eggs group. Less intestinal bacterial translocation frequency was observed when exposed to eggs.
S. japonicum ova can prevent the TNBS-induced colitis and reduce the bacterial translocation frequency in mice. The mechanisms were supposed to be due to the regulation of T-helper cell 1/2 balance and TLR4 expression.
The effects of injections of M- and N-cholinergic blocking agents into the antero-medial hypothalamus (HM) and the midbrain central gray (GC) on the aggressive behavior of cats, evoked by microinjections of carbachol into those areas, were investigated in chronic experiments. The influence of pharmacological suppression of the M-cholinergic system in HM on the carbachol-induced aggression response from GC and vice versa was also studied. In the experiments a quantitative method was applied for measuring the specific vocalization - growling, which is a characteristic of aggressive behavior. In the HM and GC areas of the cat the N- and the M-cholinergic systems participated in the control of aggressive behavior, but the M-component dominated in the process. The suppression of M-cholinergic system in GC prevented the appearance of aggressive behavior evoked by injections of carbachol into HM, and the M-cholinergic blockade in HM reduced (by 90 percent) the aggression response evoked by the injections of carbachol into GC. It is concluded that a concurrent action of the hypothalamic and the midbrain cholinergic systems is necessary for the appearance of a fully expressed aggressive behavior. The hypothalamus and the midbrain are probably links of the same functional circuit, and that the control of aggressive behavior is based on a circulatory action between these structures.
The aim of the present study was to investigate whether sensitivity to flurothyl seizures after an acute methamphetamine (MA) administration is different in prenatally MA-exposed adult rats than in controls without prenatal drug exposure. Adult male and female rats exposed prenatally to MA (5mg/kg), saline or neither (controls) were divided into groups; one group received acute MA (1mg/kg s.c.) injection and the other group received saline. Rats were then challenged with flurothyl at a constant flow rate to induce seizures. The threshold of the first focal clonus, clonic seizures and tonic-clonic seizures were analyzed. EFFECTS OF PRENATAL DRUG EXPOSURE: In animals without acute MA administration prior to seizure testing, prenatal MA exposure decreased threshold of the first clonus relative to control animals. This decrease in threshold was not apparent in groups pretreated with acute MA injection. EFFECTS OF ACUTE MA ADMINISTRATION: There was an increased threshold to both, first focal clonus and clonic seizures in animals with acute MA injection than in animals without it. The increase induced by acute MA pretreatment was higher in prenatally MA-exposed animals relative to controls. Further, clonic seizures were shorter and developed faster into tonic-clonic seizures in these acutely injected animals compared to animals without acute MA injection. EFFECTS OF HORMONES: The threshold of all measured attributes was decreased in males. Estrous cycle influences did not lead to changes between groups of prenatal exposure or acute MA administration. Threshold of tonic-clonic seizures was increased in females in proestrus/estrus stage of the estrous cycle relative to diestrous females. Our study suggests that prenatal MA exposure affects the sensitivity of adult rats to the effect of acute MA treatment prior to flurothyl seizures relative to controls.
Carvedilol reduces disease progression in heart failure, but to our knowledge, its effects on hospitalizations and costs have not been evaluated.
We examined the effects on hospitalization frequency and costs in the U.S. Carvedilol Heart Failure Trials Program. This program consisted of four concurrent, multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies involving 1,094 patients with New York Heart Association class II to IV heart failure, which treated patients with placebo or carvedilol for up to 15 months (median, 6.5 months).
Detailed resource utilization data were collected for all hospitalizations occurring between randomization and the end of follow-up. In-patient care costs were estimated based on observed levels of resource use.
Compared with placebo, carvedilol reduced the risk of hospitalization for any reason by 29% (p = 0.009), cardiovascular hospitalizations by 28% (p = 0.034) and heart failure hospitalizations by 38% (p = 0.041). Carvedilol also decreased the mean number of hospitalizations per patient (for cardiovascular reasons 30% [p = 0.02], for heart failure 53% [p = 0.03]). Among hospitalized patients, carvedilol reduced severity of illness during hospital admission, as reflected by shorter length of stay and less frequent use of intensive care. For heart failure hospital admissions, carvedilol decreased mean length of stay by 37% (p = 0.03) and mean number of intensive care unit/coronary care unit days by 83% (p = 0.001), with similar effects on cardiovascular admissions. As a result, estimated inpatient care costs with carvedilol were 57% lower for cardiovascular admissions (p = 0.016) and 81% lower for heart failure admissions (p = 0.022).
Carvedilol added to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition reduces hospitalization risk as well as severity of illness and resource utilization during admission in patients with chronic heart failure.
Nonsynchronized segmented heterochromia in black scalp hair is a rarely reported entity, the only previous report being described in association with iron deficiency anaemia. A 14-year-old girl presented with a 2-year history of nonsynchronized segmented heterochromia. She was otherwise well and her serum iron, copper, zinc and protein levels were all within the normal range. She had no clinical evidence of vitiligo or alopecia areata. This patient is believed to represent the first reported case of nonsynchronized segmented heterochromia in black scalp hair as a presentation of premature greying of the hair.
A study of couples' perceptions of infertility treatment with clomiphene (clomiphene citrate) revealed mood swings in 9 out of 14 women using the drug. This paper describes the mood swings and the responses of women and their spouses. Three phases of mood swing response emerged from the data: lacking awareness of the relation of the mood swings to the drug; gaining awareness of that relation; and managing the mood swings. The results of the study provide important information for nurses counseling couples who are experiencing clomiphene-induced mood swings.
A case of adult Reye's syndrome is described. A previously healthy 17-year-old man developed convulsions 2 days after resolution of an upper respiratory infection with parainfluenza virus type 3. During the preceding infection, he took aspirin. On admission, he was drowsy. There was no focal signs. Cranial CT scan was unremarkable. A lumbar puncture revealed an opening pressure of 180 mm H2O; the cerebrospinal fluid was acellular with normal protein level. Serum chemistry showed elevated transaminase activities and normal bilirubin level. Blood ammonia level was high; urea and citrulline levels were abnormally low. These abnormalities disappeared later, suggesting transient cysfunction of mitochondrial urea-cycle enzymes. Free and acyl carnitine levels were unremarkable. Both metabolic acidosis and ketonuria were absent. Thus, a variety of aminoacidurias and organic acidemias are unlikely. All these findings meet diagnostic criteria for Rye's syndrome proposed by the CDC of the USA. Status epilepticus was treated with intravenous infusion of thiamylal sodium. He was treated with hypertonic glucose solution and osmotic diuretic. Three months after the onset of the illness, his convulsions were controlled only with zonisamide, clonazepam, and carbamazepine. He had motor dysfunctions. This case is unique in that a patient with adult Reye's syndrome and status epilepticus favorably recovered.
In a retrospective review, 22 of a total of 244 patients (9%) patients with head and neck or gastrointestinal cancer who were treated with infusional 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)-based chemotherapy regimens experienced thrombotic vascular events. These events occurred concurrently with treatment or several months following the completion of therapy and consisted mainly of cardiac arrhythmias, myocardial infarction, sudden death, and thromboembolism. The temporal relationship of these vascular events to the time of treatment suggests that infusional 5-FU may have been the underlying cause.
A 20-year-old soldier sustained 35 per cent body surface area burns by open flames. He was treated with topical application of 1 per cent silver sulphadiazine (SSD) twice daily. Four days postburn he developed acute haemolytic anaemia. Withdrawal of SSD was followed by complete recovery. A glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency was proven by pathological Motulski tests. Although the hazards of SSD are well indicated by the manufacturers, there appear to be no written reports of haemolysis induced by this drug in G6PD-deficient patients.
Long-term survivors of successfully treated Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL) are at risk for late complications. Among these, infertility for female patients is of major importance. The subject of this analysis is to evaluate the menstrual status after HL therapy.
From 1994 to 1998, the German Hodgkin's Lymphoma Study Group conducted clinical trials for early-, intermediate-, and advanced-stage HL (trials HD7 to HD9) involving a total of 3,186 patients. A survey was carried out to evaluate the menstrual status after therapy. The following factors were assessed concerning their influence on amenorrhea: age, treatment, stage, and the use of oral contraceptives during chemotherapy.
A total of 405 women aged younger than 40 years answered the study questions. After a median follow-up of 3.2 years, 51.4% of the women receiving eight cycles of dose-escalated bleomycin, etoposide, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, procarbazine, and prednisone (BEACOPP) had continuous amenorrhea. Amenorrhea was significantly more frequent after dose-escalated BEACOPP compared with doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine; cyclophosphamide, vincristine, procarbazine, prednisone, doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine; or standard BEACOPP (P = .0066). Amenorrhea after therapy was most pronounced in women with advanced-stage HL (P < .0001), in women older than 30 years at treatment (P = .0065), and in women who did not take oral contraceptives during chemotherapy (P = .0002).
Most women who are treated for advanced-stage HL experience amenorrhea after therapy. Amenorrhea is significantly more frequent in women with advanced-stage HL receiving eight cycles of dose-escalated BEACOPP and in women older than 30 years at first treatment. Furthermore, the data show a statistical association between the use of oral contraceptives and return of menstrual cycle, which is subject to further investigation.
G-protein-coupled metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are being implicated in various forms of neuroplasticity and CNS disorders. This study examined whether the sensitivities of mGluR agonists are modulated in a distinct fashion in different models of synaptic plasticity, specifically, kindling and chronic cocaine treatment. The influence of kindling and chronic cocaine exposure in vivo was examined in vitro on the modulation of synaptic transmission by group II and III metabotropic glutamate receptors using whole cell voltage-clamp recordings of central amygdala (CeA) neurons. Synaptic transmission was evoked by electrical stimulation of the basolateral amygdala (BLA) and ventral amygdaloid pathway (VAP) afferents in brain slices from control rats and from rats treated with cocaine or exposed to three to five stage-five kindled seizures. This study shows that after chemical stimulation with chronic cocaine exposure or after electrical stimulation with kindling the receptor sensitivities for mGluR agonists are altered in opposite ways. In slices from control rats, group II agonists, (2S,1'S,2'S)-2-(carboxycyclopropyl)glycine (LCCG1) and (+)-2-aminobicyclo[3.1.0]hexane-2,6-dicarboxylic acid (LY354740), depressed neurotransmission more potently at the BLA-CeA than at the VAP-CeA synapse while group III agonist, L(+)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate (LAP4), depressed neurotransmission more potently at the VAP-CeA synapse than at the BLA-CeA. These agonist actions were not seen (were absent) in amygdala neurons from chronic cocaine-treated animals. In contrast, after kindling, concentration response relationships for LCCG1 and LAP4 were shifted to the left, suggesting that sensitivity to these agonists is increased. Except at high concentrations, LCCG1, LY354740, and LAP4 neither induced membrane currents nor changed current-voltage relationships. Loss of mGluR inhibition with chronic cocaine treatment may contribute to counter-adaptive changes including anxiety and depression in cocaine withdrawal. Drugs that restore the inhibitory effects of group II and III mGluRs may be novel tools in the treatment of cocaine dependence. The enhanced sensitivity to group II and III mGluR agonists in kindling is similar to that recorded at the lateral to BLA synapse in the amygdala where they reduce epileptiform bursting. These findings suggest that drugs modifying mGluRs may prove useful in the treatment of cocaine withdrawal or epilepsy.
Previous research from this laboratory has indicated that animals chronically exposed to ethanol and then withdrawn exhibit a variety of symptoms of central nervous system hyperexcitability that occur in unique clusters. These clusters of symptoms were observed to differ in their duration and in the time of onset relative to the time of ethanol withdrawal. In addition, the observed clusters of spontaneous seizure events in these animals were seen to correlate with differences in sensitivity to seizure-inducing treatments. These results suggest that seizure sensitivity during ethanol withdrawal may indicate the involvement of multiple, independent, neuronal mechanisms. To investigate this possibility further, the following study examined the sensitivity of ethanol-withdrawn animals to seizures induced by the glycine antagonist strychnine. Seizure sensitivity to strychnine was evaluated at the same times following ethanol withdrawal when animals were previously seen to show the differential occurrence of spontaneous seizure events and also differences in sensitivity to picrotoxin-induced seizures. Ethanol-withdrawn animals did not differ in their responses to strychnine compared with ethanol-naive controls at any of the times tested. This lack of change in seizures induced by antagonism of glycine inhibition occurred in spite of the increased sensitivity of similarly treated animals to picrotoxin-induced seizures at the same test times. These data suggest that chronic ethanol exposure and withdrawal may not significantly after the function of glycinergic inhibitory neurotransmission and that the ethanol withdrawal syndrome is indicative of alterations in specific neuronal mechanisms rather than of a generalized state of central nervous system hyperexcitability.
The use of 5-fluorouracil, topotecan, or gemcitabine was tested for enhancement of the effects of low dose rate (LDR) irradiation in an in vitro model for hepatocellular carcinoma. For comparison, all drugs were tested in combination with high dose rate (HDR) gamma-irradiation as well. Multicellular spheroids of HepG2 cells were exposed to HDR or LDR irradiation by means of external beam cobalt-60 or rhenium-188 (188Re), respectively, dissolved in the culture medium. Secondly, exposure to irradiation was combined with the cytotoxic drug. Toxicity was evaluated by means of a quantitative spheroid outgrowth assay and histology. For 5-fluorouracil, supra-additive effects were observed in combination with HDR irradiation. With 188Re, the supra-additive toxicity was only transient. For topotecan and 188Re, no supra-additive effects were seen, whereas the addition of HDR irradiation at the end of the topotecan exposure yielded lasting supra-additive effects. Incubation with gemcitabine followed by exposure to HDR irradiation, induced a synergistic toxicity on the outgrowth. No supra-additive effects were observed when HDR irradiation was added at the start of the incubation with gemcitabine or combined with LDR irradiation. For all drugs tested, supra-additive effects were observed with HDR irradiation if the timing of the irradiation was appropriate. For 188Re, no lasting supra-additive effects were observed.
In animal studies, the common club drug 3,4-methylendioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, "Ecstasy") consistently caused a prolonged loss of presynaptic serotonergic neurons, and evidence suggests that MDMA consumption may also affect the human serotonergic system. Serotonin (5-HT) has been implicated in the regulation of impulsivity and such executive functions as decision-making cognition. In fact, MDMA users have shown elevated impulsivity in two studies, but little is known about decision making in drug-free MDMA consumers.
The aim of this study was to examine the cognitive neurotoxicity of MDMA with regard to behavioral impulsivity and decision-making cognition.
Nineteen male, abstinent, heavy MDMA users; 19 male, abstinent cannabis users; and 19 male, drug-naïve controls were examined with the Matching Familiar Figures Test (MFFT) as well as with a Go/No-Go Task (GNG) for impulsivity and with a Gambling Task (GT) for executive functioning.
MDMA users showed significantly elevated impulsivity in the MFFT Impulsivity score (I-score), but not in commission errors of the GNG, compared with controls. Cannabis users did not yield altered impulsivity compared with controls. In the GT, MDMA users performed significantly worse than cannabis consumers and controls, whereas cannabis users exhibited the same decision-making capacity as controls. In addition, the I-score as well as the decision-making performance was correlated with measures of MDMA intake. The I-score and the decision-making performance were also correlated.
These results suggest that heavy use of MDMA may elevate behavioral impulsivity and impair decision-making cognition possibly mediated by a selective impairment of the 5-HT system.
We describe a case of granulomatous slack skin in a 31-year-old woman with an unusual presentation of acquired ichthyosis and muscular masses involving four limbs over 3 years. Vesicles and ulcerative skin nodules first appeared only 3 months prior to diagnosis. The diagnosis was confirmed after sequential biopsies of muscle, skin lesions, and lymph nodes, together with molecular genetic studies. The patient responded poorly to various therapies, including thalidomide, and died of doxorubicin-related cardiomyopathy.
Symptomatic hypotension during hemodialysis is a disabling complication in end-stage renal disease (ESRD) patients, especially in certain groups of patients who are at higher risk for this problem. Autonomic dysfunction is thought to play a significant role. We evaluated the efficacy of midodrine, an oral agent with selective alpha-adrenergic agonist activity used in the treatment of neurogenic orthostatic hypotension, on 10 hemodialysis patients with persistent intradialytic hypotension. The patients were given a dose of midodrine (mean dose, 5.5 mg; range, 5 to 10 mg) 30 minutes before each hemodialysis session. We compared blood pressure, pulse, body weight, and laboratory values for 10 consecutive dialysis sessions off and on midodrine therapy. There was a statistically significant improvement in lowest intradialytic systolic blood pressure (from 96.6 to 114.7 mm Hg; P < 0.001), lowest intradialytic diastolic blood pressure (from 53.2 to 59.0 mm Hg; P = 0.002), lowest intradialytic mean arterial pressure (from 67.7 to 77.6 mm Hg; P < 0.001), posthemodialysis systolic blood pressure (from 116.5 to 127.1 mm Hg; P < 0.001), posthemodialysis diastolic blood pressure (from 66.6 to 69.7 mm Hg; P = 0.040), and posthemodialysis mean arterial pressure (from 83.2 to 88.8 mm Hg; P = 0.001) after patients were placed on midodrine. There also was a small but statistically significant decrease in intradialytic pulse rate (from 86.3 to 81 beats/min; P = 0.021) and posthemodialysis pulse rate (from 87.4 to 81.7 beats/min; P = 0.024) after initiation of midodrine therapy. There was no significant difference in any of the prehemodialysis blood pressure measurements or pulse rate off or on midodrine therapy. The improvements in intradialytic and posthemodialysis blood pressure were associated with a uniform subjective improvement in symptoms associated with dialysis hypotension, such as cramps, fatigue, dizziness, and weakness. Other than scalp paresthesia in one patient, no adverse effects were noted. Our results suggest that the administration of a single dose of midodrine before hemodialysis is an effective therapy for intradialytic hypotension. A prospective trial with adequate patient numbers and long-term follow-up would be useful to evaluate this drug's efficacy and safety profile in patients with ESRD.
Various compounds were tested for hymenolepicidal activity against Hymenolepis nana occurring in naturally infested rats. A period of seven days afforded the most critical evaluation of the compounds being tested. Atebrin was the most effective compound followed by Chloroquine. These two drugs were effective in single dose treatments. Dichlorophen was only partially effective in single dose treatments. There was a suggestion of synergism between dichlorophen and Atebrin but no advantage obtained in an Atebrin - Chloroquine combination. Dithiazanine, bithionol and diethyl toluamide were of no practical value.
