Although essential, manganese (Mn) intake in excess leads to neurotoxicity. Mn neurotoxicity induces impairment of energy metabolism and ultimately cell death. Nevertheless, the signaling mechanisms underlying Mn toxicity are unknown. Employing human glioblastoma (U87) cells, we investigated several signaling pathways (ones promoting cellular proliferation and invasion) underlying Mn toxicity. Mn-treatment of U87 cells induced a down-regulation of MAPK pathway but the AKT pathway was not markedly affected. Mn-treatment of these cells induced decreases in their levels of c-Jun and c-Fos transcription factors and extracellular matrix degrading enzymes like MMP-2, which are associated with glioblastoma invasiveness. Mn-treatment also induced apoptosis in U87 cells. Thus, our results indicate that other than inducing apoptosis in U87 cells, Mn exerts differential effects on several signaling pathways promoting glioblastoma proliferation and invasion. Consequently, Mn may have pathophysiological roles in inducing apoptosis and in blocking glioblastoma invasion. Our results may thus have therapeutic implications.
Betamimetic drugs are commonly used for tocolytic therapy. To determine their potential role in periventricular-intraventricular neonatal hemorrhage (IVH), 103 preterm births with cranial ultrasonography results were evaluated for the history of betamimetic therapy. The study group was divided into three subgroups according to the cause of the preterm delivery: 44 patients were accepted as tocolysis failure (group A); 53 patients were too late for tocolysis (group B), and these latter cases were taken as controls for group A; for the remaining 6 patients, tocolysis was contraindicated due to fetomaternal reasons (group C), and these cases were not included in the analysis. In group A, 32 patients got ritodrine, 6 patients got combined therapy including ritodrine plus magnesium sulfate or nifedipine. When cases in group A who got ritodrine only or combined therapy are compared with the no-treatment group, no significant difference in neonatal IVH incidences could be found (p > 0.005). Ritodrine does not appear to affect the incidence of neonatal IVH.
The present study was designed to evaluate the preventive effects of N-acetyl cysteine on lipid peroxide metabolism in isoproterenol (ISO) induced myocardial infarcted rats. Male albino Wistar rats were pretreated with N-acetyl cysteine (5 and 10 mg/kg) daily for a period of 14 days. After the pretreatment period, ISO (100 mg/kg) was subcutaneously injected to rats twice at an interval of 24 h. Increased activities of serum creatine kinase, creatine kinase-MB, lactate dehydrogenase, and increased intensities of serum lactate dehydrogenase-isoenzyme bands (LDH-1, LDH-2) were observed in ISO-induced rats. The heart lipid peroxidation products were significantly increased, and the antioxidant system was significantly reduced in ISO-induced rats. Pretreatment with N-acetyl cysteine (5 and 10 mg/kg) to ISO-induced rats showed significant effects on all the biochemical parameters studied. Histopathological findings of the myocardium also showed the protective role of N-acetyl cysteine in ISO-induced rats. Furthermore, in vitro study confirmed the potent-free radical scavenging activity of N-acetyl cysteine. The effect at a dose of 10 mg/kg of N-acetyl cysteine was more pronounced than the dose, 5 mg/kg. The results of our study show that N-acetyl cysteine protects the heart against ISO-induced myocardial infarction by its free radical scavenging effect.
Immunocomplex nephritis as one of the serious side-effects is dealt with on the basis of 41 patients with Wilson's Disease who have been treated for many years and were stabilised on D-penicillinamine. In one quarter of the patients, proteinuria was found 1 to 5 years after the beginning of the therapy. Until now, an immunocomplex nephritis with diffuse granular, mainly epimembranous IgG and C3 deposits on the glomerular basement membran was found in four patients. No circulating antibodies against cell nuclei were found. The finding of immunocomplex nephritis calls for the discontinuation of the therapy for an at present unknown period of time.
Diabetic retinopathy is characterized by both functional and morphological changes in the retinal microvessels that can lead to macular edema, neovascularization, and vision loss. Hypertension has been identified as a major risk factor for diabetic retinopathy and randomized clinical trials have shown that reduction of blood pressure using angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors reduces the progression of diabetic retinopathy. The major components of the renin-angiotensin system have been identified in ocular tissues. Activation of angiotensin II type 1 (AT1) receptors expressed on retinal endothelial cells and pericytes has been implicated in contributing to the microvascular abnormalities in diabetic retinopathy. We have examined the experimental and clinical evidence for the role of the renin-angiotensin system in the pathogenesis of diabetic retinopathy, including the effects of ACE inhibition and AT1-receptor antagonism on diabetes-induced abnormalities in retinal hemodynamics, vascular permeability, and leukostasis; retinal neovascularization in rodent models of oxygen-induced retinopathy; and results from randomized clinical trials that have investigated the effects of ACE inhibitors on the progression of diabetic retinopathy in diabetic patients in the absence or presence of hypertension. The effects of AT1-receptor antagonism on the retina have been attributed to decreases in systemic blood pressure and the concomitant reduction in mechanical vascular stretch, in addition to the intraocular effects blocking AT1-receptor stimulation of retinal endothelial cells and pericytes. Results from the current DIabetic REtinopathy Candesartan Trials program will evaluate the potential of the AT1-receptor as a therapeutic target for diabetic retinopathy.
Nicolaides-Baraitser syndrome (NBS) is characterized by sparse hair, distinctive facial morphology, distal-limb anomalies and intellectual disability. We sequenced the exomes of ten individuals with NBS and identified heterozygous variants in SMARCA2 in eight of them. Extended molecular screening identified nonsynonymous SMARCA2 mutations in 36 of 44 individuals with NBS; these mutations were confirmed to be de novo when parental samples were available. SMARCA2 encodes the core catalytic unit of the SWI/SNF ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling complex that is involved in the regulation of gene transcription. The mutations cluster within sequences that encode ultra-conserved motifs in the catalytic ATPase region of the protein. These alterations likely do not impair SWI/SNF complex assembly but may be associated with disrupted ATPase activity. The identification of SMARCA2 mutations in humans provides insight into the function of the Snf2 helicase family.
Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 1D (LGMD1D) was linked to chromosome 7q36 over a decade ago, but its genetic cause has remained elusive. Here we studied nine LGMD-affected families from Finland, the United States and Italy and identified four dominant missense mutations leading to p.Phe93Leu or p.Phe89Ile changes in the ubiquitously expressed co-chaperone DNAJB6. Functional testing in vivo showed that the mutations have a dominant toxic effect mediated specifically by the cytoplasmic isoform of DNAJB6. In vitro studies demonstrated that the mutations increase the half-life of DNAJB6, extending this effect to the wild-type protein, and reduce its protective anti-aggregation effect. Further, we show that DNAJB6 interacts with members of the CASA complex, including the myofibrillar myopathy-causing protein BAG3. Our data identify the genetic cause of LGMD1D, suggest that its pathogenesis is mediated by defective chaperone function and highlight how mutations in a ubiquitously expressed gene can exert effects in a tissue-, isoform- and cellular compartment-specific manner.
The purposes of this study were to examine the effects of dipyridamole infusion on hemodynamic variables and to compare these changes with myocardial perfusion.
Dipyridamole stress testing with myocardial perfusion imaging is widely used in the assessment of patients with known or suspected coronary artery disease (CAD). Few studies, however, have correlated the hemodynamic effects of dipyridamole using invasive monitoring with perfusion patterns in patients with chest pain syndromes.
Hemodynamic measurements were made in the cardiac catheterization laboratory with a Swan-Ganz thermodilution catheter before, during and after infusion of dipyridamole (142 microg/kg body weight per min for 4 min). Technetium-99m sestamibi was injected 3 min after the completion of the infusion.
There were 20 patients with and 6 without CAD, as demonstrated by angiography. Compared with baseline values, dipyridamole resulted in an increase in pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (54 +/- 78% vs. 32 +/- 26%, p = NS), cardiac index (36 +/- 21% vs. 40 +/- 18%, p = NS) and stroke volume index (16 +/- 18% vs. 40 +/- 18%, p = NS) and a decrease in systemic vascular resistance (22 +/- 13% vs. 24 +/- 11%, p = NS), aortic pressure (2 +/- 9% vs. 0 +/- 6%, p = NS) and pulmonary vascular resistance (19 +/- 25% vs. 11 +/- 32%, p = NS) in patients with and without CAD. The peak effect of dipyridamole on heart rate, systemic vascular resistance and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure was evident at 3 min after infusion in 70% of patients. Aminophylline, given to 20 patients, improved hemodynamic variables within 2 min. The single-photon emission computed tomographic sestamibi images were normal in the 6 patients without and abnormal in the 18 patients with CAD.
Dipyridamole-induced coronary hyperemia produces mild hemodynamic changes in patients with and without CAD; these changes are at or near peak effect at 3 min after infusion and are rapidly reversed by aminophylline.
The exon-junction complex (EJC) performs essential RNA processing tasks. Here, we describe the first human disorder, thrombocytopenia with absent radii (TAR), caused by deficiency in one of the four EJC subunits. Compound inheritance of a rare null allele and one of two low-frequency SNPs in the regulatory regions of RBM8A, encoding the Y14 subunit of EJC, causes TAR. We found that this inheritance mechanism explained 53 of 55 cases (P < 5 × 10(-228)) of the rare congenital malformation syndrome. Of the 53 cases with this inheritance pattern, 51 carried a submicroscopic deletion of 1q21.1 that has previously been associated with TAR, and two carried a truncation or frameshift null mutation in RBM8A. We show that the two regulatory SNPs result in diminished RBM8A transcription in vitro and that Y14 expression is reduced in platelets from individuals with TAR. Our data implicate Y14 insufficiency and, presumably, an EJC defect as the cause of TAR syndrome.
To investigate the effect of enalapril on renal interstitial fibrosis in rats with unilateral ureteral obstruction(UUO).
UUO model was induced by ligating the left ureter in rats. Male Sprague-Dawley(SD) rats were randomly divided into a sham-operated group(n=16), a UUO model group(n=24), and an enalapril treated group(n=24). The rats were treated with 10 mg/kg.d by gastric gavage in the enalapril treated group from 24 h before the operation, and the rats were treated with the identical dose of normal saline in the other 2 groups. The rats were sacrificed at 3,7,14, and 21 days after UUO. Pathological changes of the renal tissue were observed by HE and Masson staining, the mRNA expression of collagen I (Col I) was detected by real-time PCR, and the protein expression of connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) was detected by Western blot.
The renal interstitial damage index, relative collagen area and the expression of Col I mRNA and CTGF in the renal tissues in the model group increased with the prolongation of obstruction. Enalapril significantly reduced the renal interstitial damage index and relative collagen area, and inhibted the expression of Col I mRNA and CTGF. There was significant difference on day 3,7,and 14 (P<0.05), but not on day 21 (P>0.05).
Enalapril significantly attenuates renal interstitial fibrosis by supressing the expression of Col I mRNA and CTGF.
Cadmium (Cd) is a well-known testicular toxicant. However, the effects of pubertal Cd exposure on testicular development and spermatogenesis remained to be elucidated. The present study investigated the effects of pubertal Cd exposure on testicular development and spermatogenesis. Male CD-1 mice were intraperitoneally injected with CdCl(2) (1mg/kg) daily from postnatal day 35 (PND35) to PND70. As expected, pubertal Cd exposure significantly decreased the number of spermatozoa in epididymides. In addition, pubertal Cd exposure markedly reduced the weights of testes, epididymides and prostate and seminal vesicle in adult mice. A significant decrease in serum and testicular testosterone (T) was observed in mice exposed to Cd during puberty. Moreover, pubertal Cd exposure markedly reduced mRNA and protein levels of testicular StAR, P450scc, P450(17alpha) and 17beta-HSD. Taken together, these results suggest that the decreased testicular T synthesis might partially contribute to pubertal Cd-induced impairment on testicular development and spermatogenesis in mice.
R-flurbiprofen is considered the 'inactive' isomer of the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), flurbiprofen, because it does not inhibit cyclooxygenase (COX) activity. However, previous studies have revealed that it has antinociceptive and antitum or effects not due to epimerization to the cyclooxygenase-inhibiting S-isomer. Here, we show that R-flurbiprofen has additional anti-inflammatory activity comparable with that of dexamethasone in the zymosan-induced paw inflammation model in rats. Different criteria suggest that the observed effects are mediated at least in part through inhibition of NF-kB activation: R-flurbiprofen inhibited i) LPS-induced NF-kB DNA binding activity in RAW 264.7 macrophages, ii) translocation of the p65 subunit of NF-kB into the nucleus of these cells, and iii) zymosan-induced NF-kB-dependent gene transcription in the inflamed paw and spinal cord of rats. S-flurbiprofen produced similar effects but was less potent. In addition, R-flurbiprofen inhibited DNA binding activity of AP-1, another key regulatory transcription factor in inflammatory processes. Because R-flurbiprofen does not cause gastrointestinal mucosal damage or other side effects associated with long-term NSAID or glucocorticoid use, it might be a useful drug in inflammatory or other diseases in which increased or constitutive NF-kB and AP-1 activation are involved in the pathophysiological processes.
The frequency and severity of extrapyramidal syndrome (EPS) were evaluated in patients with DSM-III or DSM-IV schizophrenia in the acute phase (- 8 weeks) of randomized, double-blind, controlled trials from the integrated olanzapine clinical trial database.
This retrospective analysis included 23 clinical trials and 4611 patients from November 11, 1991, through July 31, 2001. Incidences of dystonic, parkinsonian, and akathisia events were compared using treatment-emergent adverse-event data. Categorical analyses of Simpson-Angus Scale and Barnes Akathisia Scale (BAS) scores, use of anticholinergic medications, and baseline-to-endpoint changes in Simpson-Angus Scale and BAS scores were compared.
A significantly smaller percentage of olanzapine-treated patients experienced dystonic events than did haloperidol- (p <.001) or risperidone-treated patients (p =.047). A significantly greater percentage of haloperidol-treated patients experienced parkinsonian (p <.001) and akathisia (p <.001) events than did olanzapine-treated patients. Categorical analysis of Simpson-Angus Scale scores showed significantly more haloperidol- (p <.001) or risperidone-treated patients (p =.004) developed parkinsonism than did olanzapine-treated patients. Olanzapine-treated patients experienced significantly greater reductions in Simpson-Angus Scale scores than did haloperidol- (p <.001), risperidone- (p <.001), or clozapine-treated (p =.032) patients. Categorical analysis of BAS scores showed significantly more haloperidol-treated patients experienced treatment-emergent akathisia versus olanzapine-treated patients (p <.001). Significantly greater reductions in BAS scores were experienced during olanzapine treatment versus placebo (p =.007), haloperidol (p <.001), and risperidone (p =.004) treatments. A significantly smaller percentage of olanzapine-treated patients received anticholinergic medications compared with that of haloperidol- (p <.001) or risperidone-treated patients (p =.018). Compared with that in olanzapine-treated patients, the duration of anticholinergic cotreatment was significantly longer among haloperidol- (p <.001) or risperidone-treated patients (p =.040) and significantly shorter among clozapine-treated patients (p =.021).
This analysis of available data from olanzapine clinical trials lends additional support to olanzapine's favorable EPS profile.
To study the effects of ribomunyl, an oral ribosomal immunostimulant frequently used to prevent recurrent oropharyngeal and bronchopulmonary infections in children and adults, on adjuvant arthritis as well as its effect on methotrexate and cyclosporine treatment.
Rats with adjuvant induced arthritis were preventively treated orally with the following drugs: cyclosporin A (CSA, 2.5 mg/kg/day); ribomunyl (RIB, 25 mg/kg/day, 4 days a week); methotrexate (MTX, 0.6 mg/kg/week), and the combinations CSA + RIB, MTX + RIB, CSA + MTX, CSA + MTX + RIB for the period of 50 days from adjuvant application. Levels of serum albumin, serum nitrite/nitrate concentrations, hind paw swelling, arthrograms, and bone destruction were measured in rats as variables of the inflammation and destructive arthritis associated changes.
Preventive treatment with low doses of CSA and MTX significantly inhibited both markers of inflammation and arthritis. The combination CSA + MTX was more effective on all evaluated measures than any of its components alone. RIB alone improved arthrogram scores and decreased serum nitrite/nitrate concentrations in arthritic rats. The combination of RIB with the low dose of CSA or MTX enhanced the beneficial effects of these drugs. The best preventive effect was observed with the combination of 3 agents, CSA + MTX + RIB.
Our results show ribomunyl to have the potential to improve some inflammation and arthritis associated changes in rat adjuvant arthritis and to enhance the preventive effect of MTX and CSA and their combination.
The general pharmacology of the new antimuscarinic compound vamicamide (FK176, (+/-)-(2R*, 4R*)-4-dimethylamino-2-phenyl-2- (2-pyridyl)valeramide, CAS 132373-81-0) was investigated using mice, rats, guinea pigs and dogs, and was in part compared with that of oxybutynin hydrochloride (oxybutynin, CAS 1508-65-2), a similar type of compound. 1. Vamicamide induced mydriasis after oral administration (p.o.) of 10 mg/kg or more, and suppressed defecation after 32 mg/kg or more in the general activity and behavior test with rats. 2. Vamicamide increased spontaneous locomotor activity in mice at 32 mg/kg or more (p.o.) and suppressed tonic convulsions in the electroconvulsive shock test with mice at 100 mg/kg. The compound at 10-100 mg/kg (p.o) did not show significant effects on hexobarbital-induced anesthesia, pentetrazole-induced convulsions and pain response by Haffner's method in mice, body temperature in rats or spontaneous electroencephalogram (EEG) in rabbits. On the other hand, oxybutynin increased high voltage slow waves of spontaneous EEG in rabbits at 32 mg/kg or more (p.o.) and prolonged hexobarbital-induced anesthesia time in mice at 100 mg/kg. 3. Vamicamide in concentrations of 0.001-1% (1 x 10(-4)-1 x 10(-1) g/ml) did not show local anesthetic effect on the corneal reflex test with guinea pigs. The compound in concentrations of 1 x 10(-5) and 1 x 10(-4) g/ml also had no effects on contractions of the isolated rat diaphragm caused by electrical stimulation of the phrenic nerve. 4. Vamicamide on the highest concentration of 1 x 10(-4) g/ml augmented contractions of isolated rat vas deferens induced by noradrenaline, resting tonus of the isolated guinea pig trachea, and contractile force of spontaneous movement of the isolated rat nonpregnant uterus. The compound at 1 x 10(-4) g/ml had no significant effects on KCl-induced contraction of the isolated rat thoracic aorta. 5. Vamicamide elevated systemic blood pressure and increased heart rate but had no effects on respiratory movement of the chest in conscious dogs at an oral dose of 10 mg/kg or more. The compound in intraduodenal (i.d.) doses of 3.2-32 mg/kg had no effect on femoral blood flow in anesthetized dogs. Vamicamide augmented contractile force and reduced beating rate in isolated guinea pig atria at a concentration of 1 x 10(-5) g/ml or more. Oxybutynin increased heart rate at 3.2 mg/kg or more (p.o.), and elevated blood pressure at 10 mg/kg or more in conscious dogs. 6. Vamicamide slightly inhibited small intestinal transit in rats at 3.2 mg/kg or more (p.o.). On the other hand, oxybutynin inhibited the transit in rats at 0.32 mg/kg or more. 7. Vamicamide had no effects on urine volume, urinary excretion of Na+, K+, Cl- and uric acid in rats at an oral dose of 100 mg/kg or less, or on renal function in anesthetized dogs at an i.d. dose of 32 mg/kg or less. 8. Vamicamide showed no effects on bleeding time in mice at 100 mg/kg p.o., rabbit platelet aggregation induced by adenosine diphosphate or collagen at 1 x 10(-4) g/ml, blood coagulation systems in rats at 100 mg/kg p.o., or hemolysis on rabbit blood at a concentration of 1% or less. Thus, vamicamide in the doses used inhibited gastrointestinal motility, and caused mydriasis as effects possibly due to its anticholinergic action. The compound had no effects on the central nervous system, cardiovascular system, renal functions, or blood system.
Paravertebral block (PVB) seems to decrease postoperative pain and postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) after breast surgery, but the studies have not been placebo controlled. We studied 60 patients scheduled for breast cancer surgery randomly given single-injection PVB at T3 with bupivacaine 5 mg/mL (1.5 mg/kg) or saline before general anesthesia. The patient and attending investigators were blinded; the PVB or the sham block was performed behind a curtain by an anesthesiologist not involved in the study. The patients given PVB with bupivacaine needed 40% less IV opioid medication (primary outcome variable) in the postanesthesia care unit, had a longer latency to the first opioid dose, and had less pain at rest after 24 h than the control patients (P < 0.01). They also had less PONV in the postanesthesia care unit (P < 0.05), were less sedated until 90 min (P < 0.05), and performed better in the digit symbol substitution test at 90 min and the ocular coordination test 60-120 min after surgery (P < 0.05). The average peak bupivacaine plasma concentration was 750 ng/mL. One patient had bilateral convulsions immediately after bupivacaine injection. We conclude that PVB before general anesthesia for breast cancer surgery reduced postoperative pain, opioid consumption, and occurrence of PONV and improved recovery from anesthesia.
1. Castor oil (2 ml orally) produced diarrhoea in rats 1-7 h after challenge, which was associated with gross damage to the duodenal and jejunal mucosa. 2. The injury was accompanied by release of acid phosphatase into the gut lumen, indicating cellular injury. 3. Intraperitoneal injection of the nitric oxide (NO) synthase inhibitor NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME, 2.5-50 mg kg-1 twice), prevented the diarrhoea. The dose of L-NAME (50 mg kg-1) completely blocked the diarrhoea but increased the release of acid phosphatase and worsened the gross damage. 4. The NO donating compound, isosorbide-5-mononitrate (IMN, 150 mg kg-1 twice) reversed the effects of L-NAME (50 mg kg-1) on castor oil-induced diarrhoea, gross damage and acid phosphatase release. 5. The apparent dissociation of the diarrhoeal and intestinal mucosal damaging effects of castor oil suggest that NO has a protective effect on the rat duodenal and jejunal mucosa, but that NO mediates, in part, the diarrhoea effect of this laxative.
The effect of nimodipine pretreatment on CBF and brain edema was studied in conscious rats subjected to 2.5 h of focal cortical ischemia. An infusion of nimodipine (2 micrograms/kg/min i.v.) or its vehicle, polyethylene glycol 400, was begun 2 h before the ischemic interval and was continued throughout the survival period. Under brief halothane anesthesia, the animals' right middle cerebral and common carotid arteries were permanently occluded, and 2.5 h later, they underwent a quantitative CBF study ([14C]iodoantipyrine autoradiography followed by Quantimet 970 image analysis). Nimodipine treatment improved blood flow to the middle cerebral artery territory without evidence of a "vascular steal" and reduced the volume of the ischemic core (cortex with CBF of less than 25 ml/100 g/min) and accompanying edema by approximately 50% when compared with controls (p = 0.006 and 0.0004, respectively). Mild hypotension induced by nimodipine did not aggravate the ischemic insult. The ischemic core volumes, however, were 50-75% smaller than the 24-h infarct volumes generated in a similar paradigm that demonstrated 20-30% infarct reduction with continuous nimodipine treatment. These results suggest that nimodipine pretreatment attenuates the severity of early focal cerebral ischemia, but that with persistent ischemia, cortex surrounding the ischemic core undergoes progressive infarction and the early benefit of nimodipine treatment is only partly preserved.
The haplo-insufficient p53 knockout (p53+/-) and zetaglobin v-Ha-ras (Tg.AC) transgenic mouse models were compared to the conventional two rodent species carcinogen bioassay by prospectively testing nine chemicals. Seven of the chemicals classified as carcinogens in the conventional bioassay induced tumors in the liver or kidneys of B6C3F1 mice, and one (pentachlorophenol) also induced tumors in other tissues. Only three chemicals, furfuryl alcohol, pyridine, and pentachlorophenol, induced tumors in rats. The tumorigenic effect of pyridine was seen in F344 rats but not in Wistar strain rats. None of the chemicals induced tumors in the p53+/- transgenic mice, which is consistent with the absence of genotoxicity of these chemicals. Only two of the seven nongenotoxic carcinogens were positive in the Tg.AC model (lauric acid diethanolamine and pentachlorophenol). These results show that these transgenic models do not respond to many chemicals that show strain- or species-specific responses in conventional bioassays.
The beta-blocking, antiarrhythmic, and local anesthetic effects of the racemic mixture and optical isomers of bucumolol, 5-methyl-8-(2-hydroxy-3-t-butylamino-propoxy) coumarin hydrochloride, were studied in dogs, guinea-pigs and frogs. In blocking the positive chrontropic response to isoproterenol, the levo-isomer of bucumolol was about 40 times more potent in dogs, and 270 times in guinea-pigs than its dextro-isomer and twice as effective in both species as the racemic mixture. In frog sciatic nerves bucumolol was 1/10-1/15 as potent in local anesthetic action as propranolol on a weight basis. Dextro- and levo-isomers and racemic bucumolol neither elevated electrical threshold for propagated impulses nor prolonged the effective refractory period of the dog right atrium. The levo-isomer and racemic bucumolol were capable of suppressing aconitine-induced atrial arrhythmia, while the dextro-isomer was less effective. Both isomers and racemic bucumolol were capable of reversing ventricular arrhythmia caused by ouabain, but the effective dose of the levo-isomer was significantly less than that of the dextro-isomer. The results suggest that both specific beta-blocking activity and non-specific membrane action of bucumolol suppressed experimental arrhythmias in dogs produced by aconitine and ouabain.
Estrogen has been shown to protect the heart and attenuate myocardial hypertrophy and left ventricular remodelling through as yet to be defined mechanisms. In the present study we examined concentration-dependent effects of estrogen on hypertrophy of adult rat cardiomyocytes, potential underlying mechanisms related to intracellular pH (pHi) and possible sex-dependent responses. Cardiomyocytes were isolated from adult male and female Sprague-Dawley rats and used immediately for pHi determinations or cultured and subsequently treated for 24 h with 17beta-estradiol to assess hypertrophic responses. Fluorometric measurements with the pHi-sensitive dye BCECF demonstrated that at 1 pM 17beta-estradiol increased pHi (+0.05 pH units in females and +0.12 pH units in males, P<0.05) by a rapid non-genomic mechanism that was blocked by the sodium-hydrogen exchange isoform 1 (NHE-1) specific inhibitor AVE-4890 (AVE, 5 microM). Treatment with 1 pM 17beta-estradiol for 24 h increased cell size (females: 20%, P<0.05; males: 29%, P<0.05) and ANP expression (females: 414%, P<0.05; males: 497%, P<0.05) in a NHE-1-, and ERK1/2 MAPK-dependent manner. At 1 nM, 17beta-estradiol decreased pHi (females: -0.24 pH units, P<0.05; males: -0.07 pH units, P<0.05) which was also prevented by AVE, although at this concentration the hormone had no direct hypertrophic effect but instead prevented hypertrophy induced by phenylephrine. Our results show that low levels of estrogen produce cardiomyocyte hypertrophy through ERK/NHE-1 activation and intracellular alkalinization whereas an antihypertrophic effect is seen at high concentrations. These effects may further our understanding of the role of estrogen in heart disease particularly associated with hypertrophy.
1. Norethindrone-4 beta,5 beta-epoxide was toxic to Walker cells in culture. The concentration required to produce a 50% reduction in the increase in cell numbers 72 h after exposure (ID50) was 0.05 mM. In this assay, the parent contraceptive steroid, norethindrone, was at least four times less toxic than the epoxide. 2. Norethandrolone-4 beta,5 beta-epoxide and norethynodrel-5 beta,10 beta-epoxide were as toxic as norethindrone epoxide to the Walker cells. 3. The cytotoxicity of norethindrome epoxide was dependent on the time of exposure of the cells to this compound if excess unreacted epoxide was removed by washing the cells with cysteine. The results are consistant with norethindrone epoxide causing cell death by reacting with sulphydryl groups of cellular proteins. 4. No metabolites toxic to Walker cells could be detected when the cells were incubated with norethindrone, rat liver microsomes and a NADPH generating system. 5. Cells treated with an ID50 of norethindrone epoxide for 1 h showed marked cytoplasmic vacuolation 3 hr after exposure. This vacuolation was much less marked in cells treated with an ID50 of norethindrone or in the controls. Neither group showed any nuclear abnormalities. 6. Norethindrone epoxide when given to rats in large doses (50 mg/kg) by lateral tail vein injection also caused cytoplasmic vacuolar degeneration of the liver hepatocytes, especially in the perilobular areas 3 days after dosing. When this compound was administered at a similar dose level via the hepatic portal vein massive haemorrhagic necrosis of the liver resulted. No damage to either lungs or kidneys was evident, irrespective of the route of administration.
The marine metabolite bolinaquinone is a novel inhibitor of secretory phospholipase A(2) (sPLA(2)), with a potency on the human synovial enzyme (group II) higher than that of manoalide. This activity on the sPLA(2) was confirmed in vivo in the 8-h zymosan rat air pouch on the secretory enzyme accumulation in the pouch exudate. Additionally, bolinaquinone decreased potently the synthesis and release of leukotriene B(4) (LTB(4)) in calcimycin (A23187)-stimulated human neutrophils as a consequence of the inhibition of 5-lipoxygenase activity, as well as PGE(2) and NO production on zymosan-stimulated mouse peritoneal macrophages. This compound exerted anti-inflammatory effects by topical and oral routes on the mouse ear edema induced by 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbolacetate, with ID(50) values of 76.7 microg/ear and 5.6 mg/kg, respectively, with a significant decrease in PGE(2), LTB(4), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) levels being more effective than indomethacin. This effect was confirmed in the mouse paw carrageenan edema after oral administration. Moreover, bolinaquinone was able to reduce the inflammatory response of adjuvant arthritis by inhibiting PGE(2), NO, and TNF-alpha production in paw homogenates without affecting PGE(2) levels in the stomach. Additionally, bolinaquinone inhibited inducible nitric oxide synthase expression and reduced the degree of bone resorption, soft tissue swelling, and osteophyte formation.
Capsaicin (N-vanillyl-8-methyl-1-nonenamide) is a homovanillic acid derivative found in pungent fruits. Several investigators have reported the ability of capsaicin to inhibit events associated with the promotion of cancer. However, the effects of capsaicin on human leukemic cells have never been investigated. We investigated the effects of capsaicin on leukemic cells in vitro and in vivo and further examined the molecular mechanisms of capsaicin-induced apoptosis in myeloid leukemic cells. Capsaicin suppressed the growth of leukemic cells, but not normal bone marrow mononuclear cells, via induction of G(0)-G(1) phase cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. Capsaicin-induced apoptosis was in association with the elevation of intracellular reactive oxygen species production. Interestingly, capsaicin-sensitive leukemic cells were possessed of wild-type p53, resulting in the phosphorylation of p53 at the Ser-15 residue by the treatment of capsaicin. Abrogation of p53 expression by the antisense oligonucleotides significantly attenuated capsaicin-induced cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. Pretreatment with the antioxidant N-acetyl-L-cystein and catalase, but not superoxide dismutase, completely inhibited capsaicin-induced apoptosis by inhibiting phosphorylation of Ser-15 residue of p53. Moreover, capsaicin effectively inhibited tumor growth and induced apoptosis in vivo using NOD/SCID mice with no toxic effects. We conclude that capsaicin has potential as a novel therapeutic agent for the treatment of leukemia.
The objective of this study was to explore the functional anatomy of the globus pallidus internus (GPi) by studying the effects of unilateral pallidotomy on parkinsonian 'off' signs and levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LID). We found significant positive correlations between the preoperative levodopa responsiveness of motor signs and the levodopa responsiveness of scores in timed tests (Core Assessment Program for Intracerebral Transplantations) in the contralateral limbs and the improvement in these scores after surgery, whereas there was no correlation with the improvement in LID. We also found a highly significant correlation (P: < 0.0001, r = 0.8) between the volume of the ventral lesion in the GPi and the improvement in LID in the contralateral limbs, whereas there was no correlation between the ventral volume and the improvement in parkinsonian 'off' signs. The volumes of the total lesion cylinder and the dorsal lesion did not correlate with the outcome of either dyskinesias or parkinsonian 'off' signs. The differential predictive value of levodopa responsiveness for the outcome of parkinsonian 'off' signs and LID and the different correlations of ventral lesion volume with dyskinesias and parkinsonian 'off' signs indicate that different anatomical or pathophysiological substrates may be responsible for the generation of parkinsonian 'off' signs and dyskinesias. Whereas cells in a wider area of the GPi may be implicated in parkinsonism, the ventral GPi seems to be crucial for the manifestation of LID. We suggest that our observations are additional proof of the functional somatotopy of the systems within the GPi that mediate parkinsonism and dyskinesias, especially along the dorsoventral trajectory used in pallidotomy. The outcome of pallidotomy in which the lesion involves the ventral and dorsal GPi could be the net effect of alteration in the activity of pathways which mediate different symptoms, and hence could be variable.
Chloroquine has been widely used in rheumatological treatment, but potential severe side effects require careful follow-up. Cardiac damage is not a common consequence, but its clinical relevance has not yet been described. We report the case of a 58-year-old woman with rheumatoid arthritis, in whom chronic chloroquine use resulted in major irreversible cardiac damage. She presented with syncopal episodes due to complete atrioventricular block confirmed by electrophysiological study whose changes were concluded to be irreversible and a permanent pacemaker was indicated. Endomyocardial biopsy was also performed to search for histopathological and ultrastructural cardiac damage. We also reviewed the 22 cases of chloroquine-induced cardiopathy described to date as well as its pathophysiology.
A 57-yr-old female with no previous history of liver disease was exposed to enflurane during three separate surgeries over a 12-mo period. After the second and third exposures, she developed systemic symptoms and abnormal liver tests similar to those seen in halothane hepatitis. A liver biopsy obtained after the third exposure was compatible with drug-induced hepatitis. This is the first reported case of enflurane-associated hepatitis.
The effect of antipsychotic medication on neurocognitive function remains controversial, especially since most previous work has compared the effects of novel antipsychotic medications with those of high doses of conventional medications. This study compares the neurocognitive effects of olanzapine and low doses of haloperidol in patients with first-episode psychosis.
Patients with a first episode of schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder, or schizophreniform disorder (N=167) were randomly assigned to double-blind treatment with olanzapine (mean modal dose= 9.63 mg/day) or haloperidol (mean modal dose=4.60 mg/day) for the 12-week acute phase of a 2-year study. The patients were assessed with a battery of neurocognitive tests at baseline and 12 weeks after beginning treatment.
An unweighted neurocognitive composite score, composed of measures of verbal fluency, motor functions, working memory, verbal memory, and vigilance, improved significantly with both haloperidol and olanzapine treatment (effect sizes of 0.20 and 0.36, respectively, no significant difference between groups). A weighted composite score developed from a principal-component analysis of the same measures improved to a significantly greater degree with olanzapine, compared with haloperidol. Anticholinergic use, extrapyramidal symptoms, and estimated IQ had little effect on the statistical differentiation of the medications, although duration of illness had a modest effect. The correlations of cognitive improvement with changes in clinical characteristics and with side effects of treatment were significant for patients who received haloperidol but not for patients who received olanzapine.
Olanzapine has a beneficial effect on neurocognitive function in patients with a first episode of psychosis. However, in a comparison of the effects of olanzapine and low doses of haloperidol, the difference in benefit is small.
