Bromazepam intoxication is very common but surprisingly rarely reported.
We describe the case of a 73-year-old woman who suffered from a prolonged coma after acute self poisoning with bromazepam (serum concentration of 2,000 ng/ml at admission, 2 - 10 hours after ingestion of up to 180 mg) and zolpidem (900 ng/ml at admission). Only the former lasted at toxic concentrations. Recovery of consciousness allowed extubation on Day 16. Repeat-dose activated charcoal (25 g every 6 h from Day 14 to 16) resulted in minimal effects on bromazepam grossly estimated kinetics.
Despite its relatively low theoretic half-life, bromazepam may induce a prolonged life-threatening coma, even in the absence of renal or hepatic failure.
Five personal observations of an acute amnestic episode in younger individuals after intake of clioquinol are described together with three observations from the medical literature. In five of these cases the episode began after an unusually large dose, in three after a therapeutic one with a latency of about 24 hours. The clinical aspect closely resembled classical transient global amnesia but the episode after clioquinol lasted longer (24 hours to three days) and a more or less extensive retrograde amnesia persisted permanently. In one patient after three tablets of Mexase a clioquinol concentration of 12 microgram/ml in plasma was found 24 hours after the specified dose, which is an unexpectedly high concentration compared to those reported as late as 24 hours after a single equal dose of Mexase or any other clioquinol-containing preparation. Another patient had a brief relapse two years after the first episode, after a single therapeutic dose of another clioquinol preparation.
A modification of the twin pulse method is described, by which the nerve tested is stimulated at one proximal site percutaneously and the neuromuscular response to it is derived from a dependent muscle. An electronic subtraction procedure provides separation of the conditioned muscle action potential for measurement by means of a microcomputer. Several parameters were determined in the conditioned action potential and compared to the same criteria in an unconditioned single action potential. Changes of the conditioned action potential were measured at fixed stimulus intervals between 2 and 6 msec. Preliminary normal ranges interindividually and intraindividually were established. Their dependency on skin surface temperature was determined. In polyradiculoneuropathy, the data for motor nerve conduction velocity were characteristically pathologic, and neuromuscular reaction to paired stimuli data deviated minimally from normal. In vincristine neuropathy, motor nerve conduction velocity was normal, but neuromuscular reaction to paired stimuli data fell outside the normal range early in the clinical course. Since polyradiculoneuropathy is a primary demyelinating and remyelinating process and vincristine neuropathy is an example of axonal degeneration, neuromuscular reaction to paired stimuli can facilitate the differential diagnosis in polyneuropathy. Furthermore, this method seems apt to quantify axonal degeneration. In a mixed form of polyneuropathy, peroneal muscular atrophy, motor nerve conduction velocity, as well as neuromuscular reaction to paired stimuli, were abnormal, the latter resulting in abnormally high relative amplitudes. In muscle disorders such as Duchenne muscular dystrophy, neuromuscular reaction to paired stimuli data was abnormal, contrasting experiments using double stimulation of the diseased muscle itself.
Alzheimer disease is a neurodegenerative process that leads to severe cognitive impairment as a consequence of selective death of neuronal populations. The molecular pathogenesis of Alzheimer disease involves the participation of the beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) and oxidative stress. We report here that peroxisomal proliferation attenuated Abeta-dependent toxicity in hippocampal neurons. Pretreatment with Wy-14.463 (Wy), a peroxisome proliferator, prevent the neuronal cell death and neuritic network loss induced by the Abeta peptide. Moreover, the hippocampal neurons treated with this compound, showed an increase in the number of peroxisomes, with a concomitant increase in catalase activity. Additionally, we evaluate the Wy protective effect on beta-catenin levels, production of intracellular reactive oxygen species, cytoplasmic calcium uptake, and mitochondrial potential in hippocampal neurons exposed to H(2) O(2) and Abeta peptide. Results show that the peroxisomal proliferation prevents beta-catenin degradation, reactive oxygen species production, cytoplasmic calcium increase, and changes in mitochondrial viability. Our data suggest, for the first time, a direct link between peroxisomal proliferation and neuroprotection from Abeta-induced degenerative changes.
T-2 toxin is a cytotoxic fungal secondary metabolite produced by different species of Fusarium such as F. sporotichioides, F. poae, F. equiseti, F. acuminatum etc. This class of mycotoxins causes a number of pathologies including nervous disorders, cardiovascular alterations, immunodepression and hemostatic derangements. In the present study, mechanism of T-2 toxin induced alteration of blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability was assessed in terms of oxidative stress, gene expression of MMP-9, MMP-2 and their inhibitors TIMP-1 and TIMP-2, activation of inflammatory cytokines in both brain and peripheral tissue spleen. Gel zymography was used to show the activity of MMP-9 and MMP-2. The percutaneous exposure of 1 LD50 T2 toxin caused a reversible alteration in BBB permeability as observed by extravasation of Evans blue dye. Maximum dye level was observed on day 3 and reduced by day 7. A significant GSH depletion was observed on days 1 and 3. Brain ROS and lipid peroxidation levels increased significantly on 1 and 3 days and decreased by day 7. The SOD levels in brain showed significantly higher activity on 3 days (4-fold) and 7 days (5-fold) of toxin exposure compared to control. A similar trend was observed with catalase enzyme levels. The gene expression analysis of cNOS and iNOS showed varying levels of expression on different time points of post exposure. MMP-9 expression was significantly high on days 3 and 7 in brain with corresponding alteration in TIMP-1. MMP-2 and TIMP-2 showed no effect. Gene expression analysis of the inflammatory cytokines, IL-1α, IL-1β, IL-6 and TNF-α showed elevated levels on day 7 in brain. As spleen plays an important role in inflammatory response we analyzed MMP-9, MMP-2 and inflammatory cytokines in spleen. The MMP-9 was activated on day 7. MMP-2 activity was found to be elevated on 3 and 7 days and TIMP-2 mRNA level increased on 1 and 3 days in spleen. Inflammatory cytokines, IL-1 α, IL-1β, IL-6 and TNF-α showed elevated levels on days 1 and 3 in spleen indicating an early effect in spleen than in brain. In summary, the results of the study showed that the T-2 induced alteration in BBB permeability is mediated through oxidative stress, activation of MMP-9, and proinflammatory cytokines in brain as well as contribution from peripheral tissue spleen.
Exposure to organophosphate (OP) pesticides, well-known neurotoxicants, has been associated with neurobehavioral deficits in children.
We investigated whether OP exposure, as measured by urinary dialkyl phosphate (DAP) metabolites in pregnant women and their children, was associated with attention-related outcomes among Mexican-American children living in an agricultural region of California.
Children were assessed at ages 3.5 years (n = 331) and 5 years (n = 323). Mothers completed the Child Behavior Checklist (CBCL). We administered the NEPSY-II visual attention subtest to children at 3.5 years and Conners' Kiddie Continuous Performance Test (K-CPT) at 5 years. The K-CPT yielded a standardized attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) Confidence Index score. Psychometricians scored behavior of the 5-year-olds during testing using the Hillside Behavior Rating Scale.
Prenatal DAPs (nanomoles per liter) were nonsignificantly associated with maternal report of attention problems and ADHD at age 3.5 years but were significantly related at age 5 years [CBCL attention problems: β = 0.7 points; 95% confidence interval (CI), 0.2-1.2; ADHD: β = 1.3; 95% CI, 0.4-2.1]. Prenatal DAPs were associated with scores on the K-CPT ADHD Confidence Index > 70th percentile [odds ratio (OR) = 5.1; 95% CI, 1.7-15.7] and with a composite ADHD indicator of the various measures (OR = 3.5; 95% CI, 1.1-10.7). Some outcomes exhibited evidence of effect modification by sex, with associations found only among boys. There was also limited evidence of associations between child DAPs and attention.
In utero DAPs and, to a lesser extent, postnatal DAPs were associated adversely with attention as assessed by maternal report, psychometrician observation, and direct assessment. These associations were somewhat stronger at 5 years than at 3.5 years and were stronger in boys.
Perinatal exposure to low-doses of bisphenol A (BPA) results in alterations in the ovary, uterus, and mammary glands and in a sexually dimorphic region of the brain known to be important for estrous cyclicity.
We aimed to determine whether perinatal exposure to environmentally relevant doses of BPA alters reproductive capacity.
Female CD-1 mice that were exposed to BPA at 0, 25 ng, 250 ng, or 25 µg/kg body weight (BW)/day or diethylstilbestrol (DES) at 10 ng/kg BW/day (positive control) from gestational day 8 through day 16 of lactation were continuously housed with proven breeder males for 32 weeks starting at 2 months of age. At each delivery, pups born to these mating pairs were removed. The cumulative number of pups, number of deliveries, and litter size were recorded. The purity of the BPA used in this and our previous studies was assessed using HPLC, mass spectrometry, and nuclear magnetic resonance.
The forced breeding experiment revealed a decrease in the cumulative number of pups, observed as a nonmonotonic dose-response effect, and a decline in fertility and fecundity over time in female mice exposed perinatally to BPA. The BPA was 97% pure, with no evidence of contamination by other phenolic compounds.
Perinatal exposure to BPA leads to a dose-dependent decline in the reproductive capacity of female mice. The effects on the cumulative number of pups are comparable to those previously reported in mice developmentally exposed to DES, a compound well known to impair reproduction in women. This association suggests the possibility that early BPA exposure may also affect reproductive capacity in women.
The anesthetic drug ketamine (KT) has been reported to be an abused drug and fatal cases have been observed in polydrug users. In the present study, considering the possibility of KT-enhanced toxic effects of other drugs, and KT-induced promotion of an overdose without making the subject aware of the danger due to the attenuation of several painful subjective symptoms, the intraperitoneal (i.p.) KT-induced alterations in behaviors and toxic interactions with popular co-abused drugs, the psychostimulants cocaine (COC) and methamphetamine (MA), were examined in ICR mice.
A single dose of KT caused hyperlocomotion in a low (30 mg/kg, i.p.) dose group, and hypolocomotion followed by hyperlocomotion in a high (100 mg/kg, i.p.) dose group. However, no behavioral alterations derived from enhanced stress-related depression or anxiety were observed in the forced swimming or the elevated plus-maze test. A single non-fatal dose of COC (30 mg/kg, i.p.) or MA (4 mg/kg, i.p.) caused hyperlocomotion, stress-related depression in swimming behaviors in the forced swimming test, and anxiety-related behavioral changes (preference for closed arms) in the elevated plus-maze test. For the COC (30 mg/kg) or MA (4 mg/kg) groups of mice simultaneously co-treated with KT, the psychostimulant-induced hyperlocomotion was suppressed by the high dose KT, and the psychostimulant-induced behavioral alterations in the above tests were reversed by both low and high doses of KT. For the toxic dose COC (70 mg/kg, i.p.)- or MA (15 mg/kg, i.p.)-only group, mortality and severe seizures were observed in some animals. In the toxic dose psychostimulant-KT groups, KT attenuated the severity of seizures dose-dependently. Nevertheless, the mortality rate was significantly increased by co-treatment with the high dose KT.
Our results demonstrated that, in spite of the absence of stress-related depressive and anxiety-related behavioral alterations following a single dose of KT treatment, and in spite of the KT-induced anticonvulsant effects and attenuation of stress- and anxiety-related behaviors caused by COC or MA, the lethal effects of these psychostimulants were increased by KT.
Doxorubicin/bleomycin/vinblastine/dacarbazine (ABVD) chemotherapy alone is a viable option for the treatment of stage I/II Hodgkin's lymphoma. Among the main drawbacks for widespread acceptance of this therapy is the absence of available data on the post-salvage therapy course in patients with limited-stage disease who relapse after ABVD. This article focuses on the outcome of 11 limited-stage patients who relapsed after ABVD alone.
After a clinical restaging, the patients received mantle-type radiation therapy (only if patients met these criteria: supradiaphragmatic disease in a single-node area, erythrocyte sedimentation rate < 30 mm per hour, and absence of B symptoms) or conventional salvage chemotherapy followed by high-dose chemotherapy and autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.
After a median follow-up of 64 months, 10 patients showed complete response and are still alive without disease progression. One patient showed refractory disease and died 9 months after relapse. This experiment entails the series with the longest follow-up in patients with limited-stage Hodgkin's lymphoma who relapsed after ABVD alone.
The data seem to indicate that salvage therapy is capable of providing cure in most cases and lend further support for the use of ABVD alone as first-line therapy.
The tumor suppressor merlin is encoded by the neurofibromatosis type 2 gene (NF2) which is located on chromosome 22q12 and mutations in this gene have been found in 40% of mesothelioma. Mutations including deletions and insertions lead to truncated and inactivated merlin. Experimental animal models indicate that disruption of the NF2 signalling pathway, together with a deficiency in ink4a, is essential for mesothelioma development. Our hypothesis was that in human mesothelioma without detectable NF2 mutations, regulators of NF2/merlin activity such as CPI-17 would be altered. CPI-17 is an oncogene inhibiting the NF2/merlin phosphatase which is necessary to maintain NF2/merlin activity. Samples obtained from 44 mesothelioma, 3 asbestosis patients and 6 normal pleura from non-asbestos related disease patients were analyzed. Truncated NF2 transcripts or presence of isoform II only were observed in 11 mesothelioma samples. In all other mesothelioma samples only NF2 isoform I or isoforms I and II were detected. 18 mesothelioma and 1 normal pleura samples also expressed splicing variant delE2/3. Unexpected variants in addition to wild-type were identified in 24 mesothelioma samples. NF2 protein was either truncated or phosphorylated on Ser 518 in primary cultures derived from 25 tumors. CPI-17 expression was significantly increased in tumor samples without deleted NF2 compared to normal pleura and tumor expressing truncated NF2. Our results support the hypothesis that the disruption of NF2 signalling is essential for the development of human mesothelioma. In tumors where no NF2 truncation can be detected, NF2 is rendered inactive by phosphorylation of Ser 518 and this can be explained at least in part by an increased expression of CPI-17.
Because mercury is highly toxic to developing organisms, we tested the hypothesis that prenatal exposure to HgCl(2) can induce persistent immune dysfunction. Pregnant BALB/c mice were administrated every other day, for 11 days with HgCl(2) (200 microg/kg). Their offspring were studied at PND10, 14, 21, and 60. Lymph nodes (LN), spleens, and thymus were harvested and proliferation and cytokine production were studied in vitro. We report that prenatal HgCl(2) exposure exerts organ-specific effects on cell number, proliferation, and cytokine production in pre-weaning pups. At adulthood (PND60), effects of prenatal HgCl(2) exposure were still observed, but expressed differently in females and males. In adult females, an inhibitory effect was observed on cytokine production by thymocytes, LN cells, and splenocytes. In males, a stimulatory effect was observed. Overall, we conclude that in vivo exposures to low doses of HgCl(2) can induce persistent sex-specific immunotoxic effects, observable in adulthood.
Previous our studies showed that some steroid hormones, as pure crystalline Progesterone (pPc) and 17-alpha-hydroxyprogesterone capronate (17 alpha HPC) heightened the cirrhogenic action produced in rat liver by carbon tetrachloride. Medroxyprogesterone (MPA), however, did not appear to promote cirrhosis, but increased just steatosis. In the present paper, we have studied the above mentioned steroid hormones for their possible capability of inducing changes in plasma fibronectin concentration. For this purpose, the soluble plasma fibronectin level was measured in female rats 45 days after CCl4-induced cirrhosis, and it was compared with the insoluble fibronectin of liver (detected by immunostaining) and the collagen content in the organ. The results obtained show that, after treatment with CCl4 and MPA, both plasma and liver fibronectin content strongly increases, whereas liver collagen content lowers. However, after treatment with CCl4 alone or in association with the other two steroid hormones, any changes in fibronectin content is not observable, but, on the contrary, is evident a heightened collagen production associated with a cirrhotic change of liver.
Whilst the acute effects of sulfur mustard have been relatively well characterised, the chronic effects of short term but significant exposures are still evolving. The approximately 30,000 Iranian victims of CW exposure from the 1980 to 1988 Iran-Iraq war who are currently being followed form a key population who are now 20 years post-exposure. The key chronic findings in this population reflect the common acute effects of sulfur mustard, and are related to the skin, eye and respiratory system. Excluding pruritus, skin changes appear to settle. Eye symptoms are slowly progressive, however a severe, rapid onset form of keratitis is seen to develop in a number of patients after a latent period of 15-20 years. The respiratory tract also shows progressive deterioration, with bronchiolitis obliterans now being considered the main pathological feature of "mustard lung". In addition, there are other potential effects of sulfur mustard exposure which become evident only in the longer term and which are being investigated, including the development of cancer, immunological and neuropsychiatric changes, and reproductive effects. Finally, a chronic effect of sulfur mustard exposure that is now becoming apparent is the wider long-term social and economic effects of these illnesses on individuals and their families.
The linkage between xenobiotic exposures and autoimmune diseases remains to be clearly defined. However, recent studies have raised the possibility that both genetic and environmental factors act synergistically at several stages or checkpoints to influence disease pathogenesis in susceptible populations. These observations predict that individuals susceptible to spontaneous autoimmunity should be more susceptible following xenobiotic exposure by virtue of the presence of predisposing background genes. To test this possibility, mouse strains with differing genetic susceptibility to murine lupus were examined for acceleration of autoimmune features characteristic of spontaneous systemic autoimmune disease following exposure to the immunostimulatory metals nickel and mercury. Although NiCl(2) exposure did not exacerbate autoimmunity, HgCl(2) significantly accelerated systemic disease in a strain-dependent manner. Mercury-exposed (NZB X NZW)F1 mice had accelerated lymphoid hyperplasia, hypergammaglobulinemia, autoantibodies, and immune complex deposits. Mercury also exacerbated immunopathologic manifestations in MRL+/+ and MR -lpr mice. However, there was less disease acceleration in lpr mice compared with MRL+/+ mice, likely due to the fact that environmental factors are less critical for disease induction when there is strong genetic susceptibility. Non-major histocompatibility complex genes also contributed to mercury-exacerbated disease, as the nonautoimmune AKR mice, which are H-2 identical with the MRL, showed less immunopathology than either the MRL/lpr or MRL+/+ strains. This study demonstrates that genetic susceptibility to spontaneous systemic autoimmunity can be a predisposing factor for HgCl(2)-induced exacerbation of autoimmunity. Such genetic predisposition may have to be considered when assessing the immunotoxicity of xenobiotics. Additional comparative studies using autoimmune-prone and nonautoimmune mice strains with different genetic backgrounds will help determine the contribution that xenobiotic exposure makes in rendering sensitive populations susceptible to autoimmune diseases.
Gamma-aminobutyric acid A (GABA(A)) receptors are ligand-gated ion channels responsible for mediation of fast inhibitory action of GABA in the brain. Preliminary reports have demonstrated altered expression of GABA receptors in the brains of subjects with autism suggesting GABA/glutamate system dysregulation. We investigated the expression of four GABA(A) receptor subunits and observed significant reductions in GABRA1, GABRA2, GABRA3, and GABRB3 in parietal cortex (Brodmann's Area 40 (BA40)), while GABRA1 and GABRB3 were significantly altered in cerebellum, and GABRA1 was significantly altered in superior frontal cortex (BA9). The presence of seizure disorder did not have a significant impact on GABA(A) receptor subunit expression in the three brain areas. Our results demonstrate that GABA(A) receptors are reduced in three brain regions that have previously been implicated in the pathogenesis of autism, suggesting widespread GABAergic dysfunction in the brains of subjects with autism.
A 21-year-old female presenting with malignant histiocytosis was initially treated with conventional aggressive chemotherapy resulting in complete remission (CR) but relapsed within 6 months of discontinuation. The patient was reinduced with two cycles of cis-platinum, cytosine arabinoside and mitoxantrone and achieved CR, at which time she received single agent high-dose melphalan followed by autologous bone marrow transplant. She remains in CR 36 months after the autograft procedure.
Sodium retention and volume expansion, mediated in part by aldosterone, are prominent features in low-renin hypertension. Agents that block aldosterone at its receptor sites, therefore, should have significant clinical benefit in patients with low-renin hypertension.
This 16-week, multicenter, double-blind, active-controlled, parallel-group, titration-to-effect trial compared the blood pressure and neurohumoral responses of the selective aldosterone blocker eplerenone (100-200 mg/d; n = 86) with those of the angiotensin receptor blocker losartan (50-100 mg/d; n = 82) in patients with low-renin hypertension (active renin < or = 25 pg/mL [< or = 42.5 mU/L]). Patients with diastolic blood pressure > or = 90 mm Hg after 8 weeks of monotherapy received add-on therapy with hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 to 25 mg daily.
After 8 weeks of therapy, eplerenone reduced blood pressure to a greater extent than losartan (systolic blood pressure -15.8 vs -10.1 mm Hg, P = .017; diastolic blood pressure -9.3 vs -6.7 mm Hg, P = .05). After 16 weeks of therapy, significantly fewer eplerenone-treated patients (32.5%) than losartan-treated patients (55.6%) required add-on hydrochlorothiazide as allowed per protocol for blood pressure control (P = .003). Eplerenone consistently reduced blood pressure regardless of baseline active plasma renin levels whereas losartan reduced blood pressure more effectively in patients with higher baseline active renin levels. There were no differences between treatments in adverse events (reported by 62.8% of eplerenone patients and by 72.0% of losartan patients).
These data show that eplerenone was more effective than losartan in reducing blood pressure in patients with low-renin hypertension. Further studies evaluating the efficacy of eplerenone in difficult-to-treat or resistant hypertension are needed.
2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is a potent and persistent environmental toxin that induces hepatotoxicity and increases endotoxin-induced liver injury. The objective of this study was to evaluate whether TCDD could modulate apoptosis and cytokine-controlled apoptotic signaling pathways following lipopolysaccharide (LPS) exposure in female B6C3F1 mice. The effects of TCDD treatment were most dramatic late in the time course (10-14 days posttreatment). Serum enzyme activities were elevated at day 10 (100 microg TCDD/40 microg LPS treatment) and day 14 (100 microg TCDD/saline treatment), indicating peak liver damage occurred at those times. Histological examination of perfused livers showed an increase in apoptotic cells at day 14 in animals treated with 10 microg TCDD. Caspase-1 activity was suppressed at 14 days in mice treated with 100 microg TCDD/40 microg LPS and 100 microg TCDD/4 microg LPS compared to the respective corn oil (CO)/LPS-treated controls. Caspase-3 activity was suppressed at 14 days in 100 microg TCDD/saline-100 microg TCDD/40 microg LPS- and 100 microg TCDD/4 microg LPS-treated mice compared to respective CO/saline- or CO/LPS-treated control mice. At 40 microg LPS, caspase activity was stimulated in TCDD (100 microg)-exposed mice at 3 and 7 days and then suppressed at 10 and 14 days. Western blot analysis, electrophoretic mobility shift assay, and ELISA did not show any effect by TCDD (100 microg) on IkappaB-beta and IkappaB-alpha protein expression or on DNA binding activity of the nuclear NFkappaB protein. These data indicate that TCDD induces apoptosis 14 days posttreatment; however, we found no evidence of suppression of the antiapoptotic transcription factor NFkappaB.
Epinephrine was infused intravenously in 9 normal volunteers to plasma concentrations similar to those found after acute myocardial infarction. This study was undertaken on 3 occasions after 5 days of treatment with placebo or the beta-adrenoceptor antagonist, atenolol, which is relatively beta 1 selective, or timolol, which blocks both beta 1 and beta 2 receptors. Epinephrine increased the systolic blood pressure (BP), decreased the diastolic BP and increased the heart rate modestly. These changes were prevented by atenolol. However, after timolol the diastolic BP rose by +19 mm Hg and heart rate fell by -8 beats/min. Epinephrine caused the corrected QT interval to lengthen (0.36 +/- 0.02 to 0.41 +/- 0.06 second). No significant changes were found in the corrected QT interval when subjects were pretreated with atenolol or timolol. The serum potassium decreased from 4.06 to 3.22 mmol/liter after epinephrine. Serum potassium decreased to a lesser extent to 3.67 mmol/liter after atenolol and actually increased to 4.25 mmol/liter after timolol. In a further study with a similar design another nonselective beta blocker propranolol also increased potassium after epinephrine. While atenolol also prevented hypokalemia in this study, it did not block the beta 2-receptor mediated decrease in diastolic BP. Epinephrine-induced hypokalemia results from stimulation of a beta-adrenoceptor linked to membrane sodium/potassium adenosine triphosphatase causing potassium influx. This appears to be predominantly mediated by beta 2 receptors although beta 1 receptors may also play a part.
High-level occupational exposures to some industrial chemicals have been associated with liver diseases, including nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). However, the potential role of low-level environmental pollution on liver disease in the general population has not been evaluated.
We determined whether environmental pollutants are associated with an elevation in serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) activity and suspected NAFLD in U.S. adults.
This cross-sectional cohort study evaluated adult participants without viral hepatitis, hemochromatosis, or alcoholic liver disease from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) for 2003-2004. ALT elevation was defined in men as ≥ 37 IU/L (age 18-20 years) and ≥ 48 IU/L (age ≥ 21 years) and in women as ≥ 30 IU/L (age 18-20 years) and ≥ 31 IU/L (age ≥ 21 years). Adjusted odds ratios (ORs) for ALT elevation were determined across exposure quartiles for 17 pollutant subclasses comprising 111 individual pollutants present with at least a 60% detection rate. Adjustments were made for age, race/ethnicity, sex, body mass index, poverty income ratio, and insulin resistance. Individual pollutants from subclasses associated with ALT elevation were subsequently analyzed.
The overall prevalence of ALT elevation was 10.6%. Heavy metals and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) were associated with dose-dependent increased adjusted ORs for ALT elevation. Within these subclasses, increasing whole-blood levels of lead and mercury and increasing lipid-adjusted serum levels of 20 PCBs were individually associated with ALT elevation.
PCB, lead, and mercury exposures were associated with unexplained ALT elevation, a proxy marker of NAFLD, in NHANES 2003-2004 adult participants.
The effects of atenolol (50 mg) and propranolol (40 mg) on exercise- and isoproterenol-induced heart rate increments were studied in 9 male volunteers. Propranolol reduced maximal heart rate from 187 +/- 4 to 146 +/- 7 beats/min and atenolol reduced it to 138 +/- 6 beats/min. There was no difference between the drugs at any point during exercise. Isoproterenol sensitivity was measured as the dose of isoproterenol required to increase resting heart rate by 25 beats/min (CD-25). Propranolol increased the CD-25 from 1.8 +/- 0.3 micrograms after placebo to 39 +/- 8 micrograms and atenolol increased the CD-25 to 8 +/- 2 micrograms. The increase by propranolol was significantly greater than that of atenolol. Intravenous atropine (0.04 mg/kg) did not alter the isoproterenol CD-25 during placebo or atenolol. The CD-25 with propranolol decreased after atropine (39 +/- 8 versus 25 +/- 5 micrograms) and was due to diminished plasma propranolol concentrations as the drug sensitivity (measured by Ka) was unchanged before (12 +/- 2 ml/ng) and after (10 +/- 3 ml/ng) atropine. These data support the hypothesis that moderate exercise is primarily a beta 1-mediated response and therefore equally antagonized by cardioselective and nonselective blockers, but that isoproterenol stimulates both beta 1 and beta 2 receptors. The greater ability of the nonselective agent to antagonize isoproterenol tachycardia with no significant change after atropine suggests the presence of cardiac beta 2 chronotropic receptors. The physiologic and pathologic importance of these receptors has yet to be determined.
Among the proto-oncogenes examined by northern blot analysis, c-myc, c-Ha-ras, c-fos, and c-raf-1 have been reported to be activated in rat liver cell carcinomas. However, there are relatively few reports on protooncogene expression in altered hepatic foci (AHF) early during hepatocarcinogenesis in the rat. In this study, diethylnitrosamine (DEN) at doses ranging from 10 to 200 mg/kg was used to initiate and phenobarbital (0.05%) to promote AHF in rats. AHF were detected by the presence of the marker enzymes glutathione s-transferase, placental form (GST-P); gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase (GGT); glucose-6-phosphatase (G6Pase); and canalicular adenosine triphosphatase (ATPase). Proto-oncogene expression in individual AHF was investigated by in situ hybridization (ISH). ISH for the mRNAs of c-Ha-ras, c-fos, and c-raf-1 revealed little or no expression in AHF. However, the levels of c-myc mRNA were increased in about 10% of the AHF initiated by the highest dose of DEN (200 mg/kg). Thus, altered expression of proto-oncogenes was not seen in AHF initiated by nonnecrogenic doses of DEN and promoted by phenobarbital. However, at the necrogenic dose of 200 mg/kg DEN, c-myc expression was found mostly in AHF in which abnormal expression of GST-P, GGT, G6Pase, and ATPase was also present, indicating that c-myc expression is correlated with phenotypically greater complexity of the AHF, a characteristic of malignant hepatic neoplasms in the rat.
A transient acute neurologic syndrome occurred in 22 patients receiving high-dose methotrexate (HDMTX) (8 to 9 g/m2) for a variety of malignancies. The neurologic signs were similar in all cases. The syndrome occurred an average of six days after the second or third weekly treatment. Common findings included behavioral abnormalities, focal sensorimotor signs, and abnormal reflexes. Signs often alternated from one side to the other. Evaluations including computed tomography (CT) scan, lumbar puncture, hemogram, and blood chemistry were normal. The EEG revealed some slowing in all cases. The cause of this syndrome is unknown. It is transient and usually does not recur. Its appearance does not preclude further treatment with HDMTX.
Although the behavioral, subjective, and physiological effects of oral cocaine have been investigated, its reinforcing effects have not been demonstrated.
The primary aims of this study were to examine the reinforcing effects of oral cocaine and determine whether such effects can be influenced by manipulating behavioral requirements following drug ingestion.
Nine adult volunteers with histories of cocaine abuse were trained to discriminate between orally administered cocaine (100 mg/70 kg) and placebo capsules under double-blind conditions. Following acquisition of cocaine vs placebo discrimination (80% correct), the reinforcing effects of cocaine were determined using two different choice conditions (dependent and independent). Volunteers were first exposed to cocaine and placebo once each with a relaxation activity (sitting in a cushioned chair) and a vigilance activity (performing a computer task). Following exposure to each drug with each activity, volunteers began the dependent choice condition. Every 2 days volunteers chose which drug (cocaine or placebo) they ingested with the vigilance and relaxation activities. Volunteers could not choose the same drug with both activities. This procedure occurred 5 times over a 10-day period. The independent choice condition took place over 2 days. On one day, volunteers chose which drug (cocaine or placebo) they ingested with the relaxation activity and, on the other day (in counterbalanced order), which drug they ingested with the vigilance activity. Volunteers were allowed to select the same drug with both activities.
All volunteers successfully acquired the cocaine vs placebo discrimination. In the dependent choice condition, all volunteers significantly chose cocaine over placebo with the vigilance activity and chose placebo over cocaine with the relaxation activity. In the independent choice condition, volunteers significantly chose cocaine over placebo with the vigilance activity (i.e., cocaine functioned as a positive reinforcer in the vigilance context). Interestingly, the independent choice condition also showed that volunteers chose placebo over cocaine with the relaxation activity (i.e., cocaine functioned as a negative reinforcer because it was avoided relative to placebo).
The study shows that the behavioral requirements following drug ingestion can be a determinant of whether or not oral cocaine functions as a reinforcer in volunteers with histories of cocaine abuse.
