The food mutagen 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) is one of the most abundant heterocyclic amines formed by cooking meat and fish at high temperature. PhIP induces colorectal adenoma risk in male rats when administered orally. This study used male Fisher 344 rats to investigate the impact of dietary Chlorella on PhIP metabolism and aberrant colonic gene expression following short-term PhIP treatment. High-performance liquid chromatography analysis revealed that fecal excretion of unmetabolized PhIP was significantly increased in rats whose diets were supplemented with Chlorella compared to rats in a PhIP-only group (P<0.001). Quantitative realtime PCR confirmed that the increase in beta-catenin and cyclin D1 mRNA in the colon induced by PhIP was ameliorated in rats pre-fed with Chlorella (P=0.052 for beta-catenin; P=0.005 for cyclin D1). The increase in DNA shearing that is a hallmark of caspase-8-mediated apoptosis by PhIP was also significantly diminished in the colons of rats pre-fed Chlorella (P=0.012). These results suggested that administering dietary Chlorella with a Western-style diet concomitantly or immediately before mutagen exposure might be beneficial in blocking the absorption of food mutagens such as PhIP.
Infusion of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) into the right common carotid artery of 5 rhesus monkeys produced hemiparkinsonian syndrome in the contralateral limbs which responded to madopa or apomorphine therapy. Moreover, these two drugs induced circling away from the MPTP-treated side, amphetamine induced rotation toward the MPTP-treated side. Long-term use of madopa developed a peak-dose dyskinesia of the face and the limbs contralateral to the MPTP-treated side. The ipsilateral toxic effects were confirmed biochemically by reduction of nigrostriatal DA and histologically by degeneration of nigral neurons of the MPTP-treated side. It is concluded that this hemiparkinsonian model of rhesus monkey will be of value in the elucidation of the neural mechanism underlying L-DOPA or DA agonist induced dyskinesia in Parkinson's disease and in the search for newer methods of treatment which would produce less dyskinesia and response fluctuations.
Lithium can cause nephrogenic diabetes insipidus in up to 20 to 40 percent of patients currently taking the medication, and a subset of these patients will have a persistent concentrating defect long after lithium is discontinued. They are at risk for serious hypernatremia when fluid intake is restricted for any reason.
MEDLINE as used to search the key words "nephrogenic diabetes insipidus" and "lithium" from 1990 to the present. A case report describes a patient who had been off lithium for 8 years and who developed hypernatremia after she was transferred to a new long-term facility and the staff attempted to control the patient's polydipsia. The diagnosis and treatment of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus are also discussed.
This case of persistent nephrogenic diabetes insipidus 8 years after discontinuing lithium is the longest ever reported. Certainly, a number of patients have varying degrees of persistent lithium-related nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. Although pathologic changes are associated with persistent nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, the exact mechanism of the persistent defect is unknown. The mechanism of acute lithium-induced nephrogenic diabetes insipidus while the patient is on lithium is related to changes in intracellular cyclic adenosine monophosphate.
Patients currently taking lithium and patients with a remote history of lithium treatment need to be monitored for signs and symptoms of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. Physicians need to be aware of the potential for nephrogenic diabetes insipidus in these patients and care for them appropriately.
Several studies have shown that calcineurin may play a critical role in the signalling of cardiac hypertrophy in various experimental models.
To elucidate whether calcineurin is involved in cardiac hypertrophy due to energy metabolic disorder by using the juvenile visceral steatosis (JVS) mouse, which is a murine model of systemic carnitine deficiency.
Cardiac hypertrophy in JVS mice (C3H strain) progresses gradually after birth and is present until eight weeks of age. In this study, calcineurin activity in JVS mice increased significantly at four weeks of age (the developing stage of cardiac hypertrophy) compared with age-matched control mice. Treatment with calcineurin inhibitor FK506 (0.5 or 1.0 mg/kg/day) from the age of four to eight weeks attenuated cardiac hypertrophy without beneficially affecting cardiac function. Gene expression, accompanied by cardiac hypertrophy, was also suppressed by the FK506 treatment.
The activation of calcineurin is involved in the development of cardiac hypertrophy in the JVS mouse, and calcineurin inhibition may be useful for reducing cardiac hypertrophy.
Domperidone is an effective antiemetic for children receiving cytotoxic therapy. There have been reports of cardiac arrest in older patients associated with domperidone. We carried out continuous ECG monitoring of 18 children receiving domperidone intravenously in a dose of 1 mg/kg body weight. No serious dysrhythmias were noted during 379 h of recording. Single premature beats, transient sinus pauses, and nodal block were occasionally associated with vomiting and were no more common than would be expected in a population of normal children.
Acute and initial treatment with ISDN provokes arterial hypotension and orthostatic dysregulation which may persist over a period of 10 h. Collapse as a potential risk has to be taken into account in the initial phase of nitrate therapy. During chronic medication, nitrate-induced drop in arterial blood pressure and orthostatic hypotension cannot longer be seen even after high-dose application of ISDN. From a therapeutic point of view these results indicate adaptation of blood pressure regulation to chronic nitrate therapy which is unrelated to potential tolerance in the venous system.
Experimental work on the mechanisms of acute doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity may contribute to a better understanding of the clinical problem of cardiac failure after treatment with anthracycline derivatives. We studied aortic pressure and heart rate continuously for 1 h following a bolus injection of doxorubicin (1 mg/kg) in 7 dogs. In contrast with previous studies in intact animals, no anesthesia was used in order to eliminate possible interactions of doxorubicin with other drugs. One minute after doxorubicin injection a severe hypotension was observed, the average nadir in systolic and diastolic pressure being 62% and 42% of initial values. Surprisingly, the decrease in arterial blood pressure was not accompanied by cardiac acceleration. Doxorubicin, apparently interferes with the normal regulation of heart rate through the baroreceptor control system. Although several theories have been put forward regarding the mechanisms governing acute anthracycline cardiotoxicity, our knowledge of the phenomenon is still incomplete.
Fifteen patients with Hodgkin's disease were examined before and after each administration of vincristine sulfate (2 intravenous injections of 1.4 mg/m2 of body surface, during the first week of each month for 3 months). Moreover, each patient received daily, according to a double blind protocol, either 4 capsules of 375 mg of isaxonine, either 4 capsules filled with lactose used as placebo. At the end of treatment, analysis revealed that 8 subjects were given isaxonine and 7 the placebo. Motor, sensory and reflex conduction velocities, amplitudes of potentials evoked by stimulating motor, cutaneous sensory, or primary afferent fibres, were determined in each electrophysiological examination session. The data and pecularly those obtained from reflex studies, show a significant lesser degree of distal axonal degeneration, in patients receiving a placebo. These results support evidence for a protective effect of the drug against vincristine induced peripheral nerve lesions.
Most acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APL) patients suffer from disordered haemostasis. APL can be treated successfully in most instances by all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) therapy, which induces endpoint maturation of the leukaemic promyelocytes with the characteristic t(15;17). Annexin II (AnII), a profibrinolytic protein, has been implicated in the bleeding manifestation seen in APL. Our group has shown previously that high levels of AnII are expressed on other acute myeloid leukaemia subtypes that are sometimes associated with disordered haemostasis, albeit less frequently than APL. This study examined the effects of ATRA on AnII expression and cell differentiation, on myeloid leukaemia cell lines to determine whether a regulatory influence on AnII may contribute to the return of haemostatic stability in APL following treatment. The results confirmed that AnII expression in the APL cell line (NB4) was significantly downregulated in response to ATRA (P < 0.01), with associated morphological and immunophenotypical evidence of myeloid differentiation. ATRA also downregulated AnII expression on other myeloid cell lines, albeit to a lesser extent than observed on NB4 cells. The results provide evidence that ATRA may resolve the hyperfibrinolysis in APL by downregulation of AnII expression.
A pheochromocytoma was diagnosed in a 14-year-old boy developing hypertension after treatment with imipramine for primary nocturnal enuresis. The mechanism of action is assumed to be an inhibition of the neuronal uptake of catecholamines being released in large quantities from the tumor. The diagnosis of pheochromocytoma should be considered in patients developing hypertension during treatment with cyclic antidepressants.
The incidence of hyponatremia in 34 patients following administration of high-dose L-phenylalanine mustard (L-PAM) and dianhydrogalactitol (DAG) was determined. Two consecutive daily levels of 133 mEq/l or less were observed in 12 patients. These episodes coincided with the advent of diarrhea about 10-12 days after drug administration. The hyponatremia was not due to the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion.
Sexual side effects resulting from serotonin specific reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) use may be mediated by a number of peripheral mechanisms, including alterations in tactile sensitivity. It was hypothesized that sexual difficulties resulting from SSRI use arise in part from an over-sensitivity or under-sensitivity of tactile sensation. Tactile sensitivity was examined on the index finger and lower lip in clinically depressed women at baseline (pre-medication), week 1, week 4, and week 8 of drug treatment (fluoxetine group n = 12, control n = 13). Analyses indicated that fluoxetine treatment resulted in decreased orgasm functioning. Fluoxetine-induced sexual changes were not mediated by tactile sensation. An independent association was found between sexual arousal functioning and finger sensation. Novel to this study, an independent association was found between sexual desire and finger sensation.
To review the literature regarding the pharmacokinetic profiles, comparative safety and efficacy, and comparative costs of loop diuretics to evaluate the current clinical usefulness of furosemide.
A search of MEDLINE (1966-June 2009) was conducted using the terms furosemide, torsemide, bumetanide, ethacrynic acid, and loop diuretics. Articles were limited to those written in English.
All English-language articles identified from the data sources were reviewed. Studies were eligible if they encompassed pharmacokinetics, comparative safety and efficacy, or comparative costs of the loop diuretics.
In patients with heart failure (HF), torsemide demonstrated decreased mortality compared with furosemide in 1 study (2.2% vs 4.5% in the furosemide group; p < 0.05), decreased hospitalizations in 1 study (23 in the torsemide group vs 61 in the furosemide group; p < 0.01), and improved New York Heart Association functional classifications in 2 studies. In the first, 45.8% with torsemide versus 37.2% with furosemide demonstrated improvement in at least one functional class (p = 0.00017). In the second, 40.2% with torsemide and 30.7% with furosemide demonstrated improvement in at least one functional class (p = 0.014). In 2 of 3 studies of patients with cirrhosis, torsemide increased natriuresis and total volume diuresed compared with furosemide in patients with cirrhosis; however, no significant difference between the agents with respect to plasma renin and aldosterone concentrations was demonstrated. In patients with pulmonary hypertension, central venous pressure, capillary wedge pressure, and stroke volume significantly improved from baseline among patients who received torsemide, but not in those who received furosemide, although the intergroup analysis failed to reach statistical significance. Among patients with chronic kidney disease, no significant differences were noted with respect to natriuresis and blood pressure control between the 2 agents; however, in patients with acute kidney injury, patients who received furosemide had a significant improvement in urine output versus the torsemide group. Additionally, 2 trials comparing bumetanide with furosemide were identified, although the results were conflicting. In patients with nephrotic syndrome, bumetanide significantly improved weight loss in the first 4 weeks and in week 20, compared with furosemide. In patients with HF, significant improvement in dyspnea at rest and on exertion was exhibited in the bumetanide group, but not in the furosemide group; no significant difference was noted between the 2 groups when evaluating global assessment.
Growing evidence demonstrates more favorable pharmacokinetic profiles of torsemide and bumetanide compared with furosemide. Furthermore, torsemide may be more efficacious and safer than furosemide in patients with HF. A trial comparing all 3 drugs would be required to confirm torsemide as the primary loop diuretic in patients with HF, but based upon limited current evidence, we recommend torsemide over furosemide. Currently, little evidence exists to support either torsemide or bumetanide as first-line treatment over furosemide in patients with other edematous disease states.
In the rat isolated perfused kidney, arachidonic acid elicits cyclooxygenase-dependent vasoconstriction through activation of PGH2/TxA2 receptors; responses are enhanced in kidneys from diabetic rats. This study examined the roles of cyclooxygenase-1/cyclooxygenase-2 in the enhanced renal vasoconstrictor effect of arachidonic acid in streptozotocin-diabetic rats. Release of 20-HETE was also determined, as this eicosanoid has been reported to elicit cyclooxygenase-dependent vasoconstriction. We confirmed that vasoconstrictor responses to arachidonic acid were enhanced in the diabetic rat kidney associated with a 2-fold-greater increase in the release of 6-ketoPGF1alpha, which was used as an index of cyclooxygenase activity. One and three micrograms of arachidonic acid increased perfusion pressure by 85+/-37 and 186+/-6 mm Hg, respectively, in diabetic rat kidneys compared with 3+/-1 and 17+/-8 mm Hg, respectively, in control rat kidneys. Inhibition of both cyclooxygenase isoforms with indomethacin (10 micromol/L) abolished the vasoconstrictor response to arachidonic acid in both diabetic and control rat kidneys, whereas inhibition of cyclooxygenase-2 with nimesulide (5 micromol/L) reduced perfusion pressure responses to 1 and 3 microg arachidonic acid only in the diabetic rat kidney to 15+/-8 and 108+/-26 mm Hg, respectively, consistent with a 3-fold increase in the renal cortical expression of cyclooxygenase-2. 20-HETE release from the diabetic rat kidney was reduced almost 6-fold and was not increased in response to arachidonic acid. These results demonstrate that the renal vasoconstrictor effect of arachidonic acid is solely dependent on cyclooxygenase activity, with no evidence for a contribution from 20-HETE; in the diabetic rat, cyclooxygenase-2 activity contributes to the renal vasoconstrictor effect of arachidonic acid.
A case report of fosinopril-induced angioedema of the intestine with a chronic course accompanied by multiple acute exacerbations is described. Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor-induced angioedema of the intestine (AIAI) occurs in a minority of patients taking an ACE inhibitor. The clinical presentation encompasses acute abdominal symptoms, pronounced bowel edema and ascites with occasional facial and/or oropharyngeal swelling. AIAI is diagnosed based on the temporal relationship between the symptomatic presentation and drug use, absence of alternative diagnoses including other causes of angioedema, and the prompt resolution of symptoms upon discontinuation of the ACE inhibitor. Prompt radiological investigation (abdominal computerized tomography and/or ultrasound) is critical in making an early diagnosis and in preventing unnecessary surgical intervention. There is a female predominance of AIAI, which may reflect the interaction of estradiol with the various pathways involved in the pathophysiology of AIAI. Management of AIAI consists mainly of conservative measures and discontinuation of the ACE inhibitor. Angiotensin II receptor antagonists should not be considered as appropriate alternatives. Awareness and knowledge of AIAI are important because of the increasing use of ACE inhibitors, current delays in making the diagnosis, obvious management strategies once the diagnosis is made and the dysutility of alternative diagnoses, which may lead to considerable morbidity. AIAI must be considered in patients taking ACE inhibitors who develop gastrointestinal complaints irrespective of the duration of the therapy.
In order to elucidate the role of the catecholaminergic system in the cataleptogenic effect of delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the effect of pretreatment with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) or with desipramine and 6-OHDA and lesions of the locus coeruleus were investigated in rats. The cataleptogenic effect of THC was significantly reduced in rats treated with 6-OHDA and in rats with lesions of the locus coeruleus but not in rats treated with desipramine and 6-OHDA, as compared with control rats. On the contrary, the cataleptogenic effect of haloperidol was significantly reduced in rats treated with desipramine and 6-OHDA but not in rats treated with 6-OHDA or in rats with lesions of the locus coeruleus. These results indicate that noradrenergic neurons have an important role in the manifestation of catalepsy induced by THC, whereas dopaminergic neurons are important in catalepsy induced by haloperidol.
The purpose of this review is to characterize the nephrotoxicity noted in newly diagnosed patients under 21 years of age after treatment with ifosfamide-containing chemotherapy regimens and local irradiation for localized gross residual rhabdomyosarcoma or undifferentiated sarcoma.
From 1987 to 1991, 194 previously untreated patients received vincristine and ifosfamide plus dactinomycin or etoposide for 1-2 years. Ifosfamide was given at 1.8 g/m2/day for 5 days with sodium mercaptoethane sulfonate, or 9 g/m2 of ifosfamide per course. The three-drug regimen was repeated every 3-4 weeks.
Twenty-eight patients (14%) developed renal toxicity: 19 had renal tubular dysfunction (RTD) characterized by low serum phosphate (< or = 3 mg/dl) or bicarbonate (< 20 or = mEq/L) levels, five had decreased glomerular function (DGF), and four had both RTD and DGF. When nine or more courses of ifosfamide (> 72 g/m2) were given, children < 3 years of age had a higher incidence of RTD than did children > or = 3 years of age (34% versus 6%; p < 0.001). A similar age difference was observed even when eight or fewer courses (< or = 72 g/m2) were given (p = 0.03). A matched case-control comparison showed that renal abnormalities at diagnosis, chiefly hydronephrosis, also increased the risk of renal tubular injury by ifosfamide by a factor of 13 (p < 0.001). Patients with DGF tended to be older than those with RTD, and all but one received > 72 g/m2 of ifosfamide.
Patients who are < 3 years of age who receive more than eight courses (> 72 g/m2) of ifosfamide and who have a preexisting renal abnormality have an increased risk of RTD and DGF. The renal function of patients being considered for ifosfamide treatment must be carefully monitored. Ifosfamide should be avoided in patients with renal abnormalities at diagnosis unless the potential benefit clearly exceeds the risk of further renal impairment.
We investigated the molecular mechanism underlying a severe combined immunodeficiency characterized by the selective and complete absence of T cells. The condition was found in 5 patients and 2 fetuses from 3 consanguineous families. Linkage analysis performed on the 3 families revealed that the patients were carrying homozygous haplotypes within the 11q23 region, in which the genes encoding the gamma, delta, and epsilon subunits of CD3 are located. Patients and affected fetuses from 2 families were homozygous for a mutation in the CD3D gene, and patients from the third family were homozygous for a mutation in the CD3E gene. The thymus from a CD3delta-deficient fetus was analyzed and revealed that T cell differentiation was blocked at entry into the double positive (CD4+CD8+) stage with the accumulation of intermediate CD4-single positive cells. This indicates that CD3delta plays an essential role in promoting progression of early thymocytes toward double-positive stage. Altogether, these findings extend the known molecular mechanisms underlying severe combined immunodeficiency to a new deficiency, i.e., CD3epsilon deficiency, and emphasize the essential roles played by the CD3epsilon and CD3delta subunits in human thymocyte development, since these subunits associate with both the pre-TCR and the TCR.
It is often difficult to discriminate between chemically induced skin irritation and sensitization due to their similar clinical, pathological, and immunological responses. More information than that currently available from local lymph node assays (LLNAs), such as data from gene expression and pathway analysis, can provide more insightful data than the assay itself for distinguishing skin sensitization from skin irritation. This study investigated the gene expression profiles and pathways in ear skins of mice topically exposed daily for three consecutive days to the known strong contact sensitizer 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, the skin contact sensitizer 2-phenyl-4-ethoxymethylene-5-oxazolone, the skin or respiratory sensitizer toluene 2,4-diisocyanate, or to the non-sensitizing irritant croton oil. All the sensitizers induced histological changes in ear tissues similar to those induced by the croton oil. In gene expression microarrays, sensitizers up-regulated 193 genes and down-regulated 61 genes in ear skin following chemical exposure. 13 genes whose expression was affected by more than two-fold by all three of the sensitizers, but not by the irritant, were selected by microarray analysis. Microarray and real-time RT-PCR analyses revealed that, of these genes, the allergic inflammation-related genes Oasl2 and Zbp1 were up-regulated in skin inflammation by the sensitizers. In gene expression pathway analysis of all the sensitizers and the croton oil, the top functions of the 48 genes were related to cytokine and cytokine receptors interactions, and only two genes (Cxcl9 and Cxcl10) were specific to skin sensitizer-induced skin inflammation. Thus, although contact sensitizer-induced skin inflammation is similar to irritant-induced responses in terms of histological changes and gene expression profiles, the regulation of allergic inflammation-related gene transcripts, such as those of Oasl2 and Zbp1 or Cxcl9 and Cxcl10, could help to discriminate skin sensitization from chemically induced skin inflammation.
Ten patients with angiographically proven coronary heart disease, stable exercise-induced angina pectoris, and reproducible ST-segment depression were treated with ISDN tablets in daily doses of 240 mg (6 X 40 mg) and placebo for 28 days each on the basis of a randomized double-blind protocol with intraindividual crossover. On the 1st, 7th and 28th days of each treatment cycle an exercise stress test was performed 1 h after the second dose of the day. ISDN treatment resulted in a sustained reduction of anginal attacks, with a weekly rate ranging from 1.4 to 3.9 (mean values) as compared to 10.5 to 11.7 attacks during placebo treatment (2 p less than 0.001). Exercise-induced ST-segment depression during ISDN-therapy (constant work-load) was found to be significantly improved as compared to placebo: day 1, ISDN: 5.3 +/- 1.5 mm vs. placebo: 12.1 +/- 2.2 mm (2p less than 0.01); day 7, ISDN: 7.6 +/- 2.0 mm vs. placebo: 10.8 +/- 2.1 mm (2p less than 0.05); day 28, ISDN: 5.7 +/- 1.2 mm vs. placebo: 11.2 +/- 2.1 mm (2p less than 0.01). Heart rate in the upright position (tilting table) was significantly different between ISDN and placebo on day 7: ISDN 92 +/- 3 bpm vs. placebo 85 +/- 4 bpm (2p less than 0.001), but not on day . 28.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Neurotoxicity and protection against maximal electroshock (MES) and pentylenetrazol (Metrazol) seizures were determined in mice for various combinations of primidone (PRM), phenobarbital (PB), and phenylethylmalonamide (PEMA). The results suggest that PRM and PB together are superior to either one alone in terms of spectrum of activity and relative toxicity. The protection against Metrazol and the toxicity of PB are both potentiated by PEMA at low concentrations. PEMA also potentiates the toxicity of combined PRM plus PB, without altering their protection against MES, thus lowering their therapeutic index. We conclude that PRM and PB together have an advantage over PB alone, especially when their brain concentration ratio is at or above 1 and PEMA concentrations are low. These conditions are usually not present at steady state in patients treated with PRM.
Antiplatelet therapy has been shown to reduce cardiac events after coronary stenting. However, despite aggressive antiplatelet therapy, stent thrombosis remains a serious complication of coronary stenting with drug-eluting stent (DES). Although several predictors for DES thrombosis have been suggested by investigators, this serious condition is still not completely preventable now. In particular, patients undergoing non-cardiac surgery or invasive procedures with bleeding risk may interrupt antiplatelet therapy and occasionally experience stent thrombosis. We report a case of DES thrombosis after cilostazol withdrawal for colonoscopic polypectomy in a patient previously treated with triple antiplatelet therapy. The patient presented with acute myocardial infarction but survived after successful emergency coronary revascularization. We discuss a plausible mechanism for DES thrombosis in the described case.
Myocarditis is a rare but life threatening adverse effect of clozapine. Some symptoms of myocarditis--elevated temperature, tachycardia and fatigue--appear commonly during the onset of treatment with clozapine and during the dose titration. We present a case of a patient with concurrent schizoaffective disorder and Parkinson's disease, who twice developed clozapine-induced myocarditis. All symptoms disappeared after the discontinuation of the drug. Early diagnosis, discontinuation of clozapine and supportive therapy of myocarditis lower the risk of a fatal outcome.
Neurotoxicity and protection against maximal electroshock and Metrazol seizures from primidone (PRM), phenobarbital (PB), and phenylethylmalonamide (PEMA) were determined in mice for each drug separately and expressed in terms of brain concentrations. Compared with PB, PEMA was 16 times less potent against electroshock and Metrazol seizures but only 8 times less toxic. Primidone was markedly less neurotoxic than PB and equally potent against electroshock, but PRM had no effect against Metrazol or bicuculline. PRM is a relatively nontoxic anticonvulsant with a different action than PB, and PEMA is both a weak and a relatively toxic anticonvulsant.
The expression or activity of manganese superoxide dismutase (Mn-SOD) is reduced in a variety of malignant tumors and Mn-SOD may act as a new type of tumor suppressor gene. On the other hand, increased expression of Mn-SOD can diminish the cytotoxic effects of several anticancer modalities, including tumor necrosis factor alpha, ionizing radiation, certain chemotherapeutic agents and hyperthermia. Although Mn-SOD expression and its role in various cancers are intensely studied, little is known about its function in gastrointestinal carcinomas. To examine the expression level and significance of Mn-SOD in gastrointestinal carcinomas, Mn-SOD mRNA expression was examined in 53 gastric carcinoma and 38 colorectal carcinoma by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and was compared with those in the corresponding normal mucosal tissues. The tumor/normal (T/N) ratio was calculated and the data were clinicopathologically analyzed. The average T/N ratios of Mn-SOD mRNA expression in gastric and colorectal carcinomas were 2.19 and 3. 72, respectively. Clinicopathologic analyses revealed positive correlation between the Mn-SOD expression level and venous invasion in both gastric and colorectal carcinomas (p<0.05 and p<0.05, respectively). Furthermore, the colorectal carcinoma with lymph node metastasis showed significantly higher Mn-SOD expression than those without it (p<0.05). Our results suggest that Mn-SOD mRNA overexpression can occur in gastric and colorectal carcinomas and may be related to increased aggressiveness.
Hyperactivity induced by methamphetamine (4 mg/kg i.p.) was actographically evaluated in rats chronically treated with sulpiride stereoisomers and haloperidol. The trial was repeated with half dose of the stimulant after 8 days of neuroleptic withdrawal. (--)-Sulpiride and haloperidol antagonized the response to the full dose of methamphetamine and induced behavioral supersensitivity to the challenging dose. (+)-Sulpiride strongly enhanced the effect of 4 mg/kg of methamphetamine, but no relevant changes in dopaminergic sensitivity followed.
