The present human study aimed at investigating the effect of subcutaneous administration of Botulinum toxin type A (BoNT/A) on capsaicin-induced trigeminal pain, neurogenic inflammation and experimentally induced cutaneous pain modalities. Fourteen healthy males (26.3+/-2.6 years) were included in this double-blind and placebo-controlled trial. The subjects received subcutaneous BoNT/A (22.5U) and isotonic saline in the mirror sides of their forehead. Pain and neurogenic inflammation was induced by four intradermal injections of capsaicin (100mug/muL) (before, and days 1, 3 and 7 after treatments). The capsaicin-induced pain intensity, pain area, the area of secondary hyperalgesia, the area of visible flare and vasomotor reactions were recorded together with cutaneous heat, electrical and pressure pain thresholds. BoNT/A reduced the capsaicin-induced trigeminal pain intensity compared to saline (F=37.9, P<0.001). The perceived pain area was smaller for the BoNT/A-treated side compared to saline (F=7.8, P<0.05). BoNT/A reduced the capsaicin-induced secondary hyperalgesia (F=5.3, P<0.05) and flare area (F=10.3, P<0.01) compared to saline. BoNT/A reduced blood flow (F(1,26)=109.5, P<0.001) and skin temperature (F(1,26)=63.1, P<0.001) at the capsaicin injection sites compared to saline and its suppressive effect was maximal at days 3 and 7 (P<0.05, post hoc test). BoNT/A elevated cutaneous heat pain thresholds (F=17.1, P<0.001) compared to saline; however, no alteration was recorded for electrical or pressure pain thresholds (P>0.05). Findings from the present study suggest that BoNT/A appears to preferentially target Cfibers and probably TRPV1-receptors, block neurotransmitter release and subsequently reduce pain, neurogenic inflammation and cutaneous heat pain threshold.
Obese subjects are at risk of developing gallstones as a result of the obese state and during weight reduction.
To study whether orlistat, by lipase inhibition, impairs gall-bladder emptying, thus further predisposing weight-losing obese subjects to gallstone formation.
Patients entering a randomized clinical trial of 1 month of diet, followed by treatment with placebo, 3 x 60 mg orlistat or 3 x 120 mg orlistat, underwent gall-bladder emptying studies measured by ultrasound. Meal-induced cholecystokinin release and gall-bladder emptying were investigated at the start, at randomization and after 1 and 12 months.
One month of dieting did not change gall-bladder emptying and cholecystokinin release. After 1 month, placebo treatment resulted in a decreased fasting volume of 11%, compared with increases of 26% and 47% with 60 and 120 mg orlistat, respectively. Gall-bladder emptying increased by 9% with placebo and decreased by 15% and 53% with 60 and 120 mg orlistat, respectively. Fasting cholecystokinin values and cholecystokinin release decreased significantly in the orlistat group. After 1 year, a persistent but attenuated effect of orlistat on gall-bladder emptying and cholecystokinin release remained. Three of 40 patients developed gallstones, two on placebo with major weight loss and one on 60 mg orlistat.
One month of lipase inhibition by orlistat significantly impaired gall-bladder motility, which persisted to some extent after 1 year. Obese subjects with diabetes or hyperlipidaemia, who are more at risk of gallstones, should be followed carefully.
We have shown that sulfur mustard (SM; bis-(2-chloroethyl) sulfide), an alkylating, vesicating chemical warfare agent, causes dermal toxicity, including skin microblisters, via the induction of both death receptor (DR) and mitochondrial pathways of apoptosis in human epidermal keratinocytes. While SM is known for its skin-vesicating properties, respiratory tract lesions are the main source of morbidity and mortality after inhalation exposure. We, therefore, investigated whether SM induces apoptotic cell death in normal human bronchial epithelial (NHBE) cells and small airway epithelial cells (SAEC) in vitro. Cells were exposed to various concentrations of SM (0, 50, 100, and 300 muM for 16 h) in the culture medium and then tested for the activation of apoptotic executioner caspase-3 and initiator caspases-8 and -9. Caspases-8 and -3 were activated by SM in both airway cell types, indicating the induction of a DR pathway of apoptosis in these cells; however, the levels of enzyme activation were different, depending on the cell type and the SM concentrations used. Consistent with enzyme activity results, immunoblot analyses revealed the proteolytic processing of the proenzymes to the active forms of caspases-8 and -3 in these cells after SM exposure. Interestingly, NHBE cells were found to be exquisitely sensitive to SM, compared to SAEC, with caspase-3 activities in SM-exposed NHBE cells approximately 2-fold higher and caspase-8 activities approximately 10-fold higher than in SAEC. Furthermore, SM activated caspase-9 in NHBE cells, but not in SAEC, indicating a possible role of the mitochondrial pathway only in the NHBE cells. The present study shows that both upper airway (NHBE cells) and deep lung (SAEC) epithelial cells undergo SM-induced apoptotic death in vitro, but distinct cell-type specific responses can be elicited, which may be attributed to intrinsic properties that characterize the response of these cells to SM. These findings need to be taken into consideration in the search for modulators of these pathways for the therapeutic intervention to reduce SM injury due to respiratory tract lesions.
To evaluate the efficacy of paclitaxel administered to patients with unresectable adenocarcinomas of the gallbladder and biliary tree over 3 hours every 21 days.
Fifteen patients with unresectable and/or metastatic carcinoma of the gallbladder and bile ducts received intravenous paclitaxel over 3 hours after premedication with dexamethasone, diphenhydramine, and cimetidine. Treatment was repeated every 21 days, and one complete course of therapy was comprised of two such 21-day treatment cycles. The initial dose of paclitaxel was 170 mg/m2, and this was elevated to 200 mg/m2 due to tolerance within the initial patient cohort.
All patients were assessable for both toxicity and response: 11 with bile duct cancer and four with gall-bladder carcinoma. Forty-three cycles of therapy were delivered during the trial (median, two), and one patient remains on treatment. No complete or partial responses were noted, although two patients achieved minor responses that lasted 2 and 2+ months, respectively. There were no deaths on this study, and all but one of the patients is still alive. The therapy was well tolerated, and hematologic and mucosal toxic effects were moderate and readily reversible, although significant neuromuscular adverse effects were noted.
These findings indicate that paclitaxel, administered on this schedule, is tolerable, but is unlikely to have activity in metastatic carcinomas of the biliary tree. It is unclear whether a different regimen of paclitaxel, or another taxane, may have activity in these neoplasms.
In this study, we aimed to show the neuroprotective effects of AT III and Enoxaparin after severe traumatic brain injury.
The animals were divided into four groups as Group 1; control group, Group 2; trauma group, Group 3; AT III group and Group 4; Enoxaparin group. Severe trauma was performed by the weight dropping technique. These animals were killed 48 hours after injury. Histopathological and immunohistochemical analysis were performed. Specimens were graded for cell death, inflammation, hemorrhage and apoptosis.
The control group showed normal ultrastructure of brain tissue. Trauma produced obvious damage. 8 rats (80%) in the trauma group demonstrated minimal inflammation and grade 5 cell death. Trauma increased hemorrhage and apoptosis scores to statistically significant levels (p < 0.001). Enoxaparin was found to reduce neuronal cell death but not as effectively as AT III. A statistically significant difference was observed between the AT III and Enoxaparin group according to inflammation grades. Significant antiapoptotic properties of AT III were observed while hemorrhage was more common in the Enoxaparin group.
Anticoagulants such as AT III and enoxaparin are promising drugs in the treatment of traumatic brain injuries.
To increase awareness of the possibility of opioid induced movement disorders.
A university-affiliated Veterans Affairs Hospital.
A patient with upper extremity pain due to complex regional pain syndrome type I (reflex sympathetic dystrophy).
Attempted pain control with methadone.
After failing many attempts at control, the authors were able to provide their patient significant pain relief from her complex regional pain syndrome type I using methadone. Unfortunately, the patient eventually developed a movement disorder, characterized by tremor, choreiform movements, and a gait abnormality, probably related to this opioid. The authors conclude that, while this type of movement disorder is uncommon, clinicians need to be aware of opioid-induced movement disorders, because they are disturbing to patients and often easily treated.
Aminoglutethimide (Elipten), at a dosage between 250 and 1500 mg/d by mouth, was administered in a clinical phase II study to 17 patients with metastasizing carcinoma of the breast resistant to hormones and cytostatic drugs. Results of this treatment were available for 14 patients. Nine women were given the drug alone, eight in combination with cytostatic drugs. In 11 women the drug significantly decreased pain within 3-14 days. Used alone aminoglutethimide produced objective regression of the metastases in two women, two further instances of regression occurred when the drug was combined with cytostatic agents. Five women developed urticarial rash, while six had somnolence and nausea or lethargy. Aminoglutethimide is suitable for symptomatic treatment of metastasizing treatment-resistant carcinoma of the breast, either alone or in combination with cytostatic drugs.
Autism is a behaviorally defined neurodevelopmental disorder usually diagnosed in early childhood that is characterized by impairment in reciprocal communication and speech, repetitive behaviors, and social withdrawal. Although both genetic and environmental factors are thought to be involved, none have been reproducibly identified. The metabolic phenotype of an individual reflects the influence of endogenous and exogenous factors on genotype. As such, it provides a window through which the interactive impact of genes and environment may be viewed and relevant susceptibility factors identified. Although abnormal methionine metabolism has been associated with other neurologic disorders, these pathways and related polymorphisms have not been evaluated in autistic children. Plasma levels of metabolites in methionine transmethylation and transsulfuration pathways were measured in 80 autistic and 73 control children. In addition, common polymorphic variants known to modulate these metabolic pathways were evaluated in 360 autistic children and 205 controls. The metabolic results indicated that plasma methionine and the ratio of S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) to S-adenosylhomocysteine (SAH), an indicator of methylation capacity, were significantly decreased in the autistic children relative to age-matched controls. In addition, plasma levels of cysteine, glutathione, and the ratio of reduced to oxidized glutathione, an indication of antioxidant capacity and redox homeostasis, were significantly decreased. Differences in allele frequency and/or significant gene-gene interactions were found for relevant genes encoding the reduced folate carrier (RFC 80G > A), transcobalamin II (TCN2 776G > C), catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT 472G > A), methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR 677C > T and 1298A > C), and glutathione-S-transferase (GST M1). We propose that an increased vulnerability to oxidative stress (endogenous or environmental) may contribute to the development and clinical manifestations of autism.
The case is presented of a female patient who developed two pill-associated tumors in the liver, a liver cell adenoma in the right lobe and focal nodular hyperplasia in the left lobe. The pathological, clinical and prognostic features are discussed.
A case is presented of a female patient who developed 2 pill-associated tumors in the liver, 1 liver cell adenoma in the right lobe and the other a focal nodular hyperplasia in the left lobe. The pathological, clinical, and prognostic features are discussed. (Authors' modified)
Deferoxamine, a free radical scavenger and iron chelator, has been shown to improve skin flap survival in ischemic flap surgery in rats. The present study investigates the value of deferoxamine in ischemic flap surgery in the porcine model. Four 4 x 12 cm flaps, 3 cm apart and 3 cm from the dorsal midline, were elevated on each of six female pigs, weighing 50 to 60 pounds each. The animals were divided into two test groups. Group 1 received six 1 gm doses of deferoxamine in 4 ml of sterile water intramuscularly every 6 hours preoperatively for five doses, followed by the administration of 1 g every 6 hours for the first 6 days postoperatively. Group 2 received 4 ml of normal saline administered intramuscularly as above. The percentage of flap necrosis was assessed on postoperative day 7 by the weighing paper technique. Group 1 had 17.1% necrosis and group 2 had 33% necrosis (p less than 0.005). Deferoxamine has decreased flap necrosis in the porcine model and may be of use in augmenting the surviving length of flaps in human beings.
Seizures can be a serious adverse effect of clozapine, often a last-resort antipsychotic with unique efficacy for some patients. Several anticonvulsants have been reported to be useful in preventing further clozapine-induced seizures and permitting continued treatment with this medication. The authors describe the first reported successful use of lamotrigine for this purpose.
13 days after hysterectomy and subcutaneous treatment with unfractionated heparin (10000 IU daily) a 68 year old women developed a pulmonary embolism and deep vein thrombosis of the right leg. She thereupon received intravenous heparin (1000 IU/h). Eight days later she developed acute ischaemia of both legs, and Doppler examination revealed acute Leriche's Syndrome with thrombosis of both iliac arteries. Platelet count fell from, initially 152 x 10(9)/I, to 44 x 10(9)/I. Although heparin-associated thrombocytopenia type II was suspected a confirmation by demonstrating a heparin dependent antibody with the heparin-induced platelet activation (HIPA)-test failed and therefore crossreactivity of low molecular heparins or heparinoids could not be assessed. After discontinuation of heparin and iliacal artery thrombectomy a combination therapy with aspirin plus ticlopidine (500 mg/d respectively) was started and continued until phenprocoumon could exert its full effect. No recurrent thromboembolic events occurred, the platelet counts normalized and the patient fully recovered.
We serendipitously identified a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), 8636C>A (rs1804197) in the 3'-untranslated region of the adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) gene to be associated with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). In order to gain further evidence for the association between the APC locus and ASD, we genotyped four additional adjacent common SNPs (rs2229992, rs42427, rs459552, and rs465899) in the coding regions within the APC gene in a set of Swedish ASDs and controls. One common haplotype TGAG was found to be associated with ASD after haplotype analysis using both Haploview v3.1.1 (P = 0.006) and COCAPHASE v2.403 (P = 0.030). This result is the first to suggest that the genomic locus at APC is associated with ASD, and that the APC gene itself is a good predisposing candidate to be evaluated in future studies due to its important role in neuronal development and function.
Arsenic (As) is an environmental and industrial pollutant that affects various organs in human and experimental animals. Silibinin is a naturally occurring plant bioflavonoid found in the milk thistle of Silybum marianum, which has been reported to have a wide range of pharmacological properties. A body of evidence has accumulated implicating the free radical generation with subsequent oxidative stress in the biochemical and molecular mechanisms of As toxicity. Since kidney is the critical target organ of chronic As toxicity, we carried out this study to investigate the effects of silibinin on As-induced toxicity in the kidney of rats. In experimental rats, oral administration of sodium arsenite [NaAsO(2), 5 mg/(kg day)] for 4 weeks significantly induced renal damage which was evident from the increased levels of serum urea, uric acid, creatinine with a significant (p < 0.05) decrease in creatinine clearance. As also significantly decreased the levels of urea, uric acid and creatinine in urine. A markedly increased levels of lipid peroxidation markers (thiobarbituric acid reactive substances and lipid hydroperoxides) and protein carbonyl contents with significant (p < 0.05) decrease in non-enzymatic antioxidants (total sulfhydryl groups, reduced glutathione, vitamin C and vitamin E) and enzymatic antioxidants (superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase and glutathione S-transferase), Glutathione metabolizing enzymes (glutathione reductase and glutathione-6-phosphate dehydrogenase) and membrane bound ATPases were also observed in As treated rats. Co-administration of silibinin (75 mg/kg day) along with As resulted in a reversal of As-induced biochemical changes in kidney accompanied by a significant decrease in lipid peroxidation and an increase in the level of renal antioxidant defense system. The histopathological and immunohistochemical studies in the kidney of rats also shows that silibinin (75 mg/kg day) markedly reduced the toxicity of As and preserved the normal histological architecture of the renal tissue, inhibited the caspase-3 mediated tubular cell apoptosis and decreased the NADPH oxidase, iNOS and NF-κB over expression by As and upregulated the Nrf2 expression in the renal tissue. The present study suggests that the nephroprotective potential of silibinin in As toxicity might be due to its antioxidant and metal chelating properties, which could be useful for achieving optimum effects in As-induced renal damage.
Prolonged QT syndrome often causes torsades de pointes (Tdp), a potentially lethal arrhythmia. A 55-year-old woman with M4Eo who was receiving consolidation chemotherapy had an episode of prolonged QT and Tdp following fluconazole (FCZ) administration. Intravenous supplementation of magnesium sulfate and multiple attempts at electrocardioversion led to recovery from the arrhythmia. FCZ appears to contribute to the development of QT prolongation, in particular with low concentrations of serum potassium or magnesium. Although mechanisms of Tdp development in patients with QT prolongation remain to be determined, it is possible that FCZ administration leads to manifestation of Tdp. Special cautions should be exercised upon the emergence of QT prolongation following FCZ administration.
Heparin, which is used at high doses in hemodialysis patients, may induce antibodies favoring thromboembolic complications. We prospectively investigated the prevalence of heparin-induced platelet-reactive antibodies in a cohort of 38 pediatric hemodialysis patients, by means of heparin/platelet factor 4 (H/PF4) ELISA and heparin-induced platelet activation assay (HIPA). We also assessed other acquired and congenital hypercoagulable states. Heparin-induced antibodies were detected in 13 and 21% of patients with HIPA and ELISA, respectively. Anti-H/PF4 antibodies were negatively correlated with the number of hemodialysis sessions. These antibodies disappeared after a median time of 6 months despite continuing heparin treatment. The prevalence of antiphospholipid antibodies was 21% (anticardiolipin 10.5%, anti-beta2GPI 13%, and lupus anticoagulant 5%). Blood levels of homocysteine, factor VIII, and fibrinogen were significantly higher and factor II levels were significantly lower in hemodialysis patients than in controls, whereas factor VII, factor IX, and natural coagulation inhibitor levels were similar in patients and controls. Overall, 26 of 38 patients had at least one biomarker of hypercoagulability, but only 1 patient, without anti-H/PF4 antibodies, presented with thrombosis. In conclusion, heparin induces the transient production of anti-H/PF4 antibodies in children undergoing hemodialysis, but other abnormalities probably contribute to hypercoagulability. These findings may help to improve the diagnosis and management of thrombotic events in hemodialysis patients.
Angiovist 370, a new formulation of meglumine/sodium diatrizoate, is being marketed for coronary arteriography. Angiovist 370 contains no significant calcium chelator additives, but according to manufacturer specifications may have a pH as low as 6.0. The contact times required to produce ventricular fibrillation with Angiovist 370 and with Renografin 76 were compared using a canine right coronary arteriography model. The fibrillation contact time was 32.2% longer for the Angiovist 370 than for the Renografin 76. The lower pH therefore does not appear to increase the risk of contrast media induced fibrillation. The increased contact time and safety factor with the Angiovist 370 is most likely related to the absence of calcium chelators in the formulation.
Acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APL) account for approximately 10% to 15% of all AML in most reports. Clinical features includes the presence in 80% to 90% of patients of a severe hemorrhagic syndrome, a specific balanced translocation between chromosomes 15 and 17 with a fusion of a large pert of the retinoic acid receptor a gene (RARa) on chromosome 17 to a part of the promyelocytic leukaemia (PML) gene on chromosome 15. More than 75% of patients (under 65 years of age) can be cured, with the application of a combination of anthracyclines and all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA), followed by maintenance therapy.
of the study was to assess of the therapeutic management of APL 93 protocol in acute promyelocytic leukemia.
We present here the results of a retrospective study concerning 34 patients with APL included between 1998 and 2004 in the APL 93 protocol : 20 in group B and 14 in group C. CR was 82 %.
Failure is only due to toxic death (18%) Event free survival at 4 years is 63,47% with relapse rate at 14.25%. Overall survival at 4 years is 69,72%. Our results are acceptable and can be improved with reduction of failure due to toxic death, probably with omission of cytarabine from induction and consolidation adapted by the Spanish PETHEMA Group.
Five case histories are presented of patients developing cholestatic hepatitis associated with the intake of the antibiotic combination agent amoxicillin and clavulanic acid (Augmentin). In two of these cases, signs of hepatic injury recurred after readministration of this combination but not after the intake of amoxicillin alone. In none of the patients was another cause for cholestatic hepatitis found and extrahepatic causes were excluded by ultrasonography, CT scanning, or ERCP. Most viral causes of hepatic injury were excluded in these patients. With the exception of one patient, who developed a transient rash, no immunoallergic signs were present. Biopsy in two patients showed extensive cholestasis without significant necrosis. Clavulanic acid seems to be responsible for this adverse effect.
Jaspamide (jasplakinolide; NSC-613009) is a cyclodepsipeptide that has antitumor activity. A narrow margin of safety was observed between doses required for efficacy in mouse tumor models and doses that caused severe acute toxicity in rats and dogs. We explored the hypothesis that the observed toxicity was due to cardiotoxicity. Jaspamide was tested in a patch clamp assay to determine its effect on selected cardiac ion channels. Jaspamide (10 μM) inhibited Kv1.5 activity by 98.5%. Jaspamide also inhibited other channels including Cav1.2, Cav3.2, and HCN2; however, the Kv11.1 (hERG) channel was minimally affected. Using spontaneously contracting human cardiomyocytes derived from induced pluripotent stem cells, effects on cardiomyocyte contraction and viability were also examined. Jaspamide (30 nM to 30 μM) decreased cardiomyocyte cell indices and beat amplitude, putative measurements of cell viability and cardiac contractility, respectively. Concentration-dependent increases in rhythmic beating rate were noted at ≤ 6 h of treatment, followed by dose-dependent decreases after 6 and 72 h exposure. The toxic effects of jaspamide were compared with that of the known cardiotoxicant mitoxantrone, and confirmed by multiparameter fluorescence imaging analysis. These results support the hypothesis that the toxicity observed in rats and dogs is due to toxic effects of jaspamide on cardiomyocytes.
To evaluate whether the risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) differs among adult diabetic patients treated with thiazolidinediones (TZDs) and similar patients treated with combined oral metformin and sulfonylurea (M + S) therapy.
We conducted a retrospective cohort study involving 25 140 diabetic patients aged 18 and older who had at least one pharmacy claim for a TZD or combined M + S therapy between 1 January 1999 and 30 June 2002. We used propensity score matching to adjust for observable differences between initiators of combined M + S therapy and TZD initiators. The data were analyzed in two ways: first based on the original matched groups, 'as balanced', without accounting for switching to another medication during follow-up, and second based on actual antidiabetic drug use during follow-up, 'as treated'. Cox proportional hazards regression and multivariable Poisson regression were performed to compare the risk of CHD events.
In the 'as balanced' analysis, the risk for CHD among TZD users relative to combination drug users was close to the null value (adjusted hazard ratio: 1.02, 95% confidence intervals (CI): 0.87-1.20). In the 'as treated' analysis, the risk of CHD was similar for periods of current use of TZDs compared to periods of non-use (incidence rate ratio: 1.10, 95%CI: 0.96-1.25).
These results do not suggest a cardioprotective or deleterious effects of TZDs compared with combined M + S oral therapy on the short-term CHD event risk in persons with type 2 diabetes after accounting for the greater baseline CHD risk in TZD initiators.
Ten patients with remitted bipolar illness on lithium maintenance therapy underwent placebo-controlled lithium discontinuation. Clinical ratings and recording of sleep-wake activity using wrist-worn actigraphs were carried out before and after lithium discontinuation. Seven patients experienced relapse into mania or hypomania within the first 3 months after lithium discontinuation. Actigraphic recordings revealed that patients who relapsed had higher baseline levels of daytime motor activity than patients without relapse. This may suggest that motor activity can be a sensitive marker of subclinical manic tendencies and early relapse following lithium discontinuation.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is a frequent type of drug induced thrombocytopenia. The clinically benign type I has to be distinguished from the life threatening type II due to the risk of thromboembolic complications. Three cases of type II HIT with acute thrombosis of the pelvic and lower extremity arteries and successful surgical treatment are reported. The majority of cases of an imminent type II HIT can be recognized in time by monitoring platelet count. The laboratory tests relevant to diagnosis are discussed. An immediate stop of the heparin therapy represents the causal treatment of type II HIT. As an alternative, anticoagulants may be used.
Long QT syndrome (LQT) is an inherited cardiac disorder that results in syncope, seizures, and sudden death. In a family with LQT, we identified a novel mutation in human ether-a-go-go-related gene (HERG), a voltage-gated potassium channel.
We used DNA sequence analysis, restriction enzyme digestion analysis, and allele-specific oligonucleotide hybridization to identify the HERG mutation. A single nucleotide substitution of thymidine to guanine (T1961G) changed the coding sense of HERG from isoleucine to arginine (Ile593Arg) in the channel pore region. The mutation was present in all affected family members; the mutation was not present in unaffected family members or in 100 normal, unrelated individuals.
We conclude that the Ile593Arg missense mutation in HERG is the cause of LQT in this family because it segregates with disease, its presence was confirmed in three ways, and it is not found in normal individuals. The Ile593Arg mutation may result in a change in potassium selectivity and permeability leading to a loss of HERG function, thereby resulting in LQT.
Possible causes of specific cardiac muscle disease, diagnosis, follow-up and the therapeutic management are discussed on the basis of a series of cases. 8 out of 30 patients who showed the clinical picture of dilative cardiomyopathy (DCM) were found to have a specific cardiac muscle disease. 4 patients had DCM following adriamycin therapy. Fibromuscular dysplasia with renal hypertension, thalassaemia major with secondary haemosiderosis, long-overlooked and untreated athyroidism each caused one case of dilative specific cardiac muscle disease. Once DCM was preceded by the Kawasaki syndrome for over 2 years. Amongst 47 patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy there were two children who had undergone ACTH treatment, 6 children born of diabetic mothers, 4 cases of Pompe's disease, and one patient with hypothyroidism resulting in reversible hypertrophy of the cardiac muscle. Different neurodegenerative diseases were associated with cardiac muscle disease in 4 cases, partly dictating the clinical course. Extremely rare was the development over 6 years of cardiac hypertrophy following a burns injury.
A case of intracerebral hemorrhage and characteristic angiographic changes associated with methamphetamine is reported. A 23-year-old woman suddenly complained of headache, nausea, vomiting and gait disturbance several minutes after intravenous injection of 30 mg of methamphetamine. She was admitted with consciousness disturbance, aphasia and right hemiparesis 26 hours after the onset. CT scan revealed subcortical hemorrhage in the left fronto-parietal region. Left carotid angiogram showed irregular segmental arterial narrowing, "beading" of the anterior and middle cerebral arteries. Emergency craniotomy was performed and a left fronto-parietal hematoma was removed totally. Histologically, the surgical specimen showed many vessels in which included thrombi with perivascular hemorrhage. Post-operative course was uneventful. Repeat carotid angiogram 4 months after the operation revealed normal anterior and middle cerebral arteries. We discussed about associations between the abuse of methamphetamine and the occurrence of intracranial hemorrhage and characteristic angiographic changes. As far as we know, there were 23 reports in an extensive review of the literature on intracranial hemorrhage associated with methamphetamine abuse. In the present case "beading" of the intracranial vessels may be related to angiitis induced by methamphetamine. Both the presence of arterial inflammation and increased blood pressure caused by sympathomimetic action of methamphetamine are probably the important factors in the occurrence of intracranial hemorrhage associated with methamphetamine.
Lithium continues to be the standard for acute and maintenance treatment of bipolar mood disorders despite the availability of alternative agents. Lithium has a narrow therapeutic index and can result in considerable toxicity. Acute renal intoxication is well-known but chronic kidney disease should be in each doctor's mind. The main manifestations are nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI) and tubulointerstitial nephritis. For NDI, the potassium sparing diuretic amiloride or a thiazide diuretic can improve polyuria. Lithium-induced ESRD in chronic tubulointerstitial nephritis is not uncommon and more prevalent (> 1% among long-term lithium patients) than previously thought. The risk of renal failure may persist even after lithium discontinuation. Additional kidney manifestations of lithium exposure include renal tubular acidosis and hypercalcemia.
