The objective of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and toxicity of infusional 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), folinic acid and oxaliplatin (modified FOLFOX-6) in patients with advanced gastric cancer (AGC), as first-line palliative combination chemotherapy. We also analyzed the predictive or prognostic value of germline polymorphisms of candidate genes associated with 5-FU and oxaliplatin.
Seventy-three patients were administered a 2 hour infusion of oxaliplatin (100 mg/m2) and folinic acid (100 mg/m2) followed by a 46 hour continuous infusion of 5-FU (2,400 mg/m2). Genomic DNA from the patients' peripheral blood mononuclear cells was extracted. Ten polymorphisms within five genes were investigated including TS, GSTP, ERCC, XPD and XRCC.
The overall response rate (RR) was 43.8%. Median time to progression (TTP) and overall survival (OS) were 6.0 months and 12.6 months, respectively. Toxicities were generally tolerable and manageable. The RR was significantly higher in patients with a 6-bp deletion homozygote (-6 bp/-6 bp) in TS-3'UTR (55.0% vs. 30.3% in +6 bp/+6 bp or +6 bp/-6 bp, p = 0.034), and C/A or A/A in XPD156 (52.0% vs. 26.1% in C/C, p = 0.038). The -6 bp/-6 bp in TS-3'UTR was significantly associated with a prolonged TTP and OS. In a multivariate analysis, the 6-bp deletion in TS-3'UTR was identified as an independent prognostic marker of TTP (hazard ratio = 0.561, p = 0.032).
Modified FOLFOX-6 chemotherapy appears to be active and well tolerated as first line chemotherapy in AGC patients. The 6-bp deletion in TS-3'UTR might be a candidate to select patients who are likely to benefit from 5-FU based modified FOLFOX-6 in future large scale trial.
To identify susceptibility loci for ankylosing spondylitis, we undertook a genome-wide association study in 2,053 unrelated ankylosing spondylitis cases among people of European descent and 5,140 ethnically matched controls, with replication in an independent cohort of 898 ankylosing spondylitis cases and 1,518 controls. Cases were genotyped with Illumina HumHap370 genotyping chips. In addition to strong association with the major histocompatibility complex (MHC; P < 10(-800)), we found association with SNPs in two gene deserts at 2p15 (rs10865331; combined P = 1.9 x 10(-19)) and 21q22 (rs2242944; P = 8.3 x 10(-20)), as well as in the genes ANTXR2 (rs4333130; P = 9.3 x 10(-8)) and IL1R2 (rs2310173; P = 4.8 x 10(-7)). We also replicated previously reported associations at IL23R (rs11209026; P = 9.1 x 10(-14)) and ERAP1 (rs27434; P = 5.3 x 10(-12)). This study reports four genetic loci associated with ankylosing spondylitis risk and identifies a major role for the interleukin (IL)-23 and IL-1 cytokine pathways in disease susceptibility.
Terlipressin has been suggested as the ideal drug to treat anesthesia-induced hypotension in patients under long-term renin-angiotensin system inhibitor treatment for arterial hypertension. The authors compared the effects of terlipressin and norepinephrine on systemic hemodynamic parameters and gastric mucosal perfusion using a laser Doppler flowmetry technique in patients treated with renin-angiotensin system inhibitors who experienced hypotension at induction of anesthesia.
Thirty-two patients scheduled for carotid endarterectomy under general anesthesia and treated with renin-angiotensin system inhibitors had hypotension after induction of general anesthesia. They were randomized to receive 1 mg of terlipressin (n = 16) or norepinephrine infusion (n = 16) to counteract anesthesia-induced hypotension. A laser Doppler probe was introduced into the gastric lumen. All measurements were performed just before surgery, during hypotension, at 30 min, and at 4 h.
Terlipressin produced an increase in mean arterial pressure and a decrease in gastric mucosal perfusion detected by laser Doppler flowmetry (P < 0.05) over 30 min that were sustained for 4 h. During the infusion, norepinephrine produced an increase in mean arterial pressure and in gastric mucosal perfusion detected by laser Doppler flowmetry (P < 0.05). If compared to norepinephrine, terlipressin reduced oxygen delivery and oxygen consumption (P < 0.05) and increased arterial lactate concentrations (P < 0.05).
This study showed the efficacy of terlipressin in the treatment of hypotension episodes in anesthetized patients chronically treated with renin-angiotensin system inhibitors, angiotensin converting-enzyme inhibitors, and angiotensin II receptor antagonists. However, the negative effects on gastric mucosal perfusion and the risk of iatrogenic oxygen supply dependency of terlipressin need to be taken into account.
The electrocardiographic PR interval (or PQ interval) reflects atrial and atrioventricular nodal conduction, disturbances of which increase risk of atrial fibrillation. We report a meta-analysis of genome-wide association studies for PR interval from seven population-based European studies in the CHARGE Consortium: AGES, ARIC, CHS, FHS, KORA, Rotterdam Study, and SardiNIA (N = 28,517). We identified nine loci associated with PR interval at P < 5 x 10(-8). At the 3p22.2 locus, we observed two independent associations in voltage-gated sodium channel genes, SCN10A and SCN5A. Six of the loci were near cardiac developmental genes, including CAV1-CAV2, NKX2-5 (CSX1), SOX5, WNT11, MEIS1, and TBX5-TBX3, providing pathophysiologically interesting candidate genes. Five of the loci, SCN5A, SCN10A, NKX2-5, CAV1-CAV2, and SOX5, were also associated with atrial fibrillation (N = 5,741 cases, P < 0.0056). This suggests a role for common variation in ion channel and developmental genes in atrial and atrioventricular conduction as well as in susceptibility to atrial fibrillation.
To identify genetic factors influencing cardiac conduction, we carried out a genome-wide association study of electrocardiographic time intervals in 6,543 Indian Asians. We identified association of a nonsynonymous SNP, rs6795970, in SCN10A (P = 2.8 x 10(-15)) with PR interval, a marker of cardiac atrioventricular conduction. Replication testing among 6,243 Indian Asians and 5,370 Europeans confirmed that rs6795970 (G>A) is associated with prolonged cardiac conduction (longer P-wave duration, PR interval and QRS duration, P = 10(-5) to 10(-20)). SCN10A encodes Na(V)1.8, a sodium channel. We show that SCN10A is expressed in mouse and human heart tissue and that PR interval is shorter in Scn10a(-/-) mice than in wild-type mice. We also find that rs6795970 is associated with a higher risk of heart block (P < 0.05) and a lower risk of ventricular fibrillation (P = 0.01). Our findings provide new insight into the pathogenesis of cardiac conduction, heart block and ventricular fibrillation.
To compare response rates among patients with major depressive disorder (MDD) treated with either moclobemide, an antidepressant thought to simultaneously enhance both noradrenergic and serotonergic neurotransmission, or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs).
Using a random-effects model, we combined 12 trials involving 1207 outpatients with MDD.
Patients treated with moclobemide were as likely to experience clinical response as those treated with SSRIs (risk ratio 1.08; 95% confidence interval, 0.92 to 1.26; P = 0.314). Simply pooling response rates for the 2 agents resulted in a 62.1% response rate for moclobemide and a 57.5% response rate for the SSRIs. A metaregression did not reveal a statistically significant relation between the mean moclobemide dosage for each study and the risk ratio for response rates. Further, we found no difference between the 2 treatments in overall discontinuation rates, discontinuation rates due to adverse events, or discontinuation rates due to lack of efficacy. Also, rates of fatigue or somnolence and of insomnia were similar between the 2 treatment groups. However, SSRI treatment was associated with higher rates of nausea, headaches, and treatment-emergent anxiety than was treatment with moclobemide.
These results suggest that moclobemide and the SSRIs do differ with respect to their side effect profiles but not in their overall efficacy in the treatment of MDD.
Repeated administration of subconvulsant doses of lidocaine or cocaine results in the development of an increased susceptibility to seizures induced by the two drugs (pharmacological kindling). It has been hypothesized that the local anesthetic properties of cocaine are responsible for its convulsant and epileptogenic actions. As genetic factors appear to mediate acute sensitivity to the convulsant properties of cocaine and the development of cocaine-kindled seizures, the present studies used a pharmacogenetic approach to address this question further. The convulsant effects of lidocaine were evaluated in BALB, C57, DBA and SJL mice and compared with previous studies evaluating cocaine-induced seizures. We have also evaluated the development of lidocaine- versus cocaine-kindled seizures and the effects of repeated treatment with cocaine or lidocaine on subsequent lidocaine seizure susceptibility in three of these inbred mouse strains. As observed for cocaine, genetic factors influence the convulsant properties of lidocaine; however, the differences between the strains of mice in susceptibility to lidocaine-induced seizures (SJL greater than DBA = BALB = C57) did not parallel those seen for cocaine-induced seizures (C57 greater than DBA = BALB greater than SJL). Similarly, the time course for the expression of kindled seizures and the differences between the various inbred strains were not the same for lidocaine kindling and cocaine kindling. However, depending on the genetic background of the subject, the repeated administration of lidocaine, or cocaine, resulted in the development of sensitization or tolerance to the convulsant effects of lidocaine in an identical manner.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Serotoninergic transmission in the basal ganglia is known to influence dopaminergic mechanisms and motor function.
To evaluate the possibility that serotoninergic 5-HT1A autoreceptors (by regulating the release of serotonin as well as dopamine formed from exogenous levodopa) affect the response alterations complicating levodopa treatment of PD.
The 5-HT1A receptor agonist sarizotan (EMD128130) was systemically administered alone and together with levodopa to parkinsonian rats and nonhuman primates.
In 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats, sarizotan (2.5 mg/kg PO) had no effect on the acute rotational response to levodopa but did attenuate the shortening in motor response duration induced by chronic levodopa treatment. In 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-lesioned monkeys, sarizotan (2 mg/kg PO) alone had no effect on parkinsonian severity or on the antiparkinsonian response to levodopa. In contrast, the same dose of sarizotan reduced levodopa-induced choreiform dyskinesias by 91 +/- 5.9%. In both species, the motoric effects of sarizotan were blocked by the selective 5-HT1A antagonist WAY100635 (0.1 mg/kg SC), indicating that the observed sarizotan responses were probably mediated at the 5-HT1A autoreceptor.
Pharmaceuticals acting to stimulate 5-HT1A receptors could prove useful in the treatment of the motor response complications in parkinsonian patients.
In this prospective matched case-control study, hand movement analysis was conducted using a digitizing tablet (kinematical analysis).
The study examined the association of different computer-assessed hand movement variables with clinical pathology (negative symptoms and extrapyramidal motor dysfunction). A sample of 16 schizophrenic patients and 16 healthy controls participated in the study.
At baseline, kinematical analysis indicated a significant higher prevalence of subtle hand motor dysfunction in unmedicated schizophrenic patients (who all exhibited clinically no extrapyramidal dysfunction) in comparison to healthy controls. No association between the observed motor signs and pre-enrollment total long-term butyrophenones exposure has been detected. After 14 days treatment with haloperidol, the hand movement variables, which correlated significantly with clinical rating scores reflecting drug-induced extrapyramidal dysfunction could definitely be separated from the hand movement variables with a close association to clinical rating measuring negative symptoms.
Results of the comparative analysis at baseline confirm previous findings concerning presence of neurological soft signs in unmedicated schizophrenic patients. Furthermore, results of this pilot study suggest that kinematical analysis by means of a digitizing tablet could be a useful approach towards a differentiation between drug-induced akinetic symptoms and disease-induced negative symptoms.
A subgroup of children and adolescents with conduct disorder are characterized by severe and persistent aggression. Although there is no agreed on treatment for such aggression, lithium carbonate has shown promise in some studies involving children. Our study was designed to critically assess the efficacy of lithium in the treatment of aggression in children and adolescents using a measure specific for aggression.
Subjects were inpatients with conduct disorder hospitalized because of severe and chronic aggression. A parallel-groups design was used in this double-blind, placebo-controlled trial with randomization to lithium or placebo. Only those who met the aggression criterion during the 2-week placebo-baseline period were randomized to 4 weeks of treatment. Outcome measures included Clinical Global Impressions, the Global Clinical Judgements (Consensus) Scale, and the Overt Aggression Scale.
Eighty-six inpatients enrolled in the study; 40 (33 male and 7 female; median age, 12.5 years) entered and completed the treatment phase. Lithium was statistically and clinically superior to placebo. Sixteen of 20 subjects in the lithium group were responders on the Consensus ratings vs 6 of 20 in the placebo group (P=.004). Ratings on the Overt Aggression Scale decreased significantly for the lithium group vs the placebo group (P=.04). More than half of the subjects in the lithium group experienced nausea, vomiting, and urinary frequency.
Lithium is a safe and effective short-term treatment for aggression in inpatients with conduct disorder, although its use is associated with adverse effects.
We describe a renal transplant patient who developed hypercalcemia during treatment with ganciclovir for cytomegaloviral (CMV) infection. To our knowledge such an association has not previously been reported. Hypercalcemia was associated with low levels of serum parathormone (PTH) and an increase in 1,25 dihydroxy vitamin D concentrations. The mechanism(s) of ganciclovir-associated hypercalcemia remains unclear.
Renal failure insidiously developed in three patients treated with a combination of hydrochlorothiazide and triamterene five to 10 weeks after commencing therapy. All had normal renal function prior to therapy and none had preexisting renal disease. Two of the patients had eosinophilia and two had a fever. One patient was oliguric. Renal biopsy demonstrated acute interstitial nephritis histologically. Direct immunofluorescence did not disclose evidence of either immune complex or antitubular basement membrane antibody deposition. Withdrawal of the drug led to remarkable improvement with renal function returning to normal in two patients and near normal in the third. The sequence of events and the histologic findings strongly suggest that the acute interstitial nephritis was due to a drug-induced hypersensitivity reaction. Although hydrochlorothiazide appears to be the drug responsible for the reaction, certain observations suggest a possible potentiating role for triamterene.
The effect of sodium 18 beta-glycyrrhetate (SGA) on experimental arrhythmia was investigated. The result shows that SGA strongly counteracts arrhythmia induced by chloroform of chloroform adrenaline, lengthens the appearance time of arrhythmia induced by CaCl2, slightly retards the heart rate of rats and rabbits, and partly antagonizes the acceleration effect of isoproterenol on rabbit hearts.
Hypokalemia can result in life-threatening complications if not treated appropriately. Although hypokalemia is a frequent adverse effect of amphotericin B therapy, there are no reports in the pediatric literature on hypokalemia-associated rhabdomyolysis induced by this drug. A ten-year-old boy with a history of one week amphotericin B treatment was admitted with weakness of the lower extremities, inability to walk and calf pain. Laboratory tests showed a serum potassium of 1.7 mEq/L and a serum creatinine phosphokinase of 3937 U/L plus myoglobulinuria. Following fluid expansion and intravenous potassium replacement, the patient progressed to achieve full regression of muscular weakness after one week. This report highlights hypokalemia as a rare cause of rhabdomyolysis. Patients on amphotericin B should be checked for this rare yet potentially life-threatening complication.
Although acquired abnormalities of thyroid hormone metabolism are common, inherited defects in humans involving the synthesis of selenoproteins, including iodothyronine deiodinases, have been described in only one recent publication.
We report the study of a novel selenocysteine insertion sequence-binding protein 2 (SBP2) gene mutation (R128X) and its clinical and molecular characterization.
A family of African origin was studied. The proband presented with growth retardation, low serum selenium level, and thyroid test abnormalities consisting of high serum total and free T(4) concentrations associated with low T(3), high rT(3), and normal TSH. The entire coding region of the SBP2 gene was sequenced and minigenes constructed to explain the nature of the defect.
The proband was homozygous for a nonsense gene mutation that produces an early stop codon (R128X). Both parents and a sister were heterozygous but showed no growth or thyroid test abnormalities. Despite the severity of the defect, the patient had a relatively mild phenotype, similar to that associated with partial SBP2 deficiency. In vitro analysis showed that the mutant minigene synthesized SBP2 from at least three downstream ATGs capable of generating molecules containing the essential functional domains. Treatment with l-T(3) accelerated the growth velocity and advanced the bone age.
We identified a novel SBP2 gene mutation producing an early arrest in the synthesis of a full-length molecule. The demonstration that SBP2 isoforms containing all functional domains could be synthesized from three downstream ATGs explains the relatively mild phenotype caused by this defect.
Cocaine addiction is a worldwide public health problem for which there are no established treatments. The dopamine transporter (DAT) is suspected as the primary target mediating cocaine's abuse-related effects based on numerous pharmacological studies. However, in a previous study, DAT knockout mice were reported to self-administer cocaine, generating much debate regarding the importance of the DAT in cocaine's abuse-related effects. Here, we show that mice expressing a "knockin" of a cocaine-insensitive but functional DAT did not self-administer cocaine intravenously despite normal food-maintained responding and normal intravenous self-administration of amphetamine and a direct dopamine agonist. Our results have three implications. First, they imply a crucial role for high-affinity DAT binding of cocaine in mediating its reinforcing effects, reconciling mouse genetic engineering approaches with data from classic pharmacological studies. Second, they demonstrate the usefulness of knockin strategies that modify specific amino acid sequences within a protein. Third, they show that it is possible to alter the DAT protein sequence in such a way as to selectively target its interaction with cocaine, while sparing other behaviors dependent on DAT function. Thus, molecular engineering technology could advance the development of highly specialized compounds such as a dopamine-sparing "cocaine antagonist."
Postnatal exposure to steroids has been associated with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) in the newborn. Such an effect has not been described in infants born to mothers who received antenatal steroids. We report three newborns whose mothers were treated with betamethasone prenatally in different doses, duration of time, and who developed various degrees of HCM diagnosed by echocardiography. There was no maternal evidence of diabetes except for one infant whose mother had a normal fasting and post-prandial blood glucose prior to steroid therapy, but an abnormal one hour postprandial glucose after 8 weeks of betamethasone therapy, with a normal HbA1 C level. There was no family history of HCM, no history of maternal intake of other relevant medications, and no hypertension in all three newborns. Follow-up echocardiography revealed complete resolution of the HCM changes in all infants. We suggest that repeated antenatal maternal steroid intake may cause changes of HCM in the newborn. These changes appear to be dose- and duration-related and are mostly reversible. Further prospective controlled studies to evaluate these observations and to investigate potential mechanisms are warranted.
To identify transcriptional profiles predictive of the clinical benefit of cisplatin and fluorouracil (CF) chemotherapy to gastric cancer patients, endoscopic biopsy samples from 96 CF-treated metastatic gastric cancer patients were prospectively collected before therapy and analyzed using high-throughput transcriptional profiling and array comparative genomic hybridization. Transcriptional profiling identified 917 genes that are correlated with poor patient survival after CF at P<0.05 (poor prognosis signature), in which protein synthesis and DNA replication/recombination/repair functional categories are enriched. A survival risk predictor was then constructed using genes, which are included in the poor prognosis signature and are contained within identified genomic amplicons. The combined expression of three genes-MYC, EGFR and FGFR2-was an independent predictor for overall survival of 27 CF-treated patients in the validation set (adjusted P=0.017), and also for survival of 40 chemotherapy-treated gastric cancer patients in a published data set (adjusted P=0.026). Thus, combined expression of MYC, EGFR and FGFR2 is predictive of poor survival in CF-treated metastatic gastric cancer patients.
Xeroderma pigmentosum group F (XPF) has an essential role in the nucleotide excision repair pathway that removes a wide variety of DNA lesions. We hypothesized that genetic variants in XPF are associated with bladder cancer risk and recurrence. We selected three tagging single nucleotide polymorphisms (tagSNPs) from the HapMap database for the Chinese and genotyped them in a two-stage case-control study to evaluate the association and further examined the functionality of a novel polymorphism in the promoter. The two-stage analysis found that the rs744154 tagSNP in the XPF intron 1, which was linkage disequilibrium with the -357A>C polymorphism in the promoter region, was associated with a protective effect on bladder cancer risk. Electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) further revealed that the -357C allele decreased the binding ability of transcriptional factors to the XPF promoter. The vector construct containing the -357C allele had a lower luciferase expression than did the -357A allele. The -357C allele in the transcription factor-binding site was also associated with decreased expression levels of both XPF mRNA and protein in bladder cancer tissues. Furthermore, patients with the -357C allele had a shorter overall recurrence-free survival than did patients with the -357A allele. Our results suggest that the XPF promoter -357A>C polymorphism may regulate the expression of XPF and thereby contribute to susceptibility to and prognosis of bladder cancer. Further larger studies with different populations are warranted to confirm these findings.
The substituted benzamide amisulpride is currently administered in its racemic form. In the present study, the biochemical and cataleptogenic profiles of the two enantiomers (R+ and S-) were compared with those of the racemic mixture. Displacement binding studies showed that the (S-)-isomer possesses an higher affinity for dopamine D2-like receptor (K(i) 5.2+/-0.4 nM) compared to (R+)-amisulpride (K(i) 244+/-12 nM) and to (RS)-amisulpride (K(i) 9.8+/-0.8 nM). In contrast, (S-)-amisulpride binds the alpha(2)-receptor with an affinity (K(i) 1528+/-45 nM) lower than that of the (R+)-isomer (K(i) 375+/-34 nM) and of (RS)-amisulpride (K(i) 783+/-27 nM). The bar test was used to evaluate the catalepsy induced by each drug. (RS)-amisulpride induced catalepsy only at very high doses (>100 mg/kg, s.c.) whereas, (S-)-amisulpride produced a catalepsy at a lower dose (30 mg/kg, s.c.) and (R+)-amisulpride did not produce any catalepsy up to the dose of 75 mg/kg. Interestingly, (R+)-amisulpride reduced the catalepsy induced by (S-)-amisulpride (50 mg/kg, s.c.) or haloperidol (0.3 mg/kg, s.c.), at the doses of 50 or 30 mg/kg, respectively. These results indicate that the weak cataleptic properties of (RS)-amisulpride might partially rely on its (R+)-isomer and provide a further explanation for the atypical properties of amisulpride as an antipsychotic.
Dopamine (DA) D3 receptors have been suggested to play a role in mechanisms underlying the ability of drug-associated cues to induce drug-seeking behaviour. The present study investigated whether SB-277011-A, a selective DA D3 receptor antagonist, modulates reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behaviour induced by cocaine-associated stimuli. The study also explored whether or not this modulation is generable to seeking behaviours associated with a nutritive reinforcer such as sucrose. Separate groups of rats were trained to associate discriminative stimuli (SD) with the availability of cocaine or sucrose pellets vs. non-reward under a FR1 schedule of reinforcement. Each reinforced response was followed by a response-cue signalling a 20-s time-out (TO). After the self-administration training criterion was met, rats underwent extinction during which cocaine, sucrose pellets and SDs were withheld. Reinstatement tests, separated by 3 d during which rates of responding under extinction conditions remained at the criterion, were performed by presenting SDs non-contingently together with the contingent presentation of response-cues signalling a 20-s TO. Within- and between-subjects experimental designs revealed that 10 and 30 mg/kg SB-277011-A attenuated reinstatement of cocaine-seeking. SB-277011-A (10 mg/kg) did not modify conditioned reinstatement triggered by sucrose pellet-associated cues. These results, provided they can be extrapolated to abstinent human addicts, suggest the potential therapeutic use of selective DA D3 receptor antagonists for the prevention of cue-controlled cocaine-seeking and relapse.
Local reactions after i.v. injection of diazepam, flunitrazepam and isotonic saline were studied in patients who received extradural analgesia or general anaesthesia. The frequency of thrombophlebitis on the 1st, 3rd and 5th days after the injection of diazepam was 2.1%, 17.0% and 14.9% respectively, after flunitrazepam 10.0%. 10.0% and 14.0%, and after saline 0%, 6.7% and 4.4%. The differences between the groups were not statistically significant (P > 0.05). One month after the injection 15.6% in the diazepam group, 8.5% in the flunitrazepam group and 9.3% in the saline group had pain or tenderness in the arm used for the injection.
A patient developed typical abdominal angina due to mesenteric arteritis secondary to D. methylsergide (Desernil) treatment. Multiple regular distal stenoses were revealed by arteriography, but these had completely disappeared 5 months after discontinuing treatment. Histology demonstrated fibrosis of the three tunicae with hyperelastosis. Six analogous cases due to D. methylsergide or ergotamine tartrate have been reported in the published literature, rapid regression occurring in all of them after interruption of treatment.
Benzene is metabolized to intermediates that bind to hemoglobin, forming adducts. These hemoglobin adducts may be usable as biomarkers of exposure. In this paper, we describe the development of a gas chromatography/mass spectroscopy assay for quantitating the binding of the benzene metabolite, benzene oxide, to cysteine groups in hemoglobin. We used this assay to study the hemoglobin adduct, S-phenylcysteine (SPC), in the blood of rats and mice exposed to benzene either by inhalation or by gavage. We were able to detect SPC in the hemoglobin of exposed rats and mice, to show the linearity of the exposure dose-response relationship, and to establish the sensitivity limits of this assay. For the same exposure regime, rats showed considerably higher levels of SPC than did mice. As yet, we have not been able to detect SPC in the globin of humans occupationally exposed to benzene. We attempted to determine whether the SPC found in hemoglobin originated from the metabolism of benzene within or outside of the red blood cell. We hypothesized that the greatest red blood cell metabolism would be associated with peripheral reticulocytes, which retain high metabolic capacity. After exposing rats to benzene, we isolated the red blood cells and used discontinuous Percoll gradients to fractionate them into age groups. No differences in SPC levels were found among any of the fractions, suggesting that the SPC found in globin originates from the metabolism of benzene to benzene oxide in a location external to the red blood cell. To our knowledge, this is the first demonstration of the nonenzymatic binding of the benzene metabolite, benzene oxide, to protein.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
