Daily low-dose acetylsalicylacid (ASA) is prescribed to patients with atherothrombosis frequently to prevent vascular complications. In reports on complications and side effects of low-dose ASA use in the literature there is a range of definitions. We explored the incidence, characteristics and consequences of symptoms suggestive of ASA intolerance in patients on low-dose ASA. General practitioners and specialists in 105 centres were asked to review their patient files for the last 10 consecutive patients who were prescribed ASA. Participating patients completed a questionnaire about their current ASA use (doctors completed the questionnaire together with the patients), use of co-medication and symptoms suggestive of ASA intolerance. A total of 947 patients were included in this study. Sixty patients (6.6%) had ceased ASA treatment, predominantly because of the occurrence of side effects suspected to be caused by ASA use. A quarter of the patients concomitantly used an anti-acid agent. Of the 947 patients, 271 (30.6%) indicated symptoms during ASA intake. The most common symptoms were related to the gastrointestinal tract (25.1%). In patients prescribed a low-dose of ASA monotherapy, side effects suggestive of intolerance are common. More awareness should be created to detect and treat these symptoms, because the occurrence of side effects is the most important reason for patients to discontinue ASA treatment.
It has been previously reported that dietary fish oils, which are rich in the polyunsaturated fatty acids eicosapentaenoic acid and docosahexaenoic acid, can exert beneficial effects in inflammatory bowel disease. In this study, we investigated the effects of docosahexaenoic acid-derived lipid mediator maresin 1 (MaR1) in dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)- and 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid-induced colitis in mice. Systemic treatment with MaR1 significantly attenuated both DSS- and 2,4,6-trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid-induced colonic inflammation by improving the disease activity index and reducing body weight loss and colonic tissue damage. MaR1 treatment also induced a significant decrease in levels of inflammatory mediators, such as IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-6, and IFN-γ, in the acute protocol, as well as IL-1β and IL-6, but not TNF-α and INF-γ, in the chronic DSS colitis protocol. Additionally, MaR1 decreased ICAM-1 mRNA expression in both the acute and chronic protocols of DSS-induced colitis. Furthermore, the beneficial effects of MaR1 seem to be associated with inhibition of the NF-κB pathway. Moreover, incubation of LPS-stimulated bone marrow-derived macrophage cultures with MaR1 reduced neutrophil migration and reactive oxygen species production, besides decreasing IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-6, and INF-γ production. Interestingly, macrophages incubated only with MaR1 showed a significant upregulation of mannose receptor C, type 1 mRNA expression, an M2 macrophage phenotype marker. These results indicate that MaR1 consistently protects mice against different models of experimental colitis, possibly by inhibiting the NF-κB pathway and consequently multiple inflammatory mediators, as well as by enhancing the macrophage M2 phenotype.
Interstitial implantation of BCNU wafers is currently used to treat glioblastoma multiforme. Known complications of BCNU wafer implantation include abnormalities of wound healing (including CSF leak), edema formation, and intracranial infection. The purpose of this report is to alert neurosurgeons to an additional potential side effect: formation of a cystic mass within the implanted tumor bed.
Two patients are described: a 54-year-old male, who presented with a large right parieto-occipital mass, and a 47-year-old woman with a large right frontal lobe tumor. Both tumors were found on initial craniotomy to be glioblastoma multiforme; both recurred rapidly despite radiation therapy. Patients were treated with a second craniotomy for tumor resection and placement of BCNU wafers. After implantation, the first patient did well for 6 weeks, then developed lethargy, headaches, and vomiting. CT scan showed a large cyst at the craniotomy site; this required reoperation for drainage. The second patient had a seizure, deterioration of mental status, and progressive hemiparesis 10 days after wafer implantation. CT scan again showed that a large cyst had formed in the area of the previous surgery; she also required reoperation. In each case, minimal tumor and no evidence of infection were found. Within a few more weeks, each patient succumbed to progressive disease.
The hypodense, roughly spherical cysts clearly demonstrated clinically significant mass effect, and required reoperation despite treatment with high-dose corticosteroids. Neurosurgeons should be alert to the possibility of tumor bed cyst formation in patients treated with interstitial BCNU wafers.
Nocistatin is a biologically active peptide derived from prepronociceptin, and its intrathecal administration has been reported to reduce nociceptin- or prostaglandin E2-induced hyperalgesia and allodynia in mice. In this study, we investigated the effects of intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of nocistatin on the inflammatory hyperalgesia induced by hindlimb intraplantar injection of carrageenan/kaolin in the rat paw-pressure test. Intracerebroventricular administration of nocistatin (0.5-50 pmol/rat) dose-dependently reduced carrageenan/kaolin-induced hyperalgesia, which peaked at 15-30 m. However, i.c.v. administration of nocistatin (50 pmol/rat) had no effect on the nociceptive threshold of non-inflamed rats. These results indicate that nocistatin has anti-hyperalgesic effects on the inflammatory hyperalgesia induced by carrageenan/kaolin at the supraspinal level.
A 52-year-old female was diagnosed with relapsed APL in 2000. After obtaining informed consent, we administered 10 mg/day of arsenic trioxide intravenously. The complications were vomiting, increased transaminase and ATRA syndrome which included high fever, retention of body fluid, pleural effusion, pericardial effusion and respiratory failure from day 16. Administration of steroid and low dose chemotherapy (DNR 60 mg x day 1-2, BH-AC 250 mg x day 1-2) with arsenic was effective for APL syndrome, and complete remission (CR) was obtained at day 35 and PML-RAR mRNA became negative. After obtaining CR, consolidation chemotherapy was conducted and the patient was maintained the CR for more than 18 months. Although arsenic trioxide may be effective for relapsed APL, sufficient caution is needed because of the possibility of various complications.
Prevalent use of bisphenol-A (BPA) in the manufacture of resins, plastics and paper products has led to frequent exposure of most people to this endocrine disruptor. Some rodent studies have suggested that BPA can exert detrimental effects on brain development. However as rodent models cannot be relied on to predict consequences of human exposure to BPA during development, it is important to investigate the effects of BPA on non-human primate brain development. Previous research suggests that BPA preferentially targets dopamine neurons in ventral mesencephalon and glutamatergic neurons in hippocampus, so the present work examined the susceptibility of these systems to low dose BPA exposure at the fetal and juvenile stages of development in non-human primates. Exposure of pregnant rhesus monkeys to relatively low levels of BPA during the final 2 months of gestation, induced abnormalities in fetal ventral mesencephalon and hippocampus. Specifically, light microscopy revealed a decrease in tyrosine hydroxylase-expressing (dopamine) neurons in the midbrain of BPA-exposed fetuses and electron microscopy identified a reduction in spine synapses in the CA1 region of hippocampus. In contrast, administration of BPA to juvenile vervet monkeys (14-18 months of age) was without effect on these indices, or on dopamine and serotonin concentrations in striatum and prefrontal cortex, or on performance of a cognitive task that tests working memory capacity. These data indicate that BPA exerts an age-dependent detrimental impact on primate brain development, at blood levels within the range measured in humans having only environmental contact with BPA.
Epirubicin (EpiDx) belongs to the class of anthracycline antibiotics. It is an analog of doxorubicin (Dx) modified in the sugar moiety and in which the stereochemistry at the hydroxyl group bearing C-4' has been inverted. The purpose of this study was to evaluate in an experimental model and in a clinical trial the cardiotoxic effects of EpiDx vs Dx. Cellular oxygen uptake was measured in vitro for equal concentration of Dx and EpiDx with a Warburg manometric apparatus and ATP intracellular concentration by high-pressure liquid chromatography. Dx inhibits cellular endogenous respiration of rat heart slices by 34% vs control, while EpiDx reduces oxygen uptake by 18%. ATP intracellular concentration was significantly reduced by both anthracycline derivates. The same results were obtained after Dx administration in vivo which enabled us to correlate the biochemical parameter (QO2) with the histological cardiac damages shown by light microscopy. For the clinical trial, we studied a total of 22 patients undergoing chemotherapy for solid tumors in an advanced stage. Nine of these were treated with Dx for a total of 66 therapeutic cycles and reached a maximal cumulative dose of 540 mg/m2. Thirteen were treated with EpiDx for a total of 121 cycles (maximal dose reached 720 mg/m2). The dosage of both agents were equal, 60 mg/m2 every 3 weeks. Acute cardiotoxicity was evaluated, measuring creatine-kinase isoenzyme MB(CK-MB) serum level before and 15 h after anthracyclines administration.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The purpose of this study was to investigate hemoglobin and iron handling after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), examine the relationship between iron and neuroglial cell changes, and determine whether deferoxamine (DFX) can reduce SAH-induced injury. The SAH was induced in Sprague-Dawley rats (n=110) using an endovascular perforation technique. Animals were treated with DFX (100 mg/kg) or vehicle 2 and 6 hours after SAH induction followed by every 12 hours for 3 days. Rats were killed at 6 hours, Days 1 and 3 to determine nonheme iron and examine iron-handling proteins using Western blot and immunohistochemistry. 8-Hydroxyl-2'-deoxyguanosine and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end-labeling (TUNEL) staining were performed to assess oxidative DNA damage and neuronal cell death. After SAH, marked heme-oxygenase-1 (HO-1) upregulation at Day 3 (P<0.01) was accompanied by elevated nonheme iron (P<0.01), transferrin (Tf) (P<0.01), Tf receptor (P<0.05), and ferritin levels (P<0.01). Deferoxamine treatment reduced SAH-induced mortality (12% versus 29%, P<0.05), brain nonheme iron concentration, iron-handling protein expression, oxidative stress, and neuronal cell death at Day 3 (P<0.01) after SAH. These results suggest that iron overload in the acute phase of SAH causes oxidative injury leading to neuronal cell death. Deferoxamine effectively reduced oxidative stress and neuronal cell death, and may be a potential therapeutic agent for SAH.
Cocaine addiction is a disease that develops over time, and it is thought that drug-induced neuro-adaptations underlie the changes in behavior seen across the addictive process. While a number of alterations in synaptic transmission have been identified, little is currently known regarding cocaine's effects on gap junctional communication between neurons. Here we examine the effects of a cocaine self-administration regimen, previously shown to increase the reinforcing efficacy of cocaine, on the expression of the neuron-specific gap junction-forming protein connexin36 (C x 36). Using real-time RT-PCR and immunoblotting, we show that binge cocaine self-administration produces region-specific and time-dependent changes in C x 36 mRNA and protein expression in the nucleus accumbens, prefrontal cortex, and hippocampus. A number of changes in C x 36 were present 1 day and 7 days following self-administration, and C x 36 mRNA and protein appeared to be differentially regulated in a region-specific manner. C x 36 protein was significantly decreased in the prefrontal cortex 7 days following self-administration, a time point when behavioral sensitization to the reinforcing effects of cocaine is observed. These results suggest that changes in neuronal gap junction expression may be one mechanism by which cocaine self-administration produces enduring changes in behavior.
Gemcitabine and vinorelbine are active drugs with broad spectrum of activity and manageable toxicity in clinical trials. The aims of this study were to describe the toxicity, to determine the dose-limiting toxicity, and to define the doses of gemcitabine and vinorelbine to be recommended for phase II studies in patients with advanced cancers.
Drugs were given as 30-min infusions on day 1 and 8 (vinorelbine before gemcitabine) every 3 weeks. Thirty-six patients (male:female ratio 25:11; mean age 54, PS > 60) were treated including 1 retroperitoneal sarcoma, 7 head and neck, 10 lung, 4 thyroid, 6 pancreatic, 1 bladder, 2 ovary, 2 gastric, 1 rectum, 1 unknown primary, and 1 renal cell carcinoma. Doses of gemcitabine/vinorelbine ranged from 800/20 mg/m2 to 1500/30 mg/m2.
The dose-limiting toxicity was neutropenia. A transient grade 2-3 elevation of transaminases was frequently observed at several dose-levels, although this toxicity did not appear to be dose dependant and was reversible at day 21 before the next cycle. Other toxicities were mild and easily manageable, consisting of fatigue and flu-like syndromes. Since the MTD was not reach at the higher dose-level, the recommended dose level of the gemcitabine-vinorelbine combination was 1500/30 mg/m2. One toxic death due to hematologic toxicity was reported in a heavily pretreated patient who underwent prior chemotherapy and pelvic radiotherapy. A total of 12 patients were treated at the recommended dose level which was associated with grade 3-4 neutropenia in 3 of 12 patients and in 22.9% of cycles.
This study estimates that the recommended dose for phase II studies of gemcitabine-vinorelbine is 1500/30 mg/m2 at day 1 and 8 every three weeks. A careful monitoring of the hematologic toxicity is recommended in heavily pretreated patients and in patients who received pelvic radiotherapy. Partial responses observed in a patient with an advanced cisplatin-5-fluorouracil-resistant pancreatic adenocarcinoma and in a patient with mesothelioma support further evaluation of this combination in patients with tumors refractory to classical antitumor agents.
Pressor responses and heart rate responses to intravenous injections (3.5-50.0 pmol/kg) of arginine vasopressin (AVP) were recorded in saline- and clonidine-treated spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats. Clonidine (20 micrograms/kg, i.v.) caused a marked fall of arterial pressure in SHR but not in WKY rats so that, 20 min after the injection of the alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonist, arterial pressure was similar in the two strains of rats. The curve expressing the relationship between the dose of AVP and the increase of arterial pressure for saline-treated SHR was positioned to the left of that for saline-treated WKY rats. This enhanced pressor responsiveness of SHR to AVP may have been related to impaired reflex activity since heart rate fell much less in SHR than in WKY rats for a given elevation in pressure. Pressure responses to AVP were augmented by clonidine in both SHR and WKY rats so that, similar to saline-treated rats, pressor responsiveness to the peptide was still greater in SHR. Heart rate responses to AVP were not altered significantly by clonidine. The results indicate that clonidine fails to enhance reflex activity and reduce pressor responsiveness of SHR to AVP. The increased pressor responsiveness of both SHR and WKY rats to AVP following clonidine was an unexpected finding and may be related to a peripheral interaction between alpha-adrenergic agonists and AVP.
Whereas muscular rigidity is a well-known phenomenon that is related to anesthesia induced by large doses of narcotic drugs, the precise underlying mechanism(s) remain to be fully elucidated. This study investigated the possible role of noradrenergic neurotransmission and the participation of alpha-adrenoceptors in this phenomenon. Male Sprague-Dawley rats, under ketamine-induced anesthesia (120 mg/kg, i.p.) and with proper control of respiration, body temperature and end-tidal CO2 were used. Intravenous administration of fentanyl (100 micrograms/kg) consistently caused a significant increase in the electromyographic (EMG) activity, recorded from both gastrocnemius and abdominal rectus muscles. This implied muscular rigidity was markedly antagonized by pretreatment with the specific alpha 1-adrenoceptor blocker, prazosin (50 or 250 micrograms/kg, i.v.). This antagonism occurred in spite of a high level of fentanyl in the plasma, as determined by radioimmunoassay. The specific alpha 2-adrenoceptor blocker, yohimbine (1.15 or 2.3 mg/kg, i.v.), on the other hand, not only failed to prevent fentanyl-induced activation of the EMG, but actually potentiated the response. It is concluded that noradrenergic neurotransmission, possibly originating from the locus coeruleus, may participate in the elicitation of muscular rigidity by fentanyl. Furthermore, this process may involve an excitatory action through alpha 1-, and an inhibitory action through alpha 2-adrenoceptors, in the spinal cord.
It has been shown that adefovir dipivoxil is an effective antiviral agent in the treatment of chronic hepatitis B (CHB), not only in wild-type hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection, but also in lamivudine-resistant (LAMV-R) cases. However, little is known about the durability of the virologic response to adefovir in LAMV-R CHB patients.
Fifteen HBV e-antigen (HBeAg)-positive, LAMV-R CHB patients showed a virologic response to adefovir monotherapy. These patients received additional adefovir for at least a further 12 months. The virologic relapse rate after discontinuation of adefovir was evaluated. In addition, predictive factors associated with virologic relapse were investigated.
The median level of serum HBV DNA before adefovir administration was 7,457,840 IU/mL (range 107,920-99,524,960 IU/mL). The median duration of adefovir treatment was 30 months (range 14-46 months). During a median follow-up period of 14 months after discontinuation of adefovir, the 1-, 2-, 3-, 6-, and 12-month cumulative relapse rates were 26.7%, 53.3%, 73.3%, 80%, and 80%, respectively. High pretreatment HBV DNA levels were found to be the only factor that was predictive of off-therapy relapse.
Our data suggest that the adefovir-monotherapy-induced virologic response is not durable in most patients with LAMV-R HBeAg-positive CHB, especially in those with a high pretreatment HBV DNA level.
Observations in human interventional stroke treatment led us to hypothesize that iodinated radiographic contrast material use may contribute to intracerebral hemorrhage. Effects of intra-arterial iodinated radiographic contrast material on hemorrhagic transformation after middle cerebral artery occlusion and reperfusion were studied in a placebo-controlled, blinded preclinical study in rats.
Four groups of male Sprague-Dawley rats were studied: saline group (n=8), contrast group (n=12), heparin group (n=9), and contrast+heparin group (n=9). The middle cerebral artery was occluded for 5 hours using suture placement. Heparin was infused before suture removal and reperfusion. Saline and/or contrast were infused immediately during reperfusion. Incidence, location, and size of hemorrhage were determined by brain necropsy inspection at 24 hours.
There was a significant increase in incidence of cortical hemorrhage from control (37.5%), contrast (75.0%), heparin (77.8%) to contrast+heparin (100%; Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel correlation, P<0.01). Both pooled contrast groups (85.7%) and pooled heparin groups (88.9%) had higher rates of cortical intracerebral hemorrhage compared with the control group (P<0.05). Similar trends for increased cortical intracerebral hemorrhage were seen in the contrast-only (P=0.18) and heparin-only (P=0.18) groups. There was a trend for decreased infarct edema in rats receiving contrast versus those without (P=0.06).
Intraarterial iodinated radiographic contrast material may increase cortical intracerebral hemorrhage, similar to heparin. Iodinated radiographic contrast material effect may be additive to heparin effect on the incidence of cortical intracerebral hemorrhage.
Timolol has become so populat with ophthalmologists that it is prescribed 44% of the time when an anti-glaucoma drop is needed. This popularity is due to its newness and the publicity it has received, its effectiveness in most types of glaucoma, and the apparent scarcity of side effects. This paper looks at the first 489 patients treated with timolol at Wills Eye Hospital and the side effects encountered. These include blurring of vision, burning and pain, bradycardia and heart failure, hallucinations, dilated pupils, headaches, dizziness, hypotony, allergy, asthma, impotence, drowsiness, anxiety, emotional lability, and nausea.
Plasma pemoline levels were measured in 6- to 12-year-old, severely hyperactive males coincident with onset of abnormal involuntary movements. Acute exposure to pemoline (2 mg/kg orally) was associated with choreoathetoid movements of face, limbs, and trunk in five of 20 subjects in an acute study of pemoline pharmacokinetics. Also reported is a series of four chronically treated patients who developed choreiform movements and dyskinesias after variable periods of exposure from 3 weeks to 3 months with pemoline (1.5-2.0 mg/kg/day). Abnormal movements following acute or chronic exposure to pemoline cleared after pemoline discontinuation. Pemoline pharmacokinetics does not seem to be a primary determinant in the development of abnormal involuntary movements after chronic exposure. Total amount of pemoline absorbed may play a role in the development of choreoathetoid movements following acute exposure.
Five hundred forty-seven reports of adverse reactions to timolol maleate received by the National Registry for Drug-induced Ocular Side Effects during an eleven-month period were reviewed. Approximately half the reports concerned systemic reactions affecting the cardiac, pulmonary, central nervous, gastrointestinal, and dermatologic systems. Most serious were depression, anxiety, and confusion; bradycardia and arrhythmias; and pulmonary airway obstruction. Half of the ocular side effects concerned external ocular disease, of which superficial punctate keratitis and corneal anesthesia were the most remarkable. Ten percent of the reports described a visual disturbance which, in many cases, was not associated with refractive error.
Increased heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) expression improves vascular function by decreasing superoxide and increasing antioxidant levels. We therefore examined if HO-1 induction increased serum adiponectin levels and ameliorated vascular dysfunction in Type 1 diabetes. Administration of either carbon monoxide (CORM-3) or the HO-1 inducers, Resveratrol, and cobalt protoporphyrin (CoPP), increased serum levels of adiponectin (high molecular weight) in diabetic (streptozotocin; STZ-induced) Sprague Dawley rats. Resveratrol and CoPP administration increased HO-1 protein expression and HO activity in the aorta and significantly (p<0.05) increased serum adiponectin levels, compared to untreated diabetic rats. The results obtained with the CO releasing molecule, CORM-3, indicate a direct involvement of CO leading to increased levels of adiponectin. The increase in adiponectin was associated with a significant decrease in circulating endothelial cells (CEC) (p<0.002), decreased EC fragmentations and a significant increase in thrombomodulin (TM) and CD31(+) cells (p<0.05). Increased adiponectin levels were associated with a decrease in TNF-alpha-induced ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 and caspase 3 activity in endothelial cells while phosphorylation of eNOS at Ser-1179 increased. The adiponectin mediated increase in peNOS and pAKT was prevented by the phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase inhibitor, LY294002. In conclusion, there appears to be a temporal HO-1-adiponectin relationship that has a key role in vascular protection in Type 1 diabetes via a mechanism that involves increased levels of carbon monoxide.
To describe the efficacy of microperimetry (MP-1) in detecting early retinal toxicity as a result of chronic use of chloroquine and in monitoring the changes in macular sensitivity in an asymptomatic patient with best-corrected visual acuity of 20/20 bilaterally.
A 60-year-old woman presented for routine ocular examination with a medical history of severe rheumatoid arthritis, for which she had been receiving 3 mg chloroquine (CQ) per kilogram for the past 17 years. The patient was asymptomatic with best-corrected visual acuity of 20/20 bilaterally.
Microperimeter showed loss of sensitivity in the macular region with a dense scotoma within the central 12 degrees (2.80 +/- 4.7 dB right eye and 2.84 +/- 4.7 dB left eye). CQ treatment was discontinued and substituted by Plaquenil.
Chloroquine retinal toxicity can be recognized in a subclincal form by the presence of early changes in macular sensitivity, detected by MP-1.
Airway mucus overproduction is a cardinal feature of airway inflammatory diseases, such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and cystic fibrosis. Since the small G-protein Ras is known to modulate cellular functions in the lung, we sought to investigate whether the Ras inhibitor simvastatin could attenuate acrolein-induced mucin production in rat airways. Rats were exposed to acrolein for 12 days, after first being pretreated intragastrically for 24 h with either simvastatin alone or simvastatin in combination with mevalonate, which prevents the isoprenylation needed for Ras activation. Lung tissue was analyzed for extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) activity, goblet cell metaplasia and mucin production. To analyze the effect of simvastatin on mucin production in more detail, acrolein-exposed human airway epithelial NCI-H292 cells were pretreated with simvastatin alone or together with mevalonate. Culture medium was collected to detect mucin secretion, and cell lysates were examined for Ras-GTPase activity and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)/ERK phosphorylation. In vivo, simvastatin treatment dose-dependently suppressed acrolein-induced goblet cell hyperplasia and metaplasia in bronchial epithelium and inhibited ERK phosphorylation in rat lung homogenates. Moreover, simvastatin inhibited Muc5AC mucin synthesis at both the mRNA and protein levels in the lung. In vitro, simvastatin pretreatment attenuated the acrolein-induced significant increase in MUC5AC mucin expression, Ras-GTPase activity and EGFR/ERK phosphorylation. These inhibitory effects of simvastatin were neutralized by mevalonate administration both in vitro and in vivo. Our results suggest that simvastatin may attenuate acrolein-induced mucin protein synthesis in the airway and airway inflammation, possibly by blocking ERK activation mediated by Ras protein isoprenylation. Thus, the evidence from the experiment suggests that human trials are warranted to determine the potential safety and efficacy of simvastatin for treatment of over production of airway mucus.
We observed elevation of serum creatinine and blood urea nitrogen and decrease in creatine clearance in patients taking anti-inflammatory doses of aspirin. In 13 of 23 patients with systemic lupus erythematosus increases in serum creatinine ranged from 27 to 163 per cent, and those in urea nitrogen from 42 to 270 per cent. Sequential creatinine-clearance studies, available in 11 of the 13 patients, demonstrated decreases up to 58 per cent. Patients with aspirin-induced changes in renal function were more likely to have active renal disease (P =0.035) or hypocomplementemia (P =0.030). Four of 22 patients with rheumatoid arthritis and two of three normal volunteers also demonstrated biochemical changes. The rate of aspirin-induced alterations was significantly higher in systemic lupus erythematosus (P =0.007) than in rheumatoid arthritis. Aspirin, and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents, can have a major reversible effect on renal function that may influence the interpretation of clinical data.
Tubocurarine 0.05 and 0.07 mg.kg-1, gallamine 0.1 and 0.2 mg.kg-1 and pancuronium 0.01 and 0.02 mg.kg-1 given three minutes before suxamethonium 1.0, 1.5 and 2 mg.kg-1 in groups of 10 patients each (total 210 patients) to compare ease of tracheal intubation and incidence of post-suxamethonium muscle pain. These were compared with a control group of suxamethonium 1.0, 1.5 and 2 mg.kg-1 given alone after thiopentone 5 mg.kg-1. On analysis, tubocurarine 0.07 mg.kg-1 and suxamethonium 2 mg.kg-1 was the ideal combination with the best intubation conditions and the lowest incidence of post-suxamethonium muscle pains. The second best combination was gallamine 0.2 mg.kg-1 and suxamethonium 2 mg.kg-1. Pancuronium 0.01 mg.kg-1 and 0.02 mg.kg-1 in combination with suxamethonium 2 mg.kg-1 were satisfactory, although less efficient than the combination with either tubocurarine or gallamine.
QT prolongation is an important biomarker of the arrhythmia torsades de pointes and appears to be related mainly to blockade of delayed inward cardiac rectifier potassium currents. The aim of this study was to quantify the relationship between in vitro human ether-a-go-go-related gene (hERG) potassium channel blockade and the magnitude of QT prolongation in humans for the class III antiarrhythmic dofetilide.
The in vitro affinity and activity of dofetilide were determined in recombinant cell cultures expressing the hERG channel, and the QT-prolonging effect of dofetilide was assessed in 5 clinical studies (80 healthy volunteers and 17 patients with ischemic heart disease). A population pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic analysis of the in vitro and in vivo data was performed in NONMEM by use of the operational model of pharmacologic agonism to estimate the efficiency of transduction from ion channel binding to Fridericia-corrected QT response.
A 3-compartment pharmacokinetic model with first-order absorption characterized the time course of dofetilide concentrations. On the basis of an in vitro potency of 5.13 ng/mL for potassium current inhibition and predicted unbound dofetilide concentrations, the estimated transducer ratio (tau) of 6.2 suggests that the QT response plateaus before currents are fully blocked. In our study population, 10% hERG blockade corresponds to a QT prolongation of 20 ms (95% confidence interval, 12-32 ms). With long-term dofetilide administration, tolerance develops with a half-life of 4.7 days.
The current mechanism-based pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic model quantified the relationship between in vitro hERG channel blockade and clinical QT prolongation for dofetilide. This model may prove valuable for assessing the risk of QT prolongation in humans for other drugs that selectively block the hERG channel on the basis of in vitro assays and pharmacokinetic properties.
To compare the efficacy and safety of intravenous oxytocin with intramuscular syntometrine in the management of the third stage of labour.
A prospective randomised trial.
A university teaching hospital.
A total of 991 women having a singleton pregnancy and vaginal delivery were randomised by a computer-generated number to receive either 1 ml syntometrine intramuscularly or 10 units of intravenous Syntocinon after delivery of the anterior shoulder of the fetus.
Blood loss during delivery, rate of postpartum haemorrhage, need for repeated oxytocics, haemoglobin level before and 24 hours after delivery, duration of third stage, need for manual removal of placenta and sides effects including hypertension, nausea, vomiting, headache and chest pain.
The use of intravenous oxytocin was associated with a reduction in postpartum blood loss (P < 0.001) but there was no difference in the risk of postpartum haemorrhage in the need for repeated oxytocic injections and the drop in peripartum haemoglobin level between the two groups. There was also no difference in the risk of prolonged third stage, or in the need for manual removal of placenta. The use of syntometrine was associated with a higher risk of hypertension (RR 2.39, 95% CI 1.00-5.70). Other side effects were mild in nature with no differences between the two groups.
There are no important clinical differences in the effectiveness of intramuscular syntometrine and intravenous oxytocin for the prevention of postpartum blood loss. Intravenous oxytocin is less likely to cause hypertension.
Studies have shown that early enteral nutrition in critically ill patients reduces the incidence of morbidity and death. Nonetheless, intolerance to gastric enteral nutrition is common in these patients as a result of gastroparesis. The use of prokinetic agents such as metoclopramide, domperidone, cisapride, and erythromycin can improve gastric emptying, but these agents are not without deleterious adverse effects. Tegaserod, a selective serotonin type 4 receptor partial agonist, was recently approved for treatment of women with irritable bowel syndrome. On the basis of tegaserod's mechanism of action, it was hypothesized that tegaserod may accelerate the return of gastric function in intensive care unit patients with gastroparesis. It would thus provide an additional agent for the management of gastroparesis with a more favorable safety profile. We present 3 case reports of the successful use of tegaserod in intensive care unit patients with impaired gastric motility. To our knowledge, the use of tegaserod in this setting has not been reported or studied previously.
