The mechanism by which hydralazine improves cardiac function in patients with heart failure is not well characterized. Hydralazine may improve left ventricular (LV) function by decreasing afterloading wall stress or by increasing myocardial contractility. The effect of intravenous hydralazine was assessed in 8 patients with severe idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. Hydralazine increased stroke volume index (from 24 +/- 8 to 40 +/- 9 ml/m2, p less than 0.01) and decreased systemic vascular resistance from 1,603 +/- 619 to 810 +/- 317 dynes s cm-5, p less than 0.01) and peak LV wall stress (from 476 +/- 118 to 410 +/- 68 kdynes/cm2, p = 0.02). Two groups were defined by normal or high LV wall stress. Patients with high LV stress had higher LV end-diastolic pressure (38 +/- 12 vs 17 +/- 8 mm Hg, p less than 0.01), LV end-diastolic volume index (184 +/- 24 vs 149 +/- 7 ml/m2, p less than 0.01) and systemic vascular resistance (1,423 +/- 686 vs 846 +/- 293 dynes s cm-5, p = 0.01). Hydralazine decreased stress more in these patients (-101 +/- 57 vs -6 +/- 9 kdynes/cm2, p = 0.02), LV end-diastolic pressure (-12 +/- 7 vs 2 +/- 2 mm Hg, p = 0.02), systolic pressure (-15 +/- 13 vs 3 +/- 4 mm Hg, p = 0.03) and systemic vascular resistance (-1,053 +/- 247 vs -363 +/- 83 dynes s cm-5, p less than 0.01) than in patients with normal LV stress. Decreased LV stress was caused by decreased systolic and diastolic pressures and/or volumes. Late systolic pressure-volume relations in patients with normal LV stress suggested increased myocardial contractility, but this was not confirmed by LV dP/dt. Hydralazine improves LV function in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy by reducing elevated LV wall stress, with little inotropic effect.
Drugs for weight loss have been in use for nearly hundred years. Orlistat (Xenical) is a non-centrally acting anti-obesity drug that inactivates gastric and intestinal lipases, thus, preventing absorption of dietary triglycerides. There are reports indicating that Orlistat reduces bioavailability of Cyclosporin to a clinically relevant degree. Since Cyclosporin is metabolized by cytochrome P450 CYP3A4, we examined whether interaction between Orlistat and Cyclosporin involves induction of CYP3A4. Human Caucasian colon adenocarcinoma cells LS174T and primary cultures of human hepatocytes were used, as in vitro models of intestinal and hepatic cells, respectively. Treatment of LS174T cells for 24h with Orlistat (1-100mg/L) did not cause induction of CYP3A4 mRNA levels as compared to control cells while Orlistat (100mg/L) slightly induced CYP3A4 mRNA in human hepatocytes. Rifampicin, a model CYP3A4 inducer, significantly induced CYP3A4 mRNA in both types of cells. The level of CYP3A4 protein in human hepatocytes was increased by Orlistat after 48h, while rifampicin strongly induced CYP3A4 protein level. In addition, Orlistat moderately dose-independently activated pregnane X receptor (PXR) in LS174T cells transiently transfected with p3A4-luc reporter construct containing the basal promoter (-362/+53) with proximal PXR response element and the distal xenobiotic responsive enhancer module (-7836/-7208) of the CYP3A4 gene 5'-flanking region. In conclusion, we report here that Orlistat is weak PXR activator and CYP3A4 inducer in human hepatocytes, but it has no effect on CYP3A4 in intestinal cells, implying no role of CYP3A4 induction in the interaction between Orlistat and Cyclosporin in absorption process.
The present study investigated the protective effects of pine bark extract (PBE) against hexavalent chromium [Cr(VI)]-induced dermatotoxicity in rats. Skin reactions were evaluated by visual inspection, histopathological changes and oxidative stress parameters. Topical application of Cr(VI) produced a significant increase in the incidence and severity of erythema and edema upon visual inspection. Histopathological examination showed moderate to severe necrosis and desquamation in the epidermis and inflammation and hemorrhage in the dermis. In addition, an increased malondialdehyde (MDA) concentration, and decreased glutathione (GSH), catalase, superoxide dismutase, glutathione-S-transferase (GST) and glutathione reductase of the skin were observed in the Cr(VI) group. On the contrary, concomitant administration with PBE significantly improved Cr(VI)-induced dermatotoxicity, evidenced by a decrease in the incidence and severity of skin irritation and histopathological lesions in a dose-dependent manner. Moreover, PBE treatment reduced MDA concentrations and increased catalase and GST activities in skin tissues, indicating that concomitant administration with PBE effectively prevents Cr(VI)-induced oxidative damage in rats. The results indicate that PBE has a protective effect against Cr(VI)-induced dermatotoxicity and is useful as a protective agent against various dermal lesions induced by oxidative stress.
Linkage to 7q has been the most robust genetic finding in familial autism. A previous scan of multiplex families with autism spectrum disorders found a linkage signal of genome-wide significance at D7S530 on 7q32. We searched a candidate imprinted region at this location for genetic variants in families with positive linkage scores. Using exon resequencing, we identified three rare potentially pathogenic variants in the TSGA14 gene, which encodes a centrosomal protein. Two variants were missense mutations (c.664C>G; p.P206A and c.766T>G; p.C240G) that changed conserved residues in the same protein domain; the third variant (c.192+5G>A) altered splicing, which resulted in a protein with an internal deletion of 16 residues and a G33D substitution. These rare TSGA14 variants are enriched in the affected subjects (6/348 patients versus 2/670 controls, Fisher's exact two tailed P = 0.022). This is the first report of a possible link of a gene with a centrosomal function with familial autism.
In a Pilot Study, the clinical and biochemical effects of thiamine tetrahydrofurfuryl disulfide (TTFD) on autistic spectrum children were investigated.
Ten children were studied. Diagnosis was confirmed through the use of form E2, a computer assessed symptom score. For practical reasons, TTFD was administered twice daily for two months in the form of rectal suppositories, each containing 50 mg of TTFD. Symptomatic responses were determined through the use of the computer assessed Autism Treatment Evaluation Checklist (ATEC) forms. The erythrocyte transketolase (TKA) and thiamine pyrophosphate effect (TPPE), were measured at outset and on completion of the study to document intracellular thiamine deficiency. Urines from patients were examined at outset, after 30 days and after 60 days of treatment and the concentrations of SH-reactive metals, total protein, sulfate, sulfite, thiosulfate and thiocyanate were determined. The concentrations of metals in hair were also determined.
At the beginning of the study thiamine deficiency was observed in 3 out of the 10 patients. Out of 10 patients, 6 had initial urine samples containing arsenic in greater concentration than healthy controls. Traces of mercury were seen in urines from all of these autistic children. Following administration of TTFD an increase in cadmium was seen in 2 children and in lead in one child. Nickel was increased in the urine of one patient during treatment. Sulfur metabolites in urine did not differ from those measured in healthy children.
Thiamine tetrahydrofurfuryl disulfide appears to have a beneficial clinical effect on some autistic children, since 8 of the 10 children improved clinically. We obtained evidence of an association of this increasingly occurring disease with presence of urinary SH-reactive metals, arsenic in particular.
Tacrolimus (FK506) ointment is widely used in the treatment of patients with atopic dermatitis. The drug exerts its action by down-regulating antigen-specific T-cell activities and associated proinflammatory cytokine production. A number of clinical studies have evaluated the efficacy and safety of 0.1% tacrolimus ointment compared with vehicle or topical corticosteroids in adult patients with atopic dermatitis. These studies have suggested that topical tacrolimus has a rapid onset of action and exerts sustained therapeutic effects, with an efficacy similar to that of moderate to potent topical corticosteroids, but without causing skin atrophy. Two phase III randomised, controlled clinical trials have been conducted in Japanese adult patients with atopic dermatitis to compare the efficacy and safety of topical 0.1% tacrolimus with topical corticosteroid ointments. In the first study, patients with moderate or severe atopic dermatitis on the trunk and extremities were randomised to 3 weeks of treatment with topical 0.1% tacrolimus or the mid-potency topical corticosteroid 0.12% betamethasone valerate. Over 90% of the patients in each study group experienced at least a moderate improvement at the end of the study. In the second study, patients with moderate or severe atopic dermatitis on the head or neck were randomised to 1 week of treatment with 0.1% tacrolimus or the mild-potency corticosteroid 0.1% alclometasone dipropionate. Significantly greater improvements in individual symptom scores were observed with topical tacrolimus compared with alclometasone dipropionate, with overall global improvement at 1 week being statistically superior with tacrolimus. Furthermore, in a long-term open-label study involving 568 patients, at least a moderate global improvement in symptoms was observed in 85% of patients at 6 weeks, increasing to 91% at both 26 weeks and 52 weeks; this rate was maintained throughout the 2-year duration of the study. 0.1% tacrolimus ointment was considered to be safe in the majority of patients. The most prevalent adverse reactions were local application site irritations, which generally resolved with continued therapy. In summary, these findings suggest that 0.1% tacrolimus ointment is an effective and safe nonsteroidal alternative therapy for adult patients with atopic dermatitis.
To compare the relative value of an inhaled corticosteroid, fluticasone propionate 88 microg twice daily, versus an oral leukotriene receptor antagonist, zafirlukast 20 mg twice daily, in patients with persistent asthma currently receiving short acting beta2-agonists alone.
A cost-efficacy analysis using resource utilisation and clinical data obtained prospectively from a multicentre, randomised, double-blind, double-dummy, placebo-controlled 12-week clinical trial conducted in the US.
Third-party payor.
A total of 451 corticosteroid-naive patients with persistent asthma were treated with either fluticasone propionate 88 microg twice daily or zafirlukast 20 mg twice daily. All patients were given salbutamol (albuterol) to be used as rescue medication. Data were examined using intent-to-treat analysis.
Mean daily per person cost-efficacy ratios using improvement in forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) [> or = 12% increase from baseline] were $US 3.47 for fluticasone propionate compared with $US 7.81 for zafirlukast (1999 values). The mean daily per person cost-efficacy ratios for symptom-free days obtained were $US 5.51 for fluticasone propionate compared with $US 14.98 for zafirlukast. These cost-efficacy ratios remained in favour of fluticasone propionate after a robust sensitivity analysis.
Treatment with fluticasone propionate 88 kg twice daily was the most cost effective treatment compared with zafirlukast 20 mg twice daily in this 12-week clinical trial. This analysis supports the use of fluticasone propionate 88 microg twice daily as first-line treatment in patients with persistent asthma previously treated with short-acting beta2-agonist alone.
The nephrotoxic potential of iphosphamide was evaluated in a retrospective analysis of all children receiving the drug at The Hospital for Sick Children in Toronto. The 25 children exhibiting nephrotoxicity did not receive more cycles or higher doses per square metre than the 78 with normal renal function. Similarly, the two groups received comparable doses and number of cycles of sodium 2-mercaptoethanesulphonate, and had similar rates of exposure to nephrotoxic drugs (except for cis-platinum). Children exhibiting nephrotoxicity were significantly younger (78.1 +/- 64.1 months) than those having normal kidney function (103.8 +/- 66.6 months) (P less than 0.05). Children exhibiting nephrotoxicity were more likely to have received cis-platinum prior to the iphosphamide (10/25, 40%) than those with normal renal function (14/73, 18%) (P less than 0.05). Nephrotoxicity was associated with a significant effect on growth. Careful follow-up of renal function should take place in children receiving iphosphamide, with special attention paid to children younger than 5 years of age and those who have received cis-platinum.
O(6)-methylguanine-deoxyribonucleic acid methyltransferase gene (MGMT) methylation is apparently correlated with responsiveness to nitrosourea chemotherapy, suggesting this alkylating agent should be effective against MGMT-methylated tumors. MGMT appears not to be linked to platinum resistance, so platinum chemotherapy should be used for MGMT-unmethylated tumors. This study was a preliminary trial of individualized chemotherapy based on MGMT methylation status in a total of 20 patients with newly diagnosed malignant astrocytomas (9 anaplastic astrocytomas and 11 glioblastomas multiforme). The procarbazine, 1-(4-amino-2-methyl-5-pyrimidinyl)methyl-3-2(2-chloroethyl)-3-nitrosourea, and vincristine (PAV) regimen was administered to seven patients with MGMT-methylated tumors, and the carboplatin and etoposide (CE) regimen was administered to 13 patients with MGMT-unmethylated tumors. Objective response to the PAV therapy was noted in all three patients with measurable residual tumor (2 complete responses and 1 partial response). Five of the seven patients continued to be disease-free after initiation of the PAV therapy. Objective response to the CE therapy was seen in only one of seven patients with measurable residual tumor (1 partial response). Three of the 13 patients were free from progression, whereas the remaining 10 patients showed early progression. The PAV regimen is effective against MGMT-methylated malignant astrocytomas, but the CE regimen is not useful at the given dose and schedule in MGMT-unmethylated tumors.
We previously identified the rat Bra, Brb and Brg genes, which encode alpha, beta and gamma isotypes of the 55 kDa B-regulatory subunit of protein phosphatase 2A. Polymerase chain reaction-single strand conformation polymorphism analysis in the present study identified polymorphisms in Bra, Brb and Brg between the ACI and BUF, ZI and TM, and BN and WTC strains, respectively. Linkage analysis using mapping panels composed of F2 or back-crosses of these strains allowed Bra, Brb and Brg to be assigned to chromosomes 15, 18 and 14, respectively. Furthermore, it was revealed that Bra is located close to the Rb1 locus. Using polymorphism in Bra, loss of heterozygosity (LOH) was analyzed for rat mammary tumors induced in (SD x F344) F1 female rats by a food-borne carcinogen, 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine, and a typical mammary carcinogen, 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene. No LOH was detected at the Bra locus.
Sympathetic nervous activation is a crucial compensatory mechanism in heart failure. However, excess catecholamine may induce cardiac dysfunction and beta-adrenergic desensitization. Although magnesium is known to be a cardioprotective agent, its beneficial effects on acute cardiac dysfunction remain to be elucidated. We examined the effects of magnesium on left ventricular (LV) dysfunction induced by a large dose of isoproterenol in dogs. Sixteen anesthetized dogs underwent a continuous infusion of isoproterenol (1 micro g.kg(-1).min(-1)) with or without a magnesium infusion (1 mg.kg(-1).min(-1)). The dose response to small doses of isoproterenol (0.025-0.2 micro g.kg(-1).min(-1)) was tested hourly. A large dose of isoproterenol decreased LV systolic function, increased the time constant of LV isovolumic relaxation, and suppressed the dose response to small doses of isoproterenol in a time-dependent manner. Magnesium significantly attenuated isoproterenol-induced LV systolic and diastolic dysfunction and preserved the dose response to isoproterenol. Serum-ionized calcium significantly decreased with a large dose of isoproterenol but was fully maintained at baseline level with magnesium. A large dose of isoproterenol increased serum lipid peroxide levels and serological markers of myocardial damage, which were significantly suppressed by magnesium. In conclusion, magnesium significantly attenuated excess isoproterenol-induced acute cardiac dysfunction and beta-adrenergic desensitization.
International guidelines on asthma recommend to add inhaled long-acting b2-agonists in patients insufficiently controlled with an inhaled corticosteroid alone. A multicentre prospective study was carried out in 250 children (age 8.4 +/- 2.7 years) whose asthma remained symptomatic with impaired lung function despite a treatment with 400-1000 micrograms/day of beclomethasone or equivalent. Salmeterol 100 micrograms/day was added to the previous dose of inhaled corticosteroid for 2 months. PEFR was improved as soon as the first month of treatment (67.2 +/- 44.4 L/min, p < 0.001) and at month 2 (75.0 +/- 44.1 L/min, p < 0.001). The percentage of symptomatic patients, the number of days and nights with symptoms, the number of days with prn bronchodilator use were significantly reduced (p < 0.001). The decrease in the distress and severity scores of the Childhood Asthma Questionnaire indicated an improvement in quality of life due to better asthma control. This study showed that lung function and symptoms were significantly improved as soon as the first month of treatment, improvement maintained thereafter, with a better quality of life and a good tolerability.
A 76-year-old man underwent coronary bypass grafting 3 days after exposure to heparin. Immediately after chest closure, he developed acute graft thrombosis and cardiac arrest in the setting of thrombocytopenia. Immediate graft thrombectomies were performed. Postoperative tests for heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis (HITT) were positive. This case represents a dramatic example of HITT after coronary revascularization.
Despite the advantages from using aromatase inhibitors (AIs) compared with tamoxifen for early breast cancer, an unexpectedly greater number of grade 3 and 4 cardiovascular events (CVAE) (as defined by National Cancer Institute of Canada-Common Toxicity Criteria [version 2.0] was demonstrated.
Phase 3 randomized clinical trials (RCTs) comparing AI with tamoxifen in early breast cancer were considered eligible for this review. The event-based risk ratios (RRs) with 95% confidence intervals (95% CIs) were derived, and a test of heterogeneity was applied. Finally, absolute differences (ADs) in event rates and the number of patients needed to harm 1 patient (NNH) were determined.
Seven eligible RCTs (19,818 patients) reported CVAE results. When considering all RCTs, the AD of the primary endpoint (CVAE) between the 2 arms (0.52%), tamoxifen versus AI, was statistically significant (RR, 1.31; 95% CI, 1.07-1.60; P= .007). This translated into an NNH value of 189 patients; when only third-generation AIs were considered, the difference (0.57%) remained significant (RR, 1.34; 95% CI, 1.09-1.63; P= .0038). Thromboembolic events were significantly more frequent in the tamoxifen arm, regardless of the strategy adopted (RR, 0.53; 95% CI, 0.42-0.65; P< .0001), without significant heterogeneity (P= .21). An AD of 1.17% and an NNH value of 85 patients were observed.
According to the results from this meta-analysis, the risk of grade 3 and 4 CVAEs in patients who were receiving AIs was higher compared with the risk in patients who were receiving tamoxifen, and the difference reached statistical significance. However, the AD was relatively low, and from 160 to 180 patients had to be treated to produce 1 event.
The anticonvulsant effect of di-n-propylacetic acid (n-DPA) was studied in mice and compared to those of phenobarbital, trimethadione and ethosuximide. n-DPA was only weakly active in the maximal electroshock test, but had an ED50 of 420 mg/kg orally in the pentetrazole seizure threshold test, which corresponds rather well to the activity of trimethadione and ethosuximide. The duration of action was only short, and the first signs of neurotoxicity--inability to perform in the chimney test--appeared well below the anticonvulsant ED50 against pentetrazole. n-DPA proved to be most active against convulsions induced by picrotoxin (ED50 200 mg/kg orally), which might indicate a role of the elevation of the central levels of gamma-aminobutyric acid in the anticonvulsant effect of the drug.
The onset of puberty is first detected as an increase in pulsatile secretion of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH). Early activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis results in central precocious puberty. The timing of pubertal development is driven in part by genetic factors, but only a few, rare molecular defects associated with central precocious puberty have been identified.
We performed whole-exome sequencing in 40 members of 15 families with central precocious puberty. Candidate variants were confirmed with Sanger sequencing. We also performed quantitative real-time polymerase-chain-reaction assays to determine levels of messenger RNA (mRNA) in the hypothalami of mice at different ages.
We identified four novel heterozygous mutations in MKRN3, the gene encoding makorin RING-finger protein 3, in 5 of the 15 families; both sexes were affected. The mutations included three frameshift mutations, predicted to encode truncated proteins, and one missense mutation, predicted to disrupt protein function. MKRN3 is a paternally expressed, imprinted gene located in the Prader-Willi syndrome critical region (chromosome 15q11-q13). All affected persons inherited the mutations from their fathers, a finding that indicates perfect segregation with the mode of inheritance expected for an imprinted gene. Levels of Mkrn3 mRNA were high in the arcuate nucleus of prepubertal mice, decreased immediately before puberty, and remained low after puberty.
Deficiency of MKRN3 causes central precocious puberty in humans. (Funded by the National Institutes of Health and others.).
The aetiology of autism is still largely unknown despite analyses from family and twin studies demonstrating substantial genetic role in the aetiology of the disorder. Data from linkage studies and analyses of chromosomal abnormalities identified 15q11-q13 as a region of particular aetiopathogenesis interest. We screened a set of markers spanning two known imprinted, maternally expressed genes, UBE3A and ATP10A, harboured in this candidate region. We replicated evidence of linkage disequilibrium (LD) at marker D15S122, located at the 5' end of UBE3A and originally reported by Nurmi et al. (2001). The potential role of UBE3A in our family-based association study is further supported by the association of two haplotypes that include one of the alleles of D15S122 and by the transmission disequilibrium test (TDT) evidence of the same allele in a parent of origin effect analysis. In a secondary analysis, we provided the first evidence of a significant association between first word delay and psychomotor regression with the 15q11-q13 region. Our data support a potential role of UBE3A in the complex pathogenic mechanisms of autism.
Metastatic breast cancer is linked to an undesired prognosis. One early and crucial metastatic step is the interaction of cancer emboli with adjacent stroma or endothelial cells, and understanding the mechanisms of this interaction provides the basis to define new targets as well as drugs for therapy and disease management. A three-dimensional (3D) co-culture model allowing the examination of lymphogenic dissemination of breast cancer cells was recently developed which facilitates not only the study of metastatic processes but also the testing of therapeutic concepts. This 3D setting consists of MCF-7 breast cancer cell spheroids (representing a ductal and hormone-dependent subtype) and of hTERT-immortalised lymph endothelial cell (LEC; derived from foreskin) monolayers. Tumour spheroids repel the continuous LEC layer, thereby generating "circular chemorepellent-induced defects" (CCIDs) that are reminiscent to the entry gates through which tumour emboli intravasate lymphatics. We found that the ion channel blocker carbamazepine (which is clinically used to treat epilepsy, schizophrenia and other neurological disorders) inhibited CCID formation significantly. This effect correlated with the inhibition of the activities of NF-κB, which contributes to cell motility, and with the inactivation of the mobility proteins MLC2, MYPT1 and FAK which are necessary for LEC migration. NF-κB activity and cell movement are prerequisites of CCID formation. On the other hand, the expression of the motility protein paxillin and of the NF-κB-dependent adhesion mediator ICAM-1 was unchanged. Also the activity of ALOX12 was unaffected. ALOX12 is the main enzyme synthesising 12(S)-HETE, which then triggers CCID formation. The relevance of the inhibition of CYP1A1, which is also involved in the generation of mid-chain HETEs such as 12(S)-HETE, by carbamazepine remains to be established, because the constitutive level of 12(S)-HETE did not change upon carbamazepine treatment. Nevertheless, the effect of carbamazepine on the inhibition of CCID formation as an early step of breast cancer metastasis was significant and substantial (~30 %) and achieved at concentrations that are found in the plasma of carbamazepine-treated adults (40-60 μM). The fact that carbamazepine is a drug approved by the US Food and Drug Administration facilitates a "from-bench-to-bedside" perspective. Therefore, the here presented data should undergo scrutiny in vivo.
Eukaryotic pyrimidine 5'-nucleotidase type 1 (P5N-1) catalyzes dephosphorylation of pyrimidine 5'-mononucleotides. Deficiency of P5N-1 activity in red blood cells results in nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia. The enzyme deficiency is either familial or can be acquired through lead poisoning. We present the crystal structure of mouse P5N-1 refined to 2.35 A resolution. The mouse P5N-1 has a 92% sequence identity to its human counterpart. The structure revealed that P5N-1 adopts a fold similar to enzymes of the haloacid dehydrogenase superfamily. The active site of this enzyme is structurally highly similar to those of phosphoserine phosphatases. We propose a catalytic mechanism for P5N-1 that is also similar to that of phosphoserine phosphatases and provide experimental evidence for the mechanism in the form of structures of several reaction cycle states, including: 1) P5N-1 with bound Mg(II) at 2.25 A, 2) phosphoenzyme intermediate analog at 2.30 A, 3) product-transition complex analog at 2.35 A, and 4) product complex at 2.1A resolution with phosphate bound in the active site. Furthermore the structure of Pb(II)-inhibited P5N-1 (at 2.35 A) revealed that Pb(II) binds within the active site in a way that compromises function of the cationic cavity, which is required for the recognition and binding of the phosphate group of nucleotides.
An attempt was made to establish a decision algorithm for the treatment of idiopathic Parkinson's disease at various stages and in different subgroups such as akinetic-rigid or tremor dominance type. We suggest treating young patients with selegiline and a dopamine agonist. In the tremor dominance type we use either budipine or a dopamine agonist. Due to levodopa-induced dyskinesia, we try to avoid levodopa in the early stages of the disease and use it only later in more advanced situations in a combination therapy with dopamine agonists. Since IPS is not only based upon dopamine deficiency but also on resulting glutamatergic overstimulation, we advocate the use of a glutamate antagonist such as amantadine or budipine. Catechol-O-methyl inhibitors are very helpful when wearing-off occurs. Anticholinergics are only used in the early stages of tremor-dominant IPS because we fear enhancing the risk of dementia.
Cocaine is Europe's second preferred recreational drug after cannabis but very little is known about possible cognitive impairments in the upcoming type of recreational cocaine user (monthly consumption). We asked whether recreational use of cocaine impacts early attentional selection processes. Cocaine-free polydrug controls (n = 18) and cocaine polydrug users (n = 18) were matched on sex, age, alcohol consumption, and IQ (using the Raven's progressive matrices), and were tested by using the Global-Local task to measure the scope of attention. Cocaine polydrug users attended significantly more to local aspects of attended events, which fits with the idea that a reduced scope of attention may be associated with the perpetuation of the use of the drug.
The increased expression and cross-linking activity of tissue transglutaminase (tTG) have been demonstrated in acute liver injury and fibrosis. We focused on the molecular mechanisms that contribute to ethanol-induced tTG expression and investigated the efficacy of propolis components in preventing both the tTG expression in vitro and fibrogenesis in vivo. We demonstrate herein that both ERK1/2 and PI3K/Akt pathways can regulate the effects of ethanol on NF-kappaB-dependent transcription and these signaling pathways may be involved in activation of ethanol-mediated tTG expression. We also found that administration of pinocembrin (PIN), one of the major components of propolis, inhibited tTG activation and significantly prevented the development of thioacetamide (TAA)-induced liver cirrhosis. The present study suggests that tTG may be an important member of the cascade of factors necessary for ethanol-induced liver fibrogenesis and PIN could serve as an anti-fibrogenic agent.
To elucidate the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy (HE), we developed a new HE model with behaviour disorder.
Male Wistar rats were divided into four treatment groups: a HE model: acetaminophen (APAP)+3-methylcholanthrene (3-MC) group (APAP+MC group); control group: acetaminophen group; 3-methylcholanthrene group; and a no-treatment group. We monitored the changes of neural amino acids in the synaptic cleft and astrocytes in the brain during behaviour disorder.
In the APAP+MC group, alanine amino transferase, blood ammonia and glucose increased from 3 h and total bilirubin increased at 6 h. Prothrombin time was prolonged from 3 h in the APAP+MC group. The APAP+MC group exhibited centrilobular necrosis in the liver after 8 h. In the APAP+MC group, rats jumped vertically and this vertical activity increased significantly from 4 to 7 h. During the behaviour disorder, we found that glutamate and aspartate increased in the synaptic cleft from 4 h after treatment with APAP+3-MC, glutamate increased 23.9-fold at 7 h and aspartate increased 16.1-fold at 4 h, whereas glutamine did not change. At that time, we observed morphological changes of the astrocytes by immunostaining for the glial fibrillary acidic protein.
Our new HE model demonstrated that increased excitatory neural amino acids and morphological change in astrocytes were involved in the behaviour disorder that occurs with HE.
We identified eight hypertensive patients who developed severe bradycardia during oral clonidine hydrochloride therapy. Seven patients had sinus bradycardia, four had long sinus pauses, two had junctional bradycardia, and two had high-degree atrioventricular block. Three populations at risk for severe bradycardia during oral clonidine therapy were identified: patients with renal insufficiency, patients with clinical sinus node dysfunction, and patients who had developed bradycardia while taking other sympatholytic agents or who were currently receiving another sympatholytic drug. Clonidine effects were dissociated in two patients who were not hypotensive despite severe bradycardia. Asymptomatic patients required only dose reduction or discontinuation of clonidine therapy. Symptomatic patients responded inconsistently to intravenous atropine sulfate therapy; one responded to isoproterenol therapy, and one required temporary artificial pacing. Awareness of the variable presentation and response of this bradycardia to medical therapy will assist patient management. The incidence of this complication is low (less than 0.3%), but attention to risk factors should make clonidine-induced bradycardia even less frequent.
Although myocardial toxicity of certain antibiotics has been suggested by animal studies, their effects on human cardiac muscle has not been established. Accordingly, human right atrial trabeculae contracting isometrically in vitro were exposed to increasing doses of the antibiotics gentamicin, tobramycin and cephalothin. Contractile responses were measured and dose-response curves calculated by a polynomial regression analysis. All three antibiotics demonstrated a dose-related decrease in relative developed force although resting force remained constant. Concentrations of gentamicin, tobramycin and cephalothin that caused 50% depression of developed force were 1.97, 1.92 and 52.75 mg/mL, respectively. These doses were 200, 200 and 2600 times the accepted serum toxic concentrations for gentamicin, tobramycin and cephalothin, respectively. The depression caused by cephalothin is probably related to ionic changes within the bath solution. In conclusion, gentamicin and tobramycin have myocardial toxicity at high concentrations which should not occur clinically when used judiciously.
Ibogaine, an alkaloid extracted from Tabemanthe iboga, is being studied as a potential long-acting treatment for oploid and stimulant abuse as well as for alcoholism and smoking. Studies in this laboratory have used animal models to characterize ibogaine's interactions with drugs of abuse, and to investigate the mechanisms responsible. Ibogaine, as well as its metabolite, noribogaine, can decrease both morphine and cocaine self-administration for several days in some rats; shorter-lasting effects appear to occur on ethanol and nicotine intake. Acutely, both ibogaine and noribogaine decrease extracellular levels of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens of rat brain. Ibogaine pretreatment (19 hours beforehand) blocks morphine-induced dopamine release and morphine-induced locomotor hyperactivity while, in contrast, it enhances similar effects of stimulants (cocaine and amphetamine). Ibogaine pretreatment also blocks nicotine-induced dopamine release. Both ibogaine and noribogaine bind to kappa opioid and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors and to serotonin uptake sites; ibogaine also binds to sigma-2 and nicotinic receptors. The relative contributions of these actions are being assessed. Our ongoing studies in rats suggest that kappa agonist and NMDA antagonist actions contribute to ibogaine's effects on opioid and stimulant self-administration, while the serotonergic actions may be more important for ibogaine-induced decreases in alcohol intake. A nicotinic antagonist action may mediate ibogaine-induced reduction of nicotine preferences in rats. A sigma-2 action of ibogaine appears to mediate its neurotoxicity. Some effects of ibogaine (e.g., on morphine and cocaine self-administration, morphine-induced hyperactivity, cocaine-induced increases in nucleus accumbens dopamine) are mimicked by kappa agonist (U50,488) and/or a NMDA antagonist (MK-801). Moreover, a combination of a kappa antagonist and a NMDA agonist will partially reverse several of ibogaine's effects. Ibogaine's long-term effects may be mediated by slow release from fat tissue (where ibogaine is sequestered) and conversion to noribogaine. Different receptors, or combinations of receptors, may mediate interactions of ibogaine with different drugs of abuse.
Sensory motor neuropathy is associated with various inherited disorders including Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy/adrenomyeloneuropathy and Refsum disease. In the latter two, the neuropathy is thought to result from the accumulation of specific fatty acids. We describe here three patients with elevated plasma concentrations of pristanic acid (a branched-chain fatty acid) and C27-bile-acid intermediates. Two of the patients suffered from adult-onset sensory motor neuropathy. One patient also had pigmentary retinopathy, suggesting Refsum disease, whereas the other patient had upper motor neuron signs in the legs, suggesting adrenomyeloneuropathy. The third patient was a child without neuropathy. In all three patients we discovered a deficiency of alpha-methylacyl-CoA racemase (AMACR). This enzyme is responsible for the conversion of pristanoyl-CoA and C27-bile acyl-CoAs to their (S)-stereoisomers, which are the only stereoisomers that can be degraded via peroxisomal beta-oxidation. Sequence analysis of AMACR cDNA from the patients identified two different mutations that are likely to cause disease, based on analysis in Escherichia coli. Our findings have implications for the diagnosis of adult-onset neuropathies of unknown aetiology.
We report a patient who developed sulphasalazine-related hepatitis with a subsequent adverse reaction to rectal 5-amino salicylic acid, in the form of pain and fever without associated liver dysfunction, suggesting reactions to both components of sulphasalazine. Included is a review of the literature. Caution should be observed when prescribing 5-amino salicylic acid to sulphasalazine-intolerant patients.
