In order to evaluate the effect of PGI2 on left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) an intravenous infusion in 10 patients (3 males, 7 females; 36 to 63 years) with an impaired LVEF (34.7 +/- 14.8%) was performed. LVEF was determined by means of 99mTc-pertechnetate radionuclide ventriculography. An increase of LVEF to 36.2 +/- 13.5% during administration of PGI2 at a rate of 1 ng/kg/min for 15 min and to 43.8 +/- 15.8% during a rate of 5 ng/kg/min (p less than 0.01) for an additional 15 min was observed. Analyzing the data in more detail in 6 patients, an improvement in LVEF became obvious during the administration of 1 ng/kg/min (108, 109, 116, 118, 121, and 123% of pre-infusion value, respectively). In 5 out of these 6 patients a dose-increment to 5 ng/kg/min further increased LVEF (139, 179, 187, 148, and 128% of pre-infusion value, respectively). In contrast, in the other 4 patients no response of LVEF to PGI2 at a rate of 1 ng/kg/min could be observed. However, in 2 out of these 4 patients LVEF increased during the administration of 5 ng/kg/min (111 and 117% of pre-infusion value). Individual changes in hemodynamic parameters showed no correlation to the improvement seen in LVEF in response to PGI2. It is concluded that PGI2 may exert beneficial effects on LVEF, and might be used in certain clinical conditions, such as before heart transplantation, to achieve a temporary improvement in LVEF.
Survivin is an inhibitor of apoptosis that plays a significant role in cell cycle regulation and is important for survival prognosis in many neoplasms. Survivin expression was assessed by in situ hybridization (ISH) in 60 consecutive patients (54 males and 4 females) with NSCLC treated between 1993 and 1997. The examined patients had IIB and IIIA stage according to TNM system. In all cases the chemotherapy with cisplatin and etoposide (2 cycles) was administered prior the surgery; in patients responding to the therapy one more cycle was applied. Survivin gene overexpression was observed in 35 patients (58.3%). There was no correlation between survivin mRNA level and histological type of tumor, stage of cell differentiation, stage of disease according to TNM classification, performance status according to WHO and number of chemotherapy regimens administered (p > 0.05). However, the correlation between survivin gene expression and response to the chemotherapy was statistically significant (p = 0.04). Statistical analysis showed that median survival in patients with survivin gene overexpression was shorter (14.0 months) as compared to patients with no expression (60.0 months; p = 0.00002). In survival assessment by means of Kaplan-Meier test, 14.3% of five-year survival was achieved in the former group versus 60% in the latter (p = 0.00003). Univariate analysis (log-rank test) showed that significant independent prognostic factors in NSCLC included: stage of the disease according to TNM classification (p = 0.006), response to chemotherapy (p = 0.005) and pattern of survivin gene expression (p = 0.00003). Multivariate analysis utilizing Cox's model showed that for survival assessment the stage according to TNM, response to the chemotherapy and survivin expression estimated by means of ISH are of statistical significance (p=0.00001). The calculated predictive values showed that ISH technique was quite accurate in assessment of five-year survival. Our data show that survivin expression may be used as a prognostic factor and a target for therapy.
The authors report a case of stupor secondary to valproic acid, in a patient treated with this drug and phenobarbital for a complex partial form of epilepsy. The pathogeny of this rare complication is discussed. In this patient, a paradoxical epileptic reactivation is excluded, and the authors favor a metabolic mechanism: either hyperammoniemia or a perturbation in cerebral neuro-transmitter systems are proposed.
The manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) ala16val polymorphism has been associated with various diseases including breast cancer. In the present study, we investigated levels of MnSOD protein, enzymatic activity, and mRNA with respect to MnSOD genotype in several human breast carcinoma cell lines and in mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEF), developed from the MnSOD knockout mouse, stably expressing human MnSOD-ala and MnSOD-val. In human breast cell lines, the MnSOD-ala allele was associated with increased levels of MnSOD protein and MnSOD protein per unit mRNA. In the MEF transformants, MnSOD activity correlated fairly well with MnSOD protein levels. MnSOD mRNA expression was significantly lower in MnSOD-ala versus MnSOD-val lines. MnSOD protein and activity levels were not related to MnSOD genotype in the transformed MEF, although, as observed in the human breast cell lines, the MEF human MnSOD-ala lines produced significantly more human MnSOD protein per unit mRNA than the human MnSOD-val lines. This suggests that there is more efficient production of MnSOD-ala protein compared to MnSOD-val protein. Examination of several indicators of reactive oxygen species levels, including superoxide and hydrogen peroxide, in wild-type MEF and in MEF expressing similar elevated amounts of MnSOD-ala or val activity did not show differences related to the levels of MnSOD protein expression. In conclusion, in both human breast carcinoma cell lines and MEF cell lines stably transfected with human MnSOD, the MnSOD-ala allele was associated with increased production of MnSOD protein per unit mRNA indicating a possible imbalance in MnSOD protein production from the MnSOD-val mRNA.
A regimen of prophylaxis of thromboembolism with low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) and unfractionated heparin (UFH) in orthopedic surgery is presented. Over a 5-year period, 11,905 patients have been operated in all fields of orthopedic surgery in a big trauma center. In 498 cases, deep vein thrombosis (DVT) was clinically suspected and phlebography was performed: 122 patients had confirmed DVT (rate 0.98%); 59.8% of the DVT were limited to the calf. Nineteen pulmonary embolisms (rate 0.16%) were diagnosed (3 lethal). Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia type II was diagnosed in 12 of 122 patients. Only one of these had received LMWH. The related rates of DVT were highest for tibial head fractures (12.4%), total knee replacement (6.7%), and multiple trauma (6.4%). The extent of DVT was most severe in multiple trauma. The results proved the regimen to be of good clinical use and showed that more attention has to be paid to fractures, especially of the knee; and to patients with multiple injuries.
The inflammatory response accompanies and exacerbates the developing injury after cerebral ischemia. Ibuprofen, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug, has been shown to attenuate injuries in animal models of various neurological diseases. In the present study, we investigated ibuprofen's neuroprotective effects in rats exposed to transient forebrain ischemia and in cultures exposed to oxygen glucose deprivation (OGD). Rats treated with ibuprofen after transient forebrain ischemia displayed long-lasting protection of CA1 hippocampal neurons. There were selective increases in interleukin-1 receptor antagonist gene and protein expression in ibuprofen-treated OGD microglia. Furthermore, treatment with ibuprofen in neuron/microglia co-cultures increased the number of surviving HC2S2 neurons against OGD whereas IL-1ra neutralizing antibody reversed the ibuprofen-induced neuroprotection. The data indicate that ibuprofen-induced IL-1ra secretion is involved in neuroprotection against ischemic conditions.
The ability of drugs, selective for dopamine D1 and D2 receptors, to influence the production of motor seizures was studied in mice and rats. Mice, which had been injected with reserpine (5 mg/kg) to deplete stores of monoamines in brain, could be made to convulse 24 hr later by injecting the D1 agonists, SKF 38393 (15-30 mg/kg) and CY 208-243 (0.3-3 mg/kg). The D2 agonists, lisuride (0.5-5 mg/kg) and RU 24213 (0.5-15 mg/kg) and the mixed D1/D2 agonist, apomorphine (0.05-0.5 mg/kg), had no effect on the seizure thresholds by themselves. However, the proconvulsant action of SKF 38393, 15 mg/kg, was prevented by the simultaneous injection of lisuride (5 mg/kg), RU 24213 (5 mg/kg) or apomorphine (0.5 mg/kg) and also by the selective D1 blocking drug, SCH 23390 (0.1 mg/kg). Rats were made to convulse by injecting the cholinergic agonist, pilocarpine (200-600 mg/kg) coupled with methyl scopolamine (1 mg/kg), to prevent peripheral autonomic effects. The smallest dose of pilocarpine (200 mg/kg) was subconvulsant, whereas the larger ones (400 and 600 mg/kg) dose-dependently induced tonic convulsions. The drug SKF 38393 (30 mg/kg) was found to be proconvulsant and caused seizures to develop in 100% of animals, at all dose levels of pilocarpine. This effect was blocked by SCH 23390 (0.25 mg/kg) which, by itself, reduced the severity and increased the latency of pilocarpine-induced convulsions, but not their frequency. The D2 agonist LY 171555 (0.5 mg/kg) was also anticonvulsant in this model and was antagonised by the D2 blocking drug metoclopramide (1.25 mg/kg), which was ineffective alone.
The receptor tyrosine kinase, ret, is activated by glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, neurturin and related ligands that bind to glycosylphosphatidylinositol-tailed receptors GFRalpha1-4. Ret expression is developmentally regulated and detectable only at very low levels in adult adrenal medulla. However, mutations of ret that cause constitutive activation or alter signal transduction give rise to adrenal medullary hyperplasia and pheochromocytomas in humans with hereditary multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN) syndromes 2A and 2B and in animal models. These discordant observations pose the conundrum of how a molecule barely detectable in the adult adrenal can contribute to development of adrenal medullary pathology that typically occurs in adults. We recently reported that depolarization and phorbol esters that activate protein kinase C act synergistically with neurturin to up-regulate ret protein and mRNA expression in adult rat chromaffin cell cultures. Those findings suggested that ret expression in vivo is not static and might be regulated in part by neurally derived signals. We show here that the anti-hypertensive agent reserpine, which is known to cause a reflex increase in trans-synaptic stimulation of chromaffin cells, increases expression of ret mRNA and protein in adult rat adrenal medullary tissue in vivo. Elevated ret protein levels are detectable both by immunoblots and immunohistochemistry, which shows immunoreactive ret in chromaffin cells and neurons after reserpine administration. The finding that ret expression is subject to up-regulation by environmental signals in vivo suggests that epigenetic factors might influence the development of adrenal medullary disease by affecting the expression of ret. It is known that long-term administration of reserpine leads to the development of adrenal medullary hyperplasia and pheochromocytomas in rats. Our findings suggest potential utility of the rat model for studying the roles of ret in the adrenal medulla and the mechanisms of its involvement in MEN 2 and other pheochromocytoma syndromes.
Non-dioxin-like polychlorinated biphenyls (NDL-PCBs) are environmental pollutants that are well known for their neurotoxic effects. Numerous in vitro studies reported PCB-induced increases in the basal intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)), and in vivo NDL-PCB neurotoxicity appears at least partly mediated by these disturbances. However, effects of NDL-PCBs on depolarization-evoked calcium influx are poorly investigated, and effects of several congeners, including PCB53, on calcium homeostasis are still unknown. We therefore studied the effects of 20 selected NDL-PCBs on basal and depolarization-evoked [Ca(2+)](i) in fura-2-loaded PC12 cells using single-cell fluorescence microscopy. The results demonstrate that hexa- and heptachlorobiphenyls (with the exception of PCB136) were unable to affect basal and depolarization-evoked [Ca(2+)](i). However, most tri- and tetrachlorinated as well as some pentachlorinated NDL-PCBs (at 1 and 10μM) increased basal [Ca(2+)](i) during a 15-min exposure. The increase in basal [Ca(2+)](i), which differed in kinetics for the different congeners, depended partly on influx of extracellular calcium and calcium release from the endoplasmic reticulum. Importantly, all tested tri- and tetrachlorinated biphenyls and some pentachlorinated NDL-PCBs (PCB95, PCB100, and PCB104) reduced depolarization-evoked [Ca(2+)](i), with PCB51 and PCB53 being most potent (near complete inhibition at 1μM). The reduction in depolarization-evoked calcium influx depended on the exposure duration but not on the foregoing PCB-induced increase in basal [Ca(2+)](i). The inhibition of voltage-gated calcium channels is a novel and sensitive mode of action for NDL-PCBs that contributes to the disturbances in calcium homeostasis and likely is related to NDL-PCB-induced (developmental) neurotoxicity.
Previous research on pharmacotherapy with conventional antipsychotics has suggested that patients with affective disorders have higher rates of treatment-emergent extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) than patients with schizophrenia. It is not known whether this differential vulnerability holds true for treatment with atypical antipsychotics such as olanzapine. The present analysis retrospectively examined olanzapine clinical trial data for incidence of treatment-emergent EPS in patients with either schizophrenia or bipolar disorder.
Study participants were 4417 patients meeting DSM-III or DSM-IV criteria for either schizophrenia or bipolar mania participating in olanzapine clinical trials through July 31, 2001. Data were pooled across haloperidol-controlled trials and separately across placebo-controlled trials. Measures of EPS included rates of treatment-emergent EPS adverse event by type (i.e., dystonic, parkinsonian, or residual), Simpson-Angus Scale score mean change, rates of treatment-emergent parkinsonism, and rates of anticholinergic use.
Consistent with prior research, haloperidol-treated patients with bipolar disorder appeared to be more vulnerable to the development of EPS than those with schizophrenia. However, olanzapine-treated patients with bipolar disorder were no more likely to develop EPS than those with schizophrenia.
Results support previous research regarding conventional antipsychotics and suggest that olanzapine therapy does not increase the risk of EPS for patients with bipolar disorder.
Triuret (also known as carbonyldiurea, dicarbamylurea, or 2,4-diimidotricarbonic diamide) is a byproduct of purine degradation in living organisms. An abundant triuret precursor is uric acid, whose level is altered in multiple metabolic pathologies. Triuret can be generated via urate oxidation by peroxynitrite, the latter being produced by the reaction of nitric oxide radical with superoxide radical anion. From this standpoint, an excess production of superoxide radical anions could indirectly favor triuret formation; however very little is known about the potential in vivo roles of this metabolite. Triuret's structure is suggestive of its ability to adopt various conformations and act as a flexible ligand for metal ions. In the current study, HPLC-MS/MS, energy-resolved mass spectrometry, selected ion monitoring, collision-induced dissociation, IRMPD spectroscopy, Fourier transform-ion cyclotron resonance mass spectrometry and computational methods were employed to characterize the structure of triuret and its metal complexes, to determine the triuret-alkali metal binding motif, and to evaluate triuret affinity toward alkali metal ions, as well as its affinity for Na(+) and K(+) relative to other organic ligands. The most favored binding motif was determined to be a bidentate chelation of triuret with the alkali metal cation involving two carbonyl oxygens. Using the complexation selectivity method, it was observed that in solution triuret has an increased affinity for potassium ions, compared to sodium and other alkali metal ions. We propose that triuret may act as a potential hypokalemic agent under pathophysiological conditions conducive to its excessive formation and thus contribute to electrolyte disorders. The collision- or photo-induced fragmentation channels of deprotonated and protonated triuret, as well as its alkali metal adducts, are likely to mimic the triuret degradation pathways in vivo.
We used exome sequencing to identify the genetic basis of combined malonic and methylmalonic aciduria (CMAMMA). We sequenced the exome of an individual with CMAMMA and followed up with sequencing of eight additional affected individuals (cases). This included one individual who was identified and diagnosed by searching an exome database. We identify mutations in ACSF3, encoding a putative methylmalonyl-CoA and malonyl-CoA synthetase as a cause of CMAMMA. We also examined a canine model of CMAMMA, which showed pathogenic mutations in a predicted ACSF3 ortholog. ACSF3 mutant alleles occur with a minor allele frequency of 0.0058 in ∼1,000 control individuals, predicting a CMAMMA population incidence of ∼1:30,000. ACSF3 deficiency is the first human disorder identified as caused by mutations in a gene encoding a member of the acyl-CoA synthetase family, a diverse group of evolutionarily conserved proteins, and may emerge as one of the more common human metabolic disorders.
Recognition of depression as a psychobiologic disorder, its division into categories more descriptive than "endogenous" and "reactive," and use of certain laboratory tests in suspected major (primary) depression have led to increased accuracy of diagnosis. An episode of major depression now can be readily identified by conformance to descriptive criteria, can be confirmed by results of neurophysiologic testing, and can be treated with a tricyclic antidepressant and psychotherapy.
A 45-year-old woman of Moroccan origin developed a dilated cardiomyopathy during clozapine treatment for a psychosis that did not respond to conventional antipsychotics. The onset of her illness was acute with chest pain. She subsequently developed shortness of breath and oedema of the face and legs. The cardiomyopathy appeared to be partially reversible after the clozapine was halted. Cardiomyopathy during the use of clozapine is rarely described in the literature, although myocarditis is a known complication. The cause of cardiomyopathy during the use of clozapine is not known. Myocarditis might evolve into cardiomyopathy. There are indications that myocarditis is caused by an allergic reaction to clozapine. It is advised that clozapine treatment should only be initiated under the close supervision of a psychiatrist, and that during the use of clozapine one should be alert to the risk of cardiac complications.
Histologic and ultrastructural studies were performed on the heart of 16 patients with fatal leukemias or solid tumors. Multifocal myocardial degenerative lesions, characterized by alterations in contractile elements, mitochondria, and nuclei, were found in 12 patients treated with high total doses of anthracyclines, but not in 3 patients who did receive such therapy. One patient who received a high dose of cyclophosphamide as well as a high total dose of daunorubicin exhibited extensive hemorrhagic myocardial necrosis and multifocal degenerative lesions. This study documents the cardiotoxic effects of anthracyclines and cyclophosphamide.
Clozapine is a widely used antipsychotic medication and is effective against both positive and negative symptoms of schizophrenia. However, clozapine use should be monitored closely due to its side effects profile. The main side effects include cardiorespiratory symptoms, seizures and agranulocytosis. We report a case of effuso-constrictive pericarditis soon after being started on clozapine therapy, whose symptoms improved after discontinuation of clozapine. The literature is reviewed and importance of monitoring is discussed.
Fluoroquinolone (FQ) resistance of Bacillus anthracis is a serious concern in the fields of biodefense and bioterrorism since FQs are very effective antibiotics and are recommended as first-line treatment against this lethal bacterium. In this study, we obtained 2 strains of B. anthracis showing resistance or intermediate resistance to ciprofloxacin (CIP) by a stepwise selection procedure with increasing CIP concentrations. Fifteen genetic variations were identified between the parental and CIP-resistant strains by next-generation sequencing. Nonsynonymous mutations in the quinolone resistance-determining region (QRDR) of type II DNA topoisomerase were identified in the resistant strain but not in the intermediate-resistant strain. The GBAA0834 (TetR-type transcriptional regulator) locus was also revealed to be a novel "mutation hot spot" that leads to the increased expression of multidrug efflux systems for CIP resistance. As an initial step of CIP resistance in B. anthracis, such disruptive mutations of GBAA0834 appear to be more easily acquired than those in an essential gene, such as that encoding type II DNA topoisomerase. Such an intermediate-resistant phenotype could increase a cell population under CIP-selective pressure and might promote the emergence of highly resistant isolates. Our findings reveal, in addition to QRDR, crucial genetic targets for the investigation of intermediate resistance of B. anthracis to FQs.
A20 (TNFAIP3) is a protein that is involved in the negative feedback regulation of NF-κB signaling in response to specific proinflammatory stimuli in different cell types and has been suggested as a susceptibility gene for rheumatoid arthritis. To define the contribution of A20 to rheumatoid arthritis pathology, we generated myeloid-specific A20-deficient mice and show that specific ablation of Tnfaip3 in myeloid cells results in spontaneous development of a severe destructive polyarthritis with many features of rheumatoid arthritis. Myeloid-A20-deficient mice have high levels of inflammatory cytokines in their serum, consistent with a sustained NF-κB activation and higher TNF production by macrophages. Destructive polyarthritis in myeloid A20 knockout mice was TLR4-MyD88 and IL-6 dependent but was TNF independent. Myeloid A20 deficiency also promoted osteoclastogenesis in mice. Together, these observations indicate a critical and cell-specific function for A20 in the etiology of rheumatoid arthritis, supporting the idea of developing A20 modulatory drugs as cell-targeted therapies.
Wilson's disease (WD) is characterized by impaired hepatic copper secretion and subsequent copper accumulation in many organs predominantly liver and brain, secondary to loss of function mutations in the copper transport protein ATP7B. If the disease is recognized too late or treatment is not adequate, brain copper accumulation leads to progressive neurodegeneration with a variety of clinical symptoms. The nigrostriatal dopaminergic system seems rather vulnerable. Midbrain atrophy, however, has not been recognized as one of the prime features of patients with WD. Here we report quantification of midbrain diameter in 41 patients with WD. Data were correlated to the severity of neurological symptoms and the integrity of dopaminergic neurons measured via dopamine transporter binding. For control, we measured midbrain diameter in 18 patients with no evidence for brainstem dysfunction and 5 patients with progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP). Patients with WD had a reduced midbrain diameter (15.5 +/- 0.4 mm) compared to controls (18.5 +/- 0.2 mm). WD patients without neurological symptoms had midbrain diameter that were not different from controls (18.0 +/- 0.3 mm), while patients with neurological symptoms showed midbrain atrophy similar to patients with PSP (14.4 +/- 0.3 mm versus 14.1 +/- 0.3). There was a strong and significant correlation between midbrain atrophy and the severity of neurological symptoms (r= -0.68, p < 0.001) while midbrain atrophy and dopamine transporter binding correlated significantly but was less pronounced (r=0.46, p < 0.001). In summary, we were able to show, that midbrain diameter is an easy to perform quantification of neurodegeneration induced by brain copper accumulation and that other structures than substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons seem to contribute to midbrain atrophy in WD.
Dexmedetomidine, an alpha 2-adrenergic agonist, can prevent the genesis of halothane/epinephrine dysrhythmias through the central nervous system. Because stimulation of alpha 2 adrenoceptors in the central nervous system enhances vagal neural activity and vagal stimulation is known to inhibit digitalis-induced dysrhythmias, dexmedetomidine may exert the antidysrhythmic property through vagal stimulation. To address this hypothesis, the effect of dexmedetomidine in vagotomized dogs was examined and compared with that in intact dogs. In addition, the effect of vagotomy on the antidysrhythmic action of doxazosin, an alpha 1 antagonist, was studied.
Adult mongrel dogs were anesthetized with halothane (1.3%) and monitored continuously for systemic arterial pressure and premature ventricular contractions. Animals were divided into two groups receiving bilateral vagotomy or sham operation. The dysrhythmia threshold was expressed by the dysrhythmogenic dose of epinephrine, defined as the smallest dose producing four or more premature ventricular contractions within a 15-s period, and plasma concentration of epinephrine at the time when the dysrhythmogenic dose was reached. The threshold was determined in the presence of dexmedetomidine (a selective alpha 2 agonist that crosses the blood-brain barrier) and doxazosin (a selective alpha 1 antagonist that does not penetrate the blood-brain barrier) in the two groups. In addition, the effect of dexmedetomidine in the presence of atropine methylnitrate instead of vagotomy was examined.
Vagotomy did not affect the basal vulnerability to halothane/epinephrine dysrhythmias significantly. Although dexmedetomidine dose-dependently prevented the genesis of the dysrhythmias in intact dogs, the beneficial effect of dexmedetomidine was abolished in both the vagotomized and the atropine-treated dogs. On the other hand, vagotomy did not change the antidysrhythmic property of doxazosin.
The vagus nerve plays an important role in the prevention of halothane/epinephrine dysrhythmias by dexmedetomidine in dogs. However, resting vagal tone neither modulates the onset of halothane/epinephrine dysrhythmias nor affects the antidysrhythmic action of doxazosin.
Graves' disease is a common autoimmune disorder characterized by thyroid stimulating hormone receptor autoantibodies (TRAb) and hyperthyroidism. To investigate the genetic architecture of Graves' disease, we conducted a genome-wide association study in 1,536 individuals with Graves' disease (cases) and 1,516 controls. We further evaluated a group of associated SNPs in a second set of 3,994 cases and 3,510 controls. We confirmed four previously reported loci (in the major histocompatibility complex, TSHR, CTLA4 and FCRL3) and identified two new susceptibility loci (the RNASET2-FGFR1OP-CCR6 region at 6q27 (P(combined) = 6.85 × 10(-10) for rs9355610) and an intergenic region at 4p14 (P(combined) = 1.08 × 10(-13) for rs6832151)). These newly associated SNPs were correlated with the expression levels of RNASET2 at 6q27, of CHRNA9 and of a previously uncharacterized gene at 4p14, respectively. Moreover, we identified strong associations of TSHR and major histocompatibility complex class II variants with persistently TRAb-positive Graves' disease.
We have shown that repeated administration of cocaine, as well as other drugs and nondrug stressors, can induce alternating increases and decreases in several neurotransmitter and endocrine endpoints, which we call oscillation. Oscillation studies have typically used 3-4 pretreatments with cocaine or other agents, raising the question of whether oscillation lasts beyond this point. Using plasma corticosterone as our endpoint measure, we therefore inquired whether oscillation would persist across eight administrations of cocaine over a 28-day period. We report oscillation of corticosterone levels persisting across all eight cocaine groups. Our data also indicate that the degree of oscillation increases with the intertreatment interval.
We report a case of a 43 year-old female who presented with lithium-induced nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. This patient had history of bipolar disorder for which she had been taking lithium carbonate for last 16 years. Appropriate work up was done and she was diagnosed with nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, secondary to lithium toxicity, and was managed accordingly.
Citalopram is a very potent and highly selective inhibitor of neuronal serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, or 5-HT). Serotonin syndrome is a rarely observed side-effect of Citalopram use. This report discusses a case of first time, low dose citalopram use-related serotonin syndrome presenting with confusion, hyperhidrosis, hyperreflexia, myoclonus and fever.
Transient neurologic dysfunction associated with high-dose methotrexate and citrovorum factor rescue (MTX-CF) has been previously reported. At the biochemical level, there are at least two important pathways in central nervous system metabolism which might be disturbed by MTX: MTX may deplete the cell of the de novo synthesis of purine nucleotides and thymidylate through its action on dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR), and also inhibit dihydropteridine reductase (DHPR), an enzyme maintaining the cofactor of phenylalanine-hydroxylase in its active tetrahydrogenated form (tetrahydrobiopterin), and hence interfere with the supply of the neurotransmitters derived from tyrosine and tryptophan. We describe such a neurologic disease in a patient with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) receiving chemotherapy. Significant increase in cerebrospinal fluid biopterins supports the hypothesis of an inhibition of dihydropteridine reductase by MTX, and provides additional suggestions in terms of etiology, diagnosis and treatment.
Paroxetine is a potent selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor with antidepressant and anxiolytic activity that is effective in the treatment of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD), improving the core symptoms of anxiety, worry, and tension. The majority of patients with GAD have chronic symptomatology and significant comorbid mood and anxiety disorders that often require ongoing pharmacotherapy. This article reviews the efficacy and tolerability of paroxetine in the short- and long-term treatment of GAD including remission data.
Data from more than 1800 outpatients with DSM-IV-defined GAD were analyzed from 3 short-term (8-week) studies and a longer (6-month) relapse prevention study. These studies were all randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials of paroxetine.
The results emphasize the benefit of paroxetine treatment in GAD, enabling a substantial proportion of patients to achieve clinical remission and preventing relapse. Long-term treatment with paroxetine also shows good tolerability with no evidence of weight gain.
Given the high comorbidity of psychiatric depression and anxiety, the long-term efficacy and tolerability of paroxetine are important considerations when selecting a first-line therapy for patients with GAD.
Arsenic is a recognized human carcinogen and development of rodent models remains a critically important research objective. Since gestation can be a period of high sensitivity to chemical carcinogenesis, we have performed a series of transplacental carcinogenicity studies in mice with inorganic arsenic. In this study, groups of pregnant C3H mice received drinking water containing sodium arsenite (NaAsO2) at 0, 42.5 and 85 p.p.m. arsenic ad libitum from days 8 to 18 of gestation. These doses of arsenic were well tolerated. Dams delivered normally and at weaning (4 weeks) offspring were randomly put into groups (n = 25) of males or females according to maternal dose. In an attempt to promote skin cancers initiated by transplacental arsenic, duplicate groups of control or arsenic exposed offspring were topically exposed to 12-O-tetradecanoyl phorbol-13-acetate (TPA; 2 micro g/0.1 ml acetone, twice/week) from 4 to 25 weeks of age. Irrespective of TPA exposure, male offspring showed arsenic-induced dose-related increases in hepatocellular carcinoma incidence and multiplicity, as well as increases in adrenal tumor incidence and multiplicity. In female offspring, an increase in epithelial ovarian tumors occurred with arsenic exposure regardless of TPA exposure. Females also showed pre-neoplastic lesions of the reproductive tract, including hyperplasia of the uterus and oviduct, after arsenic but independent of TPA exposure. Although TPA had no effect on skin tumors, it promoted arsenic initiated liver tumors in females and lung tumors in both sexes. Thus, inorganic arsenic, as a single agent, can consistently act as a complete transplacental carcinogen in mice, inducing tumors at multiple sites, and as a tumor initiator in some tissues. Skin tumors were not initiated by arsenic in mouse fetuses possibly indicating tissue-specific mechanisms of action. This study indicates that gestation is a period of high sensitivity to arsenic carcinogenesis.
Subhypnotic doses (10 and 20 mg/kg) of pentobarbital significantly elevated locomotor activity measured for 30 min in CD-1 mice. The hyperactivity was also observed in mice recovering from pentobarbital-induced (50 mg/kg) sleep (measurements starting 15 min after recovery of righting reflex). Naloxone in doses up to 4 mg/kg did not affect significantly the pentobarbital-induced hyperactivity in any experiment; a dose of 8 mg/kg only partially attenuated the hyperactivity induced by a dose of 20 mg/kg of pentobarbital, but did not affect significantly either the stimulatory effect of a low subhypnotic dose (10 mg/kg) or the posthypnotic hyperactivity. This suggests a negligible involvement of opioid mechanisms in the hyperactivity induced by pentobarbital.
