Chest-related symptoms occur with all triptans; up to 41% of patients with migraine who receive sumatriptan experience chest symptoms, and 10% of patients discontinue treatment. Thus, the cost of chest pain-related care was estimated in migraineurs receiving almotriptan 12.5 mg versus sumatriptan 50 mg. A population-based, retrospective cohort study used data to quantify the incidence and costs of chest pain-related diagnoses and procedures. An economic model was constructed to estimate annual cost savings per 1000 patients receiving almotriptan versus sumatriptan based on the reported rates of chest pain. Annual direct medical cost avoided was calculated for a hypothetical health plan covering 1 million lives. Among a cohort of 1390 patients, the incidence of chest pain-related diagnoses increased significantly by 43.6% with sumatriptan (P=.003). Aggregate costs for chest pain-related diagnoses and procedures increased from $22,713 to $30,234. Payments for inpatient hospital services, costs for primary care visits, and costs for outpatient hospital visits increased by over 100%, 53.1%, and 14.4%, respectively. The model predicted $11,215 in direct medical cost savings annually per 1000 patients treated with almotriptan versus sumatriptan. Annual direct medical costs avoided totaled $194,358, and when applied to recent estimates of 86 million lives currently covered by almotriptan treatment, translates into an annual cost savings of just under $17 million for chest pain and associated care. Thus, using almotriptan in place of sumatriptan will likely reduce the cost of chest pain-related care.
Residual muscle paralysis after anesthesia is common after pancuronium, but less common following the intermediate-acting drugs vecuronium and atracurium. Therefore, many anesthetists do not monitor neuromuscular function when using an intermediate-acting agent. The purpose of this prospective, randomised and double-blind study was to establish the incidence and degree of postoperative residual block following the use of rocuronium in patients not monitored with a nerve stimulator, and to compare it with results obtained in patients monitored using acceleromyography (AMG).
During propofol/opioid anesthesia, 120 adult patients were randomised to two groups, one monitored with AMG, the other using only clinical criteria without a nerve stimulator. Postoperatively, TOF-ratio was measured with mechanomyography; a TOF-ratio < 0.80 indicated residual muscle paralysis.
Residual muscle paralysis was found in 10 patients in the group without neuromuscular monitoring (16.7%) (95% confidence interval, 12-21%) and in two patients in the AMG-monitored group (3%) (95% CI, 0-8%); (P = 0.029, Fisher's exact test). Time from end of surgery to tracheal extubation was significantly longer in the AMG-monitored group (12.5 min) than in the group not monitored with AMG (10 min).
Clinical evaluation of recovery of neuromuscular function does not exclude significant residual paralysis following the intermediate-acting muscle relaxant rocuronium, but the problem of residual block can be minimized by use of AMG.
A new model of thrombotic challenge, well suited for screening agents and which acts primarily against platelet thromboembolism, has been used to test the in vivo anti-platelet effects of four calcium channel blockers (CCB). An i.v. injection of a mixture of collagen plus epinephrine (15 micrograms and 1.8 micrograms/mouse, respectively) was given to male mice. 94% control mice died or remained paralyzed for more than 15 minutes. The dihydropyridine agents, CRE-223 and Nifedipine, were highly protective against experimental thrombosis, whereas Verapamil had a weaker and much shorter effect and, on the other hand, Diltiazem had no protective effect over a range of doses. The activity on both dihydropyridines lasted for seven hours or even longer.
4,4'-Methylenedianiline (MDA), an aromatic amine, is a known human hepatotoxin and an animal carcinogen but there is little information regarding its chronic effects in humans. Between 1967 and 1976, 10 workers at a plant in Ontario that used MDA as an epoxy hardener developed acute jaundice. We followed this group from the date of intoxication through to the end of 1991 for cancer incidence by matching with the Ontario Cancer Registry. To date, one cancer, a pathologically confirmed bladder cancer has developed (expected number based on provincial incidence rates: 0.64 for all cancers, 0.05 for bladder cancer). This finding may be important because bladder cancer was a site of interest a priori; bladder cancers have been observed in two other occupationally exposed groups (significantly higher than expected in one of these); in the National Toxicology Program bioassay, urinary bladder tumors occurred in exposed animals but not in controls; and MDA has structural similarity to known human bladder carcinogens such as benzidine.
The aim of this study was to analyse the effect of the ACE-1, Trandolapril, alone or with Verapamil on blood pressure, albuminuria and metabolic profile in type 2 diabetic patients with hypertension and albuminuria. It was an open multicenter, consecutive and prospective study conducted in 281 patients. There was a four-week wash-out period of antihypertensive drugs, after which we carried out a measurement over a 24-h period of the urinary excretion of albumina (UEA). Blood pressure was recorded after at least 5 minutes of rest in the sitting position at 1 to 3 minute intervals with a mercury sphygmomanometer in good condition. Average BP was obtained from three consecutive readings. Within treatment changes were analysed using descriptive statistics and t-tests on the change from baseline. Analysis of variance, chi-square and Mc Nemar tests were also used. If after 8 weeks of treatment with Trandolapril 2 mg o.q.d. the patients were non-responders (mean blood pressure reduction of 5 mmHg or less) or their blood pressure remained uncontrolled (blood pressure > or = 140/90 mmHg), Verapamil 180 mg o.q.d. was added. Two hundred and thirty patients completed the 12 weeks study. Population included 157 (55.9%) males with an average of 61.7 +/- 9.2 years. Baseline measurements were systolic 165.4 +/- 14.6 and diastolic 94.8 +/- 8.5 mmHg blood pressures, fasting glucose 162.7 +/- 43.9 mg/dL, glycosylated hemoglobin (HbAlc) 6.8 +/- 1.2%, and albuminuria 520.9 +/- 602 mg/day. UEA fell significantly (p < 0.001) after treatment to 177.9 +/- 24.3 mg/day (CI 95%, 129.9 to 225.8). The percent reduction reached 29.6%. Albuminuria was lower than 30 mg/day in 47 patients. Blood pressure was completely controlled in 125 (54%) patients. Glucemia fell significantly (p < 0.001) to 153.2 +/- 42.7 mg/dL, and the HbAlc to 6.5 +/- 1.3% (p = 0.012). In summary, in those diabetic type 2 patients with arterial hypertension and proteinuria, Trandolapril alone or associated with Verapamil significant lowered albuminuria and blood pressure facilitated the control or their metabolic profile.
Between January 1974 and June 1975 52 in-patients with mania were treated with Clozapine. In one half of the patients this was the only drug throughout. It was so far thought to be indicated mainly for schizophrenics. Its main action mostly was immediate (partly on the first or second day) and was characterised by initial sedation and subsequent improvement of increased motivation and flight of ideas. On the basis of our present experience Clozapine appears to be superior in the treatment of mania in its main and side effects. Patients prefer it often because of the absence of extrapyramidal side-effects. The in-patient treatment was on average much shorter with Clozapine than with other drugs. These first observations demand further tests for this specific indication.
Four cases from the Philadelphia Medical Examiner's Office are presented and the literature is reviewed to define further the syndrome of sudden death occurring during cocaine-induced agitated delirium and struggle during restraint in individuals who also sustain minor head injury. The mechanism of death involves a terminal arrhythmia, most likely due to sympathetic sensitization of the myocardium by cocaine and the stress of struggle sometimes juxtaposed upon the stratum of minimal natural disease. In the cases described, the head injury in itself was insufficient to be a cause of death. Recognition of the role of the pharmacologic effect of cocaine and the lethal effects of its use in this setting is crucial.
The muscle relaxant Imbretil was investigated in 10 patients for initiating anaesthesia and for a prolonged artificial ventilation. In 50% of the patients a rather quick and drastic rise of the serum potassium-level was found. A cardiac arrest occurred in one patient due to a hyperkalaemia but fortunately was reversible. Consequently we do not use Imbretil in our Hospital anymore. Today better and less dangerous drugs are available instead--Imbretil must be placed as an obsolete drug.
Collagen plays a specific role in the maintenance of vascular integrity and in the thrombosis and scar formation processes. Therefore we found it interesting to study the changes in interstitial collagen metabolism during acute myocardial infarction treated with thrombolytic agents. Changes in collagen synthesis were evaluated by obtaining assays of the serum concentrations of the carboxyterminal propeptide of type I procollagen. Except fibrin plasmin is capable of degrading extracellular matrix components including collagen, and this capability was evaluated by monitoring the serum concentrations of the aminoterminal propeptide of type III procollagen. Twenty-four patients with suspected acute myocardial infarction and indications for thrombolytic therapy were randomized to receive either streptokinase (n = 11) or tissue plasminogen activator (n = 13). The patient groups were identical in their clinical characteristics. Serum levels of the aminoterminal propeptide of type III collagen increased rapidly on infusion of the thrombolytic agents, with the maximal mean increases of 44% and 16% in the streptokinase and TPA-treated groups, respectively. Levels of the carboxyterminal propeptide of type I collagen did not change during the thrombolytic therapy. A transient decrease occurred in the type I propeptide concentration at postinfarction day 2, and this decrease was followed by a secondary increase at days 4 to 6 in both patient groups studied. We conclude that thrombolytic agents stimulate the breakdown of interstitial collagen and that the collagen-degrading activity of TPA is lower than that of streptokinase. This factor may contribute to the relatively higher rethrombosis rate seen after TPA, because exposed collagen in the affected vascular wall stimulates thrombosis formation. On the other hand, increased collagen degradation followed by inhibition of collagen synthesis in the infarcted myocardium might increase the risk for cardiac rupture, especially after streptokinase treatment.
Using an in-line, real-time, in vivo exposure system, we investigated whether acute adverse effects of diesel exhaust (DE*) exposure involve neurogenic inflammation in the lungs via sensory nerve C fibers. A total of 168 female F344 rats (175 g, 8 weeks old) were randomly assigned to pretreatment with capsaicin or saline to deplete C-fiber neurotransmitters. In a 2 x 3 factorial design, groups of animals were then exposed nose-only to a low level of DE (LDE, 35.3 microg/m3), a high level of DE (HDE, 632.9 microg/m3), or side-stream cigarette smoke (CS, 0.4 mg/m3). Two control groups were exposed whole body to filtered air in the animal room (fRA) or unfiltered air in the diesel engine room (eRA), respectively. DE was taken directly from a heavy-duty Cummins N14 research engine operated at 75% throttle (California Air Resources Board [CARB] 8, mode 6). Exposure to DE or air was 4 hours/day, 5 days/week, for 3 weeks. Exposure to CS was for 4 hours/day for 7 days. Involvement of neurogenic inflammation in the response to DE or CS was assessed via comparison of plasma extravasation, a sensitive endpoint of neurogenic inflammation, between rats with and without capsaicin pretreatment. Lung injury was assessed via analysis of proinflammatory cytokines, respiratory permeability, and histopathology. Moreover, whether DE exposure affected the molecular mechanisms of neurogenic inflammation was analyzed through quantification of substance P (SP) and its primary neurokinin-1 (NK1) receptor at the gene and protein levels and through neutral endopeptidase (NEP) activity. DE and CS exposure induced dose-dependent plasma extravasation, which may play an important role in initiating the associated lung inflammation and injury. Exposure of rats to DE affected the SP signaling pathway as indicated by overexpression of the NK1 receptor or reduction of SP in the lung tissue. DE exposure consistently inactivated tissue NEP, a key factor that switches neurogenic inflammation from its physiological and protective functions to a role that increases and perpetuates lung injury. The roles of these overlapping neurokininergic mechanisms in the initiation of DE-associated lung injury are plausible, and these changes may contribute to DE-associated respiratory disorders. Capsaicin rats followed the same trends as those of saline animals when exposed to DE or CS: capsaicin rats did not have significantly different plasma extravasation in the airways or lung parenchyma compared to their corresponding controls. Histopathology evaluation likewise demonstrated the same degree of tissue changes, such as edema and alveolar macrophage collection, in capsaicin and saline rats after the same level of DE exposure. In summary, our data suggest that neurokininergic mechanisms may have been involved in DE-induced inflammatory conditions in rat lung but that C fibers did not appear to be involved under these exposure conditions. We believe that time-course or protein knockdown/knockout animal studies are required to characterize further the role of neurokininergic mechanisms in DE-induced lung injury.
Zinc ions are essential for the formation of hexameric insulin and hormone crystallization. A nonsynonymous single nucleotide polymorphism rs13266634 in the SLC30A8 gene, encoding the secretory granule zinc transporter ZnT8, is associated with type 2 diabetes. We describe the effects of deleting the ZnT8 gene in mice and explore the action of the at-risk allele.
Slc30a8 null mice were generated and backcrossed at least twice onto a C57BL/6J background. Glucose and insulin tolerance were measured by intraperitoneal injection or euglycemic clamp, respectively. Insulin secretion, electrophysiology, imaging, and the generation of adenoviruses encoding the low- (W325) or elevated- (R325) risk ZnT8 alleles were undertaken using standard protocols.
ZnT8(-/-) mice displayed age-, sex-, and diet-dependent abnormalities in glucose tolerance, insulin secretion, and body weight. Islets isolated from null mice had reduced granule zinc content and showed age-dependent changes in granule morphology, with markedly fewer dense cores but more rod-like crystals. Glucose-stimulated insulin secretion, granule fusion, and insulin crystal dissolution, assessed by total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy, were unchanged or enhanced in ZnT8(-/-) islets. Insulin processing was normal. Molecular modeling revealed that residue-325 was located at the interface between ZnT8 monomers. Correspondingly, the R325 variant displayed lower apparent Zn(2+) transport activity than W325 ZnT8 by fluorescence-based assay.
ZnT8 is required for normal insulin crystallization and insulin release in vivo but not, remarkably, in vitro. Defects in the former processes in carriers of the R allele may increase type 2 diabetes risks.
1 The hyperactivity syndrome produced in rats by administration of tranylcypromine (20 mg/kg i.p.) followed 30 min later by L-tryptophan (50 mg/kg i.p.) is generally considered to be due to increased 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) functional activity. It is inhibited by chlorpromazine (30 mg/kg i.p.) injected 60 min before the tranylcypromine. However, chlorpromazine injection for 4 days either at a dose of 30 mg/kg once daily or 5 mg/kg twice daily results in an enhanced hyperactivity response to tranylcypromine and L-tryptophan administration 24 h after the final dose of chlorpromazine. 2 One injection of chlorpromazine (30 mg/kg) did not produce enhancement 24 h later and the inhibition of the tranylcypromine/L-tryptophan hyperactivity observed after acute chlorpromazine injection was seen if the rats were given tranylcypromine and L-tryptophan 1 h after the fourth chlorpromazine (30 mg/kg) dose. 3 Chlorpromazine (30 mg/kg) once daily or 5 mg/kg twice daily for 4 days resulted in rats displaying enhanced behavioral responses to the suggested 5-HT agonist 5-methoxy N,N-dimethyltryptamine (2 mg/kg) on day 5. 4 Chlorpromazine (30 mg/kg) once daily for 4 days produces a slight increase in brain 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) concentration on day 5, but no difference in the rate of brain 5-HT synthesis or the rate of 5-HT accumulation after tranylcypromine and L-tryptophan administration. 5. There is some evidence that chlorpromazine blocks 5-HT receptors. It has also been observed that several other neuroleptic drugs do not produce enhanced 5-HT responses after repeated administration. It is suggested therefore that the enhanced behavioural response to 5-HT receptor stimulation following repeated chlorpromazine administration may be because this drug blocks 5-HT receptors.
Dynamic instability in cardiac repolarization may contribute to drug-induced arrhythmogenesis. We hypothesized that intravenous cocaine would significantly destabilize repolarization as measured by QT variability.
Twenty-nine cocaine-experienced volunteers not seeking treatment for cocaine addiction received randomized, sequential intravenous infusions of placebo or cocaine (20 and 40 mg). Five-minute epochs of digitized ECG were recorded 10 minutes before, during, and at intervals following the infusions. QT variability was measured using a semiautomated method and expressed as the log ratio of normalized QT variance to normalized heart rate variance (QTVI). Seventeen subjects received a repeat course of cocaine infusions 1 week later. Placebo infusion resulted in a small but significant increase in QTVI, while cocaine caused a highly significant, dose-dependent increase in QTVI that peaked at 10 minutes and dissipated by 45 minutes following infusion (P < 0.0001). The increase in QTVI was reproducible at 1 week (P = 0.8).
Cocaine injection results in a significant dose-dependent increase in QT variability as indexed by QTVI. This destabilizing effect on repolarization may increase vulnerability to reentrant arrhythmias and may partially explain an increased risk of sudden cardiac death associated with cocaine use.
Ubiquitin (Ub) is involved in neurodegeneration and various stress responses in the brain. The present study investigated the Ub-immunoreactive structures in the midbrain of methamphetamine (MA) abusers as a marker of drug-induced neurodegeneration. Medico-legal autopsy cases were examined: fatal MA intoxication (n=14), other fatalities of MA abusers (n=23) including those due to injuries, asphyxiation, drowning, fire and natural diseases, and control groups (n=260). In the motor nervous systems, MA abusers showed a mild increase in the diffuse-type nuclear Ub-positivity in the pigmented neurons of the substantia nigra, depending on the blood MA level and irrespectively of the immediate causes of death. The intranuclear inclusion-type Ub-positivity of the nigral neurons and the granular 'dot-like' Ub-immunoreactivity area in the crus cerebri (cortico-spinal tracts) were usually low in MA abusers, and any increases were related to the immediate causes of death and the age of subjects. Acute MA fatality showed a higher neuronal Ub-positivity in the midbrain periaqueductal gray matter (PGM), which is involved in processing pain, fear and anxiety, and regulation of respiration and circulation. These findings suggest dysfunction of the nigral dopaminergic neurons and PGM neurons in the midbrain in MA abuse, which may account for the clinical symptoms.
We assessed the effect of intravenous methylprednisolone pulse therapy (IMPT) on cardiac rhythm and electrolyte metabolism in patients with nephrotic syndrome. A total of 25 patients had valid evaluations with continuous ambulatory electrocardiograms, and 20 of these had simultaneous sodium and potassium clearances. No significant difference of frequency in complex ventricular arrhythmias (Lown's grades 3-5) between the control and the therapy period was observed; however, 4 patients showed complex ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular tachycardia (2 patients) during the course of therapy. Fractional excretion of potassium and serum potassium significantly increased from baseline after IMPT. Complex ventricular arrhythmias, sometimes leading to sudden death, might ensue from IMPT. These dysrhythmias may be related to an abrupt change in potassium reflux from the cell.
Sodium restriction and fish oil supplementation are effective dietary measures for preventing or treating mild hypertension. However, their usefulness as an adjunct to drug treatment of hypertension requires further evaluation. In the present study, we examined the influence of dietary sodium and fish oil on the antihypertensive effect of the angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor enalapril in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRSP). Rats were fed experimental diets containing fish oil or olive oil (5% w/w) and low (0.04% w/w) or normal (0.23% w/w) sodium from 1 to 4 months of age. Tail-cuff blood pressure (BP) rose by 8.4 and 4.3 mm Hg/week, respectively, in untreated and enalapril-treated (2.5 mg/kg/day, orally) rats fed the olive oil/normal sodium diet. Feeding fish oil further reduced the rise in enalapril-treated rats to 2.8 mm Hg/week. When sodium intake was also restricted, the BP rise was almost prevented (1.1 mm Hg/week). In older rats with established hypertension, the low sodium/fish oil diet also potentiated the blood pressure reduction by enalapril (tail-cuff BP fell by 61 mm Hg compared to 25 mm Hg with enalapril alone). These observations were confirmed by direct BP recording in conscious rats following the implantation of aortic catheters. Factorial analysis revealed a highly significant antihypertensive effect of fish oil in both young and adult SHRSP receiving enalapril, and a further interactive effect of dietary sodium restriction with fish oil feeding in young rats. The antihypertensive effects of the dietary interventions were associated with further reductions of cardiac hypertrophy.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Humoral hypercalcaemia is a common complication of malignancy with parathyroid hormone-related protein (PTHrP) as a major cause. Breast and lung cancer are relatively common sources of ectopic PTHrP secretion leading to increased osteoclastic bone resorption.
We report the rare case of a 40-year-old man with severe hypercalcaemia due to a PTHrP-secreting poorly differentiated endocrine carcinoma of the pancreas. On immunohistochemistry, the tumour was positive for PTHrP and somatostatin receptors sst1, sst2, and sst3, whereas sst4 and sst5 were not detected. We demonstrate the transient improvement of hypercalcaemia after adding octreotide to the treatment mainstays in hypercalcaemia of malignancy (fluid repletion, administration of bisphosphonates, loop diuretics, and glucocorticoids).
To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report showing somatostatin receptor expression in a PTHrP-secreting pancreatic neuroendocrine tumour.
A male aged 72 years suffering from erosive seropositive rheumatoid arthritis developed jaundice after one month on D-penicillamine after a cumulative dose of 5.625 g. The biological abnormalities were characteristic of cholestasis. There were no gall-stones. The liver biopsy showed severe intrahepatocellular cholestasis with a slight degree of cellular cholangitis and with eosinophils in the portal tracts. There was no sign of cellular necrosis. After cessation of D-penicillamine, the jaundice cleared within three weeks and the enzymes were normalized within two months. The aetiology is discussed and the cases of the literature are reviewed. This case represents a further instance of D-penicillamine-induced cholestatic hepatitis.
The effects of maintenance on venlafaxine, which blocks both norepinephrine and serotonin reuptake, on the response to smoked cocaine (0, 12, 25, or 50 mg) in 7 opioid-free and 7 methadone-maintained cocaine abusers was examined during a 42-day study. Participants received venlafaxine (225 mg daily) and placebo as part of a double-blind crossover design. Cocaine significantly increased heart rate, blood pressure, cocaine choice, cocaine ratings, and ratings of positive subjective effects (e.g., "I feel high") in both groups. Venlafaxine significantly decreased the subjective effects of cocaine by 10-20% without affecting cocaine choice or cardiovascular response in both groups. Although the reduction in cocaine's effects was small, further studies using a longer venlafaxine maintenance period or a larger venlafaxine dose are warranted.
Hormone therapy with leuprolide acetate (Lupron) is frequently used to treat prostate cancer, a common malignancy expected to be diagnosed in >180,000 men in the United States this year. In addition, testosterone supplementation is frequently recommended for adult men with reduced libido or impotence and decreased serum levels of testosterone. Although these hormone therapies are generally considered benign, we describe 3 cases of acute cardiac rejection temporally associated with the use of these drugs in men who have undergone cardiac transplantation. To our knowledge, this is the first such description of this phenomenon in the literature.
3 cases of aplastic anaemia occurring in association with anti-tuberculosis chemotherapy are reported. The patients had been on anti-tuberculosis chemotherapy for 13, 11 and 14 months, respectively, prior to the diagnosis of aplastic anaemia. Agents used included streptomycin, thiacetazone, isoniazid, p-aminosalicylic acid and dimethylcarbazine. Recovery from aplasia did not occur 6. 1.5 and 0.8 months, respectively, after the discontinuation of the suspect myelotoxic agents and despite the use of myelostimulatory agents. All 3 patients died of haemorrhage secondary to thrombocytopenia. The observations are consistent with a protracted and probably irreversible damage of the bone marrow by anti-tuberculosis agent(s) in susceptible individuals.
Levodopa-induced psychosis can complicate the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). In this retrospective, uncontrolled report, we describe our experience treating PD-related psychosis with clozapine, emphasizing those patients treated for longer than 1 year. Twenty-seven patients were treated, 14 for longer than 1 year. Most patients showed a rapid improvement from baseline within 1 month using the Clinical Global Impression and Global Psychosis Rating Scores. Five patients discontinued the drug due to side effects, but only two patients reported side effects after 6 months of treatment. Clozapine appears to be effective in treating PD related psychotic symptoms while not interfering with motor function.
Ataxia is a common and important neurological finding in medical practice. Severe deficiency of Vitamin E can profoundly affect the central nervous system and can cause ataxia and peripheral neuropathy resembling Friedreich's ataxia. Vitamin E deficiency can occur with abetalipoproteinemia, cholestatic liver disease or fat malabsorption. Ataxia with isolated Vit E deficiency (AVED) is an Autosomal Recessive genetic disorder with a mutation in the alpha tocopherol transfer protein gene (TTPA). This condition responds to high dose of Vit E and is one of the important causes of treatable ataxia. We report a young patient with Ataxia with isolated Vit E deficiency (AVED) who responded partially to replacement of Vitamin E.
A 67-year-old man treated with gemfibrozil for a year development rhabdomyolysis and anuric renal failure after addition of cerivastatin. The clinical features and serological studies ruled out other causes of rhabdomyolysis. Drugs were stopped and hemodialysis was carried on for 14 days until diuresis occurred. The renal function improved steadily to a serum creatinine of 1.2 mg/dl two months later. On the basis of its pharmacokinetic profile cerivastatin appears to have less interactions than other statins. There are only two reports of rhabdomyolysis and acute renal failure due to fibrates and cerivastatin combination. This patient shows the potential risk of a fibrates-cerivastatin combination. When this association is required it is necessary to avoid other nephrotoxic and myopathic factors and to monitor CK levels closely.
Previous histologic studies on the effects of EGME identified dividing spermatocytes as a primary target cell type in the testis. The following studies were undertaken to assess possible effects of EGME on late-stage and epididymal spermatids, and spermatogonia. Adult male F344 rats (n = 20/group) of proven fertility were dosed po with 0, 50, 100, or 200 mg EGME/kg/day for 5 days. Each male was then mated with two females/week for 8 weeks. Females were sacrificed ca. 2 weeks after removal from the male, and number of live and dead fetuses, resorption sites, and corpora lutea were noted. Additional males were treated similarly, sacrificed at weekly intervals, and measures of epididymal sperm count, motility, and morphology were made. The fertility of males treated with 200 mg EGME/kg declined at Week 4, and remained low for the rest of the study. There was a modest but significant increase in the number of resorption sites at Weeks 5 and 6 in the high dose group. There was a decrease in the number of litters sired at Week 5 after dosing in the 100-mg EGME/kg group. There were time- and dose-related decreases in sperm concentration and motility, primarily in the 100- and 200-mg/kg groups, as well as concurrent elevations in the number of abnormal sperm forms in the epididymis. These studies show that EGME is a very weak inducer of dominant-lethal mutations, and produces previously undescribed effects on late-stage spermatids and spermatogonia.
