This paper describes a morphometric study of the evolution of tubulointerstitial nephropathy in adriamycin-induced focal and segmental glomerulosclerosis in Wistar rats over 32 weeks old. The earliest changes were located in the glomeruli. In the 10 week of the study, tubulointerstitial nephropathy appeared and, although the interstitial space increased after the 2nd week, this increase only became statistically significant after the 10 week. Proteinuria showed the highest correlation with the interstitial space, however, the interstitial space showed the highest correlation indices with the total number of glomeruli affected and to a lesser extent with adhesions to and thickening of Bowman's capsule.
Hyperthermia is a symptom of methamphetamine (METH) intoxication and a factor implicated in neurotoxicity during chronic METH use. To characterize the thermic response to METH, it was injected once daily into rats at increasing doses (0, 1, 3, and 9 mg/kg, s.c.) while brain [nucleus accumbens (NAcc), hippocampus] and body (deep temporal muscle) temperatures were continuously monitored. METH produced dose-dependent hyperthermia, with brain structures (especially the NAcc) showing a more rapid and pronounced temperature increase than the muscle. At the highest dose, brain and body temperatures increased 3.5-4.0 degrees C above basal levels and remained elevated for 3-5 hr. Stressful and other high-activity situations such as interaction with a conspecific female are also known to induce a significant hyperthermic response in the rat. A combination of social interaction and METH administration was tested for additive effects. Male rats were exposed daily to a conspecific female for a total of 120 min, and METH was injected at the same doses 30 min after the initial contact with the female. An initial hyperthermic response ( approximately 1.5 degrees C) to social interaction was followed by a large and prolonged hyperthermic response (3.5-5.0 degrees C, 5-7 hr at 9 mg/kg) to METH, which was again stronger in brain structures (especially in the NAcc) than in the muscle. Although the combined effect of the hyperthermic events was not additive, METH administration during social interaction produced stronger and longer-lasting increases in brain and body temperature than that induced by drug alone, heating the brain in some animals near its biological limit (>41 degrees C).
Although the dry powder type inhaled steroids, such as Fluticasone Propionate Diskhaler (FP-DH), FP Diskus (FP-DK), Budesonide Turbuhaler (BUD-TH), are widely distributed in daily clinical fields, we clinicians are required to evaluate whether it is effectively inhibiting inflammation of distal airway or not. We also investigated the effect of Hydrofluoroalukan-beclomethasone dipropionate (HFA-BDP), a new type of inhaled steroid which forms super micro aerosol particles, in the distal small airway.
85 patients with moderate asthma, who daily used dry powder type inhaled steroid for at least more than 6 months with stable asthmatic condition, were the subject of this study. All subjects underwent sputum induction with the inhalation of 10% of hypertonic saline solution for 15 min and eosinophil counts and eosinophil cationic protein (ECP) in individual induced sputum were measured. Then, patients who had eosinophils detected in their induced sputum changed their previously inhaled steroid to HFA-BDP inhalation (400 i.g./day). Their eosinophil counts and the values of eosinophil cationic protein (ECP), Eotaxin, RANTES and neutrophil elastase (PMN-E) in their induced sputum were also examined before and 4weeks after changing HFA-BDP inhalation.
Increased eosinophils were found in the induced sputum of 40.5% patients of the FP-DK group, 36.3% of the FP-DH group and 32.4% of the BUD-TH group, respectively. Compared with group of patients in which no sputum eosinophil were detected, the sputum ECP values, in which sputum eosinophils were detected, were significantly high. 4 weeks after changing to HFA-BDP inhalation, eosinophil counts, ECP, Eotaxin, RANTES and PMN-E in their induced sputum were decreased in every group.
Compared with the ordinary dry powder type inhaled steroids, HFA-BDP can effectively diminish distal airway inflammation, suggesting the possibility that HFA-BDP can effectively reach to the distal small airway by forming super micro aerosol particles.
During cocaine addiction the hypothalamus-pituitary axis is widely affected and a blunted response of thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) to thyroid releasing hormone (TRH) consistent with a hyperthyroid state has been observed. Since the thyroid status can affect the release of growth hormone (GH) the authors evaluated TSH and GH responses to TRH in cocaine addicts at the time of drug withdrawal and 30 days after. Twenty-six male cocaine addicts and 11 healthy male control subjects agreed to participate in the study. TRH and placebo tests were performed at random at 5 day intervals at the time of drug withdrawal and after 30 days. In drug addicts, at the time of the first test basal plasma levels of freeT3, freeT4 and TSH were normal, but the TSH response to TRH was impaired. After 30 days of cocaine abstinence basal freeT4 plasma levels were significantly lower, and TSH levels and the TSH response to TRH were higher than in the first test. At the first examination, basal GH concentrations were similar in cocaine addicts and in control subjects and GH did not respond to TRH. After 30 days of abstinence, basal GH plasma levels were unmodified, but the TRH became stimulatory of GH release in cocaine-deprived, but not in control subjects. In conclusion, in cocaine addicts, drug withdrawal is associated with a condition of subclinical hypothyroidism that makes the GH-releasing machinery sensitive to TRH.
Phenylbutazone has been reported to produce several forms of hepatic injury. A clinical and histologic review of 23 well-substantiated cases in conjunction with review of 43 case reports in the literature was undertaken. Utilizing the histologic features and available clinical data, the injury was classified as moderate-marked hepatocellular injury, minor hepatocellular injury, and other injury. No sexual differences were noted. Most patients had used the drug for less than 6 weeks. Features of hypersensitivity were common. Granulomas on liver biopsy were seen mainly in association with clinical evidence of hypersensitivity nd with minor hepatocellular liver injury. The majority of deaths occurred in cases with significant hepatocellular injury or systemic vasculitis. Analysis of available data suggests that, although hypersensitivity appears to contribute to phenylbutazone-associated hepatic injury, the drug also appears to have intrinsic hepatotoxic potential. Speculation is offered regarding the relative role of these two mechanisms in the several forms of hepatic injury induced by phenylbutazone.
The three major, chemically distinct calcium channel-blocking drugs, diltiazem, nifedipine, and verapamil, produce coronary vasodilation in the conscious dog. Coronary vascular resistance was reduced by 50% with an intravenous dose of 3 micrograms/kg nifedipine, 30 micrograms/kg verapamil, and 100 micrograms/kg diltiazem. In conscious dogs, nifedipine and verapamil increased heart rate, whereas diltiazem produced a smaller increase in heart rate. The rate of left ventricular pressure development in conscious dogs was unaffected by diltiazem, increased by nifedipine, and decreased by verapamil. Tachycardia was reversed to bradycardia and consistent negative inotropic effects were demonstrated by all three drugs only after combined autonomic blockade with atropine and propranolol in conscious dogs. In isolated dog coronary artery strips contracted ex vivo with 50 mM potassium chloride, the ID50 for relaxation was 0.01 microM for nifedipine, 0.02 microM for verapamil, and 0.30 microM for diltiazem. In isolated ex vivo hearts, all agents produced dose-dependent negative chronotropy with a 25% reduction in spontaneous heart rate achieved by 0.09 microM nifedipine, 0.20 microM verapamil, and 0.40 microM diltiazem. Similarly, the rate of force development in isolated myocardial strips was 50% depressed by nifedipine, 0.03 microM; verapamil, 0.10 microM; and diltiazem, 0.40 microM. On a membrane level, nifedipine, verapamil, and diltiazem interacted with a putative receptor or site associated with a calcium channel specifically labelled with [3H]nimodipine. The specific binding to cardiac sarcolemma was competitively inhibited by nifedipine, only partly inhibited by verapamil, and was stimulated by diltiazem. The effects of verapamil and diltiazem, but not the effect of nifedipine, occurred at pharmacologically active concentrations. Considerable nonspecific binding of dihydropyridines to sarcolemma may account, at least in part, for discrepancies between their dissociation constants on purified sarcolemma and their ED50 in pharmacological effects. Diltiazem and verapamil (1 microM) did not alter [3H]nimodipine nonspecific binding. These results strongly suggest that calcium channel-blocking drugs may have different sites of action.
A 42-year-old man attempted suicide by ingesting about 150 mL of a saponated cresol solution containing about 50% cresol. His serum aminotransferase concentrations were elevated, and a coagulopathy was present at the time of admission, 15 hours after ingestion. The hyperaminotransferasemia and coagulopathy worsened on the second day, but resolved thereafter with supportive therapy. Histologic examination of a biopsy specimen obtained on the 14th day demonstrated focal dropout of hepatocytes (which were replaced by reticulin and collagen fibers), ballooning or hydropic degeneration of hepatocytes, and rapid regeneration with small hepatocytes in the periportal zones as well as in the centrilobular zones. A rapid onset of illness with periportal hepatocellular injury is inconsistent with damage due to a hepatotoxic metabolite of p-cresol produced by cytochrome P450, which has been suggested by studies in vitro. A direct transient noxious effect mediated via the portal or arterial circulation may be involved in hepatic injury after cresol ingestion.
Gamma interferon (IFN-gamma), a pleiotropic cytokine, is now known to be produced by macrophages as well as by NK cells, gammadelta cells, and activated T cells. The autocrine biological functions of IFN-gamma on the macrophage include the upregulation of major histocompatibility complex MHC class II and the activation to an antiviral state. In this study, the production of IFN-gamma by macrophages was demonstrated to correspond to antibacterial activity. Legionella pneumophila replicates intracellularly in thioglycolate (TG)-elicited macrophages (TG-macrophages) from A/J mice, while TG-macrophages from BALB/c mice restrict bacterial growth after an initial period of growth. BALB/c TG-macrophages were shown to express IFN-gamma mRNA at 24 and 28 h, which corresponded to the initiation of anti-L. pneumophila activity. Moreover, IFN-gammaneutralization by antibody treatment of the cultures resulted in increased L. pneumophila growth in the macrophages. In contrast, no IFN-gamma mRNA was expressed in TG-macrophages from A/J mice, where L. pneumophila grew unrestricted. As would be expected, IFN-gamma treatment decreased bacterial growth. An IFN-gamma-mediated antibacterial activity was, however, inducible in A/J macrophages by the addition of interleukin-12 following L. pneumophila infection. Thus, autocrine IFN-gamma is involved in anti-L. pneumophila activity associated with different growth patterns and appears to be important during intracellular infection.
Interphotoreceptor retinoid-binding protein (IRBP) secreted by photoreceptors plays a pivotal role in photoreceptor survival and function. Recently, a D1080N mutation in IRBP was found in patients with retinitis pigmentosa, a frequent cause of retinal degeneration. The molecular and cellular bases for pathogenicity of the mutation are unknown. Here, we show that the mutation abolishes secretion of IRBP and results in formation of insoluble high molecular weight complexes via disulfide bonds. Co-expression of protein disulfide isomerase A2 that regulates disulfide bond formation or introduction of double Cys-to-Ala substitutions at positions 304 and 1175 in D1080N IRBP promoted secretion of the mutated IRBP. D1080N IRBP was not transported to the Golgi apparatus, but accumulated in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), bound with the ER-resident chaperone proteins such as BiP, protein disulfide isomerase, and heat shock proteins. Splicing of X-box-binding protein-1 mRNA, expression of activating transcription factor 4 (ATF4), and cleavage of ATF6 were significantly increased in cells expressing D1080N IRBP. Moreover, D1080N IRBP induced up-regulation and nuclear translocation of the C/EBP homologous protein, a proapoptotic transcription factor associated with the unfolded protein response. These results indicate that loss of normal function (nonsecretion) and gain of cytotoxic function (ER stress) are involved in the disease mechanisms of D1080N IRBP. Chemical chaperones and low temperature, which help proper folding of many mutated proteins, significantly rescued secretion of D1080N IRBP, suggesting that misfolding is the molecular basis for pathogenicity of D1080N substitution and that chemical chaperones are therapeutic candidates for the mutation-caused blinding disease.
The misuse of benzodiazepines (BNZ)s may result in serious side effects. Three cases of convulsive status epilepticus (CSE) following abrupt discontinuation of long-term use of 25 mg of lorazepam in one patient and more than 20 mg of flunitrazepam in two patients are presented; they were non-epileptics and free of other high-risk factors for seizures. A favorable outcome for all three cases was noted. They remain free of seizures without antiepileptic treatment. Nevertheless, because of the extensive use of benzodiazepines, such rare high-risk side effects must be emphasized.
We report a case of massive overdose of hydroxychloroquine treated with circulatory assistance by peripheral extracorporeal circulation (ECC). We expose the case of a 39-year-old woman who ingested 12 g of hydroxychloroquine with bromazepam, paroxetine, and zolpidem, in a suicide attempt. Patient has developed central nervous system depression, hemodynamic failure, life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias, and serious hypokalemia. Initially the patient has received conventional treatment with gastric lavage and activated charcoal for gastrointestinal decontamination, blood volume expansion and vasopressive drugs, intubation and mechanical ventilation, high dose of diazepam, and potassium replacement. A ventricular fibrillation was treated with external cardiac massage. In spite of this treatment, cardiogenic shock was uncontrolled, and imposed circulatory assistance. After extracorporeal circulation, we observed a spectacular improvement of hemodynamic parameters and electrocardiographic normalization at day one. Extracorporeal circulation could be used as a rescue treatment of cardiotrope and hydroxychloroquine overdoses.
Eight cases of carbamazepine toxicity from interaction with propoxyphene are reported. Serum concentrations of carbamazepine increased up to sixfold. All patients were symptomatic and two were hospitalized. Practitioners prescribing propoxyphene acutely for pain should be aware of this significant interaction.
A three-component multiple schedule of intravenous cocaine self-administration (0.01-0.3 mg/kg), repeated acquisition and performance was used to examine the effects of self-administered cocaine on learning in rhesus monkeys. A 0.03 mg/kg infusion of cocaine maintained reliable self-administration without markedly decreasing overall response rate or increasing the percentage of errors in the acquisition and performance components in which food was presented. When saline was substituted for 0.03 mg/kg of cocaine, there was little or no effect on responding in the acquisition or performance components while the number of infusions and response rate in the self-administration component decreased. These effects occurred to a greater extent under a FR 90 schedule (Experiment 2) as compared to a FR 30 schedule (Experiment 1) of cocaine self administration. Substitution of higher infusion doses of cocaine also decreased response rate and the number of infusions in the self-administration components, and substantially decreased responding in the acquisition components; decreases in overall accuracy of responding were evident when responding in this schedule component occurred. Taken together, these data indicate that learning is generally more sensitive than performance to the disruptive effects of self-administered cocaine.
Residual paralysis associated with the use of long-acting muscle relaxants can delay recovery from anesthesia and surgery. The authors tested the hypothesis that use of shorter-acting neuromuscular blocking agents is associated with reductions in tracheal extubation times and intensive care unit (ICU) length of stay in patients undergoing cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass.
One hundred ten patients scheduled for elective coronary artery bypass grafting or single valve surgery were randomized prospectively to receive either pancuronium or rocuronium intraoperatively. Anesthetic management and muscle relaxant maintenance dosing were standardized. In the ICU, the time required to wean ventilatory support, the duration of tracheal intubation, and length of stay were recorded. Subjects were asked to quantify generalized muscle weakness as they awakened in the ICU and again after tracheal extubation.
Complete data were collected on 51 patients in the pancuronium group and 52 patients in the rocuronium group. No differences were found between the groups in anesthetic, surgical, or ICU management. Significant increases in the duration of weaning of ventilatory support were observed in patients who received pancuronium (median, 180 min; range, 50-780 min) compared with the rocuronium group (median, 110 min; range, 45-250 min). Tracheal extubation was significantly delayed in the pancuronium group (median, 500 min; range, 240-1,305 min) compared with the rocuronium group (median, 350 min; range, 210-1,140 min). Subjects in the pancuronium group experienced more mild to severe weakness in the ICU. However, the choice of muscle relaxant did not influence ICU length of stay.
The use of shorter-acting neuromuscular blocking agents in patients undergoing cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass is associated with reductions in tracheal extubation times and symptoms of residual paresis.
Chest computed tomography showed pericardial effusion and bilateral small pleural effusion in a 19-year-old patient. Nine hundred mL of yellow purulent fluid was drained by pericardiocentesis. Culture of the fluid grew methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). Our patient denied history of previous hospitalization, surgical procedures, or illicit drug use and antibiotic sensitivity was typical of that of community acquired (CA)-MRSA. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first case of CA-MRSA pericarditis to be reported in Egypt and the third to be reported in English literature.
We have compared the ability of an acute injection of caffeine (3 mg/kg, i.p.) and long-term peroral caffeine consumption for 10 days ( approximately 150 mg/kg/day in tap water) to affect cocaine self-administration in mice. The peak plasma and brain levels of caffeine and its metabolites were similar in the two experimental set-ups. Moreover, the levels reached are close to those obtained in humans upon coffee ingestion. Neither type of caffeine administration affected the reinforcing effect of cocaine, defined as a selective increase in nose-poke responses in mice self-administering cocaine compared to their yoked controls. However, caffeine injection increased the amount of cocaine self-administered whereas caffeine drinking reduced it. A low dose of cocaine, by itself essentially ineffective, produced an increase in c-fos and NGFI-A mRNA in the cerebral cortex in mice that had been drinking caffeine. An acute caffeine injection also enhanced the immediate early gene response to cocaine, but to a lesser degree. Cocaine and caffeine also synergistically increased NGFI-A expression in caudate-putamen. Thus, regular caffeine drinking decreased the cocaine intake without significantly affecting its reinforcing properties, perhaps because it enhanced the activation of the predominantly inhibitory frontal cortical areas produced by low doses of cocaine.
In vitro studies have shown an inhibitory effect of lithium salts on herpes simplex virus (HSV) replication by mechanisms that interfere with viral DNA synthesis. Moreover, clinical studies have shown that oral lithium carbonate and topical lithium succinate can suppress genital HSV infections in humans. We conducted a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of oral lithium carbonate in 11 healthy subjects age 28-65 years (mean +/- SD age 38 +/- 11 years) who had at least four recurrent HSV infections in the year preceding the study. Six patients completed at least 5 months of lithium therapy at a mean (+/-SD) average daily lithium dose of 437 +/- 185 mg (range, 150-900 mg) and an average serum lithium level of 0.56 +/- 0.20 mmol/L. Overall, lithium treatment resulted in a consistent reduction in the mean number of episodes/month, the average duration of each episode, the total number of infection days/month, and the maximum symptom severity. In contrast, treatment with placebo resulted in an increase in three out of the four severity measures. Although the comparisons between the treatment groups did not achieve statistical significance due to the limited sample size, there was a clear "trend" for a reduction in the total monthly duration of all HSV infections with lithium (p = 0.08). Lithium treatment was well tolerated and produced no deleterious effects on renal or thyroid function. These observations lend support to prior observations of an antiviral activity of lithium, and suggest the possibility that oral lithium may represent a safe prophylactic agent in patients with recurrent HSV infections.
Disulfiram has been used as an adjunct to the treatment of chronic alcoholism since 1948. We report a young woman who developed clinical, biochemical and histopathological signs of a liver hypersensitivity reaction. A review of the literature is also presented.
Recent advances in the understanding of the physiology of the erection process have led to exciting new diagnostic and therapeutic techniques in the management of impotence. Intracavernous injection of pharmacologic agents can be used to both diagnose and treat certain types of impotence. At the Nashville Impotence Center we use intracavernous injections of papaverine-phentolamine to diagnose vascular impotence and to treat certain patients with organic impotence as well as some patients with psychologic impotence. One hundred thirty-six patients are currently enrolled in our self-injection treatment program. Complications and side effects have been rare.
Mutations in p53 occur at a rate of approximately 70% in hormone-refractory prostate cancer (CaP), suggesting that p53 mutations facilitate the progression of CaP to androgen-independent (AI) growth. We have previously reported that transfection of p53 gain of function mutant alleles into LNCaP, an androgen-sensitive cell line, allows for AI growth of LNCaP in vitro. We herein confirm the in vivo relevance of those findings by demonstrating that the R273H p53 mutation (p53(R273H)) facilitates AI growth in castrated nude mice. In addition, we demonstrate that H2 relaxin is responsible for facilitating p53(R273H)-mediated AI CaP. H2 relaxin is overexpressed in the LNCaP-R273H subline. Downregulation of H2 relaxin expression results in significant inhibition of AI growth, whereas addition of recombinant human H2 relaxin to parental LNCaP promotes AI growth. Inhibition of AI growth was also achieved by blocking expression of LGR7, the cognate receptor of H2 relaxin. Chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis was used to demonstrate that p53(R273H) binds directly to the relaxin promoter, further confirming a role for H2 relaxin signaling in p53(R273H)-mediated AI CaP. Lastly, we used a reporter gene assay to demonstrate that H2 relaxin can induce the expression of prostate-specific antigen via an androgen receptor-mediated pathway.
Hypokalemia, sometimes severe, was observed in some L-dopa-treated parkinsonian patients. The influence of L-dopa on the renal excretion of potassium was studied in 3 patients with hypokalemia and in 5 normokalemic patients by determination of renal plasma flow, glomerular filtration rate, plasma concentration of potassium and sodium as well as urinary excretion of potassium, sodium and aldosterone. L-Dopa intake was found to cause an increased excretion of potassium, and sometimes also of sodium, in the hypokalemic but not in the normokalemic patients. This effect on the renal function could be prohibited by the administration of a peripheral dopa decarbodylase inhibitor. It is not known why this effect occurred in some individuals but not in others, but our results indicate a correlation between aldosterone production and this renal effect of L-dopa.
Long-term consumption of artificial food color(s) can induce behavioral hyperactivity in human and experimental animals, but no neurobiochemical mechanism is defined. This study investigates the role of brain regional serotonin metabolism including its turnover, MAO-A activity, and plasma corticosterone status in relation to behavioral disturbances due to an artificial food color, erythrosine. Long-term (15 or 30 consecutive days) erythrosine administration with higher dosage (10 or 100 mg/kg/day, p.o.) produced optimal hyperactive state in exploratory behavior (rearing motor activity) after 2 h of last erythrosine administration, in young adult male albino rats. Erythrosine-induced stimulation in brain regional (medulla-pons, hypothalamus, hippocampus, and corpus striatum) serotonin metabolism (measuring steady state levels of 5-HT and 5-HIAA, MAO-A activity), including its turnover (pargyline-induced 5-HT accumulation and 5-HIAA declination rate), as well as plasma corticosterone were also observed depending on dosage(s) and duration(s) of erythrosine administration under similar experimental conditions. The lower dosage of erythrosine (1 mg/kg/day, p.o.) under similar conditions did not affect either of the above. These findings suggests (a) the induction as well as optimal effect of long-term erythrosine (artificial food color) on behavioral hyperactivity in parallel with increase in 5-HT level in brain regions, (b) the activation of brain regional serotonin biosynthesis in accordance with plasma corticosterone status under such behavioral hyperactivity, and (c) a possible inhibitory influence of the enhanced glucocorticoids-serotonin interaction on erythrosine-induced rearing motor hyperactivity in young adult mammals.
Acute interstitial nephritis (AIN) secondary to trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX) is well documented as a cause of acute renal failure in native kidneys. TMP-SMX is the standard prophylactic agent against pneumocystis carinii (PCP) used in the early post-transplant period, however, it has to date only been indirectly associated with AIN in renal allografts.
We describe eleven renal transplant patients with acute allograft dysfunction in whom a transplant biopsy demonstrated primary histopathologic features of allergic AIN, all of whom were receiving TMP-SMX in addition to other medications known to cause AIN.
All cases occurred within 1 month of transplantation and accounted for 2.12% (11/518) of the total number of transplant biopsies performed during the study period. However, this figure increased to 10.1% (11/109) when those biopsies performed for early allograft dysfunction (< 1 month) were taken into account. After discontinuation of TMP- SMX alone, all patients had an immediate improvement in serum creatinine with excellent long term allograft function - mean improvement of serum creatinine from 465 micromol/l to 136 micromol/l at last follow-up (range 15 - 55 months).
AIN secondary to TMP-SMX, although an uncommon cause of allograft dysfunction over the study period, accounted for over 10% of cases of allograft dysfunction within the first month of transplantation. Therefore, a high degree of clinical suspicion for TMP-SMX-induced AIN is warranted when confronted with early acute allograft dysfunction.
A series of (bisarylmethoxy)butylpiperidine derivatives was prepared and evaluated in vitro and in vivo to determine the structural requirements necessary for dual activity at the DAT and DA/5-HT receptor sites. These hybrid ligands, constructed by combining pharmacophores specific for the DAT and DA/5-HT receptors, could be useful drugs for treating cocaine addiction by assisting cocaine addicts in maintaining abstinence. The series was evaluated in vitro for DAT and DA/5-HT receptor activity and then selected compounds were tested in vivo for their effects on cocaine-induced hyperlocomotor activity (LMA). The majority of the new compounds demonstrated high to moderate affinity (4-191 nM) for the DAT with 4-hydroxy-4-phenylpiperidine analogues 14 and 15 possessing the greatest affinity. Compounds 15 and 22 exhibited the highest ratio of reuptake inhibition-to-binding (discrimination ratio, DR), 111 and 323, respectively. These derivatives had modest affinity and antagonistic activity for dopamine D(2)/D(3) receptors. Compounds 9 and 15 (DR=0.9 and 111, respectively) stimulated locomotor activity, whereas the other compounds suppressed this response. All compounds tested except for 17 and 21 attenuated cocaine-induced hyperlocomotion.
The goal of this pilot study was to determine the effects of phenytoin on cocaine self-administration in a human laboratory model. Subjects were randomized to either phenytoin (n = 6) or placebo (n = 7). Those assigned to phenytoin treatment received a single oral loading dose of 20 mg/kg. The phenytoin and placebo treatment groups did not differ in the number of tokens valued at $5, exchanged for cocaine. Similarly, the cardiovascular and subjective response to cocaine administration did not show a statistically significant treatment effect. In this laboratory model, phenytoin did not alter either the self-administration or effects of cocaine.
A selective defect in cardiac conduction in the anterior division of the left bundle branch was induced in a patient by therapy with procainamide hydrochloride. The defect in conduction, when intermittent, resulted in 2:1 Wencklebach sequences and produced a pattern similar to classic electrical alternans. The prognosis in drug-induced alternans is good, and it is important to differentiate it from true electrical alternans.
The hepatotoxic effects of isoniazid have been well described, but there have been no reports on the incidence of isoniazid-induced liver disease in patients who have received an orthotopic liver transplant. We retrospectively reviewed the records of 13 patients who received isoniazid after liver transplantation for either chemoprophylaxis or as part of a multidrug regimen for the treatment of Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection. Five of the 13 patients developed biochemical and histologic evidence of isoniazid hepatotoxicity. All five patients were on a multidrug regimen which included the administration of rifampin. No hepatotoxicity occurred in patients who received isoniazid alone or in conjunction with ethambutol for chemoprophylaxis. In conclusion, the incidence of isoniazid hepatotoxicity increased when the drug was used in conjunction with rifampin for the treatment of M. tuberculosis infection.
