We investigated the vasopressor hormone response following mesenteric traction (MT) with hypotension due to prostacyclin (PGI2) release in patients undergoing abdominal surgery with a combined general and epidural anesthesia.
In a prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled study we administered 400 mg ibuprofen (i.v.) in 42 patients scheduled for abdominal surgery. General anesthesia was combined with epidural anesthesia (T4-L1). Before as well as 5, 15, 30, 45, and 90 min after MT we recorded plasma osmolality, hemodynamics and measured 6-keto-PGF1 alpha (stabile metabolite of PGI2), TXB2 (stabile metabolite of thromboxane A2) active renin, and arginine vasopressin (AVP) plasma concentrations by radioimmunoassay. Catecholamine levels were assessed by high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) with electrochemical detection.
Following MT, arterial hypotension occurred along with a substantial PGI2 release. This was completely abolished by ibuprofen administration. Although plasma levels of 6-keto-PGF1 alpha (1133 (708) vs. 60 (3) ng/L, median (median absolute deviation), P = 0.0001, placebo vs. ibuprofen) remained significantly elevated, blood pressure was restored within 30 min after MT in the placebo group. At the same point in time plasma concentrations of TXB2 (164 (87) vs. 58 (1) ng/L, P = 0.0001), epinephrine (46 (33) vs. 14 (6) ng/L, P = 0.001), AVP (41 +/- (18) vs. 12 (7) ng/L, P = 0.0004), and active renin (27 (12) vs. 12 (4) ng/L, P = 0.001) were significantly higher in placebo-treated patients.
Under combined general and epidural anesthesia arterial hypotension following MT due to endogenous PGI2 release is associated with enhanced release of AVP, active renin, epinephrine and thromboxane A2, presumably contributing to hemodynamic stability within 30 min after MT.
The interaction between air particulates and genetic susceptibility has been implicated in the pathogenesis of asthma. The overall objective of this study was to determine the effects of inhalation exposure to environmentally relevant concentrated air particulates (CAPs) on the lungs of ovalbumin (ova) sensitized and challenged Brown Norway rats. Changes in gene expression were compared with lung tissue histopathology, morphometry, and biochemical and cellular parameters in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF). Ova challenge was responsible for the preponderance of gene expression changes, related largely to inflammation. CAPs exposure alone resulted in no significant gene expression changes, but CAPs and ova-exposed rodents exhibited an enhanced effect relative to ova alone with differentially expressed genes primarily related to inflammation and airway remodeling. Gene expression data was consistent with the biochemical and cellular analyses of the BALF, the pulmonary pathology, and morphometric changes when comparing the CAPs-ova group to the air-saline or CAPs-saline group. However, the gene expression data were more sensitive than the BALF cell type and number for assessing the effects of CAPs and ova versus the ova challenge alone. In addition, the gene expression results provided some additional insight into the TGF-beta-mediated molecular processes underlying these changes. The broad-based histopathology and functional genomic analyses demonstrate that exposure to CAPs exacerbates rodents with allergic inflammation induced by an allergen and suggests that asthmatics may be at increased risk for air pollution effects.
Two-year treatment with high doses of Metofluthrin produced hepatocellular tumors in both sexes of Wistar rats. To understand the mode of action (MOA) by which the tumors are produced, a series of studies examined the effects of Metofluthrin on hepatic microsomal cytochrome P450 (CYP) content, hepatocellular proliferation, hepatic gap junctional intercellular communication (GJIC), oxidative stress and apoptosis was conducted after one or two weeks of treatment. The global gene expression profile indicated that most genes with upregulated expression with Metofluthrin were metabolic enzymes that were also upregulated with phenobarbital. Metofluthrin induced CYP2B and increased liver weights associated with centrilobular hepatocyte hypertrophy (increased smooth endoplasmic reticulum [SER]), and induction of increased hepatocellular DNA replication. CYP2B1 mRNA induction by Metofluthrin was not observed in CAR knockdown rat hepatocytes using the RNA interference technique, demonstrating that Metofluthrin induces CYP2B1 through CAR activation. Metofluthrin also suppressed hepatic GJIC and induced oxidative stress and increased antioxidant enzymes, but showed no alteration in apoptosis. The above parameters related to the key events in Metofluthrin-induced liver tumors were observed at or below tumorigenic dose levels. All of these effects were reversible upon cessation of treatment. Metofluthrin did not cause cytotoxicity or peroxisome proliferation. Thus, it is highly likely that the MOA for Metofluthrin-induced liver tumors in rats is through CYP induction and increased hepatocyte proliferation, similar to that seen for phenobarbital. Based on analysis with the International Life Sciences Institute/Risk Science Institute MOA framework, it is reasonable to conclude that Metofluthrin will not have any hepatocarcinogenic activity in humans, at least at expected levels of exposure.
The earliest characteristic alterations of the liver pathology in Wilson disease (WD) include steatosis, which is sometimes indistinguishable from non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Steatosis in WD may reflect copper-induced mitochondrial dysfunction. A genetic polymorphism in rs738409, in the patatin-like phospholipase domain-containing 3 gene (PNPLA3), is strongly associated with appearance of in NAFLD. This study evaluated the role of PNPLA3 and hepatic copper content for development of steatosis in patients with WD.
Liver biopsies obtained at diagnosis and the PNPLA3 genotype were analyzed in 98 Caucasian patients with WD (male: 52 [53.1%]; mean age: 27.6years [CI 95%: 24.8-30.4, range: 5.8-61.5]). Steatosis was graded as percentage of lipid containing hepatocytes by an expert hepatopathologist unaware of the results of genetic testing.
Moderate/severe steatosis (>33% of hepatocytes) was observed in 28 patients (pediatric: n=13/26 [50.0%], adult: n=15/72 [20.8%]; p=0.01). Forty-six patients (46.9%; pediatric: n=7, adult: n=39; p=0.022) had cirrhosis. Multivariate logistic regression identified PNPLA3 G allele (OR: 2.469, CI 95%: 1.203-5.068; p=0.014) and pediatric age (OR: 4.348; 1.577-11.905; p=0.004) as independent variables associated with moderate/severe steatosis. In contrast, hepatic copper content did not impact on moderate/severe steatosis (OR: 1.000, CI 95%: 1.000-1.001; p=0.297).
Steatosis is common in WD and the PNPLA3 G allele contributes to its pathogenesis. The role of hepatic copper concentration and ATP7B mutations in steatosis development deserve further investigations.
Serum thymic factor (FTS), a thymic peptide hormone, has been reported to increase superoxide disumutase (SOD) levels in senescence-accelerated mice. In the present study, we examined the effect of FTS on cephaloridine (CER)-induced nephrotoxicity in vivo and in vitro. We previously reported that CER led to extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK) activation in the rat kidney. So, we also investigated whether FTS has an effect on ERK activation induced by CER. Treatment of male Sprague-Dawley rats with intravenous CER (1.2 g/kg) for 24 h markedly increased BUN and plasma creatinine levels and urinary excretion of glucose and protein, decreased creatinine clearance and also led to marked pathological changes in the proximal tubules, as revealed by electron micrographs. An increase in phosphorylated ERK (pERK) was detected in the nuclear fraction prepared from the rat kidney cortex 24 h after CER injection. Pretreatment of rats with FTS (50 microg/kg, i.v.) attenuated the CER-induced renal dysfunction and pathological damage. FTS also suppressed CER-induced ERK activation in the kidney. In vitro treatment of the established cell line, LLC-PK1 cells, with FTS significantly ameliorated CER-induced cell injury, as measured by lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) leakage. Our results, taken together with our previous report that MEK inhibitors ameliorated CER-induced renal cell injury and ERK activation induced by CER, suggest that FTS participates in protection from CER-induced nephrotoxicity by suppressing ERK activation induced by CER.
In recent years, mode of action (MOA) frameworks have been developed through the International Life Sciences Institute Risk Science Institute and the International Programme on Chemical Safety, including an evaluation of the human relevance of the animal MOA data. In the present paper, the MOA for rat liver tumors induced by Metofluthrin is first analyzed through this framework based on data from studies on Metofluthrin and information on related chemicals from the literature. The human relevance of the rat liver carcinogenic response is then discussed based upon the human relevance framework. Two-year treatment with high dose of Metofluthrin produced hepatocellular tumors in both sexes of the Wistar rats. Metofluthrin induced CYP2B (increased smooth endoplasmic reticulum), resulted in increased liver weights which were associated with centrilobular hepatocyte hypertrophy, and induction of increased hepatocellular DNA replications. The above parameters related to the key events in Metofluthrin-induced liver tumors were observed at or below tumorigenic dose levels. Furthermore, CYP2B induction by Metofluthrin was shown to involve activation of the constitutive androstane receptor in rat hepatocytes. Based on the evidence, including a comparison with the results with another chemical, phenobarbital, acting by a similar MOA, it is reasonable to conclude that Metofluthrin will not have any hepatocarcinogenic activity in humans.
Recent evidence suggests that genome-wide allelic imbalances are inducible by carcinogens and may occur as cells adapt to carcinogenic exposure during tumorigenesis. We investigated the role of carcinogenic exposure on global and selected loss of heterozygosity (LOH) during mouse lung adenocarcinogenesis. Tumor induction by 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK) or vinyl carbamate (VC) resulted in a significant overall increase in the number of chromosomes affected by LOH per tumor when compared with spontaneous lung tumors. Allelic loss on chromosome 12 occurred at a frequency of 35% and 40% in NNK- and VC-induced tumors, respectively, compared with 8.3% in spontaneous tumors (P < 0.01). In contrast, spontaneous lung adenocarcinomas displayed LOH on chromosome 4 at a frequency of 77%, whereas a frequency of only 36% (P < 0.001) was observed in tumors induced by NNK. Sixty-four percent of the VC-induced tumors displayed LOH on chromosome 4. In addition, allelic losses on chromosomes 12 and 14 were significantly associated with an increase in chromosomal instability, suggesting that genes inactivated on these chromosomes may contribute to this effect. The results from this study demonstrate that genotoxic carcinogens increase chromosome instability, as evidenced by a significant increase in global LOH frequency, and significantly alter the selection of chromosomal alterations during lung tumor development.
Emergence delirium (ED) is a frequent postoperative complication in young children undergoing ENT procedures and it may be exacerbated by sevoflurane anesthesia whereas propofol maintenance has been suggested to decrease the incidence of ED. The aim of this randomized, prospective, double-blind study was to evaluate the effect of sevoflurane vs propofol anesthesia on the quality of recovery after adenotonsillectomy.
Forty-two patients were randomized to maintenance with either propofol or sevoflurane for adenotonsillectomy. At the conclusion of surgery, patients were extubated awake. ED and pain were assessed using the Pediatric Anesthesia Emergence Delirium (PAED) and the Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario Scale (CHEOPS), respectively. Higher PAED scores (0-20) indicate greater severity of ED. Nursing and parental satisfaction, hospital length of stay, postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV), anesthetic complications, and subsequent emergency room admissions were also assessed.
Median PAED score was 14 in the propofol group and 17 in the sevoflurane group (NS). Propofol was associated with less pain medication required during recovery and a lower incidence of PONV (5.3% vs 36.8%, P < 0.05). Nursing and parental satisfaction as well as time spent in recovery room was similar for the two groups.
Propofol anesthesia does not influence agitation after adenotonsillectomy, as measured by the PAED score. A PAED score of ≥ 10 was not useful in identifying patients with ED. However, propofol maintenance is associated with less need for pain medication in the recovery room and a lower incidence of PONV compared to sevoflurane anesthesia.
Fracture healing in osteoporosis is delayed. Quality and speed of fracture healing in osteoporotic fractures are crucial with regard to the outcome of patients. The question arises whether established antiosteoporotic drugs can further improve fracture healing.
Osteoporosis manifests predominantly in the metaphyseal bone. Nevertheless, an established metaphyseal fracture model is lacking. A standardized metaphyseal fracture-healing model with stable plate fixation was developed for rat tibiae. The healing process was analyzed by biomechanical, gene expression, and histomorphometric methods in ovariectomized (OVX) and sham-operated rats (SHAM), compared to standardized estrogen (E)- and raloxifene (R)-supplemented diets.
Estrogen and raloxifene improved the biomechanical properties of bone healing compared to OVX (Yield load: SHAM = 63.1 +/- 20.8N, E = 60.8 +/- 17.9N, R = 44.7+/-17.5N, OVX = 32:5 +/- 22.0N). Estrogen vs OVX was significant based on a denser trabecular network. Raloxifene greatly induced total callus formation ((R = 5.3 +/- 0.9 mm2, E = 4.7 +/- 0.5 mm2, SHAM = 4.51 +/- 0.61 mm2, OVX =4.1 +/- 0.6 mm2), whereas estrogen mainly enhanced new endosteal bone formation. There was no correlation between the gene expression (osteocalcin, collagen1alpha1, IGF-1, tartrate-resistant phosphatase) in the callus and the morphology and quality of callus formation.
Raloxifene and estrogen improve fracture healing in osteoporotic bone significantly with regard to callus formation, resistance, and elasticity. The biomechanically stable metaphyseal osteotomy model with T-plate fixation presented here has proven to be appropriate to investigate fracture healing in osteoporosis.
We evaluated liver P450 enzyme system induction and serum lipid levels in a prospective follow-up study in 12 male patients with epilepsy after replacing carbamazepine (CBZ) medication with oxcarbazepine (OCBZ). Antipyrine(t1/2) increased and antipyrine(CL) decreased 2 months after the medication was changed, reflecting normalization of liver P450 enzyme system function. Furthermore, serum total cholesterol levels decreased, but serum concentrations of high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol and triglycerides (TG) were unchanged. OCBZ may be the preferable antiepileptic drug (AED) with regard to the effects of the medication on lipid metabolism.
Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors prevent a wide variety of key events underlying atherogenesis. Whether these actions depend solely on reduction of angiotensin II (Ang II) generation is still to be determined. This study was undertaken to determine whether enalapril, an ACE inhibitor, prevents atherosclerosis and vascular inflammation induced by Ang II in apolipoprotein E-deficient (apoE-KO) mice. Subcutaneous infusion of Ang II (1.44 mg/(kg day)) for 4 weeks increased blood pressure and accelerated atherosclerosis development in the carotid arteries. The expression of the endothelial adhesion molecules E-selectin, intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) and vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1), as well as the chemokines monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1) and macrophage-colony stimulating factor (M-CSF) was up-regulated in the aortas of Ang II-treated mice. Enalapril co-treatment (25 mg/(kg day), in drinking water) prevented the development of atherosclerosis without affecting blood pressure or circulating cholesterol. In addition to preventing the Ang II-induced over-expression of adhesion molecules and chemokines in the aorta, enalapril up-regulated the expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs)-alpha and -gamma, potential anti-inflammatory transcription factors. In the aortic arch, a lesion-prone site, the co-treatment with enalapril reduced the percentage of arterial wall occupied by macrophages and foam cells, medial sclerosis and elastin reduplication. Together, these data suggest an important role for Ang II-independent mechanisms in the antiatherogenic and anti-inflammatory effects of ACE inhibitors.
Flavopiridol is active against chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells in vitro and in the treatment of advanced stage disease, but the mechanisms of these actions remain unclear. Originally developed as a general cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, flavopiridol is a potent transcriptional suppressor through the inhibition of positive transcription elongation factor b (P-TEFb; CDK9/cyclin T). P-TEFb phosphorylates the C-terminal domain (CTD) of RNA polymerase II to promote transcriptional elongation. Because most CLL cells are not actively cycling, and their viability is dependent upon the continuous expression of antiapoptotic proteins, we hypothesized that flavopiridol induces apoptosis in CLL cells through the transcriptional down-regulation of such proteins. This study demonstrated that flavopiridol inhibited the phosphorylation of the CTD of RNA polymerase II in primary CLL cells and reduced RNA synthesis. This was associated with a decline of the transcripts and the levels of short-lived antiapoptotic proteins such as myeloid cell leukemia 1 (Mcl-1), and resulted in the induction of apoptosis. The B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2) protein level remained stable, although its mRNA was consistently reduced, suggesting that the outcome of transcriptional inhibition by flavopiridol is governed by the intrinsic stability of the individual transcripts and proteins. The dependence of CLL-cell survival on short-lived oncoproteins may provide the biochemical basis for the therapeutic index in response to flavopiridol.
Female sexual desire appears to be in part androgen dependent, which has lead to the use of testosterone in women for low libido. Despite this benefit, the long-term safety of testosterone as a hormone replacement or therapy has not been well established. Side effects of testosterone therapy include mild and reversible acne and hirsuitism, as well as changes to the lipid profile with oral, but not transdermal testosterone. Short-term studies, up to 2 years, have shown that for serum plasma testosterone levels at the upper portion or slightly above the reference range for reproductive-aged women, testosterone does not increase the risk of hepatotoxicity, endometrial hyperplasia, or behavioral hostility. No adverse cardiovascular effects including changes in blood pressure, blood viscosity, arterial vascular reactivity, hypercoagulable states, and polycythemia have been shown. Data is mixed with outcomes of breast cancer risk, with some experimental studies suggesting a decrease in estrogen-induced breast epithelial proliferation with low dose testosterone. Additionally, models of superphysiologic testosterone levels, such as polycystic ovarian disease, have not shown an increased risk of breast cancer. As with all hormone therapy in postmenopausal women, testosterone therapy should be individualized and requires that each woman weigh the risk and benefits. Nevertheless, only long-term safety studies will provide conclusive evidence as to testosterone safety in women.
Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) plays a major role in the development of cancer through numerous mechanisms. COX-2 is expressed in the majority of renal cell carcinoma (RCC) tumors and correlates with stage, grade, and microvessel density. Based on potential additive or synergistic antitumor effects, interferon-alpha (IFNalpha) and celecoxib, an oral COX-2 inhibitor, were given to metastatic RCC patients in a Phase II trial.
Patients with untreated, metastatic RCC received IFNalpha 3 million units (MU) daily and celecoxib 400 mg orally (p.o.) twice daily continuously until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Pretreatment, paraffin-embedded RCC tumor samples were immunohistochemically stained for COX-2 expression and plasma basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) levels were assayed to determine predictive or prognostic potential.
There were three partial responses among 25 patients treated (objective response rate, 12%; 95% confidence interval [CI], 3-31%). The observed median time to disease progression (TTP) for the entire cohort was 3.3 months. A significant association between maximal COX-2 staining and clinical response was observed: all patients who experienced an objective response demonstrated 3+ COX-2 tumor immunostaining (trend test: P=0.03). Therapy was well tolerated without cardiac or other notable toxicity.
The addition of celecoxib to IFNalpha did not increase the objective response rate or TTP of this unselected cohort. Maximal COX-2 tumor immunostaining may identify RCC patents more likely to achieve clinical benefit with COX-2 inhibition in combination with IFNalpha. Further investigation of this combination in 3+ COX-2-overexpressing RCC tumors is warranted.
A previously established rat model has been utilized to demonstrate that an acute inflammatory response occurs after high intravenous doses of lorazepam. This occurs only with high concentrations of drug equivalent to 20 times the normal clinical dosage in man. In contract, water soluble RO 21-3981 produces no vascular pathology in any dosage evaluated. It appears that propylene glycol may play a role in the pathogenesis of the intravascular injury observed.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a debilitating neurodegenerative disorder associated with severe motor impairments caused by the loss of dopaminergic innervation of the striatum. Previous studies have demonstrated that positive allosteric modulators (PAMs) of metabotropic glutamate receptor 4 (mGlu₄), including N-phenyl-7-(hydroxyimino) cyclopropa[b]chromen-1a-carboxamide, can produce antiparkinsonian-like effects in preclinical models of PD. However, these early mGlu₄ PAMsexhibited unsuitable physiochemical properties for systemic dosing, requiring intracerebroventricular administration and limiting their broader utility as in vivo tools to further understand the role of mGlu₄ in the modulation of basal ganglia function relevant to PD. In the present study, we describe the pharmacologic characterization of a systemically active mGlu₄ PAM, N-(3-chlorophenyl)picolinamide (VU0364770), in several rodent PD models. VU0364770 showed efficacy alone or when administered in combination with L-DOPA or an adenosine 2A (A2A) receptor antagonist currently in clinical development (preladenant). When administered alone, VU0364770 exhibited efficacy in reversing haloperidol-induced catalepsy, forelimb asymmetry-induced by unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesions of the median forebrain bundle, and attentional deficits induced by bilateral 6-OHDA nigrostriatal lesions in rats. In addition, VU0364770 enhanced the efficacy of preladenant to reverse haloperidol-induced catalepsy when given in combination. The effects of VU0364770 to reverse forelimb asymmetry were also potentiated when the compound was coadministered with an inactive dose of L-DOPA, suggesting that mGlu₄ PAMs may provide L-DOPA-sparing activity. The present findings provide exciting support for the potential role of selective mGlu₄ PAMs as a novel approach for the symptomatic treatment of PD and a possible augmentation strategy with either L-DOPA or A2A antagonists.
We present the case of a child who died of pulmonary hypoplasia as a result of the oligohydramnios sequence. The mother was taking enalapril, as well as propranolol and hydrochlorothiazide, for treatment of hypertension associated with systemic lupus erythematosus. Autopsy examination revealed severe renal tubular malformation. Correlation of animal data with previous case reports of neonatal anuria in association with maternal angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors suggests that these agents may have a deleterious effect on fetal renal development and general well-being.
The usefullness of lithium carbonate for attenuation of leukopenia due to chemotherapy was studied in a prospective randomized trial. Chemotherapy for solid tumors was applied in a paired manner 24 times without and 24 times with lithiumcarbonate. Simultaneously, nucleotid-dependent functions of granulocytes were examined. An attenuation of leukopenia by lithium was observed. Toxic side effects within the therapeutic range of the serum level (0.3-1.4 mol/l) were not detected. Lithium did not impair adherence, chemotaxis and degranulation of neutrophile granulocytes. The influences of lithium on stem-cell maturation and granulocyte function are discussed.
Postoperative chemotherapy for Colorectal cancer (CRC) patients is not all effective and the main reason might lie in cancer stem cells (CSCs). Emerging studies showed that CSCs overexpress some drug-resistance related proteins, which efficiently transport the chemotherapeutics out of cancer cells. Salinomycin, which considered as a novel and an effective anticancer drug, is found to have the ability to kill both CSCs and therapy-resistant cancer cells. To explore the potential mechanisms that salinomycin could specifically target on therapy-resistant cancer cells in colorectal cancers, we firstly obtained cisplatin-resistant (Cisp-resistant) SW620 cells by repeated exposure to 5 μmol/l of cisplatin from an original colorectal cancer cell line. These Cisp-resistant SW620 cells, which maintained a relative quiescent state (G0/G1 arrest) and displayed stem-like signatures (up-regulations of Sox2, Oct4, Nanog, Klf4, Hes1, CD24, CD26, CD44, CD133, CD166, Lgr5, ALDH1A1 and ALDH1A3 mRNA expressions) (p < 0.05), were sensitive to salinomycin (p < 0.05). Salinomycin did not show the influence on the cell cycle of Cisp-resistant SW620 cells (p > 0.05), but could induce cell death process (p < 0.05), with increased levels of LDH release and MDA contents as well as down-regulations of SOD and GSH-PX activities (p < 0.05). Our data also showed that the pro-apoptotic genes (Caspase-3, Caspase-8, Caspase-9 and Bax) were up-regulated and the anti-apoptotic gene Bcl-2 were down-regulated in Cisp-resistant SW620 cells (p < 0.05). Accumulated reactive oxygen species and dysregulation of some apoptosis-related genes might ultimately lead to apoptosis in Cisp-resistant SW620 cells. These findings will provide new clues for novel and selective chemotherapy on cisplatin-resistant colorectal cancer cells.
Consumption of a fructose-rich diet leads to insulin resistance and dyslipidemia in part due to elevated gluconeogenesis and lipogenesis. SIRT1, an NAD(+)-dependent protein deacetylase, can induce gluconeogenesis and lipogenesis. The aim of this study was to determine whether fructose increased hepatic SIRT1, leading to induction of gluconeogenesis and lipogenesis. Rat hepatocytes were incubated with fructose (1-5 mM). SIRT1 protein, SIRT1 activity, and NAD(+)/NADH ratio were measured. The effects of SIRT1 inhibitors (EX-527 and nicotinamide) and activators (SIRT1 activator 3 and SRT1720) and the mitochondrial complex I inhibitor rotenone were examined on fructose-induced increases in gluconeogenesis and lipogenesis. Fructose increased SIRT1 protein, SIRT1 activity, and NAD(+)/NADH ratio. Fructose also induced gluconeogenesis, with increases in peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor coactivator 1-alpha (PGC1α) and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK; gene code Pck1) gene expression, PEPCK activity, and hepatocyte glucose production. In addition, levels of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase (Hmgcr) and acetyl-coA carboxylase (Acc) mRNA, and intracellular cholesterol were increased. Increases in gluconeogenesis, Hmgcr, Acc, and cholesterol were abolished by SIRT1 inhibitors and rotenone, while SIRT1 activators increased gluconeogenesis, Hmgcr, Acc, Pgc1β, and sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1c (Srebp1c) gene expression. In conclusion, fructose induces gluconeogenesis and lipogenesis through a SIRT1-dependent mechanism, suggesting that induction of hepatic SIRT1 could play a pivotal role in the metabolic changes observed in humans and animals consuming a fructose-rich diet. These results highlight the need for a greater understanding of the role of SIRT1 in metabolic regulation and indicate the potential for adverse effects of SIRT1 activators if used therapeutically.
Excitatory amino acid carrier 1 (EAAC1) is a glutamate transporter expressed on mature neurons in the CNS, and is the primary route for uptake of the neuronal cysteine needed to produce glutathione (GSH). Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder pathogenically related to oxidative stress and shows GSH depletion in the substantia nigra (SN). Herein, we report that 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated mice, an experimental model of PD, showed reduced motor activity, reduced GSH contents, EAAC1 translocation to the membrane and increased levels of nitrated EAAC1. These changes were reversed by pre-administration of n-acetylcysteine (NAC), a membrane-permeable cysteine precursor. Pretreatment with 7-nitroindazole, a specific neuronal nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, also prevented both GSH depletion and nitrotyrosine formation induced by MPTP. Pretreatment with hydrogen peroxide, L-aspartic acid beta-hydroxamate or 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium reduced the subsequent cysteine increase in midbrain slice cultures. Studies with chloromethylfluorescein diacetate, a GSH marker, demonstrated dopaminergic neurons in the SN to have increased GSH levels after NAC treatment. These findings suggest that oxidative stress induced by MPTP may reduce neuronal cysteine uptake, via EAAC1 dysfunction, leading to impaired GSH synthesis, and that NAC would exert a protective effect against MPTP neurotoxicity by maintaining GSH levels in dopaminergic neurons.
We examined the effects of a newly synthesized gastrin receptor antagonist, AG-041R, on the growth of enterochromaffin-like (ECL) carcinoid tumors in Mastomys natalensis both in vitro and in vivo. AG-041R was as potent as the well known gastrin antagonist L365,260 in inhibiting not only the gastrin-induced release of histamine from but also histidine decarboxylase (HDC) gene expression in the ECL carcinoid tumor cells. AG-041R also inhibited gastrin-induced DNA synthesis and c-fos gene expression in the tumor cells. Furthermore, AG-041R significantly inhibited the growth of the transplanted Mastomys ECL carcinoid tumors in vivo. From these data, it is concluded that endogenous gastrin is involved in the growth of ECL carcinoid tumors in Mastomys natalensis. Moreover, AG-041R is shown to have a potential as an anti-neoplastic agent for ECL carcinoid tumor of the stomach.
Methadone is used as the pharmacologic mainstay for substitution for illegal opiates and as analgesic for chronic or cancer-related pain. Given the benefits of methadone substitution for illicit opioids, the finding of an association between methadone and prolongation of cardiac depolarization (QT prolongation) and torsades de pointes is of great concern. QT prolongation can occur with many drugs and is a potentially lethal adverse drug reaction, necessitating risk monitoring and therapeutic alternatives in some patients. Recent studies suggest that QT prolongation with methadone is context dependent: occurrence is more frequent with high doses of methadone, concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors, hypokalemia, hepatic failure, administration of other QT prolonging drugs and pre-existing heart disease. The valued benefit of methadone substitution therapy on the one hand and the increased cardiovascular risk in particular situations on the other illustrate the difficulties in dealing with drug-induced QT prolongation in general.
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are persistent organic pollutants present in the food chain and in human blood and milk. Exposure to PCBs during pregnancy and lactation leads to cognitive impairment in children. The underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Some PCBs are endocrine disrupters. The aim of this work was to assess whether exposure of rats to PCB126 (dioxin-like) or PCB153 (non-dioxin-like) during pregnancy and lactation affects the ability of the pups to learn a Y maze conditional discrimination task and/or the function of the glutamate-nitric oxide (NO)-cGMP pathway in brain in vivo when the rats are young (3 months) or adult (7-8 months). After finishing the learning experiments, the function of the pathway was analysed in the same rats by in vivo brain microdialysis. The results obtained show that perinatal exposure to PCB153 or PCB126: (1) impairs learning ability in young but not in adult rats, (2) impairs the glutamate-NO-cGMP pathway function in cerebellum in vivo in young but not in adult rats and (3) affect these parameters in males and females similarly. PCB126 is around 10 000-fold more potent than PCB153. In control rats the function of the glutamate-NO-cGMP pathway and learning ability are lower in adult than in young rats. These age-related differences are not present in rats exposed to PCBs. The impairment of the glutamate-NO-cGMP pathway function induced at young age by developmental exposure to the PCBs could be one of the mechanisms contributing to the cognitive impairment found in children whose mothers ingested PCB-contaminated food during pregnancy and lactation.
We wished to examine whether enhanced depressor baroreflexes contribute to the hypotensive effect of clonidine in rats. Clonidine's hypotensive effect and clonidine's effect on baroreflex gain mean heart rate/mean blood pressure, (delta HR/delta BP) were compared under two conditions: in conscious rats with intact baroreflex control of HR, and in pentobarbital-anesthetized (PA) rats in which baroreflex control of HR is obtunded. Clonidine produced greater hypotension and bradycardia in PA rats than in conscious rats, but this greater hypotension was not associated with enhancement of baroreflex gain. Instead, clonidine-induced hypotension in PA rats was associated with a further decrease in baroreflex gain, whereas hypotension in conscious rats was not associated with any change in baroreflex gain. Selective pharmacologic blockade of sympathetic (i.e., with atenolol treatment) or parasympathetic (i.e., with methyl-atropine treatment) control of HR showed that clonidine decreased baroreflex gain in PA rats through inhibition of sympathetic control of HR. This study suggests that clonidine's hypotensive effect is not associated with enhancement of reflex bradycardic responses in rats.
Recent studies have shown that gene mutations are involved in the pathology of neurological disorders. CCG repeats cause genetic instability and are localized at the 5' end of the non-coding regions of the FMR1 gene in fragile X syndrome. Our studies for the first time showed that aluminum (Al) levels were elevated in the serum samples of fragile X syndrome and also provide evidence for the interaction of aluminum with (CCG)12-repeats. Circular dichroism spectroscopic studies of (CCG)12 indicated B-DNA conformation and in the presence of Al (10(-5) M) CCG repeats attained Z-DNA conformation. Further spectroscopic studies, which included melting profiles, ethidium bromide binding patterns and interaction of Z-DNA specific polyclonal antibodies confirmed the Z-conformation in (CCG)12-repeats in the presence of Al (10(-5) M). It is interesting to mention that Al-induced Z-conformation is stable even after the total removal of Al from CCG by desferoximine, a chelating drug. This is the first report to proof the role of Al in modulating the DNA (CCG repeats) topology and this information provides a clue about the possible involvement of Al at a molecular level in neurological/neurodegenerative disorders.
One oral dose of 1,000 mg of acetazolamide caused an acute 38% increase in cerebral blood flow (CBF) in eight healthy volunteers. During the following 10 days the subjects took 1,000 mg acetazolamide daily. CBF normalized within the first 2 days. The drug induced mild hyperventilation, gradually decreasing alveolar PCO2 to 70% of the control value at the end of the treatment period. In healthy humans the hyperventilation will not increase brain oxygenation significantly at sea level. But at high altitudes the enhanced ventilatory drive will improve oxygenation of the brain, and this may account for the beneficial effects of the drug on the symptoms of acute mountain sickness. During the treatment there was a significant 10% decrease of the hematocrit but an unaltered hemoglobin concentration. In combination with data in the literature our studies suggest that the initial CBF increase is a consequence of a transient extracellular acidosis dilating brain arterioles, whereas increased ventilatory drive results from a gradually increasing mild intracellular acidosis in the brain.
