Arsenic, an ancient drug used in traditional Chinese medicine, has attracted worldwide interest because it shows substantial anticancer activity in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). Arsenic trioxide (As2O3) exerts its therapeutic effect by promoting degradation of an oncogenic protein that drives the growth of APL cells, PML-RARalpha (a fusion protein containing sequences from the PML zinc finger protein and retinoic acid receptor alpha). PML and PML-RARalpha degradation is triggered by their SUMOylation, but the mechanism by which As2O3 induces this posttranslational modification is unclear. Here we show that arsenic binds directly to cysteine residues in zinc fingers located within the RBCC domain of PML-RARalpha and PML. Arsenic binding induces PML oligomerization, which increases its interaction with the small ubiquitin-like protein modifier (SUMO)-conjugating enzyme UBC9, resulting in enhanced SUMOylation and degradation. The identification of PML as a direct target of As2O3 provides new insights into the drug's mechanism of action and its specificity for APL.
Proneurotrophins and mature neurotrophins activate different signaling pathways with distinct effects on their target cells: proneurotrophins can induce apoptotic signaling via p75(NTR), whereas mature neurotrophins activate Trk receptors to influence survival and differentiation. Here, we demonstrate that the PTEN (phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome 10) phosphatase represents a novel switch between the survival and apoptotic signaling pathways in rat CNS neurons. Simultaneous activation of p75(NTR) by proNGF and TrkB signaling by BDNF elicited apoptosis despite TrkB phosphorylation. Apoptosis induced by p75(NTR) required suppression of TrkB-induced phosphoinositide-3 kinase signaling, mediated by induction of PTEN, for apoptosis to proceed. Inhibition of PTEN restored the ability of BDNF to phosphorylate Akt and protect cultured basal forebrain neurons from proNGF-induced death. In vivo, inhibition or knockdown of PTEN after pilocarpine-induced seizures protected CNS neurons from p75(NTR)-mediated death, demonstrating that PTEN is a crucial factor mediating the balance between p75(NTR)-induced apoptotic signaling and Trk-mediated survival signaling in brain neurons.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARγ) is a ligand-activated transcription factor that exerts multiple biological effects. Growing evidence suggests that PPARγ plays an important role in inflammation; however, the effects of this transcription factor on the inflammation caused by smoking are unclear.
We measured the expression of inflammatory cytokines (leukotriene B4, LTB4 and interleukin 8, IL-8), PPARγ and toll-like receptors (TLR2 and TLR4) in alveolar macrophages (AMs) harvested from rats exposed to cigarette smoke (CS) for 3 months in vivo. Some of the rats were pre-treated with rosiglitazone (PPARγ agonist, 3 mg/kg/day, ip), rosiglitazone (3 mg/kg/day, ip) + BADGE (bisphenol A diglycidyl ether, a PPARγ antagonist, 30 mg/kg/day, ig), or BADGE alone (30 mg/kg/day, ig). We also measured the expression of PPARγ, TLR2, TLR4 and nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-κB) in AMs gained from normal rats, which exposed to 5% CSE (cigarette smoke extract) for 12 hrs, respectively pretreated with PBS, rosiglitazone (30 uM), rosiglitazone (30 uM) + BADGE (100 uM), 15 d-PGJ2 (PPARγ agonist, 5 uM), 15 d-PGJ2 (5 uM) + BADGE (100 uM), or BADGE (100 uM) alone for 30 min in vitro.
In vivo, rosiglitazone counteracted CS-induced LTB4 and IL-8 release and PPARγ downregulation, markedly lowering the expression of TLR4 and TLR2. In vitro, both rosiglitazone and 15 d-PGJ2 inhibited CS-induced inflammation through the TLR4 signaling pathway.
These results suggest that PPARγ agonists regulate inflammation in alveolar macrophages and may play a role in inflammatory diseases such as COPD.
Myoclonic movements are a common problem during the induction of general anesthesia with etomidate. We investigated the influence of pretreatment with the opioid sufentanil on the incidence of etomidate-induced myoclonus.
Forty female patients (ASA physical status I-III) were randomly assigned to receive double-blinded either 0.3 micro g kg-1 of sufentanil or placebo 150 s before the induction of sleep with 0.3 mg kg-1 of etomidate. The patients were observed for any myoclonic movement. Grade of dizziness, breathing frequency, non-invasive blood pressure and heart rate were measured during the study period.
None of the 20 patients receiving sufentanil had myoclonic movements after the administration of etomidate, whereas 16 patients in the placebo group (80%) experienced such movements (P<0.01). No cases of apnoea before induction of sleep were seen in the sufentanil group.
Sufentanil 0.3 micro g kg-1 is an effective and safe drug to reduce myoclonus after etomidate without causing any harmful side-effect.
Recent studies have shown that resveratrol (3,5,4'-trihydroxystilbene), a polyphenolic compound found in grapes and red wine, has various beneficial effects on cardiovascular diseases and prolongs the life span of mice fed a high-fat diet. We hypothesized that resveratrol may attenuate vascular inflammatory response induced by angiotensin (Ang) II. We examined the effect of resveratrol on Ang II-induced interleukin (IL)-6 expression in vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs). Resveratrol significantly attenuated Ang II-induced IL-6 mRNA expression and IL-6 protein in the supernatant of VSMC in a dose-dependent manner. Resveratrol suppressed the IL-6 gene promoter activity. Resveratrol inhibited the Ang II-induced cAMP-response element-binding protein and nuclear factor-kappa B activity, which are critical for Ang II-induced IL-6 gene activation. An increase in the serum concentration of IL-6 induced by Ang II infusion was attenuated by an oral administration of resveratrol. Resveratrol also inhibited Ang II-induced hypertension and perivascular fibrosis of the heart. Although hydralazine reduced blood pressure level equal to resveratrol, it did not reduce the Ang II-induced IL-6 production and perivascular fibrosis. These data suggest that the inhibition of Ang II-induced vascular inflammation and high blood pressure by resveratrol may contribute, at least in part, to the anti-atherogenic effects of resveratrol.
Drug abuse disorder is induced by a variety of substances and results from their interaction with the brain reward system. It is characterized by a high frequency of relapse, usually associated with to craving. In this study we investigated the effects of 1-methyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline, an endogenous compound with antidopaminergic and neuroprotective activity, on cocaine-induced reinstatement in cocaine-dependent, self-administering rats. 1-methyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline (50 mg/kg i.p.) completely inhibited the expression of reinstatement of cocaine self-administration and accompanying neurochemical changes induced by a single priming cocaine dose (10 mg/kg i.p.). The priming cocaine dose inhibited dopamine metabolism in the structures containing nerve endings (frontal cortex, nucleus accumbens, and striatum) but not in the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area. A behaviorally active dose of 1-methyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline administered 30 min before a priming dose of cocaine significantly increased the dopamine concentration in the limbic structures, and strongly inhibited dopamine metabolism in the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area. Cocaine also inhibited noradrenaline and serotonin metabolism, and 1-methyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline abolished the inhibition in noradrenaline metabolism, while it intensified the inhibition of serotonin metabolism. Our results strongly support the view that 1-methyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline, an endogenous compound, has considerable potential as a drug for combating substance abuse disease through the attenuation of craving.
The administration of a single dose of vitamin A to pregnant hamsters, early during the morning of their 8th day of gestation, induces types I and II Arnold--Chiari malformation (ACM), as well as various types of axial skeletal-dysraphic disorders known to be associated with the human disease. This new model provides a means of carrying comparative studies between the axial skeletal defects and neurological anomalies of this complex developmental malformation with those which characterize the other induced disorders related to it. Study of this experimental model has demonstrated that the basichondrocranium of fetuses with ACM is shorter than normal and slightly elevated (lordotic) in relation to the axis of the vertebral column. The shortness of the basichondrocranium of these fetuses is caused by the underdevelopment of the occipital bone specially noticeable in its basal component (basioccipital). This basic defect has resulted in a short and small posterior cerebral fossa which is inadequate to contain the developing nervous structures of that region. The developing cerebellum is displaced downward to an anomalous position just above the foramen magnum; and, the developing medulla is compressed or crowded into the small posterior cerebral fossa of affected fetuses. The lordotic elevation of the basichondrocranium is also responsible for the reduction of the pontine flexure and the increased angle of the cervical flexure of the hindbrain found in these fetuses. All of these neurological anomalies, which are characteristic and diagnostic of clinical ACm as well, are considered here to be secondary to the axial skeletal defects rather than primary abnormalities, as is generally believed. The peculiar type of protrusion of the odontoid process into the cranial cavity found in fetuses with ACM, as well as in those with cranioschisis aperta and occulta, is also considered to be caused by the slight depression of the underdeveloped basioccipital and therefore, comparable to the so-called basilar impression often described in clinical ACM. This study has emphasized various developmental features which are closely related with the morphogenesis of ACM, including: the somitic origin of the occipital bone, and the late growth of the cerebellum which is predominantly postnatal in almost all experimental animals. It has been pointed out that some developmental defects involving the occipital bone and the caudal vertebral column, such as those which characterize ACM type II, may be more closely related than previously recognized. It has been also pointed out that the so-called cerebellar herniation into the cervical spinal canal described in the human disease represents a late addition to this disorder which is related to the relatively late growth of the cerebellum...
The authors investigated the effects of isoflurane on blood flow and tissue oxygen pressures of a collateral-dependent myocardium. Seventeen dogs divided into two groups were studied 3-4 weeks after implantation of ameroid coronary artery constrictors to completely occlude the proximal part of the left anterior descending artery. Experiments were performed during anesthesia with an opiate that was infused intravenously throughout the experiments. In Group 1 (n = 9), measurements were obtained during control and during isoflurane- (1.6-2.2 vol%) induced hypotension (mean arterial pressure, 60 mmHg). In Group 2 (n = 8), the identical protocol was applied, but norepinephrine was infused to maintain normotension. Dipyridamole effects were studied in five animals of Group 2 after a second control period at least 1 h after discontinuation of isoflurane. Isoflurane-induced hypotension caused reductions of blood flow and surface tissue oxygen pressures in the collateral flow-dependent area. Vasodilation in the normal left ventricular areas was demonstrated by an unchanged blood flow despite a reduced oxygen consumption and by a significantly increased coronary sinus hemoglobin oxygen saturation. When arterial pressure was maintained at its control level by norepinephrine, tissue oxygen pressures remained constant and collateral as well as normal area flow increased significantly during isoflurane. Coronary vascular resistance was lower during administration of isoflurane and norepinephrine compared with that during isoflurane induced hypotension, suggesting a significant contribution of tissue oxygen demand in regulation of coronary vascular resistance. At comparable levels of arterial pressure and left ventricular oxygen consumption, normal zone blood flow was significantly higher during dipyridamole than during isoflurane and norepinephrine. Thus, isoflurane-induced hypotension decreased blood flow and tissue oxygen pressures of collateral flow-dependent myocardial areas. However, neither isoflurane nor dipyridamole caused such alterations when arterial pressure was normal.
Fusidic acid is an antibiotic with T-cell specific immunosuppressive effects similar to those of cyclosporin. Because of the need for the development of new treatments for Crohn's disease, a pilot study was undertaken to estimate the pharmacodynamics and tolerability of fusidic acid treatment in chronic active, therapy-resistant patients. Eight Crohn's disease patients were included. Fusidic acid was administered orally in a dose of 500 mg t.d.s. and the treatment was planned to last 8 weeks. The disease activity was primarily measured by a modified individual grading score. Five of 8 patients (63%) improved during fusidic acid treatment: 3 at two weeks and 2 after four weeks. There were no serious clinical side effects, but dose reduction was required in two patients because of nausea. Biochemically, an increase in alkaline phosphatases was noted in 5 of 8 cases (63%), and the greatest increases were seen in those who had elevated levels prior to treatment. All reversed to pre-treatment levels after cessation of treatment. The results of this pilot study suggest that fusidic acid may be of benefit in selected chronic active Crohn's disease patients in whom conventional treatment is ineffective. Because there seems to exist a scientific rationale for the use of fusidic acid at the cytokine level in inflammatory bowel disease, we suggest that the role of this treatment should be further investigated.
A 13-year-old African-American female taking sertraline for obsessive compulsive disorder was diagnosed with her first episode of atrioventricular (AV) nodal re-entrant tachycardia five days after beginning Mixed Salts of a Single-Entity Amphetamine Product (Adderall) for treatment of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). She received successful cardioversion with 6 mg of intravenous adenosine, but developed a second episode of possible AV nodal re-entrant tachycardia twelve days after Adderall was reinitiated at half the previous dose. The patient had clinically similar cardiac episodes five and six months after treatment was changed to slow-release methylphenidate. Stimulant medication may evoke onset of AV nodal tachyarrhythmias in patients who have the potential to develop them, possibly in combination with a selective serotonergic reuptake inhibitor (SSRI).
Previous research indicates that progesterone (PROG) decreased cocaine-seeking behavior in female rats. This effect of PROG may be in part due to its metabolite allopregnanolone (ALLO), which has been shown to decrease the sensitizing effects of cocaine and reduce lethality associated with cocaine overdose in mice.
The purpose of the present study was to examine the effects of ALLO on the reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior in female and male rats.
Rats were trained to lever press for i.v. infusions of cocaine (0.4 mg/kg per infusion) during 2-h sessions, and once acquisition criteria were met, cocaine self-administration continued for 14 days. Cocaine was then replaced with saline, and lever pressing was allowed to extinguish over 21 days. After the extinction phase, rats received s.c. ALLO (15 or 30 mg/kg), PROG (0.5 mg/kg), PROG (0.5 mg/kg) plus the 5-alpha reductase inhibitor finasteride (25 mg/kg), or vehicle pretreatment for 3 days. Rats were then tested during reinstatement with three doses of cocaine (5, 10, and 15 mg/kg, i.p. in mixed order).
PROG, and to a greater extent ALLO, decreased cocaine-primed reinstatement in females, while finasteride blocked the attenuating effects of PROG on reinstatement. ALLO had no effect on cocaine-primed reinstatement in males.
These findings suggest that ALLO may explain part of PROG's inhibitory effect on cocaine-primed reinstatement, and it may serve as a novel approach for preventing relapse in female cocaine abusers.
The calcineurin inhibitors cyclosporine and tacrolimus are both known to be nephrotoxic. Their use in orthotopic liver transplantation (OLTX) has dramatically improved success rates. Recently, however, we have had an increase of patients who are presenting after OLTX with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). This retrospective study examines the incidence and treatment of ESRD and chronic renal failure (CRF) in OLTX patients.
Patients receiving an OLTX only from June 1985 through December of 1994 who survived 6 months postoperatively were studied (n=834). Our prospectively collected database was the source of information. Patients were divided into three groups: Controls, no CRF or ESRD, n=748; CRF, sustained serum creatinine >2.5 mg/dl, n=41; and ESRD, n=45. Groups were compared for preoperative laboratory variables, diagnosis, postoperative variables, survival, type of ESRD therapy, and survival from onset of ESRD.
At 13 years after OLTX, the incidence of severe renal dysfunction was 18.1% (CRF 8.6% and ESRD 9.5%). Compared with control patients, CRF and ESRD patients had higher preoperative serum creatinine levels, a greater percentage of patients with hepatorenal syndrome, higher percentage requirement for dialysis in the first 3 months postoperatively, and a higher 1-year serum creatinine. Multivariate stepwise logistic regression analysis using preoperative and postoperative variables identified that an increase of serum creatinine compared with average at 1 year, 3 months, and 4 weeks postoperatively were independent risk factors for the development of CRF or ESRD with odds ratios of 2.6, 2.2, and 1.6, respectively. Overall survival from the time of OLTX was not significantly different among groups, but by year 13, the survival of the patients who had ESRD was only 28.2% compared with 54.6% in the control group. Patients developing ESRD had a 6-year survival after onset of ESRD of 27% for the patients receiving hemodialysis versus 71.4% for the patients developing ESRD who subsequently received kidney transplants.
Patients who are more than 10 years post-OLTX have CRF and ESRD at a high rate. The development of ESRD decreases survival, particularly in those patients treated with dialysis only. Patients who develop ESRD have a higher preoperative and 1-year serum creatinine and are more likely to have hepatorenal syndrome. However, an increase of serum creatinine at various times postoperatively is more predictive of the development of CRF or ESRD. New strategies for long-term immunosuppression may be needed to decrease this complication.
Lipoic acid (LA) is an antioxidant with therapeutic properties on several diseases like diabetes and obesity. Apelin is a novel adipokine with potential beneficial actions on glucose metabolism and insulin resistance. The aim of this study was to examine in 3T3-L1 adipocytes the effects of LA on apelin gene expression and secretion, as well as elucidate the signaling pathways involved. We also tested the regulation of adipose apelin gene expression by LA supplementation in a model of high-fat diet-induced obesity. LA increased apelin secretion but not apelin gene expression in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. The AMPK inhibitor Compound C induced an increase in LA-stimulated apelin production, and, on the contrary, the AMPK activator AICAR completely reversed the LA stimulatory effects on apelin secretion, also inducing a significant reduction in apelin mRNA levels in this in vitro model. Apelin mRNA levels were increased in those animals fed with the high-fat diet, while the caloric restriction decreased apelin mRNA to control levels. However, apelin gene expression was not significantly modified in rats treated with LA compared with the obese group. The current data suggest the ability of LA to modulate apelin secretion by adipocytes. However the insulin-sensitizing effect of LA in vivo is not related to changes in apelin gene expression in our model of diet-induced obesity.
A series of amides of ibuprofen with heteroaromatic amines was synthesized and assayed in vivo for their analgesic properties by means of writhing test in rats. When compared to parent ibuprofen some of the new amides exhibited a comparable or improved analgesic activity and a lower ulcerogenic effect.
We used the tail-flick response of rats to study the role of opioid receptors in illness-induced hyperalgesia. An intraperitoneal injection of lithium chloride (LiCl) produced hyperalgesia that was blocked in a dose-dependent manner by subcutaneous injection of the opioid antagonist naloxone. Neither hyperalgesia nor its blockade by naloxone were due to variations in tail-skin temperature induced by LiCl. Hyperalgesia was also blocked when opioid receptor antagonism was restricted to (a) the periphery, by intraperitoneal administration of the quaternary opioid receptor antagonist naloxone methiodide; (b) the brain, by intracerebroventricular microinjection of naloxone; or (c) the spinal cord, by intrathecal microinjection of naloxone. These results document a pain facilitatory role of opioid receptors in both the peripheral and central nervous systems and are discussed with reference to their analgesic and motivational functions.
Dexfenfluramine associated pulmonary arterial hypertension occurring in a patient with hereditary haemorrhagic telangiectasia related to a mutation within the endoglin gene is described. This report highlights the critical role of the TGF-beta signalling pathway in this condition.
A case of benign intracranial hypertension due to prolonged administration of a low dose of Vitamin A is described in a young male investigated as a brain tumor suspect. Computerized axial tomography showed small and symmetrical lateral ventricles which was consistent with the diagnosis. The syndrome of benign intracranial hypertension and its relationship to chronic Vitamin A toxicity is discussed.
To identify risk variants for glioma, we conducted a meta-analysis of two genome-wide association studies by genotyping 550K tagging SNPs in a total of 1,878 cases and 3,670 controls, with validation in three additional independent series totaling 2,545 cases and 2,953 controls. We identified five risk loci for glioma at 5p15.33 (rs2736100, TERT; P = 1.50 x 10(-17)), 8q24.21 (rs4295627, CCDC26; P = 2.34 x 10(-18)), 9p21.3 (rs4977756, CDKN2A-CDKN2B; P = 7.24 x 10(-15)), 20q13.33 (rs6010620, RTEL1; P = 2.52 x 10(-12)) and 11q23.3 (rs498872, PHLDB1; P = 1.07 x 10(-8)). These data show that common low-penetrance susceptibility alleles contribute to the risk of developing glioma and provide insight into disease causation of this primary brain tumor.
A study was undertaken to determine the pressor and toxic effects of etoposide, an antineoplastic agent, when administered IV in 0.9% sodium chloride solution (0.4 mg of etoposide/ml) over a 30-minute period to dogs at a dosage of 40 mg/m2 of body surface. On day 1, 6 adult German Shorthaired Pointers were anesthetized with halothane, and blood pressures were measured via a femoral artery catheter before, during, and after the etoposide was administered. Systolic, diastolic, and mean blood pressures of each dog decreased [corrected] significantly (P less than 0.01) within 30 minutes after initiation of etoposide infusion. On day 3, when the dogs were not anesthetized, etoposide was again administered to each dog, using the same dosage. Each dog developed a moderate to severe cutaneous reaction characterized by moderate to severe pruritus, urticaria, and swelling of the head and extremities that began during the second infusion of etoposide. These same cutaneous reactions were seen on day 30, when etoposide was administered to 3 of the previously treated dogs and 2 previously untreated Beagles. We concluded that the administration of the commercial preparation of etoposide is likely to cause a significant reduction in blood pressure of anesthetized dogs, and that the drug is likely to induce a moderate to severe cutaneous reaction when administered to unanesthetized dogs.
Diabetic gastroparesis is associated with increased oxidative stress attributable to loss of upregulation of heme oxygenase-1 (HO1), with resultant damage to interstitial cells of Cajal and delayed gastric emptying. These changes can be reversed by induction of HO1. HO1 catalyzes the breakdown of heme into iron, biliverdin and, carbon monoxide (CO). The aim of this study was to determine whether inhalation of CO can mimic the protective effects of HO1. Nonobese diabetic (NOD) mice with delayed gastric emptying were treated with CO inhalation. Serum malondialdehyde was measured as a marker of oxidative stress. Gastric emptying of solids was measured using a [(13)C]octanoic acid breath test. Kit expression levels were determined in immunoblots of protein extracted from the external muscle layers of the gastric body and antrum. The effect of CO on oxidative stress and gastric emptying was also determined in the presence of HO activity inhibitor chromium mesoporphyrin. CO inhalation reduced oxidative stress, restored Kit expression and reversed delayed gastric emptying in diabetic NOD mice with delayed gastric emptying. CO inhalation maintained this effect in the presence of the HO activity inhibitor, chromium mesoporphyrin, also resulting in restoration of the delay in gastric emptying. CO inhalation mimics the protective effect of upregulation of HO1 and decreased oxidative stress, increased Kit expression, and restored delay in gastric emptying. This effect of CO was independent of HO activity, suggesting that its effects were downstream of HO1. CO represents a potential therapeutic option for treatment of diabetic gastroparesis.
The development of drug-seeking habits is implicated in the transition from recreational drug use to addiction. Using a drug seeking/taking chained schedule of intravenous cocaine self-administration and reward devaluation methods in rats, the present studies examined whether drug seeking that is initially goal-directed becomes habitual after prolonged drug seeking and taking. Devaluation of the outcome of the drug seeking link (i.e., the drug taking link of the chained schedule) by extinction significantly decreased drug seeking indicating that behavior is goal-directed rather than habitual. With, however, more prolonged drug experience, animals transitioned to habitual cocaine seeking. Thus, in these animals, cocaine seeking was insensitive to outcome devaluation. Moreover, when the dorsolateral striatum, an area implicated in habit learning, was transiently inactivated, outcome devaluation was effective in decreasing drug seeking indicating that responding was no longer habitual but had reverted to control by the goal-directed system. These studies provide direct evidence that cocaine seeking becomes habitual with prolonged drug experience and describe a rodent model with which to study the neural mechanisms underlying the transition from goal-directed to habitual drug seeking.
A high melanocytic nevi count is the strongest known risk factor for cutaneous melanoma. We conducted a genome-wide association study for nevus count using 297,108 SNPs in 1,524 twins, with validation in an independent cohort of 4,107 individuals. We identified strongly associated variants in MTAP, a gene adjacent to the familial melanoma susceptibility locus CDKN2A on 9p21 (rs4636294, combined P = 3.4 x 10(-15)), as well as in PLA2G6 on 22q13.1 (rs2284063, combined P = 3.4 x 10(-8)). In addition, variants in these two loci showed association with melanoma risk in 3,131 melanoma cases from two independent studies, including rs10757257 at 9p21, combined P = 3.4 x 10(-8), OR = 1.23 (95% CI = 1.15-1.30) and rs132985 at 22q13.1, combined P = 2.6 x 10(-7), OR = 1.23 (95% CI = 1.15-1.30). This provides the first report of common variants associated to nevus number and demonstrates association of these variants with melanoma susceptibility.
The causes of glioblastoma and other gliomas remain obscure. To discover new candidate genes influencing glioma susceptibility, we conducted a principal component-adjusted genome-wide association study (GWAS) of 275,895 autosomal variants among 692 adult high-grade glioma cases (622 from the San Francisco Adult Glioma Study (AGS) and 70 from the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA)) and 3,992 controls (602 from AGS and 3,390 from Illumina iControlDB (iControls)). For replication, we analyzed the 13 SNPs with P < 10(-6) using independent data from 176 high-grade glioma cases and 174 controls from the Mayo Clinic. On 9p21, rs1412829 near CDKN2B had discovery P = 3.4 x 10(-8), replication P = 0.0038 and combined P = 1.85 x 10(-10). On 20q13.3, rs6010620 intronic to RTEL1 had discovery P = 1.5 x 10(-7), replication P = 0.00035 and combined P = 3.40 x 10(-9). For both SNPs, the direction of association was the same in discovery and replication phases.
In a follow-up to our previously reported genome-wide association study of cutaneous basal cell carcinoma (BCC), we describe here several new susceptibility variants. SNP rs11170164, encoding a G138E substitution in the keratin 5 (KRT5) gene, affects risk of BCC (OR = 1.35, P = 2.1 x 10(-9)). A variant at 9p21 near CDKN2A and CDKN2B also confers susceptibility to BCC (rs2151280[C]; OR = 1.19, P = 6.9 x 10(-9)), as does rs157935[T] at 7q32 near the imprinted gene KLF14 (OR = 1.23, P = 5.7 x 10(-10)). The effect of rs157935[T] is dependent on the parental origin of the risk allele. None of these variants were found to be associated with melanoma or fair-pigmentation traits. A melanoma- and pigmentation-associated variant in the SLC45A2 gene, L374F, is associated with risk of both BCC and squamous cell carcinoma. Finally, we report conclusive evidence that rs401681[C] in the TERT-CLPTM1L locus confers susceptibility to BCC but protects against melanoma.
We report a genome-wide association study of melanoma conducted by the GenoMEL consortium based on 317K tagging SNPs for 1,650 selected cases and 4,336 controls, with replication in an additional two cohorts (1,149 selected cases and 964 controls from GenoMEL, and a population-based case-control study in Leeds of 1,163 cases and 903 controls). The genome-wide screen identified five loci with genotyped or imputed SNPs reaching P < 5 x 10(-7). Three of these loci were replicated: 16q24 encompassing MC1R (combined P = 2.54 x 10(-27) for rs258322), 11q14-q21 encompassing TYR (P = 2.41 x 10(-14) for rs1393350) and 9p21 adjacent to MTAP and flanking CDKN2A (P = 4.03 x 10(-7) for rs7023329). MC1R and TYR are associated with pigmentation, freckling and cutaneous sun sensitivity, well-recognized melanoma risk factors. Common variants within the 9p21 locus have not previously been associated with melanoma. Despite wide variation in allele frequency, these genetic variants show notable homogeneity of effect across populations of European ancestry living at different latitudes and show independent association to disease risk.
This report concerns a 55-year-old woman who developed ocular myasthenia after 12 months treatment with D-Penicillamine for her rheumatoid arthritis. In the last 2 years the literature contains reports of 22 similar cases.
Although the occurrence of thrombosis in acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) has been reported during retinoic acid treatment, no studies carried out in large clinical cohorts have specifically addressed this issue. We analyzed 124 APL patients treated with the all-trans retinoic acid and idarubicin protocol and compared clinico-biologic characteristics of 11 patients who developed thrombosis with those of 113 patients who had no thrombosis. In seven patients, the events were recorded during induction, whereas in four patients deep vein thrombosis occurred in the post-induction phase. Comparison of clinico-biological characteristics of patients with and without thrombosis revealed in the former group higher median white blood cell (WBC) count (17 x 10(9)/l, range 1.2-56, P=0.002), prevalence of the bcr3 transcript type (72 vs 48%, P=0.01), of FLT3-ITD (64 vs 28%, P=0.02), CD2 (P=0.0001) and CD15 (P=0.01) expression. No correlation was found with sex, age, French-American-British subtype, all-trans-retinoic acid syndrome or with thrombophilic state that was investigated in 5/11 patients. Our findings suggest that, in APL patients consistent biologic features of leukemia cells may predict increased risk of developing thrombosis.
For several decades, people have been in contact with bisphenol A (BPA) primarily through their diet. Nowadays it is gradually replaced by an analogue, bisphenol S (BPS). In this study, we compared the effects of these two bisphenols in parallel with the positive control diethylstilbestrol (DES) on different hepatocyte cell lines. Using a cellular impedance system we have shown that BPS is less cytotoxic than BPA in acute and chronic conditions. We have also demonstrated that, contrary to BPA, BPS is not able to induce an increase in intracellular lipid and does not activate the PXR receptor which is known to be involved in part, in this process. In parallel, it failed to modulate the expression of CYP3A4 and CYP2B6, the drug transporter ABCB1 and other lipid metabolism genes (FASN, PLIN). However, it appears to have a weak effect on GSTA4 protein expression and on the Erk1/2 pathway. In conclusion, in contrast to BPA, BPS does not appear to induce the metabolic syndrome that may lead to non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), in vitro. Although we have to pay special attention to BPS, its use could be less dangerous concerning this toxicological endpoint for human health.
