Interferon-alpha therapy is of proven efficacy in chronic hepatitis C, but it is not universally effective and may be associated with intolerable side effects. Ribavirin is a nucleoside analog with a broad spectrum of antiviral action. We conducted an uncontrolled pilot study of ribavirin therapy in 13 patients with chronic hepatitis C. Ribavirin was given for 6 mo, in a dose that was increased, at 2-mo intervals, from 600 mg to 1,000 mg to 1,200 mg/day. Serum ALT levels gradually decreased in all 13 treated patients; the mean percentage of decrease was 67% (from 210 U/L [range = 109 to 593] to 63 U/L [range = 22 to 108 U/L]; p = 0.0006) after 6 mo of treatment. Serum aminotransferase levels fell to the normal range in four patients (31%). In the 3 to 6 mo after cessation of ribavirin therapy, serum aminotransferase activities gradually rose to near pretreatment levels in all but one patient. Therapy was associated with a significant decrease in the geometric mean titer of hepatitis C virus RNA in serum (1:1,981 vs. 1:199; p less than 0.02) although no patients lost hepatitis C virus RNA from serum during therapy. No significant improvement was seen in liver histological appearance. Ribavirin therapy resulted in mild, reversible hemolysis; no patient exhibited symptomatic anemia. These findings suggest that ribavirin has a beneficial effect in patients with chronic hepatitis C, although further studies are needed to determine how ribavirin is best used.
Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) has no known nephrotoxicity. This report examines the outcome in patients who received MMF for renal impairment on tacrolimus-based immunosuppression. From 1995 to 1996, twelve liver transplantation (LTx) patients (mean age 54.6 years) with serum creatinine >1.8 mg/dl were included in the study. MMF was introduced and tacrolimus dose was reduced by 30-50%. Each patient was followed for 6 years. Renal function showed improvement in seven patients, deterioration in four, and no change in one patient. Overall mean serum creatinine decreased from 2.5 to 1.9 mg/dl at 6 months but increased to 2.2 mg/dl at 18 to 24 months. After that, renal function remained stable for 72 months. Iothalamate clearance showed 18.5% improvement at 1 year. Three patients developed renal failure. Six patients died in the follow-up period. Addition of MMF with reduced tacrolimus dose resulted in sustained improvement in renal function in 58% of patients.
Familial dysalbuminemic hyperthyroxinemia, a syndrome involving an abnormal affinity of albumin for thyroxine, results in elevated total thyroxine and free thyroxine index levels but normal triiodothyronine resin uptake and thyroid-stimulating hormone levels. Danazol is a synthetic androgen that increases triiodothyronine resin uptake and decreases total thyroxine, secondary to a decrease in thyroid-binding globulin levels. A 35-year-old woman with familial dysalbuminemic hyperthyroxinemia who was given danazol, in whom nervousness, insomnia, and weight gain developed, is described. Thyroid tests performed after initiation of danazol therapy revealed an increase in triiodothyronine resin uptake, with persistently elevated total thyroxine and free thyroxine index levels, and normal thyroid-stimulating hormone levels. Once the danazol was withdrawn, the symptoms resolved, the triiodothyronine resin uptake returned to normal, and the thyroid-stimulating hormone remained normal. The effects of danazol on a patient with familial dysalbuminemic hyperthyroxinemia correlate well with the effects on normals, and the ultrasensitive thyroid-stimulating hormone was the most useful test in separating hyperthyroxinemia from hyperthyroidism.
A 45-year-old woman with almost normal coronary arteries suffered from acute inferior myocardial infarction after taking 2 tablets (2.0 mg) of ergotamine tartrate for headache. She had had attacks of variant angina and spasm of the right coronary artery had been demonstrated during the attack. After the recovery from myocardial infarction the intravenous injection of ergonovine maleate 0.05 mg induced spasm of the right coronary artery again. We conclude that acute myocardial infarction in this patient was probably caused by coronary arterial spasm induced by ergotamine tartrate.
Recent studies have suggested that oxytocin affects social cognition and behavior mediated by the oxytocin receptor (OXTR) in amygdala in humans as well as in experimental animals. Genetic studies have revealed a link between the OXTR gene and the susceptibility to autism spectrum disorders (ASD), especially in the social dysfunctional feature of ASD.
We examined the relationship between amygdala volume measured with manual tracing methodology and seven single nucleotide polymorphisms and one haplotype-block in OXTR, which were previously reported to be associated with ASD, in 208 socially intact Japanese adults with no neuropsychiatric history or current diagnosis.
The rs2254298A allele of OXTR was significantly associated with larger bilateral amygdala volume. The rs2254298A allele effect on amygdala volume varied in proportion to the dose of this allele. The larger the number of rs2254298A alleles an individual had, the larger their amygdala volume. Such an association was not observed with hippocampal volume or with global brain volumes, including whole gray, white matter, and cerebrospinal-fluid space. Furthermore, two three-single nucleotide polymorphism haplotypes, including rs2254298G allele, showed significant associations with the smaller bilateral amygdala volume.
The present results suggest that OXTR might be associated with the susceptibility to ASD, especially in its aspects of social interaction and communication mediated by a modulation of amygdala development, one of the most distributed brain regions with high density of OXTR. Furthermore, amygdala volume measured with magnetic resonance imaging could be a useful intermediate phenotype to uncover the complex link between OXTR and social dysfunction in ASD.
Glycyrrhiza uralensis (licorice) is one of the most frequently prescribed ingredients in Oriental medicine, and licorice extract has been shown to exert anti-carcinogenic effects. However, its use as a cancer chemopreventive agent is rather limited, due to the fact that its principal component, glycyrrhizin, is known to induce hypertension. This study determined the effects of a hexane/ethanol extract of G. uralensis (HEGU), which contains undetectable amounts of glycyrrhizin, on the apoptosis of androgen-insensitive DU145 cells. HEGU induced apoptosis and increased the levels of cleaved caspase-9, caspase-7, caspase-3 and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP). HEGU also induced mitochondrial membrane depolarization and cytochrome c release to the cytosol. HEGU increased the levels of Fas, death receptor 4 (DR4), cleaved caspase-8, Mcl-1S, and truncated Bid proteins. A caspase-8 inhibitor suppressed HEGU-induced apoptosis. An active fraction of HEGU was separated via column chromatography and the structure of the active compound isoangustone A was identified via 1H-NMR and 13C-NMR. Isoangustone A increased apoptotic cells, the cleavage of PARP and caspases, and the levels of DR4 and Mcl-1S. Transfection with DR4 small interfering RNA attenuated HEGU- and isoangustone A-induced apoptosis. These results demonstrate that the activation of DR4 contributes to HEGU- and isoangustone A-induced apoptosis of DU145 cells.
Eighty patients with Ewing's sarcoma, bronchogenic carcinoma, and other neoplasms receiving adriamycin were monitored by a Sphygmo-Recording of the pulse wave delay (QKd time interval). The QKd interval, which is the sum of the cardiac pre-ejection period and the pulse transmission time, is sensitive to changes in myocardial contractility and stroke output. The patients were also followed by serial physical examinations, electrocardiograms, chest roentgenograms, serum enzymes, and thyroid function tests; none of these changed during the study period except in a few patients with congestive heart failure (CHF) and/or transient arrhythmias. QKd showed a significant prolongation (greater than 30 msec) within 1-3 weeks after adriamycin administration in a high percentage of patients followed closely. The QKd interval usually returned to pretreatment baseline levels within 4-7 weeks after adriamycin administration. The QKd often showed repeated and sustained elevations after courses of therapy at 3-week intervals. After adriamycin therapy was discontinued the QKd usually returned to normal levels. No statistically significant changes in the QKd were seen in a control group. There were no acute changes in QKd during adriamycin infusions. Of seven patients receiving cumulative doses of adriamycin greater than 550 mg/m2, three developed CHF. QKd intervals in all three of these patients had failed to return to the baseline values 2-3 months prior to any other evidence of CHF. This suggests that failure of QKd to return to pretreatment baseline levels may be of prognostic value. The QKd interval appears to reflect a high incidence of subclinical adriamycin cardiotoxicity. The technique is simple, noninvasive, rapid, and potentially useful for monitoring patients receiving adriamycin and other potentially cardiotoxic drugs.
Caffeine affects most physiological systems. Few studies, however, have attempted to document which somatic symptoms are commonly associated with caffeinism. To answer this question, the authors evaluated 124 general hospital patients, and compared reported somatic symptoms among low, moderate and high caffeine users. Diuresis, insomnia, withdrawal headache, diarrhea, anxiety, tachycardia and tremulousness were most commonly reported, in descending order of frequency. Differences among high, moderate and low users were common, and some dose-response associations were apparent. Most symptoms were explainable by caffeine's known CNS neuropharmacological effects or peripheral pharmacological actions.
Schizophrenic patients were treated with fixed doses of sulpiride (800 mg/day) or chlorpromazine (CPZ) (400 mg/day) over a period of 8 weeks using a double-blind design. There were 25 patients in each group and all the patients were in an acute phase of their disease. They all fulfilled the Research Diagnostic Criteria (RDC) for schizophrenia. Depressive symptoms as rated according to the Comprehensive Psychopathological Rating Scale (CPRS) were present in the patients before treatment was started. The depressive and psychotic symptoms in both groups decreased in parallel during the whole period of treatment. Patients in the sulpiride group recovered more quickly from depressive symptoms than patients in the CPZ group. It was also found that patients with low concentrations of sulpiride or CPZ in serum recovered more completely from depressive symptoms and had fewer extrapyramidal side effects than patients with high drug concentrations.
The antiplatelet drug clopidogrel has largely replaced ticlopidine, due to an association between ticlopidine and thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura-hemolytic uremic syndrome (TTP-HUS). Clopidogrel at first was thought to be void of this potentially fatal adverse effect, but recent case reports have called that assumption into question. Even with proper treatment (plasma exchange), TTP-HUS can persist for weeks. Clinicians should be aware of this possible adverse effect because prompt therapy is imperative for patients' survival. Earlier reports of clopidogrel-related TTP-HUS have involved patients who had received at least 72 hours of therapy. We describe a case of TTP-HUS in a patient who had received only a 300-mg loading dose of clopidogrel.
The induction of the NALP3 inflammasome complex is shown to be necessary for the development of fibrosis after asbestos exposure. Libby amphibole (LA) induces lung inflammation and fibrosis, while complexation of iron (Fe) on fibers inhibits inflammation. In this study we examined the ability of LA to induce the inflammasome cascade and the role of Fe in modulating inflammasome activity. Spontaneously hypertensive rats were exposed intratracheally to either saline (300 μl), deferoxamine (Def) (1 mg), FeCl(3) (21 μg), LA (0.5 mg), Fe-loaded LA (Fe + LA), or LA + Def. Activities of oxidative stress-sensitive enzymes, expression of inflammasome-specific genes, and cytokine proteins in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid were analyzed. Lung enzymes at 4 h and 24 h post-exposure were unchanged. LA increased lung expression of genes including interleukin-1β (IL-1β), cathepsin-B, ASC, NALP3, interleukin (IL)-6 and NFκB. LA+Fe significantly reduced IL-1β and NFκB with a trend of reduction in ASC, NALP3, cathepsin-B and IL-6 expression. Def treatment did not reverse the inhibitory effect of Fe on IL-1β and ASC but reversed IL-6 expression. CCL-7, CCL-12, CXCL-3 and COX-2 were induced by LA while LA+Fe tended to reduce these responses. Phosphorylation of ERK but not MEK was increased at 4 h after LA but not LA+Fe exposure. In conclusion, components of the NALP3 inflammasome are transcriptionally activated acutely during LA-induced inflammation. The key inflammatory regulators IL-1β and NFκB were inhibited in the presence of surface-complexed Fe possibly through decreased ERK signaling upstream of the NALP3 inflammasome. The inflammasome activation by LA may contribute to fibrosis, and Fe may reduce this response and alter compensatory mechanisms in individuals exposed to LA.
The most suitable antihypertensive drug to reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease in patients with hypertension and diabetes is unclear. In prespecified analyses, we compared the effects of losartan and atenolol on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in diabetic patients.
As part of the LIFE study, in a double-masked, randomised, parallel-group trial, we assigned a group of 1195 patients with diabetes, hypertension, and signs of left-ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) on electrocardiograms losartan-based or atenolol-based treatment. Mean age of patients was 67 years (SD 7) and mean blood pressure 177/96 mm Hg (14/10) after placebo run-in. We followed up patients for at least 4 years (mean 4.7 years [1.1]). We used Cox regression analysis with baseline Framingham risk score and electrocardiogram-LVH as covariates to compare the effects of the drugs on the primary composite endpoint of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality (cardiovascular death, stroke, or myocardial infarction).
Mean blood pressure fell to 146/79 mm Hg (17/11) in losartan patients and 148/79 mm Hg (19/11) in atenolol patients. The primary endpoint occurred in 103 patients assigned losartan (n=586) and 139 assigned atenolol (n=609); relative risk 0.76 (95% CI 0.58-.98), p=0.031. 38 and 61 patients in the losartan and atenolol groups, respectively, died from cardiovascular disease; 0.63 (0.42-0.95), p=0.028. Mortality from all causes was 63 and 104 in losartan and atenolol groups, respectively; 0.61 (0.45-0.84), p=0.002.
Losartan was more effective than atenolol in reducing cardiovascular morbidity and mortality as well as mortality from all causes in patients with hypertension, diabetes, and LVH. Losartan seems to have benefits beyond blood pressure reduction.
To report the prevalence of ocular abnormalities in a group of children diagnosed with fetal anticonvulsant (FAC) syndrome(s).
Retrospective, observational, noncomparative case series.
Forty-six children, age range 8 months to 16 years 5 months (mean, 7 years 1 month), with a confirmed diagnosis of an FAC syndrome. Thirty-seven subjects were exposed in utero to sodium valproate (29 as monotherapy), and the remainder (n = 9) to other anticonvulsants, mainly carbamazepine.
A total of 46 subjects underwent ophthalmic assessment consisting of visual acuity, cover test, ocular movements, analysis of spectacle lens power, cycloplegic refraction, and anterior segment examination with portable slit lamp, plus direct and indirect ophthalmoscopy.
Refraction and ocular motility status.
Thirty-one of 46 (67%) had ocular abnormalities, most commonly errors of refraction (19 of 46; 41%). Myopia was common (14 of 28; 50%) in those exposed to valproate monotherapy and there were high frequencies of strabismus (20%), astigmatism (24%), and anisometropia (11%) in the group as a whole. Thirty-one percent of myopes and 27% of astigmates did not wear glasses, of whom three subjects and two subjects, respectively, were less than 8 years old and therefore at risk of anisometropic or ametropic amblyopia. One subject had epicanthus, one color vision deficiency, and one bilateral congenital cataract.
We conclude that (1) abnormal ophthalmic findings are common in subjects with confirmed FAC syndrome, in particular myopia in those with fetal valproate syndrome; (2) children with FAC syndrome should receive preschool vision testing; (3) preschool vision testing should be considered in all children exposed to anticonvulsants in utero.
The aim of our study was twofold: to determine the frequency and magnitude of perfusion defect in stroke patients who qualify for rtPA therapy within 3 hours of stroke onset and to determine the ability of rtPA to improve perfusion by 24 hours.
Patients with suspected hemispheric stroke who fulfilled entry criteria into the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) rt-PA Stroke Study and also had pretreatment injection of (99m)Tc-HMPAO, with single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) performed using a triple-head camera at baseline and 24 hours, were included.
All 12 patients who qualified for rtPA therapy had perfusion defects on baseline SPECT (SPECT graded scale [SGS] score range, 16 to 79). Mean+/-SD perfusion defect was comparable in rtPA (n=4)versus placebo (n=5) groups (SGS score, 36+/-18 versus 39+/-12; NS) despite earlier injection time in the rtPA group (98+/-24 versus 141+/-21 minutes; P=.02). Total SPECT scanning time was 20 to 25 minutes. At 24 hours, reperfusion was greater in rtPA patients compared with the placebo group (SGS score, 7+/-9 versus 29+/-17; P=.05), with relative improvement in the region-of-interest scores of 87+/-16% after rtPA compared with 28+/-30% with placebo (P=.01).
A substantial perfusion defect exists in stroke patients with larger hemispheric infarcts who meet NINDS criteria for rtPA therapy, and rtPA is better able than placebo to rectify this defect. SPECT is feasible for clinical trials and should be evaluated as a substituted end point in stroke therapeutic trials.
To test the hypotheses that administering dopamine before and concurrently with indomethacin therapy would (1) increase successful ductal closure rate, (2) act by maintaining a diuresis, and (3) prevent oliguria or high serum creatinine concentrations, we conducted a randomized, controlled trial in infants whose gestational age was <36 weeks and who had hemodynamically significant ductus arteriosus. Thirty-six infants were selected to receive a continuous infusion of either placebo or dopamine at either a low dosage of 2 micrograms/kg per minute or a higher dosage of 5 micrograms/kg per minute, beginning 6 hours before the use of indomethacin and continuing until 12 hours after the third dose of indomethacin. A total of 12 patients were selected to receive placebo, 14 were selected to receive "low dopamine," and 10 were selected to receive "high dopamine." The three groups were similar in their initial characteristics. Serum creatinine concentrations, urine output, and fractional excretion of sodium were not different in the three groups after indomethacin treatment. Two patients receiving placebo required a second course of indomethacin compared with four patients in the low-dopamine group and one in the high-dopamine group. The proportion of failures of medical treatment was not statistically different among the three groups. We conclude that concomitant dopamine therapy neither decreases the failure rate in indomethacin-treated infants nor reduces the magnitude of the indomethacin-induced oliguria.
A 40-year-old Hispanic man with acute lymphoblastic leukemia was treated with a single dose of intrathecal methotrexate 12 mg for prophylaxis against leptomeningeal spread of tumor. The day after methotrexate administration, the patient complained of severe back pain and urinary retention. The diagnosis of encephalomyelitis was made on day 3 after methotrexate administration, and by day 6 mechanical ventilation was begun secondary to ascending paralysis. By day 8 the patient was comatose, with minimal signs of brain activity and little hope for recovery; on day 12 he died. Although neurotoxicity is a frequent complication of methotrexate therapy, fatal acute neurotoxicity is extremely uncommon, especially in adults. The mechanisms of methotrexate toxicity remain unclear, and no effective treatment exists to prevent its occurrence. This patient rapidly progressed from mild neurotoxicity to fatal encephalopathy after one dose of intrathecal methotrexate during his third cycle of chemotherapy. Clinicians should be aware of the signs and symptoms of neurotoxicity during treatment, as well as predisposing factors that put patients receiving methotrexate at risk for neurotoxic effects.
Stone et al. previously reported an association between the TBC1D1 gene variant R125W (rs35859249) and severe obesity in women from US pedigrees. We attempted to replicate this result in 9714 French Caucasian individuals, combining family-based and general population studies. We confirmed an association with familial obesity (defined as body mass index (BMI) > or = 97th percentile) in women from 1109 obesity-selected pedigrees (Z-score = 2.70, P = 0.008). Analysis of 16 microsatellite markers on chromosome 4 restricted to the 42 pedigrees carrying the TBC1D1 R125W variant allele also revealed a suggestive evidence of linkage with obesity (maximum likelihood binomial LOD of 2.73, P = 0.0002) on chromosome 4p14, where resides TBC1D1. In contrast, R125W variant was neither associated with BMI nor with obesity in a large population-based cohort. These results confirm a putative role of TBC1D1 R125W variant in familial obesity predisposition.
Triptolide (TP), a major active and toxic component of Tripterygium wilfordii, is reported to be converted into four mono-hydroxylated metabolites (m/z 375) by cytochrome P450 (CYP) in vitro, and CYP3A4 was the primary isoform responsible for its hydroxylation. Dexamethasone (DXM), a CYP3A inducer, is frequently combined with TP in clinical therapy. However, the effects of DXM on the metabolism and toxicity of TP are unknown. In this study, the metabolism of TP was investigated in rat liver microsomes pretreated with DXM. The metabolic profile of TP was significantly altered. The V(max) was about 9.58-fold higher than that of vehicle group and the K(m) was about 3.57-fold higher. With DXM, the amount of metabolite M3 was significantly higher than that with no DXM while M1 and M2 were not found, and a new metabolite (m/z 391) was observed. The liver and the kidney toxicity of TP on rat pretreated with DXM were evaluated. We observed that pretreatment with DXM protected against TP hepatotoxicity. No obvious nephrotoxicity was detected on rats treated with TP, whereas the kidney damage was observed in DXM group and the level of toxicity was much reduced with DXM-TP group. This suggested that TP might decrease nephrotoxicity induced by DXM. These studies indicated that DXM had significant impact on the metabolism and the toxicity of TP as a therapeutic agent.
Interventional treatment with atorvastatin lowered the circulating levels of the catalytic core of NADPH oxidase, namely sgp91(phox), but the underlying mechanism is still undefined.
To test the hypothesis that the inhibitory effect on oxidative stress, induced by Atorvastatin, could be mediated by adiponectin.
We compared 36 patients with polygenic hypercholesterolemia and 18 healthy subjects. Patients were randomized to either a low-fat diet (Group A) or low-fat diet plus atorvastatin 10 mg/day (Group B) for 30 days. Lower serum adiponectin levels and higher lipid profile, gp91(phox) serum levels, urinary isoprostanes, platelet oxygen free radicals, characterized patients. After 30 days of treatment, group B showed higher levels of adiponectin which is inversely correlated to reduced levels of sgp91(phox), urinary isoprostanes and platelet oxygen free radicals (p<0.001). In in vitro model, adiponectin dosages between 5 and 10 ng/ml inhibited p47(phox) translocation to gp91(phox) and soluble gp91(phox) cleavage indicating its ability in inhibiting the assembly of NADPH oxidase subunits on cell membrane and in turn the enzymatic system activation.
This study provides the first evidence that in patients higher APN serum levels are associated with gp91(phox) down-regulation. APN-mediated gp91(phox) reduction could be one of the mechanisms involved in atorvastatin's antioxidant effect.
We studied clinical features of immunosuppressive (cyclosporine, tacrolimus) associated encephalopathy in bone marrow transplant patients. 378 cases of allogeneic bone marrow transplant recipients over fifteen years old of chronic and acute leukemia (CML, ANLL, ALL) (n = 311), myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) (n = 42) and severe aplastic anemia (SAA) (n = 25) were investigated. Immunosuppressive associated encephalopathy occurred in 12 cases. The rate of incidence was significantly higher in SAA and MDS (7 cases) than in leukemia. The cases which showed typical radiological abnormality in MRI were limited in SAA and hypoplastic MDS. 10 cases died, which revealed worse than an overall survival rate of recipients without immunosupressive-associated encephalopathy. 5 of 7 cases in SAA and MDS had taken cyclosporine as treatment of the disease before bone marrow transplantation and that might influence the incidence of encephalopathy.
The nitrofen model of congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) creates a Bochdalek-type diaphragmatic defect and has been widely used to investigate the pathogenesis of CDH. However, the exact pathogenesis of the diaphragmatic defect in this model is still poorly understood. Chicken ovalbumin upstream promotor-transcription factor II (COUP-TFII) is expressed in the embryonic pleuroperitoneal folds (PPF) in the early stage of development and in the diaphragm in the late days of gestation. COUP-TFII is known to be a strong repressor of the retinoid signaling pathway (RSP), which plays an important role in diaphragm development. Furthermore, it has been recently shown that COUP-TFII is upregulated during early gestation in the nitrofen-induced hypoplastic lung. We designed this study to investigate the hypothesis that COUP-TFII gene expression is upregulated during early diaphragmatic development in the PPF.
Timed pregnant rats were exposed to either olive oil (Control) or nitrofen (CDH) on day 9 of gestation (D9). Fetuses were sacrificed on D13, D18 or D21. The PPF was dissected from D13 fetuses using laser capture microdissection. Diaphragms were dissected from D18 and D21 fetuses under the dissection microscope. The relative mRNA expression levels of COUP-TFII were determined using real-time PCR. Immunohistochemistry was performed to evaluate diaphragmatic protein expression and the distribution of COUP-TFII.Results On D13, gene expression levels of COUP-TFII in the PPF were significantly increased in the CDH group (82.93 ± 11.85) compared to Controls (46.22 ± 8.09; p < 0.05), whereas there were no differences at later time points. The immunoreactivity of diaphragmatic COUP-TFII was markedly increased in the PPF in the CDH group compared to controls on D13. No difference in immunoreactivity was observed on D18 and D21.
Upregulation of COUP-II gene expression in the PPF may contribute to the diaphragmatic defect in the nitrofen CDH model by inhibiting the RSP.
Both the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and the extrahypothalamic brain stress system are key elements of the neural circuitry that regulates the negative states during abstinence from chronic drug exposure. Orexins have recently been hypothesized to modulate the extended amygdala and to contribute to the negative emotional state associated with dependence. This study examined the impact of chronic morphine and withdrawal on the lateral hypothalamic (LH) orexin A (OXA) gene expression and activity as well as OXA involvement in the brain stress response to morphine abstinence. Male Wistar rats received chronic morphine followed by naloxone to precipitate withdrawal. The selective OX1R antagonist SB334867 was used to examine whether orexins' activity is related to somatic symptoms of opiate withdrawal and alterations in HPA axis and extended amygdala in rats dependent on morphine. OXA mRNA was induced in the hypothalamus during morphine withdrawal, which was accompanied by activation of OXA neurons in the LH. Importantly, SB334867 attenuated the somatic symptoms of withdrawal, and reduced morphine withdrawal-induced c-Fos expression in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) shell, bed nucleus of stria terminalis, central amygdala and hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus, but did not modify the HPA axis activity. These results highlight a critical role of OXA signalling, via OX1R, in activation of brain stress system to morphine withdrawal and suggest that all orexinergic subpopulations in the lateral hypothalamic area contribute in this response.
Ligands of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPAR-alpha) have been shown to reduce ischaemia/reperfusion injury. The mechanisms behind this effect are not well known. We hypothesized that activation of PPAR-alpha exerts cardioprotection via a mechanism related to nitric oxide (NO) and endothelin-1 (ET-1).
Five groups of anaesthetized open-chest Sprague-Dawley rats were given the PPAR-alpha agonist WY 14643 1 mg/kg (WY; n = 7), dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO, vehicle for WY; n = 6), the combination of WY and the NO synthase inhibitor N-nitro-L-arginine (L-NNA, 2 mg/kg) (n = 7), L-NNA only (n = 8) or 0.9% sodium chloride (NaCl, vehicle for DMSO and L-NNA; n = 8) i.v. before a 30 min period of coronary artery occlusion followed by 2 h of reperfusion. Infarct size (IS), eNOS and iNOS protein and ET-1 mRNA expression were determined.
There were no haemodynamic differences between the groups during the experiment. The IS was 78 +/- 3% of the area at risk in the DMSO group and 77 +/- 2% in the NaCl group (P = NS). WY reduced IS to 56 +/- 3% (P < 0.001 vs. DMSO group). When WY was administered in combination with L-NNA the cardioprotective effect was abolished (IS 73 +/- 3%, P < 0.01 vs. WY 14643). L-NNA did not affect IS per se (78 +/- 2%, P = NS). The expression of eNOS but not iNOS protein in ischaemic myocardium from rats was increased in the group given WY (P < 0.05). ET-1 mRNA levels were lower in the ischaemic myocardium following WY administration.
The results suggest that the PPAR-alpha activation protects the rat myocardium against ischaemia/ reperfusion injury via a mechanism related to production of NO, and possibly ET-1.
Dysfunction of basocortical cholinergic projection neurons of the nucleus basalis (NB) correlates with cognitive deficits in Alzheimer disease (AD). Nucleus basalis neurons receive cholinergic inputs and express nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) and muscarinic AChRs (mAChRs), which may regulate NB neuron activity in AD. Although alterations in these AChRs occur in the AD cortex, there is little information detailing whether defects in nAChR and mAChR gene expression occur in cholinergic NB neurons during disease progression.
To determine whether nAChR and mAChR gene expression is altered in cholinergic NB neurons during the progression of AD.
Individual NB neurons from subjects diagnosed ante mortem as having no cognitive impairment (NCI), mild cognitive impairment (MCI), or mild to moderate AD were analyzed by single-cell AChR expression profiling via custom-designed microarrays.
Academic research.
Participants were members of the Rush Religious Orders Study cohort.
Real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction was performed to validate microarray findings.
Cholinergic NB neurons displayed a statistically significant up-regulation of alpha7 nAChR messenger RNA expression in subjects with mild to moderate AD compared with those with NCI and MCI (P<.001). No differences were found for other nAChR and mAChR subtypes across the cohort. Expression levels of alpha7 nAChRs were inversely associated with Global Cognitive Score and with Mini-Mental State Examination performance.
Up-regulation of alpha7 nAChRs may signal a compensatory response to maintain basocortical cholinergic activity during AD progression. Alternatively, putative competitive interactions of this receptor with beta-amyloid may provide a pathogenic mechanism for NB dysfunction. Increasing NB alpha7 nAChR expression may serve as a marker for the progression of AD.
Alprazolam treatment was tapered in 17 panic patients at a rate of 10% of the starting dose every 3 days. Only four subjects completed withdrawal on schedule (4-5 weeks); four additional subjects discontinued treatment in 7-13 weeks. During withdrawal 15 patients had recurrent or increased panic attacks and nine had significant new withdrawal symptoms. Most common among the latter were malaise, weakness, insomnia, tachycardia, lightheadedness, and dizziness. None had seizures, psychosis, or significant neurological or EEG abnormalities. Results indicate that relapse and withdrawal are important considerations in the choice of alprazolam treatment for panic attacks.
