Anti-atherogenic effect of ferulic acid (0.02%, w/w) was investigated in comparison with the clofibrate (0.02%, w/w) in apolipoprotein E-deficient (apo E(-/-)) mice fed Western diet. Concentrations of total cholesterol (total-C), apolipoprotein B (apo B) in the plasma and epididymal adipose tissue weight were significantly lower in the ferulic acid and clofibrate supplemented groups compared to the control group. The ratio of apo B to apo A-I was also significantly lower in those groups than in the control group. Activities of hepatic ACAT and HMG-CoA reductase were only significantly lower in the ferulic acid and clofibrate groups, respectively than in the control group. The numbers of mice that exhibited aortic fatty plaque were 8/10 in control groups vs. 0/10 in the ferulic acid or clofibrate group. The activities of anti-oxidant enzymes (superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase and paraoxonase) in the hepatocyte and erythrocyte were significantly higher in the ferulic acid group than in the control group. In contrast, hepatic TBARS level was only markedly lower in the ferulic acid group. These results provide a new insight into the anti-atherogenic property of ferulic acid in the apo E(-/-) mice fed a Western diet.
Smith-Magenis syndrome (SMS) is a multiple congenital anomaly/mental retardation syndrome associated with del(17)(p11.2p11.2). The phenotype is variable even in patients with deletions of the same size. RAI1 has been recently suggested as a major gene for majority of the SMS phenotypes, but its role in the full spectrum of the phenotype remains unclear. Df(11)17/+ mice contain a heterozygous deletion in the mouse region syntenic to the SMS common deletion, and exhibit craniofacial abnormalities, seizures and marked obesity, partially reproducing the SMS phenotype. To further study the genetic basis for the phenotype, we constructed three lines of mice with smaller deletions [Df(11)17-1, Df(11)17-2 and Df(11)17-3] using retrovirus-mediated chromosome engineering to create nested deletions. Both craniofacial abnormalities and obesity have been observed, but the penetrance of the craniofacial phenotype was markedly reduced when compared with Df(11)17/+ mice. Overt seizures were not observed. Phenotypic variation has been observed in mice with the same deletion size in the same and in different genetic backgrounds, which may reflect the variation documented in the patients. These results indicate that the smaller deletions contain the gene(s), most likely Rai1, causing craniofacial abnormalities and obesity. However, genes or regulatory elements in the larger deletion, which are not located in the smaller deletions, as well as genes located elsewhere, also influence penetrance and expressivity of the phenotype. Our mouse models refined the genomic region important for a portion of the SMS phenotype and provided a basis for further molecular analysis of genes associated with SMS.
Patent ductus arteriosus is a common complication of prematurity that frequently requires surgical or medical treatment. The benefit of prophylactic treatment by indometacin, a cyclo-oxygenase inhibitor, remains uncertain compared with curative treatment. This benefit could be improved with ibuprofen, another cyclo-oxygenase inhibitor with fewer adverse effects than indometacin on renal, mesenteric, and cerebral perfusion. We aimed to compare prophylactic and curative ibuprofen in the treatment of this abnormality in very premature infants.
We did a randomised controlled trial in infants younger than 28 weeks of gestation, who were randomly assigned to receive either three doses of ibuprofen or placebo within 6 h of birth. After day 3, symptomatic patent ductus arteriosus was treated first by open curative ibuprofen, then back-up indometacin, surgery, or both. The primary endpoint was need for surgical ligation. Analysis was per protocol.
The study was stopped prematurely after 135 enrollments because of three cases of severe pulmonary hypertension in the prophylactic group. 65 infants received prophylactic ibuprofen, and 66 received placebo. Prophylaxis reduced the need for surgical ligation from six (9%) to zero (p=0.03), and decreased the rate of severe intraventricular haemorrhage from 15 (23%) to seven (11%) (p=0.10). However, survival was not improved (47 [71%] placebo vs 47 [72%] treatment, p=1.00), because of high frequency of adverse respiratory, renal, and digestive events.
In premature infants, prophylactic ibuprofen reduces the need for surgical ligation of patent ductus arteriosus, but does not reduce mortality or morbidity. Therefore, it should not be preferred to early curative ibuprofen.
Pheochromocytoma and paraganglioma (PGL) are rare neuroendocrine tumors in children. Apparently sporadic cases of PGL may harbor germline mutations in the succinate dehydrogenase (SDHx) gene. SDHB mutations are associated with malignant disease. We report a 13-year-old African American boy with diffusely metastatic PGL and compound heterozygous mutation leading to a novel splice donor region DNA sequence variant in the SDHB gene. Family history was positive for non-classical congenital adrenal hyperplasia and pituitary adenoma. After surgical resection of the primary PGL and chemotherapy, he was treated with metaiodobenzy lguanidine (MIBG) combined with arsenic trioxide. At 3-year follow-up, he had stable disease.
This experiment examined the influence of acute exercise on anxiety following caffeine-induced elevations in self-rated anxiety.
Eleven physically active, moderately fit males aged 25.1 +/- 3.8 yr completed four conditions in a within-subject, counterbalanced design involving 60 min of (1) cycling at 60% VO2peak or (2) quiet rest following placebo consumption (800 mg of lactose), as well as (3) cycling at 60% VO2peak and (4) quiet rest following 800 mg of caffeine. State anxiety and blood pressure were assessed 10 min before and 10 and 20 min after the conditions.
A main effect for drug (caffeine vs placebo) determined by repeated measures ANOVA, (F(1,8) = 9.77; P = 0.01), indicated that state anxiety was elevated by caffeine. Drug effects were not obtained for blood pressure. Experimental hypotheses were tested by drug-by-condition (exercise vs quiet rest)-by-time (10 and 20 min postcondition) repeated measures ANOVA of change scores from the precondition baseline. A main effect for drug (F(1,8) = 5.81; P = 0.043) indicated that reductions in state anxiety were larger after caffeine ingestion. A condition-by-time effect (F(1,8) = 5.02; P = 0.055) indicated greater reductions in state anxiety 20 min after exercise compared with quiet rest. A condition effect for systolic blood pressure (F(1,10) = 4.56; P = 0.058) and condition-by-time interactions for diastolic (F(1,10) = 8.87; P = 0.014) and mean arterial blood pressures (F(1,10) = 8.46; P = 0.016) indicated reductions after exercise but not after quiet rest following both caffeine and placebo.
We conclude that exercise can reduce anxiety elevated by a high dose of caffeine.
Reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy (RPLE) is a unique clinicoradiological entity characterized by diverse neurological symptoms with bilateral posterior cerebral white matter edema. It is frequently associated with seizures but rarely with status epilepticus. Periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges (PLEDs) as an initial electrographic pattern in a patient with RPLE have never been reported. We discuss a 47-year-old woman with a newly diagnosed non-small cell carcinoma of the lung on etoposide who was admitted with encephalopathy. Initial EEG demonstrated PLEDs. She later developed nonconvulsive status epilepticus. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed bilateral subcortical edema predominantly of the temporo-occipital lobes. Discontinuation of etoposide resulted in full clinical, electrical recovery within 10 days and significant radiological improvement within 15 days. Our case indicates the importance of identifying and addressing any modifiable etiologic factors of RPLE. We emphasize identification of the unique initial electrographic pattern of PLEDs, which may be a predisposing factor to status epilepticus or an indication of structural damage.
Hypersensitivity reaction to abacavir (a powerful inverse transcriptase inhibitor) is a serious adverse effect that limits its use in antiretroviral treatment and requires a high level of clinical surveillance. Certain haplotypes of the primary histocompatibility complex proteins (HLA-B*5701) are very significant predictors of the risk of hypersensitivity to this drug. The purpose of this study is to identify the cases where a probable hypersensitivity reaction to abacavir presented the HLA-B*5701 allele.
A retrospective study was conducted in all HIV-1 positive adult patients infected treated with abacavir between January 2000 and December 2007, in Department 6 of the Agencia Valenciana de Salud (Valencia Health Agency). The adverse effects developed by the patients were collected to determine which cases presented a probable clinically diagnosed hypersensitivity reaction. Finally, these 39 patients were screened for HLA-B*5701.
In total, 323 patients were treated with abacavir between 2000 and 2007. The treatment was discontinued in 12.1 % (n = 39 patients) presenting a hypersensitivity reaction. Nine (23.1 %) of these were HLA-B*5701 positive. Eight patients presented skin rash and positivity was observed in only single patient with gastrointestinal symptoms and fever.
The administration of the HLA-B*5701 gene test may be of benefit in clinical practice, because it prevents diagnostic errors of the hypersensitivity reaction and enables more accurate interpretation of the symptoms.
Changes in the signaling of wide dynamic range neurons and the expression of glutamate transporters in the lumbar spinal dorsal horn of rats with Taxol-induced hyperalgesia are detailed in this report. Deep spinal lamina neurons have significantly increased spontaneous activity and after-discharges to noxious mechanical stimuli, increased responses to both skin heating and cooling, and increased after-discharges and abnormal windup to transcutaneous electrical stimuli. The expression of glutamate transporter proteins in the dorsal horn is decreased at the time point corresponding to the physiological changes. These results suggest a state of increased excitability develops in spinal pain-signaling neurons as a consequence of decreased glutamate clearance. These changes in dorsal horn neurobiology likely in turn contribute to the hyper-responsiveness to sensory stimuli seen in animals treated with Taxol and may play a role in the pain seen in cancer patients receiving Taxol.
Organic peroxides, widely used in the chemical and pharmaceutical industries, can act as skin tumor promoters and cause epidermal hyperplasia. They are also known to trigger free radical generation. The present study evaluated the effect of cumene hydroperoxide (Cum-OOH) on the induction of activator protein-1 (AP-1), which is linked to the expression of genes regulating cell proliferation, growth and transformation. Previously, we reported that topical exposure to Cum-OOH caused formation of free radicals and oxidative stress in the skin of vitamin E-deficient mice. The present study used JB6 P+ mouse epidermal cells and AP-1-luciferase reporter transgenic mice to identify whether exposure to Cum-OOH caused activation of AP-1, oxidative stress, depletion of antioxidants and tumor formation during two-stage carcinogenesis. In vitro studies found that exposure to Cum-OOH reduced the level of glutathione (GSH) in mouse epidermal cells (JB6 P+) and caused the induction of AP-1. Mice primed with dimethyl-benz[a]anthracene (DMBA) were topically exposed to Cum-OOH (82.6 micromol) or the positive control, 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA, 17 nmol), twice weekly for 29 weeks. Activation of AP-1 in skin was detected as early as 2 weeks following Cum-OOH or TPA exposure. No AP-1 expression was found 19 weeks after initiation. Papilloma formation was observed in both the DMBA-TPA- and DMBA-Cum-OOH-exposed animals, whereas skin carcinomas were found only in the DMBA-Cum-OOH-treated mice. A greater accumulation of peroxidative products (thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances), inflammation and decreased levels of GSH and total antioxidant reserves were also observed in the skin of DMBA-Cum-OOH-exposed mice. These results suggest that Cum-OOH-induced carcinogenesis is accompanied by increased AP-1 activation and changes in antioxidant status.
The effects of rat-specific hepatocarcinogen 3'-methyl-4-dimethylaminoazobenzene (3'-MeDAB), mouse-specific hepatocarcinogen ortho-aminoazotoluene (OAT), non-species-specific hepatocarcinogen diethylnitrosamine (DENA), and non-carcinogenic 4'-methyl-4-dimethylaminoazobenzene (4'-MeDAB) on glucocorticoid induction of tyrosine aminotransferase (TAT) and DNA-binding activity of hepatocyte nuclear factor 3 (HNF3) family of transcription factors were investigated with carcinogen-susceptible and -resistant animals. Species-specific hepatocarcinogens 3'-MeDAB and OAT strongly inhibited glucocorticoid induction of TAT in the liver of susceptible but not resistant animals. DENA, which is highly carcinogenic for the liver of both rats and mice inhibited glucocorticoid induction of TAT in both species, while non-carcinogenic 4'-MeDAB was absolutely ineffective both in rats and mice. The inhibition of TAT activity by the carcinogens was due to reduced levels of TAT mRNA, which is most likely to be a result of the reduced rate of transcription initiation of the TAT gene. In all cases, the TAT inhibition was accompanied by significant reduction of DNA-binding activity of the HNF3 transcription factor, which is known to be critical to glucocorticoid regulation of TAT gene. We also demonstrated that the described species-specific effects of OAT and of 3'-MeDAB on HNF3 DNA-binding activity may be initiated not only by administration in vivo, but also by their direct administration to homogenate, intact nuclei or nuclear lysate, but not to nuclear extract fraction, obtained by precipitation with 0.32 g/mL of ammonium sulfate (Fraction I). We showed, that a factor responsible for this effect might be precipitated in 0.32-0.47 g/mL interval of ammonium sulfate concentration. In contrast, non-specific hepatocarcinogen DENA was effective upon being added directly to Fraction I, implying a different mechanism of its action.
Arsenic trioxide, the trade name Trisenox, is a drug used to treat acute promyleocytic leukemia (APL). Studies have demonstrated that arsenic trioxide slows cancer cells growth. Although arsenic influences numerous signal-transduction pathways, cell-cycle progression, and/or apoptosis, its apoptotic mechanisms are complex and not entirely delineated. The primary objective of this research was to evaluate the effects of arsenic trioxide on DNA synthesis and to determine whether arsenic-induced apoptosis is mediated via caspase activation, p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), and cell cycle arrest. To achieve this goal, lung cancer cells (A549) were exposed to various concentrations (0, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 10 microg/mL) of arsenic trioxide for 48 h. The effect of arsenic trioxide on DNA synthesis was determined by the [3H]thymidine incorporation assay. Apoptosis was determined by the caspase-3 fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC) assay, p38 MAP kinase activity was determined by an immunoblot assay, and cell-cycle analysis was evaluated by the propidium iodide assay. The [3H]thymidine-incorporation assay revealed a dose-related cytotoxic response at high levels of exposure. Furthermore, arsenic trioxide modulated caspase 3 activity and induced p38 MAP kinase activation in A549 cells. However, cell-cycle studies showed no statistically significant differences in DNA content at subG1 check point between control and arsenic trioxide treated cells.
Parkinson's disease (PD) can be triggered by genetic or environmental factors. Although the precise etiopathogenesis of the disease remains unknown, recent studies focusing on the K(+) channel gene have uncovered the dysfunctions in various K(+) channels (e.g., Kir2, Kv, K(ATP), and SKCa) that are involved in the pathological mechanisms underlying PD. Here we show that Kir2.3 overexpression can protect against rotenone-induced apoptosis in cell models in the neurodegenerative process, suggesting Kir2.3's general neuroprotective function. The protection of Kir2.3 against neurodegeneration may be associated with the protein kinase C (PKC) pathway, as PKC is downregulated by Kir2.3 overexpression and the PKC activator can reduce the protective effect of Kir2.3. Our studies provide an entry point for understanding the novel roles of Kir2.3 in cell models of PD, and they offer clues for the common mechanisms underlying different neurodegenerative conditions.
A 71-year old man experienced nephrotic syndrome and acute renal failure 13 months after the introduction of fenoprofen calcium, 900 mg/day, as treatment of right hip osteoarthritis. Clinical course and laboratory data were consistent with toxic nephropathy; kidney biopsy showed tubulo-interstitial nephritis with glomerular minimal change lesion. Renal function returned spontaneously to normal, after withdrawal of the drug. The clinical literature on nephrotic syndrome and reversible acute renal failure associated with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs is reviewed.
Dysbetalipoproteinaemia (type III hyperlipidaemia, broad-beta disease) is a highly atherogenic genetic disorder of lipoprotein metabolism. It presents with a severe mixed hyperlipidaemia in which the ratio of total cholesterol to triglycerides is typically 2:1. There is a high incidence of atherosclerotic complications and severe hypertriglyceridaemia may cause pancreatitis. Highly effective therapy is available and affected families also benefit from genetic counselling. We present a review of our experience with dysbetalipoproteinaemia at the lipid clinic of Groote Schuur Hospital to enhance awareness of this serious condition, for which the index of suspicion should be raised.
Retrospective review of case records, 1969-2001.
Lipid clinic of Groote Schuur Hospital, Cape Town.
Patients with dysbetalipoproteinaemia diagnosed by the presence of cholesterol-enriched very-low-density lipoproteins (VLDL) and/or dyslipidaemia associated with homozygosity for apolipoprotein E2 or carriers of the apoE2 (Arg145-->Cys) mutation.
One hundred and five patients were identified, 55 of whom were male and 50 female. The age at presentation was 48.8 +/- 11.1 years (mean, standard deviation). Total cholesterol was 12.0 +/- 5.5 mmol/l and plasma triglycerides 8.3 +/- 9.8 mmol/l. The ratio (by mass) of cholesterol to triglycerides within VLDL was 0.52 +/- 0.17, while VLDL cholesterol to plasma triglycerides was 0.33 +/- 0.09. Fifty patients were epsilon 2 homozygotes while 22 carried the apoE2 (Arg145-->Cys) mutation. Palmar crease xanthomas occurred in 20% of patients, cutaneous xanthomas in 18%, and tendon xanthomas in 13%. Coronary artery disease was found in 47% of patients and peripheral vascular disease in 20%. Fibrates were the most commonly used hypolipidaemic agents (48%), while 31% of patients received combination therapy with a fibrate and statin. Statin monotherapy was used in 11% of patients and a few patients were treated with niacin or required no drug therapy. The treated cholesterol was 5.7 +/- 2.4 mmol/l, with plasma triglycerides of 2.7 +/- 1.9 mmol/l.
Dysbetalipoproteinaemia is a highly atherogenic disorder and is extremely responsive to therapy. A significant proportion of dysbetalipoproteinaemia locally is caused by the apoE2 (Arg145-->Cys) mutation and is therefore dominantly inherited. This mutation is particularly prevalent in the black community where dysbetalipoproteinaemia may be undiagnosed in many patients. Patients with severe mixed hyperlipidaemia or clinical stigmata of dyslipidaemia should be assessed at a lipid clinic for a specific diagnosis and initiation of therapy.
Chronic L-dopa treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) often leads to debilitating involuntary movements, termed L-dopa-induced dyskinesia (LID), mediated by dopamine (DA) receptors. RGS9-2 is a GTPase accelerating protein that inhibits DA D2 receptor-activated G proteins. Herein, we assess the functional role of RGS9-2 on LID. In monkeys, Western blot analysis of striatal extracts shows that RGS9-2 levels are not altered by MPTP-induced DA denervation and/or chronic L-dopa administration. In MPTP monkeys with LID, striatal RGS9-2 overexpression--achieved by viral vector injection into the striatum--diminishes the involuntary movement intensity without lessening the anti-parkinsonian effects of the D1/D2 receptor agonist L-dopa. In contrasts, in these animals, striatal RGS9-2 overexpression diminishes both the involuntary movement intensity and the anti-parkinsonian effects of the D2/D3 receptor agonist ropinirole. In unilaterally 6-OHDA-lesioned rats with LID, we show that the time course of viral vector-mediated striatal RGS9-2 overexpression parallels the time course of improvement of L-dopa-induced involuntary movements. We also find that unilateral 6-OHDA-lesioned RGS9-/- mice are more susceptible to L-dopa-induced involuntary movements than unilateral 6-OHDA-lesioned RGS9+/+ mice, albeit the rotational behavior--taken as an index of the anti-parkinsonian response--is similar between the two groups of mice. Together, these findings suggest that RGS9-2 plays a pivotal role in LID pathophysiology. However, the findings also suggest that increasing RGS9-2 expression and/or function in PD patients may only be a suitable therapeutic strategy to control involuntary movements induced by nonselective DA agonist such as L-dopa.
The authors report a case of a vincristine-induced, reproducible dose-related Raynaud's phenomenon. It occurred in a 14-year-old boy with a malignant brain tumor who received repeated vincristine injections. The authors describe how they handled this severe secondary Raynaud's phenomenon with acral cutaneous tissue necrosis. Reducing the dose of the vinca-alkaloid injections, together with an additional medication with a calcium-channel blocking agent, was a successful strategy in this patient. There are few case reports of secondary Raynaud's phenomenon in adult oncologic patients receiving certain anticancer drugs (including vincristine, bleomycin, and cisplatin), and to the authors' knowledge this kind of vincristine toxicity has not previously been described in either adults or children.
Nitric oxide (NO) is believed to play important roles in neuronal degeneration. In this study, the effects of NO on cell growth and apoptosis have been examined in human neuroblastoma cell line SK-N-SH. Sodium nitroprusside (SNP), a NO donor, was found to significantly inhibit cell growth and to induce apoptosis. The inhibitory and apoptotic activities of SNP followed a dose- and time-dependent manner. Ginkgolide A, B (GA, B), and huperzine A (Hup A), the three compounds isolated from Chinese herbs, blocked the inhibition of cell growth and apoptosis induced by SNP. The results suggest that inhibition of NO-induced neurotoxicity may be one mechanism of the above three therapeutic agents in neurodegenerative diseases.
In the present study, the effect of arjunolic acid on testicular damage induced by intraperitoneal injection of rats with 7 mg/kg cisplatin was studied. Cisplatin induced a significant reduction in testicular weights, plasma testosterone, and testicular reduced glutathione levels in addition to a significant elevation of testicular malondialdehyde levels and testicular gene expressions of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) when compared with the control group (p < 0.05). Lower tubular diameters and depletion of germ cells and irregular small seminiferous tubules with Sertoli cells only were observed in the cisplatin group. Arjunolic acid administration significantly corrected the changes in both biochemical and histopathological parameters. Arjunolic acid plays a significant protective role against cisplatin-induced testicular injury by attenuating oxidative stress parameters along with downregulation of iNOS, TNF-α, and p38-MAPK testicular expressions.
A 64-year-old Japanese woman with Gerstmann-Sträussler-Scheinker syndrome (GSS) is reported. She was admitted to our hospital for progressive amnesia, twitching of the right upper limb, and difficulty in speaking and walking for 5 months. Physical examination revealed a fever, tachycardia, and hyperhidrosis without any evidence of inflammation or infection. Neurological examinations demonstrated dementia, frontal lobe signs, and spontaneous myoclonus. She developed akinetic mutism 4 months later. The levels of neuron-specific enolase and 14-3-3 protein were elevated in the cerebrospinal fluid, and serial EEG showed periodic synchronous discharges. DNA analysis of the prion protein gene revealed a Pro102Leu mutation and therefore she was diagnosed as GSS102. Head MRI showed abnormal high signal intensity by T2 weighted image in bilateral caudate nuclei, putamen, frontal lobes, and white matter around the posterior horn of lateral ventricles at admission, and extension to global cerebral cortex and diffuse deep white matter with marked atrophy of bilateral frontal and cerebellar cortices 4 months later. In 123I-IMP SPECT study, uptake of RI decreased slightly only in left frontal region at admission, but decreased markedly in bilateral frontal region 4 months later. Analysis of autonomic function (analysis of noradrenarine in plasma and urine, coefficient of variation of R-R intervals before and after giving atenolol, Aschner's eyeball pressure test, intracutaneous atropine and adrenaline injection test) revealed sympathetic hyperactivity but normal parasympathetic activity. This is a very rare case of GSS102 with atypical MRI findings and clinical features like Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease rather than GSS102, presenting hyperthermia, tachycardia, and hyperhidrosis caused presumably by sympathetic hyperactivity as well as fatal familial insomnia. Therefore it is suggested that some factors besides the codon mutation in the prion protein gene may influence clinical symptoms in prion disease.
No information exists on reproductive/developmental effects in mice exposed to dietary 17beta-estradiol (E2) over multiple generations. Therefore, under OECD Test Guideline 416 with enhancements, CD-1 mice (F0 generation, 25 mice/sex/group) were exposed to dietary E2 at 0, 0.001, 0.005, 0.05, 0.15, or 0.5 ppm ( approximately 0, 0.2, 1, 10, 30, or 100 mug E2/kg body weight/day) for 8 weeks prebreed, 2 weeks mating, approximately 3 weeks gestation, and 3 weeks lactation. At weaning, selected F1 offspring (F1 parents; 25/sex/group) and extra retained F1 males (one per litter) were exposed to the same dietary concentrations and durations as the F0 generation; study termination occurred at F2 weaning; F1/F2 weanlings (up to three per sex per litter) were necropsied with organs weighed. At 0.5 ppm, effects were increased F1/F2 perinatal loss, prolonged F0/F1 gestational length, reduced numbers of F2 (but not F1) litters/group, reduced F1/F2 litter sizes, accelerated vaginal patency (VP) and delayed preputial separation (PPS), increased uterus + cervix + vagina weights (UCVW) in F0/F1 adults and F1/F2 weanlings, and decreased testes and epididymides weights (TEW) in F1/F2 weanlings. At 0.15 ppm, effects were increased UCVW in F0/F1 adults and F1/F2 weanlings, accelerated VP, delayed PPS, and reduced TEW in F1/F2 weanlings. At 0.05 ppm, UCVW were increased in F1/F2 weanlings, and PPS was delayed only in extra retained F1 males. There were no biologically significant or treatment-related effects on F0/F1 parental body weights, feed consumption, or clinical observations, or on F0/F1 estrous cyclicity, F0/F1 andrology, or F1/F2 anogenital distance at any dose. The no observable effect level was 0.005 ppm E2 ( approximately 1 mug/kg/day). Therefore, the mouse model is sensitive to E2 by oral administration, with effects on reproductive development at doses of 10- 100 mug/kg/day.
Previous studies suggest that, through the stimulation of pulmonary nervous endings, ambient particles modulate the autonomic tone on the heart leading to cardiac oxidant stress and dysfunction. In this paper we investigated the effect of blockade of vanilloid receptor 1 (Transient Receptor Potential Vanilloid Receptor 1 [TRPV1]) on concentrated ambient particles (CAPs)-induced cardiac oxidative stress and dysfunction in a rat model of inhalation exposure. Capsazepine (CPZ), a selective antagonist of TRPV1, was given ip or as an aerosol immediately before exposure to CAPs. Control and CPZ-treated rats were exposed to filtered air or CAPs aerosols for 5 h using the Harvard Ambient Particle Concentrator (mean PM(2.5) mass concentration: 218 +/- 23 mug/m(3)). At the end of the exposure we measured cardiac oxidative stress (in situ chemiluminescence [CL]), lipid peroxidation (thiobarbituric acid reactive substances [TBARS]), and tissue edema. Cardiac function was monitored throughout the exposure. CPZ (ip or aerosol) decreased CAPs-induced CL, lipid TBARS, and edema in the heart, indicating that blocking TRP receptors, systemically or locally, decreases heart CL. CAPs exposure led to significant decreases in heart rate (CAPs 350 +/- 32 bpm, control: 370 +/- 29), and in the length of the QT, RT, Pdur and Tpe intervals. These changes were observable immediately upon exposure and were maintained throughout the 5 h of CAPs inhalation. Changes in cardiac rhythm and electrocardiogram morphology were prevented by CPZ. These data suggest that current abnormalities in CAPs-exposed rats alter the action potentials leading to changes in conduction velocity and ventricular repolarization, and that triggering of TRPV1-mediated autonomic reflexes in the lung is essential for the observed changes in cardiac rhythms.
To investigate the efficacy of the malononitrilamide FK778 to prevent vascular smooth muscle cell (SMC) migration/proliferation, and vascular fibrosis, the key events in restenosis development using in vivo and in vitro studies.
Since the high rate of restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty limited its long-term success, the implementation of locally delivered antiproliferative/immunosuppressive agents became advantageous.
Rats underwent balloon denudation of the abdominal aorta and received sirolimus, tacrolimus, or FK778 for 28 days in varying doses. Aortas were harvested for histologic evaluation, profibrotic gene expression, and organ chamber studies. Antifibrotic, antiproliferative and antimigratory effects of the immunosuppressants were further evaluated in vitro.
Histology of untreated animals revealed marked intimal hyperplasia with moderate luminal obliteration. Neointima formation was dose-dependently attenuated by all three agents with FK778 and sirolimus being most efficacious. Organ chamber relaxation studies showed a leftward shift of the nitroglycerin and the acetylcholine dose-responses in all treatment groups, indicating diminished endothelial dysfunction. In vivo, only FK778 treatment revealed a significant downregulation of the TGF-beta/vasorin system which could be explained by upregulation of the TGF-beta-inhibitory mediator SMAD7. In vitro, FK778 showed most potent antiproliferative and antimigratory effects on SMC compared with sirolimus and tacrolimus. Only the antiproliferative effect of FK778 was due to pyrimidine synthesis blockade and could be reversed by uridine supplementation.
The malononitrilamide FK778 proved highly efficacious against restenosis development by targeting two major components of intimal hyperplasia: SMC proliferation/migration and vascular fibrosis. Thus, the introduction of malononitrilamide-loaded stents may be a promising effort for future strategies.
Noonan syndrome, a developmental disorder characterized by congenital heart defects, reduced growth, facial dysmorphism and variable cognitive deficits, is caused by constitutional dysregulation of the RAS-MAPK signaling pathway. Here we report that germline NRAS mutations conferring enhanced stimulus-dependent MAPK activation account for some cases of this disorder. These findings provide evidence for an obligate dependency on proper NRAS function in human development and growth.
A significant proportion of preschool children experiences severe emergence agitation after anaesthesia. The symptoms of disorientation, restlessness, inconsolable crying and thrashing resemble an acute psychosis similar to an agitated central anticholinergic syndrome. The primary aim of this randomized controlled study was to assess the efficiency of the cholinesterase-inhibitor physostigmine in these children and to identify adverse effects.
We anaesthetized 211 children (1-5 yr) with sevoflurane after midazolam premedication for varying operative procedures. Multimodal intraoperative and prophylactic pain therapy combined alfentanil, piritramide, diclofenac and regional/local bupivacaine. A 5-step score assessed emergence agitation. Severely agitated children were treated immediately with physostigmine (30 mug kg-1) or placebo in a randomized, double-blind fashion. The primary variable was the agitation score after 5 min.
Severe delirium occurred in 19% of all children. Five minutes following injection, severe agitation was still present in 10 out of 20 patients treated with physostigmine and 16/20 with placebo. This difference did not reach statistical significance (P = 0.1). Rescue therapy with intravenous propofol was given after 15 min of severe agitation to four children following physostigmine and nine following placebo (non-significant). An increased rate of postoperative nausea and vomiting (45% vs. 15%, P < 0.05) was the only adverse effect observed.
Severe emergence agitation might be related to a central anticholinergic syndrome as diagnosed empirically with a successful treatment with physostigmine. However, the results of this study do not support its routine use. The substance may augment the therapeutic options if injected slowly and after suitable prophylaxis to avoid postoperative nausea and vomiting.
To investigate the effects of chronic analgesic exposure on the central serotonin system and the relationship between the serotonin system and the analgesic efficacy of nonnarcotic analgesics.
Paracetamol was administered daily to adult male Wistar rats for a period of 15 or 30 days. Analgesic efficacy was measured by the tail flick test. After completion of the treatment protocol, the rats were humanely killed, and the frontal cortex and brain stem were isolated. Characteristics of the specific binding of the 5-HT2A serotonin receptor and the serotonin transporter were studied using a radioligand binding technique. Platelet serotonin was determined by high-performance liquid chromatography.
Chronic paracetamol administration resulted in a significant decrease in the maximum number of 5-HT2A binding sites and an increase in the maximum number of 5-HT transporter binding sites in frontal cortical membrane (P<.001). Changes in the central 5-HT system were associated with a rise in platelet 5-HT levels. The degree of receptor downregulation, as well as transporter upregulation, became less evident after more prolonged drug administration. Readaptation of serotonin receptors and transporters coincided with the decrease in the analgesic efficacy of paracetamol, as well as a fall in platelet 5-HT levels.
These findings provide further evidence in support of an involvement of the 5-HT system in the antinociceptive activity of simple nonnarcotic analgesics. Plasticity of this neurotransmitter system after chronic analgesic exposure may lead to the loss of analgesic efficacy and, in its more extreme form, may produce analgesic-related painful conditions, for example, analgesic abuse headache.
