The authors report that 4 out of a series of 56 patients (7.1%) treated with gemcitabine developed an unexplained non-cardiogenic pulmonary distress syndrome most likely related to gemcitabine. One further patient developed ventricular arrhythmia immediately after gemcitabine exposure, leading to cardiac arrest. Between 1995 and 1998 56 patients with locally advanced or metastatic carcinoma were treated with gemcitabine. The patients suffered from breast cancer (n = 17), pancreatic cancer (n = 17), lung cancer (n = 12), cancer of unknown primary (n = 5), ovarian cancer (n = 2), oral cavity cancer (n = 2) and cancer of the bladder (n = 1). Their median age was 55 years, and there were 33 female and 23 male patients. Fifteen patients had been pretreated with radiation therapy: 2 had received radiation therapy involving the mediastinum as treatment for non-small-cell lung cancer and cancer of unknown origin respectively, 11 patients had had prior neoadjuvant or adjuvant radiation therapy of the chest wall for breast cancer and 2 patients had received radiation therapy for head/neck cancer. All patients received gemcitabine on days 1, 8 and 15 and this was repeated on day 29 at a dose of 1000 mg/m(2) as a 30-min infusion in 250 ml isotonic NaCl. In 4 patients gemcitabine treatment was combined with cisplatinum, in 7 patients with a somatostatin analogue and in 1 patient with epirubicin. All other patients received gemcitabine as a single agent. We assume that the pulmonary or cardiac toxicity of 5 patients was related to gemcitabine. In 3 patients re-exposure resulted in repeated toxicity. One patient did not receive gemcitabine again because of the life-threatening nature of the primary response. Two patients had received prior radiation to the mediastinum with 62 Gy and 50 Gy respectively, 3 years and 1 year before gemcitabine application. In our experience pulmonary toxicity after gemcitabine treatment is more common than initially anticipated. Gemcitabine should be used with caution in patients who have received prior radiation to the mediastinum.
Trichloroethylene is an organic solvent used as an industrial degreasing agent. Due to its widespread use and volatile nature, TCE is a common environmental contaminant. Trichloroethylene exposure has been implicated in the etiology of heart defects in human populations and animal models. Recent data suggest misregulation of Ca2+ homeostasis in H9c2 cardiomyocyte cell line after TCE exposure. We hypothesized that misregulation of Ca2+ homeostasis alters myocyte function and leads to changes in embryonic blood flow. In turn, changes in cardiac flow are known to cause cardiac malformations. To investigate this hypothesis, we dosed developing chick embryos in ovo with environmentally relevant doses of TCE (8 and 800 ppb). RNA was isolated from control and treated embryos at specific times in development for real-time PCR analysis of blood flow markers. Effects were observed on Endothelin-1 (ET-1), Nitric Oxide Synthase-3 (NOS-3) and Krüppel-like Factor 2 (KLF2) expression relative to TCE exposure and consistent with reduced flow. Further, we measured function in the developing heart after TCE exposure by isolating cardiomyocytes and measuring half-width of contraction and sarcomere lengths. These functional data showed a significant increase in half-width of contraction after TCE exposure. These data suggest that perturbation of cardiac function contributes to the etiology of congenital heart defects in TCE-exposed embryos.
Over the period 1994-1998, five patients presenting coagulation status impairment in the course of sintrom treatment are hospitalized in the Clinic of Emergency Neurology and Neurosurgery. Three of them are with craniocerebral trauma (2 severe forms--score 5 by the Glasgow Coma Rating scale, and one mild form--score 15), one has spontaneous intracerebral hematoma, and one--acute hydrocephalus against the background of ruptured aneurysm of the basilar artery (score 4). Three patients are given sintrom treatment because of rheumatic heart disease (2 with mitral valve prosthetic replacement and one in the post-commissurotomy period), and two--because of absolute arrhythmia, complicated by systemic emboli in the extremities and/or pulmonary artery. Four patients are subjected to operation--2 with craniocerebral injury, one with intracerebral hematoma and one with acute hydrocephalus of which in two cases the outcome is fatal. One female patient presenting serious craniocerebral trauma is not operated (refusal by the relatives) and dies. The therapeutic approach to this contingent of patients is comprehensively discussed.
The biochemical pathway for pyrimidine catabolism links the pathways for pyrimidine biosynthesis and salvage with beta-alanine metabolism, providing an array of epistatic interactions with which to analyze mutations of these pathways. Loss-of-function mutations have been identified and characterized for each of the enzymes for pyrimidine catabolism: dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD), su(r) mutants; dihydropyrimidinase (DHP), CRMP mutants; beta-alanine synthase (betaAS), pyd3 mutants. For all three genes, mutants are viable and fertile and manifest no obvious phenotypes, aside from a variety of epistatic interactions. Mutations of all three genes disrupt suppression by the rudimentary gain-of-function mutation (r(Su(b))) of the dark cuticle phenotype of black mutants in which beta-alanine pools are diminished; these results confirm that pyrimidines are the major source of beta-alanine in cuticle pigmentation. The truncated wing phenotype of rudimentary mutants is suppressed completely by su(r) mutations and partially by CRMP mutations; however, no suppression is exhibited by pyd3 mutations. Similarly, su(r) mutants are hypersensitive to dietary 5-fluorouracil, CRMP mutants are less sensitive, and pyd3 mutants exhibit wild-type sensitivity. These results are discussed in the context of similar consequences of 5-fluoropyrimidine toxicity and pyrimidine catabolism mutations in humans.
High dosages of catecholamines induce cardiomyocyte necrosis and interstitial fibrosis in rats. We investigated whether this initial damage is followed by the development of heart failure and assessed the particular role of the renin-angiotensin system using ramipril.
Following the administration of 0 mg or 150 mg isoproterenol/kg 6 groups of Wistar rats were followed for 2 or 16 weeks: Sham, isoproterenol, isoproterenol + ramipril. Isoproterenol induced significant increases of echocardiographically measured left ventricular end-diastolic posterior wall thickness and dimension, whereas ramipril treatment significantly attenuated these changes. Left ventricular end-diastolic pressure was markedly increased in isoproterenol-treated rats and normalized following ramipril. Isoproterenol rats were further characterized by hormonal activations including transient elevations of plasma renin activity, aldosterone and cardiac angiotensin converting enzyme activity. Histomorphological characterization of isoproterenol-treated hearts demonstrated cardiomyocyte necrosis and reparative fibrosis. Ramipril treatment only slightly reduced the amount of necrosis as well as the expression of extracellular matrix proteins.
In rats, a toxic dosage of isoproterenol caused characteristic myocardial damage that subsequently resulted in mild heart failure. Ramipril administration following isoproterenol was highly effective to attenuate hemodynamic and hormonal alterations as well as the development of left ventricular hypertrophy, but had only little influence on the expression of extracellular matrix proteins. Since angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition had no impact on the initial myocardial injury, the development of heart failure in this model seems to require functional integrity of the renin-angiotensin system.
To monitor long-term symptomatic tolerability and remission in patients with stable but suboptimally treated psychoses after switching to risperidone long-acting injectable (RLAI).
This subgroup analysis of the Switch to Risperidone Microspheres (StoRMi) open-label trial followed up patients with psychoses who were converted to RLAI for a period of 18 months or until RLAI became commercially available in their country of residence. It included patients from seven European countries. Dosage adjustments were performed as clinically necessary. The efficacy endpoint was achieving and maintaining remission, defined as absent to mild core schizophrenia symptoms for > or = 6 months. A schizophrenia assessment was also completed and patients were monitored for the development of adverse events (AEs). Discontinuation rates were calculated based on Kaplan-Meier estimates where patients switching to commercial RLAI were used as censored observations.
A total of 529 patients were followed for up to 18 months. At 18 months, the discontinuation rate was 55.7% based on Kaplan-Meier estimates. The median time to discontinuation was 15.7 months (95% CI (14.0; 17.5)). RLAI was generally well tolerated with most AEs mild-to-moderate in severity. 13% of patients discontinued treatment because of an AE. Body weight of patients increased by a mean A+/- SD of 1.0 A+/- 6.1 kg from treatment initiation to endpoint (p = 0.0001). Glucose-related AEs occurred in four patients (0.8%). Among those patients not meeting severity remission criteria at baseline, 44.8% were in remission at endpoint. Among those patients meeting severity criteria for remission at baseline, 84.2% were in remission at endpoint. A total of 93.7% of the patients who achieved or maintained remission at 6 months were in remission at endpoint.
RLAI is safe during long-term treatment up to 18 months in adults requiring antipsychotics. Conversion to RLAI resulted in improved symptom control. Most patients achieved and maintained a sustained remission (> or = 6 months) after conversion to RLAI.
Selective beta-sympathomimetic drugs are frequently used for tocolysis. But, since these drugs exhibit some beta-1 activity as well, they may bring about pulmonary edema, myocardial ischemia, cardiac arrhythmia and others as side effects. A 29 year-old female with a triplet pregnancy had premature contraction at 26 weeks of gestation. High doses of IV ritodrine were given for tocolysis for 8 weeks until caesarean section. One hour after caesarean section at 35 weeks of gestation, she complained of dyspnea. Urinary output decreased and chest X-ray showed pulmonary edema. She was intubated and artificial ventilation with PEEP was performed in ICU. Echocardiogram showed left ventricular dilatation. ECG showed inverted T waves on all leads. We diagnosed her as suffering from acute heart failure, pulmonary edema and acute renal failure. Hemodialysis was performed for 6 hrs but PCWP was still 18 mmHg. So CVVH was added to hemodialysis. Five hrs after the start of CVVH, her symptoms gradually started to subside. Total fluid removal was 5.8 l over 16 hrs. Three days after admission she was extubated and five days later returned to her ward. We concluded that pulmonary edema, heart failure and renal failure were induced by the long-term high dose medication of ritodrine, resulting in volume overload and myocardial dysfunction.
The authors administered to 13 patients with auricular fibrillation amiodarone (Cordarone), 1200 mg/day, by the oral route from the 4th to the 10th day of the trial, 600 mg per day from the 11th to the 13th day of the trial. Simultaneously the patients were given digoxin, 1 mg, by the i.v. route: on the first day 1 mg i.v., 2nd to 5th day 0.5 mg i.v., and on the 6th to 10th day of the trial 0.25 mg. They assessed the serum digoxin concentration on the 1st, 4th, 11th and 14th day, the serum concentration of triiodothyronine (T3), thyroxine (T4) and thyrotropic hormone (TSH) on the 1st and 14th day of the trial. The authors revealed that after ten days administration of amiodarone T4 does not change (102.4 +/- 28.2 nmol/l vs. 101.3 +/- 13.4 nmol/l, NS), T3 declines significantly (2.47 +/- 0.85 nmol/l vs. 1.86 +/- 0.54 nmol/l, p less than 0.001) and TSH rises insignificantly (2.82 +/- 1.18 mU/l vs. 3.34 +/- 1.43, NS). Consistent with data in the literature on the effect of several weeks administration of amiodarone on thyroid function, the authors assume inhibition of 5'monodeiodization of T4 with a reduced formation of T3 and increased formation of rT3. The drop of T3 may play a part also in the antiarrhythmic action of amiodarone in the treatment of auricular fibrillation.
This study evaluated a novel drug abuse treatment, the Therapeutic Workplace. In this treatment, patients are paid to perform jobs or to participate in job training. Salary is linked to abstinence by requiring patients to provide drug-free urine samples to gain access to the workplace. Pregnant and postpartum drug abuse patients (N = 40) were randomly assigned to a Therapeutic Workplace or usual care control group. Therapeutic Workplace participants were invited to work 3 hr every weekday for 6 months and could earn up to $4,030 in vouchers for abstinence, workplace attendance, and performance. On average, 45% of participants attended the workplace per day. Relative to controls, the Therapeutic Workplace nearly doubled patients' abstinence from opiates and cocaine (33% vs. 59% of thrice-weekly urine samples drug negative, respectively, p < .05). The Therapeutic Workplace can effectively treat heroin and cocaine abuse in pregnant and postpartum women.
We can improve understanding of human methamphetamine dependence, and possibly our abilities to prevent and treat this devastating disorder, by identifying genes whose allelic variants predispose to methamphetamine dependence.
To find "methamphetamine dependence" genes identified by each of 2 genome-wide association (GWA) studies of independent samples of methamphetamine-dependent individuals and matched controls.
Replicated GWA results in each of 2 case-control studies.
Japan and Taiwan.
Individuals with methamphetamine dependence and matched control subjects free from psychiatric, substance abuse, or substance dependence diagnoses (N = 580).
"Methamphetamine dependence" genes that were reproducibly identified by clusters of nominally positive single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in both samples in ways that were unlikely to represent chance observations, based on Monte Carlo simulations that corrected for multiple comparisons, and subsets of "methamphetamine dependence" genes that were also identified by GWA studies of dependence on other addictive substances, success in quitting smoking, and memory.
Genes identified by clustered nominally positive SNPs from both samples were unlikely to represent chance observations (Monte Carlo P < .00001). Variants in these "methamphetamine dependence" genes are likely to alter cell adhesion, enzymatic functions, transcription, cell structure, and DNA, RNA, and/or protein handling or modification. Cell adhesion genes CSMD1 and CDH13 displayed the largest numbers of clustered nominally positive SNPs. "Methamphetamine dependence" genes overlapped, to extents much greater than chance, with genes identified in GWA studies of dependence on other addictive substances, success in quitting smoking, and memory (Monte Carlo P range < .04 to < .00001).
These data support polygenic contributions to methamphetamine dependence from genes that include those whose variants contribute to dependence on several addictive substances, success in quitting smoking, and mnemonic processes.
Dichloroacetyl chloride (DCAC) is formed from trichloroethene (TCE), which is implicated in inducing/accelerating autoimmune response. Due to its potent acylating activity, DCAC may convert proteins to neo-antigens and thus could induce autoimmune responses. Dichloroacetic anhydride (DCAA), which is a similar acylating agent, might also induce autoimmune responses. To evaluate if chloroacylation plays a role in the induction of autoimmunity, we have measured the autoimmune responses following treatment with DCAC or DCAA in autoimmune-prone MRL+/+ mice. Five-week-old female mice were injected intraperitoneally (twice weekly) with 0.2 mmol/kg of DCAC or DCAA in corn oil for 6 weeks. Total serum IgG, IgG1, and IgE levels were significantly increased in DCAC-treated mice as compared to controls. These increases corresponded with increases in DCAC-specific IgG and IgG1 levels. Total serum IgM was decreased in both DCAC- and DCAA-treated mice. Antinuclear antibodies, measured as an indication of systemic autoimmune responses, were increased in both DCAC- and DCAA-treated mice. Of eight Th1/Th2 cytokines measured in the serum, only IL-5 was significantly decreased in both treatment groups. The cytokine secretion patterns of splenic lymphocytes after stimulation with antibodies against CD3 (T cell receptor-mediated signal) and CD28 (costimulatory signal) differed between treatment and control groups. Levels of IL-1, IL-3, IL-6, IFN-gamma, G-CSF, and KC were higher in cultures of stimulated splenocytes from either DCAC- or DCAA-treated mice than from controls. The level of IL-17 was only increased in cultures from DCAC-treated mice. Increased lymphocytic populations were found in the red pulp of spleens following treatment with either DCAC or DCAA. In addition, thickening of the alveolar septa in the lungs of DCAC- or DCAA-treated mice was observed. The lung histopathology in exposed mice was consistent with the symptomology observed in welders exposed to DCAC/phosgene. Thickening was more pronounced in DCAC-treated mice. Our data suggest that DCAC and DCAA elicit autoimmune responses in MRL+/+ mice that might be reflective of their chloroacylation potential in vivo.
Two Cebus apella monkeys with haloperidol-induced tardive dyskinesia have been studied. Substitution of chlorpromazine, thioridazine, clozapine, melperone, or fluphenazine for the daily haloperidol administration temporarily reduced the signs of tardive dyskinesia. In a monkey with low-grade symptoms, persisting for more than 100 days after withdrawal of haloperidol, neuroleptic drugs induced a typical sequence of events: first the dyskinetic movements were abolished, but 1--3 days after administration of a single dose of a neuroleptic drug there was a rebound worsening of symptoms. It was noticed that this aggravation of symptoms corresponded in magnitude and duration to the approximate liability of each compound to induce tardive dyskinesia in man. It is therefore suggested that this animal model could be used to monitor neurological side effects in neuroleptic drugs.
Bepridil was found to possess electrophysiologic properties common to class I and IV antiarrhythmic agents. Intravenous and oral bepridil were evaluated using serial electrophysiologic studies in a selected group of 9 patients with recurrent sustained ventricular tachycardia (VT) unresponsive to usual therapy, including amiodarone therapy in 15 patients. Intravenous bepridil treatment terminated sustained, well tolerated, pacing-induced VT in 3 of 6 patients and prevented the initiation of VT in 2 of these and in a patient in whom the drug failed to restore sinus rhythm. Oral bepridil was administered at a loading dose of 800 mg on day 1, and 500 to 600 mg the following days, and programmed electrical stimulation was repeated 2 to 6 days after initial study. Oral bepridil therapy prevented VT initiation in 6 patients (66%). The tachycardia cycle length was prolonged (30 to 105 ms) in 2 patients in whom VT remained inducible. In 1 patient the tachycardia cycle length significantly shortened after bepridil and prompt cardioversion was required. Five of the 6 patients with successful results underwent long-term oral treatment with bepridil. VT recurred in 1 patient during the hospitalization period and an adverse effect (paralytic ileus) in another patient required drug discontinuation. Three patients remain symptom-free over a follow-up of 4 to 13 months. These data suggest that bepridil may be useful in patients with recurrent, sustained VT.
A rat liver gap junction (GJ) cDNA probe that detects mRNA encoding the 32 Kd GJ-protein (connexin 32) was employed to study GJ-protein gene expression in rat liver tumors induced by a single exposure to diethylnitrosamine (DEN) followed by exposure to 2-acetylaminofluorene (AAF)/CCl4/AAF or induced by systemic administration of N-ethyl-N-hydroxyethylnitrosamine (EHEN). All carcinomas generated by these carcinogens showed markedly reduced levels of GJ-protein mRNA. This may indicate that GJ-protein levels and gap-junctional intercellular communication (GJIC) capacity are also severely compromised. Moreover, all hyperplastic nodules also showed a reduced level of GJ-protein mRNA. Taken together with our earlier finding that the liver tumor promoter phenobarbital inhibits GJ-protein gene expression, these results suggest that deranged GJIC is a relatively early event in liver multistage carcinogenesis. A range of other cDNA probes was also used to characterize gene expression in the DEN-induced tumors. Induction of expression was seen for glutathione S-transferase (placental form) (GST-P), gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase (GGT), and c-raf but not for c-Ha-ras or c-myc.
Postnatally, therapeutic indomethacin administration is usually effective in mediating patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) constriction in premature infants. There are infants, however, who remain resistant to indomethacin and require more aggressive surgical intervention to facilitate ductal closure. Indomethacin tocolysis has been reported to increase the incidence of persistent PDA in premature infants. It was our impression that infants exposed to antenatal indomethacin not only suffered from an increased incidence of PDA, but that they were more symptomatic from PDA and that for them, PDA was more resistant to medical closure. It is this observation that we sought to examine in this study.
Medical records of all mothers and premature neonates with birth weight </=1500 g, admitted to the neonatal intensive care unit of the Shaare Zedek Medical Center during 1996 and 1997, who survived for at least 1 week, were reviewed retrospectively. Data on maternal indomethacin and steroid exposure, birth weight and gestational age, and ductus status and treatment were analyzed. In our obstetrics department, indomethacin is the medication of choice to inhibit premature labor. Mothers who arrive in premature labor are started on indomethacin therapy, if delivery is not imminent. All infants </=1500 g were studied by a pediatric cardiologist between 24 and 72 hours of life using two-dimensional echocardiography with color flow mapping to assess ductal patency. Decisions to treat were based on echocardiographic evidence of PDA, along with any of the following clinical signs: bounding pulses, diastolic pressure of </=25 mm Hg, pulmonary plethora and/or cardiomegaly on chest x-ray, or increasing oxygen requirement with no other explanation. Initial treatment is with indomethacin, if there are no contraindications. Our general approach is to begin therapy with a continuous indomethacin infusion, followed by a course of bolus indomethacin if the infant does not respond. However, each attending neonatologist may treat according to his/her preference (ie, bolus vs continuous). All infants with PDA are followed with serial echocardiographic examinations until the ductus is closed.
A total of 105 premature infants met the above criteria. Thirty-six of these 105 infants had echocardiographic signs of a PDA (34.3%). Those with PDA were less mature (gestational age, 28.9 +/- 2.6 vs 30.3 +/- 2.6 weeks, respectively) and tended to be smaller (1060 +/- 270 vs 1166 +/- 261 g). Of the 36 infants with PDA, 15 (42%) resolved spontaneously and 21 (58%) were symptomatic and required treatment with indomethacin. There were no differences in gestational age or birth weight between infants whose PDA resolved spontaneously and those requiring indomethacin therapy. Four of the 21 (19%) treated infants remained unresponsive to indomethacin and required ductal ligation. Of 17 infants with PDA who responded to indomethacin therapy, 1 (6%) was treated with a single course of bolus indomethacin, to which he responded, and 16 (94%) were treated with continuous indomethacin and responded promptly. The differences in therapeutic responsiveness to initial treatment with continuous vs bolus indomethacin were not significant. Of the 105 infants, 29 were exposed to indomethacin tocolysis. Those who were exposed to antenatal indomethacin and those who were not were well-matched with respect to birth weight and gestational age. Fifteen (52%) of the 29 exposed infants versus 18 (24%) of the 76 infants not exposed to antenatal indomethacin developed a PDA postnatally (relative risk = 2.1; 95% confidence interval: 1.22-3.74), and 45% of the antenatally exposed infants versus 12% of the nonexposed infants were symptomatic and required indomethacin (relative risk = 1.9; 95% confidence interval: 1.17-3.20). Four of the exposed infants versus none of the unexposed infants required surgical ligation. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)
Oxidative stress has been implicated in the propagation of acute liver injury. The aim of our study was to investigate whether gene transfer of alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH), a potent anti-inflammatory peptide, could prevent fulminant hepatic failure in mice. Acute liver damage was induced by intraperitoneal administration of thioacetamide. Hydrodynamics-based gene transfection with alpha-MSH expression plasmid via rapid tail vein injection was initiated 1 day prior to intoxication. The mortality in the alpha-MSH-treated mice was significantly lower compared to the vehicle group 3 days after injury. Liver histology significantly improved and TUNEL-positive hepatocytes decreased in the treated mice. The degradation of IkappaBalpha, endogenous inhibitor of nuclear factor kappaB, and upregulation of inducible nitric oxide synthase and tumor necrosis factor-alpha mRNA levels were prevented in the alpha-MSH-treated group, indicating decreased oxidative stress and inflammation. These results suggest alpha-MSH gene therapy might protect against acute hepatic necroinflammatory damage with further potential applications.
Data about the nephrotoxicity of selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors are still evolving. Acute interstitial nephritis is a well-described complication of therapy with nonselective nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. We report a case of biopsy-proven acute interstitial nephritis in a 73-year-old diabetic woman, who had taken celecoxib for more than 1 year before presentation. She presented with clinical findings of subnephrotic proteinuria and acute renal failure that required dialysis. She recovered renal function with cessation of celecoxib therapy after 2 weeks. Other medications were reintroduced safely, without recurrence of renal failure. A kidney biopsy specimen showed acute interstitial nephritis with a prominent eosinophilic infiltrate in the interstitium. This case documents the occurrence of acute interstitial nephritis with celecoxib and emphasizes the need for continued vigilance and care in use of cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors in high-risk patients.
Pancreatic carcinoma is a malignant disease that responds poorly to chemotherapy because of its resistance to apoptosis. Heat shock proteins (Hsp) are not only cytoprotective but also interfere with the apoptotic cascade. Here, we investigated the role of Hsp70 in regulating apoptosis in pancreatic cancer cells. Hsp70 expression was increased in pancreatic cancer cells compared with normal pancreatic ductal cells. This was confirmed by increased mRNA levels for Hsp70 in human pancreatic cancer tissue compared with neighboring normal tissue from the same patient. Depletion of Hsp70 by quercetin decreased cell viability and induced apoptosis in cancer cells but not in normal pancreatic ductal cells. To show that this is a specific effect of Hsp70 on apoptosis, levels of Hsp70 were knocked down by short interfering RNA treatment, which also induced apoptosis in cancer cells as indicated by Annexin V staining and caspase activation. Daily administration of quercetin to nude mice decreased tumor size as well as Hsp70 levels in tumor tissue. These findings indicate that Hsp70 plays an important role in apoptosis and that selective Hsp70 knockdown can be used to induce apoptosis in pancreatic cancer cells.
This study was performed to assess the efficacy, safety and clinical consequences of abrupt cessation of quinapril therapy in a placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blind withdrawal trial.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapy has assumed a pivotal role in the treatment of chronic heart failure. Quinapril hydrochloride, a nonsulfydryl angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, has shown beneficial clinical effects in previous studies.
After > or = 10 weeks of single-blind quinapril therapy, 224 patients with New York Heart Association class II or III heart failure were randomized in double-blind fashion to continue quinapril (n = 114) or to receive placebo (n = 110) for 16 weeks. Changes in treadmill exercise time, New York Heart Association functional class, quality of life and symptoms of heart failure were assessed.
Patients withdrawn to placebo had a significant deterioration in exercise tolerance (median change -16 s with placebo vs. +3 s with quinapril, p = 0.015). New York Heart Association functional class (p = 0.004) and quality of life were improved and signs and symptoms of congestive heart failure were lessened in those remaining on quinapril therapy compared with those receiving placebo. During double-blind treatment, 18 patients were withdrawn from the placebo group because of worsening heart failure compared with 5 patients withdrawn from quinapril treatment (p < 0.001). Rather than a precipitous deterioration of clinical status or early incidence of adverse events, withdrawal from quinapril was associated with steady worsening of heart failure, beginning 4 to 6 weeks after randomization to placebo.
Quinapril is effective and safe for maintaining clinical stability in patients with moderate congestive heart failure. Withdrawal of quinapril from patients with heart failure results in a slow progressive decline in clinical status.
The present study was an attempt to determine the influence of brain angiotensin II, the activity of which is known to be higher in spontaneously hypertensive rat, on the spontaneous activity of the cardiovascular neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla of the spontaneously hypertensive rat. Both the spontaneous activity of the spinal projecting rostral ventrolateral medulla cardiovascular neurons and the arterial blood pressure were simultaneously measured in the pentobarbital-anesthetized spontaneously hypertensive rat and its normotensive control, the Wistar Kyoto rat, following microinjection to rostral ventrolateral medulla of an angiotensin II antagonist, [Sar1, Ile8]-angiotensin II (sarile). A microinjection method was developed that enabled us to perform extracellular recording of the rostral ventrolateral medulla cardiovascular neurons during the microinjection of drug to the vicinity of the neuron. It was found that sarile reduced both the arterial blood pressure and firing rate of some rostral ventrolateral medulla cardiovascular neurons dose-dependently. The effects of sarile were significantly greater in spontaneously hypertensive rat than in the Wistar Kyoto rat. The present findings indicate that the rostral ventrolateral medulla cardiovascular neurons of spontaneously hypertensive rat exhibit an augmented sensitivity to endogenous brain angiotensin II. Such an increase in sensitivity to brain angiotensin II in the spontaneously hypertensive rat may contribute to the enhanced spontaneous activities of rostral ventrolateral medulla cardiovascular neurons, as in the sarile responsive single discharge units, even in the resting or prestimulation state. This interaction of brain angiotensin II and rostral ventrolateral medulla cardiovascular neurons is likely to be contributory to the genesis of hypertension in this strain of rats.
We tested the hypothesis that intravenous cocaine, in doses commonly self-administered in nonmedical settings, causes acute myocardial ischemia and left ventricular dysfunction.
Cocaine-induced cardiac complications are responsible for a growing number of deaths in young people, but the mechanism by which cocaine induces these complications is unclear.
We performed 12-lead electrocardiography and quantitative two-dimensional echocardiography in 20 subjects before and after single intravenous doses of high dose cocaine (1.2 mg/kg body weight), low dose cocaine (0.6 mg/kg) and placebo.
At 2 to 7 min after cocaine administration, the rate-pressure product was increased significantly from baseline (high dose 73%, low dose 63%, placebo 8%, p < 0.001 for either dose vs. placebo). During this time, electrocardiography demonstrated dose-related nonspecific changes (high dose in 14 of 20 subjects, low dose in 9 of 20 subjects, placebo in 2 of 20 subjects, p < 0.002 for either dose vs. placebo). In contrast, echocardiography showed that the frequency of hyperdynamic left ventricular wall segments doubled after high dose cocaine compared with placebo (34% [108 of 318] vs. 16% [51 of 319], respectively, p = 0.0001) but that there was no change in either left ventricular ejection fraction (high dose 66 +/- 9%, placebo 67 +/- 6%, p = NS) or wall motion score index (high dose 0.67 +/- 0.44, placebo 0.85 +/- 0.30, p = NS).
We conclude that intravenous cocaine, in doses commonly self-administered in nonmedical settings, does not cause acute myocardial ischemia or left ventricular dysfunction. We speculate that cocaine-induced cardiac complications are caused by idiosyncratic coronary artery vasospasm, by exceptionally high dosages or by cocaine-induced coronary artery thrombosis.
Gonadal function, histology, and meiosis were studied in patients after puberty who had received cyclophosphamide in the treatment of nephrotic syndrome. Four males with minimal lesion nephrotic syndrome received cyclophosphamide, 2 to 4 mg/kg/24 hr, during periods ranging from 49 to 60 days and had normal semen at 15 3/12 to 22 3/12 years of age. Four males who received cyclophosphamide, 2 to 5 mg/kg/24 hr, during 89 to 489 days were azoospermic at 15 6/12 to 21 11/12 years of age. Plasma testosterone levels were normal in both groups. LH and FSH levels were elevated in the azoospermicgroup. Light and electron microscopy and meiotic analysis of testicular tissue were normal in two normospermic patients tested. Germinal cells were absent but Leydig and Sertoli cells were present in three azoospermic patients tested. No neoplasia was observed. Two preadolescent and two postadolescent males received 64 to 129 mg/kg of cyclophosphamide during 14 to 45 days and have since fathered normal children. One preadolescent female received 182 mg/kg of cyclophosphamide during 49 days and later bore a normal child. Two preadolescent females who died of complications of their nephrotic syndrome during childhood after courses of cyclophosphamide had normal preadolescent ovaries.
While 65%-80% occupancy of dopamine D2 receptors with antipsychotics has been proposed to achieve optimal therapeutic response during acute treatment of schizophrenia, it remains unclear as to whether it is also necessary to maintain D2 receptor occupancy within this "safe" window for ongoing maintenance treatment. The data are especially scarce for long-acting antipsychotic formulations.
Clinically stable patients with schizophrenia (DSM-IV) receiving a stable dose of risperidone long-acting injectable (LAI) as antipsychotic monotherapy for at least 3 months and free of any psychiatric hospitalization over the past 6 months were included. Dopamine D2 receptor occupancy levels at trough were estimated from plasma concentrations of risperidone plus 9-hydroxyrisperidone immediately before the intramuscular injection of risperidone LAI, using a 1-site binding model derived from our previous positron emission tomography data. This study was conducted from October to December 2011.
36 patients were included in this study (mean ± SD age, 49.3 ± 14.0 years; mean ± SD dose and interval of injections, 38.2 ± 11.6 mg and 16.5 ± 14.0 days, respectively). Mean ± SD D2 receptor occupancy was 62.1% ± 15.4%; 52.8% of the subjects (n = 19) did not demonstrate an occupancy of ≥ 65%. On the other hand, 13.9% (n = 5) showed a D2 occupancy as high as over 80% at the estimated trough.
More than half of patients taking risperidone LAI maintained clinical stability without achieving continuous blockade of dopamine D2 receptors ≥ 65% in real-world clinical settings. Results suggest that sustained dopamine D2 receptor occupancy levels of ≥ 65% may not be necessary for maintenance treatment with risperidone LAI in schizophrenia.
Hemorrhage within the gallbladder lumen is a rare but potentially fatal complication of acute cholecystitis. Concomitant anticoagulant therapy increases the chances of hemorrhage. In this case report we describe one such case which showed active extravasation of the contrast into the lumen of the gallbladder. Early diagnosis of this potentially fatal condition is important to facilitate urgent surgical treatment.
