The occurrence of late congestive heart failure (CHF) as the first clinical manifestation of doxorubicin-induced cardiac toxicity is unusual in children and very rare in adults. However, subclinical cardiac dysfunction is commonly detected in children years after treatment with doxorubicin containing regimens. We report a 58 year old woman who developed stage IV CHF 7 years after completion of doxorubicin treatment for carcinoma of the ovary. Occult cardiac dysfunction was first demonstrated by radionuclide angiography 6 years prior to the occurrence of the clinical manifestations. This unique course of the disease and the management of the CHF are discussed.
The term 'cortical blindness' indicates loss of sight due to bilateral lesions of the occipital lobes. It is a rare, but severe, side effect of chemotherapeutic agents. Cortical blindness was diagnosed in a 67 year old woman with leiomyosarcoma of the large bowel, treated by vincristine-containing chemotherapy. Cortical blindness without focal neurological signs and with two repeated normal brain computed tomography scans, in which there was no structural damage to the occipital lobes, suggests a metabolic or toxic reaction as a cause in our patients. The temporal relationship between vincristine treatment and cortical blindness implicates vincristine as the possible causative agent for this catastrophic phenomenon.
Caffeine is one of the most widely consumed psychoactive substances in the world and is ingested in a variety of favorites, such as coffee, tea, cola and so on. Although it has been suggested that high dose caffeine users have more anxiety and depressive symptoms than low users, this relationship is not clear in Japan, where caffeine consumption is considered to be less than in Western countries. A questionnaire survey was conducted among medical students and 291 out of 423 initial subjects completed it. Among males, caffeine consumption was significantly and positively correlated with anxiety symptoms, when alcohol use and smoking habit were adjusted. However, there was no relationship between caffeine consumption and depressive symptoms. Among females, although there was no association between caffeine consumption and anxiety symptoms, high dose caffeine users showed less depressive symptoms than moderate and low users, when alcohol use was adjusted. It is suggested that caffeine use is one of the important factors, in researching psychological health among the general population. We need further epidemiological studies to determine whether there is a causal relationship between caffeine and psychological ill health or not.
Previous clinical trials using lithium with individuals who have mental retardation have not emphasized the incidence of side effects. During a 58-consecutive-week period at an outpatient clinic for adults with psychiatric illness and mental retardation or borderline intellectual functioning, 67% (10 out of 15) patients had side effects. The percentage is similar to reports of side effects during lithium treatment in the general population. Results suggest that adults with mental retardation who take lithium may be as prone to side effects as those in the general population.
The effect of acute intoxication by lindane on the AChE activity in blood plasma and in crude synaptosomal fractions from six CNS areas of rats has been studied. The effect of sodium pentobarbital on the convulsive syndrome caused by the above organochlorine compound is also presented. The joint administration of sodium pentobarbital together with lindane prevented the convulsive reaction which had been produced by lindane alone. In the animals intoxicated by lindane a general increase in the AChE activity both in plasma and in the CNS areas studied has been observed. The combination of sodium pentobarbital and lindane produced a decrease in the AChE activity in all the studied areas with the single exception of the spinal cord. These results are discussed bearing in mind the possible interaction between the GABAergic and cholinergic neurotransmission systems in the CNS.
Morphine has cardioprotective effects against ischemic-reperfusion injuries. This study investigates whether morphine could mimic the antiapoptotic effect of preconditioning using a model of cultured neonatal rat cardiomyocytes subjected to metabolic inhibition (MI). To quantify MI-induced apoptosis, DNA fragmentation and mitochondrial cytochrome c release levels were measured by ELISA. MI-dependent DNA fragmentation was prevented by both Z-VAD-fmk (20 microM), a pan-caspase inhibitor, and cyclosporine A (CsA; 5 microM), a mitochondrial pore transition blocker, added during MI (36% and 54% decrease, respectively). MI-dependent cytochrome c release was not blocked by Z-VAD-fmk but was decreased (38%) by CsA during MI. Metabolic preconditioning (MIP) and preconditioning with morphine (1 microM) were also assessed. MI-dependent DNA fragmentation and cytochrome c release were prevented by MIP (40% and 45% decrease, respectively) and morphine (34% and 45%, respectively). The antiapoptotic effect of morphine was abolished by naloxone (10 nM), a nonselective opioid receptor antagonist, or xestospongin C (XeC, 400 nM), an inhibitor of inositol (1,4,5)-trisphosphate [Ins(1,4,5)P(3)]-mediated Ca(2+) release. Ca(2+) preconditioning, induced by increasing extracellular Ca(2+) from 1.8 to 3.3 mM, mimicked the antiapoptotic effect of morphine on DNA fragmentation (24% decrease) and cytochrome c release (57% decrease). This effect mediated by extracellular Ca(2+) was also abolished by XeC. Measurements of intracellular Ca(2+) concentration using fura-2 microspectrofluorimetry showed that morphine induces Ins(1,4,5)P(3)-dependent Ca(2+) transients abolished by 2-aminoethoxydiphenyl borate (2-APB), a cell-permeable Ins(1,4,5)P(3) antagonist. These results suggest that morphine preconditioning prevents simulated ischemia-reperfusion-induced apoptosis via an Ins(1,4,5)P(3) signaling pathway in rat ventricular myocytes.
We here investigated wether genes encoding the interleukins IL-1beta, IL-6 and IL-8, and the chemokines CCL2, CCL3, CCL3L1 and CCL4 are useful markers for sensitization testing in CD34+-progenitor derived dendritic cells (CD34-DC). CD34-DC from at least three donors were exposed during 0.5 up to 24h to the chemical sensitizers nickel sulphate, oxazolone, 2,4-dinitrochlorobenzene (DNCB) and eugenol, and to the irritants sodium dodecyl sulphate (SDS) and benzalkonium sulphate (BC). mRNA expression was evaluated using real-time RT-PCR. We observed a large inter-individual variation in mRNA expression in CD34-DC exposed to the chemicals. No or limited effects on expression were observed for the irritant BC and the weak sensitizer eugenol. All other chemicals modulated the transcript levels of most cytokines that were investigated. Most of the time, no clear-cut distinctions could be made between the sensitizers and SDS. After 24 h, consistent upregulatory effects of all sensitizing compounds on transcript expression of CCL2, CCL3 and CCL4 were observed, whereas SDS (and BC) had no effect. Our findings suggest that the CCL2, CCL3 and CCL4 genes may be selective end-point markers in the CD34-DC model to discern chemical sensitizers from irritants.
We present the case of a 13-year-old boy with an episode of aborted sudden death, absence of structural heart disease, and a characteristic ECG pattern of right bundle branch block with persistent ST-segment elevation in the right precordial leads, in whom a monomorphic sustained ventricular tachycardia developed spontaneously after the administration of ajmaline. This effect may be related to an increased inhomogeneity of repolarization mediated by the drug and demonstrates the arrhythmogenic potential of Class I antiarrhythmic drugs in patients with Brugada syndrome.
The late-onset form of GM2 gangliosidosis (Tay-Sachs disease) is an autosomal-recessive disorder with progressive neurologic disease, mainly characterized by motor neuron and spinocerebellar dysfunction. The majority of patients are of Ashkenazi Jewish origin. 31Phosphorus magnetic resonance spectroscopy of the brain was performed to study the metabolic changes of a 16-year-old patient with late-onset Tay-Sachs disease who had a heterozygous Gly269-->Ser mutation in the hexosaminidase A encoding gene in compound heterozygosity with another, yet unidentified mutation. Severe changes in phosphorus metabolism with a decreased amount of phosphodiesters and membrane-bound phosphates were demonstrated, suggesting an activation of phosphodiesterases by accumulating gangliosides. The clinical findings were well related to the changes in spectroscopically determined metabolites.
To identify tumor-suppressor genes inactivated by aberrant methylation of promoter CpG islands (CGIs) in human malignant melanomas, genes upregulated by treatment of cells with a demethylating agent, 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-aza-dC), were searched for using oligonucleotide microarrays in melanoma cell lines, HMV-I, MeWo and WM-115. Seventy-nine known genes with CGIs were identified as being upregulated (>or=16-fold), and 18 of them had methylation of their putative promoter CGIs in 1 or more of 8 melanoma cell lines. Among the 18 genes, TFPI-2, which is involved in repression of the invasive potential of malignant melanomas, was further analyzed. Its expression was repressed in a melanoma cell line with its complete methylation, and was restored by 5-aza-dC treatment. It was unmethylated in cultured neonatal normal epidermal melanocyte, and was induced by ultraviolet B. In surgical melanoma specimens, TFPI-2 methylation was detected in 5 of 17 metastatic site specimens (29%), while it was not detected in 20 primary site specimens (0%) (p=0.009). By immunohistochemistry, the 5 specimens with promoter methylation lacked immunoreactivity for TFPI-2. The results showed that TFPI-2 is silenced in human malignant melanomas by methylation of its promoter CGI and suggested that its silencing is involved in melanoma metastasis.
Clonidine usually serves as a tic-suppressing agent in patients with Tourette syndrome. A case study is presented in which clonidine at subclinical concentrations led to an exacerbation of the tics and caused severe systemic heat sensations. Involvement of functional abnormalities of the hypothalamus in Tourette syndrome is hypothesized.
Glomerular diseases are characterized by increased urinary protein excretion. Treatment of this abnormality frequently involves administration of corticosteroids and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. There has been much recent interest in the potential impact of these drugs on progressive renal dysfunction, since they have opposing effects on intraglomerular hemodynamics. Therefore, we investigated the effect of methylprednisolone or captopril treatment on animals with chronic puromycin aminonucleoside nephropathy. In rats given a single injection of puromycin aminonucleoside, 15 mg/100 g body weight, both methylprednisolone and captopril significantly reduced proteinuria at 6 months [83 +/- 14 untreated (n = 7), 34 +/- 6 with methylprednisolone (n = 8), and 6 +/- 1 mg/24 h with captopril (n = 5), P less than 0.001]. Segmental glomerulosclerosis occurred with equal frequency in the untreated (7.8 +/- 2.3%) and methylprednisolone-treated rats (5.0 +/- 1.11%), but was significantly reduced by the administration of captopril (1.0 +/- 0.5%, P less than 0.001). We conclude that in chronic puromycin aminonucleoside nephropathy, treatment with corticosteroids reduces proteinuria without increasing the incidence of segmental glomerulosclerosis. Therapy with an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor substantially decreases proteinuria and lessens the severity of glomerular scarring.
Oral hydrocortisone increases blood pressure and enhances pressor responsiveness in normal human subjects. We studied the effects of 1 week of oral hydrocortisone (200 mg/day) on blood pressure, cardiac output, total peripheral resistance, forearm vascular resistance, and norepinephrine spillover to plasma in eight healthy male volunteers. Although diastolic blood pressure remained unchanged, systolic blood pressure increased from 119 to 135 mm Hg (SED +/- 3.4, p less than 0.01), associated with an increased cardiac output (5.85-7.73 l/min, SED +/- 0.46, p less than 0.01). Total peripheral vascular resistance fell from 15.1 to 12.2 mm Hg/l/min (SED +/- 1.03, p less than 0.05). Resting forearm vascular resistance remained unchanged, but the reflex response to the cold pressor test was accentuated, the rise in resistance increasing from 10.5 mm Hg/ml/100 ml/min (R units) before treatment to 32.6 R units after treatment (SED +/- 6.4, p less than 0.025). The rise in forearm vascular resistance accompanying intra-arterial norepinephrine (25, 50, and 100 ng/min) was also significantly greater after hydrocortisone, increasing from an average of 14.9 +/- 2.4 R units before treatment to 35.1 +/- 5.5 R units after hydrocortisone (SED +/- 6.0, p less than 0.05). A shift to the left in the dose-response relation and fall in threshold suggested increased sensitivity to norepinephrine after treatment. Measurement of resting norepinephrine spillover rate to plasma and norepinephrine uptake indicated that overall resting sympathetic nervous system activity was not increased. The rise in resting blood pressure with hydrocortisone is associated with an increased cardiac output (presumably due to increased blood volume).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
This study compares alcohol withdrawal severity during outpatient detoxification in alcohol dependent subjects (ALC) and in subjects dependent on both alcohol and cocaine (ALC/COC). Subjects included 123 ALC and 66 ALC/COC subjects. Baseline demographic and drug use variables, alcohol withdrawal symptoms, and the total amount of oxazepam taken during alcohol detoxification were compared between the two groups. Compared to ALC subjects, ALC/COC subjects were younger, more likely to be African-American, and had less severe histories of alcohol dependence. However, alcohol withdrawal symptom severity did not differ significantly between the two groups. Nevertheless, controlling for differences in alcohol use history, ALC/COC subjects still received less oxazepam than did ALC subjects to treat alcohol withdrawal symptoms. Despite similar intensity of alcohol withdrawal symptoms, ALC/COC subjects received less oxazepam to treat alcohol withdrawal symptoms compared to ALC subjects. Both subject and clinician factors may explain the difference in oxazepam use.
Major advances have been made in understanding the epidemiology and biology of the hepatitis B virus. Two particular developments--hepatitis B immune globulin and a new hepatitis B virus vaccine--are of special interest to obstetricians, gynecologists, and others who provide health care to women. The appropriate use of hepatitis B immune globulin and hepatitis vaccine can prevent hepatitis B virus infections.
To determine the relative effect of body weight and physical inactivity on susceptibility to drug-induced myocardial infarction, randomly selected groups of 100-day-old male Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to a 10-wk program of exercise training and (or) to caloric restriction followed by two subcutaneous injections of L-isoproterenol. Two groups of rats were fed a restricted diet consisting of minimum calories to maintain body weight and were either exercised (R-Ex) or remained sedentary (R-C), one group was fed ad libitum and subjected to exercise (Ex), and one group remained sedentary (C), but was provided only enough food to maintain body weight in a range similar to Ex rats. Initially, there was no difference between group body weights, but Ex and C rats exhibited a significantly greater final body weight. All Ex, R-Ex, and R-C rats survived the isoproterenol injections, but 50% of C rats died. Group C rats exhibited significantly greater activity of total plasma lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), whereas R-Ex rats had the lowest total LDH activity (p less than 0.05). R-Ex and R-C rats had a significantly lower activity of plasma LDH-1, the heart isozyme, than did the heavier Ex and C rats. More specifically, R-C rats exhibited a significantly decreased amount of plasma LDH-1 activity when compared with Ex rats, indicating that smaller, untrained rats had less myocardial damage than the heavier, exercise-trained rats. These data suggest that either exercise or maintenance of body weight is beneficial toward prevention of the drug-induced myocardial infarction, but when weight maintenance is combined with exercise additional protection is provided.
1-(2-Chloroethyl)-3-(trans-4-methylcyclohexyl)-1-nitrosourea (MeCCNU) and chlorozotocin (CZ; 2-[3-(2-chloroethyl)-3-nitrosoureido]-D-glucopyranose) are structurally related anticancer agents which differ by virtue of the increased water solubility, and comparatively low carbamylating activity, of CZ relative to MeCCNU. In the present study, a single sc injection of either of these chloroethylnitrosoureas was nephrotoxic to male Fischer 344 rats. However, at equimolar doses, CZ was shown to be a much more potent nephrotoxicant. A lethal 40-mg/kg dose of CZ (127 microM) initially resulted in acute tubular necrosis of the proximal tubules of the cortex, followed later by a necrosis of papillary collecting ducts. In contrast, lethal doses of MeCCNU (100-180 mg/kg; 400-730 microM) produced only minimal proximal tubule injury. A 250-mg/kg (1 mM) dose of MeCCNU resulted in massive papillary necrosis within 7 days, with only limited necrosis to the proximal tubules. Sublethal doses of either drug, resulted in a similar, chronic, progressive nephropathy which was delayed in onset and was characterized by polyuria, enzymuria, a decrease in urine concentrating ability, and in renal slice organic ion accumulation. Alterations in less sensitive indicators of renal toxicity (i.e., proteinuria, glucosuria, and elevated blood urea nitrogen) were observed no earlier than 3 to 7 days after administration of only the highest tested doses of CZ (40 mg/kg) or MeCCNU (250 mg/kg). At sublethal doses, administration of either drug resulted in karyomegaly to the collecting ducts in the renal medulla within 2 to 4 weeks. These studies demonstrate that carbamylation-mediated reactions may not be necessary for nephrotoxicity to develop following administration of this class of antitumor agent.
This study was aimed at analyzing the effect of mutations in three non-synonymous SNP genes (677C > T and 1298A > C of the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) gene, and 66A > G in the MTRR gene) on total plasmatic homocysteine (Hcy), in 91 mothers of Down syndrome (DS) infants and 90 control mothers. The comparison of both groups of mothers is a new way to determine if those mutations and their interactions increase the risk for DS. Material came from the case-control network of the Spanish Collaborative Study of Congenital Malformations (ECEMC). Using a general lineal model in a backwards step, we performed the analyses including the different mutations, maternal age, the fact that each mother had a DS or a control infant, and all possible interactions of these variables, in the models, being maternal Hcy the continuous dependent variable. In another model, maternal folic acid intake during the third trimester of pregnancy was added. The results from both models were essentially the same: Hcy levels variability differs from case mothers to control ones, the presence of the MTHFR1298A > C polymorphism also affects significantly the Hcy variance, as it does the statistical interaction between the mutations MTRR66A > G and MTHFR1298A > C in the mother. In this sense, the interaction between different polymorphisms may totally modify their individual effects, and some of those effects are different in mothers of DS children and in controls' mothers. For instance, only two mutations in MTRR66 (GGAA) in mothers of control infants increase the reference maternal Hcy level in 4.66 units, and the individual effect of the genotype with only two mutations in the MTHFR1298 gene (AACC) increases the reference Hcy level in 12.74 units. However, the presence of the four mutations (GGCC) interacts giving a statistically significant decrease in 6.00 units in the level of Hcy in control mothers. On the contrary, in mothers of DS infants, the sole presence of two mutations in one of these two genes decreases the levels of Hcy (-2.31 units for GGAA genotype, and -3.43 units for AACC genotype), while the presence of the four mutations (GGCC) increases Hcy in 9.53 units. Taking into consideration that in the one-carbon metabolism cystathionine beta-synthase (CBS) catalyzes Hcy in an irreversible way, and that CBS gene is located in chromosome 21, fetuses and infants with DS have functional folate deficiency due to overexpression of CBS. This fact, as well as others influencing Hcy levels (such as nutrients interactions and lifestyle), together with the fetal genotype, suggest that their relationship with DS could be through an effect on fetal survival up to birth. Three possible mechanisms are considered by evaluating the results in the light of the present knowledge on cytology and molecular biology.
Seven cases of procainamide-induced polymorphous ventricular tachycardia are presented. In four patients, polymorphous ventricular tachycardia appeared after intravenous administration of 200 to 400 mg of procainamide for the treatment of sustained ventricular tachycardia. In the remaining three patients, procainamide was administered orally for treatment of chronic premature ventricular contractions or atrial flutter. These patients had Q-T prolongation and recurrent syncope due to polymorphous ventricular tachycardia. In four patients, the arrhythmia was rapidly diagnosed and treated with disappearance of further episodes of the arrhythmia. In two patients, the arrhythmia degenerated into irreversible ventricular fibrillation and both patients died. In the seventh patient, a permanent ventricular pacemaker was inserted and, despite continuation of procainamide therapy, polymorphous ventricular tachycardia did not reoccur. These seven cases demonstrate that procainamide can produce an acquired prolonged Q-T syndrome with polymorphous ventricular tachycardia.
For this study, we used (NZW x BXSB)F1 male mice as a model of myocardial infarction. The animals were kept on water containing imidapril or enalapril at 60 mg/kg/day from 10 to 27 weeks of age. Imidapril and enalapril significantly reduced the blood pressure. Imidapril reduced the mortality rate more significantly than enalapril did. In the second experiment where imidapril, enalapril and captopril were administered to the mice at 5 mg/kg/day, p.o., both imidapril and captopril significantly reduced the mortality, but enalapril did not. Blood pressure was slightly reduced by these ACE inhibitors. These data suggest that imidapril and captopril are efficacious for the treatment of myocardial infarction and blood pressure reduction hardly contributes to its mechanism of action.
1. Free radicals mediate cerebral ischaemic injury associated with heatstroke. Magnolol, an active component of Magnolia officinalis, is 1000-fold more potent than alpha-tocopherol in inhibiting lipid peroxidation in rat mitochondria. The aim of the present study was to ascertain whether magnolol attenuated cerebral ischaemic injury and free radical formation associated with heatstroke. 2. Urethane-anaesthetized rats were exposed to heat stress (ambient temperature 42 degrees C) to induce heatstroke. Controlled rats were exposed to 24 degrees C. Mean arterial pressure, cerebral perfusion pressure and cerebral blood flow after the onset of heatstroke were all significantly lower than in control rats. However, colonic temperature, intracranial pressure, heart rate, cerebral free radicals, lipid peroxidation and the neuronal damage score were greater after the onset of heatstroke. 3. Magnolol (20 or 40 mg/kg, i.v.) significantly attenuated the heatstroke-induced hyperthermia, arterial hypotension, intracranial hypertension, cerebral ischaemia and neuronal damage and increased free radical formation and lipid peroxidation in the brain. The extracellular concentrations of ischaemic (e.g. glutamate and lactate/pyruvate ratio) and damage (e.g. glycerol) markers in the corpus striatum were increased after the onset of heatstroke. Magnolol significantly attenuated the increase in striatal ischaemia and damage markers associated with heatstroke. 4. Thus, it appears that magnolol has impressive effects against heatstroke reactions.
Rats were treated with escalating doses of cocaine until they experienced a convulsion and were euthanized 1 or 3 h after the last injection. Quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry revealed that c-fos and zif/268 mRNAs were induced at 1 h in many limbic structures and declined 3 h after cocaine-induced convulsions. Preprodynorphin and preproenkephalin signals increased in many of the same structures 3 h, but not 1 h, after cocaine-induced convulsions.
To investigate the effect of antisense oligonucleotide (ASODN) targeting survivin on the apoptosis and proliferation of renal cancer cell line 786-O and enhancement of its sensitivity to epirubicin.
ASODN targeting survivin was designed and constructed. Cultured cells were divided into 6 groups: control group, liposome group, sense oligonucleotide (SODN) group, 600 nmol/L ASODN group, and 600 nmol/L ASODN combined with epirubicin group. After transfected for 24 h, cultured cells were harvested to carry on the next tests. Cell morphological changes were examined by transmission electron microscopy. Survivin protein was detected by immunohistochemical method. Apoptosis index (AI) and proliferation index (PI) were examined by flow cytometry.
Morphological abnormalities of cells were observed in ASODN transfected groups. Expression of survivin in ASODN groups were significantly decreased compared with that in the control group, liposomes group and SODN group. AI of ASODN groups was significantly higher than that in other groups. PI of ASODN groups was significantly lower than that in other groups. The PI of ASODN combined with epirubicin group was (35.7 +/- 1.67)%, but (9.3 +/- 0.34)% or (8.5 +/- 0.21)% in liposomes group or SODN group that had combined with epirubicin. The ASODN group achieved the strongest effects to enhance apoptosis in comparison with control group (P < 0.05), while SODN did not cause statistically significant change (P > 0.05).
The expression of survivin protein in the renal clear cell carcinoma cell line 786-O is downregulated by survivin ASODN. ASODN targeting survivin induces apoptosis and inhibits proliferation of 786-O cells. Inhibition of survivin enhances sensitivity of 786-O to epirubicin.
This study investigates the mechanism of cell death induced by cadmium (Cd) in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells. Cells exposed to 4 microM Cd for 24 h did not show signs of apoptosis, such as DNA fragmentation and caspase-3 activation. The pro-apoptotic (Bax) or anti-apoptotic (Bcl-2 and Bcl-xL) protein levels in the Bcl-2 family were not altered. However, an increase in propidium iodide uptake and depletion of ATP, characteristics of necrotic cell death, were observed. Cd treatment increased the intracellular calcium (Ca2+) level. Removal of the Ca2+ by a chelator, BAPTA-AM, efficiently inhibited Cd-induced necrosis. The increased Ca2+ subsequently mediated calpain activation and intracellular ROS production. Calpains then triggered mitochondrial depolarization resulting in cell necrosis. Cyclosporin A, an inhibitor of mitochondrial permeability transition, recovered the membrane potential and reduced the necrotic effect. The generated ROS reduced basal NF-kappaB activity and led cells to necrosis. An increase of NF-kappaB activity by its activator, PMA, attenuated Cd-induced necrosis. Calpains and ROS act cooperatively in this process. The calpain inhibitor and the ROS scavenger synergistically inhibited Cd-induced necrosis. Results in this study suggest that Cd stimulates Ca2+-dependent necrosis in CHO cells through two separate pathways. It reduces mitochondrial membrane potential by activating calpain and inhibits NF-kappaB activity by increasing the ROS level.
We present a young Thai man who developed acute flaccid paralysis after receiving pulse methylprednisolone for chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy. Hypokalemia from intracellular shift was confirmed by calculation of transtubular potassium gradient (TTKG). His muscle strength and serum potassium fully recovered with a small amount of potassium replacement. Graves' disease was subsequently diagnosed and treated with radioactive iodine. We suggest that acute paralysis after the use of steroids should raise a suspicion of thyrotoxic periodic paralysis (TPP). The potential mechanisms of steroid-induced TPP are discussed.
