Sildenafil (Viagra), an oral treatment for erectile dysfunction, has proved popular since its introduction in 1998. However, not all patients respond to this form of therapy. Consequently, this study investigated the efficacy of intracavernous alprostadil alfadex (EDEX/VIRIDAL) treatment in patients not responding to sildenafil.
In an open-label, multicenter study, patients with erectile dysfunction were treated with sildenafil for 4 weeks. The initial dose was 50 mg, which was increased to 100 mg if no response was achieved. Patients not responding to treatment, measured using the International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF) questionnaire, entered an alprostadil alfadex in-office titration phase, to determine the optimal dose, up to 40 microgram. A 6-week alprostadil alfadex at-home treatment phase followed.
In 67 patients who did not respond satisfactorily to sildenafil, the alprostadil alfadex at-home therapy resulted in improvements in questions 3 and 4 of the IIEF in 60 (89.6%) and 57 (85.1%) patients, respectively. The mean improvement in IIEF score for these patients was 2.75 and 2.63 for questions 3 and 4, respectively. The most common side effect was penile pain in 25 (29. 4%) of 85 patients treated with alprostadil alfadex in-office and at home.
Alprostadil alfadex therapy can be used effectively and safely in men who fail initial therapy with sildenafil.
Warfarin-associated intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) requires rapid normalization of clotting function. Current therapies are associated with significant complications and/or prolonged time to correction of coagulopathy. Recombinant factor VIIa (FVIIa) might allow faster and safer correction of coagulopathy.
This article presents a retrospective chart review of all patients with warfarin-associated ICH treated in a neurology/neurosurgery intensive care unit over an 11-month period.
All patients were treated to rapidly reverse the warfarin effect. Fifteen patients received vitamin K and fresh frozen plasma (FFP) alone (FFP group). Twelve patients also received FVIIa (FVIIa group). The median times from presentation to an international normalization ratio (INR) of less than 1.3 were 32.2 and 8.8 hours in the FFP the FVIIa groups, respectively (p = 0.016). INR normalized slowly (at 110 and 130 hours, respectively) in two patients with end-stage renal failure who were given FVIIa, one of whom developed disseminated intravascular coagulation after three doses of FVIIa. No other complications occurred from FVIIa administration. One patient in the FFP group developed severe pulmonary edema.
FVIIa may be an effective adjunct to FFP in warfarin-related ICH, facilitating faster correction of INR and decreasing FFP requirements. A prospective, randomized trial is needed to confirm these preliminary findings and to determine whether there is a clinical benefit.
Growth factor gene therapy represents one current approach in the therapy of myocardial ischemia. We assessed the in vitro and in vivo expression of naked plasmid DNA aiming at preservation of function in a chronically ischemic myocardial model.
In vitro: Primary cardiac fibroblasts were transfected with plasmids encoding enhanced green fluorescent protein, human VEGF(121), human FGF-2, or porcine MCP-1. Protein synthesis was assessed microscopically, by ELISA, Western blotting, or intracellular immunofluorescence. In vivo: A LAD stenosis was created in healthy pigs. One week later, segmental myocardial shortening (SMS) and systemic hemodynamics (left ventricular stroke work index, LVSWI, time derivative of left ventricular pressure, dp/dt(max)) were assessed at baseline. Afterwards, the ischemic area received either intramyocardial injections of naked cytokine plasmid DNA or vector only, or was left untreated. One myocardial sample taken 1 h after plasmid injection was subjected to RT-PCR and PCR. After 3 months, cardiac function was re-examined.
In vitro: Transfection of cardiac fibroblasts resulted in high gene expression for several days. In vivo: Plasmid-specific DNA and mRNA were found 1 h after plasmid injection (n=1). After 3 months, VEGF, FGF-2, and vector rendered better results of regional contractility at rest and of LVSWI. However, only VEGF and FGF-2 were effective with regard to regional contractility under dobutamine stress and to left ventricular contractility.
In conclusion, intramyocardial injection of naked plasmid DNA encoding VEGF(121) or FGF-2 improved myocardial function in chronic ischemia in more aspects than vector only and was superior to untreated ischemia or MCP-1. This strategy can be considered a successful tool for growth factor stimulated preservation of function in chronic myocardial ischemia.
Bronchiolar Clara cells undergo phenotypic changes during development and in disease. These changes are poorly described due to a paucity of molecular markers. We used chemical and transgenic approaches to ablate Clara cells, allowing identification of their unique gene expression profile. Flavin monooxygenase 3 (Fmo3), paraoxonase 1 (Pon1), aldehyde oxidase 3 (Aox3), and claudin 10 (Cldn10) were identified as novel Clara cell markers. New and existing Clara cell marker genes were categorized into three classes based on their unique developmental expression pattern. Cldn10 was uniformly expressed in the epithelium at Embryonic Day (E)14.5 and became restricted to secretory cells at E18.5. This transition was defined by induction of CCSP. Maturation of secretory cells was associated with progressive increases in the expression of Fmo3, Pon1, Aox3, and Cyp2f2 between late embryonic and postnatal periods. Messenger RNA abundance of all categories of genes was dramatically decreased after naphthalene-induced airway injury, and displayed a sequence of temporal induction during repair that suggested sequential secretory cell maturation. We have defined a broader repertoire of Clara cell-specific genes that allows staging of epithelial maturation during development and repair.
Specific prostaglandins have been identified that mediate the sympathetic postganglionic neuron-terminal dependent hyperalgesia induced by bradykinin and norepinephrine, prostaglandin E2 and prostacyclin, respectively. In this study we evaluated the hypothesis that bradykinin and norepinephrine stimulate prostaglandin production in the rat, via distinct phospholipases. We found that, in normal skin, bradykinin hyperalgesia is inhibited by the phospholipase A2 inhibitor, mepacrine, but not by the phospholipase C inhibitor, neomycin and is mimicked by phospholipase A2. In chloroform-treated skin or when co-injected with A23187, bradykinin-induced hyperalgesia was found to consist of two components, one resulting from prostaglandin E2 synthesis (phospholipase A2-dependent) and one resulting from prostacyclin synthesis (phospholipase C-dependent). This latter component is blocked by Quin 2 and verapamil and also inhibited by yohimbine, an alpha 2 receptor antagonist. Arachidonic acid induces a dose-dependent hyperalgesia that was found to be like bradykinin-hyperalgesia in untreated skin (prostaglandin E2-mediated and phospholipase A2-dependent). In chloroform-treated skin or in the presence of A23187, arachidonic acid like bradykinin led to the production of prostacyclin as well as prostaglandin E2. Norepinephrine does not produce hyperalgesia in untreated skin, but in chloroform pretreated skin or in the presence of the calcium ionophore A23187, norepinephrine produces a potent dose-dependent hyperalgesia. This hyperalgesia is prevented by sympathectomy and suppressed by the calcium antagonists Quin 2 and verapamil. It is also suppressed by indomethacin and neomycin but not by SC19220 and mepacrine and is mimicked by phospholipase C.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Percutaneous liver biopsy was performed on seven children with acute lymphocytic leukemia who had received maintanance chemotherapy with high-dose intravenous methotrexate for 1 1/2 to 2 1/2 years. Portal fibrosis was found in four of the seven children and in an additional patient treated with oral methotrexate. Serial tests of liver function and 99mtechnetium-sulfur-colloid scans did not accurately identify children with hepatic fibrosis. Clinical evidence of liver disease was not seen.
Abnormal expression of TGF-beta1 is believed to play an important role in the pathogenesis of a number of chronic inflammatory and immune lung diseases, including asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and pulmonary fibrosis. Gene activation in eukaryotes requires coordinated use of specific cell signals, chromatin modifications, and chromatin remodeling. We studied the roles of the ubiquitous inflammatory transcription factors, NF-kappaB and AP-1, in activation of the TGF-beta1 gene and histone acetylation at the TGF-beta1 promoter. IL-1beta-induced TGF-beta1 protein secretion and mRNA expression were prevented by actinomycin D and were attenuated by the inhibitor of kappaB kinase 2 inhibitor AS602868 and the JNK inhibitor SP600125, suggesting a degree of transcriptional regulation mediated by the NF-kappaB and AP-1 pathways. We demonstrated that IL-1beta activated the p65 subunit of NF-kappaB and the c-Jun subunit of AP-1. Using chromatin immunoprecipitation assays, we observed a sequential recruitment of p65 and c-Jun, accompanying ordered elevation of the levels of histone H4 and H3 acetylation and recruitment of RNA polymerase II at distinct regions in the native TGF-beta1 promoter. The specific NF-kappaB and AP-1 binding sites in the TGF-beta1 promoter were confirmed by an ELISA-based binding assay, and evidence for histone hyperacetylation in TGF-beta1 induction was supported by the observation that the histone deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin A enhanced basal and IL-1beta-induced TGF-beta1 mRNA expression. Our results suggest that IL-1beta-stimulated transcription of TGF-beta1 is temporally regulated by NF-kappaB and AP-1 and involves histone hyperacetylation at distinct promoter sites.
Lycorine is the main alkaloid of many Amaryllidaceae and known to cause poisoning with still unknown mechanisms. Longer lasting toxicological core symptoms of nausea and emesis may become a burden for human and animal patients and may result in substantial loss of water and electrolytes. To optimise the only empirical symptomatic antiemetic drug treatment at present, it is important to elucidate the causative involved targets of lycorine-induced emesis. Therefore, in the current study, we have tested the actions of a various antiemetic drugs with selective receptor affinities on lycorine-induced nausea and emesis in vivo in dogs. Beagle dogs were pre-treated in a saline vehicle-controlled crossover and random design with diphenhydramine, maropitant, metoclopramide, ondansetron or scopolamine prior lycorine administration (2 mg/kg subcutaneously). In vivo effects were assessed by a scoring system for nausea and emesis as well as by the number and lag time of emetic events for at least 3 h. Moreover, plasma pharmacokinetic analysis was carried out for ondansetron before and after lycorine injection. The data show that histaminergic (H₁), muscarinic and dopaminergic (D₂) receptors are presumably not involved in lycorine-induced emetic effects. While ondansetron significantly reduced the number of emetic events, lycorine-induced emesis was completely blocked by maropitant. Only ondansetron also significantly decreased the level of nausea and was able to prolong the lag time until onset of emesis suggesting a preferential participation of 5-HT₃ receptors in lycorine-induced nausea. Thus, it is the first in vivo report evidencing that predominantly neurokinin-1 (NK₁) and to a lesser extent 5-hydroxytryptamine 3 (5-HT₃) receptors are involved in lycorine-induced emesis facilitating a target-oriented therapy.
The effects of acute cardiac failure induced by pentobarbital or pronethalol on the basic mechanical properties of the intact left ventricle were examined in the dog, and the influence on auxotonic and isovolumic contractions of the increase in end-diastolic volume that usually accompanies cardiac failure was assessed. The right heart bypass preparation was employed, and isovolumic beats were induced by sudden balloon occlusion of the aortic root. The ventricular pressure-volume curve was determined directly, and the mechanical responses of the myocardial fibers and contractile elements were calculated.When end-diastolic pressure was held constant, failure reduced the extent of circumferential fiber shortening, and the tension-velocity relation calculated during isovolumic beats was always shifted, with reductions in both maximal velocity (average decrease 30%) and maximal developed tension (average 23%); in addition, during failure achievement of maximal contractile element velocity and maximal tension was delayed, whereas the total duration of contraction was always prolonged. Acetylstrophanthidin tended to reverse all of these changes. When end-diastolic volume was augmented during failure at a constant stroke volume, the extent of circumferential fiber shortening was reduced (3.82 cm to 2.02 cm), and during ejection the fiber and contractile element velocities were diminished at wall tensions comparable to control; maximal velocity and velocity at peak tension were also decreased. The tension-velocity relation during isovolumic beats was shifted by failure with consistent reductions in maximal shortening velocity, but changes in maximal tension were small. Maximal instantaneous power was always reduced by failure, and a striking alteration occurred in the relation between work expended in stretching the series elastic component and the external work; the former, "internal work," increased by an average of 90%, the latter diminished by 11%, and the total contractile element work remained essentially unchanged. These findings are discussed within the framework of a three dimensional model that included fiber length, wall tension, and contractile element velocity. The experimental techniques employed appear to permit a more complete definition of the abnormalities of the ventricular myocardium in experimental failure. They are potentially applicable in the closed-chest animal and allow quantitative determinations of the contractile properties of the left ventricle.
Intravenously administered GABA significantly reduced the size of noradrenaline-induced reflex vagal bradycardia without affecting blood pressure increase. Intravenously administered GABA reduced bradycardia elicited by stimulation of preganglionic fibres in the vagus nerve. These findings provide evidence suggesting that, in addition to its well known effects on structures regulation cardiovascular function at CNS level GABA could modulate baroreceptor reflex(es) by acting at a peripheral site.
We examined cross-sensitization of cocaine and synthetic local anesthetics to their seizure susceptibility after repeated administration. Seizure susceptibility of procaine and lidocaine increased after the end of two days of treatment with a subconvulsive dose of cocaine. Acute treatment with nomifensine but not GBR12935, a specific inhibitor of the dopamine transporter, facilitated lidocaine-induced convulsion. Furthermore, daily treatment with nomifensine for two days enhanced lidocaine-induced convulsion. These results suggest the possible involvement of the brain noradrenergic system in the changes in seizure susceptibility after repeated administration of some local anesthetics.
To investigate the effect of TIEG-siRNA on Smad2, p-smad2 and collagen IV in diabetic nephropathy rats induced by streptozotocin (STZ).
Ten Sprague-Dawley rats injected with STZ were randomly divided into TIEG-siRNA and Control groups. Other five normal rats were used as control. Each of the TIEG-siRNA and Control groups were injected with TIEG-siRNA and Control 0.5 ml via tail vein at 0 and 72 hours respectively. All rats were sacrificed at week 4 after a successful modeling. To confirmed the efficacy of TIEG-siRNA in rat kidney, the TIEG levels were determined by fluorescence quantitative PCR. The expressions of Smad2, p-smad2 and collagen IV protein were detected by immunohistochemical method while Smad2 and p-smad2 examined by Western blot.
The TIEG levels were greatly down-regulated in the TIEG-siRNA treated group (0.0636 ± 0.0066) versus the empty vector treated group (0.1054 ± 0.0111) (P < 0.05). The immunohistochemical semi-quantitative method indicated that there was a decrease in the TIEG-siRNA treated group versus the empty vector treated group: (2.13 ± 0.19)% vs (2.53 ± 0.34)% in Smad2, (21.77 ± 2.00)% vs (27.03 ± 2.51)% in p-smad2 and (3.67 ± 0.42)% vs (4.85 ± 0.43)% in collagen IV. Western blot also showed that smad2 in the TIEG-siRNA treated group (0.32 ± 0.09) was much lower than that in the empty vector treated group (0.50 ± 0.04). And p-smad2 in the TIEG-siRNA treated group (0.16 ± 0.01) was much lower than that in the empty vector treated group (0.32 ± 0.02) (P < 0.05).
TIEG-siRNA may be useful in preventing the progression of diabetic nephropathy through influencing the expression of Smad2 and its activation and down-regulating collagen IV.
Rats were given isoniazid either in a single large dose or continuously in drinking water and killed 5--105 days later. The distribution of degenerating fibres in various nerves (sensory and mixed) and in various sites along nerves and spinal roots was studied by light and electron microscopy. It was found that sensory nerves tended to be less affected than motor, and degeneration was more proximal in the latter. It was concluded that the pattern of degeneration and regeneration supported the view that the initial metabolic lesion is in the axon, rather than in the cell body.
To examine the significance of heat shock protein 70 mRNA in ototoxicity resulted from gentamicin (GM), twenty healthy albino guinea pigs (200-250 g) of either sex with a positive Prier reflex were divided into two groups randomly. In GM group the animals received 100 mg/kg GM daily by intraperitoneal injection for 10 d. In saline control group the animals received 2.5 ml/kg saline daily by intraperitoneal injection for 10 d. Auditory brainstem response (ABR) thresholds were recorded in each animal before and 1 d after GM or saline administration. After the second ABR measurement, the expression of HSP70 mRNA in guinea pig cochlea was observed with in situ hybridization and image quantitative analysis system. The results showed that the threshold of ABR in the GM group was significantly higher than that of the saline control (P< 0.001). The expression of HSP70 mRNA was more intensive in stria vascularis, spiral ligament and spiral ganglion cells in the GM group than that of the saline control group. These results suggest that administration of gentamicin can induce the expression of HSP 70 mRNA in guinea pig cochlea, and that this effect may protect hearing function from ototoxicity.
It is known that renal nitric oxide (NO) is an important controller of urinary sodium excretion. A defect in the kidney's NO system could cause salt-sensitive hypertension. Since it has been demonstrated that doxorubicin binds to the reductase domain of endothelial NO synthase (eNOS) and generates superoxide in vitro, we tested our hypothesis that a high-sodium diet would upregulate the expression of eNOS and enhance oxidative stress in the kidney of doxorubicin-treated rats, resulting in a facilitation of hypertension. At 4 weeks after treatment with doxorubicin in Sprague-Dawley rats, the systolic blood pressure significantly increased only in the high-sodium diet group. The expressions of eNOS protein in the renal cortex and medulla were significantly higher in high-sodium groups than in normal-sodium groups, regardless of doxorubicin treatment. In rats treated with doxorubicin, a biomarker of oxidative damage 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) immunohistological staining of renal tissues showed strong staining of the proximal and distal tubules. In particular, rats with doxorubicin in the high-sodium diet group demonstrated a significant increase in urinary exertion of 8-OHdG as well as more prominently stained tubules against 8-OHdG antibody, but markedly lower urinary NO(x) excretion than in rats without doxorubicin, even than in the untreated, low-sodium group. In conclusion, these results indicate that the oxidative stress induced by doxorubicin impairs NO production in the kidney. As such, doxorubicin treatment appears to contribute to the development of salt-sensitive hypertension through reductive activation of upregulated eNOS by a high-sodium diet instead of NO production.
Visceral leishmaniasis is a parasitic disease endemic in the Mediterranean Basin, including Malta. Finnish-type congenital nephrotic syndrome is an autosomal recessive condition that presents in the first 3 months of life with heavy proteinuria, hypoalbuminemia with secondary edema, and hyperlipidemia. We present an infant with congenital nephrotic syndrome who had had unilateral nephrectomy and who also developed visceral leishmaniasis. He was successfully cleared of the infection by the administration of sodium stibogluconate, with no deterioration of renal function or other complications.
Cisplatin is a DNA-damaging antitumor agent that is highly effective in treating ovarian cancer. It activates the p53/p21 pathway for its cytotoxic mode of action, but it does not induce p21-dependent cell cycle arrest in G1. Therefore, we investigated this paradox, and used the model analog DAP as a positive control for p21-dependent G1-arrest.
Studies were conducted in p53-proficient ovarian A2780 tumor cells to examine Cdk activity, cell cycle distribution and DNA damage signaling after cisplatin or DAP in combination with the mitotic inhibitor nocodazole.
Cisplatin consistently induced transient S-phase arrest by inhibiting Cdk2/cyclin A complex in S-phase at 12 h and then a durable G2/M-arrest by inhibiting Cdc2/cyclin B complex at 12-18 h. These inhibitions were associated with Chk1 and Chk2 activation and resultant increase in inhibitory tyrosine phosphorylation of Cdk2 and Cdc2. Cisplatin also potently inhibited G1-phase Cdk4/cyclin D1 and Cdk2/cyclin E activities at ~18 h. In agreement, exposure of cisplatin-treated A2780, HCT-116(p53-/-) and HCT-116(p21-/-) tumor cells to nocodazole revealed limited G1-arrest that was dependent on p53 and p21. In contrast, the durable G1-arrest by DAP, which failed to activate Chk1 and Chk2, was unaffected by nocodazole.
Cisplatin induced G1-arrest, but at an attenuated level. This was primarily due to orchestration of Cdk inhibition in S-phase first, then in G2, and finally in G1 that effectively blocked cells in G2 and prevented cells from progressing and arresting in G1. These studies demonstrate that cisplatin unequivocally activates G1-checkpoint response, but the fidelity of G1-arrest is compromised by Chk1/2 activation and checkpoint response in S- and G2/M-phase.
The antihypertensive drugs dihydralazine and propranolol can produce identical liver injuries which must be distinguished clinically and morphologically from acute viral hepatitis. In 19 cases selected from our biopsy file during the last two years, clinical and morphological findings suggested that the liver injury diagnosed by light microscopy had been caused by an adverse reaction to dihydralazine and/or propranolol. In order to establish a causal relation the lymphocyte proliferation test (LPT) was performed with dihydralazine in 11 cases. Positive results were observed in 9 cases, demonstrating an etiologic role for dihydralazine in liver injury in these cases. The dihydralazine and/or propranolol induced liver injury consisted mainly of drug-induced hepatitis with confluent (bridging) necrosis. Different findings were observed in three cases: In two of these drug-induced hepatitis with confluent necrosis was observed together with eosinophilic cholangio-cholangiolitis. In one other case the histologic changes corresponded to drug hepatitis resembling viral hepatitis. Each of the three cases showed conspicuous centrolobular cholestasis, a feature which is unusual in drug-induced hepatitis with confluent necrosis irrespective of serum bilirubin levels. In one third of our cases we found morphological features of hypersensitivity reactions in the liver biopsies. Considered together with the results of LPT these features emphasize the role of cell mediated immune reaction in the mechanism of liver injury caused by dihydralazine and/or propranolol.
Catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) is an important enzyme participating in inactivation of carcinogenic oestrogen metabolites. In humans there is a single nucleotide polymorphism in COMT gene (COMT val158met) that has been associated with an increased risk for developing breast cancer. In dogs, there is a single nucleotide polymorphism in COMT gene (G482A), but its relation with mammary carcinogenesis has never been investigated. The aim of this study was to focus on the evaluation of such polymorphism as a risk factor for the development of mammary tumors in bitches and on the analysis of its relationship with some clinicopathologic features (dog's age and weight, number and histologic type of the lesions, lymph node metastasis) of canine mammary neoplasms. A case-control study was conducted analyzing 90 bitches with mammary tumors and 84 bitches without evidence of neoplastic disease. The COMT G482A polymorphism was analyzed by PCR-RFLP. We found a protective effect of the polymorphism in age of onset of mammary tumors, although we could not establish a significant association between COMT genotype and other clinicopathologic parameters nor with mammary tumor risk overall. Animals carrying the variant allele have a threefold likelihood of developing mammary tumors after 9 years of age in comparison with noncarriers. The Kaplan-Meier method revealed significant differences in the waiting time for onset of malignant disease for A allele carrier (12.46 years) and noncarrier (11.13 years) animals. This investigation constitutes the first case-control study designed to assess the relationship between polymorphic genes and mammary tumor risk in dogs. Our results point to the combined effect of COMT genotype with other genetic and/or environmental risk factors as important key factors for mammary tumor etiopathogenesis.
Anaplastic thyroid carcinoma (ATC) has a very dire prognosis and no effective therapeutic strategies have been established for ATC patients, especially those with stage IVB or IVC. Our objective was to investigate the effectiveness of weekly paclitaxel administered as induction chemotherapy and to establish novel therapeutic strategies for ATC.
We performed induction chemotherapy by weekly paclitaxel administration for patients with stage IVB (nine patients) and IVC (four patients) disease. Clinical and histological responses were assessed. Overall survival was compared with that of ATC patients with stage IVB (n = 50) and IVC (n = 13) treated without paclitaxel.
One patient demonstrated complete response (CR) and two demonstrated partial response (PR) in the stage IVB group (response rate: 33%), and one patient showed PR in stage IVC (response rate: 25%). Curative surgery and adjuvant therapy were performed for four patients with stage IVB, and 32 months after treatment, all the four are alive and free of disease. One CR patient and one stable disease patient were assessed as grade IV (complete remission) and grade III (nearly CR) on histological response, respectively. All four patients with stage IVC died of carcinoma within 8 months. Overall survival of stage IVB patients with induction chemotherapy was better (p = 0.0213) than that without the chemotherapy and also better (p = 0.0467) than those with chemotherapy other than paclitaxel. However, induction chemotherapy did not improve the overall survival of stage IVC patients (p = 0.2002).
Induction chemotherapy by weekly paclitaxel is a promising therapeutic strategy for stage IVB ATC patients. Responders can be expected to achieve long-term survival. We could not get significant difference of overall survival between stage IVC patients with or without weekly induction paclitaxel, although there were some cases that responded well.
Acute hypotension induces excitation of electrical activity and expression of c-Fos protein and phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase (pERK) in the vestibular nuclei. Expression of c-Fos protein and pERK is mediated by the excitatory neurotransmitter, glutamate. In this study, in order to investigate the signaling pathway of glutamate in the vestibular nuclei following acute hypotension, expression of the NR2B subunit of glutamate N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors and the GluR1 subunit of glutamate alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA) receptors was measured by Western blotting in the medial vestibular nucleus (MVN) following acute hypotension in bilateral labyrinthectomized (BL) rats. In intact labyrinthine animals, acute hypotension increased expression of pGluR1 and pNR2B in the MVN. Expression of pGluR1 Ser831 and Ser845 peaked at 5 and 30 min after acute hypotension and expression of pNR2B peaked at 60 min after acute hypotension, respectively. In BL animals, expression of pGluR1 Ser831, pGluR1 Ser845, and pNR2B was decreased significantly compared to intact labyrinthine animals following acute hypotension. These results suggest that excitatory afferent signals from the peripheral vestibular receptors, resulting from acute hypotension, release glutamate into postsynaptic neurons in the vestibular nuclei and the excitatory signals are transmitted through the GluR1 subunit of the AMPA receptors and the NR2B subunits of the NMDA receptors in the vestibular system.
Imidazoline derivatives, clonidine and guanfacine, were reviewed with respect to their effect on blood pressure. Excitation of the central alpha-adrenoceptors induced by clonidine or guanfacine produced a simultaneous decrease in peripheral sympathetic tone, hypotension and bradycardia. Both ponto-medullary regions and the hypothalamus are important action sites for these two drugs. With respect to the effects of clonidine or guanfacine on central alpha-adrenoceptors, two possibilities were investigated. First, we presumed that the excitation of central alpha-adrenoceptors induced by these two drugs appears to be located at postsynaptic sites. Thus, the alpha 2-subtype was considered. Secondarily, stimulation of the central presynaptic alpha 2 receptor produced by clonidine or guanfacine could not be excluded completely. It has been reported that after abrupt cessation of guanfacine, a withdrawal syndrome infrequently occurs which is moderate as compared with that caused by the abrupt cessation of clonidine. In comparison with clonidine, the characteristics of guanfacine pharmacokinetics, including its large volume of distribution, long biological half life and long duration of action, appear to be associated with the infrequent occurrence of withdrawal syndrome after guanfacine cessation.
Glutaminase C (GAC), a splicing variant of the kidney-type glutaminase (KGA) gene, is a vital mitochondrial enzyme protein that catalyzes glutamine to glutamate. Earlier studies have shown that GAC proteins in the human hepatocarcinoma cell line, HepG2, were down-regulated by diphenylarsinic acid (DPAA), but the mechanism by which DPAA induced GAC protein down-regulation remained poorly understood. Here, we showed that DPAA promoted GAC protein degradation without affecting GAC transcription and translation. Moreover, DPAA-induced GAC proteolysis was mediated by mitochondrial Lon protease. DPAA insolubilized 0.5% Triton X-100-soluble GAC protein and promoted the accumulation of insoluble GAC in Lon protease knockdown cells. DPAA destroyed the native tetrameric GAC conformation and promoted an increase in the unassembled form of GAC when DPAA was incubated with cell extracts. Decreases in the tetrameric form of GAC were observed in cells exposed to DPAA, and decreases occurred prior to a decrease in total GAC protein levels. In addition, decreases in the tetrameric form of GAC were observed independently with Lon protease. Mitochondrial heat shock protein 70 is known to be an indispensable protein that can bind to misfolded proteins, thereby supporting degradation of proteins sensitive to Lon protease. When cells were incubated with DPAA, GAC proteins that can bind with mtHsp70 increased. Interestingly, the association of mtHsp70 with GAC protein increased when the tetrameric form of GAC was reduced. These results suggest that degradation of native tetrameric GAC by DPAA may be a trigger in GAC protein degradation by Lon protease.
