Frequent but phasic gnawing of objects is displayed by rats in which severe damage within: 1) the substantia nigra reticulata, 2) all of the amygdaloid nuclei except the central group and 3) multiple thalamic nuclei, was induced by lithium/pilocarpine-induced seizures. Multiple lesions were produced by these rats upon their own tails as well as upon the tails of their cage mates. These behaviors were considered predictable sequela of the disinhibition of compacta dopamine upon orofacial mechanisms that are modulated by the corpus striatum. In a manner similar to tail pinch-induced eating, the usually quick onset of spontaneous gnawing upon food chunks in a test setting was delayed transiently by appropriate dosages of haloperidol.
Saponins are the major chemicals from Rosa laevigata Michx fruit. However, there have no papers to report the activities of the natural product against liver damage. In the present work, total saponins from R. laevigata Michx fruit (RLTS) with purity>70% was produced and then the protective effects of it against CCl4-induced acute liver injury in mice was tested. The results showed that RLTS decreased serum ALT and AST activities compared with model group, as well as the relative liver weight and histological findings. In addition, RLTS remarkably increased the levels of SOD, CAT, GSH-Px, GSH and decreased MDA, iNOS and NO levels in liver. Transmission electron microscopy and TUNEL assays showed that RLTS repaired fragmented DNA and mitochondrial change caused by CCl4. Further investigation demonstrated that RLTS pretreatment down-regulated the protein expression of CYP2E1, ATF6, GRP78, EIF2, COX-2, NF-κB, p53, Caspase-3, Caspase-9, Cytokeratin 18 and the levels of MAPKs phosphorylation, up-regulated Bcl-2 expression, and markedly decreased the gene expression of TNF-α, IL-6, Fas/FasL and Bax. This is the first time to reveal the hepatoprotective effect of total saponins from R. laevigata Michx fruit, which should be developed as a new drug for treatment of live injury in future.
The morning after effects of taking single doses of three hypnotic compounds were compared in a five-group design, including the three drug conditions (temazepam, flurazepam, barbiturate), placebo, and no capsule controls. Results showed a slight superiority for temazepam over barbiturate on visual-motor and reaction time tasks. On one phase of a cognitive task, the barbiturate and flurazepam groups made more errors than the control groups. Overall, the results indicate an impairment in performance for the group taking barbiturate and a smaller impairment for the flurazepam group. No detectable impairment occurred for subjects taking temazepam.
Mefloquine has been increasingly used for treatment of chloroquine-resistant malaria since its introduction in the late 1970s. In 1987 the first case of toxic encephalopathy was published, and in 1989 the WHO initiated reporting and investigation of neuropsychiatric adverse reactions of mefloquine. Neuropsychiatric adverse drug reactions are now well documented. We compared an open prospective 3 year study including all patients with P. falciparum treated with mefloquine with an earlier published, retrospective study on a comparable population from our department covering the period up to 1989. In the retrospective study neuropsychiatric adverse effects were not specifically asked for, while in the prospective study possible adverse reactions were registered daily according to a specified questionnaire. No case of neuropsychiatric adverse reaction was registered in the retrospective study. In the prospective study, 28% had one or more neuropsychiatric adverse reactions, although severity was mostly mild to moderate. Other adverse reactions occurred in 96% in the retrospective study compared to 81% in the prospective study.
one often finds only what one looks for, e.g adverse events may be overlooked for a decade, if relatively uncommon. This report also shows that retro- and prospective studies may give very different results.
Environmental factors are involved in RA pathogenesis and epidemiological studies have suggested that smoking is an environmental risk factor for RA. The 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is one of the major toxic components in cigarettes. To clarify the biological effects of smoking in RA, we investigated the role of TCDD in RA pathogenesis.
Human synovial tissue was obtained from RA and OA patients and aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) expression in these tissues was evaluated using immunohistochemistry and real-time PCR. Expression of various cytokines was measured by real-time PCR following stimulation of RA synoviocytes with different concentrations of TCDD. To study the role of AhR, we treated RA synoviocytes with alpha-naphthoflavone, a known AhR antagonist. To evaluate which signal transduction pathways were stimulated by the TCDD-AhR interaction, we used inhibitors of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) and extra-cellular stimulus-activated kinase (ERK).
Higher AhR mRNA and protein levels were observed in RA synovial tissue than in OA tissue. TCDD up-regulated the expression of IL-1beta, IL-6 and IL-8 through binding to AhR, and this effect was transmitted via the NF-kappaB and ERK signalling cascades. AhR expression in synovial cells was up-regulated by TNF-alpha.
TNF-alpha activates AhR expression in RA synovial tissue, and that cigarette smoking and exposure to TCDD enhances RA inflammatory processes. TCDD induces inflammatory cytokines via its association with AhR, resulting in stimulation of the NF-kappaB and ERK signalling cascades. Thus TCDD exposure, such as smoking exacerbates RA pathophysiology.
RANKL has been shown to play a critical role in osteoclast formation and bone resorption. Thus, agents that suppress RANKL signaling have a potential to suppress bone loss. In this study, we examined the ability of xanthohumol, a structurally simple prenylated chalcone, to suppress RANKL signaling during osteoclastogenesis in RAW264.7 cells. Xanthohumol markedly inhibited RANKL-induced TRAP activity, multinucleated osteoclasts formation, and resorption-pit formation. In experiments to elucidate its mechanism of action, xanthohumol was found to suppress RANKL-induced expression of TRAF6, GAB2, ERK, c-Src, PI3K, and Akt genes. Moreover, RANKL-induced expressions of c-Fos and NFATc1, which are crucial transcription factors for osteoclastogenesis, were reduced by treatment with xanthohumol. Xanthohumol also inhibited RANKL-induced expression of bone-resorption related osteoclast-specific genes (carbonic anhydrase II, TCIRG, CLCN7, OSTM1, cathepsin K, and MMP-9). These data demonstrate that xanthohumol inhibits osteoclastogenesis by modulating RANKL signaling and may be useful for the prevention of bone-destructive diseases such as osteoporosis, arthritis and periodontitis.
A peptide was synthesized on the basis of our previous study from solid phase peptide synthesis using ASP48S (Peptron Inc.) and identified by the reverse phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) using a Vydac Everest C18 column. The molecular mass of the peptide found to be 693.90 Da, and the amino acid sequences of the peptide was Trp-Tyr-Pro-Ala-Ala-Pro. The purpose of this study was to evaluate antioxidant effects of the peptide by electron spin resonance (ESR) spectrometer, and on t-BHP-induced liver cells damage in Chang cells. The antioxidative activity of the peptide was evaluated by measuring 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH), hydroxyl, alkyl and superoxide radical scavenging activity using an ESR spectrometer. The half maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) value of the peptide for hydroxyl, DPPH, alkyl, and superoxide radical scavenging activity were 45.2, 18.5, 31.5, and 33.4 μM, respectively. In addition, the peptide inhibited productions of cell death against t-BHP-induced liver cell damage in Chang cells. It was presumed to be peptide involved in regulating the apoptosis-related gene expression in the cell environment. The present results indicate that the peptide substantially contributes to antioxidative properties in liver cells.
We investigated the effects of the antimycotic agent amphotericin B (AmB) on the phagocytic activity of the isolated perfused rat liver. At a concentration of 5 microM, the drug markedly reduced the clearance of latex beads by the liver as compared to control preparations. Scanning electron microscopy observations showed that latex beads were attached only to Kupffer cells. A liver scan performed infusing 99Tc-colloidal albumin showed that AmB depressed the uptake of the colloid in all hepatic lobes, with no focal defects. Both in control and AmB experiments no trypan blue uptake occurred. The pretreatment of the perfused liver with the calcium antagonist nifedipine prevented the decrease in phagocytosis induced by AmB. In addition, AmB had no effect on livers perfused with a Ca2(+)-free medium. A decrease in the phagocytic capacity of the perfused liver was also observed after the administration of the Ca2(+)-ionophore A23187. The observations suggest that AmB may exert an intrinsic toxicity on the Kupffer cells, which is, at least in part, responsible for the decrease in phagocytosis induced by the drug. This effect may be of relevance to clinical situations and deserves careful consideration.
The Scatchard analysis of 3H-spiroperidol binding to crude synaptosomal fraction of rat striatum has revealed that in rats receiving cataleptogenic doses of morphine the density, but not affinity of dopamine receptor is depressed. The effect is mediated through opiate receptor, as it is reversible with naloxone. The data support the idea that one population of receptors may regulate another receptor population, and may explain the mechanism of morphine-induced catalepsy and increase in striatal dopamine turnover.
Male and female long-sleep (LS) and short-sleep (SS) mice were pretreated with a subseizure-producing dose of nicotine (2.0 mg/kg) 7.5, 15 and 30 minutes prior to challenge with seizure-producing doses of this drug. Nicotine pretreated animals were less susceptible to nicotine-induced seizures than were saline pretreated animals. The latency to seizure following nicotine challenge was greater in nicotine pretreated animals than in saline controls. Nicotine pretreated LS mice show a greater decrease in nicotine-induced seizure susceptibility than do nicotine pretreated SS mice. This decrease in seizure susceptibility is consistent with induction of nicotinic receptor desensitization via nicotine pretreatment. It is hypothesized that LS and SS mice might differ in sensitivity to nicotine in part because they differ in baseline levels of desensitized versus functional nicotinic receptors.
A.SW mice, which are known to be prone to mercury (Hg)-induced immune nephritis, were assessed for their ability to develop autoimmunity to brain antigens after developmental exposure to Hg. Maternal drinking water containing subclinical doses of 1.25μM methyl Hg (MeHg) or 50μM Hg chloride (HgCl(2)) were used to evaluate developmental (exposure from gestational day 8 to postnatal day 21) induction of immune responses to brain antigens. Only HgCl(2) induced autoantibody production; the HgCl(2)-exposed offspring showed an increased number of CD4(+) splenic T cells expressing CD25 and V(β) 8.3 chains, and the brain-reactive immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies were predominantly against nuclear proteins (30 and 34 kD). The antibodies were deposited in all brain regions. Although male and female A.SW mice exposed to HgCl(2) showed deposition of IgG in multiple brain regions, inflammation responses were observed only in the cerebellum (CB) of female A.SW mice; these responses were associated with increased levels of exploratory behavior. The developmental exposure to MeHg also induced inflammation in the CB and increased exploratory behavior of the female A.SW mice, but the change did not correlate with increased IgG in the brain. Interestingly, the non-Hg-exposed female A.SW mice habituated (adapted to the information and/or stimuli of a new environment) more than the male A.SW mice during exploratory behavior assessment, and the Hg exposure eliminated the habituation (i.e., no changes in behavior with subsequent trials), making the female behaviors more like those of the male A.SW mice. Additionally, gender differences in A.SW brain cytokine expressions prior to Hg exposure were eliminated by the Hg exposure.
Interferons (IFNs) have established activities as antivirals and inhibitors of viral and transplantable tumors. To establish whether IFNs or their inducers can affect induction of carcinogenesis in vivo, the bladder-specific carcinogen N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]formamide (FANFT) was administered in the diet at 0.11 or 0.13% (w/w) to female C3H/He mice beginning at 7 weeks of age. Mice treated with the IFN-inducing bropirimine [2-amino-5-bromo-6-phenyl-4(3H)-pyrimidinone] i.p. twice a week for 14 weeks starting on day 30 of start of FANFT feeding developed fewer transitional cell carcinomas (TCC) than mice treated with the vehicle. Bropirimine (200 mg/kg twice a week) orally resulted in even greater effectiveness: 6 of 43 bladders with TCC for bropirimine-treated mice versus 24 of 39 for control glycine buffer-treated mice (P less than 0.01, x2 test). Mice treated i.p. daily on days 29 through 210 with 5,000 units of beta interferon (specific activity, 2.0 x 10(8) units/mg) had 0 of 15 TCC while control mice had 7 of 13 TCC (P less than 0.001). Bladders of untreated mice were also significantly heavier than those of beta interferon- or bropirimine-treated mice. This dose of IFN treatment was confirmed as effective in a second experiment, in which mice were treated daily on days 30-223 with 5,000 units alpha/beta interferon (specific activity, 1.2 x 10(7) units/mg). This resulted in 4 of 25 bladders with TCC versus 24 of 39 for control mice (P less than 0.001). A higher dose of IFN (50,000 units alpha/beta interferon daily) was toxic; 24 of 30 mice died within 2 months. IFN and an IFN inducer, bropirimine, inhibited development and progression of FANFT-induced bladder TCC in vivo and thus may have roles as chemopreventive modalities.
Previous studies have demonstrated increased serum copper and iron levels and decreased selenium and zinc levels in patients with myocardial infarction. Furthermore, the prognostic value of the levels of trace elements in myocardial infarction has been stressed. We examined serum levels of Cu, Fe, Zn and Se, as well as glutathione peroxidase (GPx), a selenoenzyme with antioxidant properties, and C-reactive protein (CRP), a marker of inflammation, in acute coronary syndromes (ACS) regarding their relationship to cardiac troponins and creatine kinase-MB mass (CK-MBm), important prognostic markers. Serum trace elements, GPx activity and CRP were determined in 70 patients with ACS who were admitted within 12 h after the onset. Differences in these parameters were evaluated in three groups of patients divided according to the levels of cardiac markers: group III consisted of patients with high increases in cTnT, cTnI and CK-MBm (> or =0.9 ng/mL, > or =1.0 ng/mL, > or =30 ng/mL, respectively), patients with milder increases in these markers were included in groups II and I consisted of patients with values just above the upper reference limits. Serum Fe levels increased significantly in group II and even more prominently in group III compared to group I (p = 0.04, 0.002, respectively). There was no significant difference between groups II and III. The increase in serum Cu was significant in group III compared to both groups II and I (p = 0.04, 0.001, respectively). There was no significant difference between groups I and II regarding Cu and Zn. The decrease in serum Se and GPx levels was significant only between groups III and I (p = 0.004 for Se and p = 0.0001 for GPx). CRP levels showed a significant increase in group III compared to groups II and I (p = 0.03 and 0.001). CRP showed a significant positive and GPx a significant negative correlation to the cardiac markers cTnT, cTnI and CK-MBm. Cu was positively correlated to all cardiac markers, while the positive correlation between Fe and cardiac markers was significant only for cTnI. Both Zn and Se were negatively correlated to cTnT, and Se was also to cTnI. In conclusion, the increase in serum levels of Cu and Fe and the decrease in serum levels of Zn and Se in patients with higher levels of troponins and CK-MBm imply that trace element levels are related to the degree of myocardial damage and thus may play a role in the pathogenesis of ischemic heart disease. The strong correlations between cardiac markers and both CRP and GPx suggest that these parameters are promising prognostic factors in acute coronary syndromes.
Two patients receiving clozapine developed grand mal seizures. The plasma levels in one of the patients at the time of the seizure were approximately 100% higher than on 12 previous occasions. This finding led to the conclusion and the patient's admission that she had taken an overdose. Plasma levels in the other patient exceeded the range the authors had noted in previous studies. The authors emphasize the usefulness of plasma level monitoring in relation to safety, drug defaulting, and side effects.
Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) carries an unfavorable prognosis and requires new treatment strategies. The associated t(11:14) translocation results in enhanced cyclin D1 expression and cyclin D1-dependent kinase activity to promote cell-cycle progression. A pharmacodynamic study of the selective CDK4/6 inhibitor PD0332991 was conducted in 17 patients with relapsed disease, using 2-deoxy-2-[(18)F]fluoro-D-glucose (FDG) and 3-deoxy-3[(18)F]fluorothymidine (FLT) positron emission tomography (PET) to study tumor metabolism and proliferation, respectively, in concert with pre- and on-treatment lymph node biopsies to assess retinoblastoma protein (Rb) phosphorylation and markers of proliferation and apoptosis. Substantial reductions in the summed FLT-PET maximal standard uptake value (SUV(max)), as well as in Rb phosphorylation and Ki-67 expression, occurred after 3 weeks in most patients, with significant correlations among these end points. Five patients achieved progression-free survival time of > 1 year (range, 14.9-30.1+ months), with 1 complete and 2 partial responses (18% objective response rate; 90% confidence interval, 5%-40%). These patients demonstrated > 70%, > 90%, and ≥ 87.5% reductions in summed FLT SUV(max) and expression of phospho-Rb and Ki67, respectively, parameters necessary but not sufficient for long-term disease control. The results of the present study confirm CDK4/6 inhibition by PD0332991 at a well-tolerated dose and schedule and suggest clinical benefit in a subset of MCL patients. This study is registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov under identifier NCT00420056.
After 582 allogeneic bone marrow transplants, we have encountered four patients (0.7%) who developed transient unilateral or bilateral sixth nerve palsies. Three of the four patients also had bilateral ptosis. These signs resolved 24-48 h after cyclosporin and ganciclovir were discontinued. One patient had MRI T2 abnormalities compatible with cyclosporin neurotoxicity. We postulate that cyclosporin, possibly together with ganciclovir, can produce transient brain stem or neuromuscular dysfunction with eye movement abnormality in occasional patients.
We have recently suggested that the brain histamine has an inhibitory role on the behavioral effects of methamphetamine by pharmacological studies. In this study, we used the histidine decarboxylase gene knockout mice and measured the spontaneous locomotor activity, the changes of locomotion by single and repeated administrations of methamphetamine, and the contents of brain monoamines and amino acids at 1 h after a single administration of methamphetamine. In the histidine decarboxylase gene knockout mice, spontaneous locomotor activity during the dark period was significantly lower than in the wild-type mice. Interestingly, methamphetamine-induced locomotor hyperactivity and behavioral sensitization were facilitated more in the histidine decarboxylase gene knockout mice. In the neurochemical study, noradrenaline and O-phosphoserine were decreased in the midbrain of the saline-treated histidine decarboxylase gene knockout mice. On the other hand, single administration of methamphetamine decreased GABA content of the midbrain of the wild-type mice, but did not alter that of histidine decarboxylase gene knockout mice. These results suggest that the histamine neuron system plays a role as an awakening amine in concert with the noradrenaline neuron system, whereas it has an inhibitory role on the behavioral effects of methamphetamine through the interaction with the GABAergic neuron system.
In 13 elderly patients, 12 of whom had Parkinson's disease, visual hallucinations and delirium developed as a side effect of amantadine hydrochloride (Symmetrel) therapy. The symptoms promptly disappearred when amantadine was discontinued. Thereafter, each parkinsonian patient was treated satisfactorily with levo-dopa. Treatment with a combination of amantadine and an anticholinergic agent increases the likelihood of delirium because of the hazard of retention of urine. Although amantadine is effective in the treatment of Parkinson's disease in the elderly, the incidence of delirium as a complication seems higher in this age group.
The present report describes a case of eosinophilic myocarditis complicating hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. The 47-year-old female patient, known to have hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, was admitted with biventricular failure and managed aggressively with dobutamine infusion and other drugs while being assessed for heart transplantation. On transthoracic echocardiogram, she had moderate left ventricular dysfunction with regional variability and moderate mitral regurgitation. The recipient's heart showed the features of apical hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and myocarditis with abundant eosinophils. Myocarditis is rare and eosinophilic myocarditis is rarer. It is likely that the hypersensitivity (eosinophilic) myocarditis was related to dobutamine infusion therapy. Eosinophilic myocarditis has been reported with an incidence of 2.4% to 7.2% in explanted hearts and may be related to multidrug therapy.
Gene fusions between prostate-specific, androgen responsive TMPRSS2 gene and oncogenic ETS factors, such as ERG, occur in up to 50% of all prostate cancers. We recently defined a gene signature that was characteristic to prostate cancers with ERG activation. This suggested epigenetic reprogramming, such as upregulation of histone deactylase 1 (HDAC1) gene and downregulation of its target genes. We then hypothesized that patients with ERG-positive prostate cancers may benefit from epigenetic therapy such as HDAC inhibition (HDACi), especially in combination with antiandrogens. Here, we exposed ERG-positive prostate cancer cell lines to HDAC inhibitors Trichostatin A (TSA), MS-275 and suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid (SAHA) with or without androgen deprivation. We explored the effects on cell phenotype, gene expression as well as ERG and androgen receptor (AR) signaling. When compared with 5 other prostate cell lines, ERG-positive VCaP and DuCap cells were extremely sensitive to HDACi, in particular TSA, showing synergy with concomitant androgen deprivation increasing apoptosis. Both of the HDAC inhibitors studied caused repression of the ERG-fusion gene, whereas the pan-HDAC inhibitor TSA prominently repressed the ERG-associated gene signature. Additionally, HDACi and flutamide caused retention of AR in the cytoplasm, indicating blockage of androgen signaling. Our results support the hypothesis that HDACi, especially in combination with androgen deprivation, is effective against TMPRSS2-ERG-fusion positive prostate cancer in vitro. Together with our previous in vivo observations of an "epigenetic reprogramming gene signature" in clinical ERG-positive prostate cancers, these studies provide mechanistic insights to ERG-associated tumorigenesis and suggest therapeutic paradigms to be tested in vivo.
Physicians may prescribe buprenorphine for opioid agonist maintenance treatment outside of narcotic treatment programs, but treatment guidelines for patients with co-occurring cocaine and opioid dependence are not available. This study compares effects of buprenorphine and methadone and evaluates the efficacy of combining contingency management with maintenance treatment for patients with co-occurring cocaine and opioid dependence.
Subjects with cocaine and opioid dependence (N=162) were provided manual-guided counseling and randomly assigned in a double-blind design to receive daily sublingual buprenorphine (12-16 mg) or methadone (65-85 mg p.o.) and to contingency management or performance feedback. Contingency management subjects received monetary vouchers for opioid- and cocaine-negative urine tests, which were conducted three times a week; voucher value escalated during the first 12 weeks for consecutive drug-free tests and was reduced to a nominal value in weeks 13-24. Performance feedback subjects received slips of paper indicating the urine test results. The primary outcome measures were the maximum number of consecutive weeks abstinent from illicit opioids and cocaine and the proportion of drug-free tests. Analytic models included two-by-two analysis of variance and mixed-model repeated-measures analysis of variance.
Methadone-treated subjects remained in treatment significantly longer and achieved significantly longer periods of sustained abstinence and a greater proportion drug-free tests, compared with subjects who received buprenorphine. Subjects receiving contingency management achieved significantly longer periods of abstinence and a greater proportion drug-free tests during the period of escalating voucher value, compared with those who received performance feedback, but there were no significant differences between groups in these variables during the entire 24-week study.
Methadone may be superior to buprenorphine for maintenance treatment of patients with co-occurring cocaine and opioid dependence. Combining methadone or buprenorphine with contingency management may improve treatment outcome.
Maharishi Amrit Kalash (MAK) is an herbal formulation composed of two herbal mixtures, MAK-4 and MAK-5. These preparations are part of a natural health care system from India, known as Maharishi Ayur-Veda. MAK-4 and MAK-5 are each composed of different herbs and are said to have maximum benefit when used in combination. This investigation evaluated the cancer inhibiting effects of MAK-4 and MAK-5, in vitro and in vivo.
In vitro assays: Aqueous extracts of MAK-4 and MAK-5 were tested for effects on ras induced cell transformation in the Rat 6 cell line assessed by focus formation assay. In vivo assays: Urethane-treated mice were put on a standard pellet diet or a diet supplemented with MAK-4, MAK-5 or both. At 36 weeks, livers were examined for tumors, sera for oxygen radical absorbance capacity (ORAC), and liver homogenates for enzyme activities of glutathione peroxidase (GPX), glutathione-S-transferase (GST), and NAD(P)H: quinone reductase (QR). Liver fragments of MAK-fed mice were analyzed for connexin (cx) protein expression.
MAK-5 and a combination of MAK-5 plus MAK-4, inhibited ras-induced cell transformation. In MAK-4, MAK-5 and MAK4+5-treated mice we observed a 35%, 27% and 46% reduction in the development of urethane-induced liver nodules respectively. MAK-4 and MAK4+5-treated mice had a significantly higher ORAC value (P < 0.05) compared to controls (200.2 +/- 33.7 and 191.6 +/- 32.2 vs. 152.2 +/- 15.7 ORAC units, respectively). The urethane-treated MAK-4, MAK-5 and MAK4+5-fed mice had significantly higher activities of liver cytosolic enzymes compared to the urethane-treated controls and to untreated mice: GPX(0.23 +/- 0.08, 0.21 +/- 0.05, 0.25 +/- 0.04, 0.20 +/- 0.05, 0.21 +/- 0.03 U/mg protein, respectively), GST (2.0 +/- 0.4, 2.0 +/- 0.6, 2.1 +/- 0.3, 1.7 +/- 0.2, 1.7 +/- 0.2 U/mg protein, respectively) and QR (0.13 +/- 0.02, 0.12 +/- 0.06, 0.15 +/- 0.03, 0.1 +/- 0.04, 0.11 +/- 0.03 U/mg protein, respectively). Livers of MAK-treated mice showed a time-dependent increased expression of cx32.
Our results show that a MAK-supplemented diet inhibits liver carcinogenesis in urethane-treated mice. The prevention of excessive oxidative damage and the up-regulation of connexin expression are two of the possible effects of these products.
Blood loss during and after tonsillectomy was assessed in 80 patients, 40 of whom were treated with tranexamic acid. A statistically significant reduction of blood loss (28%) was observed in this group during operation. Later bleedings occurred only in 27.5% (control: 67.5%) and stopped after 2 h (mean of control: 5.6h). Bleedings in the tranexamic acid group were mild and scarcely required other hemostyptic treatment, while in the control group some patients had to be treated with etamsylate or fibrogen for a longer period to stop bleeding. Tranexamic acid appears to be an effective and well-tolerated agent for reduction of blood loss caused by local hyperfibrinolysis.
The postpartum period is a high-risk period for occurrence of mood disorders (depression, mania) particularly for women with a history of bipolar disorder. We report the case of a woman with a postpartum mania episode with psychotic features induced by bromocriptine. This case report highlights the need to systematically explore the personal history of pregnant women in search of mood disorder which may proscribe use of bromocriptine.
Despite major developments in the management of septic shock, the mortality rate had progressively increased. Ibuprofen has been shown to have beneficial physiological effects when used as a treatment. However, there are conflicting results with respect to survival. This study aims to investigate the effect of ibuprofen on vital functions, various physiological parameters and survival during endotoxic shock in rabbits.
Twenty-eight New Zealand rabbits were randomly separated into four groups. The first group received only saline, the second was given 2 mg/kg intravenous endotoxin at t0, the third received 30 mg/kg ibuprofen 30 minutes after endotoxin administration, whilst the fourth group received ibuprofen 30 minutes before the endotoxin. Respiratory and heart rate, mean arterial blood pressure and rectal temperature were recorded. Complete blood counts were performed and thromboxane B2 was measured every 30 minutes for the first two hours, and then hourly over the course of the experiment. Urine samples were collected at the same time points for the measurement of prostaglandin E2.
Ibuprofen was found to improve respiratory rate, heart rate, and arterial pressure. However, it did not improve the negative effects of endotoxin on body temperature, haematocrit values, white blood cell count, and thrombocyte number. Thromboxane B2 levels in group IV were significantly lower than in the other groups, and the increase started at a later timepoint. In ibuprofen-treated animals, Prostaglandin E2 levels stayed low for at least 90 minutes, but started to rise thereafter. While the average survival in Group II animals was 192.9 +/- 46.9 minutes, those of groups III and IV were 339.1 +/- 33.5 minutes (p < 0.05) and 383.0 +/- 39.6 minutes (p = 0.01), respectively.
Ibuprofen appears to increase survival in endotoxic shock-induced animals. Therefore, it may be helpful for the prophylaxis and treatment of patients with, or who are likely to develop, septic shock.
Tolbutamide is known to be metabolized by cytochrome P450 2C9 (CYP2C9), and the effects of the CYP2C9 amino acid polymorphisms *2 (Arg144Cys) and *3 (Ile359Leu) could be important for drug treatment with tolbutamide and for use of tolbutamide as a CYP2C9 test drug. Tolbutamide pharmacokinetics and plasma insulin and glucose concentrations were studied in 23 healthy volunteers with all six combinations of the CYP2C9 alleles *1, *2 and *3, including two subjects with the combined CYP2C9*1/*1 and CYP2C19*2/*2 genotype. Volunteers received a single oral dose of 500 mg tolbutamide, followed by 75 g oral glucose at 1, 4.5 and 8 h after tolbutamide administration. Pharmacokinetic analysis was performed using a computer program for regression analysis of nonlinear mixed effects models. The mean oral clearances of tolbutamide were 0.97 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.89-1.05), 0.86 (95% CI 0.79-0.93), 0.75 (95% CI 0.69-0.81), 0.56 (95% CI 0.51-0.61), 0.45 (95% CI 0.41-0.49) and 0.15 (95% CI 0.14-0.16) l/h in carriers of CYP2C9 genotypes 1/*1, *1/*2, *2/*2, *1/*3, *2/*3 and *3/*3, respectively. Tolbutamide pharmacokinetics in carriers of the functionally deficient CYP2C19*2/*2 genotype were not different from those in the CYP2C19 highly active genotype. Elimination in the six CYP2C9 genotype groups could be expressed as the linear combination of three constants (0.05, 0.04, 0.01 h(-1), which were specific to the respective CYP2C9 alleles *1, *2 and *3, thus indicating a co-dominant mode of inheritance. Insulin and glucose concentration-time curves did not change with differing CYP2C9 genotypes. Tolbutamide was confirmed as a substrate of the genetically polymorphic enzyme CYP2C9. The pronounced differences in pharmacokinetics due to the amino acid variants did not significantly affect plasma insulin and glucose concentrations in healthy volunteers.
