Taste alteration (dysgeusia), an underrecognized toxicity associated with taxane-based chemotherapy (TaxCh), lacks standard treatment. We investigated prevention of dysgeusia with oral glutamine in patients undergoing first-time TaxCh. Adult patients were randomized to receive either 30 g/day glutamine or placebo (maltodextrin) from day 1 of TaxCh. Dysgeusia was measured daily with a visual analogue scale (VAS). On each chemotherapy cycle, objective (sour, sweet, salty, bitter) and subjective (four-category scale) taste and toxicity (National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria, v.3) were assessed. Stomatitis and zinc deficiency were treated. For primary outcomes, repeated dysgeusia scores were analyzed with a linear mixed model. Repeated data on each objective or subjective taste item were analyzed with a generalized estimating equation. Of 52 patients randomized, 41 completed treatment (median study duration, 74 days). At baseline, the glutamine (n = 21) and placebo (n = 20) groups were comparable for age (64 years), gender (32% men), tumor types, chemotherapy (docetaxel, 44%; paclitaxel, 56%), schedule (weekly, 78%; 3-weekly, 22%), treatment intention (15% adjuvant), dysgeusia (VAS, 11/100), and taste recognition (88%). Twenty-four patients had peripheral neuropathy grades 1-2; none had grade 3. Glutamine and placebo were not different for maximal dysgeusia and increase from baseline, with an insignificant linear time effect. Separate subgroup analyses for patients with baseline dysgeusia < or =11 or >11 did not alter the results. Objective or subjective taste tests were not different, neither were adverse events. Compared with placebo, oral glutamine did not prevent or decrease subjective taste disturbances or altered taste perception associated with TaxCh. The role of glutamine in supportive care of taxane-associated dysgeusia seems limited.
Oxidative stress has been proposed as a possible mechanism underlying many neurodegenerative diseases associated with hyperhomocysteinemia. In the present study, we investigated the possible link between oxidative stress, expression of neural cell adhesion molecules and spatial learning deficits induced by chronic hyperhomocysteinemia. Furthermore, the effectiveness of antioxidant melatonin against homocysteine neurotoxicity was also examined. Male Wistar rats were treated with either saline or methionine to induce hyperhomocysteinemia and half of methionine-treated rats administered daily melatonin in a dose of 10 mg/kg. We observed that chronic administration of melatonin significantly reduced the lipid peroxidation and restored the decreased glutathione levels induced by chronic hyperhomocysteinemia. Chronic hyperhomocysteinemia significantly impaired learning and memory performance in the passive avoidance test and Morris water maze task. We also found that these cognitive deficits were reversed by chronic treatment with antioxidant melatonin. Furthermore, melatonin administration was able to modulate the expression pattern of neural cell adhesion molecules in hippocampus. The results provide evidence that homocysteine induces long-lasting behavioral deficits, which are possibly caused by oxygen reactive species generation, and by changing in synaptic plasticity and also suggest that melatonin treatment has the ability to prevent nervous system against homocysteine toxicity.
Sulphasalazine (SSZ) is a widely used second-line agent for several rheumatic diseases. Most of its side effects are relatively minor and dose dependent. We report a patient with juvenile onset chronic arthritis who developed hepatotoxicity and seizures on the third week of SSZ when the daily dose was increased to 2 g. Clinical and laboratory findings of liver and central nervous system toxicity gradually returned to normal in the month following SSZ withdrawal.
The responsiveness of isolated high-pressure (aorta, renal artery) and low-pressure vessels (pulmonary artery) was compared during systemic hypertension induced by chronic inhibition of nitric oxide synthesis by NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) in rats. L-NAME (40 mg/kg/day) was given to animals in their drinking water. After 4 weeks of L-NAME treatment, systolic blood pressure increased by 37% as compared with that in the control group. Chronic L-NAME treatment resulted in significant reduction of endothelium-dependent relaxation to acetylcholine (10(-8) to 3 x 10(-6) mol/l) in both types of vessels. The reduced relaxation was not influenced by acute pretreatment with indomethacin (10(-5) mol/l), however, it was further reduced by acute pretreatment with additional L-NAME (10(-4) mol/l). L-arginine (10(-4) mol/l) improved the reduced relaxation. Endothelium-independent relaxation to sodium nitroprusside (10(-9) to 10(-6) mol/l) was unaffected by L-NAME treatment. beta-adrenoceptor-mediated relaxation to isoprenaline (10(-8) to 3 x 10(-6) mol/l) was also not influenced by chronic L-NAME treatment. Similar alterations in the responsiveness of high- and low-pressure vessels indicate rather the decisive role of nitric oxide restriction than that of elevated blood pressure in their development.
Animals treated with gentamicin can show residual areas of interstitial fibrosis in the renal cortex. This study investigated the expression of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB), mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases and macrophages in the renal cortex and structural and functional renal changes of rats treated with gentamicin or gentamicin + pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC), an NF-kappaB inhibitor.
38 female Wistar rats were injected with gentamicin, 40 mg/kg, twice a day for 9 days, 38 with gentamicin + PDTC, and 28 with 0.15 M NaCl solution. The animals were killed 5 and 30 days after these injections and the kidneys were removed for histological and immunohistochemical studies. The results of the immunohistochemical studies were scored according to the extent of staining. The fractional interstitial area was determined by morphometry.
Gentamicin-treated rats presented a transitory increase in plasma creatinine levels. Increased ED-1, MAP kinases and NF-kappaB staining were also observed in the renal cortex from all gentamicin-treated rats compared to control (p < 0.05). The animals killed on day 30 also presented fibrosis in the renal cortex despite the recovery of renal function. Treatment with PDTC reduced the functional and structural changes induced by gentamicin.
These data show that inhibition of NF-kappaB activation attenuates tubulointerstitial nephritis induced by gentamicin.
An analysis is presented of 220 cases of possible neurotoxic reactions to halogenated hydroxyquinolines reported from outside Japan. In 80 cases insufficient information was available for adequate comment and in 29 a relationship to the administration of clioquinol could be excluded. Of the remainder, a relationship to clioquinol was considered probable in 42 and possible in 69 cases. In six of the probable cases the neurological disturbance consisted of an acute reversible encephalopathy usually related to the ingestion of a high dose of clioquinol over a short period. The most common manifestation, observed in 15 further cases, was isolated optic atrophy. This was most frequently found in children, many of whom had received clioquinol as treatment for acrodermatitis enteropathica. In the remaining cases, a combination of myelopathy, visual disturbance, and peripheral neuropathy was the most common manifestation. Isolated myelopathy or peripheral neuropathy, or these manifestations occurring together, were infrequent. The onset of all manifestations (except toxic encephalopathy) was usually subacute, with subsequent partial recovery. Older subjects tended to display more side effects. The full syndrome of subacute myelo-optic neuropathy was more frequent in women, but they tended to have taken greater quantities of the drug.
We describe the neurointensive care (NIC) management of a patient with severe cerebral swelling and raised intracranial pressure (ICP) after severe sodium valproic acid (VPA) intoxication. A previously healthy 25-year old male with mild tonic-clonic epilepsy was found unconscious with serum VPA levels >10,000 micromol/l. The patient deteriorated to Glasgow Motor Scale score (GMS) 2 and a CT scan showed signs of raised ICP. Early ICP was elevated, >50 mm Hg, and continuous EEG monitoring showed isoelectric readings.
The patient was treated with an ICP-guided protocol including mild hyperventilation, normovolemia, head elevation and intermittent doses of mannitol. Due to refractory elevations of ICP, high-dose pentobarbital infusion was initiated, and ICP gradually normalised.
There were several systemic complications including coagulopathy, hypocalcemia and pancreatitis. The patient remained in a depressed level of consciousness for 2 months but gradually recovered, showing a good recovery with minor subjective cognitive deficits by 6 months.
We conclude that NIC may be an important treatment option in cases of severe intoxication causing cerebral swelling.
An 88 years old woman was admitted for muscular pain and weakness. She was under a treatment of simvastatin and was recently prescribed clarithromycin for a lung infection. The diagnosis of statin induced rhabdomyolysis by drug interaction was made. The evolution is good with eviction of the statin and aggressive hydratation. This case shows how important it is to know the risks factors and drug interactions predisposing to statin-induced myopathy.
To examine the effect of deferoxamine, an effective iron chelator, on experimental autoimmune uveitis. Because deferoxamine has been shown to reduce iron-catalyzed hydroxyl radical generation, the in vivo effect was sought in the experimental autoimmune uveitis-mediated retinal lipid peroxidation, which is presumably induced by the inflammatory cell-derived oxygen radicals including hydroxyl radicals.
The experimental uveitis was induced in Lewis rats by retinal S-antigen. Deferoxamine infusion by osmotic pumps was started 2 days before the onset of the disease and was continued for 7 days. The extent of retinal lipid peroxidation was measured by the production of conjugated dienes, ketodienes, and thiobarbituric acid active substances. The inflammation associated free radical activity was measured by the luminol-amplified chemiluminescence.
Levels of conjugated dienes, ketodienes, and thiobarbituric acid reactive substances were significantly decreased in the deferoxamine-treated animals. With Student's t test, the P values are < 0.025 for conjugated dienes between deferoxamine- and sham-treated animals; < 0.025 for ketodienes between deferoxamine- and sham-treated animals; and < 0.01 for thiobarbituric acid reactive substances between deferoxamine- and sham-treated animals. With in vitro addition of 10 mM deferoxamine, the free radical generation of inflamed retina was suppressed by nearly 40%.
The administration of deferoxamine resulted in reduction of retinal lipid peroxidation. Because photoreceptors contain a high proportion of polyunsaturated fatty acids, deferoxamine, in turn, will act to ameliorate the experimental autoimmune uveitis-mediated retinal degeneration.
Two patients presented with potentially fatal pulmonary oedema after accidental exposure to nitric and hydrofluoric acid fumes during electroplating. Despite aggressive respiratory support, one succumbed to respiratory failure 3.5h after inhalation. The other patient also rapidly progressed to respiratory failure. Extracorporeal life support (ECLS) was started 5h after exposure at the ED. During ECLS, hypoxia improved, but pulmonary oedema shown by chest radiography became aggravated. N-Acetyl cysteine and calcium gluconate were given i.v. on the first day of admission and nebulised for 48 h after exposure. Pulmonary secretions were significantly reduced 24 h after the nebulising therapy began. Ultimately, the patient was discharged without serious pulmonary or neurological complications after 28 days of hospitalisation. In this case, early ECLS, nebulised antioxidant and antidote were available to treat potentially fatal pulmonary oedema after exposure to nitric and hydrofluoric acid fumes.
Sustained chronic tachyarrhythmias often cause a deterioration of cardiac function known as tachycardia-induced cardiomyopathy or tachycardiomyopathy.The incidence of tachycardia-induced cardiomyopathy is unknown, but in selected studies of patients with atrial fibrillation, approximately 25% to 50% of those with left ventricular dysfunction had some degree of tachycardia-induced cardiomyopathy. It is an important clinical entity due to the high incidence and potential reversibility of the disease process.This case describes a cardiomyopathy induced by excess caffeine consumption. Six months following withdrawal of caffeine from the subject's diet, full resolution of symptoms occurred.
Experimental evidence shows that dopaminergic transmission within the basal ganglia is involved in the modulation of nociceptive information. Epidemiological studies show that in some disease states inherent pathophysiological mechanisms that involve degenerative changes (Parkinson's disease; PD) can also impact negatively on other unrelated functional systems (i.e. nociception). Delayed Fos expression in response to nitroglycerin (NTG) administration is a procedure used to identify the neuroanatomical substrates of the migraine condition. In this study, we investigated the influence of dopaminergic nigrostriatal denervation, obtained by intrastriatal injection of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA), on this response in Sprague-Dawley rats. We also explored the effects on the NTG-induced hyperalgesic response to painful stimuli (formalin and tail-flick tests). Nigrostriatal lesion prevented the neuronal activation typically induced by NTG in sub-cortical areas involved in pain perception, autonomic control and neuroendocrine functions, such as hypothalamic nuclei, periaqueductal grey, parabrachial nucleus and the medullary nuclei. In addition, 6-OHDA-induced lesion inhibited NTG-induced hyperalgesia. Our data show that integrity of central dopaminergic neurotransmission is required for the NTG-induced activation of sub-cortical areas involved in the expression of migraine symptoms, as well as for the hyperalgesic response to painful stimuli elicited by the drug.
Haloperidol increases the expression of Fos, the protein product of the proto-oncogene c-fos, in some parts of the central nervous system. Haloperidol also produces catalepsy in rodents and extrapyramidal side effects in humans, both of which are reduced by muscarinic receptor antagonists. In order to gain insight into the neurochemical and neuroanatomical substrates of haloperidol-induced catalepsy we examined the effects of the muscarinic receptor antagonist scopolamine on haloperidol-induced Fos expression in the striatum, nucleus accumbens and lateral septal nucleus. At a dose that reduced the cataleptic effect of haloperidol, scopolamine decreased the neuroleptic-induced Fos expression in the striatum and lateral septal nucleus but not the nucleus accumbens. These results indicate that haloperidol may increase c-fos expression in medium spiny striatal neurons indirectly by enhancing striatal acetylcholine release. They are also consistent with the hypothesis that neuroleptic-induced increases in striatal c-fos expression are predictive of extrapyramidal side effects produced by these compounds.
Oral contraceptives are implicated in the development of some liver tumors. Paralleling the widespread use of these drugs has been an increase in reported cases of hepatic cell adenomas. Large, multiple tumors, often manifested by spontaneous rupture and hemoperitoneum, have been associated with prolonged use of oral contraceptives. When use of oral contraceptives is discontinued, the hepatic cell adenoma regresses.
A 36 year old obese and hypertensive woman visited her family physician because she felt dizzy and generally weak for 3 days. Even though she had been advised to stop taking the combined oral contraceptive (OC) containing 50 ug ethinyl estradiol and .5 mg norgestrel, at the time she consulted the physician she had been using it for 6 years. Upon admission to a South Carolina hospital, she stopped taking the OC. After appropriate treatment, her condition soon stabilized. The next day, however, she had a fever of 39.44 degrees Celsius, abdominal pain, generalized abdominal tenderness, and rebound tenderness. These symptoms continued through a 2nd day and a laparotomy was warranted. A 15x10 cm hepatic cell adenoma on the right lobe of the liver caused hemorrhaging in the peritoneal cavity. In addition, a 5-6 cm mass was found on the inferior surface of the left lobe. A liver spleen scan 3 weeks following surgery indicated diminished activity at the tumor site on the right lobe. 1 1/2 years later, physicians excised the now reduced tumor (4x2 1/2 cm) on the left lobe and the right lobe adenoma had necrotized and regressed. 15 months following excision of the left lobe tumor, a needle liver biopsy showed a mild, fatty change in the liver. No further liver problems have developed. Research demonstrates that prolonged use of OCs predisposes women to the development of hepatic cell adenoma, and large multiple tumors are associated with especially lengthy use. Research also indicates that when OC use stops, these tumors regress, but can reoccur if OC use or any estrogen therapy is reinstituted or if pregnancy occurs.
An adult dog with a persistent elevation in alkaline phosphatase enzyme activity was started on mitotane for suspected hyperadrenocorticism. One month later, the dog was presented for intermittent anorexia and acute icterus. The dog's liver enzyme activities and total bilirubin were markedly elevated, prothrombin time was prolonged, and blood urea nitrogen and glucose were low. Histopathology revealed marked, centrilobular, hepatocellular loss. After discontinuation of the mitotane, the dog recovered with supportive care and was normal 3 months later, which was consistent with mitotane-associated hepatic failure.
While there is evidence that individual differences in response to cocaine are mediated, in part, by genetic factors, no single gene has been identified that can account for differential responsivity to cocaine. Recent studies in our laboratory may have moved us closer to identification of the gene(s) underlying cocaine sensitivity. We have identified several cocaine-related phenotypes on which two substrains of C57BL mice (6J and ByJ) differ. The genealogy of these two substrains leads to the expectation that they should be genetically very similar, differing at only a few loci. The large differences between the two substrains in cocaine sensitivity may be influenced by allelic differences at a major gene mediating the actions of cocaine. Naive ByJ mice are more resistant to cocaine-induced seizures than are 6J mice. Furthermore, among 6J mice repeated exposure to cocaine results in a decreased susceptibility to cocaine-induced seizure, while among ByJ mice, the same treatment gives rise to an increased susceptibility to seizures. In contrast to their lower sensitivity to cocaine-induced seizures, ByJ mice show a greater sensitivity to cocaine's locomotor stimulant effects. Furthermore, the repeated pairing of cocaine and the test environment results in the development of conditioned locomotion during subsequent exposure to that environment among 6J, but not ByJ, mice. Similarly, a greater degree of conditioned sensitization to the locomotor stimulant effects of cocaine develops in 6J mice.
Although fixed dosage of heparin is frequently used during vascular surgery, there are very few studies that document the appropriateness of this type of dosing. We have undertaken a prospective study to determine the physiological response to a fixed dose of heparin, using a conventional measure of anticoagulation, and have correlated this measure with complications.
We studied 140 consecutive patients undergoing elective carotid endarterectomy. Serial activated clotting times (ACT values) were obtained in duplicate before administration of heparin, 15 minutes after application of a carotid artery cross-clamp, and 1 hour after administration of 5000 U of heparin by intravenous bolus. Postoperatively, patients were assessed for new neurological deficits (transient ischemic attack and stroke) and neck hematomas. A battery of neuropsychometric tests was performed in 49 patients at baseline and on the day after carotid endarterectomy to identify subtle new neurological deficits.
ACT values were found to be highly reproducible, with less than a 1.5% difference between duplicate baseline samples. Although all patients received 5000 U of heparin, the dose received per kilogram of body weight varied considerably (44-116 U/kg), as did ACT values at both 15 minutes (178-423 s) and 1 hour (173-390 s). Nevertheless, there was a significant correlation between heparin dose per kilogram and ACT values at 15 minutes (r = 0.45) and at 1 hour (r = 0.38) postinfusion, as well as ACT ratios (final ACT/initial ACT) at 15 minutes (r = 0.43) and at 1 hour (r = 0.34) after heparin bolus. Eight patients (5.7%) developed postoperative wound hematomas, one of which (0.7%) required reoperation. No patient had a stroke, but one patient had a transient ischemic attack, and 19 (39%) of 49 patients demonstrated significant early postoperative neuropsychometric deficits. Although the incidence of neck hematoma was not influenced by the heparin dose (P = 0.23), the ACT value at 15 minutes (P = 0.71) or 1 hour (P = 0.61), or the ACT ratio (P = 0.68), the only severe hematoma requiring reoperation occurred when the maximal ACT value was more than 400 seconds. Although performance on neuropsychometric tests did not appear to be statistically influenced by heparin dosing, the ACT value, or the degree of ACT elevation, there was a trend for deficits to be associated with lower heparin doses.
Fixed heparin dosing achieves safe and efficacious anticoagulation in the great majority of patients having carotid endarterectomy, with 5000 U expected to result in 15-minute and 1-hour ACT values of 175 to 425 seconds and 170 to 390 seconds, respectively. Although weight-based heparin dosing may reduce the incidence of subtle complications (hematoma formation or decline on neuropsychometric tests) and may result in more predictable 15-minute and 1-hour ACT values (85 U/kg; 225-375 and 200-340 s, respectively), no statistically compelling clinical advantage could be demonstrated. Therefore, either weight-based or fixed dosing is acceptable, with both obviating the need for routine pre-clamp ACT confirmation, thereby saving operative time and expense.
In hypophosphatemic rickets, there are both inherited and acquired forms, where X-linked dominant hypophosphatemic rickets (XLH) is the most prevalent genetic form and caused by mutations in the phosphate-regulating endopeptidase (PHEX) gene. XLH is associated with growth retardation and bone deformities. The renal tubular cells have an important role in calcium and phosphate metabolism, where the 1alpha-hydroxylase enzyme metabolizes the conversion of 25 (OH)-vitamin D to potent 1,25 (OH)2-vitamin D, whereas the sodium-phosphate transporter controls tubular phosphate reabsorption. The pathophysiological defect in XLH is speculated to cause an increase in a circulating phosphate regulating hormone termed phosphatonin (fibroblast growth factor 23 is the primary phosphatonin candidate), which leads to inhibition of 1alpha-hydroxylase, and simultaneously to inhibition of the sodium-phosphate transporter domain NPT2c leading to parathyroid hormone-independent phosphaturia. Hence, current treatment of XLH is 1,25 (OH)2-vitamin D or the vitamin D analog alfacalcidol and elementary phosphorus. Unfortunately, patients with XLH may develop nephrocalcinosis, secondary or tertiary hyperparathyroidism, and in some situations also hypertension and cardiovascular abnormalities. We describe a patient with XLH caused by a novel missense mutation in the PHEX gene, who on treatment with alfacalcidol and oral phosphate had normal growth and minimal bone deformities, but who subsequently developed moderate nephrocalcinosis, significant hyperparathyroidism, hypercalcemia, renal failure, and hypertension. We also report the use of the calcimimetic drug cinacalcet in the successful treatment of hypercalcemia and hyperparathyroidism.
Although high levels of endothelin-1 (ET-1) in plasma may be relevant in certain pathophysiologic states, such as pulmonary hypertension accompanying congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH), experimental evidence favors a local, paracrine, or autocrine role for ET-1 in most tissues. Evidence of ET-1 production has been documented in fetal heart tissue where it exerts growth-enhancing and mitogenic effects. ET-1 also has a potent positive inotrope action on cardiac muscle. ET-1 -/- homozygous mice display a wide variety of cardiac anomalies, which also are features of the human and of the experimental CDH. Autopsy reports have shown that total heart weight is reduced significantly in the presence of CDH, and animal models have documented the presence of cardiac hypoplasia associated with CDH. Experimental and clinical studies have shown that prenatal exposure to corticosteroids improves cardiovascular function in the immediate newborn period. The aim of this study was to determine cardiac gene expression of ET-1 and of its receptor ET(A) and the cardiac ET-1 content in the heart of nitrofen-induced CDH in rats and to evaluate the effect of antenatal Dexamethasone (Dex) treatment.
A CDH model was induced in pregnant rats after administration of 100 mg of nitrofen on day 9.5 of gestation (term, 22 days). Dex (0.25 mg/kg) was given by intraperitoneal injection on days 18.5 and 19.5 of gestation. Cesarean section was performed on day 21 of gestation. The fetuses were divided into 3 groups: group I, control (n = 8); group II, nitrofen-induced CDH (n = 8); group III, nitrofen-induced CDH with antenatal Dex treatment (n = 8). ET-1 protein was measured using ELISA. RT-PCR was performed to evaluate the relative amount of ET-1 and ET(A) mRNA expression.
There was a reduction in ET-1 mRNA (P <.05) and in ET(A) mRNA (P <.01) in the heart of CDH group compared with controls. ET-1 protein level also was reduced in heart of CDH compared with controls. Antenatal Dex treatment increased significantly both ET-1 mRNA and protein levels in the heart of CDH animals (P <.05 and P <.01, respectively).
The reduced cardiac ET-1 gene expression and ET-1 synthesis may be responsible for the heart hypoplasia associated with CDH. Prenatal corticosteroids increase the cardiac production of ET-1, and this may enhance heart growth and cardiac inotropism at birth.
Because of its enhanced pharmacokinetic characteristics, ibuprofen arginate might be expected to provide faster pain relief than standard ibuprofen formulations in patients experiencing acute pain.
This study assessed the analgesic efficacy, speed of onset, and tolerability of ibuprofen arginate compared with a commercially available form of ibuprofen in patients with postoperative dental pain.
Patients were randomized to receive ibuprofen arginate 200 or 400 mg, ibuprofen 200 or 400 mg, or placebo in this multicenter, double-blind, double-dummy, parallel-group trial. Patients were observed for 6 hours after administration of a single dose of study medication. A repeated-dose, open-label phase followed. Pain intensity and pain relief were measured using traditional verbal descriptor scales; onset of analgesia was assessed using 2 stopwatches to measure the time to achievement of specific pain relief criteria.
A total of 498 patients (219 men, 279 women; mean age, 21.5 years) participated in this study. Baseline pain was moderate in 388 patients (78%) and severe in 110 patients (22%). Meaningful pain relief was reached after a median of 29 and 28 minutes with ibuprofen arginate 200 and 400 mg, respectively, and after 52 and 44 minutes with ibuprofen 200 and 400 mg, respectively (all, P < 0.05). The percentages of patients who achieved meaningful pain relief within the first hour after treatment were 77.6% and 83.7% for ibuprofen arginate 200 and 400 mg, respectively, 61.0% and 63.0% for ibuprofen 200 and 400 mg, respectively, and 39.8% for placebo. The differences between ibuprofen arginate and ibuprofen were statistically significant (both doses, P < 0.05). Significantly greater numbers of patients achieved meaningful pain relief with ibuprofen arginate 400 mg compared with placebo from 20 minutes through 6 hours and with ibuprofen arginate 200 mg from 30 minutes through 6 hours (P < 0.05). Compared with placebo, a greater number of patients achieved meaningful pain relief with ibuprofen 400 mg from 45 minutes through 6 hours; with ibuprofen 200 mg. the corresponding interval was from I through 6 hours. After the first hour, pain reduction was similar for the similar doses of the 2 ibuprofen preparations. Median remedication times with both doses of ibuprofen arginate were similar to those with both doses of ibuprofen, ranging from 4.0 to 5.2 hours. Adverse-event profiles were similar between the 2 active medications.
Ibuprofen arginate was effective in this population of patients experiencing moderate to severe pain after surgical extraction of > or = 1 impacted third molar, with 16 to 24 minutes' faster time to meaningful pain relief than with ibuprofen. The 2 formulations had similar tolerability profiles.
Neuron-astrocyte interactions are critical for signalling, energy metabolism, extracellular ion and glutamate homeostasis, volume regulation and neuroprotection in the CNS. Glutamate uptake by astrocytes may prevent excitotoxic glutamate elevation and determine neuronal survival. However, an excess of glutamate can cause the death of astrocytes. FK506, an inhibitor of calcineurin, and an immunosuppressive drug, is neuroprotective in animal models of neurologic diseases, including focal and global ischaemia. In the present work, we demonstrate that a single injection of FK506 60 min after a transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) significantly decreases the number of terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase nick-end labelling (TUNEL)-positive cells in the ischaemic cortex and striatum. Using 3-D confocal microscopy we found that, 24 h after MCAo, many TUNEL-positive cells in the ischaemic striatum and cortex are astrocytes. Furthermore, we demonstrate that exposure of cultured cortical astrocytes to 50-100 mM Glu for 24 h induces apoptotic alterations in nuclear morphology, DNA fragmentation, dissipation of mitochondrial transmembrane potential (DeltaPsi) and caspase activation. FK506 (1 muM) efficiently inhibits Glu-induced apoptosis of cultured astrocytes, DNA fragmentation and changes in mitochondrial DeltaPsi. Our findings suggest that modulation of glutamate-induced astrocyte death early after reperfusion may be a novel mechanism of FK506-mediated neuroprotection in ischaemia.
The phenomenon of sensitization has been implicated in various aspects of drug addiction. As such, the present study determined the effects of a potential anti-addictive agent, 18-methoxycoronaridine (18-MC; 40 mg/kg, IP, 19 h earlier), on the expression of sensitization following the repeated administration of cocaine (COC; five once daily injections of 15 mg/kg, IP) or saline. The effects of 18-MC on COC metabolism were also assessed. Compared to vehicle controls, 18-MC significantly enhanced the expression of COC-induced locomotion (0, 10, 20 and 40 mg/kg, IP) in chronic COC treated rats only. In both acute and chronic COC rats, 18-MC potentiated the stereotypy induced by higher COC doses (20 and 40 mg/kg, IP). In contrast, 18-MC abolished the sensitized dopamine (DA) response in the nucleus accumbens (NAC) to COC (20 mg/kg), without altering the DA response of acute COC rats. None of the interactions between 18-MC and COC appear to be related to alterations in COC metabolism as no effect of 18-MC pretreatment was observed on extracellular levels of COC or two of its metabolites, benzoylecogonine and norcocaine. From the present findings, it is concluded that the enhancement of COC-induced behaviour produced by 18-MC pretreatment is independent of effects on either COC pharmacokinetics or COC-induced alterations in DA transmission. However, given that 18-MC decreases the self-administration of COC in laboratory animals, it is proposed that the anti-addictive efficacy of 18-MC might be related to an ability to selectively block the expression of sensitized extracellular levels of DA in the NAC in rats with previous COC experience.
A series of analogs based on a novel template, 11-aza-(20S)-camptothecin, were obtained from total synthesis and tested as potential anticancer drugs in the topoisomerase I enzyme cleavable complex assay. The parent compound 11-aza-(20S)-camptothecin (8) was derived from a Friedlander condensation between the known aminopyridine derivative 3-(3-amino-4-picolylidene)-p-toluidine and optically active tricyclic ketone 7. Compound 8 had activity approximately twice that of (20S)-camptothecin in the calf thymus topoisomerase I cleavable complex assay. Compounds were prepared wherein the 11-aza nitrogen atom was quaternized as either the corresponding N-oxide or methyl iodide. Compounds with quaternized N-11 showed improved water solubility and were equipotent to the clinically investigated camptothecin analog topotecan in the cleavable complex assay. These compounds were evaluated in vivo in nude mice bearing HT-29 human colon carcinoma xenografts. The analog 11-aza-(20S)-camptothecin 11-N-oxide was found to significantly retard tumor growth when compared to untreated controls. Finally, 7,10-disubstituted 11-azacamptothecin analogs were synthesized using Pd(0) coupling reactions of 10-bromo-7-alkyl-11-aza-(20S)-camptothecins 19 and 20, which in turn were available from a Friedlander condensation of the novel bromopyridine derivatives 17a and 17b with 7. Among the 10-substituted series, a number of analogs displayed extremely high in vitro potency against topoisomerase I and improved aqueous solubility. A significant number of the compounds were found to be active in whole cell cytotoxicity assays and several were evaluated in nude mice bearing the HT-29 tumor xenografts. The most effective of these proved to be (S)-11-aza-7-ethyl-10-(aminohydroximinomethyl)camptothecin trifluoracetic acid salt (27), a potent topoisomerase I inhibitor which demonstrated excellent efficacy in both short term and in extended in vivo assays. A comparison between in vitro enzyme data and in vivo data from nude mouse studies in other compounds in this series revealed a poor overall correlation between topoisomerase inhibition in vitro and antitumor efficacy in vivo.
