Research has shown that anticonvulsants are teratogens and pose a risk for fetal malformations. Though Fetal Hydantoin Syndrome (FHS) was first reported by Langhman and others, wide phenotypic variability of this syndrome has lead many clinicians to question its very existence. We report a twelve year old girl with FHS with rheumatic valvular heart disease.
Antiepileptic drugs are known to be teratogenic. Use of phenytoin during pregnancy can cause various congenital malformations leading to 'fetal hydantoin syndrome'. One such case reported is unique in the sense that it occurred with retroperitoneal cystic lymphangioma, itself a rare condition. Such an association is not described elsewhere.
The density of beta 2-receptors in intact lymphocytes was studied by binding with 125iodo-cyanopindolol in 18 male patients with mild or moderate hypertension before and after monotherapy with propranolol. The density of these receptors was also determined in 5 patients before and after dynamic exercise. We found that propranolol therapy evoked different changes in the density of beta-receptors in patients with essential hypertension. Based on these results, all patients were divided into two groups: (a) patients who responded to the administration of propranolol by an increase in receptor density and (b) patients who responded with a decrease in receptor density. Propranolol therapy had a pronounced hypotensive effect in the second group and no hypotensive effect in the first group. In the second group, heart rate was significantly higher initially and showed a significantly greater decrease after treatment. The initial values for beta 2-receptor density were also significantly higher in this group than in the first group. Mean values of baseline plasma renin activity (PRA) were higher in the second group, but this difference was nonsignificant. The 5 patients who participated in dynamic exercise exhibited different changes in beta-receptor density, which correlated with the changes observed with propranolol treatment. There was no correlation between PRA and the density of beta 2-receptors in lymphocytes. Positive correlations were found between the density of these receptors and left-ventricular myocardial mass and interventricular septal thickness. The data indicate that the density of these receptors in lymphocytes is regulated in a qualitatively different manner in the two groups of patients with essential hypertension; this difference appears to be related to baseline renin levels or, perhaps, catecholamine levels. Additional studies are needed to clarify the regulation of beta 2-receptors in essential hypertension.
The purpose of this study was to determine the frequency and spectrum of inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase type I (IMPDH1) mutations associated with autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa (RP), to determine whether mutations in IMPDH1 cause other forms of inherited retinal degeneration, and to analyze IMPDH1 mutations for alterations in enzyme activity and nucleic acid binding.
The coding sequence and flanking intron/exon junctions of IMPDH1 were analyzed in 203 patients with autosomal dominant RP (adRP), 55 patients with autosomal recessive RP (arRP), 7 patients with isolated RP, 17 patients with macular degeneration (MD), and 24 patients with Leber congenital amaurosis (LCA). DNA samples were tested for mutations by sequencing only or by a combination of single-stranded conformational analysis and by sequencing. Production of fluorescent reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH) was used to measure enzymatic activity of mutant IMPDH1 proteins. The affinity and the specificity of mutant IMPDH1 proteins for single-stranded nucleic acids were determined by filter-binding assays.
Five different IMPDH1 variants, Thr116Met, Asp226Asn, Val268Ile, Gly324Asp, and His 372Pro, were identified in eight autosomal dominant RP families. Two additional IMPDH1 variants, Arg105Trp and Asn198Lys, were found in two patients with isolated LCA. None of the novel IMPDH1 mutants identified in this study altered the enzymatic activity of the corresponding proteins. In contrast, the affinity and/or the specificity of single-stranded nucleic acid binding were altered for each IMPDH1 mutant except the Gly324Asp variant.
Mutations in IMPDH1 account for approximately 2% of families with adRP, and de novo IMPDH1 mutations are also rare causes of isolated LCA. This analysis of the novel IMPDH1 mutants substantiates previous reports that IMPDH1 mutations do not alter enzyme activity and demonstrates that these mutants alter the recently identified single-stranded nucleic acid binding property of IMPDH. Studies are needed to further characterize the functional significance of IMPDH1 nucleic acid binding and its potential relationship to retinal degeneration.
Gc globulin (vitamin D-binding protein) is a component of the extracellular actin scavenger system. The level of Gc globulin is reduced in patients with fulminant hepatic failure, septic shock and trauma. Furthermore, low levels of Gc globulin in patients with fulminant hepatic failure and multiple trauma have been found to correlate with the morbidity and mortality of patients. Owing to a large increase in the turnover of Gc globulin upon complex formation with actin, it may be important to determine both the total Gc globulin concentration and the degree of complexing with actin for estimating the clinical prognosis of a patient. For this reason, we have compared a crossed immuno-electrophoresis method (CIE), suitable for visualizing the degree of complexing with actin, with a rocket immuno-electrophoresis method (RIE), previously used for determination of the complex degree.
Sera from healthy donors and from patients with acetaminophen-induced liver disease or trauma were investigated using CIE, RIE and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).
Using the CIE, no Gc globulin-actin complexes were detected among healthy donors. Complexes were present in 21 of 39 patients with liver disease and 3 of 37 trauma patients. High complex ratios (> 20 %) were found in 6 of 7 patients with hepatic encephalopathy. Using the RIE, complexes were detected in most samples.
The results show that the CIE method may be used for determining the degree of actin complexing in conjunction with ELISA or RIE in determining the levels of total Gc globulin.
A 54-year-old man with severe left ventricular dysfunction due to dilated cardiomyopathy was referred to our hospital for symptomatic incessant sustained ventricular tachycardia (VT). After the administration of nifekalant hydrochloride, sustained VT was terminated. An alternate class III agent, sotalol, was also effective for the prevention of VT. However, one month after switching over nifekalant to sotalol, a short duration of ST elevation was documented in ECG monitoring at almost the same time for three consecutive days. ST elevation with chest discomfort disappeared since he began taking long-acting diltiazem. Coronary vasospasm may be induced by the non-selective beta-blocking properties of sotalol.
Urinary kallikrein excretion was studied in two types of experimentally induced renal disease: anti-glomerular basement membrane nephritis (20 rats) and aminonucleoside nephrosis (five rats) with appropriate controls (23 rats) for a period of 6 to 9 weeks following disease induction. In both models there was a prompt significant decrease (p less than 0.01 - 0.001) in urinary kallikrein excretion associated with proteinuria but unrelated to urinary sodium and potassium excretion and urinary volumes. In antiglomerular basement membrane nephritis the fall in kallikrein excretion occurred within the first 24 hours concurrent with the onset of proteinuria. In aminonucleoside nephrosis the decrease antedated the onset of proteinuria by 48 hours beginning within the first 24 hours following injection of the aminonucleoside. Kallikrein inhibitors were not demonstrable in the urines of diseased animals from either model. The mechanism of the decrease in kallikrein excretion in immune and nonimmune glomerular disease associated with proteinuria is unknown.
Antiparkinsonian drugs used for 117 chronic schizophrenic patients receiving long-term neuroleptic treatment were withdrawn. Seventy-eight (66.7%) of the 117 patients were without akathisia and/or parkinsonism at least for 6 weeks after the antiparkinsonian drug withdrawal. A double-blind study of clonazepam was carried out for 22 patients and clonazepam was effective on 8 patients (100%) with akathisia and on 3 patients (75%) with parkinsonism. The authors conclude that these data support the need for discontinuous use of antiparkinsonian medication during the long-term neuroleptic therapy of chronic schizophrenic patients and the effectiveness of clonazepam in managing antiparkinsonian drug withdrawal-induced akathisia and parkinsonism.
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome is the rarest and the most serious of the neuroleptic induced movement disorders. Although potent neuroleptics are more frequently associated with NMS, atypical antipsychotic drugs may also be a cause of NMS. Three databases were searched using the terms 'olanzapine' and 'neuroleptic' 'malignant syndrome'. Case reports were selected and reviewed from among all articles that fulfilled the search criteria. Twenty six cases were reviewed. Twenty cases fulfilled the criteria published by Sachdev et al. Olanzapine was the most probable cause of NMS in 16 cases. The absence of rigidity was described in only two of 16 highly probable olanzapine induced NMS cases, which is not as often as it is reported in clozapine associated NMS (36%). It was found that prior NMS is an important risk factor in NMS.
1. We examine some of the mechanisms underlying the analgesic effects of the hydroalcoholic extracts (HE) of Phyllanthus urinaria and P. niruri against formalin-induced nociception in mice. In addition, we also investigate the action of both HEs against capsaicin-mediated pain. 2. Both prazosin and yohimbine (0.15 mg/kg, i.p.) induced a marked inhibition of the analgesic effect caused by phenylephrine (10 mg/kg, i.p.) and clonidine (0.1 mg/kg, i.p.), respectively, but had no effect on the antinociceptive action caused by HE of P. urinaria (10 mg/kg, i.p.) or P. niruri (30 mg/kg, i.p.). 3. NG-nitro-L-arginine (L-NOARG, 75 mg/kg, i.p.) caused marked analgesic effect against the second phase of formalin-induced pain. Treatment of animals with L-arginine (600 mg/kg) completely antagonized the antinociceptive effect of L-NOARG but had no significant effect against the HE of P. urinaria (10 mg/kg, i.p.) or P. niruri (30 mg/kg. i.p.) analgesic properties. 4. The antinociceptive effects caused by the HEs of P. urinaria (10 mg/kg, i.p.) and P. niruri (30 mg/kg, i.p.) were unaffected by methysergide (5 mg/kg, i.p.), p-chloro-phenylalanine-methyl-ester (100 mg/kg, i.p., once a day for 4 consecutive days) or after previous adrenalectomy of animals. 5. The HE of P. urinaria and P. niruri given either intraperitoneally (1-30 mg/kg) or orally (25-200 mg/kg) caused marked and dose-related inhibition of capsaicin-induced pain with ID50 of 2.1 and 6.1 mg/kg given intraperitoneally and 39 and 35 mg/kg given orally, respectively.
To determine the contribution of urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) and plasmin in the invasion of highly invasive urothelial cancer cells.
We compared expression levels of mRNA and protease activity of uPA and plasmin formation in primary cultures of the noninvasive transitional cell carcinoma, UCT-1, and in the highly invasive type, UCT-2. By using in vitro cell invasion assay system, we evaluated the effects of amiloride and urinary trypsin inhibitor (UTI), which inhibit uPA and plasmin, respectively, on invasion by both cell lines.
Expression levels of mRNA, protein, and activities of uPA were significantly higher (p<0.005) and resulted in more plasminogen activation in UCT-2 than in UCT-1. Amiloride and UTI significantly inhibited plasmin formation and the invasion of both cell lines (p<0.001).
High expression levels of mRNA, activities of uPA and high plasmin formation significantly potentiated the invasiveness of urothelial cancer cells. Thus, inhibitors of uPA and plasmin, such as amiloride and UTI, respectively, could be useful therapeutic tools with which to treat urothelial cancer.
Radioprotective and antineoplastic activity of polyene, its derivatives and combinations with dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) was studied. The most potent radioprotective effect was demonstrated by methylated levorin, original levorin and by its isomer--isolevorin. Survival rate of the animals on 12th day after X-ray exposure was 100, 60, 60 per cent, at the control group 33.6, 20 and 0 per cent consequently. Levorin and alkyl derivatives of amphotericin B--methamphocin and buthamphocin inhibited growth of ascites and solid tumors to 46.3-79.0 per cent when compared to control group. Polyen antibiotics combined with DMSO also demonstrated antineoplastic activity at the animals treated with carcinogenic agent--diethyl nitrosoamine (DENA). 5-month survival of the animals was 76 per cent at nystatin and levorin group and 35.7 per cent at the control group (animals treated with DENA only).
Studies suggest that the Ser49Gly and Arg389Gly polymorphisms in the beta1-adrenergic receptor might be of functional importance for the cardiovascular system. Both have been associated with altered receptor activity in vitro, and with hypertension and cardiac failure in vivo.
The aim of this study was to test whether these polymorphisms were associated with the change in heart rate or blood pressure in patients with essential hypertension and left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy treated with the beta1-adrenergic receptor blocker atenolol.
Blood pressure and heart rate were measured in 101 hypertensive patients with echocardiographically verified LV hypertrophy, randomized in a double-blind study to treatment with either the beta1-adrenergic receptor blocker atenolol or the angiotensin II type I receptor antagonist irbesartan. Changes in blood pressure and heart rate were evaluated after 12 weeks. Beta1-adrenergic receptor genotyping was performed using polymerase chain reaction and restriction fragment length polymorphism.
We found no significant associations between the changes in the measured variables and either of the two polymorphisms. However, carriers of the 49Gly allele showed a tendency toward a greater reduction in heart rate compared with patients with the Ser/Ser49 genotype (p = 0.06).
The Ser49Gly and Arg389Gly beta1-adrenergic receptor polymorphisms do not seem to exert a major effect on the changes in heart rate and blood pressure during 12 weeks of treatment with atenolol in patients with essential hypertension and LV hypertrophy.
Ventilator-induced lung injury is characterised by inflammation and apoptosis, but the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. The present study proposed a role for angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) via angiotensin II (Ang II) and/or bradykinin in acute lung injury. The authors assessed whether ACE and, if so, Ang II and/or bradykinin are implicated in inflammation and apoptosis by mechanical ventilation. Rats were ventilated for 4 h with low- or high-pressure amplitudes in the absence or presence of the ACE inhibitor captopril. Nonventilated animals served as controls. ACE activity, Ang II and bradykinin levels, as well as inflammatory parameters (total protein, macrophage inflammatory protein-2 and interleukin-6) were determined. Apoptosis was assessed by the number of activated caspase-3 and TUNEL (terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate nick-end labelling)-positive cells. Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid ACE activity, levels of total protein, inflammatory parameters and the number of apoptotic cells were increased in the high-pressure amplitude group as compared with the control group. Blocking ACE activity by captopril attenuated inflammation and apoptosis in the latter group. Similar results were obtained by blocking Ang II receptors, but blocking bradykinin receptors did not attenuate the anti-inflammatory and anti-apoptotic effects of captopril. The current authors conclude that inflammation and apoptosis in ventilator-induced lung injury is, at least in part, due to angiotensin-converting enzyme-mediated angiotensin II production.
Heparin-associated thrombocytopenia (HAT) type II, a severe side effect of heparin therapy, is thought to be induced by an immunological mechanism. By crossreactivity studies we have demonstrated that sera of patients with HAT type II activate platelets in vitro not only after the addition of heparin but also after addition of a chemically polysulphated chondroitin-like substance, Arteparon, used for treatment of degenerative joint disease. In addition here, we describe a patient who developed deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism following administration of Arteparon and typical HAT type II with thrombocytopenia, 36 h after the first administration of heparin. This patient had never received heparin, but had repeatedly been treated with Arteparon for degenerative joint disease. We conclude that this patient had been presensitized by Arteparon, as indicated by his clinical course. In vitro studies again confirm crossreactivity between heparin and Arteparon.
Many atypical antipsychotics show antagonism at both serotonergic and dopaminergic neurones and show fewer extrapyramidal side effects (EPS). Nefazodone blocks postsynaptic 5HT2A receptors and weakly inhibits serotonin reuptake. This study aimed to elucidate the role of nefazodone in the treatment of antipsychotic-induced EPS. The trial was a double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled trial of patients requiring antipsychotic treatment with haloperidol 10mg daily; from which a subgroup of patients who developed EPS were selected for the study. Patients were randomised to add-on therapy with either placebo (n=24) or nefazodone (n=25) 100mg bd. EPS were measured on days 0, 3 and 7 using the Simpson Angus, Barnes akathisia, abnormal involuntary movement and Chouinard scales. Nefazodone significantly reduced EPS as measured by both the Simpson Angus scale and CGI (p=0.007 and 0.0247, respectively). Akathisia and tardive dyskinesia did not differ between the two groups (p=0.601; p=0.507, respectively). These results suggest the role of 5HT2 antagonism in the mechanism of action of atypical antipsychotics with respect to lowering rates of drug-induced EPS. In addition, a therapeutic role for nefazodone is suggested in the treatment of antipsychotic-induced EPS.
During a 2-year period, cholangiography was performed on 17 patients with clinical evidence of cholestasis who were receiving hepatic intraarterial floxuridine (IA-FUDR) infusions for treatment of metastatic colorectal adenocarcinoma. The development of cholestasis was associated with persistently elevated alkaline phosphatase, but serial CT examinations of the liver showed no progression of the tumor. All patients had cholangiographic abnormalities (by endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography, percutaneous transhepatic cholangiography, or operative cholangiography) of the biliary ductal system similar to those in idiopathic sclerosing cholangitis. Certain features, however, appear specific to IA-FUDR-induced cholestasis. All patients studied had segmental involvement at the common hepatic duct bifurcation. The cystic duct and gallbladder were often involved, but the distal common bile duct was spared. Histologic features of periportal and periductal fibrosis were present in specimens obtained from percutaneous liver biopsy in three patients, cholecystectomy in four patients, and autopsy in two patients. When clinical signs of hepatic dysfunction occur in the absence of tumor progression, biliary sclerosis must be suspected.
Evidence has been accumulated implicating sex hormones as possible modulators of extrapyramidal motor function. In the present study we have investigated the effects of estrogens, progesterone, testosterone, prolactin and calcitonin on behavioral parameters related to nigro-striatal dopaminergic system, such as haloperidol-induced catalepsy in male rats. It was found that 7-days estradiol benzoate treatment (5 micrograms/rat/day) significantly increases haloperidol-induced catalepsy, suggesting a possible antidopaminergic activity of estrogens. On the other hand, prolactin facilitates nigro-striatal dopaminergic transmission. Interestingly, 7 day treatment with medroxy-acetate progesterone (MAP, 5 mg/Kg, i.p.) brings about a trend to a decrease in haloperidol-induced catalepsy, while no significantly effect was observed following acute MAP administration at the same dose. So, it is tempting to speculate that chronic progestinic treatment may result in an increase in dopaminergic tonus. Testosterone, acutely administered (5mg/kg.s.c.) induces changes similar to those observed following progesterone administration. Finally, also calcitonin is able to influence haloperidol-induced catalepsy by markedly increasing it.
To determine the cardiotoxicity of paclitaxel (T) plus doxorubicin (A) combination therapy in women with advanced breast cancer. To define a dose range of A for use in AT.
The effect of cumulative A dose on risk of congestive heart failure (CHF) and alterations of myocardial contractility (left ventricular ejection fraction [LVEF] decrease > or = 20% or to <50%) was estimated from pooled data from 10 trials of AT.
Thirty-one of 657 patients (4.7%) developed CHF at a median of 6.6 months (range 0.3-24.6) after initiation of AT. CHF was stabilized in 29 patients at a median of 17.3 months after diagnosis (range 4.1-31.2 months). The risk of developing CHF was < or = 5% at a total A dose < or = 380 mg/m2. In patients who received a total A dose > 440 mg/m2, the incidence of CHF was >25% but similar to that of A monotherapy. The risk of CHF was similar in women receiving AT or A monotherapy at a dose < or = 380 mg/m2 (2%-3%). LVEF progressively decreased in patients who received AT, especially at a cumulative A dose > 380 mg/m2. LVEF decreases were more frequent in patients who later developed CHF, but the majority of CHF patients did not experience LVEF alterations prior to symptoms. LVEF recovered after discontinuation of A in 25 of 67 women who developed LVEF < 50%.
The reported cardiac effects are consistent with anthracycline-related cardiotoxicity. AT is associated with a cardiac risk similar to that of A monotherapy up to a cumulative A dose of 340-380 mg/m2.
The predictive role of HER-2 in node-positive breast cancer patients receiving CMF or an anthracycline-based adjuvant therapy remains unclear. In addition, topo-isomerase II alpha (topo IIalpha), as the cellular target of anthracyclines, might have value as a predictive marker.
Four hundred eighty-one archival primary tumor samples were collected among 777 patients entered into a multicenter phase III trial comparing classical CMF with epirubicin cyclophosphamide (HEC) as adjuvant therapy of node-positive breast cancer. HER-2 was evaluated by immunohistochemistry (IHC) using different antibodies (Abs). Topo IIalpha was evaluated by IHC using the Ab KiS 1. In each subgroup of patients identified by HER-2 and topo IIalpha, adjusted hazard ratios for event-free survival (EFS) and the corresponding 95% confidence intervals have been calculated for the different study comparisons. An interaction test has been performed to investigate the role of HER-2 and topo IIalpha as predictive markers.
When HER-2 was evaluated by CB-11 and 4D5 mAbs, the EFS adjusted hazard ratios (HR) for the main study comparison HEC vs. CMF were: HER-2 positive: 0.33 (95% confidence interval (95% CI): 0.09 1.27, P = 0.08), HER-2 negative: 1.16 (95%, CI: 0.71-1.90, P = 0.56); the P-value for the interaction test was 0.10. When HER-2 was evaluated by TAB-250 + pAbl Abs, the adjusted HR for the same comparison were: HER-2 positive: 1.06 (95% CI: 0.45-2.52, P = 0.90), HER-2 negative: 0.99 (95% CI: 0.58-1.68, P = 0.97); the P-value for the interaction test was 0.84. With regard to topo IIalpha, the adjusted HR for the EFS comparison HEC vs. CMF were: topo IIalpha positive: 0.66 (95% CI: 0.32-1.36, P = 0.25), topo IIalpha negative: 1.26 (95% CI: 0.63-2.50, P = 0.51); the P-value for the interaction test was 0.13.
This study suggests that in node-positive breast cancer patients randomly treated with CMF or an epirubicin-based regimen, the predictive value of HER-2 may vary according to the Abs used in the immunohistochemistry assay. In addition, the study supports the concept that topo IIalpha might be involved in the determination of tumor responsiveness to an anthracycline-based adjuvant therapy.
Contrast agents used in angiography procedures for patients with cardiovascular disease are known to cause contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN), which may be partially due to the production of nephrotoxic oxygen-free radicals. It is uncertain whether administration of intravenous (IV) anti-oxidant, N-acetylcysteine (NAC), can prevent reduction in renal function and whether this is a cost-effective approach.
Sixty-five day-only patients with renal impairment (mean serum creatinine concentration 0.16+/-0.03 mmol/l) due to undergo coronary or peripheral angiography and/or stenting were randomly assigned to IV NAC 300 or 600 mg immediately before and after the procedure or IV fluid alone.
Of the 60 patients with complete data, none had acute CIN (increase in serum creatinine concentration > or = 0.044 mmol/l, 48 h after administration of contrast agent). Eight patients (13%) have demonstrated an increase in their serum creatinine concentration > or = 0.044 mmol/l 30 days after administration of contrast agent: 2/19 (11%) in the control group, 2/21 (10%) in the 600 mg NAC group and 4/20 (20%) the 300 mg NAC group (p = 0.66). The mean volumes of contrast agent used and prehydration given for each of the three groups did not differ significantly (p > 0.83). There was significant improvement in creatinine clearance within each group from baseline to 30 days (p < or = 0.03), but no significant difference between the groups at 48 h and 30 days (p > or = 0.43). Considering the cost of NAC and its administration, we estimate that this would translate to a saving of dollar 26,637 per annum.
For day-stay patients with mild-to-moderate chronic renal impairment undergoing angiography and/or intervention, prehydration alone is less complicated and more cost-effective than a combination of IV NAC (at doses used) and hydration.
Magnesium sulfate, 2.48 mmol, injected 20 s before the administration of propofol significantly reduced the incidence of pain caused by a propofol injection and may be useful in minimizing this common side effect.
A case is described of a 22-year-old woman with bipolar affective disorder who developed severe neurotoxic symptoms when treated with a combined regimen of lithium carbonate and carbamazepine in therapeutic doses. An open A-B-C-B trial of the two medications separately and concurrently implicated a synergistic interaction between the two.
Arsenic trioxide (As2O3) is a highly effective agent for treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). However, consecutively administered As2O3 induces serious adverse cardiac effects, including long QT syndrome (LQTs) and even sudden cardiac death. Previous studies have shown that genistein (Gen) exerts anti-oxidant, anti-inflammatory, and anti-apoptotic effects. The present study aimed to explore the potential protective effects of Gen on As2O3-induced adverse cardiac effects, and to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms.
A rat model of As2O3-induced QT prolongation was generated by intravenous injection with As2O3. Surface electrocardiogram (ECG) and hemodynamics were employed to assess the LQTs and cardiac function. Intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca(2+)]i) and mitochondrial membrane potential (Δψm) were measured by confocal microscopy, and cardiomyocytes apoptosis were assessed by TUNEL assay. Western blot was applied to determine protein levels.
We found for the first time that treatment with Gen significantly reversed LQTs and dose-dependently improved As2O3-induced impairment of cardiac function. As2O3 elevated [Ca(2+)]i and Gen mitigated this effect. Meanwhile, Gen significantly reversed As2O3-mediated cardiomyocytes apoptosis. Furthermore, Gen dose-dependently inhibited the phosphorylated JNK and p38-MAPK (pp38-MAPK), and blocked Δψm collapse, and further decreased cleaved caspase-3.
Gen protects against the adverse cardiac effects of As2O3 partly by mitigating cardiomyocytes apoptosis induced by As2O3 through attenuating intracellular calcium overload and downregulating protein expression of p-JNK and pp38-MAPK to ameliorate the damage of Δψm leading to suppression of caspase-3 activation. Gen might be used as an adjunction therapy in APL patients receiving As2O3 treatment to avoid, at least to minimize, the adverse cardiac effects of As2O3.
We describe a case of iatrogenic pseudo-Bartter syndrome caused by administration of prostaglandin E1 (PGE1 alprostadil). Although the use of i.v. PGE1 is a well-established pharmacological therapy in neonates with a ductus-dependent congenital cardiopathy to ensure ductus-dependent flow, we could only find one other report on pseudo-Bartter syndrome related to PGE1 infusion.
Primary Bartter syndrome is associated with endogenous increased levels of prostaglandins. Therefore, we postulate that the dose of prostaglandin E1 administered, immaturity and the genetic background are all relevant factors involved in the phenotypic presentation of iatrogenic pseudo-Bartter syndrome in this preterm infant.
