We have reported a case of high-level gentamicin-resistant enterococcal endocarditis as a complication of intravenous narcotic abuse. Because routine screening of enterococcal blood isolates for high-level aminoglycoside resistance was not done, the patient possibly received suboptimal therapy. This case amplifies the necessity of a systematic screening program for enterococcal blood isolates to detect high-level resistance to gentamicin and streptomycin in clinical laboratories.
Cocaine toxicity results in cardiovascular complications, seizures, and death and accounts for approximately 20% of drug-related emergency department visits every year. Presently, there are no treatments to eliminate the toxic effects of cocaine. The present study hypothesizes that a bacterial cocaine esterase with high catalytic efficiency would provide rapid and robust protection from cocaine-induced convulsions, epileptogenic activity, and lethality.
Cocaine-induced paroxysmal activity and convulsions were evaluated in rats surgically implanted with radiotelemetry devices (N=6 per treatment group). Cocaine esterase was administered 1 minute after a lethal dose of cocaine or after cocaine-induced convulsions to determine the ability of the enzyme to prevent or reverse, respectively, the effects of cocaine.
The cocaine esterase prevented all cocaine-induced electroencephalographic changes and lethality. This effect was specific for cocaine because the esterase did not prevent convulsions and death induced by a cocaine analog, (-)-2beta-carbomethoxy-3beta-phenyltropane. The esterase prevented lethality even after cocaine-induced convulsions occurred. In contrast, the short-acting benzodiazepine, midazolam, prevented cocaine-induced convulsions but not the lethal effects of cocaine.
The data showed that cocaine esterase successfully degraded circulating cocaine to prevent lethality and that cocaine-induced convulsions alone are not responsible for the lethal effects of cocaine in this model. Therefore, further investigation into the use of cocaine esterase for treating cocaine overdose and its toxic effects is warranted.
Lithium is effective in the treatment of manic-depressive psychosis but is suspected to be a developmental toxicant in humans. It is a developmental toxicant in mice and rats in vivo, but at human therapeutic serum levels of 0.6-1.6 meq/L, rats appear to be more sensitive to the effects of the drug than do mice. The species susceptibility to lithium-induced defects was evaluated by using a rodent whole embryo culture system employing mouse and rat embryos treated at comparable developmental stages. Mouse embryos were cultured on gestational days 8-10, and rat embryos were cultured on gestational days 10-12. Care was taken to insure that all embryos had 10 +/- 2 somite pairs at the beginning of the culture period. Embryos were cultured for 44 hours in rat serum to which lithium was added to attain final drug concentrations of 0.6, 1.2, 1.8, 2.4, or 5.0 meq/L. Control embryos were treated with distilled water, which served as the vehicle. In rats, lithium induced significant decreases in various parameters at 1.8, 2.4, and 5.0 meq/L; no malformations were observed in rats of this stage. In mice, significant decreases occurred at 2.4 and 5.0 meq/L, and embryos treated at the highest concentration had a significantly increased frequency of open neural tubes. Rat embryos were also cultured with lithium on gestational days 9-11. The lowest dose producing developmental toxicity at this stage was 0.6 meq/L. Open neural tubes were present among younger rat embryos; however, this defect occurred in all groups, including the control group.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Receptor tyrosine kinases are critical targets for the regulation of cell survival. Cancer patients with abnormal receptor tyrosine kinases (RTK) tend to have more aggressive disease with poor clinical outcomes. As a result, human epidermal growth factor receptor kinases, such as EGFR (HER1), HER2, and HER3, represent important therapeutic targets. Several plant polyphenols including the type III polyketide synthase products (genistein, curcumin, resveratrol, and epigallocatechin-3-galate) possess chemopreventive activity, primarily as a result of RTK inhibition. However, only a small fraction of the polyphenolic structural universe has been evaluated. Along these lines, we have developed an in vitro route to the synthesis and subsequent screening of unnatural polyketide analogues with N-acetylcysteamine (SNAc) starter substrates and malonyl-coenzyme A (CoA) and methylmalonyl-CoA as extender substrates. The resulting polyketide analogues possessed a similar structural polyketide backbone (aromatic-2-pyrone) with variable side chains. Screening chalcone synthase (CHS) reaction products against BT-474 cells resulted in identification of several trifluoromethylcinnamoyl-based polyketides that showed strong suppression of the HER2-associated PI3K/AKT signaling pathway, yet did not inhibit the growth of nontransformed MCF-10A breast cells (IC(50)>100 microM). Specifically, 4-trifluoromethylcinnamoyl pyrone (compound 2 e) was highly potent (IC(50)<200 nM) among the test compounds toward proliferation of several breast cancer cell lines. This breadth of activity likely stems from the ability of compound 2 e to inhibit the phosphorylation of HER1, HER2, and HER3. Therefore, these polyketide analogues might prove to be useful drug candidates for potential breast cancer therapy.
Here we present the first genetic analysis of adiponectin levels, a newly identified adipocyte-derived protein. Recent work has suggested that adiponectin may play a role in mediating the effects of body weight as a risk factor for coronary artery disease. For this analysis we assayed serum levels of adiponectin in 1100 adults of predominantly northern European ancestry distributed across 170 families. Quantitative genetic analysis of adiponectin levels detected an additive genetic heritability of 46%. The maximum LOD score detected in a genome wide scan for adiponectin levels was 4.06 (P = 7.7 x 10(-6)), 35 cM from pter on chromosome 5. The second largest LOD score (LOD = 3.2; P = 6.2 x 10(-5)) was detected on chromosome 14, 29 cM from pter. The detection of a significant linkage with a quantitative trait locus on chromosome 5 provides strong evidence for a replication of a previously reported quantitative trait locus for obesity-related phenotypes. In addition, several secondary signals offer potential evidence of replications for additional previously reported obesity-related quantitative trait loci on chromosomes 2 and 10. Not only do these results identify quantitative trait loci with significant effects on a newly described, and potentially very important, adipocyte-derived protein, they also reveal the emergence of a consistent pattern of linkage results for obesity-related traits across a number of human populations.
Potentiation of mesolimbic dopamine levels is generally hypothesized to be reinforcing and contribute to the self-administration of addictive drugs such as cocaine. In the present study, the in vivo microdialysis technique was used to directly manipulate extracellular dopamine concentrations in the nucleus accumbens (NAC) shell and the amygdala (AMY) in rats maintaining stable patterns of cocaine (1.5 mg/kg/infusion) intake under a fixed ratio 1 schedule of reinforcement. In the NAC, a perfusate dopamine concentration of 90 nM was found to reduce cocaine self-administration, whereas a perfusate concentration of 450 nM increased the intake of cocaine. In the AMY, 45 nM perfusate dopamine inhibited cocaine self-administration, whereas 90 nM perfusate dopamine enhanced cocaine intake. The attenuation or potentiation of cocaine intake behavior was maintained throughout the time period (30 or 60 min) of the manipulation of the perfusate dopamine (DA) concentrations in the NAC and AMY. Other perfusate concentrations tested, 180 and 360 nM, in both the nucleus accumbens and amygdala, were without effect on altering the stable pattern of cocaine self-administration behavior. Overall, these experiments show that elevated mesolimbic dopamine concentrations can differentially modulate cocaine self-administration behavior.
To explore the significance of dopamine (DA) autoreceptors in cocaine tolerance and cocaine induced locomotor activity rats were treated with saline and cocaine (40 mg/kg per day via osmotic minipump; normal and cocaine tolerant rats, respectively). Injections of DS121 (0-7 mg/kg, i.p.; S(-)-3-(3-(cyanophenyl)-N-n-propylpiperidine), a DA D2/3 and autoreceptor preferring antagonist, either alone (i.e. DS121 + saline injection) or in combination with cocaine (7.5 mg/kg, i.p.) were also given. DS121 (+ saline) increased locomotor activity in both saline and cocaine pump (CP) treated animals. DS121 also potentiated the effect of cocaine on locomotor activity; this effect was greatest in CP (tolerant) animals. It is concluded that DS121 can increase locomotor activity and that this effect is greatest when the DA tone is high, that is when cocaine is present, suggestive of a presynaptic mechanism. Furthermore, because DS121 potentiation of cocaine induced locomotor activity is greatest in tolerant animals it is concluded that supersensitive DA autoreceptors underlie this effect. These data further support our previous data, which show that DA autoreceptors are sensitized after continuous cocaine (minipump) treatment.
Forty Swedish victims of halogenated hydroxyquinoline neurotoxicity were claimed by Dr Hansson in 1981. He had seen only a few of these patients himself. Furthermore, in half the number of patients a neurological examination had been performed only long ago or not at all. A survey of these cases has never been presented. Therefore, extensive and, where possible, complete medical data were obtained for these 40 and one additional patient. A neurological differential diagnostic evaluation was made in each case. It was found that only one had a full-blown SMON syndrome. In all, only half of the patients in this series showed any evidence of a neurotoxic lesion due to clioquinol. The case stories were also presented in detail to the Baumgartner group, with similar diagnostic results. Detailed clinical data and differential diagnoses are presented in the communication.
Clioquinol is still consumed in India in considerable amounts but no new case reports have appeared since 1977. A review is made for a regional neurotoxicology group of an enquiry that we conducted in Bombay to gather information regarding SMON, spanning the period of 1967 to 1976. Nine patients were diagnosed with a variable degree of confidence as suffering from SMON, two from a retrospective search and seven after a prospective watch for the disease. Myelopathy with predominant more distal dysesthesia was seen more often than the full-blown picture of SMON. The peripheral neuropathy component (N) diagnosed clinically or electrophysiologically was seen only once. Pyramidal tract disturbances and resulting spasticity was as striking as posterior column disorder and sensory ataxia. Subacute myelopathy was seen in six patients, optico-myelopathy in two, and myeloneuropathy only once. It was clear that clioquinol has potential neurotoxicity, but no definitive explanation was forthcoming about the vast difference in the prevalence of SMON as reported from Japan and seen by us in Bombay.
Chronic cocaine use reduces glutamate levels in the nucleus accumbens (NAc), and is associated with experience-dependent changes in (+/-)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA) glutamate receptor membrane expression in NAc neurons. These changes accompany behavioral sensitization to cocaine and increased susceptibility to cocaine relapse. The functional relationship between neuroplasticity in AMPA receptors and the behavioral manifestation of cocaine addiction remains unclear. Thus, we examined the behavioral effects of up- and downregulating basal AMPA receptor function in the NAc core and shell using viral-mediated gene transfer of wild-type glutamate receptor 1 (wt-GluR1) or a dominant-negative pore-dead GluR1 (pd-GluR1), respectively. Transient increases in wt-GluR1 during or after cocaine treatments diminished the development of cocaine sensitization, while pd-GluR1 expression exacerbated cocaine sensitization. Parallel changes were found in D2, but not D1, receptor-mediated behavioral responses. As a correlate of the sensitization experiments, we overexpressed wt- or pd-GluR1 in the NAc core during cocaine self-administration, and tested the effects on subsequent drug-seeking behavior 3 weeks after overexpression declined. wt-GluR1 overexpression during self-administration had no effect on cocaine intake, but subsequently reduced cocaine seeking in extinction and cocaine-induced reinstatement, whereas pd-GluR1 facilitated cocaine-induced reinstatement. When overexpressed during reinstatement tests, wt-GluR1 directly attenuated cocaine- and D2 agonist-induced reinstatement, while pd-GluR1 enhanced reinstatement. In both experimental procedures, neither wt- nor pd-GluR1 expression affected cue-induced reinstatement. Together, these results suggest that degrading basal AMPA receptor function in NAc neurons is sufficient to facilitate relapse via sensitization in D2 receptor responses, whereas elevating basal AMPA receptor function attenuates these behaviors.
In order to evaluate the feasibility of dose-dense docetaxel followed by dose-dense AC (doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide) as adjuvant chemotherapy for operable breast cancer, we conducted a phase II study.
In cohort 1, 28 patients received docetaxel 100 mg/m2 followed by doxorubicin 60 mg/m2 with cyclophosphamide 600 mg/m2, each every 2 weeks for 4 weeks (total of 8 cycles). Enrollment was discontinued because of stopping criteria based on significant toxicity (grade 4 hematologic toxicity or grade >or= 3 nonhematologic toxicity). In cohort 2, the docetaxel dose was reduced to 75 mg/m2; enrollment was discontinued after 18 patients.
Significant toxicity occurred in 79% and 72% of patients in cohorts 1 and 2, respectively, resulting in treatment delays in 50% and 17% of patients, respectively. The most common grade 4 hematologic toxicity was neutropenia, which occurred in 7% and 42% of cohort 1 patients during docetaxel and AC, respectively, and in none and 19% of cohort 2 patients, respectively. The most common grade >or= 3 nonhematologic toxicity was palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia, which occurred in 25% and none of cohort 1 patients during docetaxel and AC, respectively. With docetaxel 75 mg/m2 and patient education encouraging routine use of topical strategies, grade 3 palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia occurred in only 11% of cohort 2 patients. Grade 2 nail changes were also debilitating and occurred in 33% of cohort 1 patients during AC.
These phase II findings suggest that dose-dense docetaxel 100 mg/m2 followed by AC is not feasible and, until more studies are conducted, should be restricted to clinical studies.
Porphyria cutanea tarda (PCT) is sometimes precipitated or aggravated by increased exposure to estrogen, estrogen-like compounds, or tamoxifen. We report the case of a 37-year-old white woman who developed sporadic PCT after she took oral contraceptives for 10 years. She was heterozygous for the common H63D mutation of the hemochromatosis-associated HFE gene. The PCT responded partially to the cessation of oral contraceptives and to phlebotomy therapy to maintain low iron stores, but only remitted after she received anastrozole therapy for management of adenocarcinoma of the breast at age 59 years. The pertinence of HFE mutations, anastrozole and tamoxifen treatment, and chemotherapy to the development and management of PCT in women with breast cancer is discussed.
Tumorigenesis is a complex process involving genetic, epigenetic, and metabolic alterations. Gestational arsenic exposure has been shown to increase hepatic tumors in adult male offspring of C3H mice, which spontaneously develop hepatic tumors often harboring activating Ha-ras mutation. We explored tumor-promoting changes by gestational arsenic exposure with a focus on Ha-ras mutation and gene expression changes. The results of this study demonstrated that gestational arsenic exposure particularly increased hepatic tumors with a C61A Ha-ras mutation. Real-time PCR analyses on the adult normal livers showed that two genes (Creld2, Slc25a30), whose expression are induced by endoplasmic reticulum stress and cellular oxidative stress, respectively, were significantly upregulated and two genes (Fabp4, Ell3), whose products are involved in lipid efflux and apoptosis, respectively, were significantly downregulated more than twofold by gestational arsenic exposure compared with control mice. The expression changes in the four genes were shown to be late-onset events and to some extent to be associated with corresponding histone modifications, and not with DNA methylation changes. The gene expression changes suggested alterations in lipid metabolism and associated oxidative stress augmentation. Consistently, expression of an oxidative-stress-inducible gene heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) was upregulated in the livers of the arsenic group. We also found increased expression of retrotransposon L1 mRNA in the tumor-bearing livers of the arsenic group in comparison with control mice. These results suggested that gestational arsenic exposure induces tumor-augmenting changes, including oxidative stress and L1 activation, in a late-onset manner, which would particularly promote tumorigenic expansion of cells with a C61A Ha-ras mutation.
A progressive deterioration in clinical state was noted in more than half of a group of 87 patients with parkinsonism treated with dopa for 4 to 6 years. The pattern of this deterioration is often quite particular: frequency of troubles with walking, falls, predominance of akinesia in certain motor functions, inconstant recurrence of tremor or rigidity. Some intellectual deterioration is sometimes seen, more common in those patients who had suffered episodes of mental confusion. 11 patients died. It may, however, be hoped that the average life expectancy will increase.
Phencyclidine (PCP), a glutamate/N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, has been shown to induce a range of symptoms similar to those of patients with schizophrenia, while D-amphetamine induces predominantly positive symptoms. Previous studies in our laboratory have shown that PCP can selectively impair the performance of an operant reversal-learning task in the rat. Furthermore, we found that the novel antipsychotic ziprasidone, but not the classical antipsychotic haloperidol, could prevent the PCP-induced deficit.
The aim of the present study was to validate the model further using the atypical antipsychotic clozapine and then to investigate the effects of lamotrigine, a broad-spectrum anticonvulsant that is known to reduce glutamate release in vitro and is able to prevent ketamine-induced psychotic symptoms in healthy human volunteers. A further aim was to compare effects of PCP and D-amphetamine in the test and investigate the effects of the typical antipsychotic haloperidol against the latter.
Female hooded-Lister rats were food deprived and trained to respond for food in a reversal-learning paradigm.
PCP at 1.5 mg/kg and 2.0 mg/kg and D-amphetamine at 0.5 mg/kg significantly and selectively impaired performance in the reversal phase of the task. The cognitive deficit induced by 1.5 mg/kg PCP was attenuated by prior administration of lamotrigine (20 mg/kg and 30 mg/kg) or clozapine (5 mg/kg), but not haloperidol (0.05 mg/kg). In direct contrast, haloperidol (0.05 mg/kg), but not lamotrigine (25 mg/kg) or clozapine (5 mg/kg), prevented a similar cognitive impairment produced by D-amphetamine (0.5 mg/kg).
Our findings provide further data to support the use of PCP-induced disruption of reversal learning in rodents to investigate novel antipsychotic drugs. The results also provide evidence for different mechanisms of PCP and D-amphetamine-induced disruption of performance in the test, and their different sensitivities to typical and atypical antipsychotic drugs.
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) has extremely skewed ethnic and geographic distributions, is poorly understood at the genetic level and is in need of effective therapeutic approaches. Here we determined the mutational landscape of 128 cases with NPC using whole-exome and targeted deep sequencing, as well as SNP array analysis. These approaches revealed a distinct mutational signature and nine significantly mutated genes, many of which have not been implicated previously in NPC. Notably, integrated analysis showed enrichment of genetic lesions affecting several important cellular processes and pathways, including chromatin modification, ERBB-PI3K signaling and autophagy machinery. Further functional studies suggested the biological relevance of these lesions to the NPC malignant phenotype. In addition, we uncovered a number of new druggable candidates because of their genomic alterations. Together our study provides a molecular basis for a comprehensive understanding of, and exploring new therapies for, NPC.
Epidemiologic studies of disinfection by-products have traditionally focused on total trihalomethane (TTHM) concentration as a surrogate for maternal exposure during pregnancy. We used birth certificate data on 196,000 infants to examine the effect of third-trimester exposures on various indices of fetal development. We examined the effect of town-average concentrations of TTHM and additional exposure metrics in relation to mean birth weight, mean gestational age, small for gestational age (SGA) infancy, and preterm delivery. Trihalomethane data (TTHM, chloroform, and bromodichloromethane) from 1995-1998 were available for 109 towns in Massachusetts. Data from 1997-1998 on haloacetic acid (total haloacetic acids, dichloroacetic acid, and trichloroacetic acid), 3-chloro-4-(dichloromethyl)-5- hydroxy-2(5H)-furanone (MX), and mutagenicity were available for a limited number of towns. We observed reductions in mean birth weight (12-18 g) for maternal trihalomethane exposures > the 90th percentile compared with those < the 50th percentile. Birth weight reductions were detected for chloroform exposures > 20 microg/L and TTHM exposures > 40 microg/L. Elevated trihalomethanes were associated with increases in gestational duration and a reduced risk of preterm delivery. We found evidence of an exposure-response effect of trihalomethanes on risk of SGA, with odds ratios (ORs) ranging from 1.09 to 1.23 for bromodichloromethane exposures > 5 microg/L. Elevated mutagenic activity was associated with SGA [OR = 1.25; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.04 to 1.51] and mean birth weight (-27 g; 95% CI, -54 to -1). Although smaller in magnitude, our findings are consistent with previous studies reporting associations between trihalomethanes and SGA. These data also suggest a relationship between fetal development indices and mutagenic activity independent of exposure to trihalomethanes, haloacetic acids, and MX.
The case of 52-year old patient was presented who developed urticaria and strong anginal pain after intravenous administration of uropoline. On the basis of typical clinical picture, electrocardiographical and biochemical changes acute myocardial infarction was recognised. It is thought to have developed as the consequence of anaphylactic reaction following intravenous administration of x-rays contrast substance.
Cocaine-induced myocardial infarction has been well reported. Likewise, there are numerous reports of patients with cocaine-induced myocardial infarction being treated conservatively with nitroglycerin, verapamil, and thrombolytics. However, based on a Medline search from 1977 to 1998 (with the keywords cocaine and angioplasty), there have been no reports in English of cocaine-induced myocardial infarction being treated with catheter-based intervention. We report such a case, as well as review what is known about the pathophysiology of cocaine-induced coronary arteriopathy and myocardial infarction.
The effect of norethisterone enanthate on clinical and biochemical parameters was studied in 9 normal women aged 21-29 years. Blood samples were taken before and 2, 6, 10, and 14 weeks after injection. Significant changes in serum proteins were observed, as was a significant increase in blood coagulability. Serum triglycerides were significantly lower. Thrombosis and effects on adrenal cortex function and on glucose tolerance were not observed. Side effects included breakthrough bleeding, nausea, headache, fatigue, nervousness, breast tension, and backache.
Cancer genome sequencing studies have identified numerous driver genes, but the relative timing of mutations in carcinogenesis remains unclear. The gradual progression from premalignant Barrett's esophagus to esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC) provides an ideal model to study the ordering of somatic mutations. We identified recurrently mutated genes and assessed clonal structure using whole-genome sequencing and amplicon resequencing of 112 EACs. We next screened a cohort of 109 biopsies from 2 key transition points in the development of malignancy: benign metaplastic never-dysplastic Barrett's esophagus (NDBE; n=66) and high-grade dysplasia (HGD; n=43). Unexpectedly, the majority of recurrently mutated genes in EAC were also mutated in NDBE. Only TP53 and SMAD4 mutations occurred in a stage-specific manner, confined to HGD and EAC, respectively. Finally, we applied this knowledge to identify high-risk Barrett's esophagus in a new non-endoscopic test. In conclusion, mutations in EAC driver genes generally occur exceptionally early in disease development with profound implications for diagnostic and therapeutic strategies.
The present study deals with the synthesis, characterization of zinc-morin complex and evaluation of its antidiabetic efficacy in High Fat Diet (HFD)-fedStreptozotocin (STZ) induced diabetic rats. Oral administration of zinc-morin complex to diabetic rats (5mg/kg body weight/day) for a period of 30 days resulted in the decreased levels of blood glucose and HbA1c. Oral administrations of the zinc-morin complex for 30 days significantly improved hyperglycemia, glucose intolerance, and insulin resistance. The elevated levels of lipid peroxides declined and the antioxidant competence was found to be improved in diabetic rats treated with the complex. The status of the lipid and lipoprotein profile in the serum was normalized upon treatment. Levels of TNFα decreased upon treatment with the complex. The altered levels of adipokines such as adiponectin and leptin were normalized upon treatment with the complex. In conclusion, the present study indicates that the zinc-morin complex possesses antidiabetic, antidyslipidemic and antioxidant potentials in HFD-fedSTZ induced diabetic rats.
Although of clinical interest, the question is still not fully answered whether antidepressants (AD) can cause or exacerbate restless legs syndrome (RLS). The literature provides contradictory information. This study addresses this problem for the class of second generation AD. In four neurological offices, all patients treated for the first time with an AD were prospectively observed with regard to the question of whether RLS occurred or pre-existing RLS worsened as a result of the medication. Because initial treatment in the participating offices is mainly executed with "modern" selective AD, the study was restricted to these drugs (fluoxetine, paroxetine, citalopram, sertraline, escitalopram, venlafaxine, duloxetine, reboxetine, and mirtazapine). In 9% of patients, RLS was recorded as a side effect related to the administration of AD. The frequency of this side effect varied among the drugs. The problem is most pronounced with mirtazapine provoking or deteriorating RLS in 28% of patients. By contrast, no case occurred during use of reboxetine. As for the other AD, the rate of newly occurred and deteriorated RLS, ranged from 5% to 10%. Typically, RLS occurred during the initial days of treatment.
Shock and multiple organ failure remain primary causes of late-stage morbidity and mortality in victims of trauma. During shock, the intestine is subject to extensive cell death and is the source of inflammatory factors that cause multiorgan failure. We (34) showed previously that ischemic, but not nonischemic, small intestines and pancreatic protease digested homogenates of normal small intestine can generate cytotoxic factors capable of killing naive cells within minutes. Using chloroform/methanol separation of rat small intestine homogenates into lipid fractions and aqueous and sedimented protein fractions and measuring cell death caused by those fractions, we found that the cytotoxic factors are lipid in nature. Recombining the lipid fraction with protein fractions prevented cell death, except when homogenates were protease digested. Using a fluorescent substrate, we found high levels of lipase activity in intestinal homogenates and cytotoxic levels of free fatty acids. Addition of albumin, a lipid binding protein, prevented cell death, unless the albumin was previously digested with protease. Homogenization of intestinal wall in the presence of the lipase inhibitor orlistat prevented cell death after protease digestion. In vivo, orlistat plus the protease inhibitor aprotinin, administered to the intestinal lumen, significantly improved survival time compared with saline in a splanchnic arterial occlusion model of shock. These results indicate that major cytotoxic mediators derived from an intestine under in vitro conditions are free fatty acids. Breakdown of free fatty acid binding proteins by proteases causes release of free fatty acids to act as powerful cytotoxic mediators.
