Adriamycin (doxorubicin) is one of the most effective chemotherapeutic agents against a variety of cancers, but its usefulness is seriously curtailed by the risk of developing heart failure. Available laboratory evidence suggests that an increase in oxidative stress, brought about by increased free radical production and decreased myocardial endogenous antioxidants, plays an important role in the pathogenesis of heart failure. Adriamycin-induced apoptosis and hyperlipidemia may also be involved in the process. Probucol, a lipid-lowering drug and an antioxidant, completely prevents the occurrence of heart failure by reducing oxidative stress as well as by the modulation of apoptosis and high lipid concentrations. Thus, combined therapy with adriamycin and probucol has a high potential for optimizing the treatment of cancer patients.
To describe a case of fosinopril-induced severe cholestatic jaundice successfully treated with plasma exchange.
A 78-year-old Taiwanese male presented with yellowish skin and generalized itching one month after starting fosinopril 10 mg once a day. Other drugs taken by the patient were excluded as the probable cause of jaundice. Diagnostic modalities, including abdominal ultrasound, computed tomography, and endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography, revealed no evidence of biliary tract obstruction or intraabdominal tumor. According to the Council for International Organizations of Medical Science (CIOMS) scale, fosinopril was a highly probable cause of the patient's jaundice. Liver biopsy showed cholestasis without bile duct damage. Based on results of the CIOMS scale assessment and pathological characteristics of the liver, the diagnosis was highly probable that fosinopril had induced cholestatic jaundice in our patient. During hospitalization, the patient developed severe jaundice and liver failure, despite conservative treatment and withdrawal of fosinopril. He underwent a 5-day course of plasma exchange therapy, and the serum bilirubin level declined rapidly after treatment. His liver function returned to normal 2 months after treatment.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor-induced hepatotoxicity is rare and only a few cases, with most involving captopril, have been reported in the English-language literature. Hepatotoxicity caused by fosinopril is extremely rare. Most ACE inhibitor-induced hepatotoxicity is mild and transient, but it can be fatal. Although orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) is the standard method for treating drug-induced liver failure, plasma exchange therapy is an alternative therapeutic method or a bridge to OLT for treating liver failure.
Plasma exchange therapy may play a valuable role in the treatment of fosinopril-induced cholestatic jaundice and liver failure. This intervention can be considered for temporary liver support until recovery or OLT.
In this study, we evaluated the effects of intradermal fentanyl and ketamine on capsaicin-induced hyperalgesia and axon-reflex flare. In addition, we obtained dose-response curves for possible local anesthetic effects. Saline (200 microL) and either fentanyl (1 microg or 10 microg in 200 microL) or ketamine (100 microg or 1000 microg in 200 microL) were injected simultaneously into the central volar forearm of 12 healthy volunteers. Nine minutes later, capsaicin (10 microg in 20 microL) was injected intracutaneously exactly between the two injection sites. Areas of touch-evoked allodynia and pinprick hyperalgesia, as well as intensity of pinprick hyperalgesia at the injection sites and axon-reflex flare, were evaluated. Fentanyl did not affect the area or intensity of secondary hyperalgesia. Only the larger concentration of fentanyl locally diminished axon-reflex flare without affecting mechanical detection thresholds. Inhibitory effects of ketamine on intensity of secondary hyperalgesia and axon reflex flare were observed only in the larger concentration. However, this concentration also clearly elevated mechanical detection thresholds. No inhibitory effects of ketamine in the smaller concentrations were observed. We conclude that fentanyl inhibits neuropeptide release on peripheral application without modulating secondary hyperalgesia. Ketamine failed to inhibit both secondary hyperalgesia and axon reflex flare as long as nonlocal anesthetic concentrations were applied.
We investigated the peripheral effects of fentanyl and ketamine on capsaicin-induced hyperalgesia and axon-reflex flare. In large concentrations, the opioid diminished axon-reflex flare without effects on secondary hyperalgesia. We found no evidence for the involvement of endogenous glutamate in secondary hyperalgesia or axon reflex flare.
This report describes a middle-aged female who received imipramine for 7 days, developed severe cholestatic jaundice with features similar to primary biliary cirrhosis, and then improved clinically over the next 12 mo. Biochemical and histologic abnormalities persisted over a 14-yr period of follow-up, though subsequent administration of haloperidol may have influenced the long-term course. High levels of circulating immune complexes were also found 14 yr later, which raises questions about the relationship of primary biliary cirrhosis to drug-induced liver injury. A review of the literature on imipramine- and phenothiazine-related hepatic injuries reveals multiple similarities, and this case provides further evidence for a common hepatic reaction to the two drugs.
Severe cardiovascular complications occurred in eight of 160 patients treated with terbutaline for preterm labor. Associated corticosteroid therapy and twin gestations appear to be predisposing factors. Potential mechanisms of the pathophysiology are briefly discussed.
RRAD, a small Ras-related GTPase, is highly expressed in human skeletal muscle, lung, and heart. Although loss of expression of RRAD in breast cancer cells has been reported and it may act as an oncogene, the mechanism of silencing is unknown.
We examined (1) mRNA expression of RRAD in lung and breast cancer cell lines using RT-PCR and (2) methylation status of lung and breast cancers.
Loss of RRAD expression was found in 14 of 20 (70%) NSCLC cell lines, 11 of 11 (100%) SCLC cell lines, and 8 of 10 (80%) breast cancer cell lines; expression was not affected in normal bronchial and mammary epithelial cells. Treatment of 23 expression-negative cell lines with a demethylating agent restored expression in all cases. We developed a methylation-specific assay from the analysis of bisulfite sequencing of the 5' region of RRAD in expression-negative and positive cell lines, which resulted in good concordance between methylation and expression. Primary lung and breast cancers showed hypermethylation in 89 of 214 (42%) and 39 of 63 (62%) cases, respectively. RRAD hypermethylation correlated with smoking history and poorer prognosis in lung adenocarcinomas.
We conclude that epigenetic silencing of RRAD is a frequent event in lung and breast cancers, and analysis of it may provide novel opportunities for prognosis and therapy of these cancers.
The extent of cerebral ischemia, assessed by the Alberta Stroke Program Early CT Score (ASPECTS) method and unaided visual determination of the CT Summit Criterion, correlates with increased risk of intracerebral hemorrhage following rt-PA administration. Concerns about the accuracy of the unaided visual assessment in the estimation of infarct size and the conservative nature of the ASPECTS method led us to develop a new method (MCAGrid) based on stereological grid counting and a digital atlas of the middle cerebral artery (MCA) infarct territory.
We tested the hypotheses that the stereological method increases the accuracy of infarct estimation and that the number of patients deemed eligible for thrombolysis is greater with this method than with existing methods. Four experienced radiologists with extensive neuroradiological experience examined the CT images of 19 patients with MCA territory stroke and determined patient eligibility for thrombolysis by: unaided visual determination of the CT Summit Criterion, MCAGrid, and the ASPECTS score. The chi(2) test was used to compare the differences in the number of patients deemed 'eligible' for thrombolysis by the 3 imaging methods. Further, the unaided visual assessment and MCAGrid were compared with volumes calculated following manual segmentation of infarct, and the sensitivity, specificity and positive and negative likelihood ratios for these techniques were calculated.
In general, MCAGrid was better than unaided visual assessment in the prediction of >1/3 involvement of the MCA territory by infarct. The number of patients considered as 'eligible' for thrombolysis based on imaging criteria was significantly lower when ASPECTS criteria (15/76) were used than when unaided visual determination of the CT Summit Criterion (32/76; p < 0.01) or MCAGrid (59/76; p < 0.001) criteria were used.
The choice of methods for rating infarct extent affects the number of patients 'eligible' for thrombolysis significantly. Furthermore, MCAGrid increased the accuracy with which infarct extent was estimated. These results provide justification for a prospective study of this technique in the setting of acute stroke.
Involuntary movements are an infrequent complication of treatment with phenytoin and include tremor, asterixis, myoclonus, parkinsonism, and dyskinesias. The mechanism by which phenytoin exerts its actions is unclear. Phenytoin has been observed to exert variable effects on dopamine metabolites and also may induce changes in serotonergic activity. In this report, we discuss the available experimental evidence concerning the possible mechanisms of involuntary movements induced by phenytoin. We describe a case of postural myoclonus during treatment with phenytoin.
Repeated injections of methamphetamine (METH) cause degeneration of striatal dopaminergic nerve terminals. In the present study, we examined the effects of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) on METH-induced striatal neurotoxicity in mice. Intraperitoneal injection of IFN-gamma before METH injection significantly prevented METH-induced reduction of striatal dopamine transporter (DAT)-positive signals and hyperthermia. Furthermore, intracerebroventricular injection of IFN-gamma before METH treatment markedly prevented METH-induced reduction of DAT. Interestingly, central IFN-gamma injection had no effect on METH-induced hyperthermia. In addition, IFN-gamma injected centrally after METH treatment, but not systemically, 1h after the final METH injection significantly protected against METH-induced neurotoxicity. Our results suggest that IFN-gamma injected systemically or its related molecule protects against METH-induced neurotoxicity through intracerebral molecular pathways, while it can prevent METH-induced hyperthermia through different molecular events.
The novel drugs, ladostigil (TV3326) and TV3279, are R and S isomers, respectively, derived from a combination of the carbamate cholinesterase (ChE) inhibitor, rivastigmine, and the pharmacophore of the monoamine oxidase (MAO) B inhibitor, rasagiline. They were developed for the treatment of comorbidity of dementia with Parkinsonism. In the present study, we determined the effects of these drugs on both aminergic neurotransmitter levels and motor behavioral activity in naïve and in L-dopa- or L-tryptophan-induced rats. Chronic treatment of rats with ladostigil (52 mg kg(-1) for 21 days) inhibited hippocampal and striatal MAO A and B activities by >90%, increased striatal levels of dopamine and serotonin, and inhibited striatal ChE activity by approximately 50%. Chronic TV3279 (26 mg kg(-1) for 21 days) similarly inhibited approximately 50% of striatal ChE activity, but did not affect MAO activity or amine levels. In sharp contrast to the inductive effect of the MAO A/B inhibitor, tranylcypromine (TCP), on stereotyped hyperactivity in response to L-dopa (50 mg kg(-1)) or L-tryptophan (100 mg kg(-1)), ladostigil completely inhibited these behavioral hyperactivity syndromes. Accordingly, acute rivastigmine (2 mg kg(-1)) and chronic TV3279 abolished the ability of TCP to initiate L-dopa-induced hyperactivity, while scopolamine (0.5 mg kg(-1)) reversed the inhibitory effect of chronic ladostigil on L-dopa-induced hyperactivity, suggesting that ladostigil may attenuate successive locomotion by activating central cholinergic muscarinic receptors.Finally, while chronic ladostigil administration to naïve rats resulted in preserved spontaneous motor behavior, acute treatment with ladostigil decreased motor performance, compared to control animals. In contrast, chronic as well as acute treatments with TV3279 reduced spontaneous motor activity. Thus, the aminergic potentiation by ladostigil may counteract its cholinergic inhibitory effect on spontaneous motor behavior. Our results suggest that potentiation of both aminergic and cholinergic transmission systems by ladostigil contributes equally to motor behavior performance, which is substantially impaired in comorbidity of dementia with Parkinsonism including dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB).
To clarify the possible mechanism of non-genotoxic hepatocarcinogenesis induced by piperonyl butoxide (PBO), male F344 rats were administered an i.p. injection of N-diethylnitrosamine (DEN) to initiate hepatocarcinogenesis. Two weeks later, the rats were administered a PBO-containing (0, 1, or 2%) diet for 6 weeks and subjected to a two-third partial hepatectomy 1 week later. After sacrificing them on week 8, their livers were histopathologically examined and analyzed for gene expression using a microarray and real-time RT-PCR. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) products were also measured using liver microsomes. Hepatocytes exhibited centrilobular hypertrophy and increased glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P) positive foci formation. ROS products increased significantly in liver microsomes. In the microarray analysis, the expressions of genes related to metabolism and oxidative stress - NAD(P)H dehydrogenase, quinone 1 (Nqo1), UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UDPGTR-2), glutathione peroxidase 2 (Gpx2), glutathione reductase (GRx) - multidrug resistance associated protein 3 (Abcc3), and solute carrier family 7 (cationic amino acid transporter, y+ system) member 5 (Slc7a5) were up-regulated in the PBO group in comparison to the 0% PBO group; this was confirmed by real-time RT-PCR. Additionally, a significant up-regulation of stress response related genes such as CYP1A1 was observed in PBO-treated groups in real-time RT-PCR. HPLC analysis revealed that the level of 8-OHdG in the 2% PBO group was significantly higher than that in the 0% PBO group. This suggests that PBO has the potential to generate ROS via metabolic pathways and induce oxidative stress, including oxidative DNA damage, resulting in the induction of hepatocellular tumors in rats.
Brassinolide is a plant sterol first isolated from pollen of rape (Brassica napus L.). The present study was carried out to investigate the effect of brassinolide on androgen-independent human prostate cancer PC-3 cell viability. Results showed that brassinolide could induce a time and concentration-dependent cytotoxicity in PC-3 cells. The mode of cell death appeared to be predominately apoptosis, as shown by flow-cytometric analysis, fluorescence and transmission electron microscopes. Caspase-3 activity was obviously increased after brassinolide treatment. Western blot studies indicated that treatment with brassinolide triggered a time-dependent decrease in the expression of anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2. We suggest that brassinolide could induce cytotoxicity in PC-3 cells by triggering apoptosis. Brassinolide might therefore be a promising candidate for the treatment of prostate cancer.
Modulation of dopamine (DA) receptors by cations (Na+, K+, Mg2+, Ca2+) was compared in 7315a, MtTW15, and estradiol valerate-induced (EV-T) pituitary tumors, and intact adenohypophysis. In 7315a tumors, the affinity of [3H]spiperone binding measured at 25 degrees remained unchanged in the presence of each cation individually or all these cations together (IONS) compared to the affinity obtained using a buffer without ions; the density (Bmax) was not affected by monovalent cations or Mg2+ and was decreased by Ca2+ or IONS. When binding experiments were done at 37 degrees, monovalent cations increased affinity whereas divalent cations or IONS did not modify it, and none of these cations affected Bmax values. In MtTW15 tumors, the affinity of [3H]spiperone binding measured at 25 degrees was not changed by Na+ or IONS and was decreased by K+ or divalent cations; the density was decreased by K+ and unchanged by all the other cations. When binding experiments were done at 37 degrees, Na+ increased the affinity, whereas all the other cations did not affect it: the density was unaffected by all the cations studied. In EV-T assayed at 37 degrees, the affinity was increased by monovalent cations or Mg2+ and was unchanged by Ca2+; monovalent cations did not affect the density of [3H]spiperone binding and divalent cations increased it. In binding experiments performed at 25 degrees and 37 degrees, choline chloride did not change the affinity or the density of [3H]spiperone binding to DA receptors in the three pituitary tumors investigated, suggesting that the effect of cations was specific and not due to differences in ionic strength. In the rat normal anterior pituitary, Na+ increased the affinity of [3H]spiperone for the DA receptors, whereas the affinity was unchanged by Ca2+; the density of [3H]spiperone binding was unaffected by these cations. Our results suggest that DA receptors in 7315a and MtTW15 tumors are regulated abnormally by sodium, potassium, magnesium and calcium. In contrast, DA receptors in EV-T are regulated normally by monovalent cations and abnormally by divalent cations as compared to these receptors in intact pituitary tissue.
The present study examined the mechanisms of nicotine's effect on angiogenesis and its impact on tumor growth. Nicotine demonstrated significant (P<0.01) stimulation of the release of endothelial cell growth factor, basic fibroblast growth factor (b-FGF) but not vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). In a concentration-dependent manner, nicotine induced endothelial cell tube formation. Additionally, in the chick chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) model of angiogenesis, nicotine effectively induced the generation of new blood vessels (P<0.01), an effect that is mediated via b-FGF. The pro-angiogenesis effect of nicotine in the CAM model was maximally blocked by either anti-integrin alphavbeta3 or inhibitor of mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK, ERK 1/2). In the CAM tumor implant model, nicotine doubled (P<0.01) the growth rate of breast, colon, and lung cancer. These data indicated that the pro-angiogenesis effect is mediated via b-FGF and induced through the nicotinic receptor, alphavbeta3 integrin, and MAPK.
The effects of intra-striatal injection of kainic acid on cardiovascular function were assessed in urethane-anesthetized rats. Intra-striatal administration of 2 micrograms of kainic acid (in a volume of 0.5 microliter) produced both tachycardia and hypertension. The tachycardia induced by intra-striatal injection of kainic acid was antagonized by either prior bilateral vagotomy or spinal transection of the animals (at C7). On the other hand, the hypertension induced by intra-striatal administration of kainic acid was antagonized by prior bilateral vagotomy, but not spinal transection. In addition, reflex bradycardia was produced by intravenous infusion of adrenaline in rats. Over the dose range (1.25-5.0 micrograms/kg, i.v.) of adrenaline used, a dose-dependent bradycardia was obtained. It was found that pretreatment of animals with intra-striatal injection of kainic acid, although causing no change in the adrenaline-induced pressor effect, did reduce the adrenaline-induced bradycardia. Intravenous administration of same dose of kainic acid had no effect on these cardiovascular responses. Thus, the data indicate that striatal neurones are involved in the central control of cardiovascular function.
The feasibility of using chemosensitizers in the circumvention of P-glycoprotein-mediated multidrug resistance has been shown in many studies. We recently reported on the chemosensitizing effect of cyclosporin A (CsA) on doxorubicin in a rat solid tumour model. Using the same experimental design we investigated the side-effects of the combination treatment. During the 35-day experiment doxorubicin treatment caused dose-dependent weight loss, which was enhanced by combination treatment with CsA. The main doxorubicin-related side-effects were myelosuppression (transient leucopenia and thrombopenia) and nephrotoxicity. Damage to the kidney was severe, leading to a nephrotic syndrome and resulting in ascites, pleural effusion, hypercholesterolaemia and hypertriglyceridaemia. These toxicities were enhanced by the addition of the chemosensitizer CsA. Mild doxorubicin-related cardiomyopathy and minimal hepatotoxicity were seen on histological examination. There were no signs of enhanced toxicity of the combination treatment in tissues with known high expression levels of P-glycoprotein, like the liver, adrenal gland and large intestine. CsA had a low toxicity profile, as it only caused a transient rise in bilirubin. In conclusion, the chemosensitizer CsA enhanced the side-effects of the anticancer drug doxorubicin without altering the toxicity pattern. There was no evidence of a therapeutic gain by adding CsA to doxorubicin, compared to single-agent treatment with doxorubicin in 25%-33% higher doses, because of the enhanced toxicity of the combination treatment.
To examine the relationship between myocardial ischemia in patients with steal-prone coronary anatomy and the administration of isoflurane anesthesia, we reviewed coronary angiograms of 955 patients who had participated in a randomized trial of the use of one of four primary anesthetics for coronary artery bypass operations. Steal-prone anatomy was found in 31.8% of patients who had received enflurane; 40.0%, halothane; 32.6%, isoflurane; and 31.7%, sufentanil. Detected by greater than or equal to 0.1 mV ST segment displacement, ischemia during anesthesia occurred in 290 (30.4%) of all patients with no difference in the incidence among the four primary anesthetics (27.5%-32.9%). Patients with steal-prone anatomy did not suffer more ischemia than patients who needed coronary artery bypass surgery but with other varieties of coronary anatomy. In patients with steal-prone coronary anatomy, the incidence of myocardial ischemia by primary anesthetic was 24.0% with enflurane, 34.4% with halothane, 32.1% with isoflurane, and 38.2% with sufentanil. Systolic blood pressure less than 90 mm Hg during anesthesia occurred in 416 (45.6%) patients and was twice as common during administration of volatile anesthetics than during that of sufentanil. Hypotension did not increase ischemia frequency in patients with steal-prone anatomy with use of any of the four primary anesthetics including isoflurane. Ischemia was temporally related to hypotension in only 9 patients (0.9%). In none of the 42 patients who had steal-prone anatomy and hypotension during isoflurane anesthesia was ischemia temporally related to hypotension.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To assess the hemodynamic, oxygen-dynamic and ventilative effects of Zafirlukast in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) induced chronic cor pulmonale at acute exacerbation stage and the mechanisms of Zafirlukast efficacy.
Eleven cases of chronic cor pulmonale at acute exacerbation were examined using Swan-Ganz catheter and peripheral intra-artery catheter. The hemodynamic, oxygen-dynamic parameters and respiratory rate, plasma endothelium-1 (ET-1) level, and urea leukotriene E(4) (LTE(4)) level were measured before and at the 1st, 3rd, 5th, 7th, 9th, 12th hour after taking 40 mg Zafirlukast orally. Arterial and mixed venous blood gas analyses were done correspondingly.
The average pulmonary arterial pressure (mPAP) and pulmonary vascular resistance index (PVRI) were lowered at the 3rd hour after taking Zafirlukast by 23% and 36.5%, respectively. They returned to the baseline around 12th hour. Respiratory rate decreased significantly within the 3rd-7th hour after taking Zafirlukast. LTE(4) and ET-1 levels lowered at the 3rd hour and showed a positive correlation with change of mPAP.
Zafirlukast can reduce mPAP, pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) and does not affect the ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) and oxygenation in cases of chronic cor pulmonale at acute exacerbation stage. Zafirlukast may play a role as an alternative to decrease PAP in COPD patients.
An intracardiac aldosterone system which responds to short- and long-term physiological stimuli has been described. This cardiac generated aldosterone has possibly autocrine or paracrine actions. Normal cardiac tissue contains mineralocorticoid receptors (MR) and cardiac high affinity MR are localized in cardiac myocytes and endothelial cells. Data concerning the presence of MR in cardiac fibroblasts are, however, controversial. MR are not specific for aldosterone but they also bind glucocorticoids. Cardiac fibroblasts however contain the enzyme 11beta-hydroxy-steroid dehydrogenase II which converts these glucocorticoids to inactive metabolites. Discordant findings on the in vitro effect of aldosterone on the collagen synthesis in cardiac fibroblasts are reported and can at least partly attributed to the presence of various fibroblasts phenotypes. During chronic aldosterone infusion in uninephrectomized rats on a high-salt diet, a marked accumulation of interstitial and to a lesser extent perivascular collagen occurs in the heart in both ventricles. This cardiac fibrosis in this aldosteronism model is prevented by spironolactone. This effect of aldosterone is crucially dependent on the salt status of the rat. Indeed, rats on a restricted salt intake infused with aldosterone had no cardiac fibrosis above control levels. During the continuous infusion of aldosterone in the rat the appearance of fibrosis was delayed and starts 4 weeks after the beginning of the infusion which argues against a direct effect of aldosterone. The mechanism of aldosterone-salt induced cardiac fibrosis possibly involves angiotensin II acting through upregulated AT1 receptors and the cardiac AT1 receptor is the target for aldosterone. An accumulation of collagen in the heart has also been found in patients with adrenal adenomas and during chronic activation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system such as in surgically induced unilateral renal ischemia, unilateral renal artery banding or renovascular hypertension. Spironolactone prevents aortic collagen accumulation in spontaneously hypertensive rats. In patients with stable chronic heart failure spironolactone treatment in addition to diuretics and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition reduced circulating levels of procollagen type III N-terminal aminopeptide. Also, in the Randomized Aldactone Evaluation Study spironolactone coadministered with conventional therapy of ACE inhibitors, loop diuretics and digitalis in patients with symptomatic heart failure defined as NYHA classes III-IV reduces total mortality by 30%.
Compared to men, women may be at greater risk for smoking-related diseases and have greater difficulty quitting smoking. Sex differences in medication response could guide treatment for smoking cessation to improve women's quit rates. We conducted a meta-analysis of the 14 placebo-controlled nicotine patch trials (N = 6,250) for which long-term (6 months) clinical outcome results could be determined separately by sex. This analysis updated a meta-analysis of 11 of these trials that found no significant sex differences due to nicotine patch. The increase in quitting due to the nicotine vs. placebo patch was only about half as large in women as in men. Pooled absolute quit rates at 6 months for nicotine and placebo patch, respectively, were 20.1% and 10.8% in men, and 14.7% and 10.1% in women. The odds ratio for quitting due to nicotine vs. placebo patch was lower in women (OR = 1.61) than in men (OR = 2.20), with an interaction odds ratio of 1.40 (95% CI = 1.02-1.93, p = .04). This sex difference did not vary significantly by whether or not formal counseling was provided. Poorer outcomes in women vs. men treated with nicotine patch suggests that increasing the quit rates of women smokers may require supplementing patch treatment or use of other medications.
Adefovir dipivoxil possesses potent in vitro and in vivo antiviral activity in wild-type hepatitis B. This study assessed the safety and efficacy of adefovir dipivoxil alone and in combination with lamivudine compared with ongoing lamivudine therapy in patients with chronic hepatitis B with compensated liver disease and lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B virus (HBV).
Fifty-nine hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg)-positive patients with genotypic evidence of lamivudine-resistant HBV, serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) level > or =1.2 times the upper limit of normal, and serum HBV DNA level > or =6 log(10) copies/mL despite ongoing treatment with lamivudine were randomized to adefovir dipivoxil 10 mg, lamivudine 100 mg, or addition of adefovir dipivoxil to ongoing lamivudine daily. The primary end point was the time-weighted average change from baseline in serum HBV DNA level (DAVG) up to week 16.
Rapid reductions in serum HBV DNA level were seen by 4 weeks in all recipients of adefovir dipivoxil; DAVG(16) was -0.07 in the lamivudine group compared with -2.45 and -2.46 log(10) copies/mL in the adefovir dipivoxil/lamivudine and adefovir dipivoxil monotherapy groups, respectively (P < 0.001). Median change from baseline in serum HBV DNA level at week 48 was 0.0, -3.59, and -4.04 log(10) copies/mL in the lamivudine, adefovir dipivoxil/lamivudine, and adefovir dipivoxil groups, respectively. ALT level normalized in 10 of 19 (53%) and 9 of 18 (47%) recipients of adefovir dipivoxil/lamivudine and adefovir dipivoxil, respectively, compared with 1 of 19 (5%) recipients of lamivudine. Three patients receiving adefovir dipivoxil or adefovir dipivoxil/lamivudine and none receiving lamivudine monotherapy were HBeAg negative at week 48 and one became hepatitis B surface antigen negative.
These data, limited to patients with compensated liver disease, indicate that adefovir dipivoxil alone or in combination with ongoing lamivudine therapy provides effective antiviral therapy in patients with lamivudine-resistant HBV.
The temporal changes in the electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) signal intensities of a nitroxide radical, 4-hydroxy 2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidine-1-oxyl (TEMPOL), in the kidney in rat puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) nephrosis were investigated in vivo and in vitro. The rats of the PAN nephrosis group received intraperitoneal injections of PAN at 75 mg/kg body weight while those of control group received saline. The in vivo renal half-lives of TEMPOL were calculated from the decay curve of EPR signal intensities after the intravenous injection of the TEMPOL solution. The mitochondrial half-lives were obtained from the decay curve of the EPR signals after mixing the mitochondrial fraction of the kidney and TEMPOL solution. The in vivo half-lives of TEMPOL of the kidney from 7 to 14 d after PAN administration were significantly longer than those of the controls. The mitochondrial half-lives of TEMPOL on the 9th day after the PAN administration prolonged remarkably compared to the controls (378 +/- 69 vs. 676 +/- 183 s, p <.01). These findings indicate that the in vivo and mitochondrial reducing activity in PAN treated rats decreased markedly, because the half-life of TEMPOL in the kidney reflects the renal reducing activity.
A 67-year-old woman with a 30-year history of dysthyroid orbitopathy and diplopia had an inadvertent injection of botulinum toxin type A into the vitreous cavity. Full pupil mydriasis and an intraocular pressure (IOP) of 50 mm Hg in the right eye were noted after the injection. An attack of acute angle closure was initially suspected despite a patent peripheral iridotomy (PI). The episode resolved with topical and intravenous IOP-lowering agents. Postoperative retinal examination revealed a retinal tear, which was successfully treated with laser photocoagulation. Visual acuity returned to baseline within 2 weeks, and the results of further retinal examinations remained stable.
This case supports the animal studies and human case reports that have demonstrated no retinal toxicity after intraocular injections of botulinum toxin type A. Temporary mydriasis and elevated IOP that may occur after injection do not appear to be detrimental and can be treated with topical and intravenous IOP-lowering agents. Transiently elevated IOP after injection is most likely due to volume increase, though acute angle closure with occlusion of the PI might be considered.
If permanent focal ischemia is induced by middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO), neurons within the infarcted territory die by necrosis and apoptosis (or programmed cell death). We have previously shown, using a mouse strain transgenic (tg) for the nerve growth factor (NGF) gene, that tg mice have consistently smaller infarcted areas than wild-type (wt) animals, correlated with upregulated NGF synthesis and impaired apoptotic cell death. We studied, in wt and tg mice subjected to MCAO, the activities of several antioxidant enzymes and the synthesis of the proteins of the Bcl-2 family. Our results show that the antiapoptotic Bcl-2 protein and glutathione peroxidase are recruited after MCAO. NGF-tg mice also had an intrinsic resistance to oxidative stress because their basal copper zinc superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione transferase activities were high. Additionally, manganese SOD activity increased in NGF-tg mice after MCAO, correlating strongly with the resistance of these mice to apoptosis.
Ifosfamide is a well known prodrug for cancer treatment with cytochrome P450 metabolism. It is associated with both antitumor activity and toxicities. Isophosphoramide mustard is the bisalkylating active metabolite, and acrolein is a urotoxic side product. Because acrolein toxicity is limited by coadministration of sodium mercaptoethanesulfonate, the incidence of urotoxicity has been lowered. Current evidence suggests that chloroacetaldehyde, a side-chain oxidation metabolite, is responsible for neurotoxicity and nephrotoxicity. The aim of our research is to prevent chloroacetaldehyde formation using new enantioselectively synthesized ifosfamide analogs, i.e., C7,C9-dimethyl-ifosfamide. We hypothesize that reduced toxicogenic catabolism may induce less toxicity without changing anticancer activity. Metabolite determinations of the dimethyl-ifosfamide analogs were performed using liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry after in vitro biotransformation by drug-induced rat liver microsomes and human microsomes expressing the main CYP3A4 and minor CYP2B6 enzymes. Both human and rat microsomes incubations produced the same N-deschloroalkylated and 4-hydroxylated metabolites. A coculture assay of 9L rat glioblastoma cells and rat microsomes was performed to evaluate their cytotoxicity. Finally, a mechanistic study using (31)P NMR kinetics allowed estimating the alkylating activity of the modified mustards. The results showed that C7,C9-dimethyl-ifosfamide exhibited increased activities, although they were still metabolized through the same N-deschloroalkylation pathway. Analogs were 4 to 6 times more cytotoxic than ifosfamide on 9L cells, and the generated dimethylated mustards were 28 times faster alkylating agents than ifosfamide mustards. Among these new ifosfamide analogs, the 7S,9R-enantiomer will be assessed for further in vivo investigations for its anticancer activity and its toxicological profile.
