To report a case of clozapine-induced hypertension with raised urinary catecholamines.
A 27-year-old man fulfilling DSM-III-R criteria for catatonic schizophrenia was treated with clozapine. He later developed both hypertension and raised urinary catecholamines which mimicked phaeochromocytoma.
Clozapine was withdrawn.
Both blood pressure and urinary catecholamines normalised.
Clozapine may induce sympathetic hyperactivity.
Elevated manganese superoxide dismutase (Sod2) levels have been reported to be associated with an increased frequency of tumor invasion and metastasis in certain cancers, and the aim of this study is to examine the molecular mechanisms by which this occurs.
Sod2 and catalase overexpressing HT-1080 fibrosarcoma cell lines were used to evaluate the H(2)O(2)-dependent regulation of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-1 promoter activity, mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase signaling, DNA-binding activity, and MMP mRNA levels. The invasive and metastatic potential of Sod2 overexpressing cells was characterized using subrenal capsular implantation or tail vein injection of tumor cells into nude mice, respectively.
Our data reveal that Sod2 overexpression increases the DNA-binding activity of transcription factors critical for MMP expression but also enhances MMP-1 promoter activity via the Ras//MAP/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (MEK) signaling cascade. A single nucleotide polymorphism that creates an Ets site at position -1607 bp confers Sod2-dependent MMP-1 promoter activity. Sod2 overexpression also increases the mRNA levels of MMPs-2, -3, -7, -10, -9, -11 and enhances the metastatic potential of fibrosarcoma cells when implanted in immunodeficient mice. The Sod2-dependent increases in AP-1 and SP-1 DNA-binding activity, MMP-1 promoter activity, general MMP expression, and collagen degradation can be reversed by the hydrogen peroxide-detoxifying enzyme, catalase.
MMPs play a critical role in the process of stromal invasion and metastasis, and these findings suggest that the association between increased Sod2 and poor prognosis in certain cancers may be attributed to elevated MMP production.
We describe a case of a 74-year-old woman who experienced visual hallucinations after ciprofloxacin administration, when she was also taking theophylline, which resolved on cessation of the ciprofloxacin.
Although uncommon, all ophthalmologists should be aware of this potential problem and be familiar with the adverse visual effects which may occur in patients simultaneously administered quinolones and theophylline.
The antiarrhythmic drug amiodarone was recently demonstrated to have novel broad range fungicidal activity. We provide evidence that amiodarone toxicity is mediated by disruption of Ca2+ homeostasis in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. In mutants lacking calcineurin and various Ca2+ transporters, including pumps (Pmr1 and Pmc1), channels (Cch1/Mid1 and Yvc1), and exchangers (Vcx1), amiodarone sensitivity correlates with cytoplasmic calcium overload. Measurements of cytosolic Ca2+ by aequorin luminescence demonstrate a biphasic response to amiodarone. An immediate and extensive calcium influx was observed that was dose-dependent and correlated with drug sensitivity. The second phase consisted of a sustained release of calcium from the vacuole via the calcium channel Yvc1 and was independent of extracellular Ca2+ entry. To uncover additional cellular pathways involved in amiodarone sensitivity, we conducted a genome-wide screen of nearly 5000 single-gene yeast deletion mutants. 36 yeast strains with amiodarone hypersensitivity were identified, including mutants in transporters (pmr1, pdr5, and vacuolar H+-ATPase), ergosterol biosynthesis (erg3, erg6, and erg24), intracellular trafficking (vps45 and rcy1), and signaling (ypk1 and ptc1). Of three mutants examined (vps45, vma3, and rcy1), all were found to have defective calcium homeostasis, supporting a correlation with amiodarone hypersensitivity. We show that low doses of amiodarone and an azole (miconazole, fluconazole) are strongly synergistic and exhibit potent fungicidal effects in combination. Our findings point to the potentially effective application of amiodarone as a novel antimycotic, particularly in combination with conventional antifungals.
Eight cases of pellagra, diagnosed on the grounds of neuropathological findings and retrospective study of clinical data, were found among 106 necropsy cases of tuberculosis. Although these eight patients had shown various mental, neurological and gastrointestinal symptoms, as well as skin lesions, the diagnosis of pellagra had not been made clinically. In all the patients, pellagra symptoms appeared during isoniazid therapy. Death occurred 4 to 16 weeks later. Isoniazid inhibits the conversion of tryptophan to niacin and may induce pellagra, particularly in poorly nourished patients. Pellagra should be suspected whenever tuberculous patients under treatment with isoniazid develop mental, neurological or gastrointestinal symptoms, even in the absence of typical pellagra dermatitis.
A case report of neuroleptic-induced laryngeal dystonia mimicking acute anaphylaxis is presented with a review of the literature and discussion of common diagnostic difficulties.
The patient was a 24-year-old man with recently diagnosed schizophrenia who presented twice to a general hospital with difficulty speaking within 72 hours of increasing his dose of haloperidol. On both occasions, he was treated aggressively for presumed anaphylaxis with adrenaline, antihistamines and high dose corticosteroids.
The symptoms resolved with supportive medical care, withdrawal of the haloperidol and substitution of risperidone. There was no evidence of hypersensitivity on subsequent skin testing with haloperidol.
This case illustrates one of the many clinical presentations of neuroleptic-induced dystonia. While suspected anaphylaxis needs to be vigorously treated, a history of neuroleptic use and particularly of a recent dosage increase should alert clinicians to the possibility of acute laryngeal dystonia.
Reduction in renal concentrating ability has been reported in patients undergoing chronic lithium treatment. Prior work has demonstrated differences in physiological effects of the stable lithium isotopes, 6Li and 7Li. Here, we measured the degree of polyuria, polydipsia and kidney histological changes induced in rats by equimolar amounts of 6LiCl, 7LiCl and the commercially available mixture of both isotopes.
Rats were given 1.0 mEq/kg of either 6LiCl, 7LiCl or 'nLiCl' (isotope mixture, 93% 7LiCl) by subcutaneous injection twice daily for up to 49 days. Twenty-four-hour urine volume and water intake were measured daily. Kidneys from rats treated for 7 days with 1.5 mEq/kg 6LiCl, 7LiCl and vehicle were examined under light microscopy and histopathologic changes graded on a 4-point scale of severity.
All rats showed loss in renal concentrating ability manifested by increasing urine volume and water intake. Peak effects occurred after 9-13 days treatment, then declined to stable levels at two to three times pre-treatment level. Mean peak effect was significantly greater for 6LiCl than for 7LiCl. Chronic effects of 6LiCl (weeks 3-7 of treatment) on polyuria and polydipsia were persistently higher than that of 7LiCl. nLiCl effect was intermediate. Kidneys from rats treated for 7 days with 6LiCl showed more frequently severe lesions in renal tubules than did 7LiCl-treated rats.
Our current data and prior studies suggest that elimination or reduction of 6Li from pharmaceutical preparations may merit further evaluation as a possibly less potentially nephrotoxic form of lithium treatment.
Changes in the functions of tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic (TIDA) neurons were investigated during the period when the involution of estradiol-induced PRL-secreting pituitary tumors was occurring. Dopamine synthesis and release in vitro by TIDA neurons were determined by 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) accumulation in the median eminence and endogenous dopamine release from the median eminence, respectively. Three weeks after a single injection of 2 mg estradiol valerate into ovariectomized rats, there was a marked increase in the weight of anterior pituitaries and the concentration of serum PRL, but a decrease in K+-induced DOPA accumulation in vitro in the median eminence. Twelve weeks after estradiol treatment, by which time pituitary weights and PRL concentrations declined considerably, K+-induced DOPA accumulation in the median eminence rose 5-fold compared to that in control animals. This change in DOPA accumulation persisted for 24 weeks. Increases were observed at 12 weeks in K+-induced as well as basal and (Bu)2cAMP-induced DOPA accumulation in the median eminence. The increases in basal and (Bu2cAMP-induced DOPA accumulation were not altered by Ca2+ removal from medium. In parallel to the changes in DOPA accumulation, basal and K+-induced release in vitro of dopamine from the median eminence into the medium were decreased 3 weeks after estradiol treatment, but increased at 12 and, in part, 24 weeks. The increases in basal and K+-induced dopamine release were observed even after Ca2+ removal from medium. These results suggest that basal, extracellular Ca2+-dependent, and cAMP-dependent dopamine synthesis as well as basal and depolarization-induced dopamine release in TIDA neurons are stimulated during the period of involution of pituitary tumors associated with estradiol withdrawal.
From May 1978 until November 1980, 169 previously untreated patients with advanced epithelial ovarian cancer were entered into a prospective randomized clinical trial comparing the combination of hexamethylmelamine, Adriamycin, and cyclophosphamide (HAC) to a combination of melphalan and cis-platinum. Eleven patients were excluded from analysis and another 5 patients were excluded from response analysis. Of 153 patients evaluable for response, there were 47, or 30.7%, complete responders (all determined surgically), 6 partial responders, and 100 nonresponders. The response rate for the HAC group was 31% and for the melphalan-platinum group was 37.8%. The overall response rate was 34.6%. Residual tumor diameter (less than or greater than 2 cm) exerted a statistically significant effect on response--47.8 vs 24.4%. Of the 47 complete responders, 7, or 14.9%, have relapsed, with the median duration of remission of 44+ months. Of the 158 patients evaluable for survival, 90 patients have died, with a median survival time of 27.9 months (HAC = 26.4 months, melphalan-platinum = 29.6 months). Age, FIGO stage, histologic grade, and residual disease all exerted a significant effect on survival time. Second-line therapy in the treatment failures was of no benefit. Hematologic toxicity was greater in the melphalan-platinum group. Gastrointestinal toxicity was severe in both groups. Other toxicities were minor and infrequent.
To investigate if ketamine could be a feasible analgetic in ambulance trauma care.
Prospective.
University Hospital of Rotterdam 'Dijkzigt'.
To 51 women and 87 men in the age of 9-95 years who suffered from pain due to trauma and needed pain relief during transport to the hospital, a low dose of ketamine was given according to protocol. Their pain was measured with a descriptive verbal pain scale every 5 minutes.
Upon arrival in the hospital 125 (90.5%) out of the 138 patients had a relief of their pain. For 101 patients the pain was only minimal or had disappeared during transport. This was reached in 74 cases with only one dose of ketamine, in 26 cases a second dose was needed, a same number needed nitrous oxide in addition and 9 times a second dose and nitrous oxide was given. Side-effects were mostly of psychic origin, such as agitation (9%), disorientation (17%), sedation (27%), and hallucinations (5%). They never lasted longer than several minutes or hindered further investigation.
A low dose ketamine seems a safe and feasible analgetic in ambulance trauma care. Further research which compares ketamine with other in the ambulance trauma care current analgetics seems of value.
An open, prospective study was performed to evaluate the clinical usefulness of sodium chloride loading for prevention of amphotericin-B-induced nephrotoxicity in 37 patients requiring 44 courses of amphotericin B treatment. The median duration of the treatment course was 22 days (range, 9-136 days), and mean cumulative dose per patient was 1117 mg (range, 231-7831 mg). During amphotericin B treatment, all patients received 50 to 100 ml of 10% sodium chloride (85 to 171 mmol NaCl) via an intravenous line for prevention of amphotericin-B-induced nephrotoxicity evaluated by serum creatinine levels. Using this regimen, none of the patients developed significant nephrotoxicity (increase in serum creatinine of more than twice baseline level, or serum creatinine level greater than or equal to 2.0 mg/dl, respectively) despite the co-administration of other potentially nephrotoxic drugs. It was not necessary to discontinue treatment with amphotericin B in any of the patients. There were no side effects due to sodium chloride loading. Our results demonstrate that sodium chloride loading is useful for the prevention of amphotericin-B-induced nephrotoxicity.
The human parasite Toxoplasma gondii is sensitive to dinitroaniline compounds which selectively disrupt microtubules in diverse protozoa but which have no detectable effect on vertebrate host cell microtubules or other functions. Replication of wild-type T. gondii is inhibited by 0.5 to 2.5 microM oryzalin, but mutant parasites harboring amino acid substitutions in the predicted dinitroaniline binding site confer resistance up to 40 microM oryzalin. However, the precise interaction between dinitroanilines and the binding site in alpha-tubulin remains unclear. We have investigated the activity of 12 dinitroanilines and the related compound amiprophos methyl on wild-type and dinitroaniline-resistant parasite lines that contain proposed binding site mutations. These data indicate that dinitramine is the most effective dinitroaniline to inhibit Toxoplasma growth in wild-type parasites and most resistant lines. Dinitramine has an amine group at the meta position not present in any of the other dinitroanilines tested here that is predicted to form hydrogen bonds with residues Arg2 and Gln133 according to docking data. Remarkably, although the binding site mutation Ile235Val confers increased resistance to most dinitroanilines, it confers increased sensitivity to GB-II-5, a compound optimized for activity against kinetoplastid tubulin. Kinetoplastid parasites have a valine at position 235 of alpha-tubulin, whereas apicomplexan parasites have an isoleucine at this site. We suggest that this heterogeneity in binding site environment influences relative dinitroaniline sensitivity in distinct protozoan lineages and hypothesize that a mutation that makes the apicomplexan dinitroaniline binding site more like the kinetoplastid site increases sensitivity to a dinitroaniline optimized for activity in the latter parasites.
Folate depletion has often been a problem in chronic antiepileptic drug (AED) therapy. Carbamazepine (CBZ), a commonly used AED, has been implicated in some clinical studies. A rat model was developed to examine the effects of chronic CBZ treatment on folate concentrations in the rat. In the course of developing this model, a common vehicle, propylene glycol, by itself in high doses, was found to exhibit protective properties against induced seizures and inhibited weight gain. Seizures induced by hexafluorodiethyl ether (HFDE) were also found to be a more sensitive measure of protection by CBZ than seizures induced by maximal electroshock (MES). Oral administration of CBZ as an aqueous suspension every 8 h at a dose of 250 mg/kg was continuously protective against HFDE-induced seizures and was minimally toxic as measured by weight gain over 8 weeks of treatment. The CBZ levels measured in plasma and brain of these animals, however, were below those normally considered protective. This treatment with CBZ had no apparent adverse effect on folate concentrations in the rat, and, indeed, the folate concentration increased in liver after 6 weeks of treatment and in plasma at 8 weeks of treatment.
We examined the incompletely defined convulsant action of phenytoin (PHT) at toxic concentrations in humans. A retrospective chart review (1979-1985) yielded 96 cases (90 patients), meeting both clinical and laboratory criteria for PHT intoxication. Seven patients, all with epilepsy, had one or more seizures while toxic. However, in only two patients (2.1%) with serum concentrations of 93.2 and 69.7 micrograms/ml was a causal relationship deemed highly probable. Seizures did not occur in most toxic epileptic patients with total serum PHT concentrations as high as 85.1 micrograms/ml or in any of the nonepileptic patients with concentrations as high as 64.2 micrograms/ml. The lack of convulsant action of PHT in these patients suggests that seizure risk may be multifactorial and also that PHT is a weak convulsant. We conclude that PHT at very high concentrations can rarely exacerbate seizures or even precipitate generalized status in some epileptic patients, a paradoxical effect.
Adverse events in pregnancy may 'programme' offspring for the later development of cardiovascular disease and hypertension. Previously, using a rodent model of programmed hypertension we have demonstrated the role of the renin-angiotensin system in this process. More recently we showed that a maternal low protein diet resulted in undermethylation of the At1b angiotensin receptor promoter and the early overexpression of this gene in the adrenal of offspring. Here, we investigate the hypothesis that maternal glucocorticoid modulates this effect on fetal DNA methylation and gene expression. We investigated whether treatment of rat dams with the 11beta-hydroxylase inhibitor metyrapone, could prevent the epigenetic and gene expression changes we observed. Offspring of mothers subjected to a low protein diet in pregnancy showed reduced adrenal Agtr1b methylation and increased adrenal gene expression as we observed previously. Treatment of mothers with metyrapone for the first 14 days of pregnancy reversed these changes and prevented the appearance of hypertension in the offspring at 4 weeks of age. As a control for non-specific effects of programmed hypertension we studied offspring of mothers treated with dexamethasone from day 15 of pregnancy and showed that, whilst they had raised blood pressure, they failed to show any evidence of Agtr1b methylation or increase in gene expression. We conclude that maternal glucocorticoid in early pregnancy may induce changes in methylation and expression of the Agtr1b gene as these are clearly reversed by an 11 beta-hydroxylase inhibitor. However in later pregnancy a converse effect with dexamethasone could not be demonstrated and this may reflect either an alternative mechanism of this glucocorticoid or a stage-specific influence.
Penicillamine, once considered the cornerstone of treatment for Wilson disease (WD), is rather expensive and toxic, and often causes neurological worsening. Zinc sulphate, aiming at the treatment of free-copper toxicosis, has emerged as effective, safe and cheap alternative.
To assess the effect of withdrawal of penicillamine from maintenance treatment with penicillamine and zinc sulphate.
45 patients of WD (M:F: 28:17; age at diagnosis: 13.5+/-63 years), on both penicillamine (P) and zinc sulphate (Zn), couldn't continue penicillamine due to financial constraints. Their clinical data, disability and impairment scores (Schwab and England (S&E) score, Neurological Symptom Score (NSS), and Chu staging) and follow-up data of patients maintained only on zinc sulphate were recorded.
Majority of patients (84.4%) had neuropsychiatric manifestations. The mean duration of treatment with penicillamine (P) and zinc sulphate (P+Zn), before stopping penicillamine, was 107.4+/-67.3 months. 40 patients improved variably, while the rest didn't. They received only zinc sulphate for 27.2+/-8.5 months (range: 12 to 34) and 44 patients (97.7%) remained status quo or improved marginally. Only one patient reported worsening in dysarthria. Their disability and impairment scores during combination (penicillamine and zinc sulphate) and Zn alone were: Chu (1.3+/-0.5 vs. 1.5+/-1.9; p=0.4), NSS (1.8+/-3.1 vs. 1.5+/-2.3; p=0.03) and S&E (96.4+/-5.6 vs. 98.6+/-3.5; p=0.03). There were no adverse effects.
Withdrawal of penicillamine from zinc sulphate/penicillamine maintenance therapy for patients with Wilson's disease was effective, safe and economic, for almost all patients. This retrospective study reiterates that zinc sulphate may be used as a preferred mode of treatment for patients with Wilson's disease.
The effect of 30 mg sublingual nifedipine on cardiac metabolism and haemodynamics was studied during two identical periods of pacing in 11 patients with chronic coronary artery disease. The pace time to angina pectoris improved after nifedipine in 6 patients, deteriorated in 2 and was unchanged in 3. Nifedipine decreased blood pressure (12%), rate pressure product (10%) and coronary vascular resistance (17%) during pacing. Aorto-coronary sinus (A-Cs) oxygen difference decreased at rest (9%) and postpacing (10%) after nifedipine, although an opposite tendency in coronary sinus blood flow resulted in unchanged myocardial oxygen uptake throughout the study. Although mean myocardial lactate extraction after nifedipine was unchanged during pacing in the whole group of patients, it increased in 9 patients who showed a net lactate release at control pacing (from -50.9 +/- 33.5% to -35.9 +/- 30.2%, P less than 0.05). Nifedipine increased free fatty acid (FFA) extraction during pacing (from 1.5 +/- 12.9% to 17.4 +/- 13.1%, P less than 0.02) and uptake (from 1.8 +/- 8.5 to 11.1 +/- 10.6 mu mol min-1, P less than 0.05). Nifedipine influenced only glucose exchange significantly (46% decreased extraction) at 5 min postpacing. The A-Cs citrate gradient lessened 30-40% postpacing after nifedipine administration. Since the unloading effects of nifedipine did not alter myocardial oxygen uptake, the most important net haemodynamic finding was the decrease in coronary vascular resistance. Although no significant antianginal effect of a fixed dose of nifedipine was found, the increased uptake of FFA may reflect improved myocardial oxidative metabolism after nifedipine.
Lower blood cholesterol concentrations have consistently been found to be strongly associated with lower risks of coronary disease but not with lower risks of stroke. Despite this observation, previous randomised trials had indicated that cholesterol-lowering statin therapy reduces the risk of stroke, but large-scale prospective confirmation has been needed.
3280 adults with cerebrovascular disease, and an additional 17256 with other occlusive arterial disease or diabetes, were randomly allocated 40 mg simvastatin daily or matching placebo. Subgroup analyses were prespecified of first "major vascular event" (ie, non-fatal myocardial infarction or coronary death, stroke of any type, or any revascularisation procedure) in prior disease subcategories. Subsidiary outcomes included any stroke, and stroke sub-type. Comparisons are of all simvastatin-allocated versus all placebo-allocated participants (ie, "intention-to-treat"), which yielded an average difference in LDL cholesterol of 1.0 mmol/L (39 mg/dL) during the 5-year treatment period.
Overall, there was a highly significant 25% (95% CI 15-34) proportional reduction in the first event rate for stroke (444 [4.3%] simvastatin vs 585 [5.7%] placebo; p<0.0001), reflecting a definite 28% (19-37) reduction in presumed ischaemic strokes (p<0.0001) and no apparent difference in strokes attributed to haemorrhage (51 [0.5%] vs 53 [0.5%]; rate ratio 0.95 [0.65-1.40]; p=0.8). In addition, simvastatin reduced the numbers having transient cerebral ischaemic attacks alone (2.0% vs 2.4%; p=0.02) or requiring carotid endarterectomy or angioplasty (0.4% vs 0.8%; p=0.0003). The reduction in stroke was not significant during the first year, but was already significant (p=0.0004) by the end of the second year. Among patients with pre-existing cerebrovascular disease there was no apparent reduction in the stroke rate, but there was a highly significant 20% (8-29) reduction in the rate of any major vascular event (406 [24.7%] vs 488 [29.8%]; p=0.001). The proportional reductions in stroke were about one-quarter in each of the other subcategories of participant studied, including: those with coronary disease or diabetes; those aged under or over 70 years at entry; and those presenting with different levels of blood pressure or lipids (even when the pretreatment LDL cholesterol was below 3.0 mmol/L [116 mg/dL]).
Much larger numbers of people in the present study suffered a stroke than in any previous cholesterol-lowering trial. The results demonstrate that statin therapy rapidly reduces the incidence not only of coronary events but also of ischaemic strokes, with no apparent effect on cerebral haemorrhage, even among individuals who do not have high cholesterol concentrations. Allocation to 40 mg simvastatin daily reduced the rate of ischaemic strokes by about one-quarter and so, after making allowance for non-compliance in the trial, actual use of this regimen would probably reduce the stroke rate by about a third. HPS also provides definitive evidence that statin therapy is beneficial for people with pre-existing cerebrovascular disease, even if they do not already have manifest coronary disease.
Quick administration of intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) after stroke improved outcomes in previous trials. We aimed to analyse combined data for individual patients to confirm the importance of rapid treatment.
We pooled common data elements from six randomised placebo-controlled trials of intravenous rt-PA. Using multivariable logistic regression we assessed the relation of the interval from stroke onset to start of treatment (OTT) on favourable 3-month outcome and on the occurrence of clinically relevant parenchymal haemorrhage.
Treatment was started within 360 min of onset of stroke in 2775 patients randomly allocated to rt-PA or placebo. Median age was 68 years, median baseline National Institute of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) 11, and median OTT 243 min. Odds of a favourable 3-month outcome increased as OTT decreased (p=0.005). Odds were 2.8 (95% CI 1.8-4.5) for 0-90 min, 1.6 (1.1-2.2) for 91-180 min, 1.4 (1.1-1.9) for 181-270 min, and 1.2 (0.9-1.5) for 271-360 min in favour of the rt-PA group. The hazard ratio for death adjusted for baseline NIHSS was not different from 1.0 for the 0-90, 91-180, and 181-270 min intervals; for 271-360 min it was 1.45 (1.02-2.07). Haemorrhage was seen in 82 (5.9%) rt-PA patients and 15 (1.1%) controls (p<0.0001). Haemorrhage was not associated with OTT but was with rt-PA treatment (p=0.0001) and age (p=0.0002).
The sooner that rt-PA is given to stroke patients, the greater the benefit, especially if started within 90 min. Our results suggest a potential benefit beyond 3 h, but this potential might come with some risks.
Effects of three aminoglycoside antibiotics, amikacin (AMK), tobramycin (TOB), and gentamicin (GM), on the auditory and vestibular functions were assessed in rats, the most frequently used species in toxicity studies. Chronic electrodes for auditory brainstem response (ABR) recording were implanted on the epidural surface, and those for post rotatory nystagmus (PRN) were implanted at the nictitating membrane and the outer canthus. AMK, TOB, and GM were given intramuscularly twice daily for 3-4 weeks at a daily dose of 350, 150, and 100 mg/kg, respectively. The amplitude of each wave of the ABR was decreased or disappeared in the groups treated with AMK, TOB, and GM. In the PRN, the duration of the nystagmus was decreased in the TOB group and completely lost in the GM group. No abnormality was observed in the PRN in the AMK group. These results were similar to those reported in the ototoxicity studies of these drugs in guinea pigs and indicate that ototoxicity can be evaluated in rats as successfully as in guinea pigs by this procedure.
While advancing age is the only unequivocally accepted risk factor for idiopathic Parkinson's disease, it has been postulated that exposure to environmental neurotoxicants combined with ageing could increase the risk for developing Parkinson's disease. The current study tested this hypothesis by exposing C57BL/6 mice that were 6 weeks, 5 months or 18 months old to the herbicide paraquat, the fungicide maneb or paraquat + maneb, a combination that produces a Parkinson's disease phenotype in young adult mice. Paraquat + maneb-induced reductions in locomotor activity and motor coordination were age dependent, with 18-month-old mice most affected and exhibiting failure to recover 24 h post-treatment. Three months post-treatment, reductions in locomotor activity and deficits in motor coordination were sustained in 5-month-old and further reduced in 18-month-old paraquat + maneb groups. Progressive reductions in dopamine metabolites and dopamine turnover were greatest in 18-month-old paraquat + maneb and paraquat groups 3 months post-treatment. Increased tyrosine hydroxylase enzyme activity compensated for striatal tyrosine hydroxylase protein and/or dopamine loss following treatment in 6-week-old and 5-month-old, but not 18-month-old paraquat and paraquat + maneb mice. Numbers of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons were reduced in all age groups following paraquat alone and paraquat + maneb exposure, but these losses, along with decreases in striatal tyrosine hydroxylase protein levels, were progressive in 18-month-old paraquat and paraquat + maneb groups between 2 weeks and 3 months post-exposure. Collectively, these data demonstrate enhanced sensitivity of the ageing nigrostriatal dopamine pathway to these pesticides, particularly paraquat + maneb, resulting in irreversible and progressive neurotoxicity.
This work describes the cytopathic effect on cells, cytotoxic action on mice, and antiviral activity of cinnabarin. This substance had no effect on mouse neuroblastoma cells (NA cell, ATCC clone C-1300) at a concentration of 0.31 mg/ml, it was not able to cause toxic effects in mice at concentrations of 1000 mg/kg, and reduced by four times the titers of the rabies virus at concentrations of 0.31 mg/ml.
Vancomycin is becoming increasingly used for prophylaxis, and treatment against resistant forms of penicillinase-producing staphylococci. This drug, and the aminoglycosides as a group, have serious side-effects and organ toxicity, and may interact with anaesthetic drugs, particularly muscle relaxants. Two cases of anaphylactoid reactions to vancomycin are reported. The first patient subsequently developed oliguria and marked oedema, while the second developed non-cardiogenic pulmonary oedema.
Thioredoxin reductase (TrxR) reduces thioredoxin (Trx), thereby contributing to cellular redox balance, facilitating the synthesis of deoxy-ribose sugars for DNA synthesis, and regulating redox-sensitive gene expression. Auranofin is a gold compound that potently inhibits TrxR. This inhibition is one suspected mechanism of auranofin's therapeutic benefit in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. The use of other gold compounds to treat cancer or inflammatory disease may rely on their ability to inhibit TrxR. In the current study, we tested the hypothesis that a variety of gold compounds may inhibit TrxR.
We exposed rat-TrxR1 to auranofin, gold sodium thiomalate, sodium aurothiosulfate, triphenyl phosphine gold chloride, or gold acetate, and measured TrxR activity ex vivo. We then compared TrxR1 inhibitory levels of gold compounds to those that inhibited mitochondrial activity of THP1 monocytes and OSC2 epithelial cells, estimated by succinate dehydrogenase activity.
All gold compounds inhibited TrxR1 at concentrations ranging from 5 to 4000 nM (50% inhibitory concentration). The oxidation state of gold did not correlate with inhibitory potency, but ligand configuration was important. Au(I)-phosphine compounds (triphenyl phosphine gold chloride and auranofin) were the most potent inhibitors of TrxR. All TrxR1 inhibitory concentrations were sublethal to mitochondrial activity in both THP1 and OSC2 cells.
Diverse types of gold compounds may be effective inhibitors of TrxR1 at concentrations that do not suppress cellular mitochondrial function. Inhibition may be optimized to some degree by altering the ligand configuration of the compounds. These results support future study of a variety of Au compounds for therapeutic development as inhibitors of TrxR1.
Propoxur (a carbamate pesticide) has been shown to adversely affect memory and induce oxidative stress on both acute and chronic exposure. This study was designed to explore the modulation of the effects of propoxur over cognitive function by melatonin (MEL). Cognitive function was assessed using step-down latency (SDL) on a passive avoidance apparatus, and transfer latency (TL) on an elevated plus maze. Oxidative stress was assessed by examining brain malondialdehyde (MDA) and reduced glutathione (GSH) levels and catalase (CAT) activity. A significant reduction in SDL and prolongation of TL was observed for the propoxur (10 mg/kg/d; p.o.) treated group at weeks 6 and 7 when compared with control. One week treatment with MEL (50 mg/kg/d; i.p.) antagonized the effect of propoxur on SDL, as well as TL. Propoxur produced a statistically significant increase in the brain MDA levels and decrease in the brain GSH levels and CAT activity. Treatment with MEL attenuated the effect of propoxur on oxidative stress. The results of the present study thus show that MEL has the potential to attenuate cognitive dysfunction and oxidative stress induced by toxicants like propoxur in the brain.
To compare the effects of rilmenidine with those of amlodipine on blood pressure, glucose metabolism, plasma lipid concentration and fibrinolysis parameters.
A four-month randomized double-blind, parallel group study.
Obese hypertensive patients with hypertriglyceridaemia (> or = 2.3 mmol/l) and impaired glucose tolerance (OMS-ADA) were included (n = 52). A placebo run-in period of 2 weeks was followed by 4 months of double-blind treatment with either rilmenidine or amlodipine. Blood pressure was recorded using a mercury sphygmomanometer. Glucose metabolism was evaluated by an oral glucose tolerance test
Of the 52 patients recruited, 47 (21 rilmenidine and 26 amlodipine) completed the 4-month treatment period. The intention-to-treat analysis showed a comparable reduction in systolic and diastolic blood pressure (SBP, DBP) with the two anti-hypertensive treatments (rilmenidine -13.9/-13.5 mmHg; amlodipine - 17.6/-15.0 mmHg). Insulin concentrations under basal conditions and 2 h after a standard oral glucose load did not change significantly after treatment in both groups. Plasma glucose under basal conditions and 2 h after a standard oral glucose load as well as the area under the plasma glucose concentration curve tended to decrease in the rilmenidine group and to increase in the amlodipine group so that the changes in these parameters were significantly different between the two study groups (P= 0.041, P = 0.042 and P = 0.015, respectively). Plasminogen activator inhibitor type 1 (PAI-1) antigen and PAI-1 activity were only decreased in the rilmenidine group (not statistically significant).
Our results demonstrate that rilmenidine and amlodipine have a comparable anti-hypertensive effect but only rilmenidine is able to improve glucose metabolism.
Protocol 019 of the AIDS Clinical Trials Group is a multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of zidovudine (3'-azido-3'-deoxythymidine; formerly AZT) in human immunodeficiency virus-infected asymptomatic individuals. The initial results in the stratum of subjects entering with CD4+ cell counts of 0.50 x 10(9)/L or less have been reported, but without a detailed analysis of toxic effects.
This detailed and updated report analyzes the toxic effects that occurred in 1567 subjects (91% men; 89% white) in this stratum of protocol 019 who received placebo (494 subjects), a 500-mg daily dose of zidovudine (544 subjects), or a 1500-mg daily dose of zidovudine (529 subjects). Hematologic, hepatic, and renal effects and patient-reported symptoms and clinical signs were monitored.
Severe anemia (hemoglobin level, < 80 g/L) was associated with both the 500-mg zidovudine group and the 1500-mg group compared with placebo. The estimated 18-month risks of severe anemia were 0.4%, 2.0%, and 9.7% for the placebo, 500-mg zidovudine, and 1500-mg zidovudine groups, respectively. Predictive baseline measures were lower hemoglobin level in the 1500-mg group and the two zidovudine groups combined and lower platelet count in the 500-mg zidovudine group. The risk of a first severe anemia developing was greatest in months 3 through 8 of treatment. Of the 44 subjects with severe anemia in the zidovudine groups, 18 (41%) progressed from mild anemia (hemoglobin level, 95 to 109 g/L) to severe anemia on consecutive visits (usually 2 to 4 weeks apart). Severe neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count, < 750 x 10(6)/L) did not occur significantly more often in the 500-mg zidovudine group but did in the 1500-mg zidovudine group. Moderate neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count, < 1300 x 10(6)/L) did develop significantly more often in the 500-mg zidovudine group (165 subjects) than in the placebo group (71 subjects). Mild (or worse) elevations of bilirubin levels were uncommon but occurred more often with zidovudine. Severe nausea (and/or vomiting) was rare (2.8% of subjects) but was associated with zidovudine. Milder patient-reported events were common, and a number were associated with zidovudine.
Zidovudine at the 500-mg/d dosage appears to be tolerable in many patients with asymptomatic human immunodeficiency virus infection and CD4+ cell counts of 0.50 x 10(9)/L or less. Increased clinical surveillance for anemia may be warranted in certain patients.
Self-adhesive patches which release glyceryl trinitrate at a slow continuous rate or placebo patches were applied to the skin of patients distal to intravenous infusion sites in a double-blind manner. The frequency of infusion failure was three times lower with the glyceryl trinitrate than with placebo patches. The decrease was of similar magnitude whether failure was due to extravasation or phlebitis. Headaches were more common in patients with active patches but were relieved by simple analgesics.
