Cardiotoxicity is an uncommon adverse effect of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). Coronary artery spasm has been postulated to be involved in the mechanism of this incident Patients may present with angina, myocardial infarction, arrhythmias and/or even sudden death. When the drug is readministered, there is a high risk of relapse. The underlying mechanisms of cardiotoxicity are not yet fully understood, although coronary vasospasm may be responsible. We report one woman receiving 5-fluorouracil therapy with typical chest pain and electrocardiographic changes consistent with acute coronary syndrome. A resolving pain and normalisation of ECG changes with nitrate therapy and normal coronary arteries indicate that this incident was about a coronary spasm caused by 5-FU.
The causes and frequency of occurrence of toxic hepatitides determined by isoniazid and rifampicin, were analysed in 551 patients with primary tuberculosis detected by clinical pharmacological methods. The intravenous mode of drug administration was shown to be indicated for prevention of isoniazid hepatitides in patients with a fast type of acetylation. Doses and methods of therapy with isoniazid and streptomycin leading to their high concentrations in the patients' body should be avoided to prevent liver affection with rifampicin. Since rifampicin hepatitides develop in persons with a slow type of acetylation, rifampicin and isoniazid with streptomycin should be injected with a 6-hour interval to prevent them.
We aimed to examine the ability of transplanted mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) to attenuate cardiac fibrosis caused by global heart failure, and investigate the mechanisms that are possibly mediating this effect. Global heart failure was induced in Wistar rats by isoproterenol injection. Four weeks later, MSCs were transplanted by intramyocardial injection, while control groups were treated by injection of cell culture medium alone. Four weeks after transplantation, heart function was assessed, and histologic and molecular analyses conducted. Compared with the medium-treated group, MSC transplantation significantly decreased the expression of collagens I and III, and matrix metalloproteinase 2 and 9, but heart function was improved in MSC-treated animals. In addition, expression of antifibrotic factor, hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), was detected in cultured MSCs, suggesting a possible mechanism underlying antifibrotic effects. Importantly, HGF expression levels were higher in MSC-treated hearts, compared with medium-treated hearts. Therefore, we could conclude that MSC transplantation can attenuate myocardial fibrosis in a rat model of global heart failure, and this may be at least partially mediated by paracrine signaling from MSCs via antifibrotic factors such as HGF.
We encountered a case of hypouricemia with increases both in urate clearance (Cur) and in the ratio of Cur to creatinine clearance (Cur/Ccr), the normal daily urinary excretion of urate, and urolithiasis. Pyrazinamide markedly decreased Cur and Cur/Ccr, and both probenecid and benzbromarone markedly increased Cur and Cur/Ccr, however, benzbromarone did not increase either Cur or Cur/Ccr under pretreatment with pyrazinamide in the patient. Thus, the diagnosis was made of renal hypouricemia due to enhanced tubular secretion of urate. The urinary pH of the patient tended to be acidic. Three months after the start of alkalization of the patient's urine by K+, Na(+)-citrate, both urolithiasis and the symptoms related to urolithiasis disappeared. These results suggest that renal hypouricemia due to enhanced tubular secretion of urate can result in urolithiasis and the alkalization of urine may be an effective treatment for uric acid stones.
Ten patients with presumed Alzheimer's disease were entered into a pilot study to evaluate the combined effects of lithium and lecithin on cognitive and behavioral parameters. The loss of patients from the study because of toxic effects of lithium was high (30%), and one patient was dropped because of an intervening illness. Of the six remaining patients who completed the study, only two showed behavioral improvement; none showed improvement on measures of cognitive functioning. The possible mechanisms of action are discussed.
Neonatal acute adrenal insufficiency (AAI) is a rare but severe condition. We report a case of AAI following maternal exposure to moderate doses of corticosteroids during pregnancy. The neonate, born at term, presented with hypoglycaemia complicated by seizures. The AAI was confirmed by endocrine tests and after exclusion of differential diagnoses. Early diagnosis and treatment led to full recovery.
To compare the neuroprotective effects of methylprednisolone (MPSS) and rosiglitazone (ROSG) following spinal cord injury (SCI).
This study was carried out at the Institute of Orthopedics, the First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, Suzhou, China between June 2009 and March 2010. One hundred and twenty Sprague-Dawley rats after SCI were divided into 4 different groups (30/group): i) SCI-vehicle group, ii) MPSS group, iii) ROSG group, and iv) sham saline group. The following 5 aspects were evaluated: 1) spinal cord inflammation and tissue injury; 2) neutrophil infiltration; 3) cell apoptosis; 4) the expression of proinflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor-α and interleukin-β; and 5) the expression of tissue Bax, Bcl-2, and HSP70 proteins in situ.
Notably, ROSG showed similar neuroprotective effects to MPSS, and significantly decreased spinal cord damage, apoptosis, and cytokine expression. There were no significant differences between the MPSS or ROSG-treated groups.
Administration of ROSG after SCI reduces the development of inflammation and tissue injury associated with spinal cord trauma.
Eight patients with combat-induced chronic posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) receiving long-term alprazolam therapy for anxiety or depression (maximum dose of 2-9 mg/day for 1-5 years) had alprazolam therapy withdrawn. Most of the patients underwent gradual medication withdrawal. All patients had a prior history of alcohol abuse or benzodiazepine dependence. During withdrawal, all patients had severe reactions including anxiety, sleep disturbance, rage reactions, hyperalertness, increased nightmares, and intrusive thoughts; and 6 of the 8 patients had homicidal ideation. As a result of this report, the authors suggest that the potential for severe withdrawal reactions, even with gradual tapering, should be considered before prescribing alprazolam therapy for this group of patients.
We demonstrate the effect of Aegle marmelos leaf extract (AMLEt) and alpha-tocopherol on plasma lipids, lipid peroxides and marker enzymes in rats with isoproterenol (ISO)-induced myocardial infarction.
Rats were pre-treated orally for 35 days with different doses of an aqueous AMLEt (50 mg/ kg, 100 mg/kg and 200 mg/kg) prior to ISO-induced myocardial infarction. The effects on creatine kinase, lactate dehydrogenase, plasma thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, lipid hydroperoxides, serum lipids and lipoproteins were studied.
Pre-treatment with AMLEt at doses of 100 mg/kg and 200 mg/kg bodyweight for 35 days showed a significant effect on the activities of marker enzymes, lipid peroxides, lipids, lipoproteins and antioxidant enzymes in ISO-treated rats. The effect of AMLEt 200 mg/kg was found to be equal to the effect of alpha-tocopherol 60 mg/kg.
Aegle marmelos leaves possess antihyperlipidaemic effect in rats with ISO-induced myocardial infarction.
The author examined a series of 23 depressed and 15 obsessive compulsive disorder outpatients who were treated with 40-80 mg/day of tranylcypromine to determine the frequency and clinical features of fatigue and somnolence. Four (all depressed) of the 38 patients experienced hypersomnolence and fatigue in the late afternoon. The somnolence was severe enough to impair their ability to work and drive. Afternoon fatigue and somnolence appear to be important and not uncommon side effects of tranylcypromine treatment.
Somatostatin-14 (SRIF-14) exerts anticonvulsive effects in several rat seizure models, generally attributed to sst(2) receptor activation. Whereas sst(1) immunoreactivity has been localized to both polymorphic interneurons and principal cells in the rat hippocampus, its potential role as an inhibitory autoreceptor or as a receptor involved in mediating anticonvulsive actions remains unknown. We showed that intrahippocampal administration of the sst(1) antagonist SRA880 (1 microM) induced a robust increase in hippocampal SST-14 levels without affecting gamma-aminobutyric acid levels in conscious rats, indicating that the sst(1) receptor acts as an inhibitory autoreceptor. SRA880 did not affect seizure severity and did not reverse the anticonvulsive action of SRIF-14 (1 microM) against pilocarpine-induced seizures, suggesting that hippocampal sst(1) receptors are not involved in the anticonvulsive effects of SRIF-14.
Labetalol is a competitive, nonselective antagonist of both beta 1 and beta 2 adrenoceptors. It has been suggested that labetalol reduces blood pressure (BP) predominantly by decreasing peripheral vascular resistance while maintaining cardiac output. We conducted a double-blind, randomized study to assess the antihypertensive effect of labetalol in patients with a standing diastolic blood pressure (SDBP) between 105 and 119 mm Hg. The study consisted of three separate phases in succession. Phase I was a single-blind, placebo washout phase, two to four weeks in length. Those patients with a SDBP greater than or equal to 105 mm Hg at the end of phase I entered phase II, in which they were administered labetalol in a forced titration of 100 mg bid to 400 mg bid. Those with a SDBP less than or equal to 90 mm Hg on the 400 mg bid regimen for two weeks were maintained on labetalol alone (N = 8). Those patients whose BP was not controlled (SDBP greater than or equal to 99 mm Hg, N = 15) were randomized in a double-blind fashion to receive either hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) or placebo in addition to labetalol for the next five weeks. Eight of the 15 patients received HCTZ and seven received placebo. The BPs at baseline and at the end of phase II were similar in the two groups.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We investigated the efficacy and tolerability of 20 mg sumatriptan nasal spray in the acute treatment of cluster headache attacks in an open-label study. 10 patients met the criteria of the International Headache Society (IHS) for episodic or chronic cluster headache and were enrolled in our study. The primary efficacy measure was "pain free" 30 minutes after treatment. Secondary end-points included "headache response" (defined as headache improvement from "very severe", "severe" or moderate" pain to "mild" or "no" pain) 15, 30, 45 and 60 minutes after treatment. We also assessed the participant's overall treatment satisfaction at the end of the study. Sumatriptan nasal spray was applied in 154 "moderate" to "very severe" cluster headache attacks. 30 minutes after nasal spray application, 50% of attacks were completely aborted and 58% of attacks responded to treatment. The overall efficacy of sumatriptan nasal spray was considered "excellent" in two, "good" in four, "reasonable" in two and "poor" in two patients. Eight patients indicated their intention to treat further attacks with intranasal sumatriptan. Seven patients were interviewed after a follow-up period of six months. Four patients continued to treat all cluster headache attacks with the intranasal sumatriptan formula, two patients had switched to subcutaneous sumatriptan and one patient was in remission since the end of the study. We conclude that 20 mg sumatriptan nasal spray might be an alternative therapy for the treatment of cluster headache attacks, but double-blind studies are needed to further evaluate its efficacy.
Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole was given to a 16-year-old boy as prophylaxis for a urinary tract infection. He developed severe cholestatic hepatitis 41 days after administration of the drug. A liver biopsy specimen showed a mixed inflammatory infiltrate in the portal triads and prominent bile stasis. The clinical course in this patient supports the concept of an indirect hypersensitivity reaction to sulfamethoxazole.
This study was designed to evaluate the cardioprotective potential of naringin on lipid peroxides, enzymatic and nonenzymatic antioxidants and histopathological findings in isoproterenol (ISO)-induced myocardial infarction (MI) in rats. Subcutaneous injection of ISO (85 mg/kg) to male Wistar rats showed a significant increase in the levels of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances and lipid hydroperoxides in plasma and the heart and a significant decrease in the activities of superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase and glutathione-S-transferase in the heart and the levels of reduced glutathione, vitamin C and vitamin E in plasma and heart and ceruloplasmin in plasma. Oral administration of naringin (10, 20 and 40 mg/kg, respectively) to ISO-induced rats daily for a period of 56 days showed a significant decrease in the levels of lipid peroxidative products and improved the antioxidant status by increasing the activities of antioxidant enzymes and nonenzymatic antioxidants. Histopathological findings of the myocardial tissue showed the protective role of naringin in ISO-induced rats. The effect at a dose of 40 mg/kg of naringin was more pronounced than that of the other two doses, 10 and 20mg/kg. The results of our study show that naringin possess anti-lipoperoxidative and antioxidant activity in experimentally induced cardiac toxicity.
The long-term use of nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents (ND-NMBA) has recently been implicated as a cause of prolonged muscle weakness, although the site of the lesion and the predisposing factors have been unclear. We report 3 patients (age 37-52 years) with acute respiratory insufficiency who developed prolonged weakness following the discontinuation of ND-NMBAs. Two patients also received intravenous corticosteroids. Renal function was normal but hepatic function was impaired in all patients, and all had acidosis. Electrophysiologic studies revealed low amplitude compound motor action potentials, normal sensory studies, and fibrillations. Repetitive stimulation at 2 Hz showed a decremental response in 2 patients. The serum vecuronium level measured in 1 patient 14 days after the drug had been discontinued was 172 ng/mL. A muscle biopsy in this patient showed loss of thick, myosin filaments. The weakness in these patients is due to pathology at both the neuromuscular junction (most likely due to ND-NMBA) and muscle (most likely due to corticosteroids). Hepatic dysfunction and acidosis are contributing risk factors.
Methanandamide (MAEA), the stable analog of the endocannabinoid anandamide, has been proven in Xenopus oocytes to allosterically inhibit the function of the alpha7-nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) in a cannabinoid (CB) receptor-independent manner. The present study aimed at demonstrating that this mechanism can be activated in vivo. In anesthetized and vagotomized pithed rats treated with atropine, we determined the tachycardic response to electrical stimulation of preganglionic sympathetic nerves via the pithing rod or to i.v. nicotine (0.7 micromol/kg) activating nAChRs on the cardiac postganglionic sympathetic neurons. MAEA (3 and 10 micromol/kg) inhibited the electrically induced tachycardia (maximally by 15-20%; abolished by the CB(1) receptor antagonist AM 251 [N-(piperidin-1-yl)-5-(4-iodophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide]; 3 micromol/kg) in pentobarbitone-anesthetized pithed rats, but not in urethane-anesthetized pithed rats, which, thus, are suitable to study the CB(1) receptor-independent inhibition of nicotine-evoked tachycardia. The subunit-nonselective nAChR antagonist hexamethonium (100 micromol/kg) and the selective alpha7-subunit antagonist methyllycaconitine (MLA; 3 and 10 micromol/kg) decreased the nicotine-induced tachycardia by 100 and 40%, respectively (maximal effects), suggesting that nAChRs containing the alpha7-subunit account for 40% of the nicotine-induced tachycardia. MAEA (3 micromol/kg) produced an AM 251-insensitive inhibition (maximum again by 40%) of the nicotine-induced tachycardia. Simultaneous or sequential coadministration of MLA and MAEA inhibited the nicotine-induced tachycardia to the same extent (maximally by 40%) as each of the drugs alone. In conclusion, according to nonadditivity of the effects, MAEA mediates in vivo inhibition by the same receptors as MLA, namely alpha7-subunit-containing nAChRs, although at an allosteric instead of the orthosteric site.
Cocaine-induced paranoia (CIP), an irrational intense suspicion of others, is a common manifestation of cocaine dependence. Both environmental and genetic factors are thought to play a role, but the specific nature of such contributions is poorly understood.
Demographic, diagnostic, and cocaine-use data were obtained from 420 cocaine-dependent, genetically confirmed, full-sibling pairs (N=840 subjects) interviewed with the Semi-Structured Assessment for Drug Dependence and Alcoholism (SSADDA). Probands with and without CIP were compared; then, factors associated with sibling CIP status were analyzed by logistic regression. Alcohol dependence, a known heritable phenotype, was analyzed as a positive control.
Of 420 probands, 273 (65%) experienced CIP. Probands with CIP were more severely dependent upon cocaine, had an earlier age of onset, were more likely to smoke cocaine, and used cocaine less frequently during the preceding year. Independent analyses of siblings replicated two of the former (i.e., dependence severity and age of onset). Probands with CIP also had a non-significantly higher proportion of siblings with the trait (66% versus 59%). Probands with concurrent alcohol dependence were confirmed to have significantly higher rates of alcoholism among their siblings.
Severity of cocaine dependence and age of onset appear to be important risk factors for CIP. Concordance for CIP between siblings did not emerge as significant in our analyses.
Lorazepam is currently recommended for sustained sedation of mechanically ventilated intensive care unit (ICU) patients, but this and other benzodiazepine drugs may contribute to acute brain dysfunction, ie, delirium and coma, associated with prolonged hospital stays, costs, and increased mortality. Dexmedetomidine induces sedation via different central nervous system receptors than the benzodiazepine drugs and may lower the risk of acute brain dysfunction.
To determine whether dexmedetomidine reduces the duration of delirium and coma in mechanically ventilated ICU patients while providing adequate sedation as compared with lorazepam.
Double-blind, randomized controlled trial of 106 adult mechanically ventilated medical and surgical ICU patients at 2 tertiary care centers between August 2004 and April 2006. Patients were sedated with dexmedetomidine or lorazepam for as many as 120 hours. Study drugs were titrated to achieve the desired level of sedation, measured using the Richmond Agitation-Sedation Scale (RASS). Patients were monitored twice daily for delirium using the Confusion Assessment Method for the ICU (CAM-ICU).
Days alive without delirium or coma and percentage of days spent within 1 RASS point of the sedation goal.
Sedation with dexmedetomidine resulted in more days alive without delirium or coma (median days, 7.0 vs 3.0; P = .01) and a lower prevalence of coma (63% vs 92%; P < .001) than sedation with lorazepam. Patients sedated with dexmedetomidine spent more time within 1 RASS point of their sedation goal compared with patients sedated with lorazepam (median percentage of days, 80% vs 67%; P = .04). The 28-day mortality in the dexmedetomidine group was 17% vs 27% in the lorazepam group (P = .18) and cost of care was similar between groups. More patients in the dexmedetomidine group (42% vs 31%; P = .61) were able to complete post-ICU neuropsychological testing, with similar scores in the tests evaluating global cognitive, motor speed, and attention functions. The 12-month time to death was 363 days in the dexmedetomidine group vs 188 days in the lorazepam group (P = .48).
In mechanically ventilated ICU patients managed with individualized targeted sedation, use of a dexmedetomidine infusion resulted in more days alive without delirium or coma and more time at the targeted level of sedation than with a lorazepam infusion.
clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00095251.
To date, there is no specific antidote to acetaminophen poisoning. Propylthiouracil (PTU) has been shown to be protective against acetaminophen (APAP)-induced liver damage in rats; however, the nephroprotective effect of propylthiouracil has not been studied yet.
In order to verify this, rats were given different doses of PTU (100, 200 or 400 mg/kg per body weight, orally) 1 h before a nephrotoxic dose of APAP (1,000 mg/kg per body weight, intraperitoneally (i.p.)).
Propylthiouracil pretreatment significantly reduced APAP-induced nephrotoxicity in a dose-dependant manner, as evidenced by reduction in plasma creatinine and by amelioration of renal pathology (interstitial congestion, tubular cell degeneration and necrosis).
The mechanism of protection by PTU is probably not due to the sparing effect of non-protein thiol (approximately 95% of which is reduced glutathione), as similar depletion of renal glutathione was observed regardless of PTU pretreatment; other mechanisms are suggested.
Effects of malaoxon (MO) on brain regional inositol, inositol monophosphate and calcium levels, as well as on early neuronal injury, were studied in old (18 months) male rats. In old rats, a dose of 8.7 mg/kg of MO caused convulsions similar to those reported earlier in parallel experiments with young male (10 weeks) rats using a dose of 39.2 mg/kg. In the convulsing old male rats, MO caused a transient decrease of cerebral inositol 1 h post MO in the piriform cortex and thalamus, whereas more persistent decreases of inositol occurred in the frontal cortex and the cerebellum. In the non-convulsing rats, a decrease of inositol was only seen in the cerebellum. Cerebral inositol-1-phosphate (Ins1P) increased in all brain regions of convulsing rats, whereas Ins1P did not change in the non-convulsing rats. Brain Ca2+ increased post MO in convulsing and non-convulsing rats in the frontal cortex, caudate and thalamus; in the piriform cortex and hippocampus increases of Ca2+ were only seen in the convulsing rats. Inositol-4-phosphate (Ins4P) remained stable in all MO-exposed rats. MO-induced early neuronal injury occurred only in the convulsing rats and was most severe in the cortex, hippocampus and the subcortical structures. Qualitatively the effects of MO in the old and young rats were, however, similar and, therefore, probably due to cholinergic brain stimulation and subsequent increase in inositol lipid signalling. These results suggest that old rats are likely to be more sensitive than the young rats to the neurotoxic effects of MO.
Nicotine polacrilex lozenges deliver 25% to 27% more nicotine compared with equivalent doses of nicotine polacrilex gum. The increased nicotine exposure from the lozenge has raised questions about the relative safety of the lozenge and gum.
The objective of this study was to compare the safety profiles of the 4-mg nicotine lozenge and 4-mg nicotine gum in smokers with selected label-restricted diseases.
This was a multicenter, randomized, open-label study in adult smokers with heart disease, hypertension not controlled by medication, and/or diabetes mellitus. Patients were randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive the 4-mg nicotine lozenge or 4-mg nicotine gum. Safety assessments were made at baseline and at 2, 4, 6, and 12 weeks after the start of product use.
Nine hundred one patients were randomized to treatment, 447 who received the lozenge and 454 who received the gum (safety population). The majority were women (52.7%). Patients' mean age was 53.9 years, their mean weight was 193.9 pounds, and they smoked a mean of 25.2 cigarettes per day at baseline. Five hundred fifty-three patients, 264 taking the lozenge and 289 taking the gum, used the study product for > or =4 days per week during the first 2 weeks (evaluable population). The nicotine lozenge and nicotine gum were equally well tolerated, despite increased nicotine exposure from the lozenge. The incidence of adverse events in the 2 groups was similar during the first 2 weeks of product use (evaluation population: 55.3% lozenge, 54.7% gum), as well as during the entire study (safety population: 63.8% and 58.6%, respectively). Stratification of patients by sex, age, extent of concurrent smoking, extent of product use, and severity of adverse events revealed no clinically significant differences between the lozenge and gum. The most common adverse events were nausea (17.2% and 16.1%; 95% CI, -3.7 to 6.0), hiccups (10.7% and 6.6%; 95% CI, 0.5 to 7.8), and headache (8.7% and 9.9%; 95% Cl, -5.0 to 2.6). Serious adverse events were reported in 11 and 13 patients in the respective groups. Fewer than 6% of patients in either group were considered by the investigator to have a worsening of their overall disease condition during the study. The majority of patients (>60%) experienced no change in their disease status from baseline.
The 4-mg nicotine lozenge and 4-mg nicotine gum had comparable safety profiles in these patients with label-restricted medical conditions.
Nine depressed inpatients completed trials with S-adenosylmethionine. Seven showed improvement or remission of their symptoms. As in European studies, no side effects were seen except the apparent induction of mania in two patients with bipolar disorder.
The estimated prevalence of basilar dolichoectasia in the healthy general population is 50 per 100,000 inhabitants. The treatment of symptomatic cases is controversial. Strokes caused by it may be due to thrombosis of the perforating arteries, arterio-arterial emboli or a compressive mechanism.
We present the case of a 68 year old woman with repeated stokes in which the vertebrobasilar territory was involved. On neuroimaging there was basilar dolichoectasia associated with aneurismal dilatation of both internal carotid arteries. The patient died of massive subarachnoid hemorrhage after starting heparin treatment. At necropsy the aneurysmic dilatation was confirmed together with signs of arteriosclerosis of the arteries of the circle of Willis.
Since subarachnoid hemorrhage secondary to rupture of a dolichoectasia is exceptional, some authors support the use of permanent anticoagulation rather than platelet antiaggregation in patients with conditions due to ischemia, in which dilatation is limited to the basilar artery. However, this is not suitable for cases with associated fusiform aneuryms, or cases such as ours in which the dolichoectasia extends beyond the basilar artery, to become generalized throughout all the arteries of the circle of Willis.
Aplastic anemia, defined by the presence of pancytopenia and hypocellular bone marrow in the absence of any abnormal blood cells, is a serious complication of antipsychotic drug treatment. While hematological side effects from antipsychotic medications are rare, recent experience with clozapine, an atypical antipsychotic agent, has raised the awareness of clinicians to the serious and potentially fatal hematological changes that can occur with antipsychotic medications. A case of perphenazine-induced aplastic anemia in a 23-year-old schizophrenic man is reported.
The autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) are a group of conditions characterized by impairments in reciprocal social interaction and communication, and the presence of restricted and repetitive behaviours. Individuals with an ASD vary greatly in cognitive development, which can range from above average to intellectual disability. Although ASDs are known to be highly heritable ( approximately 90%), the underlying genetic determinants are still largely unknown. Here we analysed the genome-wide characteristics of rare (<1% frequency) copy number variation in ASD using dense genotyping arrays. When comparing 996 ASD individuals of European ancestry to 1,287 matched controls, cases were found to carry a higher global burden of rare, genic copy number variants (CNVs) (1.19 fold, P = 0.012), especially so for loci previously implicated in either ASD and/or intellectual disability (1.69 fold, P = 3.4 x 10(-4)). Among the CNVs there were numerous de novo and inherited events, sometimes in combination in a given family, implicating many novel ASD genes such as SHANK2, SYNGAP1, DLGAP2 and the X-linked DDX53-PTCHD1 locus. We also discovered an enrichment of CNVs disrupting functional gene sets involved in cellular proliferation, projection and motility, and GTPase/Ras signalling. Our results reveal many new genetic and functional targets in ASD that may lead to final connected pathways.
1. Di(beta-phenylisopropyl)amine (DPIA) given i.p. to mice and rats in sublethal doses caused increased motility, mild stereotypic behavior and suppression of food intake. Repeated daily doses led to enhanced motor stimulation, and in one group, 40% lethality, indicating development of "reverse tolerance". Brain monoamine modifiers prevented DPIA-induced motor activity. 2. Treatment with toxic i.p. doses of DPIA enabled determination of the LD50, which was 106.8 mg/kg for isolated mice and 89.7 mg/kg for mice kept in aggregation after dosing. Possible antidotal agents given before a high DPIA dose (LD50) protected significantly against lethality. 3. Combinations of DPIA with (+)-amphetamine in mice at lethal doses showed a subadditive synergism. 4. Effects of DPIA on the cardiovascular system, both i.v. in anesthetized rats and in isolated atrial preparations, were mainly opposite to those of (+)-amphetamine, namely decreases in blood pressure, force of contraction and heart rate.
