P2Y(2) and P2Y(4) receptors are G protein-coupled receptors, activated by UTP and dinucleoside tetraphosphates, which are difficult to distinguish pharmacologically for lack of potent and selective ligands. We structurally varied phosphate and uracil moieties in analogues of pyrimidine nucleoside 5'-triphosphates and 5'-tetraphosphate esters. P2Y(4) receptor potency in phospholipase C stimulation in transfected 1321N1 human astrocytoma cells was enhanced in N(4)-alkyloxycytidine derivatives. OH groups on a terminal δ-glucose phosphoester of uridine 5'-tetraphosphate were inverted or substituted with H or F to probe H-bonding effects. N(4)-(Phenylpropoxy)-CTP 16 (MRS4062), Up(4)-[1]3'-deoxy-3'-fluoroglucose 34 (MRS2927), and N(4)-(phenylethoxy)-CTP 15 exhibit ≥10-fold selectivity for human P2Y(4) over P2Y(2) and P2Y(6) receptors (EC(50) values 23, 62, and 73 nM, respectively). δ-3-Chlorophenyl phosphoester 21 of Up(4) activated P2Y(2) but not P2Y(4) receptor. Selected nucleotides tested for chemical and enzymatic stability were much more stable than UTP. Agonist docking at CXCR4-based P2Y(2) and P2Y(4) receptor models indicated greater steric tolerance of N(4)-phenylpropoxy group at P2Y(4). Thus, distal structural changes modulate potency, selectivity, and stability of extended uridine tetraphosphate derivatives, and we report the first P2Y(4) receptor-selective agonists.
Six normal subjects were studied after graded bolus injections of isoproterenol. Log dose-response curves for increases in both heart rate (mostly beta 1), and amplitude of physiologic tremor (beta 2) were constructed for each subject in the control state and 2 hr after 10 or 40 mg propranolol, 200 mg sotalol, or placebo. All heart rate curves were shifted to the right in an approximately parallel fashion by all active treatments (40 mg propranolol greater than 200 mg sotalol greater than 10 mg propranolol). The tremor curve was also shifted to the right by 10 mg propranolol in an approximately parallel fashion and to the same extent as the heart rate curve (both dose-ratios = 6.1), but the tremor curves after both 40 mg propranolol and 200 mg sotalol appeared to be flattened as well as shifted laterally. We conclude that whereas it may be possible that 10 mg propranolol acts as a competitive antagonist of isoproterenol at beta 2-sites in skeletal muscle, 40 mg propranolol and 200 mg sotalol must have additional actions in reducing isoproterenol tremor. The possibilities are discussed.
Hyperhomocysteinemia is known to be a risk factor for cardiovascular diseases and is associated with a common mutation in the 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) gene (677 C>T). The aims of this study were to confirm: 1) the association between the MTHFR C677T mutation and plasma homocysteine (Hcy) levels; 2) the MTHFR C677T mutation as a risk factor; 3) the association of the MTHFR C677T mutation and plasma B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) levels; and 4) the correlation between Hcy and BNP levels in cardiovascular diseases.
A total of 227 patients for whom BNP was measured were enrolled in this study. Laboratory parameters included BNP, creatine kinase (CK), the myocardial isoenzyme of CK (CK-MB), troponin I (TnI), Hcy, C-reactive protein (CRP), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), creatinine and folate. The MTHFR genotype was evaluated by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) was shown by an electrophoretic technique.
The prevalence of TT homozygotes was significantly higher in patients with cardiovascular diseases than in patients without cardiovascular diseases (p=0.0001). Patients homozygous for the TT mutation had the highest plasma Hcy levels compared with wild-type CC homozygotes and CT mutant heterozygotes (p=0.0001). Plasma BNP concentrations were significantly higher in patients with MTHFR C677T mutation compared to patients without the mutation (p<0.05). Plasma BNP concentrations were positively correlated with Hcy concentrations (r=0.196, p<0.001). Multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that elevated concentrations of BNP, CRP, Hcy and the presence of the MTHFR C677T mutation independently contributed to the prediction of cardiovascular diseases.
In cardiovascular diseases, the MTHFR C677T mutation: 1) is associated with plasma Hcy levels; 2) is an independent risk factor for cardiovascular diseases, 3) is associated with plasma BNP levels, and 4) plasma Hcy levels are positively correlated with plasma BNP levels.
Spontaneous reporting systems for adverse drug reactions (ADRs) are handicapped by under-reporting and limited detail on individual cases. We report an investigation from a local surveillance for serious adverse drug reactions associated with disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs that was triggered by the occurrence of liver failure in two of our patients.
Serious ADR reports have been solicited from local clinicians by regular postcards over the past seven years. Patients', who had hepatotoxicity on sulfasalazine and met a definition of a serious ADR, were identified. Two clinicians reviewed structured case reports and assessed causality by consensus and by using a causality assessment instrument. The likely frequency of hepatotoxicity with sulfasalazine was estimated by making a series of conservative assumptions.
Ten cases were identified: eight occurred during surveillance. Eight patients were hospitalised, two in hepatic failure - one died after a liver transplant. All but one event occurred within 6 weeks of treatment. Seven patients had a skin rash, three eosinophilia and one interstitial nephritis. Five patients were of Black British of African or Caribbean descent. Liver enzymes showed a hepatocellular pattern in four cases and a mixed pattern in six. Drug-related hepatotoxicity was judged probable or highly probable in 8 patients. The likely frequency of serious hepatotoxicity with sulfasalazine was estimated at 0.4% of treated patients.
Serious hepatotoxicity associated with sulfasalazine appears to be under-appreciated and intensive monitoring and vigilance in the first 6 weeks of treatment is especially important.
Patients with diabetes have increased risk for adverse cardiovascular events. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors are protective in type 1 diabetes. However, no definitive studies have examined the use of angiotensin-receptor blockers in patients with type 2 diabetes and overt nephropathy. The primary outcomes of the Irbesartan Diabetic Nephropathy Trial were doubling of serum creatinine levels, end-stage renal disease, and death from any cause.
To compare rates of cardiovascular events among patients with type 2 diabetic nephropathy who received conventional antihypertensive therapy with an angiotensin-receptor blocker (irbesartan) or a calcium-channel blocker (amlodipine), or placebo.
Randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled trial with a median follow-up of 2.6 years. A time event analysis was used.
209 centers in the Americas, Europe, Israel, and Australasia.
1715 adults with type 2 diabetic nephropathy and hypertension; serum creatinine levels of 89 micromol/L (1.0 mg/dL) to 266 micromol/L (3.0 mg/dL) in women and 106 micromol/L (1.2 mg/dL) to 266 micromol/L (3.0 mg/dL) in men; and urinary protein excretion rates of at least 900 mg/d.
Treatment with irbesartan, amlodipine, or placebo.
Time to cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure, strokes, and coronary revascularization.
The three groups were not statistically different in the composite of cardiovascular events. Among the components of the composite, there was a trend toward a decrease in strokes in patients receiving amlodipine versus those receiving placebo (hazard ratio, 0.65 [95% CI, 0.35 to 1.22]; P = 0.18). Likewise, patients receiving amlodipine had a significantly lower rate of myocardial infarction when compared with placebo recipients (hazard ratio, 0.58 [CI, 0.37 to 0.92]; P = 0.02). In contrast, patients receiving irbesartan had a significantly lower incidence of congestive heart failure when compared with placebo recipients (hazard ratio, 0.72 [CI, 0.52 to 1.00]; P = 0.048) or amlodipine recipients (hazard ratio, 0.65 [CI, 0.48 to 0.87]; P = 0.004).
The composite cardiovascular event rate did not differ in patients with type 2 diabetes and overt nephropathy treated with irbesartan, amlodipine, or placebo in addition to conventional antihypertensive therapy.
Acute and extensive hepatic cell necrosis was produced experimentally in rabbits by means of the Shwartzman mechanism using adeno- and hepatitis B viruses. The change that occurred in the liver was quite severe, namely, areas of hemorrhagic necrosis of various sizes in gross appearance and lytic-coagulative necrosis with hemorrhage and leukocyte-mononuclear cell infiltration histologically. Thrombi formation was noted in and around the necrotic areas, and it was not unusual to see necrosis of an entire lobe. This seems to be a model, to some extent, for human fulminant hepatitis caused by hepatitis virus infection, and suggested that some nonspecific reaction such as intravascular clotting may also play an important role in causing or complicating acute, severe, and extensive necrosis of the liver in human cases. Heparin administration very effectively prevented such hepatic necrosis, which supports the view that the change we observed in the liver was really the Schwartzman reaction; further, it is reminiscent of the fact that heparin administration is sometimes effective in fulminant hepatitis treatment if given at te appropriate stage of the disease.
Cysteine conjugate beta-lyase (beta-lyase) was purified to electrophoretic homogeneity from the kidney cytosol of male Wistar rats. The highly purified enzyme exhibited a monomeric molecular weight of 50,000 Da and was active in the alpha-beta elimination of cysteine conjugates including S-(1,2-dichlorovinyl)-L-cysteine (DCVC), S-(1,1,2,2-tetrafluoroethyl)-L-cysteine (TFEC), and S-(2-benzothiazolyl)-L-cysteine, particularly toward DCVC and TFEC. The purified enzyme also exhibited glutamine transaminase K activity with phenylalanine and alpha-keto-gamma-methiolbutyrate as substrates. An antibody was raised to the purified rat protein in sheep and the crude immune serum affinity purified, yielding a specific antibody that recognized only the beta-lyase protein in whole kidney homogenates. Immunocytochemical studies on rat kidney sections stained with the purified antibody revealed that the cytosolic beta-lyase enzyme was mainly localized in the pars recta of the proximal tubule in untreated rats. This localization is coincident with the site-specific kidney necrosis produced by hexachloro-1,3-butadiene (HCBD). These results indicate that the tissue localization of beta-lyase in the proximal tubule plays an important role in determining the specific nephrotoxicity produced by halogenated alkenes such as HCBD.
The incidence of penicillamine toxicity was determined in 250 patients who had never previously received gold, 76 patients who had received gold without toxic reaction, and 79 patients with a previous history of gold toxicity. The results suggest that there may be a higher incidence of penicillamine toxicity in patients who have previously shown toxic reactions. The interval between stopping the gold and starting the penicillamine did not influence incidence of toxicity. The development of a rash during gold treatment does not seem to influence the development of a rash during penicillamine treatment, but patients who have had proteinuria or bone-marrow depression during gold treatment may have an increased likelihood of developing a similar side effect with penicillamine.
From January 1992 to December 1998, 219 women (aged between 30 and 81 yrs; average 55 years) affected by breast cancer were treated. These women in addition to the usual adjuvant therapy, were treated with TAM 20 mg/day, for a period between 24 and 72 months (average 40). In this group there were 84 postmenopausal and 31 premenopausal women. In 8 fertile patients ovarian activity was suppressed with GnRh analogue therapy and one patient underwent attinic castration. Before performing TAM therapy, a hysteroscopic exam was done and patients were followed-up with an annual check-up. None had any endometrial side-effects after the first check-up. After two years, 31 women (26.9%) complained of endometrial alterations (hyperplasia, polyps and endometrial cancer). One women only after 6 years of follow-up, had metrorrhagia; an endometrial adenocarcinoma was found. We would like to point out the necessity of monitoring these patients with an annual check-up (transvaginal sonography and/or hysteroscopy).
Methamphetamine is a highly addictive psychostimulant, and chronic methamphetamine users show high rates of relapse. Furthermore, prolonged methamphetamine abuse can lead to psychiatric symptoms and has been associated with various cognitive dysfunctions. However, the impact of self-administered methamphetamine on cognitive dysfunction and relapse has not been concurrently examined in an animal model.
The present study determined the effects of short- vs. long-access contingent methamphetamine on self-administration, extinction responding, reinstatement of methamphetamine seeking, and cognitive performance on an object exploration task.
Long-Evans rats self-administered methamphetamine i.v. (0.02 mg/infusion) or received saline during daily sessions (1 or 2 h) for 10 days, followed by either maintained short- (1 or 2 h) or long-access (6 h) self-administration for 14 days. Lever responding was extinguished prior to reinstatement, which consisted of presentation of drug-paired cues or a priming injection of methamphetamine (1.0 mg/kg). Animals were also tested on an object exploration task prior to self-administration and at 10-12 days after cessation of self-administration, thus providing a comparison of pre-methamphetamine exposure with post-methamphetamine exposure.
Long-access methamphetamine self-administration resulted in escalation of daily intake. Furthermore, animals in both short- and long-access groups showed robust conditioned-cued and drug-primed reinstatement, with long access resulting in enhanced methamphetamine-primed reinstatement. Methamphetamine self-administration also led to access-dependent impairments on novel object recognition but failed to impair recognition of spatial reconfiguration.
Extended methamphetamine self-administration enhances drug-primed reinstatement and decreases novel object recognition, indicating that prolonged contingent methamphetamine increases motivation for drug seeking following withdrawal while increasing cognitive deficits.
Exposure of human bladder urothelial cells (UROtsa) to 50 nM of the arsenic metabolite, monomethylarsonous acid (MMA(III)), for 12 weeks results in irreversible malignant transformation. The ability of continuous, low-level MMA(III) exposure to cause an increase in genotoxic potential by inhibiting repair processes necessary to maintain genomic stability is unknown. Following genomic insult within cellular systems poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1), a zinc finger protein, is rapidly activated and recruited to sites of DNA strand breaks. When UROtsa cells are continuously exposed to 50 nM MMA(III), PARP-1 activity does not increase despite the increase in MMA(III)-induced DNA single-strand breaks through 12 weeks of exposure. When UROtsa cells are removed from continuous MMA(III) exposure (2 weeks), PARP-1 activity increases coinciding with a subsequent decrease in DNA damage levels. Paradoxically, PARP-1 mRNA expression and protein levels are elevated in the presence of continuous MMA(III) indicating a possible mechanism to compensate for the inhibition of PARP-1 activity in the presence of MMA(III). The zinc finger domains of PARP-1 contain vicinal sulfhydryl groups which may act as a potential site for MMA(III) to bind, displace zinc ion, and render PARP-1 inactive. Mass spectrometry analysis demonstrates the ability of MMA(III) to bind a synthetic peptide representing the zinc-finger domain of PARP-1, and displace zinc from the peptide in a dose-dependent manner. In the presence of continuous MMA(III) exposure, continuous 4-week zinc supplementation restored PARP-1 activity levels and reduced the genotoxicity associated with MMA(III). Zinc supplementation did not produce an overall increase in PARP-1 protein levels, decrease the levels of MMA(III)-induced reactive oxygen species, or alter Cu-Zn superoxide dismutase levels. Overall, these results present two potential interdependent mechanisms in which MMA(III) may increase the susceptibility of UROtsa cells to genotoxic insult and/or malignant transformation: elevated levels of MMA(III)-induced DNA damage through the production of reactive oxygen species, and the direct MMA(III)-induced inhibition of PARP-1.
The emergence of lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B mutations is a major complication during pretransplantation treatment. The proper time to begin Lamivudine before transplantation is not yet known. Twenty-six patients received preoperative lamivudine treatment followed by combined lamivudine and hepatitis B immunoglobulin after transplantation up to December 2002. The length of preoperative lamivudine treatment ranged from 13 to 200 days (mean, 52 +/- 37 days). Hepatitis B virus-DNA was positive in 22 of 26 (84.6%) patients before preoperative lamivudine prophylaxis and persistently positive among only 4 of 22 patients (18%) who at transplantation did not show a viral mutation. In all patients, hepatitis B virus-DNA became negative immediately after transplantation. At a median follow-up of 34 months, neither a hepatitis B recurrence nor a mutation had occurred in any patient. The ability to schedule the proper time for preoperative lamivudine prophylaxis is an advantage of living donor liver transplantation.
Lamivudine treatment in patients with chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection may improve clinical state and suppress viral replication before liver transplantation. Emergence of lamivudine-resistant YMDD mutant is common. We report the results of liver transplantation in 16 patients with pretransplantation YMDD mutants after receiving lamivudine treatment for a median of 738 days (range, 400-1799 days). Adefovir dipivoxil (10 mg daily) was added on to lamivudine for a median of 20 days (range, 8-271 days) before (n = 11) or at (n = 5) liver transplantation, and the combination was continued indefinitely thereafter. Eight patients received additional intravenous hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) for a median of 24 months. Fifteen patients with known pre-adefovir HBV DNA levels had a median titer of 14,200 x 10(3) copies/mL (2 x 10(3) to 4,690,000 x 10(3) copies/mL), and 14 had HBV DNA >10(5) copies/mL. All but 1 patient remained positive for HBV DNA (by quantitative polymerase chain reaction [qPCR]) at the time of liver transplantation, and the titer was greater than10(5) copies/mL in 8 patients. The median follow-up after liver transplantation was 21.1 (range, 4.4-68.9) months. One patient (6%) died of an unrelated cause 12.2 months after transplantation, and 15 patients (94%) were alive with the original graft. All patients cleared HBV DNA and had no detectable HBV DNA by qPCR at the latest follow-up. Fourteen patients had cleared hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg), but 2 patients who received only adefovir dipivoxil and lamivudine without HBIG remained HBsAg positive after 7.7 and 9.5 months. Serum HBV DNA, however, was negative, and there was no biochemical or histological evidence of recurrence. Adefovir dipivoxil was well tolerated with no significant renal toxicity. In conclusion, a combination of add-on adefovir dipivoxil plus lamivudine therapy provides effective prophylaxis in patients with pretransplantation YMDD mutant that may be actively replicating. The cost effectiveness of additional passive immunoprophylaxis remains to be defined.
To report 2 cases of acute hepatitis related to intravenous administration of buprenorphine in hepatitis C-infected patients.
Two patients, aged 33 and 50 years, respectively, who were hepatitis C virus (HCV) carriers were treated with sublingual buprenorphine 8 mg/day for addiction. Several years after initiation of buprenorphine, they were hospitalized because of clinical hepatitis with jaundice that developed after intravenous injection of buprenorphine. Serum alanine aminotransferase rose to 100 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) in the first patient and to 21 times the ULN in the second. As cofactors, the first patient had consumed alcohol, and the second patient took aspirin 600 mg in addition to the injection of buprenorphine 20 mg 4 days before the onset of jaundice. After stopping the intravenous injections, both patients continued sublingual buprenorphine therapy, with no relapse of hepatitis. Interestingly, in these 2 patients, buprenorphine-induced hepatitis was followed by the disappearance of HCV RNA.
Most cases of hepatotoxicity related to buprenorphine have occurred in hepatitis C-infected patients. The main mechanism for buprenorphine-induced hepatitis is a mitochondrial defect, exacerbated by cofactors with additional potential to induce mitochondria dysfunction (eg, HCV, alcohol, concomitant medications). According to the Naranjo probability scale, buprenorphine was found to be the probable cause of acute hepatitis in both patients. In addition, we assessed the relationship between intravenous buprenorphine and acute hepatitis using 2 scales for causality assessment of hepatotoxicity (the Council for International Organizations of Medical Sciences scale and the Maria & Victorino scale). The diagnosis of intravenous buprenorphine-induced hepatitis was classified as probable in both cases. In addition, these 2 cases illustrate that acute hepatitis in a carrier of chronic HCV may occasionally facilitate the clearance of virus.
Although buprenorphine is well tolerated when used at recommended sublingual doses, patients should be informed about the risk of acute hepatitis with misuse of the drug by the intravenous route. These cases illustrate that, in carriers of chronic HCV, acute hepatitis may modify the host's immunotolerance and facilitate clearance of the virus.
Endothelin-1 (ET-1) and nitric oxide, recognized key mediators implicated in the pathophysiology of gastric mucosal injury, are known to exert opposing effects on the inflammatory processes mediated by regulatory cytokines. In this study we investigated the mucosal expression of ET-1 and interleukin-4 (IL-4) and the activity of constitutive nitric oxide synthase (cNOS) during indomethacin-induced gastric mucosal injury and evaluated the effect of antiulcer agents, omeprazole and sucralfate, on this process.
The experiments were conducted with groups of rats pretreated intragastrically with omeprazole (40 mg/kg), sucralfate (200 mg/kg), or vehicle, followed 30 min later by an intragastric dose of indomethacin (60 mg/kg). The animals were killed 2 h later, and their mucosal tissue subjected to macroscopic damage assessment, ET-1 and IL-4 expression assay, and the measurement of cNOS activity.
In the absence of antiulcer agents, indomethacin caused multiple hemorrhagic lesions and extensive epithelial cell apoptosis, accompanied by a 20.7% reduction in IL-4, a 3.1-fold increase in mucosal expression of ET-1, and a 4.2-fold decrease in cNOS. Pretreatment with a gastroprotective agent, sucralfate, produced a 59.7% reduction in the mucosal damage caused by indomethacin, a 41.2% decrease in epithelial cell apoptosis, and a 56.5% reduction in ET-1, whereas the expression of IL-4 increased by 29.3% and that of cNOS showed a 3.3-fold increase. In contrast, the pretreatment with a proton pump inhibitor, omeprazole, led to only a 10.5% reduction in the extent of mucosal damage caused by indomethacin and a 13% decrease in apoptosis, whereas the expression of cNOS increased by 68.7% and ET-1 by 12.2%, and the level of IL-4 remained essentially unchanged.
The results suggest that an increase in the vasoconstrictive ET-1 level combined with a decrease in regulatory cytokine, IL-4, and a loss of compensatory action by cNOS may be responsible for the gastric mucosal injury caused by indomethacin. Our findings also indicate the value of sucralfate in countering the untoward gastrointestinal side effects of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug therapy.
An 8-year-old boy who had been diagnosed as systemic-onset juvenile rheumatoid arthritis were on treatment for 8 months with methotrexate and additional steroids during activation. At the end of the 8th month when the corticosteroid dose was 12.5 mg/day, he began to suffer from numbness and weakness in his hands. Physical examination, laboratory findings and electromyography results demonstrated myopathy. Steroid myopathy was considered. Corticosteroids were tapered and stopped. At follow-up clinical findings remitted and electromyography became normal at the 4th month. We present here this case to direct attention to drug-induced myopathy besides myopathy due to primary disease in connective tissue disorders whenever myopathy exists.
1 The heart rate responses to increasing doses of isoprenaline (n = 6) (during infusion with atropine 0.5 mg/min i.v.) and noradrenaline (n = 5), (during infusion with phentolamine 160 mg/h i.v.) were recorded before and after the intravenous administration of propranolol (15 mg) or metoprolol (15 mg). 2 In the doses used, metoprolol was less potent than propranolol in antagonizing isoprenaline-induced tachycardia, during atropine infusion. 3 In volunteers treated with phentolamine both metoprolol and propranolol produced similar inhibition of noradrenaline-induced tachycardia, indicating comparable beta 1-adrenoceptor blockade in the doses used. 4 The fact that the shift of the dose-response curve of isoprenaline-induced tachycardia was smaller after metoprolol than after propranolol supports the hypothesis that beta 2-adrenoceptors are present in the heart.
Irrespective of its cause, urinary incontinence is a medical condition seriously affecting quality of life and is increasingly recognized. In this study, we examined the association between the use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and urinary incontinence.
A retrospective follow-up study among starters with an SSRI was performed to estimate the relative and absolute risk for urinary incontinence associated with SSRI use. Data came from the PHARMO database, which includes information on drug dispensing for approximately 450,000 residents living in eight Dutch cities. All patients initially using an SSRI between 1994 and 1998 were selected. The frequency measures for urinary incontinence were estimated by using prescription sequence analysis, where initiation of spasmolytic drugs or absorbent products was used as a measure for urinary incontinence. Besides crude incidence density calculations, Andersen-Gill's model was used in order to control for possible confounding factors and time varying covariates.
A total of 13,531 were identified as first time users of an SSRI. Compared to non-exposure, the incidence density ratio for urinary incontinence during SSRI exposure was 1.75 (95% CI 1.56-1.97). Overall, compared to baseline, SSRI use caused 14 extra cases of urinary incontinence per 1000 patients treated per year; the elderly were more at risk resulting in 60 extra cases per 1000 patients per year. The adjusted relative risk for urinary incontinence due to SSRI use was 1.61 (95% CI 1.42-1.82); the risk for sertraline users was 2.76; 95% CI 1.47-5.21).
Exposure to SSRIs is associated with an increased risk for developing urinary incontinence, which can be explained pharmacologically. Approximately 15 out of 1000 patients treated per year with an SSRI developed urinary incontinence. The elderly and users of sertraline are at the highest risk.
This placebo controlled, double-blind study evaluated the efficacy and safety of lamivudine in patients with hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg)-negative/hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA-positive chronic hepatitis B. Patients were randomized to receive 100 mg lamivudine orally once daily for 52 weeks (n = 60) or placebo for 26 weeks (n = 65). Patients who were HBV DNA positive at week 24 were withdrawn at week 26. The primary efficacy endpoint was loss of serum HBV DNA plus normalization of alanine transaminase (ALT) at week 24. A significantly higher proportion of patients receiving lamivudine (63%) had a complete response at week 24 compared with patients receiving placebo (6%) (P <.001). Secondary efficacy parameters included histological response from baseline to week 52 in the lamivudine-treated patients. At week 52, 60% of lamivudine-treated patients with liver biopsy specimens available showed histological improvement (>/=2-point reduction in Knodell necro-inflammatory score), 29% showed no change, and 12% worsened. In a ranked assessment of pretreatment and post-treatment biopsy pairs 11% improved, 86% showed no change, and 2% worsened in fibrosis. At week 52, 27% of patients receiving lamivudine had YMDD (tyrosine-methionine-aspartate-aspartate amino acid motif of HBV polymerase) variant HBV. The incidence of adverse events and laboratory abnormalities was similar in both groups. In conclusion, lamivudine treatment results in a significant virological and biochemical improvement compared with placebo, induces an improvement or no change in histology in most patients, and is well tolerated. The response to lamivudine therapy in HBeAg-negative patients is similar to the response reported in previous studies of patients with HBeAg-positive chronic hepatitis B.
257 patients from 33 centres were involved in a six-month study, the aim of which was to assess the effect of orlistat together with a diet. The authors examined how the treatment effected the anthropometrical and lipid parameters, extending the study to the aspect of paraoxonase activity in case of 25 patients. 44 patients dropped out during the study period due to the lack of sufficient diet compliance, whereas 3 patients had to stop the therapy because of the adverse event of flatus with discharge. On the average, the body mass of the patients decreased from 100.8 +/- 18.9 to 91.3 +/- 18.6 kg, i.e. by 9.5 kgs, while their BMI was reduced from 36.1 +/- 5.6 to 32.5 +/- 5.2 kg/m2 and the circumference of the waist changing from 119.1 +/- 20 to 108.3 +/- 15.1 cm, i.e. by 10.8 cms. The blood sugar level significantly decreased from 5.7 to 5.4, while the cholesterol concentration significantly dropped from 5.9 to 5.5, the triglyceride level being reduced from 2.4 to 2.1 mmol/l and blood pressure falling significantly from 136.6/86.9 to 129.9/81.6. All the above changes showed a significant decrease. However, the HDL-cholesterol level did not change. The serum paraoxonase activity significantly increased (143 +/- 49 vs 166 +/- 43 UL) along with the standardised values for HDL (PON/HDL), even compared to the control diet group. From the above results it may be concluded that orlistat tends to have an antioxidant effect.
To develop a sleep hypoxia (SH) in emphysema (SHE) rat model and to explore whether SHE results in more severe hepatic inflammation than emphysema alone and whether the inflammation changes levels of coagulant/anticoagulant factors synthesized in the liver.
Seventy-five rats were put into 5 groups: SH control (SHCtrl), treated with sham smoke exposure (16 weeks) and SH exposure (12.5% O(2), 3 h/d, latter 8 weeks); emphysema control (ECtrl), smoke exposure and sham SH exposure (21% O(2)); short SHE (SHEShort), smoke exposure and short SH exposure (1.5 h/d); mild SHE (SHEMild), smoke exposure and mild SH exposure (15% O(2)); standard SHE (SHEStand), smoke exposure and SH exposure. Therefore, ECtrl, SHEShort, SHEMild and SHEStand group were among emphysematous groups. Arterial blood gas (ABG) data was obtained during preliminary tests. After exposure, hepatic inflammation (interleukin -6 [IL-6] mRNA and protein, tumor necrosis factor α [TNFα] mRNA and protein) and liver coagulant/anticoagulant factors (antithrombin [AT], fibrinogen [FIB] and Factor VIII [F VIII]) were evaluated. SPSS 11.5 software was used for statistical analysis.
Characteristics of emphysema were obvious in emphysematous groups and ABGs reached SH criteria on hypoxia exposure. Hepatic inflammation parameters and coagulant factors are the lowest in SHCtrl and the highest in SHEStand while AT is the highest in SHCtrl and the lowest in SHEStand. Inflammatory cytokines of liver correlate well with coagulant factors positively and with AT negatively.
When SH is combined with emphysema, hepatic inflammation and coagulability enhance each other synergistically and produce a more significant liver-derivative inflammatory and prothrombotic status.
Ptp4a3 (commonly known as PRL-3) is an enigmatic member of the Ptp4a family of prenylated protein tyrosine phosphatases that are highly expressed in many human cancers. Despite strong correlations with tumor metastasis and poor patient prognosis, there is very limited understanding of this gene family's role in malignancy. Therefore, we created a gene-targeted murine knockout model for Ptp4a3, the most widely studied Ptp4a family member. Mice deficient for Ptp4a3 were grossly normal. Fewer homozygous-null males were observed at weaning, however, and they maintained a decreased body mass. Although Ptp4a3 is normally associated with late-stage cancer and metastasis, we observed increased Ptp4a3 expression in the colon of wildtype mice immediately following treatment with the carcinogen azoxymethane. To investigate the role of Ptp4a3 in malignancy, we used the most commonly studied murine colitis-associated colon cancer model. Wildtype mice treated with azoxymethane and dextran sodium sulfate developed approximately 7-10 tumors per mouse in the distal colon. The resulting tumor tissue had 4-fold more Ptp4a3 mRNA relative to normal colon epithelium and increased PTP4A3 protein. Ptp4a3-null mice developed 50% fewer colon tumors than wildtype mice after exposure to azoxymethane and dextran sodium sulfate. Tumors from the Ptp4a3-null mice had elevated levels of both IGF1Rβ and c-MYC compared to tumors replete with Ptp4a3, suggesting an enhanced cell signaling pathway engagement in the absence of the phosphatase. These results provide the first definitive evidence implicating Ptp4a3 in colon tumorigenesis and highlight the potential value of the phosphatase as a therapeutic target for early stage malignant disease.
Current interest in the MUC1/EMA mucin relates to its role in malignancy, and its potential as a therapeutic target. MUC1/EMA expression has been observed in the majority of epithelioid mesotheliomas. However, little is known of the characteristics of MUC1/EMA in mesothelioma. Herein, we studied the cell surface and soluble expression of the MUC1/EMA glycoprotein, and determined the mRNA and genomic expression profiles in mesothelioma. We found that the anti-MUC1 antibody, E29, was the most diagnostically useful of seven antibody clones examined with a sensitivity of 84% (16 out of 19 cases) and no false positive results. MUC1 mRNA expression was significantly higher in mesothelioma samples than in benign mesothelial cells. No amplification of the MUC1 gene was observed by FISH. Seven of 9 mesothelioma samples expressed MUC1-secreted mRNA isoform in addition to the archetypal MUC1/transmembrane form. CA15.3 (soluble MUC1) levels were significantly higher in the serum of mesothelioma patients than in healthy controls but were not significantly different to levels in patients with benign asbestos-related disease. CA15-3 in effusions could differentiate malignant from benign effusions but were not specific for mesothelioma. Thus, as in other cancers, alterations in MUC1 biology occur in mesothelioma and these results suggest that specific MUC1 characteristics may be useful for mesothelioma diagnosis and should also be investigated as a potential therapeutic target.
FK506 (Tacrolimus) is an immunosuppressive drug that blocks the activation of antigen-specific T lymphocytes, a major component in the pathogenesis of graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). This study was designed to obtain first estimates of the safety and efficacy of FK506 monotherapy in the prevention of GVHD following HLA-identical sibling marrow transplantation. Additionally, a subset of patients was studied to define the pharmacokinetic profile of FK506. Twenty-seven adult patients with leukemia or myelodysplasia received FK506 starting the day before transplant at a dose of 0.04 mg/kg/d by continuous intravenous infusion. When clinically possible, FK506 was given orally in two divided doses starting at five times the daily intravenous dose. FK506 doses were adjusted to target a steady state or trough blood level between 10 to 30 ng/mL. These patients were followed for 6 months posttransplant. All patients had sustained marrow engraftment. Frequently noted adverse events included reversible renal dysfunction, diarrhea, fever, nausea, vomiting, and headache. Most patients required FK506 dose reductions associated with elevated serum creatinine. Two (7%) patients relapsed, one of whom died of the disease within the 6-month study period. A second patient died due to pulmonary mucor. Whole blood pharmacokinetic parameters indicated a half-life of 18.2 +/- 12.1 hours; volume of distribution of 1.67 +/- 1.02 L/kg; clearance of 71 +/- 34 mL/h/kg; and bioavailability of 32 +/- 24%. Eleven of 27 (41%) patients developed grade II to IV acute GVHD, including 10 grade II and one grade III. Six of 24 (25%) evaluable patients developed chronic GVHD. These data indicate that FK506 monotherapy has activity in preventing GVHD. Further studies of FK506 with lower doses to improve tolerability and in combination with other immunosuppressants to augment efficacy are warranted.
The case of a young man is presented who developed visual hallucinations following two months of concomitant use of prolintane and diphenhydramine at therapeutic dosages. An increase in dopaminergic brain activity is proposed as the causal mechanism for hallucinations--whereas prolintane can induce the release of dopamine at the synaptic cleft, diphenhydramine can act inhibiting the reuptake of dopamine and inducing a potentiation of its effects. The psychiatric complications appearing two months after starting the use of both drugs could be attributed to a phenomenon of pharmacological kindling.
Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) represents a suitable model to establish myocardial ischemia in man. Balloon inflation usually is accompanied by a significant deterioration in left ventricular systolic and diastolic properties. A brief episode of ischemia followed by reperfusion termed preconditioning has been identified as a mechanism rendering the myocardium more resistant to ischemia. Adenosine is considered as important mediator of preconditioning. Dipyridamole represents an important drug interfering with myocardial adenosine metabolism by inhibiting its cellular reuptake. The aim of this study was to investigate if an intracoronary infusion of dipyridamole represents a suitable tool in preventing the deterioration of left ventricular performance and hemodynamics during PTCA. In 20 patients undergoing elective coronary angioplasty of a major vessel assessment of angiographic left ventricular performance and left ventricular hemodynamics was performed before, during and after coronary angioplasty. Patients were randomly allocated to study group 1 receiving an intracoronary infusion of dipyridamole prior to PTCA and study group 2 where conventional pretreatment was performed. In study group 3 intracoronary dipyridamole infusion was performed in 10 patients with coronary artery disease during coronary angiography in order to evaluate its effect on baseline hemodynamics and left ventricular performance. Dipyridamole-pretreatment resulted in a significant preservation of systolic and diastolic left ventricular performance during PTCA, as documented by an uneffected global ejection fraction (in comparison to a deterioration of 29.2% in study group 2) and an increment in diastolic stiffness of only 12.7% (in comparison to an increment of 57.3% in study group 2). Furthermore, a significant prolongation of achievable balloon-inflation times of 48.4% could be obtained in study group 1. In addition, incidence of arrhythmias seemed to be reduced in study group 1. Apart from two cases of coronary steal phenomenon no significant side effects of dipyridamole infusion could be detected. Finally, in study group 3 dipyridamole-pretreatment per se induced a significant amelioration of angiographically assessed left ventricular systolic performance.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
