Attachment of podocytes to the glomerular basement membrane is thought to be mediated primarily by alpha 3/beta 1-integrins and by cytoskeletal proteins including actin, talin, vinculin, and alpha-actinin. We analyzed the expression of those molecules in rat glomeruli at several time points during induction of podocyte foot process effacement and nephrotic syndrome with puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN). PAN injection resulted in marked induction of glomerular alpha-actinin (40% increase vs. paired controls, P < 0.01), which clearly preceded development of podocyte foot process effacement and proteinuria and localized almost exclusively to podocytes. Delayed induction of glomerular alpha 3-integrin (44% increase vs. paired controls, P < 0.01) following foot process effacement was also observed but was not restricted to podocytes. No significant changes in glomerular vinculin, talin, beta 1-integrin, or total actin expression occurred at any time point during disease development. We conclude that foot process effacement is preceded by induction of alpha-actinin in podocytes in experimental nephrotic syndrome. Altered expression of this actin cross-linking protein in podocytes may have a pathogenic role in foot process effacement in nephrotic syndrome.
Twenty-six chronic schizophrenic outpatients receiving low-potency anticholinergic neuroleptics were switched over periods of up to 2 years to an equivalent dose of high-potency neuroleptics. Of these patients, 85% experienced withdrawal symptoms, mainly insomnia, anxiety, and tensional restlessness. Complete withdrawal of low-potency medication was achieved during the study period in 9 patients only. The mean duration of treatment with low-potency neuroleptics was 15 years and the mean dose was 147 mg chlorpromazine equivalents/day. It is suggested that new symptoms associated with withdrawal of low-potency neuroleptics may lead to overcompliance by patients and difficulty in achieving the minimum therapeutic dosage. Thus, low-potency neuroleptics would not appear suitable for the long-term treatment of most schizophrenic patients.
Propranolol is a beta-adrenoceptor antagonist used clinically. Local anesthetics are used for controlling pain, whereas propranolol is concomitantly given to treat hypertension and tachycardia. However, there are few studies examining the effects of propranolol on the toxicity of local anesthetics. We investigated the effect of propranolol on lidocaine-induced convulsions in awake, spontaneously breathing rats.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into six groups (n = 8, each group). Rats were pretreated with intracerebroventricular saline (cerebroventricle-control: CV-C group), 10 or 30 microg/kg of (S)-(-)-propranolol (propranolol) (cerebroventricle-small dose: CV-S and cerebroventricle-large dose: CV-L groups, respectively) or i.v. saline (IV-control: IV-C group), 1 or 3 mg/kg of propranolol (IV-small dose: IV-S and IV-large dose: IV-L groups, respectively). Three minutes later, lidocaine was administered i.v. at 4 mg x kg(-1) x min(-1) until tonic-clonic convulsions occurred.
The convulsive dose of lidocaine in the CV-L group was significantly larger than that in the CV-C group (30.6 +/- 5.1 vs 23.5 +/- 2.2 mg/kg, respectively, P = 0.008). Plasma concentrations of total and protein-unbound lidocaine, concentrations of lidocaine in the brain at the onset of convulsions were also significantly higher in the CV-L group than those in the CV-C group (36.1 +/- 4.8 vs 26.0 +/- 3.8 microg/mL, 22.5 +/- 3.5 vs 13.7 +/- 2.6 microg/mL, 82.7 +/- 7.1 vs 57.3 +/- 5.7 microg/g, P < 0.001 for all). The convulsive dose, plasma concentrations of total and protein-unbound lidocaine, and brain lidocaine in the IV-L group were also significantly larger than those in IV-C group and comparable with those in the CV-L group. The plasma concentration of propranolol before starting an infusion of lidocaine in the IV-L group was approximately 60-fold higher than that in the CV-L group (554.7 +/- 104.6 and 9.3 +/- 6.7 ng/mL, respectively).
Propranolol increased the threshold for lidocaine-induced convulsions by directly acting on the brain.
Methadone, a full mu-opioid agonist, is the recommended treatment for opioid dependence during pregnancy. However, prenatal exposure to methadone is associated with a neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS) characterized by central nervous system hyperirritability and autonomic nervous system dysfunction, which often requires medication and extended hospitalization. Buprenorphine, a partial mu-opioid agonist, is an alternative treatment for opioid dependence but has not been extensively studied in pregnancy.
We conducted a double-blind, double-dummy, flexible-dosing, randomized, controlled study in which buprenorphine and methadone were compared for use in the comprehensive care of 175 pregnant women with opioid dependency at eight international sites. Primary outcomes were the number of neonates requiring treatment for NAS, the peak NAS score, the total amount of morphine needed to treat NAS, the length of the hospital stay for neonates, and neonatal head circumference.
Treatment was discontinued by 16 of the 89 women in the methadone group (18%) and 28 of the 86 women in the buprenorphine group (33%). A comparison of the 131 neonates whose mothers were followed to the end of pregnancy according to treatment group (with 58 exposed to buprenorphine and 73 exposed to methadone) showed that the former group required significantly less morphine (mean dose, 1.1 mg vs. 10.4 mg; P<0.0091), had a significantly shorter hospital stay (10.0 days vs. 17.5 days, P<0.0091), and had a significantly shorter duration of treatment for the neonatal abstinence syndrome (4.1 days vs. 9.9 days, P<0.003125) (P values calculated in accordance with prespecified thresholds for significance). There were no significant differences between groups in other primary or secondary outcomes or in the rates of maternal or neonatal adverse events.
These results are consistent with the use of buprenorphine as an acceptable treatment for opioid dependence in pregnant women. (Funded by the National Institute on Drug Abuse; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00271219.).
We studied the effect of nitroglycerin-induced decreases in mean arterial pressure (MAP) on myocardial salvage. Two hours after occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery, 65 conscious dogs were randomly allocated to receive 4 hr intravenous infusions of saline (group 1, 19 dogs), or nitroglycerin in doses to decrease MAP by 10% (group 2, 18 dogs), 25% (group 3, 14 dogs), and 50% (group 4, 14 dogs), respectively. At 7 days, 41 dogs were killed for measurement of infarct size; 24 dogs, given 7 to 10 micron radioactive microspheres for flow calculations, were killed 6 hr after occlusion. Boundaries of the occluded bed were defined by postmortem coronary arteriography. Infarct and occluded bed masses were measured by planimetry of weighed transverse sections of the left ventricle. Compared with saline infusions in group 1, nitroglycerin infusions produced sustained reductions (p less than .001) in mean left atrial pressure and MAP in all dogs, but heart rate was unchanged. The decreases in MAP achieved in groups 2, 3, and 4 were 10% (range, 5% to 19%), 23%, and 39%, respectively, with average levels of 96 (range, 83 to 113), 83, and 64 mm Hg, respectively. Despite similar masses of the occluded bed and left ventricle among the four groups, infarct size was significantly smaller (p less than .025) in group 2 compared with groups 1, 3, or 4, expressed both as percent of the left ventricle (6% vs 14% vs 13% vs 15%) and as percent of the occluded bed (13% vs 37% vs 34% vs 44%). Myocardial salvage (expressed as percent of the occluded bed) with nitroglycerin correlated inversely with the percent of decrease in MAP (r = -.77, p less than .001). Collateral blood flow increased (p less than .005) throughout the occluded bed in group 2 compared with group 1 but was unchanged in groups 3 and 4. In contrast, coronary vascular resistance decreased (p less than .025) in all nitroglycerin groups. These results suggest that perfusion pressure is an important determinant of myocardial salvage during nitroglycerin therapy. An increase in the dose of nitroglycerin to decrease MAP by more than 10%, and to levels below 96 mm Hg, might offset its potential for myocardial salvage in the conscious dog.
Global inhibitors of RNA or protein synthesis such as actinomycin D or cycloheximide abrogate neuronal apoptosis induced by numerous pathological stimuli in vitro and in vivo. The clinical application of actinomycin D or cycloheximide to human neurological disease has been limited by the toxicities of these agents. To overcome these toxicities, strategies must be developed to inhibit selectively the expression of deleterious proapoptotic proteins, while leaving the expression of antiapoptotic, proregeneration, and other critical homeostatic proteins unperturbed. Mithramycin A (trade name Plicamycin) is an aureolic acid antibiotic that has been used in humans to treat hypercalcemia and several types of cancers. This class of agents is believed to act, in part, by selectively inhibiting gene expression by displacing transcriptional activators that bind to G-C-rich regions of promoters. Here we demonstrate that mithramycin A and its structural analog chromomycin A3 are potent inhibitors of neuronal apoptosis induced by glutathione depletion-induced oxidative stress or the DNA-damaging agent camptothecin. We correlate the protective effects of mithramycin A with its ability to inhibit enhanced DNA binding of the transcription factors Sp1 and Sp3 to their cognate "G-C" box induced by oxidative stress or DNA damage. The protective effects of mithramycin A cannot be attributed to global inhibition of protein synthesis. Together, these results suggest that mithramycin A and its structural analogs may be effective agents for the treatment of neurological diseases associated with aberrant activation of apoptosis and highlight the potential use of sequence-selective DNA-binding drugs as neurological therapeutics.
hTERTC27 is a 27 kDa C-terminal polypeptide of human telomerase reverse transcriptase that has previously been shown to reduce tumorigenicity of HeLa cells and suppress growth of xenografted glioblastoma in nude mice. Although ectopic expression of hTERTC27 upregulated genes that are involved in apoptosis, cell cycle, and immune response, the mechanism for hTERTC27-induced tumor suppression has not been completely elucidated. Since hTERT was identified as a universal tumor-associated antigen, we hypothesize that hTERTC27 inhibits tumor growth in vivo through activation of anti-tumor immune response.
Immunocompetent C57BL/6 mice were used for mouse B16 melanoma model. Mice bearing B16 melanoma were administered rAAV-/rAdv viral cocktail expressing hTERTC27, and tumor growth was monitored after viral cocktail treatment. Blood and splenocytes were used to determine the level of cytokines and the activity of immune cells, respectively. B16 tumor growth was significantly inhibited by subcutaneous administration of a single dose of 1.5×10(11) vg rAAV-hTERTC27 and 2.5×10(9) pfu rAdv-hTERTC27 viral cocktail (rAAV-/rAdv-hTERTC27). The population and cytotoxicity of NK cells in the mice were significantly augmented by rAAV-/rAdv-hTERTC27 treatment, and selective depletion of the NK cell population in mice by intraperitoneal injection of anti-GM1 antibody abrogated the growth suppression of melanoma induced by rAAV-/rAdv-hTERTC27 administration.
Activation of NK cells by administration of rAAV-/rAdv-hTERTC27 is critical for growth suppression of melanoma in mouse model.
The relationship between the centrally mediated hypotensive and bradycardic effects of clonidine to central alpha-2 adrenergic receptor activation, brain beta-endorphin (BE) release and opiate receptor activation was studied in chloralose-anesthetized spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) and Wistar-Kyoto rats, using a cerebroventricular perfusion system. Prior treatment of SHRs with i.v. naloxone (2 or 4 mg/kg) or i.c.v. yohimbine (10 or 20 micrograms/kg) reduced the hypotension and bradycardia induced by i.c.v. clonidine, but in Wistar-Kyoto rats naloxone had no similar blocking effects. Prazosin (20 micrograms/kg i.c.v.) reduced the clonidine bradycardia but not the hypotension in SHRs. Hypotension in the SHRs due to i.c.v. alpha-methylnorepinephrine (20 micrograms/kg) was reduced by both naloxone and yohimbine whereas alpha-methylnorepinephrine bradycardia was reduced by yohimbine but not by naloxone. Prior hypothalamic lesions in the SHRs reduced clonidine hypotension, but not bradycardia, and interfered with naloxone blockade of the residual clonidine hypotensive effect. Clonidine lowered immunoreactive BE levels in SHR hypothalamus, medulla and pituitary but did not change BE levels in the i.c.v. perfusate. The findings support the idea that in the SHRs, clonidine hypotension results from alpha-2 adrenergic stimulation of brain, causing BE release and central opiate receptor activation, and they suggest that the hypothalamus is involved in these interactions. Also, clonidine hypotension and bradycardia appear to involve different mechanisms in brain.
Thirty codependent cocaine and alcohol users were compared with age-, education-, race-, and sex-matched cocaine abusers (N = 30) and normals (N = 30) using an extended Halstead-Reitan Neuropsychological Test Battery to determine whether cocaine abusers with alcohol dependence were more cognitively impaired than singly addicted cocaine abusers. Tests were grouped and analyzed according to 8 major ability areas. Participants who abused both cocaine and alcohol did not differ from normals on the majority of test measures. An unexpected but consistent finding was the poorer performance of the cocaine sample relative to cocaine and alcohol abusers on measures of complex psychomotor and simple motor functioning (ps < .001). Pure cocaine abusers, but not abusers of both cocaine and alcohol, also performed more poorly than normals on a measure of global neuropsychological functioning (p < .01). These results are consistent with previous reports of generally mild cognitive dysfunction in cocaine abusers. The findings also suggest that cocaine and alcohol abusers of relatively young ages may be less cognitively impaired than demographically comparable cocaine abusers. Evidence from studies of vascular functioning in abusers of cocaine and alcohol alone and in combination is discussed as possible explanation for these findings.
The effects of continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) on cardiovascular dynamics and pulmonary shunt (QS/QT) were investigated in 12 dogs before and during sodium nitroprusside infusion that decreased mean arterial blood pressure 40-50 per cent. Before nitroprusside infusion, 5 cm H2O CPAP significantly, P less than .05, decreased arterial blood pressure, but did not significantly alter heart rate, cardiac output, systemic vascular resistance, or QS/QT. Ten cm H2O CPAP before nitroprusside infusion produced a further decrease in arterial blood pressure and significantly increased heart rate and decreased cardiac output and QS/QT. Nitroprusside caused significant decreases in arterial blood pressure and systemic vascular resistance and increases in heart rate, but did not change cardiac output or QS/QT. Five cm H2O CPAP during nitroprusside did not further alter any of the above-mentioned variables. However, 10 cm H2O CPAP decreased arterial blood pressure, cardiac output, and QS/QT. These data indicate that nitroprusside infusion rates that decrease mean arterial blood pressure by 40-50 per cent do not change cardiac output or QS/QT. During nitroprusside infusion low levels of CPAP do not markedly alter cardiovascular dynamics, but high levels of CPAP (10 cm H2O), while decreasing QS/QT, produce marked decreases in arterial blood pressure and cardiac output.
Excessive activation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor by glutamate produces an influx of Ca2+, which in turn is thought to lead to ischemic cell death. In this study we evaluated the combined treatment of the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist dizocilpine (MK-801) and the dihydropyridine Ca2+ channel blocker nicardipine for the reduction of hippocampal CA1 neuronal loss.
Global ischemia was induced by bilateral carotid artery occlusion in the gerbil. Body temperature was maintained between 36.5 degrees C and 37.5 degrees C during surgery. MK-801 (5.0 mg/kg) was injected 15 minutes after occlusion whereas nicardipine was given by injection and via a micro-osmotic pump (1.0 mg/kg/day) for 3 days.
Postischemic treatment with MK-801 reduced CA1 cell loss by 27.0%, whereas nicardipine reduced CA1 cell loss by 13.3%. Combined postischemic treatment with these drugs yielded an additive, protective effect (44.5% reduction of CA1 loss) that did not appear to result from postischemic hypothermia as assessed by skull and rectal temperature recordings.
Our results demonstrate that MK-801 plus nicardipine significantly attenuates CA1 cell death after forebrain ischemia in the gerbil. Excitatory amino acid antagonists in combination with Ca2+ channel antagonists may be an effective therapy in patients exposed to global ischemic insult.
All-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) induces leukemic cell differentiation and complete remission (CR) in a high proportion of patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (AML3 subtype). However, relapses occur when ATRA is prescribed as maintenance therapy, and resistance to a second ATRA-induction therapy is frequently observed. An induced hypercatabolism of ATRA has been suggested as a possible mechanism leading to reduced ATRA sensitivity and resistance. CRABPII, an RA cytoplasmic binding protein linked to RA's metabolization pathway, is induced by ATRA in different cell systems. To investigate whether specific features of the AML3 cells at relapse could explain the in vivo resistance observed, we studied the CRABP levels and in vitro sensitivity to ATRA of AML3 cells before and at relapse from ATRA. Relapse-AML3 cells (n = 12) showed reduced differentiation induction when compared with "virgin"-AML3 cells (n = 31; P < .05). Dose-response studies were performed in 2 cases at relapse and showed decreased sensitivity to low ATRA concentrations. CRABPII levels and in vitro differentiation characteristics of AML3 cells before and at relapse from ATRA therapy were studied concomittantly in 4 patients. High levels of CRABPII (median, 20 fmol/mg of protein) were detected in the cells of the 4 patients at relapse but were not detected before ATRA therapy. Three of these patients showed a decrease in differentiation induction of their leukemic cells, and a failure to achieve CR with a second induction therapy of ATRA 45 mg/m2/day was noted in all patients treated (n = 3). Results from this study provide evidence to support the hypothesis of induced-ATRA metabolism as one of the major mechanisms responsible for ATRA resistance. Monitoring CRABPII levels after ATRA withdrawal may help to determine when to administer ATRA in the maintenance or relapse therapy of AML3 patients.
To investigate the protective effect of Lithium against the toxic effect of Cadmium in the rat testes.
Twenty four adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with four different regimens: Cadmium only, Cadmium and lithium, lithium only and controls. Rats were sacrificed after 6 weeks and testicular levels of pro-inflammatory cytokine (IL-4), anti-inflammatory cytokine (TNF-α), Pro-apoptotic protein (Bax) and anti-apoptotic protein (Bcl-2) were measured by ELISA while serum levels of FSH, LH, Prolactin and Testosterone were measured using the Vidas parametric system. Antioxidant status (MDA, SOD) was also assessed in serum. Histopathological changes of testes were examined using light and electron microscopy. Immunohistochemical staining for Bax, Bcl-2 and Caspase 3 were performed.
Treatment with lithium was associated with significant reduction in the toxic effects of Cadmium as shown by reduced testicular levels of TNF-α, serum levels of Malondialdehyde and testicular level of Bax, and increased levels of IL-4, Zn-Cu SOD, Bcl-2 and Testosterone. Testicular histopathology showed that Cadmium produced an extensive germ cells apoptosis and the addition of lithium in Cadmium-treated rats significantly reduced cadmium-induced testicular damage.
Lithium has a protective effect against cadmium-induced testicular apoptosis in the rat.
The McLeod syndrome is an X-linked disorder caused by mutations of the XK gene encoding the XK protein. The syndrome is characterized by absent Kx erythrocyte antigen, weak expression of Kell blood group system antigens, and acanthocytosis. In some allelic variants, elevated creatine kinase, myopathy, neurogenic muscle atrophy, and progressive chorea are found. We describe a family with a novel point mutation in the XK gene consisting of a C to T base transition at nucleotide position 977, introducing a stop codon. Among seven affected males, five manifested with psychiatric disorders such as depression, bipolar disorder, or personality disorder, but only two presented with chorea Positron emission tomography and magnetic resonance volumetry revealed reduced striatal 2-fluoro-2-deoxy-glucose (FDG) uptake and diminished volumes of the caudate nucleus and putamen that correlated with disease duration. In contrast, none of 12 female mutation carriers showed psychiatric or movement disorders. However, a semidominant effect of the mutation was suggested by erythrocyte and blood group mosaicism and reduced striatal FDG uptake without structural abnormalities. Therefore, patients with psychiatric signs or symptoms segregating in an X-linked trait should be examined for acanthocytosis and Kell/Kx blood group serology.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the analgesic effect of the low level laser therapy (LLLT) with a He-Ne laser on acute inflammatory pain, verifying the contribution of the peripheral opioid receptors and the action of LLLT on the hyperalgesia produced by the release of hyperalgesic mediators of inflammation.
All analgesic drugs have undesired effects. Because of that, other therapies are being investigated for treatment of the inflammatory pain. Among those, LLLT seems to be very promising.
Male Wistar rats were used. Three complementary experiments were done. (1) The inflammatory reaction was induced by the injection of carrageenin into one of the hind paws. Pain threshold and volume increase of the edema were measured by a pressure gauge and plethysmography, respectively. (2) The involvement of peripheral opioid receptors on the analgesic effect of the laser was evaluated by simultaneous injection of carrageenin and naloxone into one hind paw. (3) Hyperalgesia was induced by injecting PGE2 for the study of the effect of the laser on the sensitization increase of nociceptors. A He-Ne laser (632.8 nm) of 2.5 J/cm2 was used for irradiation.
We found that He-Ne stimulation increased the pain threshold by a factor between 68% and 95% depending on the injected drug. We also observed a 54% reduction on the volume increase of the edema when it was irradiated.
He-Ne LLLT inhibits the sensitization increase of nociceptors on the inflammatory process. The analgesic effect seems to involve hyperalgesic mediators instead of peripheral opioid receptors.
We examined 126 patients, of whom 54 had suffered brain hemorrhage, 33 subdural hematoma, 18 subarachnoid bleeding, nine spinal hemorrhage and twelve hematoma with peripheral deficits. Neurologic disorders were seen in patients subject to therapy with coumarins 2-4 years after initiating therapy, whereas hemorrhages under heparine and streptokinase regimes were observed after only a few days. Clotting values were below a therapeutic range in only some of the cases. A clinical diagnosis should be verified by CT scanning. Blood clotting normally recovers after discontinuation of anticoagulation or fibrinolysis. Surgery will improve the prognosis in many cases of subdural hematoma or spinal hemorrhage; conservative treatment in cases of intracerebral, subarachnoid, and peripheral hemorrhage. A 70-percent lethality was recorded for patients suffering a cerebral hemorrhage. More than a third of patients with subarachnoid bleeding and less than a third of cases with subdural hematoma died. While peripheral lesions tended to improve, spinal hemorrhage often resulted in irreversible paraplegia. By respecting contra-indications for anticoagulation therapy and limiting the duration of such regimes the risk of hemorrhage within the CNS and other nerve structures may be reduced. Interactions with other drugs precipitating clotting disorders should also be taken into account.
Bisphosphonates (BPs), bone targeted drugs that disrupt osteoclast function, are routinely used to treat complications of bone metastasis. Studies in preclinical models of cancer have shown that BPs reduce skeletal tumor burden and increase survival. Similarly, we observed in the present study that administration of the Nitrogen-containing BP (N-BP), zoledronic acid (ZA) to osteolytic tumor-bearing Tax+ mice beginning at 6 months of age led to resolution of radiographic skeletal lesions. N-BPs inhibit farnesyl diphosphate (FPP) synthase, thereby inhibiting protein prenylation and causing cellular toxicity. We found that ZA decreased Tax+ tumor and B16 melanoma viability and caused the accumulation of unprenylated Rap1a proteins in vitro. However, it is presently unclear whether N-BPs exert anti-tumor effects in bone independent of inhibition of osteoclast (OC) function in vivo. Therefore, we evaluated the impact of treatment with ZA on B16 melanoma bone tumor burden in irradiated mice transplanted with splenic cells from src(-/-) mice, which have non-functioning OCs. OC-defective mice treated with ZA demonstrated a significant 88% decrease in tumor growth in bone compared to vehicle-treated OC-defective mice. These data support an osteoclast-independent role for N-BP therapy in bone metastasis.
The effects of acamprosate, a drug thought to interact with N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in the central nervous system (CNS), were examined on the antinociceptive action of morphine, induction of tolerance to and physical dependence on morphine, and expression of the abstinence syndrome to the opiate in mice. For the induction of tolerance and dependence, morphine (300 mg/kg) was administered by means of a slow-release preparation. Single doses of acamprosate (50, 100, 200, or 400 mg/kg) administered 30 min before a test dose of morphine did not change the antinociceptive effects of morphine in drug-naive mice. The drug was also administered in repeated doses (50, 100, 200, or 400 mg/kg, 30 min before and 12 and 24 h after the priming dose of morphine) in order to evaluate its effects on the induction of tolerance; all doses assayed, except the 400 mg/kg, did not affect the intensity of tolerance. The acute administration of acamprosate (50, 100, 200, or 400 mg/kg, injected 30 min before naloxone to morphine-pretreated mice) did not affect the intensity of the abstinence behavior. However, the repeated administration of 100 mg/kg of acamprosate (30 min before and 12 and 24 h after the priming dose of morphine) decreased the intensity of physical dependence. The results of these studies suggest that acamprosate may have modulatory effects on glutamatergic neurotransmission participating in the adaptive mechanisms induced by chronic morphine treatment.
Recent evidence suggests that the IL-6 family cytokine, leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) is produced by cardiac cells under stress conditions including myocardial infarction and heart failure. Additionally, short-term delivery of LIF has been shown to have preconditioning effects on the heart and to limit infarct size. However, cell culture studies have suggested that LIF may exert harmful effects on cardiac myocytes, including pathological hypertrophy and contractile dysfunction. Long-term effects of LIF on the heart in vivo have not been reported and were the focus of this study. Adult male mice were injected daily with LIF (2 μg/30 g) or saline for 10 days. LIF treatment caused an approximate 11% loss in body weight. Cardiac function as assessed by echocardiography was improved in LIF-treated mice. Ejection fraction and fractional shortening were increased by 21% and 32%, respectively. No cardiac hypertrophy was seen on histology in LIF-treated mice,, there was no change in the heart-to-tibia length ratio, and no cardiac fibrosis was observed. STAT3 was markedly activated by LIF in the left ventricle. Different effects of LIF were seen in protein levels of genes associated with STAT3 in the left ventricle: levels of SOD2 and Bcl-xL were unchanged, but levels of total STAT3 and MCP-1 were increased. There was a trend towards increased expression of miR-17, miR-21, and miR-199 in the left ventricle of LIF-treated mice, but these changes were not statistically significant. In conclusion, effects of chronic LIF treatment on the heart, although modest, were positive for systolic function: adverse cardiac remodeling was not observed. Our findings thus lend further support to recent proposals that LIF may have therapeutic utility in preventing injury to or repairing the myocardium.
Azathioprine (AZA) is associated with a high frequency of adverse reactions. We examined polymorphism of the thiopurine S-methyltransferase (TPMT) gene to determine whether the TPMT genotype would be a predictive marker for the development of adverse reactions to AZA.
The frequency of TPMT mutations was investigated in 147 Japanese inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) patients retrospectively. In these subjects, the presence of four mutant alleles (TPMT*2, *3B, *3C and *8) was determined by direct sequencing. The incidence of adverse reactions among patients carrying wild-type TPMT was investigated. The blood level of 6-thioguanine nucleotide (6-TGN) was measured and analyzed in 47 patients with wild-type TPMT. The results were analyzed in relation to the concomitant use of aminosalicylates (ASA).
Of the 147 patients, 144 (98.0%) were wild-type for TPMT (TPMT*1/*1) and three (2.0%) carried a mutant TPMT allele (TPMT*1/*3C). The incidence of adverse reactions was 33.3% (38/114) in the wild-type group. Leukopenia (WBC < or = 3000/microL) was seen in 15.8% of the patients with wild-type TPMT. 6-TGN levels varied among 47 patients with wild-type TPMT. The blood levels of 6-TGN were significantly higher in the patients receiving concomitant ASA treatment compared with those not receiving concomitant ASA treatment (P = 0.0033).
The frequency of TPMT gene mutations is low among Japanese IBD patients. The incidence of adverse reactions to AZA was high, even in patients carrying wild-type TPMT. It is concluded that determination of TPMT genotype may not be useful in Japanese IBD patients to predict adverse reactions to AZA.
Thalidomide was withdrawn from world markets in 1961 following recognition of its teratogenic effects. More recently, however, thalidomide treatment has been reintroduced to adult and paediatric practice for a variety of dermatologic, immunologic, rheumatologic and neoplastic disorders. Neuropathy is a significant side effect of thalidomide therapy, which may limit its clinical use. We report four cases of sensorimotor axonal neuropathy in children aged 10-15 years, treated with thalidomide for myxopapillary ependymoma, Crohn's disease and recurrent giant aphthous ulceration. Thalidomide neuropathy is often associated with proximal weakness and may progress even after discontinuation of treatment, in the phenomenon of 'coasting'. Children treated with thalidomide should undergo regular neurophysiologic studies in order to detect presymptomatic or progressive peripheral neuropathy.
Cestodes are very frequent intestinal parasites. They induce different troubles, regrouped as "taeniasis". In our study, 30 patients with Taenia saginata and 10 with Hymenolepis nana has been treated by one single dose of praziquantel, a wide-spectrum anti-helminthic drug, at the dosage of 10 mg/kg/day and 20 mg/kg/day respectively. As side-effects, no biological disturbances occurred, but 6 patients complained of abdominal pain and diarrhea. The efficiency has been complete. Praziquantel seems to be the drug of choice as treatment of adult cestodes.
Abamectin (ABA) is a macrocyclic lactone of the avermectin family used worldwide as an antiparasitic agent in farm animals and pets and as the active ingredient of insecticides and nematicides. In this study, the effects of abamectin on the bioenergetics of mitochondria isolated from rat liver were evaluated. Mitochondria are responsible for converting the energy released by electron transport and stored as the binding energy molecule ATP. Xenobiotics that interfere with its synthesis or utilization can be acutely or chronically toxic. Abamectin (5-25μM) caused concentration-dependent inhibition of the respiratory chain without affecting the membrane potential or the activity of enzymes NADH dehydrogenase or succinate dehydrogenase. This behavior is similar to oligomycin and carboxyatractyloside and suggests direct action on F(o)F(1)-ATPase and/or the adenine nucleotide translocator (ANT). ABA more pronouncedly inhibited ATPase phosphohydrolase activity in intact, uncoupled mitochondria than in freeze-thawed disrupted mitochondria. ADP-stimulated depolarization of the mitochondrial membrane potential was also inhibited by ABA. Our results indicate that ABA interacts more specifically with the ANT, resulting in functional inhibition of the translocator with consequent impairment of mitochondrial bioenergetics. This effect could be involved in the ABA toxicity to hepatocytes.
Fibrous myopathy was found in three patients who had taken pentazocine intramuscularly for years. Fibrotic induration in the quadriceps and deltoid muscles, the considerable limitation of motion due to the fibrotic muscle contracture, and the minimal weakness of involved muscles are the most characteristic findings in this condition. Results of animal experiments support the close relationship between myopathy and pentazocine. This serious complication emphasizes more judicious use of pentazocine
Recent studies of substance dependence typologies briefly show that multivariate systems originally developed for identifying subtypes of alcoholics, such as Babor's Type A and B system, may also be valid in abusers of other substances, such as cocaine. Type B patients are characterized by an earlier onset of addiction and more severe symptoms of their addiction, psychopathology, and impulsivity. The Type B classification has also been associated with deficits in serotonergic function. We have found that patients who exhibit more severe cocaine withdrawal symptoms, as measured by scores on the Cocaine Selective Severity Assessment (CSSA), have poor treatment outcome and share many characteristics with "Type B" patients. In this paper, we review baseline characteristics of cocaine-dependent patients from several recently completed outpatient cocaine dependence treatment trials to assess the association of cocaine withdrawal symptom severity and the Type B profile. Identifying subtypes of cocaine-dependent patients may improve our ability to treat cocaine dependence by targeting treatments for specific subtypes of patients. We examined the ability of the CSSA scores to capture Type B characteristics in cocaine dependence by analyzing a series of cocaine medication trials that included 255 cocaine-dependent subjects. High CSSA scores at baseline were associated with a history of violent behavior, a family history of substance abuse, antisocial personality disorder, higher addiction severity, and co-morbid psychiatric diseases. Patients with high CSSA scores are also more likely to meet criteria for Type B (Type II) cocaine dependence. Identifying Type B cocaine-dependent patients may help to develop targeted psychosocial or pharmacological treatments for these difficult-to-treat patients.
Sotalol is a beta-blocking agent endowed with class III electrophysiological properties. It has proved clinically effective in the treatment of arrhythmia, but episodes of torsades de pointe have been observed, particularly (though not exclusively) in the presence of hypokalaemia. The effect of sotalol with or without hypokalaemia was studied on a recently developed model for experimental torsades de pointe. Conscious dogs with complete atrioventricular block (ventricular cycle RR = 1530 +/- 170 ms) and provided with permanent atrial and ventricular epicardial electrodes were given sotalol intravenously either as a 4.5 mg/kg bolus injection or as a 1.5 mg/kg/h infusion. Group I dogs (n = 8) had normal blood potassium levels (4.3 +/- 0.1 mEq/1); following sotalol (plasma concentration 3.7 +/- 0.2 micrograms/ml) the ventricular rhythm was electrically driven to 25/min (RR = 240 ms) and QT was increased by 68 +/- 11 ms; torsades de pointe occurred in 5/8 animals (62 p. 100). Group II dogs (n = 6) had diuretic-induced hypokalaemia (2.6 +/- 0.1 mEq/1); following sotalol (plasma concentrations 3.8 +/- 0.3 micrograms/ml) the ventricular rhythm also depended on an external pacemaker to reach 25/min (in all but 1 dog) and QT increased by 46 +/- 11 ms; torsades de pointes were obtained in 5/6 animals (83 p. 100). These torsades de pointe were prevented in every case by rapid ventricular pacing (100-120/min). Thus, the pro-arrhythmic effects of sotalol were very frequent on this experimental model, but hypokalaemia was not necessary for torsades de pointe to occur.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Use of cocaine in the USA, has reached epidemic proportions since 1983, when "crack" was introduced, its higher potency compared with cocaine HCl has been associated with a tremendous increase in the incidence of strokes. This study reports our experience with 55 cases of neurovascular events (25 ischemic and 30 hemorrhagic) related to cocaine use in 54 patients. Only 15 patients had other risk factors for stroke. Twenty six patients smoked "crack", 10 snorted cocaine and 12 injected it intravenously. Strokes occurred within 3 h of cocaine use in 15 patients with infarcts and 17 with hemorrhages. Ten infarcts occurred after an overnight binge. Of the hemorrhage group 9 were subarachnoid, 16 intracerebral (8 basal ganglia, 7 hemispheric and one brain stem) and 5 intraventricular. Computerized tomography (CT) showed an aneurysm of the anterior communicating artery, as well as one of the vein of Galen. Four aneurysms and 3 AVMs were identified on angiography. CT revealed 15 infarcts; it was normal in 7 patients with pure motor hemiparesis and in 3 with findings consistent with anterior spinal artery infarction. Several mechanisms may be responsible for the cerebrovascular complications. A sudden rise in systemic arterial pressure may cause hemorrhages, frequently in association with an underlying aneurysm or AVM. Vasospasm, arteritis, myocardial infarction with cardiac arrhythmias and increased platelet aggregation may provoke infarcts.
