Retinoic acid is a widely used drug in the treatment of cystic acne. It has teratogenic effects that depend on the gestational period in which it is used. We report a seven months old female whose mother was exposed to retinoic acid in both pre-gestational and gestational periods. She had a retardation of psychomotor development and a brain MRI showed frontal atrophy and a malformation of the posterior fossa. We discuss the mechanisms of the teratogenic effects of retinoic acid.
We conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) of breast cancer by genotyping 528,173 SNPs in 1,145 postmenopausal women of European ancestry with invasive breast cancer and 1,142 controls. We identified four SNPs in intron 2 of FGFR2 (which encodes a receptor tyrosine kinase and is amplified or overexpressed in some breast cancers) that were highly associated with breast cancer and confirmed this association in 1,776 affected individuals and 2,072 controls from three additional studies. Across the four studies, the association with all four SNPs was highly statistically significant (P(trend) for the most strongly associated SNP (rs1219648) = 1.1 x 10(-10); population attributable risk = 16%). Four SNPs at other loci most strongly associated with breast cancer in the initial GWAS were not associated in the replication studies. Our summary results from the GWAS are available online in a form that should speed the identification of additional risk loci.
The effect of chronic oral treatment with the angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor ramipril at antihypertensive and sub-antihypertensive doses, on vascular morphology and function as well as left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) and cardiac capillary length density was investigated in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). Treatment was commenced before hypertension developed (prevention study) or in adult animals with established hypertension (regression study). In both studies, high-dose ramipril reduced ACE activity in plasma, heart and aorta, normalised blood pressure, and prevented LVH or caused regression of LVH. Low-dose ramipril did not prevent the development of hypertension or LVH, but caused an increase in cardiac capillary length density. In adult hypertensive animals, low-dose ramipril did not reduce blood pressure but caused regression of LVH. In both studies, vascular function as tested in the aortic vessels was improved not only after high- but also after low-dose ACE inhibitor treatment: an inhibition of vascular ACE was associated with attenuated vasoconstrictor responses to norepinephrine and enhanced dilator responses to acetylcholine and bradykinin. A reduction of vascular hypertrophy/hyperplasia in the mesenteric vessels was achieved by the antihypertensive dose of ramipril in the prevention but not the regression study. Our data demonstrate that an improvement of vascular function in SHR can be achieved by chronic ACE inhibition with ramipril independently of structural changes and of the antihypertensive action exerted by the drug. LVH was reduced even at a sub-antihypertensive dose of ramipril in the regression but not the prevention study. In the prevention study, however, low-dose ramipril, like high-dose ramipril, was able to protect the heart by preventing cardiac microvascular rarefaction.
Oxygen-derived free radicals have been implicated in the pathogenesis of cerebral injury after ischaemia-reperfusion. Caffeic acid phenethyl ester (CAPE), an active component of propolis extract, exhibits antioxidant properties. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the effects of ischaemia and subsequent reperfusion on rat brain and to investigate the effects of two free radical scavengers, CAPE and alpha-tocopherol, on this in vivo model of cerebral injury. Ischaemia was induced by bilateral occlusion of the carotid arteries for 20 min and reperfusion was achieved by releasing the occlusion to restore the circulation for 20 min. Control rats underwent a sham operation. CAPE at 10 micromol kg(-1) or alpha-tocopherol at 25 micromol kg(-1) was administered intraperitoneally before reperfusion. Reperfusion led to significant increase in the activity of xanthine oxidase and higher malondialdehyde levels in the brain. Acute administration of both CAPE and alpha-tocopherol suppressed ischaemia-reperfusion-induced cerebral lipid peroxidation and injury, but CAPE seems to offer a better therapeutic advantage over alpha-tocopherol.
To identify rheumatoid arthritis risk loci in European populations, we conducted a meta-analysis of two published genome-wide association (GWA) studies totaling 3,393 cases and 12,462 controls. We genotyped 31 top-ranked SNPs not previously associated with rheumatoid arthritis in an independent replication of 3,929 autoantibody-positive rheumatoid arthritis cases and 5,807 matched controls from eight separate collections. We identified a common variant at the CD40 gene locus (rs4810485, P = 0.0032 replication, P = 8.2 x 10(-9) overall, OR = 0.87). Along with other associations near TRAF1 (refs. 2,3) and TNFAIP3 (refs. 4,5), this implies a central role for the CD40 signaling pathway in rheumatoid arthritis pathogenesis. We also identified association at the CCL21 gene locus (rs2812378, P = 0.00097 replication, P = 2.8 x 10(-7) overall), a gene involved in lymphocyte trafficking. Finally, we identified evidence of association at four additional gene loci: MMEL1-TNFRSF14 (rs3890745, P = 0.0035 replication, P = 1.1 x 10(-7) overall), CDK6 (rs42041, P = 0.010 replication, P = 4.0 x 10(-6) overall), PRKCQ (rs4750316, P = 0.0078 replication, P = 4.4 x 10(-6) overall), and KIF5A-PIP4K2C (rs1678542, P = 0.0026 replication, P = 8.8 x 10(-8) overall).
The effects of withdrawal from long-term treatment with increasing doses of diphenylhydantoin (DPH) were studied in rats. The dose of DPH was increased from 5 to 200 mg/kg over 20 days and the animals were tested 72 h after withdrawal. DPH withdrawal induced a leftward displacement of the dose-response curves obtained for the convulsive effects of both picrotoxin and metrazol and decreased the latency of 3-mercaptopropionic acid-induced seizures. These effects were interpreted to be a consequence of supersensitivity of the central nervous system induced by long-term DPH depression.
Twenty-four psoriatic patients on methotrexate were studied with liver biopsies and serum measurements of aminoterminal propeptide of type III procollagen (PIII NP). All but one of nine patients with serum levels of PIII NP above the normal range had liver fibrosis or cirrhosis and no normal liver biopsies were obtained in this group. In contrast, nine normal liver biopsies and two biopsies with minimal fibrosis were found among the 15 patients with normal serum levels of PIII NP. The study indicates that aminoterminal propeptide of type III procollagen can be utilized as a valuable non-invasive marker of fibrogenesis in the liver. This analysis is not specific for the liver, but it seems that the number of liver biopsies probably can be reduced in psoriatics on methotrexate who have normal levels of PIII NP.
Bemitradine is a compound that was intended for use as a diuretic antihypertensive drug. In the preclinical safety assays, it was found to be nongenotoxic in five in vitro assays (Ames, mouse lymphoma, CHO/HGPRT, CHO chromosome aberration, and UDS) and in one in vivo assay (mouse bone marrow micronucleus). In a subsequent long-term bioassay using Sprague-Dawley rats, this compound was found to be a rodent carcinogen at multiple sites. Because of the carcinogenicity, further development of this compound as a drug was halted. Because the Syrian hamster embryo (SHE) cell transformation assay at pH 6.7 has been demonstrated to be a good predictor of carcinogenic activity in animals, this nongenotoxic compound was used to determine if this in vitro assay system could be utilized to predict the potential for the carcinogenicity in rodents. The SHE cell transformation assay was validated initially for use in this laboratory using genotoxic and nongenotoxic carcinogens including benzo(a)pyrene, 20-methylcholanthrene, 2-acetylaminofluorene, methapyrilene, and phenobarbital. Each of these chemicals induced a statistically significant increase in morphological transformation frequency. Bemitradine was initially tested in a range-finding cytotoxicity assay at 10-250 microg/mL for treatment periods of 7 days. Doses used in the 7-day treatment transformation assay were 1.25, 2.5, 5.0, 7.5, and 10.0 microg/mL. Statistically significant increases in morphological transformation frequencies were observed at 1.25, 2.5, and 7.5 microg/mL, indicating a positive response. The experiment was repeated with similar results confirming the previous conclusion. These data provide additional evidence that the pH 6.7 SHE cell transformation assay may be a valuable in vitro tool to detect nongenotoxic rodent carcinogens.
Oxidant herbicide nitrofen (2,4-dichloro-4'-nitrodiphenyl ether) induces in rat embryos congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) with lung hypoplasia. The present study aims at examining whether antioxidant vitamins A, E, and C reverse the effects of the teratogen in the lungs of exposed rats and how they modify the expression of molecular regulators known to be involved in their pathogenesis.
Wet lung weight-body weight ratio, total DNA, and total protein were determined. Thyroid transcription factor 1 (TTF-1), hepatocyte nuclear factor 3beta (HNF-3beta), and surfactant protein B (SP-B) proteins were measured by immunoblot assay in lung homogenates from rat fetuses exposed in utero to either nitrofen 100 mg intragastrically or vehicle. The coexpression of these factors in the alveolar epithelium was demonstrated by immunohistochemistry. The effects of the addition of vitamins A, C, and E were assessed by comparison with analysis of variance.
Nitrofen decreased lung weight, total DNA, and total protein. The addition of antioxidant vitamins had no effect on lung weight, but increased DNA and protein contents. TTF-1, HNF-3beta, and SP-B proteins were decreased in lung homogenates of exposed rats with CDH. The addition of antioxidant vitamins nearly normalized these values.
The effects of nitrofen in fetal rat lungs are reversed in part by antioxidant vitamins by upregulating the expression of TTF-1, HNF-3beta, and SP-B. This approach could help to develop transplacental prenatal interventions for CDH.
Although theophylline is recommended by current guidelines for the management of asthma in patients with persistent symptoms, theophylline has a narrow therapeutic index, requiring individual dose titration and regular monitoring of serum theophylline concentrations to avoid adverse effects.
To compare the inhaled long-acting bronchodilator, salmeterol, with the oral bronchodilator, theophylline, in the maintenance treatment of asthma.
In two multicenter, randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, placebo-controlled, parallel-group studies, patients received salmeterol aerosol 42 micrograms, extended-release theophylline capsules, or placebo twice daily for 12 weeks.
Of 638 adult and adolescent patients with moderate asthma who entered the prebaseline theophylline titration period, 154 were withdrawn prior to randomization (71 due to theophylline-related adverse effects); 484 patients comprised the intent-to-treat population. The mean serum theophylline concentration measured approximately seven hours postdose during the titration period in the theophylline group was 12.7 mg/L (70 mumol/L). The same dose during the treatment period resulted in a mean serum theophylline concentration between 7.6 to 7.9 mg/L (42-44 mumol/L) when measured approximately 12 hours postdose. Salmeterol was significantly more effective than theophylline or placebo in improving mean morning PEF over the entire 12 weeks (P < or = .02). Mean predose FEV1 improved significantly with salmeterol compared with placebo (P < .001); there was no difference between theophylline and placebo. Salmeterol was also significantly more effective than theophylline or placebo (P < .02) in improving asthma symptoms, reducing nighttime awakenings, and reducing the daily use of albuterol. After 12 weeks of treatment, patients in the salmeterol group expressed significantly greater overall satisfaction with their asthma medication than did patients who received theophylline (P < .01). Patients in the theophylline group experienced more gastrointestinal adverse events than did patients in the salmeterol group (P < .05).
Salmeterol, 42 mg twice daily, was better tolerated and significantly more effective than extended-release theophylline twice daily in the maintenance treatment of asthma.
Rhabdomyolysis is a potentially lethal syndrome that psychiatric patients seem predisposed to develop. The clinical signs and symptoms, typical laboratory features, and complications of rhabdomyolysis are presented. The case of a schizophrenic patient is reported to illustrate massive rhabdomyolysis and subsequent acute renal failure following molindone administration. Physicians who prescribe molindone should be aware of this reaction.
The authors describe the case of biopsy-proven cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis secondary to treatment with carbimazole.
A 78-year-old white female developed erythematous macules on the lower limbs which cleared after discontinuation of her current treatment and implementation of oral steroid therapy. Causal explorations (lack of systemic disorder or infectious disease) remain negative, except for positive immune complexes. This case clearly differs from the two cases of microvasculitis (myositis and nephritis) secondary to treatment with carbimazole previously mentioned in the literature.
To our knowledge this is the first report of biopsy-proven cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis associated with this antithyroid agent. Its widespread use makes awareness of the side-effect important.
Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity has been used to evaluate the exposure of mollusk bivalves to organophosphates, carbamate pesticides, and heavy metals. Crassostrea hongkongensis is a Hong Kong endemic oyster, and has a high commercial value along the coastal area of South China. The use of this species as a bio-indicator of the marine environment, and the use of AChE activity measurements in tissues of C. hongkongensis require prior characterization of AChE in this species. Here, we report that gill tissue contains the highest AChE activity in C. hongkongensis, and that the molecular form of AChE is most likely to be a dimeric form. In addition, the effect of the pesticide acephate on AChE activity in the gill of C. hongkongensis was analyzed, and the mean inhibition concentration (IC50) value was determined. This study suggests that AChE activity in the gill tissue of C. hongkongensis might be used as a biomarker in monitoring organophosphate contamination in the marine fauna of South China.
A newly developed procedure for total cardiac denervation employing cryosurgical techniques is described. Thirty-three dogs underwent cryosurgical cardiac denervation. Twenty-seven survived the procedure and were divided into three groups. Completeness of denervation was evaluated by recording hemodynamic responses to sodium nitroprusside-induced hypotension, phenylephrine-induced hypertension, and direct cardiac autonomic nerve stimulations acutely (group I, n = 11) and 2 weeks after denervation (group II, n = 5). Serial drug infusion studies were performed during an 8-month period in group III animals (n = 11). Myocardial biopsies for catecholamine content were done in groups II and III. Both direct and reflex hemodynamic responses to autonomic neural stimulation were abolished in the acutely denervated hearts. Furthermore, at 2 weeks, direct neural stimulation was without effect, and myocardial catecholamine content was 95% depleted (p less than 0.001). Serial drug infusion studies revealed a changing spectrum of responses, suggesting the onset of reinnervation by 8 months following the procedure. Myocardial catecholamine content was 85% depleted at that time (p less than 0.001). Cryosurgical cardiac denervation is an effective technique offering the advantages of safety, simplicity, and completeness.
Breast cancer exhibits familial aggregation, consistent with variation in genetic susceptibility to the disease. Known susceptibility genes account for less than 25% of the familial risk of breast cancer, and the residual genetic variance is likely to be due to variants conferring more moderate risks. To identify further susceptibility alleles, we conducted a two-stage genome-wide association study in 4,398 breast cancer cases and 4,316 controls, followed by a third stage in which 30 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were tested for confirmation in 21,860 cases and 22,578 controls from 22 studies. We used 227,876 SNPs that were estimated to correlate with 77% of known common SNPs in Europeans at r2 > 0.5. SNPs in five novel independent loci exhibited strong and consistent evidence of association with breast cancer (P < 10(-7)). Four of these contain plausible causative genes (FGFR2, TNRC9, MAP3K1 and LSP1). At the second stage, 1,792 SNPs were significant at the P < 0.05 level compared with an estimated 1,343 that would be expected by chance, indicating that many additional common susceptibility alleles may be identifiable by this approach.
Tetrodotoxin-resistant (TTX-R) sodium channels NaV1.8 and NaV1.9 in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons play important roles in pathological pain. We recently reported that melittin, the major toxin of whole bee venom, induced action potential firings in DRG neurons even in the presence of a high concentration (500 nM) of TTX, indicating the contribution of TTX-R sodium channels. This hypothesis is fully investigated in the present study. After subcutaneous injection of melittin, NaV1.8 and NaV1.9 significantly upregulate mRNA and protein expressions, and related sodium currents also increase. Double immunohistochemical results show that NaV1.8-positive neurons are mainly medium- and small-sized, whereas NaV1.9-positive ones are only small-sized. Antisense oligodeoxynucleotides (AS ODNs) targeting NaV1.8 and NaV1.9 are used to evaluate functional significance of the increased expressions of TTX-R sodium channels. Behavioral tests demonstrate that AS ODN targeting NaV1.9, but not NaV1.8, reverses melittin-induced heat hypersensitivity. Neither NaV1.8 AS ODN nor NaV1.9 AS ODN affects melittin-induced mechanical hypersensitivity. These results provide previously unknown evidence that upregulation of NaV1.9, but not NaV1.8, in small-sized DRG neurons contributes to melittin-induced heat hypersensitivity. Furthermore, melittin-induced biological effect indicates a potential strategy to study properties of TTX-R sodium channels.
Rheumatoid arthritis is a chronic autoimmune inflammatory disease with a complex genetic etiology. Members of the signaling lymphocyte activation molecule (SLAM) family carry out pivotal functions in innate immunity and in conventional lymphocytes. We identified a linkage disequilibrium block associated with rheumatoid arthritis in the chromosome 1q region containing multiple SLAM family genes. In this block, the association peaked at two functional SNPs (rs3766379 and rs6682654) in CD244 in two independent rheumatoid arthritis cohorts from Japan (P = 3.23 x 10(-8) and P = 7.45 x 10(-8)). We also identified a Japanese cohort with systemic lupus erythematosus that had a similar genotype distribution as the rheumatoid arthritis cohorts. We demonstrated that the rheumatoid arthritis-susceptible alleles of rs3766379 and rs6682654 and their haplotype increased their expression in luciferase and allele-specific transcript quantification assays. CD244 is a genetic risk factor for rheumatoid arthritis and may have a role in the autoimmune process shared by rheumatoid arthritis and systemic lupus erythematosus.
The emergence of silymarin (SMN) as a natural remedy for liver diseases, coupled with its entry into NIH clinical trial, signifies its hepatoprotective potential. SMN is noted for its ability to interfere with apoptotic signaling while acting as an antioxidant. This in vivo study was designed to explore the hepatotoxic potential of Doxorubicin (Dox), the well-known cardiotoxin, and in particular whether pre-exposures to SMN can prevent hepatotoxicity by reducing Dox-induced free radical mediated oxidative stress, by modulating expression of apoptotic signaling proteins like Bcl-xL, and by minimizing liver cell death occurring by apoptosis or necrosis. Groups of male ICR mice included Control, Dox alone, SMN alone, and Dox with SMN pre/co-treatment. Control and Dox groups received saline i.p. for 14 days. SMN was administered p.o. for 14 days at 16 mg/kg/day. An approximate LD(50) dose of Dox, 60 mg/kg, was administered i.p. on day 12 to animals receiving saline or SMN. Animals were euthanized 48 h later. Dox alone induced frank liver injury (>50-fold increase in serum ALT) and oxidative stress (>20-fold increase in malondialdehyde [MDA]), as well as direct damage to DNA (>15-fold increase in DNA fragmentation). Coincident genomic damage and oxidative stress influenced genomic stability, reflected in increased PARP activity and p53 expression. Decreases in Bcl-xL protein coupled with enhanced accumulation of cytochrome c in the cytosol accompanied elevated indexes of apoptotic and necrotic cell death. Significantly, SMN exposure reduced Dox hepatotoxicity and associated apoptotic and necrotic cell death. The effects of SMN on Dox were broad, including the ability to modulate changes in both Bcl-xL and p53 expression. In animals treated with SMN, tissue Bcl-xL expression exceeded control values after Dox treatment. Taken together, these results demonstrated that SMN (i) reduced, delayed onset, or prevented toxic effects of Dox which are typically associated with hydroxyl radical production, (ii) performed as an antioxidant limiting oxidative stress, (iii) protected the integrity of the genome, and (iv) antagonized apoptotic and necrotic cell death while increasing antiapoptotic Bcl-xL protein levels and minimizing the leakage of proapoptotic cytochrome c from liver mitochondria. These observations demonstrate the protective actions of SMN in liver, and raise the possibility that such protection may extend to other organs during Dox treatment including the heart.
To report the occurrence of lithium intoxication in a patient with bipolar disorder after adding rofecoxib to the medication regimen.
A 68-year-old woman with bipolar disorder under long-term treatment with lithium, carbamazepine, pipamperon, and mirtazapine was prescribed rofecoxib 25 mg twice daily for the treatment of leg pain. Within one week, she showed progressive hypokinesia and tremor, which was treated with propranolol. Subsequently, she developed bradycardia, necessitating treatment with isoproterenol. Her lithium serum concentration had doubled compared with those before rofecoxib, and her renal function had deteriorated. After stopping lithium and rofecoxib, her laboratory values and neurologic signs improved or normalized within 2 days. An objective causality assessment revealed a probable relationship between concomitant use of the drugs and the resulting symptoms.
As of May 24, 2004, only 3 cases of reversible lithium intoxication as a result of a possible interaction with rofecoxib or celecoxib have been previously reported. The mechanism of the interaction between lithium and cyclooxygenase (COX) 2 selective inhibitors is most probably related to inhibition of renal synthesis of prostaglandins, which are important for the maintenance of renal perfusion and tubular function. Impairment of renal blood flow, leading to a decrease in the glomerular filtration rate, and increased proximal tubular absorption are the most likely mechanisms by which COX-2 selective inhibitors reduce lithium clearance.
Coadministration of rofecoxib and lithium may result in life-threatening lithium intoxication, especially in patients with a preexisting decrease in renal function and/or decreased intravascular volume.
A novel in vitro model to investigate time-dependent and concentration-dependent responses in blood cells and hemolytic events is studied for rat, dog, and human tissues. Whole blood is co-cultured with a precision-cut liver slice. Methimazole (MMI) was selected as a reference compound, since metabolism of its imidazole thione moiety is linked with hematologic disorders and hepatotoxicity. An oxidative stress response occurred in all three species, marked by a decline in blood GSH levels by 24 h that progressed, and preceded hemolysis, which occurred at high MMI concentrations in the presence of a liver slice with rat (>or=1000 microM at 48 h) and human tissues (>or=1000 microM at 48 h, >or=750 microM at 72 h) but not dog. Human blood-only cultures exhibited a decline of GSH levels but minimal to no hemolysis. The up-regulation of liver genes for heme degradation (Hmox1 and Prdx1), iron cellular transport (Slc40a1), and GSH synthesis and utilization (mGST1 and Gclc) were early markers of the oxidative stress response. The up-regulation of the Kupffer cell lectin Lgals3 gene expression indicated a response to damaged red blood cells, and Hp (haptoglobin) up-regulation is indicative of increased hemoglobin uptake. Up-regulation of liver IL-6 and IL-8 gene expression suggested an activation of an inflammatory response by liver endothelial cells. In summary, MMI exposure led to an oxidative stress response in blood cells, and an up-regulation of liver genes involved with oxidative stress and heme homeostasis, which was clearly separate and preceded frank hemolysis.
Estragole has been shown to be hepatocarcinogenic in rodent species at high-dose levels. Translation of these results into the likelihood of formation of DNA adducts, mutation, and ultimately cancer upon more realistic low-dose exposures remains a challenge. Recently we have developed physiologically based biokinetic (PBBK) models for rat and human predicting bioactivation of estragole. These PBBK models, however, predict only kinetic characteristics. The present study describes the extension of the PBBK model to a so-called physiologically based biodynamic (PBBD) model predicting in vivo DNA adduct formation of estragole in rat liver. This PBBD model was developed using in vitro data on DNA adduct formation in rat primary hepatocytes exposed to 1'-hydroxyestragole. The model was extended by linking the area under the curve for 1'-hydroxyestragole formation predicted by the PBBK model to the area under the curve for 1'-hydroxyestragole in the in vitro experiments. The outcome of the PBBD model revealed a linear increase in DNA adduct formation with increasing estragole doses up to 100 mg/kg bw. Although DNA adduct formation of genotoxic carcinogens is generally seen as a biomarker of exposure rather than a biomarker of response, the PBBD model now developed is one step closer to the ultimate toxic effect of estragole than the PBBK model described previously. Comparison of the PBBD model outcome to available data showed that the model adequately predicts the dose-dependent level of DNA adduct formation. The PBBD model predicts DNA adduct formation at low levels of exposure up to a dose level showing to cause cancer in rodent bioassays, providing a proof of principle for modeling a toxicodynamic in vivo endpoint on the basis of solely in vitro experimental data.
An episode of leukoencephalopathy is reported in a 13-year-old girl who, after standard radiotherapy for a posterior fossa medulloblastoma, received 8 treatments with a protocol containing a 4-hour infusion of 500 mg/m2 methotrexate and 12 mg intrathecal methotrexate. The leukoencephalopathy, documented clinically and by CT and EEG, cleared after 2350 mg of leucovorin (citrovorum factor, folinic acid) was given in addition to the 135 mg given as part of the therapy. A review of the literature suggests that leukoencephalopathy may be prevented by high doses of leucovorin and can be treated by high doses, if lower doses were used initially. When high dose leucovorin was not used, residual neurological damage is not unusual.
Twenty-three patients with end-stage renal failure on maintenance haemodialysis were treated with 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin D3 or 24-25-dihydroxy vitamin D3 for 3-32 months (total 232 patient months). Treatment with 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin D3 was marked by symptomatic, biochemical and histological improvements in the majority of patients. In contrast, treatment with 24,25-dihydroxy vitamin D3 produced no biochemical or histological improvements and such patients developed severe symptomatic bone disease. Successful renal transplantation resulted in rapid improvement in symptoms, biochemistry and bone histology in nine of 10 patients irrespective of whether prior treatment was with 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin D3, 24,25-dihydroxy vitamin D3 or both. During treatment with 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin D3 progressive reduction in dosage was required in the majority of patients because of hypercalcaemia, which was rapidly corrected by stopping treatment for a few days. Hypercalcaemia did not occur until serum alkaline phosphatase (AP) and amino terminal parathyroid hormone (N-PTH) had fallen towards normal. Treatment failure was uncommon in 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin D3-treated patients and was characterized by the early development of hypercalcaemia. Addition of 24,25-dihydroxy vitamin D3 in such patients rendered the hypercalcaemia more manageable but did not lead to any further improvement in biochemistry or bone histology. Treatment with 24,25-dihydroxy vitamin D3 was accompanied by the development of severe symptomatic bone disease in the majority of patients and a characteristic pattern of biochemical abnormalities with hypocalcaemia and rises in AP and N-PTH. Substitution of 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin D3 treatment for 24,25-dihydroxy vitamin D3 in these patients resulted in prompt improvement in clinical, biochemical and histological abnormalities. Successful renal transplantation was accompanied by rapid resolution of clinical, biochemical and histological features of renal osteodystrophy irrespective of whether previous treatment was with 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin D3 or 24,25-dihydroxy vitamin D3. Hypophosphataemia was common in the early months after renal transplantation without evidence of continuing hyperparathyroidism. The studies have confirmed that 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin D3 is effective in controlling clinical, biochemical and histological features of renal osteodystrophy while 24,25-dihydroxy vitamin D3 did not have a useful therapeutic effect in the dose used.
Various data suggest that male patients who have received digoxin on a longterm basis have increased levels of serum estrogen and decreased levels of plasma testosterone and luteinizing hormone (LH). This study was undertaken to investigate the links between the long-term administration of digoxin therapy and sexual behavior, and the effect of digoxin on plasma levels of estradiol, testosterone, and LH. The patients of the study and control group (without digoxin) were of similar cardiac functional capacity and age (25-40 years) and were randomly selected from the rheumatic heart disease patients. A subjective assessment of sexual behavior in the study and control groups was carried out, using parameters such as sexual desire, sexual excitement, and frequency of sexual relations. Personal interviews and a questionnaire were also used for the evaluation of sexual behavior. The findings support the reports concerning digoxin effect on plasma estradiol, testosterone, and LH. The differences in the means were significant. Tests used to evaluate the changes in sexual behavior showed a significant decrease in sexual desire, sexual excitement phase (erection), and frequency of sexual relations in the study group.
Twenty children (18 boys and 2 girls) with a proven or presumptive diagnosis of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PD) deficiency developed intravascular haemolysis following administration of antimalarials in 9, chloroquine and chloramphenicol in 1, chloroquine, chloramphenicol and aspirin in 1, chloramphenicol and aspirin in 3, and aspirin alone in 4. Eleven of these children developed acute renal insufficiency. All were managed with supportive care, including blood transfusion, forced diuresis and peritoneal dialysis wherever indicated. Only 16 children recovered completely. The occurrence of G-6-PD deficiency is being reported for the first time in Afghanistan.
