Cypermethrin, a type II pyrethroid insecticide, is widely used throughout the world in agriculture, forestry, horticulture and homes. Though the neurotoxicity of cypermethrin has been thoroughly studied in adult rodents, little is so far available regarding the developmental toxicity of cypermethrin to fish in early life stages. To explore the potential developmental toxicity of cypermethrin, 4-h post-fertilization (hpf) zebrafish embryos were exposed to various concentrations of cypermethrin (0, 25, 50, 100, 200 and 400 μg L⁻¹) until 96 h. Among a suite of morphological abnormalities, the unique phenotype curvature was observed at concentrations as low as 25 μg L⁻¹. Studies revealed that 400 μg L⁻¹ cypermethrin significantly increased malondialdehyde production. In addition, activity of antioxidative enzymes including superoxide dismutase and catalase were significantly induced in zebrafish larvae in a concentration-dependent manner. To further investigate the toxic effects of cypermethrin on fish, acridine orange (AO) staining was performed at 400 μg L⁻¹ cypermethrin and the result showed notable signs of apoptosis mainly in the nervous system. Cypermethrin also down-regulated ogg1 and increased p53 gene expression as well as the caspase-3 activity. Our results demonstrate that cypermethrin was able to induce oxidative stress and produce apoptosis through the involvement of caspases in zebrafish embryos. In this study, we investigated the developmental toxicity of cypermethrin using zebrafish embryos, which could be helpful in fully understanding the potential mechanisms of cypermethrin exposure during embryogenesis and also suggested that zebrafish could serve as an ideal model for studying developmental toxicity of environmental contaminants.
Nevirapine induced hepatotoxicity is known but fatality is rare. We report a case of a young individual who developed nevirapine (NVP) induced fatal hepatitis without apparent risk factors or preceding rash. Exacerbation of underlying silent chronic liver dysfunction possibly contributed to the fatal outcome. This case stresses the need for careful evaluation, regular monitoring and prompt omission of drug on suspicion of hepatotoxicity.
A depressed patient developed neuroleptic-like side effects while being treated with amoxapine alone. Elevation of her plasma prolactin level and significant ex vivo neuroleptic activity were found despite therapeutic amoxapine levels.
Cancer drugs suppress tumor cell growth by inhibiting specific cellular targets. However, most drugs also activate several cellular nonspecific stress pathways, and the implications of these off-target effects are mostly unknown. Here, we report that p38γ, but not p38α, MAPK is specifically activated by treatment of breast cancer cells with topoisomerase II (Topo II) drugs, whereas paclitaxel (Taxol) does not have this effect. The activated p38γ in turn phosphorylates and stabilizes Topo IIα protein, and this enhances the growth inhibition by Topo II drugs. Moreover, p38γ activity was shown to be necessary and sufficient for Topo IIα expression, the drug-p38γ-Topo IIα axis is only detected in intrinsically sensitive but not resistant cells, and p38γ is co-overexpressed with Topo IIα protein in primary breast cancers. These results reveal a new paradigm in which p38γ actively regulates the drug-Topo IIα signal transduction, and this may be exploited to increase the therapeutic activity of Topo II drugs.
To study the mechanism of paraquat-induced renal injury in rats.
Adult healthy Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats (female and male in half) were randomly divided into two groups, the control group and the paraquat poisoned group. The rats in the paraquat poisoned group were treated with PQ (25 mg/kg) intraperitoneally while the rats in the control group were treated with the same dose of normal saline. Its histopathological change was observed and the expression of HO-1 and the mRNA expression of HO-1 were detected by RT-PCR at 3rd h, 6th h, 12th h, on 1st d, 2nd d, 3rd d and 5th d.
(1) In the control group, the tissue structure was clear without edema, vacuolar degeneration, cloudy swelling and necrosis. In the paraquat poisoned group, there were obvious lesions in the renal tubule of cortical part, including cellular swelling, the narrow cannula, the mesenchymal congestion and edema. These pathologic changes gradually became more severe, reached the peak on the 1st day, and did not relieve until the end of this study; there was the karyopyknosis and the cyto-architecture disappeared in some severe cases; Some glomerulus and medulla were also involved. (2) In the control group, there was no or weak expression of HO-1 and HO-1 mRNA. At the 3rd hour, the expressions of HO-1 in the paraquat poisoned group were observed in the membrane and cytoplasm of renal tubular epithelial cell of cortical part. Immunohistochemistry score (IHS) in the paraquat poisoned group was higher than that in the control group (P<0.05), except the HIS of the 5th day. At the 3rd hour, the expression of HO-1 mRNA increased, reached the peak on the 1st day, and then decreased. The expression of HO-1 mRNA was (0.53 +/- 0.21), (0.55 +/- 0.31), (0.56 +/- 0.22), (0.64 +/- 0.14) and (0.43 +/- 0.25) at the time point other than on the 3rd and 5th day. It showed statistical difference between the paraquat poisoned group and the control group from the 3rd hour to the 2nd day (P<0.05).
The mechanism of paraquat induced-renal injury is multiple. The higher expression of HO-1 and HO-1 mRNA were involved in the procedures of paraquat-induced renal injury.
The effect of calcium chloride injected into the cerebral ventricles of group-housed unanaesthetized cats upon vocalization (rage, hissing and snarling), fighting (attack with paws and claws, defense with paws and claws and biting), mydriasis, tremor and clonic-tonic convulsions produced by carbachol and eserine injected similarly was investigated. Calcium chloride depressed or almost completely abolished the vocalization and fighting due to carbachol and eserine. On the other hand, mydriasis, tremor and clonic-tonic convulsions evoked by carbachol and eserine were not significantly changed by calcium chloride. It is apparent that calcium chloride can "dissociate" vocalization and fighting from autonomic and motor phenomena such as mydriasis, tremor and clonic-tonic convulsions caused by carbachol and eserine. Calcium chloride inhibited the vocalization and fighting produced by carbachol and eserine most probably by a nonspecific stabilizing action on central muscarinic cholinoceptive sites. These results further support the view that calcium ions in excess have an atropine-like action also in the central nervous system.
Cells typically die by either apoptosis or necrosis. However, the consequences of apoptosis and necrosis are quite different for a whole organism. In the case of apoptosis, the cell content remains packed in the apoptotic bodies that are removed by macrophages, and thereby inflammation does not occur; during necrosis, the cell membrane is ruptured, and the cytosolic constituents are released into the extracellular space provoking inflammation. Recently, inflammation and necrosis have been suggested to promote tumor growth. We investigated the molecular mechanism underlying cell death in response to glucose depletion (GD), a common characteristic of the tumor microenvironment. GD induced necrosis through production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in A549 lung carcinoma cells. Inhibition of ROS production by N-acetyl-L-cysteine and catalase prevented necrosis and switched the cell death mode to apoptosis that depends on mitochondrial death pathway involving caspase-9 and caspase-3 activation, indicating a critical role of ROS in determination of GD-induced cell death mode. We demonstrate that protein kinase C-dependent extracellular regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) activation also switched GD-induced necrosis to apoptosis through inhibition of ROS production possibly by inducing manganese superoxide dismutase (SOD) expression and by preventing GD-induced degradation of copper zinc SOD. Thus, these results suggest that GD-induced cell death mode is determined by the protein kinase C/ERK1/2 signal pathway that regulates MnSOD and CuZnSOD and that these antioxidants may exert their known tumor suppressive activities by inducing necrosis-to-apoptosis switch.
A sustained-release formulation of bupropion (bupropion SR), developed with an improved pharmacokinetic profile to permit less frequent dosing than the immediate-release form, has not been evaluated in active comparator trials. This randomized, double-blind, parallel-group trial was conducted to compare the efficacy and safety of bupropion SR and sertraline.
Outpatients with moderate to severe major depressive disorder (DSM-IV) received bupropion SR (100-300 mg/day) or sertraline (50-200 mg/day) for 16 weeks. Psychiatric evaluations, including the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D), the Hamilton Rating Scale for Anxiety (HAM-A), the Clinical Global Impressions scale for Severity of Illness (CGI-S), and for Improvement (CGI-I) were completed, and adverse events were assessed in the clinic periodically throughout treatment. Patients' orgasm function was also assessed.
Mean HAM-D, HAM-A, CGI-I, and CGI-S scores improved over the course of treatment in both the bupropion SR group and the sertraline group; no between-group differences were observed on any of the scales. Orgasm dysfunction was significantly (p < .001) more common in sertraline-treated patients compared with bupropion SR-treated patients. The adverse events of nausea, diarrhea, somnolence, and sweating were also experienced more frequently (p < .05) in sertraline-treated patients. No differences were noted between the two treatments for vital signs and weight.
This double-blind comparison of bupropion SR and sertraline demonstrates that bupropion and sertraline are similarly effective for the treatment of depression. Both compounds were relatively well tolerated, and orgasm dysfunction, nausea, diarrhea, somnolence, and sweating were reported more frequently in sertraline-treated patients.
To analyse the prescribing pattern and the safety profile of different atypical antipsychotics and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) during the years 2002-2003 in paediatric setting.
Two Child Neurology and Psychiatry Divisions of Southern Italy (University of Messina and "Oasi Institute for Research on Mental Retardation and Brain Aging" of Troina).
A retrospective chart review of all children and adolescents starting an incident treatment with atypical antipsychotics or SSRIs was performed. Within the first 3 months of therapy, any potential adverse drug reaction (ADR) was identified and the clinical outcome of psychotropic drug treatment was assessed.
Rate of ADR in the first 3 months of therapy with atypical antipsychotics and SSRIs in children and adolescents.
On a total of 97 patients' charts being reviewed, 73 (75%) concerned atypical antipsychotics and 24 (25%) SSRIs. Risperidone (N=45, 62%) was the most frequently prescribed antipsychotic drug, followed by olanzapine (24, 32%). Overall, 50 (68%) antipsychotic users reported a total of 108 ADRs during the first 3 months of therapy, leading to drug discontinuation in 23 patients (31%). Among 24 users of SSRI, 12 (50%) received paroxetine, 6 (25%) sertraline, 5 (21%) citalopram and 1 (4%) fluoxetine. Only paroxetine users (21%) reported at least one ADR, however, none of SSRI users withdrew drug treatment within first 3 months.
ADRs occurred frequently during first 3 months of treatment with atypical antipsychotics and, to a lesser extent, with SSRIs in children and adolescents. Further investigations are urgently needed to better define the benefit/risk ratio of psychotropic medications in paediatric setting.
In two double-blind trials conducted in North America, 513 patients with chronic schizophrenia received risperidone, haloperidol, or placebo. In the present study, combined data from the two trials were analyzed.
Patients were randomly assigned to receive placebo, fixed doses of risperidone (2, 6, 10, and 16 mg/day) or 20 mg/day of haloperidol for 8 weeks. Factor analysis of scores on the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) produced five dimensions (negative symptoms, positive symptoms, disorganized thought, uncontrolled hostility/excitement, and anxiety/depression), similar to the five dimensions of previous factor-analytic studies of PANSS data.
Mean changes (symptom reductions) in PANSS factor scores from baseline to treatment Weeks 6 and 8 were significantly greater in patients receiving 6-16 mg/day of risperidone than in patients receiving placebo or haloperidol. The advantages of risperidone were greatest for negative symptoms, uncontrolled hostility/excitement, and anxiety/depression. Even at the lowest dose, 2 mg/day, risperidone was significantly (p < or = .05) superior to haloperidol in reducing negative symptoms. The differences in outcomes between risperidone and haloperidol on PANSS scores were not related to extrapyramidal symptoms.
Risperidone produced significantly (p < or = .05) greater improvements than haloperidol on all five dimensions. The large between-group differences on negative symptoms, hostility/excitement, and anxiety/depression suggest that risperidone and other serotonin/dopamine antagonists have qualitatively different effects from those of conventional antipsychotic agents.
This study examined the characteristics of urinary bladder lesions (cystitis) induced by ifosfamide (IF), an antitumor agent, and their inhibition by mesna in rats. Single i.v. doses of 50 mg/kg or more of IF induced cystitis characterized by increased bladder weight with mucosal hemorrhage and edema within 3 hr, with a plateau being reached 1 to 3 days after the injection. This change occurred earlier than myelotoxicity. Injection of IF to ureter-ligated rats did not induce the cystitis. Also, when IF was infused to one of a pair of rats in which the ureters had been crossed, the cystitis occurred only in the non-injected member of the pair whose bladder received urine flow from the IF-injected rat. Cystitis did not occur with direct injection of 10 mg of IF into the urinary bladder, but did with injection of the metabolite, 14 micrograms of acrolein. These findings show that IF-induced cystitis is not a systemic effect like myelotoxicity or an antitumor effect but a local effect. The cystitis could be completely inhibited by mesna, and this effect, which was dose-dependent, occurred from one-tenth of the IF dose. The effect was strongest when mesna was administrated within 1 hr of the IF injection. There was little difference in the effect between single and divided doses. The combined administration of IF with mesna did not lower the antitumor effect of IF.
Fatty acid synthase (FASN) is the metabolic enzyme responsible for the endogenous synthesis of the saturated long-chain fatty acid palmitate. In contrast to most normal cells, FASN is overexpressed in a variety of human cancers including cutaneous melanoma, in which its levels of expression are associated with a poor prognosis and depth of invasion. Recently, we have demonstrated the mitochondrial involvement in FASN inhibition-induced apoptosis in melanoma cells. Herein we compare, via electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI-MS), free fatty acids (FFA) composition of mitochondria isolated from control (EtOH-treated cells) and Orlistat-treated B16-F10 mouse melanoma cells. Principal component analysis (PCA) was applied to the ESI-MS data and found to separate the two groups of samples. Mitochondria from control cells showed predominance of six ions, that is, those of m/z 157 (Pelargonic, 9:0), 255 (Palmitic, 16:0), 281 (Oleic, 18:1), 311 (Arachidic, 20:0), 327 (Docosahexaenoic, 22:6) and 339 (Behenic, 22:0). In contrast, FASN inhibition with Orlistat changes significantly mitochondrial FFA composition by reducing synthesis of palmitic acid, and its elongation and unsaturation products, such as arachidic and behenic acids, and oleic acid, respectively. ESI-MS of mitochondria isolated from Orlistat-treated cells presented therefore three major ions of m/z 157 (Pelargonic, 9:0), 193 (unknown) and 199 (Lauric, 12:0). These findings demonstrate therefore that FASN inhibition by Orlistat induces significant changes in the FFA composition of mitochondria.
A 31-year old primigravida was admitted at 31 week gestation for subarachnoid haemorrhage. Cerebral angiography revealed an aneurysm on the left middle cerebral artery. Eleven days later, the aneurysm was clipped off. General anaesthesia was induced with thiopentone, pancuronium and fentanyl, and maintained with fentanyl (40 micrograms.kg-1) and isoflurane in air/O2 with a non-rebreathing circuit. The patient was mechanically ventilated to maintain mild hypocapnia. Arterial hypotension was induced by increasing the inspired isoflurane concentration from 1 to 3 vol%. The response was immediate and a mean arterial pressure of 60 mmHg was maintained for 80 min with an inspired isoflurane concentration of 2.5 vol%. Foetal heart rate was monitored before, during and after general anaesthesia. Loss of beat to beat variation was observed after induction, and foetal heart rate slowly decreased from 150 to 115 b.min-1 at the end of the operation. Postoperative state was good, except for transitory aphasia. At 35 week gestation, the patient went into premature labour, with hypothermia of 39.5 degrees C; an emergency caesarean section was performed. The 2,340 g female infant had a 10 min Apgar score of 8. One month later, clinical examination of the mother and daughter was quite normal. The precautions and anaesthetic management of patients suffering from ruptured cerebral aneurysm during the end of pregnancy are reviewed. Hypotensive agents are discussed.
The author describes a patient with preexisting heart disease who rapidly developed cardiac arrhythmia in association with the use of amoxapine. He calls attention to the potential for serious cardiac toxicity with this new drug.
Dementia is a mental disorder characterized by loss of intellectual ability sufficiently severe enough to interfere with one's occupational or social activities. Desmodium gangeticum commonly known as Salparni, is widely used in ayurveda for the treatment of neurological disorders. The present work was designed to assess the potential of aqueous extract of D. gangeticum (DG) as a nootropic agent in mice. DG (50, 100 and 200 mg/kg, p.o.) was administered for 7 successive days to both young and older mice. Exteroceptive behavioral models such as elevated plus maze and passive avoidance paradigm were employed to evaluate learning and memory. Scopolamine (0.4 mg/kg, i.p.) induced amnesia and ageing induced amnesia were the interoceptive behavioral models. To delineate the mechanism by which DG exerts nootropic activity, the effect of DG on whole brain AChE activity was also assessed. Piracetam (200 mg/kg, i.p.) was used as a standard nootropic agent. Pretreatment with DG (50, 100 and 200 mg/kg p.o.) for seven successive days significantly improved learning and memory in mice and reversed the amnesia induced by both, scopolamine (0.4 mg/kg, i.p.) and natural ageing. DG also decreased whole brain acetyl cholinesterase activity. Hence, D. gangeticum appears to be a promising candidate for improving memory and it would be worthwhile to explore the potential of this plant in the management of dementia and Alzheimer disease.
The optimal serum urate levels necessary for elimination of tissue deposits of monosodium urate in patients with chronic gout is controversial. This observational, prospective study evaluates the relationship between serum urate levels during therapy and the velocity of reduction of tophi in patients with chronic tophaceous gout.
Sixty-three patients with crystal-confirmed tophaceous gout were treated with allopurinol, benzbromarone, or combined therapy to achieve serum uric acid levels less than the threshold for saturation of urate in tissues. The tophi targeted for evaluation during followup were the largest in diameter found during physical examination.
Patients taking benzbromarone alone or combined allopurinol and benzbromarone therapy achieved faster velocity of reduction of tophi than patients taking allopurinol alone. The velocity of tophi reduction was linearly related to the mean serum urate level during therapy. The lower the serum urate levels, the faster the velocity of tophi reduction.
Serum urate levels should be lowered enough to promote dissolution of urate deposits in patients with tophaceous gout. Allopurinol and benzbromarone are equally effective when optimal serum urate levels are achieved during therapy. Combined therapy may be useful in patients who do not show enough reduction in serum urate levels with single-drug therapy.
Insulin resistance is defined as a state with decreased insulin utilisation in peripheral tissues, despite of different plasma insulin values. Insulin resistance is one of the postulated pathophysiological mechanisms that participates in the development of essential hypertension. Hyperinsulinaemia is considered as a compensatory feature of insulin resistance. There way be a few possible mechanisms by which hyperinsulinaemia affects blood pressure. Another possibility is that insulin resistance per se, by some uncertain mechanisms, causes essential hypertension [1, 5]. We evaluated insulin sensitivity in 24 patients with mild-to-moderate essential hypertension before and after cilazapril monotherapy during 12 weeks. Insulin sensitivity (Si) was assessed by minimal model test (MINMOD) using frequently sampled intravenous glucose tolerance test in 0 week and after 12 weeks of treatment. After a 12-week cilazapril treatment insulin sensitivity significantly increased, while glucose efficacy was relatively unchanged.
Two patients are reported with hypersensitivity myocarditis. One, a 71-year-old female, was being treated with methyldopa at the time of her death and the second, a 67-year-old female, was receiving tetracycline for a respiratory tract infection.
The cholinergic system has long been implicated in learning and memory, yet its specific function remains unclear. In the present study, we investigated the role of cortical acetylcholine in a rodent model of declarative memory by infusing the cholinergic muscarinic receptor antagonist scopolamine into the rat perirhinal cortex during different stages (encoding, storage/consolidation, and retrieval) of the spontaneous object recognition task. Presample infusions of scopolamine significantly impaired object recognition compared with performance of the same group of rats on saline trials; this result is consistent with previous reports supporting a role for perirhinal acetylcholine in object information acquisition. Scopolamine infusions directly before the retrieval stage had no discernible effect on object recognition. However, postsample infusions of scopolamine with sample-to-infusion delays of up to 20 h significantly facilitated performance relative to postsample saline infusion trials. Additional analysis suggested that the infusion episode could cause retroactive or proactive interference with the sample object trace and that scopolamine blocked the acquisition of this interfering information, thereby facilitating recognition memory. This is, to our knowledge, the first example of improved recognition memory after administration of scopolamine. The overall pattern of results is inconsistent with a direct role for cortical acetylcholine in declarative memory consolidation or retrieval. Rather, the cholinergic input to the perirhinal cortex may facilitate acquisition by enhancing the cortical processing of incoming stimulus information.
Mutations in the melanocortin-4 receptor (MC4R) are associated with early-onset obesity in humans. Furthermore, a null Mc4r allele in mice leads to severe obesity due to hyperphagia and decreased energy expenditure. As part of independent N-ethyl- N-nitrosourea (ENU) mutagenesis screens, two obesity mutants, Fatboy and Southbeach, were isolated. Mapping revealed linkage to the melanocortin-4 receptor (Mc4r) and sequencing found single amino acid changes in Mc4r for each line. Expression of the mutant receptors in HEK 293 cells revealed defects in receptor signaling. The mutated Fatboy receptor (I194T) shows an increase in the effective concentration necessary for 50% of maximal signaling (EC(50)) when stimulated with alpha-MSH. Based on competitive binding, I194T is expressed on the cell surface at lower levels than the nonmutated receptor. In contrast, Southbeach (L300P) displays minimal receptor signaling when stimulated with the natural ligand alpha-MSH or the synthetic agonist NDP-alpha-MSH. Cell surface binding is absent, which usually indicates a lack of cell surface expression. However, antibody binding to Flag-tagged receptors by flow cytometry analysis and immunofluorescence demonstrates that L300P is translocated to the plasma membrane at a level comparable to the wild-type receptor. These results indicate a correlation with remaining receptor activity and the severity of the obesity in the mice homozygous for the mutations. Southbeach has less receptor activity and becomes more obese. These mutants will serve as good models for the variability in phenotype in humans carrying mutations in the MC4R gene.
Proteinuria predicts renal disease progression, and its reduction by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEi) or angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARA) is renoprotective.
In this prospective, randomized, cross-over study of 24 patients with nondiabetic, chronic nephropathies, we compared the effects on proteinuria, renal hemodynamics, and glomerular permselectivity of 8 weeks with comparable blood pressure control achieved by benazepril (10 mg/day) and valsartan (80 mg/day) combined therapy with those achieved by benazepril (20 mg/day) or valsartan (160 mg/day) alone.
Despite comparable changes in blood pressure and glomerular filtration rate (GFR), combined therapy decreased proteinuria more than benazepril (-56% vs. -45.9%, P=0.02) and valsartan (-41.5%, P=0.002). Changes in urinary protein to creatinine ratio followed the same trend. Filtration fraction and renal vascular resistances (RVR) decreased more with combined (-14.7%,-23.7%) or benazepril (-12.4%, -20.5%) than with valsartan (-2.7%, -12.5%, P < 0.05 vs. both). RVR changes, adjusted for GFR changes, were associated with those in proteinuria (P < 0.05). Changes in glomerular permeability were comparable and did not predict different changes in proteinuria in the three groups.
At comparable blood pressure, combined ACEi and ARA decreased proteinuria better than ACEi and ARA. The greater antiproteinuric effect most likely depended on an ACEi-related hemodynamic effect, in addition to glomerular size selectivity amelioration. Long-term combined ACEi and ARA therapy may be more renoprotective than treatment with each agent alone.
(1) During lengthy treatment, dipyridamole can be blended into gallstones. (2) Gallstones containing dipyridamole carry the same risk of acute complications as other gallstones.
Inhibitors of epidermal growth factor receptors (EGFR) constitute a new alternative treatment for patients presenting certain advanced stage solid cancers (bowel, breast, ovary). Adverse cutaneous effects of these drugs are now starting to be described.
Our study involved 2 men and 2 women with no previous history of acne included in a treatment protocol comprising EGFR inhibitors. Mean age was 52 years. The primary cancers were breast, ovary, bowel and unidentified. The EGFR inhibitors used were gefitinib (ZD1839) (2 cases), carnetinib (Cl1033) and cetuximab (IMC-C225). Skin lesions appeared after 7 days and included erythematous papules and follicular pustules of the face, back and upper chest. No comedons were seen, and there were no nodules or cysts. The severity of the rash resulted in discontinuation of treatment in 2 patients with complete disappearance of skin lesions in both cases. In one patient, reduction of the dosage of gefitinib (IMC-C225) led to gradual resolution of the rash. Histological examination of papules and pustules concluded on an acute suppurative folliculitis. Smears and cultures ofa nasal lesion and pustules revealed coagulase-positive Staphylococcus aureus in 2 patients. Combined doxycycline 100 mg daily and benzoyl peroxide was prescribed for 3 months and a favourable outcome was achieved after a mean 2 weeks.
EGFR inhibitors act by inhibiting mechanisms oftumour proliferation in certain cancers at advanced stages or refractory to other treatments. Our findings in these four patients are similar to the published cases in terms of rapid onset of monomorphous, papulopustular, follicular eruption without comedons. Rapid response to cyclines and benzoyl peroxide is also reported in literature. This treatment must be instituted rapidly and patients must be informed about the cutaneous side-effects of EGFR inhibitors before the start of therapy. The pathophysiology of these eruptions is still unknown. Skin signs are probably due to interaction with EGFR functions, including overexpression of EGFR in keratinocytes and hair follicles.
