Caffeine increases anxiety in people with anxiety disorders. To determine whether caffeine exerts a similar effect in depression, the authors compared retrospective reports of caffeine intake and symptoms produced by caffeine ingestion in patients with panic disorder, patients with major depression, and control subjects. Panic patients consumed less caffeine and reported more symptoms than depressed or control subjects. Although depressed patients did not differ from control subjects in caffeine intake or most symptoms, more depressed patients reported that caffeine induced anxiety. These data support prior reports that panic patients have increased sensitivity to caffeine; some depressed patients may also have increased sensitivity.
One hundred and twenty-five patients with active rheumatoid arthritis unresponsive to nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs were treated at the same center with 156 courses of either hydroxychloroquine (43), gold (29), D-penicillamine (40), or levamisole (44). Life table analysis was used to compare the risks of developing various side effects with treatment termination being the endpoint instead of death. Patients treated with levamisole had the highest risk of developing a complication (67%) and antimalarials the lowest (30%). In terms of long term acceptability, hydroxychloroquine showed fewer complications, gold and D-penicillamine were similar with rash and proteinuria being the main difficulties; however, levamisole caused the most frequent terminations mainly due to rash and leukopenia.
To document the relationship between the 5-HT receptor agonist sumatriptan and a change in the nature of cluster headache in four cases. To relate the findings to the literature on the use of sumatriptan in both cluster headache and migraine.
Studies of the efficacy and adverse effects of long-term treatment with sumatriptan in cluster headache are limited and report conflicting findings.
Four cases are described.
All four patients developed a marked increase in the frequency of attacks 3 to 4 weeks after initiating treatment with the drug for the first time. Three patients also developed a change in headache character, and 2 experienced prolongation of the cluster headache period. Withdrawal of the drug reduced the frequency of headaches and eliminated the newly developed type of headache.
Determination of the effects of long-term use of sumatriptan will result in more precise guidelines for the frequency and duration of treatment with this otherwise extremely beneficial drug.
As is known, tamoxifen therapy is related to endometrial proliferation, hyperplasia, polyp formation, invasive carcinoma and uterine sarcoma. In this study, we present a 75-year-old woman who had five children. Gastric tumor, endometrial carcinoma and cervical adenocarcinoma in situ were detected after treatment with tamoxifen for breast cancer. It seems that being aware of the undesirable affects of tamoxifen treatment during the chemotherapy and post-chemotherapy period is very important.
Air pollutants may induce airway inflammation and sensitization due to generation of reactive oxygen species. The genetic background to these mechanisms could be important effect modifiers.
Our goal was to assess interactions between exposure to air pollution and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the beta2-adrenergic receptor (ADRB2), glutathione S-transferase P1 (GSTP1), and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) genes for development of childhood allergic disease.
In a birth cohort originally of 4,089 children, we assessed air pollution from local traffic using nitrogen oxides (traffic NO(x)) as an indicator based on emission databases and dispersion modeling and estimated individual exposure through geocoding of home addresses. We measured peak expiratory flow rates and specific IgE for inhalant and food allergens at 4 years of age, and selected children with asthma symptoms up to 4 years of age (n = 542) and controls (n = 542) for genotyping.
Interaction effects on allergic sensitization were indicated between several GSTP1 SNPs and traffic NO(x) exposure during the first year of life (p(nominal) < 0.001-0.06). Children with Ile105Val/Val105Val genotypes were at increased risk of sensitization to any allergen when exposed to elevated levels of traffic NO(x) (for a difference between the 5th and 95th percentile of exposure: odds ratio = 2.4; 95% confidence interval, 1.0-5.3). In children with TNF-308 GA/AA genotypes, the GSTP1-NO(x) interaction effect was even more pronounced. We observed no conclusive interaction effects for ADRB2.
The effect of air pollution from traffic on childhood allergy appears to be modified by GSTP1 and TNF variants, supporting a role of genes controlling the antioxidative system and inflammatory response in allergy.
Left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy (LVH) results in a fetal shift in myocardial creatine kinase (CK) expression. Because CK plays an important role in intracellular energy production, transport, and utilization, this study was performed to characterize changes in CK expression and CK flux in severe pressure-overload LVH. Ascending aortic banding in 8-wk-old dogs resulted in LVH with a 92% increase in relative LV mass. In LVH hearts, CK-M isoform mRNA was decreased by 40% (P = 0.05) and protein was decreased by 50% (P < 0.01), whereas mitochondrial CK protein was decreased by 22% (P < 0.05). CK-B isoform mRNA was undetectable in normal hearts but was prominently expressed in LVH (P < 0.01); CK-B protein was increased by more than 10-fold in LVH (P < 0.01). Despite these changes, total CK activity was normal in LVH. Myocardial CK flux was examined using (31)P magnetic resonance spectroscopy magnetization transfer. The CK forward rate constant was similar in normal and LVH hearts at baseline and did not change in either group during dobutamine treatment. In hearts with LVH, the CK forward flux rate was reduced by approximately 60% (P < 0.05) and decreased further during dobutamine. Thus, although pressure-overload LVH caused alterations of expression of both CK mRNA and protein levels, LV performance and oxygen consumption in response to dobutamine were normal. However, myocardial free ADP was increased in LVH hearts. This finding suggests that the CK alterations result in a need for higher ADP levels to maintain ATP synthesis in the hypertrophied heart.
This study was undertaken to see if patients who had a radiological diagnosis of arachnoiditis attributed to methylprednisolone acetate (Depo-Medrol, Upjohn Pty Limited) had the clinical syndrome of arachnoiditis.
An attempt was made to review all patients, reported by Roche in 1984 with a radiological diagnosis of corticosteroid-induced arachnoiditis, by taking a detailed history and performing a physical examination.
The Department of Orthopaedics and Traumatic Surgery, The University of Sydney, The Royal North Shore Hospital, Sydney.
Of the 18 patients reported by Roche 15 were located and participated in this study. The clinical syndrome of arachnoiditis was defined as a constant burning pain in the back and legs, impotence, marked limitation of spinal motion, alteration of sensation and power in the legs, and a need for regular analgesia. Three of the 15 patients had the clinical syndrome of arachnoiditis. The grade of radiological change was unrelated to the severity of symptoms. The details of doses and precise sites of administration were unavailable for the severely affected individuals.
The absence of any other apparent cause for their symptoms implies that Depo-Medrol should not be used in or about the thecal sac.
An estimated 25-40 million of the 127 million people of Bangladesh have been exposed to high levels of naturally occurring arsenic from drinking groundwater. The mitigating effects of diet on arsenic-related premalignant skin lesions are largely unknown.
The purpose of this study was to clarify the effects of the vitamin B group (thiamin, riboflavin, niacin, pyridoxine, and cobalamin) and antioxidants (vitamins A, C, and E) on arsenic-related skin lesions.
We performed a cross-sectional study using baseline data from the Health Effects of Arsenic Longitudinal Study (HEALS), 2000-2002, with individual-level, time-weighted measures of arsenic exposure from drinking water. A total of 14,828 individuals meeting a set of eligibility criteria were identified among 65,876 users of all 5,996 tube wells in the 25-km(2) area of Araihazar, Bangladesh; 11,746 were recruited into the study. This analysis is based on 10,628 subjects (90.5%) with nonmissing dietary data. Skin lesions were identified according to a structured clinical protocol during screening and confirmed with further clinical review.
Riboflavin, pyridoxine, folic acid, and vitamins A, C, and E significantly modified risk of arsenic-related skin lesions. The deleterious effect of ingested arsenic, at a given exposure level, was significantly reduced (ranging from 46% reduction for pyridoxine to 68% for vitamin C) for persons in the highest quintiles of vitamin intake.
Intakes of B-vitamins and antioxidants, at doses greater than the current recommended daily amounts for the country, may reduce the risk of arsenic-related skin lesions in Bangladesh.
To report a case of a child born with Möbius syndrome following exposure in utero to mifepristone and misoprostol for elective abortion.
In the seventh week of pregnancy, a woman was administered mifepristone 600 mg and, 2 days later, misoprostol 400 mug for abortion. One month later, despite significant metrorrhagia, an ultrasound examination showed ongoing gestation. At 33 weeks and 3 days of gestation, the woman gave birth to a male with left facial palsy, microretrognathia, and axial hypotonia related to Möbius syndrome.
Möbius syndrome is characterized by unilateral or bilateral palsy of the abducens (VI) and facial (VII) cranial nerves. Other cranial nerves (eg, the hypoglossal [XII]), craniofacial or orofacial anomalies, and limb malformations are often associated. The etiology of the Möbius syndrome remains largely unknown and probably involves multiple factors. The most likely etiological hypothesis is disruption of the developing vascular system, with transient ischemia (particularly in the vertebral arteries) and fetal hypoxia. A teratogenic cause of Möbius syndrome has been suggested. The critical period for the development of Möbius syndrome following teratogen exposure appears to be 5-8 weeks of gestation. To date, mifepristone alone does not appear to have induced Möbius syndrome. In contrast, oral or vaginal misoprostol administration can lead to a significant increase in Doppler-measured uterine artery resistance and may induce uterine contractions. If these occur during the critical embryonic period, they may cause flexion in the areas of the sixth and seventh cranial nerves and decreased blood flow.
Ineffective use of mifepristone and misoprostol in the first trimester of pregnancy may be associated with a risk of Möbius syndrome, primarily due to misoprostol activity. Women with ongoing pregnancy after failed abortion with misoprostol administration should be informed of this risk.
The involvement of dopamine receptors of various subtypes in the mechanisms of locomotor hyperactivity caused by single administration of psychostimulants d-amphetamine and syndnocarb was studied in C57BL mice. Administered in a dose not influencing the spontaneous locomotor activity, SCH23390 and raclopride--selective antagonists of the D1 and D2 subtypes of dopamine receptors, respectively--abolished the hyperactivity induced by d-amphetamine, while not significantly changing the effect of sydnocarb. On the contrary, clozapine--antagonist of the D4 subtype of dopamine receptors--failed to reduce the stimulant action of d-amphetamine, but significantly decreased the effect of sydnocarb under the same experimental conditions.
This study investigated the antiallergic and anthelmintic properties of Vimang (an aqueous extract of Mangifera indica family stem bark) and mangiferin (the major polyphenol present in Vimang) administered orally to mice experimentally infected with the nematode, Trichinella spiralis. Treatment with Vimang or mangiferin (500 or 50 mg per kg body weight per day, respectively) throughout the parasite life cycle led to a significant decline in the number of parasite larvae encysted in the musculature; however, neither treatment was effective against adults in the gut. Treatment with Vimang or mangiferin likewise led to a significant decline in serum levels of specific anti-Trichinella IgE, throughout the parasite life cycle. Finally, oral treatment of rats with Vimang or mangiferin, daily for 50 days, inhibited mast cell degranulation as evaluated by the passive cutaneous anaphylaxis test (sensitization with infected mouse serum with a high IgE titre, then stimulation with the cytosolic fraction of T. spiralis muscle larvae). Since IgE plays a key role in the pathogenesis of allergic diseases, these results suggest that Vimang and mangiferin may be useful in the treatment of diseases of this type.
It has been reported previously that granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (GCSF) injection improves infarcted heart function, but the mechanism remains unclear. In this study we sought to determine whether GCSF-mobilized bone marrow cells could regenerate neo-myocardium and repair doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy.
C57BL/6 mice were irradiated and bone marrow cells (BMC; 1 x 10(6)) from green fluorescent protein (GFP) mice (GFP-BMC) were transplanted intravenously, followed by splenectomy. Doxorubicin (2.5 mg/kg, 6 times for 2 weeks) was administered intraperitoneally 2 weeks later. GCSF (50 microg/kg/day for 8 days) was administered sub-cutaneously after doxorubicin injection (Group I, n = 11) and 3 weeks later (Group II, n = 8), and saline was injected in Group III animals (n = 8). Eight weeks after doxorubicin injection, the excised hearts were studied immunologically and electron microscopically.
Survival rates were 81.8% in Group I, 50.0% in Group II and 62.5% in Group III. The number of GFP-BMC in Group I (15.4 +/- 7.4 per high-power field) was highest (p < 0.05). In all groups, cardiac troponin I-positive cells derived from GFP-BMC were observed in the hearts. GFP-BMC in hearts stained positively against cardiac troponin I (4.3 +/- 2.5%), myosin heavy chain (5.0 +/- 4.3%), atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP; 3.9 +/- 2.4%) and connexin 43 (11.9 +/- 7.3%) in Group I. Myofibrils, mitochondria and fundamental architecture were almost all preserved in Group I, whereas hearts were severely damaged in Groups II and III.
Bone marrow was shown to be one of the sources of regenerated cardiomyocytes in the doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathic heart. Early administration of GCSF enhanced the migration of bone marrow cells into the heart, and attenuated the cardiotoxicity of doxorubicin.
The use of LiCl in clinical psychiatry is routinely complicated by overt nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI), the mechanism of which is incompletely understood. In vitro studies indicate that lithium can induce renal medullary interstitial cell cyclooxygenase 2 (COX2) protein expression via inhibition of glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta). Both COX1 and COX2 are expressed in the kidney. Renal prostaglandins have been suggested to play an important role in lithium-induced polyuria. The present studies examined whether induction of the COX2 isoform contributes to LiCl-induced polyuria. Four days after initiation of lithium treatment in C57 BL/6J mice, urine volume increased in LiCl-treated mice by fourfold compared with controls (P < 0.0001) and was accompanied by decreased urine osmolality. This was temporally associated with increased renal COX2 protein expression and increased urinary PGE(2) excretion, whereas COX1 levels remained unchanged. COX2 inhibition significantly blunted lithium-induced polyuria (P < 0.0001) and reduced urinary PGE(2) levels. Lithium-associated polyuria was also seen in COX1-/- mice and was associated with increased urinary PGE(2). COX2 inhibition completely prevented polyuria and PGE(2) excretion in COX1-/- mice, suggesting that COX2, but not COX1, plays a critical role in lithium-induced polyuria. Lithium also induced renal medullary COX2 protein expression in congenitally polyuric antidiuretic hormone (AHD)-deficient rats, demonstrating that lithium-induced COX2 protein expression is not secondary to altered ADH levels or polyuria. Lithium also decreased renal medullary GSK-3beta activity, and this was temporally related to increased COX2 expression in the kidney from lithium-treated mice, consistent with a tonic in vivo suppression of COX2 expression by GSK-3 activity. In conclusion, these findings temporally link decreased GSK-3 activity to enhanced renal COX2 expression and COX2-derived urine PGE(2) excretion. Suppression of COX2-derived PGE(2) blunts lithium-associated polyuria.
The carcinogenic effect of estrogens, diethylstilbestrol (DES) and 17 beta-estradiol (E2), and its modification by N-nitrosobutylurea (NBU) were studied in female W/Fu rats. Multiple mammary tumors (MT) of medullary carcinoma type developed at a high rate following prolonged treatment with estrogens. All MTs were located adjacent to the nipple and were slow-growing. The induction rate, multiplicity and size of estrogen-induced MTs were not influenced by pretreatment with a small amount of NBU, which alone did not induce any tumor. Ten of 12 rats (82%) receiving combined treatment with NBU and DES developed hepatic tumors (HT), while no rats in other treatment groups developed HT. All HTs were multiple nodules of various sizes bulging from the liver surface, and were considered to be neoplastic nodules. A high frequency of HT development was unexpected, because independent treatment with NBU or DES alone did not induce HT in female rats. It appears that DES played a role as a carcinogen, inducing MT and pituitary tumor (PT) through its estrogenic potency (like natural estrogen, E2), while it also acted as a promoter or co-carcinogen in the induction of HT through its pharmacologic effects. These findings may be relevant to an increased frequency of liver neoplasm among women taking oral contraceptives containing synthetic estrogens.
This phase I/II trial investigates the safety and feasibility of six cycles of concurrent taxane, anthracycline and cyclophosphamide on a dose dense schedule. Patients with stage II/III breast cancer were treated with docetaxel (T) 75 mg/m(2), epirubicin (E) 75 mg/m(2) (cohort 1, n = 3) or 100 mg/m(2) (cohort 2, n = 12), and cyclophosphamide (C) 500 mg/m(2) IV on day 1, with pegfilgrastim 6 mg subcutaneously on day 2, every 2 weeks for six cycles. Patients were assessed for toxicity every 2 weeks; cardiac function and response (if neoadjuvant) were assessed after six cycles. All patients in cohort 1 received 100% planned dose intensity; in cohort 2, five of twelve patients received 100% and 11/12 received >80%. There were no dose reductions or delays for day 1 myelotoxicity. Dose reductions as a result of febrile neutropenia (FN) occurred in cohort 2, with six of twelve patients experiencing FN in seven of sixty-nine cycles. Six patients had anemia > or =grade 3; five received RBC transfusion and seven received an erythropoietic growth factor. Four patients required dose reductions for nonhematologic toxicity (two mucositis; one neurotoxicity; one diarrhea + cellulitis). Four patients developed thrombophlebitis, which was associated with FN in one of four. Two of fourteen evaluable patients had asymptomatic decreases in LVEF >10%; all remained within normal range. All four patients receiving neoadjuvant TEC had significant clinical responses (one CR, three PR). No pathologic CRs were seen.
Dose dense TEC chemotherapy is feasible, has acceptable toxicity at doses equivalent to TAC (docetaxel 75 mg/m(2), epirubicin 75 mg/m(2), cyclophosphamide 600 mg/m(2)), and has moderate but manageable toxicity using a higher epirubicin dose of 100 mg/m(2), with FN occurring in six of twelve patients at the higher dose.
Calcineurin-inhibitor induced pain syndrome (CIPS) is a newly described entity with a characteristic feature of sudden onset of severe lower limb pain, and high levels of cyclosporine or tacrolimus may be involved in the pathogenesis. This syndrome is rarely seen in recipients of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) compared with other organ transplant recipients, however, heightened awareness of this complication after HSCT may be needed for hematologists, as misdiagnosis can result in catastrophic consequences. We report herein two cases of lower limb pain syndrome, with some clinical features resembling CIPS, occurring during the early phase of cord blood stem cell transplantation for hematological malignancy.
An adult renal transplant recipient was complicated with cryptococcal lung granuloma and meningitis. Treatment with the antifungal agents, 5-fluorocytocin and clotrimazole had to be discontinued due to side effects. Whereas, the intrathecal administration of amphotericin B proved effective for meningitis but intravenously it induced acute tubular necrosis to the transplanted kidney. In order to cure the persistant fungal lung granulomas in renal transplant patients early surgical excision seems to be essential.
Although platinum-based chemotherapy is widely used in malignant pleural mesothelioma, its modest therapeutic effect warrants identification of enhancing agents. As with many cancers, the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt pathway is often activated in malignant pleural mesothelioma and has been implicated in the tumor's aggressiveness. Sirolimus is a well-established inhibitor of the mammalian target of rapamycin. We sought to determine whether combination treatment with sirolimus and cisplatin would enhance cell death in malignant pleural mesothelioma.
Human malignant pleural mesothelioma cell lines were incubated with sirolimus or cisplatin alone or in combination and assayed for cell viability. To characterize phosphorylation status after treatment, Akt and downstream proteins of mammalian target of rapamycin pathway, p70 S6 kinase and 4E-BP1, were analyzed by Western blot. Effect of combination treatment was also analyzed with extreme drug resistance assay in 12 human malignant pleural mesothelioma tumors with varying resistance to cisplatin.
Individual malignant pleural mesothelioma cell lines exhibited a range of sensitivities to each drug without correlation with subtype. Sirolimus and cisplatin significantly (P = .029) increased cell death versus either drug alone in 4 cell lines. Combined treatment caused dephosphorylation of Akt, 4E-BP1, and p70 S6 kinase. Cell proliferation was significantly decreased in tumors subjected to sirolimus and cisplatin versus cisplatin or sirolimus alone.
Sirolimus appears to enhance the cytotoxicity of cisplatin in malignant pleural mesothelioma cell lines through the mammalian target of rapamycin pathway. These results provide a basis for the clinical evaluation of combined sirolimus and cisplatin chemotherapy in malignant pleural mesothelioma.
We report that in vitro sensitivity to pentavalent antimony (Sb5) of 35 Leishmania isolates as determined by the semiautomated microdilution technique (SAMT) showed an 89% and 86% correlation with clinical outcome after Pentostam and Glucantime treatment, respectively. These results suggest that in over 85% of the cases, the clinical outcome of treatment (cure or failure) could have been predicted by using the SAMT technique. Furthermore, the results clearly indicate that drug resistance is a problem, and that at least in some instances, failure to respond to treatment is due to the parasite as well as patient factors. Strains from Sb5-treated patients with American cutaneous and mucocutaneous disease who fail at least one complete course of Pentostam are as highly nonresponsive to this drug as laboratory-proven drug-resistant Leishmania strains. It was determined that some Leishmania isolates are innately less susceptible to Sb5 than others, and that moderate resistance to Sb5 exists in nature. A 10- and 17-fold increase was detected in the 50% inhibitory concentration (IC50) of Sb5 for L. mexicana and L. braziliensis isolates after subcurative treatment of the patients, when compared with the mean IC50 of seven and six isolates from the same endemic areas in Guatemala and Peru, respectively. Thus, we have correlated subcurative treatment to a decrease in drug sensitivity in at least these two cases. Collectively, these results indicate that under Sb5 pressure from undermedication, the parasites inherently most drug resistant are favored. The degree of resistance of a strain to antimony in association with host-specific factors will determine whether the clinical response to treatment with this drug is a total cure or a partial response followed by relapse(s), and possibly secondary unresponsiveness resulting in total resistance to antimony. It is evident from our in vitro test data that the SAMT is an extremely powerful and highly accurate technique for the prediction and determination of drug sensitivity of leishmanial isolates, as well as a means to screen for anti-leishmanial agents.
Minocycline is a semisynthetic tetracycline that causes a spectrum of autoimmune adverse reactions. We report a previously healthy patient who developed a panniculitis and histopathologically proven dermatomyositis during treatment with minocycline for acne vulgaris. Her signs and symptoms resolved completely upon cessation of minocycline. This case illustrates a novel adverse effect of a widely prescribed medication.
The autosomal recessive chromosomal instability and hyperradiosensitivity Nijmegen breakage syndrome (NBS) in consequence of a mutation in the NBSI gene at 8q21 is associated with high occurrence of lymphoreticular malignancies due to deficient DNA reparation (double strand breaks). In the Slavic population the majority of patients are homozygotes of the so-called "Slavic mutation" 657de15 in exon 6. Increased occurrence of malignant solid tumors (1) in families of NBS patients has been described already prior to the identification of the responsible gene, and the increased risk of malignancies in heterozygotes was thus hypothetical.
The possibility of discerning mutation carriers in families from normal homozygotes enables verification of that hypothesis. Through molecular genetics investigations of grandparents and immediate relatives, we have been successful in determining the genotype in 79 of 112 grandparents in 28 families of our 39 patients and 54 their parents and siblings. A single family had affected children in consequence of compound heterozygosity of the 657de15 and R215W mutations in the same exon of the NBSI gene. The proband's families were investigated genealogically and data on relatives were obtained over four generations. Obtained data were repeatedly supplemented and objectively verified in church books and in healthcare documentation. Seven families have been followed up for 20-30 years, six families for 10-20 years, and 15 families for 1-10 years. Out of 28 families we were successful in examining the genotype of both grandparents in 18 families, there having been revealed one non-paternity; in five families only one of the grandparents has been examined; in five families we were not successful in examining any grandparent. Among 40 grandparents - normal homozygotes, there has appeared a malignancy in three (7.4 %), while among 39 heterozygotes of mutation 657de15 in the NBSI gene malignancies were documented in 15 (38,2 %). Mean age of NBS heterozygotes at manifestation of malignancy was 59.3 year (range 47-72 years), in the group of homozygotes it was 52.6 years (range 44-62 years). Nine grandparents died of malignancy prior to the discovery of the NBSI gene and their genotype has been deduced genealogically in seven on the basis of the genotype in the sponse and children, in two from preserved DNA. Out of that number, from three grandparents that had died of malignancies we were successful in obtaining neoplastic tissue for molecular genetics investigation, aimed at LOH or amplification of the NBS1 gene. In another seven grandparents - heterozygotes, malignancies were manifested after determination of their genotype by DNA analysis, and consequently also from tumor tissue that has been obtained from three of them for molecular genetic investigation.
The age distribution and socio-economic status of both groups of grandparents did not differ, the sex ratio was slightly shifted towards females in the group of homozygotic grandparents (22 females and 18 males), and in the group of heterozygotes it was towards males (21 males and 18 females). The sex ratio between heterozygotic grandparents with malignancies was likewise shifted towards the male gender (11 males and 4 females), in the group of homozygotic grandparents malignancy affected one male and two females. As verified in healthcare and church books documentation, the occurrence of malignancies was significantly more frequent among grandparents heterozygotic for NBS1 mutation than in healthy homozygotes. Among sibs of grandparents and great-grandparents was found significant difference in frequency of malignancies in heterozygotes (5/18 = 27,7 %) and healthy homozygotes (2/36 = 5,5 %), too.
Fusion genes are chimeric genes formed in cancers through genomic aberrations such as translocations, amplifications, and rearrangements. To identify fusion genes in gastric cancer, we analyzed regions of chromosomal imbalance in a cohort of 106 primary gastric cancers and 27 cell lines derived from gastric cancers. Multiple samples exhibited genomic breakpoints in the 5' region of SLC1A2/EAAT2, a gene encoding a glutamate transporter. Analysis of a breakpoint-positive SNU16 cell line revealed expression of a CD44-SLC1A2 fusion transcript caused by a paracentric chromosomal inversion, which was predicted to produce a truncated but functional SLC1A2 protein. In primary tumors, CD44-SLC1A2 gene fusions were detected in 1 to 2% of gastric cancers, but not in adjacent matched normal gastric tissues. When we specifically silenced CD44-SLC1A2, cellular proliferation, invasion, and anchorage-independent growth were significantly reduced. Conversely, CD44-SLC1A2 overexpression in gastric cells stimulated these pro-oncogenic traits. CD44-SLC1A2 silencing caused significant reductions in intracellular glutamate concentrations and sensitized SNU16 cells to cisplatin, a commonly used chemotherapeutic agent in gastric cancer. We conclude that fusion of the SLC1A2 gene coding region to CD44 regulatory elements likely causes SLC1A2 transcriptional dysregulation, because tumors expressing high SLC1A2 levels also tended to be CD44-SLC1A2-positive. CD44-SLC1A2 may represent a class of gene fusions in cancers that establish a pro-oncogenic metabolic milieu favoring tumor growth and survival.
