To investigate the role of the host-encoded silent information regulator 1 (SIRT1) on hepatocytes' lipid metabolism under conditions of hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection and assess its potential effects on virus replication in vitro.
The Huh-7.5 human hepatocyte cell line was used as the control group and Huh-7.5 cells stably expressing the HCV replicon (Huh7.5-HCV) were used as the experimental group. Effects of interferon (IFN) treatment and activation of SIRT1 by resveratrol were also observed. The mRNA and protein expression levels of SIRT1 were detected by real time (q)PCR and western blotting. Effects on SIRT1 protein activity were tested by measuring the levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and the nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+)/beta-nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, reduced (NADH) by flow cytometry and chromatometry, and the levels of triacylglycerol (TG), total cholesterol (TC), and fatty acid beta oxidation rate by enzymatic analysis and liquid scintillation counting. Effects on mRNA expression of SIRT1 downstream lipid-metabolism genes were measured by qPCR.
The Huh7.5-HCV cells had a significantly higher level of ROS (3.8+/-0.5 vs. Huh-7.5: 1.0+/-0.2; t = 12.736, P less than 0.01) but significantly lower levels of NAD+/NADH (0.03+/-0.01 vs. 0.12+/-0.03; t = 6.971, P less than 0.01), SIRT1 activity (0.3+/-0.1 vs. 1.0+/-0.2, 0.9+/-0.2, F = 6.766, P less than 0.01), SIRT1 mRNA (0.4+/-0.1 vs. 1.0+/-0.3, 0.9+/-0.2, F = 5.864, P less than 0.01), and SIRT1 protein (0.3+/-0.1 vs. 0.8+/-0.2, 0.9+/-0.2, F = 5.419, P less than 0.01). The lower levels of SIRT1 in Huh7.5-HCV cells accompanied decreased phosphorylation of the forkhead box O1 (FoxO1), which not only up-regulated the downstream genes of SREBP-1c, FAS, ACC, SREBP-2, HMGR and HMGS (which increased fatty acid synthesis) but also down-regulated the downstream genes of PPAR and CPT1A genes (which decreased fatty acid beta oxidation). IFN treatment restored all of the aforementioned changes. Resveratrol-induced SIRT activation improved the perturbations in lipid metabolism pathways, as evidenced by an increase in fatty acid beta oxidation and a decrease in TG and TC synthesis, as well as inhibited HCV replication.
HCV may decrease the NAD+/NADH ratio in hepatocytes, leading to a down-regulation of SIRT1 activity and expression and perturbing the downstream expression profile of lipid metabolism-related factors, ultimately causing lipid metabolism disorders and establishing a permissive intracellular environment for HCV replication.
The objective of this research was to characterize the disturbances in the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid (HPT) axis resulting from exposure to a binary mixture, 3,3',4,4',5-pentachlorobiphenyl (PCB126) and perchlorate (ClO(4)(-)), known to cause hypothyroidism by different modes of action. Two studies were conducted to determine the HPT axis effects of ClO(4)(-) on adult male Sprague-Dawley rats pretreated with PCB126. In dosing study I, rats were administered a single oral dose of PCB126 (0, 7.5, or 75 microg/kg) on day 0 and 9 days later ClO(4)(-) (0, 0.01, 0.1, or 1 mg/kg day) was added to the drinking water until euthanasia on day 22. Significant dose-dependent trends were found for all thyroid function indices measured following ClO(4)(-) in drinking water for 14 days. Seventy-five micrograms PCB126/kg resulted in a significant increase in hepatic T(4)-glucuronide formation, causing a decline in serum thyroxine and fT(4), and resulting in increased serum thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH). Serum TSH was also increased in animals that received 7.5 microg PCB126/kg; no other HPT axis alterations were found in these animals. When pretreated with PCB126, the ClO(4)(-) dose trends disappeared, suggesting a less than additive effect on the HPT axis. In dosing study II, animals were given lower doses of PCB126 (0, 0.075, 0.75, or 7.5 microg/kg) on day 0, and followed with ClO(4)(-) (0 or 0.01 mg/kg day) in drinking water beginning on day 1 and continuing for several days to explore transient HPT axis effects. No statistical effects were seen for PCB126 or ClO(4)(-) alone, and no perturbations were found when administered sequentially in dosing study II. In conclusion, these studies demonstrate that HPT axis disturbances following exposure to ClO(4)(-) are less than additive when pretreated with relatively high doses of PCB126. At relatively low doses, at or near the no-observed-effect-level for PCB126 and ClO(4)(-), no interactions between the chemicals occur.
Epigenetic alterations and the resulting inactivation of tumor suppressor genes often contribute to the development of various cancers. To identify novel candidates that may be silenced by aberrant methylation in esophageal squamous-cell carcinoma (ESCC), we analysed ESCC cell lines by a recently developed method known as bacterial artificial chromosome array-based methylated CpG island amplification (BAMCA), and selected candidates through BAMCA-assisted strategy. In the course of this program, we identified frequent CpG methylation-dependent silencing of the gene encoding cellular retinoic acid binding protein 1 (CRABP1) in our panel of ESCC cell lines. Expression of CRABP1 mRNA was restored in gene-silenced ESCC cells after treatment with 5-aza 2'-deoxycytidine. The DNA methylation status of the CRABP1 CpG island with clear promoter activity correlated inversely with expression of this gene. CpG methylation of CRABP1 was frequently observed in primary ESCC tissues as well. Restoration of CRABP1 expression in ESCC cells lacking the protein reduced cell growth by inducing arrest at G(0)-G(1), whereas knockdown of the gene in cells expressing CRABP1 promoted cell growth. Among 113 primary ESCC tumors, the absence of immunoreactive CRABP1 was significantly associated with de-differentiation of cancer cells and with distant lymph-node metastases in the patients. These results indicate that CRABP1 appears to have a tumor-suppressor function in esophageal epithelium, and its epigenetic silencing may play a pivotal role during esophageal carcinogenesis. Its expression status in biopsies or resected tumors might serve as an index for identifying ESCC patients for whom combined therapeutic modalities would be recommended.
The most common complication in patients who underwent mammary implant surgery is capsular contracture. Actually, there is no standard effective treatment for this complication. The aim of this article is to show our experience about LTRAs (leukotriene receptor antagonists) for the treatment of the capsular contracture. The findings indicate that these drugs may reduce pain and breast capsule distortion for patients with long-standing contracture.
Loss of expression of the death-associated protein (DAP)-kinase gene by aberrant promoter methylation may play an important role in cancer development and progression. The purpose of this investigation was to determine the commonality for inactivation of the DAP-kinase gene in adenocarcinomas induced in mice by chronic exposure to mainstream cigarette smoke, the tobacco carcinogens 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK) and vinyl carbamate, and the occupational carcinogen methylene chloride. The timing for inactivation was also determined in alveolar hyperplasias that arise in lung cancer induced in the A/J mouse by NNK. The DAP-kinase gene was not expressed in three of five NNK-induced lung tumor-derived cell lines or in a spontaneously arising lung tumor-derived cell line. Treatment with 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine restored expression; dense methylation throughout the DAP-kinase CpG island detected by bisulfite sequencing supported methylation as the inactivating event in these cell lines. Methylation-specific PCR detected inactivation of the DAP-kinase gene in 43% of tumors associated with cigarette smoke, a frequency similar to those reported in human non-small cell lung cancer. In addition, DAP-kinase methylation was detected in 52%, 60%, and 50% of tumors associated with NNK, vinyl carbamate, and methylene chloride, respectively. Methylation was observed at similar prevalence in both NNK-induced hyperplasias and adenocarcinomas (46% versus 52%), suggesting that inactivation of this gene is one pathway for tumor development in the mouse lung. Bisulfite sequencing of both premalignant and malignant lesions revealed dense methylation, substantiating that this gene is functionally inactivated at the earliest histological stages of adenocarcinoma development. This study is the first to use a murine model of cigarette smoke-induced lung cancer and demonstrate commonality for inactivation by promoter hypermethylation of a gene implicated in the development of this disease in humans.
The first aim of this study was to diagnose more aggressive and potentially recurrent meningiomas using an in vitro embryonic chick heart invasiveness assay in which lysosomal enzyme cathepsin B was used as the invasiveness marker. The second aim was to confirm if cathepsin B and/or cathepsin L and their endogenous inhibitors were also prognostic parameters in the clinical study of 119 patients with meningioma.
Primary meningioma cultured spheroids were "confronted" with embryonic chick heart spheroids in vitro, and cathepsin B was used as molecular marker to immunolabel the invasive tumor cells. In vitro invasion assays of the malignant meningioma cells were used to assess the invasive potential related to the cysteine cathepsins. As to the second aim, the possible association of cathepsin B along with selected molecular markers, cathepsin L, and endogenous cysteine protease inhibitors (stefins A and B and cystatin C) with meningioma malignancy was determined using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays in tumor homogenates. Univariate and multivariate analyses were used to compare these parameters with established biological markers of meningioma recurrence in 119 patients with meningiomas.
The more invasive tumors, which characteristically overgrew the normal tissue, were identified even within a group of histologically benign meningiomas. More intensive staining of cathepsin B in these tumors was not only found at the tumor front, but also in the invading pseudopodia of a single migrating tumor cells. Matrigel invasion of malignant meningioma cells was significantly altered by modulating cathepsin B activity and by stefin B silencing. In the clinical samples of meningioma, the levels of cathepsins B and L, stefin B, and cystatin C were highest in the tumors of higher histological grades, whereas stefin A and progesterone receptor were the only markers that were significantly increased and decreased, respectively, in WHO Grade III lesions. With respect to the prognosis of relapse, cathepsin L (p = 0.035), stefin B (p = 0.007), cystatin C (p = 0.008), and progesterone receptor (p = 0.049) levels were significant, whereas cathepsin B was not a prognosticator. As expected, WHO grade, age, and Simpson grade (complete tumor resection) were prognostic, with Simpson grade only relevant in the short term (up to 90 months) but not in longer-term follow-up. Of note, the impact of all these parameters was lost in multivariate analysis, due to overwhelming prognostic impact of stefin B (p = 0.039).
The data indicate that the cysteine cathepsins and their inhibitors are involved in a process related to early meningioma recurrence, regardless of their histological classification. Of note, the known tumor invasiveness marker cathepsin B, measured in whole-tumor homogenates, was not prognostic, in contrast to its endogenous inhibitor stefin B, which was highly significant and the only independent prognostic factor to predict meningioma relapse in multivariate analysis and reported herein for the first time. Stefin B inhibition of local invasion was confirmed by in vitro invasion assay, although its other functions cannot be excluded.
Single spike activity from the surface electromyogram (EMG) of fasciculations induced by succinylcholine (Sch) were studied from limb muscles (biceps, triceps, anterior tibialis and gastrocnemius) in 100 female patients. About 2/3 of them (n = 72) also received nondepolarizing neuromuscular pretreatment (atracurium or vecuronium). We observed from 20% of EMG records in the myalgic (but not in the nonmyalgic) patients, sustained spike trains (mean duration 1.47 s) that resembled motor units firing at physiologically high rates (mean 21.7 spikes/s). The finding reflects Sch's distal actions at the muscle spindle. The implications for myalgia and the possible involvement of micro damage at the extrafusal muscles are discussed.
The success achieved with treatment employing 2 X 200 mg oral ofloxacin administered over a period of 10 in 28 patients with COLD exacerbated by infection and requiring inpatient treatment, was comparable with that observed in 29 patients receiving treatment with established antibiotics. In elderly patients, high plasma levels of ofloxacin and frequent states of confusion were observed.
Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a prevalent multifactorial disorder of the central retina. Genetic variants at two chromosomal loci, 1q31 and 10q26, confer major disease risks, together accounting for more than 50% of AMD pathology. Signals at 10q26 center over two nearby genes, ARMS2 (age-related maculopathy susceptibility 2, also known as LOC387715) and HTRA1 (high-temperature requirement factor A1), suggesting two equally probable candidates. Here we show that a deletion-insertion polymorphism in ARMS2 (NM_001099667.1:c.(*)372_815del443ins54) is strongly associated with AMD, directly affecting the transcript by removing the polyadenylation signal and inserting a 54-bp element known to mediate rapid mRNA turnover. As a consequence, expression of ARMS2 in homozygous carriers of the indel variant is not detectable. Confirming previous findings, we demonstrate a mitochondrial association of the normal protein and further define its retinal localization to the ellipsoid region of the photoreceptors. Our data suggest that ARMS2 has a key role in AMD, possibly through mitochondria-related pathways.
NQO1 guards against oxidative stress and carcinogenesis and stabilizes p53. We find that a homozygous common missense variant (NQO1(*)2, rs1800566(T), NM_000903.2:c.558C>T) that disables NQO1 strongly predicts poor survival among two independent series of women with breast cancer (P = 0.002, N = 1,005; P = 0.005, N = 1,162), an effect particularly evident after anthracycline-based adjuvant chemotherapy with epirubicin (P = 7.52 x 10(-6)) and in p53-aberrant tumors (P = 6.15 x 10(-5)). Survival after metastasis was reduced among NQO1(*)2 homozygotes, further implicating NQO1 deficiency in cancer progression and treatment resistance. Consistently, response to epirubicin was impaired in NQO1(*)2-homozygous breast carcinoma cells in vitro, reflecting both p53-linked and p53-independent roles of NQO1. We propose a model of defective anthracycline response in NQO1-deficient breast tumors, along with increased genomic instability promoted by elevated reactive oxygen species (ROS), and suggest that the NQO1 genotype is a prognostic and predictive marker for breast cancer.
In contrast to haloperidol, the selective dopamine D3 receptor antagonist, (+)-S 11566 [(+/-)-[7-(N,N-dipropylamino)-5,6,7,8-tetrahydro- naphtho(2,3b)dihydro,2,3-furanel]] and its active isomer, (+)-S 14297, induced neither catalepsy nor reduced conditioned avoidance responses in rats. (+)-S 11566 and (+)-S 14297 did, however, dose-dependently abolish the cataleptic actions of haloperidol. This action was expressed stereospecifically inasmuch as (-)-S 17777, the inactive distomer of (+)-S 14297, was ineffective. Further, the influence of haloperidol upon conditioned avoidance responses was not affected by (+)-S 14297. These data suggest that blockade of dopamine D3 receptors may inhibit the extrapyramidal but not-as based on the conditioned avoidance response paradigm-antipsychotic actions of neuroleptics.
The development, treatment, and outcome of a case of tardive dyskinesia following short-term, low-dose neuroleptic therapy is described. Thirty weeks of treatment with haloperidol, in doses never exceeding 10 mg daily, produced tardive dyskinesia symptomatology. Upon discontinuing haloperidol, the symptoms decreased significantly in severity within the first four weeks and disappeared completely within 12.5 weeks. This case is compared with the classical description of tardive dyskinesia symptomatology, etiology, response to treatment and degree of reversibility. Atypical features are explained and clinical implications of the case are offered.
Since disopyramide was introduced 5 years ago, the therapeutic spectrum of this drug in treating patients with ventricular and atrial arrhythmias has been found to be similar to that of the other type I antiarrhythmic drugs, quinidine and procainamide. Disopyramide has the potential to suppress sinus node function and, therefore, must be used cautiously in patients with the sick sinus syndrome. The available data indicate that it can be used safely in patients with bundle branch block and first-degree or type I second-degree atrioventricular block. Disopyramide has been found at times to precipitate ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation. Because this drug often causes decompensation in patients with congestive heart failure, it must be used very cautiously, if at all, in such patients.
Impairment of the electron transport chain (ETC) is implicated in cadmium (Cd)- and calcium (Ca)-induced mitochondrial dysfunction. To localize the sites of the impairment, effects of 0-50μM Cd and Ca, singly and in combination, on complex I- to IV-driven respirations were investigated using isolated rainbow trout liver mitochondria. Mitochondrial Cd/Ca accumulation and respiration rates were measured following sequential inhibition and activation of complexes I, II, III, and IV. Mitochondrial adenosine triphosphate (ATP) synthesis was measured on exposure to (micromolar) 20 Cd and 50 Ca, singly and combined, whereas malondialdehyde (MDA) was measured on incubation with 0-1μM Cd and/or Ca. We show that mitochondrial accumulation of Cd and Ca and the states 3 and 4 rates of respiration depended on the active ETC complex. Although complex IV was highly recalcitrant to Cd and/or Ca, dose-dependent inhibitions of complex I-, II-, and III-driven state 3 respiration rates were observed with half maximal inhibitory concentrations (IC(50)) of (micromolar) 12.4, 12, and 13.7 (Cd); 57.1, 46.1, and 26.2 (Ca); and 8.3, 13.5, and 5.1 (Cd + Ca), respectively. The lower IC(50) values for complex I- and III-mediated respirations in the Cd + Ca treatment suggests that these complexes are the sites of cooperative actions of Cd and Ca. State 4 respiration rates were unaffected by Cd and/or Ca exposure but reduced mitochondrial coupling was apparent from the lower respiratory control and adenosine diphosphate/O ratios except in mitochondria oxidizing complex IV substrate. Additionally, there was reduced ATP synthesis in complex I substrates-energized mitochondria and increased MDA concentrations symptomatic of membrane lipid peroxidation.
Mangiferin (MF) isolated from Anemarrhena asphodeloides Bunge rhizome, was tested for antidiabetic activity in KK-Ay mice, an animal model of type-2 diabetes. MF lowered the blood glucose level of KK-Ay mice 3 weeks after oral administration (p < 0.01). However, no effect on the blood glucose level in normal mice was seen, indicating that MF could be useful in treating type-2 diabetes. In addition, MF improved hyperinsulinemia and, on insulin tolerance test, reduced blood glucose levels of KK-Ay mice. From these findings, it seems likely that MF exerts its antidiabetic activity by decreasing insulin resistance.
Identification of effective single chemotherapeutic agents for brain tumors must precede the rational use of multiple drug combinations. In phase 2 trials beginning in 1968, 158 patients with intrinsic brain tumors (mostly recurrent malignant astrocytomas) were considered evaluable. The larger trials with more effective drugs produced these results: carmustine (BCNU) response rate, 47%, with median duration of nine months; lomustine (CCNU), 44%, with median duration of six months; procarbazine hydrochloride, 52%, with median duration six months; carmustine and vincristine sulfate combined, 44%, with median duration of only four months; and BIC (5-[3,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-triazeno]imidazole-4-carboxamide), 38%, with median duration of five months. Administration of glucocorticoids was not found to bias the frequency of response. Forty-seven patients, 26 of whom had responded to the initial drug, received a second drug. Among 26 patients who were evaluable, only four responded to the second drug.
Using two-stage coronary ligation-, digitalis- and adrenaline-induced canine ventricular arrhythmias, antiarrhythmic effects of pirmenol were examined, and the minimum effective plasma concentration for each arrhythmia model was determined. Pirmenol suppressed all the arrhythmias, and the minimum effective plasma concentrations for arrhythmias induced by 24 hr coronary ligation, 48 hr coronary ligation, digitalis and adrenaline were 1.1 +/- 0.3 (by 3 mg/kg, i.v.), 1.1 +/- 0.3 (by 3 mg/kg, i.v.), 1.1 +/- 0.2 (by 3 mg/kg, i.v.) and 2.5 +/- 1.5 (by 3 mg/kg, i.v.) microgram/ml, respectively (mean +/- S.D.M., n = 6-7). The concentration for adrenaline-induced arrhythmia was significantly higher than those for the other types of arrhythmias. This pharmacological profile is similar to those of mexiletine, tocainide and cibenzoline. Since pirmenol had no deleterious effects on the blood pressure and sinus node activity, its clinical usefulness is expected.
Dysregulation of synaptic development and function has been implicated in the pathophysiology of neurodegenerative disorders and mental disease. A neurotrophin that has an important function in neuronal and synaptic development is brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). In this communication, we examined the effects of lead (Pb(2+)) exposure on BDNF-tropomyosin-related kinase B (TrkB) signaling during the period of synaptogenesis in cultured neurons derived from embryonic rat hippocampi. We show that Pb(2+) exposure decreases BDNF gene and protein expression, and it may also alter the transport of BDNF vesicles to sites of release by altering Huntingtin phosphorylation and protein levels. Combined, these effects of Pb(2+) resulted in decreased concentrations of extracellular mature BDNF. The effect of Pb(2+) on BDNF gene expression was associated with a specific decrease in calcium-sensitive exon IV transcript levels and reduced phosphorylation and protein expression of the transcriptional repressor methyl-CpG-binding protein (MeCP2). TrkB protein levels and autophosphorylation at tyrosine 816 were significantly decreased by Pb(2+) exposure with a concomitant increase in p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75(NTR)) levels and altered TrkB-p75(NTR) colocalization. Finally, phosphorylation of Synapsin I, a presynaptic target of BDNF-TrkB signaling, was significantly decreased by Pb(2+) exposure with no effect on total Synapsin I protein levels. This effect of Pb(2+) exposure on Synapsin I phosphorylation may help explain the impairment in vesicular release documented by us previously (Neal, A. P., Stansfield, K. H., Worley, P. F., Thompson, R. E., and Guilarte, T. R. (2010). Lead exposure during synaptogenesis alters vesicular proteins and impairs vesicular release: Potential role of N-Methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) dependent BDNF signaling. Toxicol. Sci. 116, 249-263) because it controls vesicle movement from the reserve pool to the readily releasable pool. In summary, the present study demonstrates that Pb(2+) exposure during the period of synaptogenesis of hippocampal neurons in culture disrupts multiple synaptic processes regulated by BDNF-TrkB signaling with long-term consequences for synaptic function and neuronal development.
A patient taking diphenylhydantoin for 3 weeks developed a generalized skin rash, lymphadenopathy and pure red cell aplasia. After withdrawal of the pharmacon all symptoms disappeared spontaneously. Skin rash is a well-known complication of diphenylhydantoin treatment as is benign and malignant lymphadenopathy. Pure red cell aplasia associated with diphenylhydantoin medication has been reported in 3 patients. The exact mechanism by which diphenylhydantoin exerts its toxic effects is not known. In this patient the time relation between the ingestion of diphenylhydantoin and the occurrence of the skin rash, lymphadenopathy and pure red cell aplasia is very suggestive of a direct connection.
The hyperlocomotion induced by the noncompetitive NMDA antagonist MK-801 (0.3 mg/kg SC) in mice was attenuated by the nonselective 5-HT2 antagonist ritanserin (0.12 and 0.25 mg/kg SC) and by the 5-HT2A selective antagonist MDL100907 (0.05 and 0.1 mg/kg SC). SB242084 (0.25-1.0 mg/kg), a selective 5-HT(2C) antagonist, had no effect on MK-801-induced hyperactivity. These same doses of ritanserin and MDL100907 reduced the hyperactivity induced by cocaine (10 mg/ kg). Amphetamine (2.5 mg/kg SC) induced hyperlocomotion that was also attenuated by ritanserin (0.064).25 mg/kg SC). The hyperlocomotion induced by the D1 agonist C-APB (1.0 mg/kg) is not altered by pretreatment with ritanserin or MDL100907. This suggests that compounds that increase locomotor activity via indirectly increasing dopaminergic activity (either by increased release or blockade of reuptake) require the activation of a 5-HT2A receptor. Activity of compounds that act directly at the postsynaptic dopamine receptors such as C-APB is not dependent on such a mechanism. This suggests a selective involvement of 5-HT2A receptors but not 5-HT2c receptors in the mediation of the behavioral effects of compounds that increase synaptic concentration of dopamine but not directly acting agonists. This implies that the 5-HT2A receptors modulate elevation of extracellular dopamine, not the postsynaptic sensitivity of dopamine neurons.
The effect of the beta-blocking agents propranolol and oxprenolol on isoproterenol-induced cardiac hypertrophy has been investigated in the rat. To evaluate the degree of inhibition biochemical parameters related to cardiomegaly were measured. When given alone in the dose range used for protection, the beta-blocking agents did not cause any significant change in total myocardial RNA, DNA and protein. Depending on the dose applied, propranolol and oxprenolol prevented partially or totally the cardiomegaly induced by isoproterenol.
Total calcium uptake, but not the initial rate, and non-calcium-stimulated (basic) adenosine triphosphatase activity of rat gastrocnemius microsomal fractions 3, 7 and 14 days after denervation increased compared with contralateral controls. Microsomal sphingomyelin also increased but phosphatidylcholine plus choline plasmalogen was unchanged in amount. These results are contrasted with those reported for vincristine myopathy.
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is recognized as the most common type of chronic liver disease in Western countries and the leading cause of cryptogenic cirrhosis. Insulin resistance (IR) is a key factor in the pathogenesis of NAFLD, the latter being considered as the hepatic component of IR or metabolic syndrome (MetS). Although the pathogenesis of NAFLD is not fully elucidated, a complex interaction between adipokines and cytokines produced by adipocytes and/or inflammatory cells infiltrating adipose tissue appears to play a crucial role in MetS and NAFLD. Adiponectin is the most abundant and adipose-specific adipokine. In the liver, adiponectin acts through the activation of 5-AMP-activated protein kinase and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha pathways and inhibition of toll-like receptor-4 mediated signalling. There is an evidence that adiponectin decreases hepatic and systematic IR and attenuates liver inflammation and fibrosis. Adiponectin generally predicts steatosis grade and severity of NAFLD, but it remains to be addressed to what extent this is a direct effect or related to the presence of more severe IR. Although there is no proven pharmacotherapy for the treatment of NAFLD, recent therapeutic strategies have focused on the indirect upregulation of adiponectin through the administration of various therapeutic agents and/or lifestyle modifications. Weight loss, through diet, lifestyle changes and/or medications including orlistat, sibutramine, rimonabant or bariatric surgery, increase adiponectin and may improve liver histology. Insulin sensitizers, including pioglitazone and rosiglitazone, and lipid-lowering agents, including statins and fibrates, also upregulate adiponectin and ameliorate liver histology. The wider use of new treatment approaches appears to signal the dawn of a new era in the management of NAFLD. In this adiponectin-focused review, the pathogenetic role and the potential therapeutic benefits of adiponectin in NAFLD are systematically analysed.
Vasodilator therapy has been shown to improve ventricular function in patients with left ventricular failure complicating acute myocardial infarction. Sublingual nitroglycerin also improves ventricular function in these patients but its effects are transient and variable. Infusion of intravenous nitroglycerin in 12 patients with acute infarction resulted in a decrease in left ventricular filling pressure from a mean of 22 plus or minus 2 mm Hg to 12 plus or minus 1 mm Hg (P less than 0.001) associated with a 7 mm Hg decrease in mean arterial pressure (P less than 0.05). Since stroke work index did not change significantly, this represents and improvement in ventricular performance and/or an alteration in ventricular compliance. All six patients in whom serial precordial mapping studies were performed showed a decrease in sigma ST (P less than 0.001). These findings suggest that intravenous nitroglycerin improved left ventricular function and decreased the extent of myocardial ischemia. Longer infusion may act to preserve borderline ischemic myocardium and thus limit infarct size.
We examined the effects of simvastatin-niacin and antioxidant vitamins on changes in high-density lipoprotein (HDL) subpopulations and alterations in coronary artery stenosis, as assessed by angiography.
Lipids, lipoproteins, and HDL particles were measured on and off treatment in 123 subjects of the HDL-Atherosclerosis Treatment Study. Patients were assigned to 4 treatment groups, simvastatin-niacin, simvastatin-niacin-antioxidant vitamins, antioxidant vitamins, and placebo. Subjects were followed for 3 years on treatment and then for 2 months off treatment. Simvastatin-niacin significantly increased the 2 large apoA-I-containing HDL subpopulations, alpha1 and prealpha1, and significantly decreased the 2 smallest particles, prebeta1 and alpha3, compared with values obtained from the same patients off treatment. Adding antioxidant vitamins to the lipid-modifying agents blunted these effects (not significant). A significant negative correlation (r=-0.235; P<0.01) between the changes in alpha1 HDL particle concentration and coronary artery stenosis was noted. Subjects in the third tertile (157% increase in alpha1) had no progression of stenosis in the 3-year follow-up period, whereas subjects in the first tertile (15% decrease in alpha1) had an average of 2.1% increase in stenosis.
Simvastatin-niacin therapy significantly increased the large apoA-I-containing alpha1 HDL particles. This increase was significantly associated with less progression of coronary stenosis even after adjusting for traditional risk factors.
The developmental toxicity of two trimethylbenzene isomers, mesitylene (1,3,5-trimethylbenzene) and pseudocumene (1,2,4-trimethylbenzene) was studied in Sprague-Dawley rats following inhalation exposure. Pregnant rats were exposed whole body to vapours of mesitylene (0, 100, 300, 600, and 1200 ppm) or pseudocumene (0, 100, 300, 600, and 900 ppm), 6h/day, on gestational days (GD) 6 through 20. Significant decrease in maternal body weight gain and food consumption was observed at concentrations of 300 ppm mesitylene, 600 ppm pseudocumene, or greater. Fetal toxicity, expressed as significant reduction in fetal body weight, occurred at 600 and 1200 ppm mesitylene, and at 600 and 900 ppm pseudocumene. There was no evidence of embryolethal or teratogenic effects following inhalation exposure to either of these chemicals. In summary, the no-observed-adverse-effect-level (NOAEL) for maternal toxicity was 100 ppm for mesitylene and 300 ppm for pseudocumene, and the NOAEL for developmental toxicity was 300 ppm for mesitylene and pseudocumene.
