The chemokine/chemokine receptor pair CX(3)C-L/CX(3)C-R is suspected to play a role in renal fibrogenesis. The aim of this study was to investigate their function in an animal model of slowly progressive chronic renal failure.
Functional data were analysed in folic acid nephropathy (FAN) at different time points (up to day 142 after induction). Immunostaining for CX(3)C-L, CD3, S100A4, collagen type I, fibronectin, alpha-smooth muscle actin, Tamm-horsfall protein, aquaporin 1 and 2 as well as quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) for CX(3)C-L, CX(3)C-R and fibroblast-specific protein 1 (FSP-1) were performed. Additionally, regulatory mechanisms and functional activity of CX(3)C-L in murine proximal and distal tubular epithelial cells as well as in fibroblasts were investigated.
CX(3)C-L/GAPDH ratio was upregulated in FAN 3.4-fold at day 7 further increasing up to 7.1-fold at day 106. The expression of mRNA CX(3)C-L correlated well with CX(3)C-R (R(2) = 0.96), the number of infiltrating CD3+ cells (R(2) = 0.60) and the degree of tubulointerstitial fibrosis (R(2) = 0.56) and moderately with FSP-1 (R(2) = 0.33). Interleukin-1beta, tumour necrosis factor-alpha, transforming growth factor-beta as well as the reactive oxygen species (ROS) H(2)O(2) were identified by qRT-PCR as inductors of CX(3)C-L/fractalkine (FKN) in tubular epithelial cells. Functionally, CX(3)C-L/FKN chemoattracts peripheral blood mononuclear cells, activates several aspects of fibrogenesis and induces the mitogen-activated protein kinases in renal fibroblasts.
In FAN, there is a good correlation between the expression of CX(3)C-L with markers of interstitial inflammation and fibrosis which may result from upregulation by pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic cytokines as well as by ROS in tubular epithelial cells. The FKN system may promote renal inflammation and renal fibrogenesis.
Spontaneously hypertensive (SH) and normotensive Wistar Kyoto (WKY) rats have been used for understanding the mechanisms of variations in susceptibility to airborne pollutants. We examined the lung burden of diesel exhaust particles (DEP) following inhalation of diesel engine exhaust (DEE) in both strains. The kinetics of clearance was also examined after single intratracheal (IT) instillation of DEP. Lungs were analyzed for DEP elemental carbon (EC) after exposure to DEE (0, 500, or 2000 microg/m(3) 4 h/day, 5 days/week x 4 weeks). SH rats had 16% less DEP-EC at 500 and 32% less at 2000 microg/m(3) in the lungs, despite having 50% higher than the average minute volume. No strain-related differences were noted in number of alveolar macrophages or their average DEP load as evident from examining cells in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF). The kinetics of DEP clearance from lungs of male WKY and SH rats was studied following a single instillation at 0.0 or 8.33 mg/kg of DEP standard reference material (SRM 2975) from the National Institute of Standards Technology. SH rats cleared 60% DEP over 112 days while minimal clearance occurred from the lungs of WKY. The pattern of DEP-induced inflammatory response assessed by BALF analysis was similar in both strains, although the overall protein leak was slightly greater in SH rats. A time-dependent accumulation of DEP occurred in tracheal lymph nodes of both strains (SH > WKY). Thus, SH rats may clear DEP more efficiently from their lungs than normotensive WKY rats, with a small contribution of more effective lymphatic drainage.
The discovery and preclinical development of selective dopamine reuptake inhibitors as potential pharmacotherapies for treating cocaine addiction are presented. The studies are based on the hypothesis that a dopamine reuptake inhibitor is expected to partially substitute for cocaine, thus decreasing cocaine self-administration and minimizing the craving for cocaine. This type of indirect agonist therapy has been highly effective for treating smoking addiction (nicotine replacement therapy) and heroin addiction (methadone). To be an effective pharmacotherapy for cocaine addiction, the potential drug must be safe, long-acting, and have minimal abuse potential. We have developed several 3-phenyltropane analogs that are potent dopamine uptake inhibitors, and some are selective for the dopamine transporter relative to the serotonin and norepinephrine transporters. In animal studies, these compounds substitute for cocaine, reduce the intake of cocaine in rats and rhesus monkeys trained to self-administer cocaine, and have demonstrated a slow onset and long duration of action and lack of sensitization. The 3-phenyltropane analogs were also tested in a rhesus monkey self-administration model to define their abuse potential relative to cocaine. Based on these studies, 3beta-(4-chlorophenyl)-2beta-[3-(4'-methylphenyl)isoxazol-5-yl]tropane (RTI-336) has been selected for preclinical development.
The authors describe a case of tetany not related to the common causes of this clinical symptom, such as hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and alkalosis. Severe hypokalemia secondary to the use of diuretics was detected; its correction reverted the symptoms.
Toluene is a high-production industrial solvent, which can disrupt the auditory system in rats. However, toluene-induced hearing loss is species dependent. For instance, despite long-lasting exposures to high concentrations of aromatic solvent, no study has yet succeeded in causing convincing hearing loss in the guinea pig. This latter species can be characterized by two metabolic particularities: a high amount of hepatic cytochrome P-450s (P-450s) and a high concentration of glutathione in the cochlea. It is therefore likely that the efficiency of both the hepatic and cochlear metabolisms plays a key role in the innocuousness of the hearing of guinea pigs to exposure to solvent. The present study was carried out to test the auditory resistance to toluene in glutathione-depleted guinea pigs whose the P-450 activity was partly inhibited. To this end, animals on a low-protein diet received a general P-450 inhibitor, namely SKF525-A. Meanwhile, they were exposed to 1750 ppm toluene for 4 weeks, 5 days/week, 6 h/day. Auditory function was tested by electrocochleography and completed by histological analyses. For the first time, a significant toluene-induced hearing loss was provoked in the P-450-inhibited guinea pigs. However, the ototoxic process caused by the solvent exposure was different from that observed in the rat. Only the stria vascularis and the spiral fibers were disrupted in the apical coil of the cochlea. The protective mechanisms developed by guinea pigs are discussed in the present publication.
Alcoholic and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (ALD and NAFLD) are the predominant causes of liver-related mortality in Western countries. We have shown that limiting classical (M1) Kupffer cell (KC) polarization reduces alcohol-induced liver injury. Herein, we investigated whether favoring alternatively activated M2 KCs may protect against ALD and NAFLD. Ongoing alcohol drinkers and morbidly obese patients, with minimal hepatic injury and steatosis, displayed higher hepatic expression of M2 genes, as compared to patients with more severe liver lesions; individuals with limited liver lesions showed negligible hepatocyte apoptosis but significant macrophage apoptosis. Experiments in mouse models of ALD or NAFLD further showed that BALB/c or resveratrol-treated mice fed alcohol or a high-fat diet displayed preponderant M2 KC polarization, M1 KC apoptosis, and resistance to hepatocyte steatosis and apoptosis, as compared to control C57BL6/J mice. In vitro experiments in isolated KC, peritoneal, and Raw264.7 macrophages demonstrated that M1 macrophage apoptosis was promoted by conditioned medium from macrophages polarized into an M2 phenotype by either interleukin (IL)4, resveratrol, or adiponectin. Mechanistically, IL10 released from M2 cells promoted M1 death, and anti-IL10 antibodies blunted the proapoptic effects of M2-conditioned media. IL10 secreted by M2 KCs promoted selective M1 death by a mechanism involving activation of arginase in high inducible nitric oxide synthase-expressing M1 KCs. In alcohol-exposed mice, neutralization of IL10 impaired M1 apoptosis.
These data uncover a novel mechanism regulating the M1/M2 balance that relies on apoptotic effects of M2 KCs towards their M1 counterparts. They suggest that promoting M2-induced M1 KC apoptosis might prove a relevant strategy to limit alcohol- and high fat-induced inflammation and hepatocyte injury.
Antituberculosis drug-induced hepatitis is one of the most prevalent drug-induced liver injuries. Isoniazid is the major drug incriminated in this hepatotoxicity. Isoniazid is mainly metabolized to hepatotoxic intermediates by N-acetyltransferase (NAT). However, the association of polymorphic NAT acetylator status and antituberculosis drug-induced hepatitis is debatable. To determine whether acetylator status is a risk factor for antituberculosis drug-induced hepatitis, we genotyped NAT2 in 224 incident tuberculosis patients who received antituberculosis treatment. Antituberculosis drug-induced hepatitis was diagnosed based on a positive isoniazid rechallenge test and exclusion of viral hepatitis. Acetylator status was determined by genotyping NAT2 in patients using a polymerase chain reaction with restriction fragment length polymorphism. Univariate analysis and logistic regression analysis were used to evaluate the risk factors of isoniazid-induced hepatitis. Thirty-three patients (14.7%) were diagnosed with antituberculosis drug-induced hepatitis. Slow acetylators had a higher risk of hepatotoxicity than rapid acetylators (26.4% vs. 11.1%, P =.013). Among patients with hepatotoxicity, slow acetylators had significantly higher serum aminotransferase levels than rapid acetylators. Logistic regression showed that slow-acetylator status (odds ratio [OR], 3.66; 95% CI, 1.58-8.49; P =.003) and age (OR, 1.09; 95% CI, 1.04-1.14; P <.001) were the only 2 independent risk factors for antituberculosis drug-induced hepatitis. In conclusion, slow-acetylator status of NAT2 is a significant susceptibility risk factor for antituberculosis drug-induced hepatitis. Additionally, slow acetylators are prone to develop more severe hepatotoxicity than rapid acetylators. Regular monitoring of serum aminotransferase levels is mandatory in patients receiving antituberculosis treatment, especially in slow acetylators.
In order to explore the effects of metals upon the subsequent onset of several clinical events in SMON, a retrospective cohort study was attempted. Study subjects were 216 "exposed" patients and 149 "unexposed" patients. "Exposure" was defined as the simultaneous ingestion of metal-containing drugs with clioquinol before the onset of neurological disorders. These two cohorts were identified from 531 patients among 832 patients, collected by the nationwide survey in 1975 and 1976. Effects provoked by ingestion of five metals (alminum, calcium, magnesium, copper and bismuth) were evaluated by relative risks with and without adjustment of the total amount of clioquinol ingested. Adjusted relative risks were estimated by maximum likelihood method. Significance of relative risk was determined by its 95% confidence interval. Following major findings emerged from the present analysis. (1) Simultaneous ingestion of Al-, Ca-, Mg-, Cu- or Bi-containing drugs with clioquinol significantly reduced the risk of developing motor disturbances. (2) Risk of developing visual disturbances were favorably modified by Al-containing drugs. (3) Clinical severity was significantly reduced by ingestion of Al-, Ca-, Mg- or Bi-containing drugs. (4) About 2-fold increase in risk of unfavorable clinical course was demonstrated by Al-containing drugs. (5) Onset of both green-fur on the tongue and relapse appeared unrelated to the metal-containing drugs ingested. (6) Combined ingestion of two kinds of metal-containing drugs with clioquinol appeared to yield more favorable effects than single ingestion of metal-containing drugs. (7) Al- or Bi-containing drugs demonstrated the strongest association with clinical features of SMON, followed by the drugs containing Mg or Ca. Cu-containing drugs had little association.
To evaluate the efficacy of pentoxifylline in the treatment of refractory nephrotic syndrome secondary to lupus nephritis.
We studied 11 patients who met the following inclusion criteria: (1) systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) according to the American College of Rheumatology criteria; (2) lupus nephritis class III, IV, or V according to the World Health Organization; (3) proteinuria in the nephrotic range (> or = 3 g/24 h) for at least 6 months despite treatment. All patients received pentoxifylline 800-1600 mg/day. Clinical and laboratory data, including creatinine, urine test, creatinine clearance, and 24-h urinary protein, were collected monthly for 6 months. No changes in treatment were allowed, except for alterations in the dose of prednisone.
All patients had received corticosteroids and immunosuppressants for at least 6 months. All patients showed a decrease in proteinuria concentrations after use of pentoxifylline from a median of 5.5 to 2.0 (p = 0.003). No patient discontinued the drug due to side effects. One patient had nausea and one had anxiety that disappeared after decreasing the dosage.
Pentoxifylline seems to be effective in the treatment of refractory nephrotic syndrome secondary to lupus nephritis.
The induction of hyperalgesia upon capsaicin administration requires activation of specific sub-classes of nociceptive afferent C-fibres providing nociceptive input to the central nervous system. It has been demonstrated in animal models that the endocannabinoid anandamide has anti-hyperalgesic properties upon capsaicin stimulation, albeit it also binds to vanilloid receptors. In the present study we topically administered the cannabinoid receptor ligand HU210 to human skin and investigated its effects on capsaicin-induced pain and hyperalgesia.We demonstrated that pre-treatment with HU210 significantly reduced the perception of pain following the administration of capsaicin. Heat pain thresholds were significantly reduced by capsaicin application measured 5 and 30min after administration. In contrast, at the HU210 pre-treated skin sites capsaicin failed to induce heat hyperalgesia during the fifth minute of administration. Secondary mechanical hyperalgesia to touch (allodynia) was measured during the fifth, 15th and 30th minute after capsaicin administration. In comparison to the ethanol control site, the area of touch-evoked allodynia was significantly reduced at the HU210 skin site during the first two measures. However, 30min after the administration of capsaicin no significant differences of allodynia were observed between the HU210 and ethanol pre-treated skin. The present study provided evidence for analgesic and anti-hyperalgesic properties of a topically applied cannabinoid receptor ligand, which might have important therapeutic implications in humans.
Cocaine is directly related to the occurrence of acute coronary syndromes (ACS). We analyzed the differential characteristics of consumers who suffer an ACS in our environment.
A retrospective study of 914 patients with ACS who entered consecutively to our hospital.
Thirty four patients were consumers (3.7%, CI95%: 2.7-5.2), with an average age of 40.1+/-9.1 years, significantly lower than non-consumers (63.6+/-12.15 years, P<.001). The prevalence increased progressively in younger groups. Most were men (82.4%), with higher consumption of tobacco (88.2% vs. 34.2%, P<.001) and other illegal drugs (35.3% vs 0.9%, P<.001). By contrast, they had less frequently hypertension (26.5 vs. 60.5%, P<.001) or diabetes (11.7 vs. 39.8%, P<.001). There was single vessel disease in 44.1%, and a coronary angiography without significant lesions in 20.6% cases.
The typical patient with ACS who consumes cocaine is usually a young man, who often takes other drugs and with a lower prevalence of classic risk factors. These data have to be taken into account when considering preventive and therapeutic manoeuvres.
A 79-year-old female developed endocarditis and meningitis due to an ampicillin-resistant, non-beta-lactamase-producing strain of Haemophilus influenzae. Carbenicillin and gentamicin therapy resulted in bacteriological and clinical cure. The mechanism of resistance of ampicillin-resistant, non-beta-lactamase-producing strains of H. influenzae is unknown.
One of the major obstacles in the treatment of hormone-refractory prostate cancer (HRPC) is the development of chemo-resistant tumors. The aim of this study is to evaluate the role of Palomid 529 (P529), a novel TORC1/TORC2 inhibitor, in association with docetaxel (DTX) and cisplatin (CP). This work utilizes a wide panel of prostatic cancer cell lines with or without basal activation of Akt as well as two in vivo models of aggressive HRPC. The blockade of Akt/mTOR activity was associated to reduced cell proliferation and induction of apoptosis. Comparison of IC50 values calculated for PTEN-positive and PTEN-negative cell lines as well as the PTEN transfection in PC3 cells or PTEN silencing in DU145 cells revealed that absence of PTEN was indicative for a better activity of the drug. In addition, P529 synergized with DTX and CP. The strongest synergism was achieved when prostate cancer (PCa) cells were sequentially exposed to CP or DTX followed by treatment with P529. Treatment with P529 before the exposure to chemotherapeutic drugs resulted in a moderate synergism, whereas intermediated values of combination index were found when drugs were administered simultaneously. In vivo treatment of a combination of P529 with DTX or CP increased the percentage of complete responses and reduced the number of mice with tumor progression. Our results provide a rationale for combinatorial treatment using conventional chemotherapy and a Akt/mTOR inhibitor as promising therapeutic approach for the treatment of HRPC, a disease largely resistant to conventional therapies.
The filamins are cytoplasmic proteins that regulate the structure and activity of the cytoskeleton by cross-linking actin into three-dimensional networks, linking the cell membrane to the cytoskeleton and serving as scaffolds on which intracellular signaling and protein trafficking pathways are organized (reviewed in refs. 1,2). We identified mutations in the gene encoding filamin B in four human skeletal disorders. We found homozygosity or compound heterozygosity with respect to stop-codon mutations in autosomal recessive spondylocarpotarsal syndrome (SCT, OMIM 272460) and missense mutations in individuals with autosomal dominant Larsen syndrome (OMIM 150250) and the perinatal lethal atelosteogenesis I and III phenotypes (AOI, OMIM 108720; AOIII, OMIM 108721). We found that filamin B is expressed in human growth plate chondrocytes and in the developing vertebral bodies in the mouse. These data indicate an unexpected role in vertebral segmentation, joint formation and endochondral ossification for this ubiquitously expressed cytoskeletal protein.
Consumption of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase (HMG-CoA) inhibitors, known as statins, has been associated with elevated transaminase levels but rarely with acute hepatitis. Recently, several cases of acute hepatitis secondary to atorvastatin therapy have been published. We report the case of a 72-year-old man who developed acute cholestatic hepatitis after reinitiating treatment with atorvastatin at a higher dose than that previously prescribed. After treatment discontinuation, the patient made a full recovery, with normalization of clinical and laboratory findings.
Ablation or inhibition of phospholamban (PLN) has favorable effects in several genetic murine dilated cardiomyopathies, and we showed previously that a pseudophosphorylated form of PLN mutant (S16EPLN) successfully prevented progressive heart failure in cardiomyopathic hamsters. In this study, the effects of PLN inhibition were examined in rats with heart failure after myocardial infarction (MI), a model of acquired disease. S16EPLN was delivered into failing hearts 5 weeks after MI by transcoronary gene transfer using a recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) vector. In treated (MI-S16EPLN, n = 16) and control (MI-saline, n = 18) groups, infarct sizes were closely matched and the left ventricle was similarly depressed and dilated before gene transfer. At 2 and 6 months after gene transfer, MI-S16EPLN rats showed an increase in left ventricular (LV) ejection fraction and a much smaller rise in LV end-diastolic volume, compared with progressive deterioration of LV size and function in MI-saline rats. Hemodynamic measurements at 6 months showed lower LV end-diastolic pressures, with enhanced LV function (contractility and relaxation), lowered LV mass and myocyte size, and less fibrosis in MI-S16EPLN rats. Thus, PLN inhibition by in vivo rAAV gene transfer is an effective strategy for the chronic treatment of an acquired form of established heart failure.
Treatment with glucocorticoids causes wasting of proximal skeletal muscles. There is evidence that physical training improves muscle mass and strength in glucocorticoid-treated rats. Whether this is also true in humans is unknown. The present investigation was designed to establish in what respect moderate physical training may alter muscle mass and function as assessed quantitatively by computed tomography (CT) and with an isokinetic dynamometer (Cybex II). Compared with matched controls, both female (n = 17) and male (n = 22) patients treated with prednisone (15.4 +/- 6.6 mg die-1) had a lower mid-thigh muscle area of 20 and 45% and an increased mid-thigh fat/muscle ratio of 25 and 100%, respectively. The mean peak torque and the total work output of the thigh muscle were lower by 20-30% (n = 14). Fifty days of isokinetic training in six patients increased the thigh muscle area, decreased the thigh fat area and normalized the mean peak torque and total work output. Thus, glucocorticoid-induced muscle wasting can be reversed by increasing physical activity.
Adrenomedullin intracerebroventricularly administered (0.1 to 20 ng/rat i.c.v.), showed significant gastroprotective activity in a dose-dependent manner. When the peptide was intravenously administered (1 to 1000 ng/kg i.v.) it did not show significant gastroprotective activity in the same test. The gastroprotective effect of the peptide (10 ng/rat) was abolished by bilateral adrenalectomy, by pretreatment with the beta-adrenoceptor antagonist, propranolol (1 mg/kg i.p.), or by a calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonist, CGRP-(8-37) fragment (1 or 10 ng/rat i.c.v.). This study showed that adrenomedullin is protective against reserpine-induced gastric lesions, that the action involves sympathetic nerve activity, and moreover interferes with CGRP receptors.
Reactive oxygen radicals, nitric oxide, and cytokines have been implicated in the initiation of pancreatic tissue damage and impairment of the pancreatic microcirculation in acute pancreatitis. Pentoxifylline is a methylxanthine derivative with rheologic and marked anti-inflammatory properties and inhibits the production of proinflammatory cytokines. We have examined whether pentoxifylline ameliorates interstitial edema, inflammatory infiltrate, and glutathione depletion associated with cerulein-induced pancreatitis. Cotreatment of animals with pentoxifylline significantly reduced cerulein-induced pancreatic inflammation and edema and attenuated the depletion of pancreatic glutathione and the increase in serum lipase activity, nitrate, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha levels. Pentoxifylline also prevented both mitochondrial swelling and damage to mitochondrial cristae caused by cerulein. Our findings provide an experimental basis for using pentoxifylline to attenuate inflammatory responses within the pancreas in acute pancreatitis and as an adjuvant in the treatment of acute pancreatitis.
We have developed a partially inbred substrain of New Zealand white rabbits (CRT/mlo) that are resistant to the hypercholesterolemia that accompanies cholesterol feeding to normal rabbits. The plasma cholesterol concentration of normal rabbits increases dramatically from about 30 mg/dl to > 300 mg/dl after they are fed a 0.1% cholesterol-enriched diet for 3-4 months. Cholesterol-fed CRT/mlo animals, however, maintain a cholesterol level of about 30 mg/dl during the entire cholesterol feeding period. In addition to the low plasma cholesterol level, measurements of cellular cholesterol indicate that the hepatic cholesterol content of the cholesterol-fed resistant rabbit remains markedly lower than it does in normal animals fed the same diet. The only mechanism for removal of significant quantities of cholesterol carbon from the body is via the fecal excretion of cholesterol, neutral sterol metabolites, and bile acids. In comparison to the basal, low-cholesterol diet, we observed that cholesterol-fed resistant rabbits had increased excretion of lithocholic acid, while excretion of this bile acid by cholesterol-fed normal rabbit remained similar to basal diet levels. Deoxycholic acid excretion, the other main bile acid excreted in the feces of rabbits, was decreased in response to cholesterol challenge in animals with either resistant or normal phenotypes, but the decrease was significantly less in the resistant rabbits. Thus, the resistant rabbits excreted relatively more lithocholic and deoxycholic acid than did the cholesterol-fed normal rabbit. The difference in bile acid excretion was also manifest by a higher than normal level of cholesterol 7 alpha-hydroxylase activity and cholesterol 7 alpha-hydroxylase mRNA in the livers from resistant versus normal rabbits. As cholesterol 7 alpha-hydroxylase is the putative rate-limiting step of bile acid synthesis, we believe that the increased excretion of bile acids by resistant animals is due, at least in part, to increased levels of cholesterol 7 alpha-hydroxylase expression.
Hypertension and hyperuricaemia are common side-effects of cyclosporin A (CsA) treatment in renal transplant recipients. While it is well established that the calcium channel blocker amlodipine can control CsA-induced hypertension effectively in this patient population, recent evidence suggests amlodipine might also reduce hyperuricaemia. The present study was designed to compare the effects of the calcium channel blocker amlodipine (5-10 mg/day) and the beta-adrenoceptor antagonist tertatolol (5-10 mg/day) on CsA-induced hyperuricaemia in post-renal transplant recipients with hypertension.
Forty-eight hypertensive renal transplant recipients on a stable dose of CsA were randomized in a double-blind, parallel-group manner to receive either amlodipine (n = 24) or tertatolol (n = 24) for 60 days. The primary outcome measure was the change from baseline in serum uric acid concentration. Secondary analyses of efficacy were based on changes in renal function and blood pressure.
Amlodipine significantly decreased serum uric acid levels from 483 +/- 99 to 431 +/- 110 microM/l (P < 0.001), while tertatolol significantly increased uric acid from 450 +/- 98 to 476 +/-84 microM/l (P = 0.006). Amlodipine also significantly increased glomerular filtration rate (P = 0.0048) and the clearance rate of uric acid (P = 0.023) and it reduced the fractional proximal tubular reabsorption of sodium (P < 0.001), compared with tertatolol. Renal plasma flow and filtered fraction were unaffected by both treatments, as was trough CsA blood concentration. Amlodipine lowered systolic blood pressure to a significantly greater extent than did tertatolol (P = 0.007). The time-dependent profile of diastolic blood pressure did not differ significantly between treatment groups. Both drugs were well tolerated.
Amlodipine could be more appropriate than tertatolol for CsA-induced hypertension and hyperuricaemia in renal transplant recipients.
Recurrent ventricular tachycardia (torsade de pointes) is a serious and sometimes fatal arrhythmia occurring usually with quinidine therapy. Four patients experienced ventricular tachycardia after receiving conventional doses of disopyramide phosphate (600 mg/day) for recurrent atrial fibrillation-two of them in combination with amiodarone hydrochloride. Isoproterenol hydrochloride infusion was effective in three patients, while ventricular pacing promptly abolished ventricular ectopic beats and the ventricular tachycardia in the fourth patient. Torsade de pointes is more likely to occur in patients with severe repolarization delay and sinus bradycardia or atrioventricular block, and its appearance in four patients within a period of nine months after the introduction of disopyramide treatment in our service raises the possibility that this is not a rare complication of this drug, especially if used in combination with other QT interval-prolonging agents.
Further recurrence of superficial bladder cancer after transurethral resection is frequent in patients who have already experienced recurrence. In an attempt to prevent or delay further recurrences in such patients, the effect of preoperative doxorubicin instillation was investigated. A total of 51 patients with recurrent superficial bladder cancer were randomized to receive either TUR alone or TUR with preoperative doxorubicin instillation. Doxorubicin was administered twice a week for 3 weeks before TUR surgery. An objective response (CR + PR) of the tumors was observed at operation in 12 of 25 (48%) evaluable doxorubicin-treated patients. Chemical cystitis was seen in 32% of the patients. Further recurrence after TUR was observed in 13 of 25 (52%) patients in the doxorubicin group, as against 15 of 23 (65%) evaluable patients in the control group. The mean disease-free interval was significantly longer (11.8 as against 7.1 months) in the doxorubicin group. These preliminary results suggest that preoperative doxorubicin instillation might be effective for prolongation of the disease-free interval in patients with recurrent bladder cancer.
We compared symptom severity and quality of life (QOL) in schizophrenic patients adequately treated with typical antipsychotics (TAP) or clozapine (CZP). Groups did not differ in symptom severity or QOL. Clozapine caused fewer extrapyramidal symptoms. Negative and extrapyramidal symptoms predicted QOL. Similar outcome in both groups suggests a common ceiling to antipsychotic efficacy.
