High doses of methotrexate (MTX) have been incorporated in the treatment of osteogenic sarcoma since the 1970s. Unfortunately, high-dose MTX (HD-MTX) can cause untoward side effects that may complicate the proper management of these patients. Two cases of MTX-induced acral erythema are described and the possible implications of this complication are reviewed, with a discussion of the pathophysiology of this adverse effect. Two young female patients suffering from osteogenic sarcoma received HD-MTX (12 g/m2) according to the chemotherapeutic protocol. A 17-year-old patient with osteogenic sarcoma of the head developed painful acral erythema of her palms and soles after the fifth dose of MTX, and a 22-year-old patient with osteosarcoma of the femur developed severe acral erythema after the sixth dose. The severity of the reaction was significant enough to cancel further treatment with HD-MTX in both patients. All symptoms resolved without sequellae several weeks later in both cases. Acral erythema may pose a significant albeit transient phenomenon adversely influencing chemotherapy in patients suffering from osteosarcoma and treated with HD-MTX. The pathophysiology of this side effect is not completely understood and further investigation of the pharmacokinetics of HD-MTX in this patient population is needed.
Nineteen patients with multiple myeloma resistant to standard alkylating agent therapy or to the VAD regimen received carboplatin at a planned daily dose of 100 mg/M2 on four successive days. Two patients erroneously received a four-fold higher drug dose resulting in bone marrow aplasia and death without antitumor effect in one patient with post-mortem examination. No anti-tumor effect was observed among 15 patients evaluable for response (two lacked follow-up examination of tumor markers). Major toxicities were hematologic and included grade > or = III, leukopenia in 9, thrombocytopenia in 6 and anemia in 3 of the 17 evaluable patients. Their median survival was 9 months. These results indicate that carboplatin is inactive in refractory multiple myeloma.
The activated B-cell-like (ABC) subtype of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) represents a very aggressive human lymphoma entity. Constitutive NF-κB activation caused by chronic active B-cell receptor (BCR) signaling is common feature of many ABC DLBCL cells; however, the pathways linking BCR signaling to the NF-κB prosurvival network are largely unknown. Here we report that constitutive activity of PI3K and the downstream kinase PDK1 are essential for the viability of two ABC DLBCL cell lines that carry mutations in the BCR proximal signaling adaptor CD79B. In these cells, PI3K inhibition reduces NF-κB activity and decreases the expression of NF-κB target genes. Furthermore, PI3K and PDK1 are required for maintaining MALT1 protease activity, which promotes survival of the affected ABC DLBCL cells. These results demonstrate a critical function of PI3K-PDK1 signaling upstream of MALT1 protease and NF-κB in distinct ABC DLBCL cells and provide a rationale for the pharmacologic use of PI3K inhibitors in DLBCL therapy.
Pharmacological erection is becoming an accepted form of treatment in the impotent patient. We report on our experience in 69 men with organic and psychogenic etiologies using intracorporeal injection with a mixture of papaverine hydrochloride and phentolamine mesylate. A good response was achieved in all patients except those with severe arterial or venous insufficiency. Although it was used primarily in cases of organic impotence, we found intracorporeal injection to be valuable in the patient with psychogenic impotence as an adjunct to sex therapy. Auto-injection was practiced by 74 per cent of our patients with a good response and 50 per cent noticed subjective improvement in the ability to obtain natural erections. Priapism was the most significant complication and occurred in 8.7 per cent of the patients. However, most patients have expressed satisfaction with this alternative to penile implantation.
We have studied the effect of dexmedetomidine during coronary artery stenosis (CAS) in dogs. Three periods of 15 min of CAS were induced at 40-min intervals in two groups of dogs (dexmedetomidine compared with placebo). Dexmedetomidine was administered before the second and third periods of CAS in doses of 1 and 3 micrograms kg-1, respectively. Dexmedetomidine decreased plasma concentrations of noradrenaline by mean 71 (SEM 9)%, heart rate by 8 (4)%, cardiac output by 30 (6)% and increased mean arterial pressure by 23 (10)%. Dexmedetomidine reduced blood flow in non-ischaemic myocardium and in the ischaemic epicardial layer by 16 (8)%, but blood flow was preserved in the ischaemic mid-myocardial and subendocardial layers. Consequently, dexmedetomidine increased the ischaemic-non-ischaemic blood flow ratio. Dexmedetomidine did not change myocardial oxygen consumption but decreased myocardial oxygen demand from 4.91 (0.33) to 3.76 (0.25) mumol min-1 g-1, thereby reducing the oxygen deficiency of the ischaemic myocardium from 1.47 (0.37) to 0.29 (0.32) mumol min-1 g-1.
We report 3 cases of penile curvature deformity and fibrosis of the tunica albuginea after long-term self-injection with papaverine hydrochloride and phentolamine mesylate. To our knowledge this complication has not been reported previously. The clinical presentation and possible etiology are discussed.
Cocaine addiction remains without an effective pharmacotherapy and is characterized by an inability of addicts to inhibit relapse to drug use. Vulnerability to relapse arises from an enduring impairment in cognitive control of motivated behavior, manifested in part by dysregulated synaptic potentiation and extracellular glutamate homeostasis in the projection from the prefrontal cortex to the nucleus accumbens. Here we show in rats trained to self-administer cocaine that the enduring cocaine-induced changes in synaptic potentiation and glutamate homeostasis are mechanistically linked through group II metabotropic glutamate receptor signaling. The enduring cocaine-induced changes in measures of cortico-accumbens synaptic and glial transmission were restored to predrug parameters for at least 2 wk after discontinuing chronic treatment with the cystine prodrug, N-acetylcysteine. N-acetylcysteine produced these changes by inducing an enduring restoration of nonsynaptic glutamatergic tone onto metabotropic glutamate receptors. The long-lasting pharmacological restoration of cocaine-induced glutamatergic adaptations by chronic N-acetylcysteine also caused enduring inhibition of cocaine-seeking in an animal model of relapse. These data mechanistically link nonsynaptic glutamate to cocaine-induced adaptations in excitatory transmission and demonstrate a mechanism to chronically restore prefrontal to accumbens transmission and thereby inhibit relapse in an animal model.
Propofol causes pain or discomfort on injection in 28%-90% of patients. A number of techniques have been tried for minimizing propofol-induced pain with variable results. We compared the efficacy of butorphanol and lidocaine for prevention of propofol-induced pain. One-hundred-fifty ASA I-II adults, undergoing elective surgery were randomly assigned into 3 groups of 50 each. Group I (NS) received normal saline, Group II (L) received lidocaine 2% (40 mg), and Group III (B) received butorphanol 2 mg. All patients received pretreatment solutions made in 2 mL with normal saline administered over 5 s. One min after pretreatment patients received one-fourth of the total calculated dose of propofol (2.5 mg/kg) over 5 s. Assessment of pain with IV propofol was done by using a four-point scale: 0 = no pain, 1 = mild pain, 2 = moderate pain and 3 = severe pain at the time of propofol injection. In the control Group 39 (78%) patients had pain during propofol injection as compared to 21 (42%) and 10 (20%) in the lidocaine and butorphanol groups, respectively (P < 0.05). Butorphanol was the most effective. We therefore suggest the IV pretreatment with butorphanol 2 mg for attenuation of pain associated with propofol injection.
In almost half the patients seeking advice for anxiety, panic and phobias the cause was alcohol or benzodiazepines. In the remainder it was psychological, usually a state of conflict or a traumatic event. When symptoms are persistent following a distressing event it is often the case that alcohol or benzodiazepines are keeping them going. There is a large variation in individual vulnerability and the mechanism responsible for these symptoms is rebound arousal.
Synuclein gamma (SNCG), previously identified as a breast cancer-specific gene, is highly expressed in malignant cancer cells but not in normal epithelium. The molecular targets of SNCG during breast cancer progression have not been fully identified. Here we analyzed the effect of SNCG on stimulation of membrane-initiated estrogen signaling. While SNCG expression enhanced estrogen-induced activation of ERK1/2 and mammalian target of rapamycin, knockdown of endogenous SNCG decreased membrane-initiated estrogen signaling. SNCG functions as a molecular chaperone protein for estrogen receptor (ER)-alpha36, a membrane-based variant of ER-alpha. SNCG bound to ER-alpha36 in the presence and absence of functional molecular chaperone heat shock protein 90. Disruption of heat shock protein 90 with 17-AAG significantly reduced ER-alpha36 expression and membrane-initiated estrogen signaling. However, expression of SNCG prevented ER-alpha36 degradation and completely recovered 17-AAG-mediated down-regulation of estrogen signaling. The function of SNCG in ER-alpha36-mediated estrogen signaling is consistent with its ability to stimulate cell growth in response to estrogen. Expression of SNCG also renders tamoxifen resistance, which is consistent with the clinical observation on the association of ER-alpha36 expression and tamoxifen resistance. The present study indicates that ER-alpha36 is a new member of the ER-alpha family that mediates membrane-initiated estrogen signaling and that SNCG can replace the function of heat shock protein 90, chaperone ER-alpha36 activity, stimulate ligand-dependent cell growth, and render tamoxifen resistance.
Drug-induced immune hemolytic anemia (IHA) is rare but is being reported with increasing frequency. The most commonly cited cause of drug-induced IHA has been receipt of second and third generation cephalosporin antibiotics. We report the first case of IHA associated with cefuroxime administration.
The hemodynamic effects of the calcium entry blocker felodipine were studied during and after different infusion rates. Eight healthy normotensive volunteers had their individual pharmacokinetics of felodipine determined, and they subsequently entered a double-blind, randomized, crossover study. Individualized infusions of felodipine were given by a computerized infusion pump to reach plasma concentrations of 6 ng/ml (15.6 nmol/L) after 20 minutes, to be sustained for 8 hours (fast infusion) or the same plasma concentration after 8 hours (slow infusion). Control infusions with saline and vehicle were given. Blood pressure, heart rate, ECG conduction times, and baroreceptor sensitivity by the Valsalva test were measured, as well as the plasma concentrations of felodipine. The infusion system used produced the expected plasma concentration-time profiles with higher plasma concentrations after the fast infusion until 8 hours. Both slow and fast infusion increased heart rate (p less than 0.05) and produced a similar decrease in diastolic blood pressure (p less than 0.05). Slow infusion therefore reduced blood pressure more effectively. The tachycardia after the fast infusion was more pronounced during the first hour of the infusion but was indistinguishable from the slow infusion later, when plasma concentrations were still significantly different. Baroreceptor responsiveness was diminished by both felodipine treatments. There was no obvious difference in side effects caused by the two infusion regimes. The initial tachycardia after felodipine can be diminished by a slow rate of administration of the drug with a similar effect on blood pressure.
Gemcitabine is the only available chemotherapeutic treatment of pancreatic cancers. It is, however, moderately effective, showing a tumor response rate of only 12%. The aim of this work was to identify new pathways involved in the resistance of pancreatic cancer cells to gemcitabine, in the hope of developing new adjuvant strategies to enhance its therapeutic efficacy. Comparison of gene expression patterns of five human pancreatic cancer cell lines showing different degrees of resistance to gemcitabine revealed specific overexpression of several genes in the most resistant. One of them encoded the antiapoptotic p8 protein. We found that (a) knocking down p8 expression in gemcitabine-resistant cells promoted cell death and increased caspase-3 activity; (b) forced overexpression of p8 in gemcitabine-sensitive cells increased their resistance to gemcitabine-induced apoptosis; and (c) gemcitabine down-regulated p8 mRNA expression. These results suggest that, in pancreatic cancer cells, a large part of gemcitabine-induced apoptosis results from the inhibition of the constitutive antiapoptotic activity of p8. Hence, targeting the p8-associated pathway could be a new adjuvant therapy improving the response of patients with pancreatic cancer to gemcitabine treatment.
Cocaine dependent methadone patients were randomly assigned to 6 months of high intensity cognitive-behavioral therapy or low intensity therapy. A repeated measures ANOVA was conducted with patients stratified on severity of cocaine use at baseline. Both treatment groups showed significant and equivalent reductions in cocaine use during the post-treatment period. Completing either therapy and lower cocaine severity at baseline were associated with lower proportion of cocaine-positive urines across a 48-week post-treatment period. Examination of the treatment x cocaine severity interaction provided some evidence that high-severity patients improved more if exposed to high intensity treatment than to low intensity treatment. Positive outcomes for therapy completers relative to non-completers increased over time. The results are consistent with several clinical trials showing that: (1) participation in treatment is associated with reductions in cocaine use; and (2) the relationship between treatment intensity and outcome is not linear and may better be explained by an interaction between patient and treatment factors.
Two hundred and seventy-four consecutive patients with measurable metastatic breast cancer, without prior exposure to cytotoxic agents were treated with tamoxifen, 5-fluorouracil, doxorubicin, and cyclophosphamide (FAC). The initial 133 patients received doxorubicin by bolus IV administration and for the next group of 141 patients doxorubicin was administered via a central venous catheter over a 48-hour (79 patients) or 96-hour (62 patients) continuous infusion schedule. Patients treated with bolus doxorubicin had this agent discontinued usually when 450 mg/m2 were reached; for patients in the infusion group treatment was continued until evidence of progressive disease or clinical or subclinical cardiac dysfunction developed. The complete remission rate was 21% the partial remission rate, 59%. There were no differences in response rate, response duration, or survival duration between groups of patients treated with doxorubicin by bolus, 48-hour or 96-hour infusion FAC. The incidence of moderate and severe nausea and vomiting was lower in the group of patients treated with infusion FAC as compared to bolus FAC (P less than 0.001); however, the incidence of mucositis was higher in the infusion group than in the bolus group (P less than 0.001). Doxorubicin administered by continuous infusion schedules was less cardiotoxic than when administered by bolus, as shown by a greater than 75% decrease in the frequency of clinical congestive heart failure at cumulative dosages greater than or equal to 450 mg/m2 (P = 0.004). Doxorubicin administered as a 48-hour or 96-hour continuous IV infusion is safer, and better tolerated than doxorubicin administered by bolus.
Niacin extended-release/lovastatin is a new combination product approved for treatment of primary hypercholesterolemia and mixed dyslipidemia. This open-labeled, multicenter study evaluated the safety of bedtime niacin extended-release/lovastatin when dosed as initial therapy and patient compliance to treatment in various clinical practice settings. A total of 4,499 patients with dyslipidemia requiring drug intervention was enrolled at 1,081 sites. Patients were treated with 1 tablet (500 mg of niacin extended-release/20 mg of lovastatin) once nightly for 4 weeks and then 2 tablets for 8 weeks. Patients also received dietary counseling, educational materials, and reminders to call a toll-free number that provided further education about dyslipidemia and niacin extended-release/lovastatin. Primary end points were study compliance, increases in liver transaminases to >3 times the upper limit of normal, and clinical myopathy. Final study status was available for 4,217 patients (94%). Compliance to niacin extended-release/lovastatin was 77%, with 3,245 patients completing the study. Patients in the southeast and those enrolled by endocrinologists had the lowest compliance and highest adverse event rates. Flushing was the most common adverse event, reported by 18% of patients and leading to discontinuation by 6%. Incidence of increased aspartate aminotransferase and/or alanine aminotransferase >3 times the upper limit of normal was <0.3%. An increase of creatine phosphokinase to >5 times the upper limit of normal occurred in 0.24% of patients, and no cases of drug-induced myopathy were observed. Niacin extended-release/lovastatin 1,000/40 mg, dosed as initial therapy, was associated with good compliance and safety and had very low incidences of increased liver and muscle enzymes.
Headache as a side effect of corinfar treatment courses for angina of effort was more commonly seen in patients with pretreatment dystonic rheoencephalographic changes. A single corinfar dose produced a drop of venous tone. Corinfar-associated headache was less common in patients after long-term treatment with high-dose nitroglycerin.
Although angiotensin II (Ang II) blockade is rapidly becoming standard antifibrotic therapy in renal diseases, current data suggest that Ang II blockade alone cannot stop fibrotic disease. New therapies, such as antibodies to transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta), or drug combinations will be required to further slow or halt disease progression. Here, using the anti-Thy1 model of glomerulonephritis, the maximally therapeutic dose of the TGF-beta neutralizing mouse monoclonal antibody (1D11) was determined and compared with the maximally effective dose of enalapril. Then, the effect of combining both treatments at maximal doses was determined.
After disease induction with the anti-Thy1 antibody, OX-7, increasing doses of 1D11 were given intraperitoneally (IP) on days 1, 3, and 5. Enalapril was administered in drinking water from day 1. The fibrotic response was assessed at day 6.
1D11 dose-dependently reduced fibrosis, with the 0.5 and 5 mg/kg doses showing maximal therapeutic effects, reducing period-acid Schiff (PAS) staining by 56% and 45%, respectively. Fibronectin and collagen I staining was reduced by 32% to 36%, respectively. Glomerular mRNA and production of fibronectin, plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1), TGF-beta1, and p-Smad2 protein were also reduced. The maximal therapeutic effects of 1D11 and enalapril alone were very similar. However, combination therapy led to further reduction in disease. Notably, matrix deposition was reduced by 80%.
While 1D11 or enalapril at maximal doses reduce fibrosis equally, simultaneous blockade of Ang II and TGF-beta reduces fibrotic disease considerably more, offering hope that such drug combinations may confer a therapeutic advantage over angiotensin blockade alone.
We investigated the effect of smaller dose, weight-adjusted heparin with earlier monitoring of activated partial thromboplastin time on the incidence of ischemic and hemorrhagic complications in patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction treated with full-dose tenecteplase. We compared the outcomes of patients enrolled in the Second Assessment of the Safety and Efficacy of a New Thrombolytic Regimen (ASSENT-2; n = 8,461) who received heparin stratified by weight (patients weighing >67 kg received a 5,000-U bolus plus infusion at 1,000 U/hour; those weighing < or =67 kg received a 4,000-U bolus plus infusion at 800 U/hour) with patients in ASSENT-3 who received weight-adjusted heparin (60-U/kg bolus, maximum 4,000 U/hour, followed by a 12-U/kg/hour infusion, maximum 1,000 U/hour). Compared with patients in ASSENT-2, those in ASSENT-3 had similar rates of 30-day mortality, recurrent infarction, and intracranial hemorrhage, less major bleeding (2.2% vs 4.7%, p <0.001), and less refractory ischemia (6.5% vs 8.6%, p <0.001). After adjustment for baseline characteristics, patients in ASSENT-3 had similar rates of 30-day mortality (odds ratio [OR] 0.96, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.77 to 1.19) and intracranial hemorrhage (OR 1.02, 95% CI 0.61 to 1.69) but less major bleeding (OR 0.49, 95% CI 0.35 to 0.67) than did patients in ASSENT-2. These findings support the use of smaller dose, weight-adjusted heparin in patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction treated with tenecteplase.
A variety of abnormal sensory/motor behaviors associated with electrical discharges recorded from the bilateral brainstem were induced in adult WKY rats by mechanical (electrode implants) and DC electrical current stimulations and by acute and chronic administration of cocaine. The electrode implant implicated one side or the other of the reticular system of the brainstem but subjects were not incapacitated by the stimulations. Cocaine (40 mg/kg) was injected subcutaneously for an acute experiment and subsequent 20 mg/kg doses twice daily for 3 days in a chronic study. Cocaine generated more abnormal behaviors in the brainstem perturbation group, especially the electrically perturbated subjects. The abnormal behaviors were yawning, retrocollis, hyperactivity, hypersensitivity, "beating drum" behavior, squealing, head bobbing, circling, sniffing, abnormal posturing, and facial twitching. Shifts in the power frequency spectra of the discharge patterns were noted between quiet and pacing behavioral states. Hypersensitivity to various auditory, tactile, and visual stimulation was present and shifts in the brainstem ambient power spectral frequency occurred in response to tactile stimulation. These findings suggest that the brainstem generates and propagates pathological discharges that can be elicited by mechanical and DC electrical perturbation. Cocaine was found to activate the discharge system and thus induce abnormal behaviors that are generated at the discharge site and at distant sites to which the discharge propagates. Cognitive functions may also be involved since dopaminergic and serotonergic cellular elements at the brainstem level are also implicated.
We report a patient who developed deep vein thrombosis of the calf and thrombophlebitis after treatment with intracorporeal alprostadil (Viridal). The reaction recurred on rechallenge with Viridal. This adverse effect has not been reported in the literature but six patients have been reported to the Medicines Control Agency in Great Britain. The history of deep venous thrombosis or thrombophlebitis may not be a formal contraindication to treatment with alprostadil, but the patient should be made aware of this possible complication before embarking on this form of treatment.
The reported prevalence of vestibulotoxicity (30.4%) in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients supports vestibulotoxicity screening in CF patients during or after tobramycin exposure. Prospective longitudinal investigation is required for a more specific evidence-based proposal.
To investigate the prevalence of tobramycin-induced vestibulotoxicity in CF patients, as it had not been investigated before.
In this observational cohort study, 23 CF patient volunteers from the Haga Teaching Hospital Adult CF centre who had been exposed to at least one treatment with systemically administered tobramycin were included. Subjective feelings of dizziness were measured using validated questionnaires and vestibular symptoms were assessed by physical examination. Electronystagmography (ENG) with caloric irrigation was used as the gold standard.
Peripheral vestibular loss was found in seven patients (7/23 = 30.4%). Central vestibular loss was found in one patient. Analysis of the 19 completed questionnaires showed that 12 patients (12/19 = 63.2%) did not experience dizziness and 3 patients (3/19 = 15/8%) experienced specific vestibular symptoms. The results of the questionnaire could not predict the results of ENG with caloric irrigation. Physical examination showed no abnormalities in any patients. No age- or dose-related predictive factors were found.
High-fat diet (HFD)-induced obesity is often associated with immune dysfunction. Resveratrol (trans-3,5,4'-trihydroxystilbene), which has well-founded immunity-related beneficial properties, was used to elucidate the regulatory effect on glucose metabolism and T-lymphocyte subsets in the development of HFD-induced obesity. Resveratrol, being associated with decreases of plasma leptin and plasma lipids and the release of oxidative stress, significantly decreased the body weight and fat masses in HF mice after 26 weeks of feeding. Furthermore, resveratrol decreased the fasting blood glucose and fasting plasma insulin and increased the CD3(+)CD4(+)/CD3(+)CD8(+) subsets percentages and the regulatory T cells (Tregs) production after 13 and 26 weeks of feeding. The results indicate that resveratrol, as an effective supplement for HFD, maintained glucose homeostasis by activating the PI3K and SIRT1 signaling pathways. Moreover, resveratrol activated the Nrf2 signaling pathway-mediated antioxidant enzyme expression to alleviate inflammation by protecting against oxidative damage and T-lymphocyte subset-related chronic inflammatory response in the development of HFD-induced obesity.
