This report deals with the effect of cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) on the regulation of the behavior stimulated by dopaminergic drugs. Bilateral injection of CCK-8 (1 microgram per side) into the nucleus caudatus significantly reduced the locomotor hyperactivity induced by methamphetamine. Stereotyped sniffing and yawning occurred after intrastriatal administration of apomorphine (20 micrograms per side). Injections of CCK-8 into the nucleus caudatus completely inhibited the sniffing, but did not affect the yawning induced by apomorphine. It also had no effect on the basal dopamine (DA) level or the methamphetamine-induced DA level in the striatum. These results suggest that the injection of CCK-8 into the nucleus caudatus selectively inhibited the function of the dopaminergic system in the striatum, and blocked post-synaptic DA receptors.
A number of case reports link the use of 5-aminosalicylic acid (5-ASA) to interstitial nephritis in patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).
To investigate whether the long-term use of 5-ASA has harmful effects on renal function in patients with IBD.
A retrospective analysis of 171 consecutive outpatients with Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis was conducted. Serum creatinine levels and body weight were measured before and after treatment to calculate the creatinine clearance (CrCl) rate.
In 171 patients (93 women, 78 men), the mean (+/- SD) dose of 5-ASA was 3.65+/-0.85 g/day with a cumulative dose of 11+/-7.7 kg over an interval of 8.4+/-5.9 years. Serum creatinine concentrations increased from 76.8 micromol/L to 88.7 micromol/L (n=171; P<0.0001) and the CrCl rate fell significantly from 104.6 mL/min to 93.1 mL/min (n=81; P<0.0001). There was one case of interstitial nephritis reported. Treatment groups included mesalamine (74.3%), sulfasalazine (15.2%) and combination (sulfalsalazine/mesalamine [10.5%]) with treatment durations of 7.2+/-4.5, 12.3+/-8.7 and 11.2+/-6.7 years, respectively. The duration of treatment was the most important covariate for change in CrCl and when analyzed by treatment group, those treated with sulfasazine had a strong correlation (r=-0.54, P=0.0145), while nonsignificant in the mesalamine group (r=0.06, P=0.7017). The decline in CrCl was negatively correlated with the pretreatment CrCl rate (r=-0.34; P=0.0024) and positively correlated with the mean daily dose of 5-ASA (r=0.32; P=0.0034).
The present study is the first to demonstrate a significant dose- and treatment duration-dependant decline in CrCl. The risks need to be further evaluated because 5-ASA is widely used for long-term maintenance therapy in patients with IBD.
Chemotherapy regimens based on anthracycline (doxorubicin) are well established in lymphoma therapy. The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of L-carnitine with a view to reducing cytotoxic side-effects.
20 patients were scheduled to receive 3 g L-carnitine before each chemotherapy cycle, followed by 1 g L-carnitine/day during the following 21 days, while 20 patients received a placebo (randomized controlled trial). The plasma lipid profile and relative mRNA levels of key enzymes of oxidative metabolism (carnitine acyltransferases) were measured at three points of time. In addition to the clinical parameters we used the mRNA of white blood cells to evaluate the toxic effects on cardiomyocytes.
In the present study no cardiotoxicity of anthracycline therapy was detected. Carnitine treated patients showed a rise in plasma carnitine which led to an increase of relative mRNA levels from CPT1A (liver isoform of carnitine palmitoyltransferase) and OCTN2 (carnitine transporter). Following chemotherapy, an activation of carnitine acyltransferases was associated with a stimulation of OCTN2 in both groups.
Biochemical and molecular analyses indicated a stimulation of oxidative metabolism in white blood cells through carnitine uptake.
The incidence of eczema has been increasing in developed countries. Environmental and hygiene factors have been incriminated. Although air and food pollution with heavy metals have been considered as possible culprits, these factors have never been investigated in Hong Kong. To evaluate if quality of life and eczema severity are associated with abnormal serum levels of six common heavy metals, namely, cadmium, lead, mercury, selenium, copper and zinc. Serum or whole blood was taken for measurement of six heavy metals from patients referred to the pediatric dermatology clinic. Eczema severity (SCORAD and NESS) and quality of life (CDLQI) were recorded. A total of 110 patients with eczema and 41 patients with miscellaneous skin conditions were recruited. Serum levels of the six heavy metals were generally within the upper limits of local reference ranges. Zinc levels were below the lower reference limit of 9.4 mum in 66 patients with eczema (60%) and 22 non-eczema patients (53%). Forty-four patients with eczema (40%) and 24 (58%) in non-eczema group had low copper levels. In eczema patients, lead levels were generally within normal limits but their levels were positively correlated with poor quality of life (CDLQI: r = 0.22 and p < 0.05), disease severity (objective SCORAD: r = 0.33 and p < 0.005; NESS: 0.20, p < 0.05), eosinophil count and log-transformed IgE. Copper/zinc ratio also correlated with NESS and CDLQI and was generally higher than non-eczema skin diseases. Our findings help reassure parents that levels of heavy metals generally do not exceed the local reference ranges for toxicity. However, lead levels have significant correlations with disease severity, quality of life and atopy. Low zinc and copper levels are commonly found in pediatric skin diseases and their significance needs to be determined.
Dietary isoflavones are thought to be cardioprotective because of their structural similarity to estrogen. The reduction of concentrations of circulating inflammatory markers by estrogen may be one of the mechanisms by which premenopausal women are protected against cardiovascular disease.
Our aim was to investigate the effects of isolated soy isoflavones on inflammatory biomarkers [von Willebrand factor, intracellular adhesion molecule 1, vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 (VCAM-1), E-selectin, monocyte chemoattractant protein 1, C-reactive protein (CRP), and endothelin 1 concentrations]. Differences with respect to single-nucleotide polymorphisms in selected genes [estrogen receptor alpha (XbaI and PvuII), estrogen receptor beta [ERbeta (AluI) and ERbeta[cx] (Tsp509I), endothelial nitric oxide synthase (Glu298Asp), apolipoprotein E (Apo E2, E3, and E4), and cholesteryl ester transfer protein (TaqIB)] and equol production were investigated.
One hundred seventeen healthy European postmenopausal women participated in this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover dietary intervention trial. Isoflavone-enriched (genistein-to-daidzein ratio of 2:1; 50 mg/d) or placebo cereal bars were consumed for 8 wk, with a washout period of 8 wk between the crossover. Plasma inflammatory factors were measured at 0 and 8 wk of each study arm.
Isoflavones improved CRP concentrations [odds ratio (95% CI) for CRP values >1 mg/L for isoflavone compared with placebo: 0.43 (0.27, 0.69)]; no significant effects of isoflavone treatment on other plasma inflammatory markers were observed. No significant differences in the response to isoflavones were observed according to subgroups of equol production. Differences in the VCAM-1 response to isoflavones and to placebo were found with ERbeta AluI genotypes.
Isoflavones have beneficial effects on CRP concentrations, but not on other inflammatory biomarkers of cardiovascular disease risk in postmenopausal women, and may improve VCAM-1 in an ERbeta gene polymorphic subgroup.
This study examined the effects of the nitric oxide-precursor L-arginine combined with the alpha 2-blocker yohimbine on subjective and physiological sexual arousal in postmenopausal women with Female Sexual Arousal Disorder. Twenty-four women participated in three treatment sessions in which self-report and physiological (vaginal photoplethysmograph) sexual responses to erotic stimuli were measured following treatment with either L-arginine glutamate (6 g) plus yohimbine HCl (6 mg), yohimbine alone (6 mg), or placebo, using a randomized, double-blind, three-way cross-over design. Sexual responses were measured at approximately 30, 60, and 90 min postdrug administration. The combined oral administration of L-arginine glutamate and yohimbine substantially increased vaginal pulse amplitude responses to the erotic film at 60 min postdrug administration compared with placebo. Subjective reports of sexual arousal were significantly increased with exposure to the erotic stimuli but did not differ significantly between treatment groups.
The heavy metal mercury is a known toxin, but while the mechanisms involved in mercury toxicity have been well demonstrated in vertebrates, little is known about toxicological effects of this metal in invertebrates. Here, we present the results of our study investigating the effects associated with exposure of fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster to inorganic mercury (HgCl2 ). We quantify survival and locomotor performance as well as a variety of biochemical parameters including antioxidant status, MAPK phosphorylation and gene expression following mercury treatment. Our results demonstrate that exposure to Hg(II) through diet induced mortality and affected locomotor performance as evaluated by negative geotaxis, in D. melanogaster. We also saw a significant impact on the antioxidant system including an inhibition of acetylcholinesterase (Ache), glutathione S-transferase (GST) and superoxide dismutase (SOD) activities. We found no significant alteration in the levels of mRNA of antioxidant enzymes or NRF-2 transcriptional factor, but did detect a significant up regulation of the HSP83 gene. Mercury exposure also induced the phosphorylation of JNK and ERK, without altering p38(MAPK) and the concentration of these kinases. In parallel, Hg(II) induced PARP cleavage in a 89 kDa fragment, suggesting the triggering of apoptotic cell death in response to the treatment. Taken together, this data clarifies and extends our understanding of the molecular mechanisms mediating Hg(II) toxicity in an invertebrate model.
Zearalenone (ZEA) is a mycotoxin commonly found in contaminated livestock feed and human food with levels in the range of ppb and low ppm. It was hypothesized that ZEA, an endocrine disruptor, could affect puberty and early pregnancy. To test this hypothesis, newly weaned (3 weeks old) C57BL/6J female mice were exposed to 0, 0.002, 4, 10, and 40 ppm ZEA and 0.05 ppm diethylstilbestrol (positive control) in phytoestrogen-free AIN-93G diet. Females exposed to 10 and 40 ppm ZEA diets showed earlier onset of vaginal opening. Those treated with 40 ppm ZEA diet also had earlier first copulation plug and irregular estrous cyclicity. At 8 weeks old, all females were mated with untreated stud males on AIN-93G diet during mating. Treatment resumed upon identification of a vaginal plug on gestation day 0.5 (D0.5). Embryo implantation was assessed on D4.5. Exposure to 40 ppm ZEA diet resulted in reduced percentage of plugged mice with implantation sites, distended uterine appearance, and retained expression of progesterone receptor in D4.5 uterine epithelium. To determine the exposure timing and mechanisms of disrupted embryo implantation, four groups of females were fed with 0 or 40 ppm ZEA diets during premating (weaning to mating) and postmating (D0.5-D4.5), respectively. Premating exposure to 40 ppm ZEA diet reduced fertilization rate, whereas postmating exposure to 40 ppm ZEA diet delayed embryo transport and preimplantation embryo development, which subsequently affected embryo implantation. These data demonstrate that postweaning exposure to dietary ZEA can promote premature onset of puberty and disrupt early pregnancy events.
Anaplastic gliomas are infiltrative tumors, and their ability to migrate through normal brain contributes to their highly malignant behavior. Invasion of brain requires cell motility, which in turn depends on the activity of the cytoskeleton. A cytoskeletal component central to this process is myosin II, the cytoplasmic analogue of smooth and skeletal muscle myosin. Myosin II activity is regulated by the enzyme myosin light chain kinase, which activates myosin II by phosphorylating it on its regulatory light chain. We have investigated the role of myosin II in glioma motility and invasiveness by examining the effects of two inhibitors of myosin light chain kinase, ML7 and KT5926. Both drugs are potent inhibitors of both glioma motility, as measured by a scrape motility assay, and an in vitro haptotaxis assay. The inhibition of in vitro haptotaxis follows the dose-response relationship expected for competitive inhibition of myosin light chain kinase by these drugs and is seen at drug concentrations that are nontoxic. These results highlight the important role that myosin II contributes to glioma invasiveness and suggest that it may serve as a target in future strategies at blocking invasion by these tumors.
We reviewed the pattern of acute and long-term (during and after treatment period) neurologic complications in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Among 265 patients, 40 developed neurotoxicity. Twenty-one and 19 of the patients were treated with St. Jude Total XI and St. Jude Total XIII chemotherapy protocols, respectively. There was no difference between Total XI and XIII chemotherapy protocol groups in neurotoxicity. Neurological symptoms were determined during the therapy period in 33 (82.5%) and in the late period in 7 (15%) of 40 patients. Systemic chemotherapy (including vincristine, high-dose methotrexate) and intrathecal chemotherapy seem to be the most common predisposing factors. In the study group, neurological complications in two patients were iatrogenic as a result of lumbar puncture (1 case) and due to erroneous vincristine administration on two consecutive days (1 case).
Prevention of cardiotoxicity without interfering with the therapeutic efficacy of adriamycin is a very crucial question. We have investigated the activity of beta-adrenoceptor coupled to guanine nucleotide binding regulatory proteins (G-proteins) and Ca(2+)-ATPase activity in experimental adriamycin-induced cardiotoxicity and the influence of metoprolol treatment on these variables. Adriamycin was administered to rats intravenously as a single dose of 6 mg/kg, and metoprol was continuously given by means of implanted osmotic pumps. beta-Adrenoceptor characteristics were measured by radioligand-binding experiments and by basal and stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity. Northern blot and dot blot analysis was used to quantify G-protein mRNA. It was shown that adriamycin did not induce any change in the total beta-adrenoceptor density, nor did the high affinity agonist binding to beta-adrenoceptor change. Adriamycin did not induce any alteration in the amount of mRNA encoding for stimulatory (Gs) or inhibitory (Gi) G-proteins. Also, basal and stimulated adenylyl cyclase activities were identical in the different experimental groups. In contrast, the Ca(2+)-ATPase was shown to increase in adriamycin-treated rats compared to control rats (45 +/- 3.8 versus 23 +/- 1.2 mumol Pi/mg/h, P less than .01). Metoprolol was shown to normalize this increase (29 +/- 2.1 mumol Pi/mg/h). Thus, it may be concluded that in experimental adriamycin-induced cardiotoxicity, despite Ca(2+)-overloading, the beta-adrenoceptor-G protein-adenylyl cyclase system remains intact. Metoprolol seems to prevent Ca(2+)-overloading independently of the beta-adrenoceptors studied here.
The goal of this study was to examine whether the A(3) adenosine receptor (A(3)AR) agonist Cl-IB-MECA protects against myocardial ischemia/reperfusion injury when administered at the time of reperfusion in an in vivo mouse model of infarction induced by 30min of coronary occlusion and 24h of reperfusion. Treating B6 wild-type with Cl-IB-MECA during the reperfusion phase (100microg/kg i.v. bolus+0.3microg/kg/min subcutaneously via implantation of Alzet mini-osmotic pumps) reduced myocardial infarct size approximately 37% from 50.1+/-2.5% in vehicle-treated mice to 31.6+/-2.8% in Cl-IB-MECA-treated mice, and significantly reduced the number of leukocytes that infiltrated into the ischemic-reperfused myocardium. Cl-IB-MECA did not reduce infarct size or limit leukocyte accumulation in studies using B6 congenic A(3)AR gene "knock-out" mice or in chimeric mice lacking the expression of A(3)ARs in bone marrow (BM)-derived cells. Subsequent mechanistic studies demonstrated that Cl-IB-MECA inhibited migration of mouse neutrophils isolated from BM towards the chemotactic substance c5a in trans-well migration assays, and inhibited leukocyte migration into the peritoneal cavity in a mouse model of thioglycollate-induced peritonitis. We conclude that treating with the A(3)AR agonist Cl-IB-MECA at the time of reperfusion provides effective protection from ischemia/reperfusion injury in the heart through activation of the A(3)AR expressed in BM-derived cells, potentially by suppressing the robust inflammatory reaction that occurs during reperfusion and neutrophil-mediated tissue injury.
Following various articles in literature which have appeared in the last 3 years regarding the neurotoxicity of desferrioxamine B we studied, from the auditory functionality point of view, 95 patients affected with transfusion-dependent thalassemic syndromes, under regular chelation treatment with desferrioxamine B. Our results lead us to conclude that at standard doses, between 40 and 60 mg/Kg/day, desferrioxamine B does not demonstrate a neurotoxicity enough to cause an organic deficit in the auditory sphere, while maintaining therapeutic efficacy.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of quinidine-induced QT prolongation in healthy Caucasian and Korean subjects to investigate interethnic differences in susceptibility to drug-induced arrhythmia.
A randomized, double-blind crossover study was conducted in 24 (12 male and 12 female) Korean and 13 (seven male and six female) Caucasian subjects. After a 20 min infusion of quinidine (4 mg kg(-1)) or saline, the serum concentration of quinidine and the QT interval corrected by Bazett's formula (QTc) were monitored. The dynamic data were analyzed by means of a population modelling approach using NONMEM.
There were no statistical differences in the pharmacokinetic profiles of quinidine between ethnic groups. The QTc values in Caucasians were higher than those in Koreans at the same quinidine concentrations, especially at higher quinidine concentrations and in female subjects. According to an E(max) model [equation: see text], the population modelling approach revealed that E0 (ms) was related to gender (408 + [34*(1 - Sex)]; 1 for male and 0 for female), DeltaE(max) (ms) was related to ethnicity ((136*f(ETHN)) + C(female): f(ETHN) = 1 for Koreans and 1.26 for Caucasians; C(female) was 106 only for Caucasian females), and EC50 was estimated to be 3.13 microm.
These results suggest that Korean subjects were less sensitive to quinidine-induced QT prolongation than Caucasian subjects, and that this trend was particularly true for females. Further population-based studies are merited to characterize more completely the ethnic differences in drug-induced QT prolongation between Asians and other ethnic groups.
Uridine (15mg/kg/day, i.p.), haloperidol (1mg/kg/day, i.p.), uridine (15mg/kg/day, i.p.) plus haloperidol (1mg/kg/day, i.p.) or saline have been chronically administered to Sprague-Dawley male rats. Following 1 week of wash-out, the effects of these treatments on basal striatal dopamine (DA) release as well as on the DA release induced by an acute haloperidol challenge (2mg/kg, i.p.) were studied by means of intracerebral microdialysis. Behavioural tests such as haloperidol-induced catalepsy or apomorphine-induced stereotypics were also performed 4-7 days after drug withdrawal. The chronic treatment with uridine alone or associated with haloperidol markedly reduced DA release induced by an acute haloperidol challenge. The behavioural studies also indicated a change in DA-related behaviours in these conditions. The animals chronically treated with uridine showed significant increases in the stereotypy scores and in the catalepsy induced by an acute haloperidol challenge with respect to saline treated rats. The present results indicate that a chronic uridine treatment is able to potentiate the reduction of the striatal DA transmission induced by acute and chronic haloperidol treatment. This finding suggests the possibility to reduce the neuroleptic dose in the treatment of schizophrenia by combining neuroleptic and uridine treatments, thus making it possible to relieve some of the side effects of neuroleptic therapy.
The modifying effects of 3-chloro-4-(dichloromethyl)-5-hydroxy-2(5H)-furanone (MX), a mutagenic by-product in chlorinated water, on the development of glandular stomach cancers were investigated in Wistar rats. A total of 120 males, 6 weeks of age, were divided into six groups. After initiation with 100 ppm N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG) solution and 5% NaCl diet for 8 weeks, 30 rats each in groups 1-3 were given MX in the drinking water at concentrations of 30, 10, or 0 ppm for the following 57 weeks. Ten animals each in groups 4-6 were administered the MX without prior carcinogen exposure. There were no statistical significant differences in final body weights between the groups. The incidences and multiplicities of adenocarcinomas in the glandular stomachs were significantly higher (P < 0.05) in the initiated 30 ppm MX group than those in the MNNG/NaCl group. The incidences of atypical hyperplasias in the glandular stomachs were also significantly increased (P < 0.05 or 0.01) by the MX treatments. With their multiplicity, the effects were clearly dose dependent. Interestingly, the 30 ppm MX alone itself induced atypical hyperplasias in the pylorus, although the incidences and severity were low. Moreover, MX showed a tendency to enhance the development of intrahepatic cholangiocellular tumors and thyroid follicular cell tumors in the MNNG-treated animals. The results of the present study thus indicate that MX exerts promoting effects when given during the postinitiation phase of two-stage glandular stomach carcinogenesis in rats.
Three patients developed peripheral neuropathy after taking amiodarone for more than 18 months. All had high serum concentrations of amiodarone and its desethyl metabolite; in one patient concentrations in a sural nerve biopsy were 80 times higher than in serum. Peripheral neuropathy is a complication of large doses of amiodarone taken over long periods.
Telavancin is an investigational, rapidly bactericidal lipoglycopeptide with a multifunctional mechanism of action.
We conducted 2 parallel, randomized, double-blind, active-control, phase 3 studies with a prespecified pooled analysis design. Patients aged > or = 18 years who had complicated skin and skin-structure infections caused by suspected or confirmed gram-positive organisms were randomized to receive either telavancin (10 mg/kg intravenously every 24 h) or vancomycin (1 g intravenously every 12 h).
A total of 1867 patients were randomized and received > or = 1 dose of study medication. In the clinically evaluable population, at 7-14 days after receipt of the last antibiotic dose, success was achieved in 88% and 87% of patients who received telavancin and vancomycin, respectively (95% confidence interval for the difference, -2.1 to 4.6). Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus was isolated at baseline from samples from 579 clinically evaluable patients. Among these patients with methicillin-resistant S. aureus infection, cure rates were 91% among patients who received telavancin and 86% among patients who received vancomycin (95% confidence interval for the difference, -1.1 to 9.3). Microbiologic eradication among patients infected with methicillin-resistant S. aureus was 90% in the telavancin treatment group and 85% in the vancomycin treatment group (95% confidence interval for the difference, -0.9 to 9.8). Therapy was discontinued because of adverse events in 8% and 6% of patients who received telavancin and vancomycin, respectively. Except for mild taste disturbance, nausea, vomiting, and serum creatinine concentration elevation in the telavancin treatment group and pruritus in the vancomycin treatment group, adverse events were similar between groups with regard to type and severity.
Telavancin given once daily is at least as effective as vancomycin for the treatment of patients with complicated skin and skin-structure infections, including those infected with methicillin-resistant S. aureus.
Temozolomide (TMZ) is an alkylating agent that was approved for anaplastic astrocytoma and glioblastoma. Its role in the treatment of recurrent disease has been confirmed, and more importantly, alternative treatment schedules and combination regimens have been developed. A recent phase III trial has demonstrated a survival advantage for concomitant TMZ administration with radiotherapy in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma. Molecular studies suggest a strong predictive role of the DNA repair enzyme O6-methyl-guanine-DNA-methyl-transferase (MGMT) and outcome of TMZ-based chemotherapy. This review summarizes the current knowledge, highlights approved and nonapproved indications, and describes molecular studies that may allow us to identify the patients most likely to benefit from this treatment.
Light-stimulated adjustment of the circadian clock is an important adaptive physiological response that allows maintenance of behavioral synchrony with solar time. Our previous studies indicate that the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) agonist 2,3,7,8- tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin attenuates light-induced phase resetting in early night. However, the mechanism of inhibition remains unclear. In this study, we showed that another potent AhR agonist-β-naphthoflavone (BNF)-significantly decreased light-induced phase shifts in wild-type (WT) mice, whereas AhR knockout mice had an enhanced response to light that was unaffected by BNF. Mechanistically, BNF blocked light induction of the Per1 transcript in suprachiasmatic nucleus and liver in WT mice, and BNF blocked forskolin (FSK)-induced Per1 transcripts in Hepa-1c1c7 (c7) cells. An E-box decoy did not affect BNF inhibition of FSK-induced Per1 transcripts in c7 cells. cAMP-response element (CRE)-dependent induction of Per1 promoter activity in response to FSK in combination with phorbol 12-tetradecanoate 13-acetate was suppressed in cells that expressed high levels of AhR (c7) compared with cells lacking functional AhR activity (c12). In addition, the inhibitory effect of BNF on FSK-induced Per1 was dependent on phosphorylation of JNK. Together, these results suggest that AhR activation inhibits light-induced phase resetting through the activation of JNK, negative regulation of CREs in the Per1 promoter, and suppression of Per1.
Adefovir monotherapy is an established treatment modality for lamivudine-experienced patients with chronic hepatitis B, but it carries a significant risk of resistance in the long term. We assessed whether this risk could be overcome by adefovir-lamivudine combination therapy.
A total of 145 lamivudine-resistant patients with chronic hepatitis B (73% cirrhotics, 86% hepatitis B e antigen negative, 92% genotype D) were treated with adefovir 10 mg in addition to lamivudine 100 mg. Liver function tests and hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA (Versant 3.0) were assessed bimonthly, whereas adefovir-related mutations were searched by INNO-LiPA assay at baseline and at yearly intervals.
During 42 months (range, 12-74), 116 patients (80%) cleared serum HBV DNA, 67 (84%) had normalized alanine aminotransferase levels, and 145 (100%) remained free of virologic and clinical breakthroughs, independently of the degree of HBV suppression. The rtA181V/T was the only adefovir-related mutation detected, which occurred in 6 patients at baseline (4%; 1 rtA181V and 5 rtA181T) and in an additional 3 patients (2%; all rtA181T) during treatment. In all these 9 patients, HBV DNA levels progressively declined during therapy to become undetectable in 7 (78%). The 1-, 2-, 3-, and 4-year cumulative rates of de novo rtA181T were 1%, 2%, 4%, and 4%, respectively. None of the cirrhotic patients clinically decompensated, but 11 (12%) developed hepatocellular carcinoma.
Under prolonged adefovir-lamivudine therapy, patients with lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B were unlikely to develop genotypic resistance to adefovir and had durable prevention of virologic and clinical breakthrough.
This study was performed to determine the prognostic factors of 102 nonresectable locally advanced or metastatic gastric cancer patients prospectively treated with a multimodulation of 5-fluorouracil (5FU), hydroxyurea, leucovorin, and cisplatin. Response rate in 85 patients with measurable disease was 62.4% (95% confidence interval 51.9% to 72.9%). A weight increase (5% or more) was observed in 47% of patients, performance status improved in 70.6%, and symptoms disappeared in 69%. Median times for progression-free survival and overall survival were eight and 11 months, respectively. Liver metastases, more than two involved sites, and increased carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) were found to be univariate adverse prognostic factors for survival. In a multivariate analysis, only the presence of liver metastasis was found to be an independent prognostic factor. Response rate and survival in patients with gastric linitis or diffuse forms were in the same range as in patients with intestinal forms of gastric adenocarcinoma.
The CC531 cell line has been widely used to study different aspects of tumor growth and metastasis and provides an excellent experimental platform to develop novel antitumor strategies. To characterize the CC531 model at the molecular level, we screened for mutations in genes covering important signal-transduction pathways that are known to play major roles during colon carcinogenesis, the wnt and the ki-ras signaling pathways. We found both a prototypic beta-catenin (Ctnnb1) mutation (Thr(41)Ile) and a ki-ras (G12D) mutation, providing unambiguous evidence for the constitutive activation of these pathways in CC531 cells. We further established comprehensive gene expression profiles of CC531 cells and investigated the molecular response to 2 antitumor drugs, butyrate and aspirin. Using oligonucleotide microarrays, we screened the expression levels of 7,700 genes and identified a total of 398 genes whose expression was significantly changed upon treatment with butyrate. When using aspirin, 121 genes were significantly altered. Interestingly, 36 genes were regulated by both butyrate and aspirin and 35 of them were regulated in the same direction. We found 7 differentially expressed genes, cyclin D1, cyclin E, c-myc, Fosl1, c-fos, Cd44 and follistatin, which are known targets of the beta-catenin and/or the ras pathway. In all cases, butyrate and aspirin reversed the changes in expression normally found in response to active signaling of these oncogenic pathways. The microarray data are available (http://ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/).
Combined biological therapy with 13-cis-retinoic acid (13-cRA) and interferon alpha-2a (IFN alpha-2a) was reported to be highly effective in squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix and skin. Squamous cell carcinoma of the penis is rare in the United States, accounting for less than 1/2% of all male malignancies. Because of the association of infection with human papillomavirus with both carcinomas of the cervix and penis and their shared squamous cell histology, we carried out a phase II study of 13-cRA and IFN alpha-2a in carcinoma of the penis.
Eighteen ambulatory patients with surgically unresectable, recurrent, and/or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the penis were treated with IFN alpha-2a, 3MU/day administered subcutaneously and 13-cRA, 1 mg/kg orally daily for at least eight weeks, unless intolerable toxicity occurred.
One patient was ineligible; one patient withdrew prior to treatment. Among the 16 eligible, treated patients, there was one complete response. Fourteen patients had progressive disease as their only treatment effect. Two patients were unevaluable for tumor response because they had no follow-up tumor measurements. No unexpected treatment-related toxicities were found on study. The only common form of grade 3 toxicity was hypertriglyceridemia found in eight of the 17 patients (47%). No toxicities above grade 3 were observed.
In contrast to its benefit in squamous cell carcinomas of the cervix and skin, the combination of 13-cRA and IFN alpha-2a has low efficacy in advanced carcinoma of the penis.
Dyskinesia (abnormal involuntary movements) is a common complication of l-DOPA pharmacotherapy in Parkinson's disease, and is thought to depend on abnormal cell signaling in the basal ganglia. Dopamine (DA) denervated mice can exhibit behavioral and cellular signs of dyskinesia when they are treated with l-DOPA, but the clinical relevance of this animal model remains to be established. In this study, we have examined the pharmacological profile of l-DOPA-induced abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) in the mouse. C57BL/6 mice sustained unilateral injections of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) in the striatum. The animals were treated chronically with daily doses of l-DOPA that were sufficient to ameliorate akinetic features without inducing overt signs of dyskinesia upon their first administration. In parallel, other groups of mice were treated with antiparkinsonian agents that do not induce dyskinesia when administered de novo, that is, the D2/D3 agonist ropinirole, and the adenosine A2a antagonist KW-6002. During 3 weeks of treatment, l-DOPA-treated mice developed AIMs affecting the head, trunk and forelimb on the side contralateral to the lesion. These movements were not expressed by animals treated with ropinirole or KW-6002 at doses that improved forelimb akinesia. The severity of l-DOPA-induced rodent AIMs was significantly reduced by the acute administration of compounds that have been shown to alleviate l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia both in parkinsonian patients and in rat and monkey models of Parkinson's disease (amantadine, -47%; buspirone, -46%; riluzole, -33%). The present data indicate that the mouse AIMs are indeed a functional equivalent of l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia.
We report the case of a patient who developed a life-threatening polymorphous ventricular tachycardia ( PVT ) after six weeks of treatment with amiodarone. The Q-T interval was markedly prolonged at 0.86 second. The drug induction of PVT was strongly suggested by the fact that PVT resolved four days after withdrawal of amiodarone when the Q-T interval had shortened to 0.60 second; the arrhythmia has not recurred in the nine months of follow-up since then. Amiodarone, though a very effective antiarrhythmic agent, may induce serious PVT .
Oxidative stress is a significant contributor to the secondary sequelae of traumatic brain injury (TBI), and may mediate subsequent neurobehavioral deficits and histopathology. The present study examined the neuroprotective effects of bromocriptine (BRO), a dopamine D2 receptor agonist with significant antioxidant properties, on cognition, histopathology, and lipid peroxidation in a rodent model of focal brain trauma. BRO (5 mg/kg) or a comparable volume of vehicle (VEH) was administered intraperitoneally 15 min prior to cortical impact or sham injury. In experiment 1, spatial learning was assessed in an established water maze task on post-surgery days 14-18, followed by quantification of hippocampal cell survival and cortical lesion volume at 4 weeks. In experiment 2, rats were sacrificed 1 hr post-surgery, and malondialdehyde (MDA), the end product of lipid peroxidation, was measured in the frontal cortex, striatum, and substantia nigra using a thiobarbituric acid reactive substances assay. The TBI+BRO group was significantly more adept at locating a hidden platform in the water maze compared to the TBI+VEH group and also exhibited a greater percentage of surviving CA3 hippocampal neurons. TBI increased MDA in all examined regions of the VEH-treated, but not BRO-treated group versus SHAMs. MDA was significantly decreased in both the striatum (4.22 +/- 0.52 versus 5.60 +/- 0.44 nmol per mg/tissue +/- SEM) and substantia nigra (4.18 +/- 0.35 versus 7.76 +/- 2.05) of the TBI+BRO versus TBI+VEH groups, respectively, while only a trend toward decreased MDA was observed in the frontal cortex (5.44 +/- 0.44 versus 6.96 +/- 0.77). These findings suggest that TBI-induced oxidative stress is attenuated by acute BRO treatment, which may, in part, explain the benefit in cognitive and histological outcome.
The enzymatic activity of the mitochondrial oligomycin-sensitive ATPase was investigated during isoproterenol-induced cell injury of myocardium, using rat heart homogenates and a potentiometric method. The enzymatic activity of the oligomycin-sensitive ATPase and the inhibitory action of oligomycin do not show significant alterations upon treatment with isoproterenol. These results are inconsistent with the hypothesis that modifications in the active configuration of the mitochondrial ATPase take place during isoproterenol-induced injury of myocardium.
