Naltrexone hydrochloride treatment for alcohol dependence works for some individuals but not for everyone. Asn40Asp, a functional polymorphism of the mu-opioid receptor gene (OPRM1), might predict naltrexone response.
To evaluate whether individuals with alcoholism who are heterozygous (Asp40/Asn40) or homozygous (Asp40/Asp40) for the OPRM1 Asp40 allele respond better to naltrexone.
Pharmacogenetic analysis conducted between January 1, 2001, and January 31, 2004.
Eleven academic sites in the COMBINE Study.
Recently abstinent volunteers who met all 3 of the following conditions: (1) DSM-IV criteria for primary alcohol dependence; (2) participation in the COMBINE Study; and (3) availability of DNA.
Alcoholic subjects were treated for 16 weeks with 100 mg of naltrexone hydrochloride (234 Asn40 homozygotes and 67 with at least 1 copy of the Asp40 allele) or placebo (235 Asn40 homozygotes and 68 with at least 1 copy of the Asp40 allele). All participants received medical management (MM) alone or with combined behavioral intervention (CBI).
Time trends in percentage of days abstinent, percentage of heavy drinking days, and rates of good clinical outcome.
Alcoholic subjects with an Asp40 allele receiving MM alone (no CBI) had an increased percentage of days abstinent (P = .07) and a decreased percentage of heavy drinking days (P = .04) if treated with naltrexone vs placebo, while those with the Asn40/Asn40 genotype showed no medication differences. If treated with MM alone and naltrexone, 87.1% of Asp40 carriers had a good clinical outcome, compared with only 54.8% of individuals with the Asn40/Asn40 genotype (odds ratio, 5.75; confidence interval, 1.88-17.54), while, if treated with placebo, 48.6% of Asp40 carriers and 54.0% of individuals with the Asn40/Asn40 genotype had a good clinical outcome (interaction between medication and genotype, P = .005). No gene x medication interactions were observed in those treated with both MM and CBI.
These results confirm and extend the observation that the functionally significant OPRM1 Asp40 allele predicts naltrexone treatment response in alcoholic individuals. This relationship might be obscured, however, by other efficacious treatments. OPRM1 genotyping in alcoholic individuals might be useful to assist in selecting treatment options.
clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00006206.
To determine whether a topical ophthalmic diclofenac sodium formulation containing a proprietary polymeric drug delivery system (ISV-205), when dosed concomitantly with 1% prednisolone acetate, is effective in blocking the intraocular pressure (IOP) response in humans.
This was a multicenter, prospective, double-masked, parallel, vehicle-controlled study. We included 136 first-degree relatives of subjects with primary open-angle glaucoma. Subjects were randomized to receive 0.06% or 0.1% ISV-205 or vehicle while concomitantly receiving 1% prednisolone for 6 weeks.
During the treatment period, the mean +/- SD maximum IOP increase (7.3 +/- 6.5 mm Hg for vehicle, 4.9 +/- 4.6 mm Hg for 0.06% ISV-205, and 5.9 +/- 4.9 mm Hg for 0.1% ISV-205) was significantly less with the 0.06% formulation than with placebo (P =.02). The overall mean change in IOP was 3.6, 2.0, and 2.4 mm Hg in the vehicle, 0.06% ISV-205, and 0.1% ISV-205 groups, respectively, which was significant between the 0.06% ISV-205 and vehicle groups (P =.05). Eight (17%) of the 46 subjects receiving vehicle terminated the study because of high IOPs, compared with 1 (2%) of the 45 subjects receiving 0.06% ISV-205 and 3 (7%) of the 45 subjects receiving 0.1% ISV-205 (P =.03). The number of subjects with a clinically important corticosteroid response (> or =10-mm Hg increase) was greater in the vehicle group (12 [28%] of 43 subjects) compared with the 0.06% ISV-205 group (3 [7%] of 42 subjects) (P =.01). Adverse events were similar between treatments.
This study suggests that ISV-205 limits the corticosteroid-induced elevated IOP in first-degree relatives of subjects with glaucoma. Future studies are needed to confirm these results and explore the possible role of this drug in treating glaucoma.
This study sought to assess the effect of Ginsenoside Rg1 on streptozocin-induced diabetic nephropathy in rats and to unveil the underlying mechanism. Diabetic nephropathy (DN) was induced by intraperitoneal injection of streptozocin (STZ). Eight weeks after drug administration, the rats from each group were sacrificed. Serum creatine (Scr) and 24 hours urine protein, cross reaction protein (CRP) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) were measured at the end of the study. The histological changes of renal interstitial tissues were observed by periodic acid-Schiff staining (PAS). Immunohistochemical method was used to examine the expression levels of ectodermal dysplasia (ED-1). The mRNA of transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) was measured by real-time PCR (RT-PCR), and the protein expression of TGF-beta1 was surveyed by Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA). The renal pathological changes in DN rats given ginsenoside Rg1 treatment were ameliorated, and the expression levels of 24 h urine protein, serum creatinine, CRP, TNF-alpha, ED-1 and TGF-beta1 were significantly lower than those in the diabetic nephropathy group (P < 0.05). So, we reach a conclusion that, in the experiment, Ginsenoside Rg1 obviously reduced TGF-beta1 expression and the already-mentioned inflammatory reaction factors in the renal tissues and improved the renal pathological changes in DN rats.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs vary in their impact on blood pressure and the effect of lumiracoxib 100 mg once daily has not been studied previously. To examine whether lumiracoxib 100 mg once daily would result in lower 24-h mean systolic ambulatory blood pressure than ibuprofen 600 mg three times daily in osteoarthritis patients with controlled hypertension, a 4-week, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group study was conducted in 79 centres in nine countries.
Hypertensive osteoarthritis patients of 50 years at least whose office blood pressure was less than 140/90 mmHg on stable antihypertensive treatment were randomized to lumiracoxib (n = 394) 100 mg once daily or ibuprofen 600 mg three times daily (n = 393) and 24-h ambulatory blood pressure monitoring was performed at baseline and end of study. The primary outcome measure was a comparison of the change in 24-h mean systolic ambulatory blood pressure from baseline to week 4. Secondary analyses included other blood pressure-related endpoints and efficacy (pain) measurements.
Compared with baseline, the 24-h mean systolic ambulatory blood pressure (least square mean) decreased in lumiracoxib-treated patients (-2.7 mmHg) and increased in ibuprofen-treated patients (+2.2 mmHg) at 4 weeks, estimated difference -5.0 mmHg (95% confidence interval -6.1 to -3.8) in favour of lumiracoxib. The 24-h mean diastolic ambulatory blood pressure changes were -1.5 mmHg (lumiracoxib), +0.5 mmHg (ibuprofen), difference -2.0 mmHg (95% confidence interval -2.7 to -1.3). Efficacy results were comparable.
Treatment with lumiracoxib 100 mg once daily resulted in clinically significant lower blood pressure compared with ibuprofen 600 mg three times daily in osteoarthritis patients with well controlled hypertension.
The emergence of resistant hepatitis B virus (HBV), with mutations in the YMDD motif of the polymerase gene after treatment with lamivudine, is becoming an important clinical problem. In this study, susceptibility of wild-type and lamivudine-resistant HBV M552I, M552V, and L528M/M552V mutants to other reverse transcriptase inhibitors was investigated by transient transfection of full-length HBV DNA into human hepatoma cells. HBV DNA replication was monitored by Southern blot hybridization, which showed the presence of a single-stranded band (representative of the HBV replicative intermediates) in the drug-free, wild-type HBV-transfected cells. This band was diminished in the samples of wild-type HBV DNA treated with either lamivudine, adefovir, or lobucavir. The band intensities from the lamivudine-resistant mutants were not decreased by treatment with lamivudine, but were decreased by the treatments with adefovir or lobucavir. In contrast, penciclovir and nevirapine did not diminish the intensity of the single-stranded band of wild-type HBV or the lamivudine-resistant mutants. These results demonstrate that lamivudine-resistant HBV is susceptible to adefovir and lobucavir. Lamivudine-resistant HBV should be treated with adefovir or lobucavir, and combination therapy with lamivudine and adefovir/lobucavir may prevent the emergence of lamivudine-resistant HBV.
Pseudoductules proliferation in the liver is the condition observed in some liver diseases in human and experimental animals. It is observed in viral and alcoholic hepatitis, in hepatic cirrhosis and toxical liver damage. In that study pseudoductules were observed after i.p. single dose of adriamycin (5 mg/kg of body weight) administered to rats. Adriamycin given in this way is used to induce experimental nephrotic syndrome.
Carbonic-anhydrase (CA) inhibitors are used in the treatment of hypokalaemic periodic paralysis (hypoPP) and related channelopathies but their mechanism of action is unknown. Patch-clamp experiments and molecular modeling investigations were performed to evaluate the mechanism of actions of CA inhibitors on skeletal muscle Ca2+-activated-K+ (BK) channel of K+-deficient rats used as animal model of hypoPP. CA inhibitors showing different degree of CA inhibition such as acetazolamide (ACTZ), dichlorphenamide (DCP), hydrochlorthiazide (HCT), etoxzolamide (ETX), methazolamide (MTZ), and bendroflumethiazide (BFT), which lacks inhibitory effects on CA enzymes, were tested in vitro on BK channels. The application of ACTZ, BFT, ETX, and DCP to excised patches activated the BK channel with potency: ACTZ(DE50=7.3x10(-6)M)>BFT(DE50=5.93x10(-5)M)>ETX(DE50=1.17x10(-4)M)>DCP. In contrast, MTZ and HCT failed to activate the BK channel. Molecular modeling studies showed that the capability of CA inhibitors to open the BK channel was related to the presence in their structures of an intra-molecular hydrogen bond with calculated inter-atomic distances ranging between 1.82 A degrees and 3.01 A degrees and of an aromatic ring poor of electrons. ACTZ, BFT, ETX, and DCP showed these pharmacofores, while MTZ and HCT did not. Our data indicate that the activation of BK channel is a property of CA inhibitors that interact with the channel subunit/s and that this effect is not related to their capability to inhibit the CA enzymes.
Jaundice with evidence of hepatocellular damage of moderate severity was observed in a patient who received methyldopa. The diffuse mononuclear infiltration of the liver tissue was found to consist of 90% E-rosette-forming cells. Peripheral lymphocytes gave a markedly positive macrophage migration inhibition (MIF) test against methyldopa. The number of T lymphocytes in the peripheral blood was at the lower limit of normal but they proved to be functionally inactive, as demonstrated by the results of a local xenogeneic graft-vs-host reaction test. The liver disease was associated with hyperglobulinemia, a decrease of the third and fourth components of complement and the presence of incomplete erythrocytic antibodies, leukoagglutinins, antinuclear factor, and smooth muscle antibody. Follow-up after discontinuation of the drug revealed a gradual return to normal of liver function and MIF tests, normalization of cellular immunity, and disappearance of the humoral antibodies. It is assumed that sensitization by methyldopa triggered the autoaggressive phenomena and their ultimate manifestation in the liver.
We report the case history of a patient aged 68 years presenting with a recurrence of anterior myocardial infarction complicated by cardiogenic shock with a thrombosis of an active rapamycin stent 77 days following the angioplasty procedure. This was provoked by stopping platelet anti-aggregant treatment, a diabetic background and in the context of scheduled surgery for cancer recurrence. Recent data in the literature combined with our observations prompt the continuation of anti-aggregant bi therapy for at least 9 months after endoprosthesis insertion even if an active stent is used. In the case where surgery is envisaged, it is necessary to wait at least 6 months after the rapamycin stent revascularisation procedure. If an extra-cardiac procedure is envisaged during the angioplasty, it would be preferable to not use an active stent.
CD44v, especially splice variants containing exon v6, has been shown to be related closely to development of different tumors. High levels of CD44v6/v7 have been reported to be associated with invasiveness and metastasis of many malignancies. The objective of this study was to detect expression of CD44v6-containing variants in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) and evaluate the potential of CD44v6/v7 for risk stratification. Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) followed by PCR product purification, ligation into T vectors and positive clone sequencing were used to detect CD44 v6-containing variant isoforms in 23 APL patients. Real-time quantitative PCR of the CD44v6/v7 gene was performed in patients with APL and in NB4 cells that were treated with all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) or arsenic trioxide (As2O3). Sequencing results identified four isoforms (CD44v6/v7, CD44v6/v8/v10, CD44v6/v8/v9/v10, and CD44v6/v7/v8/v9/v10) in bone marrow mononuclear cells of 23 patients with APL. The level of CD44v6/v7 in high-risk cases was significantly higher than those with low-risk. Higher levels of CD44v6/v7 were found in three patients with central nervous system relapse than in other patients inthe same risk group. Furthermore, in contrast to ATRA, only As2O3 could significantly down-regulate CD44v6/v7 expression in NB4 cells. Our data suggest that CD44v6/v7 expression may be a prognostic indicator for APL.
The authors performed clinical and immunological evaluation of efficacy of treatment of patients with occupational chronic bronchitis (CB) working in contact with pneumotropic pollutants, including airway irritants and dusts. The complex therapy included an immune-correcting agent of bacterial origin, ribomunyl. The indicators to the drug administration were remission or moderate manifestations of the disease with disturbances of mucosal immunity, both isolated (imbalance of IgA, IgG and salivary lysozyme) or combined with systemic immunity disorder (decrease of neutrophilic phagocyte activity, serum IgM and IgG, and the number of T-lymphocytes). The course lasted 3 weeks; the regimen was standard: 3 tablets in the morning before meals 4 days a week. During the whole period of immune correction the patients were under clinical observation; respiratoryfunctions (RF), bronchial hyperactivity, and immune status were evaluated prior to and after the treatment. After the treatment with ribomunyl most patients displayed improvement of the symptoms and FF parameters. The study found significant improvement of a range of immunological parameters: reduction of the imbalance of salivary protective factors, elevation of the phagocyte activity of peripheral blood neutrophils, and a tendency towards increase of IgG and blood T-lymphocyte levels. The results show that clinical, functional and immune parameters normalized simultaneously, with the most evident matching in salivary immunity. The authors conclude that ribomunyl is efficient in treatment of occupational CB when administered with taking individual disturbances of mucosal and systemic immunity into account.
Factors that increase an individual's susceptibility to cocaine dependence remain largely unknown. We have previously shown that adult outbred male Sprague-Dawley rats can be classified as either low or high cocaine responders (LCRs or HCRs, respectively) based on their locomotor activity following the administration of a single dose of cocaine (10 mg/kg, i.p.). Furthermore, LCR/HCR classification predicts dopamine transporter function/inhibition, cocaine-induced locomotor sensitization, and cocaine-conditioned place preference.
The present study assessed LCR/HCR classification and the development of locomotor sensitization on the latency to acquire cocaine self-administration and motivation to self-administer cocaine.
LCRs and HCRs did not differ in their latency to acquire low-dose cocaine self-administration (0.25 mg/kg/infusion over 12 s, fixed ratio 1 schedule of reinforcement). In a follow-up experiment, repeated experimenter-administered injections of cocaine (10 mg/kg, i.p.) resulted in locomotor sensitization for LCRs, but not HCRs; nonetheless, all rats exhibited decreased latency to acquire cocaine self-administration compared to the first experiment. Repeated cocaine preexposure and LCR/HCR classification predicted break point when rats responded for cocaine under a progressive ratio schedule of reinforcement (0.25, 0.5, and 1.0 mg/kg/infusion; multiple exposure>single exposure, LCR>HCR), but there was no interaction between these variables.
Although LCR/HCR classification did not predict the rate of acquisition of cocaine self-administration under these conditions, LCR rats demonstrated greater responding for cocaine after acquisition (PR). Thus, these findings demonstrate the relevance of using the LCR/HCR model when studying susceptibility to cocaine dependence.
To investigate the frequency of non-fatal cocaine overdose, and responses to overdoses, among injecting and non-injecting cocaine users.
Cross-sectional study.
Sydney, Australia.
Two hundred current cocaine users.
Structured interview.
Thirteen per cent of the sample had overdosed on cocaine, 7% in the preceding 12 months. Cocaine injectors were more likely to have overdosed, both ever (17 v 6%) and in the preceding 12 months (9 v 3%). The most common symptoms of overdose were palpitations (68%), intense sweating (44%) and seizures (40%). The use of other drugs in combination with cocaine prior to the most recent overdose was prevalent (64%), most commonly opioids (40%), alcohol (24%) and cannabis (24%). Those who had overdosed were more likely to be female, had longer cocaine use careers, had used more cocaine in the preceding month and preceding 6 months, had higher levels of cocaine dependence and more extensive polydrug use. Twenty-four per cent had witnessed a cocaine overdose, 13% in the preceding 12 months. Injectors were more likely to have witnessed overdoses, both ever (35% v 8%) and in the preceding 12 months (20% v 3%).
Experience of, and exposure to, overdose were not rare events. Cocaine users need to be aware of the possibility and nature of overdose, and that cocaine overdose can occur irrespective of method of use. There is a need to emphasise the potential danger of combining cocaine with other drugs.
Nucleus accumbens glutamate transmission has been implicated in drug-seeking behavior, but the involvement of glutamate receptor subtypes in drug seeking maintained by drug-associated cues has not been fully investigated.
This study examined the effects of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA)/kainate, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and mGlu5 receptor blockade in the nucleus accumbens core on cue-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking.
Wistar rats were trained to self-administer cocaine and associate a compound stimulus (light and tone) with the drug under an FR4(FR5:S) second-order schedule of reinforcement. After extinction, during which neither cocaine nor the compound stimulus was available, responding was reinstated by contingent presentations of the compound stimulus. The effects of the intra-accumbal AMPA/kainate receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitro-quinoxaline-2, 3-dione (CNQX; 0, 0.01, and 0.03 microg/side), the NMDA antagonist D-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoate (D-AP5; 0, 1, and 2 microg/side), and the mGluR5 antagonist 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine (MPEP; 0, 0.5, and 1 microg/side) on reinstatement were examined in a within-subjects design.
CNQX and D-AP5 attenuated cue-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking dose-dependently. MPEP, however, decreased cocaine seeking only relative to baseline because also the saline vehicle included in the within-subjects series of injections decreased responding, possibly reflecting conditioned anhedonic effects of MPEP. In additional experiments, none of the antagonists attenuated locomotor activity or responding for sucrose pellets.
The results suggest that cue-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking after a period of withdrawal from cocaine is sensitive to AMPA/kainate and NMDA receptor antagonism in the nucleus accumbens core and give further evidence for the role of the accumbal glutamate transmission in modulation of drug-seeking behavior.
As previously demonstrated, chronic administration of phenobarbital (0.05% in the drinking water) and of nafenopin (0.1% in the diet) increases the incidence and the kinetics of appearance of liver cancers. If bile acids play a key role in liver carcinogenesis, it might thus be expected that treatments like phenobarbital or nafenopin, which positively modulate that process, also modify their hepatic pool. The aim of the present study was to analyze the modifications of the liver bile acid pool during the modulation of liver carcinogenesis by phenobarbital and nafenopin. The animals were submitted to the hepatocarcinogenic initiation-selection (IS) procedure adapted from Solt and Farber. As compared to basal diet, the chronic feeding of phenobarbital significantly increased the total concentrations of liver bile acids both at weeks 9 and 17. That increase was mainly due to a change in the concentration of beta-muricholic acid and hyodeoxycholic acid and, to a lesser extent, of chenodeoxycholic acid and alpha-muricholic acid. In contrast, feeding a diet containing nafenopin led to a significant decrease in the concentration of liver bile acids, due to a complete disappearance of chenodeoxycholic acid and muricholic acid, and a decrease in the concentration of hyodeoxycholic acid. Carcinomas appearing in IS phenobarbital-treated rats contain fewer bile acids than the surrounding parenchyma (because of the decrease in deoxycholic acid and ursodeoxycholic acid) whereas the malignant tumors appearing in IS nafenopin-treated rats have essentially the same pattern of bile acids as the surrounding parenchyma.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Because thrombomodulin plays a key role in the protein C pathway, we evaluated the contribution of thrombomodulin gene mutations to venous thrombosis. We examined 38 patients with recurrent, documented thrombotic events at a young age and a positive family history. Twelve individuals with low levels of soluble thrombomodulin in plasma were also studied. Finally, the allelic frequency of the Ala455Val polymorphism was estimated in 192 patients with at least one thrombotic event and in 369 age- and sex-matched asymptomatic controls. Two mutations were identified; G/A-201, in a severely thrombophilic patient and G/T 1456, in a patient with low soluble thrombomodulin levels. The first mutation has been reported by some, but not others, to be associated with moderately reduced levels of thrombomodulin. The second was identified previously in a patient with low soluble thrombomodulin, but expression studies failed to show functional changes in the mutant. Thrombomodulin gene mutations thus appear to be rare even in highly selected thrombophilic patients, and possibly functionally irrelevant. The allelic frequency of the Ala455Val polymorphism was identical in patients and controls. Considering the lack of a phenotype and the costly screening procedure, we recommend that thrombomodulin defects be sought only for research purposes.
Pityrosporum ovale appears to play an important role in the pathogenesis of dandruff as a symptom of seborrheic dermatitis. Climbazole is an antimycotic agent with a high in vitro and in vivo efficacy against P. ovale. In the presented work we investigated the efficacy and safety of a climbazole 0.65% shampoo on seborrheic dermatitis of 30 volunteers. Subjects were diagnosed as having moderate to severe seborrheic dermatitis of the scalp. After a 1-week washout and a 4-week treatment the clinical evaluation showed a successful reduction of dandruff, skin redness and itching in 80% of the volunteers and a mild improvement in 20% of the volunteers. The cosmetic acceptability was very good by the majority. It is concluded that the formulation tested is effective in the treatment of moderate to severe dandruff.
This study aimed to investigate the mechanism underlying the protective effects of manganese complexes of curcumin (Cp-Mn) and diacetylcurcumin (DiAc-Cp-Mn) on kainic acid (KA)-induced excitotoxicity in the rat hippocampus. Systemic injection of KA (10 mg/kg, i.p.) caused seizures and increased the expression of neurotoxic markers, immediate early genes [c-jun, cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and heat shock protein 70 (hsp70)] and a delayed response gene [inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS)], which were measured at 6 and 72 h after KA injection, respectively, in the hippocampus. Pretreatment with Cp-Mn (50 mg/kg, i.p.) and DiAc-Cp-Mn (50 mg/kg, i.p.) but not with curcumin (50 mg/kg, i.p.) delayed the onset of KA-induced seizure without affecting the seizure score. KA injection induced c-Fos immunoreactivity in DG, CA1, and CA3 hippocampal regions, the expression of which peaked at 6 h after injection. Cp-Mn and DiAc-Cp-Mn treatment significantly decreased c-Fos expression elicited by KA. Moreover, Cp-Mn and DiAc-Cp-Mn administration suppressed the KA-induced expression of c-jun, COX-2, BDNF, and iNOS mRNA, whereas curcumin attenuated only iNOS mRNA expression. No compounds tested had an effect on KA-induced hsp70 expression. It is therefore likely that in addition to radical scavenging and SOD-like activities, the suppression of potential neuronal injury marker expression by Cp-Mn and DiAc-Cp-Mn, contributes to the neuroprotective activities of these compounds, which are superior to those of curcumin, on KA-induced excitotoxicity in the hippocampus. These results suggest the beneficial effects of Cp-Mn, and DiAc-Cp-Mn on the treatment of excitotoxicity-induced neurodegenerative diseases.
All urinary stones should undergo detailed studies to identify those related to drug therapy. Among 520 stones analyzed by infrared spectrophotometry, we found 13 drug-induced stones (13/520: 2.5%). Drug-induced stones were caused by glafenine in 7 cases, piridoxylate in 4 cases, triamterene in one case and an unknown organic compound in one case. Glafenine stones appear to develop more readily in infected urine. Triamterene stones are often associated with uric acid disorders. Piridoxylate induces the formation of glyoxylate which is responsible for hyperoxaluria and formation of oxalocalcium stones.
High-dose intravenous pulse methylprednisolone is an important therapeutic modality for many autoimmune conditions in both children and adults. Adverse effects of this therapy include hypertension, hyperglycemia, and, in children, behavioral changes. Cardiac rhythm disturbances, both tachyarrhythmias and bradyarrhythmias, have been reported in adults but much less commonly in children. Here we report our experience over a 6-month period with 5 children with rheumatic diseases who developed sinus bradycardia during consecutive daily therapy with intravenous pulse methylprednisolone. Reductions in resting heart rate of between 35% and 50% of baseline were observed in each case. All patients were asymptomatic, and all recovered spontaneously over a variable period of time after cessation of pulse therapy. Sinus bradycardia after repeated administration of high-dose pulse methylprednisolone in children may be more common than previously appreciated.
We investigated the dopaminergic (DA) neuronal degeneration in animals subjected to systemic treatment of rotenone via subcutaneous delivery. Behavioral observations revealed a hypokinetic period in rats sacrificed at 3 and 5 days, and dystonic episodes in animals sacrificed at 8 days. Less than 20% of the total number of animals given rotenone depicted brain lesions after 8 days of treatment, as demonstrated by a significant loss of DA fibers in the striatum, but not of DA nigral neurons. Tyrosine hydroxylase-negative striatal territories were characterized by post-synaptic toxicity as demonstrated by a decreased number of interneurons labeled for choline acetyltransferase, NADPH-diaphorase, parvalbumin, and projection neurons labeled for calbindin and nerve growth factor inducible-B (NGFI-B). Post-synaptic neurodegeneration was demonstrated further by abundant striatal staining for Fluoro-Jade. Decrease in the nuclear orphan receptor Nurr1 expression was the only significant change observed at the level of the substantia nigra. Autopsy reports confirmed that animals suffered from severe digestion problems. These data suggest that hypokinesia observed between 3 and 5 days is the result of general health problems rather than a specific motor deficit associated to Parkinson's disease (PD) symptoms. Overall, the effects of rotenone toxicity are widespread, and subcutaneous administration of this toxin does not provide the neuropathological and behavioral basis for a relevant and reliable PD model.
Retinopathy is the most common complication of diabetes, and a leading cause of blindness in people of working age. Optimal blood pressure and metabolic control can reduce the risk of diabetic retinopathy, but are difficult to achieve in clinical practice. In the EUCLID Study, the angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor lisinopril reduced the risk of progression of retinopathy by approximately 50%, and also significantly reduced the risk of progression to proliferative retinopathy. These findings are consistent with extensive evidence that the renin-angiotensin system is expressed in the eye, and that adverse effects of angiotensin II on retinal angiogenesis and function can be inhibited by ACE inhibitors or angiotensin II-receptor blockers. However, in the EUCLID Study retinopathy was not a primary end-point and the study was not sufficiently powered for the eye-related outcomes. Hence, the Diabetic Retinopathy Candesartan Trials (DIRECT) programme has been established to determine whether AT(1)-receptor blockade with candesartan can prevent the incidence and progression of diabetic retinopathy. This programme comprises three studies, involving a total of 4500 patients recruited from about 300 centres worldwide. The patients are normotensive or treated hypertensive individuals, and so the DIRECT programme should assess the potential of an AT(1)-receptor blocker to protect against the pathological changes in the eye following diabetes.
Although suprofen has been associated with the development of acute renal failure in greater than 100 subjects, the mechanism of damage remains unclear. The direct nephrotoxic effects of a single dose of 15 mg of suprofen were compared in the recirculating isolated rat kidney perfused with cell-free buffer with or without the addition of 5 mg/dL of uric acid. There were no significant differences in renal sodium excretion, oxygen consumption, or urinary flow rates in kidneys perfused with suprofen compared with the drug-free control groups. In contrast, a significant decline in glomerular filtration rate was found after the introduction of suprofen to the kidney perfused with uric acid; no changes were found with suprofen in the absence of uric acid. A significant decrease in the baseline excretion rate of uric acid was found in rats given suprofen, compared with drug-free controls. However, the fractional excretion of uric acid was unchanged between the groups over the experimental period. In summary, suprofen causes acute declines in renal function, most likely by directly altering the intrarenal distribution of uric acid.
