The effect of cortisone on the inner ear function was investigated. A suspension of 2% hydrocortisone in sterile water was instilled into the middle ear in the round window niche area of healthy rats. The hearing for eight frequencies was determined by auditory brainstem response (ABR) measurements. After 5 days of daily local application, ABR thresholds impaired in the high-frequency range 12 to 31.5 kHz. The impaired ABR thresholds remained unchanged throughout 3 weeks of observation, indicating irreversible damage to the inner ear. It is also noteworthy that hydrocortisone delayed healing of the perforated tympanic membrane.
Organisms from insects to mammals respond to heavy metal load (copper, zinc, cadmium, and mercury) by activating the metal-responsive transcription factor 1 (MTF-1). MTF-1 binds to short DNA sequence motifs, termed metal response elements, and boosts transcription of a number of genes, notably those for metallothioneins. In Drosophila, MTF-1 somewhat counter-intuitively also activates transcription of a copper importer gene (Ctr1B) in response to copper starvation. Here, we report that mutant flies lacking Ctr1B are extremely sensitive to cadmium and mercury treatment, but can be rescued by excess copper in the food. We thus propose that copper, by competing for binding sites on cellular proteins, alleviates the toxic effects of mercury and cadmium. Such a scenario also explains a seemingly fortuitous metal response, namely, that cadmium and mercury strongly induce the expression of a Ctr1B reporter gene. Thus, the transcription enhancer/promoter region of the Ctr1B copper importer gene is subject to three modes of regulation. All of them depend on MTF-1 and all make biological sense, namely, (i) induction by copper starvation, (ii) repression by copper abundance, and (iii), as shown here, induction by cadmium or mercury at normal copper supply.
Metoclopramide hydrochloride (Reglan) is a widely prescribed drug for treatment of upper gastrointestinal symptoms. Although the drug is relatively safe, a growing body of literature has noted movement disorders after its administration. We have reported six cases of metoclopramide-induced parkinsonism seen in consultation over a two-year period. Five of these six patients had renal failure. Their parkinsonism improved on discontinuation of metoclopramide therapy. Metoclopramide-induced parkinsonism is not rare, and appropriate dose reduction in patients with renal failure will help reduce the incidence of this morbidity.
Nonfatal acute inhalation of trichloroethylene (TRI) at work was described. The subject, male, 54 years old, was drawn unconscious by a metal-degreasing machine and immediately sheltered in intensive care unit. Other than basic life support and common laboratory indices, blood and urine were collected to measure dose and kidney effect parameters such as TRI in blood and urine, trichloroethanol (TCE) and trichloroacetic acid (TCA) in urine, and total urinary proteins (TUP), urinary glutamine synthetase (GS) and urinary N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG). Two hours after accident, TRI in blood was 9 mg/l, but after 38 h it was below 1 mg/l. TCE and TCA have a peak 11 and 62 h after poisoning, respectively. Acute renal involvement was revealed by a peak of urinary proteins and enzymes 7 h after exposure with a second peak 74 h after. Seven day after hospitalisation the patient was dismissed with complete recovery. This nonfatal intoxication with TRI shows that the exposure was approximately 150 ppm, three times the ACGIH TLV (50 ppm) and that kidney was the only organ affected. Urinary enzymes, in particular GS, are good indices to monitor transient effects of TRI on the kidney.
Endotoxin lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and streptozotocin-induced diabetes are known to cause oxidative stress in vivo. There is some evidence that a sublethal dose of LPS provides protection against subsequent oxidative stress. Because of its wide use as a diabetogenic agent, this study was undertaken to determine if streptozotocin can likewise provide a protective effect against further oxidative stress in rats. Female Sprague-Dawley rats were given streptozotocin (50 mg/kg intraperitoneally once) prior to exposure to either bacterial endotoxin from Salmonella abortus equii (5 mg/kg intraperitoneally) or three additional daily doses of streptozotocin (50 mg/kg intraperitoneally). One week after LPS or streptozotocin treatments, oxidative stress was determined by measuring changes in antioxidant activity (glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase, superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione S-transferase, and gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase) and in concentrations of glutathione, nitrite, and thiobarbituric acid reactants in liver, kidney, intestine, and spleen. High levels of some antioxidants in the LPS-control and streptozotocin-control rats, in contrast to normal levels found in diabetes + LPS and multidose-streptozotocin rats, suggest that streptozotocin, like LPS, may confer a protective effect against subsequent oxidative stress.
Two cases demonstrating unusual side effects of warfarin are described. The first case illustrates the 'purple toes' syndrome, which occurred as a complication following the use of warfarin for the treatment of atrial fibrillation and stroke. The second case is an example of warfarin-induced vasculitis in a patient with a mechanical valve prosthesis. He was unable to tolerate warfarin but was successfully managed with nicoumalone, a related compound. These complications are rare but potentially dangerous effects of a commonly used agent, warfarin.
A hundred and sixty-five first detected patients with pulmonary tuberculosis, receiving routine chemotherapy regimens were followed up for 4 months. Neurotoxic reactions of the central and peripheral nervous systems, which required isoniasid discontinuation, were developed in 13.3 and 11.5% of the patients, respectively. Therapy for neurotoxic reactions used cortexin in the study group (n = 22) and gamma or vitamins B in combination with glutaminic acid in the control group (n = 19). Cortexin used in the therapy of neurotoxic reactions produced a beneficial effect and permitted 90.9% of the patients to continue to use isoniazid while 42.2% of the controls resumed using isoniazid.
It is well known that the therapeutic effect of neuroleptics is counterbalanced by the property of these drugs to induce serious neurological side-effects mainly represented by tardive dyskinesia. Several reports indicate that at the experimental level GABA agonists interact with dopamine neurons with effects on behavior, stereotyped and dyskinetic movements induced by either lesions or dopamine agonists. This action on dopamine-related events provides a basis for a possible therapeutic action of GABA agonists in dyskinesia. Previous results with the GABA agonists muscimol and THIP in tardive dyskinesia have not been encouraging. The present paper deals with clinical results obtained with the new GABA agonist progabide both in neuroleptic-induced dyskinesia and in L-dopa-induced dyskinesia from five studies conducted on a total of 57 patients. Twenty-nine patients suffering from neuroleptic-induced dyskinesia have been treated in three studies (two open, one double-blind cross over) with progabide at doses from 900 to 2400 mg/day; clinical evaluation and EMG testing are in favor of a therapeutic effect of progabide on dyskinesia. Twenty-eight patients with L-dopa dyskinesia have been studied in two double blind trials. At variance with studies in tardive dyskinesia progabide was not effective in this kind of dyskinesia but an increase in the "on" time has been observed in both studies. Attempts to treat tardive dyskinesia with various pharmacological tools are reviewed and discussed, showing that at present no established effective treatment exists for this frequent complication of neuroleptic use. The possible mechanism of action of progabide in dyskinesia is discussed in the light of its pharmacological properties. These results suggest that progabide can be useful in the treatment of neuroleptic-induced dyskinesia.
Acute endotoxemia is associated with excessive production of proinflammatory mediators by hepatic macrophages and endothelial cells, which have been implicated in liver injury and sepsis. In these studies, we analyzed the role of MSP and its receptor STK in regulating the activity of these cells. Acute endotoxemia, induced by administration of LPS (3 mg/kg) to mice, resulted in increased expression of STK mRNA and protein in liver macrophages and endothelial cells, an effect that was dependent on TLR-4. This was correlated with decreased MSP and increased pro-MSP in serum. In Kupffer cells, but not endothelial cells, MSP suppressed LPS-induced NOS-2 expression, with no effect on COX-2. LPS treatment of mice caused a rapid (within 3 h) increase in the proinflammatory proteins NOS-2, IL-1beta, and TNF-alpha, as well as TREM-1 and TREM-3 and the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 in liver macrophages and endothelial cells. Whereas LPS-induced expression of proinflammatory proteins was unchanged in STK-/- mice, IL-10 expression was reduced significantly. Enzymes mediating eicosanoid biosynthesis including COX-2 and mPGES-1 also increased in macrophages and endothelial cells after LPS administration. In STK-/- mice treated with LPS, mPGES-1 expression increased, although COX-2 expression was reduced. LPS-induced up-regulation of SOD was also reduced in STK-/- mice in liver macrophages and endothelial cells. These data suggest that MSP/STK signaling plays a role in up-regulating macrophage and endothelial cell anti-inflammatory activity during hepatic inflammatory responses. This may be important in protecting the liver from tissue injury.
Pyrimethamine injected into the rat on days 12, 13, and 14 of gestation induces several types of malformations, including limb and facial deformities. These malformations appear in the same location as the hemorrhages and hematomas induced by this substance. In order to visualize the extent of the vascular disorders in the affected areas, a polymerizable substance was injected intravenously into the fetus. After pyrimethamine treatment, the fetal vascular network was simplified and reorganized in a different way according to the severity of the malformations. The appearance of vascular pathology, followed by malformations in the same regions, raises the hypothesis of a vascular cause of fetal defects.
The effects of vinclozolin (VIN), an anti-androgenic fungicide, on quality, oxidative stress, DNA integrity, and ATP level of sterlet (Acipenser ruthenus) spermatozoa were investigated in vitro. Fish spermatozoa were incubated with different concentrations of vinclozolin (0.5, 2, 10, 15, 20 and 50 μg/l) for 2 h. A dose-dependent reduction in spermatozoa motility and velocity was observed at concentrations of 2-50 μg/l. A dramatic increase in DNA fragmentation was recorded at concentrations 10 μg/l and above. After 2 h exposure at higher test concentrations (10-50 μg/l), oxidative stress was apparent, as reflected by significantly higher levels of protein and lipid oxidation and significantly greater superoxide dismutase activity. Intracellular ATP content of spermatozoa decreased with increasing concentrations of VIN. The results demonstrated that VIN can induce reactive oxygen species stress in fish spermatozoa, which could impair the sperm quality, DNA integrity, ATP content, and the antioxidant defense system.
Numerous breast cancer patients who achieve an initial response to HER-targeted therapy rapidly develop resistance within one year, leading to treatment failure. Observations from clinical samples indicate that such resistance correlates with an increase in Src, EGFR, and PI3K/Akt activities and a decrease in PTEN activity. Furthermore, Akt survival signaling activation is also found in tumors treated by toxic chemotherapeutic agents. Because cotreatment with a PI3K inhibitor is a promising strategy to delay acquired resistance by preventing secondary gene activation, we therefore investigated the effects of a newly identified compound, (-)-Liriopein B (LB), on PI3K/Akt signaling activity in breast cancer cells. Our results showed that nontoxic doses of LB are able to inhibit AKT activation in both luminal-like MCF-7 and basal-like MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells. Low doses of LB also inhibited cell migration, invasion, and cancer-stem cell sphere formation. Suppression of EGF-induced EGFR and ERK1/2 activation by LB might contribute in part to retardation of cancer progression. Furthermore, LB increases sensitivity of MDA-MB-231 cells to gefitinib in vitro, suggesting that EGFR may not be the only target of LB. Finally, a small scale in vitro kinase assay screen demonstrated that LB has a potent inhibitory effect on multiple kinases, including PI3K, Src, EGFR, Tie2, lck, lyn, RTK5, FGFR1, Abl, and Flt. In conclusion, this study demonstrates for the first time that the compound LB improves tumor therapeutic efficacy and suggests LB as a promising candidate for studying new leads in the development of kinase inhibitors.
To observe the clinical effect of Rebixiao granule (RBXG) in treating repeatedly attacking acute gouty arthritis and through experimental study on blood uric acid to explore RBXG's therapeutic mechanism.
Ninety repeatedly attacking acute gouty arthritis patients were divided into the treated group (n = 60) and control group (n = 30). The treated group was treated with RBXG, and the control group was treated with Futalin tablets (diclofenac sodium). The baseline treatment including good rest, low purine diet, sufficient water drinking and urine alkalization, etc. was then given to both groups. Hypoxanthine 600 mg/kg and niacin 100 mg/kg was applied to hyperuricemic mice by gastrogavage to establish the animal models.
The clinical effective rate of the treated group was 95.0% and that of the control 90.0%. Good therapeutic effects were won, insignificant difference (P > 0.05)was shown between the two groups. However, the cure rate of the treated group was 26.7% while that of the control group was 10.0%, with significant difference (P < 0.01) shown between them. The treated group had its blood uric acid lowered, which was significantly different (P < 0.05) from that of the control group. The animal experiment indicated that all the three groups treated with different dosages of RBXG, as well as the Ash bark and Smilax glabra rhizome groups had their blood uric acid content reduced in the hyperuricemic mice.
RBXG has a quicker initiation and better treatment effects than sole anti-inflammatory and analgesic agents on the treatment of repeatedly attacking acute gouty arthritis, showing no obvious toxic or adverse reactions and therefore good for long-term administration and likely to be a safe TCM preparation to control the symptoms and reduce the onsets of repeatedly attacking of acute gouty arthritis. The animal experiment shows that both the compound preparation and part of the single ingredients in the recipe have the function of reducing blood uric acid. However, the compound recipe has better therapeutic effects, proving to be superior to single drugs.
Using primary culture of hepatocytes it was shown that glycochenodeoxycholic acid (GCDCA) in a dose dependent manner induces apoptosis or necrosis of the hepatocytes and inhibits DNA biosynthesis. Ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) and tauroursodexycholic acid (TUDCA) do not cause apoptosis or necrosis of the hepatocytes in a range of doses 25-400 micrograms/ml. But in the presence of GCDCA both preparations have an antiapoptosogenic effect and TUDCA has also an antinecrosogenic effect.
Investigation of MR patients with 3p aberrations led to the identification of the translocation breakpoint in intron five of the neural Cell Adhesion L1-Like (CALL or CHL1) gene in a man with non-specific mental retardation and 46,Y, t(X;3)(p22.1;p26.3). The Xp breakpoint does not seem to affect a known or predicted gene. Moreover, a fusion transcript with the CALL gene could not be detected and no mutations were identified on the second allele. CALL is highly expressed in the central and peripheral nervous system, like the mouse ortholog 'close homolog to L1' (Chl1). Chl1 expression levels in the hippocampus of Chl1(+/-) mice were half of those obtained in wild-type littermates, reflecting a gene dosage effect. Timm staining and synaptophysin immunohistochemistry of the hippocampus showed focal groups of ectopic mossy fiber synapses in the lateral CA3 region, outside the trajectory of the infra-pyramidal mossy fiber bundle in Chl1(-/-) and Chl1(+/-) mice. Behavioral assessment demonstrated mild alterations in the Chl1(-/-) animals. In the probe trial of the Morris Water Maze test, Chl1(-/-) mice displayed an altered exploratory pattern. In addition, these mice were significantly more sociable and less aggressive as demonstrated in social exploration tests. The Chl1(+/-) mice showed a phenotypic spectrum ranging from wild-type to knockout behavior. We hypothesize that a 50% reduction of CALL expression in the developing brain results in cognitive deficits. This suggests that the CALL gene at 3p26.3 is a prime candidate for an autosomal form of mental retardation. So far, mutation analysis of the CALL gene in patients with non-specific MR did not reveal any disease-associated mutations.
Carbamazepine, a widely used anticonvulsant, can induce hepatotoxicity, usually evolving with an acute hepatitis that ceases after drug withdrawal. Carbamazepine-induced vanishing bile duct syndrome (VBDS) is a rare complication and has seldom been reported in the medical literature. This report presents a case of a 26-year-old male who had onset of epilepsy at 12 months of age and was initially treated with phenobarbital. Carbamazepine (1200 mg/day) was added in June 1996 when he was 22 years old to control the frequency of seizures. Two years later, during a routine investigation, elevation of serum gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGT) levels was detected. For this reason, the patient was weaned off carbamazepine, followed 6 months later by complete withdrawal of the drug. The first liver biopsy disclosed total absence of interlobular bile ducts (IBD) in 30 portal tracts. Fourteen months later, a control biopsy showed the presence of IBD in eight of 14 portal tracts. There was also a decrease of GGT levels detected 27 months after withdrawal of carbamazepine. This case illustrates the ductopenic effect of carbamazepine when used for a prolonged time, as reported in three previous publications. However, this is the first case in which there was a remission of the VBDS and bile duct regeneration after withdrawal of the drug.
Three patients with clinically different severities of vitamin D-dependent rickets, type II, with alopecia, which is 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D-receptor-defect rickets and is particularly resistant to treatment with calciferol analogues, were treated with large doses of 1 alpha-hydroxyvitamin D3 (1 alpha-(OH)D3) and 2 g of calcium lactate. Except for the alopecia, all of the abnormalities of patients 1 and 2 were reversed by treatment with 3 micrograms/kg/d of 1 alpha-(OH)D3, and those of patient 3, who had the severest manifestations, were reversed by treatment with 6 micrograms/kg/d. The serum 24,25-dihydroxyvitamin D concentrations of the three patients were low before treatment and those of patients 1 and 2 increased during treatment. These findings suggest that in patients 1 and 2, 25-hydroxyvitamin D-24-hydroxylase was stimulated via a 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D-receptor-mediated system by treatment with 1 alpha-(OH)D3.
Nitroglycerin therapy can cause dose-related increases in intracranial pressure. Rare cases of neurologic sequelae attributed to nitroglycerin have appeared in the literature. We report such a case, in which symptoms completely resolved after cessation of nitroglycerin therapy. Widespread use of high-dose iv nitroglycerin makes knowledge of this effect important for all practitioners.
Chest pain is the most common complaint among cocaine users who present to the emergency department (ED) seeking care, and many hospital resources are applied to stratify cocaine users in regard to future cardiac morbidity and mortality. Little is known about the longitudinal cardiac and noncardiac medical outcomes of cocaine users who have been stratified to an ED observation period after their ED visit. We examine 1-year cardiac outcomes in a low- to intermediate-risk sample of patients with cocaine-associated chest pain in an urban ED, as well as examine ED recidivism at 1 year for cardiac and noncardiac complaints.
Prospective consecutive cohort study of patients (18 to 60 years) who presented to an urban Level I ED with cocaine-associated chest pain and were risk stratified to low to intermediate cardiac risk. Exclusion criteria were ECG suggestive of acute myocardial infarction, increased serum cardiac markers, history of acute myocardial infarction or coronary artery bypass graft, hemodynamic instability, or unstable angina. Baseline interviews using validated measures of health functioning and substance use were conducted during chest pain observation unit stay and at 3, 6, and 12 months. ED utilization during the study year was abstracted from the medical chart. Zero-inflated Poisson regression analyses were conducted to predict recurrent ED visits.
Two hundred nineteen participants (73%) were enrolled, 65% returned to the ED post-index visit, and 23% returned for chest pain; of these, 66% had a positive cocaine urine screening result. No patient had an acute myocardial infarction within the 1-year follow-up period. Patients with continued cocaine use were more likely to have a recurrent ED visit (P<.001), but these repeated visits were most often related to musculoskeletal pain (21%) and injury (30%), rather than potential cardiac complaints.
Patients with cocaine-associated chest pain who have low to intermediate cardiac risk and complete a chest pain observation unit protocol have a less than 1% rate of myocardial infarction in the subsequent 12 months.
This study was designed to clarify the nature of the reduced function of the peripheral beta adrenoceptor system observed in panic disorder with agoraphobia. The authors hypothesized that this phenomenon reflected a regulatory and adaptive process.
Lymphocyte beta adrenoreceptor density and affinity, basal lymphocyte cAMP level, and isoproterenol-stimulated cAMP generation were measured in 27 untreated outpatients with panic disorder with agoraphobia and 24 healthy comparison subjects. Lymphocyte beta receptor attributes were again assessed in patients after 4 weeks of double-blind treatment with adinazolam (slow-release form) or placebo. Panic frequency, agoraphobic symptoms, overall anxiety, and improvement with treatment were assessed with standard rating instruments.
Multivariate statistics revealed significantly lower beta receptor density and isoproterenol-stimulated cAMP generation in patients than in comparison subjects. beta receptor density tended to normalize after adinazolam but not after placebo. Pretreatment beta receptor density was lower in treatment responders than nonresponders. Patients with mild agoraphobia had lower cAMP responsivity than patients with moderate or severe agoraphobia.
Decreased function of lymphocyte beta receptors in panic disorder with agoraphobia is expressed as both decreased density and decreased cAMP responsivity. This pattern of changes, and the tendency for receptor density to normalize with treatment, is consistent with an active, regulatory process rather than a structural deficit in the beta receptor system. Preliminary clinical findings suggest that these changes may reflect adaptive processes associated with a favorable clinical course in panic disorder with agoraphobia.
Haloperidol administration (iv) has been shown to produce miosis in dogs. In the present study on rabbits, haloperidol administration (iv) produced dose-related miosis but when administered intracerebroventricularly, it failed to produce any change in pupillary size. Higher degree of miosis was observed when haloperidol was administered directly into the anterior chamber of eye. Haloperidol pretreatment failed to significantly modify the mydriasis produced by phenylephrine or atropine. These observations suggest that the miosis produced by haloperidol is a peripheral effect, and also that the miosis is not mediated through the blockade of alpha adrenoceptors of radial muscles or stimulation of cholinoceptors of circular muscles of iris.
Deterioration in renal function after the use of angiotensin converting-enzyme inhibitors may be the first clue to the presence of bilateral renal arterial stenosis. In order to avoid serious threat to the patient, early detection of the insidious decline in renal function is necessary and depends on routine biochemical monitoring after the initiation of therapy. Six cases are described here, to illustrate the very real danger of this class of drugs in this chemical setting; the grave risk of their combination with potassium-sparing diuretic agents is highlighted.
