A 40-year-old man with no history of neuropsychiatric illness was taking one 250-mg tablet of mefloquine (MFQ) weekly for malaria prophylaxis while in Tanzania. He experienced no adverse reaction in association with his first two doses. Concurrently with both his third and his fourth dose he consumed about half a litre of whisky. On both occasions he experienced hallucinations, paranoid delusions and suicidal ideation. Thereafter he continued taking the MFQ, abstained completely from ethanol ingestion and had no recurrence of psychiatric symptoms. It is hypothesized that the combination of MFQ and ethanol caused the two episodes of severe psychiatric disturbance.
Mercury is a well-known toxic metal and potently induces severe neurotoxicological effects, especially in infants and children. The purpose of this study was to explore the underlying mechanisms of neurotoxic effects of mercurial compounds on the different stages of developing mice. Low-doses (the probability of human exposure in mercury-contaminated areas) of methylmercury (MeHg) (M, 0.02mg/kg/day) and mercury chloride (HgCl(2)) (H, 0.5mg/kg/day) were administered to mice of the following groups: (1) treatment with distilled water for 7 consecutive weeks after weaning (control-vehicle (CV)); exposure to mercurial compounds at different stages; (2) for 7 consecutive weeks after weaning (control-MeHg (CM) and control-HgCl(2) (CH)); (3) only during perinatal and weaning stages (MeHg-vehicle (MV) and HgCl-vehicle (HV)); and (4) in all experimental stages (MeHg-MeHg (MM) and HgCl(2)-HgCl(2) (HH)). Results revealed the neurobehavioral defects (increased locomotor activities, motor equilibrium impairment, and auditory dysfunction) that correlated with increasing Hg accumulation in CM and CH groups. However, it revealed a decrease and an increase in locomotor activities in MV and HV groups, respectively; these became more severe in MM and HH groups than in MV and HV groups. Motor equilibrium performance in MV and HV groups remained normal, while that in MM and HH groups was decreased. The most severe auditory defects (altered auditory brainstem response, ABR test) found in MM and HH groups than those in the respective CM and CH, MV and HV, including absolute wave III delays and interwave I-III latencies, which suggested that the irreversible auditory dysfunction caused by mercurial compounds. Furthermore, the alteration of lipid peroxidation (LPO), Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase activities, and nitric oxide (NO(x)) in the brain tissues contributed to the observed neurobehavioral dysfunction and hearing impairment. These findings provide evidence that fetuses were much more susceptible to the effects of mercurial compounds with regard to inducing severely neurotoxicological injuries as that found in human beings. The signaling of ROS/Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase/NO(x) plays a crucial role in the underlying mechanism for mercurial compound-induced toxic effects in offspring.
Tumor necrosis factor related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) is a promising candidate for treatment of cancer, but displays variable cytotoxicity in cell lines. The mechanisms of sensitivity and resistance have not been fully elucidated; both AKT and NF-kappaB pathways may modulate cytotoxic responses. We have shown that the Hsp90 inhibitor 17-AAG enhances the cytotoxicity of oxaliplatin in colon cancer cell lines through inhibition of NF-kappaB. We analyzed the effects of TRAIL and 17-AAG in combination in a series of nine colon cancer cell lines and characterized activation of the pathways to apoptosis. IC(50) values for a 72 h exposure to TRAIL ranged from 30 to 4000 ng/ml. Cytotoxicity assays demonstrated additivity or synergism of the TRAIL/17-AAG combination in all cell lines, with combination indices at IC(50) ranging from 0.53 to 1. The sensitizing effect of 17-AAG was greater in the TRAIL-resistant cell lines. In TRAIL-resistant cell lines, the combination of 17-AAG and TRAIL resulted in activation of both extrinsic and intrinsic apoptotic pathways, though with quantitative differences between HT29 and RKO cells: differential effects of 17-AAG on AKT and NF-kappaB characterized these cell lines. In both cell lines, the combination also led to down-regulation of X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP) and enhanced activation of caspase-3. We conclude that either AKT or NF-kappaB may promote resistance to TRAIL in colon cancer cells, and that the ability of 17-AAG to target multiple putative determinants of TRAIL sensitivity warrants their further investigation in combination.
We present a case of an accidental cocaine overdose with various cardiovascular and neurological complications and ECG features of Brugada syndrome. It is imperative that clinicians know how to recognise and manage the symptoms of cocaine overdose because of the exceedingly rapid progression of the 'cocaine reaction' to a fatal outcome.
The uptake of the inhibitory transmitter GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid) limits the efficacy of synaptic and tonic inhibition in brain tissue. It has been reported that GABA-uptake is down-regulated in temporal lobe epilepsy. This down-regulation may increase the inhibitory action of GABA but may also limit the anticonvulsant activity of GABA-uptake blockers. We have directly compared the function of GABA-uptake in hippocampal slices from normal and chronically epileptic rats. We raised the global extracellular concentration of GABA by bath-application of the agonist in the absence and presence of the GABA-uptake blocker tiagabine. GABA-induced currents were measured in dentate granule cells and CA1 pyramidal neurons in hippocampal slices. The potentiation of currents by tiagabine was taken as a measure for the efficacy of GABA-uptake in the hippocampal tissue. There was no difference between cells from control- or pilocarpine-treated animals in the response to GABA or in the conductance increase following application of tiagabine. Our data show that in the chronic phase of the pilocarpine-model GABA-uptake maintains its ability to control the extracellular background concentration of GABA.
Heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) overexpression protects against tissue injury in many inflammatory processes, including ischemia/reperfusion injury (IRI). This study evaluated whether genetically decreased HO-1 levels affected susceptibility to liver IRI. Partial warm ischemia was produced in hepatic lobes for 90 min followed by 6 h of reperfusion in heterozygous HO-1 knockout (HO-1(+/-)) and HO-1(+/+) wild-type (WT) mice. HO-1(+/-) mice demonstrated reduced HO-1 mRNA/protein levels at baseline and postreperfusion. This corresponded with increased hepatocellular damage in HO-1(+/-) mice, compared with WT. HO-1(+/-) mice revealed enhanced neutrophil infiltration and proinflammatory cytokine (TNF-alpha, IL-6, and IFN-gamma) induction, as well as an increase of intrahepatic apoptotic TUNEL(+) cells with enhanced expression of proapoptotic genes (Bax/cleaved caspase-3). We used cobalt protoporphyrin (CoPP) treatment to evaluate the effect of increased baseline HO-1 levels in both WT and HO-1(+/-) mice. CoPP treatment increased HO-1 expression in both animal groups, which correlated with a lower degree of hepatic damage. However, HO-1 mRNA/protein levels were still lower in HO-1(+/-) mice, which failed to achieve the degree of antioxidant hepatoprotection seen in CoPP-treated WT. Although the baseline and postreperfusion HO-1 levels correlated with the degree of protection, the HO-1 fold induction correlated instead with the degree of damage. Thus, basal HO-1 levels are more critical than the ability to up-regulate HO-1 in response to the IRI and may also predict the success of pharmacologically induced cytoprotection. This model provides an opportunity to further our understanding of HO-1 in stress defense mechanisms and design new regimens to prevent IRI.
The development of abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) or dyskinesias is a serious complication of L-DOPA [L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine] therapy for Parkinson's disease. Our previous work had shown that intermittent nicotine dosing reduced L-DOPA-induced dyskinetic-like movements in nonhuman primates. A readily available nicotine formulation is the nicotine patch, which provides a constant source of nicotine. However, constant nicotine administration more readily desensitizes nicotinic receptors, to possibly yield alternate behavioral outcomes. Therefore, we investigated whether constant nicotine administration reduced L-DOPA-induced AIMs in a rat parkinsonian model, with results compared with those with intermittent nicotine dosing. Rats with a unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion were exposed to either intermittent (drinking water) or constant (minipump) nicotine for > or = 2 weeks at doses that yielded plasma levels of the nicotine metabolite cotinine similar to those in smokers. The rats were next treated with L-DOPA/benserazide (8 or 12 mg/kg/15 mg/kg) for > or = 3 weeks to allow for the development of AIMs, with nicotine treatment continued. Both modes of nicotine administration resulted in > or = 50% decline in L-DOPA-induced AIMs. Nicotine treatment also significantly reduced AIMs in L-DOPA-primed rats using either dosing regimen, whereas nicotine removal led to an increase in AIMs. There was no effect of nicotine on various measures of motor performance in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats. In summary, nicotine provided either via the drinking water or minipump reduced L-DOPA-induced AIMs in a rat model of Parkinson's disease. These results suggest that either intermittent or constant nicotine treatment may be useful in the treatment of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias in patients with Parkinson's disease.
Delayed metabolism of a number of drugs has been described in hypothyroid patients. We report an elderly hypothyroid female who had prolonged delay in the metabolism of a commonly-used sedative, nitrazepam, and discuss the importance of delayed drug metabolism in hypothyroidism.
We describe three patients with minimal change nephrotic syndrome associated with penicillamine treatment. Two patients had systemic sclerosis and one had rheumatoid arthritis. Cumulative dose of D-penicillamine was similar in all cases, and nephrotic syndrome appeared after 15-33 months of treatment. The drug was stopped and nephrotic syndrome disappeared in 2-4 months, suggesting a possible causal relationship between penicillamine and minimal change disease.
Accumulating evidence suggests that dexamethasone might decrease permeability of the blood-brain tumor barrier, further limiting the delivery of agents into brain tumors. The bradykinin B2 receptor agonist, Cereport (RMP-7), selectively increases permeability of the vasculature supplying brain tumors in both animal models and humans. The present study was conducted to characterize the effects of dexamethasone on the blood-brain tumor barrier and its potential interaction with Cereport's ability to enhance penetration of radiolabeled carboplatin. Dexamethasone (1.5 mg/kg/day, twice a day) was given to RG2 glioma-bearing rats via oral gavage for 3 consecutive days. After treatment, animals received a 15-min intracarotid infusion of Cereport (4.5 micrograms/kg) and a bolus of [14C]carboplatin. The levels of [14C]carboplatin (nCi/g) in the tumor and nontumor regions were determined at 1, 14, or 24 h after the last dose of dexamethasone. Dexamethasone, alone, significantly decreased the levels of radiolabeled carboplatin permeating the tumor (19%), although there were no significant differences between any of the time points examined. Cereport administration significantly increased levels of carboplatin in the tumor, independent of whether or not dexamethasone was given (46% with and 49% without). Although the relative effects of Cereport on tumor carboplatin levels were not affected by dexamethasone, the absolute levels achieved with Cereport were modestly reduced (44 nCi/g versus 55.5 nCi/g of [14C]carboplatin, with and without dexamethasone, respectively). Thus, while the data support the use of Cereport as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of glioma patients, they also warn that the use of dexamethasone may reduce delivery of chemotherapeutic agents to brain tumors, even when special pharmacologic measures are employed to enhance delivery.
Treatment of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) may cause structural and functional brain damage. To find out the incidence of white matter changes during therapy, a prospective MRI study was designed, and the findings were correlated with neuropsychological evaluation.
Thirty-three children with ALL underwent serial cranial MRI before, during, and after therapy. Twenty-eight of these children underwent also neuropsychological assessment at the end of treatment. They all received intravenous and intrathecal methotrexate for central nervous system (CNS) therapy, 15 patients received cranial irradiation in addition.
Transient high-intensity white matter changes were observed by MRI in three children 9% (95% CI, 2-24%) who received chemotherapy only. The high-intensity changes were most prominent in the frontal lobes in two of these children. The children with white matter changes were significantly younger than those with normal MRI (2.8 vs. 7.4 years; mean). There was no correlation between neuropsychological tests and white matter changes, except in attention and in tests referring to the frontal areas in general.
White matter changes are occasionally observed during therapy with the current Nordic protocols. Young children may be more susceptible to developing white matter changes after repeated intravenous methotrexate injections. There is no systematic correlation between neuropsychological deficits and MRI findings.
This study describes the incidence of acute neurotoxicity (NT) in children with B-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) treated with three intermediate risk protocols that differ in the intensity of central nervous system (CNS) "prophylaxis. "
A total of 122 patients (64 boys; median age 5.3 years) with B-lineage ALL without CNS leukemia diagnosed between February 1987 and December 1997 were enrolled in the intermediate risk (IR) protocols: Associazione Italiana di Ematologia ed Oncologia Pediatrica (AIEOP)-ALL 87 (n = 33), 91 (n = 51), and 95 (n = 38). Presymptomatic CNS therapy consisted of intrathecal methotrexate (six doses) and cranial irradiation (18 Gy) in the IR AIEOP 87 study, and extended triple intrathecal therapy with methotrexate, cytarabine, and prednisone depending on age in the IR AIEOP-ALL 91 and 95 protocols (20 and 17 total doses, respectively). World Health Organization (WHO) grade 4 acute neurotoxicity criteria were employed. Patients with neurologic symptoms, in addition to physical examination, underwent EEG, computed tomography (CT) and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and lumbar puncture to exclude CNS leukemia and infection.
Acute NT was not reported in AIEOP-ALL 87 treated patients, but we observed acute NT in 3 out of 51 (5.8%) AIEOP-ALL 91 patients, and in 7 out of 38 (18.4%) AIEOP-ALL 95 patients.
There was an increased incidence of acute NT in our patients with ALL treated with current intermediate risk protocols. The intensification of treatment, however, bettered event free survival (EFS) to 58%, 72% and 85% in IR AIEOP 87, 91 and 95 studies, respectively.
Seventy-eight nondemented elderly depressed patients underwent an extensive battery of cognitive tests both before and after seven weeks of treatment with nortriptyline, phenelzine, or placebo. Clinical and cognitive evaluations of the patients were under double-blind conditions. Response to treatment did not appear to significantly affect cognitive capacity; neither did treatment with an active substance as compared to placebo. In addition, the baseline level of cognitive functioning did not appear related to whether a patient responded to treatment. The authors conclude that under optimal conditions neither antidepressant produces measurable changes in the cognitive capacity of nondemented elderly patients.
Capsinoids from the Capsicum genus of plants are nonpungent capsaicin-related substances with effects on metabolism and body weight in animals.
Our objectives were to explore the safety and efficacy of capsinoids taken orally (6 mg/d) for weight loss, fat loss, and change in metabolism and to examine whether candidate genes are predictors of capsinoid response.
This was a 12-wk, placebo-controlled, double-blind, randomized study. Eligibility criteria included a body mass index (BMI; in kg/m(2)) of 25-35. Body weight was measured, and dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry, indirect calorimetry (men only), and genotyping were conducted.
Forty women and 40 men with a mean (+/- SD) age of 42 +/- 8 y and BMI of 30.4 +/- 2.4 were randomly assigned to a capsinoid or placebo group. Capsinoids were well tolerated. Mean (+/- SD) weight change was 0.9 +/- 3.1 and 0.5 +/- 2.4 kg in the capsinoid and placebo groups, respectively (P = 0.86). There was no significant group difference in total change in adiposity, but abdominal adiposity decreased more (P = 0.049) in the capsinoid group (-1.11 +/- 1.83%) than in the placebo group (-0.18 +/- 1.94%), and this change correlated with the change in body weight (r = 0.46, P < 0.0001). Changes in resting energy expenditure did not differ significantly between groups, but fat oxidation was higher at the end of the study in the capsinoid group (least-squares mean difference: 21.0 mg/min; P = 0.06). Of 13 genetic variants tested, TRPV1 Val585Ile and UCP2 -866 G/A correlated significantly with change in abdominal adiposity.
Treatment with 6 mg/d capsinoids orally appeared to be safe and was associated with abdominal fat loss. Capsinoid ingestion was associated with an increase in fat oxidation that was nearly significant. We identified 2 common genetic variants that may be predictors of therapeutic response.
We analyzed the data from 1821 patients (2920 eyes) who received photorefractive keratectomy (PRK) to investigate the postoperative complications which cause a significant decrease in visual acuity. A corneal haze of grade 2 or more developed in 9 patients (11 eyes, 0.38%) and corticosteroid-induced ocular hypertension occurred in 3 patients (4 eyes, 0.14%). Three patients (4 eyes) who had corneal haze of grade 2 or more underwent repeated photorefractive keratectomy and one patient (2 eyes) with steroid-induced ocular hypertension underwent trabeculectomies. A decrease of best spectacle corrected visual acuity of two lines or more was detected in 7 patients (8 eyes, 0.27%), caused by irregular astigmatism, steroid-induced cataract, incidental choroidal neovascular membrane, and an unknown origin. Good predictability and stabilization after photorefractive keratectomy was maintained at the 2 year follow-up. However, some subjective symptoms were reported by many patients and some complications occurred in a minority of eyes despite the excellent visual outcome in a large majority.
The effects of rifampicin treatment (10 mg.kg-1.day-1) on pruritus and cholestasis were evaluated in 16 patients with primary biliary cirrhosis and pruritus followed up for 2-24 months. Assessment of pruritus severity, liver tests, aminopyrine breath test, and bile acids was done at 2 weeks and every 3 months after the beginning of the study. Two patients (12.5%) were withdrawn after 2 months of treatment because they had hepatitis caused by rifampicin. Four patients were withdrawn after 4 months because of liver transplantation (3 cases) and the development of leg edema associated with administration of rifampicin. The remaining 10 patients received therapy for 14.4 +/- 0.7 months and did not experience side effects. Pruritus improved in all patients and disappeared in 11 patients (79%) after 3 months of treatment. Moreover, all patients followed up for more than 1 year were free of pruritus. The alkaline phosphatase level decreased significantly, and the aminopyrine breath test results increased significantly after 2 weeks of treatment (P less than 0.001) and did not change thereafter. In the 9 patients treated for 15 months, alkaline phosphatase levels decreased to 63% of the basal levels and aminopyrine breath test results increased to 153% of baseline values. Transaminases, gamma-glutamyltransferase, and total bile salt levels decreased significantly after 2 weeks of treatment but returned to baseline after 3 months. No changes in bilirubin and cholesterol levels were observed. It is concluded that long-term rifampicin treatment is effective for relieving pruritus in primary biliary cirrhosis, but liver enzymes should be monitored to detect drug-induced hepatitis.
Acute cholestasis is associated with cardiovascular complications, which mainly manifest during stressful conditions. The goal of this study is to evaluate susceptibility of 7-day bile duct-ligated rats to ischemia/reperfusion-induced injury.
Sham-operated and cholestatic rats, treated with daily normal saline, L-NAME (a non-selective NO synthase inhibitor) naltrexone, or both L-NAME and naltrexone were subjected to 30 min of ischemia followed by 2 h of reperfusion.
Cholestatic rats demonstrated significant bradycardia, hypotension (P < 0.01), and QT prolongation (P < 0.001). The incidence of premature ventricular contractions (P < 0.01), incidence and duration of ventricular tachycardia (P < 0.05), but not ventricular fibrillation, were significantly lower in cholestatic rats. There was no significant difference in hemodynamic instability and infarct size between the groups. L-NAME corrected QT prolongation in cholestatic rats (P < 0.05), with no effect on heart rate, blood pressure and arrhythmia. Naltrexone restored normal heart rate (P < 0.05), blood pressure (P < 0.05) and susceptibility to arrhythmia (P < 0.05) in cholestatic animals, with no significant effect on QT interval. L-NAME and naltrexone co-administration corrected bradycardia (P < 0.05), hypotension (P < 0.05), QT prolongation (P < 0.05) and abolished resistance of cholestatic rats against arrhythmia (P < 0.05).
This study suggests that short-term cholestasis is associated with resistance against ischemia/reperfusion-induced arrhythmia, which depends on availability of endogenous opioids.
The primary objective of this study was to compare the objective and subjective effects of amisulpride with those of a classic antipsychotic, haloperidol, when both were given to healthy volunteers in representative therapeutic doses over 5 days. The secondary objective was to compare the effects of relatively low and high doses of amisulpride to confirm the suspected duality of its pharmacologic activity. Twenty-one subjects participated in the four-way, randomized, double-blind, crossover study with repeated daily doses of amisulpride 50 mg, amisulpride 400 mg, haloperidol 4 mg, and placebo. Subjects were institutionalized during treatment periods and were under 24-hour medical supervision. They underwent a series of psychomotor and cognitive tests 1 hour before and 3 and 6 hours after dosing on days 1 and 5. Their extrapyramidal disturbances and drug-related feelings were assessed at the end of each replication. Psychiatric interviews and ratings of depression, subjective well-being, and negative symptoms occurred on day 4. Amisulpride 50 mg had no significant effect on any parameter. Amisulpride 400 mg had several adverse effects on psychomotor and, although less severe, on cognitive performance on the fifth day only. Amisulpride 400 mg produced no significant extrapyramidal disturbances in the group as a whole, although it may have in some individual subjects. Also, it produced no signs of mental disturbances on clinical rating scales or during a structured psychiatric interview. Haloperidol ubiquitously impaired psychomotor and cognitive performance in a similar fashion after the first and the final doses. It produced extrapyramidal disturbances in nearly every subject, the most common being akathisia and the most severe, in the case of one individual, being acute dystonia. Unlike amisulpride, haloperidol produced a number of mental disturbances, the most noteworthy being negative symptoms. Amisulpride seems to be a well-tolerated drug. Its side effects should be much less troublesome to patients using the drug on a long-term basis than those of classic antipsychotics, like haloperidol.
Epileptic seizures cause severe and long-lasting events on the architecture of the brain, including neuronal cell death, accompanied neurogenesis, reactive gliosis, and mossy fiber sprouting. However, it remains uncertain whether these functional and anatomical alterations are associated with the development of hyperexcitability, or as inhibitory processes. Neurotrophic factors are probable mediators of these pathophysiological events. The present study was designed to clarify the role of various neurotrophic factors on the pilocarpine model of seizures. At 4 h following pilocarpine-induced seizures, expression of NGF, BDNF, HB-EGF, and FGF-2 increased only in the mice manifesting tonic-clonic convulsions and not in mice without seizures. NT-3 expression decreased in pilocarpine-treated mice experiencing seizures, tonic-clonic or not, compared to mice with no seizures. Neuronal cell damage, which was evident by Fluoro-Jade B staining, was observed within 24 h in the mice exhibiting tonic-clonic seizures, followed by an increase in the number of BrdU-positive cells and glial cells, which were evident after 2 days. None of these pathophysiological changes occurred in the mice which showed no seizures, although they were injected with pilocarpine, nor in the activated epilepsy-prone EL mice, which experienced repeated severe seizures. Together, these results suggest that neuronal damage occurring in the brain of the mice manifesting tonic-clonic seizures is accompanied by neurogenesis. This sequence of events may be regulated through changes in expression of neurotrophic factors such as NGF, BDNF, HB-FGF, and NT-3.
Fructose feeding in male Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats results in a mild hypertension and glucose intolerance. Although the mechanism of this glucose intolerance and hypertension is not completely understood, a role for the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) has been proposed. In the current study our aim was to test the hypothesis that intervention of the RAS with a gene therapy approach would be effective in preventing the development of hypertension and glucose intolerance in this animal model.
Five-day-old SD rats were administered either an empty retroviral vector (LNSV) or retroviral vector containing AT1 receptor antisense DNA (AT1R-AS). The virus (25 microl, 8 x 10(9) CFU/ml) was injected into the heart and the animals were returned to their mothers. After weaning, half the animals from each group were placed on breeder's chow or a 60% fructose diet. Indirect blood pressures (BP) were determined and an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) was performed when the animals had been on the respective diets for 2 months.
Fructose-fed animals developed mild hypertension (145 +/- 3 versus 132 +/- 4 mmHg) by 6 weeks of dietary intervention. This increase in BP was prevented by AT1R-AS treatment (125 +/- 3 mmHg). At 2 months of age, fasting blood glucose was comparable among the four groups; however, the glucose excursion during the OGTT was significantly greater and more prolonged in the LNSV-treated, fructose-fed group than the other three groups. AT1R-AS treatment significantly prevented glucose intolerance in the fructose rat to levels observed in the controls.
Early fructose dietary treatment results in moderate hypertension and glucose intolerance, which is prevented by a single neonatal treatment with AT1R-AS. These results suggest that the RAS is involved in the glucose intolerance associated with fructose feeding and that genetic intervention is effective in this rat model.
An observational, historical cohort evaluation was performed to examine the hypothesis that terfenadine (Seldane) exposure increases the risk of developing life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias. The study population consisted of Medicaid recipients from 4 states that were included in the Computerized On-Line Medical Pharmaceutical Analysis and Surveillance System (COMPASS). The drug exposure period was defined prospectively as 30 days in all treatment cohorts. The primary end point was the development of life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias (ventricular tachycardia, fibrillation and flutter, and cardiac arrest and sudden death). The comparison cohorts included terfenadine (n = 181,672), over-the-counter antihistamines (n = 150,689), ibuprofen (n = 181,672) and clemastine (Tavist; n = 83,156). Over the exposure period, a total of 317 life-threatening ventricular arrhythmic events occurred, 244 of which were cardiac arrests. The incidence of total life-threatening ventricular arrhythmic events and cardiac arrests were more frequent in patients receiving over-the-counter antihistamines (relative risk 0.36) than in those receiving terfenadine, a finding that was consistent across all subgroups. There was no increased risk of life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias in the terfenadine cohort as compared with the ibuprofen cohort (relative risk 0.62), and in some analyses, the ibuprofen cohort had a significantly higher arrhythmic event rate. In all comparisons with the clemastine cohort, the terfenadine cohort had a statistically indistinguishable relative risk (1.08). Age, race, sex and cardiovascular risk were all considered in the adjusted relative-risk analyses. No baseline historical characteristic or imbalance of baseline medications explained the differences between groups.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Melittin (a main compound of bee venom) and capsaicin were injected intradermally in healthy human volunteers: (1) to study secondary mechanical hyperalgesia (static hyperalgesia and dynamic hyperalgesia) around the injection site; and (2) to correlate the sensory changes to the neurogenic inflammation assessed by laser-doppler blood flowmetry. Melittin 50 microg and capsaicin 10 microg induced comparable spontaneous pain and increased blood flow (neurogenic inflammation). Intradermal injection of melittin induced regions of secondary mechanical hyperalgesia around the injection site, however, they were not as large as the hyperalgesia induced by capsaicin. This is the first report studying mechanical hyperalgesia induced by melittin in humans, and the results were in agreement with the previous observations in rats. Melittin seems to be a valuable model to study a possible contribution of neurogenic inflammation to hyperalgesia in humans.
Chlorpyrifos is one of the most widely used insecticides in the United States. We evaluated the incidence of cancer among pesticide applicators exposed to chlorpyrifos in the Agricultural Health Study, a prospective cohort study of licensed pesticide applicators in Iowa and North Carolina.
A total of 54,383 pesticide applicators were included in this analysis. Detailed information on pesticide exposure and lifestyle factors was obtained from self-administered questionnaires completed at the time of enrollment (December 1993-December 1997). Poisson regression analysis was used to evaluate the association between chlorpyrifos exposure and cancer incidence after adjustment for potential confounders. All statistical tests were two-sided.
A total of 2070 incident malignant neoplasms were diagnosed through 2001. The rate ratio for all cancers combined among chlorpyrifos-exposed applicators compared with nonexposed applicators was 0.97 (95% confidence interval = 0.87 to 1.08). For most cancers analyzed, there was no evidence of an exposure-response relationship. However, the incidence of lung cancer was statistically significantly associated with both chlorpyrifos lifetime exposure-days (P(trend) = .002) and chlorpyrifos intensity-weighted exposure-days (P(trend) = .036). After adjustment for other pesticide exposures and demographic factors, individuals in the highest quartile of chlorpyrifos lifetime exposure-days (>56 days) had a relative risk of lung cancer 2.18 (95% confidence interval = 1.31 to 3.64) times that of those with no chlorpyrifos exposure.
Our findings suggest an association between chlorpyrifos use and incidence of lung cancer that deserves further evaluation.
The effect of alpha-tocopherol (6 mg/100 g body wt, orally, daily for 90 days) pretreatment in isoproterenol (20 mg/100 g body wt, subcutaneously, twice at an interval of two days at the end of the alpha-tocopherol pretreatment) induced myocardial infarction was studied in rats. Isoproterenol administered rats showed electrocardiographic changes suggestive of myocardial infarction with marked ST segment elevation, Q waves appearance and a significant increase in heart rate. In isoproterenol administered rats, a significant decrease was observed in the activities of marker enzymes such as aspartate amino transferase, alanine amino transferase, lactate dehydrogenase and creatine kinase in heart and aorta with a significant increase in their activities in serum. The levels of lipid peroxides in terms of "TBA reactants" increased significantly in serum, heart and aorta on isoproterenol administration. The histology of heart and aorta showed marked fragmentation of muscle fibres and necrotic lesions in isoproterenol administered rats. alpha-Tocopherol pretreated rats showed a near normal ECG pattern, levels of lipid peroxides, activities of marker enzymes and a near normal histology of heart and aorta on isoproterenol administration.
