Keratoconus is a noninflammatory corneal disorder that is clinically and genetically heterogeneous. Mutations in the VSX1 (visual system homeobox 1) gene have been identified for two distinct, inherited corneal dystrophies: posterior polymorphous corneal dystrophy and keratoconus. To evaluate the possible role of the VSX1 gene in a series of Italian patients, 80 keratoconus-affected subjects were screened for mutations.
The diagnosis of keratoconus was made on the basis of clinical examination and corneal topography. The whole coding region and the exon-intron junctions of the VSX1 gene were analyzed by direct sequencing.
Three already-described changes, D144E, G160D, and P247R, and a novel L17P mutation were found in 7 of 80 unrelated patients (8.7%). Two undescribed intronic polymorphisms are also reported.
Mutational analysis of the VSX1 gene in a series of Italian patients revealed one novel mutation and confirmed an important role played by this gene in a significant proportion of patients affected by keratoconus, when it is inherited as an autosomal dominant trait with variable expressivity and incomplete penetrance.
Estrogens stimulate cell proliferation in a variety of tissues and are widely believed to be contributing factors in the etiology of certain cancer types in humans. The molecular mechanisms through which estrogens regulate cell proliferation are currently unknown. Estrogens stimulate proliferation of the PRL-producing lactotroph of the rat anterior pituitary gland and induce development of PRL-producing pituitary tumors in several inbred rat strains. Therefore, the lactotroph provides a well defined model for identifying the mechanisms through which estrogens regulate cell proliferation and/or survival. Data from our laboratory and others indicate that the relative sensitivity to the pituitary growth-promoting actions of estrogens is highly strain specific. This allows genetics-based approaches to be used to address the molecular mechanisms through which estrogens stimulate lactotroph proliferation and induce pituitary tumor development. In the present study we have examined the ability of diethylstilbestrol (DES) to induce pituitary growth in the genetically related AxC-Irish (ACI) and Copenhagen (COP) strains and their derived F1, F2, and backcross progeny. The data presented herein indicate that the anterior pituitary gland of the ACI strain displays approximately a 2-fold greater growth response to administered DES than does the pituitary gland of the COP strain. The average pituitary weight in male ACI rats was increased from 9.2 +/- 0.2 mg (mean +/- SD in untreated rats to 63.7 +/- 12.6 mg in rats treated with DES for 12 weeks, whereas in male COP rats, DES increased pituitary weight from 12.7 +/- 0.9 to 38.1 +/- 8.2 mg. The ACI phenotype was inherited in the F1, F2, and backcross progeny of an ACI x COP intercross as a dominant genetic trait, and the approximately 30 mg of additional pituitary growth displayed by the DES-treated ACI rat, relative to that of the treated COP rat, appeared to result from the actions of a single locus. Moreover, in F1 progeny from an ACI x Brown Norway intercross, the ACI phenotype was inherited as a dominant or incompletely dominant genetic trait. These data, when compared with findings of previous studies using the Fischer 344 rat strain, provide the first indication that distinct genetic pathways contribute to regulation of estrogen-induced pituitary growth and induction of PRL-producing pituitary tumors in the ACI and F344 rat strains.
Intracerebral hemorrhage is associated with a considerable proportion of strokes and head injuries. The mechanism of brain cell injury associated with hemorrhage may be different from that due to pure ischemia. Therefore, it is essential that models of intracerebral hemorrhage be developed and well characterized. The purpose of this study was to obtain high-field MR images of rat brain at progressive times after induction of intracerebral hemorrhage and to correlate the images with behavior and histological evolution.
Intracerebral hemorrhage was induced in rats by injection of bacterial collagenase and heparin into the caudate nucleus. Histopathological changes and corresponding MR images were studied from 30 minutes to 3 weeks after injection. Behavioral changes were also followed for 3 weeks.
Histological correlation showed that MR is capable of resolving the accumulation and degeneration of the hematoma, a centripetal wave of neutrophils infiltrating from the surrounding tissue beginning at 12 hours, and centripetal invasion of macrophages beginning at 48 hours. Widespread white matter edema was clearly evident on MR images for 1 week after the hemorrhage. Medium-sized striatal neurons were lost in the tissue surrounding the hematoma. Behavioral improvement was rapid during resolution of the edema but incomplete at 3 weeks.
MR images correlate very well with histological changes in this experimental model of intracerebral hemorrhage and can therefore be used to follow changes due to drug treatments in vivo. The intense neutrophilic response to this lesion may contribute to neuronal injury at the periphery of the hematoma.
To investigate the effect of diazepam and modafinil on acute hepatic failure in mice.
Acute liver failure was induced in male Kunming strain mice by enterocoelia injecting the mice with D-GalN and LPS . The mice in the treatment groups were given corresponding drug 2 h before the administration of D-GalN and LPS, and the mice in the control group were given the same dose of distilled water. The 24-hour survival rate, serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT), and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) levels were compared. Serum levels of TNF-alpha and IL-1 and the levels of SOD, MDA, GR, GSH, NO and NOS in the liver were determined.
Treatment with diazepam increased the survival rate and improved liver histological feature. Diazepam inhibited the serum levels of ALT, AST, TNF-alpha and IL-1, and reduced levels of MDA, NO and NOS and increased levels of GR and SOD in the liver. Modafinil decreased liver histological feature, increased the serum levels of ALT, AST, TNF-alpha and IL-1, increased level of MDA, and inhabited levels of SOD and GR in the liver.
Treatment with diazepam may suppress the D-GalN/LPS-induced acute hepatic failure and modafinil may facilitate the acute hepatic failure.
Oxidative stress is thought to be the pathogenesis of pulmonary fibrosis induced by asbestos, and heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) protects lung tissue against oxidative stress. We hypothesized that HO-1 is associated with oxidative lung injury caused by exposure to asbestos. This study was conducted to investigate the time course of HO-1 expression of lungs exposed to crocidolite asbestos in vivo. Male Wistar rats were administered 1 mg or 2 mg crocidolite asbestos suspended in saline by a single intratracheal instillation and were sacrificed at 3 d, 1 wk, 1 mo, 3 mo, and 6 mo of recovery time. The expression of HO-1 was observed by Western blot analysis and immunostaining. Protein levels of HO-1 increased at from 3 d to 6 mo following intratracheal instillation of 2 mg crocidolite asbestos. The levels of HO-1 increased at 1 wk and 1 mo following intratracheal instillation of 1 mg crocidolite asbestos. Many HO-1-positive cells were found, particularly in the alveolar macrophages, during immunostaining. These findings suggest that HO-1 may be related to lung disorder induced by dust and therefore can act as a biomarker of lung injury due to dust exposure.
A panel of novel D2 and D3 dopamine receptor selective antagonists, partial agonists and full agonists have been evaluated for the ability to attenuate L-dopa-associated abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) in 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) unilaterally lesioned male Sprague Dawley rats, which is an animal model of L-dopa-induced dyskinesia (LID). LID is often observed in patients with Parkinson's Disease following chronic treatment with L-dopa. The intrinsic activity of these dopaminergic compounds was determined using a forskolin-dependent adenylyl cyclase inhibition assay with transfected HEK 293 cells expressing either the human D2Long or D3 dopamine receptor subtype. For the initial experiments the 5-HT1A receptor selective partial agonist buspirone was used to verify our ability to quantitate changes in total AIMs and AIMs minus locomotor scores. Two D2 dopamine receptor selective antagonists, SV 156 and SV 293, were evaluated and found to minimally attenuate AIM scores in these animals. Four members of our WC series of D3 dopamine receptor selective compounds of varying intrinsic activity at the D3 dopamine receptor subtype, WC 10, WC 21, WC 26 and WC 44, were also evaluated and found to attenuate AIM scores in a dose dependent manner. The in vivo efficacy of the compounds increased when they were administered simultaneously with L-dopa, as compared to when the compounds were administered 60 min prior to the L-dopa/benserazide. It was also found that the D3 receptor antagonist WC 10 could inhibit the involuntary movements after they had achieved maximum intensity. Unlike the D1-like dopamine receptor selective agonist SKF 81297 and the D2-like dopamine receptor agonist bromocriptine which can precipitate abnormal involuntary movements in these unilaterally lesioned animals, abnormal involuntary movements were not observed after administration of our D3 receptor selective agonist WC 44. In addition, we evaluated the effect of these four D3 dopamine receptor selective compounds for their effect on a) spontaneous locomotion and b) coordination and agility using a rotarod apparatus. We also used a cylinder test to assess the effect of L-dopa on spontaneous and independent use of each of the rat's forelimbs in the presence or absence of test compound. The results of these studies suggest that substituted phenylpiperazine D3 dopamine receptor selective compounds are potential pharmacotherapeutic agents for the treatment of L-dopa-associated dyskinesia in patients with Parkinson's Disease.
The opioid peptide nociceptin (orphanin FQ) has been implicated in reward, reinforcement and addiction. The current study sought evidence of a role of endogenous nociceptin in nicotine responses by studying nociceptin receptor (NOP) knockout mice. The results were: (1) NOP receptor knockout mice showed enhanced anxiety-like behavior on an elevated plus maze. Whereas nicotine (0.05-0.5 mg/kg) tended to be anxiogenic in wild-type mice, NOP receptor KO mice were resistant to this effect, though interpretation was confounded by their stronger anxiety-like behavior. (2) When presented increasing nicotine concentrations (3-50 microg/ml) in a bottle choice drinking paradigm, there were no genotype-dependent differences in nicotine preference. However, NOP receptor knockout mice consumed more 3 microg/ml nicotine solution when considered in absolute terms. (3) NOP receptor knockout mice showed stronger hypothermic responses to nicotine (1 or 2 mg/kg) administration. (4) There was modest evidence that NOP receptor KO mice showed attenuated behavioral sensitization to a low dose of nicotine (0.05 mg/kg) during repeated daily treatment. (5) NOP receptor knockout mice more rapidly tolerated the sedative effect of nicotine (1 mg/kg), due partially to slightly lower locomotion on first treatment. (6) NOP receptor knockout mice, unlike wild-type mice, showed a significant mecamylamine (2.5 mg/kg) induced conditioned place aversion to nicotine (24 mg/kg/day) withdrawal. These results show that mice lacking the influence of endogenous N/OFQ mice are hypersensitive to nicotine in most measures, showing a role of endogenous nociceptin in modulating or mediating the acute effects of nicotine, and possibly nicotine addiction.
A prospective study performed on 37 patients with end-stage renal disease who required treatment with deferoxamine is presented. Three patients presented a sudden sensorineural hearing loss, with tinnitus in one case, which was demonstrated to be of cochlear origin. All patients recovered auditory function completely after treatment was discontinued.
To confirm the clinical efficacy of frovatriptan 2.5 mg.
Frovatriptan is a new 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)(1B/1D) receptor agonist being developed for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura. Results from preclinical and clinical pharmacology studies showed frovatriptan to be a potent 5-HT(1B) receptor agonist with a long terminal elimination half-life (26 hours) and a broad therapeutic index.
Three randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, parallel-group trials, in a total of 2676 patients, were performed to confirm the clinical efficacy of frovatriptan 2.5 mg for the acute treatment of migraine.
In all three studies, headache response 2 hours after frovatriptan dosing was significantly greater than that seen with placebo (P < or = .001) with approximately a two-fold measure of effect over placebo for headache response at 2 and 4 hours postdosing. Time to headache response occurred within 1.5 hours in a substantial proportion of patients. The incidence of 24-hour headache recurrence with frovatriptan was low (10% to 25%). Frovatriptan therapy also was associated with a high degree of patient satisfaction.
Frovatriptan represents a consistently effective acute treatment for migraine and accompanying symptoms.
To study beta1-adrenoceptor gene (ADRB1) polymorphism on the development and course of chronic heart failure (CHF) and on the efficiency of its treatment with the beta-adrenoblocker carvedilol in patients with coronary heart failure.
Two hundred and twenty-six patients (149 males and 77 females; mean age 55.9 +/- 5.8 years) with CHF, who received continuous basic therapy: angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, a diuretic, an aldosterone antagonist, digoxin, and a beta-adrenoblocker, were examined; 68 patients were given for 24 weeks carvedilol (its starting dose was 3.125 mg twice daily with its further adjustment until an individually tolerable dose was achieved). Genotypes were identified by the restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of polymerase chain reaction products. A control group comprised 136 subjects (63 males and 73 females; mean age 55.9 +/- 5.8 years) without signs of cardiovascular disorders, as evidenced by the examination.
In patients with CHF, the Gly allele of the Gly389Arg polymorphic locus of the ADRB1 gene in homozygous state was associated with the high individual risk for CHF, the severity of its clinical manifestations and the nature of its course while carriage of the Arg allele of the Gly39Arg polymorphic locus manifested itself as a protective factor. During long-term carvedilol therapy, CHF patients with the Arg/Arg genotype of the ADRB1 gene were observed to have a more pronounced decrease in the functional class of heart failure, a significant increase in left ventricular ejection, and a decrease in left ventricular end-systolic and end-diastolic sizes as compared with patients with the Gly/Arg genotype.
There were associations of the polymorphism of ADRB1 gene (the Gly39Arg polymorphic locus) with the development and severity of CHF and with the efficacy of therapy with beta-adrenoblocker carvedilol.
Parental exposure to polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) in animals has been found to be transferred to the offspring. The environmental health risk and toxicity to the offspring are still unclear. The objective of the present study was to identify environmentally relevant concentrations of PBDEs for parental exposure that would cause developmental neurotoxicity in the offspring. Adult zebrafish were exposed to environmentally relevant concentrations of DE-71 (0.16, 0.8, 4.0 μg/L) via water. The results showed that PBDE exposure did not affect larvae hatching, malformation, or survival. The residue of PBDEs was detected in F1 eggs upon parental exposure. Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity was significantly inhibited in F1 larvae. Genes of central nervous system development (e.g., myelin basic protein, synapsin IIa, α1-tubulin) were significantly downregulated in larvae. Protein levels of α1-tubulin and synapsin IIa were also reduced. Decreased locomotion activity was observed in the larvae. This study provides the first evidence that parental exposure to environmentally relevant concentrations of PBDEs could cause adverse effects on neurodevelopment in zebrafish offspring.
To investigate the effect of long-term intracavernosal self-injection of alprostadil (Caverject) on the penile circulation and return of spontaneous erection in men with arteriogenic erectile dysfunction.
Seventy men with a stable heterosexual partner entered the titration phase of this open-label, flexible-dose study. The effective alprostadil dose (ie, the dose producing penile rigidity adequate for intercourse and lasting up to 60 minutes) was determined before entry into the 12-month self-treatment home phase. Duplex ultrasonography was used to measure the peak systolic velocity and diameter of the cavernosal arteries at the end of the titration phase and after 4, 8, and 12 months of the home phase. The efficacy, tolerability, and return of spontaneous erections were assessed from the patients' diaries and by interview at each clinic visit. Sixty-three men entered the home phase; 49 of them filled out the diaries and 42 completed the study.
An effective dose was established for 67 (96%) of the 70 men (median dose 15 microg). During the home phase, 94% of men responded to alprostadil, and the median dose remained unchanged. Complete duplex ultrasound data were obtained in 38 men and showed significant increases in postinjection peak systolic velocity in both cavernosal arteries (P <0.001 at 12 months) and between the preinjection and postinjection cavernosal arterial diameters (P = 0.0001) compared with baseline. Reports of a return of spontaneous erections increased throughout the study compared with baseline (37%, 26 of 70) and were confirmed by interview for 46 (85%) of 54 men with available data overall. Treatment was generally well accepted, with low incidences of penile pain (23%), prolonged erection, which resolved spontaneously (6%), and fibrosis (1%).
Intracavernosal alprostadil was effective, acceptable, and generally well tolerated in men with arteriogenic erectile dysfunction. Long-term treatment improved the penile circulation, and most men reported an increase in return of spontaneous erections.
The authors report a case of mutism that was ultimately found to be associated with chronic cocaine use in an adult woman. Brain dysfunction was confirmed by SPECT scan, which revealed reduced cerebral blood perfusion and areas of infarction, presumably consequent to the cocaine addiction. This is the first reported case of such an association.
Despite intensive therapy the mortality of acute liver failure without organ transplantation is 60-90%. Because of organ shortage in liver transplantation, a significant number of patients dies while being on the waiting list. In order to diminish the mortality, various trials were introduced to remove the albumin-bound and water-soluble toxins in liver failure with the aim to support the spontaneous regeneration of the liver and maintaining the patients alive until liver transplantation. Prometheus treatment is a relatively new technique combining Fractionated Plasma Separation and Adsorption (FPSA) with a high-flux dialysis. During the procedure the patient's own separated albumin-rich plasma passes through special adsorbents making possible the elimination of albumin-bound toxins, while hemodialysis gets rid of water-soluble toxins.
The authors' intention was to demonstrate the efficiency of Prometheus treatment in acute liver failure caused by intoxication.
Prometheus treatment was indicated in three patients who suffered from severe intoxication with paracetamol, potassium permanganate and Amanita phalloides, which resulted in a hepatic failure incurable with conservative therapy.
Ten treatments were performed in the three female patients. No serious complication was observed. Due to the treatment the albumin-bound (indirect bilirubin p = 0.048; bile acid p = 0.001) and water-soluble (direct bilirubin p = 0.002; creatinine p = 0.007) toxins were significantly decreased. The level of ammonia, urea nitrogen, fibrinogen and antithrombin III did not change significantly. All the three patients were cured without liver transplantation.
Prometheus treatment removes efficiently the accumulating toxins in acute liver failure. It is a safe elimination technique. In cases untreatable with conservative therapy it makes possible maintaining the patients alive until the liver regenerates spontaneously, or liver transplantation is feasible.
A 9-year series of 45 intracranial and spinal hematomas in patients under oral anticoagulant treatment with phenprocoumon was analyzed and compared to data from the literature. In 42% of the patients, International Normalized Ratio (INR) values >4.5 were found on admission, 36% were older than 70 years and most patients (38%) were under long-term treatment after cardiac valve replacement. Patients who recovered did not report to have given informed consent at the start of anticoagulant therapy. Because an average of five serious hemorrhages are reported/year from German neurosurgical departments, it can be estimated that about 650 intracerebral or intraspinal hematomas, including about 250 fatalities/year occur in Germany under oral anticoagulant treatment. These complications reach the same incidence than spontaneous hematomas either from aneurysms or angiomas. Standards for indications, clinical control, quality INR testing and INR targets not exceeding 4.0, and collecting more data on incidences and causative factors of complications may be an important contribution to reduce these fatalities.
The activity of selective and nonselective muscarinic antagonists was examined in different experimental models. According to the results obtained, the protective effect of muscarinic antagonists during acute dichlordivinyl phosphate (DDVP) poisoning depends on the M1-subtype cholinoreceptor blockade. Meanwhile the efficiency of muscarinic antagonists in inhibition of tremor reaction induced by arecoline administration is associated with interaction between the drugs and the M2-subtype. The blocking of presynaptic M2-cholinoreceptors is likely to cause the decrease of protective potency of muscarinic antagonists in acute DDVP poisoning.
A woman pregnant with her second child was given sulfisoxazole (Gantrisin) during her eighth month of pregnancy for a urinary tract infection. Her 34-week-old male infant was stillborn with hydrops fetalis and severe anemia. The mother was found to be glucose-6-phosphate-dehydrogenase (G-6-PDH) deficient. Ingestion of the drug which is known to produce hemolysis in G-6-PDH-deficient people may have compromised the male infant by creating an abundance of bilirubin via massive hemolysis and also retarding its elimnation by competing with bilirubin for albumin-binding sites. This case identifies a newly recognized danger in the use of sulfonzmides in the third trimester of pregnancy.
Temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) is a condition characterized by an imbalance between excitation and inhibition in the temporal lobe. Hallmarks of this change are axon sprouting and accompanying synaptic reorganization in the temporal lobe. Synthetic and endogenous cannabinoids have variable therapeutic potential in treating intractable temporal lobe epilepsy, in part because cannabinoid ligands can bind multiple receptor types. This study utilized in vitro electrophysiological methods to examine the effect of transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1) activation in dentate gyrus granule cells in a murine model of TLE. Capsaicin, a selective TRPV1 agonist had no measurable effect on overall synaptic input to granule cells in control animals, but significantly enhanced spontaneous and miniature EPSC frequency in mice with TLE. Exogenous application of anandamide, an endogenous cannabinoid that acts at both TRPV1 and cannabinoid type 1 receptors (CB1R), also enhanced glutamate release in the presence of a CB1R antagonist. Anandamide reduced the EPSC frequency when TRPV1 were blocked with capsazepine. Western blot analysis of TRPV1 receptor indicated protein expression was significantly greater in the dentate gyrus of mice with TLE compared with control mice. This study indicates that a prominent cannabinoid agonist can increase excitatory circuit activity in the synaptically reorganized dentate gyrus of mice with TLE by activating TRPV1 receptors, and suggests caution in designing anticonvulsant therapy based on modulating the endocannabinoid system.
Narcotic substitution is now widely used. Morphine can induce a spasm of the sphincter of Oddi but dilation of bile duct has been reported only in an anecdotal case. In June 1995, we observed a first case of dilation of the common bile duct without organic obstacle in a hepatitis C virus (HCV)-infected patient who was under narcotic substitution, suggesting a causal relationship. We conducted a prospective study to evaluate the precise prevalence of bile duct abnormalities related to narcotic substitution in active intravenous drug or ex-intravenous drug users referred to our liver unit for histologic evaluation of HCV infection. We conducted a prospective study in a 30-month period of 334 HCV-infected patients, including 36 receiving narcotic substitution with methadone or buprenorphine. Biliary tract was analyzed by ultrasonography and by endoscopy ultrasound in cases of bile duct abnormalities. Of the 36 patients under narcotic substitution, 3 (8.3%) had asymptomatic dilated bile duct without organic obstacle--defined as a common bile duct > or =9 mm--compared to 1 of 298 (0.03%; p < 0.001) of those who did not receive substitution. Narcotic substitution may lead to bile duct dilation that does not require invasive diagnosis procedures.
A 28-year-old patient with a 5-year history of bipolar disorder developed signs of encephalopathy 2 weeks after the addition of valproic acid to his treatment regimen of doxepine, risperidone, and biperidene. The clinical signs were drowsiness, ataxic gait, asterixis, and a generalized epileptic seizure. Discontinuation of valproic acid gradually resulted in complete remission of these symptoms. Valproate encephalopathy has been described mainly in patients receiving anticonvulsant polytherapy. This complication might become more prevalent in psychiatric pharmacotherapy due to the increasing use of valproic acid.
Vitamin D(3) affects the immuno response and improves experimental autoimmune diseases. We investigated the effect of 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol (1,25[OH](2)D(3)) Rocaltrol as a single immunosuppressive agent and in combination with low-dose cyclosporin A (CsA) in vascularized liver allografts in rats in a high-responder strain combination (ACI-->Lewis). Recipients were placed on a low-calcium diet 7 days before transplantation and were treated with 0.1 or 1 microg/kg/d 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) intraperitoneally beginning 3 days before transplantation. Treatment combining 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) with CsA (2 mg/kg/d) was also tested. Graft function and survival, histologic rejection, and concentrations of interleukin (IL)-2, -4, -10, and -12 in serum and in grafts were measured. 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) increased allograft survival in a dose-dependent manner when compared with controls (P <.05 for both groups). Serum bilirubin, aspartate transaminase (AST), and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activities were significantly lower in 1,25(OH)(2)D(3)-treated animals. Vitamin D reduced the concentration of IL-2 and IL-12 in serum and in grafts, and increased IL-4 and IL-10 in the grafts. The rejection activity index 10 days after transplantation was significantly lower in low- and high-dose 1,25(OH)(2)D(3)-treated rats compared with vehicle-treated controls (P <.0001 for both groups). The combination of either low-dose or high-dose vitamin D(3) and CsA prolonged graft survival when compared with low-dose CsA only (P <.05 for both groups). After 3 weeks, hypercalcemia developed in high-dose 1,25(OH)(2)D(3)-treated rats. It is concluded that 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) prolongs survival of liver allografts in rats by decreasing the severity of acute rejection. Analogues of vitamin D with fewer hypercalcemic effects may have potential as immunosuppressive drugs in liver transplantation.
Human exposure to insoluble and soluble nickel compounds is extensive. Besides wide usage in many industries, nickel compounds are contained in cigarette smoke and, in low levels, in ambient particulate matter. Soluble nickel particulate, especially nickel sulfate (NiSO(4)), has been associated with acute lung injury. To begin identifying genes controlling susceptibility to NiSO(4), mean survival times (MSTs) of eight inbred mouse strains were determined after aerosol exposure. Whereas A/J (A) mice were sensitive, C57BL/6J (B6) mice survived nearly twice as long (resistant). Their offspring were similarly resistant, demonstrating heritability as a dominant trait. Quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis of backcross mice generated from these strains identified a region on chromosome 6 significantly linked to survival time. Regions on chromosomes 1 and 12 were suggestive of linkage and regions on chromosomes 8, 9, and 16 contributed to the response. Haplotype analysis demonstrated that QTLs on chromosomes 6, 9, 12, and 16 could explain the MST difference between the parental strains. To complement QTL analysis results, cDNA microarray analysis was assessed following NiSO(4) exposure of A and B6 mice. Significant expression changes were identified in one or both strains for >100 known genes. Closer evaluation of these changes revealed a temporal pattern of increased cell proliferation, extracellular matrix repair, hypoxia, and oxidative stress, followed by diminished surfactant proteins. Certain expressed sequence tags clustered with known genes, suggesting possible co-regulation and novel roles in pulmonary injury. Together, results from QTL and microarray analyses of nickel-induced acute lung injury survival allowed us to generate a short list of candidate genes.
In 11 hypertriglyceridemic patients on hemodialysis, clofibrate (1 to 1.50 g per week) reduced plasma triglyceride (-40 +/- 20%, P less than 0.001), very-low-density-lipoprotein triglyceride (-44 +/- 20%, P less than 0.001) and very-low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (-39 +/- 25%, P less than 0.01), and it increased high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol (82 +/- 106%, P less than 0.005). Low pretreatment lipoprotein-lipase activity in adipose-tissue specimens and postheparin plasma increased to normal with clofibrate, whereas low hepatic triglyceride lipase activity did not change. The reduced very-low-density-lipoprotein triglyceride correlated with the increased lipoprotein-lipase activity in adipose tissue (rs = 0.792, P less than 0.02, n = 8) and postheparin plasma (rs = 0.851, P less than 0.02, n = 8), whereas increased high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol correlated with changes in this activity in adipose tissue (rs = 0.696, P less than 0.06) and post-heparin plasma (rs = 0.679, P less than 0.10). There was no correlation between changes in hepatic triglyceride lipase activity and plasma lipids during treatment. Reduced lipoprotein-lipase activity may cause hypertriglyceridemia and decreased high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol in patients on hemodialysis; clofibrate may correct these abnormalities by increasing lipoprotein-lipase activity to normal.
Arsenic trioxide (ATO) has recently emerged as a promising therapeutic agent in leukemia because of its ability to induce apoptosis. However, there is no sufficient evidence to support its therapeutic use for other types of cancers. In this study, we investigated if, and how, 17-dimethylaminoethylamino-17-demethoxy-geldanamycin (17-DMAG), an antagonist of heat shock protein 90 (HSP90), and KNK437, a HSP synthesis inhibitor, potentiated the cytotoxic effect of ATO. Our results showed that cotreatment with ATO and either 17-DMAG or KNK437 significantly increased ATO-induced cell death and apoptosis. siRNA-mediated attenuation of the expression of the inducible isoform of HSP70 (HSP70i) or HSP90alpha/beta also enhanced ATO-induced apoptosis. In addition, cotreatment with ATO and 17-DMAG or KNK437 significantly increased ATO-induced mitotic arrest and ATO-induced BUBR1 phosphorylation and PDS1 accumulation. Cotreatment also significantly increased the percentage of mitotic cells with abnormal mitotic spindles and promoted metaphase arrest as compared to ATO treatment alone. These results indicated that 17-DMAG or KNK437 may enhance ATO cytotoxicity by potentiating mitotic arrest and mitotic apoptosis possibly through increased activation of the spindle checkpoint.
A phase II study testing the safety and efficacy of irinotecan (CPT-11). 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), and leucovorin (LCV) was conducted in patients with advanced gastric adenocarcinomas.
Patients with metastatic or recurrent adenocarcinoma of the gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) or stomach were entered onto this study. Previous chemotherapy for metastatic disease was not allowed. Treatment consisted of repeated 6-week cycles comprising CPT-11 125 mg/m2 intravenously (i.v.) followed immediately by LCV 20 mg/m2 i.v. and 5-FU 500 mg/m2 i.v., all given weekly for four weeks followed by a two-week rest.
Thirty-eight patients were enrolled and 36 eligible patients received protocol therapy. Grade 3-5 toxicities consisted primarily of neutropenia (36%) and diarrhea (28%). Neutropenic infection was observed in 14% of patients, with 3 (8%) dying of neutropenic sepsis. The overall response rate was 22% (95% confidence interval [CI] 8.5% to 35.5%). Median survival was 7.6 months, and median time to progression was 4.4 months.
This weekly regimen of CPT-11 with bolus 5-FU/LCV is active in patients with advanced adenocarcinomas of the stomach or gastroesophageal junction. While rates of grade 3-4 neutropenia and diarrhea were similar to those observed historically in patients receiving this regimen for colorectal cancer, neutropenic fever/sepsis appeared to be more frequent, and dose modifications were substantial. Future trials of this combination in patients with gastric cancer should decrease the absolute starting drug doses and/ or employ altered scheduling that better accommodates the pattern of toxicity.
Inappropriate gene silencing and subsequent promiscuous activity define the transformation of many solid tumours including renal cell carcinoma (RCC). Here, we report that UNC5C, one of the Netrin-1 receptors, was frequently inactivated in RCC cell lines and primary tumours. UNC5C protein was expressed in the proximal convoluted tubules of the human kidney, the presumed origin of clear cell RCC (ccRCC) and papillary RCC (pRCC). Compared to paired adjacent non-malignant tissues, both UNC5C mRNA and protein expression were significantly down-regulated in RCC. Immunohistochemical analysis showed that UNC5C was inactivated in 94.3% of the samples and the loss of UNC5C occurred at the early stage of RCC. Methylation specific PCR showed that UNC5C promoter was methylated in two renal carcinoma cell lines. Pharmacologic demethylation alone or in combination with inhibition of deacetylation dramatically induced UNC5C expression. Furthermore, bisulfite genomic sequencing (BGS) confirmed that dense methylation existed in UNC5C promoter. In paired tumour samples, UNC5C methylation was observed in 12 out of 44 patients (27.3%). Moreover, we analysed the loss of heterozygosity (LOH) of UNC5C in renal cell carcinoma, the LOH was observed in 27 out of 44 patients (61.4%). Finally, restoration of UNC5C expression suppressed the colony formation of renal carcinoma cells. In addition, UNC5C inhibited tumour cell proliferation, migration and enhanced chemosensitivity to cisplatin and etoposide. Therefore, UNC5C acts as a tumour suppressor in RCC and is down-regulated in RCC. Loss of heterozygosity and DNA methylation contribute to the inactivation of UNC5C in renal cell carcinoma.
A 71-year old man with failed back syndrome was admitted to hospital with oliguria that had occurred 4 days after his dose of paroxetine had been increased to 40 mg x day(-1). Laboratory data on admission revealed hyponatremia (124 mmol x l(-1)), low serum osmolarity (267 mOsm x l(-1)) with a normal level of serum antidiuretic hormone (1.7 pg x ml(-1)), and concentrated urine (430 mOsm x l(-1)). He was diagnosed as having syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone, associated with paroxetine; this drug was discontinued immediately after admission. The hyponatremia was treated with saline infusion, water restriction, and furosemide; serum sodium level returned to normal on hospital day 5. Paroxetine is being increasingly used for depression and chronic pain management because of its favorable side-effect profile; however, we should be alert to hyponatremia in patients on paroxetine by carrying out periodic monitoring of serum electrolytes, especially in elderly patients.
