A 7 months-old child affected of West syndrome presented a cardiac hypertrophy with subaortic obstruction induced by adrenocorticotropic hormone treatment. The administration of this hormone may induce a Cushing syndrome; at high doses has chronotropic and inotropic positive effects and may produce arterial hypertension and cardiac hypertrophy. We pointed out the importance of the echocardiography-Doppler in the diagnosis and follow-up of the cardiac hypertrophy with subaortic obstruction as well as the reversibility of the cardiac involvement when the drug is suppressed.
Cutaneous infection with Leishmania braziliensis complex requires treatment with parenteral pentavalent antimonials to prevent development of mucocutaneous leishmaniasis. Patients with imported disease are usually managed in hospital because of concerns over drug toxicity. This study describes the clinical features and outcome of infection treated in the UK in an out-patient setting. Thirteen marines (aged 19-35 years) who acquired leishmaniasis in Belize were studied prospectively. Three had at least two lesions (0. 6-3 cm diameter), eight had regional lymphadenopathy and one had localized painless lymphatic thickening. Histology for amastigotes and PCR for Leishmania braziliensis complex was positive in all. Culture was positive in six. Patients received 1.5-2 g (mean 1.7 g) (20 mg/kg) sodium stibogluconate intravenously daily for 20 days. All developed transient musculoskeletal symptoms and asymptomatic hepatitis. Eleven developed biochemical pancreatitis, and one thrombocytopenia. Three developed transient ECG changes and one herpes zoster. There were four device-related infections, two requiring hospitalization (one required surgical drainage of an abscess). All lesions re-epithelialized. A total of 250 bed-days were saved over a 67-day period. These results indicate that in selected patients, out-patient therapy for cutaneous leishmaniasis with parenteral high-dose sodium stibogluconate may be appropriate, provided there is adequate monitoring of therapy.
To report a case of fatal intracranial bleeding possibly due to an interaction between warfarin and inactivated influenza vaccination.
A 64-year-old white male was admitted to the hospital after becoming unresponsive. The family reported a 2-day history of bleeding from the patient's rectum prior to admission. He had no recent changes in medical conditions or medication regimen, which included warfarin for stroke prophylaxis secondary to atrial fibrillation. The patient had received an inactivated influenza vaccine 4(1/2) weeks prior to presentation, at which time his international normalized ratio (INR) was 2.0. Upon admission, the patient's INR was greater than 15; INR values over the previous 6 months had been relatively stable (range 1.4-4.7). A noncontrast computed tomography scan of the head showed a large parenchymal hemorrhagic infarction involving the left temporal, parietal, and occipital lobes. In the emergency department, the patient received a nitroglycerin infusion to maintain systolic blood pressure in the range of 140-160 mm Hg as well as an infusion of 4 units of fresh frozen plasma and 10 mg of vitamin K. Following a neurosurgery evaluation, it was determined that nothing meaningful could be done to alter the patient's outcome positively, and he died approximately 17 hours after admission.
To date, most reports of concomitant warfarin therapy and influenza vaccination indicate no significant change in average anticoagulation parameters. However, there are reports of individuals who may have experienced increased anticoagulation following influenza vaccination. The reason for these increases is unknown, but may involve only certain components of the vaccine, which is altered almost annually. Our patient's significant INR elevation, after being relatively stable for at least 6 months, was thought to be due to an interaction between warfarin and the influenza vaccination. The Horn Drug Interaction Probability Scale indicated a possible interaction between warfarin and the influenza vaccination.
Considering the outcome in our patient, as well as outcomes in other individuals who have experienced an increased INR in a similar scenario, it appears justified to implement more frequent INR evaluations during the 4-6 weeks following influenza vaccination.
HLA-DR allelic variants have been associated with tuberculosis (TB) susceptibility in different populations with risk ratios of 3.7 to 7.2. We hypothesized that the genetic susceptibility to TB depends upon the reduced capability of HLA-class II alleles of TB patients to bind and select peptide antigen from the Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB) expressed genome. To test this hypothesis, we developed a software that can predict HLA-DR restricted epitopes within the whole MTB genome based on quantitative peptide binding matrices. We analyzed the number of MTB epitopes recognized in two previously described populations of TB patients and matched controls and in a control population comprised of individuals affected by a sarcoid-like granuloma induced by beryllium and by healthy exposed controls. The number of putative epitopes within the whole MTB genome which could be bound by any HLA-DR allele (HLA-DR immunome of MTB) was 405,422 out of 1,304,277 possible 9-mers i.e., 31.08% of the global capability, instead of the expected 35%. When tested at an affinity level equivalent of the 1% of the best binder peptides, the HLA-DR alleles (HLA-DRB1*0801, *0802, *1401, *1501 and *1502) associated with TB susceptibility recognized a significantly lower mean number of MTB-epitopes (7,862 +/- 4,258) than the MTB-epitopes recognized by HLA-DR alleles (HLA-DRB1*0301, *0701, *1101, *1102, *1301 and *1302) negatively associated with TB (11,376 +/- 1,984, p<0.032). The number of epitopes bound at high affinity out of the whole MTB genome by the combination of the two HLA-DR alleles carried by each individual was lower in TB patients [TB-population 1: 11,341 +/- 908 (mean+SEM); TB-population 2: 15,303 +/- 657] than in matched healthy controls (CTR-population 1: 13,587 +/- 605, p<0.03 vs TB-population 1; CTR-population 2: 1,6841 +/- 555, p<0.04 vs TB-population 2). No difference was seen in individuals with the sarcoid-like granuloma induced by beryllium compared to the exposed healthy (beryllium-hypersensitivity: 17,593 +/- 447; controls 18,014 +/- 421; p=0.57). The data suggest that HLA-DR alleles associated with susceptibility to tuberculosis may be endowed with a reduced capability to bind at high affinity T-cell epitopes and select them for antigen presentation. The same alleles may contribute to determine the reaction to mycobacteria in non tuberculous granulomatous disorders.
Symptomatic bradycardia in the emergency department may have several causes (excessive vagal tone, drug toxicity, acute myocardial ischemia, sick sinus syndrome, heart block, and electrolyte imbalance); among these, hyperkalemia may develop as a complication of chronic medical treatment with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin-receptor blockers, and must be considered in the early approach to the bradyarrhythmic patient with possible electrocardiographic signs of hyperkalemia. We report a case of an 87-year-old woman with a clinical history of chronic angiotensin-receptor blocker consumption that led her to dangerous bradyarrhythmia, cardiogenic syncope, and risk of sudden cardiac death.
We report 2 children with acute leukemia who developed symptomatic cholelithiasis and choledocholithiasis shortly after receiving sequential high-dose cytarabine and asparaginase. Known risk factors for gallstone formation were not present in our patients. These children did not experience any unusual therapy-related hepatic toxicity after laparoscopic cholecystectomy.
To test the hypothesis that ibuprofen administration during modified muscle use reduces muscle necrosis and invasion by select myeloid cell populations.
Rats were subjected to hindlimb unloading for 10 days, after which they experienced muscle reloading by normal weight-bearing to induce muscle inflammation and necrosis. Some animals received ibuprofen by intraperitoneal injection 8 h prior to the onset of muscle reloading, and then again at 8 and 16 h following the onset of reloading. Other animals received buffer injection at 8 h prior to reloading and then ibuprofen at 8 and 16 h following the onset of reloading. Control animals received buffer only at each time point. Quantitative immunohistochemical analysis was used to assess the presence of necrotic muscle fibers, total inflammatory infiltrate, neutrophils, ED1+ macrophages and ED2+ macrophages at 24 h following the onset of reloading.
Administration of ibuprofen beginning 8 h prior to reloading caused significant reduction in the concentration of necrotic fibers, but increased the concentration of inflammatory cells in muscle. The increase in inflammatory cells was attributable to a 2.6-fold increase in the concentration of ED2+ macrophages. Animals treated with ibuprofen 8 h following the onset of reloading showed no decrease in muscle necrosis or increase in ED2+ macrophage concentrations.
Administration of ibuprofen prior to increased muscle loading reduces muscle damage, but increases the concentration of macrophages that express the ED2 antigen. The increase in ED2+ macrophage concentration and decrease in necrosis may be mechanistically related because ED2+ macrophages have been associated with muscle regeneration and repair.
To search for the molecular defect of Japanese-type acatalasemia, we cloned the mutant catalase gene from a person with this deficiency. The nucleotide sequence of the mutant gene was determined for all exons, exon/intron junctions, and 5' and 3' flanking regions, and the findings were compared with the sequence from the normal gene. Seven base differences were found between the two genes. Among them, a G to A substitution at the fifth position of intron 4 (a splicing mutation) seemed most likely to be responsible for the defective catalase synthesis in the subject. To obtain suggestive evidence, we constructed chimeric genes that contained a segment of either the normal or mutant catalase gene, encompassing a 3' part of exon 4, the entire intron 4 and a 5' portion of exon 5, within the third exon of the human alpha-globin gene. When this chimeric gene construct was introduced into simian virus 40-transformed simian cells (COS-7), the transcript of the normal catalase/alpha-globin chimeric gene was spliced correctly, as revealed by Northern blotting and RNase mapping techniques. In contrast, the splicing of the mutant chimeric pre-mRNA occurred between the 5' donor site of the preceding intron and the 3' acceptor site of the intron containing the substitution, thereby skipping one entire exon sequence. Thus, the G to A transition at the fifth position of intron 4 of the catalase gene indeed severely limits the correct splicing of the RNA product. The same splice site mutation was found in the genomic DNA of another acatalasemic individual from an unrelated family. We suggest that this base substitution is the causal mutation of these cases of Japanese-type acatalasemia.
Reduction in uteroplacental perfusion (RUPP) in pregnant rats is associated with hypertension, elevated cytokines, and activation of the endothelin (ET-1) system. Our objective was to determine whether the antiinflammatory properties of 17-alpha-hydroxyprogesterone caproate (17 OHP) reduce cytokine-stimulated vasoactive pathways that are associated with hypertension in response to placental ischemia.
Mean arterial pressure (MAP), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin (IL)-6, and renal ET-1 were measured in the following: pregnant controls, pregnant controls plus 17 OHP (6.6 mg/kg), RUPP rats, and RUPP rats plus 17 OHP.
MAP increased 29 mm Hg in RUPP rats compared with pregnant controls (P < .001), whereas in RUPP plus 17 OHP rats, MAP increased only 19 mm Hg (P < .05). TNF-alpha and IL-6 increased 2- to 3-fold, respectively, in response to placental ischemia but was normalized in RUPP rats treated with 17 OHP. ET-1 increased 3-fold in RUPP rats but was markedly less in RUPP plus 17 OHP rats.
17 OHP blunts hypertension associated with RUPP, possibly via suppression of cytokine-stimulated ET-1 activation.
The gene responsible for the polydactyly/arhinencephaly (Pdn/Pdn) mouse, which exhibits polysyndactyly and arhinencephaly and has a 13.2% risk of neural tube defects (NTD), has been identified as Gli3. Ochratoxin A (OTA) is a teratogen causing NTD in mice. When Pdn/Pdn embryos were exposed to 2 mg/kg of OTA on day 7.5, the incidence of NTD in Pdn/Pdn fetuses increased to 51.6%. Pre-treatment with folinic acid (FA), metabolically the most active form of folic acid, before OTA-treatment decreased the incidence of NTD to 20.8%. We investigated the effect of OTA and FA on gene expression in day 9 embryos using whole-mount in situ hybridization and real-time PCR. Over-expression of Fgf8 was observed at the anterior neural ridge (ANR) in the non-treated Pdn/Pdn. Over-expression at the ANR expanded in the OTA-treated Pdn/Pdn, and it was ameliorated by pretreatment with FA. Emx2 signal was observed in the dorsal forebrain in the non-treated +/+, but disappeared in the OTA-treated +/+, and was recovered by FA. The Emx2 signal was pale and the expression amount was depressed in the non-treated and OTA-treated Pdn/Pdn embryos. It was suggested that down-regulation of Gli3 induced the over-expression of Fgf8 at the ANR, that OTA treatment accelerated the over-expression, and that pretreatment with FA ameliorated the OTA-induced over-expression of Fgf8 in the Pdn/Pdn. It was also suggested that down-regulation of Gli3 induced the down-regulation of Emx2 in the Pdn/Pdn. It was further speculated that the over-expression of Fgf8 at the ANR and down-regulation of Emx2 in the dorsal forebrain may contribute to NTD induction.
Exposure to airborne particles is associated with increased cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. During the combustion of chlorine-containing hazardous materials and fuels, chlorinated hydrocarbons chemisorb to the surface of transition metal-oxide-containing particles, reduce the metal, and form an organic free radical. These radical-particle systems can survive in the environment for days and are called environmentally persistent free radicals (EPFRs). This study determined whether EPFRs could decrease left ventricular function before and after ischemia and reperfusion (I/R) in vivo. Male Brown-Norway rats were dosed (8 mg/kg, intratracheal) 24 h prior to testing with particles containing the EPFR of 1, 2-dichlorobenzene (DCB230). DCB230 treatment decreased systolic and diastolic function. DCB230 also produced pulmonary and cardiac inflammation. After ischemia, systolic, but not diastolic function was significantly decreased in DCB230-treated rats. Ventricular function was not affected by I/R in control rats. There was greater oxidative stress in the heart and increased 8-isoprostane (biomarker of oxidative stress) in the plasma of treated vs. control rats after I/R. These data demonstrate for the first time that DCB230 can produce inflammation and significantly decrease cardiac function at baseline and after I/R in vivo. Furthermore, these data suggest that EPFRs may be a risk factor for cardiac toxicity in healthy individuals and individuals with ischemic heart disease. Potential mechanisms involving cytokines/chemokines and/or oxidative stress are discussed.
Fourteen of 39 dialysis patients (36%) became hypercalcemic after switching to calcium carbonate as their principal phosphate binder. In order to identify risk factors associated with the development of hypercalcemia, indirect parameters of intestinal calcium reabsorption and bone turnover rate in these 14 patients were compared with results in 14 eucalcemic patients matched for age, sex, length of time on dialysis, and etiology of renal disease. In addition to experiencing hypercalcemic episodes with peak calcium values of 2.7 to 3.8 mmol/L (10.7 to 15.0 mg/dL), patients in the hypercalcemic group exhibited a significant increase in the mean calcium concentration obtained during 6 months before the switch, compared with the mean value obtained during the 7 months of observation after the switch (2.4 +/- 0.03 to 2.5 +/- 0.03 mmol/L [9.7 +/- 0.2 to 10.2 +/- 0.1 mg/dL], P = 0.006). In contrast, eucalcemic patients exhibited no change in mean calcium values over the same time period (2.3 +/- 0.05 to 2.3 +/- 0.05 mmol/L [9.2 +/- 0.2 to 9.2 +/- 0.2 mg/dL]). CaCO3 dosage, calculated dietary calcium intake, and circulating levels of vitamin D metabolites were similar in both groups. Physical activity index and predialysis serum bicarbonate levels also were similar in both groups. However, there was a significant difference in parameters reflecting bone turnover rates between groups.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A case of hypertrichosis due to the hypotensive drug minoxidil is described. A review of the literature suggests that this complication appears in nearly all patients treated with this drug. The mechanism is unknown, but the similarity to the cases of hypertrichosis due to diazoxide, another potent vasodilator, suggests that increased cutaneous blood flow may be a factor.
We created knock-in mice in which a deletion of 3 base pairs coding for K210 in cardiac troponin (cTn)T found in familial dilated cardiomyopathy patients was introduced into endogenous genes. Membrane-permeabilized cardiac muscle fibers from mutant mice showed significantly lower Ca(2+) sensitivity in force generation than those from wild-type mice. Peak amplitude of Ca(2+) transient in cardiomyocytes was increased in mutant mice, and maximum isometric force produced by intact cardiac muscle fibers of mutant mice was not significantly different from that of wild-type mice, suggesting that Ca(2+) transient was augmented to compensate for decreased myofilament Ca(2+) sensitivity. Nevertheless, mutant mice developed marked cardiac enlargement, heart failure, and frequent sudden death recapitulating the phenotypes of dilated cardiomyopathy patients, indicating that global functional defect of the heart attributable to decreased myofilament Ca(2+) sensitivity could not be fully compensated by only increasing the intracellular Ca(2+) transient. We found that a positive inotropic agent, pimobendan, which directly increases myofilament Ca(2+) sensitivity, had profound effects of preventing cardiac enlargement, heart failure, and sudden death. These results verify the hypothesis that Ca(2+) desensitization of cardiac myofilament is the absolute cause of the pathogenesis of dilated cardiomyopathy associated with this mutation and strongly suggest that Ca(2+) sensitizers are beneficial for the treatment of dilated cardiomyopathy patients affected by sarcomeric regulatory protein mutations.
Hypotension associated with the rapid infusion of human serum albumin products was first recognised in Australasia in the early 1970s. An association with the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor class of drugs (ACE-I) followed, leading to a proposed mechanism involving bradykinin generation through pre-kallikrein activator (PKA) presence in the infused fluid. The newer generation albumin products (Albumex) contain very low concentrations of PKA and are generally thought safe to use in most patient populations. Anecdotal reports of paradoxical hypotension with rapid infusion of 4% albumin in our department led to an audit of practice over three months. Four out of 36 patients (11%) who received 4% albumin intravenously experienced paradoxical hypotension. Three of these patients were taking ACE-I preoperatively (P=0.04). There was no observed hypotension associated with intravenous infusion of crystalloid fluid. We believe 4% albumin should be used with caution, particularly in those patients receiving ACE-I preoperatively.
Abnormal involuntary movements known as dyskinesias are amongst the most disabling side-effects of levodopa therapy. It is thought that amantadine, an NMDA-receptor antagonist, may reduce dyskinesias in patients with Parkinson's disease without worsening Parkinsonian symptoms.
To compare the efficacy and safety of adjuvant amantadine therapy versus placebo in treating dyskinesia in patients with Parkinson's disease, already established on levodopa, and suffering from motor complications.
Electronic searches of The Cochrane Controlled Trials Register (The Cochrane Library Issue 3, 2001), MEDLINE (1966-2001), EMBASE (1974-2001), SCISEARCH (1974-2001), BIOSIS (1993-2001), GEROLIT (1979-2001), OLDMEDLINE (1957-1965), LILACS (1982-2001), MedCarib (17th Century - 2001), PASCAL (1973-2001), JICST-EPLUS (1985-2001), RUSSMED (1973-2001), DISSERTATION ABSTRACTS (2000-2001), SIGLE (1980-2001), ISI-ISTP (1990-2001), Aslib Index to Theses (2001), Clinicaltrials.gov (2001), metaRegister of Controlled Trials (2001), NIDRR (2001) and NRR (2001) were conducted. Grey literature was hand searched and the reference lists of identified studies and reviews examined. The manufacturers of amantadine were contacted.
Randomised controlled trials comparing amantadine with placebo in the treatment of dyskinesia in patients with a clinical diagnosis of idiopathic Parkinson's disease.
Data was abstracted independently by NC and KD onto standardised forms and disagreements were resolved by discussion.
Three randomised controlled trials were found comparing amantadine with placebo in the treatment of dyskinesia in patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease. Three trials were excluded on the basis that they had no control group and a further three did not state whether they randomised the treatment that participants received. The included trials were double-blind cross-over studies involving a total of 53 patients. All three studies failed to present data from the first arm, instead presenting results as combined data from both treatment arms and both placebo arms. Two trials had no wash-out interval between the treatment periods. In view of the risk of a carry-over effect into the second arm, the results of these trials were not analysed. The final trial had a one week wash-out interval but only examined 11 participants. One study reported side-effects of amantadine in 8 of the 18 participants, including confusion and worsening of hallucinations. Another reported reversible edema of both feet in one of eleven participants.
Due to lack of evidence it is impossible to determine whether amantadine is a safe and effective form of treatment for levodopa-induced dyskinesias in patients with Parkinson's disease.
Little is known about the incidence and evolution of proteinuria as a complication of sirolimus rescue in children. This study describes pediatric renal transplant (Tx) recipients who were treated with sirolimus and who developed heavy proteinuria. Risk factors for the development of proteinuria and its time course are explored.
Data at various time points after sirolimus introduction were abstracted from the records of children treated at the author's center. The repeated measures general linear model and the Student's paired t test were used to analyze changes in laboratory values over time.
Of the 13 children on sirolimus, 12 developed heavy proteinuria after a mean interval of 1 month. The mean urine protein (Up)-to-creatinine (c) ratio increased from 1.1 to a peak value of 3.9 (P=0.003) at 4.6 months after the start of sirolimus. Although not statistically significant, children on no calcineurin inhibitor (CNI) had a greater increase in the Up/c than those on low-dose CNI. At last follow-up, with the use of angiotensin receptor blockers (ARB), the Up/c declined to 2.2. No predictors could be identified for the development of proteinuria.
Heavy proteinuria is common after the use of sirolimus as rescue therapy in children with renal Tx. Whether this is attributable to a toxic effect of the sirolimus itself or to lower CNI exposure is uncertain. Early detection of proteinuria is important to enable prompt intervention. Most children have a reduction in their Up/c with the use of ARB and can therefore be continued on sirolimus.
Primary vaginal clear cell adenocarcinoma (CCA) is a rare gynecological malignancy occurring predominantly in young females with a history of diethylstilbestrol exposure in utero. Vaginal CCA commonly metastasizes to the lungs and the supraclavicular lymph nodes; however we present a rare case of diethylstilbestrol-induced vaginal CCA with cerebral metastases.
A 43-year-old woman with prenatal diethylstilbestrol exposure and history of vaginal CCA treatment 8 years prior to current presentation noted new onset headache and dizziness. MRI showed an enhancing mass in the right frontal lobe. Histopathology was consistent with CCA.
This case report highlights the necessity of close extended follow-up in patients with a history of vaginal CCA and demonstrates the potential for spread of primary vaginal CCA to the brain.
Arsenic exposure is associated with an increased risk of bladder cancer. To explore the distribution of the arsenic methylation capability and myeloperoxidase (MPO) and sulfotransferase (SULT) 1A1 genotypes in patients at different stages and grades of urothelial carcinoma (UC), 112 UC cases were recruited between September 2002 and May 2004 for this study. Urinary arsenic species, including inorganic arsenic (As(III) + As(V)), monomethylarsonic acid, and dimethylarsinic acid, were determined with a high-performance liquid chromatography-linked hydride generator and atomic absorption spectrometry. The MPO and SULT1A1 genotypes were examined with polymerase chain reaction and restriction fragment length polymorphism. Differential effects of the arsenic methylation capability were found among patients with different stages of UC; however, urinary arsenic concentrations were borderline significantly increased with the progress of UC patients regardless of whether or not they had been exposed to arsenic from drinking water. The MPO and SULT genetic polymorphisms might modify the arsenic methylation profile and UC progression, and thus are worthy of further investigation.
The natural history of lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection in renal transplant recipients (RTx) is unclear, despite its increasing incidence. Twenty-nine HBsAg-positive RTx with rising HBV DNA received lamivudine therapy. The course of lamivudine-resistant HBV infection was studied prospectively. During 68.7 +/- 12.5 months of follow-up, 14 (48.3%) patients developed lamivudine resistance, at 10-35 months (mean 16.9 +/- 7.0). All showed mutant sequences at codons 552 and 528 of the YMDD motif, while 13 patients demonstrated wild-type sequence at codon 555. Lamivudine resistance was unrelated to patient demographics, HBeAg status/sero-conversion, or genotype. Following resistance, HBV DNA and alanine aminotransferase showed an initial increase followed by spontaneous gradual reduction. The subsequent peak HBV DNA was lower (1.26 +/- 1.09 x 10(9) vs. 6.26 +/- 12.23 x 10(9) copies/mL, p = 0.011), while that of alanine aminotransferase was higher (196 +/- 117 vs. 77 +/- 47 imicro/l, p = 0.005), compared with pretreatment levels. Post-resistance hepatitic flare occurred in 11 (78.6%) patients. This was transient in four (36.4%), but became chronic in six (54.5%) patients. Decompensation was noted in one patient during this flare, but all survived. We conclude that drug resistance is prevalent in lamivudine-treated RTx. Despite a lower ensuing peak viremia compared with baseline, hepatitic flare is common. While most patients have spontaneous resolution, a minority may develop potentially fatal decompensation during the preceding exacerbation.
Cancer primarily develops because of somatic alterations in the genome. Advances in sequencing have enabled large-scale sequencing studies across many tumor types, emphasizing the discovery of alterations in protein-coding genes. However, the protein-coding exome comprises less than 2% of the human genome. Here we analyze the complete genome sequences of 863 human tumors from The Cancer Genome Atlas and other sources to systematically identify noncoding regions that are recurrently mutated in cancer. We use new frequency- and sequence-based approaches to comprehensively scan the genome for noncoding mutations with potential regulatory impact. These methods identify recurrent mutations in regulatory elements upstream of PLEKHS1, WDR74 and SDHD, as well as previously identified mutations in the TERT promoter. SDHD promoter mutations are frequent in melanoma and are associated with reduced gene expression and poor prognosis. The non-protein-coding cancer genome remains widely unexplored, and our findings represent a step toward targeting the entire genome for clinical purposes.
Age-related degenerative and malignant diseases represent major challenges for health care systems. Elucidation of the molecular mechanisms underlying carcinogenesis and age-associated pathologies is thus of growing biomedical relevance. We identified biallelic germline mutations in SPRTN (also called C1orf124 or DVC1) in three patients from two unrelated families. All three patients are affected by a new segmental progeroid syndrome characterized by genomic instability and susceptibility toward early onset hepatocellular carcinoma. SPRTN was recently proposed to have a function in translesional DNA synthesis and the prevention of mutagenesis. Our in vivo and in vitro characterization of identified mutations has uncovered an essential role for SPRTN in the prevention of DNA replication stress during general DNA replication and in replication-related G2/M-checkpoint regulation. In addition to demonstrating the pathogenicity of identified SPRTN mutations, our findings provide a molecular explanation of how SPRTN dysfunction causes accelerated aging and susceptibility toward carcinoma.
We present a patient who suffered from sleep attacks after starting entacapone in addition to levodopa. Entacapone, a catechol-O-methyl transferase inhibitor, alters the pharmacokinetics of levodopa, leading to increase of levodopa concentration in plasma and brain. This mechanism is suspected to be involved in the pathophysiology of sleep attacks in this case.
