A 4-week oral study was conducted in male rats to characterize and compare the toxicity of four aliphatic ethers (butyl ether, BE; ethyl hexyl ether, EHxE; methyl heptyl ether, MHpE; and 1,6-dimethoxyhexane, DMH) which have been proposed as high-cetane diesel additives. Male Sprague-Dawley rats (280+/-20 g) were divided into groups of seven animals each and were administered by gavage low (2mg/kg body weight), medium (20mg/kg) or high (200mg/kg) doses of BE, EHxE, or MHpE, 5 days per week for 4 weeks. Another group of animals was administered DMH at 200mg/kg while the control group received the vehicle (corn oil at 1 ml/100g bw) only. At the end of the treatment period, relative testis weights and thymus weights were significantly decreased in the DMH group but not in animals receiving BE, EHxE, or MHpE. Microscopic examination revealed degeneration of the seminiferous tubules and reduction of sperm density in the epididymides in the DMH treatment group. Urinary creatine/creatinine ratio, a sensitive indicator of testicular damage, was markedly elevated in the DMH treated animals but not in those treated with BE, EHxE, or MHpE. In the bone marrow, DMH caused mild dyserythropoiesis and dysthrombopoiesis, while BE, EHxE, and MHpE produced mild increases in granulocytes and myelocyte/erythrocyte ratio. All four ethers at 200mg/kg caused mild histological changes in the thyroid but no significant modulation in the circulating thyroxin (T4) or triiodothyronine (T3) levels. All four ethers produced hepatic effects at 200mg/kg consisting of mild, adaptive histological changes, increased urinary ascorbic acid output, and elevation in the activities of one or more xenobiotic metabolizing enzymes (benzyloxyresorufin-O-dealkylase, UDP-glucuronosyltransferase, glutathione-S-transferases). The level of 2-methoxyacetic acid (MAA), a known testicular and developmental toxin, was significantly increased in the urine and plasma of animals treated with DMH but not in those administered the high dose BE, EHxE, or MHpE. Amomg the individual rats treated with DMH, the MAA level appeared to correlate with the severity of toxicity such as testicular and thymic weights, and urinary creatine/creatinine ratio. It is concluded that BE, EHxE, and MHpE differed from DMH in that they did not produce testicular or thymic toxicity. All four ethers at high dose caused changes to the thyroid, liver and bone marrows that were mild and adaptive in nature. MAA appeared to be the proximal toxicant in DMH treated animals but the route by which DMH is metabolized to MAA remains to be elucidated.
In the course of a double-blind comparative trial of mianserin versus amitriptyline in the treatment of depressive illness, E.C.G. was recorded before and after three weeks of treatment in 27 female patients. Mianserin had no consistent effect on heart rate, PR interval, QRS width, or T wave amplitude. This is consistent with other data suggesting that mianserin lacks cardiotoxic effects. In contrast, amitriptyline treatment was associated with increases in heart rate and PR interval, and these effects were statistically significant in comparison to the mianserin group. This finding is consistent with the known cardiotoxicity of amitriptyline.
Gentamicin (G)-induced acute renal failure is characterized by an impairment of glomerular function without apparent changes in glomerular structure. However, G stimulates reactive oxygen species (ROS)-mediated mesangial cell proliferation in vitro. We studied whether G promotes mesangial cell apoptosis in vitro, and if apoptosis and proliferation in parallel may occur in glomerular cells in vivo after a renal damage induced by G treatment.
For in vivo studies, rats were treated with G (100 mg/kg body weight/day) for 6 days, and functional and histologic studies were performed. For in vitro studies, mesangial cell proliferation and apoptosis were evaluated after 24, 48, and 72 hours of 10(-5) mol/L G incubation.
After G injections, the number of nuclei per glomerulus did not change, whereas proliferating and apoptotic cell numbers increased. G increases DNA synthesis and cell number in cultured mesangial cells, and increases markedly the apoptotic cell number. ROS scavengers superoxide dismutase and catalase reduce G-induced mesangial cell apoptosis, whereas the incubation with the ROS donor system xanthine plus xanthine oxidase increases apoptosis to levels similar to G. G-induced cellular proliferation and apoptosis either in vitro or in vivo is associated to an early increase in the pro-apoptotic protein Bax and a delayed increase in the survival protein Bcl-2.
G simultaneously induces proliferation and apoptosis of mesangial cells in vitro and glomerular mesangial cells in vivo. ROS may mediate G-induced mesangial apoptosis in vitro. The equilibrium proliferation/apoptosis may maintain mesangial cell number within normal limits after a G-induced glomerular insult.
Although numerous epidemiological studies have shown that inorganic arsenicals cause skin cancers and hyperkeratoses in humans, there are currently no established mechanisms for their action or animal models. Previous studies in our laboratory using primary human keratinocyte cultures demonstrated that micromolar concentrations of inorganic arsenite increased cell proliferation via the production of keratinocyte-derived growth factors. As recent reports demonstrate that overexpression of keratinocyte-derived growth factors, such as transforming growth factor (TGF)-alpha, promote the formation of skin tumors, we hypothesized that similar events may be responsible for those associated with arsenic skin diseases. Thus, the influence of arsenic in humans with arsenic skin disease and on mouse skin tumor development in transgenic mice was studied. After low-dose application of tetradecanoyl phorbol acetate (TPA), a marked increase in the number of skin papillomas occurred in Tg.AC mice, which carry the v-Ha-ras oncogene, that received arsenic in the drinking water as compared with control drinking water, whereas no papillomas developed in arsenic-treated transgenic mice that did not receive TPA or arsenic/TPA-treated wild-type FVB/N mice. Consistent with earlier in vitro findings, increases in granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) and TGF-alpha mRNA transcripts were found in the epidermis at clinically normal sites within 10 weeks after arsenic treatment. Immunohistochemical staining localized TGF-alpha overexpression to the hair follicles. Injection of neutralizing antibodies to GM-CSF after TPA application reduced the number of papillomas in Tg.AC mice. Analysis of gene expression in samples of skin lesions obtained from humans chronically exposed to arsenic via their drinking water also showed similar alterations in growth factor expression. Although confirmation will be required in nontransgenic mice, these results suggest that arsenic enhances development of skin neoplasias via the chronic stimulation of keratinocyte-derived growth factors and may be a rare example of a chemical carcinogen that acts as a co-promoter.
In situ hybridization methods were used to determine if glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) mRNA-containing neurons within the hilus of the dentate gyrus are vulnerable to seizure-induced damage in a model of chronic seizures. Sprague-Dawley rats were injected intraperitoneally with pilocarpine, and the hippocampal formation was studied histologically at 1, 2, 4, and 8 week intervals after pilocarpine-induced seizures. In situ hybridization histochemistry, using a digoxigenin-labeled GAD cRNA probe, demonstrated a substantial decrease in the number of GAD mRNA-containing neurons in the hilus of the dentate gyrus in the pilocarpine-treated rats as compared to controls at all time intervals. Additional neuronanatomical studies, including cresyl violet staining, neuronal degeneration methods, and histochemical localization of glial fibrillary acidic protein, suggested that the decrease in the number of GAD mRNA-containing neurons was related to neuronal loss rather than to a decrease in GAD mRNA levels. The loss of GAD mRNA-containing neurons in the hilus contrasted with the relative preservation of labeled putative basket cells along the inner margin of the granule cell layer. Quantitative analyses of labeled neurons in three regions of the dentate gyrus in the 1 and 2 week groups showed statistically significant decreases in the mean number of GAD mRNA-containing neurons in the hilus of both groups of experimental animals. No significant differences were found in the molecular layer or the granule cell layer, which included labeled neurons along the lower margin of the granule cell layer. The results indicate that, in this model, a subpopulation of GAD mRNA-containing neurons within the dentate gyrus is selectively vulnerable to seizure-induced damage. Such differential vulnerability appears to be another indication of the heterogeneity of GABA neurons.
Nitroglycerin has been shown to reduce ST-segment elevation during acute myocardial infarction, an effect potentiated in the dog by agents that reverse nitroglycerin-induced hypotension. Our study was designed to determine the effects of combined nitroglycerin and phenylephrine therapy. Ten patients with acute transmural myocardial infarctions received intravenous nitroglycerin, sufficient to reduce mean arterial pressure from 107 +/- 6 to 85 +/- 6 mm Hg (P less than 0.001), for 60 minutes. Left ventricular filling pressure decreased from 19 +/- 2 to 11 +/- 2 mm Hg (P less than 0.001). SigmaST, the sum of ST-segment elevations in 16 precordial leads, decreased (P less than 0.02) with intravenous nitroglycerin. Subsequent addition of phenylephrine infusion, sufficient to re-elevate mean arterial pressure to 106 +/- 4 mm Hg (P less than 0.001) for 30 minutes, increased left ventricular filling pressure to 17 +/- 2 mm Hg (P less than 0.05) and also significantly increased sigmaST (P less than 0.05). Our results suggest that addition of phenylephrine to nitroglycerin is not beneficial in the treatment of patients with acute myocardial infarction.
Intravenous amiodarone (AIV) must be administered slowly after dilution to avoid hypotension, which is due to the cosolvents polysorbate 80 and benzyl alcohol used in its formulation. PM101 is a formulation of amiodarone devoid of these cosolvents, which enables bolus administration. We evaluated any potential toxicity or exaggerated adverse cardiac electrophysiologic effects of PM101 compared with AIV and control. Beagle dogs were treated with the human-equivalent amiodarone loading dose (2.14 mg/kg) with PM101 (bolus push) or AIV (10 min infusion in the toxicology study and bolus push in the electrophysiology study) followed by maintenance infusion (0.014 mg kg(-1) min(-1) through 6 h followed by 0.007 mg kg(-1) min(-1) through 14 days) or a control. General toxicology was assessed in conscious dogs over 14 days. Cardiac electrophysiology was assessed in a separate cohort of anesthetized dogs during the first 20 min of dosing. In the toxicology study, dosing in all animals in the AIV group was terminated within 17 min of initiation due to a severe hypersensitivity reaction. There were no acute adverse clinical signs in the PM101 or control groups. There were no significant effects on body weight or ECG parameters, and no adverse histomorphologic changes were seen in dogs that received PM101 or AIV. No significant exaggerated cardiac electrophysiologic effects of the approved doses PM101 or AIV were observed. PM101 may represent a formulation of intravenous amiodarone that could be administered rapidly without dilution in the setting of life-threatening cardiac arrhythmias.
Adefovir dipivoxil is a new nucleotide analog derived from adenosin-monophosphate. At the 10 mg/day dose significantly decreases HBV DNA in serum, activity of transaminases, and leads to better histology results in liver assessment of adults with hepatitis B in the phase of active viral replication. Treatment with Adefovir dipivoxil is a long term treatment (48 weeks), it is well tolerated, and side effects are moderate and reversible. It can be administered to HBeAg positive patients, to patients with HBV mutant unable to create HBeAg if positive HBV DNA in serum, and to patients with lamivudine resistant HBV mutant.
Seizures are the most common serious complication of flumazenil usage in adults. We report a prolonged seizure in an 11-month-old child that occurred immediately after the administration of 0.3 mg of flumazenil. Precautions recommended for the administration of flumazenil in adults should also be used in pediatric patients.
Vincristine is one of the frontline chemotherapy drugs for the treatment of numerous lymphoid neoplasias. The main dose-limiting complication of vincristine is the development of painful peripheral neuropathy. Although clinical reports have appeared in the literature detailing the symptoms of vincristine neuropathy, quantitative sensory testing data that might yield insight to dysfunction in subsets of primary afferents are lacking. In this report, pain descriptors and anatomical distributions of sensory abnormalities were collected in each patient. Touch detection threshold, sharpness detection threshold, the thresholds for the detection of skin warming, heat pain, skin cooling, and the perception of cooling-induced pain were measured in patients with chronic vincristine-induced pain in each area of sensory abnormality and in skin perceived as outside the affected areas. Elevated touch detection thresholds were observed both within and outside areas affected by pain and sensory abnormality. Elevated sharpness and warm detection thresholds were noted only in areas affected by pain. These data suggest that chronic vincristine-induced pain is associated with dysfunction in Abeta, Adelta, and C caliber primary afferent fibers. Deficits in Abeta fibers appear to precede and presage deficits in the other fiber types, whereas deficits in Adelta- and C-fiber function appear to be specifically associated with the generation of pain.
Ten patients, suffering from affective disorders, were treated with carbamazepine for polyuria and polydipsia associated with long-term lithium therapy. Oral carbamazepine (300--600 mg daily for six weeks) was observed to have no beneficial effect in alleviating these symptoms when compared with placebo tablets in a double blind crossover study. Plasma and urinary osmolality were observed to be within normal range in these patients and there was no antidiuretic response following subcutaneous Pitressin injection. There was 50% drop-out due to severe side-effects like ataxia, dizziness, restlessness and confusional states. It appears that lithium exacerbates carbamazepine induced CNS side-effects or vice versa, the mechanism of which is not very clear. It may be due to their mutual effect on sodium metabolism or on nervous conduction velocity. Hence, simultaneous administration of these two drugs should preferably be avoided.
We report the case of a 68-year-old male HVC+ diagnosed as cholestatic hepatitis induced by glybenclamide, following a non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus treatment. When the drug was discontinued normal analytic parameters were obtained. However, HVC may induce more cholestatic and cytolysic changes on the hepatitis due to glybenclamide. When reviewing the literature only one similar case has been previously reported, although several disturbances in liver function tests have been described in other reports. Routine biochemical tests including liver function are indicated in patients receiving antidiabetic agents in order to make an early diagnosis of liver toxicity.
The pharmacokinetics of a single orally administered 600-mg dose of doxycycline (six 100-mg film-coated tablets) was studied in 18 healthy subjects. Plasma doxycycline levels remained above 1.35 mumol/L for 48 hours and compared favourably with the mean inhibitory concentrations of doxycycline against the common infecting organisms in chronic bronchitis. In a separate tolerability study in 37 healthy subjects, there was no significant difference between doxycycline and placebo in the incidence of adverse effects.
A case of ventricular tachycardia in patient who was being treated with dehydroemetine and chloroquine for amoebic liver abscess is reported. The patient had 15 episodes of this arrhythmia. The hazard of using dehydroemetine and chloroquine in conventional doses, even sequentially, is emphasized.
A disease prevalence study and follow-up health surveillance were conducted among residents of an African-American community situated at the site of a former creosote wood-treatment facility contaminated with polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons. Household interviews were conducted among 214 residents living around the hazardous waste site (target population) and 212 comparison residents in a neighborhood 2.4 km away from the site. Target area residents reported a higher prevalence of skin rashes than comparison residents (relative risk [RR] = 5.7; 95% confidence interval [CI] = 3.0, 10.9). The prevalence of reported rashes increased with increasing levels of anthracene detected in yards (test for linear trend, p = 0.02). With adjustment for environmental worry, reports of chronic bronchitis and difficulties becoming pregnant did not differ significantly between target and comparison residents (p > 0.05).
Myosin light-chain kinase (MLCK) plays a crucial role in the cell migration and tumor metastasis. Herein, we investigated the signaling pathways involved in MLCK using ML-7, a specific inhibitor of MLCK, in breast cancer cell proliferation and migration. Our data showed that reduction of MLCK in breast cancer cells mediated by 20 microM ML-7 was able to depress the cell proliferation and migration using two parallel cell lines (MCF-7 and LM-MCF/MDA-MB-231) with different metastatic abilities through reciprocal cross-talk with activated ERK1/2, in which both phosphorylated myosin light chain (p-MLC) and cascades of beta-catenin, cyclin D1, survivin, and c-Myc serve as essential downstream effectors.
Optimal treatments for metastatic carcinoid tumor remain undefined, and the role of chemotherapy for symptomatic patients with progressive disease is uncertain.
Two hundred forty-nine patients with advanced carcinoid tumors were randomized to either doxorubicin with fluorouracil (FU/DOX) or streptozocin with fluorouracil (FU/STZ). Patients crossed over to the dacarbazine (DTIC) treatment after disease progression following first-line treatment (either FU/DOX or FU/STZ), and 73 patients were assigned to one of these three treatments based on their previous treatment or on abnormal baseline cardiac or renal function.
In the randomized group, there was no difference between FU/DOX and FU/STZ in response rates (15.9% v 16%) and progression-free survival (4.5 v 5.3 months). FU/STZ (24.3 months) was superior to FU/DOX (15.7 months; P = .0267) in median survival. The response rate of crossover DTIC treatment was 8.2%, with a median survival of 11.9 months. Hematologic toxicities were the major treatment-related toxicities for both FU/DOX and FU/STZ, and mild to moderate renal toxicity was reported in 40 (34.8%) of 115 patients in the FU/STZ arm.
Response to all three treatment regimens were modest. FU/STZ improved survival compared with the doxorubicin-based regimen, suggesting that the combination should be considered to be an active regimen of therapy when chemotherapy is judged to be an option for selected patients with carcinoid tumors.
To determine the site of thioridazine-induced cardiotoxicity and investigate the effectiveness of sodium bicarbonate (NaHCO3) therapy, isolated rat hearts were perfused with Krebs-Henseleit-Bicarbonate buffer (KHB) at a constant coronary flow of 10 mL/min and electrically paced at 300 bpm. Experimental protocol included 15 min intervals of KHB, thioridazine (TDZ), TDZ + NaHCO3, KHB. Left ventricular (LV) pressure was measured with a balloon-tipped catheter placed in the LV via the mitral valve. Coronary perfusion pressure was monitored continuously as an index of coronary vascular resistance (CVR). LV generated pressure (LVGP) was used as our index of cardiac function and was calculated by subtracting LV end diastolic pressure (LVEDP) from LV peak systolic pressure (LVPSP). TDZ at 7,500 ng/mL was chosen as the toxic dose. NaHCO3 treatment was at an approximate sodium = 155 mM and pH = 7.60. Hearts perfused with TDZ resulted in a progressive decrease in LVGP. After 15 min of TDZ perfusion, LVGP decreased by 50%, and 75% at 30 min (n = 5). TDZ increased LVEDP and decreased LVPSP. TDZ perfusion increased CVR by 83%. In another experiment, hearts were perfused with TDZ for 15 min and then for an additional 15 min with TDZ + NaHCO3. NaHCO3 treatment transiently (approximately 5 min) increased LVGP by 23% (n=5). During NaHCO3 treatment, LVPSP increased and LVEDP and CVR decreased during the first 5 min. During the remainder of the NaHCO3 protocol, the hearts failed, similar to TDZ alone. TDZ diminished left ventricular function and promoted coronary artery vasoconstriction. NaHCO3 temporariy reversed these toxic effects.
The bioavailability of therapeutic agents from eye drops is usually limited due to corneal barrier functions and effective eye protective mechanisms. Therefore, the current study aims to enhance ocular bioavailability of brimonidine, a potent antiglaucoma drug, through the preparation of ocular inserts. Solvent casting technique was employed to prepare the inserts using polyvinylpyrrolidone K-90 (PVP K-90) as film-forming polymer blended with different viscosity grades of bioadhesive polymers namely hydroxypropyl methycellulose, carbopol, sodium alginate, and chitosan. The prepared ocular inserts were evaluated for various physicochemical parameters, swelling behavior, and in vitro release patterns. Sodium alginate-based ocular inserts revealed the most sustainment in drug release (99% at 6 h), so it was selected for further modifications via coating it, on one side or dual sides, using hydrophobic film composed of either ethylcellulose or Eudragit RSPO. The obtained in vitro release results for the modified ocular inserts revealed that ethylcellulose is superior to Eudragit RSPO in terms of brimonidine release sustainment effect. Ocular inserts composed of 7% PVP K-90, 1.5% low molecular weight sodium alginate with or without ethylcellulose coat were able to sustain the in vitro release of brimonidine. Their therapeutic efficacy regarding intraocular pressure (IOP) lowering effect when inserted in albino rabbits eyes showed superior sustainment effect compared with that of brimonidine solution. Furthermore, due to both the mucoadhesive property and the drug sustainment effect, the one-side-coated ocular insert showed more IOP lowering effect compared with that of its non-coated or dual-side-coated counterpart.
Intraarterial ambulatory blood pressures were recorded prior to and during therapy with two different calcium ion antagonists, nifedipine and verapamil, in two separate groups of patients. In the first group, nine patients were studied off therapy and following a minimum of 6 weeks of nifedipine treatment (dose range, 20 to 60 mg twice daily). A second group of 16 patients followed the identical protocol but were prescribed verapamil (120 to 160 mg, three times daily). During both studies, patients underwent standardized physiological tests including tilt, isometric handgrip, and dynamic bicycle exercise. Both verapamil and nifedipine caused a reduction in blood pressure over most of the 24 hours studied. Nifedipine did not affect heart rate whereas verapamil caused a reduction of approximately 10 bpm. Nifedipine and verapamil did not induce postural hypotension, and the absolute responses to dynamic and isometric exercise were reduced. These results show the efficacy of slow channel inhibitors in the management of essential hypertension.
ABT-594 ((R)-5-(2-azetidinylmethoxy)-2-chloropyridine) represents a novel class of broad-spectrum analgesics whose primary mechanism of action is activation of the neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. The present study characterized the effects of ABT-594 in a rat chemotherapy-induced neuropathic pain model, where it attenuated mechanical allodynia with an ED50 = 40 nmol/kg (i.p.). This anti-allodynic effect was not blocked by systemic (i.p.) pretreatment with naloxone but was blocked completely with mecamylamine. Pretreatment with chlorisondamine (0.2-5 micromol/kg, i.p.) only partially blocked the effects of ABT-594 at the higher doses tested. In contrast, central (i.c.v.) pretreatment with chlorisondamine completely blocked ABT-594's anti-allodynic effect. Taken together, the data demonstrate that ABT-594 has a potent anti-allodynic effect in the rat vincristine model and that, in addition to its strong central site of action, ABT-594's effects are partially mediated by peripheral nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in this animal model of chemotherapy-induced neuropathic pain.
Painting of 3,3',4',5-tetrachlorosalicylanilide (TCSA) plus ultraviolet A (UVA) irradiation to the same site induces contact photosensitivity (CPS), but at the same time results in death of the photohapten-modified cells. Using an in vitro immune lymph node cell (LNC) proliferation system, we investigated the mechanism of induction and elicitation of CPS by TCSA painting plus UVA irradiation. The proliferation of LNC from TCSA-photosensitized mice was not augmented by the addition of TCSA-photocoupled syngeneic spleen cells (SC) or epidermal cells (EC), whereas the picryl chloride immune LNC proliferation was activated by trinitrophenyl-coupled (TNP-coupled) SC or EC. While the viability of SC and EC was unchanged even after TNP haptenization, cells showed very low levels of viability after TCSA photohaptenization. This suggests that the inability of photoTCSA-modified cells to activate LNC proliferation is because of their low viability. Nylon wool column purified lymph node T cells from TCSA-photosensitized mice were activated by photohapten-conjugated SC or photohaptenized EC fragments only in the presence of peritoneal macrophages (M phi). The function of live M phi was not replaced by interleukin-1 (IL-1), suggesting that M phi were required for processing and/or presentation of photohapten rather than simply providing IL-1. Our in vitro study implies that photoTCSA-modified cells generated in vivo require intact antigen-presenting cells to effectively induce and elicit the CPS reaction.
An increase in susceptibility to metabolic syndromes (MetS) in rat offspring that experienced prenatal caffeine exposure (PCE) has been previously demonstrated. The present study aimed to clarify this increased susceptibility and elucidate the mechanism of foetal origin that causes or contributes to adult non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) as a result of PCE. Based on the results from both foetal and adult studies of rats that experienced PCE (120 mg/kgd), the foetal weight and serum triglyceride levels decreased significantly and hepatocellular ultrastructure was altered. Foetal livers exhibited inhibited insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1), enhanced lipogenesis and reduced lipid output. In adult female offspring of PCE+lab chow, lipid synthesis, oxidation and output were enhanced, whereas lipogenesis was inhibited in their male conterparters. Furthermore, in adult offspring of PCE+ high-fat diet, catch-up growth appeared obvious with enhanced hepatic IGF-1, especially in females. Both males and females showed increased lipid synthesis and reduced output, which were accompanied by elevated serum triglyceride. Severe NAFLD appeared with higher Kleiner scores. Gluconeogenesis was continuously enhanced in females. Therefore, increased susceptibility to diet-induced NAFLD in PCE offspring was confirmed, and it appears to be mediated by intrauterine glucose and alterations in lipid metabolic programming. This altered programming enhanced foetal hepatic lipogenesis and reduced lipid output in utero, which continued into the postnatal phase and reappeared in adulthood with the introduction of a high-fat diet, thereby aggravating hepatic lipid accumulation and causing NAFLD.
Statins are widely used to decrease cholesterol and improve morbidity and mortality associated with coronary artery disease. Myopathy constitutes a rare but potentially life-threatening adverse reaction, which is related to plasma HMG-CoA reductase inhibitory activity. Therefore, the incidence of rhabdomyolysis increases dramatically when statins are co-administered with drugs that inhibit their hepatic transformation, such as cyclosporine or azoles.
We present a case of severe rhabdomyolysis and acute renal failure induced by itraconazole in a heart transplant recipient chronically treated with cyclosporine and simvastatin. The literature with regard to the pathogenetic mechanisms and the clinical implications are reviewed.
To avoid severe myopathy, cyclosporine levels should be monitored sooner than weekly intervals and statins should be discontinued or their dosage should be reduced, as long as azoles need to be prescribed in transplant recipients. Rhabdomyolysis and acute renal insufficiency should be promptly recognized and aggressively treated.
Cardiac hypertrophy was induced in adult female Wistar rats by daily subcutaneous injections of isoproterenol (0.3 mg/kg body weight). Heart weight increased 39% after eight days of treatment. Left ventricular pressure development (positive dP/dt) in hearts four days after hypertrophy induction was significantly increased, while negative dP/dt remained unchanged. RNA polymerase activity in isolated myocyte and nonmyocyte nuclei was stimulated 29 and 23%, respectively 24 h after a single isoproterenol injection. In the myocyte fraction, RNA polymerase activation progressively increased up to four days of treatment and then returned to control values after eight days. In the nonmyocyte nuclear subset, RNA polymerase activity showed no further stimulation and gradually returned to control values after eight days of treatment. Chromatin template function was substantially stimulated in the early stage (one to four days) of hypertrophy in both myocyte and nonmyocyte fractions. Titration of chromatin against a fixed amount of RNA polymerase (5 micrograms) in the presence of rifampicin and heparin showed that less chromatin from hypertrophied hearts was required to saturate the enzyme. These results indicate that both myocyte and nonmyocte chromatin from hypertrophied hearts can support greater enzyme binding than normal chromatin. The alkaline sucrose density centrifugation profile of DNA in myocyte and nonmyocyte chromatin from day 4 hypertrophied hearts was less fragmented. These observations suggest that during the early phase of isoproterenol-induced cardiac hypertrophy, enhanced RNA polymerase activity and chromatin template function play a coordinated role in RNA synthesis. The increased template activity could be due to alterations in chromatin composition which was indicated by the change in their enzyme binding capacity and DNA fragmentation profile.
