Sodium lauryl sulfate (SLS) is a known irritant. It releases pro-inflammatory mediators considered pivotal in inflammatory pain. The sensory effects of SLS in the skin remain largely unexplored. In this study, SLS was evaluated for its effect on skin sensory functions.
Eight healthy subjects were recruited for this study.
Skin sites were randomized to topical SLS 0.25, 0.5, 1, 2% and vehicle for 24 h. Topical capsaicin 1% was applied for 30 min at 24 h after SLS application.
Assessments included laser Doppler imaging of local vasodilation and flare reactions, rating of spontaneous pain, assessment of primary thermal and tactile hyperalgesia, and determination of secondary dynamic and static hyperalgesia.
SLS induced significant and dose-dependent local inflammation and primary hyperalgesia to tactile and thermal stimulation at 24 h after application, with SLS 2% treatment eliciting results comparable to those observed following treatment with capsaicin 1%. SLS induced no spontaneous pain, small areas of flare, and minimal secondary hyperalgesia. The primary hyperalgesia vanished within 2-3 days, whereas the skin inflammation persisted and was only partly normalized by Day 6.
SLS induces profound perturbations of skin sensory functions lasting 2-3 days. SLS-induced inflammation may be a useful model for studying the mechanisms of inflammatory pain.
A 57-yr-old man presented with clinical and laboratory signs of acute cholestatic hepatitis. Symptoms had appeared 7 wk after he was started on pravastatin 20 mg/day for hypercholesterolemia. A full evaluation including ultrasound, computed tomography, endoscopic cholangiography, and liver biopsy confirmed the diagnosis of intrahepatic nonobstructive jaundice. The liver function abnormalities normalized 7 wk after cessation of therapy. Pravastatin should be considered as a potential cause of cholestatic hepatitis with favorable clinical outcome after drug withdrawal.
BTG3/ANA/APRO4 has been reported to be a tumor suppressor gene in some malignancies. It constitutes important negative regulatory mechanism for Src-mediated signaling, a negative regulator of the cell cycle and inhibits transcription factor E2F1. We report that BTG3 is downregulated in renal cancer and that the mechanism of inactivation is through promoter hypermethylation. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) showed that BTG3 was downregulated in cancer tissues and cells. Genistein and 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5Aza-C) induced BTG3 messenger RNA (mRNA) expression in A498, ACHN and HEK-293 renal cell carcinoma (RCC) cell lines. Bisulfite-modified PCR and DNA sequencing results showed complete methylation of BTG3 promoter in tumor samples and cancer cell lines. Genistein and 5Aza-C treatment significantly decreased promoter methylation, reactivating BTG3 expression. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assay revealed that genistein and 5Aza-C increased levels of acetylated histones 3, 4, 2H3K4, 3H3K4 and RNA polymerase II at the BTG3 promoter indicative of active histone modifications. Enzymatic assays showed genistein and 5Aza-C decreased DNA Methyltransferase, methyl-CpG-binding domain 2 activity and increased HAT activity. Cell cycle and 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazole-2-yl)-2,5-biphenyl tetrazolium bromide cell proliferation assays showed that genistein has antiproliferative effect on cancer cell growth through induction of cell cycle arrest. This is the first report to show that BTG3 is epigenetically silenced in RCC and can be reactivated by genistein-induced promoter demethylation and active histone modification. Genistein had similar effects to that of 5Aza-C, which is a potent demethylating agent with high toxicity and instability. Genistein being a natural, non-toxic, dietary isoflavone is effective in retarding the growth of RCC cells, making it a promising candidate for epigenetic therapy in renal carcinoma.
Perinatal exposure to bisphenol A (BPA) has been shown to cause aberrant mammary gland morphogenesis and mammary neoplastic transformation. Yet, the underlying mechanism is poorly understood. We tested the hypothesis that mammary glands exposed to BPA during a susceptible window may lead to its susceptibility to tumorigenesis through a stem cell-mediated mechanism. We exposed 21-day-old Balb/c mice to BPA by gavage (25 μg/kg/d) during puberty for 3 weeks, and a subset of animals were further challenged with one oral dose (30 mg/kg) of 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene (DMBA) at 2 months of age. Primary mammary cells were isolated at 6 weeks, and 2 and 4 months of age for murine mammary stem cell (MaSC) quantification and function analysis. Pubertal exposure to the low-dose BPA increased lateral branches and hyperplasia in adult mammary glands and caused an acute increase of MaSC in 6-week-old glands and a delayed increase of luminal progenitors in 4-month-old adult gland. Most importantly, pubertal BPA exposure altered the function of MaSC from different age groups, causing early neoplastic lesions in their regenerated glands similar to those induced by DMBA exposure, which indicates that MaSCs are susceptible to BPA-induced transformation. Deep sequencing analysis on MaSC-enriched mammospheres identified a set of aberrantly expressed genes associated with early neoplastic lesions in patients with human breast cancer. Thus, our study for the first time shows that pubertal BPA exposure altered MaSC gene expression and function such that they induced early neoplastic transformation.
In neurologic surgery, induced hypotension is often used while the patient is hypocapnic. We investigated, by tissue biopsy methods and scintillation counting, the regional cerebral glucose utilization (rCMRglc) and blood flow (rCBF) in rats subjected to hypocapnia alone and in combination with hypotension. Anesthesia was maintained with 1.0% isoflurane in nitrous oxide/oxygen. Seven rats were maintained at PaCO2 of 40 mm Hg, six rats were ventilated to PaCO2 of 20 mm Hg, and six animals to PaCO2 of 20 mm Hg in combination with arterial hypotension of 50 mm Hg induced by isoflurane 2.5-3.5%. During hypocapnia, rCMRglc tended to increase in all regions, but the increase was statistically insignificant; rCBF was reduced uniformly by 40%. During combined hypocapnia/hypotension, rCMRglc was unaltered when compared to hypocapnia; compared to normocapnia, increases were seen in hippocampus and cerebellum. During hypocapnia/hypotension, rCBF was unaltered in cortical areas, while increases were seen in all subcortical areas compared to hypocapnia. Regional values of the ratio of rCBF/rCMRglc indicated that during hypocapnia and hypotension induced by isoflurane in nitrous oxide/oxygen, the individual brain areas were perfused according to their metabolic needs. It is suggested that hypocapnia may prevent the decrease in rCMRglc, which is usually observed during deep isoflurane anesthesia.
Asthma is a chronic inflammatory disease with a strong genetic predisposition. A major challenge for candidate gene association studies in asthma is the selection of biologically relevant genes.
Using epithelial RNA expression arrays, HapMap allele frequency variation, and the literature, we identified six possible candidate susceptibility genes for childhood asthma including ADCY2, DNAH5, KIF3A, PDE4B, PLAU, SPRR2B. To evaluate these genes, we compared the genotypes of 194 predominantly tagging SNPs in 790 asthmatic, allergic and non-allergic children. We found that SNPs in all six genes were nominally associated with asthma (p<0.05) in our discovery cohort and in three independent cohorts at either the SNP or gene level (p<0.05). Further, we determined that our selection approach was superior to random selection of genes either differentially expressed in asthmatics compared to controls (p = 0.0049) or selected based on the literature alone (p = 0.0049), substantiating the validity of our gene selection approach. Importantly, we observed that 7 of 9 SNPs in the KIF3A gene more than doubled the odds of asthma (OR = 2.3, p<0.0001) and increased the odds of allergic disease (OR = 1.8, p<0.008). Our data indicate that KIF3A rs7737031 (T-allele) has an asthma population attributable risk of 18.5%. The association between KIF3A rs7737031 and asthma was validated in 3 independent populations, further substantiating the validity of our gene selection approach.
Our study demonstrates that KIF3A, a member of the kinesin superfamily of microtubule associated motors that are important in the transport of protein complexes within cilia, is a novel candidate gene for childhood asthma. Polymorphisms in KIF3A may in part be responsible for poor mucus and/or allergen clearance from the airways. Furthermore, our study provides a promising framework for the identification and evaluation of novel candidate susceptibility genes.
Enprofylline, a xanthine-derivative shown experimentally to lack universal adenosine receptor antagonism, has been examined in patients with partly reversible, chronic, obstructive lung disease. Significant bronchodilation was produced by enprofylline 2 mg/kg, giving a peak plasma concentration of 3.0 +/- 0.6 microgram/ml (mean +/- SD). A dose of 2 + 4 mg/kg dilated the bronchi at least to the same extent as theophylline 9.2 +/- 0.9 mg/kg (plasma level 18.5 +/- 4.7 micrograms/ml). Neither at the low nor at the high dosage (2 +/- 4 mg/kg), giving plasma concentrations of 8.5 +/- 1.4 microgram/ml, did enprofylline produce theophylline-like CNS effects, such as restlessness and tremor, but it did exhibit some of the innocuous side effects expected with xanthine derivatives, such as epigastric discomfort and headache. The comparison with theophylline was limited because different dosage forms had to be used (solution an tablets), which for example, resulted in different absorption rates. Nevertheless, the present findings indicate enprofylline to be potent bronchodilator in patients with obstructive lung disease, suggesting that adenosine-receptor antagonism is not involved in the bronchodilator effects of xanthines.
One thousand three hundred and eighty-two patients with rheumatoid arthritis requiring second-line therapy at 108 centres were entered into an open 6-months prospective tolerability study of enteric-coated sulphasalazine 2 g/day (Salazopyrin EN-tabs). Clinical and laboratory variables were measured, any adverse reactions and the reasons for withdrawal of medication were recorded. The outcome of therapy was known in 87.5% of patients entered of whom 65% continued with sulphasalazine beyond the 6-month study period. 3.2% withdrew for reasons unrelated to treatment, 5% for lack of effect and 26.8% due to an adverse event; gastrointestinal/central nervous 66.6%, rash 15.4%, haematological 5.1%, hepatic 4.7% and miscellaneous 8.1%. 1.2% of patients experienced potentially serious reactions: anaphylactic, haematological and hepatic. The majority of adverse events occurred early and were reversible upon cessation of medication. No clear relationship between withdrawal due to an adverse event attributed to sulphasalazine and the nature of the concomitant non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug was identified.
Hypertension is almost universal following renal transplantation and may contribute to the already poor cardiovascular prognosis of this group. Cyclosporine-induced hypertension is a particular problem and has variously been attributed to increased sympathetic nerve activity, salt and water retention, and increased circulating endothelin levels. However, the effects of cyclosporine on the L-arginine/nitric oxide (NO) system in vivo in humans are unknown. In this present study, we examined basal and stimulated NO production from the vascular endothelium in cyclosporine-treated renal transplant recipients using the technique of forearm venous plethysmography.
In study 1, stimulated NO production was assessed in 9 cyclosporine-treated renal transplant recipients (CsA), 7 azathioprine-treated renal transplant recipients (AZA), and 12 controls, using carbachol (an endothelium-dependent vasodilator) and sodium nitroprusside (an endothelium-independent vasodilator). In study 2, basal NO production was assessed in 9 cyclosporine-treated patients and 11 controls using L-NMMA (inhibits NO synthase), with norepinephrine as a control vasoconstrictor. Drugs were infused into the nondominant forearm through a sterile 27-gauge needle, and changes in forearm blood flow (FBF) were measured using venous occlusion plethysmography.
In study 1, sodium nitroprusside caused a similar dose-dependent increase in FBF in all groups. However, the median (range) percentage increase FBF to carbachol (3 micrograms/min) was markedly reduced in the CsA patients (188.8; 72.5 to 385.1) compared with AZA patients (378.1; 124.0 to 548.9; P = 0.042) and to controls (303.8; 124.8 to 813.3; P = 0.028). In study 2, the maximum percentage reduction in FBF to L-NMMA (4 mumol/min) was less pronounced in CsA patients (-19.5; -4.7 to -63.1) compared with controls (-39.5; -15.7 to -52.8; P = 0.056), and while controls vasoconstricted to the maximum dose of norepinephrine (240 pmol/min) as expected (-26.9; -1.4 to -38.6), CsA patients as a group tended to vasodilate (7.9; -36.8 to 92.6; P = 0.02).
These data demonstrate impaired stimulated and basal NO production in CsA patients, indicating endothelial dysfunction. This may predispose patients to atherosclerosis and may be involved in the etiology of post-transplant hypertension.
The aim of this study was to examine the effects of perilipin gene (PLIN) polymorphisms on weight gain with rosiglitazone treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes.
A total of 160 type 2 diabetic patients were treated with rosiglitazone (4 mg/day) for 12 weeks in addition to their previous medications, which were unchanged. Four single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) at the PLIN locus were genotyped: PLIN 6209T>C, PLIN 11482G>A, PLIN 13041A>G, and PLIN 14995A>T.
Although fasting plasma glucose and HbA(1c) levels decreased; mean body weight increased significantly after rosiglitazone treatment. Among the four SNPs tested, only the PLIN 11482G>A polymorphism was associated with weight gain from rosiglitazone treatment. In addition, there was a significant difference in the increase in the body weight among the genotypes. Patients with the 11482A/A genotype showed less increase in body weight than those with other genotypes.
These data suggest that genetic variations in the perilipin gene can affect weight gain associated with rosiglitazone treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes.
The concept that inflammation plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis of diabetic nephropathy has been recently emerging, although the principal pathology of diabetic nephropathy comprises glomerular sclerosis and associated changes in nephrons. Here, we identified the growth factor midkine (MK) as a novel key molecule involved in inflammation associated with Streptozotocin-induced diabetic nephropathy. The tubulointerstitial damage, as assessed as morphological changes, osteopontin expression, collagen I deposition and macrophage infiltration, were strikingly less in MK-deficient (Mdk(-/-)) mice than in Mdk(+/+) mice. Monocyte chemoattractant protein (MCP)-1 expression, but not that of intercellular adhesion molecule-1, was also lower in Mdk(-/-) mice. High glucose upregulated MK expression in primary-cultured tubular epithelial cells, and induced MCP-1 to a larger extent in Mdk(+/+) cells than in Mdk(-/-) cells. Correspondingly, the combination of exogenous MK and high glucose enhanced MCP-1 expression in Mdk(-/-) cells. Furthermore, high glucose and oxidant stress enhanced MK expression in macrophages. Consistent with the findings in the mouse model, MK expression was detected in the glomeruli, tubular epithelium and interstitium of kidneys from patients with diabetic nephropathy. Our data indicate that MK plays a critical role in the tubulointerstitial inflammation associated with diabetic nephropathy through activation of the MCP-1 pathway.
The objective of this work was to explore the hypothesis that Lycium barbarum (LB) may be protective against doxorubicin (DOX)-induced cardiotoxicity through antioxidant-mediated mechanisms. Male SD rats were treated with distilled water or a water extract of LB (25 mg/kg, p.o.) daily and saline or DOX (5 mg/kg, i.v.) weekly for 3 weeks. Mortality, general condition and body weight were observed during the experiment. DOX-induced cardiotoxicity was assessed by electrocardiograph, heart antioxidant activity, serum levels of creatine kinase (CK) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and histopathological change. The DOX group showed higher mortality (38%) and worse physical characterization. Moreover, DOX caused myocardial injury manifested by arrhythmias and conduction abnormalities in ECG (increased QT and ST intervals and ST elevation), a decrease of heart antioxidant activity, an increase of serum CK and AST, as well as myocardial lesions. Pretreatment with LB significantly prevented the loss of myofibrils and improved the heart function of the DOX-treated rats as evidenced from lower mortality (13%), normalization of antioxidative activity and serum AST and CK, as well as improving arrhythmias and conduction abnormalities. These results suggested that LB elicited a typical cardioprotective effect on DOX-related oxidative stress. Furthermore, in vitro cytotoxic study showed the antitumor activity of DOX was not compromised by LB. It is possible that LB could be used as a useful adjunct in combination with DOX chemotherapy.
Inhaled glucocorticoids are widely used to treat chronic obstructive pulmonary disease without much evidence of efficiency in this disease where neutrophils may contribute to the pathophysiology. This prompted us to test the effects of several currently used inhaled and systemic glucocorticoids on human neutrophil apoptosis. Beclomethasone, budesonide, dexamethasone, fluticasone propionate, hydrocortisone and prednisolone inhibited apoptosis in a concentration-dependent manner as assessed by flow cytometric analysis, annexin-V binding and morphological analysis. The maximal inhibition of apoptosis was 50-60%. The order of potency was fluticasone propionate (EC(50) 0.6+/-0.2 nM) approximately equal to budesonide (EC(50) 0.8+/-0.2 nM)> dexamethasone approximately equal to prednisolone approximately equal to beclomethasone approximately equal to hydrocortisone. The inhibitory effects of glucocorticoids were reversed by mifepristone. Moreover, glucocorticoids slightly enhanced the inhibitory effect of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) on neutrophil apoptosis. The present data suggests that budesonide and fluticasone propionate prolong human neutrophil survival by inhibiting apoptosis at clinically relevant drug concentrations via an effect on glucocorticoid receptor.
Three cases of supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) associated with the use of furosemide infusion (FI) in children following cardiac surgery are reported. The SVT occurred three to seven hours after starting an infusion at 1.0 mg.kg-1.hr-1. All three patients had a diuresis of 8-10 ml.kg-1.hr-1 compared with a mean average of 2.5 ml.kg-1.hr-1 in 22 other patients who had received a similar infusion. A rapid fluid shift was the most likely mechanism of the tachycardia. Sotalol was effective in controlling the tachycardia in the two patients in whom it was tried. We now recommend a starting dose of 0.3 mg.kg-1.hr-1 in using furosemide as a continuous infusion, with hourly increments of 0.1 mg.kg-1.hr-1 until the desired diuresis is obtained.
The effect of the i.c.v. administration of antisense oligodeoxynucleotides directed against the alpha subunit of different Gi-proteins (anti-Gialpha(1), anti-Gialpha(2), anti-Gialpha(3), anti-Goalpha(1), anti-Goalpha(2)) on the amnesia induced by the H(1)-antihistamine diphenhydramine (20 mg kg(-1) s.c.) was evaluated in the mouse passive avoidance test. Pretreatment with anti-Gialpha(1) (12.5-25 microg per mouse i.c.v.) and anti-Gialpha(2) (25 microg per mouse i.c.v.), administered 24 and 18 h before test, prevented antihistamine-induced amnesia. By contrast, pretreatment with an anti-Gialpha(3) (25 microg per mouse i.c.v.), anti-Goalpha(1) (25 microg per mouse i.c.v.) and anti-Goalpha(2) (25 microg per mouse i.c.v.) did not modify the detrimental effect induced by diphenhydramine. At the highest effective doses, none of the compounds used impaired motor coordination, as revealed by the rota rod test, nor modified spontaneous motility and inspection activity, as revealed by the hole board test. These results suggest the important role played by the Gi(1)- and Gi(2)-protein pathway in the transduction mechanism involved in the impairment of memory processes produced by the H(1)-antihistamine diphenhydramine.
Although edaravone (3-methyl-1-phenyl-pyrazolin-5-one), a newly developed radical scavenging agent, has been widely used for protection against ischemia-reperfusion (I-R) injury in patients with cerebral infarction, its effects on gastrointestinal I-R injury have not been evaluated. In the present study, we examined the effects of edaravone on experimental intestinal I-R damage in rats. In male Wistar rats with and without edaravone treatment, intestinal damage was induced by clamping the superior mesenteric artery for 30 min, followed by reperfusion. Edaravone was administered via intravenous infusion at 5 min before reperfusion was achieved by removal of the clamp. The rats were sacrificed after 60 min of reperfusion. Luminal protein and hemoglobin concentrations were measured as an index of mucosal injury and histological examination of hematoxylin and eosin-stained sections was performed. Thiobarbituric acid (TBA)-reactive substances and tissue-associated myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity were measured in the mucosa as indicators of lipid peroxidation and neutrophil infiltration, respectively. The mucosal concentration of cytokine-induced neutrophil chemoattractant (CINC)-1 (a member of the IL-8 family) was determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Additionally, CINC-1 messenger RNA (mRNA) was measured by the reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). As a result, the levels of luminal protein and hemoglobin, TBA-reactive substances, and MPO activity were all increased significantly by I-R injury, and these increases were significantly inhibited by treatment with edaravone. Multiple erosions and bleeding were observed macroscopically after the small intestine was exposed to I-R injury, and these changes were inhibited by administration of edaravone. Microscopic I-R damage was also reduced by treatment with edaravone. CINC-1 protein and CINC-1 mRNA were both increased by I-R injury, while edaravone markedly reduced the levels of both protein and mRNA. In summary, these results suggest that edaravone can protect the small intestine against I-R injury by scavenging oxygen-derived free radicals.
Elevated arterial pressure is a major risk factor for progression to ESRD in diabetic nephropathy. However, the component of arterial pressure and level of BP control for optimal renal outcomes are disputed. Data from 1590 hypertensive patients with type 2 diabetes in the Irbesartan Diabetic Nephropathy Trial (IDNT), a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial performed in 209 clinics worldwide, were examined, and the effects of baseline and mean follow-up systolic BP (SBP) and diastolic BP and the interaction of assigned study medications (irbesartan, amlodipine, and placebo) on progressive renal failure and all-cause mortality were assessed. Other antihypertensive agents were added to achieve predetermined BP goals. Entry criteria included elevated baseline serum creatinine concentration up to 266 micromol/L (3.0 mg/dl) and urine protein excretion >900 mg/d. Baseline BP averaged 159/87 +/- 20/11 mmHg. Median patient follow-up was 2.6 yr. Follow-up achieved SBP most strongly predicted renal outcomes. SBP >149 mmHg was associated with a 2.2-fold increase in the risk for doubling serum creatinine or ESRD compared with SBP <134 mmHg. Progressive lowering of SBP to 120 mmHg was associated with improved renal and patient survival, an effect independent of baseline renal function. Below this threshold, all-cause mortality increased. An additional renoprotective effect of irbesartan, independent of achieved SBP, was observed down to 120 mmHg. There was no correlation between diastolic BP and renal outcomes. We recommend a SBP target between 120 and 130 mmHg, in conjunction with blockade of the renin-angiotensin system, in patients with type 2 diabetic nephropathy.
Myocardial ischaemia and reperfusion cause dysfunction of the coronary vasculature leading to a sustained reduction in coronary blood flow and an impairment of responses to both endothelium-dependent and endothelium-independent vasodilators. In contrast, when previously ischaemic arteries are removed from the myocardium and vascular function is examined in vitro, it is evident that while endothelial function is impaired, smooth muscle reactivity remains intact. Therefore, other changes must be responsible for the general reduction in vasodilator reserve. Examination of the vasculature in the ischaemic myocardium by electron microscopy reveals adhesion of leukocytes and plugging of capillaries. There also is evidence that polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNs) release a factor that constricts coronary arterioles, and that release of this factor is increased by atherosclerosis. The identity of this factor remains uncertain, but the calcium antagonist amlodipine prevents the coronary vasoconstriction. Amlodipine is also able to prevent the impaired perfusion and the reduction in vasodilator reserve that occurs after myocardial ischaemia and reperfusion in the dog. In addition, amlodipine prevents the endothelial dysfunction observed in isolated arteries after ischaemia and reperfusion. The interaction between the endothelium and activated PMNs may be a suitable target for pharmacological intervention to improve postischaemic vascular function.
Manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) is essential for life as dramatically illustrated by the neonatal lethality of mice that are deficient in MnSOD. In addition, mice expressing only 50% of the normal compliment of MnSOD demonstrate increased susceptibility to oxidative stress and severe mitochondrial dysfunction resulting from elevation of reactive oxygen species. Thus, it is important to know the status of both MnSOD protein levels and activity in order to assess its role as an important regulator of cell biology. Numerous studies have shown that MnSOD can be induced to protect against pro-oxidant insults resulting from cytokine treatment, ultraviolet light, irradiation, certain tumors, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and ischemia/reperfusion. In addition, overexpression of MnSOD has been shown to protect against pro-apoptotic stimuli as well as ischemic damage. Conversely, several studies have reported declines in MnSOD activity during diseases including cancer, aging, progeria, asthma, and transplant rejection. The precise biochemical/molecular mechanisms involved with this loss in activity are not well understood. Certainly, MnSOD gene expression or other defects could play a role in such inactivation. However, based on recent findings regarding the susceptibility of MnSOD to oxidative inactivation, it is equally likely that post-translational modification of MnSOD may account for the loss of activity. Our laboratory has recently demonstrated that MnSOD is tyrosine nitrated and inactivated during human kidney allograft rejection and human pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. We have determined that peroxynitrite (ONOO- ) is the only known biological oxidant competent to inactivate enzymatic activity, to nitrate critical tyrosine residues, and to induce dityrosine formation in MnSOD. Tyrosine nitration and inactivation of MnSOD would lead to increased levels of superoxide and concomitant increases in ONOO- within the mitochondria which, could lead to tyrosine nitration/oxidation of key mitochondrial proteins and ultimately mitochondrial dysfunction and cell death. This article assesses the important role of MnSOD activity in various pathological states in light of this potentially lethal positive feedback cycle involving oxidative inactivation.
To determine the effect of obesity on expression of cellular- (C-) and extracellular (EC-) glutathione peroxidase (GPX) in serum, kidney and adipose tissue, we measured GPX in serum, kidneys and adipose tissue of the obese Otsuka-Long-Evans-Tokushima Fatty (OLETF) rat and its lean counterpart (LETO). We also investigated the effect of troglitazone. Five each of OLETF and LETO rats were fed diet with or without 0.2% troglitazone for 10 days. Final body weight, kidney weight, blood glucose and serum tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) level were higher in OLETF rats than in LETO rats. Serum and kidney GPX activities were higher, but adipose tissue GPX activity was lower, in OLETF rats than in LETO rats. Troglitazone treatment decreased adipose tissue GPX activity and abolished overproduction of TNF-alpha in OLETF rats. Immunoblot analysis, for the first time, revealed that both obesity and troglitazone suppressed the protein signals for C-GPX and EC-GPX in adipose tissue. Serum protein carbonyl groups were increased in OLETF rats and troglitazone completely blocked this increase. Increased serum GPX activity in obese rat was due to the increased secretion of EC-GPX from the kidney. Troglitazone protected against the enhanced oxidative stress induced by obesity independently of the serum GPX concentration.
Mandibuloacral dysplasia type A (MADA) is characterized by growth retardation, postnatal onset of craniofacial anomalies with mandibular hypoplasia, progressive acral osteolysis, and skin changes including mottled pigmentation, skin atrophy, and lipodystrophy. Owing to its slowly progressive course, the syndrome has been recognized in adults, and pediatric case reports are scarce. We present the clinical case of two children in whom the diagnosis of MADA was made at an unusually early age. A 5-year-old boy presented with ocular proptosis, thin nose, and short and bulbous distal phalanges of fingers. A 4-year-old girl presented with round face and chubby cheeks, thin nose, bulbous fingertips, and type A lipodystrophy. In both, a skeletal survey showed wormian bones, thin clavicles, short distal phalanges of fingers and toes with acro-osteolysis. Both children were found to be homozygous for the recurrent missense mutation, c.1580G>A, (p.R527H) in exon 9 of the LMNA gene. Thus, the phenotype of MADA can be manifest in preschool age; diagnosis may be suggested by short and bulbous fingertips, facial features, and lipodystrophy, supported by the finding of acral osteolysis, and confirmed by mutation analysis.
Nephrolithiasis may be an important consequence of indinavir therapy; however little has been published on the variation in incidence between different populations of patients or the possible mechanisms of calculus formation.
To examine variation in the incidence of indinavir-associated nephrolithiasis (IAN) in HIV-positive patients in relation to hemophilia and hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection.
Clinical data were abstracted retrospectively from the medical records of all adult patients treated with indinavir from September 1995 to September 1997. Occurrence of first IAN, defined as flank pain and hematuria after initiation of therapy, was analyzed in relation to hemophilia status and HCV infection.
There were 17 episodes of IAN (22%) among 79 patients treated with indinavir. Of 10 patients with hemophilia, 50% developed IAN as compared with 17% of patients without hemophilia (P = 0.03). Median days to first IAN was 22 (range 7-110 days) for hemophiliacs and 156 (range 5-611 days) for those without hemophilia. Data for HCV status were available for 74 out of 79 patients: 10 out of 27 (37%) patients with HCV developed IAN compared with six out of 42 (14%) without HCV (P = 0.02).
Overall incidence of IAN was higher than that previously reported and was significantly greater in hemophiliacs than in non-hemophiliacs. HCV may be a contributing factor.
Structure-based design of libraries of multi-component reaction products yields novel potent anti-tuberculosis compounds. Synthesis and preliminary biological results are presented.
Hyperglycemia-induced oxidative stress plays a central role in the development of diabetic myocardial complications. Adiponectin (APN), an adipokine with anti-diabetic and anti-ischemic effects, is decreased in diabetes. It is unknown whether or not antioxidant treatment with N-acetylcysteine (NAC) and/or allopurinol (ALP) can attenuate APN deficiency and myocardial ischemia reperfusion (MI/R) injury in the early stage of diabetes.
Control or streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats were either untreated (C, D) or treated with NAC (1.5 g/kg/day) or ALP (100 mg/kg/day) or their combination for four weeks starting one week after STZ injection. Plasma and cardiac biochemical parameters were measured after the completion of treatment, and the rats were subjected to MI/R by occluding the left anterior descending artery for 30 min followed by 2 h reperfusion. Plasma and cardiac APN levels were decreased in diabetic rats accompanied by decreased cardiac APN receptor 2 (AdipoR2), reduced phosphorylation of Akt, signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) but increased IL-6 and TNF-α (all P<0.05 vs. C). NAC but not ALP increased cardiac APN concentrations and AdipoR2 expression in diabetic rats. ALP enhanced the effects of NAC in restoring cardiac AdipoR2 and phosphorylation of Akt, STAT3 and eNOS in diabetic rats. Further, NAC and ALP, respectively, decreased postischemic myocardial infarct size and creatinine kinase-MB (CK-MB) release in diabetic rats, while their combination conferred synergistic protective effects. In addition, exposure of cultured rat cardiomyocytes to high glucose resulted in significant reduction of cardiomyocyte APN concentration and AdipoR2 protein expression. APN supplementation restored high glucose induced AdipoR2 reduction in cardiomyocytes.
NAC and ALP synergistically restore myocardial APN and AdipoR2 mediated eNOS activation. This may represent the mechanism through which NAC and ALP combination greatly reduces MI/R injury in early diabetic rats.
