Seizures, often with fatal outcome, are a manifestation of pronounced theophylline intoxication. The purpose of this investigation was to characterize the relationship between theophylline concentrations and theophylline-induced convulsions and to develop an animal model suitable for exploring conditions that might predispose theophylline-treated individuals to seizures. Female Lewis rats (approximately 170 g) received an i.v. infusion of theophylline (as aminophylline) at one of three different rates (1.03-5.1 mg/min/rat) until the animals exhibited a maximal seizure (which occurred after 11 +/- 1 to 42 +/- 3 min of infusion). The total dose, the serum concentration (both total and unbound drug) and the brain concentration of theophylline at onset of seizures increased with increasing infusion rate. The theophylline concentration in cerebrospinal fluid at onset of seizures (mean +/- S.D., 232 +/- 17 mg/l, n = 41) was not affected by the infusion rate. The theophylline metabolites 1-methyluric acid and 1,3-dimethyluric acid were found in serum but at very much lower concentrations than those of theophylline. 1-Methylxanthine and caffeine were not detected in any serum sample, 3-methylxanthine was present in low concentrations in only some serum samples and 1-methyluric acid and 3-methylxanthine were found in the brain in low concentrations (less than 10 mg/kg). Theophylline metabolites were not detected in cerebrospinal fluid. Direct i.v. infusion of either 1-methyluric acid, 1,3-dimethyluric acid or 3-methylxanthine did not produce seizures despite high concentrations in serum. Ethylenediamine infusions also did not cause seizures.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Hexavalent chromium Cr(VI) is a respiratory toxicant and carcinogen, with solubility playing an important role in its carcinogenic potential. Zinc chromate, a water insoluble or 'particulate' Cr(VI) compound, has been shown to be carcinogenic in epidemiology studies and to induce tumors in experimental animals, but its genotoxicity is poorly understood. Our study shows that zinc chromate induced concentration-dependent increases in cytotoxicity, chromosome damage and DNA double strand breaks in human lung cells. In response to zinc chromate-induced breaks, MRE11 expression was increased and ATM and ATR were phosphorylated, indicating that the DNA double strand break repair system was initiated in the cells. In addition, our data show that zinc chromate-induced double strand breaks were only observed in the G2/M phase population, with no significant amount of double strand breaks observed in G1 and S phase cells. These data will aid in understanding the mechanisms of zinc chromate toxicity and carcinogenesis.
Microcystins (MCs) are naturally occurring cyclic heptapeptides that exhibit hepato-, nephro- and possibly neurotoxic effects in mammals. Organic anion transporting polypeptides (rodent Oatp/human OATP) appear to be specifically required for active uptake of MCs into hepatocytes and kidney epithelial cells. Based on symptoms of neurotoxicity in MC-intoxicated patients and the presence of Oatp/OATP at the blood-brain-barrier (BBB) and blood-cerebrospinal-fluid-barrier (BCFB) it is hypothesized that MCs can be transported across the BBB/BCFB in an Oatp/OATP-dependent manner and can induce toxicity in brain cells via inhibition of protein phosphatase (PP). To test these hypotheses, the presence of murine Oatp (mOatp) in primary murine whole brain cells (mWBC) was investigated at the mRNA and protein level. MC transport was tested by exposing mWBCs to three different MC-congeners (MC-LR, -LW, -LF) with/without co-incubation with the OATP/Oatp-substrates taurocholate (TC) and bromosulfophthalein (BSP). Uptake of MCs and cytotoxicity was demonstrated via MC-Western blot analysis, immunocytochemistry, cell viability and PP inhibition assays. All MC congeners bound covalently and inhibited mWBC PP. MC-LF was the most cytotoxic congener followed by -LW and -LR. The lowest toxin concentration significantly reducing mWBC viability after 48 h exposure was 400 nM (MC-LF). Uptake of MCs into mWBCs was inhibited via co-incubation with excess TC (50 and 500 microM) and BSP (50 microM). MC-Western blot analysis demonstrated a concentration-dependent accumulation of MCs. In conclusion, the in vitro data support the assumed MC-congener-dependent uptake in a mOatp-associated manner and cytotoxicity of MCs in primary murine whole brain cells.
Progesterone in hormonal preparations increases the incidence of breast cancer. Tissue factor (TF), the initiator of the extrinsic coagulation pathway, is associated with metastasis in a wide variety of cancers. We demonstrate herein that TF mRNA and protein are up-regulated by progesterone in the breast cancer cell line ZR-75. Epidermal growth factor, also associated with increased breast cancer risk, did not regulate TF. The increase in TF is both rapid and transient; increasing after 6 h, reaching a maximum at 24 h, before decreasing to basal levels at 72 h. Sucrose gradient experiments demonstrated that TF is located in the heavy fraction of the plasma membrane, although caveolin-1 is not expressed in ZR-75. To understand the physiological implications of an increase in TF, we performed coagulation and invasion assays. An increase in TF corresponded to an increase in procoagulant activity. Furthermore, progesterone increased the invasion of ZR-75 cells through a matrigel, an effect that was blocked by an antibody against TF. Because TF expression is associated with an enhanced risk of metastasis, we postulate that the progesterone-dependent up-regulation of TF provides a survival advantage to burgeoning breast cancer cells and may contribute to the increased risk of cancer associated with combined hormone replacement therapy.
To compare the efficacy and safety of different aspirin dosages in trials with patients at increased risk of vascular disease.
Pertinent studies were selected using MEDLINE (1966 through 1992), weekly reviews of Current Contents (1970 through 1992), and references from review articles and editorials.
Thirty-six randomized control trials of aspirin compared with another dosage of aspirin or with placebo.
The Mantel-Haenszel method of pooling odds ratios and metaregression involving log odds ratio (and the risk difference) on aspirin dosage, adjusting for the control rate and the mean length of follow up of the studies.
For all patients and for subgroups of patients with previous vascular conditions, there was no relationship between dose and vascular events. For all patients, a dose-response relation was not found with gastrointestinal hemorrhages and hemorrhagic stroke, but was found with gastrointestinal symptoms and withdrawals from side effects. For every 25 mg/day increase in aspirin dosage, the odds ratio of gastrointestinal symptoms and withdrawals increased, respectively, by 0.87% (99% Cl, 0.18 to 1.57%) and 0.94% (99% Cl, 0.06 to 1.82%). The corresponding absolute risk increases were 0.58 and 0.78 per 1,000 patients.
Direct and indirect comparisons of high-risk patients suggest no statistical differences in efficacy, gastrointestinal bleeds, and hemorrhagic strokes across aspirin dosages. These comparisons, however, suggest decreased risk of gastrointestinal symptoms and of withdrawals with lower doses of aspirin. More direct comparison studies are warranted that should contrast the benefits and risks to determine the net benefit.
Recent studies have indicated that both endothelin (ET) and angiotensin (Ang) II stimulate oxidative stress, which contributes to the development of hypertension. Here, we examined the effects of Ang II type 1 (AT1) receptor blockade on reactive oxygen species (ROS) formation in ET-dependent hypertension. Chronic ET-1 infusion (2.5 pmol/kg/min, i.v., n=7) into rats for 14 days increased systolic blood pressure from 113+/-1 to 141+/-2 mmHg. ET-1-infused rats showed greater plasma renin activity (8.1+/-0.8 Ang I/ml/h), and greater Ang I (122+/-28 fmol/ml) and Ang II levels (94+/-13 fmol/ml) than vehicle (0.9% NaCl)-infused rats (3.1+/-0.6 Ang I/ml/h, 45+/-8 and 47+/-7 fmol/ml, respectively, n=6). Angiotensin converting enzyme and AT1 receptor expression in aortic tissues were similar between the vehicle- and ET-1-infused rats. Vascular superoxide anion (O2-) production and plasma thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance (TBARS) levels were greater in ET-1-infused rats (27+/-1 counts per minutes [CPM]/mg dry tissue weight and 8.9+/-0.8 micromol/l, respectively) than vehicle-infused rats (16+/-1 CPM/mg and 5.1+/-0.1 micromol/l, respectively). The ET-1-induced hypertension was prevented by simultaneous treatment with a new AT1 receptor antagonist, olmesartan (0.01% in chow, 117+/-5 mmHg, n =7), or hydralazine (15 mg/kg/day in drinking water, 118+/-4 mmHg, n=6). Olmesartan prevented ET-1-induced increases in vascular O2- production (15+/-1 CPM/mg) and plasma TBARS (5.0+/-0.1 micromol/l). Vascular O2- production and plasma TBARS were also decreased by hydralazine (21+/-1 CPM/mg and 7.0+/-0.3 micromol/l, respectively), but these levels were significantly higher than in vehicle-infused rats. These data suggest that ET-dependent hypertension is associated with augmentation of Ang II levels and ROS formation. The combined effects of the elevations in circulating ET-1 and Ang II, as well as the associated ROS production, may contribute to the development of hypertension induced by chronic ET-1 infusion.
Uncoupling protein-2 (UCP2) regulates insulin secretion and may play an important role in linking obesity to type 2 diabetes (T2D). Previous studies of the role of the UCP2 promoter -866G/A single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) in T2D have given opposite results. We tested the distribution of the -866G/A SNP in 746 T2D patients and 327 healthy unrelated Caucasians from Italy. We also tested for an effect of the P12A variant of the peroxisomal proliferator-activated receptor-gamma 2 (PPAR gamma 2) gene on diabetes risk given by the UCP2 SNP. Compared with -866G/G carriers, a progressively reduced (P = 0.01) risk of T2D was observed in -866G/A and -866A/A subjects, with the latter showing an approximately 50% risk reduction [odd ratio (OR), 0.51; 95% confidence interval (CI), 0.3-0.8; P = 0.003]. Conversely, the -866G/G genotype was associated with increased risk (OR, 1.31; 95% CI, 1.01-1.71). Overall, the population risk attributable to the UCP2 -866G/G genotype was about 12%. After stratifying for the PPAR gamma 2 polymorphism, the increased risk conferred by the UCP2 G/G genotype was still evident among P12/P12 homozygous subjects (n = 801; OR, 1.38; 95% CI, 1.04-1.83), but seemed to disappear among the X12/A12 subjects (i.e. P12/A12 heterozygous or A12/A12 homozygous subjects; n = 137; OR, 0.87; 95% CI, 0.40-1.91). Whether this apparent difference is entirely due to the different number of carriers of the two PPAR gamma 2 genotypes is a likely possibility that deserves deeper investigation. In conclusion, in our population, the -866G/A SNP is associated with T2D. Additional studies in larger samples are needed to investigate the possibility of a concomitant effect of modifier genes such as PPAR gamma 2.
To test the hypothesis that altered neuronal activity may influence the extent and severity of the glio-vascular lesions produced by 1,3-dinitrobenzene (DNB), rats were either given the tremorgenic pyrethroid, Bifenthrin, or anaesthetised during various dosing schedules of DNB. When compared with controls dosed only with DNB, Bifenthrin tremor made both the ataxia and other functional effects caused by DNB more pronounced. Lesions in the brain stem were made significantly more severe and widespread across three dose levels of DNB. Centres such as facial nuclei, motor nuclei of fifth nerve, subthalamic nuclei and mamillary bodies, not damaged by DNB alone, were also affected in some animals. In contrast, general anaesthesia by either isoflurane ur urethane decreased the severity of the lesions, this being more pronounced with urethane. The character of the tissue changes, however, was not altered by these additional procedures. These findings support the suggestion that neuronal activity is one important determinant of the selective vulnerability of sensitive brain stem nuclei to glio-vascular damage from DNB intoxication.
Gastrodin (GAS) and p-hydroxybenzyl alcohol (HBA) which is an aglycone of gastrodin, are active ingredients of Gastrodia elata Blume. In this study, we attempted to investigate the effects of acute administration of GAS and HBA on learning and memory processes such as acquisition, consolidation and retrieval, on the passive avoidance task in rats; piracetam was used as a positive control. Scopolamine, impairing learning acquisition, shortened the step-through latency in the retention test in rats. GAS and HBA did not prolong the step-through latency induced by scopolamine in the passive avoidance task, but piracetam could prolong the step-through latency induced by scopolamine. Cycloheximide, impairing memory consolidation, shortened the step-through latency in the retention test in rats. GAS at 50 mg/kg, HBA at 5 mg/kg and piracetam at 100 mg/kg could prolong the step-through latency induced by cycloheximide in the passive avoidance task. Apomorphine, impairing memory retrieval, shortened the step-through latency in the retention test in rats. GAS at 5 mg/kg, HBA at 1 mg/kg and piracetam at 300 mg/kg could prolong the step-through latency induced by apomorphine in the passive avoidance task. From the above results, we concluded that the facilitating effects of HBA on learning and memory are better than those of GAS. In conclusion, GAS and HBA can improve cycloheximide- and apomorphine-induced amnesia, but not scopolamine-induced acquisition impairment in rats. Thus, GAS and HBA can facilitate memory consolidation and retrieval, but not acquisition. The facilitating effects of GAS and HBA are different from those of piracetam.
This study evaluated the association between exposure to several chemicals and mortality from lymphohematopoietic cancer (LHC) among 16,579 synthetic rubber industry workers who were followed up from 1943 to 1998.
Poisson regression analyses examined LHC rates in relation to butadiene, styrene, and DMDTC exposure. Models provided maximum likelihood estimates of the relative rate for the contrast between categories of one agent, adjusting for other agents and for additional potential confounders.
Cumulative exposure to 1,3-butadiene was associated positively with all leukemia (relative rates of 1.0, 1.4, 1.2, 2.9, and 3.7, respectively, for exposures of 0, >0 to <33.7, 33.7 to <184.7, 184.7 to <425.0, and 425.0+ ppm-years), chronic myelogenous leukemia and to a lesser extent with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Adjusting for styrene and DMDTC attenuated these associations. After controlling for butadiene, neither styrene nor DMDTC displayed a consistent exposure-response trend with all leukemia, chronic myelogenous leukemia, or chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
This study found a positive association between butadiene and leukemia that was not explained by exposure to other agents examined.
Prenatal exposure to TCDD interferes with fetal development at doses lower than those causing overt toxicity in adult animals. Exposure to TCDD during development produces alterations in the reproductive system of the developing pups- delayed puberty and reduced sperm counts in males and malformations in the external genitalia of females. The objectives of this study were to determine maternal and fetal tissue concentrations of TCDD after acute exposure and whether these tissue concentrations can be used to estimate the intensity of the developmental abnormalities reported by other laboratories. Pregnant Long Evans rats received a single, oral dose of 0.05, 0.20, 0.80, or 1.0 microg [3H]-TCDD/kg on gestation day (GD) 15, and maternal and fetal tissue concentrations of TCDD were measured on GD16 and GD21. On GD16, maternal liver contained the greatest amount of TCDD (30-47% administered dose). One day after administration of 0.20 microg TCDD/kg on GD15, there were 13.2 pg TCDD/g present in an individual fetus. This concentration is associated with delayed puberty and decreased epididymal sperm counts in male pups as well as malformations in the external genitalia of females. For the responses studied, tissue concentration measured during a critical period of gestation adequately predicts the intensity of the response. In addition, there was a strong correlation between fetal body burden and maternal body burden on GD16. A dose of 0.05 microg TCDD/kg resulted in maternal body burdens of 30.6+/-3.1 and 26.6+/-3.1 ng TCDD/kg on GD16 and GD21, respectively. In conclusion, low-level TCDD exposure during the perinatal stage of life can produce adverse effects within the developing pups and that tissue concentration measured during a critical period is the appropriate dose metric to predict adverse reproductive and developmental effects.
Chemotherapy with a doxorubicin-containing regimen results in high overall response rates in the treatment of metastatic adenocarcinoma of the breast; the combination of doxorubicin, etoposide, and cyclophosphamide has produced a response rate of 84% in untreated patients with stage IV disease. Recent data suggest that selected groups of patients with metastatic disease treated with high-dose chemotherapy and stem cell support may enjoy unmaintained, long-term remission. This study was designed to establish the feasibility of administering the combination of high-dose infusional doxorubicin, etoposide, and cyclophosphamide followed by autologous stem cell rescue in patients with responsive metastatic, or high-risk primary breast cancer.
Criteria for patient enrollment included the presence of high-risk primary breast cancer (stage II with > or = 10 involved axillary nodes or stages III A or B) or stage IV disease in complete or partial response; Karnofsky performance status of 80% or more; no prior radiation therapy to the left side of the chest; exposure to a 150-mg/m2 or smaller cumulative dose of doxorubicin, and a ventricular ejection fraction of 55% or more. Chemotherapy consisted of escalating doses of doxorubicin given by a 96-hour continuous intravenous infusion, followed by 60 mg/kg of etoposide and 100 mg/kg cyclophosphamide, both given intravenously. On Day 0, autologous bone marrow with or without peripheral stem cells, or granulocyte colony-stimulating factor primed peripheral stem cells alone were reinfused.
Thirty-five patients were treated in this study. There were no treatment-related deaths. No patient had a decrease in cardiac ejection fraction below 50% as a consequence of high-dose chemotherapy. Two patients suffered grade 3 mucositis at the highest level of doxorubicin (200 mg/m2). Of 21 patients treated for primary high-risk breast cancer, 19 are recurrence free, with a median follow-up of more than 8 months (> or = 4-36 months). Five of fourteen patients with stage IV disease remain progression free at greater than or equal to 5, 7, 9, 15, and 42 months. For patients with stage IV breast cancer, the median progression-free survival after high-dose chemotherapy was 9 months; the median overall survival had been reached at 22 months.
The phase II dose of doxorubicin in this combination therapy has been established at 165 mg/m2, with dose-limiting toxicity defined as mucositis. Further trials to define the role of this safe and effective high-intensity regimen in the treatment of breast cancer are indicated.
To report a case in which a local reaction is attributed to an ifosfamide extravasation. Previously, extravasated ifosfamide has been considered a nonirritant.
A 54-year-old woman with a non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in stage IV B developed a local reaction in her right arm after an ifosfamide extravasation. No pressure was prescribed, no bandaging was applied on the affected area, and the limb was elevated to the heart level. In addition, chondroitinsulfatase 150 turbidity-reducing units was administered subcutaneously around the area. This procedure was repeated 12 hours later, resulting in a satisfactory decrease in the inflammatory signs and pain.
The local reaction in the patient's arm cannot be attributed to the hypertonicity of the infusing solution or to the vehicle of the infusate. The antidote used was chondroitinsulfatase, an enzyme similar to hyaluronidase. It enhances the systemic uptake of the drug from the tissue.
Extravasated ifosfamide is a potential irritant. General measures applied after its extravasation can be potentiated strongly by local subcutaneous administration of chondroitinsulfatase or hyaluronidase, repeated if necessary.
Recent double-blind, controlled trials in Japan showed that the antiepileptic agent zonisamide (ZNS) improves the cardinal symptoms of Parkinson's disease. Glutathione (GSH) exerts antioxidative activity through quenching reactive oxygen species and dopamine quinone. GSH depletion within dopaminergic neurons impairs mitochondrial complex I activity, followed by age-dependent nigrostriatal neurodegeneration. This study examined changes in GSH and GSH synthesis-related molecules, and the neuroprotective effects of ZNS on dopaminergic neurodegeneration using 6-hydroxydopamine-injected hemiparkinsonian mice brain and cultured neurons or astrocytes.
ZNS increased both the cell number and GSH levels in astroglial C6 cells, but not in dopaminergic neuronal CATH.a cells. Repeated injections of ZNS (30mg/kg intraperitoneally) for 14 days also significantly increased GSH levels and S100beta-positive astrocytes in mouse basal ganglia. Repeated ZNS injections (30mg/kg) for 7 days in the hemiparkinsonian mice increased the expression of cystine/glutamate exchange transporter xCT in activated astrocytes, which supply cysteine to neurons for GSH synthesis. Treatment of these mice with ZNS also increased GSH levels and completely suppressed striatal levodopa-induced quinone formation. Reduction of nigrostriatal dopamine neurons in the lesioned side of hemiparkinsonian mice was significantly abrogated by repeated injections of ZNS with or without adjunctive levodopa starting 3 weeks after 6-hydroxydopamine lesioning.
These results provide new pharmacological evidence for the effects of ZNS. ZNS markedly increased GSH levels by enhancing the astroglial cystine transport system and/or astroglial proliferation via S100beta production or secretion. ZNS acts as a neuroprotectant against oxidative stress and progressive dopaminergic neurodegeneration.
On the basis of clinical studies showing that arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)), via an apoptotic mechanism, and with minimal toxicity induces complete remission in patients with refractory acute promyelocytic leukemia and that multidrug-resistant and p53-mutated neuroblastoma cells are sensitive to As(2)O(3) both in vitro and in vivo, we searched for molecular mechanisms involved in the As(2)O(3)-induced neuroblastoma cell death.
We have studied the effect of As(2)O(3) on the expression and cellular localization of proteins involved in drug-induced death in two neuroblastoma cell lines with intact p53 and two with mutated p53, the latter two displaying multidrug resistance.
As(2)O(3) provoked Bax expression in all tested neuroblastoma cell lines, including SK-N-BE(2) cells with mutated p53 and LA-N-1 cells, which have a deleted p53. In all cell lines exposed to As(2)O(3), p21 Bax was proteolytically cleaved in a calpain-dependent way into the more proapoptotic p18 Bax, which was detected exclusively in a mitochondria-enriched subcellular fraction. As(2)O(3) also caused an increase of cytoplasmic cytochrome c, translocation of antiapoptosis-inducing factor to the nuclei, and a slight activation of caspase 3. However, inhibition of caspase 3 did not prevent cell death, whereas inhibition of Bax cleavage was associated with a decreased As(2)O(3)-induced cell death.
We show that multidrug-resistant neuroblastoma cells die after exposure to As(2)O(3), independent of functional p53, suggesting activation of a cytotoxic pathway different from that induced by conventional chemotherapeutic agents. We further propose that proteolytic activation of Bax is an important event in As(2)O(3)-induced cell death.
To report the clinical spectrum seen in young abusers of street-ketamine (regular recreational abusers of street-ketamine, for its hallucinogenic effects) in Hong Kong, presenting with significant lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) but with no evidence of bacterial infection.
We retrospectively analysed the clinical presentations, pelvic pain and urgency/frequency scores, video-urodynamic studies, cystoscopy findings, histological features of bladder biopsies and radiological findings of 59 ketamine abusers who were referred to the urology units of Princess Margaret and Tuen Mun Hospital, Hong Kong, from March 2000 to December 2007.
Of the 59 patients, all had moderate to severe LUTS, i.e. frequency, urgency, dysuria, urge incontinence and occasionally painful haematuria. Forty-two (71%) patients had a cystoscopy that showed various degrees of epithelial inflammation similar to that seen in chronic interstitial cystitis. All of 12 available bladder biopsies had histological features resembling those of interstitial cystitis. Urodynamically, either detrusor overactivity or decreased bladder compliance with or without vesico-ureteric reflux was detected to some degree in all of 47 patients. Thirty patients (51%) had unilateral or bilateral hydronephrosis on renal ultrasonography, and four (7%) showed features suggestive of papillary necrosis on radiological imaging. Eight patients had a raised serum creatinine level.
A syndrome of cystitis and contracted bladder can be associated with street-ketamine abuse. Secondary renal damage can occur in severe cases which might be irreversible, rendering patients dependent on dialysis. The present data do not establish the precise cause nor the incidence. Street-ketamine abuse is not only a drug problem, but might be associated with a serious urological condition causing a significant burden to healthcare resources.
The effect of cyclophosphamide-induced leukocytopenia on the cellular defence and on the efficacy of penicillin treatment in a Streptococcus pneumoniae pneumonia model in mice was studied.
The number of alveolar phagocytes was determined in broncho-alveolar lavage (BAL) fluid as well as the number of bacteria in both BAL fluid and homogenized lung tissue.
Eighteen and 21 h after infection, leukocytopenic animals had significantly lower numbers of alveolar phagocytes than controls, while the numbers of bacteria in both BAL fluid and lungs were significantly higher. The number of bacteria was inversely related to the dose of penicillin and the number of alveolar macrophages. The number of alveolar granulocytes was inversely related to the dose of penicillin.
Leukocytopenia due to cyclophosphamide impairs the cellular defence in the lung against Streptococcus pneumoniae and the dose of penicillin must be increased to compensate for the higher outgrowth of bacteria in these leukocytopenic mice, compared to normal animals.
Estrogen replacement therapy is considered antiatherosclerotic because it reduces LDL cholesterol and fibrinogen and increases HDL cholesterol concentrations. However, exogenous estrogen is also known to increase hepatic triglyceride production. Hyperlipidemia in the nephrotic syndrome is probably due to increased lipoprotein secretion into plasma and decreased clearance of lipoprotein cholesterol and triglycerides. Previously, lipid-lowering effects of ovariectomy in analbuminemic rats were observed, suggesting that in the presence of hypoalbuminemia, estrogen replacement may have adverse effects on the lipid profile. To test this hypothesis, ovariectomized control rats and rats with Adriamycin-induced nephrotic syndrome were treated with estradiol. In ovariectomized controls, estradiol reduced plasma LDL cholesterol, apolipoprotein B, and fibrinogen and increased apolipoprotein A-I and triglycerides. Nephrotic rats were characterized by a marked decrease in plasma colloid osmotic pressure, hyperfibrinogenemia, hyperlipidemia, and stimulated hepatic fatty acid synthesis. The beneficial effects of estradiol on LDL cholesterol, apolipoprotein B, and fibrinogen found in ovariectomized controls were not present in estradiol-treated nephrotic rats. This suggests that in hypoalbuminemia, downregulation of the LDL receptor overrides putative estradiol-induced increases in LDL receptor activity. Moreover, estrogen replacement in the nephrotic syndrome doubled fatty acid synthesis and triglyceride secretion, and markedly exacerbated hypertriglyceridemia, suggesting saturation of triglyceride clearance. Thus, severe hypoalbuminemia in rats induces an atherosclerotic metabolic response that is aggravated by estrogen replacement. These findings suggest that estrogen replacement in hypoalbuminemic subjects could be contra-indicated.
As the genomes of mammalian species become sequenced and gene functions are ascribed, the use of differential gene expression (DGE) to evaluate organ function will become common in the experimental evaluation of new drug therapies. The ability to translate this technology into useful information for human exposures depends on tissue sampling that is impractical or generally not possible in man. The possibility that the DGE of nucleated cells, reticulocytes, or platelets in blood may present the necessary link with target organ toxicity provides an opportunity to correlate preclinical with clinical outcomes. Adriamycin is highly effective alone and more frequently in combination with other chemotherapeutic agents in the treatment of a variety of susceptible malignancies. Adriamycin-induced cardiomyopathy was examined as an endpoint to measure the utility of DOE on whole blood as a predictor of cardiac toxicity. Statistically significant gene changes were observed between relevant blood and cardiac gene profiles that corroborated the accepted mechanisms of toxicity (oxidative stress, effects on carnitine transport, DNA intercalation). There were, however, clear indications that other target organs (bone marrow and intestinal tract) were affected. The divergent expression of some genes between the blood and the heart on day 7 may also indicate the timing and mechanism of development of the cardiomyopathy and confirm current therapeutic approaches for its prevention. The data demonstrate that whole blood gene expression particularly in relation to oxidative stress, in conjunction with standard hematology and clinical chemistry, may be useful in monitoring and predicting cardiac damage secondary to adriamycin administration. Appendices A & B, referenced in this paper, are not printed in this issue of Toxicologic Pathology. They are available as downloadable text files at http://taylorandfrancis.metapress.com/openurl.asp?genre=journal&issn=0192-6233. To access them, click on the issue link for 30(4), then select this article. A download option appears at the bottom of this abstract. In order to access the full article online, you must either have an individual subscription or a member subscription accessed through www.toxpath.org.
A common and severe neural tube defect (NTD) phenotype, myelomeningocele (MM), results from the defective closure of the caudal end of the neural tube with herniation of the spinal cord and meninges through the vertebral column. The exact mechanisms for NTDs are unknown, but excessive oxidative stress, particularly in association with maternal diabetes, has been postulated as a mechanism for MM.
The SNPlex Genotyping (ABI, Foster City, CA) platform was used to investigate single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) across the superoxide dismutase (SOD) 1 and 2 genes to assess their association with MM risk. The study population included 329 trio (affected child and both parents) and 281 duo (affected child and one parent) families. Only cases with documented MM were studied. Seventeen SNPs across the SOD1 and SOD2 genes met the quality-control criteria to be considered for statistical analysis. Genetic association was assessed using the family-based transmission disequilibrium test in PLINK (a genome association analysis toolset).
Four SNPs in the SOD1 gene (rs 202446, rs202447, rs4816405, and rs2070424) and one SNP in the SOD2 gene ( rs5746105) [corrected] appeared to be associated with MM risk in our population. After adjusting for multiple testing, these SNPs remained significant.
This study provides the first genetic evidence to support association of myelomeningocele with superoxide scavenging. The rare alleles of the five specific SNPs within SOD1 and SOD2 appear to confer a protective effect on the susceptibility for MM risk in the MM population tested. Further evaluation of the roles of superoxide scavenging and neural tube development is warranted.
1. Torsades de pointes (TDP) is a potentially fatal ventricular tachycardia associated with increases in QT interval and monophasic action potential duration (MAPD). TDP is a side-effect that has led to withdrawal of several drugs from the market (e.g. terfenadine and terodiline). 2. The potential of compounds to cause TDP was evaluated by monitoring their effects on MAPD in dog. Four compounds known to increase QT interval and cause TDP were investigated: terfenadine, terodiline, cisapride and E4031. On the basis that only free drug in the systemic circulation will elicit a pharmacological response target, free concentrations in plasma were selected to mimic the free drug exposures in man. Infusion regimens were designed that rapidly achieved and maintained target-free concentrations of these drugs in plasma and data on the relationship between free concentration and changes in MAPD were obtained for these compounds. 3. These data indicate that the free ED50 in plasma for terfenadine (1.9 nM), terodiline (76 nM), cisapride (11 nM) and E4031 (1.9 nM) closely correlate with the free concentration in man causing QT effects. For compounds that have shown TDP in the clinic (terfenadine, terodiline, cisapride) there is little differentiation between the dog ED50 and the efficacious free plasma concentrations in man (< 10-fold) reflecting their limited safety margins. These data underline the need to maximize the therapeutic ratio with respect to TDP in potential development candidates and the importance of using free drug concentrations in pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic studies.
Changes in plasma active and inactive renin concentration (ARC and IRC) after captopril administration and angiotensin II (AII) infusion were studied in six patients with Bartter's syndrome. A single oral dose of captopril (8-25 mg) lowered the blood pressure and increased both ARC and IRC. AII infusion elevated blood pressure, suppressed ARC and increased IRC. In this syndrome of high renin levels, infused AII appeared to increase inactive renin secretion by reducing its conversion to active renin. On the other hand, an acute fall in AII levels and/or renal perfusion pressure by captopril increased both active and inactive renin. This indicates that the increase in the secretion of inactive renin, stimulated by captopril, might exceed any increase in its conversion to active renin in patients with Bartter's syndrome, in whom the production of renin is accelerated, and conversion of inactive renin to active renin probably already operates near its maximum.
Cells respond to physiologic stress by enhancing the expression of specific stress proteins. Heat-shock proteins (hsps) and glucose-regulated proteins (grps) are members of a large superfamily of proteins collectively referred to as stress proteins. This particular stress-protein response has evolved as a cellular strategy to protect, repair, and chaperone other essential cellular proteins. The objective of this study was to evaluate the differential expression of four hsps in the renal cortex and medulla during experimental nephrotoxic injury using HgCl2. Male Sprague-Dawley rats received single injections of HgCl2 (0.25, 0.5, or 1 mg Hg/kg, i.v.). At 4, 8, 16, or 24 h after exposure, kidneys were removed and processed for histopathologic, immunoblot, and immunohistochemical analyses. Nephrosis was characterized as minimal or mild (cytoplasmic condensation, tubular epithelial degeneration, single cell necrosis) at the lower exposures, and progressed to moderate or severe (nuclear pyknosis, necrotic foci, sloughing of the epithelial casts into tubular lumens) at the highest exposures. Western blots of renal proteins were probed with monoclonal antibodies specific for 4 hsps. In whole kidney, Hg(II) induced a time- and dose-related accumulation of hsp72 and grp94. Accumulation of hsp72 was predominantly localized in the cortex and not medulla, while grp94 accumulated primarily in the medulla but not cortex. The high, constitutive expression of hsp73 did not change as a result of Hg(II) exposure, and it was equally localized in cortex and medulla. Hsp90 was not detected in kidneys of control or Hg-treated rats. Since hsp72 has been shown involved in cellular repair and recovery, and since Hg(II) damage occurs primarily in cortex, we investigated the cell-specific expression of this hsp. Hsp72 accumulated primarily in undamaged distal convoluted tubule epithelia, with less accumulation in undamaged proximal convoluted-tubule epithelia. These results demonstrate that expression of specific stress proteins in rat kidney exhibits regional heterogeneity in response to Hg(II) exposure, and a positive correlation exists between accumulation of some stress proteins and acute renal cell injury. While the role of accumulation of hsps and other stress proteins in vivo prior to or concurrent with nephrotoxicity remains to be completely understood, these stress proteins may be part of a cellular defense response to nephrotoxicants. Conversely, renal tubular epithelial cells that do not or are unable to express stress proteins, such as hsp72, may be more susceptible to nephrotoxicity.
Elevated exposure to arsenic has been suggested to be associated with atherosclerosis leading to cardiovascular disease (CVD). However, biochemical events underlying the arsenic-induced atherosclerosis have not yet been fully documented. The aim of this study was to investigate the associations of circulating molecules involved in atherosclerosis with arsenic exposure in the individuals exposed to arsenic in Bangladesh. A total of 324 study subjects, 218 from arsenic-endemic areas and 106 from nonendemic areas in Bangladesh, were recruited. Drinking water, hair, nail, and blood samples were collected from the study subjects for analysis. Total cholesterol (TC), low-density lipoprotein (LDL), and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) levels were lower in arsenic-endemic subjects than those of nonendemic subjects. Oxidized LDL (Ox-LDL), C-reactive protein (CRP), intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), and vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) levels were significantly higher in arsenic-endemic subjects than those in nonendemic subjects. All these circulating molecules showed significant correlations with arsenic exposure (water, hair, and nail arsenic concentrations), and all these relations were significant before and after adjusting for relevant covariates. Among the circulating molecules tested in this study, HDL, Ox-LDL, and CRP showed dose-response relationships with arsenic exposure. Ox-LDL/HDL ratios were increased with the increasing concentrations of arsenic in the water, hair, and nails. Furthermore, non-HDL cholesterol and TC/HDL ratios were significantly correlated with arsenic exposure before and after adjusting for relevant covariates. Thus, all the observed associations may be the major features of arsenic exposure-related atherosclerosis leading to CVD.
A case of angioedema caused by bupropion used for smoking cessation is discussed.
A 33-year-old man with a 12-pack-year of smoking history developed a rash on his extremities 18 days after the initiation of bupropion, followed by pruritus and swelling of the arms, feet, lower lip, and tongue by day 20. Progression subsided after treatment with intravenous histamine antagonists and corticosteroids and required two emergency department visits. On day 22, the patient took his morning dose of bupropion as scheduled, which resulted in his symptoms returning. He discontinued bupropion on his own. The recommendation to discontinue the drug was not made or documented by the treating clinician. By day 23, the diarrhea had subsided, the next day his swelling disappeared, and by day 25, the pruritus had ceased. Cases of angioedema, a rare adverse effect of bupropion, have not been extensively described in previous literature. The reaction is linked to medications in 90% of all cases. Nonpitting edema typically affects the head and neck and may progress to respiratory failure. Failure to remove the causative agent may increase patient risk and result in increased health care costs, both of which occurred in this case. According to the Naranjo et al. probability scale, bupropion was deemed a definitive causative agent for this adverse reaction.
A 33-year-old man developed angioedema during treatment with bupropion for smoking cessation.
