Cutaneous leishmaniasis is an endemic disease in developing countries. The first-line drugs for its treatment are the pentavalent antimony compounds such as meglumine antimoniate (MA). High cost, side effects, multiple injections and incomplete efficacy are limitations of this therapy. Zinc sulfate (ZS) has been reported to be effective in the treatment of cutaneous leishmaniasis.
To compare the efficacy of intralesional injections of ZS 2% with those of MA in the treatment of cutaneous leishmaniasis.
This was a prospective, double-blind, case-control clinical study. 104 patients with typical lesions of acute cutaneous leishmaniasis (ACL) were included. The duration of treatment was 6 weeks. Improvement was evaluated by clinical examination and direct smear.
The study was completed in only 66 patients: 35 patients received MA and 31 received ZS. The cure rates were 60% for MA and 83.8% for ZS. After the second and fourth weeks, the efficacy of treatment with ZS was higher than that with MA (p < 0.01), but after 6 weeks no significant differences were observed between the two groups (p > 0.05).
On the basis of this trial and despite the high number of drop-outs, we consider that the intralesional injection of ZS 2% is an alternative treatment in ACL.
Topical therapy for rosacea aims to reduce inflammatory lesions and decrease erythema but can carry side effects such as stinging, pruritus, and burning. Metronidazole and azelaic acid gel 15% are U.S. Food and Drug Administration-approved for the treatment of rosacea. The current study was conducted to assess the cumulative irritation potential of 2 formulations of metronidazole 0.75% gel and 1% gel--and azelaic acid gel 15% over 21 days (N=36). Results of this study demonstrated a significantly greater poten tial for irritation from azelaic acid compared with metronidazole gel 0.75% (P < .0001), which had significantly greater potential for irritation compared with metronidazole gel 1% (P = .0054). Metronidazole gel 1% had a similar profile to white petrolatum.
2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is an environmental disrupter that continues to be generated from numerous industrial processes. In utero and lactational exposure of rats to levels of TCDD similar to those encountered by human populations have profound and persistent effects on growth, the reproductive axis and spatial learning and memory. TCDD is thought to act through the aryl hydrocarbon receptor, which displays crosstalk with estrogen-mediated genomic activation. An in vitro superfusion system was used to evaluate the effects of TCDD exposure on GnRH-release from hypothalamic explants at three developmental time points in male rats. Pregnant dams were treated with 5 microg/kg TCDD on gestational day 15, and male offspring displayed a marked reduction in GnRH release. However, total mediobasal hypothalamus/preoptic area (MBH/POA) GnRH content was significantly greater in dioxin-exposed animals. These results suggest deficits in release rather than production of GnRH. Confocal microscopy was used to characterize anatomical features of individual GnRH-positive neurons, as well as the organization of the neuronal network governing GnRH release. Differences in cellular structures were apparent in discrete regions of the GnRH neural network, specifically the lateral preoptic area and septal region. We propose that developmental reproductive effects in males treated in utero and lactionally with dioxin, results from a suppressive effect of TCDD on mechanisms governing GnRH release. These effects coincide with changes in growth and development, indicating that TCDD may induce a syndrome of effects by modifying hypothalamic structures regulating growth and reproductive development.
DRESS syndrome (drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms) is a hypersensitivity reaction with skin rashes, eosinophilia, fever, lymph node enlargement and internal organ involvement.
A 60-year-old diabetic woman was hospitalized at the University Hospitals of Geneva for mid-leg amputation due to peripheral arterial occlusive disease. No drug allergy was reported. Because of a wound infection by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, treatment with vancomycin (2 g/day) in continuous perfusion was initiated. Approximately 2 weeks later, she developed a toxidermia with fever, a progressive maculopapular skin rash, eosinophilia and acute renal insufficiency. The skin biopsy revealed a necrosis with lymphocytic and eosinophilic infiltrations, supporting the suspicion of DRESS syndrome. A cure was achieved by the withdrawal of vancomycin and the administration of methylprednisolone (1 g/day), antihistaminics and topical mometasone, without the introduction of other antibiotics.
Vancomycin can be a cause of DRESS syndrome. A high index of suspicion is warranted in order not to miss this potentially lethal disease.
Exposure to antiandrogens during the critical developmental window (i.e. sexual differentiation) can permanently demasculinize the male phenotype. Here we have investigated the effects of developmental exposure to di-isononylphthalate (DINP) (250 and 750 mg/kg) and 1,1-dichloro-2,2-bis(p-chlorophenyl)ethylene (p,p'-DDE) (50 and 100mg/kg) on 19.5-day-old fetal Sprague-Dawley rat testicular and adrenal steroidogenesis. Maternal exposure to DINP or p,p'-DDE on embryonic days (EDs) 13.5-17.5 did not down-regulate the activity of steroidogenesis in ED 19.5 male rat fetus. Protein expression levels of testicular and adrenal StAR, P450scc, 3beta-HSD and androgen receptor (AR) did not show any changes. However, p,p'-DDE caused clear abnormalities in the ultrastructure of steroidogenic cells in ED 19.5 rat testis and adrenal. These structural alterations can disturb the development and function of fetal testis and adrenal that may become evident later in life.
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified over 300 regions associated with more than 70 common diseases. However, identifying causal genes within an associated region remains a major challenge. One approach to resolving causal genes is through the dissection of gene-phenotype correlations. Here we use polychromatic flow cytometry to show that differences in surface expression of the human interleukin-2 (IL-2) receptor alpha (IL2RA, or CD25) protein are restricted to particular immune cell types and correlate with several haplotypes in the IL2RA region that have previously been associated with two autoimmune diseases, type 1 diabetes (T1D) and multiple sclerosis. We confirm our strongest gene-phenotype correlation at the RNA level by allele-specific expression (ASE). We also define key parameters for the design and implementation of post-GWAS gene-phenotype investigations and demonstrate the usefulness of a large bioresource of genotype-selectable normal donors from whom fresh, primary cells can be analyzed.
The objective of this study was two-fold: (i) to analyze behavioral sensitization to haloperidol 2 weeks after single restraint stress, and (ii) to establish the effects of 8-OH-DPAT treatment prior to stress on sensitized behavioral responses. Overall behavior was analyzed and not only catalepsy, but also sedation (immobility), grooming, exploration and vacuous chewing movements were evaluated. Results indicated that single restraint stress induced a long-lasting sensitization of acute vacuous chewing movements induced by haloperidol (0.25, 0.5 mg/kg i.p.). Interestingly, this behavioral sensitization was prevented by 8-OH-DPAT (0.35 mg/kg s.c.) prior to stress. Finally, haloperidol-induced sedation was not disrupted by either restraint stress or 8-OH-DPAT treatment.
We report the occurrence of supraventricular tachycardia and hypotension in a 54-year-old woman after maintenance therapy with fluoxetine. Although cases of tachycardia and palpitations have been reported, supraventricular tachycardia and hypotension have not been directly attributed to fluoxetine.
Intravascular ultrasound imaging detects epicardial intimal thickening in the majority of heart transplant recipients with angiographically normal epicardial coronary arteries. Although coronary artery vasoreactivity is abnormal after cardiac transplantation, intimal thickening does not appear to affect conduit vessel responses. However, the effect of intimal thickening on both conduit and resistance vessel responses, as measured by changes in volumetric coronary blood flow (CBF), is unknown.
Epicardial coronary artery conductance and microvascular resistance vessel responses were studied after intracoronary adenosine and nitroglycerin administration in 36 orthotopic heart transplant recipients 1 month to 7 years after transplantation. Sequentially measured coronary flow average peak velocity ([APV, cm/s] 0.018 in Doppler guide wire) and epicardial luminal cross-sectional area ([CSA, mm2] 4.3F 30-MHz ultrasound catheter) data were obtained at baseline and during peak hyperemia after administration of 12 to 18 micrograms IC adenosine and 150 to 200 micrograms IC nitroglycerin. Volumetric CBF (mL/min) was calculated as CBF = APV (cm/s) x CSA (mm2) x 60 seconds/1 min x 1 cm2/100 mm2 x 0.5. Measurements were made from a discrete position in the proximal left anterior descending (LAD) artery (n = 22), mid-LAD artery (n = 7), proximal circumflex artery (n = 6), and proximal right coronary artery (n = 1). Intimal thickening was present in 19 of 32 patients (60%). Both adenosine and nitroglycerin increased APV (from 18.9 +/- 4.9 to 56.0 +/- 11.5 cm/s for adenosine and from 20.2 +/- 5.3 to 49.1 +/- 11.5 cm/s for nitroglycerin; both P < .05). Coronary flow velocity reserve was significantly higher for adenosine compared with nitroglycerin (3.1 +/- 0.6 versus 2.5 +/- 0.7, respectively; P < .001). Epicardial luminal CSA was unchanged during adenosine hyperemia compared with baseline (17.4 +/- 3.8 versus 17.3 +/- 4.0 mm2, respectively; P = NS) but was significantly greater during nitroglycerin hyperemia compared with baseline (18.7 +/- 3.8 versus 17.3 +/- 4.0 mm2, 6.2 +/- 3.6% change; P < .05). Baseline CBF was similar before drug administration. Hyperemic adenosine and nitroglycerin CBF responses (297 +/- 99 and 276 +/- 87 mL/min, respectively; P = NS) and CBF reserve (3.0 +/- 0.7 and 2.7 +/- 0.7, respectively; P = NS) were not significantly different. Importantly, intimal thickening did not diminish resting or hyperemic APV, coronary flow velocity reserve, luminal CSA, CBF, or CBF reserve responses.
In this study of angiographically normal heart transplant recipients, epicardial intimal thickening does not diminish conduit and resistance vessel responses during endothelial-independent vasodilator administration.
Exposure to cadmium and other pollutants is a major environmental problem. Cadmium is causing acute liver injury but the mechanism of hepatotoxicity is poorly understood. The present study aimed to assess the possible reasons by which cadmium causes liver toxicity. Furthermore, the protective role of selenium against this toxicity was investigated. The hepatic level of lipid peroxidation (malondialdehyde, MDA), the antioxidant system (reduced glutathione, glutathione peroxidase, and thioredoxin reductase), as well as the levels of different lipid classes and the fatty acids pattern were determined in three groups of rats of 15 each. The first group (control group) received saline solution intraperitoneal (i.p.) daily for 10 days. The second group (cadmium chloride-treated group) received 2 mg/kg body weight cadmium chloride solution i.p. for a period of 10 days. The third group (cadmium chloride/sodium selenite-treated group) received cadmium chloride as in the second group and received i.p. sodium selenite (1 mg/kg body weight) at the first and sixth day of treatment (two separate injections within 10 days). The results showed that cadmium treatment increased the hepatic level of malondialdehyde (MDA) and the mean percent of total saturated fatty acid in all lipid classes, whereas the levels of antioxidant system, the levels of hepatic cholesterol esters, triglycerides, total phospholipids, mono- and polyunsaturated fatty acids in all lipid classes were decreased compared to control rats. These changes resulting from Cd-treatment were prevented due to treatment of rats with selenium since the levels of reduced glutathione, glutathione peroxidase, and thioredoxin reductase were induced in Se/Cd-treated group compared with either Cd-treated or control group. In addition, selenium maintained the low levels of cholesterol esters, triglycerides, total phospholipids, mono- and polyunsaturated fatty acids in all lipid classes caused by cadmium to their normal levels. It is concluded that cadmium-induced oxidative stress by increasing the levels of free radicals and by decreasing antioxidants level. This oxidative stress could be the primary cause of Cd-induced hepatotoxicity. Also, selenium can be used as a protective agent against Cd-toxicity. This study could provide a possible explanation to hepatotoxicity resulting from exposure to cadmium in the environment. In addition, selenium could ameliorate cadmium-induced hepatotoxicity since it reduced MDA levels and increased the activities of antioxidant enzymes in this tissue.
Exposure of rats to hyperoxia or to treatment with endotoxin, increases lung manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) gene expression. However, the paths by which these environmental signals are transduced into enhanced MnSOD gene expression are unknown. We now provide evidence that heterotrimeric G proteins are involved in the hyperoxia-induced increase in lung MnSOD gene expression but that pertussis toxin-sensitive G proteins are not involved in the endotoxin-induced elevation of lung MnSOD gene expression. We also show that treating rats with pertussis toxin decreased lung MnSOD activity approximately 50%. This decline in MnSOD activity occurred without a change in the lung activity of copper-zinc SOD, catalase, or glutathione peroxidase. In air-breathing rats, the pertussis toxin-induced decrease in MnSOD activity was associated with the development of lung edema, pleural effusion with a high concentration of protein, and biochemical evidence of lung oxygen toxicity. Compared to air-breathing rats, maintenance of pertussis toxin-treated rats under hypoxic or hyperoxic conditions respectively decreased or increased intrathoracic fluid. Endotoxin treatment elevated lung MnSOD activity and protected pertussis toxin-treated rats from an increase in intrathoracic fluid.
We randomly assigned 24 neonates with hypoxemia to receive tolazoline hydrochloride. Thirteen received a single dose (SD) of 2 mg/kg intravenously, and 11 received a SD of 2 mg/kg plus a 2 mg/kg/h intravenous infusion (SDI). Increase in PaO2 greater than or equal to 15 mm Hg within 20 min of administration was more common in SDI patients. Hypotension and gastrointestinal bleeding occurred more often in SDI patients. Survival could not be related to the method of administration or initial relief of hypoxemia with tolazoline.
An 18-yr-old male asthmatic was paralyzed with atracurium for a period of seven days to facilitate mechanical pulmonary ventilation. After withdrawal of the muscle relaxant, train-of-four neuromuscular monitoring demonstrated rapid recovery of normal function. Three days later he developed acute quadriparesis without respiratory compromise. Electrophysiological studies showed normal conduction velocities, low compound muscle action potential amplitudes and evidence of denervation. Most cases of post-ventilatory weakness in the ICU involve the use of vecuronium and pancuronium. It has been suggested that the steroid nucleus in these muscle relaxants may be responsible. Our patient developed generalised weakness after treatment with atracurium, a benzylisoquinolinium muscle relaxant. Thus, it appears that the steroid nucleus of vecuronium and pancuronium is not essential in causing post-ventilatory weakness.
Adrenergic transmitters and opioid peptides are implicated in the regulation of male sexual behavior. In the present studies we examine a possible interaction between these two neurochemical systems in the regulation of components of male sexual behavior. In mating tests, clonidine (0.25 mg/kg, 6 min pretest) induced a profound deficit in intromissive and ejaculatory behavior whereas naloxone (5 mg/kg, 20 min pretest) evinced a facilitation of ejaculatory behavior, evidenced by decreases in the ejaculation latency in the initial copulatory series and by decreases in ejaculation latency and intercopulatory interval in the second copulatory series. Importantly, prior treatment with naloxone did not prevent or attenuate the copulatory suppression induced by clonidine. In ex copula penile reflex tests, clonidine (0.25 mg/kg, 6 min pretest) decreased the incidence of seminal emission and the number of penile responses (erections, cups and flips). Naloxone (5 mg/kg, 20 min pretest) was without effect on any of the parameters of penile reflex activity and, further, failed to prevent or attenuate the erectile suppression induced by clonidine. A final study evaluated the dose-response relationship of clonidine-induced erectile dysfunction. A similar degree of erectile dysfunction was observed after 0.005, 0.025 or 0.25 mg/kg clonidine, whereas 0.0005 mg/kg was without effect. Previous studies demonstrated a dose-dependent inhibition of mounting, intromissive and ejaculatory behavior, with 0.25 mg/kg selectively eliminating ejaculatory behavior in mating tests. These data demonstrate a dose-dependent inhibition of penile reflexes, with inhibition occurring at doses lower than those required to induce copulatory dysfunction. Further, we suggest that opioid receptors sensitive to naloxone blockade are not involved in the clonidine-induced suppression of copulatory or erectile function.
Development of metabolic acidosis (pH < 7.30) or the combination of encephalopathy grade III-IV, coagulopathy (PT > 100s) and oliguric renal failure are associated with a poor prognosis in paracetamol-induced fulminant liver failure. It is important to administer N-acetylcysteine as soon as possible after the overdose, but N-acetyl-cysteine also seems to improve survival when given 36-80h following ingestion. Liver transplantation has been performed in some patients with paracetamol-induced fulminant liver failure, but convincing evidence that transplantation improves survival in this group of patients is still lacking. We discuss the difficulties met in deciding if and when to perform liver transplantation. Renal failure may develop some days after paracetamol poisoning, even in the absence of severe liver damage, and haemofiltration and haemodialysis may be necessary.
Intratracheal instillation studies have shown that exposure to silicon carbide whiskers (SiCW), an asbestos substitute, produces pulmonary fibrotic changes, suggesting that SiCW might have fibrogenic potential. It has been theorized that Clara cell secretory protein (CCSP) plays a critical role in regulating the acute inflammatory response in the lung. The present study was conducted to investigate the time course of the expression of CCSP in lungs exposed to SiCW in vivo. Male Wistar rats were administered 2 mg or 10 mg of SiCW suspended in saline by a single intratracheal instillation and were sacrificed at 3 days, 1 week, 1 month, 3 months and 6 months of recovery time. The expression of CCSP was observed by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), Western blot and immunostaining. Exposure to 10 mg of SiCW decreased in levels of CCSP mRNA at 3 days, 1 week, 1 month and 6 months following intratracheal instillation. The protein level of CCSP in SiCW-exposed rats was decreased at 1 day, 3 days and 1 month after a single instillation of 2 and 10 mg. These findings suggest that CCSP are involved not only in the acute injury but also in the chronic injury of the lung exposed to SiCW.
Benzodiazepine receptor antagonist CGS 8216 (2.5 mg/kg) induced clear-cut signs of abstinence lasting 1-1.5 hours in rats after discontinuation of diazepam treatment (10-20 mg/kg/day, 20 days). Diazepam (10-20 mg/kg) and GABAB-receptor agonists: phenibut (10-100 mg/kg) and baclofen (1.25-5.0 mg/kg) abolished the signs of abstinence. Conversely, GABAB-receptor agonist THIP enhanced the signs of abstinence. It is suggested that anti-abstinence effect of phenibut and baclofen may reflect their tranquilizing activity.
Atrial fibrillation is associated with substantial morbidity and mortality. Pooled data from trials comparing antithrombotic treatment with placebo have shown that warfarin reduces the risk of stroke by 62%, and that aspirin alone reduces the risk by 22%. Overall, in high-risk patients, warfarin is superior to aspirin in preventing strokes, with a relative risk reduction of 36%. Ximelagatran, an oral direct thrombin inhibitor, was found to be as efficient as vitamin K antagonist drugs in the prevention of embolic events, but has been recently withdrawn because of abnormal liver function tests. The ACTIVE-W (Atrial Fibrillation Clopidogrel Trial with Irbesartan for Prevention of Vascular Events) study has demonstrated that warfarin is superior to platelet therapy (clopidogrel plus aspirin) in the prevention af embolic events. Idraparinux, a Factor Xa inhibitor, is being evaluated in patients with atrial fibrillation. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor-blocking drugs hold promise in atrial fibrillation through cardiac remodelling. Preliminary studies suggest that statins could interfere with the risk of recurrence after electrical cardioversion. Finally, percutaneous methods for the exclusion of left atrial appendage are under investigation in high-risk patients.
Epileptic seizures and status epilepticus (SE) induced by the poisoning with organophosphorus nerve agents (OP), like soman, are accompanied by neuroinflammation whose role in seizure-related brain damage (SRBD) is not clear. Antagonists of the NMDA glutamate ionotropic receptors are currently among the few compounds able to arrest seizures and provide neuroprotection even during refractory status epilepticus (RSE). Racemic ketamine (KET), in combination with atropine sulfate (AS), was previously shown to counteract seizures and SRBD in soman-poisoned guinea-pigs. In a mouse model of severe soman-induced SE, we assessed the potentials of KET/AS combinations as a treatment for SE/RSE-induced SRBD and neuroinflammation. When starting 30min after soman challenge, a protocol involving six injections of a sub-anesthetic dose of KET (25mg/kg) was evaluated on body weight loss, brain damage, and neuroinflammation whereas during RSE, anesthetic protocols were considered (KET 100mg/kg). After confirming that during RSE, KET injection was to be repeated despite some iatrogenic deaths, we used these proof-of-concept protocols to study the changes in mRNA and related protein contents of some inflammatory cytokines, chemokines and adhesion molecules in cortex and hippocampus 48h post-challenge. In both cases, the KET/AS combinations showed important neuroprotective effects, suppressed neutrophil granulocyte infiltration and partially suppressed glial activation. KET/AS could also reduce the increase in mRNA and related pro-inflammatory proteins provoked by the poisoning. In conclusion, the present study confirms that KET/AS treatment has a strong potential for SE/RSE management following OP poisoning. The mechanisms involved in the reduction of central neuroinflammation remain to be studied.
In a previous study, we reported that resveratrol exerts antitumor effects through the estrogen receptor in prolactinoma. The autophagy/lysosomal degradation pathway plays an important role in damage control and energy efficiency. In this study, we investigated the involvement of autophagy and the related signaling pathways in resveratrol-induced apoptosis of GH3 cells. We demonstrate that resveratrol inhibits cell proliferation and induces apoptosis in a dose-dependent manner in GH3 cells. The cleavage of PARP was also observed, and the activation of caspase-3 and caspase-8 was detected. Consistent with this finding, the inhibition of caspase activation effectively attenuated resveratrol-induced cell apoptosis. In addition, the decreased level of Bcl-2 was also observed. The induction of autophagy was confirmed by the detection of the formation of autophagic vacuoles, and the increase in microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 (LC3)-II and beclin-1 levels, two hallmarks of autophagy. Pre-treatment with bafilomycin A1 or 3-methyladenine, inhibitors of autophagy, enhanced the resveratrol-mediated caspase activation and cell death. Moreover, resveratrol induced the activation of ERK1/2, as well as the downregulation of Akt and mTOR phosphorylation. Taken together, these findings indicate that resveratrol induces caspase-dependent apoptosis and decreases Bcl-2 levels. In addition, resveratrol-induced autophagy is regulated by the PI3K/Akt/mTOR and ERK1/2 pathways. Furthermore, the inhibition of autophagy increases the cytotoxicity of resveratrol to GH3 cells.
Selenoproteins are enzymes containing selenium in their structure and are involved in cellular processes such as defense against oxidative stress and cell survival. The aim of this study is to investigate the expression of four selenoproteins (GPX1, TRXR1, SELP and SELW) in the hippocampus of intractable mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE) patients who underwent curative surgery. The selenoproteins is investigated at the mRNA level via RT-PCR and in situ hybridization and by immunostaining at the protein level. The expression of SELW exhibited a relative induction of more than tenfold, and immunostaining findings provided evidence that this upregulation is confined to neurons. GPX1 was also upregulated 2.3-fold, and TRXR1 was downregulated between 70 and 20% in MTLE patients. The profound induction of SELW has been accompanied by GPX1 and displayed a strong correlation with BCL2 expression, suggesting a protective role for these selenoproteins, and may be an indicator of a defense mechanism in surviving neurons.
The antioxidant response elements (ARE) are a cis-acting enhancer sequence located in regulatory regions of antioxidant and detoxifying genes. Nuclear factor (erythroid-derived 2)-like 2 (Nrf2) is a member of the Cap 'n' Collar family of transcription factors that binds to the ARE and regulates the transcription of specific ARE-containing genes. Under oxidative stress, Nrf2/ARE induction is fundamental to defense against reactive oxygen species (ROS) and serves as a key factor in the protection against toxic xenobiotics. 3-(3-Pyridylmethylidene)-2-Indolinone (PMID) is a derivative of 2-indolinone compounds which act as protein kinase inhibitors and show anti-tumor activity. However, the role of PMID in the oxidative stress remains unknown. In the present study, we showed that PMID induced the activation of ARE-mediated transcription, increased the DNA-binding activity of Nrf2 and then up-regulated the expression of antioxidant genes such as HO-1, SOD, and NQO1. The level of Nrf2 protein was increased in cells treated with PMID by a post-transcriptional mechanism. Under CHX treatment, the stability of Nrf2 protein was enhanced by PMID with decreased turnover rate. We showed that PMID reduced the ubiquitination of Nrf2 and disrupted the Cullin3 (Cul3)-Keap1 interaction. Furthermore, cells treated with PMID showed resistance to cytotoxicity by H(2)O(2) and pro-oxidant 6-OHDA. PMID also up-regulated the antioxidant level in BALB/c mice. Taken together, the compound PMID induces the ARE-mediated gene expression through stabilization of Nrf2 protein and activation of Nrf2/ARE pathway and protects against oxidative stress-mediated cell death.
In Norway, the total consumption of non-opioid analgesics has not changed during the last ten years and was 36 defined daily doses/1,000 inhabitants/day in 1992. However, there has been a clear switch from acetyl-Salicylic acid (ASA) to paracetamol during this period. The consumption of phenazone is relatively high. Phenacetin consumption has never been a problem, and out of 3,000 renal transplanted patients at Rikshospitalet, Oslo, during the last 25 years less than 1% suffered analgesic nephropathy. It is beyond doubt that phenacetin, when taken together with either ASA or phenazone, increases the risk of urothelial cancer, especially of the renal pelvis and ureter in humans. The dramatic reduction in the incidence of analgesic nephropathy after the sale of phenacetin was prohibited has not been paralleled by a decrease in kidney or urothelial cancer. The human carcinogenicity data for paracetamol in the kidney and urinary tract is discussed. Clinical and epidemiological data, including several population based case-control studies, provide inadequate evidence of any carcinogenicity of paracetamol in the kidney or urinary tract in humans. However, chronic use of high doses of paracetamol should be avoided, probably also consumption of paracetamol in combination with ASA.
Pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (PLD) is currently utilized in the management of several solid tumors. While PLD has been shown to be less cardiotoxic than doxorubicin, the safety of prolonged administration (e.g., >or=6 cycles) of the agent remains undefined.
A retrospective chart review was performed of the Cleveland Clinic experience from 1997 to 2003 with the prolonged (>or=6 cycles) use of PLD in individuals with gynecologic malignancies. PLD was administered at doses ranging from 20 to 40 mg/m(2) (infused over 1-2 h) with treatment repeated every 4-6 weeks. While on therapy, patients underwent routine evaluation for toxicity, including the performance of multigated acquisition (MUGA) scans for determination of left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF).
Twenty-two patients (18 ovarian cancer; 3 primary peritoneal cancer, 1 endometrial cancer) met the criteria for inclusion in this analysis. This population had received a median of 4 (range 1-8) chemotherapy regimens before initiation of PLD. No patient had previously received doxorubicin. The median number of PLD cycles and cumulative dose of LD delivered were 8 (range 6-26) and 483 mg/m(2) (256-1699 mg/m(2)), respectively. One or more MUGA scans were obtained in 14 (64%) patients. No patient experienced clinical evidence (physical findings, symptoms) of heart failure. There were no dose reductions due to cardiac dysfunction, and no patient experienced a decline in LVEF to <50%, or a >or=10% reduction compared to a baseline value.
Prolonged therapy with PLD is possible in appropriately selected patients with advanced gynecologic malignancies. In this clinical setting, cardiac dysfunction does not appear to be a toxicity, which limits the duration of treatment. The development of evidence-based guidelines for monitoring cardiac function in this patient population would be quite useful.
Despite the use of retinoids in the clinic for many years, their mode of action in the prevention of skin cancer is still unclear. Recent microarray analyses of the chemopreventive effect of all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA), one of the primary naturally occurring biologically active retinoids, in the two-stage mouse skin chemical carcinogenesis model have provided novel insight into their action. Comparison of the gene expression profiles of control skin to skin subjected to the two-stage protocol for 3 wk, with or without ATRA, has shown that approximately half of the genes regulated by 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) are oppositely regulated when ATRA is coadministered with TPA. It was further shown the Raf/Mek/Erk branch of mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase pathway contains a disproportionate number of oppositely regulated genes, thereby implicating it as one of the key pathways involved in tumor promotion by TPA, that is blocked by ATRA. This result has pointed the way toward the detailed study of Raf/Mek/Erk pathway signaling in skin cancer development and its potential as a target pathway for chemoprevention by ATRA and other chemopreventive drugs.
A female in her late thirties, who was hospitalized for 13 days with rib fractures suffered in a traffic accident, was found in supine position on the patient's bed in a state of cardiopulmonary arrest. The resuscitation failed to recover consciousness and her death was confirmed 1.75 h later. The autopsy revealed neither severe injuries nor lesion as a cause of death. Histological examinations revealed contraction band necrosis (CBN) in the cardiac muscle of the left and right ventricles, as well as congestion and edema in both lungs. Toxicological screening of urine using Triage revealed the presence of methamphetamine (MA). By gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC/MS), the concentrations of MA and its metabolite amphetamine (AP) in the heart blood were shown to be 0.178 and 0.051 microg/ml, respectively. From these findings, we conclude that the cause of her death was circulatory failure due to MA poisoning. Further, the stored scalp hair analysis demonstrated both MA and AP in 0-3 cm segments from the scalp. The results suggested that she was a MA abuser at least about 3 months before her death. In this case, preservation of hair samples collected during an autopsy was useful for providing evidence of MA abuse.
