Transplantation of livers from anti-hepatitis B core antibody (anti-HBc)-positive donors into anti-HBc-negative recipients is associated with a high rate of viral transmission. We report a prophylaxis regimen based on virologic evaluation of the donor. Liver and serum from hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg)-negative, anti-HBc-positive donors were evaluated by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA. All anti-HBc-negative recipients were given a single dose of hepatitis B immunoglobulin (HBIG) during the anhepatic phase of transplantation and were placed on maintenance lamivudine monotherapy. Recipients were followed up longitudinally monitoring intrahepatic HBV DNA as well as serologic HBsAg and HBV DNA by PCR. Between January 1999 and August 2001, 14 anti-HBc-negative recipients received liver transplants from anti-HBc-positive donors. All donor serum was negative for HBV DNA. In total, nine of 14 (64%) livers had detectable HBV DNA; 1 patient was initially PCR-negative and low levels of HBV DNA were detected in a posttransplantation liver biopsy. Mean follow-up was 33 months (range, 22 to 51), and patient and graft survival were each 93%. One case of de novo hepatitis B occurred in a patient noncompliant with lamivudine, although all other serial serum HBsAg assay results were negative. Single-dose HBIG followed by maintenance lamivudine monotherapy prevented de novo hepatitis B in compliant patients. For the cohort of compliant patients that were initially HBV DNA-positive, 7 of 8 (88%) now have undetectable virus in the hepatic allograft by PCR analysis. Nevertheless, there is no evidence to suggest that viral eradication occurs. Accordingly, all patients are maintained on continued lamivudine prophylaxis.
The thiopurine prodrug azathioprine is used extensively in cancer therapy. Exposure to this drug results in the selection of DNA mismatch repair-deficient cell clones in vitro. It has also been suggested that thiopurine drugs might constitute a risk factor for the emergence of human neoplasms displaying microsatellite instability (MSI) because of deficient DNA mismatch repair.
Azathioprine was administered via drinking water (6-20 mg/kg body weight per day) to mice that were null (Msh2⁻(/)⁻; n = 27), heterozygous (Msh2(+/)⁻; n = 22), or wild type (Msh2(WT); n = 18) for the DNA mismatch repair gene Msh2. Control mice (45 Msh2⁻(/)⁻, 38 Msh2(+/)⁻, and 12 Msh2(WT)) received drinking water lacking azathioprine. The effect of azathioprine on tumorigenesis and survival of the mice was evaluated by Kaplan-Meier curves using log-rank and Gehan-Breslow-Wilcoxon tests. Mouse tumor samples were characterized by histology and immunophenotyping, and their MSI status was determined by polymerase chain reaction analysis of three noncoding microsatellite markers and by immunohistochemistry. Msh2 status of tumor samples was assessed by loss of heterozygosity analyses and sequencing after reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction of the entire Msh2 coding sequence. All statistical tests were two-sided.
Most untreated Msh2(WT) and Msh2(+/)⁻ mice remained asymptomatic and alive at 250 days of age, whereas azathioprine-treated Msh2(WT) and Msh2(+/)⁻ mice developed lymphomas and died prematurely (median survival of 71 and 165 days of age, respectively). Azathioprine-treated Msh2(+/)⁻ mice developed diffuse lymphomas lacking Msh2 expression and displaying MSI due to somatic inactivation of the functional Msh2 allele by loss of heterozygosity or mutation. By contrast, azathioprine-treated Msh2(WT) mice displayed no obvious tumor phenotype, but histological examination showed microscopic splenic foci of neoplastic lymphoid cells that retained Msh2 expression and did not display MSI. Both untreated and azathioprine-treated Msh2⁻(/)⁻ mice had a reduced lifespan compared with untreated Msh2(WT) mice (median survival of 127 and 107 days of age, respectively) and developed lymphomas with MSI.
Azathioprine-induced carcinogenesis in mice depends on the number of functional copies of the Msh2 gene.
Deficits in amygdala-related stimulus-reward learning are produced following 18 drug-free days of cocaine self-administration or its passive delivery in rats exposed during adulthood. No deficits in stimulus-reward learning are produced by cocaine exposure initiated during adolescence.
To determine if age of initiating cocaine exposure differentially affects behavioral functioning of an additional memory system linked to cocaine addiction, the orbitofrontal cortex.
A yoked-triad design (n = 8) was used. One rat controlled cocaine delivery and the other two passively received cocaine or saline. Rats controlling drug delivery (1.0 mg/kg) self-administered cocaine from either P37-P59 or P77-P99, and then underwent 18 drug-free days (P60-P77 vs. P100-P117). Rats next were tested for acquisition of odor-delayed win-shift behavior conducted over 15 sessions (P78-P96 vs. P118-P136).
Cocaine self-administration did not differ between adults and adolescents. During the test phase of the odor-delayed win-shift task (relatively difficult task demands), rats from both drug-onset ages showed learning deficits. Rats with cocaine self-administration experience committed more errors and had longer session latencies compared to rats passively receiving saline or cocaine. Rats with adolescent-onset cocaine self-administration experience showed an additional learning deficit by requiring more sessions to reach criterion levels for task acquisition compared to same-aged passive saline controls or rats with adult-onset cocaine self-administration experience. Rats passively receiving cocaine did not differ from the passive saline control from either age group.
Rats with adolescent-onset cocaine self-administration experience were more impaired in an orbitofrontal cortex-related learning task than rats with adult-onset cocaine self-administration experience.
An association between acute cholecystitis and the use of thiazide-containing drugs was observed during routine screening of data from a case-control drug-surveillance program. Evaluation of this relation among 419 patients with acute cholecystitis and 1676 control patients yielded a relative risk estimate of 2.0 for subjects who had used thiazides in the month before admission, as compared with subjects who had never used these drugs (95 per cent confidence interval, 1.4 to 2.7). There was a significant trend of increasing relative risk with increasing duration of use (P < 0.01), and the estimate for subjects who had used thiazides for five or more years was 2.9. The association was not explained by confounding due to the indications for thiazide use, such as hypertension, or other factors, such as obesity or the use of other drugs. No single epidemiologic study can eliminate chance or bias as an explanation for an association; the relation found here should be regarded as a hypothesis that requires independent confirmation.
Although atypical antipsychotics are now considered first line treatments for schizophrenia, intramuscular (i.m.) conventional neuroleptics are often still considered necessary in emergency treatment of acute psychoses. This European, multicentre, open-label, active-controlled trial compared oral risperidone plus oral lorazepam to standard care with i.m. conventional neuroleptics with or without lorazepam in the emergency treatment of acutely psychotic patients. Patients were allowed to choose either oral risperidone (a single dose of 2 mg and 2.0-2.5 mg lorazepam; 121 patients) or standard i.m. treatment (conventional neuroleptic with or without lorazepam; 105 patients). No additional treatment was allowed for 2 h. Primary outcome was the percentage of patients with treatment success (asleep or at least much improved on Clinical Global Impression-global improvement scale) 2 h after treatment initiation. Baseline characteristics were similar in both treatment groups. Oral risperidone plus oral lorazepam was more successful at 2 h (66.9%) and significantly non-inferior compared to standard i.m. care (54.3%; P=0.0003), and the incidence of extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) was lower (1.7%) compared to standard i.m. care (9.5%). In acutely psychotic patients requiring emergency treatment, oral risperidone/oral lorazepam was at least as effective as i.m. conventional neuroleptic treatment with or without lorazepam. Oral risperidone plus lorazepam rapidly reduces symptoms, including aggression, and causes fewer EPS.
To report two cases of digoxin-related visual disturbances associated with therapeutic blood levels of digoxin.
Case reports. One patient reported shimmering lights in the field of vision of both eyes; the second patient had a corrected visual acuity of BE, 20/40 and generalized visual field depression in both eyes. Both patients experienced these symptoms while receiving digoxin.
Both patients had digoxin blood levels in the therapeutic range (1.7 and 1.0 ng/ml, respectively). Therapeutic levels are 0.5 to 2.0 ng/ml. After discontinuing digoxin, the first patient noted that the shimmering light symptoms resolved, and the second patient had improved visual acuity and visual fields.
Digoxin-related visual toxicity may be associated with therapeutic blood levels of digoxin. Recognition of this entity may avoid unnecessary testing and frustration.
Due to its high antioxidant and mono- and polyunsaturated fatty acid content virgin argan oil (VAO) could play a beneficial role in cardiovascular prevention. We were therefore interested in determining whether the consumption of VAO could improve plasma paraoxonase (PON1) activities and antioxidant status in healthy men.
Sixty young men were included in this interventional study. They were given a controlled diet for 2 weeks as baseline and then received 25 g/day of butter. The group was randomised to two diet group periods of 3 weeks each. The VAO group received 25 ml/day of oil and the extra virgin olive oil (EVO) group received the same quantity of EVO as control group. Plasma PON1 activities, antioxidant vitamins and LDL susceptibility to oxidation were measured. The analysis of the results shows that PON1 activities increase significantly in both groups and that lipoperoxides and conjugated dienes formation decreases significantly in VAO and EVO groups compared to baseline values (P=0.001 and P=0.014, respectively). Vitamin E concentration increases significantly only in VAO group (P=0.007). Susceptibility of LDL to lipid peroxidation shows a significant increase in lag phase and a significant decrease in maximum diene production in VAO (P=0.005) and EVO groups (P=0.041 and P=0.005, respectively).
Our findings confirm the beneficial effect of EVO on plasma antioxidant status and show for the first time the same effect for VAO supplementation in man. Thus, VAO offers an additional natural food supplement to reduce cardiovascular risk.
A model of lung inflammation was developed in Brown Norway rats. Intense lung eosinophilia was induced by a single intravenous injection of Sephadex G-200 particles. The eosinophilia observed was preceded by an increase in cysteinyl leukotrienes found in lung lavage fluids. Theophylline and albuterol were tested in the model and found to be inactive, while dexamethasone was effective. Zileuton, a specific leukotriene inhibitor, was found to effectively inhibit leukotriene formation and the influx of eosinophils into the lungs of these Sephadex-treated animals. Studies with specific leukotriene D4 antagonists of the cysLT1 type receptor indicate that this leukotriene receptor is probably not involved directly in the eosinophilic inflammation. This model appears to be useful in characterizing potential anti-inflammatory effects of inhibitors by evaluating their ability to prevent eosinophil influx into the lung.
Habituation enables the organism to attend selectively to novel stimuli by diminishing no-longer necessary responses to repeated stimuli. Because the prefrontal cortex (PFC) has a core role in monitoring attention and behavioral control especially under novelty, neural habituation responses may be modified in drug addiction, a psychopathology that entails PFC abnormalities in both structure and function. Sixteen cocaine abusers and 12 gender-, race-, education-, and intelligence-matched healthy control subjects performed an incentive sustained attention task twice, under novelty and after practice, during functional magnetic resonance imaging. For cocaine abusers practice effects were noted in the PFC (including anterior cingulate cortex/ventromedial rostral PFC, dorsolateral PFC, and medial frontal gyrus) and cerebellum (signal attenuations/decreases: return to baseline); activations in these regions were associated with craving, frequency of use, and length of abstinence. In the control subjects practice effects were instead restricted to posterior brain regions (precuneus and cuneus) (signal amplifications/increases: deactivation away from baseline). Also, only in the cocaine abusers, increased speed of behavioral performance between novelty to practice was associated with a respective attenuation of activation in the thalamus. Overall, we report for the first time a differential pattern of neural responses to repeated presentation of an incentive sustained attention task in cocaine addiction. Our results suggest a disruption in drug addiction of neural habituation to practice that possibly encompasses opponent anterior vs. posterior brain adaptation to the novelty of the experience: overly expeditious for the former but overly protracted for the latter. Overall, cocaine addicted individuals may be predisposed to an increased challenge when required to maintain alertness as a task progresses, not able to optimally utilize a prematurely habituating PFC to compensate with an increased attribution of salience to a desired reward.
Cellular senescence is another mechanism that can be exploited to achieve better chemosensitivity and greater tumor regression. Unlike apoptosis, cellular senescence can be induced at much lower concentrations of chemotherapy that are better tolerated by patients. We previously revealed that secreted protein acidic and rich in cysteine (SPARC), a matricellular protein, may function as a modulator of chemotherapy sensitivity by enhancing apoptosis. Here, we examine the effects of SPARC on cellular senescence in the presence of chemotherapy. Cellular senescence is induced only in sensitive colorectal cancer (CRC) cells with low concentrations of irinotecan (CPT-11). However, CPT-11-resistant cells exposed to endogenous or exogenous SPARC can also be triggered into cellular senescence. This induction is associated with higher levels of p16(INK4A) and phosphorylated p53. Knock down of p16(INK4A) reduces drug-induced senescence in all cells, but knock down and overexpression of p53 modulates senescence only in cells exposed to SPARC. Furthermore, treatment of mice with SPARC and CPT-11 leads to significantly increased cellular senescence and tumor regression. The chemosensitizing effects of SPARC in CRCs are, therefore, probably mediated in part by activating cellular senescence.
Bupropion is a selective norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor with no serotonergic activity, and is therefore an antidepressant with unique pharmacological properties. There are some reports that selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) or mirtazapine can induce adverse effects including restless legs syndrome (RLS) and that bupropion can reverse these adverse effects. Here, we report about a patient with a major depressive disorder who exhibited RLS after being treated with pregabalin and mirtazapine. This adverse effect disappeared after having switched from mirtazapine to bupropion. Bupropion inhibits the reuptake of dopamine and increases dopamine neurotransmission in both the nucleus accumbens and the prefrontal cortex. This pharmacological profile can be effective in patients with RLS related to dopamine hypoactivity. However, the limitations of this single case report mean that further investigations with larger samples are needed.
The effects of CGS 10746B, a dopamine release inhibitor, on spontaneous locomotor activity, morphine-induced hyperactivity, acquisition of conditioned place paradigm and morphine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) was evaluated in male mice. In experiment 1, animals treated with CGS 10746B (0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 24 and 32 mg/kg), morphine (40 mg/kg) or morphine (40 mg/kg) plus CGS 10746B (0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 24 and 32 mg/kg) were placed in an actimeter during a period of 90 min. In experiment 2, animals treated with CGS 10746B (0.5, 1, 3 and 10 mg/kg), morphine (40 mg/kg) or morphine (40 mg/kg) plus CGS 10746B (0.5, 1, 3 and 10 mg/kg) were conditioned following a procedure unbiased in terms of initial spontaneous preference. In experiment 1, it was found that a decrease in spontaneous locomotor activity was produced between 0 and 45 min after administration of 24 and 32 mg/kg of CGS 10746B. In contrast, morphine induced hyperactivity between 45 and 90 min after administration. CGS 10746B reduced morphine-induced hyperactivity with doses of 2 mg/kg and higher. In experiment 2, CGS 10746B did not produce any effect on place conditioning but blocked morphine-induced CPP with doses from 1 mg/kg upwards. Our results confirm that an intact dopamine neurotransmission is critical for the manifestation of the motor and place preference conditioning effects of morphine.
Leiomyosarcoma of urinary bladder is rare, although it is the most common mesenchymal tumor in adults. We report two cases of this tumor following cyclophosphamide therapy. The first case is from a 53-year-old man with Wegener's granulomatosis treated for 6 years with cyclophosphamide. He presented with painless hematuria, and the initial biopsy of the bladder tumor revealed a malignant spindle cell neoplasm. A final diagnosis of leiomyosarcoma was made on radical cystoprostatectomy. The second example is from a 21-year-old man who had received cyclophosphamide in early infancy for a bilateral retinoblastoma. He also presented with painless hematuria, and a bladder tumor was resected transurethrally and diagnosed as leiomyosarcoma. He underwent partial cystectomy two months later. Cyclophosphamide, when used for a neoplastic or non-neoplastic condition, is associated with an increased risk of developing bladder cancer. The distribution of histologic subtypes differs from that seen in spontaneous bladder tumors. A review of the literature shows an increased proportion of squamous cell carcinomas and sarcomas, especially leiomyosarcomas in cyclophosphamide exposed patients. Acrolein, a cytotoxic metabolite of cyclophosphamide excreted in urine, is regarded as the most likely causative agent.
The tyrosine kinase inhibitor regorafenib was approved by regulatory agencies for cancer treatment, albeit with strong warnings of severe hepatotoxicity included in the product label. The basis of this toxicity is unknown; one possible mechanism, that of mitochondrial damage, was tested. In isolated rat liver mitochondria, regorafenib directly uncoupled oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) and promoted calcium overload-induced swelling, which were respectively prevented by the recoupler 6-ketocholestanol (KC) and the mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT) pore blocker cyclosporine A (CsA). In primary hepatocytes, regorafenib uncoupled OXPHOS, disrupted mitochondrial inner membrane potential (MMP), and decreased cellular ATP at 1h, and triggered MPT at 3h, which was followed by necrosis but not apoptosis at 7h and 24h, all of which were abrogated by KC. The combination of the glycolysis enhancer fructose plus the mitochondrial ATPase synthase inhibitor oligomycin A abolished regorafenib induced necrosis at 7h. This effect was not seen at 24h nor with the fructose or oligomycin A separately. CsA in combination with trifluoperazine, both MPT blockers, showed similar effects. Two compensatory mechanisms, activation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) to ameliorate ATP shortage and induction of autophagy to remove dysfunctional mitochondria, were found to be mobilized. Hepatocyte necrosis was enhanced either by the AMPK inhibitor Compound C or the autophagy inhibitor chloroquine, while autophagy inducer rapamycin was strongly cytoprotective. Remarkably, all toxic effects were observed at clinically-relevant concentrations of 2.5-15μM. These data suggest that uncoupling of OXPHOS and the resulting ATP shortage and MPT induction are the key mechanisms for regorafenib induced hepatocyte injury, and AMPK activation and autophagy induction serve as pro-survival pathways against such toxicity.
Conditioned mongrel dogs were given 30 i.v. injections of either AMB (amphotericin B, 0.75 mg/kg body weight), AME (amphotericin B methyl ester, 10 mg/kg body weight), or 5% glucose solution without antimicrobic. Severe loss of body weight and nephrotoxicity occurred with AMB; hepatic dysfunction resulted with AME; astrogliosis and pallor of the myelin were found in dogs given AME and 5% glucose solution.
Defective plasma activity of Von Willebrand factor (VWF)-cleaving protease (CP) and/or the inhibitors against this protease has been shown to have a pathological role in several forms of thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA). This report describes a patient for whom a diagnosis of TMA was made immediately after living donor liver transplantation. In this patient, activity of VWF-CP and its inhibitor were analyzed serially. At the onset of the disease, VWF-CP activity was quantified as 17%. Inhibitor against this protease was positive, with a titer of 0.6 Bethesda U/mL, and its inhibitory activity was quantified as 3.8 Bethesda U/mg immunoglobulin G. Laboratory parameters and clinical features were significantly improved after induction of plasma exchange (PE) with fresh frozen plasma and concurrent cessation of tacrolimus therapy. The inhibitors disappeared after one session of PE. However, VWF-CP activity after a transient increase and again decreased to subnormal levels after completion of PE. Nevertheless, this did not result in disease recurrence. In view of sustained VWF-CP activity at disease onset and the absence of definite correlations between levels of this protease and clinical features, abnormality of this enzyme system had no essential role in the pathogenesis of TMA in this case. Clinical findings suggest that TMA was tacrolimus-induced.
Posttranslational modification of proteins plays an important role in cellular functions and is a key event in signal transduction pathways leading to oxidative stress and DNA damage. In this study, we used matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization- time of flight (MALDI-TOF) to investigate the posttranslational modifications of the differentially expressed proteins in the retinal mitochondria during early experimental autoimmune uveitis (EAU).
EAU was induced in 18 B10RIII mice with 25 µg of inter-photoreceptor retinoid-binding protein (IRBP) emulsified with complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA); 18 mice treated with CFA without IRBP served as controls. Retinas were removed from the experimental and control groups on day 7 post immunization; mitochondrial fractions were extracted and subjected to 2 dimentional-difference in gel electrophoresis (2D-DIGE); and the protein spots indicating differential expression were subjected to MALDI-TOF for protein identification and indication of any posttranslational modifications.
Of the 13 proteins found to be differentially expressed by 2D-DIGE (including upregulated aconitase, mitochondrial heat shock protein (mtHsp) 70, lamin-1, syntaxin-binding protein, αA crystallin, βB2 crystallin, along with downregulated guanine nucleotide-binding protein and ATP synthase) nine were found to undergo posttranslational modification. Oxidation was a common modification found to occur on aconitase, mtHsp 70, ATP synthase, lamin-1, βB2-crystallin, guanine nucleotide-binding protein, and manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD). In addition, aconitase hydratase, mtHsp 70, guanine nucleotide-binding protein, ATP synthase, syntaxin-binding protein, βB2-crystallin, and lamin-1 were also modified by carbamidomethylation. αA-crystallin had a pyro-glu modification.
Several proteins present in the retinal mitochondria are posttranslationally modified during early EAU, indicating the presence of oxidative stress and mitochondrial DNA damage. The most common modifications are oxidation and carbamidomethylation. A better understanding of the proteins susceptible to posttranslational modifications in the mitochondria at the early stage of the disease may serve to advance therapeutic interventions to attenuate disease progression.
Acamprosate and naltrexone are effective medications in the treatment of alcoholism. However, effect sizes are modest. Pharmacogenomics may improve patient-treatment-matching and effect sizes. It is hypothesized that naltrexone exerts its effect through genetic characteristics associated with the dopaminergic/opioidergic positive reinforcement system, whereas acamprosate works through the glutamatergic/GABAergic negative reinforcement system. Alcohol-dependent subjects were randomly assigned to either acamprosate or naltrexone. Subjects participated in a cue-exposure experiment at the day before and at the last day of medication. Reductions in cue-induced craving and physiological cue reactivity were measured. Differential effects of naltrexone and acamprosate on these outcomes were tested for different polymorphisms of the opioid, dopamine, glutamate and GABA-receptors. Significant matching effects were found for polymorphisms at the DRD2, GABRA6 and GABRB2 gene. In addition, a trend was found for the OPRM1 polymorphism. This provides evidence for the matching potential of genotypes. It is expected that more effective treatments can be offered when genetic information is used in patient-treatment-matching.
Cloxacillin-induced cholestasis was diagnosed with the help of the macrophage inhibition factor and mast-cell degranulation tests. The simultaneous occurrence of both immediate type as well as cell-mediated hypersensitivity to the drug suggested that a defect in the histamine-induced suppressor cells may underly this cloxacillin-induced allergic reaction.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a rare genetic disease associated with the degeneration of GABAergic striatal projection neurons in the basal ganglia leading to movement disorders with behavioral symptoms for which there is presently no therapy. Abnormally high levels of monoamine oxidase (MAO) activity, which are potentially linked to cytotoxic free radical formation, are known to occur during aging and in neurodegenerative disorders (MAO-B is markedly increased in plaque-associated astrocytes in Alzheimer's disease). We therefore measured, with anatomical resolution, MAO-A and -B activities in 5 cases of HD (severity grades 1-3) and age-matched controls by quantitative enzyme radioautography using radiolabeled enzyme inhibitors (3)H-Ro 41-1049 and (3)H-lazabemide, respectively, as high-affinity ligands in vitro. MAO-A was increased significantly (ca. 50%; p<0.01) in the putamen and substantia nigra pars compacta of the basal ganglia and in the pons. Higher increases in MAO-B (75%-200%; p<0.01) occurred in the putamen, ventral striatum, globus pallidus externus and internus of the basal ganglia and in the insular cortex. The increased enzyme levels (especially of MAO-B) seemed to correlate with the grade of disease severity. We conclude that MAO increases in those regions of HD brains which are known to undergo neurodegeneration accompanied by glioses. Whether or not this increased enzyme activity is a cause or effect of the resulting loss of the GABAergic projection neurons in HD is yet to be clarified. Moreover, it remains to be seen if selective enzyme inhibitors have therapeutic utility in the treatment of HD by reducing oxidative stress locally.
Administration of either 2,5-dichloro-3-(glutathion-S-yl)-1, 4-benzoquinone (DC-[GSyl]BQ) or 2,5,6-trichloro-3-(glutathion-S-yl)-1,4-benzoquinone (TC-[GSyl]BQ) to male Sprague-Dawley rats caused dose-dependent (50-200 mumol/kg; iv) renal proximal tubular necrosis, as evidenced by elevations in blood urea nitrogen (BUN), and in the urinary excretion of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (gamma-GT) and glucose. Renal proximal tubular necrosis was also confirmed by histological examination of kidney slices prepared from DC-(GSyl)BQ- and TC-(GSyl)BQ-treated animals. Administration of the corresponding hydroquinone conjugates (DC-[GSyl]HQ and TC-[GSyl]HQ), prepared by reducing the quinones with a threefold molar excess of ascorbic acid, resulted in a substantial increase in nephrotoxicity. Moreover, in contrast to other glutathione (GSH)-conjugated hydroquinones, the nephrotoxicity of both DC-(GSyl)HQ and TC-(GSyl)HQ was potentiated when rats were pretreated with AT-125, an irreversible inhibitor of gamma-GT. Neither the quinone-GSH nor the hydroquinone-GSH conjugates caused any effect on liver histology or serum glutamate-pyruvate transaminase levels. The results suggest that coadministration of ascorbic acid with DC-(GSyl)BQ or TC-(GSyl)BQ decreases their interactions with extrarenal nucleophiles, including plasma proteins, and thus increases the concentration of the conjugates delivered to the kidney, and hence toxicity. Furthermore the ability of AT-125 to potentiate the nephrotoxicity of DC-(GSyl)HQ and TC-(GSyl)HQ suggests that metabolism of these conjugates by gamma-GT constitutes a detoxication reaction.
Epidemiological studies have consistently associated high intakes of lycopene or vitamin E with a reduced prostate cancer risk. Both compounds were tested in the MatLyLu Dunning prostate cancer model to gain insight into the in vivo action of lycopene and vitamin E. Supplementation for 4 weeks with 200 ppm lycopene, 540 ppm vitamin E, or both led to plasma levels comparable with those in humans. Both compounds also accumulated in tumor tissue. Macroscopic evaluation of the tumors by magnetic resonance imaging showed a significant increase in necrotic area in the vitamin E and the lycopene treatment groups. Microarray analysis of tumor tissues revealed that both compounds regulated local gene expression. Vitamin E reduced androgen signaling without affecting androgen metabolism. Lycopene interfered with local testosterone activation by down-regulating 5-alpha-reductase and consequently reduced steroid target genes expression (cystatin-related protein 1 and 2, prostatic spermine binding protein, prostatic steroid binding protein C1, C2 and C3 chain, probasin). In addition, lycopene down-regulated prostatic IGF-I and IL-6 expression. Based on these findings, we suggest that lycopene and vitamin E contribute to the reduction of prostate cancer by interfering with internal autocrine or paracrine loops of sex steroid hormone and growth factor activation/synthesis and signaling in the prostate.
