We report a case of hepatic injury after treatment with nortriptyline in a therapeutic dose. There were symptoms of hepatitis and increased prothrombin time, serum alanine aminotransferase and alkaline phosphatases. The patient recovered after discontinuation of the drug.
Idiopathic Parkinsonism is a well-recognized cause of dysphagia and resultant aspiration. Symptoms and signs attributable to dopaminergic underactivity after administration of antipsychotic medication are commonly seen in elderly patients. We report a case of a 74-year-old woman, without prior symptoms of Parkinsonism or dysphagia, who presented with the temporal association of both after administration of trifluoperazine hydrochloride. Dysphagia is a potentially life-threatening complication of drug-induced parkinsonism. Its early recognition allows treatment by simple medical, physical, and dietary manipulations.
Previous studies from our laboratory and others have indicated a role for the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis in the extinction/reinstatement animal model of cocaine relapse
This present study was designed to investigate the potential role for the HPA axis in the cue- and methamphetamine-induced reinstatement of extinguished methamphetamine-seeking behavior by determining the effects of ketoconazole and the corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRF) type 1 receptor antagonist, CP-154,526, on these behaviors.
Male Wistar rats were trained to self-administer methamphetamine (0.03 mg/kg/infusion). The delivery of methamphetamine was paired with the presentation of a tone and the illumination of a house light. Once stable responding was reached, the rats were placed into extinction. The effects of pretreatment with ketoconazole (25, 50, or 100 mg/kg, i.p.) or CP-154,526 (20 or 40 mg/kg, i.p.; 3 micro g, i.c.v) on cue-induced reinstatement were then evaluated.
Cue-induced reinstatement was not significantly attenuated by pretreatment with peripherally administered CP-154,526 or by pretreatment with ketoconazole. However, centrally administered CP-154,526 (3 micro g, i.c.v.) significantly attenuated cue-induced reinstatement. In a separate group of rats, CP-154,526 (20 mg/kg, i.p.) attenuated methamphetamine-induced reinstatement (0.12 mg/kg priming infusion); whereas a higher dose (40 mg/kg) was necessary to attenuate reinstatement induced by a priming infusion of 0.24 mg/kg/infusion. Ketoconazole (50 mg/kg) did not affect reinstatement induced by a 0.12 mg/kg priming infusion and, therefore, was not tested at the higher methamphetamine priming dose.
These data suggest an important role for CRF in the cue- and methamphetamine-induced reinstatement of extinguished methamphetamine-seeking behavior.
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is a demyelinating disease of the brain caused by the JC virus. It occurs in association with immunodepression due, for instance, to a hematological malignancy, HIV infection, or immunosuppressive therapy for an organ transplant or systemic disease. We describe the fourth reported case of PML in a patient receiving immunosuppressants for Wegener's granulomatosis. A 71-year-old woman receiving azathioprine and glucocorticoid therapy experienced onset of right-sided hemiplegia within a few days, became comatose, and died within a few days. MRI of the brain showed a subcortical lesion in the left parietal lobe generating low signal on T1 images and high signal on T2 images. The initial diagnosis was cerebral vasculitis. However, the postmortem examination showed PML. The diagnosis of PML rests on JC virus detection in the cerebrospinal fluid by PCR assay and on demonstration in a brain biopsy of the typical histological pattern with presence of the JC virus within the demyelinated lesions. No specific or effective treatments are available. Immunosuppressant drugs should be discontinued if possible.
In this retrospective analysis of the Advanced Renal Cell Carcinoma Sorafenib (ARCCS) program in North America, we compared the safety and efficacy of sorafenib in patients aged ≥70 with those aged <70 years.
Patients were treated with oral sorafenib twice daily until the occurrence of disease progression or treatment intolerance. The primary objective of the ARCCS program was making sorafenib available to patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) in the USA and Canada before marketing approval was obtained; the secondary objective was the evaluation of its safety and efficacy.
Of the 2,504 patients enrolled in the ARCCS program who received at least 1 dose of sorafenib, 736 (29%) were aged ≥70 years. The most common grade ≥3 adverse events included rash/desquamation (5% in both groups), hand-foot skin reaction (8% in those aged ≥70 years vs. 10% in those <70 years of age), hypertension (5 vs. 4%) and fatigue (7 vs. 4%). Partial response was seen in 4% of the patients in both age groups. The median overall survival for the ≥70-year versus <70-year groups was also similar (46 vs. 50 weeks).
There were no substantial differences in safety and efficacy between patients aged ≥70 and <70 years with advanced RCC treated with sorafenib.
The effects of age on felbamate apparent clearance were examined through a retrospective analysis of plasma concentration data from 700 pediatric and adult epileptic patients (age range, 2-74 years) enrolled in six clinical studies. Patients received felbamate as monotherapy or in combination with either the antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) carbamazepine (CBZ), phenytoin (PHT), or valproate (VPA). Data were analyzed using a nonlinear mixed-effects pharmacostatistical modeling technique (NONMEM). Factors in the model included age, body weight, and concomitant AEDs. Apparent clearance was highest in the very young and decreased during the early teenage years, with minimal changes observed beyond 13 years. Mean apparent clearance values were approximately 40% higher in children (2-12 years) compared with those in adults (13-65 years). This pattern and its magnitude were consistent whether felbamate was administered alone or coadministered with CBZ, PHT, or VPA. The increase in clearance is minimal compared with other AEDs including PHT, CBZ, and phenobarbital. Enzyme-inducing AEDs (CBZ and PHT) increased felbamate apparent clearance by 32-38% relative to monotherapy, whereas coadministration with VPA had a minimal effect on felbamate apparent clearance. Dose/concentration linearity was observed at all ages during mono- or polytherapy. These findings suggest that felbamate dosing should be relatively uncomplicated in children relative to that in adults.
In diethylnitrosamine-initiated rats, administration of clofibrate for 32 weeks induced neoplastic lesions and hepatocellular carcinoma. In contrast to conventional carcinogens, clofibrate effected a marked decrease in the activity of gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase. Ornithine was selectively channeled into polyamine synthesis with concomitant repression of the urea cycle and the transamination pathway. These histological and biochemical studies suggest that clofibrate acts as a promoting agent in hepatocarcinogenesis.
The ability of naringenin (NGN) to protect the kidney against CCl4-induced renal toxicity in male Swiss mice was investigated. The flavonoid was given orally to mice for 7days and then on the 8th day, these were intraperitoneally injected with 10mmol/kg CCl4. When the toxicant was administrated alone, an increase of malondialdehyde (MDA) concentration was observed and a significant decrease in superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT) glutathione-peroxidase (GPx) specific activities as well as glutathione (GSH) levels was detected after 24h. These were accompanied by glomerular and tubular degenerations, vascular congestion, necrosis and fatty changes. Marked collagen deposition and strong TGF-β1 expression were observed mainly in the mesangial cells of the glomeruli and tubulointerstitial areas. Ultrastructural investigations showed proximal and distal tubular epithelial cells alterations including numerous lysosomes and dense granular bodies, altered mitochondria, appearance of "myeloid bodies" and basal enfolding dilatation. Pre-treatment with NGN resulted in the return of biochemical markers to control values. Histopathological and electron-microscopic examinations confirmed the biochemical results. In conclusion, NGN showed antioxidant and renal protective effects against injuries induced by CCl4.
Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are neurodevelopmental conditions characterized by impaired social interaction, communication skills, and restricted and repetitive behavior. The genetic causes for autism are largely unknown. Previous studies implicate CACNA1C (L-type Ca(V)1.2) calcium channel mutations in a disorder associated with autism (Timothy syndrome). Here, we identify missense mutations in the calcium channel gene CACNA1H (T-type Ca(V)3.2) in 6 of 461 individuals with ASD. These mutations are located in conserved and functionally relevant domains and are absent in 480 ethnically matched controls (p = 0.014, Fisher's exact test). Non-segregation within the pedigrees between the mutations and the ASD phenotype clearly suggest that the mutations alone are not responsible for the condition. However, functional analysis shows that all these mutations significantly reduce Ca(V)3.2 channel activity and thus could affect neuronal function and potentially brain development. We conclude that the identified mutations could contribute to the development of the ASD phenotype.
To further the understanding of oxidative effects on inflammation injury to muscle fiber structure, fluorescent imaging analysis of human striated muscle tissues from a variety of inflammatory or postinflammatory etiologies was undertaken in a search for accumulated coproporphyrin, a red autofluorescent byproduct of heme biosynthesis that would theoretically be formed under oxidative insult. Using a differential excitation method of in situ analysis, porphyrin autofluorescence was detected in intact fibers within the context of the yellow autofluorescent subsarcolemmal lipofuscin granules. Relative measurements of porphyrin concentration in the granules from different patients indicated that the acute/subacute inflammatory specimens grouped significantly higher than the more chronic inflammatory and nonpathological specimens. Myoglobin was also found to be associated with the granules. Myoglobin heme iron could potentially serve as a Fenton reagent for the intracellular generation of hydroxyl radicals, which are responsible for the oxidation of the porphyrinogens. High-performance liquid chromatography analysis of extracted dense particles revealed coproporphyrin as the sole porphyrin present. The observation of coproporphyrin within lipofuscin granules, previously unreported, suggests that lipofuscin accumulation in striated muscle may begin under conditions of acute oxidative stress, as marked by the oxidation of extramitochondrial porphyrinogens that are immediately incorporated into the granules.
Insufficient production of prostaglandins, which are possible antihypertensive agents, may be a pathogenetic factor in hypertensive patients on salt loading. We compared the levels of plasma PGE2, plasma renin activity (PRA) and urinary 6-keto-PGF1 alpha (6-O-PGF1 alpha), a major stable metabolite of PGI2, on day 5 of salt deprivation and also on day 5 of subsequent salt loading in 17 patients with essential hypertension. Salt loading decreased plasma PGE2, and slightly increased urinary 6-O-PGF1 alpha. On salt loading, a positive correlation was found between the levels of plasma PGE2 and urinary sodium excretion. On salt deprivation, PRA was significantly correlated with plasma PGE2. The per cent change in mean blood pressure on changing from salt restriction to salt loading was inversely correlated with the per cent change in PGE2, and positively correlated with the per cent change in 6-O-PGF1 alpha excretion. These findings suggest that on salt restriction, PGE2 is involved in the renin-angiotension system and that on salt loading, PGE2 is produced to compensate for the excessive sodium. The finding that PGE2 production was attenuated progressively as the mean blood pressure increased on salt loading in patients with essential hypertension suggests that insufficient compensatory PGE2 production is a pathogenetic factor in salt-induced hypertensive patients. In contrast, PGI2 may be produced adaptively to regulate blood pressure during changes in salt balance.
Recent experimental data suggest that the idiosyncratic nature of drug-induced liver disease (DILD) may be due in part to a deficiency of one or more hepatoprotective factors. In this study we have investigated whether interleukin (IL)-6 may also be one of these factors. Following the induction of liver injury with acetaminophen (APAP), a time-dependent increase in liver mRNA expression of IL-6 and its family members IL-11, leukemia inhibitory factor, and oncostatin M was observed in wild type (WT) mice, suggesting a possible hepatoprotective role played by this cytokine family. Indeed, mice lacking IL-6 (IL-6-/-) were more susceptible than were WT mice to APAP-induced liver injury. The increased susceptibility of the IL-6-/- mice was associated with a deficiency in the expression of hepatic heat shock protein (HSP)25, 32, and 40 as well as inducible HSP70 following APAP treatment. These results suggest that IL-6 and possibly other family members may protect the liver from injury, at least in part, by up-regulating the hepatic expression of several cytoprotective HSPs.
A pharmaceutical composition PENNEL comprising garlic oil (GO) and dimethyl-4,4'-dimethoxy-5,6,5',6'-dimethylene dioxybiphenyl-2,2'-dicarboxylate (DDB) as ingredients active for phase II enzyme induction and liver protection, respectively, has been used as a curative preparation for patients with acute or chronic viral hepatitis. In spite of the wide clinical use of PENNEL in Asian and Middle Eastern countries, whether GO+DDB treatment synergistically protects the liver from injuries potentiated by GSH deficiency compared to the individual treatment has not been determined. This study investigated the effects of GO+DDB in comparison with each ingredient alone on chemical-induced liver injury potentiated by a GSH depleting agent. Rats that had been daily pretreated with GO+DDB, GO, DDB, ursodesoxycholic acid or silymarin for 6 days were exposed to buthionine sulfoximine (BSO) and then injected with a single dose of CCl4. The effects of the agents on acute liver toxicities induced by BSO, CCl4 or BSO+CCl4 were assessed by blood biochemistry and histopathology. GO+DDB pretreatment effectively prevented increases in plasma aminotransferases or lactate dehydrogenase activities in rats exposed to BSO+CCl4, compared to GO or DDB treatment alone. Whereas BSO potentiated CCl4-induced liver injuries as evidenced by elevations in central necrosis, hepatocyte degeneration and inflammation, pretreatment with GO+DDB abrogated BSO+CCl4-induced liver injuries more efficaciously than did that with GO or DDB. The hepatoprotective effect of GO+DDB was superior to that of ursodesoxycholic acid or silymarin. Also, blood biochemistry indicated that GO+DDB pretreatment prevented increases in plasma triglyceride contents in rats insulted with CCl4 or BSO+CCl4. The present study demonstrated that GO+DDB, when daily pretreated for six consecutive days, exerted synergistic protection of the liver from chemical-induced injury potentiated by the condition of GSH deficiency, and has additional advantages in lowering the plasma lipids.
Six female patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (S.L.E.) have been treated with chlorambucil. In five the decision was taken after failure by corticosteroids to control progressive renal disease in the face of unacceptable corticosteroid toxicity. After the introduction of chlorambucil renal function improved and all patients remain well six, six, five, three, and two-and-a-half years later, respectively. On renal biopsy five had focal proliferative glomerulonephritis. Repeat biopsy in two cases showed quantitative improvement. The sixth patient was treated with chlorambucil because of failure by corticosteroids to control peripheral vascular lesions and haemolysis and she remains well four years later. In four patients is it probable that amenorrhoea was related to chlorambucil treatment, but there were no other important side effects although one patient developed a degree of marrow depression during treatment. Chlorambucil may hold advantages over the immunosuppressive drugs normally recommended in this condition, azathioprine and cyclophosphamide, as it appears less liable to cause important marrow suppression and, unlike cyclophosphamide is not associated with alopecia and haemorrhagic cystitis.
Pretreatment of rats and mice with clonidine (0.5-5 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) protected the animals against tonic convulsions induced by picrotoxin, strychnine and maximal electroshock, respectively. The time of onset of convulsions as well as mortality due to picrotoxin and strychnine were delayed in the clonidine pretreated groups as compared to controls. Clonidine (1 mg/kg) blocked the extensor phase of the electroshock convulsion. In reserpinized animals the severity of electroshock-induced seizures was reduced by clonidine pretreatment. Clonidine also caused an increase in the food consumption behaviour in mice subjected to novel situation and food. Its effects were comparable to diazepam, an antianxiety agent. In another experiment, clonidine (0.5-5 mg/kg) counteracted the perphenazine-induced catatonia in rats. It is possible that the observed anticatatonic effect of clonidine may be due to its presynaptic activity, but the actual mechanism of this action is not yet understood.
A 73-year-old woman, with tuberculosis of the large intestine, developed nausea as a side effect of the antituberculosis drugs. The nausea was treated with metoclopramide. Subsequently she developed severe medication-induced parkinsonism. As her symptoms initially mimicked a depressive disorder, drug-induced parkinsonism was only considered at a later stage. Due to drug-induced impaired function of the liver and kidney the patient had received a toxic dose of metoclopramide. Treatment with biperiden and withdrawal of the metoclopramide resulted in a reduction of the complaints within 3 months, after which the anti-tuberculosis medication could be reintroduced. Adjusting the dose of metoclopramide could possibly have prevented this severe side effect.
Infusion phlebitis is a common clinical problem that is observed with some antimicrobial agents, when being administered intravenously. In this study, cultured murine fibroblasts and immortalised human endothelial cells were exposed to three antibiotics at clinically relevant concentrations to assess their toxic potential in two established cytotoxicity assays. BALB/c 3T3 fibroblasts and Eahy926 endothelial cells were exposed to quinupristin/dalfopristin (QD), erythromycin and levofloxacin at increasing concentrations. For assessment of cytotoxicity the cells were incubated with neutral red (NR) or stained with crystal violet (CV). Measurements were done by photometry. At the concentration range tested QD and erythromycin showed a concentration-dependent cytotoxic effect in both cell cultures. In 3T3 cells the half-maximal effect concentration (EC50) was 20 mg/l for QD and 340 mg/l for erythromycin in the NR uptake test and 12 and 200 mg/l, respectively, in the CV assay. In Eahy926 cells the EC50 was 50 mg/l for QD and 880 mg/l for erythromycin in the NR uptake test and 40 and 750 mg/l, respectively, in the CV assay. No EC50 could be established in both cell types for levofloxacin. Eahy926 cells were less sensitive to cytotoxic stimuli than 3T3 fibroblasts. Cytotoxic effects in both cell cultures occurred in the following order: QD > erythromycin > levofloxacin. This ranking correlates well with the frequency of local adverse effects observed with the infusion of these antibiotics in patients. Thus, these in vitro assays may serve as an estimate for the prediction of local tolerability of antibiotics when administered parenterally.
Fluoxetine is an antidepressant drug, only recently discovered to be a QT interval prolonging agent. The first case is presented of an infant of a mother treated with fluoxetine during pregnancy who had a transiently prolonged QTc interval, concluded to be drug induced. Clinical and electrocardiographic monitoring of newborns of antidepressant treated mothers is needed.
Chinese medicine decoctions such as Yinchenhao Tang (YCHT), Xiayuxue Tang (XYXT), Huangqi Tang (HQT), Yiguan Jian (YGJ) and Xiaochaihu Tang (XCHT)) were used to treat liver cirrhosis. The present study evaluates the effects of these decoctions on fibrosis in rats induced by dimethylnitrosamine (DMN).
DMN solution (0.5%) was injected to rats for three consecutive days per week for four weeks. At the beginning of week 3, rats were randomly divided into 4-week DMN control group, YCHT, XYXT, HQT, YGJ, XCHT and vehicle groups. Each group was orally administered with specific decoctions daily for two weeks. Rats in the vehicle group were orally administered with only water.
Liver fibrosis and cirrhosis were observed in weeks 2 and 4 in DMN-intoxicated rats. Compared with normal rats, alanine transaminase (ALT), aspartate transaminase (AST), alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activities and level of total bilirubin acid (TBA) in serum and content of Hydroxyproline (Hyp) in liver tissue of model group rats rose significantly. However, the albumin (Alb) level in serum decreased significantly. Compared with the 4-week DMN group, the pathological conditions and functions of the liver in the YCHT group improved significantly, and the content of Hyp decreased remarkably: only one rat in this group developed liver cirrhosis and the ratio of cirrhosis was only 8.3%. On the other hand, the other decoctions did not show remarkable effects. YCHT inhibited alpha-SMA activation, including its gene expression into mRNA and protein.
Among the five Chinese medicine decoctions, YCHT exerted the most significant therapeutic effects on DMN-induced cirrhosis/fibrosis in rats.
To evaluate the possible developmental role of cyclophosphamide on post-neural tube closure of rodents, the 46 pregnant rats of 2.5-3 months old were randomly divided into five groups. On the 13th day of gestation, the rats in control and experimental groups were treated with physiological saline and cyclophosphamide (7.5, 10.5, 12.5 and 15.0 mg/kg bw), respectively. On the 14th day of gestation, three rats each selected randomly from control and experimental (12.5 mg/kg bw) group, respectively, were executed and the embryo brains were checked using both light microscope and transmission electron microscope. Neurocytotoxic effects of cyclophosphamide were determined using tetrazolium dye (MTT) assay, single cell gel electrophoresis, flow cytometry and scanning electron microscope. Compared with control group, the malformation incidence of the experimental groups (except the group 7.5 mg/kg bw) was significantly higher, especially in 12.5 mg/kg bw group (malformation incidence 98%, lethality 0). Neural tube serial section of fetus showed the apoptotic morphological features after 24 h cyclophosphamide administrated. Cyclophosphamide (8 microg/ml) decreased the growth and viability of neurons, damaged nuclear DNA and induced early apoptotic morphological changes. Our study shows that the teratogenesis of cyclophosphamide after neural tube closure are involved in cyclophosphamide-induced neuronal apoptosis and DNA damage.
The typical propylthiouracil (PTU)-linked hepatotoxicity, is known to manifest itself by hepatocellular injury with greatly increased serum transaminase values and evidence of hepatic necrosis on liver biopsy. Herewith presented is a 33-year old, thyrotoxic woman who developed cholestatic jaundice two weeks after initiation of PTU therapy. The diagnosis was confirmed by liver biopsy. A causal link between PTU treatment and the cholestatic jaundice was suggested by: the time of onset, typical skin rash and a positive migration inhibition factor (MIF) test to PTU. Awareness of this rare complication of PTU treatment may prevent the performance of unnecessary, expensive and possibly harmful diagnostic procedures.
Methadone is commonly used by patients presenting to the Emergency Department (ED). The common, acute side effects of central nervous system depression and respiratory depression are easily recognizable by treating physicians as attributable to methadone; however, the cardiac toxicity of chronic methadone use recently has only been recognized. Both chronic use of large doses and a recent increase in the daily dose of methadone have been associated with QT prolongation and subsequent development of torsades de pointes. We describe the case of a 40-year-old woman whose methadone dose recently had been increased to 135 mg per day. She then presented to the ED with symptomatic torsades de pointes. She was stabilized in the ED by cardioversion and infusions of magnesium sulfate and lidocaine. The markedly prolonged corrected QT interval significantly shortened after discontinuing methadone. Inpatient cardiology evaluation found no other cause for the dysrhythmia. She was definitively treated with reduction of the daily methadone dose and an implanted cardioverter-defibrillator.
Chronic inhalation exposure to high concentrations of naphthalene produced nasal tumors in rats and lung tumors in female mice. Naphthalene bioactivation is required for target organ toxicity and cytotoxicity in target organs may be involved in tumor development. The present studies characterized the dose-response relationships for naphthalene-induced glutathione (GSH) depletion, effects on cellular ATP, and cytotoxicity in cells from both target (lung, nasal epithelium) and non-target (liver) organs in vitro using cells from F-344 rats, B6C3F1 mice and humans. The cells were incubated with various concentrations of naphthalene in sealed glass flasks for 3h, then placed in monolayer culture in fresh media for 24h to examine the repair or progression of damage. Naphthalene was a low potency cytotoxicant in vitro, with 500 μM frequently observed as a no-observed adverse effect concentration or lowest observed adverse effect concentration. Naphthalene exposure produced dose-dependent decreases in cellular GSH, ATP and viability in rat, mouse and human hepatocytes at concentrations >500 μM. Human nasal respiratory epithelial cells exhibited greater naphthalene cytotoxicity than rat or mouse nasal respiratory epithelial cell preparations. Rat nasal respiratory epithelial cell preparations metabolized naphthalene through pathways leading to the preferential formation of 1,2-naphthoquinone GSH conjugates rather than 1,4-naphthoquinone GSH conjugates observed in rat hepatocytes or mouse nasal respiratory epithelial cells, consistent with the suggestion that this bioactivation pathway may be involved in rat nasal tumor development. Naphthalene exposures of ≥500 μM decreased cellular GSH and ATP in rat, mouse and human lung cell preparations. The variability of the responses of the human lung cell preparations was consistent with the known variability of CYP activities in human lung tissue. The results of these studies can be used as the basis for future studies of the mechanisms involved in naphthalene-induced cytotoxicity and the relevance of the bioactivation pathways for human exposure to naphthalene.
Increased TGF-β1 and TGF-β1-dependent Collagen I production in intestinal mesenchymal cells result in fibrosis in patients with Montreal B2 fibrostenotic Crohn's disease. Numerous cytokines, including IL-6, are produced by activated mesenchymal cells themselves and activate STAT3. The aim of the current study was to determine the mechanisms by which STAT-3 activation might result in intestinal fibrosis. Cytokine levels were measured by ELISA. STAT3 and suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 protein levels were measured by immunoblot, STAT3-TGFB1 DNA-binding activity by chromatin immunoprecipitation, and TGFB1 transcriptional activity by luciferase reporter assay. TGF-β1 (TGFB1), Collagen1α1, and connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) gene expression was measured by quantitative RT-PCR. The role of STAT3 activation was determined using STAT3 inhibitor, Stattic, and by transfection of STAT3 mutants. Autocrine production of cytokines was increased in muscle cells of B2 phenotype patients from strictures and normal intestine in the same patient and compared with other Crohn's phenotypes, ulcerative colitis, and non-Crohn's patients. A unique pattern of STAT3 phosphorylation emerged: high STAT3(S727) and low STAT3(Y705) in strictures and the opposite in unaffected intestine. TGFB1 transcriptional activity was regulated by phospho-STAT3(S727) and was decreased by Stattic or dominant-negative STAT3(S727A). TGF-β1, COL1A1, and CTGF expression was inhibited by Stattic or dominant-negative STAT3(S727A). Treatment of normal muscle cells with IL-6 or expression of constitutively active STAT3(S727E) phenocopied muscle cells from strictured intestine. Neutralization of autocrine IL-6 reversed STAT3 phosphorylation and normalized expression of TGF-β1 in strictured intestinal muscle. The ability of Stattic to improve development of fibrosis was confirmed in mice with 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid-induced colitis. We observed a unique phospho-STAT3(S727) response in patients with Montreal B2 Crohn's disease, particularly in response to IL-6 leading to increased TGF-β1, collagen, and CTGF production in ileal strictures.
Previous studies investigating cancer cells cultured at acidic pH have shown that the expression level of ~700 genes were more than two-fold higher than those of the cells cultured in alkaline medium at pH 7.5. The aim of the present study was to confirm whether these acidosis-induced genes are expressed in human cancer tissues. Therefore, 7 genes were selected from our previous study, which encoded interleukin 32 (IL-32), lysosomal H(+) transporting ATPase, V0 subunit d2 (ATP6V0D2), tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily, member 9 (TNFRSF9), amphiregulin, schwannoma-derived growth factor (AREG), v-erb-b2 erythroblastic leukemia viral oncogene homolog 3 (ErbB3), PRR5-ARHGAP8 (LOC553158) and dimethylglycine dehydrogenase (DMGDH), and their expression was examined in human clinical specimens from patients with cancer. In addition, the expression of the gene encoding manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) was examined. The specimens from patients with colon, stomach and renal cancer showed increased MnSOD, IL-32, and TNFRSF9 transcripts compared to those from non-tumorous regions of the same patients. Notably, an elevated expression of ATP6V0D2 was found in the specimens from patients with stomach cancer, whereas the expression was decreased in those from patients with colon and renal cancer. The expression of LOC553158 was upregulated in colon and stomach cancer specimens. These results indicate that the investigation of gene expression under acidic conditions is useful for the development of novel cancer markers and/or chemotherapeutic targets.
We report a severe parkinsonian condition following high dose, parenteral cytosine arabinoside (Cytosar) that persisted for 8 weeks. The drug was used in a patient with acute myelogenous leukemia that was refractory to all other treatment. The syndrome was partially responsive to antiparkinsonian drugs and fortunately remitted completely within 12 weeks.
The aim of this work was to identify mechanisms and potential biomarkers for predicting the development and progression of aflatoxin B1 (AFB1)-induced acute hepatotoxicity. In this study, microarray analysis and metabolites profiles were used to identify shifts in gene expression and metabolite levels associated with the affected physiological processes of rats treated with AFB1. Histopathological examinations and serum biochemical analysis were simultaneously performed; the results indicated that hepatotoxicity occurred in higher dosage groups. However, gene expression analysis and metabolite profiles are more sensitive than general toxicity studies for detecting AFB1-induced acute hepatotoxicity as the patterns of low-dose AFB1-treated rats in these two technique platforms were more similar to the rats in higher dosage groups than to the control rats. Integrated analysis of the results from general toxicity studies, transcriptomics and metabonomics profiles suggested that p53 signaling pathway induced by oxidative damage was the crucial step in AFB1-induced acute hepatotoxicity, whereas gluconeogenesis and lipid metabolism disorder were found to be the major metabolic effects after acute AFB1 exposure. The genes and metabolites significantly affected in common in rat liver or serum of three doses AFB1 treatments served as potential biomarkers for detecting AFB1-induced acute hepatotoxicity.
