Worldwide experience with captopril and enalapril showed that angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor monotherapy in hypertensive patients rarely caused renal dysfunction. The ACE inhibitors in combination with potent vasodilating drugs and diuretics may produce sudden systemic normotension or hypotension that may impair glomerular filtration at reduced renal perfusion pressure. Reversible renal insufficiency developed during the 13th week of hydrochlorothiazide-enalapril-alpha methyldopa therapy in patient 1 and during the 6th week of hydrochlorothiazide-enalapril treatment in patient 2. Systemic hypotension in patient 1 and routine biochemical monitoring in patient 2 was the first clue of renal insufficiency. Renal angiography was normal in both patients. Renal insufficiency resolved after stopping all drugs temporarily and did not recur on other antihypertensive drug regimens. These data suggested the importance of systemic arterial blood pressure as the best clinical determinant of renal function in hypertensive patients receiving an ACE inhibitor in combination with other antihypertensive agents.
Cocaine is one of the most commonly used illicit drugs. Acute renal failure is an emergent complication in patients with acute cocaine intoxication. It is well known that rhabdomyolysis and vasoconstriction can be important pathogenetic mechanisms resulting in acute renal failure in these patients. Clinically, although cocaine abuse is associated with elevated blood pressure, persistent accelerated hypertension reaching levels diagnostic of malignant hypertension is uncommon. Cocaine-induced malignant hypertension associated with morphologic features of thrombotic macroangiopathy has been rarely mentioned in the literature. We report 2 cases of cocaine abuse-associated malignant hypertension with renal failure. Kidney biopsies revealed thrombotic microangiopathy with fibrinoid necrosis of arterioles and glomerular tufts. Cocaine-mediated endothelial injury and platelet activation may play important pathogenetic roles in cocaine abusers who develop acute renal failure and malignant hypertension.
Experimental lithium nephropathy was induced by administering lithium orally to newborn rats for 8 weeks; thereafter the rats were randomized into four groups which were studied after 8 weeks of further treatment. One group was left untreated, one group was given a high (40%) protein diet, one group was unilaterally nephrectomized and one group was unilaterally nephrectomized and received high protein diet after nephrectomy. Comparable control groups (not lithium-treated) were also studied. Stereological methods were used to estimate the total volume of different parts of the nephron, interstitial fibrosis, and the distribution of the volume of individual glomeruli. The structural integrity between the glomerulus and the proximal tubule was investigated on serial sections. No sclerotic glomeruli were present. The most extensive degree of hypertrophy with almost a doubling of the total volume of proximal and distal tubule cells was seen in the groups that were both nephrectomized and fed a high protein diet. In both controls and lithium-treated animals, high protein and nephrectomy induced enlargement of the glomerular tufts to volumes from 4 to 5 times the normal size. A pronounced heterogeneity of the glomerular population was found in the lithium-treated groups with 36-54% atubular glomeruli with small volumes, and 34-48% enlarged glomeruli connected to qualitatively normal proximal tubules. Only glomeruli connected to proximal tubules had a potential for hypertrophy. In multiple regression analysis the percentage of glomeruli connected to normal proximal tubules was correlated with the reciprocal of plasma creatinine, but the volume of fibrosis also contributed to the decreased renal function.
This was a randomized, flexible-dose, rater-blind, parallel-group, quasi-naturalistic trial comparing the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of quetiapine, risperidone, and olanzapine in patients with schizophrenia hospitalized for severe psychotic symptoms. Seventy-five patients were randomized to quetiapine (n=25), risperidone (n=25), or olanzapine (n=25). Mean doses at Week 8 were: 590.0 mg/day quetiapine; 5.1 mg/day risperidone; 15.1 mg/day olanzapine. Four quetiapine, five risperidone, and five olanzapine patients discontinued prior to Week 8. There were no significant differences between groups in the primary efficacy measures of improvement from baseline in Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) total score at Week 8 in the per protocol (PP) population and the number of completers who experienced >or=40% improvement on the same scale. PP and intent-to-treat analyses showed significant improvement from baseline in each component of a PANSS-derived battery, without significant differences between treatments. No quetiapine patients, one risperidone, and four olanzapine patients reported an adverse event (AE) of moderate intensity; no severe AEs were reported. A linear mixed model for repeated measures showed an effect of treatment on body weight, with significant differences favoring quetiapine over risperidone and olanzapine. Simpson-Angus Scale scores were significantly worse with risperidone compared with both olanzapine and quetiapine at Week 3 and compared with quetiapine thereafter. Use of concomitant medications for anxiety or tension was significantly less frequent with quetiapine. In conclusion, quetiapine, risperidone, and olanzapine have similar efficacy in schizophrenia, but there are drug-specific differences for some AEs and in the use of concomitant medication that differentiate these agents.
The effects of 2 fixed antihypertensive combination drugs on blood pressure and aortic elastic properties were compared in 2 parallel groups. Twenty-six patients for 6 months received a calcium antagonist plus ACE inhibitor (verapamil SR 180 mg/trandolapril 1 mg (Vera/Tran)) and 25 patients a beta-adrenoceptor antagonist plus diuretic (metoprolol 100 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg (Meto/HCTZ)). In addition to blood pressure (SBP, DBP), carotidofemoral pulse wave velocity (PWV) was assessed non-invasively. Total peripheral resistance (TPR) was determined from cardiac output derived by electrical impedance cardiography. Sitting DBP decreased for -14.4 mmHg following Vera/Tran compared with -9.2 mmHg following Meto/HCTZ (p = 0.02 for difference between treatments). Blood pressure was normalized (i.e. DBP < 90 mmHg) in 69% of patients with Vera/Tran and in 52% with Meto/HCTZ. PWV was lowered with Vera/Tran to a higher extent than with Meto/HCTZ (differences between group means -0.46 to -0.98 m/sec, statistically not significant). Vera/Tran induced a decrease in TPR of about 15% of baseline values, whereas Meto/HCTZ showed no influence. Treatment-related adverse events following Meto/HCTZ were bradycardia and associated symptoms; following Vera/Tran these were cough and edema in 1 case each. In the Meto/HCTZ group, there were more withdrawals/drop-outs (9/25) than in the Vera/Tran group (2/26). The somewhat more intense reduction in PWV with Vera/Tran is indicative of an increase in aortic elastic properties associated with the more potent decrease in BP. In the present study, the combination of calcium antagonist plus ACE inhibitor was found to be an effective and well tolerated antihypertensive regimen and in these respects appears to have some advantages compared with a combination of beta-blocker plus diuretic.
Recently ribavirin has been found to inhibit angiogenesis and a number of angiogenesis inhibitors such as sunitinib and sorafenib have been found to cause acute hemolysis. We aimed to investigate whether there is a relation between hemoglobin, haptoglobin and angiogenesis soluble markers which are modifiable and can help in developing strategies against anemia.
Fourteen patients chronically infected with hepatitis C virus were treated by pegylated interferon alpha 2a and ribavirin. Serum hemoglobin, haptoglobin and angiogenesis markers of vascular endothelial growth factor and angiopoetin-2 were investigated before and after therapy.
We observed a significant decrease in haptoglobin levels at the end of the treatment period. Hemoglobin levels also decreased but insignificantly by treatment. In contrast with the literature, serum levels of angiogenesis factors did not change significantly by pegylated interferon and ribavirin therapy. We found no correlation of angiogenesis soluble markers with either hemoglobin or haptoglobin.
This is the first study in the literature investigating a link between angiogenesis soluble markers and ribavirin induced anemia in patients with hepatitis C and we could not find any relation. Future research with larger number of patients is needed to find out modifiable factors that will improve the safety of ribavirin therapy.
The purpose of this study was to determine the frequency of a polymorphism of the candidate metabolic enzyme N-acetyltransferase-2 (NAT2) in Japanese prostate cancer patients and Japanese non-cancer controls, in order to determine if an association exists between NAT2 genotype and the occurrence, clinical stage and grade of prostate cancer.
In the present case-control study, 111 patients with prostate cancer and 152 controls were genotyped for the NAT2 polymorphism using the polymerase chain reaction-based restriction fragment length polymorphism method. The NAT2 genotypes (slow or rapid acetylator genotype) were determined by the combination of three known NAT2 mutant alleles (M1, M2, M3) and the wild-type allele.
The NAT2 slow acetylator genotype was statistically higher among prostate cancer patients (17.1%) compared with controls (8.6%) (Odds ration (OR) = 2.21; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.04-4.69; P = 0.0289). In addition, there was a statistically increased risk of prostate cancer among smokers with the NAT2 slow genotype (OR = 3.78: 95% CI, 1.48-9.66; P = 0.0041). Furthermore, the NAT2 slow acetylator genotype was significantly higher among prostate cancer patients with locally advanced and metastatic disease (22.7%) compared with controls (8.6%) (OR = 3.14; 95% CI, 1.40-7.06; P = 0.0051). Lastly, the NAT2 slow acetylator genotype was significantly higher among prostate cancer patients with high-grade tumors (31.4%) compared with controls (8.6%) (OR = 4.90; 95% CI, 1.97-12.20; P = 0.0010).
These data demonstrate that the NAT2 slow acetylator genotype plays an important role in determining the risk of developing prostate cancer in Japanese men and is also associated with more clinically advanced and pathologically aggressive disease. Furthermore, a possible interaction between the NAT2 slow acetylator genotype and smoking status was suggested.
Hyperglycaemia is a primary cause of vascular complications in diabetes. A hallmark of these vascular complications is endothelial cell dysfunction, which is partly due to the reduced production of nitric oxide. The aim of this study was to investigate the regulation of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) activity by acute and chronic elevated glucose.
Human aortic endothelial cells were cultured in 5.5 mmol/l (NG) or 25 mmol/l glucose (HG) for 4 h, 1 day, 3 days or 7 days. Mouse aortic endothelial cells were freshly isolated from C57BL/6J control and diabetic db/db mice. The expression and activity of eNOS were measured using quantitative PCR and nitrite measurements respectively. The binding of activator protein-1 (AP-1) to DNA in nuclear extracts was determined using electrophoretic mobility-shift assays.
Acute exposure (4 h) of human aortic endothelial cells to 25 mmol/l glucose moderately increased eNOS activity and eNOS mRNA and protein expression. In contrast, chronic exposure to elevated glucose (25 mmol/l for 7 days) reduced total nitrite levels (46% reduction), levels of eNOS mRNA (46% reduction) and eNOS protein (65% reduction). In addition, AP-1 DNA binding activity was increased in chronic HG-cultured human aortic endothelial cells, and this effect was reduced by the specific inhibition of reactive oxygen species production through the mitochondrial electron transport chain. Mutation of AP-1 sites in the human eNOS promoter reversed the effects of HG. Compared with C57BL/6J control mice, eNOS mRNA levels in diabetic db/db mouse aortic endothelial cells were reduced by 60%. This decrease was reversed by the overexpression of manganese superoxide dismutase using an adenoviral construct.
In diabetes, the expression and activity of eNOS is regulated through glucose-mediated mitochondrial production of reactive oxygen species and activation of the oxidative stress transcription factor AP-1.
We sought to ascertain whether chronic oral therapy with atorvastatin protects against ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury.
We have recently shown that acute atorvastatin treatment protects against reperfusion-induced injury by activating the PI3K/Akt/eNOS pathway. However, many patients are on chronic statin therapy, and it is necessary to investigate whether this, in itself, provides a therapeutic advantage.
Sprague-Dawley rats were orally treated for one day, three days, one week, or two weeks with 20 mg/kg of atorvastatin or vehicle, after which the hearts underwent 35 min of ischemia and 120 min reperfusion (IR). Two additional groups were treated for one or two weeks with atorvastatin and then received a supplementary dose of 40 mg/kg before IR. The risk zone was determined using Evans blue and infarct size (IR%) using triphenyltetrazolium chloride staining.
Treatment with atorvastatin for one and three days significantly reduced infarct size versus controls (38.9 +/- 3.1% vs. 56.4 +/- 2.3%; 39.3 +/- 2.4% vs. 61.3 +/- 3.8%, respectively). However, after one or two weeks of treatment, no protection was observed (52.6 +/- 3.8% vs. 58.6 +/- 4.3%; 58.3 +/- 2.7% vs. 52.4 +/- 5.7%, respectively). Surprisingly, a supplementary dose of atorvastatin recaptured the protection in the groups treated chronically (36.2 +/- 2.8% vs. 58.6 +/- 4.3%; 26.8 +/- 1.5% vs. 51.2 +/- 6.7%, at one and two weeks, respectively). Interestingly, we observed an increased level of phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome ten (PTEN), the phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase inhibitor, in the chronic treated hearts.
In conclusion, atorvastatin appears to have an acute protective effect that wanes with time associated with an increase in PTEN levels. This waning protection can be recaptured by an acute high dose given immediately before IR. These results may have protential clinical relevance.
Intake of ACE inhibitors may promote angioedema which can appear months and years after the medication has been stopped. Surgery and local anaesthesia can further aggravate angioedema. A 61-year-old patient with age-related cataract was admitted to our hospital for elective out-patient cataract surgery. A few days after surgery, the patient complained of pain and reduced vision in the operated eye.
Postoperative findings were elevated intraocular pressure (28 mmHg) and a significant reduction of vision. The anterior chamber was shallow. Ophthalmoscopy showed a circumferential choroidal and focal exudative retinal detachment. Local and systemic therapy with antiglaucomatous medications as well as steroids (methylprednisolone) and antibiotics (ciprofloxacin) resulted in control of the eye pressure and an increase of vision. After two weeks, the choroidal detachment disappeared. Important preexisting diseases included a minimal change glomerulonephritis under treatment with low doses of cortisone (4 mg), as well as arterial hypertension. An ACE inhibitor (ramipril) was taken.
ACE inhibitor intake might be associated with choroidal effusion. A preoperative change to another antihypertensive medication should be considered in patients with a tendency to develop angioedema. A glomerulonephritis might also support edema. Patients with such edema should undergo diagnostic evaluation and receive treatment before cataract surgery.
A unique case is described of a 28-year-old man who had seizures and a hemorrhage within a previously unsuspected cerebellopontine angle schwannoma within minutes of nasally inhaling cocaine. A review of the literature on cocaine-induced seizures and cocaine-induced cerebral hemorrhage is also given.
We conducted a pharmacokinetic study in 164 patients with sporadic Parkinson's disease (PD) to address the relationship between body weight and levodopa pharmacokinetics. Patients underwent an oral acute levodopa test with 250 mg levodopa and pharmacokinetic variables were further assessed. Plasmatic levodopa area under the curve (AUC-l) and body weight were significantly and inversely correlated. Women were significantly lighter and more dyskinetic than men, and had greater AUC-l values. Our data suggest that during long-term treatment, lighter PD patients, especially women, may receive a greater cumulative dosage of levodopa per kilogram of body weight. This could explain gender differences for the development of levodopa-induced peak-dose dyskinesias observed during the course of the disease.
There are multiple lines of evidence supporting that inflammation is causally linked to carcinogenesis. Abnormal upregulation of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), a rate-limiting enzyme in the prostaglandin biosynthesis, has been implicated in carcinogenesis. Trans-3,4,3',5'-tetrahydroxystilbene (piceatannol), a naturally occurring hydroxylated stilbene with potent anti-inflammatory and antioxidative activities, has been shown to inhibit the proliferation of several cancer cells by inducing apoptosis or blocking cell cycle progression. In this study, we examined the effect of piceatannol on activation of the nuclear transcription factor NF-kappa B, one of the major transcription factors that regulate proinflammatory COX-2 gene transcription, in human mammary epithelial (MCF-10A) cells treated with the tumor promoter 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA). When pretreated to MCF-10A cells, piceatannol markedly inhibited TPA-induced NF-kappa B DNA binding to a greater extent than resveratrol and oxyresveratrol, stilbene analogs structurally related to piceatannol. Piceatannol also inhibited TPA-induced phosphorylation and degradation of Ikappa Balpha as well as nuclear translocation of the phosphorylated form of p65, the functionally active subunit of NF-kappa B. Likewise, TPA-induced expression of COX-2 was abrogated by piceatannol pretreatment. The thiol reducing agent dithiothreitol abolished the inhibitory effects of piceatannol on NF-kappa B DNA binding activity, suggesting that piceatannol may directly modify NF-kappa B or its regulator through reaction with the cysteine thiol(s).
An 18-year-old woman presented to a regional stroke center with dysphasia and right hemiparesis 2 days after consuming alcohol and inhaling cannabis and -- for the first time -- cocaine.
Physical examination, blood tests for inflammatory markers, vasculitis and toxicology screen, echocardiography, electrocardiography, CT scanning, brain MRI, magnetic resonance angiography, magnetic resonance vessel wall imaging, catheter angiography, and correlation of blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD)-MRI signal intensity with changes in end-tidal partial pressure of carbon dioxide.
Cocaine-induced cerebral vasculitis.
No specific therapy was initiated. The patient's vital signs and neurological status were monitored during her admission. Follow-up medical imaging was performed after the patient's discharge from hospital.
There is no doubt that high doses of nicotine have deleterious effects on cardiovascular function. However, the effects of lower and more clinically relevant doses of nicotine have received little attention, and the consequences of nicotine in the setting of ischemia/reperfusion are virtually unknown. The first objective of this study was to determine whether nicotine, given either before or after ischemia and at a dose mimicking that absorbed by humans during inhalation of one cigarette, exacerbated contractile dysfunction of canine myocardium "stunned" by brief transient ischemia. The second aim was to provide preliminary insight into the mechanism of action of nicotine on the stunned myocardium.
Anesthetized open chest dogs underwent 15 minutes of left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) occlusion and 3 hours of reperfusion. In protocol 1, each dog was randomized to receive nicotine at 30 minutes before LAD occlusion (80 micrograms/kg dissolved in 15 mL of saline, given i.v. over 10 minutes), nicotine at 1 hour after reperfusion (80 micrograms/kg as above), or saline. Segment shortening (assessed by sonomicrometry) in both the LAD and circumflex beds, heart rate, arterial pressure, and coronary blood flow were monitored throughout the protocol, and regional myocardial blood flow (by injection of radiolabeled microspheres) was measured during LAD occlusion and at 5 minutes after nicotine/saline infusion. All groups were equally ischemic during LAD occlusion. As expected, segment shortening in the LAD bed of control animals was depressed after reperfusion, averaging 54 +/- 6% and 50 +/- 4% of baseline at 1 and 3 hours after reflow. Nicotine given before occlusion did not alter segment shortening before LAD occlusion and did not exacerbate dyskinesis during occlusion. However, segment shortening in the LAD bed recovered to only 29 +/- 9% and 22 +/- 5% of baseline at 1 and 3 hours after reperfusion (P < .01 versus corresponding control values). Furthermore, nicotine given at 1 hour after reperfusion caused a significant deterioration in segment shortening, from 47 +/- 11% immediately before infusion (P = NS versus control at 1 hour after reflow) to 7 +/- 13% at 3 hours after reperfusion (P < .01 versus 1 hour after reperfusion; P < .01 versus control at 3 hours after reflow). This dose of nicotine did not alter heart rate, arterial pressure, or blood flow; did not cause myocyte necrosis; and did not impair contractile function in the normally perfused circumflex bed. In protocol 2, all dogs received a continuous infusion of the free radical scavenging agent N-2-mercaptopropionyl glycine (MPG; 50 mg.kg-1 x h-1) beginning 45 minutes after reperfusion and, at 1 hour after reflow, received either nicotine or saline as described in protocol 1. MPG given after reperfusion did not alter contractile function in control animals. However, MPG prevented the deterioration in postischemic function observed with nicotine in protocol 1; segment shortening averaged 54 +/- 11% and 56 +/- 9% of baseline at 1 and 3 hours after reperfusion (P = NS).
Nicotine, given before occlusion or after reflow, significantly exacerbated contractile dysfunction of post-ischemic stunned myocardium in this canine model. This exacerbated dysfunction was not a secondary consequence of unfavorable alterations in hemodynamics or coronary blood flow and may be mediated by free radicals acting on myocytes that had been reversibly injured by the brief ischemic insult.
Nephrotoxicity is a major adverse effect of chromium poisoning. In the present study, we investigated the potential renoprotective effect and underlying mechanisms of carvedilol, a non-specific β-adrenergic blocker using rat model of potassium dichromate-induced nephrotoxicity. Rats were pretreated with carvedilol (10mg/kg) for 21days. A single subcutaneous injection of potassium dichromate (15mg/kg, s.c.) resulted in a significant increase in the levels of blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine, markers related to oxidative stress, nitrosative stress, apoptosis and inflammation accompanied with histopathological changes in kidney tissues. Exploration of the underlying renoprotective mechanisms of carvedilol revealed that carvedilol attenuated nuclear translocation and DNA binding activity of NF-κB (p65) in kidney tissues. The serum levels of TNF-α and the renal expression of iNOS and tissue nitrites were significantly decreased in carvedilol plus potassium dichromate administered rats. Carvedilol pretreatment significantly attenuated the potassium dichromate-induced DNA damage, decreased the p53, Bax and cleaved caspase-3 expression and increased the Bcl-2 expression. Moreover, pretreatment with carvedilol significantly restored the renal tissue antioxidant and mitochondrial respiratory enzyme activities and decreased the elevated lipid peroxidation biomarkers to normal. These results were further supported and confirmed by histopathological findings. In conclusion, the findings of the present study demonstrated that carvedilol is an effective chemoprotectant against potassium dichromate-induced nephrotoxicity in rats.
Intraspinal administration of neostigmine has been shown to prevent induction of hypotension in rats by bupivacaine spinal block, and thus to provide greater hemodynamic stability. This study was undertaken to determine whether subarachnoid neostigmine would prevent bupivacaine spinal anesthesia from causing hypotension or bradycardia in patients undergoing abdominal hysterectomy.
Of 40 patients scheduled for abdominal hysterectomy under spinal anesthesia, 20 were randomly assigned to each of two groups. The control group (CG) received 1.5 mL subarachnoid saline followed by 15 mg (3 mL) of hyperbaric bupivacaine 0.5%. The neostigmine group (NG) received 75 micrograms (1.5 mL) of subarachnoid neostigmine followed by 15 mg (3 mL) of hyperbaric bupivacaine 0.5%. No preload was given. Hypotension was treated with 4-mg intravenous boluses of ephedrine to keep blood pressure above 75% of the baseline value. The skin body temperature was measured with probes at the suprascapular region and at the foot.
Spinal neostigmine (75 micrograms) failed to prevent bupivacaine-induced hypotension. There was no statistical difference in the incidence of brady-cardia between the groups (NG, 2/20; CG 1/20), although the bradycardia appeared to be qualitatively different, being somewhat delayed in the NG. Spinal neostigmine did not alter the onset or duration of sensory block and did not affect skin body temperature in either anesthetized or unanesthetized sites. The incidence of intraoperative nausea was 20% in the NG and 5% in the CG.
A 75-micrograms subarachnoid neostigmine dose does not affect blood pressure or heart rate during bupivacaine spinal anesthesia.
The diagnosis and treatment of male impotence have been radically modified by the introduction of intracavernous injections of papaverine. Papaverine treatment can solve more than 70% of male impotence cases, so that the real clue to the diagnosis of impotence is to discriminate between patients who can be treated by papaverine alone and patients deserving thorough investigation. The association of papaverine injection plus video sexual stimulation for this purpose was adopted in our last 250 unselected patients and represents a valuable tool. 115 of 250 achieved successful treatment for their impotence according the following percentages: intracavernous papaverine injections at the practice or at home 75.8%; prosthesis, 19.1%; venous surgery, 3.4%, and arterial surgery, 1.7%.
Recent studies have shown that a common mutation (nucleotide 677 C-->T) in the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) gene may contribute to a mild rise in plasma homocysteine levels and increase the incidence of coronary artery disease. Therefore, this study was designed to further investigate whether the effects of MTHFR 677 C to T mutation, plasma homocysteine, serum vitamin B12, and folate can influence restenosis after successful coronary stenting.
We investigated 260 patients each with a lesion after successful coronary stent placement. All patients received a repeated angiography after 6 months, or earlier if clinically indicated. Angiographic in-stent restenosis (ISR) was defined as >or=50% diameter stenosis at follow-up. Genotyping for MTHFR was based on a polymerase chain reaction technique. Also fasting plasma homocysteine, vitamin B12, and folate levels were measured at the same time. The ISR rate was higher among the patients with the TT genotype than in those with the non-TT genotypes (64.0% versus 32.9%, P=0.002). There was no significant difference in plasma homocysteine levels among patients with the TT genotype and patients with the non-TT genotypes (15.9+/-7.6 versus 15.5+/-6.6 micromol/L, P=0.75). However, among the patients with the TT genotype, those with higher plasma homocysteine levels (>or=12 micromol/L) demonstrated a significantly higher ISR rate (75.0% versus 33.5%, P=0.001). Logistic regression analysis revealed that the combined presence of the MTHFR TT genotype and lower than average serum vitamin B12 (>or=550 pg/mL) resulted in the most significant difference in the risk of ISR (OR=3.57, CI=1.51-8.46, P=0.004; OR=2.36, CI=1.35-4.15, P=0.003).
MTHFR 677TT polymorphism and low serum vitamin B12 each individually increased the risk of coronary ISR. Furthermore, the combination of these parameters resulted in a greater increase in risk.
To assess whether the addition of a brief course of intravenous corticosteroids reduces the incidence of infusion-related adverse events associated with gemtuzumab ozogamicin (GO) administration.
One hundred forty-three sequential patients received GO-based therapy for refractory myeloid leukemias: 110 patients received the standard regimen of acetaminophen 650 mg orally with diphenhydramine 50 mg intravenously and 33 patients received the same premedications with methylprednisolone sodium succinate 50 mg intravenous piggyback (IVPB) prior to infusion and repeated 1 hour into the infusion.
Of 110 patients who received GO with standard premedications alone, 32 (29%) had grade 2 or above infusion-related adverse events. In 33 patients who received these premedications with methylprednisolone 50 mg IVPB prior to infusion and repeated 1 hour into the infusion, only 1 (3%) experienced any infusion-related adverse events (p = 0.0009, 95% CI 0.16 to 0.36). There was no significant difference between the patient cohorts in terms of hepatotoxicity, rate of development of hepatic venoocclusive disease, response rates, or infectious complications.
A brief course of intravenous corticosteroids significantly reduces the incidence of GO infusion-related adverse events.
Although warfarin and perhaps aspirin may be effective in preventing thromboembolism in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation, some patients develop cerebral infarction despite these therapies. The purpose of this study was to determine inhibition of platelet aggregation in patients on aspirin and platelet reactivity in those on warfarin in the Stroke Prevention in Atrial Fibrillation study.
Twenty-four patients in the Stroke Prevention in Atrial Fibrillation study at the University of Illinois at Chicago, 17 on enteric-coated aspirin 325 mg/d and 7 on warfarin to produce an International Normalized Ratio of 2.0 to 4.5, had platelet aggregation studies performed during a 10-month period and interpreted by an investigator blinded to therapy. Epinephrine, adenosine diphosphate, collagen, and arachidonic acid were used as aggregating agents. Compliance was determined by pill count for those patients on aspirin.
Seven patients taking aspirin had partial and 10 had complete inhibition of platelet aggregation. Three of seven patients on warfarin had hyperaggregable platelets. Compliance was 80% or greater for those patients taking aspirin. One patient on warfarin had partial inhibition of platelet aggregation.
Some patients in the Stroke Prevention in Atrial Fibrillation trial on aspirin 325 mg/d did not achieve complete inhibition of platelet aggregation. Others had hyperaggregable platelets. These findings suggest platelet-dependent mechanisms for aspirin and warfarin failure to prevent stroke in these patients.
This subgroup analysis from the Ticlopidine Aspirin Stroke Study (TASS) compared ticlopidine, a new antiplatelet agent, with aspirin for the prevention of recurrent transient ischemic attacks in patients who had a recent reversible cerebrovascular event.
This was a multicenter, double-blind, randomized trial in patients with a recent cerebral ischemic history. Patients with a reversible cerebral ischemic event within 3 months of enrollment were eligible for the study. All patients received either aspirin 650 mg twice daily or ticlopidine 250 mg twice daily for up to 5.8 years. The primary end point in this analysis was the first occurrence of a reversible ischemic event either alone or combined with nonfatal stroke or death and fatal or nonfatal stroke.
Overall, ticlopidine was better than aspirin for reducing the risk of reversible ischemic events either alone or as a composite with death and/or stroke or with fetal and/or nonfatal stroke (P = .007 to P < .001). The risk reductions with ticlopidine were maintained for the duration of the 5-year follow-up. The most frequent or clinically important adverse effects associated with ticlopidine were diarrhea, rash, and neutropenia. Neutropenia was severe in 13 patients but resolved promptly with discontinuation of therapy.
The results in this subgroup of patients with reversible ischemic disease, as well as the overall analysis of TASS, suggest that ticlopidine is a more effective agent than aspirin for the prevention of recurrent transient ischemic attacks.
A case of migraine is presented with visual aura triggered on two separate occasions by glyceryl trinitrate (GTN). Positron emission tomography was carried out during the second triggering session. Activation in the primary visual area of the occipital cortex was demonstrated during the aura. This is the first published case of migraine aura triggered reproducibly by GTN.
Triptans, a popular class of drugs for treatment of migraine headaches, can cause adverse events including chest symptoms. This study estimated the direct medical costs of managing chest symptoms in patients treated for acute migraine with almotriptan or sumatriptan using an economic model.
The economic model of this study combined data from a randomized clinical trial that compared almotriptan with sumatriptan and data from a practice pattern survey of physicians. The pertinent clinical evaluation period was the time immediately after administration of the first medication dose. The model was developed from the perspective of a managed care payer.
The average direct medical cost of managing chest symptoms that appeared after the first dose of an oral triptan was $0.22 for patients treated with almotriptan and $1.64 for patients treated with sumatriptan, a difference of $1.42 per patient.
Relative to sumatriptan, treatment with almotriptan is likely to reduce patient care costs associated with chest symptom adverse events.
To evaluate effectiveness and safety of intrathecal baclofen administration (ITB) testing with continuous infusion via an external pump before the implantation of an internal one in ambulatory spastic patients with cerebral palsy (CP).
Seven CP patients (3 diplegic, 4 quadriplegic - 18.4+/-7.0 years) with a progressive decrease in walking ability were included. Assessments included: Ashworth's scale, Observational Gait Scale (OGS), and GMFM-66.
During the ITB test (45-150 microg/24h), spasticity decreased by more than two points on Ashworth's scale (p<0.001) and walking ability improved (median OGS increased from 7 to 9, p<or=0.05). After implantation of an internal Synchromed pump (dosage 66-160 microg/24h), mean GMFM-66 increased from 49.9+/-7.3 to 54.5+/-7.7 (p<0.05) and median OGS from 7 to 10 (p<0.05). Two nonambulatory patients recovered some walking ability following implantation of the pump. Adverse effects included one case of chemical meningitis during the test and two temporary CSF leaks.
Tests of ITB using a continuous infusion by an external pump allowed precise evaluation of the effects of different ITB doses on walking ability, enabling prediction of how the patient would respond to an internal pump. All patients showed ambulatory improvement with ITB.
The present study examined whether modified xenobiotic transport, resulting from chlordecone (CD) or dieldrin pretreatment, would alter polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) or organochlorine (OC) target organ doses and subsequent tumor organospecificity or incidence rates in rainbow trout. Additionally, the potential for exposure to dieldrin or CD, following PAH exposure, to enhance tumor incidence was assessed. Evaluation of CD pretreatment effects on [14C]CD disposition in trout was conducted following two i.p. (0-15 mg/kg) and two dietary (0-0.4 mg/kg/d) pretreatment regimes. To assess the influence of OC pretreatment on cancer induced by the PAH 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA), juvenile trout were fed control, CD (0.1, 0.4 mg/kg/d), or dieldrin (0.1, 0.3 mg/kg/d) diets for 9 wk, received a waterborne [3H]DMBA exposure (1 mg/L, 20 h), and resumed control, CD, or dieldrin diets for 33 wk. [3H]DMBA disposition and hepatic [3H]DMBA binding were examined immediately and 24 h after exposure. Hepatic and stomach tumor incidences were determined 33 wk after DMBA exposure. CD pretreatment did not influence [14C]CD or [3H]DMBA hepatic concentrations, hepatic [3H]DMBA DNA binding, or hepatic/stomach tumor incidence. It did, however, elevate bile [14C]CD and [3H]DMBA concentrations. Postinitiation exposure to CD weakly enhanced DMBA-induced hepatic tumor incidence at the low but not the high CD dose. Dieldrin pretreatment did not influence stomach [3H]DMBA equivalents or stomach tumor incidence but did cause an elevation in biliary and hepatic concentrations of [3H]DMBA equivalents. [3H]DMBA binding to liver DNA was significantly increased and hepatic tumor incidence was elevated by dieldrin pretreatment. Dieldrin treatment following DMBA initiation did not enhance hepatic or stomach tumor incidence. Ecoepidemiology studies, to date, have reported correlations between the co-occurrence of PAHs and OCs and elevated tumor incidence in feral fish, but cause-and-effect relationships have been difficult to establish. The results of the present study confirm that OCs, such as dieldrin and CD, play a role in modifying PAH-induced carcinogenesis in fish.
Since the use of dietary supplements as alternative treatments or adjuvant therapies in cancer treatment is growing, a scientific verification of their biological activity and the detailed mechanisms of their action are necessary for the acceptance of dietary supplements in conventional cancer treatments. In the present study we have evaluated the anti-cancer effects of dietary supplement ProstaCaid™ (PC) which contains mycelium from medicinal mushrooms (Ganoderma lucidum, Coriolus versicolor, Phellinus linteus), saw palmetto berry, pomegranate, pumpkin seed, green tea [40% epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG)], Japanese knotweed (50% resveratrol), extracts of turmeric root (BCM-95®), grape skin, pygeum bark, sarsaparilla root, Scutellaria barbata, eleuthero root, Job's tears, astragalus root, skullcap, dandelion, coptis root, broccoli, and stinging nettle, with purified vitamin C, vitamin D3, selenium, quercetin, citrus bioflavonoid complex, β sitosterolzinc, lycopene, α lipoic acid, boron, berberine and 3.3'-diinodolymethane (DIM). We show that PC treatment resulted in the inhibition of cell proliferation of the highly invasive human hormone refractory (independent) PC-3 prostate cancer cells in a dose- and time-dependent manner with IC50 56.0, 45.6 and 39.0 µg/ml for 24, 48 and 72 h, respectively. DNA-microarray analysis demonstrated that PC inhibits proliferation through the modulation of expression of CCND1, CDK4, CDKN1A, E2F1, MAPK6 and PCNA genes. In addition, PC also suppresses metastatic behavior of PC-3 by the inhibition of cell adhesion, cell migration and cell invasion, which was associated with the down-regulation of expression of CAV1, IGF2, NR2F1, and PLAU genes and suppressed secretion of the urokinase plasminogen activator (uPA) from PC-3 cells. In conclusion, the dietary supplement PC is a promising natural complex with the potency to inhibit invasive human prostate cancer.
The effect of calcium channel blockers on the progression of renal failure is controversial. In contrast with earlier studies, we recently reported that moderately large doses of verapamil significantly accelerated chronic renal failure in the rat remnant kidney model. Studies reporting beneficial effects of verapamil were characterised by a much lower dose of verapamil and by the start of treatment immediately after renal ablation, which potentially interfered with the initial phase of remnant kidney hypertrophy. We therefore studied the effects of a high, fully antihypertensive oral dose of verapamil (100-150 mg/kg/per day; group Vera high) and a low, haemodynamically almost ineffective dose (10-15 mg/kg per day; group Vera low), on the progression of chronic renal failure in female Wistar rats with 5/6 nephrectomy. The treatment was started no earlier than 5 weeks after renal ablation, and matched groups of 20 animals were followed for 16 weeks thereafter. High-dose verapamil reduced systolic blood pressure to median values of 130-140 mmHg throughout the experimental period, whereas blood pressure in Vera low animals remained elevated at median values of 165-172 mmHg similar to non-treated rats with 172-185 mmHg median systolic blood pressure.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
