1,25-Dihydroxyvitamin D3, the hormonal form of vitamin D, is now believed to play a significant role in the immune responses, both in vitro and in vivo, preventing the development of several autoimmune diseases. These studies suggest that 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 may be effective in prolonging allograph survival.
To test the hypothesis that 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 would prolong allograft survival, neonatal heart grafts were transplanted to allogeneic recipients receiving either 19-nor-1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D2 (200 ng/day) or 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (50 ng/mouse/day) orally through the diet. The efficacy of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 in prolonging graft survival in a vascularized model was determined by heterotopic ACI to Lewis heart transplants.
The provision of exogenous 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 or an analog, 19-nor-1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D2, to mice markedly prolonged the survival of neonatal mouse heart allografts. Similar results were obtained with a vascularized heterotopic heart transplant model in rats. Cyclosporine at a maximum 25 mg/kg dose for mice proved less effective than 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3. Graft survival in mice differing at class I and class II loci (B10.A(4R) --> C57BL/10) increased from 13.0+/-1.1 days to 51.0+/-5.6 days and was significantly better than cyclosporine monotherapy (33.2+/-3.6). Rat heart survival in a high responder strain combination (ACI --> Lewis) increased from 6.2+/-0.3 to 25.2+/-2.8 days. The increased survival of the transplants brought about with 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 was not accompanied by hypercalcemia in rats.
These results suggest that 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 can be used as an effective agent in preventing graft rejection.
Individuals with the most common form of the porphyrias, porphyria cutanea tarda (PCT), are believed to be genetically predisposed to development of clinically overt disease through mutations and polymorphisms in genes associated with known precipitating factors. In this study, we have examined a group of Danish patients with PCT for the presence of the C/A polymorphism in intron 1 of CYP1A2. The results demonstrate that the frequency of the highly inducible A/A genotype is increased in both familial and sporadic PCT. This suggests that inheritance of this genotype is a susceptibility factor in development of PCT.
The effects of phenobarbital (PB; doses, 5, 10, and 25 mg/kg, intraperitoneally (i.p.)) and zonisamide (ZNS; doses, 30, 75, and 150 mg/kg, i.p.) on nitric oxide (NO) production, and those of coadministration of PB (5 mg/kg, i.p.) and ZNS (75 mg/kg, i.p.) on monoamines in the brain of the seizure-susceptible EL mouse were investigated. Nitric oxide production was obtained by measuring the combined level of nitrite plus nitrate (NOx). Zonisamide and PB dose-dependently suppressed the seizure of the EL mouse, and coadministration of PB (5 mg/kg) and ZNS (75 mg/kg) induced a greater degree of seizure suppression than treatment with ZNS or PB alone. Although PB (5 mg/kg) had no effect on brain NOx levels, ZNS (150 mg/kg) and coadministration of ZNS (75 mg/kg) and PB (5 mg/kg) decreased NOx levels significantly. Phenobarbital (5 mg/kg) did not influence monoamines, while coadministration of PB (5 mg/kg) and ZNS (75 mg/kg) decreased dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and increased 5-HT concentrations. The effect of the coadministration of two drugs on monoamines were similar to that of ZNS alone. These results suggest that one of the anticonvulsant effects of coadministration of PB and ZNS may be caused by changes in NOx levels.
Tibial dyschondroplasia (TD) is a metabolic cartilage disease of young poultry in which endochondral bone formation is disrupted leading to the retention of a non-calcified, avascular plug of cartilage in the tibial growth plate. Chicks aged 7 days were fed either a control diet or one containing thiram 100 ppm for 48 h to induce TD. Cell multiplication in the growth plate was determined thereafter with bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) labelling, and metabolic changes by measuring alkaline phosphatase (ALP), tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP), and glutathione (GSH) activities. The effect on chondrocyte maturation was examined by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis of gene expression. Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labelling (TUNEL) and DNA fragmentation were used to determine the effects of thiram on cell survival. The results showed that thiram-induced TD was not due to the multiplication of cells in the post-proliferative zones. Thiram did not affect ALP activity, which would have indicated a loss of calcification potential, but it reduced both TRAP and the glutathione concentrations, suggesting that the growth plate metabolism and remodelling functions were adversely affected. Thiram appeared to have no effect on the expression of type X collagen, transglutaminase, RUNX2, or matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP) genes suggesting that it did not alter the maturation potential of chondrocytes. On the contrary, the expressions of MMP-13 and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) genes were "up-regulated," suggesting that thiram has pro-angiogenic activity. However, TUNEL assay showed that thiram induced endothelial cell apoptosis in the capillary vessels of the growth plates, as early as 10 days of age, when TD was not visually evident. The vascular death increased on subsequent days accompanied by massive death of chondrocytes in the transition zone of the growth plate. The induction of apoptosis in the growth plate was also demonstrated by DNA fragmentation. It was concluded that thiram induced TD not through an increase in the multiplication of chondrocytes in the transition zone and not by altering the expression of genes causing the arrest of chondrocytes in a prehypertrophic state, but by creating a metabolic dysfunction which led to the destruction of blood capillaries in the transition zone chondrocytes.
Patients with cocaine-induced AMI may be added to the expanding list of eligible candidates for thrombolytic therapy. ED nurses are in key positions to identify patients for thrombolysis, evaluate patients' responses, and minimize complications. With the rising use of cocaine, increased consideration should be given to any relatively young patient with unexplained cardiovascular symptoms and history of cocaine use.
The antinociceptive activity of (-)-spectaline (1), a piperidine alkaloid isolated from Cassia leptophylla Vog. (Leguminosae), was investigated. We have also studied the acute oral toxicity of 1 in mice and it did not show any signals of toxicity in doses lower than 400 micromol/kg. The antinociceptive effect of 1 was evaluated on chemical (acetic acid, formalin and capsaicin) and thermal (hot plate and tail flick) pain models in mice, using classical standard drugs. Dipyrone ID (50) = 14.68 micromol/kg (4.8 mg/kg), indomethacin ID (50) = 0.78 micromol/kg (0.28 mg/kg) and (-)-spectaline ID (50) = 48.49 micromol/kg (15.75 mg/kg), all produced a significant inhibition of acetic acid-induced abdominal writhing in mice. (-)-Spectaline was inactive in the hyperalgesic model of formalin and did not show any central analgesic activity (hot plate and tail flick models). In the capsaicin-induced neurogenic pain model, (-)-spectaline presented an important inhibitory effect with an ID (50) = 20.81 microg/paw and dipyrone ID (50) = 19.89 microg/paw. The ensemble of results permitted us to identify 1 as an antinociceptive compound. The mechanism underlying this antinociceptive effect of 1 remains unknown, but the results suggest that such an effect could be related to pathways associated to vanilloid receptor systems.
Multiple cytotoxic drug administration is the generally accepted treatment of patients with a high-risk stage of choriocarcinoma. Based on this principle a 27-year old woman, classified as being in the high-risk group (Goldstein and Berkowitz score: 11), was treated with multiple cytotoxic drugs. The multiple drug schema consisted of: Etoposide 16.213, Methotrexate, Cyclophosphamide, Actomycin-D, and Cisplatin. On the first day of the schedule, moderate high doses of Methotrexate, Etoposide and Cyclophosphamide were administered. Within 8 hours after initiation of therapy the patient died with a clinical picture resembling massive pulmonary obstruction due to choriocarcinomic tissue plugs, probably originating from the uterus. Formation of these plugs was probably due to extensive tumor necrosis at the level of the walls of the major uterine veins, which resulted in an open exchange of tumor plugs to the vascular spaces; decrease in tumor tissue coherence secondary to chemotherapy may have further contributed to the formation of tumor emboli. In view of the close time association between the start of chemotherapy and the acute onset of massive embolism other explanations, such as spontaneous necrosis, must be considered less likely. Patients with large pelvic tumor loads are, according to existing classifications, at high risk to die and to develop drug resistance. Notwithstanding these facts our findings suggest that these patients might benefit from relatively mild initial treatment, especially true for patients not previously exposed to this drug. Close observation of the response status both clinically and with beta-hCG values may indicate whether and when more agressive combination chemotherapy should be started.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1. The pharmacological profile of LR-B/081, (methyl 2-[[4-butyl-2-methyl- 6-oxo-5-[[2'-(1H-tetrazol-5-yl)[1,1'-biphenyl]-4-yl]methyl]-1(6H)- pyrimidinyl]methyl]-3-thiophenecarboxylate), a novel antagonist at the angiotensin II (AII) AT1-receptor, was studied in vitro and in vivo. 2. In rabbit aortic strips incubated with LR-B/081 (1-1,000 nM), the concentration-response curve to AII was displaced to the right in a nonparallel fashion and the maximal contraction was progressively reduced, indicating that the compound is an insurmountable antagonist in this preparation (apparent pKB = 9.50 +/- 0.23). However, the interaction of LR-B/081 with AII receptors was found to be reversible, since the maximal response to AII was restored by coincubation with losartan, a surmountable AII AT1-antagonist. Contractions elicited by KCl or phenylephrine were not affected by 10 microM LR-B/081. 3. In rat isolated perfused kidney, LR-B/081 and losartan antagonized the AII-induced vasoconstriction [IC50 (95% confidence limits) = 17(13-24) and 39(32-54) nM, respectively]. The LR-B/081 antagonism was incompletely reversed by excess AII, while losartan was fully displaced. The IC50 values of LR-B/081 and losartan obtained against vasoconstriction induced by endothelin-1 and noradrenaline were two orders of magnitude higher. 4. In pithed rats, the intravenous administration of LR-B/081 (0.2-2 mumol kg-1) dose-dependently shifted to the right in a nonparallel fashion the dose-pressor response curve to AII. The maximal pressor response to AII was reduced by LR-B/081 in a dose-dependent fashion. The coadministration of losartan induced a progressive recovery of the maximal pressor response to All, indicating that in vivo the interaction of LR-B/081 with All receptors is reversible. LR-B/081 at 6 micromol kg-1, i.v. also did not affect the vasopressor response induced by noradrenaline in the pithed rat.5. In conscious normotensive rats, single oral administration of LR-B/081 at 6 micromol kg-1 markedly inhibited the All-induced pressor response; the inhibition lasted more than 24 h.6. In conscious renal hypertensive rats, intravenous LR-B/081 appeared as potent as losartan (ED40mmHg(95% confidence limits) = 0.50(0.36-0.70) and 0.86(0.57-1.3) micromol kg-1, respectively). A single intravenous(2 micromol kg-1) or oral (6 micromol kg-1) administration of LR-B/081 induced a marked fall in blood pressure which lasted for at least 12 h.7. In conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats, LR-B/081 at 20 micromol kg-1 , p.o., induced a marked and sustained fall in blood pressure. The duration of the antihypertensive effect was longer than 12 h.Heart rate was not modified by LR-B/081 treatment. Repeated oral administration of 17 micromol kg-1LR-B/081 for 16 days did not result in the development of tolerance.8 These results demonstrate that LR-B/081 is a potent, selective and orally active antagonist of All at the AT1-receptor subtype, which markedly lowers the blood-pressure in conscious renal and spontaneously hypertensive rats.
There is a need to understand what affects the success of in-vitro fertilisation (IVF) and the rate of resulting twin births so that pregnancy rates can be improved and multiple gestations avoided. Our aim was to assess the role of B vitamins and genetics.
We did a prospective cohort study of 602 women undergoing fertility treatment. We assessed intake of folate and vitamin B12 with a questionnaire and measured their plasma and red-blood-cell concentrations by radioimmunoassay. We measured five B-vitamin-related gene variants in women who received treatment and in 932 women who conceived naturally.
The likelihood of a twin birth after IVF rose with increased concentrations of plasma folate (1.52, 1.01-2.28; p=0.032) and red-cell folate (1.28, 1.00-1.65; p=0.039). There was no association between folate and vitamin B12 levels and likelihood of a successful pregnancy. Women homozygous for the 1298 CC variant of methylenetetrahydro-folate reductase (MTHFR), rather than the AA variant, were less likely to produce a livebirth after IVF (0.24, 0.08-0.71; p=0.003) or to have had a previous pregnancy (0.42, 0.21-0.81; p=0.008).
Our findings suggest that MTHFR genotype is linked to a woman's potential to produce healthy embryos (possibly through interaction with genes related to DNA methylation). In women likely to have a successful IVF pregnancy, high folate status increases the likelihood of twin birth after multiple embryo transfer. Proposals to fortify the UK diet with folic acid could lead to an increase in the number of twins born after IVF.
Therapy of disease caused by penicillinase-producing Neisseria gonorrhoeae with lower-than-standard doses of cefoxitin was evaluated. A pilot study showed that doses of greater than or equal to 1 g were adequate, whereas 500-mg doses consistently failed. After the pilot study, 89 men with gonorrhea were treated with 1 g of cefoxitin given intramuscularly plus 1 g of probenecid given orally. Of the 89 men, 86 were cured. Sixty per cent were infected with penicillin-resistant strains of N. gonorrhoeae. The three men who were culture-positive on follow-up had been sexually reexposed, whereas none of those with negative cultures had had reexposure. These clinical results indicate that a treatment regimen of 1 g of parenteral cefoxitin plus 1 g of oral probenecid appears to be as effective as the standard 2-g dose. Regimens using doses lower than 1 g are ineffective.
Cowden disease, also known as multiple hamartoma syndrome, is an autosomal dominant cancer syndrome with a high risk of breast and thyroid cancer. The gene involved has been localized to chromosome 10q22-23. Recently, the tumour suppressor gene PTEN/MMAC1, encoding a putative protein tyrosine or dual-specificity phosphatase, was cloned from that region and three mutations were detected in patients with Cowden disease. We confirmed that the PTEN/MMAC1 gene is indeed the gene for Cowden disease by a refined localization of the gene to the interval between D10S1761 and D10S541, which contains the PTEN/MMAC1 gene and, by mutation analysis in eight unrelated familial and 11 sporadic patients with Cowden disease. Eight different mutations were detected in various regions of the PTEN/MMAC1 gene. One mutation was detected twice. All detected changes in the gene can be predicted to have a very deleterious effect on the putative protein. Five of the nine patients have a mutation in exon 5 coding for the putative active site and flanking amino acids. Evaluation of the clinical data of the patients in which a mutation could be detected gives no clear indications for a correlation between the genotype and phenotype. In 10 patients no mutation could be detected so far. In support of the linkage data, no evidence has emerged from the phenotype of these patients suggestive for genetic heterogeneity.
Lethal trait A46, also known as bovine hereditary zinc deficiency, Adema disease, and hereditary parakeratosis, is an autosomal recessive disorder first described in 1964, with a clinical presentation similar to that of acrodermatitis enteropathica (AE) in humans. The molecular basis of the defect has not been previously identified. Recently, the basic defect in AE was found to lie in SLC39A4. We report the characterization of the bovine ortholog of SLC39A4 and identification of a unique splice site variant within this gene in affected animals. The mutation leads to exon skipping, leaving the coding region in frame. The gene product is predicted to lack two critical motifs, which lie in adjacent transmembrane domains implicated in the formation of a pore responsible for the transport of zinc. While further functional studies are warranted, this unique variant is likely to be responsible for the impaired zinc absorption in this disease.
The new long-acting ergoline derivative cabergoline was given orally in a single dose of 300 micrograms to 15 hyperprolactinemic patients (including 4 acromegalic patients, 2 of whom were dopamine responsive). Serum PRL and GH levels were determined before and 3, 4, and 6 h and 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 days after treatment. A control test with a single oral dose of 2.5 mg bromocriptine was also performed; serum PRL and GH levels were measured at the same time intervals for 2 days. Cabergoline induced a marked fall in serum PRL which began within 3 h and continued for 7 days. The maximal decrease ranged between -49.2% and -55.2% and occurred after 2-5 days. This maximal effect was only slightly less than that 6 h after bromocriptine treatment (-63.8%). After cabergoline treatment, serum GH levels did not change significantly in either nonacromegalic or acromegalic patients, whereas the two dopamine-responsive acromegalic patients had a marked GH fall after bromocriptine. A moderate blood pressure decrease, more evident in the standing position, occurred after both cabergoline and bromocriptine treatments. The only symptomatic side-effect was orthostatic hypotension after cabergoline in an elderly woman. These data indicate that cabergoline has potent and prolonged dopaminergic activity and may prove suitable for once weekly treatment of hyperprolactinemic patients.
The prognosis of patients with incompletely resected malignant brain tumors is almost fatal. In an attempt to improve the outcome of children and young adults with unfavorable brain tumors an intensive multimodal therapeutic strategy was developed combining simultaneous (hyper)fractionated external beam irradiation and conventional adjuvant chemotherapy after initial surgery. 17 patients aged between 2.10 and 25.11 years were entered into the study. 16/17 patients were treated according to the German/Austrian Pediatric Brain Tumor Study Group multicenter trial HIT '91. They are not protocol patients of this HIT '91 trial. Induction chemotherapy consisted of 2 courses of ifosfamide (3 g/m2/d) on days 1-3, etoposide (150 mg/m2/d) on days 4-6, methotrexate (5 g/m2) on days 15 and 22, cisplatin (40 mg/m2/d) and cytarabine (400 mg/m2/d) on days 29-31. Three weeks after the last dose of cisplatin/cytarabine the second course of chemotherapy was started. The last patient entered into the study received a modified therapy containing ifosfamide, cisplatin and etoposide. Synchronously at a median of 12 days after initiation of chemotherapy 12/17 patients received local radiotherapy (6000-7040 cGy) to the brain and 5/17 patients craniospinal irradiation (3520 cGy with a tumor boost of 1400-2000 cGy). 4-6 weeks after completion of the second course of chemotherapy maintenance therapy was started with carmustine (CCNU) (75 mg/m2) and carboplatin (400 mg/m2) each on day 1 and vincristine (1.5 mg/m2) on day 1, 8, 15. This course was repeated eight times every six weeks. 9/17 patients are alive at a median follow-up of 25 months (range 5-50) with 4 complete remissions, 2 partial remissions and 1 stable disease lasting 42+ months. Two patients, who initially had stable disease, progressed, but are still alive at 31+ and 41+ months after diagnosis. Median progression-free survival and median overall survival is 19 and 36 months, respectively. Hematologic and methotrexate-induced toxicity were severe and resulted in one therapy-related death. However, radiotherapy concomitant to chemotherapy appears to be an effective method of treatment for brain tumors with poor prognosis, though toxicity is severe in some cases.
In order to allow the use of sotalol to control ventricular tachycardia (VT), dual chamber rate responsive (DDDR) pacemakers were implanted in ten patients aged 6 to 73 years (mean 50 years). Nine presented with monomorphic VT (seven inducible at baseline electrophysiological study [EPS]) and one with syncope (monomorphic VT at EPS). On sotalol, VT was initiated in only one. This patient received sotalol in the absence of an effective alternative agent. The mean dose was 468 +/- 269 mg/day. Indications for pacing were symptomatic sotalol induced bradycardia (7), sinus node dysfunction (1), postoperative complete heart block (1), and infra-His block at baseline EPS (1). At least five of these patients would have been candidates for an implantable cardioverter defibrillator had sotalol required discontinuation. Initially, nine patients were paced in DDDR mode and one, with normal AV conduction on sotalol, in AAIR. One patient was unable to tolerate sotalol despite pacing. One patient died suddenly after 35 months of symptom-free follow-up. There was a significant improvement in symptomatic status (P = 0.03) after pacing among the other eight patients with no recurrence of VT. The implantation of a DDDR pacemaker may be indicated in selected patients with serious cardiac arrhythmias. With such a device programmed to an appropriate mode, sotalol can be used successfully where otherwise contraindicated by bradycardia or preexisting conduction disease. For some patients this may obviate the expense, inconvenience, and attendant risks of implantable cardioverter defibrillator implantation.
Severe systemic inflammation with a vasodilatory syndrome occurs in about one third of all patients after cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass. Hydrocortisone has been used successfully to reverse vasodilation in septic patients. We evaluated if stress doses of hydrocortisone attenuate severe systemic inflammatory response syndrome in a predefined risk group of patients after cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass.
Randomized, nonblinded, controlled trial.
Anesthesiologic intensive care unit for cardiac surgical patients of an university hospital.
After a risk analysis, we enrolled 91 patients into a prospective randomized trial. Patients were included according to the evaluated criteria (preoperative ejection fraction, duration of cardiopulmonary bypass, type of surgery).
The treatment group received stress doses of hydrocortisone perioperatively: 100 mg before induction of anesthesia, then 10 mg/hr for 24 hrs, 5 mg/hr for 24 hrs, 3 x 20 mg/day, and 3 x 10 mg/day.
We measured various laboratory (e.g., lactate) and clinical variables (e.g., duration of ventilation and length of stay in the intensive care unit), characterizing the patients' outcome. The two study groups did not differ regarding age, preoperative medication, duration of the cardiopulmonary bypass, and type of surgery. The patients in the treatment group had significantly lower concentrations of IL-6 and lactate, higher antithrombin III concentration, lower need for circulatory and ventilatory support and for transfusions, lower Therapeutic Intervention Scoring System values, and shorter length of stay in the intensive care unit and in the hospital. The mortality rate did not differ significantly between the groups.
Although we acknowledge the limitations of a nonblinded interventional trial, stress doses of hydrocortisone seem to attenuate systemic inflammation in a predefined risk group of patients after cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass and improve early outcome.
A 58-year-old man developed proteinuria and renal dysfunction following pneumonia caused by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). Vancomycin was administered, and prednisolone pulse therapy and plasmapheresis were performed. Subsequently, serum creatinine was decreased. Eight months later, creatinine and CRP were again elevated, and MRSA was detected. Vancomycin was again administered and plasmapheresis was performed. However, renal function was not improved and continuous hemodialysis was initiated. This case indicates that complete eradication of MRSA is necessary to treat MRSA-associated glomerulonephritis, and if this is not attained, a permanent loss of renal function occurs.
Besides hepatotoxicity, paracetamol may exert nephrotoxic effects in experimental animals and patients. The present study in rats shows that antidotes known to protect against hepatotoxicity, such as methionine or N-acetylcysteine, are not effective in preventing paracetamol-induced kidney damage. Only diethyldithiocarbamate, an inhibitor of microsomal monooxygenases, provided complete protection against both hepato- and nephrotoxicity. While a marked depletion of glutathione was observed in the liver, no such effect was seen in the kidney. These data suggest that the mechanism of paracetamol nephrotoxicity seems to be quite different from that responsible for the hepatotoxicity. The hypothesis that a C-S-lyase-mediated final metabolism of paracetamol-S conjugates in the kidney might be responsible for nephrotoxicity needs support by further experimental investigations.
Recently, various forms of Churg-Strauss syndrome (CSS) have been reported in association with the use of leukotriene receptor antagonists. A 53-year-old woman with a 5-year history of asthma associated with chronic sinusitis presented mononeuropathy, hypereosinophilia, and positive P-ANCA in October 1999. She had been treated with pranlukast (450 mg/day) and beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP) at a dose of 1,200 microg/day which had gradually been tapered to 800 microg/day over the previous 17 months. She was found to have CSS, and 60 mg/day of prednisolone was administered instead of pranlukast, resulting in an improvement of her symptoms and eosinophilia. Later, we confirmed that serum P-ANCA had been positive before the pranlukast treatment, but CSS vasculitis had not appeared at that time. We speculated that an underlying incomplete form of CSS was being masked in this case and that the reduction of inhaled corticosteroid might have been responsible for the unmasking of CSS.
Reviews of the literature have failed to demonstrate any consistent effects of typical or atypical neuroleptics on psychomotor or cognitive function in schizophrenic patients. Better methods and study designs are required, and healthy volunteer studies are necessary to control for variables due to schizophrenic psychopathology. Eye movements are a sensitive, reliable and relatively pure measure of attention and arousal. Two volunteer studies of the effects of single doses of haloperidol (2,4 and 6 mg), chlorpromazine (50 mg) and remoxipride (100 and 150 mg) on saccadic and smooth pursuit eye movements are described. All drugs impaired both eye movement measures, but the doses used were not clinically equivalent. No available test is yet able to distinguish between benzodiazepines and neuroleptics.
The cytotoxicity in the brain of potent selective and non-selective inhibitors of Na+/K+ ATPase has been assessed. Following injection of cardiac glycosides into the dorsal hippocampus of rats, the extent of neuronal loss roughly paralleled their potencies as inhibitors of the enzyme. Dihydroouabain was less potent than ouabain as a cytotoxin by an order of magnitude, similar to their relative affinities for Na+/K+ ATPase. The non-specific inhibitors, melittin, erythrosin B and zinc (chloride) were less neurocytotoxic than the selective inhibitors having equivalent potencies. The toxicity of a low dose of ouabain appeared to be selective for neuronal perikarya as staining for acetylcholinesterase (present on the nerve terminals of the afferent cholinergic innervation) was unaffected. A higher dose of ouabain caused a non-specific necrosis including damage to the neuropil and a loss of cholinesterase staining. Concurrently, there was an invasion of the tissue by cells resembling foaming macrophages. Other inhibitors of the enzyme caused a mixed pathology with both types of responses evident. It is suggested that the pathological response may depend on the relative degrees to which the glial and neuronal activities of the enzyme are affected.
We report a case of myopathy induced by daily administration of colchicine. A 65-year-old man with gout and renal dysfunction had taken 1 mg of colchicine daily for 3 years. The dose was raised to 2 mg per day and two months later, he developed progressive weakness of the proximal limbs and had difficulty in rising from squatting and climbing stairs. Five months after the development of weakness, neurological examination showed proximal muscle weakness without wasting, generalized hyporeflexia and mild sensory loss and dysesthesia of the toes. Serum creatine kinase level was elevated to 788 IU/L and creatinine level was 2.1 mg/dl. Electromyography demonstrated myogenic changes with spontaneous activity. HE preparations of biceps muscle biopsy showed mild increase of variation in fiber size, small vacuoles with and without basophilic rims in some fibers and a few fibers with unevenly stained sarcoplasm. NADH-TR preparations showed numerous moth-eaten and targetoid fibers. The small rimmed vacuoles stained positively for acid phosphatase. Electron microscopy showed accumulation of lysosomes and autophagic vacuoles, and architectural changes and disruptions of myofibrils. After the discontinuation of colchicine, his strength and serum CK level normalized within two masquerading as polymyositis, may occur when customary doses of colchicine are given daily to patients with renal dysfunction.
In a study of 15 patients with infantile spasms and Lennox syndrome 4 (26.7%) showed no cerebral atrophy and 11 (73.3%) showed mild ventricular and sulcal enlargement before ACTH therapy. Ventricular and sulcal enlargement increased soon after ACTH therapy in most patients. Cerebral atrophy was reversible at over 1 month after ACTH therapy. However, in three instances, cerebral atrophy was not reversible, and one patient with infantile spasms had chronic subdural effusion, which appeared to be a complication of treatment with ACTH. Patients on ACTH therapy should be carefully monitored.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a leading cause of disability in young adults. Susceptibility to MS is determined by environmental exposure on the background of genetic risk factors. A previous meta-analysis suggested that smoking was an important risk factor for MS but many other studies have been published since then.
We performed a Medline search to identify articles published that investigated MS risk following cigarette smoking. A total of 14 articles were included in this study. This represented data on 3,052 cases and 457,619 controls. We analysed these studies in both a conservative (limiting our analysis to only those where smoking behaviour was described prior to disease onset) and non-conservative manner. Our results show that smoking is associated with MS susceptibility (conservative: risk ratio (RR) 1.48, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.35-1.63, p < 10⁻¹⁵; non-conservative: RR 1.52, 95% CI 1.39-1.66, p < 10⁻¹⁹). We also analysed 4 studies reporting risk of secondary progression in MS and found that this fell just short of statistical significance with considerable heterogeneity (RR 1.88, 95% CI 0.98-3.61, p = 0.06).
Our results demonstrate that cigarette smoking is important in determining MS susceptibility but the effect on the progression of disease is less certain. Further work is needed to understand the mechanism behind this association and how smoking integrates with other established risk factors.
To investigate the effects of artificial ligand of peroxisome proliferators activated receptors (PPARs), rosiglitazone (RGZ) and all trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) on human myeloma cell line growth in vitro and in vivo.
U266 and RPMI 8226 cells were treated with different concentration of RGZ in the presence or absence of ATRA and the results were studied by 3H-TdR thymidine incorporation (for cells proliferation), Annexin V-PI staining and caspase-3 activity assay (for cells apoptosis), RT-PCR (for FLIP, XIAP and survivin mRNA expression), and tumor formation test in BALB/c nude mice.
Exposure to RGZ induced proliferation inhibition in a dose-dependent manner in both U266 (r = 0.991, P < 0.01) and RPMI 8226 cells (r = 0.961, P < 0.01). A combination of RGZ with ATRA could enhance the inhibition effect (P < 0.001 in U266, P < 0.01 in RPMI8226). 10 micromol/L of RGZ induced apoptosis of (9.8 +/- 1.7)% in U266 cells and (10.7 +/- 3.3)% in RPMI8226 cells, in a time and dose dependent manner and combined with ATRA intensified the apoptosis induction effects (P < 0.01 in both cell lines). The FLIP, XIAP and survivin mRNAs were expressed in both cell lines and their levels decreased significantly after cultured with RGZ. The addition of RGZ + ATRA in the culture further decreased the levels. Caspase-3 activity increased substantially with the increase of RGZ concentration and the addition of RGZ + ATRA in the culture medium showed similar synergism effect on caspase-3 activation (P < 0.01). The xenograft of U266 cells in BALB/c nude mice were inhibited by RGZ and so did more by the combination of RGZ and ATRA (P < 0.01).
The down-regulation of FLIP, XIAP and Survivin induced by RGZ can activate caspase-3, whereby induced apoptosis and proliferation inhibition in myeloma cells. ATRA can enhance these effects of RGZ.
We have identified a mouse recessive mutation that leads to attenuated and hyperpermeable retinal vessels, recapitulating some pathological features of familial exudative vitreoretinopathy (FEVR) in human patients. DNA sequencing reveals a single nucleotide insertion in the gene encoding the low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 5 (LRP5), causing a frame shift and resulting in the replacement of the C-terminal 39 amino acid residues by 20 new amino acids. This change eliminates the last three PPP(S/T)P repeats in the LRP5 cytoplasmic domain that are important for mediating Wnt/beta-catenin signaling. Thus, mutant LRP5 protein is probably unable to mediate its downstream signaling. Immunostaining and three-dimensional reconstructions of retinal vasculature confirm attenuated retinal vessels. Ultrastructural data further reveal that some capillaries lack lumen structure in the mutant retina. We have also verified that LRP5 null mice develop similar alterations in the retinal vasculature. This study provides direct evidence that LRP5 is essential for the development of retinal vasculature, and suggests a novel role played by LRP5 in capillary maturation. LRP5 mutant mice can be a useful model to explore the clinical manifestations of FEVR.
To better understand the molecular mechanisms of prostate cancer (PCA) dissemination and to develop new anti-metastasis therapies, key regulatory molecules involved in PCA metastasis were identified in two human androgen-independent PCA cell lines, highly metastatic 1E8-H and lowly metastatic 2B4-L cells. Through 2-DE and MS analyses, 12 proteins with different expression levels in the two cell lines were identified. The following proteins were found to be significantly up-regulated in 1E8-H cells compared with 2B4-L cells: gp96 precursor, calreticulin precursor, vimentin (VIM), Hsp90alpha, peroxiredoxin 2, HNRPH1, ezrin, T-complex protein 1, alpha subunit, and hypothetical protein mln2339. In contrast, heart L-lactate dehydrogenase H chain, annexin I, and protein disulfide isomerase were notably down-regulated in 1E8-H cells compared with 2B4-L cells. To our knowledge, this study is the first to demonstrate that up-regulation of VIM expression positively correlates with the invasion and metastasis of androgen-independent PCA.
