In cell-culture models, addition of deferoxamine (DFO) to University of Wisconsin Solution (UW solution) reduces cold-storage injury. The efficacy of DFO was therefore tested in a kidney transplantation model employing inbred Wistar Furth rats. Donor left kidneys, cold stored for 18 h in UW solution with or without 0.125 mM or 0.625 mM DFO were transplanted to the recipients' left renal fosse. Deferoxamine dose-dependently and significantly increased glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and renal blood flow (RBF), and suppressed renal F2-isoprostanes (vasoactive lipid peroxidation products) and apoptotic and necrotic injury 3 days post-transplantation. In a second set of similar experiments, the remaining native kidneys of the recipient rats were removed on day 7 of transplantation. Transplanted kidneys' function assessed by serum creatinine was 75% higher in the cold-stored transplanted kidneys treated with DFO compared with untreated kidneys. Moreover, the DFO treatment was attended by a significant reduction in apoptotic and necrotic tubular injury. Thus, our consistent findings from two sets of studies in a transplant model suggest that a simple strategy of including DFO in the cold-storage solution reduces cold ischemia-associated renal transplant damage and improves renal function. Our findings have potentially important ramifications for cold preservation of kidneys, and possibly other organs, in clinical transplantation.
Aflatoxin B (1) (AFB(1)) is a risk factor for hepatocellular carcinoma in humans. Infant, but not adult, mice are sensitive to AFB(1)-induced liver carcinogenesis; a single dose during the neonatal period leads to hepatocellular carcinoma in adulthood. Earlier work defined the mutational spectrum in the gpt gene of gpt delta B6C3F1 mice 3 weeks after exposure to aflatoxin. In the present study, we examined the gpt spectrum 10 weeks postdosing and expanded the study to examine, at 3 and 10 weeks, the spectrum at a second locus, the red/gam genes of the mouse λEG10 transgene. Whereas the gpt locus is typically used to define local base changes, the red/gam genes, via the Spi(-) assay, often are used to detect more global mutations such as large deletions and rearrangements. Three weeks after dosing with AFB(1), there was a 10-fold increase over the control in the Spi(-) mutant fraction (MF) in liver DNA; after 10 weeks, a further increase was observed. The MF in the gpt gene was also increased at 10 weeks compared with the MF at 3 weeks. No gender-specific differences were found in the Spi(-) or gpt MFs. Whereas Spi(-) mutations often signal large genetic changes, they did not in this specific case. The Spi(-) spectrum was dominated by GC to TA transversions, with one exceptionally strong hotspot at position 314. Using two genetic loci, the data show a strong preference for the induction of GC to TA mutations in mice, which is the dominant mutation seen in people exposed to aflatoxin.
Hydroxyurea is an effective treatment for psoriasis but consistently produces macrocytosis in peripheral blood with a fall in haemoglobin levels and white cell counts. In this long-term study of 16 patients anaemia and leukopenia have proved frequent and troublesome side effects requiring discontinuance of treatment in many cases. In view of these findings hydroxyurea cannot be recommended as the drug of first choice even for treating severe and intractable psoriasis, and it is our opinion that methotrexate is safer and at least as effective in these circumstances. The clearest indications for the use of hydroxyurea appear to be in life-ruining psoriasis when methotrexate treatment has either failed or is contraindicated because of liver damage. A great deal more investigative work is required before these indications can be generally extended.
2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-ρ-dioxin (TCDD) increases fatty acid (FA) transport and FA levels resulting in hepatic steatosis in mice. Diet as a source of lipids was investigated using customized diets, stearoyl-CoA desaturase 1 (Scd1) null mice, and (14)C-oleate (18:1n9) uptake studies. C57BL/6 mice fed with 5, 10, or 15% fat or 50, 60 or 70% carbohydrate diets exhibited increased relative liver weight following gavage with 30 µg/kg TCDD for 168 h. Hepatic lipid extract analysis from mice fed with 5, 10, and 15% fat diets identified a dose-dependent increase in total FAs induced by TCDD. Mice fed with fat diet also exhibited a dose-dependent increase in the dietary essential linoleic (18:2n6) and α-linolenic (18:3n3) acids. No dose-dependent FA increase was detected on carbohydrate diets, suggesting dietary fat as a source of lipids in TCDD-induced steatosis as opposed to de novo lipogenesis. TCDD also induced oleate levels threefold in Scd1 null mice that are incapable of desaturating stearate (18:0). This is consistent with oleate representing > 90% of all monounsaturated FAs in rodent chow. Moreover, TCDD increased hepatic (14)C-oleate levels twofold in wild type and 2.4-fold in Scd1 null mice concurrent with the induction of intestinal and hepatic lipid transport genes (Slc27a, Fabp, Ldlr, Cd36, and Apob). In addition, computational scanning identified putative dioxin response elements and in vivo ChIP-chip analysis revealed regions of aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) enrichment in lipid transport genes differentially regulated by TCDD. Collectively, these results suggest the AhR mediates increased uptake of dietary fats that contribute to TCDD-elicited hepatic steatosis.
Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) catalyzes the conversion of L-tyrosine to L-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA), the rate-limiting step in the biosynthesis of dopamine. This report describes a missense point mutation in the human TH (hTH) gene in a girl presenting parkinsonian symptoms in early infancy and a very low level of the dopamine metabolite homovanillic acid in the CSF. DNA sequencing revealed a T614-to-C transition in exon 5 (L205P). Both parents and the patient's brother are heterozygous for the mutation. Site-directed mutagenesis and expression in different systems revealed that the recombinant mutant enzyme had a low homospecific activity, i.e. approximately 1.5% of wt-hTH in E. coli and approximately 16% in a cell-free in vitro transcription-translation system. When transiently expressed in human embryonic kidney (A293) cells a very low specific activity (approximately 0.3% of wt-hTH) and immunoreactive hTH (< 2%) was obtained. The expression studies are compatible with the severe clinical phenotype of the L205P homozygous patient carrying this recessively inherited mutation. Treatment with L-DOPA resulted in normalisation of the CSF homovanillic acid concentration and a sustained improvement in parkinsonian symptoms.
Valproate is a widely used antiepileptic drug with rarely occurring serious side effects. We observed two cases of valproate-caused encephalopathy of insidious type. Ten months after initiation of valproate treatment, the two patients showed neurologic deficits such as rapid cognitive decline and extrapyramidal manifestations. However, the patients recovered some weeks after termination of the treatment. This side effect must be considered in patients showing signs of rapidly progressing severe dementia who are being treated with valproate.
We present the case of a 34-year-old woman with cocaine-associated chest pain and hypersomnulence, who, because of her inability to report chest pain, and her comfortable appearance, was admitted to telemetry for a diagnosis of low-probability rule-out myocardial infarction. Her chest pain was incompletely relieved, and she subsequently was transferred to the intensive care unit and ruled in for myocardial infarction. We discuss the clinical syndrome of cocaine-related depressed level of consciousness, and its relationship to evaluation of cocaine-related chest pain.
In order to elucidate the relationship between plasma dehydroepiandrosterone (DHA) and sulpiride-induced hyperprolactinemia (of 60 day duration) in normal men, five normal men (aged 27-46) were administered daily 300 mg of sulpiride orally for 60 days to induce hyperprolactinemia. Plasma levels of prolactin, DHA and cortisol were measured by radioimmunoassay before sulpiride treatment, at day 14 and day 60 after initiation of the treatment. Plasma levels of prolactin after the administration rose significantly (P less than 0.001) to 71.6-95.3 ng/ml in four out of the five subjects compared with those of the controls. In the same four subjects the mean DHA values in plasma were elevated significantly (P less than 0.05) to 877 +/- 160 ng/dl from the mean baseline values (669 +/- 91 ng/dl). The elevated values remained during sulpiride treatment. Plasma levels of cortisol did not change significantly during sulpiride administration in all subjects. Our results suggest that sulpiride-induced hyperprolactinemia sustained at least 14-60 days in normal men stimulates the adrenal cortex to secrete DHA.
Lithocholic acid (LCA), the most toxic bile acid, induces cholestatic liver injury in rodents. We previously showed that LCA activates the oxidative stress-responsive nuclear factor (erythroid-2 like), factor 2 (Nrf2) in cultured liver cells, triggering adaptive responses that reduce cell injury. In this study, we determined whether Nrf2 protects the liver against LCA-induced toxicity in vivo.
Nrf2 disrupted (Nrf2(-/-) ) and wild-type mice were treated with LCA (125 mg·kg(-1) body weight) to induce liver injury. Levels of mRNA, protein and function of important Nrf2 target genes coupled with liver histology and injury biomarkers of mice were examined.
In 4 day LCA treatments, we observed a significantly higher hepatic induction of Nrf2 target, cytoprotective genes including thioredoxin reductase 1, glutamate cysteine ligase subunits, glutathione S-transferases, haeme oxygenase-1 and multidrug resistance-associated proteins 3 and 4 in the wild type as compared with the Nrf2(-/-) mice. Moreover, basal and LCA-induced hepatic glutathione and activities of glutathione S-transferases and thioredoxin reductases were higher in wild-type than in Nrf2(-/-) mice. This reduced production of cytoprotective genes against LCA toxicity rendered Nrf2(-/-) mice more susceptible to severe liver damage with the presence of multifocal liver necrosis, inflamed bile ducts and elevation of lipid peroxidation and liver injury biomarkers, such as alanine aminotransferase and alkaline phosphatase.
Nrf2 plays a crucial cytoprotective role against LCA-induced liver injury by orchestrating adaptive responses. The pharmacological potential of targeting liver Nrf2 in the management of cholestatic liver diseases is proposed.
A first improvement in the treatment of depression was achieved in 1970-80 with the development of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI) because these drugs, which are as potent antidepressants as the tricyclics, are devoid of most of the secondary effects of the latter drugs (orthostatic hypotension, weight gain, dry mouth, etc, mainly caused by their capacity to block alpha1-adrenergic, H1 histaminergic and muscarinic receptors). However, SSRI did not solve all the problems inherent to the treatment of depression because (i) approximately 30% of depressed patients do not respond to these drugs, and (ii) their antidepressant effect becomes really significant only after 3-4 weeks of treatment, like that observed with tricyclics. A further improvement in the development of antidepressant drugs has recently been made with the synthesis of the S enantiomer of citalopram, called Escitalopram. Indeed, this active enantiomer is the most selective among all SSRI available to date, including citalopram. In addition, the potency of Escitalopram to inhibit serotonin reuptake (K(i)=2,1 nM) and to induce antidepressant-like effects in relevant animal paradigms (forced swimming test; chronic mild stress; stress-induced ultrasonic vocalization) is markedly increased as compared with citalopram and other SSRI. In particular, in the forced swimming test, which is especially relevant for assessing the potential antidepressant properties of drugs, Escitalopram was shown to be at least 15 fold more potent than any other SSRI to delay helplessness-induced immobility of rats. Even more interestingly, under chronic treatment conditions, Escitalopram was found to be significantly more rapid than any other antidepressant (tricyclics such as imipramine, SSRI such as fluoxetine) to restore sucrose intake in rats subjected to chronic mild stress, suggesting a reduced delay in its antidepressant action. This was indeed fully confirmed in humans as only 1-2 weeks of treatment with Escitalopram was enough to significantly reduce MADRS score in depressed subjects, compared to 3-4 weeks with any other antidepressant drug. These unique properties led to further investigations of the pharmacological profile of Escitalopram. It thus appeared that, at equipotent doses, the S enantiomer was significantly more efficient than citalopram (racemate) to increase the extracellular levels of serotonin within the frontal cortex of freely moving rats bearing a locally implanted microdialysis probe. Further experiments showed that R-citalopram counteracted the capacity of Escitalopram to enhance extracellular 5-HT levels, thereby explaining why the racemate had only a limited action in this regard. In addition, behavioural studies (stress-induced ultrasonic vocalization test) also showed that R-citalopram exerts effects opposite to those (antidepressant--and anxiolytic--like effects) of Escitalopram. The reason for these differences between the two enantiomers might concern the secondary molecular targets at which citalopram acts, but with affinities at least two orders of magnitude less than for the serotonin transporter. Indeed, R-citalopram has a 7-10-fold higher affinity for H1 histaminergic (K(i)=180 nM) and alpha1-adrenergic (K(i)=560 nM) receptors than Escitalopram (respective K(is) > or = 2 000 nM), and this difference might contribute not only to the better selectivity of the latter enantiomer for its therapeutically relevant target (i.e. the serotonin transporter) but also to its improved capacity to enhance central 5-HT neurotransmission. On the other hand, the global affinity of Escitalopram (K(i)=200-430 nM) for both subtypes of sigma receptors (sigma1 and sigma2) is higher than that of R-citalopram (and of the racemate citalopram; K(i)=200-1 500 nM), and this might also strengthen the antidepressant and anxiolytic effects of the S enantiomer because behavioural studies showed that selective sigma1 and sigma2 agonists are endowed with both antidepressant--and anxiolytic-like properties in relevant animal models. However, to date, the exact nature (agonist or antagonist) of the action of Escitalopram at sigma receptors is not known yet, and this question has to be addressed in future investigations. Altogether, these data open novel perspectives for both a better treatment of depressive disorders and a better knowledge of the neurobiological mechanisms underlying antidepressant therapy, and, possibly, depression itself.
1. Low doses of sublingual nifedipine are still used for the treatment of hypertensive crises, although recent studies have raised concerns that sublingual nifedipine may cause serious dose-dependent adverse effects. The present study was performed to test the safety of low-dose sublingual nifedipine administered to elderly hypertensive patients. 2. Systemic blood pressure measurements and electrocardiographic (ECG) examinations were performed before and 45-60 min after a 5 mg dose of sublingual nifedipine in 93 consecutive hypertensive patients, 65 years of age or older, who were without coronary artery disease. In 33 patients, the effects of nifedipine on myocardial lactate metabolism were studied during cardiac catheterization. 3. In all patients, following nifedipine administration, blood pressure (BP) decreased significantly, while heart rate (HR) increased, and symptoms associated with elevated BP disappeared. However, changes consistent with myocardial ischaemia appeared on the ECG in six of 55 patients with left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) and in one of 38 patients without LVH, although only two of these seven patients experienced angina-like precordial tightness. Sublingual nifedipine decreased myocardial lactate extraction from 52 +/- 13 to 38 +/- 19% in 20 patients with LVH (P = 0.02), but myocardial lactate extraction remained stable in 13 patients without LVH (49 +/- 7 to 50 +/- 5%; NS). The change in lactate extraction was significantly correlated with the percentage change in diastolic arterial pressure (r = 0.77, P < 0.001). 4. These results suggest that sublingual nifedipine, even at the low dose of 5 mg, may cause myocardial ischaemia in some elderly patients with LVH that is associated with a marked reduction in coronary perfusion pressure.
The potential utility of Ca2+ channel blockers in the treatment of various psychiatric disorders has been recently suggested. In the present study, the behavioural and anti-psychotic effects of Ca2+ channel blockers were investigated in unrestrained rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) living together in a colony. The different behaviours categorised as social, solitary and abnormal were video recorded and analysed. Graded doses of verapamil (5-20 mg/kg, i.m.) and nimodipine (7.5-30 mg/kg, p.o.) produced a mild decrease in social and solitary behaviour without producing any cataleptic posture in the tested monkeys. In order to determine potential antipsychotic effects, Ca2+ channel blockers were studied in the model of amphetamine-induced psychosis. Amphetamine, at the dose of 2 mg/kg, i.m., induced suppression of approach, contact, grooming, and feeding, whilst vigilance (checking), stereotyped behaviour and oral hyperkinesia were increased in the monkeys. Pre-treatment with verapamil (10 and 20 mg/kg, i.m.) significantly suppressed amphetamine-induced hypervigilance, stereotypy, oral hyperkinesia and tachypnoea but was unable to reverse other amphetamine-induced behavioural effects. Nimodipine showed insignificant anti-psychotic effects at both 15 and 30 mg/kg doses. These results suggest that verapamil has a definite antipsychotic effect without any extrapyramidal side effects and thus may be of clinical significance in the treatment of psychosis.
Transient hyperkinesia was observed in a 16-year-old epileptic and mentally retarded patient after a single intravenous perfusion of diphenylhydantoin (DPH). No clinical signs of DPH intoxication were associated with the movement disorder. Repeated plasma anticonvulsant level determinations never showed toxic concentrations of DPH. Since a few spontaneous episodes of hyperkinesia had been observed before, the DPH intravenous perfusion could have unmasked a preexisting latent movement disorder in our patient. However, neuroradiological investigations failed to demonstrate the existence of any anatomical damage of the basal ganglia, and HVA as well as 5-HIAA levels measured in the CSF with the probenecid technique were within the normal range 2 months after cessation of hyperkinesia. HVA and 5-HIAA levels have also been measured in the CSF during the period with hyperkinesia; the results are discussed with reference to previously published data concerning cerebral monoamine metabolism in drug-treated epileptic patients.
Active hexose correlated compound (AHCC) is a commercial extract of Basidiomycetes fungi enriched in oligosaccharides that is used as a human nutritional supplement for various purposes in humans. Our aim was to study the anti-inflammatory effect of AHCC in the CD4+ CD62L(+) T cell transfer model of colitis, considered one of the closest to the human disease. Colitis was induced by transfer of CD4(+) CD62L(+) T cells to recombination activating gene 1(-/-) mice. AHCC (75 mg/d) was administered by gavage as a post-treatment. Three groups were established: noncolitic, colitic (CD4(+) CD62L(+) transferred mice treated with vehicle), and AHCC (colitic treated with AHCC). AHCC improved colitis, as evidenced by a 24% lower colonic myeloperoxidase and a 21% lower alkaline phosphatase activity. In addition, a decreased secretion of proinflammatory genes assessed by RT-qPCR was observed, particularly TNF-α and IL-1β. Ex vivo mesenteric lymph node cells obtained from AHCC treated mice exhibited a fully normalized production of IL-6, IL-17, and IL-10 (p < 0.05). Also, AHCC treated mice exhibited decreased STAT4 and IκB-α phosphorylation in splenic CD4(+) cells. Our data provide validation of AHCC colonic anti-inflammatory activity in a chronic, T cell driven model of inflammatory bowel disease.
The influence of dietary ascorbic acid (AA) on growth and morphogenesis during the larval development of European sea bass (Dicentrarchus labrax) was evaluated until 45days post hatching. Diets incorporated 0, 5, 15, 30, 50 or 400mg AA per kg diet to give AA-0, AA-5, AA-15, AA-30, AA-50 and AA-400 dietary treatments, respectively. Dietary AA levels lower than 15mg/kg reduced larval growth and survival was affected in specimens fed diets devoid of AA. Globally, disruption of the expression of genes involved in AA and calcium absorption in the intestine (SVCT-1, TRPV-6), skeletogenesis (BMP-4, IGF-1, RARγ) and bone mineralization (VDRβ, osteocalcin) were observed in groups fed doses lower and higher than 50mg AA/kg diet. Such disturbances detected at molecular level were associated with disruptions of the ossification process and the appearance of skeletal abnormalities.
Amphetamine-type stimulants are substrates for the proteins that serve as transporters for the biogenic amines dopamine (DA), serotonin (5HT), and norepinephrine (NE) and release these neurotransmitters from neurons located in the peripheral and central nervous system. Using indatraline as a lead compound, we sought to develop a long-acting depot medication that would neutralize the deleterious effects of amphetamine-type stimulants. Our first efforts produced (+/-)-HY038, and its two stereoisomers, which are hydroxy-substituted analog of indatraline. The K(i) values for [(3)H]DA reuptake inhibition by (-)-HY038 and (+)-HY038 were 3.2 +/- 0.1 and 32 +/- 1 nM. Similar results were obtained for [(3)H]5HT reuptake inhibition. (-)-HY038 and (+)-HY038 were slightly less potent at inhibiting [(3)H]NE reuptake (K(i) values of 20 +/- 2 and 159 +/- 12 nM). Low doses of (-)-HY038 blunted the ability of AMPH to release [(3)H]DA by shifting the AMPH dose-response curve to the right in a dose-dependent manner. (-)-HY038 also inhibited the ability of (+)-methamphetamine and (+/-)-3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine ((+/-)-MDMA) to release [(3)H]DA. Low doses of (-)-HY038 blunted the ability of these stimulants to release [(3)H]NE and [(3)H]5HT by shifting their dose-response curves to the right in a manner similar to that seen for inhibition of [(3)H]DA release. These data indicate that (-)-HY038 inhibits the ability of AMPH, (+)-methamphetamine and (+/-)-MDMA to release DA, NE, and 5HT and therefore might have the potential to neutralize the neurotoxic and cardiovascular side-effects of substrate-type stimulants.
This randomised double-blind field study compared 400 anaesthetics using diazepam (0, 0.025, 0.5, 0.1, 0.175 mg.kg-1) with ketamine (1 mg.kg-1) and fentanyl (1 microg.kg-1) in Melanesian patients. Dreams were very common and generally positive in nature. A minimum of 0.1 mg.kg-1 of diazepam was needed to significantly reduce dreaming when compared with water (67.5% vs. 94.6%; p < 0.0001), and to significantly lower median (95% CI) emergence delirium scores (4 (3-4) vs. 6 (5-7)). Gender and age did not affect the rate of dreaming. Increasing the dose of diazepam did not improve the dream experience. Patient satisfaction scores were similar between groups. Increases in blood pressure and heart rate were greater in dreamers than in non-dreamers. All groups had high rate-pressure products but this was highest when diazepam was not used. Higher diazepam doses significantly reduced the increase in blood pressure and heart rate at 3 and 6 min postketamine. When used with ketamine and fentanyl, 0.1 mg.kg-1 of diazepam has favourable psychic and cardiovascular effects. Lower diazepam doses generally had little effect whereas larger doses did not enhance the benefits further.
A total of 1426 children admitted to the hospital for measles were studied. Of these, 84 were followed up for a period of 6 months after they were discharged from the hospital. It was observed that about 23% of the cases developed secondary infection during the acute stage of measles. Diarrhoea and respiratory infection were the common complications. Some children developed corneal lesions during the acute stage. Serum vitamin A levels were significantly low in these children and they showed a good clinical response to vitamin A therapy. During the follow-up period the children suffered from frequent episodes of infections for nearly 6 months after the attack of measles and the weight gain was significantly lower compared to normal children. These observations suggest that measles plays a significant role in precipitation of malnutrition and blindness due to vitamin A deficiency in preschool children.
Several cases of cauda equina syndrome after continuous spinal anesthesia have been recently reported. One possible etiology is toxic exposure of the sacral roots resulting from intrathecal maldistribution of a relatively large dose of local anesthetic. The current experiments sought to determine whether a local anesthetic solution, injected intrathecally to produce a restricted distribution of anesthesia, could result in a sacral deficit. In addition, we sought to test the hypothesis that, when equal volumes are administered intrathecally, significant differences exist in the potential to three commonly used anesthetic solutions to induce sensory impairment.
Thirty-two rats were implanted with intrathecal catheters to permit repetitive infusion of local anesthetic. Animals were randomly assigned to four groups of eight to receive either 5% lidocaine with 7.5% dextrose; 0.75% bupivacaine with 8.25% dextrose; 0.5% tetracaine with 5% dextrose; or normal saline. Each rat received, in sequence, a 1-h (60 microliters), a 2-h (120 microliters), and a 4-h (240 microliters) infusion; the infusions were separated by a 4-day rest period. Sensory function was assessed using the tail-flick test, which was performed immediately before each infusion and 6 days after the last infusion by an investigator blinded to the solution infused.
There was no significant difference in baseline tail-flick latencies for the four groups. Tail-flick latency for the lidocaine group was significantly prolonged when compared with the bupivacaine, tetracaine, and saline groups. This difference was apparent after the first infusion and persisted throughout the study.
In the rat, restricted anesthetic distribution can be achieved, and sensory impairment may result. These findings further support an etiology of local anesthetic neurotoxicity for recent clinical injuries after continuous spinal anesthesia. The functional model described appears to be suitable for in vivo study of local anesthetic neurotoxicity.
Cocaine-associated cues acquire incentive motivational effects that manifest as craving in humans and cocaine-seeking behavior in rats. We have reported an increase in neuronal activation in rats, measured by Fos protein expression, in various limbic and cortical regions following exposure to cocaine-associated cues. This study examined whether the conditioned neuronal activation involves glutamate AMPA receptors by measuring coexpression of Fos and AMPA glutamate receptor subunits (GluR1, GluR2/3, or GluR4). Rats trained to self-administer cocaine subsequently underwent 22 days of abstinence, during which they were exposed daily to either the self-administration environment with presentations of the light/tone cues previously paired with cocaine infusions (Extinction group) or an alternate environment (No Extinction group). All rats were then tested for cocaine-seeking behavior (i.e. responses without cocaine reinforcement) and Fos and AMPA glutamate receptor subunits were measured postmortem using immunocytochemistry. The No Extinction group exhibited increases in cocaine-seeking behavior and Fos expression in limbic and cortical regions relative to the Extinction group. A large number of Fos immunoreactive cells coexpressed GluR1, GluR2/3, and GluR4, suggesting that an action of glutamate at AMPA receptors may in part drive cue-elicited Fos expression. Importantly, there was an increase in the percentage of cells colabeled with Fos and GluR1 in the anterior cingulate and nucleus accumbens shell and cells colabeled with Fos and GluR4 in the infralimbic cortex, suggesting that within these regions, a greater, and perhaps even different, population of AMPA receptor subunit-expressing neurons is activated in rats engaged in cocaine-seeking behavior.
Neuroleptic therapy frequently induces undesirable extrapyramidal side effects. The Pisa syndrome is a rare extrapyramidal side effect caused by neuroleptic treatment. Twisting and bending to one side of the upper thorax, the neck and the head are its typical symptoms. These symptoms mainly develop in elderly patients with a history of neuroleptic treatment. To our knowledge there have been no reports of Pisa syndrome occurring during therapy with clozapine--an atypical neuroleptic drug with no major extrapyramidal side effects. We report on 4 female patients suffering from a chronic schizophrenic and/or depressive condition and having been on a long-term neuroleptic treatment. These patients developed a dystonia equivalent to the Pisa syndrome during an acute clozapine therapy. All four women had signs of marked brain atrophy, two of them also showing tardive dyskinesia already prior to the treatment with clozapine. The etiology of the Pisa syndrome is discussed with respect to discontinuation of treatment with classic neuroleptics, coinciding with the beginning of the clozapine therapy, clinical phenomenology, history of medication, course of treatment, and results of cranial computer tomography.
A 58-year old women with a history of recurrent depressive episodes had been on successful prophylaxis with lithium carbonate in controlled therapeutic dosage for 11 years. At this time she experienced with increasing frequency mostly visual, sometimes auditory pseudohallucinations which disappeared after stopping the lithium medication. Because a subsequent depressive episode did not respond to tricyclic antidepressants or to a MAO-inhibitor the patient was again prescribed lithium. At therapeutic lithium blood levels the previous perceptual disorders then returned.
The present study was designed to explore the roles of MMP-2/TIMP-2 in cardiac fibrosis and to study the effects of benazepril, an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI) on cardiac remodelling in streptozotocin(STZ)-induced diabetic rats.
Male Wistar rats were randomly divided into three groups: a normal control group (NC), a diabetes mellitus-untreated group (DM) and a diabetes mellitus benazepril-treated group (DB). Diabetes mellitus was induced in the DM and DB groups by intraperitoneal injection of streptozotocin (60 mg/kg). DB rats were treated with benazepril 10 mg/kg/day for 12 weeks by remedial perfusing of the stomach. In the DM group, compared with the NC group, the gene and protein expression of MMP-2 decreased while the TIMP-2 gene and protein expression increased in heart tissues, along with a markedly cardiac collagen deposition.All the above changes were attenuated by benazepril treatment in the DB group.
The imbalance of MMP-2 and TIMP-2 expressions in heart tissues might participate in interstitial fibrosis in diabetic myocardiopathy. Benazepril may ameliorate cardiac fibrosis partly by regulating the MMP-2/TIMP-2 system.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the long-term gonadal sequelae after treatment for childhood Hodgkin's lymphoma with combination chemotherapy, using up to date fertility parameters and andrological evaluation, including for the first time inhibin B.
There were 56 male patients treated from 1974-1998 for childhood Hodgkin's lymphoma with combination chemotherapy ABVD or EBVD (adriamycin/epirubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, dacarbazine) with or without MOPP (mechlorethamine, vincristin, prednisone, procarbazine) with the intention to avoid radiotherapy. These men were studied 15.5 years (range 5.6-30.2 years) after cessation of therapy. Serum follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), luteinizing hormone (LH), inhibin B, testosterone, sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), sperm concentration and sperm DNA integrity were determined.
In men treated with MOPP, median FSH and LH were significantly increased (P < 0.001) and inhibin B (17.5 versus 143 ng/l; P < 0.001) and sperm concentration (1.05 versus 49.5 x 10(6)/ml; P < 0.05) were significantly decreased compared with patients treated without MOPP. The number of MOPP courses was significantly correlated with FSH and inhibin B levels. Only inhibin B showed an independent correlation with sperm concentration (r = 0.86; P < 0.001).
The use of MOPP chemotherapy causes permanent gonadal damage in the far majority of male survivors of childhood Hodgkin's lymphoma and inhibin B is the most valuable serum marker for gonadal function.
A 45-year-old woman with no history of heart disease twice experienced chest pain after consuming a dose of ranitidine. The chest pain, which lasted about one hour, was substernal, left of midline, dull, and pounding. H2-receptors are present in cardiovascular tissues. Although several studies have not noted an effect of ranitidine on cardiac indices there have been case reports indicating a cardiac effect. There are no reports of chest pain associated with H2-blocker ingestion; however, both bradycardia and hypotension (reported effects) might cause chest pain. A discussion of the possible mechanisms is presented.
