Lacidipine, currently being evaluated as a once-daily antihypertensive agent, acted as a calcium entry blocker on rabbit ear artery (pA2 = 9.4) with a markedly slower onset of action than that of nitrendipine; this effect was not reversed after 9 h of drug washout. Calcium entry blocker activity was also evaluated on nonvascular smooth muscles: Lacidipine showed a more pronounced vascular selectivity than nitrendipine; for both drugs, concentrations required to induce negative inotropic effects in guinea pig ventricular strip were approximately 100 times higher than concentrations needed to antagonize calcium contraction in vascular smooth muscle. In spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR), by the tail-cuff method, lacidipine (ED25 = 0.35 mg/kg orally, p.o.) proved approximately 30 times more potent, slower in onset, and longer-acting than nitrendipine in reducing blood pressure. These features were confirmed in chronically implanted SHR after oral and intravenous (i.v.) administration (ED25 = 0.19 mg/kg p.o. and 0.006 mg/kg i.v.). A short-lasting tachycardia was detected with both drugs. No evidence of acquired tolerance emerged after repeated oral administrations over a 3-week period. Lacidipine induced a natriuretic effect in saline-loaded SHR at antihypertensive doses. In renal hypertensive dogs, lacidipine proved more potent (three to seven times), slower in onset, and longer-lasting than nitrendipine after p.o. (ED25 = 0.22 mg/kg) and i.v. (ED25 = 0.004 mg/kg) administrations.
The only effective and approved therapy for chronic hepatitis C is interferon-alpha. Because sustained response rates with interferon alone are disappointingly low, multidrug treatment regimens are currently being investigated. Ursodeoxycholic acid has been used in other chronic liver diseases and can limit hepatocyte injury. To evaluate the potential benefit of ursodeoxycholic acid in combination with interferon-alpha for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C, we conducted a prospective, double-blinded, randomized, placebo-controlled trial comparing the combination therapy of interferon-alpha 2b and ursodeoxycholic acid with interferon alone. Thirty-one patients with chronic hepatitis C were randomized to receive 3 million units of interferon-alpha 2b subcutaneously three times per week and either 13 to 15 mg/kg/day ursodeoxycholic acid or placebo orally for 6 months. The 6-month treatment period was followed by 6 months of observation. Biochemical normalization at the end of treatment occurred in 5 of 14 (36%) patients receiving monotherapy versus 8 of 15 (53%) patients (p = 0.34) receiving combination therapy. No patient treated with interferon alone had a sustained biochemical response 6 months after therapy; however, 3 of 12 patients (25%) treated with combination interferon and ursodeoxycholic acid maintained biochemical normalization at 6 months after therapy (p = 0.08). No difference in liver histology or clearance of hepatitis C viral RNA was noted 6 months after treatment. We conclude that combination therapy with ursodeoxycholic acid and interferon-alpha 2b was no more effective than interferon monotherapy in inducing a biochemical response in previously untreated patients with chronic hepatitis C. Ursodeoxycholic acid, however, may be useful in prolonging the biochemical response to interferon therapy.
Adult spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) were daily treated for 2 weeks with perindopril [an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor] and nitrendipine (a calcium antagonist) alone or in combination. Blood pressure (BP), heart rate (HR), and diuresis were assessed weekly in conscious rats, and systemic and regional hemodynamics were investigated by the microsphere technique at the end of the treatment in anesthetized rats. Both perindopril (2 mg.kg-1.d-1) and nitrendipine (10 mg.kg-1.d-1) decreased BP to the same extent, but perindopril exerted a longer action. The hemodynamic profile of each drug was respectively consistent with the classic ones of ACE inhibitors and calcium antagonists already described in the literature. With combination of the two treatments, effects were at least additive, except that the nitrendipine-induced tachycardia was partially reduced by perindopril. BP reduction was additive, and significant potentiation was shown at the systemic [cardiac index (CI) increase, total peripheral resistance (TPR) decrease] and some regional (hepatic, muscular, and cutaneous vasodilations) levels. These results, which are in agreement with the different mechanisms of action of the two drugs, emphasize the advantage of combining perindopril with nitrendipine for treatment of hypertension.
Thrombospondin-1 (TSP-1), a multifunctional matrix glyco-protein, has been shown to control tumor growth by inhibiting angiogenesis in various tissues. However, the role of this glycoprotein in pituitary angiogenesis is not well studied. In this report, we determined the changes in the production and action of TSP-1 on endothelial cells in anterior pituitary following estradiol treatment, which is known to increase prolactin-secreting tumor growth and vascularization in this tissue. We showed that TSP-1 immunoreactive protein is distributed in the anterior pituitary, particularly in the endothelial cells. Estradiol treatment for 2 and 4 weeks decreased the total tissue immunoreactive level of TSP-1 as well as the endothelial cell-specific immunoreactive level of this protein in the anterior pituitary. The steroid treatment also decreased the protein levels of TSP-1 in anterior pituitary tissues and in purified pituitary endothelial cells in primary cultures. Determination of the effects of TSP-1 on proliferation and migration of pituitary-derived endothelial cells in primary cultures elucidated an inhibitory action of TSP-1 on these vascular cell functions. These results suggest that locally produced TSP-1 may regulate estrogen angiogenic action on the pituitary.
The ability to mount a prominent inflammatory response to bacterial pathogens confers an advantage in innate immune defense but may signal an increased risk of atherosclerosis. We determined whether recently discovered genetic variants of toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) that confer differences in the inflammatory response elicited by bacterial lipopolysaccharide are related to the development of atherosclerosis.
As part of the five-year follow-up in the Bruneck (Italy) Study, we screened 810 persons in the study cohort for the TLR4 polymorphisms Asp299Gly and Thr399Ile. The extent and progression of carotid atherosclerosis were assessed by high-resolution duplex ultrasonography.
As compared with subjects with wild-type TLR4, the 55 subjects with the Asp299Gly TLR4 allele had lower levels of certain proinflammatory cytokines, acute-phase reactants, and soluble adhesion molecules, such as interleukin-6 and fibrinogen. Although these subjects were found to be more susceptible to severe bacterial infections, they had a lower risk of carotid atherosclerosis (odds ratio, 0.54; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.32 to 0.98; P=0.05) and a smaller intima-media thickness in the common carotid artery (regression coefficient, -0.07; 95 percent confidence interval, -0.12 to -0.02; P=0.01).
The Asp299Gly TLR4 polymorphism, which attenuates receptor signaling and diminishes the inflammatory response to gram-negative pathogens, is associated with a decreased risk of atherosclerosis. This finding is consistent with the hypothesis that innate immunity may play a part in atherogenesis.
We describe 2 patients presenting with isolated unilateral ptosis without other signs of cranial or peripheral nerve involvement or sympathetic denervation. Both patients (one case of progressive systemic sclerosis and one of rheumatoid arthritis) were currently taking D-penicillamine. In these cases, the ptosis was reversed a few minutes after a Tensilon test, hallmark of myasthenia gravis. Antibodies to acetylcholine receptors were present. Myasthenia gravis should be suspected with ptosis without other cranial nerve involvement or miosis, even if the ptosis is unilateral. Thus, unilateral ptosis can be the first manifestation of a toxic side reaction to D-penicillamine.
The molecular basis of a human immunoglobulin deficiency characterized by the complete absence of kappa chains has been investigated by nucleotide sequence analyses of a patient's kappa constant region (C kappa) genes. Both of his C kappa genes had a single point mutation, resulting in the loss of the invariant tryptophan from one allele and of an invariant cysteine from the other allele. These results indicate that neither of the patient's C kappa alleles encoded a kappa chain that could form a stable intradomain disulfide bond, although peculiarities in the expression of kappa chains in the patient's family suggest that other factors may be involved.
In obstetric patients treated with epidural analgesia during labor and delivery, shivering is quite frequent due to stress, vasodilatation, infusion of fluids, low ambient temperature, and the direct effect of solution injected into the epidural space. Sixty obstetric patients who developed shivering after receiving epidural analgesia for delivery were randomly assigned to treatment with clonidine 0.150 mg i.v. (N = 20), meperidine 50 mg i.v. (N = 20), or saline solution (N = 20). Drug administration was double blind. The effect on shivering (graded as all or none), drowsiness, heart rate, and systolic arterial pressure was evaluated 5 min after the study drug was administered. Clonidine was as effective as meperidine in controlling shivering and caused a greater reduction in heart rate. Drowsiness occurred after clonidine as well as meperidine. Thus, clonidine proved to be effective in controlling shivering and adrenergic response after delivery using epidural analgesia and produced an acceptable level of drowsiness.
Recently, the G allele of the cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated factor 4 (CTLA-4) exon 1 single-nucleotide polymorphism (CTLA-4 A/G(49)) has been identified as the most informative marker in patients with Graves' disease. Patients with the G/G genotype are refractory to medical treatment and frequently relapse after discontinuation of antithyroid drugs. Therefore, we analyzed CTLA-4 A/G(49) in patients who had been treated with (131)I. Further, a preliminary report has suggested that amiodarone-associated thyroid dysfunction (AATD) has a relationship with human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I and class II.
CTLA-4 genotypes in exon 1 (A/G(49)) and CT60 were analyzed in 415 Japanese patients with Graves' disease and 65 patients with AATD.
The frequencies of the G alleles and G/G genotype at the both polymorphisms were significantly higher in Graves' patients compared with normal subjects. Compared with CT60, the frequencies of the G alleles and G/G genotypes at the A/G(49) were more significantly higher in patients with persistently positive thyrotropin receptor antibody despite >5 years of antithyroid drug therapy, compared with those whose thyrotropin receptor antibody became negative in <5 years (p < 0.0001). Consequently, the frequencies of the G/G genotype and G allele at the A/G(49) were also significantly higher in patients with Graves' disease who received (131)I therapy (p < 0.05). However, there was no significant difference in the A/G polymorphisms in the 65 patients with AATD.
The G/G genotype in exon 1 (A/G(49)) is frequently expressed in Graves' disease patients who are refractory to antithyroid drug treatment. Therefore, the G/G genotype in A/G(49) would be a useful predictor of Graves' patients who are suitable for radioiodine therapy. Although the number of analyzed patients was small, our preliminary data suggest that the CTLA-4 gene polymorphisms might be unassociated with AATD.
Chronic renal failure was induced in Wistar rats by administration of a LiCl-containing (40 mmol/kg) diet from birth until an age of 55-65 weeks. The 55 weeks mortality was 51% in Li-uraemic rats versus 6% in control rats. In surviving rats the mean plasma Li levels were 0.6-0.7 mmol/l after 16 weeks and 1.0-1.1 mmol/l after 48 weeks. The mean plasma urea level was 14 mmol/l after 16 weeks and 22 mmol/l after 48 weeks of treatment compared with 8 mmol/l in the controls rats. In 55 weeks old Li-uraemic rats inulin clearance was reduced by 62% and Li clearance by 39%. Thus, fractional Li excretion was increased (from 20 to 34%) in rats with chronic Li-uraemia. Li-uraemic rats also had polyuria and failed to concentrate their urine in response to exogenous vasopressin. Systolic and mean arterial blood pressures were not significantly changed in rats with Li-uraemia. Morphological examinations of the kidneys showed large cortical cysts formed by dilated distal tubules and collecting ducts and widespread interstitial fibrosis. Proximal tubular mass was reduced by 50% and glomerular volume was also significantly reduced. The results indicate that in rats with Li-induced uraemia renal function and morphology deteriorate during Li-exposure up to an age of one year, associated with increased mortality.
The purpose of this study was to determine the response of plasma levels of endothelin-1 (ET-1) to dynamic exercise in patients with coronary artery disease and chronic stable angina pectoris and positive exercise tolerance test, before and after treatment with the calcium antagonist nisoldipine (20 mg/day buccally for 7 days). Plasma ET-1 levels and hemodynamic parameters (blood pressure and heart rate) were determined at rest, at peak exercise and recovery. All patients had a positive electrically and clinically stress test and all of the eight patients did not developed ECG signs of myocardial ischemia after nisoldipine administration. Before nisoldipine treatment the plasma ET-1 levels did not increase significantly during exercise. After nisoldipine treatment the plasma ET-1 levels were significantly lower at rest and during exercise compared with those revealed before calcium antagonist treatment. In conclusion our results suggest that in patients with chronic stable angina pectoris the treatment with calcium antagonist nisoldipine reduced ischemia and plasma ET-1 levels.
Possible effects of multi-wall carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs) on immune and inflammatory responses were examined in mice. Female ICR mice were given a single intraperitoneal administration (2 mg/kg body weight) of either MWCNTs, carbon black (CB), or crocidolite (blue asbestos) and controls received a vehicle of 2% sodium carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC Na). In the peritoneal cavity of MWCNT-administered mice, the liver had changed to a rounded shape and fibrous adhesions were seen on internal organs. Peritoneal cells overexpressed mRNA for genes of T helper (Th)2 cytokines (interleukin [IL]-4, IL-5, and IL-13), Th17 cytokine (IL-17), pro-inflammatory cytokines/chemokines (IL-1β, IL-33, tumor necrosis factor α, and monocyte chemotactic protein-1), and myeloid differentiation factor 88 for at least 2 weeks after the administration of MWCNTs, while those of Th1 cytokine genes (IL-2 and interferon γ) were overexpressed several weeks later and expression levels remained high up to 20 weeks. In MWCNT-treated mice, the numbers of leukocytes, monocytes, and granulocytes in the peripheral blood and the expression of the leukocyte adhesion molecules, cluster of differentiation (CD)49d and CD54, on granulocytes were increased 1 week after administration and remained high up to week 20. Production of ovalbumin-specific IgM and IgG(1) was enhanced by MWCNTs. These changes were not observed after CB or crocidolite administration. Thus, this study showed that MWCNTs exhibited sustained stimulating effects on immune and inflammatory responses, unlike the other mineral fibers with structural similarities.
Postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) may be exacerbated by postoperative opioid analgesics and may limit patients' successful use of these medications when used with patient controlled analgesia (PCA). We tested the hypothesis that the rapid change in blood morphine concentration associated with PCA bolus delivery contributed to PONV, and that prolonging its delivery to a brief infusion would result in decreased PONV.
Patients, who were receiving morphine for pain relief via patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) after total abdominal hysterectomy, received 1 mg morphine sulphate incremental doses either over 40 s with a 5 min lockout interval or over 5 min delivery with a 1 min lockout interval. Episodes of nausea, retching and vomiting, along with the use of morphine and the pain relief obtained, were recorded.
Data from 20 patients in each group were analysed. Contrary to expectations, most patients in both groups reported nausea postoperatively. Those patients receiving morphine over 5 min experienced more episodes of emesis (36) than those receiving the dose over 40 s (17). Most patients receiving the 40 s doses vomited in the first 12 h (median time 8 h), while those receiving the 5 min doses vomited between 12 and 24 h (median time 19 h) (P = 0.01). There were no differences between groups in the visual analogue pain scores or use of morphine between groups.
Reasons for these unexpected findings remain speculative. The high incidence of PONV appears to be inherently high in gynaecological surgery patients and standard antiemetic medication regimens appear to be poorly efficacious. Reasons for the differences in the time-course of emetic episodes between the two groups may be related to differences in the time-course of central opioid receptor occupancy.
Brain tumor-initiating cells (BTICs) have been enriched using antibodies against the cell surface protein CD133; however, the biological relevance and the regulatory mechanism of CD133 expression in human gliomas are not yet understood. In this study, we initially demonstrated that CD133 was overexpressed in high-grade human glioblastomas where CD133-positive cells were focally observed as a micro-cluster. In addition, CD133 transcripts with exon 1A, 1B, or 1C were predominantly expressed in glioblastomas. To elucidate the mechanism regulating this aberrant expression of CD133, three proximal promoters (P1, P2, and P3) containing a CpG island were isolated. In U251MG and T98G glioblastoma cells, the P1 region flanking exon 1A exhibited the highest activity among the three promoters, and this activity was significantly inactivated by in vitro methylation. After treatment with the demethylating agent 5-azacytidine and/or the histone deacetylase inhibitor valproic acid, the expression level of CD133 mRNA was significantly restored in glioma cells. Importantly, hypomethylation of CpG sites within the P1, P2, and P3 regions was observed by bisulfite sequencing in human glioblastoma tissues with abundant CD133 mRNA. Taken together, our results indicate that DNA hypomethylation is an important determinant of CD133 expression in glioblastomas, and this epigenetic event may be associated with the development of BTICs expressing CD133.
The administration of nicotine into the cisterna magna evoked a delayed depressor effect with an initial pressor effect in anaesthetized rats. The depressor response was accompanied by a bradycardia. The cardiovascular effects of nicotine were abolished after intracisternal administration of hexamethonium but not after atropine given via the same route. Intravenous administration of methylatropine abolished the bradycardic response to nicotine but did not affect the blood pressure responses. The pressor effect of nicotine was abolished by intravenous administration of phenoxybenzamine. The cardiovascular effects of nicotine injected intracisternally were abolished when the diffusion of nicotine onto an area around the area postrema was interrupted using a polyethylene tube. In contrast, nicotine applied to the area produced a marked pressor--depressor response. It is concluded that the cardiovascular responses to intracisternal administration of nicotine result from the activation of central nicotinic receptor sites that may be present around the area postrema.
From published articles and adverse reactions reports filed with the FDA (available through the Freedom of Information Act), we analyzed occurrences of tachyarrhythmias and the magnitude of QTc prolongation associated with probucol therapy. Of 16 cases of tachyarrhythmic events reported in association with probucol, 15 (94%) occurred in women (p < 0.01 vs expected value of 58%). Tachyarrhythmias were specifically described as TdP in 11 (63%) cases, all women; additional potential contributory QT-prolonging factors (besides probucol) were not identifiable in 2 of the 11 cases. We also analyzed QTc responses in 359 probucol-treated patients, all having baseline QTc < or = 0.44 sec1/2. At doses of 500 to 1000 mg/day, probucol-associated prolongation of QTc to values > or = 0.45 sec1/2 was observed in 22% of women versus 7% of men (p < 0.001) and to values > or = 0.47 sec1/2 in 8% of women versus 2% of men (p < 0.03). Multivariate analysis identified baseline QTc (p < 0.0001) and female gender (p < 0.03), but neither age nor dose, as significant independent predictors of QTc prolongation to > or = 0.45 sec1/2 with probucol. These findings have relevance to the clinical use of probucol, provide further evidence that women have a relatively greater predisposition to development of acquired long QT syndrome, and carry implications for the design of trials involving QT-prolonging drugs.
To determine whether the potentiation of warfarin's anticoagulation effect, which occurred in two patients, was due to an interaction with fenofibrate.
Two patients developed significant potentiation of the anticoagulant effect of warfarin while receiving fenofibrate. In one patient we followed published guidelines to test the potential interaction, including rechallenge twice, and measurements of factors II, V, and VII and liver enzymes to ensure the authenticity of the interaction. We confirmed the interaction by noting that the international normalized ratio (INR) increased with rechallenge, the clotting factor concentrations decreased in concert with the INR, and no other laboratory or clinical factors accounted for this potentiation of the oral anticoagulant affect.
We previously developed criteria specifically for determining the strength of inferred causation in reports of drug interactions with oral anticoagulants; these criteria were adapted from previously described principles of causality assessment. Our observations in two patients suggest a "highly probable" potentiating interaction between fenofibrate and warfarin. Our data do not allow us to draw definitive conclusions on a mechanism of interaction, but fenofibrate is an oral antilipemic agent, similar to clofibrate, that has been described as potentiating oral anticoagulants by affecting coagulation factor synthesis, likely by altering receptor synthesis. Our finding of lower concentrations of coagulation factors suggests a similar mechanism for fenofibrate. Recent data suggest that lipid lowering is effective for primary and secondary prevention of cardiac events. One might therefore expect to see an increase in the use of the various lipid-lowering agents in patients who receive long-term anticoagulation. Our results indicate that the potential for an exaggerated anticoagulant effect occurs within 5-10 days in patients treated with fenofibrate who are receiving long-term anticoagulation with warfarin.
Fenofibrate potentiates the effect of warfarin. Serial monitoring of the INR, at least three times per week, is therefore strongly recommended when initiating fenofibrate therapy in patients receiving warfarin.
The genetic causes of nonsyndromic ovarian insufficiency are largely unknown. A nuclear receptor, NR5A1 (also called steroidogenic factor 1), is a key transcriptional regulator of genes involved in the hypothalamic-pituitary-steroidogenic axis. Mutation of NR5A1 causes 46,XY disorders of sex development, with or without adrenal failure, but growing experimental evidence from studies in mice suggests a key role for this factor in ovarian development and function as well.
To test the hypothesis that mutations in NR5A1 cause disorders of ovarian development and function, we sequenced NR5A1 in four families with histories of both 46,XY disorders of sex development and 46,XX primary ovarian insufficiency and in 25 subjects with sporadic ovarian insufficiency. None of the affected subjects had clinical signs of adrenal insufficiency.
Members of each of the four families and 2 of the 25 subjects with isolated ovarian insufficiency carried mutations in the NR5A1 gene. In-frame deletions and frameshift and missense mutations were detected. Functional studies indicated that these mutations substantially impaired NR5A1 transactivational activity. Mutations were associated with a range of ovarian anomalies, including 46,XX gonadal dysgenesis and 46,XX primary ovarian insufficiency. We did not observe these mutations in more than 700 control alleles.
NR5A1 mutations are associated with 46,XX primary ovarian insufficiency and 46,XY disorders of sex development.
Primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD) is characterized by dysfunction of respiratory cilia and sperm flagella and random determination of visceral asymmetry. Here, we identify the DRC1 subunit of the nexin-dynein regulatory complex (N-DRC), an axonemal structure critical for the regulation of dynein motors, and show that mutations in the gene encoding DRC1, CCDC164, are involved in PCD pathogenesis. Loss-of-function mutations disrupting DRC1 result in severe defects in assembly of the N-DRC structure and defective ciliary movement in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii and humans. Our results highlight a role for N-DRC integrity in regulating ciliary beating and provide the first direct evidence that mutations in DRC genes cause human disease.
To study the effects of continuous morphine infusion on arterial blood pressure in ventilated neonates.
Blinded randomised placebo controlled trial.
Level III neonatal intensive care unit in two centres.
A total of 144 ventilated neonates. Inclusion criteria were postnatal age <3 days, ventilation <8 hours, and indwelling arterial line. Exclusion criteria were severe asphyxia, severe intraventricular haemorrhage, major congenital anomalies, neuromuscular blockers.
Arterial blood pressure was measured before the start and during the first 48 hours of masked infusion of drug (morphine/placebo; 100 microg/kg + 10 microg/kg/h).
Arterial blood pressure and blood pressure variability.
There were no significant differences in overall mean arterial blood pressure between the morphine group (median (interquartile range) 36 mm Hg (6) and the placebo group (38 mm Hg (6)) (p = 0.11). Although significantly more morphine treated patients (70%) showed hypotension than the placebo group (47%) (p = 0.004), the use of volume expanders and vasopressor drugs was not significantly different (morphine group, 44%; placebo group, 48%; p = 0.87), indicating the limited clinical significance of this side effect. Blood pressure variability was not influenced by routine morphine analgesia (p = 0.81) or additional morphine (p = 0.80). Patients with and without intraventricular haemorrhage showed no differences in blood pressure (Mann-Whitney U test 1953; p = 0.14) or incidence of hypotension (chi(2) test 1.16; df 1; p = 0.28).
Overall arterial blood pressure, use of inotropes, and blood pressure variability were not influenced by morphine infusion. Therefore the clinical impact of hypotension as a side effect of low dose morphine treatment in neonates is negligible.
An association between oxcarbazepine therapy and hepatic adenoma (HA) has been documented in animal models but not observed in humans. The authors report a case of a 16-year-old girl on oxcarbazepine therapy for seizure disorder who presented with a giant HA. Pathology of the HA was notable for marked periductal fibrosis and glycoprotein inclusions in the nontumor liver. The patient was not on oral contraceptives and has no other known risk factors for HA.
Craniosynostosis, the premature fusion of the cranial sutures, is a heterogeneous disorder with a prevalence of ∼1 in 2,200 (refs. 1,2). A specific genetic etiology can be identified in ∼21% of cases, including mutations of TWIST1, which encodes a class II basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor, and causes Saethre-Chotzen syndrome, typically associated with coronal synostosis. Using exome sequencing, we identified 38 heterozygous TCF12 mutations in 347 samples from unrelated individuals with craniosynostosis. The mutations predominantly occurred in individuals with coronal synostosis and accounted for 32% and 10% of subjects with bilateral and unilateral pathology, respectively. TCF12 encodes one of three class I E proteins that heterodimerize with class II bHLH proteins such as TWIST1. We show that TCF12 and TWIST1 act synergistically in a transactivation assay and that mice doubly heterozygous for loss-of-function mutations in Tcf12 and Twist1 have severe coronal synostosis. Hence, the dosage of TCF12-TWIST1 heterodimers is critical for normal coronal suture development.
To report a case of QT prolongation associated with concomitant cyclobenzaprine and fluoxetine administration followed by torsade de pointes potentiated by droperidol.
A 59-year-old white woman who had been receiving long-term fluoxetine and cyclobenzaprine therapy was admitted for Achilles tendon repair. Baseline QTc was prolonged at 497 msec. Prior to surgery, the patient received droperidol, an agent known to prolong the QT interval. During surgery the patient developed torsade de pointes, which progressed into ventricular fibrillation. On postoperative day 1, after cyclobenzaprine discontinuation, the QTc decreased toward normal (440 msec).
Cyclobenzaprine shares anticholinergic effects, tachycardia, and dysrhythmic potential with the tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs). Fluoxetine is a known inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme (along with CYP3A4 and CYP2C) and has been shown to increase TCA serum concentrations. The combination of cyclobenzaprine and fluoxetine resulted in significant QT prolongation in our patient that progressed to torsade de pointes after preoperative droperidol administration. Resolution of QT abnormalities after cyclobenzaprine discontinuation provided further evidence of a drug-induced etiology. Other possible medical and drug-related causes of torsade de pointes are reviewed and ruled out.
Clinicians should be aware of the dysrhythmic potential of cyclobenzaprine and fluoxetine, monitor for other cytochrome P450 inhibitors, and avoid concomitant drugs known to prolong the QT interval.
Intervention trials on renal function in IDDM patients with microalbuminuria (MA) should adopt the rate of decline of glomerular filtration rate (GFR) as an outcome measure. However, normotensive IDDM patients with MA show no change in GFR over a follow-up period of 10 years. Thus, in the present study, we used the cumulative incidence of progression to albuminuria (albumin excretion rate [AER] > 200 micrograms/min) from MA as the primary endpoint and the yearly increase in AER at a rate of 50% above baseline as the secondary end-point of renal function.
Ninety-two normotensive IDDM patients underwent double-blind, double-dummy treatment with either lisinopril or slow-release nifedipine in comparison with placebo. Ten patients discontinued the study during the 3-year follow-up period.
During the 3-year follow-up period, 7 of 34 placebo-treated (20.6%), 2 of 32 lisinopril-treated (6.3%), and 2 of 26 nifedipine-treated (7.7%) patients progressed to clinical albuminuria (Fisher's exact test, P < 0.03). Time-to-event analysis indicated a reduction in the risk of progression to macroalbuminuria of 58.1% (95% CI 27.8-68.4%) in the 32 patients on lisinopril (P < 0.02) and of 62.5% (95% CI 32.5-73.4%) in the 26 patients on nifedipine (P < 0.02) after adjustment for mean blood pressure, glycated hemoglobin, and baseline AER in comparison with the 34 patients on placebo. Baseline AER was 71 micrograms/min (range: 20.7-187.3) in progressors and 73 micrograms/min (range: 20.2-174.1) in nonprogressors (NS). The percentage of patients who showed a > 50% yearly increase of AER above baseline values was significantly lower in the lisinopril group (13 of 32, 40.6%, P < 0.02), but not in the nifedipine group (15 of 26, 57.7%), than in the placebo group (23 of 34, 67.6%). The lisinopril group had significantly lower blood pressure values during follow-up than either the nifedipine (P < 0.05) or the placebo (P < 0.01) group.
Our data show that both lisinopril and nifedipine are effective in delaying the occurrence of macroalbuminuria in normotensive IDDM patients with MA. As overt proteinuria strongly predicts end-stage renal failure, both treatments appear capable of preventing such a complication in normotensive IDDM patients with MA. However, lisinopril appears more powerful in slowing the course of nephropathy.
Loss-of-function mutations in the gene encoding the multifunctional protein, DJ-1, have been implicated in the pathogenesis of early-onset familial Parkinson's disease (PD), suggesting that DJ-1 may act as a neuroprotectant for dopaminergic (DA) neurons. Enhanced autophagy may benefit PD by clearing damaged organelles and protein aggregates; thus, we determined if DJ-1 protects DA neurons against mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress through an autophagic pathway. Cultured DA cells (MN9D) overexpressing DJ-1 were treated with the mitochondrial complex I inhibitor, rotenone. In addition, rotenone was injected into the left substantia nigra of rats 4weeks after injection with a DJ-1 expression vector. Overexpression of DJ-1 protected MN9D cells against apoptosis, significantly enhanced the survival of nigral DA neurons after rotenone treatment in vivo, and rescued rat behavioral abnormalities. Overexpression of DJ-1 enhanced rotenone-evoked expression of the autophagic markers, beclin-1 and LC3II, while transmission electron microscopy and confocal imaging revealed that the ultrastructural signs of autophagy were increased by DJ-1. The neuroprotective effects of DJ-1 were blocked by phosphoinositol 3-kinase and the autophagy inhibitor, 3-methyladenine, and by the ERK pathway inhibitor, U0126. Confocal imaging revealed that the size of p62-positive puncta decreased significantly in DJ-1 overexpression of MN9D cells 12h after rotenone treatment, suggesting that DJ-1 reveals the ability to clear aggregated p62 associated with PD. Factors that control autophagy, including DJ-1, may inhibit rotenone-induced apoptosis and present novel targets for therapeutic intervention in PD.
Myeloma kidney is the principal pathological substrate of rapidly progressive renal failure in multiple myeloma. We report the unusual case of a 72-year-old male diagnosed with kappa Bence Jones myeloma with renal failure which needed dialysis. After treatment with vincristine, doxorubicin (Adriamycin), dexamethasone (VAD), and plasmapheresis, the renal function was recovered until serum creatinine level was <2 mg/dl. Six months later, the pathological counterpart of rapidly progressive renal failure was crescentic IgA proliferative glomerulonephritis as a manifestation of Henoch-Schönlein syndrome associated with sepsis caused by coagulase-negative staphylococci. This case suggests that mesangial IgA deposition should be considered within the spectrum of consequent glomerular lesion-associated chemotherapy occurring in multiple myeloma.
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are a group of persistent and widely distributed environmental pollutants that have various deleterious effects, e.g., neurotoxicity, endocrine disruption and reproductive abnormalities. In order to verify the hypothesis that the PI3K/Akt and MAPK pathways play important roles in hepatotoxicity induced by PCBs, Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were dosed with PCB153 intraperitoneally at 0, 4, 16 and 32mg/kg for five consecutive days; BRL cells (rat liver cell line) were treated with PCB153 (0, 1, 5, and 10μM) for 24h. Results indicated that the PI3K/Akt and ERK pathways were activated in vivo and in vitro after exposure to PCB153, and protein levels of phospho-Akt and phospho-ERK were significantly increased. Nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) activation and caspase-3, -8 and -9 inhibition caused by PCB153 were also observed. Inhibiting the ERK pathway significantly attenuated PCB153-induced NF-κB activation, whereas inhibiting the PI3K/Akt pathway hardly influenced phospho-NF-κB level. However, inhibiting the PI3K/Akt pathway significantly elevated caspase-3, -8 and -9 activities, while the ERK pathway only synergistically regulated caspase-9. Proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), a reliable indicator of cell proliferation, was also induced. Moreover, PCB153 led to hepatocellular hypertrophy and elevated liver weight. Taken together, PCB153 leads to aberrant proliferation and apoptosis of hepatocytes through NF-κB activation and caspase inhibition, and coactivated PI3K/Akt and ERK pathways play critical roles in PCB153-induced hepatotoxicity.
The hallmarks of diabetic cardiomyopathy are cardiac oxidative stress, intramyocardial inflammation, cardiac fibrosis, and cardiac apoptosis. Given the antioxidative, antiinflammatory, and antiapoptotic potential of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), we evaluated the hypothesis that increased HDL via gene transfer (GT) with human apolipoprotein (apo) A-I, the principal apolipoprotein of HDL, may reduce the development of diabetic cardiomyopathy.
Intravenous GT with 3x10(12) particles/kg of the E1E3E4-deleted vector Ad.hapoA-I, expressing human apoA-I, or Ad.Null, containing no expression cassette, was performed 5 days after streptozotocin (STZ) injection. Six weeks after apoA-I GT, HDL cholesterol levels were increased by 1.6-fold (P<0.001) compared with diabetic controls injected with the Ad.Null vector (STZ-Ad.Null). ApoA-I GT and HDL improved LV contractility in vivo and cardiomyocyte contractility ex vivo, respectively. Moreover, apoA-I GT was associated with decreased cardiac oxidative stress and reduced intramyocardial inflammation. In addition, compared with STZ-Ad.Null rats, cardiac fibrosis and glycogen accumulation were reduced by 1.7-fold and 3.1-fold, respectively (P<0.05). Caspase 3/7 activity was decreased 1.2-fold (P<0.05), and the ratio of Bcl-2 to Bax was upregulated 1.9-fold (P<0.005), translating to 2.1-fold (P<0.05) reduced total number of cardiomyocytes with apoptotic characteristics and 3.0-fold (P<0.005) reduced damaged endothelial cells compared with STZ-Ad.Null rats. HDL supplementation ex vivo reduced hyperglycemia-induced cardiomyocyte apoptosis by 3.4-fold (P<0.005). The apoA-I GT-mediated protection was associated with a 1.6-, 1.6-, and 2.4-fold induction of diabetes-downregulated phospho to Akt, endothelial nitric oxide synthase, and glycogen synthase kinase ratio, respectively (P<0.005).
ApoA-I GT reduced the development of streptozotocin-induced diabetic cardiomyopathy.
