A retrospective review of pharmacy records during a 7-year period at the Johns Hopkins Oncology Center revealed that 6 patients received greater than 4 g of morphine sulfate per day by continuous infusion (CI). Three patients received high-dose infusions for more than 24 h. Two of these 3 patients developed grand mal seizures, while the third was receiving a neuromuscular blocking agent making detection of seizures difficult. Prolonged administration of high concentrations of the sodium bisulfite preservative contained in the morphine solution is a possible explanation for the development of these seizures. Caution is suggested in using CI, preservative-containing morphine at high doses.
Schwann cells (SCs) are the myelin forming cells in the peripheral nervous system, they play a key role in the pathology of various polyneuropathies and provide trophic support to axons via expression of various neurotrophic factors, such as nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF). Ethanol (EtOH) adversely affected both SCs proliferation and myelin formation in culture. Resveratrol (Res) has been shown to regulate many cellular processes and to display multiple protective and therapeutic effects. Whether Res has protective effects on SCs with EtOH-induced toxicity is still unclear. The protective efficacy of Res on EtOH-treated SCs in vitro was investigated in the present study. Res improved cell viability of the EtOH-treated SCs. Hoechst 33342 staining and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT)-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate nick-end labeling analysis showed that the EtOH-induced apoptosis was inhibited by Res. The effects of Res were blocked by the 5'-adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase inhibitor Compound C and the silencing information regulator T1 inhibitor nicotinamide. Res could increase the mRNA and protein levels of BDNF and GDNF in the EtOH-treated SCs. However, the EtOH-induced increase of NGF in the SCs is inhibited by Res. The data from the present study indicate that Res protects SCs from EtOH-induced cell death and regulates the expression of neurotrophicfactors. Res and its derivative may be effective for the treatment of neuropathic diseases induced by EtOH.
A patient with systemic lupus erythematosus developed jaundice and biochemical evidence of hepatic dysfunction 3 wk after initiation of azathioprine therapy. A liver biopsy specimen was obtained, and it showed canalicular cholestasis and centrilobular ballooning of hepatocytes. Clinical and serologic assessment excluded other causes of hepatic dysfunction, such as viral hepatitis, administration of other drugs, or worsening of the collagen disease and the patient was improved 2 wk after azathioprine was discontinued. This case adds further evidence that azathioprine is an idiopathic hepatotoxin with the potential for combined cholestatic and hepatocellular injury in humans.
The loss of interstitial capillaries is a feature of several experimental models of renal disease and this contributes to secondary kidney injury. Angiopoietin-1 is a secreted growth factor which binds to Tie-2 present on endothelia to enhance cell survival thereby stabilizing capillary architecture in-vitro. Previous studies showed that angiopoietin-1 prevented renal capillary and interstitial lesions following experimental ureteric obstruction. We tested here the effect of angiopoietin-1 treatment on capillary loss and associated tubulointerstitial damage known to follow recovery from folic acid-induced tubular necrosis and acute renal injury. We found that delivery of angiopoietin-1 by adenoviral vectors stabilized peritubular capillaries in folic acid nephropathy but this was accompanied by profibrotic and inflammatory effects. These results suggest that the use of endothelial growth factor therapy for kidney disease may have varying outcomes that depend on the disease model tested.
The antiandrogenic drug, flutamide (Odyne), is widely used in the treatment of carcinoma of prostate. It is well known that flutamide has adverse effects of liver disorders. To ascertain the risk of liver disorders before administering this drug, past history and lifestyle preferences were resurveyed in 123 patients who had been treated with flutamide. The results obtained were assessed in relation to the occurrence of liver disorders by multivariate logistic regression analysis. The incidence of liver disorders was 26% (33/123), with 64% of the disorders occurring within 9 months. The chi-square test for dependent variables revealed that three variables, i.e., body mass index, past history of liver disorders and elevated glutamic-pyruvic transaminase levels were significantly related to the incidence of liver disorders (p > 0.05). Multivariate analysis indicated that a history of liver disorders and elevated alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels were related to a higher incidence of liver disorders. Elevated ALT levels were associated with a higher incidence of liver disorders and smoking was related to a lower incidence of the liver disorders.
Gestational diabetes has an adverse impact on fetal musculoskeletal development, but the mechanism involved is still not completely understood. In this study, we investigated the effects of high glucose on the developing somites and their derivate using the chick embryo as a model. We demonstrated that under high glucose, the number of generated somites was reduced and their morphology altered in 2-day old chick embryos. In addition, high glucose repressed the development of the limb buds in 5.5-day old chick embryos. We also demonstrated that high glucose abridged the development of the sclerotome and the cartilage in the developing limb bud. The sonic hedgehog (Shh) gene has been reported to play a crucial role in the development and differentiation of sclerotome. Hence, we examined how Shh expression in the sclerotome was affected under high glucose. We found that high glucose treatment significantly inhibited Shh expression. The high glucose also impaired myotome formation at trunk level - as revealed by immunofluorescent staining with MF20 antibodies. In the neural tube, we established that Wnt3a expression was also significantly repressed. In summary, our study demonstrates that high glucose concentrations impair somite and limb bud development in chick embryos, and suggests that Shh and Wnt genes may play a role in the underlying mechanism.
High-dose methotrexate (HDMTX)-induced renal dysfunction can be life threatening, because it delays methotrexate (MTX) excretion, thereby exacerbating the other toxicities of MTX. HDMTX-induced nephrotoxicity has been managed with high-dose leucovorin, dialysis-based methods of MTX removal, thymidine, and with the recombinant enzyme, carboxypeptidase-G2 (CPDG2), which cleaves MTX to inactive metabolites. The objectives of the current study were to estimate the current incidence of HDMTX-induced renal dysfunction in patients with osteosarcoma and to compare the efficacy and recovery of renal function for dialysis-based methods of MTX removal with treatment using CPDG2.
The literature was reviewed for osteosarcoma trials, use of dialysis-based methods for MTX removal, and reports of MTX-induced nephrotoxicity, including information regarding recovery of renal function. Clinical trial databases of select osteosarcoma studies were reviewed. The efficacy of CPDG2 and renal recovery after CPDG2 rescue was obtained from the database of a compassionate-release trial.
Approximately 1.8% of patients with osteosarcoma (68 of 3887 patients) who received HDMTX developed nephrotoxicity Grade >/= 2. The mortality rate among those patients was 4.4% (3 of 68 patients). Dialysis-based methods of MTX removal were used frequently but had limited effectiveness in removing MTX compared with the rapid reductions > 98% in plasma MTX concentrations achieved with CPDG2. CPDG2 did not appear to increase the time to recovery of renal function compared with supportive treatment that included dialysis-based methods.
HDMTX-induced renal dysfunction continues to occur in approximately 1.8% of patients with osteosarcoma who are treated on clinical protocols with optimal supportive care. For patients with delayed MTX excretion and high plasma MTX concentrations, CPDG2 should be considered over hemodialysis to lower plasma MTX concentrations rapidly and efficiently.
Aminoacetone (AA), triose phosphates, and acetone are putative endogenous sources of potentially cytotoxic and genotoxic methylglyoxal (MG), which has been reported to be augmented in the plasma of diabetic patients. In these patients, accumulation of MG derived from aminoacetone, a threonine and glycine catabolite, is inferred from the observed concomitant endothelial overexpression of circulating semicarbazide-sensitive amine oxidases. These copper-dependent enzymes catalyze the oxidation of primary amines, such as AA and methylamine, by molecular oxygen, to the corresponding aldehydes, NH4(+) ion and H2O2. We recently reported that AA aerobic oxidation to MG also takes place immediately upon addition of catalytic amounts of copper and iron ions. Taking into account that (i) MG and H2O2 are reportedly cytotoxic to insulin-producing cell lineages such as RINm5f and that (ii) the metal-catalyzed oxidation of AA is propagated by O2(*-) radical anion, we decided to investigate the possible pro-oxidant action of AA on these cells taken here as a reliable model system for pancreatic beta-cells. Indeed, we show that AA (0.10-5.0 mM) administration to RINm5f cultures induces cell death. Ferrous (50-300 microM) and Fe(3+) ion (100 microM) addition to the cell cultures had no effect, whereas Cu(2+) (5.0-100 microM) significantly increased cell death. Supplementation of the AA- and Cu(2+)-containing culture medium with antioxidants, such as catalase (5.0 microM), superoxide dismutase (SOD, 50 U/mL), and N-acetylcysteine (NAC, 5.0 mM) led to partial protection. mRNA expression of MnSOD, CuZnSOD, glutathione peroxidase, and glutathione reductase, but not of catalase, is higher in cells treated with AA (0.50-1.0 mM) plus Cu(2+) ions (10-50 microM) relative to control cultures. This may imply higher activity of antioxidant enzymes in RINm5f AA-treated cells. In addition, we have found that AA (0.50-1.0 mM) plus Cu(2+) (100 microM) (i) increase RINm5f cytosolic calcium; (ii) promote DNA fragmentation; and (iii) increase the pro-apoptotic (Bax)/antiapoptotic (Bcl-2) ratio at the level of mRNA expression. In conclusion, although both normal and pathological concentrations of AA are probably much lower than those used here, it is tempting to propose that excess AA in diabetic patients may drive oxidative damage and eventually the death of pancreatic beta-cells.
Methamphetamine (MA) use is associated with hostility, aggression, and positive psychotic symptoms. However, little is known of the processes or mechanisms that underlie this relationship. The present research was designed to investigate putative mediating and moderating variables between MA dependence and hostility in a sample of injecting MA users (N=237). Both positive symptoms of psychosis and higher levels of impulsivity functioned as mediators and moderators of this relationship. This pattern of findings suggests that MA use leads to greater hostility by increasing positive psychotic symptoms that contribute to a perception of the environment as a hostile and threatening place as well as by increasing impulsivity. Those who were high in positive symptoms and high in impulsivity were the most hostile. Individual differences in impulsivity and positive psychotic symptoms should be taken into account in the assessment and management of MA dependence.
Potassium bromate (KBrO(3), PB) is a by-product of ozone used as disinfectant in drinking water. And PB is also a widely used food additive. However, there is little known about its adverse effects, in particular those related to its genotoxicity in humans. The aim of this study was to investigate the genotoxic effects of PB and the underlying mechanisms, using human hepatoma cell line, HepG2. Exposure of the cells to PB caused a significant increase of DNA migration in single cell gel electrophoresis (SCGE) assay and micronuclei (MN) frequencies in micronucleus test (MNT) at all tested concentrations (1.56-12.5 mM and 0.12-1 mM), which suggested that PB-mediated DNA strand breaks and chromosome damage. To indicate the role of antioxidant in those effects, DNA migration was monitored by pre-treatment with hydroxytyrosol (HT) as an antioxidant in SCGE assay. It was found that DNA migration with pre-treatment of HT was dramatically decreased. To elucidate the genotoxicity mechanisms, the study monitored the levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS), glutathione (GSH) and 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine (8-OHdG). PB was shown to induce ROS production (12.5 mM), GSH depletion (1.56-12.5 mM) and 8-OHdG formation (6.25-12.5 mM) in HepG2 cells. Moreover, lysosomal membrane stability and mitochondrial membrane potential were further studied for the mechanisms of PB-induced genotoxicity. A significant increase was found in the range of 6.25-12.5 mM in lysosomal membrane stability assay. However, under these PB concentrations, we were not able to detect the changes of mitochondrial membrane potential. These results suggest that PB exerts oxidative stress and genotoxic effects in HepG2 cells, possibly through the mechanisms of lysosomal damage, an earlier event preceding the oxidative DNA damage.
Triazole fungicides are used in medicine as well as in agricultural treatment of mycoses. The pharmacological mechanism is related to the inhibition of CYP enzymes involved in the formation of the fungal walls. A similar inhibition of human CYP enzymes has been suggested as the cause of triazole side effects in humans. An important role of some CYP isoforms (CYP26 isoforms) expressed during mammalian development is the catabolism of retinoic acid, a known morphogen in vertebrates and invertebrates. The adverse effects on morphogenesis, observed after exposure of mammalian, amphibian and ascidiacea, are compared to the reported effects of triazole in humans. The possible pathogenic pathway in triazole-related teratogenesis is discussed on the basis of different experimental approaches.
Compelling experimental evidence exists for a potent invasion suppressor role of the cell-cell adhesion molecule E-cadherin. In addition, a tumour suppressor effect has been suggested for E-cadherin. In human cancers, partial or complete loss of E-cadherin expression correlates with malignancy. To investigate the molecular basis for this altered expression we developed a comprehensive PCR/SSCP mutation screen for the human E-cadherin gene. For 49 breast cancer patients the occurrence of tumour-specific mutations in the E-cadherin gene was examined. No relevant DNA changes were encountered in any of 42 infiltrative ductal or medullary breast carcinoma samples. In contrast, four out of seven infiltrative lobular breast carcinomas harboured protein truncation mutations (three nonsense and one frameshift) in the extracellular part of the E-cadherin protein. Each of the four lobular carcinomas with E-cadherin mutations showed tumour-specific loss of heterozygosity of chromosomal region 16q22.1 containing the E-cadherin locus. In compliance with this, no E-cadherin expression was detectable by immunohistochemistry in these four tumours. These findings offer a molecular explanation for the typical scattered tumour cell growth in infiltrative lobular breast cancer.
A 62-yr-old woman with recently diagnosed primary biliary cirrhosis was started on D-penicillamine, 250 mg twice daily. Within 9 mo, she developed myasthenia gravis, associated with elevated antiacetylcholine receptor antibody titers and abnormalities of single-fiber electromyography. The D-penicillamine was withdrawn and pyridostigmine bromide was prescribed. The latter drug was slowly reduced, and at the end of 6 mo stopped, after a full recovery by the patient. The clinical response was paralleled by a fall in the antiacetylcholine receptor antibody titer into the normal range and reversal of the previously abnormal single-fiber electromyographic findings. The human leukocyte antigen type of the patient was not that typically associated with classic myasthenia gravis. It is suggested that D-penicillamine-induced myasthenia gravis is due to an independent effect of the drug on the immune system rather than to the unmasking of subclinical myasthenia gravis.
A major drawback to doxorubicin as a cancer-treating drug is cardiac toxicity. To understand the mechanism of doxorubicin cardiac toxicity and the potent synergic effect seen when doxorubicin is combined with anti-ErbB2 (trastuzumab), we developed an in vivo rat model that exhibits progressive dose-dependent cardiac damage and loss of cardiac function after doxorubicin treatment. The hearts of these animals respond to doxorubicin damage by increasing levels of ErbB2 and the ErbB family ligand, neuregulin 1beta, and by activating the downstream Akt signaling pathway. These increases in ErbB2 protein levels are not due to increased ErbB2 mRNA, however, suggesting post-transcriptional mechanisms for regulating this protein in the heart. Accordingly, levels of heat shock protein 90 (HSP90), a known ErbB2 protein stabilizer and chaperone, are increased by doxorubicin treatment, and coimmunoprecipitation reveals binding of HSP90 to ErbB2. Isolated cardiomyocytes are more susceptible to doxorubicin after treatment with HSP90 inhibitor, 17-(allylamino)-17-demethoxygeldanamycin, suggesting that the HSP90 is protective during doxorubicin treatment. Thus, our results provide one plausible mechanism for the susceptibility of the heart to anti-ErbB2 therapy post-doxorubicin therapy in subclinical and clinical conditions. Additionally, these results suggest that further testing is needed for HSP90 inhibitors under various conditions in the heart.
This research was conducted to determine which neurological test or combination of tests can provide sufficient functional information to compliment biochemical or morphological endpoints in mechanistic studies of toxic axonopathies. Using several neurological indices, we evaluated the effects of two prototypical neurotoxicants that cause distal axonopathy: acrylamide monomer (ACR) and 2,5-hexanedione (HD). For each toxicant, rats were exposed to two daily dosing rates (ACR, 50 mg/kg per day i.p. or 21 mg/kg per day, p.o.; HD, 175 or 400 mg/kg per day, p.o.) and neurological endpoints were determined two to three times per week. Specific tests included observations of spontaneous locomotion in an open field, and measurements of hindlimb landingfoot splay, forelimb and hindlimb grip strength and the hindlimb extensor thrust response. For all neurological parameters, the magnitude of defect induced by either neurotoxicant was not related to daily dose-rate, e.g. both the lower and higher ACR dose-rates produced the same degree of neurological dysfunction. Instead, dose-rate determined onset and progression of neurotoxicity, e.g. the higher ACR dose-rate produced moderate neurotoxicity after approximately 8 days of intoxication, whereas the lower dose-rate caused moderate neurotoxicity after 26 days. Regardless of dose-rate, ACR-exposed rats exhibited gait abnormalities (ataxia, splayed hindlimbs), in conjunction with increased landing hindfoot spread and decreased hindlimb grip strength and extensor thrust HD intoxicated rats exhibited hindlimb muscle weakness as indicated by a gait abnormality (dropped hocks) and decreases in grip strength and the extensor thrust response. However, hindlimb landingfoot spread was not affected by HD exposure. For both neurotoxicants, gait changes preceded or coincided with alterations in other neurologic indices. These results suggest that observations of spontaneous behavior in an open field represent a practical approach to assessing temporal development and extent of neurological dysfunction induced by axonopathic toxicants such as ACR and HD.
To assess the clinical impact of monitoring serum concentrations of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) in patients with newly diagnosed epilepsy.
One-hundred eighty patients with partial or idiopathic generalized nonabsence epilepsy, aged 6 to 65 years, requiring initiation of treatment with carbamazepine (CBZ), valproate (VPA), phenytoin (PHT), phenobarbital (PB), or primidone (PRM) were randomly allocated to two groups according to an open, prospective parallel-group design. In one group, dosage was adjusted to achieve serum AED concentration within a target range (10-20 microg/ml for PHT, 15-40 microg/ml for PB, 4-11 microg/ml for CBZ, and 40-100 microg/ml for VPA), whereas in the other group, dosage was adjusted on clinical grounds. Patients were followed up for 24 months or until a change in therapeutic strategy was clinically indicated.
Baseline characteristics did not differ between the two groups. Most patients with partial epilepsy were treated with CBZ, whereas generalized epilepsies were most commonly managed with PB or VPA. PHT was used only in a small minority of patients. A total of 116 patients completed 2-year follow-up, and there were no differences in exit rate from any cause between the monitored group and the control group. The proportion of assessable patients with mean serum drug levels outside the target range (mostly below range) during the first 6 months of the study was 8% in the monitored group compared with 25% in the control group (p < 0.01). There were no significant differences between the monitored group and the control group with respect to patients achieving 12-month remission (60% vs. 61%), patients remaining seizure free since initiation of treatment (38% vs. 41%), and time to first seizure or 12-month remission. Frequency of adverse effects was almost identical in the two groups.
Only a small minority of patients were treated with PHT, the drug for which serum concentration measurements are most likely to be useful. With the AEDs most commonly used in this study, early implementation of serum AED level monitoring did not improve overall therapeutic outcome. and the majority of patients could be satisfactorily treated by adjusting dose on clinical grounds. Monitoring the serum levels of these drugs in selected patients and in special situations is likely to be more rewarding than routine measurements in a large clinic population.
We investigated the hypolipidemic effect of resveratrol focused on the mRNA expression and hepatic HMG-CoA reductase (HMGR) activity in hamsters fed a high-fat diet. Male Syrian Golden hamsters were fed a high-fat diet containing 0.025% fenofibrate or 0.025% resveratrol for 8 weeks. The concentrations of serum total cholesterol and triglyceride were significantly lower in the resveratrol-fed group than in the control group. The resveratrol contained diet significantly decreased Apo B, Lp(a), and cholesterol-ester-transport protein (CETP) concentrations, but increased Apo A-I levels and the Apo A-I/Apo B ratio. The contents of cholesterol and triglyceride in hepatic tissue were significantly lower in the resveratrol group than in the control group. Real-time PCR analysis revealed that HMGR mRNA expression was significantly lower in the resveratrol group than in the control group. These results indicate that dietary resveratrol reduces serum cholesterol by down-regulating hepatic HMGR mRNA expression in hamsters fed a high-fat diet.
Endomyocardial biopsy was done 119 times in 98 patients receiving doxorubicin therapy once every 3 weeks and 41 times in 27 patients receiving doxorubicin therapy weekly. Factors contributing to the degree of anthracycline-induced endomyocardial injury were evaluated. Neither age, sex, type of malignancy, concomitant use of other chemotherapeutic agents including cyclophosphamide, nor history of cardiac disease or hypertension influenced the extent of the endomyocardial injury. The dose of doxorubicin (p = 0.0001) and the schedule (weekly versus 3 weekly) (p = 0.0020) independently predicted the degree of endomyocardial damage in multivariate analyses. Previous cardiac irradiation had borderline significance (p = 0.074) in predicting endomyocardial damage in this analysis. Doxorubicin therapy administered on a weekly schedule is associated with less anthracycline-induced cardiac damage than is doxorubicin therapy delivered in the conventional, 3-weekly schedule.
The usual indices of left ventricular systolic performance have been incapable of accurately recognizing early myocardial impairment in many patients treated with doxorubicin. Recently, several new load-independent, highly sensitive indices of left ventricular contractility have been developed including the slope value of the endsystolic pressure (Pes)-dimension (Des) relation and the position of the left ventricular end-systolic wall stress (sigma es)-percent fractional shortening (% delta D) relation. We used these indices to study 46 patients receiving either low dose or high dose doxorubicin. Results were compared with data from 30 healthy subjects. Resting % delta D failed to accurately recognize left ventricular dysfunction in 9 of 17 patients with low normal values. These patients had reduced afterload, as measured by sigma es, permitting normal extent of left ventricular fiber shortening despite impaired contractility as quantified by diminished Pes-Des slope values. There was 98% concordance between the relative position of the sigma es-% delta D relation and the slope value of the Pes-Des, relation. These indices offer an improved means of recognizing and quantitating impaired contractility in patients treated with doxorubicin.
AZT has induced a macrocytic anemia in AIDS patients on long term AZT therapy. It is generally assumed that DNA elongation is stopped by the insertion of AZT into the chain in place of thymidine thus preventing the phosphate hydroxyl linkages and therefore suppresses hemopoietic progenitor cell proliferation in an early stage of differentiation. CBA/Ca male mice started on AZT 0.75 mg/ml H2O at 84 days of age and kept on it for 687 days when dosage reduced to 0.5 mg/ml H2O for a group, another group removed from AZT to see recovery, and third group remained on 0.75 mg. At 687 days mice that had been on 0.75 mg had average platelet counts of 2.5 x 10(6). Histological examination on 9 of 10 mice with such thrombocytopenia showed changes compatible with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). A variety of histological patterns was observed. There were two cases of hypocellular myelodysplasia, two cases of hypersegmented myelodysplastic granulocytosis, two cases of hypercellular marrow with abnormal megakaryocytes with bizarre nuclei, one case of megakaryocytic myelosis associated with a hyperplastic marrow, dysmyelopoiesis and a hypocellular marrow and two cases of myelodysplasia with dyserythropoiesis, hemosiderosis and a hypocellular marrow. Above mentioned AZT incorporation may have induced an ineffective hemopoiesis in the primitive hemopoietic progenitor cells, which is known to be seen commonly in the myelodysplastic syndrome.
Dietary phytoestrogens may prevent certain human diseases, but endocrine activity has been reported in animal studies. Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed perinatally to a 1-, 10- or 100-fold "high human dietary intake" mixture of 12 phytoestrogens consisting of mainly the lignan secoisolarici resinol and the isoflavones genistein and daidzein. This mixture induced persistent adverse effects, as adult male mammary glands showed hypertrophic growth. A reduced anogenital distance in newborn males indicated an anti-androgenic mode of action. Testosterone levels, testis and prostate weights, and expression of selected genes in testis and prostate were unaffected. Decreased serum estradiol was seen in genistein-exposed dams. This study indicated adverse effects at high intake levels in rats, but does not provide evidence for risk of phytoestrogen-mediated endocrine disruption at normal human dietary consumption levels. Further studies are warranted to increase the knowledge upon which risk assessment on dietary phytoestrogen exposure during pregnancy and infancy is based.
Food allergy is an increasing health problem in Western countries. Previously, it has been shown that the intensity of food allergic reactions can be regulated by regulatory T (T(reg)) cells. In addition, it has been shown that activation of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) regulates T-cell responses by induction of T(reg) cells. Therefore, we hypothesized that activation of the AhR pathway can suppress development of food allergic responses through the induction of T(reg) cells. This was investigated by using a mouse model for peanut allergy. C3H/HeOuJ mice (AhR(b)(-2)) were sensitized to peanut by administering peanut extract (PE) by gavage in the presence of cholera toxin and were treated with the prototypical AhR ligand 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) (0.6, 1.7, 5, and 15 μg/kg body weight) on days 3 and 11 orally. The functional role of CD4(+)CD25(+)Foxp3(+) T(reg) cells was investigated by depleting these cells with anti-CD25 mAb during sensitization to PE. TCDD treatment dose dependently suppressed sensitization to peanut (PE-specific IgE, IgG1, and IgG2a and PE-induced IL-5, IL-10, and IL-13, respectively). The percentage, but not the number, of CD4(+)CD25(+)Foxp3(+) T(reg) cells dose dependently increased by AhR activation in both spleen and mesenteric lymph nodes. Depletion of CD4(+)CD25(+)Foxp3(+) T(reg) cells markedly reversed the suppressive effect of TCDD on PE-specific antibody levels and PE-induced IL-5, IL-10, and IL-13 cytokine production. Present data demonstrate for the first time that activation of the AhR by TCDD suppressed the development of Th2-mediated food allergic responses. A functional shift within the CD4(+) cell population toward CD4(+)CD25(+)Foxp3(+) T(reg) cells appeared to underlie this effect. This suggests that the AhR pathway might provide potential therapeutic targets to treat food allergic diseases.
Misuse of diethylene glycol (DEG) has led to numerous epidemic poisonings worldwide. DEG produces toxicity because of its metabolism, although the mechanism of its toxicity has not been further defined. The purpose of this study was to investigate the accumulation of specific metabolites in blood and target organ tissues and to determine the relationship between tissue accumulation of metabolites and the resulting toxicity. Wistar rats were treated with water, 2 g/kg DEG (low dose), 10 g/kg DEG (high dose), or 10 g/kg DEG + fomepizole (15 mg/kg then 10 mg/kg per 12 h, to inhibit DEG metabolism), and blood and tissue samples were collected up to 48 h. After high doses of DEG, 2-hydroxyethoxyacetic acid (HEAA) was the primary metabolite in the blood (∼4 mmol/l), with only low concentrations of diglycolic acid (DGA) (∼0.04 mmol/l). In contrast, renal and hepatic concentrations of DGA and of HEAA at 48 h were similar (∼4 mmol/l), indicating a 100-fold concentrative uptake of DGA by kidney tissue. Treatment with fomepizole blocked the formation of HEAA and DGA and the kidney toxicity. Both HEAA and DGA concentrations in the kidney correlated strongly with the degree of kidney damage. Accumulation of HEAA in blood correlated with increased anion gap and decreased blood bicarbonate so appeared responsible for the DEG-induced acidosis. Although these studies suggest that either metabolite may be involved in producing kidney toxicity, the unexpected renal accumulation of DGA at toxic doses of DEG suggests that it must also be considered a possible toxic metabolite of DEG.
Transplanted hepatocytes are ideal carriers for exogenous genes in liver gene therapy. The present study investigated the anti-fibrogenic effects of intrasplenically transplanted hepatocytes modified with interferon gamma (IFN-gamma) gene on cirrhotic rats. Hepatocytes isolated from normal Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were transfected with an adenoviral vector encoding human IFN-gamma gene (AdCMVhIFN-gamma) and transplanted into the spleens of syngenic recipients with ongoing liver fibrosis induced by carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)). Histology was assessed, and liver hydroxyproline was detected. Additionally, serum procollagen type III (PIIINP) levels and hepatic collagenase activity were measured to determine hepatic collagen synthesis and degradation. Transplantation with AdCMVhIFN-gamma transfected hepatocytes ameliorated the histological outcome of liver fibrosis by reducing liver collagen content and decreasing hepatic hydroxyproline. Additionally, IFN-gamma transfected hepatocytes reduced serum PIIINP levels and increased hepatic collagenase activity. Our data suggest that transplantation of IFN-gamma transfected hepatocytes may reduce the pace of liver fibrosis by inhibiting the synthesis and enhancing the degradation of hepatic collagen.
Apollon, a membrane-associated inhibitor of apoptosis protein, protects cells against apoptosis and is upregulated in certain tumor cells. In this study, the effects of Apollon protein knockdown by RNA interference on the growth of human HeLa, HT-1080 and MCF-7 cells in vitro and in vivo were investigated. An oncolytic adenovirus (ZD55) containing the RNA polymerase III-dependent U6 promoter to express short hairpin RNA (shRNA) directed against Apollon (ZD55-siApollon) was constructed. Our data show that ZD55-siApollon successfully exerts a gene knockdown effect and causes the inhibition of tumor cell growth both in culture and in athymic mice in vivo. Cell cycle analysis, 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole staining and western blot analysis reveal that ZD55-siApollon-mediated suppression of Apollon induces apoptosis. Intratumoral injection of ZD55-siApollon significantly inhibits tumor growth in HT-1080 xenograft mice. Furthermore, ZD55-siApollon enhances the antitumor effect of 5-fluorouracil, a chemotherapeutic agent. In conclusion, these results suggest that the depletion of Apollon by oncolytic adenovirus-shRNA delivery system provides a promising method for cancer therapy.
In susceptible mice, mercuric chloride induces a systemic autoimmune disease characterized by increased serum levels of immunoglobulin (Ig) G1 and IgE, production of anti-nucleolar autoantibodies (ANolA) and formation of renal IgG deposits. We have previously hypothesized that mercury confers more adverse immunological effects on those mouse strains, which are genetically prone to develop spontaneous autoimmune diseases than on normal strains. In this study, we tested our hypothesis in tight skin 1 (Tsk1/+) mice, a murine model for human scleroderma. As a support for our hypothesis, we observed that in Tsk1/+ mice, B cells were spontaneously hyperactive and that treatment with mercury induced a strong immune/autoimmune response in these mice, but not in their non-Tsk (+/+) littermates. This response was characterized by the formation of high numbers of splenic IgG1, IgG2b and IgG3 antibody-secreting cells, increased serum levels of IgE, production of IgG1 antibodies against single-stranded DNA (ssDNA), trinitrophenol (TNP) as well as thyroglobulin and the development of renal IgG1 deposits. Neither Tsk1/+ mice nor F1 hybrid crosses between this strain, and mercury susceptible B10.S (H-2(s)) were able to produce IgG1-ANolA in response to mercury. Moreover, mercury-induced immune activation in Tsk1/+ was not able to potentiate the progression of skin fibrosis in this strain. Thus, exposure to mercury accelerates the immune dysregulation, but not the development of skin fibrosis in Tsk1/+ mice.
