In recent studies, we and others showed that autophagy is critical to estrogen receptor positive (ER+) breast cancer cell survival and the development of antiestrogen resistance. Consequently, new approaches are warranted for targeting autophagy in breast cancer cells undergoing antiestrogen therapy. Because crosstalk has been demonstrated between the autophagy- and proteasome-mediated pathways of protein degradation, this study investigated how the proteasome inhibitor bortezomib affects autophagy and cell survival in antiestrogen-treated ER+ breast cancer cells. Bortezomib, at clinically achievable doses, induced a robust death response in ER+, antiestrogen-sensitive and antiestrogen-resistant breast cancer cells undergoing hormonal therapy. Cleavage of PARP and lamin A was detectable as a read-out of cell death, following bortezomib-induced mitochondrial dysfunction. Prior to induction of cell death, bortezomib-treated cells showed high levels of light chain 3 (LC3) and p62, two protein markers for autophagy. The accumulation of these proteins was due to bortezomib-mediated blockade of long-lived protein turnover during macroautophagy. This novel action of bortezomib was linked to its blockade of cathepsin-L activity, which is required for autolysosomal-mediated protein turnover in ER+ breast cancer cells. Further, bortezomib-treated breast cancer cells showed induction of the unfolded protein response, with upregulation of CH OP and GRP78. Bortezomib also induced high levels of the pro-apoptotic protein BNIP3. Knockdown of CH OP and/or BNIP3 expression via RNAi targeting significantly attenuated the death-promoting effects of bortezomib. Thus, bortezomib inhibits prosurvival autophagy, in addition to its known function in blocking the proteasome, and is cytotoxic to hormonally treated ER+ breast cancer cells. These findings indicate that combining a proteasome inhibitor like bortezomib with antiestrogen therapy may have therapeutic advantage in the management of early-stage breast cancer.
Risperidone (Risperdal), a psychotropic atypical antipsychotic agent, is thought to act via dopamine D(2) and serotonin 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonism. The clinical efficacy of oral risperidone in the treatment of bipolar mania and schizophrenia in adult patients is well established. In the US, risperidone is also approved for the treatment of irritability associated with autistic disorder in children and adolescents aged 5-16 years, for the treatment of schizophrenia in adolescents aged 13-17 years and, as monotherapy, for the short-term treatment of acute manic and mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder in children and adolescents aged 10-17 years. Oral risperidone treatment was better than placebo treatment in reducing irritability and other behavioural symptoms associated with autistic disorder in children and adolescents in two well designed short-term trials, with these benefits maintained in those receiving risperidone for up to 6 months. The drug had a clinically manageable tolerability profile, with most adverse events being of mild to moderate intensity. There are some aspects of treatment, such as weight gain, somnolence and hyperglycaemia, that require monitoring, and the long-term safety of risperidone in children and adolescents with autistic disorder remains to be fully determined. With these issues in mind, risperidone offers a valuable emerging option for the treatment of irritability associated with autistic disorder in children and adolescents.
Coumarin, used in the treatment of chronic venous diseases, is mainly metabolized to non-toxic 7-hydroxy-coumarin by CYP2A6. At least, 3 variant alleles, CYP2A6*2, CYP2A6*3 and CYP2A6*4A, have been shown to encode catalytically defective proteins. Sporadic elevation of liver enzymes has been reported on the chronic administration ofcoumarin. We sought to determine if susceptibility to coumarin-associated liver dysfunction is genetically determined by polymorphism in CYP2A6 and impairment of the 7-hydroxylation ofcoumarin. Additionally, we were interested in the effect of polymorphism on smoking because of the predominant role of CYP2A6 in the metabolism of nicotine.
The investigation was performed prospectively within a randomized double-blind clinical trial of the coumarin-containing drug SB-LOT (90 mg coumarin + 540 mg troxerutin/d) vs. placebo in 231 German patients with chronic venous insufficiency. Monitoring of the hepatic status involved regular measurements of liver function during the 16-week treatment. Genotyping of CYP2A6 was carried out by means of PCR and confirmed by DNA sequencing analysis.
The allelic frequencies of the variant CYP2A6*2 and CYP2A6*3 alleles were 0.023 and 0.014, respectively. There was no significant difference in the incidence of liver dysfunction between heterozygotes with CYP2A6*2, CYP2A6*3 and wild-type homozygotes. CYP2A6 polymorphism had no significant effect on smoking behavior.
No evidence was obtained that the studied polymorphism in CYP2A6 is a determinant of the coumarin-associated liver dysfunction.
To investigate the effects of enalapril on the expressions of IL-1beta and IL-6 in the lung of rats treated with acrolein inhalation.
Inflammatory lung injury was induced by acrolein inhalation in rats. The rats were divided into natrium solution (NS) group, acrolein group, enalapril and acroclein (EA) group, enalapril and NS (EN) group. Lungs were harvested from the rats in each group at 1 week, 3 weeks, 6 weeks after the treatment of natrium solution, acrolein inhalation and/or enalapril. The mRNA and protein expressions of IL-1beta and IL-6 in the lung tissues were measured by RT-PCR, in situ hybridization, immunohistochemistry and Western blot.
Increased immunostaining, protein level and mRNA expression of IL-1beta and IL-6 were found in rat lung at 3 weeks and reached to the peak at 6 weeks post exposure to acrolein. The administration of enalapril resulted in a significant downregulation of IL-1beta and IL-6 in both protein and gene level, accompany with the decrease of inflammation.
Enalapril, as a ACE inhibitor, could protect the airway from inflammation injury in acrolein-treated rats via the down-regulation of IL-1beta and IL-6 expression.
The synthetic estrogen diethylstilbestrol (DES), a known human carcinogen, induces renal carcinoma in male Syrian hamsters within 6 months after s.c. implantation. Tumor formation could be evoked by its hormonal properties or by a reactive genotoxic metabolite binding to DNA, but previous attempts to detect adducts have failed. In the present study, kidney DNA of male Syrian hamsters, treated with s.c. DES implants to induce renal carcinoma, was analyzed for the presence of DES-induced adducts using 32P-postlabeling assay. Covalently-modified DNA nucleotides were detected in the kidneys after chronic DES treatment, but not in kidneys of untreated hamsters, or in liver or tumor tissue of DES-treated animals. This report demonstrates for the first time the ability of an estrogen to give rise to covalent DNA modification in vivo specifically in the target organ of carcinogenesis. DES-induced covalent DNA adducts are taken as evidence for tumor initiation by DES via damage to cellular macromolecules, in addition to tumor-promotional effects described previously.
Paradoxical effects of major tranquillizers are discussed by the author about his observation on two patients, above all in connection with the sedative and stimulating properties of these drugs. These two observations concern a treatment with Haloperidol at high dosages giving surprising effects: syndrom of excitement with an increase in delusive activity along with hallucinations and a touch of depressive mood. From this point of view, a few questions can be raised about the correlation between the antipsychotic activity of the major tranquillizers and these sedative or stimulating effects. The author has also discussed the stress upon mood.
This study assessed the side effects of nitroglycerin administration and their clinical significance.
Adverse reactions associated with sublingual nitroglycerin administration were investigated in 103 patients, 71 men and 32 women (mean age 56 +/- 11 years), 32 patients with coronary artery stenosis and 71 without coronary artery stenosis.
Fifty-one percent of patients experienced headache and 30% experienced other adverse reactions, whereas 19% experienced no adverse reactions. The relationship was investigated between headache, the most common adverse reaction, and the following eight clinical background factors: coronary angiographic findings, sex, age, hyperlipidemia, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, smoking and drinking. Multiple regression analysis was conducted by treating sublingual nitroglycerin-induced headache as an object variable and the clinical background factors as explanatory variables. Statistically, the onset of headache correlated most closely to coronary angiographic findings, followed by smoking, hypertension, diabetes mellitus and drinking. The first four factors suppressed the onset of headache, whereas drinking facilitated the onset of headache.
There is a close relationship between the onset of headache following sublingual nitroglycerin administration and coronary angiographic findings. Sublingual nitroglycerin-induced headache as a predictor of coronary angiographic findings has a sensitivity and specificity of 81% and 66%, respectively, for patients without coronary artery stenosis based on the absence of headache.
Combination therapy to improve the total lipid profile may achieve greater coronary risk reductions than lowering low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) alone. A new extended-release niacin (niacin ER)/lovastatin tablet substantially lowers LDL-C, triglyceride, and lipoprotein(a) levels and raises high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) level. We evaluated these serum lipid responses to niacin ER/lovastatin at all clinically reasonable doses.
Men (n = 85) and women (n = 79) with type IIa or IIb primary hyperlipidemia after diet were randomized among 5 parallel treatment arms. Each arm had 5 sequential 4-week treatment periods: niacin ER (starting at 500 mg/d, increasing in 500-mg increments to 2500 mg/d); lovastatin (starting at 10 mg, increasing to 20 mg, then 40 mg/d); and 3 combinations arms, each with a constant lovastatin dose and escalating niacin ER doses.
For primary comparisons, mean LDL-C level reductions from baseline were greater with niacin ER/lovastatin (1500/20 mg) than with lovastatin (20 mg) (35% vs 22%, P<.001) and with niacin ER/lovastatin (2000/40 mg) than with lovastatin (40 mg) (46% vs 24%, P<.001). Each 500-mg increase in niacin ER, on average, decreased LDL-C levels an additional 4% and increased HDL-C levels 8%. The maximum recommended dose (2000/40 mg/d) increased HDL-C levels 29% and decreased LDL-C levels 46%, triglyceride levels 38%, and lipoprotein(a) levels 14%. All lipid responses were dose dependent and generally additive. Graphs of the dose-response relationships as 3-dimensional surfaces documented the strength and consistency of these responses.
Niacin ER/lovastatin combination therapy substantially improves 4 major lipoprotein levels associated with atherosclerotic disease. Dose-response surfaces provide a practical guide for dose selection.
Androgen hormones play an important role in the pathogenesis of acne. Despite the demonstrated effects, spironolactone, an androgen receptor blocker, is not commonly used to treat acne. We planned an open-labelled, prospective study to evaluate the effects and side-effects of spironolactone therapy in women with acne.
Thirty-five consecutive patients with acne were treated with spironolactone 100 mg/day, 16 days each month for 3 months. The patients were divided according to the clinical severity of the lesions as having mild, moderate and severe acne. Serum total testosterone and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS) levels were measured before and after treatment. Lesion numbers and hormone levels before and after treatment were compared with one-sampled t-test.
The mean age of the patients was 21.4 +/- 3.5 years. Two patients discontinued the study due to side-effects. Five patients were lost in the follow-up. Clinically significant improvement was noted in 24 patients (85.71%). No response was seen in four patients. All of the nonresponding patients had received previous unsuccessful therapies. Mean number of lesions and mean DHEAS levels of the 24 patients with clinical improvement decreased significantly after treatment (P < 0.01 and P < 0.05, respectively). There was no change in the mean total testosterone levels before and after treatment (P > 0.05).
Spironolactone is a safe and effective medication for women with acne vulgaris. Although its side-effects seem to be high, they are in the majority of cases not a reason to stop treatment.
Five patients who had received a transplanted human heart 1 to 3 years previously were studied to determine the effects of norepinephrine, isoproterenol and propranolol on the atrioventricular (A-V) conduction system. Using the His bundle technique, atrial, His bundle and ventricular electrograms were recorded, and central aortic pressure was monitored during the administration of these drugs. Norepinephrine was given by continuous infusion to four patients in doses ranging from 4 to 8 mug/min, with the systolic arterial pressure increasing by an average of 72 mm Hg. Concomitantly, there was an average increase in the rate of the donor atrium of 32 beats/min, and a reflex slowing of the recipient atrium of 23 beats/min. The A-H interval shortened by an average of 27 msec. Isoproterenol dose-response curves were performed in three patients, with the maximal dose being 5.2 mug by intravenous bolus infusion. The rate of the donor atrium increased by an average of 40 beats/min, and that of the recipient atrium by 18 beats/min. The A-H time shortened by an average of 25 msec, with a drop in systolic blood pressure averaging 23 mm Hg. Propranolol (7 mg intravenously) was given to three patients and the peak doses of norepinephrine and isoproterenol were again infused. Beta adrenergic blockade was achieved at this dose of propranolol since there was only a minimal increase in the donor atrial rate after infusion of the drug. The A-H interval was not altered by catecholamine infusion after achievement of beta blockade. However, the levels of systolic hypertension noted after infusion of norepinephrine was not altered by propranolol. The denervated transplanted human heart appears to respond normally to norepinephrine and isoproterenol, and the electrophysiologic effects of these agents are blocked by propranolol. Extensive investigative work in the denervated canine model has demonstrated the presence of the alpha and beta cardiovascular receptors. Although the automonic nervous system is important in cardiac performance, this work is the first validation in man that (1) the functional integrity of the beta receptor is maintained even when the autonomic nerves are absent, and (2) the intrinsic properties of the sinus and atrioventricular nodes are the keystone in stabilizing cardiac electrophysiology after denervation.
Pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (PLD) was introduced to reduce the adverse effect of doxorubicin in treating recurrent ovarian cancer. We sought to characterize the efficacy and adverse-effect profile of PLD in different doses and to evaluate predictive factors of palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (PPE).
Patients with recurrent ovarian, primary peritoneal, and fallopian tube carcinoma treated with single-agent PLD between 1996 and 2006 at The University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center were retrospectively identified, and charts were reviewed for patient demographics, PLD data, adverse effects, use of cooling mechanisms, and survival.
Three hundred-thirty patients were included and PPE of any grade occurred in 30.9%. Patients received a median of 3 (mean 4.32) cycles of PLD treatment. The different PLD doses (<30, 35, 40, and >50 mg/m(2)) were not associated with differences in overall survival (OS), progression-free survival (PFS), or time to progression (TTP). The incidences of mucositis, neutropenia, peripheral neuropathy, and vomiting were significantly higher at doses >50 mg/m(2) than at doses <40 mg/m(2). More patients who used cooling mechanisms (39%) had PPE than those who did not (26%). There was an association between mucositis, neutropenia, and peripheral neuropathy and PPE. More cycles of PLD (>6) also increased the incidence of PPE. In our study, only 7% of women discontinued PLD for toxicity while 74% discontinued for progression.
There was no association between different doses of PLD and OS, PFS, or TTP. A higher dose and more cycles increased the incidence of several toxicities, including PPE. The use of cooling mechanisms, higher number of PLD cycles, and occurrence of mucositis, neutropenia, and peripheral neuropathy are possible predictors of PPE.
We investigated the possible roles of mitochondrial manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) and bcl-2 in etoposide-induced cell death in acute myeloblastic leukaemia (AML) using two subclones of the OCI/AML-2 cell line, the etoposide-sensitive (ES) and the etoposide-resistant (ER), as models. Cell death after 24 h exposure to 10 micromol/l etoposide was about 60% and 70% in the ES subclone and about 20% and 25% in the ER subclone, when analysed by trypan blue and annexin V respectively. Cytochrome c efflux from mitochondria to cytosol was observed after 4 h of exposure in both subclones, whereas the activation of caspase-3 was not detectable until after 12 h of exposure in the ES subclone and 24 h of exposure in the ER subclone, using Western blotting. The decrease in mitochondrial membrane potential, when analysed by the JC-1 probe fluorocytometrically, also appeared to take place later in the ER than in the ES subclone. Both subclones showed evident basal expression of MnSOD and bcl-2 by Western blotting. Etoposide caused a potent induction of MnSOD, more than 400% at 12 h, in the ER but not in the ES subclone. No significant change in bcl-2 expression could be observed in either of the subclones during exposure to etoposide when analysed by Western blotting or flow cytometry. In conclusion, we suggest that MnSOD might have a special role in the protection of AML cells against etoposide-induced cell death. Although unable to influence the cytochrome c efflux to cytosol, MnSOD might prevent the disruption of mitochondrial membrane potential, which evidently leads to cell death by releasing various activators of apoptosis.
Folate binding protein 1 (Folr1) knockout mice with low maternal folate concentrations have been shown to be excellent animal models for human folate-responsive neural tube defects (NTDs). Previous studies using the Folr1 knockout mice revealed that maternal folate supplementation up-regulates the expression of the PCMT1 gene in Folr1 nullizygous neural tube tissue during neural tube closure. PCMT1 encodes the protein repair enzyme l-isoaspartate (d-aspartate) O-methyltransferase (PIMT) that converts abnormal d-aspartyl and l-isoaspartyl residues to the normal l-aspartyl form. PIMT is known to protect certain neural cells from Bax-induced apoptosis. Pcmt1-deficient mice present with abnormal AdoMet/AdoHcy homeostasis. We hypothesized that a known functional polymorphism (Ile120Val) in the human PCMT1 gene is associated with an increased risk of folate-responsive human NTDs. A case-control study was conducted to investigate a possible association between this polymorphism and risk of spina bifida. Compared to the Ile/Ile and Ile/Val genotypes, the homozygous Val/Val genotype showed decreased risk for spina bifida (adjusted odds ratio=0.6, 95% confidence interval: 0.4-0.9). Our results showed that the Ile120Val polymorphism of PCMT1 gene is a genetic modifier for the risk of spina bifida. Val/Val genotype was associated with a reduction in risk for spina bifida.
There was increasing evidence suggesting that angiotensin I-converting enzyme may play an important role in the pathogenesis of PD. Our former study has shown that angiotensin I-converting enzyme gene (ACE) may confer a susceptibility for the risk of Parkinson's disease (PD). Meanwhile, recent studies have emphasized that genetic factors may involve in the occurrence of the adverse effects of chronic L-dopa therapy in PD patients. This study was designed to assess whether genetic polymorphism of the ACE could be a predictor of L-dopa-induced adverse effects in PD. There were 251 patients included in this study and their mean age at onset of disease was 63.3+/-11.4 years. The duration of disease and the treatment with L-dopa was 6.3+/-5.1 and 5.0+/-4.3 years, respectively. The frequency of the homozygote ACE-II genotype of the ACE in PD patients with L-dopa-induced psychosis was significantly higher than that in PD patients without the adverse effect (63.3% vs 43.0%; chi(2)=6.347, OR=1.435, 95%CI=1.105-1.864, p=0.012). However, the ACE polymorphism was not associated with the risk to develop dyskinesia or motor fluctuation induced by L-dopa. Furthermore, a logistic regression analysis confirmed that the ACE-II genotype was an independent risk factor for L-dopa-induced psychosis in PD patients (OR=2.542, p=0.012). In conclusion, results of the study showed that ACE-II genotype might confer a primary predictor for the occurrence of psychosis in L-dopa-treated PD.
The aim of the study was to investigate the changes in biochemical mechanisms facilitating cellular damages in the lithium plus pilocarpine treatment and the resulting status epilepticus. The whole brain free fatty acid (FFA) level as well as the activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GPX), glutamate dehydrogenase, aspartate-aminotransferase (AST), alanine-aminotransferase, gamma-glutamoyl transferase, alkaline phosphatase (ALP), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and creatine kinase in the frontal cortex, cerebellum, hippocampus and pons-medulla region of Hannover-Wistar rats were determined. The control group was intact with no previous experimental history. LiCl (125 mg/kg i.p.) was injected 20 h prior to pilocarpine (30 mg/kg i.p.) and the treated rats were sacrificed 1 or 2 1/2 h after pilocarpine administration. The results show that lithium plus pilocarpine administration and the resulting status epilepticus produced the significant increase of the brain FFA content. Decreased GPX activities were detected in the frontal cortex, cerebellum and hippocampus of the treated rats without the accompanying decrease of SOD activity. Increased AST and LDH activities were observed in the frontal cortex, increased soluble ALP activities in the frontal cortex and pons-medulla region whereas the increased activity of membrane bound ALP was detected in the hippocampus of the rats with status epilepticus. Activities of the other analysed enzymes did not change in the examined brain regions. The presented data indicate clear regional differences of biochemical changes caused by lithium plus pilocarpine treatment and the resulting status epilepticus, frontal cortex being the most affected site.
To report myoclonus due to chlorambucil therapy in two adults with lymphoma, and to review the literature of chlorambucil neurotoxicity in adults.
Case 1: An 81-year-old man with lymphoma being treated with chlorambucil developed jerking movements and stiffness that persisted for 3 days and intensified at night. The dosage of chlorambucil was decreased with a subsequent decrease in symptomatology. Resolution of the myoclonus occurred with discontinuation of the chlorambucil. Rechallenge evoked a return of tremors the next day that later became constant and again resolved on discontinuation of chlorambucil. Case 2: A 75-year-old woman with lymphoma being treated with chlorambucil developed jerking movements in her limbs, particularly in her arms and right hip. The symptoms were so severe they prevented the patient from leaving her house. All symptoms resolved within 2-3 days after the cycle was completed and did not return. She was diagnosed as having had chlorambucil-induced myoclonus.
Searches were performed on MEDLINE, CancerLit, and Science Citation Index Review to identify reports and articles discussing chlorambucil-induced neurotoxicity, particularly myoclonus.
Chlorambucil-induced myoclonus has been described in overdose situations and in the treatment of nephrotic syndrome in children. Three cases of reversible myoclonic activity associated with high-dose chlorambucil in adults have also been described. In each case, the myoclonus resolved following discontinuation of the drug. Only one other conclusive case of low-dose chlorambucil-induced myoclonus in an adult has been described. The two cases presented here are unique in that the myoclonus occurred in adults receiving low-dose chlorambucil who had no myoclonus before or after treatment with the drug.
From the cases reviewed, it appears that chlorambucil may induce myoclonus in adults receiving therapeutic dosages of chlorambucil. The neurologic status of patients receiving chlorambucil should be followed closely during treatment. If myoclonus develops, drug-induced myoclonus should be considered, as well as discontinuation of the drug.
To describe a patient with neutropenic fever complicated by hyperglycemia, lactic acidosis, and fatal myocardial failure associated with clozapine therapy.
A 37-year-old Ashkenazic Jewish man was admitted for agranulocytosis and fever, which developed after 11 weeks of clozapine monotherapy for drug-resistant schizophrenia. Complete blood counts and a routine serum chemical analysis had been normal before the treatment was initiated, and remained within normal limits during the first 10 weeks of the treatment. On the day of admission, the patient deteriorated rapidly and developed extreme hyperglycemia, severe lactic acidosis, recurrent cardiac arrest, cardiogenic shock, and coma. He died 36 hours later despite intensive treatment.
Clozapine intake reduced fatal aganulocytosis, associated with hyperglycemia, lactic acidosis, and heart failure. White blood cell count monitoring was insufficient to predict these adverse effects.
Clozapine should be avoided in high-risk patients (e.g., the elderly, women, Ashkenazic Jews).
To report a case of venlafaxine overdose.
A 40-year-old woman with major depression took an overdose of venlafaxine in an apparent suicide attempt. After the ingestion of 26 venlafaxine 50-mg tablets, the patient experienced a witnessed generalized seizure. She was admitted to the medical intensive care unit, venlafaxine was discontinued, and no further sequelae were seen.
To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of venlafaxine overdose that resulted in a generalized seizure. Based on nonoverdose pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of venlafaxine and the potential risks of available interventions, no emergent therapy was instituted.
The venlafaxine overdose in our patient resulted in a single episode of generalized seizure but elicited no further sequelae.
A patient is presented who developed nephrotoxicity after therapy with lomustine (CCNU) for astrocytoma of the brain. Only three other cases of lomustine nephrotoxicity have been reported, and all cases have been associated with cumulative drug doses of greater than 1,500 mg/m2. The clinical and pathologic features of lomustine nephrotoxicity are reviewed. It is recommended that cumulative doses of more than 1,200-1,4000 mg/m2 lomustine be avoided because of the risk of nephrotoxicity.
By flow cytometry, a panel of 18 primary glioma cell explants exhibited high expression of class I HLA-A, B, C, but class II HLA-DR expression was absent. Freshly isolated normal brain cells displayed little or no HLA antigens. Alloreactive cytotoxic T lymphocytes (aCTL), sensitized to the HLA of the patient, were generated in a one-way mixed lymphocyte response (MLR). The specificity of aCTL was confirmed to be to target cells (patient glioma cells or lymphoblasts) expressing the relevant HLA antigens. However, nontumor patient-specific aCTL did not lyse normal brain cells. Titration of antibodies to HLA class I into cytotoxicity assays blocked lysis of gliomas by aCTL, confirming aCTL T cell receptor (TCR) interactions with the class I antigen on gliomas. Furthermore, aCTL interactions with glioma cells caused their apoptosis. Coincubations of aCTL with gliomas resulted in upregulated cytokine secretion. Importantly, dexamethasone, an immunosuppressive steroid used for brain edema, did not affect aCTL lytic function against tumor, indicating that steroid-dependent patients may benefit from the immunotherapy. We also explored the use of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) to increase aCTL tumor recognition. Coincubation of gliomas with exogenous IFN-gamma (500 U/ml, 48 h) caused a 3-fold upregulation of HLA class I and a slight induction of class II antigen expression. Gene-modified glioma cells producing IFN-gamma similarly displayed upregulated HLA expression. Glioma cells incubated with exogenous IFN-gamma or IFN-gamma-transduced glioma cells were more susceptible to lysis by aCTL than their parental counterparts, thus supporting the concept of combining IFN-gamma cytokine gene therapy with adoptive aCTL immunotherapy for brain tumor treatment.
Clinical recognition of drug-induced vasculitic and lupus-like syndromes is very important because continued use of the offending drug can lead to irreversible and life-threatening vasculitic organ damage (e.g. end-stage renal disease or pulmonary haemorrhage). Withdrawal of the drug often leads to spontaneous recovery, meaning that immunosuppressive therapy can be avoided. The presence of myeloperoxidase-antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies, IgM anticardiolipin antibody, and antihistone antibodies in combination was found to be characteristic of drug-induced vasculitic syndromes caused by the antithyroid drugs propylthiouracil and methimazol. Clinically, skin vasculitis and arthralgias predominated and renal vasculitis was rare.
A post hoc analysis of safety data from study protocol NZT40012 assessed the incidence of conditions defined by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in 86 zidovudine-naïve, antiretroviral-experienced patients with HIV-1 infection who responded poorly (plasma HIV-1 RNA > 1000 copies/mL) despite at least 4 months' treatment with stavudine-containing regimens. Peripheral neuropathy occurred in 21%; other conditions were seen less frequently (candidiasis [13%], herpes zoster [12%], diarrhea lasting > 1 month [9%], Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia [9%], and wasting syndrome [8%]). The incidence of peripheral neuropathy rose significantly with the number of drugs comprising treatment regimens (> or = 4 vs 1-3; P = .013) and tended to be higher in patients with longer exposure to stavudine (29% with > or = 24 months' exposure vs 13% with < 24 months). Because peripheral neuropathy was observed with such high frequency, vigilance for signs and symptoms of this condition appears warranted if stavudine-containing regimens are to be continued.
Germanium-132 (Ge-132) was given at 200 mg/kg of body weight to 8-week-old Kurosawa and Kusanagi hypercholesterolemic (KHC) rabbits. Thirty-six weeks later, the susceptibility of plasma low-density lipoprotein to oxidation and the morphology of atherosclerosis in the aorta and coronary artery were investigated. Treatment with Ge-132 resulted in decreases in the oxidation rate and in the formation rate of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances following copper-induced oxidation of LDL. Ge-132 is suggested to possess antioxidative properties, but this did not lead to any attenuation of atherosclerotic progression in the KHC rabbits.
The resins and leaves of species of Protium are commonly used by folk medicine. In the present study, we analyse the pharmacological effects of essential oils obtained by steam distillation (leaves and resin) from Protium species. Analysis by gas chromatography (GC) coupled to mass spectrometry and retention indices calculations demonstrate that the resin oil is constituted mainly of monoterpenes and phenylpropanoids: alpha-terpinolene (22%), p-cymene (11%), p-cimen-8-ol (11%), limonene (5%) and dillapiol (16%), whereas sesquiterpenes predominate as the volatile constituents of the leaves. The resin of Protium heptaphyllum (PHP) and leaves of P. strumosum (PS), P. grandifolium (PG), P. lewellyni (PL) and P. hebetatum (PHT) were screened for anti-inflammatory activity by the use of mouse pleurisy model induced by zymosan (500 microg/cavity) and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) (250 ng/cavity), for antinociceptive effect (by means of preventing mice abdominal writhings), as well as NO production from stimulated macrophages and proliferation of neoplasic cell lines: Neuro-2a (mouse neuroblastoma), SP2/0 (mouse plasmocytoma) and J774 (mouse monocytic cell line). The oils from PHP, PS and PL were able to inhibit protein extravasation but no sample inhibited total or differential leucocyte counts after administrating p.o. (100 mg/kg) 1 h before stimulation with zymosan. The oils from PG, PL and PHT inhibited neutrophil accumulation whereas PHP and specially PL inhibited LPS-induced eosinophil accumulation in mouse pleural cavity. PHT was also able to inhibit mononuclear cells accumulation. Antinociceptive effect was not observed, when animals received oral administration of the essential oils (100 mg/kg). In vitro treatment with essential oils (100 microg/well) changed the NO production from stimulated mouse macrophages. PHP inhibited in 74% and PS in 46% the LPS-induced NO production. In contrast, treatment with PL was able to increase in 49% the NO production. Cell lines proliferation was affected by the oils assayed in the range of 60-100% for Neuro-2a, 65-95% for SP2/0 and 70-90% for J774. Taken together these results showed that essential oils could be useful as efficient pharmacological tools.
Gentamicin (GM) is used against serious and life-threatening Gram negative infections. However its use is limited by the occurrence of nephrotoxicity. Reports on the interaction between GM nephrotoxicity and calcium (Ca(2+)) or Ca blockers are conflicting. Therefore, in the present work we assessed the effect of treatment of rats with graded doses of calcium carbonate, CaCO(3) (0.25, 0.5 or 1.0 g/kg) orally, or the Ca(2+) channel blocker verapamil (1.75, 3.5 or 7.0 mg/ kg) intramuscularly (i.m.), on the nephrotoxicity induced by concomitant i.m. treatment with GM (80 mg /kg/day for 6 days). Nephrotoxicity was evaluated histopathologically by light microscopy and biochemically by measuring the concentrations of urea and creatinine in plasma, reduced glutathione (GSH), lipid peroxidation and superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity in kidney cortex. The results indicated that the administration of CaCO(3) produced a dose-dependent amelioration in the biochemical indices of nephrotoxicity in plasma and renal cortex, which was significant at the two higher doses used. The histological picture of the renal proximal tubules followed a similar pattern. Treatment with verapamil induced a dose-dependent potentiation in the biochemical parameters of nephrotoxicity that was significant only at the highest dose used (7 mg/kg). This dose also exacerbated the GM-induced histological necrosis. The above interactions may be clinically relevant in patients treated concurrently with these agents.
A relationship appears to exist between prolactin metabolism and psychosexual development. We studied pubertal stage, testicular size, and serum follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), luteinizing hormone (LH), testosterone, thyroxine, thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), and prolactin concentrations in 94 adolescent males who had survived malignancies in childhood. Of the patients, 22% had elevated serum prolactin, > 300 mU/L. In multivariate analysis, the only therapeutic agents or treatments found to be independently associated with prolactin concentration were cisplatin and cytosine arabinose. Administration of cisplatin was associated with an increase of 55 m U/L (p < 0.01) and that of cytosine arabinoside with an increase of 23 mU/L (p < 0.01) in serum prolactin concentration. Serum prolactin concentration correlated with serum FSH (r = 0.26, p = 0.16) and LH (r = 0.30, p = 0.005). In 45 of the patients 10 criteria of psychosexual development were evaluated using a personal, semi-structured, and psychodynamically-oriented interview. A significant inverse relation existed between serum prolactin concentration and dating with the opposite sex (p = 0.008); none of the patients with elevated serum prolactin were dating. We conclude that even a slight elevation of serum prolactin above normal is associated with or may be reflected in the psychosexual development of adolescent males who have survived malignancies in childhood.
We have shown previously that chronic (32 weeks) exposure to occupationally relevant concentrations of the environmental pollutant trichloroethylene (TCE) induced autoimmune hepatitis (AIH) in autoimmune-prone MRL+/+ mice. In real-life, individuals are never exposed to only one chemical such as TCE. However, very little is known about the effects of chemical mixtures on the immune system. The current study examined whether coexposure to another known immunotoxicant, mercuric chloride (HgCl(2)), altered TCE-induced AIH. Female MRL+/+ mice were treated for only 8 weeks with TCE (9.9 or 186.9 mg/kg/day in drinking water) and/or HgCl(2) (260 μg/kg/day, sc). Unlike mice exposed to either TCE or HgCl(2) alone, mice exposed to both toxicants for 8 weeks developed significant liver pathology commensurate with early stages of AIH. Disease development in the coexposed mice was accompanied by a unique pattern of anti-liver and anti-brain antibodies that recognized, among others, a protein of approximately 90 kDa. Subsequent immunoblotting showed that sera from the coexposed mice contained antibodies specific for heat shock proteins, a chaperone protein targeted by antibodies in patients with AIH. Thus, although TCE can promote autoimmune disease following chronic exposure, a shorter exposure to a binary mixture of TCE and HgCl(2) accelerated disease development. Coexposure to TCE and HgCl(2) also generated a unique liver-specific antibody response not found in mice exposed to a single toxicant. This finding stresses the importance of including mixtures in assessments of chemical immunotoxicity.
The serum oxidation activity (SOA) of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and other connective-tissue diseases (OCTD) was measured by a new colorimetric procedure the authors have devised, using o-phenylene diamine (OPD) as the indicator. A comparison was made between SOA and other clinical data, such as patient age, the particular stages of the disease and its total duration, number of joints with active synovitis, arthritic score, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), c-reactive protein (CRP), RA test results, rheumatoid arthritis haemagglutination titre (RAHA), ceruloplasmine (CP) and transferrin. Fifty-three out of 73 patients with RA (72.6%) and thirteen out of 34 patients with OCTD (38.2%) showed high levels of SOA (mean + 2SD of the control value). A significant correlation was noted between SOA and the number of joints with active synovitis, serum CP, CRP and ESR in RA patients. SOA and lipid peroxide (LP) were inversely correlated to a very significant extent. In OCTD, SOA showed a significant correlation with CP, but not with CRP or ESR. The number of active synovitis in RA patients indicated their high correlation with SOA. Drugs generally used for RA therapy, such as D-penicillamine and tiobutarit (SA96), were found to have anti-oxidant activity in the presence of RA sera. On the basis of these data, it is apparent that SOA is a reliable indicator of RA activity, and that the oxidation of various body constituents and fluids may be essential to the inflammatory processes of RA.
Recent studies have shown that antagonists of serotonin (5-HT)1B receptors attenuate cocaine-induced locomotor hyperactivity, whereas agonists enhance reinforcing and discriminative stimulus effects of the psychostimulant. The present study was designed to determine how 5-HT1B receptor ligands affected the development or the expression phase of sensitization to the cocaine-induced locomotor response in rats. In Experiment 1, rats were treated repeatedly (for 5 days) with cocaine (10 mg/kg) in combination with either saline, GR 127935 (5-HT1B antagonist), CP 94,253 (5-HT1B agonist) or GR 127935 + CP 94,253. On day 10, they received a challenge dose of cocaine (10 mg/kg). In Experiment 2, animals received either saline or cocaine (10 mg/kg) for 5 days, and were then challenged with cocaine (10 mg/kg) in combination with saline, GR 127935, CP 94,253 or GR 127935 + CP 94,253, on day 10. In Experiment 3, rats received either saline, cocaine or CP 94,253 for 5 days; on day 10 they received challenge doses of CP 94,253 or cocaine. In rats treated repeatedly with cocaine, the locomotor hyperactivity induced by a challenge dose of the psychostimulant was about twice as high as that observed after its first administration. The effect evoked by cocaine challenge was further increased in animals treated repeatedly with CP 94,253 + cocaine, but not with GR 127935 + CP 94,253 + cocaine. No difference was observed in the response to cocaine challenge in rats treated repeatedly with cocaine or GR 127935 + cocaine (Experiment 1). In animals treated repeatedly with the psychostimulant, the behavioral response to a challenge dose of cocaine was dose-dependently increased when that drug was combined with CP 94,253, but not with GR 127935 + CP 94,253. No difference was observed in the locomotor response of rats challenged with cocaine or GR 127935 + cocaine (Experiment 2). When rats were treated repeatedly with cocaine, a challenge dose of CP 94,253 produced an about threefold increase in the locomotor effect compared to the animals treated likewise with saline (Experiment 3). Our results indicate that 5-HT1B receptors are involved in neither the development nor the expression of sensitization to cocaine-induced locomotor hyperactivity. On the other hand, they also show that pharmacological activation of 5-HT1B receptors enhances both phases of this phenomenon, and that repeated administration of cocaine leads to an increased functional reactivity of these receptors.
Several reports have indicated that indomethacin-induced gastropathy is mediated through generation of free radicals, neutrophil infiltration and disturbance in nitric oxide production. Rutin is a potent antioxidant flavonoid. Recently, rutin was reported to inhibit neutrophil infiltration and to modulate nitric oxide production in gastric mucosa. Therefore, the aim of this study was to investigate the protective effect of rutin against indomethacin-induced gastric injury. Accordingly, four groups of rats were used. The first three groups were injected orally with vehicle, rutin (200 mg/kg) and indomethacin (48 mg/kg) respectively. The fourth group was injected with rutin 1 hr before indomethacin. Animals were killed after 6 hr of indomethacin administration. Gastric juice acidity and gastric injury were evaluated directly. Moreover, the activities of myeloperoxidase, superoxide dismutase and the contents of reduced glutathione, thiobarbituric acid reactive substance and total nitrite/nitrate (as a marker of nitric oxide production) were determined in mucosal tissues. Indomethacin increased gastric ulcer index, gastric myeloperoxidase activity, gastric acidity and thiobarbituric acid reactive substance contents compared with control. On the other hand, indomethacin decreased glutathione, nitrite/nitrate contents and superoxide dismutase activity. Histopathological examination of the stomachs of indomethacin-treated rats revealed degenerative changes in gastric tissues. Pre-treatment with rutin protected gastric tissues against indomethacin-induced gastropathy as demonstrated from reduction in the ulcer index, attenuation of histopathological changes and amelioration of the altered oxidative stress and biochemical parameters. These results indicate that rutin has a protective effect against indomethacin-induced gastropathy probably through inhibiting neutrophil infiltration, suppression of oxidative stress generation and replenishing nitrite/nitrate levels regardless of gastric acidity.
