Exposure to Libby amphibole (LA) asbestos is associated with increased incidences of human autoimmune disease and mortality related to cardiovascular diseases. However, the systemic and vascular impacts are less well examined because of the dominance of pulmonary disease. It was postulated that regardless of the type of exposure scenario, LA exposure might produce systemic and vascular inflammogenic and thrombotic alterations in healthy and cardiovascular compromised rat models. Samples from three independent studies were examined. In the first study, male Wistar Kyoto (WKY), spontaneously hypertensive (SH), and SH heart failure (SHHF) rats were intratracheally instilled once with 0 (vehicle), 0.25, or 1 mg/rat of LA. In the second study, F344 rats were instilled with vehicle or LA at 0.5, 1.5, or 5 mg/rat. In the third study, F344 rats were instilled with the same mass concentrations of LA delivered by biweekly multiple instillations over 3 mo to simulate an episodic subchronic exposure. Complete blood count, platelet aggregation, serum cytokines, and biomarkers of systemic and aortic effects were examined. LA reduced adenosine diphosphate (ADP)-induced platelet aggregation and decreased circulating platelets in WKY (1 mg/rat) and F344 (5 mg/rat) at the 3-mo time point but did not do so in SH or SHHF rats. A decline in circulating lymphocytes with age appeared to be exacerbated by LA exposure in F344 rats but the differences were not significant. Aorta mRNA expression for biomarkers of oxidative stress (HO-1, LOX-1), inflammation (MIP-2), and thrombosis (tPA, PAI-1, vWf) were increased at baseline in SH and SHHF relative to WKY. LA exposure upregulated several of these biomarkers and also those involved in aortic contractility of WKY rats at 3 mo, suggesting thrombogenic, vasocontractile, and oxidative stress-mediated impairments. The aorta changes in F344 rats were less remarkable than changes noted in WKY following LA exposure. In conclusion, exposure to LA decreased circulating platelets and platelet coagulability while increasing the expression of oxidative stress, thrombosis, and vasoconstriction biomarkers in the aorta of healthy rats. These changes were similar to those noted at baseline in SH and SHHF rats, suggesting that LA-induced pulmonary injury might increase the risk of developing cardiovascular disease in healthy individuals.
The occurrence of drug-containing gallstones is not often observed. To our knowledge, three drugs have so far been incriminated-ceftriaxone, glaphenine, and dipyridamole. This report presents the case of an 85-year-old woman who developed a recurrent drug-containing gallstone caused by dipyridamole eighteen months after a previous stone had been removed endoscopically.
Some children with ADHD also have social and communication difficulties similar to those seen in children with autistic spectrum disorders and this may be due to shared genetic liability. As the oxytocin receptor (OXTR) gene has been implicated in social cognition and autistic spectrum disorders, this study investigated whether OXTR polymorphisms previously implicated in autism were associated with ADHD and whether they influenced OXTR mRNA expression in 27 normal human amygdala brain samples. The family-based association sample consisted of 450 DSM-IV diagnosed ADHD probands and their parents. Although there was no association with the ADHD phenotype, an association with social cognitive impairments in a subset of the ADHD probands (N=112) was found for SNP rs53576 (F=5.24, p=0.007) with post-hoc tests demonstrating that the AA genotype was associated with better social ability compared to the AG genotype. Additionally, significant association was also found for rs13316193 (F=3.09, p=0.05) with post-hoc tests demonstrating that the CC genotype was significantly associated with poorer social ability than the TT genotype. No significant association between genotype and OXTR mRNA expression was found. This study supports previous evidence that the OXTR gene is implicated in social cognition.
To determine whether the increased renal biosynthesis of thromboxane A2 observed in young genetically hypertensive rats of the Lyon strain could be involved in the development of their hypertension, Lyon hypertensive female rats received either thromboxane synthetase inhibitors (Dazmegrel or OKY 046) or a thromboxane A2 receptor antagonist (AH 23848) during their prehypertensive stage. Treatment from 5 to 9 weeks of age with Dazmegrel failed to reduce systolic blood pressure. When given from 3 to 9 weeks of age, Dazmegrel and OKY 046 induced a similar progressive and specific reduction (60%) in the urinary excretion of thromboxane B2 that was associated with a transient decrease in blood pressure level with Dazmegrel and a longer lasting blood pressure-lowering effect with OKY 046. AH 23848, given according to the same schedule, normalized the blood pressure level. This effect persisted 1 week after the cessation of the treatment. Interestingly, active doses of thromboxane synthetase inhibitors or of thromboxane A2 receptor blocker required a 3-week delay to exhibit their antihypertensive properties. It is concluded that 1) the elevated production of thromboxane A2 observed in young Lyon hypertensive rats is likely to participate actively in their blood pressure regulation and 2) this effect may be independent of its direct vasoconstrictor properties.
Toxoplasma encephalitis is the most common opportunistic infection of the central nervous system in patients with AIDS. The treatment of choice is a combination of sulfadiazine and pyrimethamine. We present here four patients with AIDS treated for toxoplasmic encephalitis who developed sulfadiazine-induced crystalluria. This complication was rapidly reversible with rehydration and urine alkalinization. Patients with AIDS treated with high doses of sulfadiazine should be adequately hydrated, and their urinary pH maintained above 7.5 to prevent sulfadiazine-induced crystalluria.
The occurrence of acute dystonic reactions (ADRs) due to domperidone administration in two young women is reported. In both patients, a typical polycystic ovary (PCO) syndrome was found. The possibility that the relative hyperestrogenism typical of PCO syndrome acted as a facilitating factor for ADR is discussed.
Two cases are described in which markedly increased consumption of caffeine led to an exacerbation of a schizophrenic process. The original description of this phenomenon and the clinical and basic science literature regarding the psychotropic effects of caffeine are reviewed. The cases are discussed in light of the clinical and research implications.
Eosinophilia and jaundice occured in a depressed patient treated with amitriptyline, an association which is previously unreported. These complications cleared with withdrawal of the drug. This clinical picture should be added to the known hepatic complications of amitriptyline.
The clinical consequences (therapeutic and toxic) of drug acetylation polymorphism are reviewed for procainamide, hydralazine, phenelzine, isoniazid, and salicylazosulfapyridine. Genetic slow acetylators are more likely than rapid acetylators to experience the following adverse drug reactions: (1) earlier development of procainamide-induced antinuclear antibody; (2) earlier and more frequent development of procainamide-induced systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE); (3) hydralazine-induced SLE; (4) spontaneous SLE; (5) drowsiness and nausea from phenelzine; (6) cyanosis, hemolysis, and transient reticulocytosis from salicylazosulfapyridine; and (7) polyneuropathy after isoniazid therapy. The incidence of isoniazid hepatitis may, however, be more common in rapid than than in slow acetylators. Genetic slow acetylators are also more likely than rapid acetylators to experience greater therapeutic responses from similar doses of the following: phenelzine, hydralazine provided beta blockers are concurrently used, and isoniazid if once weekly therapy is used. Thus, knowledge of the acetylator phenotype of a patient can help determine the relative risk for some drug-related toxic and therapeutic responses.
Recent evidences suggest key roles of abnormal neurogenesis and astrogliosis in the pathogenesis of epilepsy. Alterations in the microenvironment of the stem cell, such as microglial activation and cyclooxygenase-2 induction may cause ectopic neurogenesis or astrogliosis. Here, we examined if inflammatory blockade with celecoxib, a selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor, could modulate the altered microenvironment in the epileptic rat brain. Celecoxib attenuated the likelihood of developing spontaneous recurrent seizures after pilocarpine-induced prolonged seizure. During the latent period, celecoxib prevented neuronal death and microglia activation in the hilus and CA1 and inhibited the generation of ectopic granule cells in the hilus and new glia in CA1. The direct inhibition of precursor cells by celecoxib was further demonstrated in human neural stem cells culture. These findings raise the evidence of COX-2 induction to act importantly on epileptogenesis and suggest a potential therapeutic role for COX-2 inhibitors in chronic epilepsy.
Brain ischemia induces neuronal loss which is caused in part by excitotoxicity and free radical formation. Here, we report that mangiferin and morin, two antioxidant polyphenols, are neuroprotective in both in vitro and in vivo models of ischemia. Cell death caused by glutamate in neuronal cultures was decreased in the presence of submicromolar concentrations of mangiferin or morin which in turn attenuated receptor-mediated calcium influx, oxidative stress as well as apoptosis. In addition, both antioxidants diminished the generation of free radicals and neuronal loss in the hippocampal CA1 region due to transient forebrain ischemia in rats when administered after the insult. Importantly, neuroprotection by these antioxidants was functionally relevant since treated-ischemic rats performed significantly better in three hippocampal-dependent behavioral tests. Together, these results indicate that mangiferin and morin have potent neuroprotectant activity which may be of therapeutic value for the treatment of acute neuronal damage and disability.
Digoxin-induced bradycardia in dogs was used to evaluate several pharmacodynamic models. Digoxin plasma concentrations and response were monitored in beagle dogs administered either 0.05 or 0.025 mg/kg of digoxin iv as an infusion over 5 min. The models investigated were the linking model, the linear model, the effect compartment model, and the inhibitory model. Regression procedures for investigating the effect compartment model were conducted with Emax (the maximal response, where response was the percentage decrease in heart rate) as a variable with an upper bound of 100%, with a constant value of 100%, or alternately with a constant value equal to the maximal observed response. Based on statistical criteria the effect model using Emax as a variable was found to be the best model for describing digoxin-induced bradycardia. For the effect compartment model, CPss(50) (concentration at steady state that will produce 50% of the maximal response) ranged from 3.8-9.8 ng/ml; delta (exponent describing the steepness of the concentration-response relationship) ranged from 0.6-7.1. The implication of these models in understanding concentration-effect relationships are discussed.
We have evaluated the effect of ketorolac in the prevention of suxamethonium myalgia. Sixty ASA I patients who presented for extraction of wisdom teeth as day cases were allocated randomly to one of three equal groups. Patients received either 0.9% saline (placebo), atracurium 0.05 mg kg-1 i.v. or ketorolac 10 mg i.v., 3 min before induction of anaesthesia. Follow-up postal questionnaires (97% response rate) at 48 h showed no reduction in the incidence of myalgia after ketorolac pretreatment compared with saline. The use of atracurium reduced the incidence of myalgia by 60% (P < 0.001) and the severity of fasciculations (P < 0.001). There was no difference in the severity of fasciculations between the saline and ketorolac groups. Intubating conditions were comparable in the three groups.
Our previous results demonstrate the occurrence of presynaptic inhibitory histamine H3 receptors on sympathetic neurons innervating resistance vessels of the pithed rat. The present study, in which new H3 receptor ligands with increased potency and selectivity (imetit, clobenpropit) were used, was designed to further explore the role of H3 receptors in the regulation of the rat cardiovascular system. In particular we were interested whether these receptors may be activated by endogenous histamine and whether they are detectable in an experimental model of hypertension. All experiments were performed on pithed and vagotomized rats treated with rauwolscine 1 mumol/kg. In normotensive Wistar rats the electrical (1 Hz, 1 ms, 50 V for 20 s) stimulation of the preganglionic sympathetic nerve fibres increased diastolic blood pressure by about 35 mmHg. Two H3 receptor agonists, R-(-)-alpha-methylhistamine and imetit, inhibited the electrically induced increase in diastolic blood pressure in a dose-dependent manner. The maximal effect (about 25%) was obtained for R-(-)-alpha-methylhistamine at about 10 mumol/kg and for imetit at about 1 mumol/kg. Two H3 receptor antagonists, thioperamide 1 mumol/kg and clobenpropit 0.1 mumol/kg, attenuated the inhibitory effect of imetit. The neurogenic vasopressor response was increased by about 15% by thioperamide 1 mumol/kg and clobenpropit 0.1 mumol/kg and decreased by 25% by the histamine methyltransferase inhibitor metoprine 37 mumol/kg. R-(-)-alpha-Methylhistamine, imetit, thioperamide, clobenpropit and metoprine did not affect the vasopressor response to exogenously added noradrenaline 0.01 mumol/kg (which increased diastolic blood pressure by about 40 mmHg). Metoprine had only a very low affinity for H3 binding sites (labelled by 3H-N alpha-methylhistamine; pKi 4.46). In pithed Wistar Kyoto (WKY) and spontaneously hypertensive (SHR) rats, electrical (1 Hz, 1 ms, 50 V for 10 s) stimulation increased diastolic blood pressure by 28 and 37 mmHg, respectively. Imetit inhibited the neurogenic vasopressor response to about the same extent in WKY and SHR rats (maximal effect of about 30%). The inhibitory influence of imetit was diminished by thioperamide 1 mumol/kg to about the same degree in rats of either strain. The present study confirms the occurrence of presynaptic H3 receptors on sympathetic nerve fibres involved in the inhibition of the neurogenic vasopressor response. Moreover, it demonstrates that these H3 receptors are probably activated by endogenous histamine and appear to be operative in hypertension.
To investigate possible potential inducing preneoplastic lesions in liver and in vivo genotoxic potential of diheptyl phthalate (DHP), male F344 rats were subjected to repeated oral administration of DHP at 0, 2.5 or 5 g/kg/day for 28 days. In addition, F344 rats were subjected to once or 14 repeated oral administrations of 5 g/kg/day of DHP, and their livers were subjected to analysis in an alkaline single-cell gel electrophoresis (comet) assay. Furthermore, based on the results of these studies, partial hepatectomized male F344 rats given once, three times, and 14 repeated oral administration of 0, 2.5 or 5 g/kg body weight of DHP were examined by an in vivo liver initiation assay. In a 28-day repeated dose toxicity study, the number and area of glutathione-S-transferase placental form (GST-P) positive foci, a marker of hepatocellular preneoplastic lesions in rats, were significantly increased in DHP-treated groups compared with controls. At 24h after the 14 repeated administrations of DHP, DNA migration, a marker of DNA damage in the comet assay, was significantly induced in DHP-treated rat livers, whereas single treatment did not show such an alteration. In an in vivo liver initiation assay, a significant increase in the number and area of GST-P positive foci was observed in DHP-treated groups subjected to 14 repeated oral administrations of DHP as compared with the control group. These results indicate that DHP may induce altered hepatocellular foci in liver of rats which suggests that DHP is a genotoxic carcinogen in the liver of rats.
Lung cancer is one of the commonest cancers detected worldwide with a high mortality rate. The responsible factors affecting survival include delayed prognosis, and lack of effective treatments. To help improve the disease management, there is a need for better screening and development of specific markers that help in the early diagnosis. Analysis of differentially expressed proteins in cancer cells in comparison to their normal counterparts using proteome profiling revealed identification of new biomarkers as therapeutic targets. Therefore, an animal model for lung cancer was developed and monitored by histopathological evaluation. Lung tissue proteins were isolated, solubilized and resolved on 2D gel electrophoresis using broad pH range IPG strips (pH 3-10). Liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) revealed 66 proteins to be differentially expressed in cancer tissue as compared to normal. The study identified and characterized three of these proteins, namely peroxiredoxin-6, β-actin and collagen α-1 (VI) as potentially prospective biomarkers for early detection of lung cancer.
It is known that vitamin E inhibits tumor cell growth in vitro irrespective of its antioxidative effect. However, it is unclear whether the effect in vitro can be applied to the in vivo situation. In order to address this question, we estimated if alpha-tocopheryloxybutyric acid (TSE), a non-antioxidative vitamin E derivative in vivo, could inhibit cell proliferation during the tumorigenic process of lung in mice treated with 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK), the most potent carcinogen among tobacco-specific nitrosamines. TSE administration suppressed the labeling index of the proliferating cell nuclear antigen, a marker of cell proliferation at a promotion phase of NNK-induced lung tumorigenesis in mice. Similarly, TSE administration inhibited the elevation of ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity and its mRNA at the promotion phase. Of four transcription factors contributing to ODC induction, the change in the level of the c-Myc/Max-consensus oligonucleotide complex was only proportional to the change in ODC mRNA level. These results suggest that vitamin E can inhibit cell proliferation linked with ODC induction at the promotion phase of lung tumorigenesis irrespective of its antioxidative effect and that modulation of the transactivation of the c-Myc/Max complex for the ODC gene by TSE in part contributes to the suppression of ODC induction.
MK-912, a new alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist, was assessed in six volunteers by use of antagonism of the effects of intravenous clonidine as the main index of response. Subjects received single doses of either 0.2 or 2 mg of orally administered MK-912 or placebo in a randomized, double-blind, balanced, crossover design. Clonidine was infused intravenously over 10 minutes, 1 hour after dosing, and observations were made for 8 hours. The 2 mg dose of MK-912 significantly inhibited the clonidine-induced hypotension, bradycardia, xerostomia, and increase in plasma glucose concentrations that were observed during the placebo treatment period (p less than 0.05). The peak elevation in plasma growth hormone that was produced by clonidine on the day the placebo was given was inhibited an average of 87% by the 2 mg dose of MK-912 (p less than 0.01). Although there was a trend toward antagonism of clonidine by the 0.2 mg dose of MK-912, statistically significant differences from placebo were not consistently demonstrated for most parameters. However, a mean 59% inhibition of the clonidine-induced peak elevation of plasma growth hormone was observed (p less than 0.05). Oral MK-912 almost completely inhibits the effect of 200 micrograms of intravenous clonidine in human subjects, which is consistent with its role as a potent alpha 2-antagonist over the dose range of 0.2 to 2.0 mg.
Acetaminophen is a widely used analgesic that can cause acute liver failure when consumed above a maximum daily dose. Certain patients may be at increased risk of hepatocellular damage even at conventional therapeutic doses. We report a case of a 34-year-old man on carbamazepine for complex partial seizures who developed acute liver and renal failure on less than 2.5 grams a day of acetaminophen. This raises caution that patients on carbamazepine should avoid chronic use of acetaminophen, and if required use at lower doses with vigilant monitoring for signs of liver damage.
Exposure to organic dusts elicits airway inflammatory diseases. Vitamin D recently has been associated with various airway inflammatory diseases, but its role in agricultural organic dust exposures is unknown. This study investigated whether vitamin D reduces organic dust-induced inflammatory outcomes in cell culture and animal models. Organic dust extracts obtained from swine confinement facilities induced neutrophil chemokine production (human IL-8, murine CXCL1/CXCL2). Neutrophil chemokine induction was reduced in human blood monocytes, human bronchial epithelial cells, and murine lung slices pretreated with 1,25-(OH)(2) D(3) . Intranasal inhalation of organic dust extract induced neutrophil influx, and CXCL1/CXCL2 release was also decreased in mice fed a relatively high vitamin D diet as compared to mice fed a low vitamin D diet. These findings were associated with reduced tracheal epithelial cell PKCα and PKCε activity and whole lung TLR2 and TLR4 gene expression. Collectively, vitamin D plays a role in modulating organic dust-induced airway inflammatory outcomes.
Aristolochic acid (AA), present in Aristolochia species, is the major causative agent in the development of severe renal failure and urothelial cancers in patients with AA nephropathy. It may also be a cause of Balkan endemic nephropathy. Epithelial cells of the proximal tubule are the primary cellular target of AA. To study whether organic anion transporters (OATs) expressed in proximal tubule cells are involved in uptake of AA, we used human epithelial kidney (HEK293) cells stably expressing human (h) OAT1, OAT3 or OAT4. AA potently inhibited the uptake of characteristic substrates, p-aminohippurate for hOAT1 and estrone sulfate for hOAT3 and hOAT4. Aristolochic acid I (AAI), the more cytotoxic and genotoxic AA congener, exhibited high affinity for hOAT1 (K(i)=0.6 microM) as well as hOAT3 (K(i)=0.5 microM), and lower affinity for hOAT4 (K(i)=20.6 microM). Subsequently, AAI-DNA adduct formation (investigated by (32)P-postlabelling) was used as a measure of AAI uptake. Significantly higher levels of adducts occurred in hOAT-expressing cells than in control cells: this effect was abolished in the presence of the OAT inhibitor probenecid. In Xenopus laevis oocytes hOAT-mediated efflux of p-aminohippurate was trans-stimulated by extracellular AA, providing further molecular evidence for AA translocation by hOATs. Our study indicates that OATs can mediate the uptake of AA into proximal tubule cells and thereby participate in kidney cell damage by this toxin.
This clinical study of 62 patients with restless legs syndrome and associated anxious-depressed and other clinical states seems to indicate that caffeine is the major etiological factor in the causation of the restless legs syndrome. Anxiety, while modifying the subjective experience of the dysphoric sensation of restless legs, is not a causative factor. Caffeine is responsible for the increased nervous system arousal as well as for the direct peripheral contractile effect on the striated muscle. This arousal is often reflected psychologically in anxiety and sometimes depressive manifestations, insomnia, heightened proprioceptive awareness and physiologically in the toxic sensory experience of restless legs associated with increased neuromuscular reactivity which may include myoclonus and myokomia.
Spinal, general, and epidural anesthesia have been implicated in the exacerbation of multiple sclerosis. However, to date, no attack has been reported following usage of mandibular block articaine anesthesia. This article describes the case of a 30-year-old man who presented with a sudden occurrence of diplopia on lateral gaze the day after extraction of the mandibular right second and third molars. Two times 1.8 mL 4% articaine solution with 1/100,000 adrenaline was used for local anesthesia. On neurological examination, a restriction on external gaze of his left eye was observed. Immunoglobulin G index was high, and oligoclonal band was present in spinal fluid evaluation. MRI revealed demyelinated plaques on the left side of the midpons, right cerebellar hemisphere, and bilateral white matter and supraventricular spaces. The left abducens palsy completely improved after treatment with intravenous methylprednisolone. Mandibular block articaine anesthesia may precipitate multiple sclerosis onset or attack. This case indicates that dental clinicians and neurologists may be alerted to isolated abducens palsy as a possible adverse effect of mandibular block articaine anesthesia.
Cortical application of morphine (25, 100 and 400 micrograms) induced cortical spikes in a dose-related fashion and, at 400 micrograms, behavioral and electrographic seizures. These electrographic seizures were not opiate specific since this activity occurred undiminished in naltrexone-pretreated animals and was even potentiated in animals pretreated for 6 days with increasingly higher doses of systemic morphine. In contrast to the effects induced by morphine, the most consistent electrographic effect of cortically applied D-Ala2-methionine-enkephalin (DALA) and methadone was a depression of cortical EEG. These results support the hypothesis that the cortex and spinal cord together form the anatomical substrate of the documented nonspecific convulsive action of high systemically administered doses of morphine.
Clinical findings are reported for a group of 55 employees of the Michigan Chemical Corporation which manufactured FireMaster BP-6 from 1970 to 1974, in addition to a variety of other halogenated fire retardant chemicals. The results are compared with those from a group of male farm residents and consumers from Michigan examined at the same time. An increased prevalence of chest and skin symptoms was observed, compared with farmers. Skin symptoms were more prevalent among former PBB production personnel. Musculosketal symptoms were less prevalent among these workers than among farmers. Serum PBB concentrations are signicantly higher than among farmers. Blood chemistry results were similar for workers and farmers. However, both groups exhibited a significantly higher prevalence of elevated liver function tests (SGOT, SPGT) than a control population of nonexposed farmers. Both farmers and chemical workers showed an association of elevated CEA with serum PBB greater than 10 ppb.
