We conducted a randomly allocated, double-blind study in 16 essential hypertensive patients, eight of whom were treated with nifedipine and eight with lacidipine. The antihypertensive efficacy was evaluated and any modifications to peripheral haemodynamic parameters were observed in the brachial artery by a mechanographic method and B-mode scanner with a 10-MHz probe. Statistically significant reductions in blood pressure from basal values were observed after 1 and 6 months' treatment. Enhanced compliance (P less than 0.005), reduced characteristic impedance (P less than 0.001) and lower peripheral resistances (P less than 0.01) were also noted. Variations in pulse wave velocity and mean blood pressure showed a statistically significant correlation as early as the first month of treatment (P less than 0.01). Our results suggest that therapy with nifedipine and lacidipine allows an improvement in peripheral haemodynamics in hypertensive patients. This response is maintained in chronic treatment, even just before the next dose administration at the end of the longest dose interval.
Operative cholangiography is a commonly employed adjunct to biliary operation and is useful in identifying unsuspected common duct calculi. Spasm of the sphincter of Oddi from administration of anesthetic agents like fentanyl citrate (Sublimaze) and morphine sulfate and from operative manipulation may lead to misinterpretation of the cholangiograms and unnecessary surgical procedures that increase morbidity and mortality. Six case reports illustrate these hazards, and the influence of medications that exacerbate spasm of the sphincter of Oddi is emphasized. Recognition of the factors that cause spasm of the sphincter of Oddi will prevent unnecessary common duct explorations and reduce morbidity and mortality in biliary tract operations.
Twenty deaths from isoniazid-associated hepatitis are known to have occurred in California over a 14-yr period in persons ranging in age from 5 to 73 yr. Because no comprehensive survey was carried out, more such deaths probably occurred. With one exception, the patients were not seen or contacted monthly throughout the course of treatment. However, in 16 patients where the information was known, eight were seen by a member of the group giving the isoniazid (INH) within 30 days prior to the patients presenting with hepatitis. In 12 of 17 cases, symptoms were present for 7 days or more before the patient presented for medical care. In at least 35% of cases where the information was known, a management error occurred, usually failing to immediately stop INH when the patient presented with symptoms. The duration of treatment before hepatitis developed varied from 9 to 53 wk. Four of the 20 patients had cholelithiasis or a history of cholelithiasis. With one possible exception, no excessive alcohol use was noted. Concomitant acetaminophen, barbiturate, and tetracycline use occurred in several cases. There were no deaths in Orientals. Sixteen of the 20 deaths occurred in women who had started to receive INH between the ages of 15 and 55. Four of these women began receiving INH during pregnancy and continued it postpartum. Eight deaths occurred in persons starting INH before 35 yr of age. The continued occurrence of INH-associated deaths suggests that indications and precautions for INH preventive treatment be carefully reconsidered.
A patient with the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome presented with incessant orthodromic atrioventricular tachycardia following initiation of procainamide therapy. This finding was repeatedly documented both clinically as well as during electrophysiologic testing. Escape atrial complexes, which occurred following junctional premature complexes, failed to initiate tachycardia in the control state but tachycardia was always reinitiated by an identical escape sequence after procainamide. In addition, the tachycardia persisted and was repeatedly spontaneously reinitiated for prolonged periods after procainamide. The pro-arrhythmic effects of procainamide may be explained on the basis of both its vagolytic action on the atrioventricular node as well as by prolongation of refractoriness in the accessory pathway. These observations add to the literature on pro-arrhythmic effects of commonly used antiarrhythmic drugs.
A community in northern Italy was previously reported to have an excess incidence of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis among residents exposed to high levels of inorganic selenium in their drinking water.
To assess the extent to which such association persisted in the decade following its initial observation, we conducted a population-based case-control study encompassing forty-one newly-diagnosed cases of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and eighty-two age- and sex-matched controls. We measured long-term intake of inorganic selenium along with other potentially neurotoxic trace elements.
We found that consumption of drinking water containing ≥ 1 μg/l of inorganic selenium was associated with a relative risk for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis of 5.4 (95% confidence interval 1.1-26) after adjustment for confounding factors. Greater amounts of cumulative inorganic selenium intake were associated with progressively increasing effects, with a relative risk of 2.1 (95% confidence interval 0.5-9.1) for intermediate levels of cumulative intake and 6.4 (95% confidence interval 1.3-31) for high intake.
Based on these results, coupled with other epidemiologic data and with findings from animal studies that show specific toxicity of the trace element on motor neurons, we hypothesize that dietary intake of inorganic selenium through drinking water increases the risk for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
To identify which clinical factors can modify the probability of the appearance of the psychotic syndromes in patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease treated with levodopa.
214 patients were retrospectively studied to evaluate the appearance of hallucinosis, delusions or mental confusion, from the beginning of the treatment with levodopa to a transversal evaluation along the course of the disease. To determine which clinical factors were independent predictors of psychosis, a multivariate logistic regression model was obtained, using the variables for which the univariate studies showed p values under 0.25.
The multivariate model showed that the probability of developing psychosis during levodopa treatment was higher for the patients with intermediate or advanced stages of the disease (Hoehn and Yarh scale), at the beginning of the treatment (OR: 4.5; 95% CI: 1.86-11.23), when amantadine was administrated as associated drug (OR: 3.31; 95% CI: 1.19-9.23) and for the patients who presented motor fluctuations (OR: 3.08; 95% CI: 1.32-7.16). Univariate studies showed a significant association between levodopa psychosis and dyskinesias (univariate OR: 2.44; 95% CI: 1.12-5.33). Patients who suffered from psychotic complications had received significantly higher mean levodopa daily dose (p = 0.016) and the punctuation reached in the Folstein's Mini-Mental Scale was significantly lower (p = 0.0001).
Levodopa psychosis appears in a "bad prognostic" group of patients, characterized by a greater motor and cognitive impairment and by the occurrence of other levodopa central adverse effects, higher doses of levodopa and a more frequent administration of other antiparkinsonian drugs.
Although ketorolac is one of the most potent anti-inflammatory and analgesic drugs, its use has been strongly limited owing to the high incidence of adverse effects reported, particularly in the gastrointestinal tract. Using the prodrug approach, which allows the reduction of toxicological features of the parent drug without altering its pharmacological properties, we synthesized an orally administrable prodrug of ketorolac by means of its reversible conjugation to D-galactose (ketogal). In a single dose study, its pharmacokinetic profile was compared with that of ketorolac. Moreover, we found that this prodrug was able to maintain the anti-inflammatory and the analgesic activity of the drug without giving rise to gastric ulcer formation. Thus, these results indicate that ketogal is a highly effective and valid therapeutic alternative to ketorolac itself.
Ewing tumor cell survival and proliferation depends on several autocrine loops. Targeting these loops is a promising therapeutic approach. We recently showed the cytostatic role of imatinib, an inhibitor of the SCF-KIT loop, on Ewing tumor cells, and in this study, we intend to analyze the inhibition of the insulin-like growth factor I receptor (IGF1R) loop.
We analyzed IGF1R blockade by ADW742, a small molecule specific for this receptor, alone and in combination with imatinib, vincristine, and doxorubicin on Ewing tumor cell lines. We studied the effect on proliferation, apoptosis, cell cycle, pathway phosphorylation, soft-agar growth, motility, and vascular endothelial growth factor expression levels.
Treatment with ADW742 induced down-regulation of IGF1R/AKT/mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) phosphorylation, which was deeper in cell lines having higher IGF1R activation levels. Treatment also induced dose-dependent inhibition of cell proliferation (IC50 = 0.55-1.4 micromol/L), inducing a G1 phase blockage and apoptosis. Addition of imatinib to ADW742 synergistically augmented these effects and was especially effective in inhibiting AKT/mTOR phosphorylation and reducing vascular endothelial growth factor expression in cell lines having high IGF1R activation levels. Combination with usual chemotherapeutic agents vincristine and doxorubicin showed synergistic interactions.
Inhibition of Ewing tumor cell proliferation by ADW742 is mediated through blockade of IGF1R signaling. Combination of ADW742 with imatinib, vincristine, and doxorubicin induces a significant reduction of tumor cell growth, mainly by the increase in apoptosis with a pattern depending on IGF1R activation levels. This study supports a potential role for ADW742 in the treatment of Ewing tumor and AKT/mTOR as a possible surrogate marker of response to therapy.
Moment-to-moment control of blood pressure is important in the management of the neurosurgical patient. The ideal agent to control blood pressure or induce hypotension should be non-toxic, maintain cerebrovascular autoregulation, and not alter cardiac output or change intracranial pressure. Intravenous nitroglycerin has been used to control blood pressure in 54 neurosurgical cases. This agent produces a rapid, controllable, but not precipitous fall in blood pressure without rebound, is non-toxic, may not alter cerebrovascular autoregulation, and does not raise intracranial pressure. Our clinical experience with intravenous nitroglycerin indicates that it has an important role as a hypotensive agent for the neurosurgical patient.
Conazoles are fungicides used as agricultural pesticides and pharmaceutical products. We investigated whether a common core of toxicological and transcriptional responses underlies the observed carcinogenic effects of three conazoles: cyproconazole, epoxiconazole, and propiconazole. In studies where mice were fed diets of these conazoles for 30 days, we found a common set of toxicological effects altered by these conazoles: hepatomegaly, hepatocellular hypertrophy, decreased serum cholesterol, decreased hepatic levels of all-trans-retinoic acid, and increased hepatic cell proliferation. Microarray-based transcriptional analysis revealed 330 significantly altered probe sets common to these conazoles, many of which showed strong dose responses for cytochrome P450, glutathione S-transferase, and oxidative stress genes. More detailed analyses identified a subset of 80 altered genes common to the three conazoles that were associated with cancer. Pathways associated with these genes included xenobiotic metabolism, oxidative stress, cell signaling, and cell proliferation. A common TGFα-centric pathway was identified within the 80-gene set, which, in combination with the toxicological and other transcriptomic findings, provides a more refined toxicity profile for these carcinogenic conazoles.
Terbinafine, an allylamine used to treat onychomycosis, has been reported to be active against rat Pneumocystis carinii in vitro and in vivo. By contrast, our in vitro data showed that the 50% inhibitory concentration of terbinafine against rat P. carinii is 3.7 microg/ml, a level that cannot be clinically achieved in serum. In the present study, terbinafine administered orally at doses of 20 to 400 mg/kg/day and 50 to 250 mg/kg/day was ineffective therapy for mouse and rat models of pneumocystosis, respectively. These results emphasize the complexities of P. carinii drug testing and the need for caution before considering studies in humans.
Chromosomal instability is a defining feature of clonal myeloma plasma cells that results in the perpetual accumulation of genomic aberrations. In addition to its role in protein homeostasis, the ubiquitin-proteasome system is also involved in the regulation of DNA damage-repair proteins. In the present study, we show that proteasome inhibition induces a "BRCAness" state in myeloma cells (MM), with depletion of their nuclear pool of ubiquitin and abrogation of H2AX polyubiquitylation, an essential step for the recruitment of BRCA1 and RAD51 to the sites of DNA double-stranded breaks (DSBs) and the initiation of homologous recombination (HR)-mediated DNA repair. Inhibition of poly-ADP-ribose-polymerase 1 and 2 (PARP1/2) with ABT-888 induced transient DNA DSBs that were rapidly resolved and thus had no effect on viability of the MM cells. In contrast, cotreatment of MM cell lines and primary CD138(+) cells with bortezomib and ABT-888 resulted in the sustained accumulation of unrepaired DNA DSBs with persistence of unubiquitylated γH2AX foci, lack of recruitment of BRCA1 and RAD51, and ensuing MM-cell death. The heightened cytotoxicity of ABT-888 in combination with bortezomib compared with either drug alone was also confirmed in MM xenografts in SCID mice. Our studies indicate that bortezomib impairs HR in MM and results in a contextual synthetic lethality when combined with PARP inhibitors.
Certain medications, such as the phenothiazines, may cause side effects that result in neck stiffness and may actually mimic the presentation of meningitis, especially in children. Despite the controversial use of antiemetics, they continue to be used in children with viral gastroenteritis. I describe the case of a child who had a febrile seizure and meningismus during the course of a viral gastroenteritis, not due to meningitis but to the untoward side effect of an antiemetic. Clinicians must be aware that these medications may cause extrapyramidal side effects that may mimic other more serious diseases and lead to unnecessary evaluations; therefore, their use cannot be strongly encouraged. If antiemetics are prescribed, physicians should emphasize possible side effects so that corrective treatment can be initiated promptly.
HtrA1 is a member of the HtrA (high-temperature requirement factor A) family of serine proteases. HtrA1 plays a protective role in various malignancies due to its tumour suppressive properties. The aim of this study was to determine HtrA1 expression as a predictor of chemoresponse in patients with advanced gastric cancer.
HtrA1 expression was determined by immunohistochemistry on specimens of primary gastric cancer from 80 patients treated consecutively with cisplatin-based combination chemotherapy. Response to chemotherapy was assessed according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST) criteria. Our population consisted of males/females [51/29; median age 64 years (range 32-82)]. A complete or partial response was observed in 71.4% [95% confidence interval (CI) 54.7-88.2], 66.7% (95% CI 47.8-85.5) and 28.6% (95 CI 11.8-45.3) of tumours showing high, medium and low HtrA1 expression, respectively. A statistically significant association between HtrA1 expression and the clinical response was observed (P = 0.002). The median overall survival for patients with high/medium expression was 17 months compared to 9.5 months for patients with low HtrA1 expression (P = 0.037).
Identification of HtrA1 in gastric cancer prior to chemotherapy indicates that levels of HtrA1 could be used to predict response to platinum-based combination therapies. Further assessment of HtrA1 expression is highly warranted in large, prospective studies.
High doses of inhaled salbutamol produce substantial improvements in airway response in patients with asthma, and are associated with dose-dependent systemic beta-adrenoceptor responses. The purpose of the present study was to investigate whether tachyphylaxis occurs during prolonged treatment with high dose inhaled salbutamol. Twelve asthmatic patients (FEV1, 81 +/- 4% predicted), requiring only occasional inhaled beta-agonists as their sole therapy, were given a 14-day treatment with high dose inhaled salbutamol (HDS), 4,000 micrograms daily, low dose inhaled salbutamol (LDS), 800 micrograms daily, or placebo (PI) by metered-dose inhaler in a double-blind, randomized crossover design. During the 14-day run-in and during washout periods, inhaled beta-agonists were withheld and ipratropium bromide was substituted for rescue purposes. At the end of each 14-day treatment, a dose-response curve (DRC) was performed, and airway (FEV1, FEF25-75) chronotropic (HR), tremor, and metabolic (K, Glu) responses were measured at each step (from 100 to 4,000 micrograms). Treatment had no significant effect on baseline values. There were dose-dependent increases in FEV1 and FEF25-75 (p less than 0.001), and pretreatment with HDS did not displace the DRC to the right. DRC for HR (p less than 0.001), K (p less than 0.001), and Glu (p less than 0.005) were attenuated after treatment with HDS compared with PI. There were also differences between HDS and LDS for HR (p less than 0.001) and Glu (p less than 0.05) responses. Frequency and severity of subjective adverse effects were also reduced after HDS: tremor (p less than 0.001), palpitations (p less than 0.001).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To test the hypothesis that nitric oxide inhalation facilitates CO2 elimination by decreasing alveolar deadspace in an ovine model of acute lung injury.
Prospective, placebo-controlled, randomized, crossover model.
University research laboratory.
Eleven mixed-breed adult sheep.
To induce acute lung injury, hydrochloric acid was instilled into the tracheas of paralyzed sheep receiving controlled mechanical ventilation. Each sheep breathed 0 ppm, 5 ppm, and 20 ppm nitric oxide in random order.
Estimates of alveolar deadspace volumes and arterial-to-end tidal CO2 partial pressure differences were used as indicators of CO2 elimination efficiency. At a constant minute ventilation, nitric oxide inhalation caused dose-independent decreases in Paco2 (p <.05), alveolar deadspace (p <.01), and arterial-to-end tidal CO2 partial pressure differences (p <.01). We found that estimates of arterial-to-end tidal CO2 partial pressure differences may be used to predict alveolar deadspace volume (r2 =.86, p <.05).
Estimates of arterial-to-end tidal CO2 partial pressure differences are reliable indicators of alveolar deadspace. Both values decreased during nitric oxide inhalation in our model of acutely injured lungs. This finding supports the idea that nitric oxide inhalation facilitates CO2 elimination in acutely injured lungs. Future studies are needed to determine whether nitric oxide therapy can be used to reduce the work of breathing in selected patients with cardiopulmonary disorders.
Blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors improves outcomes and symptoms in patients with heart failure (HF). We compared effects of losartan to captopril on mortality, morbidity, and functional status for patients in the ELITE II study.
A total of 3152 patients, aged 60 years or older, with New York Heart Association (NYHA) classes II to IV HF and ejection fraction < or = 40% were assigned to receive losartan 50 mg once daily or captopril 50 mg 3 times daily. Outcome measures included all-cause and HF-related mortality, hospitalizations, and discontinuations; change in NYHA class; and quality of life (QoL). HF-related outcomes were not significantly different between therapies. Similar improvements from baseline (P < .01) in NYHA class were observed within both treatment groups. Among 1856 QoL participants, 1343 patients survived at least 1 year; the QoL for 1-year survivors improved in both treatment groups (P < .001 vs baseline) and did not differ between groups.
In ELITE II, the effects of losartan on HF-related outcomes, NYHA class, and QoL were not superior to those of captopril. Although angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors remain the treatment of choice for patients with HF, the similarity of the findings in the present analysis supports a role for angiotensin-receptor antagonists in this patient population.
To investigate the efficacy and tolerability of orlistat in obese adolescents, a prospective, open-label, randomised, controlled pilot trial was performed. A total of 22 adolescents with exogeneous obesity were started on orlistat (120 mg tid) and a daily multivitamin preparation in addition to conventional treatment which included nutritional and lifestyle modification programmes. The control group consisted of 20 obese adolescents who had similar duration of follow-up under conventional treatment alone. Of the 22 patients, 7 dropped out within the 1st month of the trial due to side-effects attributable to orlistat. The remaining 15 patients on orlistat were followed for 5-15 months (average duration of treatment 11.7 +/- 3.7 months). The control group was similar in age, sex, and duration of follow-up (10.2 +/- 3.7 months, range 6-17 months) to the orlistat group. Compared to initial body weight, patients in the orlistat group lost -6.27 +/- 5.4 kg, whereas those in the control group gained 4.16 +/- 6.45 kg (P < 0.001) during the study period. Patients in the orlistat group lost -7.65% +/- 6.5% of their initial body weight, whereas, those of the control group gained 5.7% +/- 8.3% (P < 0.001). The body mass index decreased in the orlistat group by -4.09 +/- 2.9 kg/m2 while it increased by + 0.11 +/- 2.49 kg/m2 in the control group (P < 0.001). Mild gastrointestinal complaints (frequent stools) were experienced by all patients in the orlistat group.
Orlistat could be a useful adjunct in the treatment of severe obesity in adolescents; however, gastrointestinal side-effects limit its usefulness in almost one in three adolescents.
During the course of this study, we sought examine whether the expression of somatostatin receptors (SSTRs) is altered in the hippocampus following pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE) in order to understand the role/function of SSTRs in the hippocampus after epileptogenic insults. SSTR1 and SSTR4 immunoreactivities were increased in the hippocampus at 1 week after SE. At 4 weeks after SE, SRIF1-family (SSTR 2A, SSTR2B, and SSTR5) immunoreactivity was increased only in neuropil. Both SSTR2A and 2B immunoreactivities were increased in CA2-3 pyramidal cells. However, SSTR3 and SSTR4 immunoreactivities were reduced in the CA1 pyramidal cells of epileptic rat due to neuronal loss. In addition, SSTR5 immunoreactivity was reduced in CA2 pyramidal cells and various interneurons. Both SSTR2B and SSTR4 immunoreactivities were increased within microglia following SE. Our findings suggest that increases in neuron-glial SSTR expressions may be closely related to the enhanced inhibition of the dentate gyrus and regulation of reactive microgliosis in the hippocampus of a pilocarpine model of temporal lobe epilepsy.
In view of evidence suggesting an association of mild hypokalaemia with cardiac arrhythmia, the arrhythmogenic potentials of potassium losing and potassium sparing diuretic treatments were compared in a controlled prospective crossover study of 10 patients with mild hypertension and ischaemic heart disease. Mean (SEM) plasma potassium was 4.3(0.06) mmol/l and 3.3(0.07) mmol/l after potassium sparing and potassium losing treatments respectively. Blood pressure and volume depletion as assessed by weight change, plasma renin activity, and noradrenaline concentrations did not differ significantly in the two treatment periods. The potassium losing treatment phase was associated with an increased frequency of ventricular extrasystoles, a higher Lown grading during ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring, prolonged duration and decreased phase 0 velocity of the monophasic action potential, a prolonged ventricular effective refractory period, and increased myocardial electrical instability as assessed by programmed ventricular stimulation. It is concluded that minor changes in plasma potassium concentration are associated with increased ventricular electrical instability in patients with ischaemic heart disease. Mild hypokalaemia in such patients may predispose to life threatening arrhythmias and should be avoided.
Methysergide is a serotonin antagonist and is used as a long-term prophylactic treatment for migraine. Although many patients experience adequate control of migraine episodes, methysergide has been reported to cause retroperitoneal and pleuropulmonary fibrosis. Cardiovascular side effects mainly in the form of valvular fibrosis have been less recognized. We report 2 cases of methysergide-related mitral valve fibrosis.
