We have described two cases of spontaneous intracerebral hematoma, characterized by sedimentation level seen on unenhanced cerebral CT, in patients receiving anticoagulation therapy. Anticoagulation or coagulopathy may be important in producing sedimentation levels. The "sedimentation level" is a more accurate term than the commonly used "blood-fluid level" or "hematocrit effect."
Adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC) is a rare but aggressive malignancy with no effective therapy for patients with unresectable disease. The aim of the current study was i) to evaluate TOP2A expression and function in human adrenocortical neoplasm and ACC cells and ii) to determine the anticancer activity of agents that target TOP2A. TOP2A mRNA and protein expression levels were evaluated in 112 adrenocortical tissue samples (21 normal adrenal cortex, 80 benign adrenocortical tumors, and 11 ACCs). In vitro siRNA knockdown of TOP2A in ACC cell lines (NCI-H295R and SW13) was used to determine its effect on cellular proliferation, cell cycle, anchorage-independent growth, and cellular invasion. We screened 14 TOP2A inhibitors for their anticancer activity in ACC cells. TOP2A mRNA and protein expression was significantly higher in ACC than in benign and normal adrenocortical tissue samples (P<0.05). Knockdown of TOP2A gene expression in ACC cell lines significantly decreased cell proliferation, anchorage-independent growth, and invasion (P<0.05). A screening assay in NCI-H295R cells showed that 11 of 14 TOP2A inhibitors had antiproliferative activity, 5 of the 14 TOP2A inhibitors had a higher antiproliferative activity than mitotane, and aclarubicin was the agent with the highest activity. Aclarubicin was validated to significantly decrease proliferation and tumor spheroid size in both NCI-H295R and SW13 ACC cell lines (P<0.05). Our results suggest that TOP2A is overexpressed in ACC, regulates cellular proliferation and invasion in ACC cells, and is an attractive target for ACC therapy. Of the TOP2A inhibitors screened, aclarubicin is a good candidate agent to test in future clinical trials for patients with locally advanced and metastatic ACC.
Eosinophilic colitis is a rare entity of unknown etiology characterized by diarrhea, abdominal pain, and gastrointestinal bleeding. Diagnosis includes histopathological infiltration of more than 20 eosinophils in colon. It is frequently associated with milk hypersensitivity and, less usual, with other foods and increased IgE. Histopthological appearance of eosinophil mediators has been observed in the gut. It is sometimes related to the degree of infiltration of eosinophils in the gut as well as to the disease severity. There is not an established treatment for this entity, although systemic steroids have been used with certain efficacy. However, there is a recurrence of the symptoms when the therapy stops, besides the well known side effects of the long-term use of steroids. Cromolyn inhibits mast cell degranulation and prevents liberation of mediators. It is successful in certain cases, specially the severe ones. However, it is not available for its use in our country. Ketotifen, as last resource in our patients with bad response to habitual treatment and restriction diet, was used. Although its use is controversial, we consider that stabilizing mast cell membrane with subsequent inhibition of degranulation and recruitment of eosinophils to sites of inflammation, would also restrain histamine liberation and blockage of H1 receptors, which would diminish local damage induced by eosinophils. Nonetheless ketotifen mechanism of action is unknown, our patients improved after treatment with this drug.
Of patients who undergo dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE), 14% to 38% experience hypotension that sometimes requires termination of the test before an adequate cardiac work-load is reached. The mechanisms of hypotension reportedly are related to peripheral vasodilation, a decrease in cardiac output, and left ventricular (LV) cavity obliteration. DSE is performed increasingly in women and in patients with LV dysfunction. However, the impact of gender and LV dysfunction on DSE-induced hypotension has not been elucidated.
Clinical, hemodynamic, and echocardiographic characteristics were studied in 412 patients undergoing DSE, 82 patients with an LV ejection fraction of 40% or less, and 147 women. Hypotension, defined as a decrease in systolic blood pressure of at least 20 mm Hg, occurred in 117 (28%) patients. Hypotension was more common in women than men (36% vs 24%, P = .01). Hypotension was also more common in older adults (P = .004), persons taking diuretics (P = .025) or angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (P = .01), and persons with higher baseline blood pressures (P < .0001). Hypotension was not related to the use of beta blockers, calcium channel blockers, digoxin, nitrates, LV dimensions, or ejection fraction.
The incidence of DSE-induced hypotension is related to gender but not to the level of LV systolic function. It also is associated significantly with higher age, and use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors or diuretics.
Sibutramine is a serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor that was used for weight-loss management in obese patients. Even though it was officially withdrawn from the market in 2010, it is still present in some tainted weight-loss pills (as reported by US Food and Drug Administration). Thus, it is still reasonable to study the effects of this compound. The aim of this work was to investigate the potential of sibutramine to induce CYP1A1/CY3A4 in human cancer cell lines and CYP1A1/2, CYP2A6, CYP2B6, and CYP3A4 in human hepatocytes, a competent model of metabolically active cells. The levels of mRNA and protein of CYP1A1/1A2/3A4/2A6/2B6 were compared with the typical inducers, 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) and rifampicin (RIF) for CYP1A1/2 and for other CYPs, respectively. The mRNA and protein levels of all genes in either cancer cell lines or human hepatocytes were induced when treated with typical inducers but not with sibutramine.
To evaluate the progression of hepatic fibrosis in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) treated with methotrexate (MTX).
Fifteen patients receiving MTX for RA were prospectively studied by electron microscopic analysis of biopsy specimens.
Five of the 15 patients had evidence of increased hepatic collagen after 2 years of MTX therapy.
Hepatic fibrosis may progress in a subgroup of RA patients treated with MTX.
Inhibitors of the cellular enzyme ribonucleotide reductase (hydroxyurea, [HU]) have been proposed as a new therapeutic strategy for the treatment of HIV type-1 (HIV-1) infection. However, HU use may be limited by the frequent development of hematopoietic toxicity. We report here short-term hematopoietic toxicity in mice receiving HU when compared to either of two more potent enzyme inhibitors, didox (DX) and trimidox (TX). High dose HU, DX, and TX monotherapy (500, 460, and 220 mg/kg/day respectively) was administered by daily i.p. injection (Monday-Friday) to C57BL/6 mice for 10 weeks. Effects on hematopoiesis were established by quantitating peripheral blood indices (hematocrit, hemoglobin, mean corpuscular volume, mean cell hemoglobin, mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration, RBC, and WBC) and numbers of colony-forming units-granulocyte-macrophage (CFU-GM) and BFU-E from bone marrow and spleen. HU produced rapid induction of a macrocytic hypochromic anemia and altered white blood cell kinetics associated with myelosuppression defined as reduced marrow organ cellularity and induction of splenic extramedullary hematopoiesis. Compared to HU, TX and DX induced fewer changes in peripheral blood indices and CFU-GM and BFU-E per hematopoietic organ. In vitro human and murine marrow CFU-GM and BFU-E colony formations were assayed in the presence of dose escalation HU, DX, or TX (0, 1, 10, 50, 100, and 200 microM). HU inhibited colony formation more than either DX or TX. These in vivo and in vitro studies suggest that novel ribonucleotide reductase inhibitors TX and DX may provide an effective alternative to HU in HIV-1 therapy because they demonstrate reduced hematopoietic toxicity.
Aberrant methylation of CpG islands (CGI) not only plays a role in gene silencing, but is also a potential cancer biomarker. To identify more CGI aberrantly methylated in human breast cancers, we carried out a genome-wide search for aberrant methylation, using methylation-sensitive-representational difference analysis. CGI in 5' upstream regions of 20 genes, TSPAN-2, AK5, LOC284999, HOXD11, FLJ25161, XT3, PCDH10, PCDHGB6, SIM1, LOC346978, COE2, TDH (FLJ25033), LOC346419, FLJ33790, GJB2, AMN, LOC201164, DLX4, DCC and FOXA2, were found to be methylated in at least one of 8 breast cancer cell lines. Fifteen of the 20 genes were methylated in more than one of 21 primary breast cancers in Stages I or II, and especially, those of LOC346978, HOXD11, SIM1, PCDHGB6 and FLJ25161 were methylated in more than 10 cancers. All the breast cancers had some aberrant methylation. Among the 13 genes whose CGI were completely methylated in one or more cell lines, FOXA2 and XT3 were expressed in normal human mammary epithelial cells (HMEC) and were not expressed in cancer cell lines with complete methylation. The other 11 genes examined were barely expressed, or not expressed even in HMEC. Our results showed that breast cancer cells accumulate aberrant methylation of the CGI identified here. This may serve as markers for early-stage breast cancers and suggests that aberrant methylation targets transcriptionally inactive genes in vivo.
Acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) is known to cause severe hemolytic anemia in some glucose-6-phosphate-dehydrogenase-deficient (G-6-PD-deficient) individuals. To study its mechanism, erythrocytes from an ASA-sensitive patient were transfused into a normal compatible recipient. The administration of 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic (gentisic) acid, a known ASA metabolite with redox properties, to the recipient resulted in a marked decrease in the survival of the patient's erythrocytes. Similar studies with red cells from individuals with A- and Mediterranean variants of G-6-PD revealed no alteration in the erythrocytes' survival. Further studies disclosed that both salicylate and gentisate competitively inhibited the G-6-PD from the ASA-sensitive patient resulting in a marked change in the K(m) for NADP. These drugs also inhibited the A- and Mediterranean variants of G-6-PD. The magnitude of inhibition, however, was comparatively small and not different from that observed with a normal enzyme. The above studies suggested that enzyme inhibition by salicylate and gentisate may play an important role in ASA-induced hemolysis. Such an inhibition would further curtail NADPH regeneration, rendering the cells more vulnerable to oxidants. In this connection, gentisate seems to play a major role in ASA-induced hemolysis for it is both a G-6-PD inhibitor and an "oxidant."
The experimental anticancer drug cyclopentenyl cytosine (CPEC) was associated with cardiotoxicity in a phase I study. The aim of the present study was twofold; first we investigated whether the observed effects could be reproduced in in-vitro and in-vivo rat models. Second, we intended to investigate the underlying mechanism of the possible cardiotoxicity of CPEC. Effects on frequency and contractility were studied on the isolated atria of 18 male Wistar rats. Atria were incubated with 0.1 mmol L(-1) (n = 6) or 1 mmol L(-1) (n = 6) CPEC for 1.5 h and compared with control atria (incubation with buffer solution, n = 6). The cardiac apoptosis-inducing potential was studied in-vivo on 66 rats by 99mTc-Annexin V scintigraphy, followed by postmortem determination of radioactivity in tissues, histological confirmation with the TUNEL assay (late-phase apoptosis), and immunohistochemical staining for cleaved caspase 3 and cytochrome C (early-phase apoptosis). Serum levels of the necrotic cardiomyopathy marker troponin T were also determined. No effect on heart frequency was found in the isolated atria after CPEC treatment. A trend towards a decrease of contraction force was observed. However, the differences were not statistically significant. 99mTc-Annexin V scintigraphy showed no increase in cardiac uptake ratio upon CPEC treatment in the in-vivo rat model, which was confirmed by determination of radioactivity in heart versus blood ratios. At each section a few individual isolated late apoptotic cells (< 5) could be identified by the TUNEL assay in the highest CPEC dose group (90 mg kg(-1)) but not in controls or in rats treated with 60 mg kg(-1) CPEC. Staining for the early apoptosis markers cleaved caspase 3 and cytochrome C did not reveal any significant differences between treated and control rats. Cardiac troponin T levels were not increased after CPEC treatment. CPEC does not affect heart frequency or contraction force in our cardiotoxicity models. Moreover, we did not find an indication of CPEC-induced apoptosis in heart tissue.
To avoid problems related to unknown population substructure, association studies may be conducted in founder populations. In such populations, however, the relatedness among individuals may be considerable. Neglecting such correlations among individuals can lead to seriously spurious associations. Here, we propose a method for case-control association studies of binary traits that is suitable for any set of related individuals, provided that their genealogy is known. Although we focus here on large inbred pedigrees, this method may also be used in outbred populations for case-control studies in which some individuals are relatives. We base inference on a quasi-likelihood score (QLS) function and construct a QLS test for allelic association. This approach can be used even when the pedigree structure is far too complex to use an exact-likelihood calculation. We also present an alternative approach to this test, in which we use the known genealogy to derive a correction factor for the case-control association chi2 test. We perform analytical power calculations for each of the two tests by deriving their respective noncentrality parameters. The QLS test is more powerful than the corrected chi2 test in every situation considered. Indeed, under certain regularity conditions, the QLS test is asymptotically the locally most powerful test in a general class of linear tests that includes the corrected chi2 test. The two methods are used to test for associations between three asthma-associated phenotypes and 48 SNPs in 35 candidate genes in the Hutterites. We report a highly significant novel association (P=2.10-6) between atopy and an amino acid polymorphism in the P-selectin gene, detected with the QLS test and also, but less significantly (P=.0014), with the transmission/disequilibrium test.
Currently there is no approved pharmacotherapy for amphetamine dependence. Recent human laboratory studies have demonstrated that naltrexone modulates some of the reinforcing effects of amphetamine. The aim of this study was to investigate the efficacy of naltrexone in comparison with placebo in reducing relapse to amphetamine use in amphetamine-dependent patients.
Eighty patients who met DSM-IV criteria for amphetamine dependence were randomized to 12 weeks of double-blind naltrexone (50 mg) or placebo treatment. Patients visited the clinic twice weekly to receive medication and relapse prevention therapy and leave urine samples, which were analyzed for drug toxicology and for assessing adherence to medication via detection of naltrexone's metabolite (6-beta-naltrexol). The main outcome measure was abstinence from amphetamine use, as indicated by the total number of negative amphetamine urine samples during 12 weeks of treatment. All missing urine samples were defined for the analysis as positive for amphetamine.
Overall, 55 patients (68.8%) completed the trial. The intention-to-treat analysis showed that the naltrexone group had a significantly higher number of amphetamine-negative urine samples compared with the placebo group. Survival analyses showed that the treatment groups differed in rate of continuous abstinence, in both the intention-to-treat and completer samples, in favor of naltrexone treatment. There was a significant reduction in craving levels and self-reported consumption of amphetamine in the naltrexone group compared with the placebo group. Treatment with naltrexone was well tolerated in this sample.
This trial demonstrated the efficacy of naltrexone in reducing amphetamine use in amphetamine-dependent individuals.
Cyclophosphamide and ifosfamide are two commonly used DNA-alkylating agents in cancer chemotherapy that undergo biotransformation to several toxic and non-toxic metabolites, including acrolein and chloroacetaldehyde (CAA). Acrolein and CAA toxicities occur by several different mechanisms, including ROS formation and protein damage (oxidation), however, these pathways of toxicity and protecting agents used to prevent them have yet to be compared and ranked in a single study. This research focused on the molecular targets of acrolein and CAA toxicities and strategies to decrease toxicities. Hepatocyte viability (cytotoxicity) was assessed using Trypan blue uptake; formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and endogenous H2O2 were also assessed in the hepatocyte model. In cell-free models (bovine serum albumin and hepatic microsomes), protein carbonylation was the measurement of toxicity. The present study demonstrated that acrolein was a more potent toxin than CAA for freshly isolated rat hepatocytes, bovine serum albumin and rat hepatic microsomes. Acrolein protein carbonylation was dependent on its concentration; as acrolein concentration increased, protein carbonylation increased in a linear trend, whereas, CAA deviated from the trend and did not cause protein carbonylation at lower concentrations (<400 μM). Aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) is a major pathway for detoxifying pathway for CAA in hepatocytes, as a 3-fold increase in cytotoxicity occurred when cells were incubated with cyanamide, an ALDH inhibitor. Inhibiting ALDH or depleting GSH in hepatocytes increased cytotoxicity by about 3-fold in acrolein-treated hepatocytes. The overall effectiveness of protecting agents to prevent or suppress acrolein or CAA toxicities in cell and cell-free models were ranked in order of most effective to least effective: reducing agents (sodium borohydride, sodium bisulfite)>thiol-containing compounds (N-acetylcysteine, cysteine, glutathione, 2-mercaptoethane sulfonate [MESNA], penicillamine)>carbonyl scavengers/amines (aminoguanidine, hydralazine, hydroxylamine)>antioxidants/ROS scavengers (ascorbic acid, Trolox; only utilized in hepatocyte system). An understanding of acrolein and CAA toxicities and the ability of protecting agents to protect against toxicities may help to establish or improve existing therapeutic interventions against the side effects associated with acrolein or CAA in cyclophosphamide or ifosfamide treatment.
Oligodendrogliopathy, microglial infiltration, and lack of remyelination are detected in the brains of patients with multiple sclerosis and are accompanied by high levels of the transcription factor p53. In this study, we used the cuprizone model of demyelination, characterized by oligodendrogliopathy and microglial infiltration, to define the effect of p53 inhibition. Myelin preservation, decreased microglial recruitment, and gene expression were observed in mice lacking p53 or receiving systemic administration of the p53 inhibitor pifithrin-alpha, compared with untreated controls. Decreased levels of lypopolysaccharide-induced gene expression were also observed in vitro, in p53(-/-) primary microglial cultures or in pifithrin-alpha-treated microglial BV2 cells. An additional beneficial effect of lack or inhibition of p53 was observed in Sox2+ multipotential progenitors of the subventricular zone that responded with increased proliferation and oligodendrogliogenesis. Based on these results, we propose transient inhibition of p53 as a potential therapeutic target for demyelinating conditions primarily characterized by oligodendrogliopathy.
Occupational and environmental Pb-exposure is associated with protein aggregation diseases which typically present in elderly populations (Parkinsons and cataract). Post-translational processing of crystallins, the major structural proteins of the lens, is altered with short-term Pb-exposure in Fisher 344 rats. In addition, lenses from aged rats become opaque upon long-term exposure to Pb in organ culture. To explore the route to lens opacification in the presence of Pb, cultured lenses from young rats which exhibit higher metabolic activity in lens culture and are more susceptible to experimental cataract in vivo and in vitro were exposed to Pb and evaluated for morphological and biochemical alterations.
Following culture in Pb (as lead nitrate) for four days (in the presence/absence of oxidative challenge), lenses were examined for clarity, integrity of epithelial layer, and molecular stability including crystallin post-translational modification and choline transport. Clarity of lenses cultured with/without Pb for up to 8 days was assessed to determine if Pb exposure would accelerate opacification.
Lenses cultured in Pb for four days exhibited epithelial abnormalities including epithelial cell multilayering and nuclei abnormalities with extension of the nucleated epithelial cells past the bow region. Alterations in crystallin post-translational modifications and decreased membrane transport of choline were noted without corresponding lens opacification or altered α-crystallin chaperone activity. Lenses treated with Pb according to the same exposure protocol with subsequent challenge by hydrogen peroxide became opaque while the contralateral control lenses did not. Lenses which were cultured in the presence of Pb for longer periods with no subsequent oxidative insult exhibited lens failure at earlier time points than did the controls.
These data indicate that Pb-exposure can accelerate the degradation of the cultured lens through induction of epithelial cell abnormalities, induce structural protein modifications before opacity, and predispose the lens to opacification with subsequent oxidant challenge.
Exogenously administered human serum butyrylcholinesterase (Hu BChE) was demonstrated to function as a bioscavenger of highly toxic organophosphorus (OP) compounds in several animal species. Since the enzyme is isolated from human serum, it is currently the most suitable pretreatment for human use. A dose of 200-300 mg/70 kg human adult is projected to provide protection from 2 X LD(50) of soman. Due to the limited supply of Hu BChE, strategies aimed at reducing the dose of enzyme are being explored. In this study, we investigated the effect of modification with polyethylene glycol (PEG) on the in vivo stability of Hu BChE. Mice were given two injections of either Hu BChE or Hu BChE modified with PEG-5K or PEG-20K, six weeks apart. Pharmacokinetic parameters, such as mean residence time (MRT), maximal concentration (C(max)), elimination half-life (T(1/2)), and area under the plasma concentration time curve extrapolated to infinity (AUC), were determined. For the first injection, values for MRT, T(1/2), Cmax, and AUC for PEG-5K-Hu BChE and PEG-20K-Hu BChE were similar to those for Hu BChE. These values for the second injection of Hu BChE as well as PEG-Hu BChEs were lower as compared to those for the first injections, likely due to antibody-mediated clearance.
Cigarette smoke, containing reactive oxygen species, is the most important risk factor for chronic pulmonary emphysema (CPE). Heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) plays a protective role as an antioxidant in the lung. A (GT)n dinucleotide repeat in the 5'-flanking region of human HO-1 gene shows length polymorphism and could modulate the level of gene transcription. To investigate the correlation between the length of the (GT)n repeat and susceptibility to the development of CPE, we screened the frequencies of alleles with varying numbers of (GT)n repeats in the HO-1 gene in 101 smokers with CPE and in 100 smokers without CPE. Polymorphisms of the (GT)n repeat were grouped into three classes: class S alleles (<25 repeats), class M alleles (25-29 repeats), and class L alleles (>/=30 repeats). The proportion of allele frequencies in class L, as well as the proportion of genotypic frequencies in the group with class L alleles (L/L, L/M, and L/S), was significantly higher in the smokers with CPE than in smokers without CPE. Moreover, we analyzed the promoter activities of the HO-1 gene carrying different (GT)n repeats (n=16, 20, 29, and 38), by transient-transfection assay in cultured cell lines. H2O2 exposure up-regulated the transcriptional activity of the HO-1 promoter/luciferase fusion genes with (GT)16 or (GT)20 but did not do so with (GT)29 or (GT)38. These findings suggest that the large size of a (GT)n repeat in the HO-1 gene promoter may reduce HO-1 inducibility by reactive oxygen species in cigarette smoke, thereby resulting in the development of CPE.
A pooled post hoc responder analysis was performed to assess the clinical benefit of alvimopan, a peripherally acting mu-opioid receptor (PAM-OR) antagonist, for the management of postoperative ileus after bowel resection.
Adult patients who underwent laparotomy for bowel resection scheduled for opioid-based intravenous patient-controlled analgesia received oral alvimopan or placebo preoperatively and twice daily postoperatively until hospital discharge or for 7 postoperative days. The proportion of responders and numbers needed to treat (NNT) were examined on postoperative days (POD) 3-8 for GI-2 recovery (first bowel movement, toleration of solid food) and hospital discharge order (DCO) written.
Alvimopan significantly increased the proportion of patients with GI-2 recovery and DCO written by each POD (P < 0.001 for all). More patients who received alvimopan achieved GI-2 recovery on or before POD 5 (alvimopan, 80%; placebo, 66%) and DCO written before POD 7 (alvimopan, 87%; placebo, 72%), with corresponding NNTs equal to 7.
On each POD analyzed, alvimopan significantly increased the proportion of patients who achieved GI-2 recovery and DCO written versus placebo and was associated with relatively low NNTs. The results of these analyses provide additional characterization and support for the overall clinical benefit of alvimopan in patients undergoing bowel resection.
Drug toxicity may occur due to dangerous drug combination. We aimed to investigate the influence of verapamil (a P-gp inhibitor)--bufadienolides interaction on cardiotoxicity and bufadienolide uptake by the isolated heart. The study was performed in Langendorff isolated perfused guinea-pig hearts by bufadienolides infusion in the absence and presence of verapamil (250, 500ng/ml). Arrhythmia parameters were evaluated by ECG and the content of bufadienolides in heart were measured by ultra-performance liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS). In the present of verapamil, the wide QRS duration and lightly rapid heart rate (HR) were markedly reduced in the early stage of bufadienolide intoxication. However, the ECG changes characterized by prolonged P-R interval, and slow heart rate and low QRS amplitude in the late stage of bufadienolide intoxication were significantly enhanced. Furthermore, the contents of a variety of bufadienolide compounds in the verapamil+bufadienolide group were significantly higher when cardiac arrest occurred. Although verapamil reduced the bufadienolide-induced ventricular arrhythmias, verapamil worsened heart block and lethal bradycardia of bufadienolides partly via increasing the uptake of bufadienolides in heart tissue, which could compromise the protective effects of verapamil against bufadienolide intoxication. These results suggested that the verapamil may produce dangerous interactions with drugs containing bufadienolides.
ARLTS1 is a tumor suppressor gene initially described as a low-penetrance cancer gene: a truncated Trp149Stop (MUT) polymorphism is associated with general familial cancer aggregation and, particularly, high-risk familial breast cancer. DNA hypermethylation has been identified as a mechanism of ARLTS1 expression down-regulation in lung carcinomas and B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia. We found that, in the majority of ovarian carcinomas (61.5%) and in a significant proportion of ovarian and breast cancer cell lines (45%), ARLTS1 is strongly down-regulated due to DNA methylation in its promoter region. After ARLTS1 restoration by adenoviral transduction, only the negative TOV-112 and the homozygously mutated (MUT) MCF7 cells, but not the OV-90 cells expressing a normal ARLTS1 product, underwent apoptosis and inhibition of cell growth. Furthermore, ARLTS1 reexpression significantly reduced the tumorigenic potential of TOV-112 in nude mice. On the contrary, the ARLTS1-MUT induced significantly lower levels of apoptosis in infected cells and reduced in vivo tumorigenesis only partially, supporting the hypothesis that Trp149Stop polymorphism is retained in the general population and predisposes to cancer because of a reduction, but not full loss, of normal ARLTS1 function.
A novel mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) transition (3733G-->A) inducing the E143 K amino acid change at a very conserved site of the NADH dehydrogenase subunit 1 (ND1) was identified in a family with six maternally related individuals with Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON) and in an unrelated sporadic case, all negative for known mutations and presenting with the canonical phenotype. The transition was not detected in 1,082 control mtDNAs and was heteroplasmic in several individuals from both pedigrees. In addition, the mtDNAs of the two families were found to belong to different haplogroups (H and X), thus confirming that the 3733G-->A mutation occurred twice independently. Phosphorus magnetic resonance spectroscopy disclosed an in vivo brain and skeletal muscle energy metabolism deficit in the four examined patients. Muscle biopsy from two patients showed slight mitochondrial proliferation with abnormal mitochondria. Biochemical investigations in platelets showed partially insensitive complex I to rotenone inhibition. We conclude that the 3733G-->A transition is a novel cause of LHON and, after those at positions 3460 and 4171, is the third ND1 mutation to be identified in multiple unrelated families. This finding shows that, in addition to ND6, the ND1 subunit gene is also a mutational hot spot for LHON.
We reviewed the histories of patients seen in a large Parkinson's disease clinic from 1983 to 1989 to determine if there is a relationship between the timing of initiation of levodopa therapy and the development of motor response fluctuations, dyskinesias, and dementia. There were no factors predisposing to the development of response fluctuations or dementia. Younger age at disease onset predisposed to the development of dyskinesia. Dyskinesias occurred in a greater proportion of patients in whom the initiation of levodopa therapy was delayed by more than 2 years from disease diagnosis than among those in whom treatment was started earlier. We thus failed to identify any adverse consequences of early levodopa treatment in our patient population.
A 21-year-old woman with severe aplastic anemia received an allogeneic bone marrow transplant (allo-BMT) from an HLA-matched and ABO-matched sibling donor after conditioning with cyclophosphamide, rabbit ATG (Lymphoglobuline; Aventis-Pharma), and total lymphoid irradiation. She had a long history of cyclosporin A (CsA) therapy before conditioning. She complained of severe headache and convulsions on day 0, and findings on magnetic resonance images suggested CsA-induced encephalopathy. CsA was immediately stopped, and tacrolimus for prevention of graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) was started on day 2. Hematological engraftment was observed on day 14 without serious GVHD. Prompt diagnosis, replacement of immunosuppressive agents, and careful monitoring of serum drug concentrations are thought to have contributed to the patient's good clinical course, since CsA-induced encephalopathy tends to be recurrent but to improve completely without any sequelae.
Reduced glutathione (GSH) production by tumour cells has been proposed as a mechanism for resistance to alkylating agents. High levels of paracetamol can deplete intracellular GSH. We conducted a phase I trial of high dose paracetamol and carmustine (BCNU) in patients with advanced malignant melanoma to determine the optimal biological dose and the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) with the goal of increasing sensitivity to BCNU by GSH depletion. Groups of three to five patients received escalating doses of paracetamol (10, 15 or 20 g/m(2)) every 3 weeks. Every other cycle, BCNU (10 mg/m(2)) was given 6.5 h after administration of paracetamol and 45 min before a 20 h infusion of N-acetylcysteine. Once the MTD for paracetamol had been determined, the dose of BCNU was sequentially escalated in subsequent cohorts to 150 mg/m(2). GSH levels were measured in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and, when available, in tumour biopsies. The MTD of paracetamol was 15 g/m(2). The dose of BCNU was safely escalated to 150 mg/m(2). The most common toxicity was grade II nausea/vomiting. At 15 g/m(2), peak paracetamol levels (median 253 microg/ml) were reached between 1 and 4 h. No changes in GSH levels in PBMCs were seen. There were two partial responses, including a dramatic decrease in hepatic metastases. Treatment of melanoma patients with paracetamol (15 g/m(2)) every 3 weeks and BCNU (150 mg/m(2)) every 6 weeks is safe. The observation of two partial responses has led to a phase II study to evaluate treatment with high dose paracetamol alone or in combination with BCNU.
The present paper is designed to investigate the variation of pain threshold and electroacupuncture analgesia of rat, and to observe the immunohistochemical changes in spinal ganglion and dorsal horn of lumber and sacral segment of spinal cord after extradural administration of capsaicin (100 micrograms/rat). It was found: 1. Obvious decrease of pain threshold 60 mins after injection of capsaicin, and the pain threshold restored nearly to the level of pre-treatment at 90 mins of post-treatment of capsaicin. 2. Apparent elevation of pain threshold on 1st-15th day after injection of capsaicin. 3. The efficiency of electroacupuncture analgesia 7th day after injection of capsaicin was obviously weaker than that of pre-treatment of drug and that of solvents treatment in the animals of control group. 4. The SP-LI, ENK-LI and FRAP were all weakened in dorsal horn of spinal cord 1h after capsaicin treatment. However, on the 7th day, with the exception of decrease of SP-LI and FRAP, the ENK-LI in dorsal horn was strengthened and the activity of FRAP in spinal ganglionic cells of B type disappeared. The foregoing results indicated that the metabolism and function of C fibers of primary afferent especially the SP containing nerve and those of ENK-containing neurons could be influenced by the extradural injection of capsaicin. And the primary afferent C fiber (including the SP containing nerve) may play important roles in the input of the informations of pain, and needling, as well as in the acupuncture analgesia.
