We report a case of bilateral intrarenal, subcapsular and perirenal hematomas after extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy. Following treatment chest pain developed necessitating monitoring in the intensive care unit and cardiac evaluation. Serial hematocrit levels during the next 2 days revealed a decrease from 48 to 23%, requiring multiple transfusions. After therapy it was recognized that the patient had taken aspirin on a daily basis within 1 week before lithotripsy. We postulate that the aspirin ingestions acted as a potential predisposing factor in the formation of the bilateral renal hematoma.
Problem drug use and dependence are neurobehavioral disorders of complex origin. Although environmental factors contribute to drug abuse and addiction, genetic factors also play a significant role estimated at 40-60% of the total risk. Nonetheless, the precise identities of human genes that confer vulnerability to problem drug use remain mostly unknown. Here, we describe a natural single nucleotide polymorphism in the human gene that encodes the principal endocannabinoid-inactivating enzyme, fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH), that in homozygous form is strongly associated with both street drug use and problem drug/alcohol use. This single nucleotide polymorphism results in a missense mutation (385C-->A) that converts a conserved proline residue to threonine (Pro129-->Thr), producing a FAAH variant that displays normal catalytic properties but an enhanced sensitivity to proteolytic degradation. Collectively, these results suggest that genetic mutations in FAAH may constitute important risk factors for problem drug use and support a potential link between functional abnormalities in the endogenous cannabinoid system and drug abuse and dependence.
Oxytocin, 5 to 10 units, is frequently given as a bolus injection following term delivery or elective termination of pregnancy. It is not general knowledge that this has any untoward effects. In the present study in young, healthy women undergoing elective termination of pregnancy, mean arterial blood pressure decreased approximately 30% and the total peripheral resistence 50%, 40 seconds after injection. However, heart rate increased 30% and stroke volume 25%, so that the cardiac output was elevated more than 50% above control. Oxytocin given as a dilute solution produced no circulatory change; hence, we suggest that this drug be administered in such fashion rather than by bolus injection.
Defective protein trafficking is a consequence of gene mutations. Human long-QT (LQT) syndrome results from mutations in several genes, including the human ether-a-go-go-related gene (HERG), which encodes a delayed rectifier K(+) current. Trafficking-defective mutant HERG protein is a mechanism for reduced delayed rectifier K(+) current in LQT2, and high-affinity HERG channel-blocking drugs can result in pharmacological rescue. Methods and Results- We postulated that drug molecules modified to remove high-affinity HERG block may still stabilize mutant proteins in a conformation required for rescue. We tested terfenadine carboxylate (fexofenadine) and terfenadine, structurally similar drugs with markedly different affinities for HERG block, for rescue of trafficking-defective LQT2 mutations. Terfenadine rescued the N470D mutation but blocked the channels. In contrast, fexofenadine rescued N470D with a half-maximal rescue concentration of 177 nmol/L, which is approximately 350-fold lower than the half-maximal channel block concentration. The G601S mutation was also rescued without channel block.
Pharmacological rescue can occur without channel block. This could represent a new antiarrhythmic paradigm in the treatment of some trafficking-defective LQT2 mutations.
A single-blind, placebo-controlled study was carried out to evaluate the suitability of slow-release nifedipine as antihypertensive monotherapy for the elderly. After a wash-out period, nifedipine slow-release tablets (20 mg twice daily) followed by matching placebo were administered, each for 4 weeks, to 23 patients over 60 years of age with essential mild to moderate hypertension. Nifedipine significantly reduced the systolic and diastolic blood pressure, and increased the pulse rate in both supine and upright positions. The pre-treatment supine systolic blood pressure proved the best single predictor of the blood pressure decreases in both positions. The decrease in mean arterial blood pressure correlated significantly with the nifedipine plasma concentration. Significant biochemical changes were observed with nifedipine, namely increased serum K+ level and decreased levels of serum Na+, cholesterol and triglycerides. Side-effects in general were mild and transient; nevertheless, 3 patients dropped out because of severe leg oedema.
We have presented a case in which nifedipine-induced hypotension in a patient receiving beta blocker and nitrate therapy precipitated mesenteric angina, leading to emergency exploratory celiotomy. Although paradoxic angina is an unusual complication of this antianginal therapy, it should be considered in any patient who has acute abdominal pain and hypotension while receiving this therapeutic regimen.
We investigated the effect of the lipid-lowering agent, bezafibrate, on insulin sensitivity in a dietary model of insulin resistance. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into four groups: control group, administered a standard diet; high-fructose group, given a 40% fructose diet; high-fructose plus lard group, given a 40% fructose diet with 7% lard; and bezafibrate group, given a 40% fructose plus 7% lard diet with 10 mg x kg-1 x day-1 of oral bezafibrate. Insulin action was assessed after 2 weeks with a steady-state plasma glucose (SSPG) level. The fatty acid (FA) composition of skeletal-muscle triglycerides was also determined. A higher SSPG level (20.9 +/- 0.9 vs. 16.5 +/- 1.1 mmol/l in the control group, P < 0.05) as well as a higher systolic blood pressure (120 +/- 2 vs. 101 +/- 2 mmHg, P < 0.01) was observed in the high-fructose plus lard group, but not in the high-fructose group. These changes were prevented by bezafibrate administration. The FA composition of skeletal-muscle triglycerides demonstrated a higher percentage of saturated and monounsaturated FAs (P < 0.01) and a lower percentage of polyunsaturated FAs (P <0.01) in the high-fructose plus lard group versus the control group. These changes were consistent with differences in the dietary intake of FAs. Bezafibrate virtually normalized the FA composition in the high-fructose plus lard group. The ratio of C20:4 to C20:3, an index of delta5 desaturase activity, was significantly higher in the bezafibrate group versus the high-fructose plus lard group (8.60 +/- 0.76 vs. 2.04 +/- 0.27, P < 0.01). In conclusion, the dietary FA composition was closely related to insulin resistance in rats fed 40% fructose. Bezafibrate increased delta5 desaturase activity. Such action may contribute to the improvement of insulin sensitivity.
Central dopaminergic activation is hypothesized to underly schizophrenia and, paradoxically, stimulant euphoria. Four cocaine abusers with histories of stimulant-induced paranoid psychoses reported selective reduction in psychotic symptoms but not euphoria when treated with dopamine blockers. This provides preliminary evidence against efficacy of neuroleptics in cocaine abuse prevention, and suggests euphoria and paranoia may have discriminable neurophysiological substrates.
The reversible stage of tumor promotion, which follows the stage of initiation and precedes that of progression in multistage carcinogenesis, is a unique example of reversible toxicity in biological systems. In order to study the molecular mechanisms involved in the action of promoting agents during this stage, the regulation of the expression of genes for two enzymes of glutathione metabolism, gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT) and the placental isozyme of glutathione S-transferase (GST-P), was studied under several different conditions of promotion during multistage hepatocarcinogenesis in the rat. Promotion by phenobarbital caused an increased expression of both of these genes in altered hepatic focal lesions, although this was somewhat more variable in the case of the GGT gene. C.I. Solvent Yellow 14, an industrial dye, served as an effective promoting agent. Feeding this dye resulted in a dramatic increase in the expression of GST-P, but not that of GGT in altered hepatic foci. Factors in crude, cereal-based diets inhibited the stage of promotion by diethylnitrosamine, but enhanced promotion by phenobarbital in a synergistic manner. In contrast, at least one purified diet had the converse effect during this stage. The mRNA levels of GST-P were uniformly elevated dramatically in reversible nodules and neoplasms of rat liver that had been induced by diethylnitrosamine and phenobarbital promotion. In contrast, the level of GGT mRNA was somewhat variable, with an occasional neoplasm exhibiting almost a background level of expression of this gene. Therefore, the altered regulation of multiple genes in hepatocytes during the stage of promotion can vary with the promoting agent itself; this process may be related to the heterogeneous gene expression seen in hepatic neoplasms. A possible role for specific DNA sequences in the 5' flanking regions of such genes is considered. In addition, a cDNA clone to the mRNA of human liver GGT was isolated and sequenced. The homology of the coding sequence of the human liver GGT mRNA to that of rat kidney GGT mRNA was striking.
437 multiparous women were given ethynodiol diacetate in continuous microdoses of .35 mg/day, .50 mg/day, .25 mg/twice a day, or .125 mg/twi ce a day. 7 pregnancies occurred during treatment, 5 due to medication failure; 2 were in the .5 mg/day group and 3 were in the .125 mg/twice a day group. Women taking .5 mg/day and .25 mg/twice a day had most menstrual irregularities (10% of the cycles). Side effects noted were: headache, nervousness, nausea and vomiting, and abdominal pain. Most of the patients lost weight; lactation did not appear to be affected by the medication. Uterine tone changed during treatment; there was a decrease in frequency, an increase in intensity and an increase in the tone of the contractions. It is concluded that the contraceptive efficacy was directly related to dosage as were menstrual and uterin disturbances, except for side effects. Ovulation was not inhibited although contraception was produced.
The objective of this study is to evaluate the efficacy, toxicity, and long-term outcome of low-dose IV cyclophosphamid therapy with repeated frequent intervals in combination with oral and IV methylprednisolone in patients with SLE nephritis. In this study, 113 patients diagnosed as having SLE and glomerulonephritis were assessed in between 1993 and 2002, with a median follow-up of 44.1+/-41.2 months. The patients were treated with 500 mg IV cyclophosphamide and 1 g IV methylprednisolone together with 60 mg/alternate-day oral methylprednisolone in a given schedule. The clinical and laboratory data were evaluated. There were significant improvements in the clinical and the laboratory parameters. Six patients died shortly after being hospitalized due to the disease activity itself. Eight patients were excluded from the study because of low compliance. The renal functions of the patients remained stable throughout the therapy; only 16/99 patients needed one or two additional pulses. Temporary leukopenia developed in 18/99 patients and diminished with the suspension or prolongation of the IV cyclophosphamide administration. Gastrointestinal side effects, which needed extra medication, developed in 20 patients. Hematuria was observed in 6/99 patients. Menstrual abnormalities were seen in 7/99 patients. No serious infections due to immunosuppression were observed with the given regimen. Hypertension was observed in 13 patients (minimum of 140/90 mmHg, maximum of 190/110 mmHg) and controlled with angiotensine-converting enzyme inhibitors. Mild central obesity was observed in 15 of the patients. Leimyosarcoma was observed in one patient who died during the follow-up period. Therapy starting with the weekly low-dose IV cyclophosphamide to induce remission together with IV and oral steroids, followed by prolonged intervals with the same doses for 2 years, appears to be useful in preserving renal function without major side effects in patients with lupus nephritis, in comparison to other studies.
A 53-year-old woman was treated for recurrent pulmonary tuberculosis with reintroduction of rifampicin after a medication-free interval of 10 years. After taking the first dose, she developed severe hemolytic anemia and oliguric acute renal failure and required temporary hemodialysis. The fulminant clinical course was compatible with rifampicin-induced acute renal failure. The renal function of this patient completely recovered after discontinuation of rifampicin and temporary hemodialysis. Since renal biopsy and anti-rifampicin antibodies cannot offer a definite diagnosis of rifampicin-induced acute renal failure, we must emphasize the importance of a clinical diagnosis of rifampicin-induced acute renal failure and complete history taking. Re-exposure is a critical factor. In this case, the rifampicin-free interval was as long as 10 years. Because of the feasible prognosis, reintroduction of rifampicin for recurrent pulmonary tuberculosis should not be abandoned, but the infrequent and life-threatening side effects should be kept in mind.
Androgens are directly secreted by the ovaries and adrenals in women, and androgen precursors from these glands are converted in a variety of peripheral tissues into androgens. The major androgen in women is testosterone, and its action in target tissues can be mediated through the androgen receptor or through the estrogen receptor after aromatization to estradiol. Low sexual desire that causes personal distress (or hypoactive sexual desire disorder [HSDD]) is the most common form of female sexual dysfunction, and androgen insufficiency is one cause of this problem. In addition to a low libido, the clinical construct of the female androgen insufficiency syndrome includes the presence of persistent, unexplained fatigue and a decreased sense of well-being. Although there is conflicting information about the relationship between serum testosterone concentrations and sexual desire, multiple randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled treatment trials have demonstrated that testosterone improves libido significantly more than placebo. Doses that provide physiologic to slightly supraphysiologic serum free or bioavailable testosterone concentrations are safe and associated with only mild androgenic side effects of acne and hirsutism. Oral, but not parenteral or transdermal, testosterone may decrease high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. At present, no testosterone preparation has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of low sexual desire (HSDD), so all such therapy is considered to be off-label use at this time.
Prednisone-resistant nephrotic syndrome (NS) due to focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS), the most common acquired disease requiring chronic dialysis and transplantation in children, has a low likelihood of response to alkylating agent therapy. This report summarizes the results of a 0.75-12.5 (average 6.33) year follow-up of 32 pediatric cases of prednisone-resistant FSGS treated with a regimen of high-dose intravenous methylprednisolone (M-P) and alternate-day prednisone, plus an alkylating agent in 25/32. On last followup: 21/32 were in remission [urine protein-to-creatinine ratios (Pru/Cru) < or = 0.2]; 3/32 had mild proteinuria (Pru/Cru > 0.2-0.5); 2/32 had moderate proteinuria (Pru/Cru > 0.5-1.9); and 6/32 remained nephrotic (Pru/Cru > or = 2.0). Of the incomplete or nonresponders; 3/11 progressed to end-stage renal failure; 5/11 had decreased creatinine clearances (CrCl): and 3/11 had persistent proteinuria with normal CrCl. All of the persistently nephrotic children, but none of the complete responders, developed decreased CrCl. All of the complete responders were able to stop treatment; four relapsed but responded well to retreatment.
This regimen of methylprednisolone and alternate-day prednisone, with or without an alkylating agent, is effective in achieving sustained remissions and preserving normal renal function in the great majority of children with FSGS and prednisone-resistant NS.
The current experiment evaluated the dose-dependent nature of the induction of behavioral tolerance, and changes in dopamine autoreceptor function, by continuously administering different doses of cocaine. For all experiments, rats were exposed to a 14-day pretreatment regimen involving the continuous administration of either 0, 5, 10, 20, or 40 mg/kg/day cocaine. All subjects were then withdrawn from the pretreatment regimen for 7 days. The subjects were placed in activity monitors, and ambulation measured. In experiment 1, the subjects were challenged with 0.0, 7.5, or 15.0 mg/kg i.p. cocaine on day 7 of withdrawal from the continuous cocaine administration regimen. The results indicated that all continuous cocaine doses induced significant tolerance to the 15.0 mg/kg cocaine challenge, relative to the control group. Furthermore, the 5.0 mg/kg/day group exhibited significantly less tolerance than the 40.0 mg/kg/day group. In experiment 2, the subjects were challenged with 0.0, 0.063, or 0.125 mg/kg quinpirole. The results indicated that the 0.063-mg/kg quinpirole challenge inhibited activity, while the 0.125 mg/kg quinpirole challenge enhanced behavior. The results further suggested that the inhibition of behavior was greater in the cocaine-pretreated subjects than in the saline control group. In experiment 3, the subjects were challenged with the same doses of quinpirole in combination with 15 mg/kg i.p. cocaine. The low quinpirole challenge dose inhibited cocaine-induced hyperactivity, while the higher challenge dose enhanced cocaine-induced hyperactivity. The results suggest that the induction of tolerance by continuous cocaine administration is dose-dependent. Continuous cocaine administration did induce dopamine autoreceptor supersensitivity. However, different continuous cocaine doses did not induce differential degrees of dopamine autoreceptor supersensitivity.
The efficacy of amikacin was evaluated in 32 patients with urinary infections due to hospital-acquired rods. Treatment with amikacin was successful in all cases of acute urinary infection by gentamicin-resistent gram-negative strains. Amikacin shares with other aminoglycosides the risk of nephrotoxicity and ototoxicity. Follow-up studies are preferable to patients already suffering from damage of hearing. Lesions of n. vestibularis were relatively infrequent.
Forty-one hospitalized patients were randomized to be treated with cefuroxime (4.05 g/die) or cefotiam (5.30 g/die). Several patients received additionally furosemide (0.5 mg/kg body weight) intravenously. Serum creatinine and creatinine clearance did not show significant differences during versus after treatment in any of the groups. Cefotiam or cefotiam/furosemide treated patients displayed higher proteinuria and higher urinary excretion of lysosomal enzymes (leucine aminopeptidase) than patients treated with cefuroxime or cefuroxime/furosemide. Our data indicate higher tubulotoxicity of cefotiam compared to cefuroxime.
To determine whether high levels of homocysteine (Hcy) induce endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress with suppression of the nuclear factor-erythroid-2-related factor 2 (Nrf2)-dependent antioxidant protection in lens epithelial cells (LECs). ER stress was acutely induced by exposure of LECs to 100 μM Hcy without FCS and also by exposure to 5 mM Hcy with 10% FCS. After exposure to Hcy, significant changes were found in P-PERK, P-eIF2α, XBP1, Nrf2, and Keap1 within 24 h. The production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) was increased after Hcy exposure. The downstream enzymes of Nrf2 like, catalase, and glutathione reductase, were significantly decreased. These results suggested that the Hcy-induced ER stress suppressed the Nrf2-dependent antioxidant protection and simultaneously generated ROS which resulted in further oxidation and death of LECs. The loss of Nrf2 is mainly due to proteosomal degradation and m-calpain activation by the increased levels of cytoplasmic Ca(++). The caspases also play a role in the degradation of Nrf2. Our findings demonstrated that high levels of Hcy induce ER stress, chronic UPR, alter the levels of UPR specific proteins, increase the production of ROS, degrade Nrf2 and block the Nrf2-dependent antioxidant defense protection in LECs. Thus, the upregulation of ROS might exceed the Nrf2 dependent antioxidant defense protection in the LECs and result in the highly oxidized lenses and resulted in ARCs.
Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is a significant worldwide health care problem. Nearly one-third of all patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) are coinfected with HCV. Compared with HIV-monoinfected persons, coinfected individuals experience more rapid progression of fibrosis and higher incidence of cirrhosis and death as a result of liver disease. Treatment for HCV infection includes ribavirin (RBV) plus interferon alfa (IFN-alpha) or pegylated IFN, a combination treatment associated with anemia that may require RBV dose reduction or discontinuation. IFN-RBV-associated anemia is more profound among coinfected patients, who have a high prevalence of pretreatment anemia and may also be taking other medications causing anemia. Epoetin alfa administration to HCV-infected patients with IFN-RBV-related anemia can significantly increase hemoglobin levels and maintain significantly higher RBV doses compared with patients treated with RBV dose reduction alone. Higher RBV doses and adherence to HCV therapy have been associated with higher sustained virologic response (SVR) rates. Maintenance of RBV dose with epoetin alfa may improve adherence, thereby affecting SVR.
This Schizophrenia Outcome Survey compared medical costs, psychopathology and adverse events in outpatients for 2 years following hospitalisation for an acute schizophrenic episode.
Adults stabilised with haloperidol, olanzapine or risperidone entered this observational study <or=1 month after discharge and were assessed at baseline, 3, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months using Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS), Clinical Global Impression (CGI), Global Assessment of Functioning and adverse events reporting.
Among 323 patients (haloperidol 32, olanzapine 149, risperidone 142), baseline characteristics were similar in the olanzapine and risperidone groups, except for more first episodes in the risperidone group (p=0.01). Haloperidol patients were more often single and institutionalised, less educated, had more residual schizophrenia, were longer hospitalised in the previous year, took more corrective and psychotropic drugs and had more extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) and gynaecomastia (all significantly). Sixty-eight percent of patients completed a 2-year follow-up. In all groups, CGI and GAF improved during the first 3 months (both p<0.0001) while BPRS deteriorated in the first year (all within group changes p<0.05, between group changes NS) before it stabilised. There were no significant differences in hospitalisations and no change in social profile. At the last visit, 66% of haloperidol (p<0.01), 35% of olanzapine (NS) and 39% (NS) of risperidone patients had >or=1 EPS; 69% (p<0.013), 40 and 44%, respectively, had >or=1 sexual problem (NS). Mean weight gain was 0.4 (NS), 2.6 (p<0.05) and 2.6 kg (p<0.05), respectively.
In this naturalistic study, treatment allocation might have introduced a bias in the interpretation of efficiency results, but olanzapine and risperidone caused less EPS than haloperidol during 2 years of outpatient follow-up.
A two-year-old, neutered male Labrador retriever was anesthetized with intravenous propofol for bronchoscopy to remove a bronchial foreign body. The dog previously had been diagnosed with idiopathic epilepsy. During anesthetic recovery, the dog exhibited excitatory movements characterized by forelimb extensor rigidity, opisthotonos, generalized tremors, paddling, horizontal nystagmus, and facial twitching. Intravenous administration of pentobarbital temporarily stopped the motor activity. The excitatory movements persisted for 20 hours. The dog went on to recover completely, although he remained an epileptic, having one brief, generalized grand mal seizure every three-to-four months.
Low-level lead exposure during early childhood has long been associated with altered neurocognitive development and diminished cognitive functions. Over nine thousand U.S. industrial facilities annually emit significant amounts of lead, creating exposure risk particularly for minority children. The mechanisms by which low-level lead exerts neurotoxic effects are poorly understood. Once absorbed, the only intervention is source removal, thus primary prevention is key. Genetic biomarkers could provide an efficient means of identifying children at greatest risk. Common functional variants of genes that alter lead's neurotoxic potential have been identified and include delta-aminolevulinic acid dehydratase (ALAD(2)) and peptide transporter 2 (PEPT2*2). These polymorphisms have not been examined previously in Hispanic minority samples, or with regard to lowest level lead exposure. In 116 children of Mexican-American/Hispanic descent residing in zip codes previously designated as "high risk" for lead exposure (mean age=8.1, S.D.=1.9), blood lead level was measured at three time points over a 3-month period and averaged. DNA extraction was completed using buccal swab samples. The frequencies of the ALAD(2) and PEPT2*2 polymorphisms observed in this sample closely approximated those previously reported for Anglo, European and Asian samples. As compared to children heterozygous for the PEPT2*2 polymorphism, and without the PEPT2*2 polymorphism, the geometric mean blood lead level of children homozygous for the PEPT2*2 polymorphism was significantly higher. In contrast to past studies, mean blood lead level of children heterozygous and homozygous for the ALAD2 polymorphism in this sample did not differ from that of children without the ALAD2 polymorphism. Higher blood lead burden in children with the PEPT2*2 mutation may suggest that this common genetic variant is a biomarker of increased vulnerability to the neurotoxic effects of lowest level lead exposure.
Hepatic fibrosis is effusive wound healing process in which excessive connective tissue builds up in the liver. Because specific treatments to stop progressive fibrosis of the liver are not available, we have investigated the effects of luteolin on carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4))-induced hepatic fibrosis. Male Balb/C mice were treated with CCl(4) (0.4 ml/kg) intraperitoneally (i.p.), twice a week for 6 weeks. Luteolin was administered i.p. once daily for next 2 weeks, in doses of 10, 25, and 50 mg/kg of body weight. The CCl(4) control group has been observed for spontaneous reversion of fibrosis. CCl(4)-intoxication increased serum aminotransferase and alkaline phosphatase levels and disturbed hepatic antioxidative status. Most of these parameters were spontaneously normalized in the CCl(4) control group, although the progression of liver fibrosis was observed histologically. Luteolin treatment has increased hepatic matrix metalloproteinase-9 levels and metallothionein (MT) I/II expression, eliminated fibrinous deposits and restored architecture of the liver in a dose-dependent manner. Concomitantly, the expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein and alpha-smooth muscle actin indicated deactivation of hepatic stellate cells. Our results suggest the therapeutic effects of luteolin on CCl(4)-induced liver fibrosis by promoting extracellular matrix degradation in the fibrotic liver tissue and the strong enhancement of hepatic regenerative capability, with MTs as a critical mediator of liver regeneration.
Rat hepatic stellate cells (HSC-T6) were incubated for 24 h with 10-180 microM of t10c12 (98%), c9t11 (96%) and a mixed form (c9,t11:t10,c12; 41%:44%) of conjugated linoleic acid (CLA). The MTS dye reduction was measured to verify cell viability in a dose-dependent manner. Among the three CLAs, c9,t11-CLA exhibited the most intense cytotoxic effect on HSCs, the survival rate of which was reduced to 60% under 80 microM of treatment, while cell survival was slightly affected by the mixed form. Three CLA-induced cell deaths were determined by measuring DNA fragmentation using 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole staining. The degrees of DNA fragmentation were the most severe in HSC treated with 80 microM of c9,t11-CLA. The mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase-kinase and mitogen-activated or extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (MEK) 1 and 2 were not activated in the t10,c12-CLA treatment. This suggests that the MEK-dependent apoptosis signal is crucial in HSC, which is induced by c9,t11 and mixed CLA. In order to evaluate the protective effect of CLA on carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)-induced hepatic fibrosis in vivo, animals were treated with 10% CCl4 to induce hepatic fibrosis during all experimental periods. Rats were divided into two treatment groups: (1) control diet with tap water ad libitum (n=15) and (2) 1% CLA diet with tap water ad libitum (n=15). In the CLA-supplemented rat livers, alpha-smooth muscle actin-positive cells were significantly reduced around the portal vein. In addition, collagen fibers were not detected in the CLA-treated group. These results suggest that 9c,11t-CLA influences cytotoxic effect on HSC in an MEK-dependent manner and preserving liver from fibrosis.
Previous studies have suggested that repeated exposure of rats to the drug or to the experimental environment is necessary to observe nicotine-induced locomotor stimulation. In the present study the role of habituation to the experimental environment on the stimulant effect of nicotine in rats was examined. In addition, the role of dopamine receptors in mediating nicotine-induced locomotor stimulation was investigated by examining the effects of selective D1 and D2 dopamine receptor antagonists on activity induced by nicotine. Locomotor activity was assessed in male Sprague-Dawley rats tested in photocell cages. Nicotine (1.0 mg/kg) caused a significant increase in locomotor activity in rats that were habituated to the test environment, but had only a weak and delayed stimulant action in rats that were unfamiliar with the test environment. The stimulant action of nicotine was blocked by the central nicotinic antagonist mecamylamine but not by the peripheral nicotinic blocker hexamethonium, indicating that the response is probably mediated by central nicotinic receptors. Nicotine-induced hyperactivity was blocked by the selective D1 antagonist SCH 23390, the selective D2 antagonist raclopride and the D1/D2 antagonist fluphenazine. Pretreatment with the D2 agonist PHNO enhanced nicotine-induced hyperactivity, whereas the D1 agonist SKF 38393 had no effect. The results indicate that acute nicotine injection induces a pronounced hyperactivity in rats habituated to the test environment. The effect appears to be mediated by central nicotine receptors, possibly located on dopaminergic neurons, and also requires the activation of both D1 and D2 dopamine receptors.
Inflammation induced by chronic exposure to ultraviolet (UV) radiation has been implicated in various skin diseases. We formulated the hypothesis that a high-fat diet may influence the UV-induced inflammatory responses in the skin. C57BL/6 mice were fed a high-fat diet or control diet and exposed to UVB radiation (120 mJ/cm(2)) three times/week for 10 weeks. The mice were then sacrificed and skin and plasma samples collected for analysis of biomarkers of inflammatory responses using immunohistochemistry, western blotting, ELISA and real-time PCR. We found that the levels of inflammatory biomarkers were increased in the UVB-exposed skin of the mice fed the high-fat diet than the UVB-exposed skin of the mice fed the control diet. The levels of inflammatory biomarkers of early responses to UVB exposure (e.g., myeloperoxidase, cyclooxygenase-2, prostaglandin-E(2)), proinflammatory cytokines (i.e., tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-1beta, interleukin-6), and proliferating cell nuclear antigen and cell survival signals (phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase and p-Akt-Ser(473)) were higher in high-fat-diet-fed mouse skin than control-diet-fed mouse skin. The plasma levels of insulin growth factor-1 were greater in the UVB-irradiated mice fed the high-fat diet than the UVB-irradiated mice fed the control diet, whereas the levels of plasma adiponectin were significantly lower. This pronounced exacerbation of the UVB-induced inflammatory responses in the skin of mice fed a high-fat diet suggests that high-fat diet may increase susceptibility to inflammation-associated skin diseases, including the risk of skin cancer.
