Performance in forward-masking, temporal-integration, and gap-detection tasks was measured in five normal-hearing subjects before and during a five-day period of aspirin use. The drug regimen was 3.9 g per day, taken in four equal doses at 6-h intervals. In the subjects showing substantial temporary hearing loss induced by the aspirin, (1) forward masking declined at about a normal rate as the masker-to-signal interval was increased, (2) the temporal-integration functions were flatter than normal, and (3) detection of a temporal gap was worse than normal at low sound-pressure levels (SPLs) but was essentially normal at levels above about 60 dB SPL. These aspirin-induced changes in performance are similar to the differences observed between normal listeners and listeners with mild sensorineural hearing loss. Thus, temporary, aspirin-induced hearing loss offers promise as a model condition for sensorineural hearing loss. The advantages offered by this model include all those typically attributed to within-subjects experimental designs, as well as the ability to manipulate the amount of hearing loss. Its primary disadvantages are that the hearing loss is not asymmetrically distributed toward the high-frequency region, as it typically is with sensorineural deafness, and there are large individual differences in the amount of temporary hearing loss induced by fixed doses of aspirin.
Pegylated interferon plus ribavirin can cause dose-limiting anemia. Taribavirin, a ribavirin prodrug, has shown a lower incidence of anemia. We sought to determine the efficacy and safety of taribavirin vs. ribavirin combined with pegylated interferon in patients with chronic hepatitis C (CHC).
This phase 2 open-label study randomized 180 patients with CHC to receive pegylated interferon alfa-2a 180 microg/week plus taribavirin 800, 1200 or 1600 mg QD or ribavirin 1000 or 1200 mg QD. Efficacy variables included proportions of patients with undetectable serum HCV RNA levels at end of treatment and after a 24-week follow-up.
The proportions of patients with undetectable HCV RNA at 12 weeks did not differ significantly between taribavirin (38%, 42%, and 49% for the 800, 1200, and 1600 mg groups) and ribavirin (49%). The highest proportion of patients with undetectable HCV RNA at end of treatment and at follow-up occurred in both the taribavirin 1200mg QD (63% and 37%) and ribavirin groups (62% and 44%). SVR rates were 23%, 37% and 29% for taribavirin and 44% for ribavirin. Fewer patients on any dose of taribavirin had severe anemia (hemoglobin <10 g/dL) than on ribavirin (6/135 [4%] vs. 12/45 [27%]).
Given with interferon, taribavirin produced SVR rates comparable to those of ribavirin, with a lower occurrence of anemia.
The occurrence of hallucinations in patients with Parkinson's disease is often related to antiparkinsonian therapy, but other factors such as cognitive decline and sleep-cycle disturbances are thought to contribute. We describe an artist who depicted her visual hallucinations experienced in the course of Parkinson's disease.
We have recently put forward the hypothesis that the dual inhibition of proinflammatory nitric oxide (NO) and prostaglandins (PG) may contribute to the antiinflammatory properties of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitors. This hypothesis was tested in the present study. A rapid inflammatory response characterized by edema, high levels of nitrites (NO2-, a breakdown product of NO), PG, and cellular infiltration into a fluid exudate was induced by the administration of carrageenan into the subcutaneous rat air pouch. The time course of the induction of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) protein in the pouch tissue was found to coincide with the production of NO2-. Dexamethasone inhibited both iNOS protein expression and NO2- synthesis in the fluid exudate (IC50 = 0.16 mg/kg). Oral administration of N-iminoethyl-L-lysine (L-NIL) or NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (NO2Arg) not only blocked nitrite accumulation in the pouch fluid in a dose-dependent fashion but also attenuated the elevated release of PG. Finally, carrageenan administration produced a time-dependent increase in cellular infiltration into the pouch exudate that was inhibited by dexamethasone and NOS inhibitors. At early times, i.e., 6 h, the cellular infiltrate is composed primarily of neutrophils (98%). Pretreatment with colchicine reduced both neutrophil infiltration and leukotriene B4 accumulation in the air pouch by 98% but did not affect either NO2- or PG levels. In conclusion, the major findings of this paper are that (a) selective inhibitors of iNOS are clearly antiinflammatory agents by inhibiting not only NO but also PG and cellular infiltration and (b) that neutrophils are not responsible for high levels of NO and PG produced.
In a prospective study evaluating risk factors for indinavir-related renal colic in 555 HIV-infected patients receiving highly active antiretroviral therapy, followed-up fir 24 months, 23.6% developed one or more renal colic episodes, and 50 patients stopped indinavir. No correlation was observed between renal colic onset and sex, age, CD4 cell count, history, and hepatitis B or C virus co-infection, but baseline anthropometric values were significantly related to the onset of renal colic.
In the periphery, exercise induces interleukin (IL)-6 to downregulate tumor necrosis factor (TNF), elevate interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1RA), decreasing inflammation. Exercise also offers neuroprotection and facilitates brain repair. IL-6 production in the hippocampus following exercise suggests the potential of a similar protective role as in the periphery to down-regulate TNFα and inflammation. Using a chemical-induced model of hippocampal dentate granule cell death (trimethyltin, TMT 2.4 mg/kg, ip) dependent upon TNF receptor signaling, we demonstrate neuroprotection in mice with 2 weeks access to running wheel. Exercise attenuated neuronal death and diminished elevations in TNFα, TNF receptor 1, myeloid differentiation primary response gene (MyD) 88, transforming growth factor β, chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 2 (CCL2), and CCL3. Elevated mRNA levels for IL-1α, IL-1RA, occurred with injury and protection. mRNA and protein levels of IL-6 and neuronal expression of IL-6 receptor α, were elevated with injury and protection. Microarray pathway analysis supported an up-regulation of TNFα cell death signaling pathways with TMT and inhibition by exercise. IL-6 pathway recruitment occurred in both conditions. IL-6 downstream signal events differed in the level of STAT3 activation. Exercise did not increase mRNA levels of brain derived neurotrophic factor, nerve growth factor, or glial derived neurotrophic factor. In IL-6 deficient mice, exercise did not attenuate TMT-induced tremor and a diminished level of neuroprotection was observed. These data suggest a contributory role for IL-6 induced by exercise for neuroprotection in the CNS similar to that seen in the periphery.
To clarify whether visual hallucinations in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) are related to rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, nocturnal polysomnographic variables were compared between a group with hallucinations (hallucinators, n = 14) and a group without hallucinations (nonhallucinators, n = 8). A multiple sleep latency test (MSLT) was performed on 3 hallucinators, and the content of dreams during daytime REM sleep was investigated. The efficacy of clonazepam, a standard treatment choice for REM sleep behavior disorders, was investigated in 8 hallucinators. Nocturnal polysomnograms of the hallucinators showed a higher amount of stage 1-REM sleep with tonic electromyogram (stage 1-REM) than the nonhallucinators, and the reported occurrences of nocturnal hallucinations corresponded with the periods of stage REM or stage 1-REM in most hallucinators. The frequency of sleep onset REM periods (SOREMP) on the MSLT were pathologically high in the hallucinators, and the content of the dreams during the MSLT period was quite similar to their hallucinations. During clonazepam treatment, the frequency of hallucinatory symptoms decreased in 5 of 8 hallucinators. These results indicate that visual hallucinations in PD are likely to be related to a REM sleep disorder manifested as the appearance of both stage 1-REM during the night and SOREMP in the daytime.
The aim of this study was to analyze the expression of survival-related molecules such Akt and integrin-linked kinase (ILK) to evaluate Akt pathway activation in epileptogenesis process. Furthermore, was also investigated the mRNA expression of neuropeptide Y, a considered antiepileptic neuropeptide, in the pilocarpine-induced epilepsy. Male Wistar rats were submitted to the pilocarpine model of epilepsy. Hippocampi were removed 6h (acute phase), 12h (late acute), 5d (silent) and 60d (chronic) after status epilepticus (SE) onset, and from animals that received pilocarpine but did not develop SE (partial group). Hippocampi collected were used to specify mRNA expression using Real-Time PCR. Immunohistochemistry assay was employed to place ILK distribution in the hippocampus and Western blot technique was used to determine Akt activation level. A decrease in ILK mRNA content was found during acute (0.39+/-0.03) and chronic (0.48+/-0.06) periods when compared to control group (0.87+/-0.10). Protein levels of ILK were also diminished during both periods. Partial group showed increased ILK mRNA expression (0.80+/-0.06) when compared with animals in the acute stage. Silent group had ILK mRNA and immunoreactivity similar to control group. Western blot assay showed an augmentation in Akt activation in silent period (0.52+/-0.03) in comparison with control group (0.44+/-0.01). Neuropeptide Y mRNA expression increased in the partial group (1.67+/-0.22) and in the silent phase (1.45+/-0.29) when compared to control group (0.36+/-0.12). Results suggest that neuropeptide Y (as anticonvulsant) might act in protective mechanisms occurred during epileptic phenomena. Together with ILK expression and Akt activation, these molecules could be involved in hippocampal neuroprotection in epilepsy.
The effects of the opioid agonist dextromethorphan and the alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonist tizanidine on ouabain-induced cardiac arrhythmias were investigated in rats. Ouabain (10 mg/kg i.v.) elicited ventricular arrhythmias in all of the control rats. Administration of dextromethorphan (25 mg/kg i.v.) and tizanidine (0.1 mg/kg i.v.) 30 min before ouabain treatment significantly reduced the incidence of arrhythmias. We suggest that dextromethorphan and tizanidine showed these effects by decreasing excitatory amino acid (EAA) activity. It can be speculated that opioids and other EAA antagonists may have antiarrhythmic actions through both their central and peripheral effects as well.
A 52-year-old female patient who was medicated chronically with sodium valproate, an anticonvulsant drug, underwent spino-peritoneal shunt operation. Firstly, spinal drain was placed under local anesthesia and with intravenous diazepam, which was antagonized by flumazenil, a specific benzodiazepine receptor antagonist, without adverse effect. Secondly, peritoneal drain was placed and shunt operation was completed under general anesthesia. After the operation flumazenil was administered again in order to accelerate anesthesia recovery. Just after the second flumazenil administration she developed generalised convulsion and coma. Convulsion disappeared immediately and full consciousness was restored several hours after the attack. We have discussed the possible mechanism of the flumazenil-induced convulsion.
Although several studies have reported on valve abnormalities among users of fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine, detailed information on these subjects has not been provided, limiting the ability to understand who may be at risk for valve abnormalities and to generate hypotheses about the etiology and pathogenesis of these abnormalities. This study was a detailed medical record review of 18 previously reported users of fenfluramine and phentermine, all with valve abnormalities on echocardiogram and 2 with surgical pathology. Both clinical characteristics and medication use were recorded by trained abstracters using a standardized data collection form. Two subjects (11%) had other possible etiologies of valve disease: a history of rheumatic fever and prescribed ergotamine. Three subjects (17%) had a history of migraine headaches and 4 (22%) had murmurs noted before using fenfluramine. Use of medications that may affect serotonin receptors was common: ergotamine (1 subject, 5%), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (6, 33%), sumatriptan (2, 11%), and mirtazapine (1, 5%). Prior medication and nonmedication allergies were recorded in 6 (33%) and 3 (17%) subjects, respectively. All subjects had symptoms possibly due to fenfluramine or phentermine side effects. This study raises the hypotheses that valvular heart disease among fenfluramine users may be less common than previously estimated, that serotonin excess may play a role in valve pathology, and that a patient's response to anorexigens and other medications may serve as a marker for increased risk. Further study is needed to test these hypotheses.
We recently reported that hyperalgesia induced by the inflammatory mediator prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) requires intact alpha1, alpha3 and beta1 integrin subunit function, whereas epinephrine-induced hyperalgesia depends on alpha5 and beta1. PGE(2)-induced hyperalgesia is mediated by protein kinase A (PKA), while epinephrine-induced hyperalgesia is mediated by a combination of PKA, protein kinase Cepsilon (PKCepsilon) and mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (MAPK/ERK). We hypothesized that inflammatory mediator-induced hyperalgesia involves specific interactions between different subsets of integrin subunits and particular second messenger species. In the present study, function-blocking anti-integrin antibodies and antisense oligodeoxynucleotides were used to elucidate these interactions in rat. Hyperalgesia produced by an activator of adenylate cyclase (forskolin) depended on alpha1, alpha3 and beta1 integrins. However, hyperalgesia induced by activation of the cascade at a point farther downstream (by cAMP analog or PKA catalytic subunit) was independent of any integrins tested. In contrast, hyperalgesia induced by a specific PKCepsilon agonist depended only on alpha5 and beta1 integrins. Hyperalgesia induced by agonism of MAPK/ERK depended on all four integrin subunits tested (alpha1, alpha3, alpha5 and beta1). Finally, disruption of lipid rafts antagonized hyperalgesia induced by PGE(2) and by forskolin, but not that induced by epinephrine. Furthermore, alpha1 integrin, but not alpha5, was present in detergent-resistant membrane fractions (which retain lipid raft components). These observations suggest that integrins play a critical role in inflammatory pain by interacting with components of second messenger cascades that mediate inflammatory hyperalgesia, and that such interaction with the PGE(2)-activated pathway may be organized by lipid rafts.
Mercury (Hg) exposure causes health problems including cardiovascular diseases. Although precise mechanisms have not been precisely defined yet, matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) may be involved. The gene encoding MMP-9 presents genetic polymorphisms which affect the expression and activity level of this enzyme. Two polymorphisms in the promoter region [C(-1562)T and (CA)(n)] are functionally relevant, and are implicated in several diseases. This study aimed at examining how these polymorphisms affect the circulating MMP-9 levels and its endogenous inhibitor, the tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1 (TIMP-1) in 266 subjects environmentally exposed to Hg. Blood and plasma Hg concentrations were determined by inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (ICP-MS). MMP-9 and TIMP-1 concentrations were measured in plasma samples by gelatin zymography and ELISA, respectively. Genotypes for the C(-1562)T and the microsatellite (CA)(n) polymorphisms were determined. We found a positive association (P<0.05) between plasma Hg concentrations and MMP-9/TIMP-1 ratio (an index of net MMP-9 activity). When the subjects were divided into tertiles with basis on their plasma Hg concentrations, we found that the (CA)(n) polymorphism modified MMP-9 concentrations and MMP-9/TIMP-1 ratio in subjects with the lowest Hg concentrations (first tertile), with the highest MMP-9 levels being found in subjects with genotypes including alleles with 21 or more CA repeats (H alleles) (P<0.05). Conversely, this polymorphism had no effects on subjects with intermediate or high plasma Hg levels (second and third tertiles, respectively). The C(-1562)T polymorphism had no effects on MMP-9 levels. These findings suggest a significant interaction between the (CA)(n) polymorphism and low levels of Hg exposure, possibly increasing the risk of developing diseases in subjects with H alleles.
The effect of simultaneous administration of hepatitis B immune globulin on the antibody response to a low dose of heat-inactivated hepatitis B vaccine was investigated in 175 health care workers. Subjects were divided into four groups: Groups I and II received 3 monthly injections of a reduced dose (0.6 microgram) of a heat-inactivated hepatitis B vaccine (the usual dose being 3 micrograms) along with 500 IU of hepatitis B immune globulin simultaneously with the first injection of vaccine; Groups III and IV received the vaccine only. In addition, Groups I and III received a final booster injection with 0.6 microgram of the vaccine 8 months after the initial injection. Anti-HBs passively acquired from hepatitis B immune globulin did not interfere with the development of an active antibody response to the vaccine: the anti-HBs conversion rates were similar in persons treated with the combined regimen (89%) as in those who received the vaccine only (91%). At 3 and 5 months after the first injection, however, anti-HBs titers in the recipients of vaccine alone were slightly but statistically significantly higher than those of persons who received both hepatitis B immune globulin and vaccine; but at 8 months, this difference was no longer statistically significant. After a booster inoculation at 8 months, the geometric mean titer of anti-HBs increased 7- to 8-fold in antibody-positive vaccinees, regardless of whether hepatitis B immune globulin had been given earlier. Moreover, 6 of 13 nonresponders to the initial three vaccine injections developed anti-HBs after the booster inoculation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Heme oxygenase (HO)-1 and its metabolic product carbon monoxide (CO) play regulatory roles in acute inflammatory states. In this study, we demonstrate that CO administration is effective as a therapeutic modality in mice with established chronic colitis. CO administration ameliorates chronic intestinal inflammation in a T helper (Th)1-mediated model of murine colitis, interleukin (IL)-10-deficient (IL-10(-/-)) mice. In Th1-mediated inflammation, CO abrogates the synergistic effect of interferon (IFN)-gamma on lipopolysaccharide-induced IL-12 p40 in murine macrophages and alters IFN-gamma signaling by inhibiting a member of the IFN regulatory factor (IRF) family of transcription factors, IRF-8. A specific signaling pathway, not previously identified, is delineated that involves an obligatory role for HO-1 induction in the protection afforded by CO. Moreover, CO antagonizes the inhibitory effect of IFN-gamma on HO-1 expression in macrophages. In macrophages and in Th1-mediated colitis, pharmacologic induction of HO-1 recapitulates the immunosuppressive effects of CO. In conclusion, this study begins to elucidate potential etiologic and therapeutic implications of CO and the HO-1 pathway in chronic inflammatory bowel diseases.
The itch and erythematous responses induced by intradermal injection of histamine and PGE2 were studied in human skin. Both compounds produced a sensation of itch. The histamine-elicited flare reached a maximum in 3 min and had disappeared after 1 hours. PGE2 induced a similar flare reaction initially, but it was gradually replaced by a smaller, dusky and well delimited erythema. The itch and the flare-like erythema induced by either histamine or PGE2 were alleviated when the subjects were pretreated with the antihistaminic drug chlorcyclizine, thus indicating that at least part of the PGE2 response may be mediated via histamine release. However, when given combined in a mixture, histamine and PGE2 elicited itch of longer duration and flare of larger area than could be accounted for by simple additive histamine effects. Thus, PGE2 seems to potentiate the itch and flare responses induced by histamine in human skin.
Lasting normalisation of uric acid levels after treatment of patients with gout and hyperuricaemia with a combination of 300 mg allopurinol and 60 mg benzbromarone A total of 210 patients (163 men, 47 women) with gout and hyperuricaemia was treated for three months with daily doses of 300 mg allopurinol and 60 mg benzbromarone. During the course of treatment, the uric acid levels decreased to 4.3 +/- 1.3 mg/dl in male, and 4.4 +/- 1.3 mg/dl in female patients. Both of these levels differ significantly from the initial levels (p less than 0.001). Three months after discontinuation of treatment, uric acid levels were 5.7 +/- 1.2 mg/dl in women, and 5.9 +/- 1.4 mg/dl in men, levels that again differed significantly from the initial levels (p less than 0.001); both levels were, however, within the therapeutic range of below 6.4 mg/dl.
In this study, we examined the relationship between increased sensitivity to stress associated with noradrenergic hyperactivity and dopaminergic changes, and susceptibility to subsequent spontaneous recurrences of methamphetamine (MAP) psychosis (i.e., flashbacks). The subjects were 81 physically healthy females. Plasma monoamine metabolite levels were assayed in: 19 flashbackers, of whom 11 experienced a single flashback and 8 exhibited subsequent flashbacks; 20 non-flashbackers with a history of MAP psychosis; 8 subjects with persistent MAP psychosis; and 23 MAP users and 11 non-user controls. All 19 flashbackers had undergone frightening and stressful experiences during previous MAP use. Mild psychosocial stressors then triggered their flashbacks. During flashbacks, plasma norepinephrine levels increased, with a small increase in plasma levels of 3-methoxytyramine, which is an index of dopamine release. Among the 19 flashbackers, the 8 with subsequent episodes had increased NE levels and slightly increased 3-methoxytyramine levels, while the 11 with a single episode displayed small increases in norepinephrine and 3-methoxytyramine levels. Thus, noradrenergic hyperactivity and increased dopamine release in response to mild psychosocial stressors may be responsible for the development of flashbacks. Robust noradrenergic hyperactivity with slightly increased DA release in response to mild stress may induce susceptibility to subsequent flashbacks. Flashbacks and schizophrenia may share the pathophysiology of susceptibility to recurrence of paranoid-hallucinatory states such as stress sensitization, and also noradrenergic hyperactivity and enhanced DA release. Thus, flashbacks may provide an appropriate model of susceptibility to paranoid-hallucinatory states of schizophrenia. The model psychosis is a potential tool for validating basic neurobiological concepts thought to be related to the schizophrenia. A better understanding of the neurobiological mechanisms of susceptibility to recurrence could provide useful information in the development of strategies for preventing relapse.
Increasing evidence has confirmed that ligands for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) exhibit antitumoral effects through inhibition of cell proliferation and induction of cell differentiation in several malignant neoplasms. Recently, we have documented the accumulation of a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, p27(Kip1), as well as an unexpected accumulation in cyclin E in G1-arrested human hepatoma cells treated with the PPARgamma ligand troglitazone. Simultaneous accumulations in both p27(Kip1) and cyclin E are known to be characteristic phenotypes in cells derived from mice lacking Skp2, an F-box protein component of the SCF ubiquitin-ligase complex. Thus, the aim of the present study was to assess whether Skp2 might be involved in the down-regulation of p27(Kip1) in troglitazone-treated human hepatoma cells. A striking decrease in Skp2 expression and a reciprocal increase in p27(Kip1) expression were found in troglitazone-treated hepatoma cells but not in those cells treated with other PPARgamma ligands such as pioglitazone and ciglitazone. Quantitative real-time RT-PCR analysis showed that troglitazone down-regulated Skp2 at the mRNA levels. Consistently, ectopic overexpression in Skp2 brought resistance to troglitazone, resulting in a decreased population of arrested cells at the G1 phase compared with that in the mock-transfected cells. In surgically resected hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) tissue, an increased expression in Skp2 was found in both the moderately differentiated HCCs and the poorly differentiated HCCs. In conclusion, troglitazone attenuated Skp2 expression, thereby promoting p27(Kip1) accumulation in human hepatoma cells. This therapeutic potential of the ligand may lead to new cell-cycle-based antitumor strategies for advanced HCCs.
Diabetic subjects with mutations in the gene encoding hepatocyte nuclear factor (HNF)-1alpha (MODY3) are prone to develop hypoglycaemia at low doses of glibenclamide, interpreted as sulphonylurea hypersensitivity. The present study was undertaken to compare the plasma insulin responses to glucose and tolbutamide in HNF-1alpha mutation carriers with those of healthy control subjects.
Seven mutation carriers; three normoglycaemic, two with impaired glucose tolerance, and two with newly detected diabetes, underwent an oral glucose tolerance test and a tolbutamide-modified intravenous glucose tolerance test with measurements of plasma insulin. Twenty-two healthy subjects served as controls.
The plasma insulin response to intravenous glucose was reduced in the HNF-1alpha mutation carriers compared to the control subjects, with an area under the curve (median (interquartile range)) of 812 min pmol/l (421, 1647) and 1933 min pmol/l (1521, 2908), respectively (P = 0.03). In striking contrast, the plasma insulin response to tolbutamide was preserved, with an area under the curve of 2109 min pmol/l (1126, 3172) and 2250 min pmol/l (1614, 3276) in the mutation carriers and control subjects, respectively.
HNF-1alpha mutation carriers are characterized by preserved tolbutamide-induced insulin secretion. Compared to healthy subjects, our MODY3 individuals did not show any increased serum insulin response to tolbutamide, suggesting that HNF-1alpha mutation carriers are not characterized by sulphonylurea hypersensitivity.
We recently reported linkage to chromosome 1p36 (the PARK7-locus) in a family with early-onset parkinsonism. Linkage to this locus has since been confirmed in an independent data set. We describe clinical and neuroimaging features of the 4 patients in the original PARK7-linked kindred. Age at onset of parkinsonism varied from 27 to 40 years. Clinical progression was slow, and response to dopaminergic therapy good. The clinical spectrum ranged from mild hypokinesia and rigidity, to severe parkinsonism with levodopa-induced dyskinesias and motor fluctuation. Three of four patients with PARK7-linked parkinsonism exhibited psychiatric disturbances. Structural neuroimaging was unremarkable, but functional imaging of the brain, carried out in 3 patients, showed significant evidence for a presynaptic dopamine deficit, and assessment of cerebral glucose metabolism, as carried out in 1 patient, showed possible cerebellar involvement.
The link between inflammation and colorectal carcinoma has been acknowledged. However, the impact of bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) binding to Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) on chemokine receptors in human colorectal carcinoma cells still remains to be elucidated. The present study shows that exposure to LPS elevated CXC chemokine receptor 7 (CXCR7) expression in colorectal carcinoma SW480 and Colo 205 cell lines expressing TLR4/myeloid differential protein (MD-2). CXCR7 is associated with SW480 cell proliferation and migration. However, exposure of SW480 and Colo 205 cells to LPS had no effect on CXCR4 expression. To further support the above results, the expression of TLR4, MD-2, and CXCR7 was analyzed in human colorectal carcinoma tissues. Higher rates of TLR4 (53%), MD-2 (70%), and CXCR7 (29%) expression were found in colorectal carcinoma tissues than in normal tissues. We demonstrated that the recombination of TLR4, MD-2 and CXCR7 strongly correlated with tumor size, lymph node metastasis and distant metastasis in colorectal carcinoma tissue samples (p = 0.037, p = 0.002, p = 0.042, resp.). Accordingly, simultaneous examination of the expression of TLR4, MD-2 and CXCR7 in cancer tissues of colorectal carcinoma may provide valuable prognostic diagnosis of carcinoma growth and metastasis. Interplay of TLR4, MD-2 and CXCR7 may be of interest in the context of novel immunomodulatory therapies for colorectal carcinoma.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons are common pollutants in soil, have negative effects on soil ecosystems, and are potentially carcinogenic. The Springtail (Collembola) Folsomia candida is often used as an indicator species for soil toxicity. Here we report a toxicogenomic study that translates the ecological effects of the polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon phenanthrene in soil to the early transcriptomic responses in Folsomia candida.
Microarrays were used to examine two different exposure concentrations of phenanthrene, namely the EC10 (24.95 mg kg-1 soil) and EC50 (45.80 mg kg-1 soil) on reproduction of this springtail, which evoked 405 and 251 differentially expressed transcripts, respectively. Fifty transcripts were differential in response to either concentration. Many transcripts encoding xenobiotic detoxification and biotransformation enzymes (phases I, II, and III) were upregulated in response to either concentration. Furthermore, indications of general and oxidative stress were found in response to phenanthrene. Chitin metabolism appeared to be disrupted particularly at the low concentration, and protein translation appeared suppressed at the high concentration of phenanthrene; most likely in order to reallocate energy budgets for the detoxification process. Finally, an immune response was evoked especially in response to the high effect concentration, which was also described in a previous transcriptomic study using the same effect concentration (EC50) of cadmium.
Our study provides new insights in the molecular mode of action of the important polluting class of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in soil animals. Furthermore, we present a fast, sensitive, and specific soil toxicity test which enhances traditional tests and may help to improve current environmental risk assessments and monitoring of potentially polluted sites.
The antinociceptive, anti-inflammatory, antipyretic effects along with gastric safety profile of parecoxib, a novel, potent selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibiting prodrug, and those of ketorolac, a nonselective cyclooxygenase inhibitor, were evaluated in various animal models. Parecoxib (up to 20 mg/kg, i.v.) had no effect in two acute pain models, namely, the acetic acid-induced writhing (visceral pain) and the formalin test (tonic pain). However, ketorolac (up to 10 mg/kg, i.v.) showed marked antinociceptive effects in these models. In the models of carrageenan-provoked inflammatory hyperalgesia and inflammation, and in lipopolysaccharide-induced pyrexia, parecoxib significantly reversed all the behavioral changes and it was found to be more potent than ketorolac. Further, ketorolac (10 mg/kg, i.v.) produced visible gastric lesions with prominent petechiae and hemorrhagic streaks. However, parecoxib was without any effect on gastric mucosa. The present results showed that the cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor, parecoxib, when administered parenterally, has potent antihyperalgesic, anti-inflammatory, antipyretic effects and has a better safety profile than with ketorolac, with sparing of cyclooxygenase-1 in the stomach in these animal models.
Divalent lead cations (Pb²+) are toxic metal pollutants that may contribute to inflammatory diseases in people and animals. Human vascular smooth muscle cells in culture respond to low concentrations of Pb²+ ions by activating mediators of inflammation via the plasma membrane epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). These include cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and cytosolic phospholipase A₂ as well as the hormone-like lipid compound prostaglandin E₂. To further clarify the mechanism by which Pb²+ induces such mediators of inflammation, we tested human epidermoid carcinoma cell line A431 that expresses high levels of EGFR. Reverse transcription PCR and western blots confirmed A431 cells treated with a low concentration (1 μM) of Pb²+ in the form of lead (II) nitrate increased expression of COX-2 mRNA and its encoded protein in a time-dependent manner. Promoter deletion analysis revealed the transcription factor known as nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) was a necessary component of the COX-2 gene response. NF-κB inhibitor BAY 11-7082 suppressed Pb²+-induced COX-2 mRNA expression, and EGFR inhibitors AG1478 and PD153035 as well as EGFR small interfering RNA reduced the coincident nuclear translocation of NF-κB. Our findings support the hypothesis that low concentrations of Pb²+ ions incite inflammation by inducing COX-2 gene expression via the EGFR/NF-κB signal transduction pathway.
Head-up tilt testing (HUTT) potentiated with sublingual nitroglycerin has gained acceptance as means of diagnosing neurally mediated syncope. To evaluate the reproducibility of HUTT potentiated with sublingual nitroglycerin, 48 patients with unexplained syncope prospectively underwent 2 consecutive tests 1 to 28 days apart. The initial test ended in syncope in 34 patients (71%). In 9 patients (19%) the test was positive during the drug-free phase, whereas 25 patients (52%) had syncope after nitroglycerin administration. Of these 34 patients with an initial positive test result, 27 (79%) had a reproducible outcome on repeat testing. Of 12 patients (25%) with an initial negative test result, 10 (83%) had a reproducible outcome on repeat testing. Of 2 patients (4%) with a first test ending in exaggerated response, both had a negative repeat test response. The overall reproducibility of sublingual nitroglycerin tilt-table testing was 77%. In a group of 23 patients with both positive tests, 19 (83%) had the same response modality (2 vasodepressor, 4 cardioinhibitory, 13 mixed response). In the same group of patients, individual trough heart rates correlated well with each other between tests. Finally, in the 27 patients with both positive tests, intrapatient time of onset of symptoms did not significantly correlate between tests. Thus, in patients with syncope of unknown origin, HUTT potentiated with sublingual nitroglycerin provides an adequate reproducibility when repeated on different days.
