The effects of subparalytic doses of succinylcholine and d-tubocurarine on epinephrine-induced cardiac arrhythmias during halothane anesthesia were evaluated in dogs. Succinylcholine markedly increased (P is less than .05) the arrhythmogenicity of epinephrine and d-tubocurarine slightly decreased (P is less than .05) its arrhythmic effect. Prior administration of atropine resulted in a partial, but significant, reversal of this action of succinylcholine.
Objective. To evaluate antinocicpetive and redox properties of the monoterpenes (+)-camphene, p-cymene, and geranyl acetate in in vivo and in vitro experimental models. Methods. Evaluation of the in vitro antioxidant activity of (+)-camphene, p-cymene, and geranyl acetate using different free radical-generating systems and evaluation of antinociceptive actions by acetic acid-induced writhing and formalin-induced nociception tests in mice. Results. p-Cymene has the strongest antinociceptive effect, but (+)-camphene and geranyl acetate also present significant activity at high doses (200 mg/kg). (+)-Camphene had the strongest antioxidant effect in vitro at TBARS and TRAP/TAR assays and also had the highest scavenging activities against different free radicals, such as hydroxyl and superoxide radicals. Sodium nitroprussiate-derived NO production was enhanced by (+)-camphene. Geranyl acetate and p-cymene also presented some antioxidant effects, but with a varying profile according the free radical-generating system studied. Conclusion. (+)-Camphene, p-cymene, and geranyl acetate may present pharmacological properties related to inflammation and pain-related processes, being potentially useful for development of new therapeutic strategies, with limited possibilities for p-cymene and geranyl acetate.
The study is to investigate the effects of a Chinese herbal medicine, JinSanE decoction, on the TGF-beta1/Smads signal transduction pathway in a carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4))-induced hepatic fibrosis model in rats. Rats were randomly divided into 4 study groups: namely, a normal control group, a hepatic fibrosis model group, and 2 treatment groups with different doses of JinSanE (6 and 12 g/kg). Ten rats in each group were sacrificed at 4 and 8 weeks after exposure to CCl(4) respectively. The levels of TGF-beta1 and TRII mRNA in liver tissue were analyzed by RT-PCR. The expressions of TGF-beta1, Smad3 and Smad7 in liver tissues were evaluated by immunohistochemistry. The liver histopathology was examined by hematoxylin and eosin (HE) staining and electron microscopy respectively. The liver hydroxyproline (HYP), liver function and hyaluronic acid (HA) were examined by biochemistry and radioimmunoassay (RIA) respectively. Compared with the hepatic fibrosis model group, the levels of TGF-beta1, TRII mRNA and Smad3 expression significantly decreased in the 2 treatment groups. The expression of Smad7 was significantly increased in the liver of the rats treated with JinSanE (p < 0.05 or p < 0.01). The histological changes of fibrotic liver were obviously improved in the treatment rats. The levels of liver HYP, serum liver function and HA were also remarkably improved in the treatment rats. Moreover, the effects of JinSanE occurred in a dose- and time-dependent manner in the process of the protection of liver injury and fibrosis. JinSanE decoction had a protective effect on liver injury and could ameliorate hepatic fibrosis in rats. The mechanisms might be associated with their effects of down-regulating TGF-beta1, TRII mRNA and Smad3, and up-regulating Smad7.
Peroxidation of membrane lipids occurs in many different neurodegenerative conditions including stroke, and Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. Recent findings suggest that lipid peroxidation can promote neuronal death by a mechanism involving production of the toxic aldehyde 4-hydroxy-2,3-nonenal (HNE), which may act by covalently modifying proteins and impairing their function. The transcription factor NF-kappa B can prevent neuronal death in experimental models of neurodegenerative disorders by inducing the expression of anti-apoptotic proteins including Bcl-2 and manganese superoxide dismutase. We now report that HNE selectively suppresses basal and inducible NF-kappa B DNA binding activity in cultured rat cortical neurons. Immunoprecipitation-immunoblot analyses using antibodies against HNE-conjugated proteins and p50 and p65 NF-kappa B subunits indicate that HNE does not directly modify NF-kappa B proteins. Moreover, HNE did not affect NF-kappa B DNA-binding activity when added directly to cytosolic extracts, suggesting that HNE inhibits an upstream component of the NF-kappa B signaling pathway. Inhibition of the survival-promoting NF-kappa B signaling pathway by HNE may contribute to neuronal death under conditions in which membrane lipid peroxidation occurs.
Doxorubicin (DXR) has been used in variety of human malignancies for decades. Despite its efficacy in cancer, clinical usage is limited because of its cardiotoxicity, which has been associated with oxidative stress and apoptosis. Carbon monoxide-releasing molecules (CORMs) have been shown to reduce the oxidative damage and apoptosis. The present study investigated the effects of CORM-2, a fast CO-releaser, against DXR-induced cardiotoxicity in mice using biochemical, histopathological and gene expression approaches. CORM-2 (3, 10 and 30 mg/kg/day) was administered intraperitoneally (i.p.) for 10 days and terminated the study on day 11. DXR (20 mg/kg, i.p.) was injected before 72 h of termination. Mice treated with DXR showed cardiotoxicity as evidenced by elevation of serum creatine kinase (CK) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), tissue malondialdehyde (MDA), caspase-3 and decrease the level of total antioxidant status (TAS) in heart tissues. Pre- and post-treatment with CORM-2 (30 mg/kg, i.p.) elicited significant improvement in CK, LDH, MDA, caspase-3 and TAS levels. Histopathological studies showed that cardiac damage with DXR has been reversed with CORM-2+DXR treatment. There was dramatic decrease in hematological count in DXR-treated mice, which has been improved with CORM-2. Furthermore, there was also elevation of mRNA expression of heme oxygenase-1, hypoxia inducible factor-1 alpha, vascular endothelial growth factor and decrease in inducible-nitric oxide synthase expression upon treatment with CORM-2 that might be linked to cardioprotection. These data suggest that CORM-2 treatment provides cardioprotection against acute doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity in mice and this effect may be attributed to CORM-2-mediated antioxidant and anti-apoptotic properties.
Hexavalent chromium [Cr (VI)] is a well-known human carcinogen associated with the increased risk of lung cancer. However, the mechanism underlying the Cr (VI)-induced carcinogenesis remains unclear due to the lack of suitable experimental models. In this study, we developed an in vitro model by transforming nontumorigenic human lung epithelial BEAS-2B cells through long-term exposure to Cr (VI). By utilizing this model, we found that miR-143 expression levels were dramatically repressed in Cr (VI)-transformed cells. The repression of miR-143 led to Cr (VI)-induced cell malignant transformation and angiogenesis via upregulation of insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor (IGF-IR) and insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS1) expression. Moreover, we found that interleukin-8 is the major upregulated angiogenesis factor induced by Cr (VI) through activation of IGF-IR/IRS1 axis followed by activation of downstream ERK/hypoxia-induced factor-1α/NF-κB signaling pathway. These findings establish a causal role and mechanism of miR-143 in regulating Cr (VI)-induced malignant transformation and tumor angiogenesis.
4-Ipomeanol (IPO) is a prototypical pulmonary toxin that requires P450-mediated metabolic activation to reactive intermediates in order to elicit its toxic effects. CYP4B1 is a pulmonary enzyme that has been shown, in vitro, to have a high capacity for bioactivating IPO. In order to determine, unambiguously, the role of CYP4B1 in IPO bioactivation in vivo, we generated Cyp4b1 null mice following targeted disruption of the gene downstream of exon 1. Cyp4b1 (-/-) mice are viable and healthy, with no overt phenotype, and no evidence of compensatory upregulation of other P450 isoforms in any of the tissues examined. Pulmonary and renal microsomes prepared from male Cyp4b1 (-/-) mice exhibited no detectable expression of the protein and catalyzed the in vitro bioactivation of IPO at < 10% of the rates observed in tissue microsomes from Cyp4b1 (+/+) animals. Administration of IPO (20mg/kg) to Cyp4b1 (+/+) mice resulted in characteristic lesions in the lung, and to a lesser extent in the kidney, which were completely absent in Cyp4b1 (-/-) mice. We conclude that CYP4B1 is a critical enzyme for the bioactivation of IPO in vivo and that the Cyp4b1 (-/-) mouse is a useful model for studying CYP4B1-dependent metabolism and toxicity.
Phenylephrine and pseudoephedrine are sympathomimetic drugs belonging to the phenylamine family. Adverse cutaneous effects associated with these drugs have been reported but, in view of their frequent use, appear to be rare. The very close chemical structures of these drugs could explain potential cross-reactions among them but the results reported in the literature are controversial.
An 18-year-old woman developed blepharoconjunctivitis after application of phenylephrine and tropicamide eye drops. Four years after this reaction, she took 1 tablet of Narine (pseudoephedrine and loratadine) and 3-4 hours later developed a generalized erythrodermic reaction. Cutaneous biopsy revealed hydropic changes in the basal layer and, in the dermis, moderate edema with slight perivascular lymphocyte and eosinophil infiltrates. Patch tests with European standard series, commercial eye drops, tropicamide, phenylephrine, pseudoephedrine and other sympathomimetic agents were applied to the patient's back. After 47 and 96 hours, only the patches with pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine were positive.
We believe that our patient has presented two different reactions with different clinical outcome and histopathology, which are unlikely to be due to cross-reactivity between the drugs involved. We have found no similar coincidences reported int the literature.
Cocaine use is associated with myocardial ischemia and infarction, but it is unclear whether this is only because of the acute effects of cocaine on heart rate, blood pressure, and vasomotor tone or whether accelerated atherosclerosis from long-term exposure to cocaine also contributes.
We sought to measure the association between cocaine exposure and coronary calcification, a marker for atherosclerosis, among participants in the CARDIA Study who received computed tomography scanning and answered questions about illicit drug use at the year 15 examination in 2000-2001.
Among 3038 CARDIA participants (age 33-45 years, 55% women and 45% black), past cocaine exposure was reported by 35% and was more common among men, smokers, drinkers, and participants with less education. Powdered cocaine exposure was more common among whites, crack cocaine among blacks. Before adjustment, cocaine exposure was strongly associated with coronary calcification. After adjusting for age, sex, ethnicity, socioeconomic status, family history, and habits, however, these associations disappeared: adjusted odds ratios for coronary calcification were 0.9 (95% CI 0.6-1.3) for 1 to 10, 1.2 (95% CI 0.8-1.7) for 11 to 99, and 1.0 (95% CI 0.6-1.6) for > or =100 lifetime episodes of cocaine use, in comparison with none. Sex, tobacco, and alcohol use appeared to be primarily responsible for the confounding we observed in unadjusted models.
We found no evidence of a causal relationship between long-term exposure to cocaine and coronary calcification and conclude that acute nonatherogenic mechanisms probably explain most cocaine-associated myocardial infarction.
Two animal models were used to investigate the effect of lowered central noradrenaline levels on two dopamine-dependent behavioural parameters in the rat. Newborn rats were injected with 6-hydroxydopamine or adult animals had bilateral electro-lesions placed in the region of the locus coeruleus in the brain stem. The effect of these two lesions on amphetamine- and apomorphine-induced stereotyped behaviour and on haloperidol-induced catalepsy was studied. 1. Both 6-hydroxydopamine treatment at birth and bilateral locus coeruleus lesions specifically harmed the ascending dorsal noradrenergic pathway, causing significant decreases in cortical and limbic forebrain noradrenaline concentrations. 2. Both types of lesion had no apparent effect on stereotyped behaviour induced by either amphetamine and apomorphine. 3. Both types of lesions significantly enhanced the cataleptic response induced by varying doses of the neuroleptic agent haloperidol. 4. The results indicate that noradrenergic function may partly influence some dopaminergic mechanisms, and its possible site of action in terms of neostriatal and limbic populations of dopamine receptors is discussed.
To describe the case histories of patients with liver damage associated with the antibacterial combination amoxicillin-clavulanic acid.
Descriptive.
University Institute for General Practice, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
All reports (n = 40) of hepatic injury, attributed to amoxicillin-clavulanic acid (causal relationship 'possible', 'probable' or 'certain') and received by the Drug Safety Unit of the Inspectorate for Health Care since the registration of the combination (1982) until August 1996 were described and evaluated.
The reports concerned 28 men and 12 women with an average age of 61 years who had used the drug mostly for a respiratory tract infection. The latency period between first in-take and onset of the reaction was 3 weeks on average. The mean duration of hepatic injury was approximately 6 weeks. The liver injury resolved fully. Five patients had had the reaction on more than one occasion. The main symptoms were jaundice, nausea, pruritus and abdominal pain. The pattern of hepatic injury was mostly cholestatic or mixed hepatocellular-cholestatic.
Since liver damage to amoxicillin-clavulanic acid appears to be infrequent, this adverse effect is probably not caused by amoxicillin alone. The risk of liver damage to amoxicillin-clavulanic acid is highest in elderly patients treated with the combination on several occasions. Doctors should restrict the use of this combination to the treatment of infections with amoxicillin-resistant bacteria.
Hypertension is associated with endothelial dysfunction characterized by decreased endothelium-dependent relaxations and increased endothelium-dependent contractions. Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and thromboxane A2 receptor antagonists decreased the endothelium dysfunction in hypertensive animals.
To investigate the effects of prolonged treatment with losartan on endothelium-dependent and -independent relaxations and contractions in aortic rings from spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR).
Male SHR aged 16 weeks were treated for 12 consecutive weeks either with 10 mg/kg losartan per day or with 60 mg/kg captopril per day administered via their drinking water. The systolic blood pressure was evaluated basally and during week 12. At the end of the treatment period, the vascular reactivity in aortic rings was studies. A group of rats treated with captopril was studies as a reference group.
Losartan and captopril reduced the blood pressure significantly and comparably. Both drugs enhanced acetylcholine-induced relaxations and reduced the maximal contractile response to acetylcholine in the presence of NG-nitro-L arginine methyl ester (L-NAME). Contractile responses to phenylephrine, endothelin-l and U46619 were not affected by these treatments. Increased relaxing responses to superoxide dismutase were observed only in captopril-treated rats. Losartan reduced the contractile response to angiotensin II. By contrast this contractile response was elevated in rats treated with captopril.
Prolonged antihypertensive treatments with losartan and captopril decreased the endothelial dysfunction in aortic rings from SHR not only by enhancing NO-dependent relaxations but also by reducing the contractions in response to an endothelium-derived contracting factor. The results further confirm that an endothelium-derived contracting factor plays a role in vascular dysfunction in SHR and the relationships between this factor and angiotensin II.
Diphenylhydantoin-induced hepatitis and mononucleosis are uncommon in children. The occurrence of these two diseases in the same individual, with progression to hepatic failure is rare and has not been reported in infants. This report represents a 6-month-old male infant who developed an infectious mononucleosis-like syndrome and hepatic failure 16 days after diphenylhydantoin administration. He took this anticonvulsant for controlling seizures after a head injury. Fever, skin rash, hepatosplenomegaly, lymphadenopathy, and atypical lymphocytosis led to the initial diagnosis of infectious mononucleosis. However, negative heterophil antibody did not support the diagnosis. Jaundice ensued in the following course and became more and more profound. Meanwhile, physical examination showed shrinking in liver size. Negative virology studies, including Epstein-Barr virus, cytomegalovirus, and hepatitis B virus, excluded them as causative agents. The patient lapsed into a stage I hepatic coma, but gradually recovered clinically and biochemically after eight successive exchange transfusions and supportive care. Two liver biopsies were performed 20 and 50 days after the onset of disease, respectively. Remarkable hepatic parenchymal loss, cholestasis, and fatty change were found on histologic examination of the first biopsy specimen, and portal fibrosis was noted on the second.
Anemia associated with human immunodeficiency virus infection may be due to reduced erythropoiesis related to the disease itself or to concomitant medications (eg, zidovudine). Clinical studies have shown recombinant human erythropoietin (r-HuEPO) to be effective in correcting the anemia of zidovudine-treated patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus with baseline serum erythropoietin levels of 500 U/L or less. A treatment investigational new drug protocol that provided r-HuEPO to 1943 anemic patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome was studied.
Enrollment criteria included a clinical diagnosis of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, serum erythropoietin level of 500 U/L or less, hematocrit less than 0.300, and age of 12 years or more. The initial r-HuEPO dosage was 4000 U subcutaneously for 6 days each week. On the basis of response, the r-HuEPO dosage could be increased sequentially to 8000 U subcutaneously for 6 days per week. This was an open-label multicenter treatment protocol. A total of 1943 patients were treated by 510 investigators. Efficacy evaluations were based on the effect of r-HuEPO on hematocrit levels and transfusion requirements relative to baseline. Adverse experiences that were considered by the investigator to be possibly related to r-HuEPO therapy were collected to assess safety.
Therapy with r-HuEPO resulted in an increase in mean hematocrit from a baseline of 0.280 to 0.331 at week 12 and 0.338 at week 24. This increase was sustained throughout the course of the study to week 54. Overall, 40% of patients (769/1943) required at least one transfusion in the 6-week interval immediately preceding study entry (baseline). After 12 and 24 weeks of r-HuEPO treatment, corresponding percentages were 22% (311/1387) and 18% (119/650), respectively. Response to therapy, defined as an increase of 0.060 from baseline in hematocrit, with no transfusions within 28 days before achieving that hematocrit, was observed in 44% of patients. Adverse experiences not clearly related to acquired immunodeficiency syndrome were reported by 11% of patients.
In a study population of 1943 anemic patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome treated with r-HuEPO, the hematocrit increased and blood transfusion requirements decreased. Therapy with r-HuEPO was well tolerated.
Although pure red cell aplasia is a well-known side effect of carbamazepine treatment, intravascular hemolytic anemia is rare. We describe a 5-year-old boy who developed concurrent intravascular hemolytic anemia and erythroblastopenia, probably due to carbamazepine. Carbamazepine treatment was subsequently discontinued, and the patient was treated with red blood cell transfusions, haptoglobin, and methylprednisolone. His hematologic abnormalities were almost fully recovered within 2 weeks. Examination of the patient's and mother's erythrocyte enzyme activities revealed mildly decreased erythrocyte glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) activity. We speculate that patients with reduced GSH-Px activity are at a high risk of developing carbamazepine-induced hemolytic crisis and/or aplastic crisis.
Doxorubicin is a widely used anticancer agent, but its application is restricted by its cardiotoxic side effects. The current theory of its cardiotoxicity is based on free radical formation. The compound H-2545, having a 3-carboxamido-2,2,5,5-tetramethyl-2,5-dihydro-1H-pyrrole moiety, was reported to exhibit antioxidant properties and accumulate in cell membranes, scavenging free radicals at the site of formation. Therefore, we hypothesized that H-2545 could reduce the doxorubicin-induced acute deterioration of cardiac function. Langendorff-perfused rat hearts were treated with doxorubicin and/or H-2545, its metabolite H-2954, or dihydrolipoamide. High-energy phosphate levels, contractile function, lipid peroxidation, protein oxidation, and Akt phosphorylation were investigated. We also determined whether the antioxidants influenced doxorubicin toxicity on malignant cells. During perfusion with doxorubicin, the energetic and functional parameters of the myocardium were improved by adding H-2545. H-2545 significantly diminished doxorubicin-induced lipid and protein damage. On H-2545 treatment, the doxorubicin-triggered Akt phosphorylation was markedly reduced, whereas dihydrolipoamide had such an effect only at higher concentrations. H-2545 did not alter the anticancer effect of doxorubicin on malignant cell lines. We propose that the coadministration of the antioxidant H-2545 attenuates doxorubicin-induced acute cardiotoxicity without interfering with its anticancer effects. Prevention of the acute adverse effects of doxorubicin on myocardium may hinder the later development of cardiomyopathy.
The role of neuronal nitric oxide (NO) in the cerebrovascular response to partial seizures induced by intrahippocampal injection of kainate (KA) was investigated in mice deleted for the neuronal NO synthase gene (nNOS-/-) and in wild-type controls (WT). A second group of WT mice received the nNOS inhibitor, 7-nitroindazole (WT-7NI). Local cerebral blood flow (LCBF) was measured using the quantitative (14)C-iodoantipyrine method. Within the epileptic focus, all three groups of seizing mice (WT, WT-7NI, and nNOS-/-) showed significant 26-88% LCBF increases in ipsilateral hippocampus, compared to saline-injected mice. Contralaterally to the epileptic focus, KA seizures induced a 21-47% LCBF decreases in hippocampus and limbic cortex of WT mice and in most contralateral brain structures of nNOS-/- mice, while WT-7NI mice showed no contralateral CBF change. Neuronal NO appears to be not involved in the cerebrovascular response within the epileptic focus, but may rather have a role in the maintenance of distant LCBF regulation during seizures.
Estrogen increases methamphetamine (MA)-induced neurotoxicity within the impaired nigrostriatal dopaminergic (NSDA) system of ovariectomized female mice, as defined by enhanced striatal dopamine (DA) depletion. In this study we compared the effects of a lower dose of estradiol benzoate (EB, 1 microg) with related agents--tamoxifen (TMX, 12.5 microg), testosterone (5 microg) and dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA, 3 mg) in this paradigm. In experiment 1, ovariectomized mice received an initial treatment with MA. At 1 week after MA, mice were treated with EB, TMX, testosterone, DHEA or oil vehicle and 24 h later a second MA treatment. Striatal DA and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) concentrations in the MA-treated groups were decreased compared to the non-MA-treated control. Neither EB nor any of the other agents tested showed enhanced neurodegenerative or neuroprotective effects against a second MA invasion. To verify that estrogen was capable of showing a neuroprotective effect under a condition of two administrations of MA, in experiment 2, EB was administered either once or twice prior to each of the two MA treatments. EB treatment prior to the first MA invasion or first and second MA protected the NSDA system against DA and DOPAC depletion. These results imply that a lower dose of EB, TMX, testosterone and DHEA cannot exert neurodegenerative or neuroprotective effects in the impaired NSDA model. However, EB administered prior to the introduction of neurotoxicity can protect the NSDA system. This study may provide an understanding of the variations in results on the effects of estrogen upon the NSDA neurodegenerative disorder, Parkinson's disease.
The present study examined the influence of consumer status and anxious disposition on the hypertensive effects of caffeine. A secondary aim of the study was to investigate possible gender differences in response to caffeine. Sixty normotensive subjects were assigned to 4 groups representing high and low scorers on the variables of habitual caffeine consumption and anxious disposition. A randomized double-blind crossover design was used in which all subjects received a placebo (lactose) at one of two 120-min laboratory sessions and caffeine (6 mg/kg) at the other. Systolic and diastolic blood pressure, heart rate, hand steadiness, and EMG were monitored before and after exposure to a psychological stressor. Caffeine produced significant elevations in systolic and diastolic blood pressure, and these effects were additive to the pressor effects of stress and anxiety. While the general pattern of results was similar for both sexes, reactions to caffeine were more pronounced in males than in females. Notwithstanding the need for clarification of the chronic effects of caffeine, present findings add further weight to current concerns about the acute hypertensive effects of the drug.
Rhesus monkeys, previously subjected to twice-weekly injections of various neuroleptics, subsequently respond to acute IM injections of haloperidol with marked bucco-lingual and whole body movement disturbances consisting of mouth opening, protrusion, retraction or curling of the tongue together with writhing movements of the neck, trunk and/or limbs. These phenomena, which closely resemble the acute dyskinetic or dystonic reactions described in patients at the beginning of neuroleptic treatment, were also observed after acute IM injections of other neuroleptics such as fluphenazine, metoclopramide, oxiperomide, sulpiride, sultopride and tiapride. No dyskinesias were observed after chlorpromazine, chlordiazepoxide, clozapine, RMI81582 or thioridazine at doses which otherwise had marked behavioural effects. The dyskinesias induced by haloperidol could be suppressed by prior treatment with the anti-cholinergic scopolamine. These observations, which correlate well with clinical findings, suggest that neuroleptic induced acute dyskinesias in the Rhesus monkey might be a useful model for predicting the liability of new anti-psychotics for inducing acute dyskinetic reactions in man.
The present studies assessed the roles of sex, age, novelty-seeking and plus-maze behavior on cocaine drinking in rats. Cocaine/saccharin solution was available in three daily, 5-hour sessions then a saccharin-only solution was also available in following sessions. In the one-bottle drinking phase, early and late adolescent males, post-natal day 28 (PN28) and PN42, consumed more cocaine/saccharin solution than young adults (PN65), but females did not exhibit significant age differences. Adolescents of both sexes consumed more cocaine/saccharin than adults during choice drinking. Saccharin availability in the two-bottle trials decreased cocaine/saccharin consumption in PN28 and PN65 rats. After a drug-free period, cocaine-stimulated locomotion was lower in cocaine/saccharin drinking than saccharin-only males, indicating tolerance. We tested the hypothesis that individual differences in pre-screened behavioral traits would correlate with cocaine/saccharin consumption in PN28 and PN65 male rats. High locomotor responses to novelty were associated with greater cocaine/saccharin drinking in adults in one-bottle sessions. In the subsequent choice drinking phase, correlations were age-specific. Adolescents with high novelty-induced locomotion and adults that spent less time on open arms of the elevated plus-maze drank more cocaine/saccharin. Thus, behavioral phenotypes correlated with individual differences in cocaine/saccharin consumption in an age-related manner.
To identify known drugs with previously unrecognized anticancer activity, we compiled and screened a library of such compounds to identify agents cytotoxic to leukemia cells. From these screens, we identified ivermectin, a derivative of avermectin B1 that is licensed for the treatment of the parasitic infections, strongyloidiasis and onchocerciasis, but is also effective against other worm infestations. As a potential antileukemic agent, ivermectin induced cell death at low micromolar concentrations in acute myeloid leukemia cell lines and primary patient samples preferentially over normal hematopoietic cells. Ivermectin also delayed tumor growth in 3 independent mouse models of leukemia at concentrations that appear pharmacologically achievable. As an antiparasitic, ivermectin binds and activates chloride ion channels in nematodes, so we tested the effects of ivermectin on chloride flux in leukemia cells. Ivermectin increased intracellular chloride ion concentrations and cell size in leukemia cells. Chloride influx was accompanied by plasma membrane hyperpolarization, but did not change mitochondrial membrane potential. Ivermectin also increased reactive oxygen species generation that was functionally important for ivermectin-induced cell death. Finally, ivermectin synergized with cytarabine and daunorubicin that also increase reactive oxygen species production. Thus, given its known toxicology and pharmacology, ivermectin could be rapidly advanced into clinical trial for leukemia.
Treatment of post-transplantation recurrence of hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection despite prophylaxis with hepatitis B immunoglobulin (HBIG) and lamivudine combination therapy is not easy. Because HBV reinfection has a severe course and could result in graft failure in liver transplant recipients, prompt medication is essential. Herein is reported the authors' experience with adefovir dipivoxil (AD) therapy in 11 liver transplant recipients who had HBV reinfection despite the administration of lamivudine and HBIG.
Two-hundred and nine patients underwent liver transplantation (100 deceased donor liver transplantations [DDLT], 109 living donor liver transplantation [LDLT]) due to chronic hepatitis B infection between April 1997 and May 2005 in Ege University Medical School, Liver Transplantation Unit. Patients had prophylaxis with lamivudine and low-dose HBIG combination after liver transplantation. Treatment of recurrence consisted of AD 10 mg once a day and lamivudine 300 mg/daily and HBIG was discontinued in those patients.
In total there were 11 HBV recurrences: five occurred in DDLT recipients and six in LDLT recipients, at a median follow up of 18 months (range, 6-48 months). In one of 11 patients, pretransplant HBV-DNA and HBeAg were positive. Three patients had a severe course and one patient had fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis. After AD treatment, HBV-DNA level decreased in all patients and became negative in seven patients. Two patients died due to hepatocellular carcinoma recurrence after 12 and 14 months of follow up. Serum creatinine level increased mildly in one patient and no other side-effect was observed, and all patients continued therapy.
Adefovir dipivoxil is a safe, effective treatment option for post-transplant HBV recurrence even among patients with fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis caused by lamivudine-resistant HBV.
Factor (F)XIII B-subunit, which plays a carrier role for zymogen FXIIIA, is highly polymorphic, but the molecular basis for these polymorphisms and their relationship to disease remains unknown.
To screen the FXIIIB gene coding region for common variation and analyze possible functional effects.
We examined the FXIIIB gene by PCR-SSCP and identified three common single nucleotide polymorphisms: A8259G, C29470T and A30899G. A8259G results in substitution of His95Arg in the second Sushi domain. An FXIII tetramer ELISA was developed to analyze B-subunit dissociation from A-subunit (leading to access to the catalytic site of FXIII). Increased subunit dissociation, 0.51 vs. 0.45 (fraction of total tetramer), was found in plasma from subjects possessing the Arg-allele. However, when the variants were purified to homogeneity and binding was analyzed by steady-state kinetics, no difference was observed. The relationship between His95Arg and venous thrombosis was investigated in 214 patients and 291 controls from Leeds. His/Arg + Arg/Arg genotypes were more frequent in patients than controls (22.4% vs. 15.1%). His95Arg was also investigated in the Leiden Thrombophilia Study, in which a similar difference was observed for 471 patients vs. 472 controls (18.5% vs. 14.0%), for a pooled odds ratio (OR) of 1.5 (CI95 1.1-2.0).
We have identified three FXIIIB polymorphisms, one of which codes for substitution of His95Arg. The Arg95 variant associates with a moderately increased risk for venous thrombosis, and with increased dissociation of the FXIII subunits in plasma, although in vitro steady-state binding between purified subunits was not affected.
We report a case of chronic intra-hepatic cholestasis observed after 5 months treatment of fenofibrate, a drug extensively prescribed in the treatment of dyslipidemia. Clinically asymptomatic liver injury was revealed by a marked elevation of GGT activity, associated with a moderate increase in alkaline phosphatase and aminotransferases activities. GGT activity remained moderately increased 2 years after discontinuation of treatment. Examination of a liver biopsy showed a reduction in the number of interlobular bile ducts. This case emphasizes the need for systematic and repeated control of blood liver tests in patients receiving fenofibrate therapy.
Carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)) was used to induce liver fibrosis in the rat. Using this model, we have identified changes in serum and urinary clinical chemistry parameters, and characterized histopathological lesions in the liver. Two experiments were conducted. In Experiment 1, rats were dosed at six levels of CCl(4) (0.06-0.36 ml/kg) twice weekly for 6 weeks, followed by a 6-week non-dosing recovery period (week 12). Livers were removed for histology at 6 and 12 weeks and serum parameters analysed. In Experiment 2, rats were given seven dose levels of CCl(4) (0.4-1.0 ml/kg) twice weekly for 6 weeks, followed by a 6-week recovery period (week 12); urine samples were analysed at 3, 6, 9 and 12 weeks using one-dimensional sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). Liver fibrosis was evident at 6 weeks in Experiments 1 and 2, and the activity of serum enzymes (including alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase and glutamate dehydrogenase) was increased. Sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis analysis (Experiment 2) revealed a protein band at 18.4 kDa in urine from rats treated with CCl(4), not present in control urine, which was identified as copper/zinc superoxide dismutase (Cu/Zn SOD). Western blotting revealed that SOD was increased in urine from rats treated with CCl(4) at 3 and 6 weeks, but not at 9 and 12 weeks. We conclude that Cu/Zn SOD is a urinary marker of hepatic necrosis, but not hepatic fibrosis.
