Lead poisoning of waterfowl has been reported for decades in the Coeur d'Alene River Basin (CDARB) in Idaho as a result of the ingestion of lead-contaminated sediments. This study was conducted to determine whether the addition of phosphoric acid to CDARB sediments would reduce the bioavailability and toxicity of lead to the liver and kidney of mallards (Anas platyrhynchos). Mallards received diets containing 12% clean sediment (controls) or 12% sediment from three different CDARB sites containing 4520, 5390, or 6990 microg/g lead (dry weight) with or without phosphoric acid amendment. Liver and kidney lead concentrations were significantly higher in all CDARB treatment groups and ranged from geometric mean values of 18.2 (liver) and 28.7 (kidney) for the first 2 sites to 22.5 (liver) and 45.6 (kidney) microg/g (wet weight) for the third site. With amendments all liver lead concentrations were reduced 36 to 55%, and all kidney lead concentrations were lowered 54 to 73%. Unamended CDARB sediment from the third site resulted in the following hepatic effects: over 1.6-fold elevation of liver glutathione (reduced form; GSH) concentration, higher GSH S-transferase and oxidized glutathione (GSSG) reductase activities, and lower protein-bound thiols (PBSH) concentration. Renal effects included higher kidney GSH concentrations for all CDARB sites, with over 2.1-fold higher for the third site. Resulting kidney GSSG to GSH ratios were lower at two sites. At the third site, gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT) activity was elevated, and lipid peroxidation as thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) was 1.7-fold greater. Amendment restored all hepatic variables as well as the renal variables TBARS and GGT so they did not differ from controls. Although amendments of phosphorus substantially reduced the bioavailability of lead and some of the adverse effects, lead concentrations in the tissues of mallards fed the amended sediments were still above those considered to be harmful to waterfowl under the present conditions.
Myocardial and systemic effects of isovolemic hemodilution alone and combined with controlled hypotension induced with sodium nitroprusside (SNP) were studied in halothane-anesthetized, open-chest dogs. Regional blood flow was measured with radioactive microspheres and used to compute regional oxygen (O2) supply. Values for regional blood flow in myocardium were used to compute myocardial O2 (MVO2) and lactate uptake (MVLAC) using the Fick equation. Hemodilution to hematocrit 50% of baseline increased aortic blood flow and decreased systemic vascular resistance, although other systemic hemodynamic values were not changed. Twofold increases in myocardial blood flow were accompanied by no change in MVO2, MVLAC, or coronary sinus PO2. Hemodilution increased regional blood flow sufficiently in the pancreas, liver, duodenum, skeletal muscle, skin, and brain to preserve O2 supply whereas unchanged blood flow in the spleen and kidney reduced O2 supply. Under hemodilution, 15 min of intravenous SNP sufficient to reduce mean arterial pressure by 50% caused parallel reductions in aortic blood flow, dP/dt max, and left ventricular end-diastolic pressure; systemic vascular resistance was unaffected. Myocardial blood flow and MVO2 decreased proportionally, whereas MVLAC and coronary sinus PO2 did not change. Regional blood flow and O2 supply decreased in the kidney, spleen, liver, and skin. Extending SNP infusion to 60 min increased myocardial blood flow and MVO2, but other hemodynamic values were unchanged. Comparing previous results with adenosine-induced hypotension inferred that coronary vasodilator reserve was greatly reduced at this time. In conclusion, although myocardial O2 supply versus demand balance was well maintained during SNP-induced hypotension under hemodiluted conditions, diminished coronary vasodilator reserve suggests increased vulnerability to ischemia if stresses of augmented cardiac work demand or impaired arterial oxygenation were superimposed. The decrease in O2 supply in the kidney during combined hemodilution and SNP-induced hypotension also warrants concern. These latter findings suggest the need for extensive clinical monitoring when SNP is used for controlled hypotension under hemodiluted conditions.
Dexmedetomidine (DEX) is widely used in intensive care unit for perioperative sedation. The one advantage of DEX administration for sedation is the lack of significant respiratory depression. However, DEX shows significant interaction with anesthetics and narcotics, and we present a case in which post-anesthetic administration of DEX induced apnea and severe respiratory depression after extubation. A 74-year-old, 38.3 kg, 148 cm woman was scheduled to undergo implantation of internal cardiac defibrillator. General anesthesia was maintained by sevoflurane, remifentanil and intermittent administration of fentanyl. After the surgery, she was transferred to intensive care unit with intubation, and DEX administration was commenced. After 3.5 hr from the end of anesthesia, the patient's trachea was extubated under continuous infusion of DEX (0.26 microg x kg(-1) x hr(-1)). Ninety min later, she showed apnea and severe respiratory depression. The interaction of DEX and residual narcotics might have induced life-threatening respiratory complication.
Peripheral neuropathy is a well-known side effect of vincristine, a micro-tubule inhibitor commonly used to treat malignancies. Severe neurologic adverse events can occur in patients with Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT) treated with vincristine. Voriconazole is an antifungal agent used increasingly in children with malignancy. Because of its metabolism by hepatic p450 enzymes, voriconazole may inhibit the clearance of many medications, including vincristine. We report a case of vincristine related neuropathy that was exacerbated by voriconazole in a patient with previously undiagnosed, X-linked CMT.
Epidemiologically, exposure to particulate air pollution is associated with increases in morbidity and mortality, and diabetics are especially vulnerable to effects of particles. This study was carried out to determine the respiratory effect of diesel exhaust particles (DEP; 0.4mg/kg) on mice rendered diabetic by the injection of streptozotocin or vehicle (control). Four weeks following induction of diabetes, the animals were intratracheally instilled (i.t.) with DEP (0.4mg/kg) or saline. 24h later, the measurement of airway reactivity to methacholine in vivo by a forced oscillation technique showed a significant and dose-dependent increase in airway resistance in non-diabetic mice exposed to DEP versus non-diabetic mice exposed to saline. Similarly, the airway resistance was significantly increased in diabetic mice exposed to DEP versus diabetic mice exposed to saline. Nevertheless, there was no difference in the airway resistance between diabetic and non-diabetic mice after i.t. administration of DEP. Following DEP administration there were neutrophil polymorphs infiltration of pulmonary interalveolar septae and the alveolar spaces with many macrophages containing DEP in both diabetic and non-diabetic mice. Interestingly, apoptotic cells were only found in the examined lung sections from diabetic mice exposed to DEP. Total proteins and albumin concentrations in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid, markers for increase of epithelial permeability, were significantly increased in diabetic mice exposed to DEP compared to saline-treated diabetic and DEP-treated non diabetic mice. Superoxide dismutase activity and reduced glutathione concentration in BAL were significantly decreased in diabetic mice exposed to DEP compared to saline-treated diabetic and DEP-treated non diabetic mice. Moreover, tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα) concentrations were significantly increased in diabetic mice exposed to DEP compared to saline-treated diabetic and DEP-treated non diabetic mice. We conclude that, at the dose and time point investigated, DEP equally increased airway resistance and caused infiltration of inflammatory cells in the lung of both diabetic and non-diabetic mice. However, the occurrence of oxidative stress, the presence lung apoptotic cells and the increase of total proteins, albumin and TNFα in BAL fluid were only seen in DEP-exposed diabetic mice suggesting an increased respiratory susceptibility to particulate air pollution.
For the purpose of investigating the role of physical exercise in developmental seizure-induced cognitive deficit, hippocampal mossy fiber sprouting and related gene expression, a seizure was induced by penicillin every other day in Sprague-Dawley rats from postnatal day 24 (P24). The authors assigned ten rats each randomly into the control group (CONT1), the control plus exercise group (CONT2), the seizure group (EXP1) and the seizure plus exercise group (EXP2). Morris water maze test was used respectively during P39-P45 and P61-P66. Treadmill exercise was performed daily by CONT2 and EXP2 rats during P49-P54. On P66, mossy fiber sprouting and gene expression in hippocampus were assessed by Timm staining and real-time RT-PCR. EXP2 rats performed better than EXP1 rats in the second water maze navigation test. In the entire two spatial probe tests, both EXP1 and EXP2 rats performed worse than the two control rats. Physical exercise remarkably reduced the aberrant mossy fiber sprouting in the supragranular region of dentate gyrus and CA3 subfield of hippocampus. Both EXP1 and EXP2 rats had a higher amount of glutamate receptor 1 (GluR1) and lower amount of the ratio of GluR2/GluR1 in hippocampus when compared with CONT rats. In addition, there was long-term enhancement of both gamma-aminobutyric acid receptor A-alpha3 (GABA-Aalpha3) and cholecystokinin (CCK) of EXP2 rats compared with the other three groups. These results showed that physical exercise improved learning capacity by modulating hippocampal regenerative sprouting and related gene expression in a developmental rat model of penicillin-induced recurrent epilepticus.
The sarco(endo)plasmic reticulum calcium ATPase 2 (SERCA2) transports Ca(2+) from cytosol into the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) of cardiomyocytes, thereby maintaining the store of releasable Ca(2+) necessary for contraction. Reduced SERCA function has been linked to heart failure, and loss of SERCA2 in the adult mammalian heart would be expected to cause immediate severe myocardial contractile dysfunction and death. We investigated heart function in adult mice with an inducible cardiomyocyte-specific excision of the Atp2a2 (Serca2) gene (SERCA2 KO). Seven weeks after induction of Serca2 gene excision, the mice displayed a substantial reduction in diastolic function with a 5-fold increase in the time constant of isovolumetric pressure decay (tau). However, already at 4 weeks following gene excision less than 5% SERCA2 protein was found in myocardial tissue. Surprisingly, heart function was only moderately impaired at this time point. Tissue Doppler imaging showed slightly reduced peak systolic tissue velocity and a less than 2-fold increase in tau was observed. The SR Ca(2+) content was dramatically reduced in cardiomyocytes from 4-week SERCA2 KO mice, and Ca(2+) transients were predominantly generated by enhanced Ca(2+) flux through L-type Ca(2+) channels and the Na(+)-Ca(2+) exchanger. Moreover, equivalent increases in cytosolic [Ca(2+)] in control and SERCA2 KO myocytes induced greater cell shortening in SERCA2 KO, suggesting enhanced myofilament responsiveness. Our data demonstrate that SR-independent Ca(2+) transport mechanisms temporarily can prevent major cardiac dysfunction despite a major reduction of SERCA2 in cardiomyocytes.
In animals, stress and corticosteroids can be associated with both reversible and irreversible changes in the hippocampus. Changes in memory and hippocampal structure, perhaps in part due to cortisol elevations, are reported in some patients with mood disorders. Minimal data are available on the effects of long-term exposure to corticosteroids on the human hippocampus. We previously reported greater depressive symptom severity, poorer memory and smaller hippocampal volumes in patients with asthma or rheumatic diseases receiving long-term prednisone therapy than in controls.
In this report, patients and controls were assessed a mean of 4 years after the first assessment to determine if depressive and manic symptoms and cognition remained stable, improved or worsened. Seven prednisone-treated patients and six controls were identified and agreed to reassessment with psychiatric symptom and neurocognitive measures. Follow-up MRIs for hippocampal volume analysis were available for two prednisone-treated participants.
With the exception of an increase in depressive symptoms in those receiving prednisone, participants and controls did not show significant change in mood or cognition from the initial assessment. One participant discontinued prednisone and showed improvement in psychiatric symptoms and cognition. Hippocampal volumes were available in two prednisone-treated participants and showed inconsistent findings.
A limitation is the small sample size.
Our findings, although preliminary in nature, suggest that long-term prednisone therapy is associated with initial changes in mood, memory and hippocampal volume that appear to stabilize over time.
Eighty-seven cases of occupational asthma induced by toluene diisocyanate (TDI) were diagnosed by an inhalation challenge with TDI and methacholine. After an average follow-up interval of 11 yrs, all subjects were re-examined. Of the 87 subjects examined, 13 (15%) had remained in the same job, 44 (50.5%) had been removed from exposure for <10 yrs and 30 (34.5%) had been removed for >10 yrs. The proportion of subjects who experienced symptoms of asthma and those who were hyperresponsive to methacholine was significantly lower. Of the patients, 59% used short-acting bronchodilators, 8% long-acting bronchodilators and 18% were on regular inhaled glucocorticoids. Thus, multiple regression analysis showed a positive correlation between forced vital capacity (FVC) and forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) at follow-up and FVC and FEV1 at diagnosis, and a negative correlation with smoking and with therapy with bronchodilators. Stepwise logistic regression showed that the follow-up provocative dose causing a 20% fall in the FEV1 (PD20) could be predicted from baseline PD20. These results indicate that respiratory symptoms and airway hyperresponsiveness to methacholine persist in subjects removed from exposure to TDI for >10 yrs. A more favourable prognosis was associated with a better lung function and a lower degree of airway hyperresponsiveness to methacholine at diagnosis.
Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs), which are used as flame retardants, have recently been shown to increase in the environment and in human milk, which is also true for the decabrominated congener, 2,2',3,3',4,4',5,5',6,6'-decaBDE (PBDE 209). We have recently reported that neonatal exposure to PBDE 209 can induce persistent aberrations in spontaneous behaviour, in mice, effects that get worse with age. Other PBDE congeners affect learning and memory functions and the cholinergic system in adult mice and rats. The present study indicates that spontaneous behaviour, along with the cholinergic system during its developing stage, can be targets for PBDE 209 in the rat. Neonatal oral exposure of male Sprague-Dawley rats, on postnatal day 3, to 6.7, and 20.1 mg PBDE 209/kg body weight, was shown to disrupt normal spontaneous behaviour at 2 months of age. Also, rats exposed to the high dose of PBDE 209 showed a different response to adult nicotine treatment, compared to control rats. These findings show similarities to observations made from neonatal exposure of rats or mice to 2,2',4,4',5-pentaBDE (PBDE 99), 2,2',4,4',5,5'-hexaBDE (PBDE 153) and certain PCBs, compounds shown to affect both spontaneous behaviour and the cholinergic system. It is also clear from the present study and from recent studies from our research group that both lower and higher brominated diphenyl ethers can cause similar developmental neurotoxic effects in both mice and rats.
The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of resveratrol (RSV) and the molecular mechanisms by which it regulates vascular smooth muscle contraction and blood pressure in mice. In cultured human vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs), we found that the activation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) by RSV inhibited angiotensin II (AngII)-induced phosphorylation of myosin phosphatase-targeting subunit 1 (MYPT1) and myosin light chain (MLC). Inversely, AMPK inhibition with RNA interference and compound C, an AMPK inhibitor, abolished the inhibitory effect of RSV on AngII-induced MYPT1 and MLC phosphorylation. Thiazovivin, a Rho-associated kinase (ROCK) inhibitor, reversed AngII-induced MYPT1 and MLC phosphorylation, suggesting that ROCK functions as an upstream kinase for MYPT1/MLC. RSV reversed AngII-induced Ras homolog gene family member A (RhoA) and ROCK activity, whereas AMPK inhibition via pharmacological or genetic means abolished this effect. In addition, gene silencing of p190-guanosine triphosphatase-activating protein blocked the effects of RSV-induced AMPK activation on MLC, MYPT1 and RhoA in VSMCs. Ex vivo analyses demonstrated that AngII-induced aorta contractions were dramatically inhibited by RSV, and this effect was abolished by AMPK inhibition. Finally, daily chronic administration of RSVl alleviated hypertension in the experimental model of AngII-induced hypertensive mice, and these effects were accompanied by the activation of AMPK, significantly decreased RhoA activity and phosphorylation levels of MYPT1 and MLC in AngII-treated murine aortic VSMCs. More importantly, administration of compound C significantly abolished the effects of RSV. In conclusion, AMPK suppression of the p190-GAP-dependent RhoA/ROCK/MYPT1/MLC pathway contributes to the hypotensive effect of RSV in AngII-treated mice.
Plasma epinephrine (PE), plasma norepinephrine (PNE), plasma renin activity (PRA), mean arterial pressure (MAP) and heart rate (HR) were measured before, during and after induced hypotension in two groups of patients undergoing cerebral aneurysm surgery. In Group I isoflurane was used to maintain anaesthesia and induce hypotension. Mean PE fell significantly during hypotension and remained reduced after hypotension, mean PNE remained unchanged, while mean PRA rose slightly but not significantly during hypotension, falling again after hypotension. In Group II halothane was used to maintain anaesthesia and sodium nitroprusside to induce hypotension. During anaesthesia and surgical stimulation PNE and PRA were significantly greater compared to Group I. Mean PE, PNE and PRA all rose during hypotension and remained elevated after hypotension. The rise in PNE and PRA was statistically significant. After hypotension the MAP in Group II was significantly higher when compared to Group I. There was no significant change in HR during the study in either group. In conclusion, isoflurane-induced hypotension with isoflurane anaesthesia unlike sodium nitroprusside-induced hypotension with halothane anaesthesia attenuated the stress response.
The antioxidant, antinociceptive and hepatoprotective effects of H(2) receptor blockers were examined with different experimental models. Antioxidant activities were determined by employing various in vitro assay systems such as 1,1-diphenyl-2-picryl hydrazyl (DPPH) radical-scavenging activity assays, reducing power determination assays, nitric oxide-scavenging activity assays and hydrogen peroxide-scavenging activity assays. Antinociceptive effects were determined using the hot plate test in mice. The hepatoprotective effects of cimetidine, ranitidine and famotidine against hepatotoxicity induced by carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4) ) were determined by measuring the levels of serum enzymes alanine transaminase (ALT), aspartate transaminase (AST) and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activities in mice. We found that the IC(50) values of cimetidine, ranitidine and famotidine on DPPH radical-scavenging activity were 671±28, 538±21 and 955±43 μg/mL, respectively. Famotidine showed very strong nitric oxide-scavenging activity. All three compounds showed very weak hydrogen peroxide-scavenging activity. Moreover, the compounds did not exhibit any reducing power activity until concentrations of 1.6 mg/mL. All compounds also showed a dose-dependent and marked analgesic activity in mice relative to controls. Pretreatment of mice with cimetidine, ranitidine or famotidine for three consecutive days reduced CCl(4)-induced hepatotoxicity in mice. Treatment with 200 mg/kg ranitidine reduced AST, AST and ALP serum levels, while 200 and 40 mg/kg of cimetidine and famotidine, respectively, reduced AST and ALP serum levels. H(2) blockers exhibited varying levels of antioxidant activities in various assays. Our results indicate that the antioxidant activities of H(2) blockers have an analgesic activity and protective effect on CCl(4)-induced hepatotoxicity in mice. These effects were greater with ranitidine than with the other compounds.
Plasma renin activity was determined by bioassay prior to, during and following a 2-hour infusion of norepinephrine into the renal artery in unilaterally nephrectomized dogs in order to examine the role of renin-angiotensin system in norepinephrine-induced ARF. ARF was induced in 5 of 8 dogs receiving 0.75 microgram/kg/min of norepinephrine, but not in the remaining 3 dogs and 2 dogs infused with 0.6 and 0.4 microgram/kg/min of norepinephrine. There proved no difference in plasma renin activity in renal venous blood between the dogs with and without ARF when followed up to 2 h after the discontinuation of the infusion. The same results were obtained when the plasma renin activity in the foreleg vein was followed at 24, 48 and 72 h after the infusion. The renin-angiotensin system does not seem to contribute to the reduction of renal function in norepinephrine-induced ARF in dogs.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the renal effects of cardiac angiography performed with three low-osmolar contrast media (CM): iopromide (IPR), ioversol (IVR) and ioxaglate (IOX). IPR and IVR are non-ionic CM, IOX is an ionic CM. Different parameters of renal function were determined before and 6, 24, 48, 72 hrs after angiography in 45 patients: 15 patients were examined with IPR, 15 with IVR and 15 with IOX. Glomerular effects--Plasma creatinine increased slightly at the 24th hour after IVR and IOX and at 48 hours after IOP. A significant increase in plasma beta2-microglobulin was observed, at the same time, only after IOX. A significant decrease in creatinine clearance was found at 6 hours after IOX. No significant variations in glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and in effective renal plasma flow were found at 48 hours after cardiac angiography; while filtration fraction was significantly reduced after IOP and IOX. Tubular effects--A marked decrease in sodium clearance and a relevant increase of urinary activities of different tubular enzymes were found after cardiac angiography with all CM, but were more evident after the ionic CM IOX, than after the two non-ionic agents. These tubular effects reached the maximum between 6 and 24 hours and returned to baseline within 72 hrs after cardiac angiography. In conclusion, slight glomerular effects were observed mainly after IOX. A reversible tubular malfunction was found with the three low-osmolar CM and was more evident after ionic CM IOX. thus suggesting that other mechanisms, besides osmolarity, play a role in tubular toxicity due to CM. In no patient did the glomerular and tubular effects of CM have a clinical relevance.
The aim of this study was to examine the impact of anemia prevention by recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEPO) treatment on the cytotoxicity of cyclophosphamide in solid experimental tumors. Anemia was induced using a single dose of carboplatin (50 mg/kg i.v.) resulting in a long-lasting reduction (30%) of the hemoglobin concentration. In a second group, the development of anemia was prevented by rHuEPO (1000 IU/kg) administered s.c. three times/week starting 7 days before carboplatin application. Four days after carboplatin treatment, tumors (DS-sarcoma of the rat) were implanted s.c. onto the hind food dorsum. Neither carboplatin nor rHuEPO treatment influenced tumor growth rate per se. When tumors were treated with a single dose of cyclophosphamide (60 mg/kg i.p.) 5 days after implantation, a growth delay with a subsequent regrowth of the tumors was observed. In the anemia group, the growth delay was significantly shorter compared with nonanemic controls (13.3 days versus 8.6 days). In the group where anemia was prevented by rHuEPO treatment, growth delay was comparable with that of nonanemic controls (13.3 days). These results suggest that chemotherapy-induced anemia reduces cytotoxicity of cyclophosphamide in tumors, whereas correction of anemia by rHuEPO treatment (epoetin alpha) increases the sensitivity, probably as a result of an improved oxygen supply to tumor tissue.
To investigate the role of environment in breast cancer development, we conducted an ecological study to examine the association of releases for selected industrial chemicals with breast cancer incidence in Texas.
During 1995--2000, 54,487 invasive breast cancer cases were reported in Texas. We identified 12 toxicants released into the environment by industry that: (1) were positively associated with breast cancer in epidemiological studies, (2) were Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Toxics Release Inventory (TRI) chemicals designated as carcinogens or had estrogenic effects associated with breast cancer risk, and (3) had releases consistently reported to EPA TRI for multiple Texas counties during 1988--2000. We performed univariate, and multivariate analyses adjusted for race and ethnicity to examine the association of releases for these toxicants during 1988--2000 with the average annual age-adjusted breast cancer rate at the county level.
Univariate analysis indicated that formaldehyde, methylene chloride, styrene, tetrachloroethylene, trichloroethylene, chromium, cobalt, copper, and nickel were positively associated with the breast cancer rate. Multivariate analyses indicated that styrene was positively associated with the breast cancer rate in women and men (beta=0.219, p=.004), women (beta=0.191, p=0.002), and women >or= 50 years old (beta=0.187, p=0.002).
Styrene was the most important environmental toxicant positively associated with invasive breast cancer incidence in Texas, likely involving women and men of all ages. Styrene may be an important breast carcinogen due to its widespread use for food storage and preparation, and its release from building materials, tobacco smoke, and industry.
Dobutamine is a cardiac inotrope useful in the acute treatment of congestive heart failure. Dobutamine improves cardiac output, decreases pulmonary wedge pressure, and decreases total systemic vascular resistance with little effect on heart rate or systemic arterial pressure. Clinical benefit has been observed to continue for weeks to months following the discontinuation of dobutamine. In addition, tolerance to dobutamine has been observed when infusions last 72 hours or longer. This has led investigators to study the effectiveness of chronic intermittent infusions of dobutamine. Studies utilizing dobutamine doses ranging from 1.5 to 15 micrograms/kg/min for 4-48 h/wk have shown sustained clinical and hemodynamic improvement in patients suffering from congestive heart failure. The mechanism by which dobutamine creates this effect is not entirely known; however, studies suggest dobutamine exerts a physical conditioning effect similar to exercise. Dobutamine infusions have also been associated with morphological and metabolic changes in myocardial tissue consistent with improved myocardial structure and function. The intermittent use of dobutamine may be beneficial in the chronic treatment of congestive heart failure in patients who fail to respond to conventional therapy.
The highly-selective alpha-2 adrenergic agonist dexmedetomidine (D-MED) is capable of inducing muscle flaccidity and anesthesia in rats and dogs. Intense generalized muscle rigidity is an undesirable side effect of potent opiate agonists. Although the neurochemistry of opiate-induced rigidity has yet to be fully elucidated, recent work suggests a role for a central adrenergic mechanism. In the present study, the authors determined if treatment with D-MED prevents the muscle rigidity caused by high-dose alfentanil anesthesia in the rat. Animals (n = 42) were treated intraperitoneally with one of the following six regimens: 1) L-MED (the inactive L-isomer of medetomidine), 30 micrograms/kg; 2) D-MED, 10 micrograms/kg; 3) D-MED, 30 micrograms/kg; 4) D-MED [30 micrograms/kg] and the central-acting alpha-2 antagonist, idazoxan [10 mg/kg]; 5) D-MED [30 micrograms/kg] and the peripheral-acting alpha-2 antagonist DG-5128 [10 mg/kg], or; 6) saline. Baseline electromyographic activity was recorded from the gastrocnemius muscle before and after drug treatment. Each rat was then injected with alfentanil (ALF, 0.5 mg/kg sc). ALF injection resulted in a marked increase in hindlimb EMG activity in the L-MED treatment group which was indistinguishable from that seen in animals treated with saline. In contrast, D-MED prevented alfentanil-induced muscle rigidity in a dose-dependent fashion. The small EMG values obtained in the high-dose D-MED group were comparable with those recorded in earlier studies from control animals not given any opiate. The high-dose D-MED animals were flaccid, akinetic, and lacked a startle response during the entire experimental period.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Prolactin (PRL) secretion by the pituitary is under the control of dopamine. Hyperprolactinemia has been found in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and seems to be associated with clinical activity. T-lymphocytes express PRL and those from SLE patients appear to secrete more PRL than controls. In this study, immuno-(RIA) and bio-(BIO) assayable PRL in both serum and culture media of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMNC) from SLE and control subjects were evaluated in the basal state and in response to 10 mg oral administration of metoclopramide, a dopamine receptor antagonist. Prolactin size heterogeneity in serum and culture media and PRL gene transcription in PBMNC were also studied. Basal serum RIA-PRL, BIO-PRL and the BIO/RIA ratio were similar in both groups. The serum BIO-PRL response after metoclopramide was higher than RIA-PRL in SLE, and this increment was also greater than in control subjects. PBMNC from SLE subjects secreted and produced more BIO-PRL. After metoclopramide, secretion and production of PRL increased only in PBMNC from control women and not in those from SLE patients. Our results demonstrated an increased central dopaminergic tone in SLE and suggest that lymphocyte-derived PRL might contribute to alter the functional activity of the hypothalamic dopaminergic system in SLE attempting to maintain serum PRL within a physiological range.
A patient with incapacitating restless-leg syndrome had suffered from repetitive confusional states exclusively after use of short-acting benzodiazepines. Complete removal of symptoms was achieved using levodopa. An association between many reported adverse reactions to triazolam and the common syndrome of restless legs or nocturnal myoclonus is suggested.
We studied escalating doses of recombinant human interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta) alone and after a myelosuppressive dose of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) in patients with gastrointestinal cancer. Transient neutropenia, monocytopenia, and lymphocytopenia were observed followed by a 1.3- to 6.0-fold (mean, 3.46-fold) dose-dependent neutrophil leukocytosis (P less than .00001) on the days of IL-1 beta administration. Increases in platelet counts were observed at a median of 14 days (range, 6 to 23) after IL-1 beta administration. Transient hypoglycemia, rebound hyperglycemia, elevations in serum cortisol, and C-reactive protein were observed. Side effects included fever, rigors, and headache in the majority of patients. Hypotension was observed in three of five patients at the highest dose level (0.1 micrograms/kg) and was dose-limiting. Fewer days of neutropenia were noted after 5-FU plus IL-1 beta than after 5-FU alone; however, this difference did not reach statistical significance. These data show that IL-1 beta has stimulatory effects in human hematopoiesis.
Microsatelite instability (MSI) is the consequence of the inactivation of a mismatch repair gene and is observed in approximately 15% of colon cancer cases. Patients with MSI colon cancer do not benefit from 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)-based chemotherapy. A current treatment of reference for colon cancer is a combination of 5-FU and oxaliplatin (FOLFOX). The aim of this study was to determine the efficiency of the FOLFOX treatment in patients with metastatic MSI colon cancer.
Tumour specimens were collected from patients with metastatic colon cancer treated with FOLFOX 4 modified or FOLFOX 6; these two regimens are based on 85 mg/m2 and 100 mg/m2 oxaliplatin, respectively. The MSI status was assessed by measuring the length of five monomorphic mononucleotide markers. The FOLFOX regimen was evaluated as a first-line treatment according to WHO criteria.
Forty patients (22 men, 18 women), median age 63.5 years (27-83 years) were treated with FOLFOX 4 or 6. Nine patients had tumours exhibiting high MSI (MSI group) and 31 patients had tumours exhibiting microsatellite stability (MSS group). In the MSS group, 11 partial responses (36%) were observed, while there were only two in the MSI group (22%) (no significant difference). The two patients who were responders in the MSI group were treated with FOLFOX 6. The overall survival was not significantly different for MSI and MSS patients.
No significant differences in the overall response rate or overall survival between the two groups of patients were observed. However, these results suggest that patients with MSI colon cancer are more sensitive to a higher dose of FOLFOX.
