Hematopoietic dysfunction with peripheral cytopenias is a common complication of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. Symptomatic anemia is the most common cytopenia and occurs in the presence and absence of myelosuppressive drug therapy such as zidovudine. Drug-induced neutropenia and immune thrombocytopenia are also frequent and occur in up to 50% of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) patients. Attempts to reduce the impact of bone marrow failure have focused on dose reduction of zidovudine, ganciclovir, and chemotherapy, and the use of recombinant hematopoietic hormones such as erythropoietin (EPO) and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF). Despite these maneuvers, approximately 30% of patients with AIDS receiving zidovudine will become transfusion-dependent. This has led to investigations of other cytokines that may increase blood cell formation. The recent identification of decreased number and proliferation of hematopoietic progenitors in patients with HIV infection suggests that agents which have activity on progenitor cell pools may have clinical utility. We demonstrate that human stem cell factor (HuSCF) increases burst-forming unit-erythroid (BFU-E), colony-forming unit-granulocyte-monocyte (CFU-GM), and CFU-Mix formation in vitro in normal and HIV-infected individuals. HuSCF also decreases the sensitivity of BFU-E to inhibition by zidovudine without altering HIV replication in lymphocytes or monocytes, altering peripheral blood mononuclear cell proliferation to phytohemagglutinin (PHA) and interleukin-2 (IL-2) or altering the effectiveness of zidovudine or dideoxyinosine in inhibiting HIV replication in lymphocytes or monocytes. These studies suggest that HuSCF may have clinical utility in HIV infection as an adjunctive treatment for HIV-related cytopenias.
Turmeric oil and curcumin, isolated from Curcuma longa L., were studied against fifteen isolates of dermatophytes, four isolates of pathogenic molds and six isolates of yeasts. The inhibitory activity of turmeric oil was tested in Trichophyton-induced dermatophytosis in guinea pigs. The results showed that all 15 isolates of dermatophytes could be inhibited by turmeric oil at dilutions of 1:40-1:320. None of the isolates of dermatophytes were inhibited by curcumin. The other four isolates of pathogenic fungi were inhibited by turmeric oil at dilutions of 1:40-1:80 but none were inhibited by curcumin. All six isolates of yeasts tested proved to be insensitive to both turmeric oil and curcumin. In the experimental animals, turmeric oil (dilution 1:80) was applied by dermal application on the 7th day following dermatophytosis induction with Trichophyton rubrum. An improvement in lesions was observed in 2-5 days and the lesions disappeared 6-7 days after the application of turmeric oil.
To examine the possible involvement of nonparenchymal cells in the development of preneoplastic hepatic lesions induced by clofibrate (CF), alterations of these cells were investigated immunohistochemically in glutathione S-transferase M1 gene polymorphic rats (KS and NC types) with different cancer susceptibilities. After CF administration for 8 weeks, α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA)-positive hepatic stellate cells (HSC) were markedly decreased in sensitive KS-type rats, but not in the NC-type rats. Kupffer cells were decreased with similar extents between them. The sinusoidal endothelial cells were not changed in either type. The other markers for HSC, vimentin and CRBP1, also confirmed the decrease of HSC in the KS type. The decrease of HSC was not observed at 4 weeks of CF administration. Preneoplastic peroxisomal bifunctional enzyme-negative foci were detected in the KS-type rats at 8 weeks of CF administration, but not at 4 weeks. Human HSC were cultured in the presence of clofibric acid and expression of most HSC marker genes, such as vimentin and α-SMA (ACTA2), evaluated by a microarray, was not altered by the treatment, suggesting that HSC loss in the KS-type rats was not due to the direct toxic effect of CF. The expression levels of most HSC marker genes were low in both control and CF-treated rat livers. A possible link between HSC loss and the development of preneoplastic hepatic foci is discussed.
1,3-Dinitrobenzene (DNB) causes testicular injury, particularly to Sertoli cells, and induces apoptosis in the surrounding germinal cells in rodents; however, the mechanisms causing this toxicity are poorly understood. Our studies, using standard and molecular tools, were conducted to better understand the pathogenesis of the testicular effects. Four daily oral doses of 0.1-8mg/kg/day caused marked testicular lesions in rats from 4mg/kg/day. Global transcriptomics revealed cell cycle and cell death as the major biological processes affected with the expression of genes associated with cell cycle progression ("mitotic roles of polo-like kinase") being particularly altered. In a single dose time course study (4mg/kg), no adverse changes were recorded; however, in contrast to the data from the multiple dose study, plasma testosterone and testicular steroidogenesis-related gene expression were affected. These steroid hormone effects were confirmed in vitro using the H295R steroidogenesis assay. With this global approach we show that DNB not only induces apoptosis and interferes with cell cycle in the testes but that DNB can also modulate steroid hormone biosynthesis, suggesting an interference with the endocrine system. However, the contribution of the endocrine changes to the severe testicular lesions is presently unknown and requires further investigation.
Gemcitabine is a first-line drug utilised in the chemotherapy of pancreatic cancer; however, this drug induces chemo-resistance and toxicity to normal tissue during treatment. Here, we firstly report that andrographolide (ANDRO) alone not only has anti-pancreatic cancer activity, but it also potentiates the anti-tumour activity of gemcitabine. Treatment with ANDRO alone inhibits proliferation of the pancreatic cancer cell lines in a dose- and time-dependent manner in vitro. Interestingly, ANDRO induces cell cycle arrest and apoptosis of pancreatic cancer cells by inhibiting STAT3 and Akt activation, upregulating the expression of p21(WAF1) and Bax, and downregulating the expression of cyclinD1, cyclinE, survivin, X-IAP and Bcl-2. Additionally, ANDRO combined with gemcitabine significantly induce stronger cell cycle arrest and more obvious apoptosis than each single treatment. The mechanistic study demonstrates that this synergistic effect is also dependent on the inhibition of STAT3 and Akt activations which subsequently regulates the pathways involved in the apoptosis and cell cycle arrest. Furthermore, both ANDRO alone and the combination treatments exhibit efficacious anti-tumour activity in vivo. Overall, our results provide solid evidence supporting that ANDRO alone or its combination with gemcitabine is a potential chemotherapeutic approach for treating human pancreatic cancer in clinical practice.
To investigate the direct effect of ephedrine and cocaine on neurogenic contraction of penile trabecular smooth muscle. We also provide three case reports of patients who developed priapism secondary to using either cocaine or nonprescription weight loss formulations containing ephedrine. The use/abuse of cocaine has been associated with priapism. In addition, anecdotal evidence suggests that priapism may result from ephedrine use. However, the effects of cocaine and ephedrine on adrenergic regulation of cavernosal tissue and the potential role of sympathetic dysregulation in the development of priapism have not been studied.
Isolated rabbit penile cavernosal tissue strips in organ bath preparations were subjected to electrical field stimulation (EFS) at varying frequencies (5 to 40 Hz) in the absence or presence of ephedrine (60 microg/mL) or cocaine (10 microM). Tissues were then subjected to EFS every 30 minutes for up to 20 hours.
Ephedrine and cocaine initially caused contractions in cavernosal tissue strips that persisted for several hours. EFS-induced contractions became attenuated over time in tissues treated with ephedrine or cocaine. Eventually, the contractile responses to EFS were not distinguishable from the basal tone, although the tissues remained responsive to exogenous phenylephrine.
Functional activation of alpha-adrenergic receptors on trabecular smooth muscle does not appear to be impaired with prolonged cocaine or ephedrine exposure. However, chronic use of cocaine or ephedrine may deplete norepinephrine from sympathetic nerve terminals, leading to priapism.
Thrombin generation is increased in patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and in mouse models of diet-induced obesity. Deficiency in the thrombin receptor protease activated receptor-1 reduces hepatic inflammation and steatosis in mice fed a Western diet. However, it is currently unclear whether thrombin inhibitors can modify the pathogenesis of established NAFLD. We tested the hypothesis that thrombin inhibition could reverse hepatic steatosis and inflammation in mice with established diet-induced NAFLD. Low-density lipoprotein receptor-deficient LDLr(-/-) mice were fed a control diet or a Western diet for 19 weeks. Mice were given the direct thrombin inhibitor argatroban ∼15 mg/kg/day or its vehicle via a miniosmotic pump for the final 4 weeks of the study. Argatroban administration significantly reduced hepatic proinflammatory cytokine expression and reduced macrophage and neutrophil accumulation in livers of mice fed a Western diet. Argatroban did not significantly impact hepatic steatosis, as indicated by histopathology, Oil Red O staining, and hepatic triglyceride levels. Argatroban reduced serum triglyceride and cholesterol levels in mice fed a Western diet. Argatroban reduced both α-smooth muscle actin expression and Type 1 collagen mRNA levels in livers of mice fed a Western diet, indicating reduced activation of hepatic stellate cells. This study indicates that therapeutic intervention with a thrombin inhibitor attenuates hepatic inflammation and several profibrogenic changes in mice fed a Western diet.
Medical and radiographic review of 19 consecutive patients with spastic quadriplegia before and after intrathecal baclofen pump insertion with special attention paid to progression of scoliosis.
Many orthopedic surgeons who treat spastic quadriplegic patients have noticed a trend of marked scoliosis progression after the administration of intrathecal baclofen (ITB) via subcutaneous pump and catheter. The purpose of this study is to quantify scoliosis progression in this patient population before and after baclofen administration and compare this to published natural history data.
The authors had noted rapid progression of scoliosis in spastic quadriplegic patients after intrathecal baclofen pump insertion. This had been noted at other centers, but no significant statistical analysis had been done comparing prepump to postpump scoliosis progression in these patients.
To document the magnitude and rate of scoliosis progressions after the placement of an ITB pump, the charts and radiographs of 19 consecutive nonambulatory patients with spastic quadriplegia and an ITB pump were reviewed. To document the rate of scoliosis progression, each patient had at least 2 pre and 2 postpump insertion spinal radiographs made. All radiographs were made with the patients in the supine position without orthoses. A board-certified orthopedic surgeon reviewed these radiographs. Skeletal maturity was assessed using Risser grading. Catheter tip location and rate of baclofen administration were recorded.
For 19 patients with complete radiographic data, average Cobb angles were 10.2 degrees before pump insertion and 25 degrees at an average of 20.9 months after pump insertion (P < 0.0001). These 19 patients had a mean rate of change in their Cobb angles of 1.825%/year before pump insertion and 10.95 degrees /year at an average of 23.9 months after pump insertion (P = 0.024). These results represent a 6-fold increase in the curve progression rate after pump insertion. There was no association between catheter tip location or rate of Baclofen infusion on curve progression.
In published data, the rate of progression of scoliosis in skeletally immature nonambulatory patients with cerebral palsy was 4.5 degrees /year. In this study, the average rate of progression of the scoliosis for the immature was 9.02 degrees /year. For the skeletally mature bed-ridden patients, the worst-case natural history progression was 4.4 degrees /year. The comparable rate of change in skeletally mature (Risser 5) nonambulatory patients (n = 6) in this study was 28.4 degrees /year. This study demonstrates a significant increase in the rate of scoliotic curve progression after ITB pump placement when compared with published natural history data. The evidence of the beneficial effects of ITB on spasticity has been confirmed, and as larger, prospective randomized studies are conducted, the authors think that support for continued use of this treatment will increase. However, early bracing and spinal fusion may be warranted to prevent significant increases in spinal deformity if scoliosis is anticipated to progress more than 10 degrees /yr for patients with spastic quadriplegia and ITB pump. The authors are now performing spinal fusions for curves that exceed 40 degrees to 50 degrees in the presence of an ITB pump as recommended by previous reviews of scoliosis and accompanying quadriplegia.
Mothers of 56 children under 2 years old taking phenobarbitone and mothers of 55 children taking phenytoin recorded on questionnaires changes they had noted in the children's behaviour 3 and 9 weeks after starting the drug. Severe behavioural disturbance was noted by many, but the pattern and incidence was similar to that recorded by the mothers of 50 children starting a placebo, and we attribute it to the effect of a recent hospital admission. There was a small improvement in the behaviour of 20% of children who had been taking phenobarbitone for a year when they stopped it, but in this age group the disturbance caused by phenobarbitone did not appear to have been great.
Antitubercular drugs have been known to be potentially hepatotoxic and may lead to drug-induced liver injury. In this study, we aimed to investigate the protective effects of ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) on liver injury caused by co-administration with isoniazid and rifampicin, two famous antitubercular drugs. Liver injury was induced by co-treatment with isoniazid (75mg/kg) and rifampicin (150mg/kg) for one week. Mice were orally administered with UDCA (15, 50 and 150mg/kg) 30min before isoniazid and rifampicin. We show that serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) were significantly increased in mice treated with isoniazid plus rifampicin. An obvious fatty accumulation, accompanied by mild necrosis and inflammation, was observed in liver of mice treated with rifampicin plus isoniazid. In addition, isoniazid plus rifampicin resulted in hepatic apoptosis, as determined by terminal dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) staining and caspase-3 activation. Additional experiment showed that isoniazid plus rifampicin significantly increased the level of hepatic malondialdehyde (MDA) and caused glutathione (GSH) depletion and 3-nitrotyrosine (3-NT) residues in liver. UDCA pretreatment significantly attenuated isoniazid plus rifampicin induced oxidative stress in liver. Importantly, UDCA pretreatment significantly alleviated isoniazid plus rifampicin induced hepatic apoptosis. Moreover, UDCA-mediated anti-apoptotic effect seemed to be associated with its regulation of Bcl-2 and Bax gene expression in liver. These findings suggest that UDCA might protect against isoniazid and rifampicin induced liver injury through its anti-oxidative and anti-apoptotic effects.
A patient with advanced rheumatoid arthritis and severe clinical manifestations of rheumatoid vasculitis died of acute renal failure after 30 months of treatment with high-dosage D-penicillamine. She had had no signs of adverse drug reactions until the terminal illness. Although streptococcal pharyngitis was diagnosed late in her disease, penicillamine-induced immune complex glomerular damage is considered more likely than poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis, because her microscopic hematuria preceded diagnosis of pharyngitis. Postmortem examination disclosed findings suggestive of rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis of immune complex pathogenesis. The short period of microscopic hematuria and the rapidity of development of renal failure before death emphasize the need for frequent monitoring of renal function and prompt discontinuation of D-penicillamine treatment upon detection of otherwise unexplained hematuria. There is urgent need for early immunological evaluation, renal biopsy, and vigorous therapeutic measures.
Detection of compound-related neurodegeneration is currently limited to brain histopathology in veterinary species and functional measurements such as electroencephalography and observation of clinical signs in patients. The objective of these studies was to investigate whether concentrations of spectrin breakdown product 145 (SBDP-145) in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) correlate with the severity of neurodegeneration in rats administered neurotoxic agents, as part of a longer term objective of developing in vivo biomarkers of neurotoxicity for use in non-clinical and clinical safety studies. Non-erythroid alpha-II spectrin is a cytoskeletal protein cleaved by the protease calpain when this enzyme is activated by dysregulation of calcium in injured cells. Calcium dysregulation is also associated with some toxicological responses in animals, and may be sufficient to activate neuronal calpain and produce SBDPs that can be released into CSF. Neurotoxicants (kainic acid, 2-chloropropionic acid, bromethalin, and pentylenetetrazole) known to affect different portions of the brain were administered to rats in dose-response and time-course studies in which neurodegeneration was measured by histopathology and SBDP-145 concentrations in CSF were measured by ELISA. We consistently observed >3-fold increases in SBDP-145 concentration in rats with minimal to slight neurodegenerative lesions, and 20 to 150-fold increases in animals with more severe lesions. In contrast, compounds that caused non-degenerative changes in central nervous system (CNS) did not increase SBDP-145 in CSF. These data support expanded use of SBDP-145 as a biomarker for monitoring compound-induced neurodegeneration in pre-clinical studies, and support the investigation of clinical applications of this biomarker to promote safe dosing of patients with compounds that have potential to cause neurodegeneration.
Thirteen patients meeting DSM-III-R criteria for panic disorder with or without agoraphobia that started during or shortly after cocaine exposure were treated in the UCLA Anxiety Disorders Program (Los Angeles, CA). Low starting doses (ranging from 2.5 to 10 mg/day) of desipramine were used. Doses were then slowly increased to an average daily dose of 25 mg. Eleven patients who were able to tolerate an initial increase in panic anxiety responded to this treatment strategy with almost full resolution of panic attacks. The authors discuss the possible value and mechanisms of low dose treatment of cocaine-related panic attacks.
A patient with polymorphic ventricular tachycardia, long QT interval and conduction disorders secondary to long-term treatment with chloroquine is presented.
To study the therapeutic mechanism of salvianolic acid B (SA-B) in treating hepatic fibrosis.
Twenty-four Wistar rats were randomly divided into 3 groups: normal control group, untreated group and SA-B-treated group. Rats in the untreated and SA-B-treated groups were injected intraperitoneally with 0.5% dimethylnitrosamine (DMN) for 4 weeks, daily for 3 days each week at a dose of 10 microg/kg, to induce hepatic fibrosis. Then, rats in the SA-B-treated group were given SA-B orally for another 4 weeks. Hydroxyproline (Hyp) contents in liver tissue of the rats in 3 groups were determined with HCl hydrolysis, and collagen type I, transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-beta1), transforming growth factor-beta receptor type I (TbetaRI) and transforming growth factor-beta receptor type II (TbetaRII) were detected by Western blotting.
The Hyp content and the expressions of collagen type I, TGF-beta1, TbetaRI and TbetaRII in the liver tissue of rats in the untreated group increased significantly as compared with those in the normal control group, while those in SA-B-treated group decreased significantly as compared with those in the untreated group.
The therapeutic mechanism of SA-B in treating hepatic fibrosis may be related to inhibiting the expressions of TGF-beta1 and its receptors.
We investigated the clinical and pathological findings relevant to the efficacy of corticosteroid treatment in IgA nephropathy patients with 0.5 to 2.0 g/day of proteinuria at the initiation of corticosteroid treatment.
In 27 IgA nephropathy patients who received 2-year prednisolone treatment, we analyzed the differences in clinical and pathological parameters (1) between patients with and without disappearance of proteinuria (less than 0.15 g/day), and (2) between patients with and without relapse of proteinuria (more than 0.5 g/day) at the end of follow-up.
The levels of proteinuria and mesangial proliferation at the initiation of prednisolone treatment were significantly lower in patients with disappearance of proteinuria at the end of follow-up than in those without. The levels of active extraglomerular lesions and tubulointerstitial mononuclear cell infiltration and/or fibrosis, and the activity index, were significantly higher in patients with relapse of proteinuria than in those without.
In IgA nephropathy patients with 0.5 to 2.0 g/day of proteinuria, disappearance of proteinuria following 2-year prednisolone treatment can be expected in patients with less proteinuria and less mesangial proliferation at the initiation of the prednisolone treatment. Furthermore, active extraglomerular lesions, the activity index, and tubulointerstitial cell infiltration and/or fibrosis appear to be more suitable risk markers for relapse of proteinuria than the initial levels of proteinuria.
Nearly 9 million individuals are exposed to agents in the workplace associated with asthma, and isocyanates represent the most common cause of occupationally induced asthma.
Nonetheless, the immunological mechanisms responsible for isocyanate-induced asthma are not clear. A murine model for toluene diisocyanate (TDI) asthma is described and employed to examine inflammatory and immune components that may be involved in the disease.
Groups (n = 6) of C57BL/6J and athymic mice were sensitized by subcutaneous injection (20 microl on day 1, 5 microl on days 4 and 11), and 7 days later challenged by inhalation (100 p.p.b., days 20, 22 and 24) with TDI. Twenty-four hours following the last challenge the tracheae and lungs were examined for histological changes as well as for the expression of Th1, Th2 and pro-inflammatory cytokines. Mice were also examined for airway reactivity to methacholine challenge and for specific and total IgE and IgG antibodies.
TDI sensitization resulted in increased reactivity to methacholine challenge as well as a significant inflammatory response in the trachea and nares of wild-type mice, but not in the athymic mice nor in the lungs of the C57BL/6J mice. Airway inflammation was characterized by inflammatory cell influx, goblet cell metaplasia and epithelial damage. Histological changes in the trachea were accompanied by increased mRNA expression of interleukin (IL)-4, tumour necrosis factor alpha, lymphotoxin beta, lymphotactin and Rantes, as well as TDI-specific IgG antibodies and elevated levels of total IgE. IgE-specific antibodies were not detected with this exposure regimen but were produced when the TDI concentrations were increased.
These studies provide a unique murine model for occupational asthma that generates both inflammatory and immune mediators similar to those occurring in TDI-induced asthma in humans.
Dioxin is a ubiquitous environmental pollutant that induces toxicity when bound to the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR). Significant differences in susceptibility of mouse strains to dioxin toxicity are largely accounted for by the dissociation constant of binding to dioxins of AhR subtypes encoded by different alleles. We showed that cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and microsomal prostaglandin E synthase-1 (mPGES-1), components of a prostanoid synthesis pathway, play essential roles in the onset of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) induced hydronephrosis of neonatal mice. Although C57BL/6J and BALB/cA mice harbor AhR receptors highly responsive to TCDD, they were found by chance to differ significantly in the incidence of TCDD-induced hydronephrosis. Therefore, the goal of the present study was to determine the molecular basis of this difference in susceptibility to TCDD toxicity. For this purpose, we administered C57BL/6J and BALB/cA dams' TCDD at an oral dose of 15 or 80 μg/kg on postnatal day (PND) 1 to expose pups to TCDD via lactation, and the pups' kidneys were collected on PND 7. The incidence of hydronephrosis in C57BL/6J pups (64%) was greater than in BALB/cA pups (0%, p < 0.05), despite similarly increased levels of COX-2 mRNA. The incidence of hydronephrosis in these mouse strains paralleled the levels of renal mPGES-1 mRNA and early growth response 1 (Egr-1) that modulates mPGES-1 gene expression, as well as PGE2 concentrations in urine. Although these mouse strains possess AhR alleles tightly bound to TCDD, their difference in incidence and severity of hydronephrosis can be explained, in part, by differences in the expression of mPGES-1 and Egr-1.
The case of a male patient who experienced four allergic accidents after drinking coffee is reported. Two serious anaphylactic reactions with cardiac arrest occurred after a continuous treatment with beta-blocking eye drops (timolol) was prescribed. Dual sensitivation to coffee and to the gum arabic coating roasted coffee beans was demonstrated by skin prick tests and by human basophil degranulation tests. Occupational allergy to green coffee has been widely described, but food sensitization to these two allergens has not yet been reported. This case also draws attention to the risk, inherent in beta-blockers, of immuno-allergic reactions. These drugs produce a loss of compensatory cardiovascular mechanisms and make those who take them resistant to the conventional treatment of anaphylactic shocks, which explains the serious accidents that occurred in this patient. The authors stress the usefulness of a thorough investigation for food allergy to a rare allergen in patients with idiopathic anaphylaxis.
An obese male patient with steroid-dependent nephrotic syndrome since age 6 years had a thirty-third relapse at the age of 29 years. Renal biopsy showed focal segmental glomerulosclerosis. Proteinuria disappeared after treatment with prednisolone. He went into complete remission and renal function remained normal at the age of 31 years. Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis associated with obesity was suspected. Long-term follow-up with renal biopsy is necessary in obese children with steroid-dependent nephrotic syndrome.
Fetal exposure of animals to antiepileptic drugs at doses lower than those required to produce congenital malformations can produce cognitive and behavioral abnormalities, but cognitive effects of fetal exposure of humans to antiepileptic drugs are uncertain.
Between 1999 and 2004, we enrolled pregnant women with epilepsy who were taking a single antiepileptic agent (carbamazepine, lamotrigine, phenytoin, or valproate) in a prospective, observational, multicenter study in the United States and the United Kingdom. The primary analysis is a comparison of neurodevelopmental outcomes at the age of 6 years after exposure to different antiepileptic drugs in utero. This report focuses on a planned interim analysis of cognitive outcomes in 309 children at 3 years of age.
At 3 years of age, children who had been exposed to valproate in utero had significantly lower IQ scores than those who had been exposed to other antiepileptic drugs. After adjustment for maternal IQ, maternal age, antiepileptic-drug dose, gestational age at birth, and maternal preconception use of folate, the mean IQ was 101 for children exposed to lamotrigine, 99 for those exposed to phenytoin, 98 for those exposed to carbamazepine, and 92 for those exposed to valproate. On average, children exposed to valproate had an IQ score 9 points lower than the score of those exposed to lamotrigine (95% confidence interval [CI], 3.1 to 14.6; P=0.009), 7 points lower than the score of those exposed to phenytoin (95% CI, 0.2 to 14.0; P=0.04), and 6 points lower than the score of those exposed to carbamazepine (95% CI, 0.6 to 12.0; P=0.04). The association between valproate use and IQ was dose dependent. Children's IQs were significantly related to maternal IQs among children exposed to carbamazepine, lamotrigine, or phenytoin but not among those exposed to valproate.
In utero exposure to valproate, as compared with other commonly used antiepileptic drugs, is associated with an increased risk of impaired cognitive function at 3 years of age. This finding supports a recommendation that valproate not be used as a first-choice drug in women of childbearing potential.
The development of nephrotoxicity limits the maximum achievable dosage and treatment intervals for cisplatin chemotherapy. Therefore, identifying mechanisms that regulate this toxicity could offer novel methods to optimize cisplatin delivery. MicroRNAs are capable of regulating many different genes, and can influence diverse cellular processes, including cell death and apoptosis. We previously observed miR-155 to be highly increased following ischemic or toxic injury to the kidneys and, therefore, sought to determine whether mice deficient in miR-155 would respond differently to kidney injury. We treated C57BL/6 and miR-155(-/-) mice with 20 mg/kg of cisplatin and found a significantly higher level of kidney injury in the miR-155(-/-) mice. Genome-wide expression profiling and bioinformatic analysis indicated the activation of a number of canonical signaling pathways relating to apoptosis and oxidative stress over the course of the injury, and identified potential upstream regulators of these effects. One predicted upstream regulator was c-Fos, which has two confirmed miR-155 binding sites in its 3' UTR and, therefore, can be directly regulated by miR-155. We established that the miR-155(-/-) mice had significantly higher levels of c-Fos mRNA and protein than the C57BL/6 mice at 72 h after cisplatin exposure. These data indicate a role for miR-155 in the cisplatin response and suggest that targeting of c-Fos could be investigated to reduce cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity.
Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) is a pattern of kidney injury observed either as an idiopathic finding or as a consequence of underlying systemic conditions. Several genes have been identified that, when mutated, lead to inherited FSGS and/or the related nephrotic syndrome. These findings have accelerated the understanding of glomerular podocyte function and disease, motivating our search for additional FSGS genes. Using linkage analysis, we identified a locus for autosomal-dominant FSGS susceptibility on a region of chromosome 14q. By sequencing multiple genes in this region, we detected nine independent nonconservative missense mutations in INF2, which encodes a member of the formin family of actin-regulating proteins. These mutations, all within the diaphanous inhibitory domain of INF2, segregate with FSGS in 11 unrelated families and alter highly conserved amino acid residues. The observation that alterations in this podocyte-expressed formin cause FSGS emphasizes the importance of fine regulation of actin polymerization in podocyte function.
Commonly used as antifungal agents in agriculture and medicine, triazoles have been shown to cause teratogenicity in a diverse set of animal models. Here, we evaluated the dose-dependent impacts of flusilazole, cyproconazole and triadimefon, on global gene expression in relation to effects on embryonic development using the rat whole embryo culture (WEC) model. After 4 h exposure, we identified changes in gene expression due to triazole exposure which preceded morphological alterations observed at 48 h. In general, across the three triazoles, we observed similar directionality of regulation in gene expression and the magnitude of effects on gene expression correlated with the degree of induced developmental toxicity. Significantly regulated genes included key members of steroid/cholesterol and retinoic acid metabolism and hindbrain developmental pathways. Direct comparisons with previous studies suggest that triazole-gene signatures identified in the WEC overlap with zebrafish and mouse, and furthermore, triazoles impact gene expression in a similar manner as retinoic acid exposures in rat embryos. In summary, we further differentiate pathways underlying triazole-developmental toxicity using WEC and demonstrate the conservation of these response-pathways across model systems.
The alkaloid 13-hydroxylupanine-2-pyrrolcarbonic acid ester (Hoe 933) from the Madagascan plant Cadia ellisiana has an hypotensive and antiarrhythmic effect. The hypotensive effect in dogs, monkeys, and rats anaesthetized with barbiturates reaches its maximum with 0.2 mg/kg i.v. However, the hypotensive effect is much weaker in conscious animals. The enteral absorption in the dog is good; an intraduodenal dose of only 0.5 mg/kg lowered the blood pressure. In the isolated rabbit heart whose accelerator nerves were intact, the perfusion with concentrations of 0.6 mug/min Hoe 933 (total dose 6 mug) decreased the release of norepinephrine from the nerve endings, reduced the positive inotropic effect, and diminished the increase in heart rate produced by electrical stimulation of the accelerator nerve. The effect of the stimulation of the accelerator nerve on dp/dt in dogs in situ was considerably diminished by such low doses as 10 and 25 mug/kg i.v. Consequently, the alkaloid inhibits sympathetic impulse transmission. Sympathetic circulatory reflexes are weakened by the compound. The alkaloid has also a ganglionic blocking effect, which is demonstrated on the upper cervical ganglion of the cat. The effect of preganglionic stimulation of the nictitating membrane was reduced with 200 mug Hoe 933/kg i.v. In the isolated guinea pig heart the effect of nicotine on heart rate and contraction was diminished. In this respect the ganglion blocker pentolinium is 8 times more active. The antifibrillatory effect of Hoe 933 was demonstrated with 0.3 mg/kg i.v. in supercooled cats, the antiarrhythmic activity was evident with 0.5 mg/kg i.v. in dogs intoxicated with K-strophanthin. In isolated hearts of guinea pigs, a dose of only 6 mug/heart inhibited ventricular fibrillation induced by aconitine and digitoxin. Even the toxicity of digoxin was diminished by previous administration of 300 mug/kg i.v. The relative refractory period and the duration of the action potential were prolonged in the isolated papillary muscle of the guinea pig heart.
A case of inadvertent intraocular injection of Depomedrone (methylprednisolone acetate) and its management by vitrectomy is discussed, with a review of previously reported cases.
