Amoebic dysentery appears to be rare in the northeast of Tanzania. Hepatic amoebiasis, on the other hand, is apparently widespread since at least 200 cases are seen every year at the Kilimanjaro Christian Medical Centre. This incidence of cases enabled us to carry out trials on the spot with a new imidazole derivative, Tinidazole. Formerly the difficult diagnosis based on clinical symptoms had to be buttressed by radiological evidence and possibly by the result of puncture. Indirect fluorescent antibody tests for the diagnosis of amoebiasis were performed elsewhere on all the patients, using for this purpose microspecimens of dried blood. In 12 cases out of 34 an agglutination test with sensitized latex particles was performed on the spot. This latter test has the practical advantage of being easy to employ. It cannot, however, be considered as a screening test since it is subject to downward and upward errors. The indirect fluorescent antibody test has been found to be constantly and highly positive, certain antibody titres attaining 1/6400. This fully confirms the value of the method even under special working conditions. Seventeen of our 34 patients (2 women and 15 men ranging in age from 20 to 75 years) were treated with 2 g of Tinidazole per day in a single dose for 2 to 3 consecutive days. Puncture to evacuate pus was also performed where abscesses had collected. Tolerance on the whole was good without a single sign of cardiovascular or urinary toxicity. However, paraesthesia of the hands was observed in one case, transitory thrombocytopenia in one other patient, and increased alkaline phosphatases. Minor disorders were also observed in our series of patients: mild vertigo (7 cases), headache (6 cases), and dry mouth (2 cases). After 8 months the therapeutic results were as follows: 12 complete cures out of 17, 2 improvements with final cure probable, 3 partial failures necessitating supplementary treatment with Metronidazole (2.4 g per day for 2 days). These preliminary trials appear to the encouraging and the study is being continued with series compared with cases treated with Emetine or Metronidazole.
The authors investigated the relation between alcohol consumption and lung cancer risk in the Environment and Genetics in Lung Cancer Etiology (EAGLE) Study, a population-based case-control study. Between 2002 and 2005, 2,100 patients with primary lung cancer were recruited from 13 hospitals within the Lombardy region of Italy and were frequency-matched on sex, area of residence, and age to 2,120 randomly selected controls. Alcohol consumption during adulthood was assessed in 1,855 cases and 2,065 controls. Data on lifetime tobacco smoking, diet, education, and anthropometric measures were collected. Adjusted odds ratios and 95% confidence intervals for categories of mean daily ethanol intake were calculated using unconditional logistic regression. Overall, both nondrinkers (odds ratio = 1.42, 95% confidence interval: 1.03, 2.01) and very heavy drinkers (>/=60 g/day; odds ratio = 1.44, 95% confidence interval: 1.01, 2.07) were at significantly greater risk than very light drinkers (0.1-4.9 g/day). The alcohol effect was modified by smoking behavior, with no excess risk being observed in never smokers. In summary, heavy alcohol consumption was a risk factor for lung cancer among smokers in this study. Although residual confounding by tobacco smoking cannot be ruled out, this finding may reflect interplay between alcohol and smoking, emphasizing the need for preventive measures.
Supraoptic nucleus (SON) neurons secrete either oxytocin or vasopressin into the bloodstream from their axon terminals in the posterior pituitary gland. SON neurons are powerfully inhibited by the classical μ-opioid receptor agonist, morphine. Oxytocin neurons develop morphine dependence when chronically exposed to this opiate, and undergo robust withdrawal excitation when morphine is subsequently acutely antagonized by naloxone. Morphine withdrawal excitation is evident as an increased firing rate and is associated with an increased post-spike excitability that is consistent with the expression of an enhanced post-spike afterdepolarization (ADP) during withdrawal. Here, we used sharp electrode recording from SON neurons in hypothalamic explants from morphine naïve and morphine treated rats to determine the effects of morphine on the ADP, and to test the hypothesis that morphine withdrawal increases ADP amplitude in SON neurons. Acute morphine administration (0.05-5.0 μM) caused a dose-dependent hyperpolarization of SON neurons that was reversed by concomitant administration of 10 μM naloxone, or by washout of morphine; counter-intuitively, acute exposure to 5 μM morphine increased ADP amplitude by 78 ± 11% (mean ± SEM). Naloxone-precipitated morphine withdrawal did not alter baseline membrane potential in SON neurons from morphine treated rats, but increased ADP amplitude by 48 ± 11%; this represents a hyper-activation of ADPs because the basal amplitude of the ADP was similar in SON neurons recorded from explants prepared from morphine naïve and morphine treated rats. Hence, an enhanced ADP might contribute to morphine withdrawal excitation of oxytocin neurons.
We studied the effect of vasodilator therapy on renal digoxin clearance in patients with chronic congestive heart failure. Intravenous administration of nitroprusside or hydralazine to eight patients with severe heart failure produced the expected increase in cardiac output and a decrease in central circulatory pressure. Renal clearance of sodium para-aminohippurate and estimated renal blood flow increased without a change in glomerular filtration rate. Total renal clearance of digoxin increased by 50% during vasodilator therapy. Thus, acute administration of vasodilator increases renal digoxin clearance without changing glomerular filtration rate, suggesting an increase in tubular secretion of digoxin. Long-term vasodilator therapy may alter the maintenance dosage of digoxin required for optimal treatment of patients in congestive heart failure.
Thirty-three patients with acute iliofemoral thrombosis were randomly assigned to three treatment groups in a pilot dose-ranging study of thrombolytic therapy in deep vein thrombosis. One group received tissue culture urokinase in a dose of 2,200 I.U./kg/hr, and a second group in a dose of 1,100 I.U./kg/hr following a loading dose of 4,400 I.U./kg given in ten min. Urokinase was administered for 12 hr periods, alternating with 12 hr periods of heparin. A third group received an initial dose of 250,000 I.U. of streptokinase in 20 min, followed by 100,000 I.U./hr. Treatment of all patients continued for three days. At the end of this period little improvement, evaluated by "blinded" interpretation of pre- and post-treatment phlebograms, was found in five out of ten of the higher-dose urokinase patients, seven out of eleven of lower-dosage urokinase patients, and six out of ten of streptokinase patients. Optional treatment for another three days showed little further improvement of urokinase-patients and moderate further improvement in the streptokinase-patients. Neither of the 2 dosage schemes at intermittent application of urokinase appeared to be advantageous. Urokinase treated patients experienced fewer adverse reactions.
Perennial allergic rhinitis (PAR) affects children at a young age. Current guidelines recommend intranasal corticosteroids as the first-line treatment in patients with moderate-to-severe or persistent disease or in those who have congestion. In this study, the long-term safety and efficacy of mometasone furoate nasal spray (MFNS) were assessed in children with PAR.
In this multicenter, active-controlled, evaluator-blind, 12-month study, 255 children aged 6-11 years with a >or=1-year history of PAR were randomized to receive once-daily MFNS 100 microg (n=166) or the active comparator beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP) 168 microg (n=85). Changes from baseline in overall PAR symptoms and response to treatment were rated at each visit. Cosyntropin stimulation testing, as well as tonometry and slit lamp procedures, were performed. Safety variables were assessed.
A total of 137 subjects in the MFNS group and 68 in the BDP group completed treatment. The mean reductions in physician- and subject-rated overall condition of PAR at week 52 were -42.1% and -39.7%, respectively, for MFNS, compared with -44.0% and -39.0%, respectively, for BDP. A total of 94% and 100% of MFNS and BDP subjects, respectively, reported adverse events (AEs), which were mostly mild or moderate. The most frequently reported treatment-related AEs in both groups were epistaxis, headache, and pharyngitis. Response to cosyntropin was normal and no posterior subcapsular cataracts were observed in either group. Although no significant changes in intraocular pressure were observed with MFNS, one subject receiving BDP demonstrated this effect.
Treatment with MFNS 100 microg once daily for 1 year was well tolerated in children 6-11 years old, with negligible systemic exposure and no evidence of suppression of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis or ocular changes.
The risk of nephrolithiasis associated with atazanavir is not well characterized. The US Food and Drug Administration's Adverse Event Reporting System was searched for reports of nephrolithiasis in HIV-infected patients taking an atazanavir-based regimen. Thirty cases were identified. Many patients required hospitalization for management, including lithotripsy, ureteral stent insertion, or endoscopic stone removal. Some cases of nephrolithiasis resulted in atazanavir discontinuation. Healthcare professionals and patients should be informed that nephrolithiasis is a possible adverse event with atazanavir.
Prostate cancer (CaP) is the second leading cause of cancer death in American men. Chronic inflammation has been one of several factors associated with the development of CaP. Single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in cytokine genes have been associated with increased inflammation, increased cytokine production and possibly increased CaP risk. However, the effects of cytokine SNPs on CaP susceptibility have not been consistent. Using the genomic DNA collected in a CaP case-control study (557 cases and 547 controls), we pilot tested the interactions of nine functionally characterized SNPs of three cytokine genes in CaP risk using the multivariate adaptive regression splines (MARS)-logit models. African-Americans with the IL10-819TT genotype had a lower CaP risk [odds ratio (OR) = 0.27, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.07-1.01], but subjects with the genotype combination of IL1B-511CT/TT and IL10-592CC had a higher CaP risk (OR = 2.56, 95% CI = 1.09-6.02). In Caucasians, higher CaP risk was associated with the IL10-1082AG/GG genotype (OR = 3.62, 95% CI = 1.42-9.28), the genotype combination of IL10-1082AA plus IL1B-31TT/TC (OR = 2.92, 95% CI = 1.13-7.55) and the genotype combination of TNF-238GG plus IL10-592AA (OR = 2.14, 95% CI = 1.05-4.38). Our results highlight the importance of cytokine SNPs and their interactions in CaP risk.
Cyclooxygenase (COX), which have the isoforms of COX-1 and COX-2, is the key enzyme of prostaglandins biosynthesis. Especially, COX-2 is induced in inflammatory disease such as Diabetes Mellitus (DM). Resveratrol (RSV), a natural antioxidant, has a beneficial role in prevention of inflammatory disease. We investigated the changes of COX-1 and COX-2 mRNA expression and protein level in diabetic rat kidney after RSV treatment. Three months-old, 44 Wistar albino male rats, which were divided into six groups such as control group, sodium citrate buffer (sham control) group, diabetic group (DM), Dimethyl Sulfoxide induced control group, RSV treated sham control group (RSV) and RSV treated diabetic group (DM + RSV) were used for the study. Experimental diabetes was induced by intraperitoneal injection of 55 mg/kg Streptozotocin. After the induction of chronic diabetes 10 mg/kg per day RSV was administered intraperitoneally for 4 weeks. In this study. RSV has no significant effect on COX-1 mRNA expression in diabetic rat kidney (P > 0.05). Immunohistochemical study showed that COX-1 expression was slightly inhibited in RSV group and was not significantly supressed in DM + RSV group. When comparing control and treated groups, there were no significant differences in COX-2 mRNA or protein levels (P > 0.05). In conclusion, our results indicate that resveratrol do not significantly affect COX gene and protein expression. Therefore, different therapy strategies such as combination with other antidiabetic drugs may tried in STZ induced animal model for reducing diabetic symptoms and altering COX-1 and COX-2 mRNA or protein levels.
Three patients with antibiotic induced meningitis, one following penicillin with seven episodes, are reported on--the first well documented description of penicillin induced meningitis. In this patient episodes of headache and nuchal rigidity appeared with and without CSF pleocytosis. Two patients had a total of five episodes of antibiotic induced meningitis after trimethoprim-sulphamethoxazole (co-trimoxazole) administration. The features common to all three patients were myalgia, confusion and low CSF glucose. CSF analysis was not a reliable method to differentiate antibiotic induced meningitis from partially treated bacterial meningitis.
Recent evidence suggests that K-ras protooncogene protein p21 may have a tumor-suppressive role in the context of development of lung adenocarcinoma. Levels of K-ras p21, raf-1, mitogen-activated protein kinases Erk 1 and 2, the phosphorylated-activated forms of Erk 1 and 2 (Erk 1P and 2P), and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) were measured by immunoblotting in mouse lung tumors (5 to 9 mm in size) caused by N-nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA) and in control lungs. In tumors compared with normal lung, cell membrane-associated K-ras p21 was significantly decreased and cytosolic K-ras p21 increased. Total, membrane, and cytosolic raf-1 and Erk 1P and 2P were increased in tumors compared with normal lung. A single dose of 5 nmol/kg 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) given after NDMA resulted in a significant 2.4-fold increase in tumor multiplicity. A significantly greater decrease in membrane-associated K-ras p21 and increase in total and membrane associated raf-1 occurred in the NDMA/TCDD tumors compared with the NDMA-only tumors. PCNA levels increased in tumors, a finding confirmed by immunohistochemistry, and correlated with tumor size after NDMA/TCDD treatment but not after NDMA only. The increase in raf-1 in the tumors was confirmed by immunohistochemistry, which also revealed an increase in raf-1-positive alveolar macrophages specifically associating with tumors from the earliest stages. These results suggest a possible tumor-suppressive function for K-ras p21 in lung and a positive role for raf-1 and Erk 1/2 in lung tumorigenesis. TCDD may promote tumors by contributing to downregulation of K-ras and stimulation of raf-1.
Potassium and magnesium deficiencies are common in patients with heart disease. These are often coexistent and pathophysiologically related. Potassium deficiency cannot be treated without correction of concomitant magnesium deficiency. Correlations between serum levels and body stores are very poor for both ions. Therefore diagnosis and treatment of these conditions based on serum levels alone are erroneous. There is some evidence that it is primarily the intracellular depletion of these ions which is arrhythmogenic. Magnesium infusion has been proved effective in treatment of torsade de pointes ventricular tachycardia and arrhythmias induced by digoxin-intoxication, and is recommended in these conditions. Whether it is effective in other forms of arrhythmia is not yet elucidated.
To investigate anethol trithione therapic efficiency on dry eye.
It was a prospective random double-blind controlled study. Eighty cases diagnosed dry eye in Ocular Surface Out-patient Clinic of Xiamen University Affiliated Xiamen Eye Center from 2006 to 2008 were divided into two groups: anethol trithione group and control group, 40 cases in each group. Every group was then divided into two subgroups: weak dry eye subgroup,middle and severe dry eye subgroup. All groups had been added with 0.05% refresh drops. All patients had been detected and evaluated by subjective symptoms of dry eye, visual acuity, corneal fluorescent staining (F1), break-up time (BUT) and Schirmer I test (SIT) at pretherapy and 3, 7, 28 d of post-therapy. All groups had been compared and analyzed by F test and sample mean difference (SMD) or median difference (MD) comparison between pre-therapy and post-therapy.
Except of tear and red eye,the other subjective symptoms of dry eye, Fl, BUT and SIT of weak dry eye subgroup of both groups had been improved at 7 d after therapy. Only those of middle and severe dry eye subgroup of anethol trithione group had been improved at 7 d after therapy compared with those of pretherapy: SMD = 0.96 (visual tiredness), 1.26 (dry and unsmooth sensation), 0.82 (foreign body sensation), 1.28 (burning sensation), 1.05 ( photophobia), 1.48 (pain); MD = 0.30 (visual acuity), 4.00 (Fl), 5.00 (BUT), 5.00 (SIT) [F = 15.30 (visual tiredness), 15.68 (dry and unsmooth sensation), 13.56 (foreign body sensation), 20.91 (burning sensation), 18.90 (photophobia), 27.22 (pain), 10.54 (visual acuity),188.21 (F1), 261.76 (BUT), 269.05 (SIT); P < 0.05]. Those of middle and severe dry eye subgroup of control group hadn't significantly been improved at 28 d after therapy: SMD = 0.10 (visual tiredness), 0.16 (dry and unsmooth sensation), 0.09 (foreign body sensation), 0.38 (burning sensation), 0.24 (photophobia), 0.36 (pain), 0.23 (red eye); MD = 0.10 (visual acuity), 0.50 (Fl), 0.50 (BUT), 0.50 (SIT) [F = 1.76 (visual tiredness), 1.61 (dry and unsmooth sensation), 1.02 (foreign body sensation), 2.39 (burning sensation), 2.42 (photophobia), 2.73 (pain), 2.55 (red eye), 1.46 (visual acuity), 2.35 (Fl), 2.90 (BUT), 2.76 (SIT); P > 0.05]. SIT of anethol trithione group had been improved more significantly after therapy (F = 13.77, P < 0.05).
Anethol trithione could significantly improve middle and severe dry eye patients' symptoms and signs whose lacrimal gland function survival and it has clinical application value.
Melatonin, a major hormone of pineal gland, was recently shown to attenuate acute gastric lesions induced by strong irritants because of the scavenging of free radicals but its role in ulcer healing has been little investigated. In this study we compared the effects of intragastric (i.g.) administration of melatonin and its precursor, L-tryptophan, with or without concurrent treatment with luzindole, a selective antagonist of melatonin MT2 receptors, on healing of chronic gastric ulcers induced by serosal application of acetic acid (ulcer area 28 mm2). The involvement of endogenous prostaglandins (PG), nitric oxide (NO) and sensory nerves in ulcer healing action of melatonin and L-tryptophan was studied in rats treated with indomethacin and NG-nitro-L-arginine (L-NNA) to suppress, respectively, cyclo-oxygenases (COX) and NO synthases or in those with functionally deactivated sensory nerves with capsaicin. The influence of melatonin on gastric secretion during ulcer healing was tested in separate group of rats with gastric ulcer equipped with gastric fistulas (GF). At day 8 and 15 upon the ulcer induction, the area of gastric ulcers was measured by planimetry, the mucosal blood flow (GBF) was determined by H2-gas clearance technique and gastric luminal NO2-/NO3- levels was assessed by Griess reaction. Plasma melatonin and gastrin levels were measured by specific radioimmunoassay (RIA). Biopsy mucosal samples were taken for expression of constitutive NO-synthase (cNOS) and inducible NOS (iNOS) by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Melatonin (2.5-20 mg/kg-d i.g.) and L-tryptophan (25-100 mg/kg-d i.g.) dose-dependently accelerated ulcer healing, the dose inhibiting by 50% (ED50) of ulcer area being 10 and 115 mg/kg, respectively. This inhibitory effect of melatonin (10 mg/kg-d i.g.) and L-tryptophan (100 mg/kg-d i.g.) on ulcer healing was accompanied by a significant rise in the GBF at ulcer margin and an increase of plasma melatonin. luminal NO2-/NO3- and plasma gastrin levels. Gastric acid and pepsin outputs were significantly inhibited during the ulcer healing in melatonin-treated gastric mucosa as compared with those in vehicle-treated animals. Luzindole abolished completely the healing effects of melatonin and L-tryptophan and attenuated significantly the rise in plasma gastrin evoked by the hormone and its precursor. Indomethacin (5 mg/kg-d i.p). that blocked PG biosynthesis by 90% or L-NAME (20 mg/kg i.v), inhibitor of NOS. that suppressed luminal NO release, attenuated significantly melatonin and L-tryptophan-induced acceleration of ulcer healing and accompanying rise in GBF at ulcer margin and luminal NO release. The melatonin-induced acceleration of ulcer healing, hyperemia at ulcer margin and increase in the release of NO were enhanced when L-arginine but not D-arginine was added to L-NAME. The ulcer healing and the GBF effects of melatonin and L-tryptophan were significantly impaired in rats with capsaicin-induced denervation of sensory nerves and both, ulcer healing and the hyperemia at ulcer margin were restored in these rats by addition of exogenous CGRP to melatonin and L-tryptophan. Expression of cNOS mRNA was detected by RT-PCR in the intact gastric mucosa as well as at the edge of gastric ulcers treated with both, vehicle and melatonin, while iNOS mRNA that was undetectable in the intact gastric mucosa, appeared during ulcer healing and especially this was strongly up-regulated in the melatonin-treated gastric mucosa. We conclude that (1) exogenous melatonin and that derived from its precursor, L-tryptophan, accelerate ulcer healing probably via interaction with MT2 receptors; (2) this ulcer healing action is caused by an enhancement by melatonin of the microcirculation at the ulcer margin possibly mediated by COX-derived PG and NO because of overexpression of iNOS and (3) gastrin, which exhibits trophic activity in the gastric mucosa and calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP), released from sensory nerves, may also contribute to the ulcer healing action of melatonin.
We report a case of acquired periodic alternating nystagmus associated with common variable immunodeficiency and cutaneous sarcoid. The patient was initially treated with baclofen with minimal subjective improvement. We found a significant improvement in the patient's symptoms and nystagmus intensity after treatment with memantine.
Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II AT1-receptor antagonists prolong survival in experimental postischemic heart failure (CHF) in rats. The aim of this study was to investigate whether potential beneficial effects of early and long-term therapy with low doses of captopril or losartan occur in hemodynamics and heart morphometry, as well as in infarct size during establishment of CHF after myocardial infarction.
Male Wistar rats were subjected to myocardial infarction by left coronary ligation. Subsequently, 24 h after surgery captopril (2.5 mg/kg/day/28 days) or losartan (3 mg/kg/day/28 days) was administered by mini-osmotic pump release. Hemodynamics, infarct size, and heart morphometry were measured in sham, untreated, and treated operated rats.
Morphometric and hemodynamic parameters were modified after myocardial infarction indicating hypertrophy of the heart and CHF establishment; however, either captopril or losartan partially avoided hypertrophy. Captopril reverted hemodynamics to sham values, while losartan induced further decrease in systolic blood pressure. Both drugs were able to drastically reduce infarct size produced by myocardial infarction.
Data show that early and chronic therapy with low doses of captopril or losartan prevent CHF establishment, probably by limiting extension of infarcted area after coronary occlusion, and suggest AT1 receptor pathway involvement in this pathology.
Myoclonic movements are common problems during induction of anesthesia with etomidate. The aim of this study was to compare the effect of pretreatment with dexmedetomidine (0.5 microg/kg) and thiopental (1 mg/kg) on the incidence of etomidate-induced myoclonus and postoperative pain.
A prospective double-blind study was conducted at a university hospital. Ninety patients (ASA physical status I-II) were randomly assigned to one of three groups: patients were pretreated with either dexmedetomidine (0.5 microg/kg), thiopental (1 mg/kg), or saline before induction of anesthesia with etomidate. One minute after the injection of study drugs, etomidate, 0.3 mg/kg was given. Myoclonus was assessed on a scale of 0 to 3. Recovery time, postoperative pain score, and hemodynamic variables were recorded during the intraoperative and postoperative period. Headache, nausea, vomiting, and coughing were noted during the study.
The incidence and the intensity of myoclonus was significantly lower in the dexmedetomidine and thiopental groups (34%, 36%) than in the control group (64%) (P<0.05). The postoperative pain score at 30 min in the thiopental group was significantly higher than in the dexmedetomidine and control groups (63%) (P<0.05).
We concluded that pretreatment with dexmedetomidine or thiopental is effective in reducing the incidence and severity of etomidate-induced myoclonic muscle movements and pretreatment with thiopental increases the postoperative pain.
Stuttering as a side effect of antipsychotics is rare. There are a few case reports of antipsychotic-induced stuttering, namely, chlorpromazine, levomepromazine, trifluoperazine, fluphenazine, olanzapine and clozapine. Risperidone is commonly used as an atypical antipsychotic. It is licensed for both acute and chronic psychosis and mania. There is only one documented case report mentioned on risperidone induced stuttering. One case report of risperidone-induced stuttering is now described. Stuttering is a rare side effect and requires a high index of suspicion for diagnosis. Further study and research to identify the neurophysiological and psychological processes behind adult onset stuttering and identification of the processes involved in risperidone induced stuttering would help our understanding further.
Diligence in the interpretation of results is essential as information gained from the psychiatric patient's history might often be restricted. Nonobservance of established guidelines may lead to a wrong diagnosis, induce a false therapy and result in life-threatening situations. Communication errors between hospitals and doctors and uncritical acceptance of prior diagnoses add substantially to this problem. We present a patient with alcohol-related dementia who received anti-retroviral therapy that promoted a non-convulsive status epilepticus. HIV serodeconversion was considered after our laboratory result yielded a HIV-negative status. Critical review of previous diagnostic investigations revealed several errors in the diagnosis of HIV infection leading to a "pseudo-serodeconversion." Finally, anti-retroviral therapy could be discontinued.
Some patients receiving adefovir at the approved dose of 10 mg daily for chronic hepatitis B have a "suboptimal" virological response characterized by a slow and moderate decrease in viral replication.
We assessed the efficacy and safety of adefovir 20 mg daily in patients with hepatitis B e antigen-positive chronic hepatitis B resistant to lamivudine and a suboptimal virological response to adefovir 10 mg daily add-on.
No amino acid substitutions known to confer adefovir resistance were found in these patients. In the five treated patients, the switch from 10 mg to 20 mg of adefovir daily significantly improved antiviral efficacy (-1.78+/-0.28 log international units/mL versus -3.73+/-0.51 log international units/mL, respectively, p=0.0039), and alanine aminotransferase levels normalized in all but one of the patients. No signs of renal dysfunction occurred.
These results suggest: (i) that suboptimal responses to adefovir 10 mg daily are due to underdosing; and (ii) that increasing the adefovir dose to 20 mg daily is beneficial and safe in patients with lamivudine-resistant HBV and a suboptimal response to adefovir 10 mg daily, especially when alanine aminotransferase levels are elevated and/or the liver disease is severe or rapidly progressive. Careful monitoring of renal function is necessary.
Tributyltin oxide (TBTO) is a commonly used biocide. The purpose of this study is to correlate the toxicity of TBTO with the alterations of brain neurotransmitters and ATPases. TBTO was given by stomach tube to rats at either 37.5 or 75 mg x kg (-1)for 3 consecutive days. Nervous signs appeared in treated animals and the mortality reached 12 and 30%, respectively. The levels of brain dopamine, norepinephrine and serotonin decreased in a dose-dependent manner. The activities of brain total ATPase, Mg (2+)-ATPase and Na (+)/K (+)- ATPase were suppressed. The activity of Na (+)/K (+)- ATPase was more severely affected than that of Mg (2+)-ATPase. Histopathological changes in brain included hyperaemia, focal haemorrhages in vacuolated myelinated fibres, chromatolysis, or complete necrosis of neurons, degenerative changes, or complete absence of purkinje cells in the cerebellum.
We treated 28 patients (16 women and 12 men) who had essential tremor with methazolamide. Their median age was 69 years (range, 34 to 89 years), and the median duration of tremor was 16 years (range, less than 1 to 69 years). Fifteen cases were familial and 13 were sporadic. Improvement in 10 patients who continued taking the drug ranged from moderate to complete relief. In addition, four patients had marked improvement and two had moderate improvement but discontinued use of the drug because of side effects. Five patients with a mild response and seven with no response also discontinued methazolamide therapy. The maximal mean daily dose was 203 mg for all patients and 129 mg (maintenance dose) for the patients who continued taking the drug. Side effects consisted primarily of somnolence, nausea, epigastric discomfort, anorexia, paresthesias, and numbness. No aplastic anemia was noted in any of the patients. The median duration of follow-up was 6 months (range, 10 weeks to 29 months). The therapeutic effect seemed unrelated to a family history of tremor, the effect of alcohol, or the responsiveness to propranolol or primidone. Methazolamide may be an effective drug in the treatment of some patients with essential tremor, particularly those with head and voice tremor.
We examined the effect of non-antihypertensive doses of the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor ramipril, kinins, and/or nitric oxide on left ventricular hypertrophy in rats with aortic coarctation. We investigated the effect of either HOE 140, a specific B2 receptor antagonist, or NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, on the antihypertrophic effect of ramipril at non-antihypertensive doses (10 micrograms/kg per day) failed to alter left ventricular hypertrophy significantly, although a small decrease was obtained. Given at a dose of 1 mg/kg per day for 6 weeks, ramipril prevented increased blood pressure and left ventricular hypertrophy after aortic coarctation. Neither of these effects was blocked by simultaneous administration of HOE 140 (500 micrograms/kg per day). In rats with aortic coarctation treated with L-NAME, blood pressure increased further but left ventricular weight did not. Ramipril (1 mg/kg per day) significantly reduced left ventricular hypertrophy, although blood pressure was still higher than in rats given water alone. The slope of the correlation between left ventricular weight and blood pressure in rats that received L-NAME was significantly lower than in rats that did not (0.52 versus 1.29; P = .008). This suggests that for each 1 mm Hg that the blood pressure increased, the increase in left ventricular weight was less in the L-NAME groups. Thus, only antihypertensive doses of ramipril possessed antihypertrophic activity. Kinins did not participate in the chronic antihypertensive and antihypertrophic effects of ramipril. In hypertension induced or aggravated by chronic nitric oxide synthase, L-NAME partially impaired development of left ventricular hypertrophy for reasons that are unclear.
Seizure is a recognized complication of high-dose busulfan (BU) therapy and phenytoin (DPH) is widely used as prophylaxis. A number of adverse effects have been associated with DPH and it may also interfere with BU metabolism. We used lorazepam (median dose 0.022 mg/kg) i.v. or p.o. before each dose and for 24 h after the last dose of BU as seizure prophylaxis to 29 children undergoing hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. The regimen was well tolerated and drowsiness was the only significant side-effect. Twelve patients were able to receive the entire prophylaxis by mouth. No seizure developed during and within 48 h of BU. Concomitant pharmacokinetic studies showed no alternation of the absorption and clearance of BU during lorazepam administration. Lorazepam can be used as an alternative for seizure prophylaxis during high-dose BU treatment.
