Dexfenfluramine was approved in the United States for long-term use as an appetite suppressant until it was reported to be associated with valvular heart disease. The valvular changes (myofibroblast proliferation) are histopathologically indistinguishable from those observed in carcinoid disease or after long-term exposure to 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)(2)-preferring ergot drugs (ergotamine, methysergide). 5-HT(2) receptor stimulation is known to cause fibroblast mitogenesis, which could contribute to this lesion. To elucidate the mechanism of "fen-phen"-associated valvular lesions, we examined the interaction of fenfluramine and its metabolite norfenfluramine with 5-HT(2) receptor subtypes and examined the expression of these receptors in human and porcine heart valves. Fenfluramine binds weakly to 5-HT(2A), 5-HT(2B), and 5-HT(2C) receptors. In contrast, norfenfluramine exhibited high affinity for 5-HT(2B) and 5-HT(2C) receptors and more moderate affinity for 5-HT(2A) receptors. In cells expressing recombinant 5-HT(2B) receptors, norfenfluramine potently stimulated the hydrolysis of inositol phosphates, increased intracellular Ca(2+), and activated the mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade, the latter of which has been linked to mitogenic actions of the 5-HT(2B) receptor. The level of 5-HT(2B) and 5-HT(2A) receptor transcripts in heart valves was at least 300-fold higher than the levels of 5-HT(2C) receptor transcript, which were barely detectable. We propose that preferential stimulation of valvular 5-HT(2B) receptors by norfenfluramine, ergot drugs, or 5-HT released from carcinoid tumors (with or without accompanying 5-HT(2A) receptor activation) may contribute to valvular fibroplasia in humans.
Protective effect of malotilate on the liver injuries induced by several hepatotoxins was studied in mice and rats. Malotilate suppressed the elevation of plasma glutamate pyruvate transaminase (p-GPT) activity induced by chloroform (CHCl3) in rats when the animals were treated with 25 mg/kg or more dose of malotilate at 6 hours prior to the treatment with CHCl3. The effect was observed even in the rats treated with malotilate 24 or 48 hours prior to the treatment with CHCl3. Malotilate, when orally administered 6 hours prior to treatment with hepatotoxins such as CHCl3, allyl alcohol, bromobenzene, dimethylnitrosamine or thioacetamide, suppressed the elevation of p-GPT activity, liver triglyceride content and/or the decrease of bromosulphalein clearance induced by these hepatotoxins in mice. Anethole trithione, which was used as a possible protective agent against chemical-induced hepatotoxicity, tended to normalize changes in the parameters induced by the most of these hepatotoxins, but enhanced the elevation of p-GPT activity induced by CHCl3. In a case of CHCl3-induced liver injury, the protective effect of malotilate was histopathologically confirmed. Malotilate and anethole trithione reduced p-nitroanisole 0-demethylation activity in rat liver 6 hours after the administration but increased or tended to increase the activity 48 hours after the administration. Malotilate showed a protective effect on the liver injury induced by CHCl3 even when the activity of drug metabolizing enzymes in the liver was increased, although anethole trithione enhanced the CHCl3-induced liver injury regardless of the activity of drug metabolizing enzymes.
To investigate the effects of antidepressant therapy plus quetiapine on major depression, motor activity, daytime sleepiness and quality of sleep.
Patients (N = 27) with major depressive disorder received a standard antidepressant treatment (Venlafaxine, Escitalopram) plus flexible dose of quetiapine. Patients' depression was monitored with HAM-D-21, motor activity was continuously measured with actigraphy and sleep parameters with the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) over 4 weeks.
Whereas depression, quality of sleep and daytime sleepiness showed a significant improvement over 4 weeks, change of daytime motor activity was significant only between the wash out period and the last 2 days of the study. Repeated measures of variance indicate an independent influence of quetiapine on improved depression, motor activity and sleep. While we found only a mild decrease of daytime sleepiness during the first week of treatment, the further decline of daytime sleepiness got significant after 2 weeks of treatment with quetiapine, even at high mean daily doses and despite the sedative effects of quetiapine.
Antidepressant treatment plus quetiapine is possibly a suitable treatment strategy to improve clinical depression, quality of sleep and motor activity. Future research is needed to understand the pharmacological interactions between antidepressants and quetiapine in major depression.
To investigate the possible protective effect of recombinant human interleukin-11 (rhIL-11) against ifosfamide (IFS)-induced hemorrhagic cystitis (HC).
Male Swiss mice (20-30g) were pretreated with rhIL-11 (25-625 mg, subcutaneously.) 30 min before intraperitoneal injection of IFS (400 mg/kg) or with saline (control group). Twelve hours later, HC was evaluated by bladder wet weight (BWW) to quantify edema, Evans blue extravasation (EBE) to measure vascular permeability, and macroscopic and microscopic analysis. All bladders were assessed by histopathological analysis.
rhIL-11 (at 125 and 625 mg) attenuated the IFS- induced increase of BWW (37.48% and 45.44%, respectively, p < 0.05) and EBE (62.35% and 56.47%, respectively, p < 0.05). IFS- induced macroscopic edema and hemorrhage and microscopic alterations, were also prevented by rhIL-11 at 625 microg. (p < 0.05).
Our results demonstrate a protective effect of rhIL-11 on experimental IFS- induced HC, not previously reported.
Neurological manifestations of cobalamin deficiency are well known and various. We describe an uncommon clinical setting where major orthostatic hypotension was the primary symptom. Recovery was rapidly and completely stabilized with parenteral cobalamin substitution. There was no clinical or electrophysiological signs of neuropathic disorder. This entity is rare but few cases are described in literature. All of them were reversible with vitamin substitution treatment.
The distribution and the size of lesions evoked in rat heart by the injection of isoprenaline 30 mg/kg have been estimated in rat pretreated or not by various dosages of N-methyl-N-(beta-hydroxyethyl)guanidine O-phosphate (creatinol O-phosphate). It has been observed that the number of lesions was inequally distributed in the various parts of the heart. Creatinol O-phosphate pretreatment reduced both the number and the size of the reactive areas. The reduction of the number of foci was dose-dependent. The action of the lowest creatinol O-phosphate doses was increased by a pretreatment during 4 days instead of the 4 h pretreatment initially used. The size of the reactive area was also reduced but in a manner indicating an action of large creatinol O-phosphate dosages on the microcirculation. It is concluded that, due to its protective action against cardionecrosis, creatinol O-phosphate has great potential value in patients with myocardial infarction in whom the extent of the infarct size may be limited by an action on the jeopardized area.
Prenatal ethanol exposure (PEE) induces dyslipidemia and hyperglycemia in fetus and adult offspring. However, whether PEE increases the susceptibility to non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) in offspring and its underlying mechanism remain unknown. This study aimed to demonstrate an increased susceptibility to high-fat diet (HFD)-induced NAFLD and its intrauterine programming mechanisms in female rat offspring with PEE. Rat model of intrauterine growth retardation (IUGR) was established by PEE, the female fetus and adult offspring that fed normal diet (ND) or HFD were sacrificed. The results showed that, in PEE+ND group, serum corticosterone (CORT) slightly decreased and insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) and glucose increased with partial catch-up growth; In PEE+HFD group, serum CORT decreased, while serum IGF-1, glucose and triglyceride (TG) increased, with notable catch-up growth, higher metabolic status and NAFLD formation. Enhanced liver expression of the IGF-1 pathway, gluconeogenesis, and lipid synthesis as well as reduced expression of lipid output were accompanied in PEE+HFD group. In PEE fetus, serum CORT increased while IGF-1 decreased, with low body weight, hyperglycemia, and hepatocyte ultrastructural changes. Hepatic IGF-1 expression as well as lipid output was down-regulated, while lipid synthesis significantly increased. Based on these findings, we propose a "two-programming" hypothesis for an increased susceptibility to HFD-induced NAFLD in female offspring of PEE. That is, the intrauterine programming of liver glucose and lipid metabolic function is "the first programming", and postnatal adaptive catch-up growth triggered by intrauterine programming of GC-IGF1 axis acts as "the second programming".
Paclitaxel is one of the most commonly used anti-neoplastic drugs for the treatment of solid tumors. Unfortunately, its use is often associated with dose-limiting painful peripheral neuropathy and subsequent neuropathic pain that is resistant to standard analgesics. However, there are few clinically available drugs or drug classes for the treatment of paclitaxel-induced neuropathy due to a lack of information regarding the mechanisms responsible for it. In this study, we examined the involvement of l-serine in paclitaxel-induced hyperalgesia/allodynia and decrease in sensory nerve conduction velocity (SNCV). We used a preclinical rat model of paclitaxel-induced painful peripheral neuropathy. Response to von Frey filaments, SNCV, 3-phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase (3PGDH) expression, and l-serine concentration were examined. Effects of l-serine administration were also investigated. Paclitaxel treatment induced mechanical allodynia/hyperalgesia and reduction of SNCV. Paclitaxel also decreased the l-serine concentration in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) but not in the sciatic nerve or spinal cord. In addition, paclitaxel decreased expression of 3PGDH, a biosynthetic enzyme of l-serine, in the DRG. Immunohistochemistry showed that 3PGDH was localized in satellite cells but not in neurons in the DRG. Intraperitoneal administration of l-serine improved both paclitaxel-induced mechanical allodynia/hyperalgesia and the reduction of SNCV. These results suggest that satellite cell-derived l-serine in the DRG plays an important role in paclitaxel-induced painful peripheral neuropathy. These findings may lead to novel strategies for the treatment of paclitaxel-induced painful peripheral neuropathy.
Gamma/delta T cells may act as a first line of defence and respond to stress signals from the surrounding tissue. In the present investigation the occurrence of gamma/delta T cells was studied in the human skin after application of heavy metal salts by a routine epicutaneous patch-testing procedure. Gamma/delta cells were not found in normal skin. They were observed in all 14 allergic or irritant patch-test reactions to gold chloride and in 6/8 such reactions to mercuric chloride, where they comprised 16 +/- 6% and 15 +/- 6%, respectively, of the CD3+ cells in the dermis. They were also epidermotropic. Very few of these cells were found in reactions to salts of nickel and silver, except that they were increased in hair follicle epithelium in a reaction to silver nitrate. The gamma/delta cells expressed the V delta 2 and the V gamma 2 gene segments and were CD4-8-, indicating that they had the same phenotype as gamma/delta lymphocytes in the peripheral blood. Moreover, they were 'memory' T cells. These results indicate that gamma/delta lymphocytes play a role in the skin defence against highly reactive heavy metals.
The activity of N-methyl-N-(beta-hydroxyethyl)guanidine O-phosphate (creatinol O-phosphate, COP) on the acute toxicity of CaCl2 in mice was studied. The results obtained in the present investigation show that COP administered i.v. is able to antagonize, in a dose-dependent way, the lethal ventricular fibrillation provoked by CaCl2 in unanesthetized mice. Prenalamine and cinnarizine, two calcium antagonistic compounds, proved to be active in a way qualitatively similar to COP.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) causes acute inflammatory responses that result in an enduring cascade of secondary neuronal loss and behavioral impairments. It has been reported that progesterone (PROG) can inhibit the increase of some inflammatory cytokines and inflammation-related factors induced by TBI. Toll-like receptors (TLRs) play a critical role in the induction and regulation of immune/inflammatory responses. Therefore, in the present study, we examined the genomic profiles of TLR-mediated pathways in traumatically injured brain and PROG's effects on these genes.
Bilateral cortical impact injury to the medial frontal cortex was induced in C57BL/6J mice. PROG was injected (i.p., 16 mg/kg body weight) at 1 and 6 h after surgery. Twenty-four hours post-surgery, mice were killed and peri-contusional brain tissue was harvested for genomic detection and protein measurement. RT-PCR arrays were used to measure the mRNA of 84 genes in TLR-mediated pathways. Western blot, ELISA and immunohistochemistry were used to confirm the protein expression of genes of interest.
We found that 2 TLRs (TLR1 and 2), 5 adaptor/interacting proteins (CD14, MD-1, HSPA1a, PGRP and Ticam2) and 13 target genes (Ccl2, Csf3, IL1a, IL1b, IL1r1, IL6, IL-10, TNFa, Tnfrsf1a, Cebpb, Clec4e, Ptgs2 and Cxcl10) were significantly up-regulated after injury. Administration of PROG significantly down-regulated three of the 13 increased target genes after TBI (Ccl-2, IL-1b and Cxcl-10), but did not inhibit the expression of any of the detected TLRs and adaptor/interacting proteins. Rather, PROG up-regulated the expression of one TLR (TLR9), 5 adaptor/interacting proteins, 5 effectors and 10 downstream target genes. We confirmed that Ccl-2, Cxcl-10, TLR2 and TLR9 proteins were expressed in brain tissue, a finding consistent with our observations of mRNA expression.
The results demonstrate that TBI can increase gene expression in TLR-mediated pathways. PROG does not down-regulate the increased TLRs or their adaptor proteins in traumatically injured brain. Reduction of the observed inflammatory cytokines by PROG does not appear to be the result of inhibiting TLRs or their adaptors in the acute stage of TBI.
Constitutively active, 'oncogenic' H-RAS can drive proliferation and transformation in human cancer, or be a potent inducer of cellular senescence. Moreover, aberrant activation of the Ras pathway owing to germline mutations can cause severe developmental disorders. In this study we have generated transgenic zebrafish that constitutively express low levels, or can be induced to express high levels, of oncogenic H-RAS. We observed that fish carrying the integrated transgene in their germline display several hallmarks of Costello syndrome, a rare genetic disease caused by activating mutations in the gene H-RAS, and can be used as a model for the disease. In Costello-like fish, low levels of oncogenic H-RAS expression are associated with both reduced proliferation and an increase in senescence markers in adult progenitor cell compartments in the brain and heart, together with activated DNA damage responses. Overexpression of H-RAS through a heat-shock-inducible promoter in larvae led to hyperproliferation, activation of the DNA damage response and tp53-dependent cell cycle arrest. Thus, oncogene-induced senescence of adult proliferating cells contributes to the development of Costello syndrome and provides an alternative pathway to transformation in the presence of widespread constitutively active H-RAS expression.
This study attempted to identify which group of cardiac patients is most at risk when dental extractions are performed under a local anesthetic with a vasopressor.
Forty cardiac patients who had dental extractions under local anesthesia were connected to a Holter monitor for 24 hours, starting an hour before the procedure. The electrocardiogram was analyzed for the number of premature beats, ST depression, and cardiac rhythm. A mean rate was calculated for the first 2 hours after injection of the local anesthetic and for the subsequent 22 hours. The preoperative electrocardiogram was compared with the electrocardiogram performed 1 week before treatment.
Electrocardiographic changes were observed in 15 patients (37.5%), and all occurred during the first 2 hours after injection of the local anesthetic. Of the 15 patients, eight were being treated with digoxin.
Cardiac patients being treated with digoxin had more electrocardiographic changes after administration of a local anesthetic than other cardiac patients. When the local anesthetic contained a vasopressor, there was a greater incidence of tachycardia but less arrhythmia or ST depression.
Ang II-induced endothelial dysfunction is associated with perivascular inflammation and increased superoxide production in the vascular wall. The present study examined the role of cyclo-oxygenase (COX)-synthetized eicosanoids in the pathogenesis of Ang II-induced endothelial dysfunction in transgenic rats harboring mouse renin-2 gene (mREN2 rats). Five-to-six-week-old, heterozygous mREN2 rats received the following drug regimens for 8 weeks: 1) vehicle, 2) cyclo-oxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor (MF-tricyclic [3-(3,4-difluorophenyl)-4-(4-(methylsulfonyl) phenyl)-2(5H)-furanone], 14 mg/kg p.o.), 3) COX-1/COX-2 inhibitor (sulindac, 14 mg/kg p.o.), 4) angiotensin II receptor antagonist (losartan 40 mg/kg p.o.). Normotensive Sprague Dawley (SD) rats served as controls. In vitro vascular responses of the descending aorta and renal artery were studied using organ bath system. mREN2 rats developed pronounced hypertension which was associated with impaired endothelium-dependent and endothelium-independent vascular relaxations in the aorta. In contrast, the relaxation responses of the renal arteries remained largely unchanged in mREN2 rats. Urinary NO, excretion, a marker of total body NO generation, was also decreased in mREN2 rats. Neither non-selective COX inhibitor sulindac nor COX-2 selective MF-tricyclic were capable of preventing Ang II-induced hypertension or endothelial dysfunction in mREN2 rats, whereas ATi receptor antagonist losartan completely normalized blood pressure, vascular relaxation responses as well as urinary NOx excretion. Our findings indicate that NO synthesis and/or bioavailability as well as the sensitivity of arterial smooth muscle cells to NO are decreased in mREN2 rats. The present study also demonstrated that COX does not play a central role in the pathogenesis of Ang II-induced endothelial dysfunction in mREN2 rats.
Docetaxel has been implicated as a causative agent in peripheral neuropathy, but pathological changes in peripheral nerve have not been described. During docetaxel treatment a 54-year-old man developed a sensorimotor polyneuropathy when the overall docetaxel dosage was 540 mg/m(2). Neurophysiological investigation revealed a sensorimotor axonal neuropathy. Fascicular sural nerve biopsy showed an axonal neuropathy with a preferentially loss of large myelinated fibers. There was evidence of considerable fiber regeneration. Sensory and motor symptoms progressively improved after docetaxel withdrawal.
Dopaminergic abnormality is one of the pathological mechanisms involved in the pathophysiology of tardive dyskinesia, a late complication of neuroleptic treatment. Prostaglandins modulate the dopamine release in the striatum, the principle area involved in the pathophysiology of tardive dyskinesia. Rats were chronically treated with haloperidol (HPD) (1.5 mg/kg) for a period of 21 days, to induce orofacial dyskinesia. Behavioural assessment of orofacial dyskinesia was done 24 h after the last dose of haloperidol. Catalepsy was induced in rats by acute treatment with haloperidol (1 mg/kg), and catalepsy was scored for the next 4 h. Chronic haloperidol treatment induced profound vacuous chewing movements in rats. Indomethacin, a nonselective cyclooxygenase inhibitor dose-dependently (5-20 mg/kg) suppressed the vacuous chewing movements count in haloperidol-treated animals. In conclusion, the results of the present study infer that prostaglandins might play a significant role in the haloperidol-induced vacuous chewing movements, and prostaglandin synthesis inhibitors can serve as novel drug candidates for the treatment of tardive dyskinesia.
To assess the hypothesis that B27 or a gene(s) in close proximity (e.g., within or near the major histocompatibility complex [MHC]) represents a disease-causing ankylosing spondylitis (AS) gene, and therefore contributes directly to the pathogenesis of this disorder.
MHC haplotypes were determined by both serologic and molecular analyses in 15 multiple-case AS families from Toronto and Newfoundland. Segregation of MHC haplotypes with AS within these families was examined by linkage and identity-by-descent analyses. Attributable risk estimates for various genetic markers and for sex were calculated.
Linkage analyses established significant linkage between AS and the MHC, the maximal logarithm of odds (LOD) score being 3.48 at a recombination frequency (O) of 0.05. In a second analysis in which the population association of the MHC gene HLA-B27 with AS was taken into account, the maximal LOD score was 7.5 at O = 0.05. Identity-by-descent analyses showed a significant departure from random segregation among affected avuncular (P < 0.05) and cousin (P < 0.01) pairs. The presence of HLA-B40 in HLA-B27 positive individuals increased the risk for disease more than 3-fold, confirming previous reports. Disease susceptibility modeling suggested an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, with penetrance of approximately 20%.
These data provide the first conclusive demonstration of linkage between the MHC region and AS, and confirm that genes within this region contribute directly to the genetic susceptibility for AS.
Following CNS injury there is a period of vulnerability when cells will not easily tolerate a secondary insult. However recent studies have shown that following traumatic brain injury (TBI), as well as hypoxic-ischemic injuries, the CNS may experience a period of protection termed "preconditioning." While there is literature characterizing the properties of vulnerability and preconditioning in the adult rodent, there is an absence of comparable literature in the developing rat. To determine if there is a window of vulnerability in the developing rat, post-natal day 19 animals were subjected to a severe lateral fluid percussion injury followed by pilocarpine (Pc)-induced status epilepticus at 1, 6 or 24 h post TBI. During the first 24 h after TBI, the dorsal hippocampus exhibited less status epilepticus-induced cell death than that normally seen following Pc administration alone. Instead of producing a state of hippocampal vulnerability to activation, TBI produced a state of neuroprotection. However, in a second group of animals evaluated 20 weeks post injury, double-injured animals were statistically indistinguishable in terms of seizure threshold, mossy fiber sprouting and cell survival when compared to those treated with Pc alone. TBI, therefore, produced a temporary state of neuroprotection from seizure-induced cell death in the developing rat; however, this ultimately conferred no long-term protection from altered hippocampal circuit rearrangements, enhanced excitability or later convulsive seizures.
We examined the anesthetic and convulsant properties of 16 unfluorinated to completely fluorinated aromatic compounds, having six to nine carbon atoms (e.g., benzene to 1,3,5-tris(trifluoromethyl)benzene), and four cycloalkanes (cyclopentane to cyclooctane). Benzene, fluorobenzene, toluene, p-xylene, ethylbenzene, and cyclopentane caused excitation (twitching, jerking, and hyperactivity), and three aromatic compounds (perfluorotoluene, p-difluorotoluene and 1,3,5-tris(trifluoromethyl)benzene) and three cycloalkanes (cyclohexane, cycloheptane, and cyclooctane) produced convulsions. Cyclooctane and 1,3,5-tris(trifluoromethyl)benzene were nonanesthetics. Except for nonanesthetics and perfluorotoluene (too toxic to test for anesthetic potency), all compounds produced anesthesia or decreased the minimum alveolar anesthetic concentration of desflurane. Aromatic compounds were more potent and lipid-soluble than n-alkanes (data from previous report) and cycloalkanes. All three series increasingly disobeyed the Meyer-Overton hypothesis as molecular size increased. For a particular number of carbons (e.g., cyclohexane, n-hexane, and benzene), the deviation was cycloalkanes > or = normal alkanes > aromatic compounds. These results suggest that molecular shape (including "bulkiness") and size provide limited clues to the structure of the anesthetic site of action.
Iatrogenic opioid addiction among chronic pain patients was the initiative for starting a methadone programme for pain patients at the University Hospital of Uppsala. The aims were to improve pain relief and quality of life in pain patients with problematic opioid use and to investigate background factors explaining problems with opioid use.
Records of all 60 patients included in the methadone programme 1994-2002 were studied. An interview was done after a mean of 34 months of methadone treatment regarding pain relief, quality of life and side effects on 48 patients.
Titration of oral methadone mixture in daily doses ranging from 10 to 350 mg (mean 99.5 mg) was done on all patients. Background factors were low back and musculoskeletal pain in 40%, psychiatric disease in 68%, and substance use disorder in 32% of the patients. Before methadone treatment all patients were on sick leave. After treatment five patients returned to work. Ten patients failed treatment, 4 due to intractable nausea, 4 to drug diversion, 1 because of methadone related arrhythmia and 1 because of insufficient analgesia. Pain relief was rated good by 75% and moderate by 25% of the patients. Global quality of life was rated at mean of 50(0-100), which favourably compares with Swedish chronic pain patients mean 33(0-100).
A structured methadone programme can be used for treating chronic pain patients with opioid dependence improving pain relief and quality of life. However, side effects and serious adverse events may limit the beneficial effects of the method.
Progressive myoclonus epilepsy (PME) without Lafora bodies, or Baltic myoclonus epilepsy, is characterized by stimulus-sensitive myoclonus, generalized tonic-clonic seizures, and an irregularly progressive course beginning between 6 and 15 years of age. The EEG displays spike-and-wave paroxysms with irregular dominant activity. Baltic myoclonus epilepsy is a single-gene disorder inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. Early cases were reported from Estonia, and many are now found in Finland, suggesting that the gene frequency is increased in those sharing the Finno-Ugric linguistic base. The use of phenytoin should be avoided in this disorder since its continued administration alone or with other antiepileptic drugs is associated with intellectual and motor deterioration, aggressive behavior, increasing ataxia, and even death. Treatment with valproate and the concomitant elimination of phenytoin have been associated with marked improvement in most cases. Baltic myoclonus epilepsy must be distinguished from Lafora body PME, which is relentlessly progressive and invariably fatal, but can usually be differentiated on clinical grounds.
The antitumor growth and antimetastatic actions of celecoxib [a selective cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor] were investigated in a metastatic murine mammary cancer model.
Mice bearing mammary tumors, developed after inoculation of syngeneic BALBIc mice with a mammary carcinoma cell line carrying a p53 mutation, were treated with celecoxib at 0, 7.5 and 15 mg/kg five times a week for seven weeks.
Tumor volumes were significantly reduced in association with an increase in apoptosis and a decrease in DNA synthesis in tumor tissues. In vitro studies demonstrated a significant increase in the number of cells undergoing apoptosis, with significantly elevated activities of caspase-3 and caspase-9, but not caspase-8, and a dose-dependent decrease in mitochondrial membrane potential, indicating the mitochondrial pathway of apoptosis. In addition, treatment with celecoxib showed cell cycle arrest in the G -phase and decreased cell population in the S- and G2/M-phases. Furthermore, tumor microvessel formation and mRNA levels for VEGF-A and COX-2 were markedly decreased.
Celecoxib may be useful as an adjuvant therapy for breast cancer containing p53 mutations due to its ability to both induce p53-independent mitochondria-mediated apoptosis and exert anti-angiogenic potential.
Metoprolol is a beta 1-selective adrenoceptor antagonist that is widely used in several indications. A recent investigation has also highlighted a potential role for metoprolol in selected patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. Pharmacoeconomic and quality-of-life data for metoprolol are limited to the areas of hypertension, post-myocardial infarction and idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. In these settings, metoprolol has shown beneficial effects on morbidity and mortality, or closely-related end-points. Controlled release formulations offer the potential to maximise the confirmed antihypertensive benefits of metoprolol by maintaining clinically effective plasma drug concentrations within a narrow range over a 24-hour interval between doses. Recent data support the use of controlled release metoprolol at the low dose of 50 mg/day. Metoprolol is at least as effective as many other antihypertensive drugs, although compared with thiazide diuretics at relatively high doses in the MAPHY (Metoprolol Atherosclerosis Prevention in Hypertensives) trial, metoprolol was associated with a more favourable effect on mortality. Pharmacoeconomic analysis, also based on the MAPHY trial, indicates that metoprolol is more cost effective than high dose thiazide diuretics in middle-aged men with mild to moderate hypertension. However, the advantage for beta-blockade in this trial is not supported by results of other studies, and the applicability of these data to current medical practice using lower thiazide doses is therefore questionable. Quality of life in patients with mild to moderate hypertension did not deteriorate in most investigations with metoprolol. Furthermore, quality of life was similar for controlled release metoprolol and atenolol. With conventional/matrix-based sustained release metoprolol, quality of life was less satisfactory than with lisinopril but was only marginally different from that with diltiazem (at lower than usual therapeutic doses). Nevertheless, these newer agents have no proven beneficial effect on mortality, and further studies are also warranted with controlled release metoprolol 50 mg/day. When administered post-myocardial infarction, conventional metoprolol was associated with significant improvements in quality of life and was cost saving over a 3-year period. Significant improvements in quality of life were also evident for metoprolol-treated patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. In summary, available data support the continued extensive usage of metoprolol as treatment for hypertension and as therapy post-myocardial infarction. Pharmacoeconomic data supporting an advantage for metoprolol over high dose thiazides in hypertension needs further assessment in settings reflecting usual general practice approaches to managing patients with hypertension, while differences in quality of life between metoprolol and other antihypertensive agents appear to be marginal.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Fifty patients undergoing colonic surgery received combined thoracic epidural and general anesthesia followed by continuous epidural bupivacaine 0.25% and morphine 0.05 mg/mL, 4 mL/h, for 96 h postoperatively plus oral tenoxicam 20 mg daily. Heart rate (HR) and arterial blood pressure (BP) were measured at supine rest, during orthostatic stress, and after walking prior to and 24, 48, and 72 h and 48 h postoperatively compared to preoperatively (P < or = 0.008); 16 vs 6 patients presented resting systolic BP values < 100 mm Hg (lower range, 70 mm Hg) post- versus preoperatively (P = 0.048). During orthostatic stress the decrease in systolic BP and concomitant increase in HR was similar post- versus preoperatively (BP, P > 0.3; HR, P > 0.34) and 12 vs 8 patient; (P = 0.45) experienced a systolic BP decrease > 20 mm Hg post- versus preoperatively. After walking, systolic BP was significantly lower postoperatively compared with preoperatively (P < or = 0.01). Epidural infusion was discontinued in three patients due to either persisting resting or orthostatic hypotension. There was no correlation between ASA classification, intraoperative bleeding, or postoperative dizziness and incidence of orthostatic hypotension. The results suggest that patients undergoing abdominal surgery and treated with continuous small-dose thoracic epidural bupivacaine-morphine are subjected to a decrease of BP at rest and during mobilization, but not to an extent that seriously impairs ambulation in most patients.
An open, crossover and randomized study was carried out to compare the safety and efficacy of salbutamol inhaled using the dry-powder inhaler Turbuhaler, and using a pressurized metered-dose inhaler (pMDI). Twelve patients with moderate to severe asthma, aged 47-68 years, were included in the study. On two separate days, patients received a total dose of 1600 micrograms of salbutamol administered in a cumulative dose fashion: 100, 100, 200, 400 and 800 micrograms at 3-min intervals. Salbutamol inhaled via Turbuhaler caused a larger decrease in serum potassium concentration than did salbutamol inhaled via pMDI. The estimated relative dose potency of the hypokalaemic effect of salbutamol Turbuhaler vs salbutamol pMDI was 2.0 with a 95% confidence interval of 1.3-3.6. Turbuhaler caused a small (but statistically significantly greater than with pMDI) increase in heart rate, QTc interval and tremor. Blood pressure was unaffected by the treatments. No adverse events of clinical relevance were reported. The estimated relative dose potency of the bronchodilating effect (FEV1) of salbutamol Turbuhaler vs salbutamol pMDI was 3.0 with a 95% confidence interval of 1.8-5.8. In conclusion, salbutamol inhaled via Turbuhaler was more potent and seemed to have a better therapeutic ratio than salbutamol inhaled via pMDI. Both treatments were equally well tolerated.
Patients with liver disease are at risk of bleeding due to abnormalities of the clotting system although they must be anticoagulated if they require haemodialysis or haemoperfusion. The anticoagulant of choice is heparin. In this study we have investigated heparin kinetics in patients with fulminant hepatic failure (FHF) after a single intravenous dose of heparin (2,500 units) and found there was an increased clearance of heparin whether measured by its anti-Xa effect (t 1/2 = 27.8 +/- 2.9 min compared to t 1/2 = 50.2 +/- 2.7 min in normal controls p less than 0.001) or by the whole blood activated clotting time (t 1/2 = 23.7 +/- 2.2 min compared to t 1/2 = 37.0 +/- 2.0 min p less than 0.001). There was a decreased peak level of heparin measured by anti-Xa effect (peak level in FHF = 0.48 +/- 0.05 u/ml and in controls = 0.69 +/- 0.04 u/ml, p less than 0.02), but an increased sensitivity to heparin (sensitivity in FHF = 0.072 +/- 0.011 sec/unit, in controls 0.033 +/- 0.003 sec/unit, p less than 0.001). Patients with FHF had very low levels of antithrombin III (AT III), but there was no correlation between this and any parameters of heparin effect or clearance. In a group of patients with chronic liver disease heparin kinetics did not differ from controls despite low levels of AT III. The changes in heparin kinetics in FHF are likely to be complex with the balance between the proteins that act as cofactors, (e.g. AT III) and the proteins that have heparin neutralising activity, controlling the response of added heparin.
Patients with multiple sclerosis show higher prevalence of psychiatric disorders compared to general population, that are hardly managed by pharmacotherapy. In the present report a female patient, 44 years old, with diagnosis (according to DSM-IV) of 340 multiple sclerosis, 296.32 major depressive disorder, recurrent, moderate, 292.84 antidepressant-induced mood disorder, with manic features, is described. In this patient depressive symptoms did not respond to a number of drugs, including tricyclic antidepressants, selective serotonine re-uptake inhibitors hand lithium. Moreover, she had hypomanic and manic episodes induced by two different antidepressant, hydroxy-tryptophan and clorimipramine. Until today, only amisulpride (50 mg/die for four months, then 50 mg every two days for two months) has shown a significant effect on depressive symptomatology, moreover, this drug has not induced the occurrence of manic symptoms.
To evaluate macular function using multifocal electroretinography (mfERG) in a cohort of asymptomatic patients taking hydroxychloroquine and a patient with maculopathy secondary to hydroxychloroquine treatment.
mfERG recordings were obtained for both eyes of 11 patients taking hydroxychloroquine without clinical signs of toxicity and 1 patient with toxic maculopathy. Initially, the classic m-sequence paradigm for the first-order kernel (103 hexagons; 2.7 candela x seconds/m2 peak luminance) was recorded. After that, another special stimulation mode was applied, which emphasized second-order adaptational effects (modulated multifocal flashes with interleaved global flashes, MF0F0 paradigm).
The patient with toxic maculopathy and one patient without toxicity had multiple areas of decreased retinal responses bilaterally (classic m-sequence). The patient with toxicity and another three patients without toxicity presented with multiple areas of decreased retinal function in both eyes with the second-order component of the MF0F0 paradigm. Repeated recordings of 1 patient 8 months after the initial recording demonstrated evidence for reproducibility of the second-order adaptive effects.
Clinically asymptomatic patients receiving hydroxychloroquine treatment can have substantial local decreases in their retinal function, as reflected by the changes in mfERG recordings, possibly indicating a preclinical stage of drug-related toxicity.
Spinal neostigmine causes analgesia in animals and humans and abolishes hypotension from spinal bupivacaine in rats. Since drug distribution and action can vary with the size of the spinal cord, we tested the effects of the maximum tolerated dose of spinal neostigmine alone and with bupivacaine in conscious sheep. Neostigmine alone increased arterial blood pressure by 10%, with a statistically significant increase beginning 30 min after injection. Compared with spinal bupivacaine alone, addition of neostigmine resulted in hypotension of slower onset (15 vs 5 min), shorter duration (45 vs 105 min), and smaller magnitude (-18% +/- 3% vs -37% +/- 6%). Addition of neostigmine did not affect height of sensory block from spinal bupivacaine. These data agree with preliminary clinical reports that spinal neostigmine diminishes, but does not abolish, hypotension from spinal bupivacaine in humans.
Ten patients with chronic bronchitis (Medical Research Council definition) completed a double-blind placebo-controlled study comparing 400 micrograms, 1 mg, 1.6 mg and 2 mg salbutamol powder. Response was measured by spirometry, peak expiratory flow rate, heart rate and tremor at intervals up to 4 hours post-inhalation. Pulmonary function results showed a trend towards higher doses producing improved response and a longer duration of action, with bronchodilatation following 2 mg significantly greater than 400 micrograms. Seven patients developed or had an increase in tremor following a single dose of 2 mg and in one this was considered to be severe. No adverse effects were recorded on ECG.
