Insulin resistance and arterial hypertension are related, but the underlying mechanism is unknown. Endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) is expressed in skeletal muscle, where it may govern metabolic processes, and in the vascular endothelium, where it regulates arterial pressure.
To study the role of eNOS in the control of the metabolic action of insulin, we assessed insulin sensitivity in conscious mice with disruption of the gene encoding for eNOS. eNOS(-/-) mice were hypertensive and had fasting hyperinsulinemia, hyperlipidemia, and a 40% lower insulin-stimulated glucose uptake than control mice. Insulin resistance in eNOS(-/-) mice was related specifically to impaired NO synthesis, because in equally hypertensive 1-kidney/1-clip mice (a model of renovascular hypertension), insulin-stimulated glucose uptake was normal.
These results indicate that eNOS is important for the control not only of arterial pressure but also of glucose and lipid homeostasis. A single gene defect, eNOS deficiency, may represent the link between metabolic and cardiovascular disease.
To evaluate the possible protective effect of orally administered melatonin against Chlorpromazine (CPZ)-induced liver disease in rats.
We performed this study in the College of Pharmacy, University of Baghdad during the period from May to October 2004. The hepatoprotective effect of melatonin was studied through treatment of rats with single dose (10 mg Kg(-1)) orally, 7 days before and during the period of CPZ treatment, and 7 days after the induction of suspected hepatotoxicity. The parameters of oxidative stress, malondialdehyde (MDA) and glutathione (GSH) in liver tissue homogenate, activities of the liver aminotransferases, alanine transaminase (ALT) and aspartate transaminase (AST) in serum, in addition to serum level of bilirubin (total and conjugated) were evaluated. Liver tissue sections were examined to follow histological changes.
Analysis of data showed that treatment with melatonin significantly attenuated the oxidative stress parameters as evidenced by lowering MDA levels in tissue homogenate while not affecting GSH levels. Serum activities of ALT, AST and serum bilirubin were normalized with both pre-treatment and post-treatment with melatonin. Data revealed that post-treatments with both saline and melatonin restore hepatic activity; however, melatonin showed significant reduction in ALT activity and bilirubin level than saline post-treatment. Additionally, histological evaluation revealed improvement of liver damage in this respect.
The presented data indicated that orally administered melatonin in pharmacological doses protects against CPZ-induced liver disease in rats.
Myasthenia gravis with thymic hyperplasia developed in a patient with Wilson's disease after eight years of penicillamine treatment. Four months prior to the onset of myasthenia, penicillin hypersensitivity was observed. Immunofluorescence on the excised thymus revealed immunoglobulin and complement deposition, but the myasthenia persisted after thymectomy and continuation of penicillamine therapy. Increased antiacetylcholine receptor antibody was demonstrable throughout. This patient subsequently became pregnant, enabling studies to be performed on the transplacental transfer of the immunoglobulin G (IgG) class antiacetylcholine receptor antibody. Eleven cases of rheumatoid arthritis with penicillamine-associated antistriational antibodies have also been observed; in three of these cases there was evidence of myasthenia gravis. These observations extend earlier reports of the association of penicillamine with myasthenia gravis and suggest that antistriational antibody, antiacetylcholine receptor antibody and thymic hyperplasia may be independent effects of penicillamine therapy.
To investigate the effect and mechanism of BSDW on the model of allergic rhinitis and the model of guinea pigs by histamine shocking in guinea pigs.
Using the model of allergic rhinitis in guinea pigs caused by 10% TDI, we observed the effect of BSDW on physiological and pathological symptoms of allergic rhinitis in guinea pigs, the effect of the levels of serum IgE and serum and nasal histamine. Using the model of guinea pigs by histamine shocking, we observed the effect of BSDW on physiological symptoms in guinea pigs.
BSDW significantly relieved the pathological symptoms of allergic rhinitis in guinea pigs, alleviated the hyperplasia of columnar epithelium, decreased the number of monocyte and eosinocyte compared with the model group. It also reduced the levels of serum IgE, and decreased the release of serum and nasal histamine. BSDW significantly prolonged the occurent time of gasping, eclampsia and death caused by shock, reduced the times of gasping in the model of guinea pigs by histamine shocking.
BSDW has significant effect against allergy. The mechanism relates to its effects of decreasing the levels of serum IgE and inhibiting the release of serum and nasal histamine.
Gabapentin is well known for pain control. Here, we report that gabapentin is a good adjunct for visceral pain in a porphyria patient.
A young female was admitted due to acute abdomen. On admission, she was noted to have hyponatremia, tachycardia, and hypertension. Then, she had episodes of seizure and confusion. Gabapentin was prescribed for the control of seizure and pain before the diagnosis of acute intermittent porphyria was confirmed. Seizure did not occur after gabapentin. Pain severity also significantly reduced with visual analogue scale from 10 to 4. The severity of pain rebounded after gabapentin was withdrawn. When the diagnosis was proved, the neurovisceral pain further decreased with combination of morphine and gabapentin and subsided after treatment with hematin.
Our report indicates that gabapentin can be considered in porphyria patients, especially when patients had seizures or acute abdomen, when morphine is not available or contraindicated, when abdomen pain transforms as chronic pattern, and when neuropathic pain occurs in extremities.
Cocaine use is a major problem worldwide and there are numerous reports about cocaine-associated myocardial infarction. Nevertheless minimal data are available from randomised clinical trials to suggest evidence-based approaches to the management of cocaine-associated myocardial ischemia. Moreover, most reports have been limited to conservative management of cocaine-associated myocardial infarction. We report a case of a young male cocaine user with acute myocardial infarction, undergoing diagnostic coronary angiography and intravascular ultrasound revealing severe atherosclerosis, followed by successful stent implantation.
Mice lacking the Abc4 protein encoded by the multidrug resistance-2 gene (Mdr2(-/-)) develop chronic periductular inflammation and cholestatic liver disease resulting in the development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Inhibition of NF-κB by expression of an IκBα super-repressor (IκBαSR) transgene in hepatocytes was shown to prevent HCC development in Mdr2(-/-) mice, suggesting that NF-κB acts as a tumour promoter in this model of inflammation-associated carcinogenesis. On the other hand, inhibition of NF-κB by hepatocyte specific ablation of IKK2 resulted in increased liver tumour development induced by the chemical carcinogen DEN. To address the role of IKK2-mediated NF-κB activation in hepatocytes in the pathogenesis of liver disease and HCC in Mdr2(-/-) mice, we generated Mdr2-deficient animals lacking IKK2 specifically in hepatocytes using the Cre-loxP system. Mdr2(-/-) mice lacking IKK2 in hepatocytes developed spontaneously a severe liver disease characterized by cholestasis, major hyperbilirubinemia and severe to end-stage fibrosis, which caused muscle wasting, loss of body weight, lethargy and early spontaneous death. Cell culture experiments showed that primary hepatocytes lacking IKK2 were more sensitive to bile acid induced death, suggesting that hepatocyte-specific IKK2 deficiency sensitized hepatocytes to the toxicity of bile acids under conditions of cholestasis resulting in greatly exacerbated liver damage. Mdr2(-/-)IKK2(Hep-KO) mice remarkably recapitulate chronic liver failure in humans and might be of special importance for the study of the mechanisms contributing to the pathogenesis of end-stage chronic liver disease or its implications on other organs.
IKK2-mediated signaling in hepatocytes protects the liver from damage under conditions of chronic inflammatory cholestasis and prevents the development of severe fibrosis and liver failure.
Narcolepsy (hypocretin deficiency), a sleep disorder characterized by sleepiness, cataplexy and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep abnormalities, is tightly associated with HLA-DRB1*1501 (M17378) and HLA-DQB1*0602 (M20432). Susceptibility genes other than those in the HLA region are also likely involved. We conducted a genome-wide association study using 500K SNP microarrays in 222 Japanese individuals with narcolepsy and 389 Japanese controls, with replication of top hits in 159 Japanese individuals with narcolepsy and 190 Japanese controls, followed by the testing of 424 Koreans, 785 individuals of European descent and 184 African Americans. rs5770917, a SNP located between CPT1B and CHKB, was associated with narcolepsy in Japanese (rs5770917[C], odds ratio (OR) = 1.79, combined P = 4.4 x 10(-7)) and other ancestry groups (OR = 1.40, P = 0.02). Real-time quantitative PCR assays in white blood cells indicated decreased CPT1B and CHKB expression in subjects with the C allele, suggesting that a genetic variant regulating CPT1B or CHKB expression is associated with narcolepsy. Either of these genes is a plausible candidate, as CPT1B regulates beta-oxidation, a pathway involved in regulating theta frequency during REM sleep, and CHKB is an enzyme involved in the metabolism of choline, a precursor of the REM- and wake-regulating neurotransmitter acetylcholine.
To investigate the liver tumor-promoting effects of etofenprox (ETF), a pyrethroid-like insecticide, 6 week-old male F344 rats were given an intraperitoneal injection of N-diethylnitrosamine (DEN). After 2 weeks from the DEN treatment, 12 rats per group received a powdered diet containing 0, 0.25, 0.50, or 1.0% ETF for 8 weeks. At the time of 2nd week of ETF administration, all animals were subjected to two-thirds partial hepatectomy (PH). One rat per group except for the 0.25% ETF group died due to surgical operation of PH. The number and area of glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P) positive foci significantly increased in the livers of DEN-initiated rats given 0.50% and 1.0% ETF compared with the DEN-alone group. Quantitative real-time RT-PCR analysis revealed that the mRNA expression of phase I enzymes Cyp2b1/2, phase II enzymes such as Akr7a3, Gsta5, Ugt1a6, Nqo1 significantly increased in the DEN+ETF groups. The immunohistochemistry showed the translocation of CAR from the cytoplasm to the nuclei of hepatocytes in the ETF-treated groups. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) production increased in microsomes isolated from the livers of ETF-treated rats, and thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) levels and 8- hydroxy-2-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) content significantly increased in all of the ETF-treated groups and DEN+1.0% ETF group, respectively. The results of the present study indicate that ETF has a liver tumor-promoting activity in rats, and suggest that ETF activates the constitutive active/androstane receptor (CAR) and enhances microsomal ROS production, resulting in the upregulation of Nrf2 gene batteries; such an oxidative stress subsequently induces liver tumor-promoting effects by increased cellular proliferation.
Summary Background In the clinical practice patients with a history of acute urticaria induced by a single non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) and seeking for safe alternative drugs generally undergo tolerance tests with alternative NSAIDs that have little or no cyclooxygenase-1 (COX-1) enzyme inhibitory activity. This practice does not allow for the detection of single NSAID reactors and may lead to unnecessary avoidance of many potentially useful NSAIDs.
Evaluate aspirin challenge as a means to distinguish single from multiple NSAID intolerance in patients with a clinical history of acute urticaria induced by a single NSAID. Methods One hundred and seventeen otherwise normal subjects with a history of acute urticaria following the ingestion of a single NSAID (pyrazolones (n=58), nimesulide (n=17), propionic acid derivatives (n=13), aryl acetic acid derivatives (n=14), acetaminophen (n=9), piroxicam (n=5), and indometacin (n=1)) underwent single-blind placebo-controlled oral challenges with aspirin. Aspirin-intolerant subjects underwent further tolerance tests drugs exerting little or no inhibitory activity on COX-1 enzyme (including paracetamol, nimesulide, rofecoxib, tramadol, and floctafenine). Results Aspirin induced urticaria in 28/117 (24%) patients. Five out of 28 (18%) aspirin reactors did not tolerate alternative NSAID on subsequent oral challenges. Conclusion In subjects with a history of urticaria induced by a single NSAID (other than aspirin) the diagnostic workup should start with an aspirin challenge in order to detect single/multiple NSAID reactors.
Heart rate, mean arterial pressure, and vascular conductance response to intravenous nitroprusside were compared in conscious, unrestrained portal vein-stenosed and sham-operated rats chronically instrumented for pulsed Doppler flowmetry. Ten to twelve days after portal vein stenosis, portal venous pressures were elevated and resting heart rates were greater. Portal vein-stenosed animals' depressor responses to nitroprusside were similar to those of sham-operated animals, despite a 41% reduction in their tachycardic response to arterial hypotension. Skeletal muscle vascular bed reflex responses to nitroprusside-induced hypotension were significantly attenuated in the portal vein-stenosed group, whereas their renal artery and superior mesenteric artery responses resembled that of the sham-operated group. After ganglionic blockade, tachycardic responses to hypotension were abolished, but portal vein-stenosed rats' heart rates remained greater than sham-operated rats. Comparisons of arterial pressure changes, renal artery, abdominal aorta, and superior mesenteric artery vascular conductance changes after ganglionic blockade revealed no differences in neurogenic vascular tone between groups. Ganglionic blockade enhanced nitroprusside depressor responses and increased vascular conductance responses to nitroprusside in both treatment groups while abolishing the between group difference in the skeletal muscle baroreflex response. These findings indicate that chronic prehepatic portal vein stenosis with portal venous hypertension results in reduced reflex tachycardic and skeletal muscle baroreflex responses to nitroprusside-induced hypotension.
The goal of this study was to determine the effects of SU6668, a polyvalent receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor against vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2, platelet-derived growth factor receptor-beta, and fibroblast growth factor-1 on tumor growth, angiogenesis, and microcirculation in an orthotopic malignant glioma model.
Fluorescently labeled C6 malignant glioma cells were implanted into a long-term cranial window, which had been prepared in nude mice. The animals were treated with intraperitoneal injections of SU6668 (75 mg/kg/day) immediately (five animals) or 7 days (five animals) following tumor implantation. Control mice received intraperitoneal injections of vehicle (50 microl dimethylsulfoxide) immediately (five animals) or 7 days (four animals) after tumor implantation. Tumor growth, angiogenesis, and microcirculation were assessed by performing intravital fluorescence videomicroscopy over a 14-day observation period. To assess the effects of SU6668 on overall survival, C6 glioma cells were implanted stereotactically into the brains of 24 additional animals and treatment was initiated on Day 7. In both the immediate and delayed experimental setting, SU6668 treatment resulted in a significant reduction of total and functional tumor vessel densities (both p < 0.05), reflecting a suppression of angiogenesis and impairment of tumor perfusion. As a consequence, tumor growth was significantly inhibited (p < 0.05). Histological analysis demonstrated reduced tumor growth and less mass effect on the adjacent brain of treated animals. The survival experiments confirmed the importance of our results in that survival was significantly prolonged following SU6668 therapy (p < 0.05).
Targeting of multiple angiogenic signaling pathways by polyvalent tyrosine kinase inhibitors represents a promising strategy to interfere with the vascularization, microcirculation, and growth of angiogenesis-dependent tumors. This also applies to malignant gliomas, despite the uniqueness of the cerebral microenvironment and the singular pathobiology of this tumor entity.
To determine the prevalence of ketamine side effects in children receiving botulinum toxin injections for strabismus under ketamine anesthesia and to establish the prevalence, severity, and duration of ptosis in these children.
Children who had undergone ketamine anesthesia for botulinum toxin injections (1999 to 2006) to correct strabismus were identified in a retrospective review. A questionnaire to establish occurrence of nightmares, sleepless nights, hallucinations (ketamine side effects), or ptosis (botulinum toxin side effect), was sent to parents or guardians. Details of side effects were obtained by telephone and the patients' medical records were analyzed.
Questionnaires were sent to 113 patients (total of 130 injections). Ninety-seven (114 injections) completed questionnaires were returned. Emergence reactions were experienced by 12 patients (12.4%). Two children experienced sleepless nights, nightmares, and hallucinations. The remaining 10 experienced one side effect only. Eighteen children had ptosis at their 2-week follow-up appointment, most which resolved within 6 weeks. There were no life-threatening or sight-threatening adverse events.
Botulinum toxin injection under intravenous ketamine anesthesia can safely be used for children. Ketamine anesthesia may be associated with side effects, namely hallucinations and sleep disturbances.
The current studies evaluated the novel diphenylmethoxytropane analog 4-chlorobenztropine (4-Cl-BZT), cocaine, and combinations of the two drugs for their abilities to stimulate locomotor activity, produce cocaine-like discriminative stimulus effects, and elevate extracellular dopamine (DA) in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) as measured by in vivo microdialysis. Peripherally administered cocaine was approximately twice as efficacious as 4-Cl-BZT as a locomotor stimulant and was behaviorally active at a lower dose than was 4-Cl-BZT. Cocaine also was more efficacious than 4-Cl-BZT in producing discriminative-stimulus effects in rats trained to discriminate i.p. injections of 10 mg/kg cocaine from saline. The time course of behavioral activation differed markedly between the two drugs, with much shorter onset and duration of locomotor stimulant effects for cocaine relative to 4-Cl-BZT. Similarly, i.p. cocaine (10 and 40 mg/kg) induced a pronounced, rapid, and short-lived increase in DA in the NAc, whereas i.p. 4-Cl-BZT was effective only at the higher dose and produced a more gradual, modest, and sustained (>/=2 h) elevation in accumbens DA. In contrast to i.p. administration, local infusion of 4-Cl-BZT (1-100 microM) into the NAc through the microdialysis probe elevated extracellular DA to a much greater extent than did local cocaine (nearly 2000% of baseline maximally for 4-Cl-BZT versus 400% of baseline for cocaine) and displayed a much longer duration of action than cocaine. However, when microinjected bilaterally into the NAc at 30 or 300 nmol/side, cocaine remained a more efficacious locomotor stimulant than 4-Cl-BZT. Finally, pretreatment with i.p. 4-Cl-BZT dose dependently enhanced the locomotor stimulant, discriminative stimulus effects, and NAc DA response to a subsequent low-dose i.p. cocaine challenge. The diphenylmethoxytropane analog also facilitated the emergence of stereotyped behavior and convulsions induced by high-dose cocaine. The current results demonstrate that DA transporter ligands that do not share the neurochemical and behavioral profiles of cocaine nevertheless may enhance the effects of cocaine in vivo.
We describe two patients with high-grade glioma undergoing treatment with corticosteroids and chemotherapy who presented with cryptococcal meningitis and sepsis. This report of two cases highlights the importance of examining the efficacy of prophylactic antibiotic and/or antifungal regimens in this patient population due to their increased risk of opportunistic infections.
A 73-year-old man with a history of glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), on dexamethasone and status post radiation therapy and two cycles of temozolamide, presented with decreased level of consciousness for 24 h and was found to have cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and blood cultures positive for Cryptococcus neoformans. A 33-year-old man with a history of anaplastic astrocytoma, on dexamethasone and status post radiation therapy, four cycles of temozolomide and two cycles of Lomustine (CCNU), presented with headache, dizziness and photophobia and was found to have CSF and blood cultures positive for Cryptococcus neoformans.
Both patients were treated with an initial regimen of amphotericin B and flucytosine for a minimum of two weeks and switched to fluconazole for 6 months to 1 year of treatment.
Patients with high-grade glioma treated with long-term corticosteroid therapy and chemotherapy are at increased risk of developing opportunistic infections. The two patients reported here developed cryptococcal meningitis and sepsis. Prophylactic regimens with either fluconazole or itraconazole currently exist that effectively decrease the incidence of both cryptococcal infections. Further investigations into the risk:benefit ratio of primary prophylactic therapy in this patient population may prove beneficial.
Trichloroethylene (TCE) is suspected as a potent immunomodulator that accelerates the development of allergic diseases. We previously reported that TCE promotes ovalbumin (OVA)-induced active cutaneous anaphylaxis, including enhancing antigen-specific serum IgE levels and splenic lymphocyte proliferation. However, the target cells and molecular mechanism through which TCE modulates antigen-specific immune responses remain unclear. To identify a potential underlying mechanism, we investigated whether TCE modulates T cell receptor (TCR)-induced T cell activation and proliferation in vitro. TCE enhanced T cell proliferation primed by anti-CD3 antibody, but not concanavalin A, in a dose-dependent fashion. In addition, TCE enhanced anti-CD3-primed proliferation of CD8(+) rather than CD4(+) T cells. Consistent with this result, TCE markedly enhanced the Lck phosphorylation mediated by anti-CD3 antibody in CD8(+) but not CD4(+) T cells. Furthermore, we analyzed the effect of TCE exposure via drinking water for 2 weeks on splenocyte populations in non-immunized and OVA-immunized mice. In OVA-immunized mice, TCE (3 mg/l) significantly expanded CD3(+), CD8(+) and CD4(+) cell populations, however the effect at the lower concentration was significant only in the CD8(+) populations, whereas TCE had no effect on these cells population in non-immunized mice. These findings suggest that TCE enhances TCR-CD3-induced proliferation of CD8(+) rather than CD4(+) cells and disrupts various activities of peripheral T cells.
Cocaine has been implicated as a trigger of acute myocardial infarction in patients with and those without underlying coronary atherosclerosis. However, the magnitude of the increase in risk of acute myocardial infarction immediately after cocaine use remains unknown.
In the Determinants of Myocardial Infarction Onset Study, we interviewed 3946 patients (1282 women) with acute myocardial infarction an average of 4 days after infarction onset. Data were collected on the use of cocaine and other potential triggers of myocardial infarction. We compared the reported use of cocaine in the hour preceding the onset of myocardial infarction symptoms with its expected frequency by using self-matched control data based on the case-crossover study design. Of the 3946 patients interviewed, 38 (1%) reported cocaine use in the prior year and 9 reported use within the 60 minutes preceding the onset of infarction symptoms. Compared with nonusers, cocaine users were more likely to be male (87% vs 67%, P=0.01), current cigarette smokers (84% vs 32%, P<0.001), younger (44+/-8 vs 61+/-13 years, P<0.001), and minority group members (63% vs 11%, P<0.001). The risk of myocardial infarction onset was elevated 23.7 times over baseline (95% CI 8.5 to 66.3) in the 60 minutes after cocaine use. The elevated risk rapidly decreased thereafter.
Cocaine use is associated with a large abrupt and transient increase in the risk of acute myocardial infarction in patients who are otherwise at relatively low risk. This finding suggests that studying the pathophysiological changes produced by cocaine may provide insights into the mechanisms by which myocardial infarction is triggered by other stressors.
A 70-year-old woman was hospitalized for status asthmaticus. The level of CRP was high and chest roentgenogram showed infiltrative shadows in the left middle lung field. Artificial respiration and continuous infusion of methylprednisolone and aminophylline 750 mg/24 hr were performed. Eight hours after admission, seizures suddenly occurred. At this time, brain CT showed no abnormal findings. The seizures were thought to be induced by theophylline toxicity, since serum theophylline concentration was high at 69.9 micrograms/ml. Because theophylline clearance of the patient in a clinically stable condition was normal, it was speculated that theophylline clearance was reduced during status asthmaticus. It is thought that this rare case of theophylline toxicity occurred due to reduction of theophylline clearance during status asthmaticus associated with pneumonia.
To evaluate the effect of prostagrandin E1 (PGE1)-induced hypotension on cerebral blood flow (CBF) and carbon dioxide (CO2) reactivity of CBF, regional cerebral hemoglobin oxygen saturation (rSo2) was measured in non-neurosurgical patients (n = 10) under sevoflurane-anesthesia using near infrared spectroscopy. PGE1 was infused intravenously to maintain arterial pressure at a level of about 75% of the MAP (hypotensive group) under sevoflurane-anesthesia alone (normotensive group). Ventilation was controlled to adjust PaCO2 to hypocapnia (25-30 mmHg), normocapnia (35-40 mmHg) and hypercapnia (45-50 mmHg) in both normotensive and hypotensive groups. rSo2 during hypotension did not change by hypocapnia and normocapnia, but significantly increased by hypercapnia, compared with rSo2 during normotension. Significant correlations between rSo2 and PaCO2 during both normotensive and hypotensive groups were observed. Slope of the regression line of rSo2 and PaCO2 did not differ between the normotensive and hypotensive groups. When arterial oxygen content and cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen are constant, changes in rSo2 correlate with those of CBF. Therefore, CBF and CO2 reactivity of CBF that indicates autoregulation in response to changes in CO2 during hypotension were maintained as those during normotension. The results show that PGE2-induced hypotension maintains CBF and CO2 reactivity well in non-neurosurgical patients under sevoflurane anesthesia.
Learning and memory appear to be critical aspects of drug abuse; presumably playing an especially important role in craving and relapse. Thus, understanding the interaction of learning- and memory-related brain areas with the classical reward circuitry is of importance. Toward this goal, the effect of drug-associated contextual cues on intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) behaviour was assessed in rats. We used a method that allows the establishment of baseline behaviour, the pairing of drug exposure with unique cues, and testing the effect of cue exposure within the same apparatus. ICSS thresholds were decreased by morphine (5 mg/kg, i.p.) or cocaine (10 mg/kg, i.p.) during five days of paired drug-cue training sessions. Subsequent presentation of the drug-associated cues decreased thresholds in the absence of drug. Cues associated with saline had no effect. These results suggest a Pavlovian conditioning phenomenon in which the functioning of brain reward circuitry is modulated by drug-associated cues. In a second experiment, we tested the hypothesis that the mechanism by which conditioning affects ICSS thresholds may include the basolateral complex of the amygdala (BLC) due to its known role in conditioning and anatomical linkage with classical reward circuitry. Lesions of the BLC abolished the ability of cocaine-associated cues to lower ICSS threshold. Lesions did not alter response capability or the unconditioned effect of cocaine. We conclude that the BLC is necessary for cues associated with previous drug exposure to modulate activity within or downstream from the classical reward circuitry of the medial forebrain bundle.
Astringinin can attenuate organ injury following trauma-hemorrhage, the mechanism remains unknown. Protein kinase B/hemeoxygenase-1 (Akt/HO-1) pathway exerts potent anti-inflammatory effects in various tissues. The aim of this study is to elucidate whether Akt/HO-1 plays any role in astringinin-mediated attenuation of hepatic injury following trauma-hemorrhage. For study this, male Sprague-Dawley rats underwent trauma-hemorrhage (mean blood pressure 35-40 mmHg for 90 min) followed by fluid resuscitation. A single dose of astringinin (0.3 mg/kg body weight) with or without a PI3K inhibitor (wortmannin) or a HO antagonist (chromium-mesoporphyrin) was administered during resuscitation. Various parameters were measured at 24 h post-resuscitation. Results showed that trauma-hemorrhage increased plasma aspartate and alanine aminotransferases (AST and ALT) concentrations and hepatic myeloperoxidase activity, cytokine induced neutrophil chemoattractant (CINC)-1, CINC-3, intercellular adhesion molecule-1, and interleukin-6 levels. These parameters were significantly improved in the astringinin-treated rats subjected to trauma-hemorrhage. Astringinin treatment also increased hepatic Akt activation and HO-1 expression as compared with vehicle-treated trauma-hemorrhaged rats. Co-administration of wortmannin or chromium-mesoporphyrin abolished the astringinin-induced beneficial effects on post-resuscitation pro-inflammatory responses and hepatic injury. These findings collectively suggest that the salutary effects of astringinin administration on attenuation of hepatic injury after trauma-hemorrhage are likely mediated via Akt dependent HO-1 up-regulation.
Overactivation of the nuclear enzyme poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) contributes to the development of cell dysfunction and tissue injury in various pathophysiological conditions associated with oxidative and nitrosative stress, including myocardial reperfusion injury, heart transplantation, diabetic cardiomyopathy and chronic heart failure. In recent studies, we have demonstrated the beneficial effects of a novel ultrapotent PARP inhibitor, INO-1001, on cardiac and endothelial dysfunction and remodeling in rat model of advanced aging-associated chronic heart failure and in a mouse model of heart failure induced by aortic banding. In the current study, we have investigated the effect of INO-1001 on the development of heart failure induced by permanent ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery, heart failure induced by doxorubicin and acute myocardial dysfunction induced by bacterial endotoxin. In the coronary ligation model, a significantly depressed left ventricular performance and impaired vascular relaxation of aortic rings were found, and PARP inhibition significantly improved both cardiac function and vascular relaxation. In the doxorubicin model, a single injection of doxorubicin induced high mortality and a significant decrease in left ventricular systolic pressure, +dP/dt, -dP/dt, stroke volume, stroke work, ejection fraction and cardiac output. Treatment with the PARP inhibitor reduced doxorubicin-induced mortality and markedly improved cardiac function. PARP inhibition did not interfere with doxorubicin's antitumor effect. In the endotoxin model of cardiac dysfunction, PARP inhibition attenuated the suppression of myocardial contractility elicited by endotoxin. The current data strengthen the view that PARP inhibition may represent an effective approach for the experimental therapy of various forms of acute and chronic heart failure.
Sequential measurement of QT interval during left ventricular angiography was made 30 seconds and one, three, five and ten minutes after injection of hypaque 76. The subjects were ten patients found to have normal left ventricles and coronary arteries. Significant QTC prolongation occurred in 30 seconds to one minute in association with marked hypotension and elevation of cardiac output.
