The present study investigates whether clonazepam exerts its antimyoclonic action through a GABA independent mechanism. We have studied the antimyoclonic effect of clonazepam and compared it with that of aminooxyacetic acid (AOAA), a GABA transaminase inhibitor, against myoclonus induced by picrotoxin, a GABA receptor antagonist and allylglycine, a drug which inhibits synthesis and release of GABA. We have also investigated the effect of clonazepam against picrotoxin-induced myoclonus in rats pretreated with either AOAA or submyoclonic dose of allylgylycine. Clonazepam pretreatment inhibited both picrotoxin and allylglycine-induced myoelonus whereas AOAA was effective in inhibiting only picrotoxin-induced myoclonus. The protective effect of clonazepam against picrotoxin-induced myoclonus was potentiated by AOAA pretreatment. Moreover, clonazepam afforded protection against picrotoxin-induced myoclonus in rats pretreated with a submyoclonic GABA reducing dose of allylglycine. These findings indicate that a GABA independent mechanism may also be involved in the antimyoclonic action of clonazepam.
We report the case of a patient with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid-induced hepatitis with histologic multiple granulomas. This type of lesion broadens the spectrum of liver injury due to this drug combination, mainly represented by a benign cholestatic syndrome. The association of granulomas and eosinophilia favor an immunoallergic mechanism. As penicillin derivatives and amoxicillin alone are known to induce such types of lesions, the amoxicillin component, with or without a potentiating effect of clavulanic acid, might have a major role.
The present study was undertaken to determine whether aprindine, a class Ib antiarrythymic agent, exerts beneficial effects on ischemia/reperfusion-induced cardiac contractile dysfunction and metabolic derangement. Isolated rat hearts were subjected to 35-min global ischemia, followed by 60-min reperfusion, and functional and metabolic alterations of the heart were determined with or without aprindine-treatment. Ischemia induced a cessation of left ventricular developed pressure (LVDP), a rise in left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (LVEDP), and an increase in myocardial sodium content and a decrease in myocardial potassium content. When the hearts were reperfused, little recovery of LVDP and sustained rise in LVEDP and perfusion pressure were observed. Ischemia/reperfusion resulted in a release of ATP metabolites and creatine kinase from perfused hearts, an increase in myocardial sodium and calcium contents, and a decrease in myocardial potassium and magnesium contents. Treatment of the perfused heart with either 10 or 30 microM aprindine for the last 3 min of pre-ischemia improved contractile recovery during reperfusion and suppressed changes in myocardial ion content during ischemia and reperfusion. Treatment with the agent also attenuated the release of ATP metabolites and creatine kinase from the heart. However, treatment with high concentrations of aprindine (70 and 100 microM) improved neither cardiac contractile dysfunction, myocardial ionic disturbance nor the release of ATP metabolites and creatine kinase during reperfusion. Two possible mechanisms for the cardioprotection by the agent have been suggested: suppression of transmembrane flux of substrates and enzymes, and prevention of accumulation of myocardial sodium during ischemia.
Several experimental chronic renal failure (CRF) models are available for testing new drugs. A CRF model induced by the intravenous injection of 2 mg/kg of doxorubicin (DXR) twice during a 20-day interval reportedly results in pathological characteristics similar to glomerular sclerosis seen clinically. However, it normally takes more than 16 weeks to create this CRF model. We used three methods of direct drug injection into the kidney of rats to determine the method that would induce CRF within 4 weeks; Method A: DXR was injected directly into both kidneys; Method B: DXR was injected directly into the left kidney immediately after right nephrectomy; Method C: DXR was injected directly into the left kidney 1 week before right nephrectomy, and DXR was injected again directly into the left kidney. As a result, urinary protein, blood urea nitrogen (BUN), creatinine and creatinine clearance were significantly changed >1 week after the injection of DXR by Method C. Quantification of tissue transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1), which is a prime fibrogenic cytokine in renal fibrosis, significantly increased in the kidney. A light microscopic image showed glomerular decrement, tubular dilation and atrophy and vacuolation of parenchyma. In conclusion, the results of this study demonstrate that the DXR model using Method C develops CRF within 4 weeks.
Thalidomide is a derivative of glutamic acid with anti-angiogenic, anti-inflammatory, immunomodulatory and anti-cancer properties that was found to inhibit the production of tumor necrosis factor alpha in vitro, stimulate reactive oxygen species production, and inhibit vascular endothelial growth factor receptor in acute leukemias. The purpose of this study was to determine the in vitro activity of thalidomide as a single agent and in combination with prednisolone or cytarabine in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL).
Bone marrow samples of 40 childhood ALL patients, normal lymphocytes of 9 healthy adults, and 3 lymphoid cell lines were evaluated for cytotoxicity of thalidomide (alone and in combination with prednisolone and cytarabine) using the MTT assay. Cell cycle analysis was performed by flow cytometry.
Thalidomide as a single agent had weak antileukemic activity to the childhood ALL samples. However, in the presence of thalidomide the cytotoxicities of prednisolone and cytarabine were increased 3.3-fold (p<0.001) and 2.7-fold (p=0.002), respectively. Thalidomide increased apoptosis in lymphoblasts and modulated the cell-cycle arrest caused by prednisolone, but not that by cytarabine, in childhood ALL samples.
Thalidomide increases in vitro the sensitivity of childhood ALL cells to prednisolone and cytarabine.
Neuronal fibres of the hippocampal formation of normal and chronic epileptic rats were investigated by fluorescent tracing methods using the pilocarpine model of limbic epilepsy. Two months after onset of spontaneous limbic seizures, hippocampal slices were prepared and maintained in vitro for 10 h. Small crystals of fluorescent dye [fluorescein (fluoro-emerald) and tetramethylrhodamine (fluoro-ruby)] were applied to different hippocampal regions. The main findings were: (i) in control rats there was no supragranular labelling when the mossy fibre tract was stained in stratum radiatum of area CA3. However, in epileptic rats a fibre network in the inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus was retrogradely labelled; (ii) a retrograde innervation of area CA3 by CA1 pyramidal cells was disclosed by labelling remote CA1 neurons after dye injection into the stratum radiatum of area CA3 in chronic epileptic rats; (iii) labelling of CA1 neurons apart from the injection site within area CA1 was observed in epileptic rats but not in control animals; and (iv), a subicular-hippocampal projection was present in pilocarpine-treated rats when the tracer was injected just below the stratum pyramidale of area CA1. The findings show that fibre rearrangement in distinct regions of the epileptic hippocampal formation can occur as an aftermath of pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus.
Myo-inositol is an important precursor in cellular second-messenger synthesis. It has been reported to be reduced in the cerebrospinal fluid of depressed patients and to reverse a specific effect of Li on rat behavior when given intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.). However, myo-inositol enters the brain poorly when given peripherally, and its effects on normal rat brain have not been well studied. A series of experiments examined the effect of intraperitoneal inositol in high doses on locomotor activity, on amphetamine-induced hyperactivity, on apomorphine-induced stereotyped behavior, and on pilocarpine-induced behaviors in rats. In addition, the behavioral effect of i.c.v. inositol was compared to that of a control stereoisomer in untreated and lithium-treated rats. Few effects of peripheral myo-inositol were found in these models. However, peripheral inositol in high doses given to rats exhibiting Li-pilocarpine seizures showed that i.p. inositol could prevent these behaviors, confirming that peripheral inositol may have antidepressant potential in appropriate models.
Current research supporting the use of atropine for asystole is limited. Reported in the literature are the cases of 26 patients who presented with a rhythm of asystole. Of these, only eight were clearly in refractory asystole after epinephrine and sodium bicarbonate, only seven were prehospital patients, and only two were delineated as being intubated. Despite such limited data, atropine has been advocated for asystole, and use of the drug is included in the recommendations of the American Heart Association. We undertook a retrospective review of our prehospital experience with refractory asystole for a four-year period from January 1979 to December 1982. All patients with trauma or poisoning and all pediatric arrests were excluded. All patients who received calcium chloride during resuscitation also were excluded. One hundred seventy patients presented in cardiorespiratory arrest with an initial rhythm of asystole. Of these, 84 remained in refractory asystole after receiving epinephrine and sodium bicarbonate. Forty-three patients in this group received atropine. The successful resuscitation rate in the atropine group was 14% (6/43), while in the control group it was 0% (0/41) (P less than .04). A successful resuscitation was defined as conveyance of a patient with a rhythm and a pulse to an emergency department. Patients were compared for age, sex, witnessing of arrest, cardiac history, and cardiac drugs. No other significant differences were noted between groups. No patient who received atropine for refractory asystole was discharged alive.
Diethylphthalate and dimethylphthalate are used as phthalate plasticizers, in an extensive array of products. The chronic dermal toxicity of diethylphthalate was evaluated in male and female F344/N rats and B6C3F1 mice in 2-year studies. In a series of special studies, the tumor initiation or promotion potential of diethylphthalate or dimethylphthalate was evaluated in male Swiss (CD-1(R)) mice by an initiation/promotion model of skin carcinogenesis. The genetic toxicity of diethylphthalate and dimethylphthalate in Salmonella typhimurium and cultured Chinese hamster ovary cells was also evaluated. 4-WEEK STUDY IN F344/N RATS: Groups of 10 male and 10 female rats were dermally administered diethylphthalate at volumes of 0, 37.5, 75, 150, or 300 &mgr;L (0, 46, 92, 184, or 369 &mgr;g) applied neat, 5 days per week for 4 weeks. All male and female rats survived to the end of the study. No evidence of dermatotoxicity was observed, with no adverse clinical signs observed and no effects on weight gain or feed consumption. Relative liver weights of 300 &mgr;L males and females and 150 &mgr;L females were greater than those of controls. Relative kidney weights of 150 and 300 &mgr;L males and 150 &mgr;L females were greater than those of controls. No other adverse effects were observed in this study. 4-WEEK STUDY IN B6C3F1 MICE: Groups of 10 male and 10 female mice were dermally administered diethylphthalate at volumes of 0, 12.5, 25, 50, or 100 &mgr;L (0, 15, 31, 62, or 123 &mgr;) applied neat, five days per week for 4 weeks. One control female died before the end of the study; all other mice survived. No evidence of dermatotoxicity or other adverse clinical signs were observed, and no clear adverse effects on weight gain or feed consumption were seen. Absolute and relative liver weights of 25 and 100 &mgr;L females were greater than those of the controls. Based on these 4-week study results, doses of 0, 35, and 100 &mgr;L diethylphthalate were recommended for the 2-year mouse studies. A chronic study in male and female B6C3F1 mice at 0, 35, and 100 &mgr;L (applied neat, once per day, 5 days per week) was started and subsequently stopped after 32 weeks when significant body weight reductions were noted in treated animals (males and females, 100 &mgr;L groups: 19% lower; males, 35 &mgr;L group: 12% lower; females, 35 &mgr;L group: 10% lower than controls). Based on these body weight reductions, doses of 0, 7.5, 15, and 30 &mgr;L in 100 &mgr;L acetone were recommended for the restart of the 2-year mouse study. 2-YEAR STUDY IN F344/N RATS: Based upon the results of the 4-week study, doses of 0, 100, or 300 &mgr;L diethylphthalate (0, 123, or 369 &mgr;) were chosen for the 2-year rat study. Groups of 60 male and 60 female rats received the doses applied neat 5 days per week for 103 weeks and up to 10 animals per group were evaluated after 15 months. Survival, Body Weights, and Clinical Findings: Survival of dosed rats during the first 15 months was similar to that of controls. However, 2-year survival was significantly reduced in all groups of male rats (survival probabilities, males: 0 &mgr;L, 8%; 100 &mgr;L, 12%; and 300 &mgr;L, 12%). The mean body weights of 300 &mgr;L males were slightly less than those of the controls throughout the study. No adverse clinical signs were observed, including no evidence of dermatotoxicity. Pathology Findings: No morphological evidence of dermal or systemic toxicity was observed in male or female rats. Skin neoplasms were not observed in female rats and were only rarely observed in male rats. A high incidence of anterior pituitary adenoma occurred in all groups of male and female rats. The incidence of anterior pituitary adenomas in the 0, 100, and 300 &mgr;L groups were: males, 39/44, 41/49, 41/49; females, 38/50, 33/49, 33/48. The incidence of this benign tumor in control males (84%) exceeded the historical control mean incidence [feed controls, (28.7%)] and range (12% to 60%). Anterior pituitary adenomas were considered a primary contributing factor in the increased mortality observed in all grtor in the increased mortality observed in all groups, regardless of treatment. A dose-related decreasing trend in the incidence of mammary gland fibroadenomas was observed in female rats (21/50, 12/48, 7/50). The incidence of mononuclear cell leukemia in male rats in this study was lower than the historical incidence and may be attributable to the shortened life span of male rats. Similarly, the incidence of interstitial cell tumors of the testes was markedly decreased in all groups of males (4/50, 3/50, 8/50), relative to historical control rates (90.1&percnt;; range 74&percnt;-98&percnt;). The incidence of fatty liver degeneration was notably lower in dosed rats than in controls (males: 26/50, 8/50, 4/51; females: 23/50, 11/50, 3/50). 2-YEAR STUDY IN B6C3F1 MICE: Groups of 60 male and 60 female mice received doses of 0, 7.5, 15, or 30 &mu;L diethylphthalate (0, 9, 18, or 37 &mu;) in 100 &mu;L acetone 5 days per week for 103 weeks with a 1 week recovery period, and up to 10 animals per group were evaluated after 15 months. Survival, Body Weights, and Clinical Findings: Two-year survival of dosed mice was similar to that of controls: 43/50, 41/48, 46/50, and 43/50 (males), and 41/50, 38/51, 37/49, and 36/49 (females). Mean body weights of dosed male and female mice were similar to those of the controls throughout the study. No adverse clinical signs were observed in mice, including no gross evidence of dermatotoxicity. Feed consumption by male and female mice was similar to or up to 13% greater than that by controls. Pathology Findings: No morphological evidence of dermal toxicity was observed in male or female mice. No skin neoplasms were observed in dosed male mice. In female mice receiving 30 &mu;L, one squamous cell carcinoma and one basal cell carcinoma were seen at the site of application. An increased incidence of liver neoplasms was observed in dosed male and female mice. The incidence of hepatocellular adenoma or carcinoma (combined) in B6C3F1 mice in the 0, 7.5, 15, and 30 &mu;L groups were: (males) 9/50, 14/50, 14/50, and 18/50; (females) 7/50, 16/51, 19/50, and 12/50. The incidence of adenoma or carcinoma (combined) was increased in 30 &mu;L male mice and the incidences of adenoma and of adenoma or carcinoma (combined) were increased in 7.5 and 15 &mu;L females. A positive dose-related trend in the incidence of adenoma or carcinoma (combined) was also observed in male mice. The incidence of basophilic hepatic foci was increased in 15 &mu;L male mice (0/50, 1/50, 9/50, 3/50). The increased incidence of liver neoplasms in this study was considered equivocal because the incidence of hepatocellular neoplasms in control and dosed males was within the historical range and because there was no clear dose-response relationship in females. No other treatment-related findings were observed in this study. 1-YEAR INITIATION/PROMOTION STUDY IN MALE SWISS (CD-1&reg;) MICE: Groups of 50 male mice were dosed dermally with diethylphthalate or dimethylphthalate to study their effect as initiators and promoters. Diethylphthalate and dimethylphthalate were tested as initiators with and without the known skin tumor promoter 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA). Diethyl phthalate and dimethylphthalate were tested as promoters with and without the known skin tumor initiator 7,12-dimethylbenzanthrancene (DMBA). Comparative control groups used during the study of diethylphthalate and dimethylphthalate included: vehicle control (acetone/acetone); initiation/promotion control (DMBA/TPA); initiator control (DMBA/acetone); and promoter control (acetone/TPA). Based on the incidence of skin neoplasms diagnosed histologically and the multiplicity of skin neoplasms, there was no suggestion that either diethylphthalate or dimethylphthalate was able to initiate skin carcinogenesis when chronically promoted by TPA. Further, there was no evidence that either diethylphthalate or dimethylphthalate was able to promote skin carcinogenesis in skin previously initiated with DMBA. High incidences of both squamous cell papillomas and squamous cell carcinomas occurred among the initiation/promotion control animals initiated with DMBA and promoted with TPA. All TPA-dosed groups had significantly greater incidences of dermal acanthosis, ulceration, exudation, and hyperkeratosis than controls. GENETIC TOXICOLOGY: Neither diethylphthalate (10-10,000 &mu;/plate) nor dimethylphthalate (33-6,666 &mu;/plate) induced gene mutations in Salmonella typhimurium strains TA98, TA100, TA1535, or TA1537, with or without rat and hamster liver S9. In cultured Chinese hamster ovary cells, both diethylphthalate and dimethylphthalate induced sister chromatid exchanges in the presence of S9. Neither induced sister chromatid exchanges in the absence of S9. Neither chemical induced chromosomal aberrations, with or without S9, in cultured Chinese hamster ovary cells. CONCLUSIONS: Under the conditions of these 2-year dermal studies, there was no evidence of carcinogenic activity of diethylphthalate in male or female F344/N rats receiving 100 or 300 &mu;L. The sensitivity of the male rat study was reduced due to low survival in all groups. There was equivocal evidence of carcinogenic activity of diethylphthalate in male and female B6C3F1 mice based on increased incidences of hepatocellular neoplasms, primarily adenomas. In an initiation/promotion model of skin carcinogenesis, there was no evidence of initiating activity of diethylphthalate or dimethylphthalate in male Swiss (CD-1&reg;) mice. Further, there was no evidence of promotion activity of diethylphthalate or dimethylphthalate in male Swiss (CD-1&reg;) mice. The promoting activity of TPA following DMBA initiation was confirmed in these studies. Minor dermal acanthosis was observed following dermal application of diethylphthalate in male and female F344/N rats dosed for 2 years and in male Swiss (CD-1&reg;) mice dosed for 1 year. Synonyms: Diethylphthalate (CAS No. 84-66-2): 1,2-benzenedicarboxylic acid, diethyl ester; DEP; diethyl 1,2-benzenedicarboxylate; diethyl o-phthalate; diethyl phthalate; ethyl phthalate; o-benzenedicarboxylic acid diethyl ester; phthalic acid, diethyl ester; RCRA U088 Dimethylphthalate (CAS No. 131-11-3): 1,2-benzenedicarboxylic acid, dimethyl ester; dimethyl 1,2-benzenedicarboxylate; dimethyl benzene-o-dicarboxylate; dimethyl benzeneorthodicarboxylate; dimethyl o-phthalate; dimethyl phthalate; DMP; FIFRA 028002; methyl phthalate; go-dimethyl phthalate; phthalic acid, dimethyl ester; phthalic acid methyl ester; RCRA U102
Marked progress has been made over the past 15 years in defining the specific biochemical defects and underlying molecular mechanisms of oxidative phosphorylation disorders, but limited information is currently available on the development and evaluation of effective treatment approaches. Metabolic therapies that have been reported to produce a positive effect include coenzyme Q(10) (ubiquinone), other antioxidants such as ascorbic acid and vitamin E, riboflavin, thiamine, niacin, vitamin K (phylloquinone and menadione), and carnitine. The goal of these therapies is to increase mitochondrial ATP production, and to slow or arrest the progression of clinical symptoms. In the present study, we demonstrate for the first time that there is a significant increase in ATP synthetic capacity in lymphocytes from patients undergoing cofactor treatment. We also examined in vitro cofactor supplementation in control lymphocytes in order to determine the effect of the individual components of the cofactor treatment on ATP synthesis. A dose-dependent increase in ATP synthesis with CoQ(10) incubation was demonstrated, which supports the proposal that CoQ(10) may have a beneficial effect in the treatment of oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) disorders.
A patient with congestive heart failure and pneumonia was begun on a nitroprusside infusion for cardiac afterload reduction. Urine output declined sharply and azotemia ensued despite little change in arterial pressure. Further evaluation supported a prerenal mechanism with dramatic recovery related to tapering and discontinuation of the nitroprusside. The mechanism of renal deterioration is possibly related to a 'steal' syndrome due to preferential dilation of vascular beds other than the renal.
The functional role of central catecholamines in regulation of ACTH secretion remains controversial. In the present report, the nature of catecholaminergic influences was directly assessed by measurement of hypophysial-portal plasma immunoreactive CRF (irCRF) levels after activation of endogenous aminergic pathways by electrical stimulation or administration of norepinephrine (NE). Electrical stimulation of the ventral noradrenergic ascending bundle, a fiber system primarily carrying catecholaminergic fibers arising from brainstem regions, resulted in a 2.9-fold elevation of portal irCRF levels. Pretreatment with the alpha 1-adrenergic receptor antagonist coryanthine, but not the beta-adrenergic antagonist propranolol, blocked the facilitatory effect of electrical stimulation and reduced prestimulation irCRF levels by 34.7 +/- 4.2% (P less than 0.05). Intracerebroventricular administration of 0.1-5.0 nmol NE resulted in a dose-dependent facilitation of portal plasma irCRF levels which could be blocked by pretreatment with coryanthine. Alternatively, administration of greater than or equal to 5 nmol NE caused a dose-dependent inhibition of irCRF release which could be prevented by pretreatment with propranolol. Finally, irCRF secretion evoked by nitroprusside-induced hypotension was also blocked by pretreatment with coryanthine, but not propranolol. These observations provide strong evidence in favor of a predominantly stimulatory action of NE (and possibly epinephrine) at the hypothalamic level to evoke secretion of CRF and thus to activate the pituitary-adrenal axis.
Endocrine pancreatic tumors (EPTs) are uncommon tumors, representing 1-2% of all pancreatic neoplasms. They are categorized on the basis of their clinical features into functioning and non-functioning tumors. EPTs may be part of the multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN 1), an autosomal dominant syndrome due to inactivating germline mutation of the menin gene. Somatic mutations of menin are present in about 20% of sporadic neoplasms, particularly gastrinomas and insulinomas. 30-75% of patients with MEN1 have EPTs. The most prevalent are the gastrinomas (20-60%), then the insulinomas (5-10%), the glucagonamas and VIPomas (6-10%), whereas the nonfunctioning EPTs are present in 20-40% of patients. The most important biochemical screening marker for EPTs is chromogranin A, as it increases in 50-80% of patients. The most important negative prognostic factors are the presence of metastases, the gross invasion of adjacent organs, the angioinvasion, the perineural invasion and an immunopositivity for Ki-67 > 2%. Among the different imaging techniques, echoendoscopy, computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are indicated for the detection of the primary tumor, but (III)In-octreotide scintigraphy has the highest sensitivity for detecting metastases. The choice of treatment is still debated and is different when the tumor occurs as a part of the MEN syndrome. The surgical treatment is the first choice for insulinomas and is more controversial for gastrinomas. The medical treatment includes somatostatin analogues (SA), chemotherapy and interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha). SA seem to improve the symptoms and have an antiproliferative effect, the most striking effect being seen in patients with VIPomas. Chemotherapy, which is generally proposed as a combination of streptozotocin (STZ) and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) or doxorubicin, is indicated when the tumors tend to grow. Interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) stimulates the immune system, blocks the tumor cells in the G1/S-phase of the cell cycle, inhibits protein and hormone synthesis and inhibits angionenesis. Treatment with IFN has been shown to produce symptomatic response in 40-60% of patients, a biochemical response in 30-60% and tumor shrinkage in 10-15%.
The transcriptional cofactor FHL2 interacts with a broad variety of transcription factors and its expression is often deregulated in various types of cancer. Here we analyzed for the first time the molecular function of FHL2 in breast cancer. FHL2 is overexpressed in almost all human mammary carcinoma samples tested but not in normal breast tissues and only low levels of FHL2 expression were present in four premalignant ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS). Cell cycle analysis revealed an upregulation of endogenous FHL2 towards G2/M in MDA-MB 231 cells and an accelerated G2/M transition when FHL2 expression was suppressed in these cells. In search for G2/M specific target genes regulated by FHL2, we found that expression of the cell cycle inhibitor p21Cip1/Waf1 (hereafter p21) is dependent on FHL2 in MDA-MB 231 breast cancer cells. Downregulation of FHL2 by shRNA abrogated the cell cycle dependent upregulation of p21 as well as the induction of p21 in response to treatment with the DNA damaging agent doxorubicin. FHL2-dependent p21 expression occurs in a p53-independent manner and p21 expression can be downregulated by specific inhibition of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), implicating an involvement of MAPK signaling in this regulation. Analysis of FHL2 contribution to the MAPK signaling identified FHL2 as an important downstream effector of MAPKs in breast cancer cells, capable of transactivating endogenous AP1 target genes as well as AP1 dependent reporter genes. Finally, downregulation of FHL2 reduces the ability of MDA-MB 231 cells to form colonies in soft agar, while FHL2 overexpression enhances colony formation of breast cancer cells. Thus, our findings indicate that overexpression of the transcriptional cofactor FHL2 contributes to breast cancer development by mediating transcriptional activation of MAPK target genes known to be involved in cancer progression, such as p21.
Substitution treatment of opioid-dependent addicts was introduced in Norway in 1998. During the last 10 years, approximately 150 infants have been born to mothers taking part in this programme.
10 mothers, who took part in the substitution treatment programme, gave birth to 15 infants at Haukeland University Hospital in the period 1999-2005. The infants were observed and monitored at the Department of Pediatrics, Haukeland University Hospital.
During pregnancy, six of the infants were only exposed to opiates, i.e methadone or buprenorphine. Eight infants were also exposed to heroine, benzodiazepines or cannabis. As a group, these infants had lower birth weight than the national average. 14 of the 15 children developed neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS), 10 needed treatment and two children died from sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). Long-term follow-up showed that six of 13 children had normal psychomotor development, five had various degrees of delayed psychomotor development and two children had symptoms indicating a hyperkinetic disorder. Five children were in foster care.
Infants of women included in substitution treatment programmes for drug addicts are at high risk compared to infants of women without such addiction. For the newborn, NAS was a frequent complication. The study also showed that symptoms of hyperkinetic disorder and delayed psychomotor development were common. Children who had been exposed to opiates in combination with additional drugs seemed to have a high risk of delayed development and behaviour disorders. As they get older many were placed in foster care, despite well-coordinated, multidisciplinary treatment for the mother.
Little is known about the potential toxicity of polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) on hepatic and renal tissues. In this study, we investigated the modifications in endogenous antioxidant capacity and oxidative damage in liver and kidney of rats by exposure to one of the most persistent PBDE congeners, the 2,2',4,4',5-pentabromodiphenyl ether (BDE-99). Adult male rats (10 per group) received BDE-99 by gavage at a single dose of 0, 0.6, and 1.2mg/kg body weight. Forty-five days after exposure, liver and kidney were removed and processed to examine the following oxidative stress (OS) markers: reduced glutathione (GSH), oxidized glutathione (GSSG), glutathione reductase (GR), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione-S-transferase (GST), superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), and thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS). In liver, BDE-99 significantly increased SOD activity, GSSG levels, and GSSG/GSH ratio, while GSH levels decreased. Moreover, CAT activity was only reduced at the highest BDE-99 dose. In kidney, CAT activity was significantly decreased, while GSSG/GSH ratio significantly increased following BDE-99 exposure at 1.2mg/kg body weight. Histological examination of tissues showed phagolysosomes in the kidneys of BDE-99-exposed rats. The results of this investigation suggest that acute oral BDE-99 exposure causes renal and liver impairment, being oxidative damage a potential mechanism for nephrotoxicity and hepatotoxicity.
Triptolide, a major active component of Tripterygium wilfordii Hook F (TWHF), has multiple pharmacological activities. However, its clinical use is often limited by its severe toxicity. In the present study, we evaluated the oral toxicity of triptolide in Sprague-Dawley rats for 28 days at the dosages of 0, 200 and 400microg/kg/day, respectively. Significant difference in the toxicity of triptolide at 400microg/kg was found between different sexes. The triptolide-treated female rats showed many abnormalities, including anorexia, diarrhea, leanness, suppression of weight gain and food intake, fatty liver, splenomegaly and atrophy of ovaries. In contrast, no such abnormalities were observed in male rats except for the significant reproductive toxicity. Furthermore, the metabolism of triptolide in liver microsomes from both sexes was investigated by HPLC. A greater rate of triptolide metabolism was observed in male rat hepatic microsomes, suggesting that one of the cytochrome P450s (CYPs) responsible for triptolide metabolism is male-specific or predominant at least. The inhibition experiments with CYP inhibitors showed that CYP3A and CYP2B were mainly involved in the metabolism of triptolide. In addition, since CYP3A2 is a male-predominant form in rats, significant sex difference in the metabolism of triptolide disappeared in vitro after anti-rat CYP3A2 antibody pretreatment. Results suggested that CYP3A2 made an important contribution to the sex-related metabolism of triptolide, which may result in the sex differences in triptolide toxicity.
In dogs anaesthetized with chloralose ectopic atrial arrhythmias were produced by subepicardial injection of ouabain. Stimulation of the right carotid sinus abruptly suppressed the ectopic arrhythmias. They returned on cessation of stimulation and sometimes already during the period of stimulation. It is suggested that in view of its response to carotid sinus stimulation the ouabain-induced arrhythmia resembles paroxysmal atrial tachycardia and that it is distinct from the aconitine-induced arrhythmia which on account of its response to vagal stimulation has been classified as atrial flutter.
The transobturator tape procedure is a popular minimally invasive procedure to treat stress urinary incontinence. A 42-year-old woman with stress urinary incontinence underwent a transobturator sling under intravenous sedation and local injection with a mixture of 0.5% bupivicaine and 1% lidocaine with 1:200,000 epinephrine. After surgery, she had difficulty with adduction of the left leg, consistent with a left obturator neuropathy, which improved after approximately 12 h and completely resolved by the next day. Although the transobturator tape is an effective, minimally invasive procedure that may be performed on an outpatient basis, caution should be used in the dosage, type, and amount of local anesthesia used. Post-operative obturator paralysis can be expectantly managed as the symptoms should resolve after the local anesthesia wears off.
The Aim of this study was to investigate maternal and neonatal factors associated with serum creatinine (SeCr) changes in a representative cohort of preterm newborns during their first week of life.
Retrospective study. All the infants born less than 32 weeks of gestational age (GA) and cared for in our neonatal intensive care unit between January 2001 and December 2005 were eligible for the analysis. Epidemiological data of all mother-infant pairs and neonatal SeCr values were recorded.
A total of 652 infants were studied. Multivariate regression analysis showed that the main independent factors associated with high SeCr at day 1 were hypertensive disease of pregnancy (P<0.0001) and advancing hour of life (P<0.0001), with minimal contribution of placental abruption (P<0.05) and higher GA (P<0.05). Lower GA (P<0.0001) and ibuprofen-treated patent ductus arteriosus (PDA; P<0.0001) were the main analyzed factors independently associated with higher SeCr peak (defined as the highest SeCr during the week), with less contribution of respiratory distress syndrome (P<0.01) and early onset infection (P<0.05). In infants with hemodynamically significant PDA (hsPDA) SeCr before ibuprofen administration was higher when compared to GA-matched controls without hsPDA (P< 0.0001).
SeCr peak was inversely correlated to GA in preterm infants born less than 32 weeks of GA. Neonatal rather than maternal morbidity affected SeCr peak. In hsPDA, SeCr increase preceded ibuprofen administration.
The incidence of adefovir dipivoxil (ADV) resistance in patients with lamivudine (3TC)-resistant mutants who received ADV therapy remains unclear. The aims of this study were to determine the virological response to ADV, the incidence and the risk factors of ADV resistance, and the associated factors of initial virological response (IVR) in lamivudine-resistant patients.
Forty-six consecutive lamivudine-resistant chronic hepatitis B patients treated with ADV for more than 12 months with or without 3TC overlapping were prospectively examined for virological response and adefovir resistance.
IVR was documented in 24 (52.2%) of patients. Of the 46 patients, 11 had ADV resistance (5 rtN236T, 5 rtA181T, 1 rtA181T and rtN236T). The cumulative incidence of ADV resistance at month 6, 12, 18 and 24 was 0%, 6.5%, 24.6% and 38.3% respectively. Compared with those without ADV resistance, patients with ADV resistance had a significantly higher rate of liver cirrhosis. Based on Cox regression analysis, the significant risk factor of ADV resistance was younger age (OR=0.92, 95% CI=0.86-0.99, P=0.023) and liver cirrhosis (OR=5.3, 95% CI=1.12-25.09, P=0.036). In addition, patients with ADV resistance were associated with higher HBV DNA levels and lower HBV DNA reduction in first 6 months of ADV treatment than those without ADV resistance.
Only half of our patients achieved IVR on ADV treatment. The incidence of ADV resistance was high in 3TC-resistant patients treated with ADV.
Breathing difficulty, agitation, and confusion developed in a 55-year-old male, ASA classification group III with a non-small-cell lung cancer 10 min after interscalene supplementation of insufficient axillary block with 3 mL of 2% mepivacaine with adrenaline 5 microg mL(-1). After administration of thiopentone and suxamethonium the patient's trachea was intubated and the lungs were ventilated with oxygen-enriched air. The block was successful and surgery was conducted as scheduled. Radiographic monitoring of the lungs at the end of operation showed ipsilateral elevation of the diaphragm with reduced respiratory excursions. Postoperatively, the patient was somnolent and hypercapnic, but maintained satisfactory oxygenation while breathing spontaneously and was extubated. Both the temporal relationship of events and the regression of all symptoms within three hours suggest that 3 mL of mepivacaine with adrenaline injected into the interscalene space blocked the phrenic nerve and compromised diaphragmatic function, which precipitated the respiratory failure.
Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency protects from severe forms of malaria. It is interesting therefore to analyze the molecular basis underlying G6PD deficiency in regions such as the Mediterranean basin where malaria was present for a long time in history. Here we report on the genetic characterization of G6PD deficiency among inhabitants of one Mediterranean region-the Dalmatian region of south Croatia. We analyzed 24 unrelated G6PD-deficient male subjects. Molecular testing revealed several different mutations: G6PD Cosenza 9, G6PD Mediterranean 4, G6PD Seattle 3, G6PD Union 3, and G6PD Cassano 1. Furthermore, we have identified one novel G6PD variant that we named G6PD Split. This variant is caused by a nucleotide change 1442 C-->G leading to the amino acid substitution 481 Pro-->Arg and is characterized by moderate enzyme deficiency (class III variant). This study reveals a higher prevalence (37.5%) of the Cosenza mutation in the Dalmatian region than anywhere else previously investigated and overall shows the considerable molecular heterogeneity underlining G6PD deficiency that can be observed in Mediterranean populations.
Experimental evidence suggests that anthracyclines, widely used in cancer chemotherapy, may impair kidney function. We assessed kidney function by serum creatinine, urinary N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase activity indices (NAGi) and microalbuminuria (MA) in 160 serum and urine samples obtained from 66 children with cancer. The effect of dexrazoxane was analyzed in 6 children on dexrazoxane supportive therapy in conjunction with daunorubicin (DNR) treatment, as compared with 6 children not receiving this agent. NAGi was significantly (p<0.05) elevated after treatment by DNR, doxorubicin, epirubicin (EPI) and idarubicin (IDA). MA proved to be a less sensitive indicator of kidney damage than NAGi. DNR resulted in a progressive deterioration of proximal tubular function as determined by linear regression analysis. The mean NAGi in the dexrazoxanetreated group was significantly (p<0.005) lower than in children not receiving dexrazoxane prior to DNR treatment. In conclusion, our study demonstrated that DNR, EPI and IDA induced an acute renal tubular damage similar to known tubulotoxic agents as cisplatin, carboplatin, cyclophosphamide and ifosfamide. The damage was clinically mild and only a minor proportion of patients can be expected to develop long-lasting tubulopathy with negative impact on the quality of life.
Organophosphate-induced delayed neuropathy (OPIDN) is a progressive neuropathic disorder that manifests in days to weeks following exposure to an acute dose of organophosphates. The precise mechanism involved in the development of OPIDN is not clear as it develops after many days of the cessation of cholinergic crisis. The present study has been designed to understand the role of oxidative stress in the development of OPIDN, wherein neuropathy was developed by the administration of acute dose of monocrotophos (MCP) or dichlorvos (2,2-dichlorovinyl dimethyl phosphate (DDVP)) to rats. Significant motor deficits in terms of reduced spontaneous locomotor activity and performance on narrow beam test were observed after 14 days of exposure to MCP or DDVP, which persisted even on day 28, suggesting the development of OPIDN. Rats with OPIDN also exhibited an increase in malondialdehyde levels along with a decrease in thiol content in cerebral cortex, cerebellum and brain stem. Concomitantly, the activities of antioxidant enzymes, superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase and glutathione reductase were reduced in the three brain regions. The biochemical and functional changes were associated with histological alterations in the brain regions studied. The results clearly indicate that the development of OPIDN is mediated in part through an increased oxidative stress and suggest that the strategies aimed at restoration of antioxidant capacity may be beneficial for the individuals with OPIDN-like symptoms.
The pyridinium bisretinoid A2E, an autofluorescent pigment that accumulates in retinal pigment epithelial cells with age and in some retinal disorders, can mediate a detergent-like perturbation of cell membranes and light-induced damage to the cell. The photodynamic events initiated by the sensitization of A2E include the generation of singlet oxygen and the oxidation of A2E at carbon-carbon double bonds. To assess the ability of plant-derived anthocyanins to modulate adverse effects of A2E accumulation on retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) cells, these flavylium salts were isolated from extracts of bilberry. Nine anthocyanin fractions reflecting monoglycosides of delphinidin, cyanidin, petunidin and malvidin were obtained and all were shown to suppress the photooxidation of A2E at least in part by quenching singlet oxygen. The anthocyanins tested exhibited antioxidant activity of variable efficiency. The structural characteristics relevant to this variability likely included the ability to form a stable quinonoidal anhydro base at neutral pH, a conjugated diene structure in the C (pyrane) ring, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the B (benzene) ring and the relative hydrophobicity conferred by the arrangement of substituents on the B ring. Cells that had taken up anthocyanins also exhibited a resistance to the membrane permeabilization that occurs as a result of the detergent-like action of A2E.
