Delirium Tremens is quite rare in children and it is usually caused by withdrawal or abstinence from alcohol, barbiturates and other major tranquilizers. The usual symptoms of Delirium Tremens include severe altered mental status with confusion, delusions, hallucinations, and severe agitation. Although psychosis is a recognized manifestation of Phenytoin toxicity, visual hallucinations are not. This study reports the case of a 4-year-old male with febrile seizures plus syndrome who developed acute complex visual hallucinations and psychomotor agitation early after therapy with intravenous Phenytoin was administered. These visual hallucinations mimicked those linked to Delirium Tremens and were not associated with an encephalopathy or other known neuropsychiatric side effects of this drug. Moreover, the hallucinations occurred while serum Phenytoin concentrations were below therapeutic range. We made an extensive investigation in order to exclude a non-convulsive Status Epilepticus, a Central Nervous System infection, a metabolic disorder, an underlying psychiatric disease and a possible drug toxicity. The temporal relationship between initiation of Phenytoin and onset of visual hallucinations and resolution of symptoms with withdrawal of Phenytoin suggests that the visual disturbances were probably due to that antiepileptic drug.
Behçet's disease is a chronic inflammatory disorder characterized by the triad of oral and genital ulcers and ocular lesions. One of the most life-threatening manifestations results from involvement of the central nervous system, presenting as necrotising meningo-encephalitis, most typically affecting the brain stem, internal capsula and basal brain ganglia. We report on a young Caucasian mate with Behçet's disease (HLA B 51+) and recurrent uveitis, who presented with acute neurologic involvement under CyA therapy 5 years after first diagnosis. At the time of admission MRI showed two high intensity lesions in the brain stem on T1 weighted images enhanced with Gd-DTPA, reflecting active inflammation. Shortly after admission the CyA treatment was stopped and a therapy with high dose steroids and chlorambucil, starting with a dose of 2 mg daily was initiated. This led to improvement of neurologic symptoms, also documented by brain stem evoked potentials and investigations of cerebrospinal fluid, as well as of ophtalmologic symptoms within few days of treatment. Steroids were reduced to a maintenance dose of 12 mg Prednyliden daily. The brain MRI taken 8 weeks after onset of chlorambucil treatment showed the same lesions in the brain stem, with low intensity in the T1 weighted images an no longer enhanced Gd-DTPA uptake. Chlorambucil dose was reduced to 2 mg every second day after 8 months. There was no exacerbation in the follow-up of 12 months. We conclude that a 6-week Chlorambucil therapy consisting of 2 mg/p.o./d led to remission of neurologic involvement firstly evolving under CyA-medication which suggests superiority of chlorambucil as a treatment modality in neurologic as well as ophtalmologic features of the disease.
We investigated hypothalamic neuronal corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) gene expression changes in response to visceral inflammation induced by 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNB) and acute stress. Seven days after TNB, rats were subjected to water-avoidance stress (WAS) or restraint for 30 min and euthanized. Hypothalamic CRF primary transcripts (heteronuclear RNA, hnRNA) and CRF and arginine vasopressin (AVP) mRNAs were assessed by in situ hybridization. Antisense (35)S-labeled cRNA probes against CRF mRNA intronic and exonic sequences and an oligonucleotide probe against the AVP mRNA were used. TNB induced macroscopic lesions and a fivefold elevation in myeloperoxidase activity in the colon. Colitis increased CRF hnRNA and mRNA signals in the magnocellular part of the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN) and supraoptic neurons, whereas AVP mRNA was not altered. Colitis did not modify CRF hnRNA signal in the parvocellular part of the PVN (pPVN), plasma corticosterone, and serum osmolarity levels. However, CRF hnRNA expression in the pPVN and the rise in corticosterone and defecation induced by WAS or restraint were blunted in colitic rats. These data show that colitis upregulates CRF gene synthesis in magnocellular hypothalamic neurons but dampens CRF gene transcription in the pPVN and plasma corticosterone responses to environmental acute stressors.
The purpose of this study was to examine alterations in lipid profiles and in the serum concentrations of acylated and desacylated ghrelin, paraoxonase and arylesterase in psychiatric patients before and after treatment with 40 mg citalopram daily for 3 months.
Samples were collected from 22 healthy controls and 24 psychiatric patients before and after citalopram treatment. Blood levels of acylated and desacylated ghrelin were measured by radioimmunoassay. Paraoxonase and arylesterase activities were determined spectrophotometrically. Lipid parameters were measured on the OLYMPUS-AU400.
It was found that the levels of acylated, desacylated ghrelin, paraoxonase arylesterase, total cholesterol and triglyceride were lower in depressive patients before citalopram treatment than in the control group. Those parameters were not restored after citalopram treatment except for the arylesterase level.
Decreased PON1 and ghrelin levels as well as fluctuations in lipid profiles may be involved in the etiology of depressive disorders.
Ischemic colitis is a clinicopathologic condition that commonly occurs in elderly patients with atherosclerotic disease or diabetes mellitus. Uncommon etiologies include vasculitis and use of drugs such as oral contraceptives, phenobarbital, nasal decongestants, dextroamphetamine, and cocaine. Recent studies have shown sonography and CT to be helpful in the evaluation of the colitides. We report the sonographic and CT findings in an unusual case of methamphetamine-induced ischemic colitis. Sonography and CT revealed diffuse thickening of the large bowel wall. Methamphetamine abuse should be considered in the differential diagnosis of the colitides, particularly in the setting of a young patient with a history of drug use and no other predisposing conditions.
The effects of selected modulators of GABAergic transmission, either alone or in combination, were tested for their potency on the seizure pattern and mortality induced by convulsant drugs in rat. Pentobarbital and diazepam were effective against both tonic and clonic seizure components induced by bicuculline and picrotoxin. The anticonvulsant profile of ethanol closely resembled that of pentobarbital. Pentobarbital, diazepam and ethanol did not modify seizures induced by strychnine. In contrast, progabide, a central gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptor agonist, caused significant protection only against convulsions induced by strychnine and its lethality, but did not protect against seizures induced by bicuculline or picrotoxin. Data on interaction of drugs with subprotective doses of these agents clearly demonstrated potentiation of the anticonvulsant actions of these modulators. Thus, seizures induced by bicuculline were more sensitive to the inhibition by pentobarbital in combination with diazepam or ethanol, while pentobarbital with progabide was equally effective against convulsions induced by GABA antagonists. Diazepam, in combination with progabide, blocked only convulsions induced by picrotoxin. Ethanol, in combination with either pentobarbital or with diazepam, was effective against all the three convulsant drugs. These results are consistent with the concept that drugs which facilitate GABAergic transmission are effective against seizures related to an impairment of GABA transmission. Further, the present data indicate that tonic seizures are more susceptible to the actions of drugs than the clonic component. Smaller doses of these drugs, alone or in combination, modified the seizure patterns and mortality, whereas at larger doses, the possible involvement of a nonspecific depressant action cannot be ruled out.
Chromosome aberrations and sister-chromatid exchanges (SCEs) were analyzed in short-term cultures of peripheral lymphocytes of 44 workers occupationally exposed to mancozeb during the production of the pesticide Novozir Mn80 and 30 control persons. The results suggest that mancozeb exposure was associated with a significant increase in the frequencies of cells with structural chromosome aberrations (2.07% vs. 1.10% in the controls), and the number of SCEs per cell (9.19 +/- 1.81 vs. 7.82 +/- 1.04 in the controls).
Long-term use of estrogen supplements by women leads to an increased risk of breast and uterine cancers. Possible mechanisms include metabolism of estradiol and compounds related to tumor-initiating quinones, and ligand-induced activation of the estrogen receptors ERα and ERβ which can cause cancer cell proliferation, depending on the ratio of receptors present. One therapeutic goal would be to create a spectrum of compounds of variable potency for ERα and ERβ, which are resistant to quinone formation, and to determine an optimum point in this spectrum. We describe the synthesis, modeling, binding affinities, hormone potency, and a measure of quinone formation for a new family of A-CD estrogens, where the A-C bond is formed by ring coupling. Some substituents on the A-ring increase hormone potency, and one compound is much less quinone-forming than estradiol. These compounds span a wide range of receptor subtype selectivities and may be useful in hormone replacement therapy.
To determine the relationship between resistance to chemotherapy and microRNA (miRNA) expression in esophageal cancer, we focused on miRNAs known to be associated with maintenance of stem cell function.
Using 98 formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded samples obtained from patients with esophageal cancer who had received preoperative chemotherapy followed by surgery, we measured expression levels of several miRNAs that are considered to be involved in the regulation of stem cell function (e.g., let-7a, let-7g, miR-21, miR-134, miR-145, miR-155, miR-200c, miR-203, and miR-296) by real-time reverse transcriptase PCR. Then, we examined the relationship between miRNA expression and prognosis or response to chemotherapy. To investigate the mechanism of miRNA-induced chemoresistance, in vitro assays were carried out using esophageal cancer cells.
Analyses of the 9 miRNAs expression showed that overexpression of miR-200c (P = 0.037), underexpression of miR-145 (P = 0.023), and overexpression of miR-21 (P = 0.048) correlated significantly with shortened overall duration of survival. In particular, miR-200c expression correlated significantly with response to chemotherapy (P = 0.009 for clinical response; P = 0.007 for pathologic response). In vitro assay showed significantly increased miR-200c expression in cisplatin-resistant cells compared with their parent cells (∼1.7-fold). In anti-miR-200c-transfected cells, chemosensitivity to cisplatin and apoptosis after exposure to cisplatin was found to increase as compared with the negative control. Western blotting showed that knockdown of miR-200c expression was associated with increased expression of PPP2R1B, a subunit of protein phosphatase 2A, which resulted in reduced expression of phospho-Akt.
Results of this study emphasized the involvement of miR-200c in resistance to chemotherapy among esophageal cancers and that this effect was mediated through the Akt pathway.
Forty-five children with major motor or psychomotor seizure disorders were treated with carbamazepine in place of sedative anticonvulsants (phenobarbital, primidone) because of chronic behavioral difficulties. A batter of measures believed to reflect attentional and perceptual abilities was administered initially and repeated 4 to 6 months later following the drug crossover. At the conclusion of the study, 37 of the 45 children were judged to be drug "successes"; that is, general alertness and attentiveness were improved, while seizures were adequately controlled. This study indicates that therapeutic regimens of carbamazepine are less likely to interfere with mental functions in children than are equivalent doses of sedative anticonvulsants.
Epinephrine-containing lidocaine solution is commonly infiltrated on the scalp before craniotomy. But the hemodynamic changes caused by epinephrine-containing lidocaine solution have been less intensely studied. A prospective randomized double blind control study was designed to observe hemodynamic changes caused by epinephrine-containing lidocaine solution in neurosurgical operations under general anesthesia. One hundred twenty patients undergoing scheduled craniotomy were allocated randomly to 4 groups. All the patients received 1% lidocaine 16 mL with different dose (concentration) epinephrine: group 1 with 40 microg (2.5 microg/mL); group 2 with 80 microg (5 microg/mL); group 3 with 160 microg (10 microg/mL); and group 4 (control group) without epinephrine. mean arterial pressure (MAP) and heart rate were recorded at 30-second interval in 5 minutes after the beginning of local infiltration. In group 1, group 2, and group 3, the lowest MAP and the highest MAP during this period also were recorded. Bleeding was assessed after raising the craniotomy flap. Compared with the baseline, significant hemodynamic changes, particularly decrease in MAP with increase in heart rate at 1.5 minutes after the beginning of local infiltration, were observed in group 1, group 2, and group 3 (P<0.001), but not in group 4. The highest MAP increased significantly compared with the baseline in group 3 (P<0.05), but not in group 1 or group 2. Epinephrine-containing lidocaine solution reduced bleeding significantly (P<0.01). Infiltration with epinephrine-containing lidocaine solution elicits temporary but significant hemodynamic changes including hypotension before craniotomy. Commonly clinically used concentrations of epinephrine (2.5 to 10 microg/mL) can reduce the bleeding on the scalp.
This study examined the relationship between the metabolic ratios of dextromethorphan/dextrorphan, haloperidol disposition, and the incidence of extrapyramidal side effects in schizophrenic patients. Eighteen schizophrenic patients were phenotyped with a test dose of dextromethorphan prior to the initiation of haloperidol treatment. The metabolic ratio of dextromethorphan/dextrorphan was determined in each patient. Patients were treated with oral haloperidol 10 mg/day for 2 weeks. Blood samples for haloperidol and reduced haloperidol were obtained at week 2 of haloperidol treatment. Haloperidol and reduced haloperidol plasma concentrations were assayed by HPLC with electrochemical detection. Significant correlations of dextromethorphan/dextrorphan metabolic ratios vs. plasma haloperidol concentrations, reduced haloperidol concentrations, and reduced haloperidol/haloperidol ratios were found (r = 0.726, P = 0.0007; r = 0.782, P = 0.0001; and r = 0.619, P = 0.006, respectively). Ten patients who experienced extrapyramidal side effects had higher reduced haloperidol concentrations and reduced haloperidol/haloperidol ratios than the other patients (2.49 +/- 1.42 [S.D.] ng/ml vs. 1.10 +/- 0.46 ng/ml, P = 0.014 and 0.287 +/- 0.102 vs. 0.192 +/- 0.065, P = 0.030). The former also had a trend to have higher haloperidol concentrations and dextromethorphan/dextrorphan ratios than the latter (8.04 +/- 2.91 ng/ml vs. 5.83 +/- 1.79 ng/ml, P = 0.066 and 0.023 +/- 0.017 vs. 0.011 +/- 0.010, P = 0.077). Phenotyping patients has the potential to assist clinicians in predicting plasma drug concentrations during the subsequent neuroleptic drug treatment. Further research with phenotyping and psychotropic drug metabolism in psychiatric patients is needed.
A drug-induced lipidosis of the central nervous system of chickens is reported. Membranous cytoplastic neuronal inclusions similar to those seen in Tay-sach's disease in man and in spontaneous or drug-induced disease in swine were seen by electron microscopy. Fat was demonstrated in frozen sections.
In the last 30 years, methotrexate has been used for treating psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis and other inflammatory disorders. Much has been learned about its beneficial and adverse effects. Long-term use produces different effects from short-term use. This study was undertaken to study the long-term use of methotrexate in our local population. It is a retrospective study where the case reports of 72 psoriatic patients on methotrexate were analysed for its use, side effects, the monitoring of side effects and its efficacy. Our study showed that methotrexate was effective in 61 (86.0%) patients, had some side effects in 10 (14.2%) patients and was relatively safe. It also helped psoriatic arthropathy. However, adequate and close monitoring is required to prevent liver fibrosis and cirrhosis.
Lumbar sympathetic block (LSB) is used in the management of sympathetically maintained pain states. We characterized cutaneous temperature changes over the lower extremities after LSB. Additionally, we examined the effects of iohexol, a radio-opaque contrast medium, on temperature changes and pain relief. After institutional review board approval and written, informed consent, 28 LSBs were studied in 17 patients. Iohexol or normal saline was injected in a randomized, double-blinded fashion before bupivacaine. Lower extremity cutaneous temperatures were measured. Pain, allodynia, interference with daily function, and perceived pain relief were reported in a subset of 15 LSBs for 1 wk after the block. The distal lower extremity ipsilateral to the LSB had the greatest magnitude (8.7 degrees +/- 0.8 degrees C) and rate (1.1 degrees +/- 0.2 degrees C/min) of temperature change. The great toe temperature was within 3 degrees C of core temperature within 35 min after LSB. There were no differences in temperature change between the groups. The iohexol group had greater relief of pain until the morning of the first postblock day (P = 0.002) and longer perceived relief of pain (P = 0.01). The maximum temperature of the great toe correlated with allodynia relief (P = 0.0007). Thus clinicians should expect ipsilateral toe temperatures to increase to within approximately 3 degrees C of core temperature. Iohexol does not alter the efficacy of LSB and may improve relief of symptoms. The magnitude of temperature change may predict relief of allodynia.
Cutaneous toe temperatures approaching core temperature provide a useful monitor of lumbar sympathetic block and may predict relief of sympathetically maintained pain. Iohexol will not compromise temperature changes or pain relief.
Opportunistic cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection is common in severely immunocompromised HIV-positive patients. The retina is the commonest site of involvement with hemorrhages a prominent feature. CMV retinitis affects 40% of HIV positive patients who have CD4 count of less than 100 cell/mm(3), and in these circumstances clinicians are likely to consider commencing anti-CMV therapy without considering other causes. We report a man with HIV who developed bilateral retinal hemorrhages and ischemic maculopathy in association with zidovudine (AZT)-induced anemia. Retinal hemorrhages resolved following blood transfusion.
This study examined the association between prenatal exposure to cocaine and autonomic regulation at 7 months of age. Heart rate (HR) and respiratory sinus arrhythmia (RSA) were obtained from 154 (79 exposed, and 75 nonexposed) infants during baseline and tasks designed to elicit positive and negative affect. Cocaine-exposed infants had higher HR during the positive affect task. There was a significant suppression of RSA during the negative affect task for nonexposed infants but not for exposed infants. Fetal growth and maternal caregiving behavior did not mediate or moderate this association. These results provide additional support for an association between prenatal cocaine exposure and dysregulation during infancy.
Studies have demonstrated that cocaine causes coronary vasoconstriction, but this has been unassociated with myocardial ischemia. Therefore, cocaine seems unlikely to precipitate myocardial infarction in the absence of potentiating factors. We hypothesized that injury to coronary endothelium could potentiate cocaine-induced coronary vasoconstriction by decreasing EDRF. The effect of cocaine on LAD diameter was measured in dogs subjected to coronary endothelial denudation and compared with that in a non-denuded control group. Endothelial denudation was accomplished by abrasion with an inflated angioplasty balloon and confirmed in vivo by demonstrating a vasoconstrictive response to infused acetylcholine and by postmortem scanning electron microscopy. Cocaine produced a similar maximal reduction in LAD diameter in both groups. Thus, cocaine induces endothelium-independent coronary artery vasoconstriction. Failure of endothelial injury to potentiate the coronary vasoconstrictive effect by cocaine suggests that factors other than endothelial dysfunction may be important in pathogenesis of cocaine-associated myocardial infarction.
Sirolimus (rapamycin) is an immunosuppressant used in preventing allograft rejection and in drug-eluting stents to prevent restenosis after angioplasty. Zotarolimus, an analogue of sirolimus, was designed to have a shorter in vivo half-life. Zotarolimus was found to be mechanistically similar to sirolimus in having high-affinity binding to the immunophilin FKBP12 and comparable potency for inhibiting in vitro proliferation of both human and rat T cells. Rat pharmacokinetic studies with intravenous dosing demonstrated terminal elimination half-lives of 9.4 hours and 14.0 hours for zotarolimus and sirolimus, respectively. Given orally, T1/2 values were 7.9 hours and 33.4 hours, respectively. Consistent with its shorter duration, zotarolimus showed a corresponding and statistically significant 4-fold reduction in potency for systemic immunosuppression in 3 rat disease models. Pharmacokinetic studies in cynomolgus monkey underpredicted the half-life difference between zotarolimus and sirolimus apparent from recent clinical data. In vitro inhibition of human coronary artery smooth muscle cell proliferation by zotarolimus was comparable to sirolimus. Drug-eluting stents for local delivery of zotarolimus to the vessel wall of coronary arteries are in clinical development. The pharmacological profile of zotarolimus suggests it may be advantageous for preventing restenosis with a reduced potential for causing systemic immunosuppression or other side effects.
Bone metastases are associated with severe and sometimes intractable pain, compromising patient quality of life (QOL). This open-label pilot study investigated the effects of short-term intensive treatment with intravenous (i.v.) ibandronate on opioid-resistant bone pain in patients with skeletal metastases.
Eighteen patients with advanced tumors and metastatic bone disease received nonstandard treatment with 4 mg of ibandronate administered i.v. (2-hour infusion) for 4 consecutive days (16-mg total dose). Baseline opioid analgesic use was equivalent to 400 mg/d of morphine. Patients were assessed for 6 weeks or until death. Changes from baseline were determined for bone pain, opioid consumption, patient functioning, QOL, performance status, and biochemical markers of calcium metabolism and bone turnover. Renal function was assessed by serum urea and creatinine measurement.
Short-term, intensive ibandronate treatment significantly reduced bone pain scores within 7 days (P <.001). Pain reductions were sustained over the study period. Ibandronate significantly improved QOL, patient functioning, and performance status (P <.05). Mean values of the urinary cross-links pyridinoline and deoxypyridinoline tended to increase after day 21, returning close to baseline values by day 42. There was no correlation between the change in crosslinks values and the change in pain scores after ibandronate treatment. Ibandronate was well tolerated, with no evidence of renal toxicity.
Nonstandard, intensive treatment with i.v. ibandronate seems to have a marked analgesic effect in patients with opioid-resistant bone pain from metastatic bone disease. Further investigation is warranted.
Analgesic-antipyretic agents and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are the most commonly used medications worldwide for the treatment of pain and fever in children. Acute renal failure is commonly seen in adults after treatment with analgesic agents. This complication has rarely been reported in children. Here, we describe 2 patients admitted to our hospital with acute nonoliguric renal failure temporally associated with ingestion of analgesic-antipyretic drugs at therapeutic doses. The first case was a 16-year-old adolescent boy, who had taken acetaminophen (APAP) and mefenamic acid for the indication of upper respiratory tract infection with daily doses of 1500 and 500 mg, respectively. His serum urea nitrogen and creatinine values were 16 and 1.6 mg/dL. The second case was a 12-year-old boy, who had taken APAP with a daily dose of 500 mg for abdominal pain. His serum urea nitrogen and creatinine values were 21 and 2.29 mg/dL. Both of them recovered with appropriate hydration within a week. Over-the-counter analgesic-antipyretic agents seem innocent but carry the risk of acute renal failure even at therapeutic doses. We believe that increased caution and awareness of the toxic effects of APAP and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are needed. We suggest that clinicians should be careful while using analgesic-antipyretic-anti-inflammatory drugs especially in children with subclinical dehydration.
The effect of ethyl alcohol on the antiarrhythmic action of atenolol in the adrenaline-induced arrhythmia model was studied in rats non-dependent and dependent on ethanol. Atenolol administered jointly with ethanol, in a single dose or repeatedly produced a weaker antiarrhythmic effect than when it was given alone. Moreover, a rise in animal mortality was observed, in particular after atenolol administration in the period of intoxication. No significant effect of atenolol on ethanol blood concentration was found.
Recent studies have shown that tetrafluoroethylene is a renal and hepatic carcinogen in the rat. In this study, we have examined the ability of a single i.p. dose of 1,1,2,2-tetrafluoroethyl-L-cysteine (TFEC), a major metabolite of tetrafluoroethylene, to produce hepatic and renal injury in male and female rats. We have also examined the effect of blocking the renal organic anion transport system with probenecid and of inhibiting the activity of cysteine conjugate beta-lyase with aminooxyacetic acid on the extent of renal injury produced by TFEC. Doses of > or = 12.5 mg/kg TFEC produced renal tubular necrosis to the pars recta of the proximal tubules within 24 h in both male and female rats. This was associated with an increased kidney to body weight ratio and plasma urea at doses of > or = 25 mg/kg. No consistent evidence of liver injury was seen at doses up to 50 mg/kg TFEC in rats of either sex, although occasional vacuolation of hepatocytes and a small dose-related increase in liver to body weight ratio was observed. Prior treatment of female rats with probenecid completely prevented the renal injury produced by either 25 or 50 mg/kg TFEC as judged by plasma urea and histopathology. However, prior treatment of female rats with aminooxyacetic acid afforded no protection against the nephrotoxicity produced by either TFEC or the cysteine conjugate of hexachloro-1,3-butadiene. Thus no major sex difference in nephrotoxicity in the rat was seen with TFEC, while accumulation of TFEC, or its N-acetyl derived metabolite, into renal proximal tubular cells via a probenecid sensitive transport system appears to be a key event in the mechanism of nephrotoxicity. The lack of protection observed with the cysteine conjugate beta-lyase inhibitor, aminooxyacetic acid, may reflect the inability to completely inhibit the mitochondrial form of this enzyme and thereby prevent the formation of the reactive metabolite. Our acute studies provide no insight concerning the liver carcinogenicity of tetrafluoroethylene.
The use of doxorubicin (Dx) in treating malignancies is limited by a potentially fatal cardiomyopathy. Prevention of this related cardiotoxicity has been attempted either by using doxorubicin analogues such as 4'-epidoxorubicin (4'-EpiDx) or by simultaneous administration of other pharmacological substances. Fifteen patients with breast and lung cancer divided into three groups, treated respectively with Dx alone, Dx and L-carnitine and 4'-EpiDx, were studied to assess the effects of these therapeutic regimens on left ventricular performance. For this purpose the maximum velocities of fibre shortening and lengthening (VcF), obtained by computerized M-Mode echocardiography were used as indices of systolic and diastolic function respectively. Data from patients and from 25 healthy subjects were evaluated by analysis of variance and Tukey test. No significant difference was found in baseline systolic and diastolic VcF values. Significantly lower systolic VcF (p less than 0.05) was shown by patients treated with Dx alone, while diastolic VcF was significantly lower in those treated with 4'-EpiDx after four cycles. Systolic VcF of patients treated with Dx and L-carnitine and with 4'-EpiDx did not significantly differ from controls even after six therapeutic cycles. These data demonstrate that systolic VcF is not affected by 4'-EpiDx or by Dx when administrated with L-carnitine. The reduction of diastolic VcF by 4'-EpiDx and not by Dx could be due to different effects of these drugs on the calcium transport since early isovolumic relaxation depends on an energy-dependent process of calcium removal.
The antiarrhythmic activity of amiodarone was studied in the model of adrenaline-induced arrhythmia in rats non-dependent and dependent on ethanol. After single or repeated joint administration of ethanol and amiodarone the antiarrhythmic effect of amiodarone was attenuated. No significant differences in the activity of amiodarone were observed when the drug was administered in the period of abstinence.
