We report a family with autosomal dominant type hereditary juvenile dystonia-parkinsonism in which eight members in three generations exhibited parkinsonism, sleep benefit, marked efficacy of levodopa, wearing-off phenomenon, and dopa-induced choreic dyskinesia. However, one case showed mainly dystonic movement that worsened after administration of levodopa. The patients in this family showed neck dystonia, such as torticollis and retrocollis, in addition to foot dystonia and other dystonic movement, such as frequently lifting the thigh. From the family history and clinical findings, these patients are considered to have a specific form of hereditary dystonia-parkinsonism.
A case is reported of a prolactin-secreting pituitary adenoma in a young woman who had been referred for evaluation of amenorrhea with a history of in utero exposure to diethylstilbestrol. Following prolactin suppression ans stimulation tests bromocriptine (Parlodel), 2.5 mg orally, twice a day was prescribed. Followup at 1, 2, and 3 years after diagnosis with the use of sector scans of the sella turcica showed a decrease in size of the tumor from 12 x 12 mm in 1980 to 9 x 6 in 1982, over 50% reduction. Serum prolactin level measured 3 months after initiation of treatment was reduced by about 2/3 to 124 ng/ml. The direct role of estrogen in pituitary tumorigenesis in animals has been suggested both by the demonstration of estrogen receptors in the cytosol of estrogen-induced prolactinomas and growth inhibition of a transplantable estrogen-induced prolactin-secreting pituitary tumor by the administration of tamoxifen. In this case bromocriptine, a dopaminergic agonist, was successful in reducing both serum prolactin levels and tumor size.
To study an autopsy case of troglitazone-induced fulminant hepatitis.
A 58-year-old man contracted severe hepatitis 2 months after administration of troglitazone for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. Liver damage progressed gradually, even after withdrawal of the agent. Despite intensive therapy, the hepatitis became fulminant and the patient died 8 weeks after the onset of liver damage. Autopsy revealed massive hepatic necrosis and cholestasis with inflammatory cell infiltration. The pathological findings and the positive result of the drug-induced lymphocyte stimulation test for troglitazone indicated that the liver damage was mediated by hypersensitivity to troglitazone.
One report has attributed troglitazone-induced liver damage in less severe cases to idiosyncratic reactions. However, the present case indicates that troglitazone can induce hypersensitivity resulting in fulminant hepatitis. Careful monitoring of serum liver enzymes during troglitazone therapy is therefore essential.
Fluoropyrimidines such as 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and 5-fluoro-2'deoxyuridine (FUDR) are among the most effective chemotherapeutic agents for treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer (CRC). Increased expression of thymidylate synthetase (TS) in CRC metastases has been proposed to be an important mechanism of resistance to fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy.
The present study investigated whether TS mRNA levels in liver metastases of 20 CRC patients before treatment with FUDR by hepatic arterial infusion (HAI) correlated with frequency of clinical response or survival duration.
Median survival duration of patients with TS mRNA levels above and below the median was 15 and 18 months, respectively (p > 0.05). Clinical response was achieved in 40% of patients with low TS mRNA levels, but in only 20% of patients with high TS mRNA levels (p = 0.01). TS mRNA levels were also measured for liver metastases of 7 of the patients that did not achieve a clinical response. A statistically significant increase in expression of TS mRNA was observed for liver metastases resistant to chemotherapy (21 +/- 14) in comparison to liver metastases of the same patients before chemotherapy (8 +/- 4) (p = 0.03).
This is the first report to demonstrate increased TS expression in liver metastases from CRC patients resistant to fluoropyrimidine based chemotherapy. These findings are consistent with previous studies indicating that increased TS expression is associated with resistance to fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy.
There is mounting evidence implicating the role of oxidative stress induced by reactive oxygen species (ROS) in neurodegenerative disease, including Alzheimer's disease. Herein we investigated the neuroprotective potential of a natural flavonoid, calycopterin, against H(2)O(2)-induced cell death in differentiated PC12 cells. We pretreated PC12 cells with 25, 50, and 100 μM calycopterin followed by the addition of H(2)O(2) as an oxidative stress agent. We measured cell viability by the MTT test and found that 50 μM is the best protective concentration of calycopterin. Moreover, we measured six different parameters of neurite outgrowth. Interestingly, we found that calycopterin not only protects PC12 cells against H(2)O(2)-induced apoptosis but also defends against the destructive effect of oxidative stress on the criteria of neural differentiation. Calycopterin decreased ER stress-associated proteins including calpain and caspase-12, and suppressed ERK, JNK, and p38 MAPK phosphorylation. Moreover, calycopterin inhibited H(2)O(2)-induced nuclear translocation of nuclear factor-κB, a known regulator of a host of genes involved in specific stress and inflammatory responses. This observation was perfectly in agreement with the decrease of COX-2 and TNF-α levels. Calycopterin reduced intracellular ROS levels and increased catalase activity. The protective effect of this compound could represent a promising approach for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases.
The amino acid homocysteine increases in the serum when there is insufficient folic acid or vitamin B(12), or with certain mutations in enzymes important in methionine metabolism. Elevated homocysteine is related to increased risk for cardiovascular and other diseases in adults and elevated maternal homocysteine increases the risk for certain congenital defects, especially those that result from abnormal development of the neural crest and neural tube. Experiments with the avian embryo model have shown that elevated homocysteine perturbs neural crest/neural tube migration in vitro and in vivo. Whereas there have been numerous studies of homocysteine-induced changes in gene expression in adult cells, there is no previous report of a homocysteine-responsive transcriptome in the embryonic neural crest. We treated neural crest cells in vitro with exogenous homocysteine in a protocol that induces significant changes in neural crest cell migration. We used microarray analysis and expression profiling to identify 65 transcripts of genes of known function that were altered by homocysteine. The largest set of effected genes (19) included those with a role in cell migration and adhesion. Other major groups were genes involved in metabolism (13); DNA/RNA interaction (11); cell proliferation/apoptosis (10); and transporter/receptor (6). Although the genes identified in this experiment were consistent with prior observations of the effect of homocysteine upon neural crest cell function, none had been identified previously as response to homocysteine in adult cells.
Peripheral neuropathy is a rare complication of dapsone therapy.
A 74 year-old woman was treated with dapsone, 50 mg per day, for a linear IgA dermatosis. One month later, the disease was controlled but the patient complained of a sensory peripheral neuropathy, which was documented on electromyographic studies. Dapsone was stopped and symptoms resolved within 24 hours. Three months after the beginning of linear IgA dermatosis, a colic adenocarcinoma was revealed by an acute occlusive syndrome. After surgical resection of the tumor, remission of linear IgA dermatosis was obtained with salazopyrine.
This is a rare side effect of dapsone therapy. Twenty-one cases have been previously reported. In most cases, there was a pure motor or mixed neuropathy. Dapsone therapy was then stopped or decreased. Recovery usually occurs within one year after dapsone therapy is discontinued.
In order to compare and clarify the effects of various antiarrhythmic drugs, we examined drug effects on several canine arrhythmia models, simultaneously determining the minimum effective plasma concentrations. We used 1) two-stage coronary ligation arrhythmia, 2) digitalis arrhythmia, and 3) halothane-adrenaline arrhythmia. The following are, a summary of our results: Antiarrhythmic drugs of class 1 all suppressed digitalis arrhythmia, and except for lidocaine, also suppressed coronary ligation arrhythmia. Class 2 antiarrhythmic drugs, beta blockers, and class 4 antiarrhythmic drugs, Ca channel blockers, had common features of effectiveness, where they suppressed adrenaline arrhythmia in relatively low concentrations. Some differences among the antiarrhythmic effects of class 1 drugs could not be explained by their subclassification based either on action potential duration or kinetic properties of dissociation or association with Na channels. A new arrhythmia model for triggered activity in in vivo canine heart was developed, but drug effects on it does not seem to be very different from the effects on the other three arrhythmia models.
The effect of apomorphine (80 micrograms/kg s.c.) and oxytocin (30 ng i.c.v.) on penile erection and yawning was studied in intact and castrated male rats. In castrated rats both apomorphine and oxytocin responses were abolished. In these animals, testosterone (100 microgramS/kg s.c. once a day for 3 days), restored penile erection while estradiol benzoate (10 micrograms/kg s.c. once a day for 3 days) restored yawning induced by both compounds. 5-Dihydrotestosterone (DHT) or progesterone (each at a dose of 100 micrograms/kg s.c. once a day for 3 days) were ineffective. Given together, estradiol benzoate and DHT partially restored apomorphine- and oxytocin-induced yawning and penile erection, whereas estradiol benzoate and progesterone restored only yawning. Estradiol benzoate-induced recovery of yawning was prevented by the antiestrogen tamoxifen (1 mg/kg s.c. once a day for 3 days). In intact rats, progesterone increased and estradiol benzoate decreased apomorphine- and oxytocin-induced yawning without modifying penile erection, although oxytocin-induced yawning was prevented much less by estradiol benzoate than that induced by apomorphine. Testosterone or DHT were ineffective on both responses. Estradiol benzoate inhibition of apomorphine- and oxytocin-induced yawning was prevented by tamoxifen, which per se failed to modify apomorphine and oxytocin responses, as well as by testosterone or progesterone. The present results suggest that apomorphine- and oxytocin-induced penile erection and yawning are endocrine-dependent and differentially modulated by sexual steroids, suggesting that the mechanisms controlling the two behaviors are different even though they are often associated.
The aim of this study was to assess the behavior of the diastolic left ventricular (LV) filling pattern and cardiac hypertrophy after treatment with cilazapril. Twelve patients (9 male and 3 female) with mild to moderate essential hypertension, aged 46 +/- 14.1 years, were treated with cilazapril for 1 year. They underwent Doppler echocardiography at the beginning (I), after 6 months (II), and after 1 year (III) of treatment. The following parameters were evaluated: mean arterial pressure (MAP) automatically recorded for 24 h, interventricular septal and posterior wall thickness, LV and end-diastolic diameter, LV mass index, early (E) and late (A) diastolic filling flow velocities, and the ratio E/A. A significant reduction in LV hypertrophy and an improved diastolic filling pattern of the left ventricle was shown after 6 months of therapy with cilazapril; this improvement still remained after 1 year of therapy.
We describe a patient with bifascicular block, who developed transient high-degree atrioventricular block during dipyridamole infusion. This patient was subsequently found to have significant His-Purkinje disease at electrophysiology study, and underwent permanent pacemaker implantation. Spontaneous atrioventricular block was documented during follow-up. This case report raises the issue of dipyridamole safety in patients with intraventricular conduction defects, and contributes an additional mechanism to the possible explanation of dipyridamole-induced atrioventricular block.
In 7 children impairment of hearing was observed after local therapy with neomycin and gentamicin because of scalding wounds. In all cases the hearing loss depends on the duration of treatment with the aminoglycoside antibiotics. Deep and well vascularised wounds strikingly enhance the absorption rates of the ototoxic drugs. 3 adults locally treated with aminoglycoside antibiotics (neomycin, framycetin, gentamicin) for ulcera cruris displayed a delayed development of hearing loss. The hearing impairment occurs several weeks after therapy and leads to deafness in severe cases even if the treatment had been discontinued a long time ago. The most relevant factors in preventing such damage are: strictest possible indication, taking into account all contraindications, as well as shortest possible duration of therapy.
Polyethylenimine (PEI)-based nonviral gene-delivery systems are commonly employed because of their high transfection efficiency. However, the toxic nature of PEI is a significant obstacle in clinical gene therapy. In this study, we developed biocompatible glycerol triacrylate-spermine (GT-SPE) polyspermine as a nanosized gene carrier for potential lung cancer gene therapy.
The GT-SPE was synthesized using the Michael addition reaction between GT and SPE. The molecular weight was characterized using gel permeability chromatography multiangle laser light scattering and the composition of the polymer was analyzed using proton nuclear magnetic resonance.
The GT-SPE successfully protected the DNA from nucleases. The average particle size of the GT-SPE was 121 nm with a zeta potential of +23.45 mV. The GT-SPE was found to be less toxic than PEI for various cell lines, as well as for a murine model. Finally, our results showed that the GT-SPE/small hairpin Akt1 (shAkt1) complex suppressed lung tumorigenesis in a K-ras(LA1) lung cancer mice model by inducing apoptosis through the Akt signaling pathway and cell cycle arrest. Aerosol delivered GT-SPE/shAkt1, which reduced matrix metalloproteinase-9 activity and suppressed the expression levels of proliferating cell nuclear antigen, as well as vascular endothelial growth factors and CD31, which are known proliferation and angiogenesis markers, respectively.
Our data suggest that GT-SPE may be a candidate for short hairpin-shaped RNA-based aerosol lung cancer gene therapy.
Investigators from the Multicenter Isradipine Diuretic Atherosclerosis Study (MIDAS) previously reported that the isradipine group had a higher incidence of cardiovascular disease (CVD) events than the diuretic group. The ultimate objective of the analyses presented here was to assess how indices of glycemia (specifically, serum glucose, serum insulin, and HbA1c) might have influenced the effects of the two agents on blood pressure control and CVD events.
Inclusion criteria included men and women > or = 40 years of age with ultrasonographically confirmed carotid atherosclerosis and a diastolic blood pressure of > 90 mmHg. Although insulin-dependent diabetic patients were excluded, the three glycemia indices had wide enough ranges to include patients who may be classified as prediabetic. A total of 883 patients were randomized either to the dihydropyridine calcium antagonist (CA) isradipine (2.5-5 mg twice a day) or to the diuretic hydrochlorothiazide (12.5-25 mg twice a day) and followed in double-blind fashion for 3 years.
Both treatment groups had achieved comparable control of diastolic blood pressure, and there were no statistically significant differences in any of the glycemia indices, either at baseline or during follow-up. However, the excess isradipine events were noted to be clustered among those patients with elevated baseline levels of HbA1c who also experienced greater blood pressure reductions during follow-up.
The increased cardiovascular risk associated with dihydropyridine CAs in prediabetic patients may be an explanation for the overall CA debate.
We previously reported that prenatal exposure to diethylstilbestrol (DES) impaired passive avoidance responses in mice. Apart from the above, we also found that cloperastine, a centrally acting antitussive, ameliorated depression-like and anxiety-like behaviors in rodents at antitussive-effective doses. In this study, we investigated whether or not cloperastine rescues impairment of passive avoidance responses in mice prenatally exposed to DES. Male DES-exposed mice were subcutaneously administered cloperastine at 10 or 30 mg/kg twice a day from 32 to 41 days after birth and subjected to behavioral testing 42 to 46 days after birth. Cloperastine at 10 and 30 mg/kg ameliorated DES-induced impairment of passive avoidance responses. In addition, cloperastine affected the levels of 5-HT1A receptors, GIRK and BDNF in the hippocampus of DES-exposed mice. However, the number of BrdU-positive cells in the hippocampus of DES-exposed mice was not changed by chronic administration of cloperastine. These findings suggest that the action of endocrine disruptors in the brain may not always be irreversible, and that the symptoms caused by endocrine disruptors might be curable with drugs such as cloperastine.
One thousand and thirty-one longstanding patients with subacute myelo-optico-neuropathy (SMON; 275 males, 756 females; mean age +/- S.D., 72.9 +/- 9.6 years; age at onset 37.6 +/- 9.8 years; duration of illness 35.3 +/- 4.0 years) were examined in 2002, 32 years after banning of clioquinol. At onset, 66.7% of patients were unable to walk, and 4.7% complete blindness. At present time, about 41% of patients were still difficult to walk independently, including 15.8% of completely loss of locomotion. One point six percent of patients were in complete blindness and 5.8% had severe visual impairment. The majority (95.6 - 97.7%) of patients exhibited sensory disturbances including superficial and vibratory sensations and dysesthesia. Dysautonomia was observed as leg hypothermia in 79.8%, urinary incontinence in 60.7%, and bowel disturbance in 95.3%. As complication, high incidence was revealed with cataract (56.2%), hypertension (40.2%), vertebral disease (35.5%), and limb articular disease (31.5%). These results indicate the serious sequelae of clioquinol intoxication, SMON.
Theophylline (THP) and 1,3-dinitrobenzene (DNB) are thought to induce infertility by incapacitating the nurturing Sertoli cells and causing germ cell apoptosis in the testicular seminiferous epithelium, respectively. We hypothesized that THP and DNB exposure would alter the expression of the genes within the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway (UPP), implicated in spermatogenesis and epididymal sperm quality control. Rats were fed 0 or 8000 ppm of THP and necropsied on Days 18, 30, and 42 or administered 0, 2, or 6 mg/kg DNB via oral gavage and necropsied on Day 7. Tissues were collected from the testis and the caput, corpus, and cauda regions of the epididymis for transcriptional profiling by semiquantitative RT-PCR, real-time RT-PCR, and histopathology. Target UPP genes included those encoding for constitutive the 20S proteasomal core subunits Psmb1 (beta1), Psmb2 (beta2), and Psmb5 (beta5); the inducible 20S core subunits Psmb9 (LMP2), Psmb8 (LMP7), and Psmb10 (LMP10); and Ube1 (ubiquitin-activating enzyme E1), Ube2d3 (ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2), and Uchl1 (ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase PGP9.5). Spermatozoa were collected from the cauda epididymis for analysis by light microscopy and flow cytometric evaluation of sperm surface ubiquitin. These data show that reprotoxic exposure alters the tissue-specific expression of UPP genes in the testis and epididymis, which may contribute to the aberrant spermatogenesis and epididymal processing of both normal and defective spermatozoa. Transcriptional profiling and flow cytometric analysis of the UPP thus captures the prodromal effects of reproductive toxicity not captured by conventional histology and functional cytology. Complementing seminal analysis with these measures may be useful in screening drug-induced toxicity or environmental infertility.
2-Amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) is a mammary gland carcinogen present in the human diet. Herein, the expression of estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha), estrogen receptor beta (ER beta) and progesterone receptor (PR) was examined in mammary gland carcinomas induced by PhIP in female Sprague-Dawley rats. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction demonstrated that ER alpha, ER beta and PR were statistically elevated by 3-, 4- and 8-fold in carcinomas compared with normal mammary glands. By immunohistochemistry, carcinomas showed statistically higher nuclear expression of all three steroid receptors with the majority of carcinomas showing at least 10% of epithelial cells stained for ER alpha (49/55, 89%), ER beta (41/55, 75%) and PR (48/55, 87%). Furthermore, the level of expression of the three steroid hormone receptors was positively correlated with each other across the bank of carcinomas (Spearman analysis, P < 0.05). The expression of ER alpha in carcinomas was associated with tumor grade, extent of nuclear pleomorphism and cellular proliferation as measured by proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) and phospho-Rb immunostaining (Spearman analysis, P < 0.05). Confocal microscopy was used to measure the percentage of epithelial cells showing nuclear colocalization of receptors, PCNA, and cyclin D1. Colocalization of the receptors, and the colocalization of the receptors with PCNA and cyclin D1 was strikingly higher in carcinomas than in the normal mammary gland. In carcinoma cells, 37% of ER alpha positive epithelial cells were colocalized with PCNA in contrast to just 0.25% of cells in the normal mammary gland. The findings from this study indicate that ER alpha, ER beta and PR were co-upregulated and nuclear localized in epithelial cells from rat mammary carcinomas compared with normal mammary glands, and that the co-upregulation was positively correlated with proliferation and cell cycle progression in carcinomas.
The enzymes thymidylate synthase (TS), dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD), thymidine phosphorylase (TP), and orotate phosphoribosyl transferase (OPRT) are involved in the metabolism of the anticancer drug 5-fluorouracil. No reports have examined the expression of these enzymes in prostate cancer (CaP). A total of 25 previously untreated, hormone-sensitive CaP tissue samples and 11 benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) specimens were examined. Tissue of CaP and BPH tissue samples were obtained from formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded sections by laser-captured microdissection, and then RNA was extracted. mRNA expression of TS, DPD, TP, and OPRT was analyzed by quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. TS and OPRT expression levels were significantly higher in CaP samples than in BPH. DPD expression level in poorly differentiated CaP was significantly lower than that in CaP with more favorable--well or moderately differentiated--histopathology.
Oral miltefosine (2.5 mg/kg/d for 28 days) was compared with intramuscular antimony (20 mg/kg/d for 20 days) in the treatment of cutaneous leishmaniasis caused by Leishmania braziliensis in Palos Blancos, Bolivia. The cure rates with 6 months of follow-up were statistically similar: 36 of 41 evaluable miltefosine patients (88%) versus 15 of 16 (94%) evaluable antimony patients. However, antimony cured more rapidly, because, by 1 month after therapy, 31 of 44 miltefosine patients (70%) compared with 16 of 16 antimony patients (100%) had achieved cure. The two conclusions from this work are that oral miltefosine can be used for cutaneous disease in this part of Bolivia and that miltefosine was more effective for L. braziliensis in this region than for L. braziliensis in Guatemala. Chemotherapy needs to be evaluated in each endemic region, even if the "same" species of Leishmania causes disease in these locales.
Many lines of research implicate cyclooxygenase 2-derived prostaglandins in tumor growth and metastasis. More specifically, we have shown that prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) promotes cell proliferation and invasion through transactivation of the epidermal growth factor receptor, initiates immune evasion through induction of decay accelerating factor, and transactivates peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor delta, leading to increased polyp size and multiplicity. We continue to identify novel PGE2 target genes in colorectal carcinoma cells and report here that an immediate early gene, nuclear factor NR4A2 (Nurr1), is induced by PGE2 that in turn regulates cell death. Originally described as a critical dopaminergic neuron growth factor receptor, NR4A2 expression is rapidly but transiently induced by PGE2 in a cAMP/protein kinase A-dependent manner. NR4A2 binds to the cognate NBRE response element and enhances transcription of a reporter construct in colorectal carcinoma cells. Furthermore, NR4A2 expression is elevated in Apc-/+ mouse adenomas and its levels were further increased following PGE2 treatment. Human colorectal cancers relative to matched normal mucosa showed increased NR4A2 expression. Although not previously described in epithelial tissues, NR4A2 protein localizes to proliferating crypts of Apc-/+ mouse intestine. Finally, functional studies reveal that PGE2-mediated protection from apoptosis is completely inhibited by a dominant-negative NR4A2 construct. Building on previous reports from our group on the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor family of nuclear receptors, these most recent data suggest that NR4A2, a member of another family of nuclear receptors can stimulate progression of colorectal cancer downstream from cyclooxygenase 2-derived PGE2.
Treatment of tuberculosis in a hemodialysis patient with isoniazid, rifampin, and pyrazinamide resulted in the development of acute cerebellar dysfunction. This resolved rapidly following the discontinuation of isoniazid and pyrazinamide, reinstitution of isoniazid at a lower dose, and addition of pyridoxine. We discuss why we believe this syndrome was caused by isoniazid. Patients with renal failure who undergo antituberculous therapy with isoniazid should receive supplemental pyridoxine to reduce the likelihood of isoniazid-related neurotoxicity.
To evaluate a treatment strategy of substituting zidovudine (ZDV) for stavudine (d4T)-based highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), aimed at preventing d4T-associated toxicity, in a programmatic setting in rural Cambodia.
Survival probability, CD4 gain, anemia incidence, and factors associated with severe anemia were analyzed in a cohort of adult patients switched from d4T- to ZDV-containing regimens from March 2006 to March 2007.
Among 527 patients systematically switched to ZDV after d4T-based HAART for a median of 18 months, 4 (0.8%) patients died, 2 (0.4%) were lost to follow-up, 18 (3.4%) were transferred out, and 503 (95.4%) remained on HAART. Median CD4 gain was +263.5 cells/microL (interquartile range: 89.25-369.5) at 24 months. Within 1 year after the switch, 21.9% and 7.1% of patients developed anemia (grades 1-4) and severe anemia (grades 3-4), respectively. Low body mass index (< or =18) and low CD4 count (<200 cells/microL) at the time of switch were factors associated with severe anemia. Additional follow-up visits for laboratory monitoring and adherence counseling, increased absenteeism from work, and transportation costs for the patients were noted.
The switch strategy of substituting ZDV for d4T-based HAART led to satisfactory overall clinical outcomes. However, it resulted in a relatively high incidence of mild to severe anemia and increased burden for the program and the patients.
The cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) protein is highly expressed in a variety of human cancers and has been reported to promote tumor growth. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs such as etodolac and celecoxib have been shown to inhibit COX-2 activity and may play a role in the chemoprevention of cancer. Oxaliplatin is a third-generation platinum compound that exhibits a different spectrum of activity compared with cisplatin. Other cisplatin-resistant tumors can still respond to oxaliplatin. However, the anticancer ability of the combination of COX-2 inhibitors and oxaliplatin is still unknown. In this study, we investigated the effects of combination of COX-2 inhibitors and oxaliplatin on the cell growth and survival in human colon cancer cells. Treatments with etodolac (0.3-0.5 mM) or celecoxib (20-80 microM) for 24 h concentration-dependently induced the cytotoxicity in the RKO colon carcinoma cells. Etodolac and celecoxib did not alter the COX-2 protein levels but inhibited its enzyme activity to reduce prostaglandin E2 production. Furthermore, the cell survival was concentration-dependently decreased following oxaliplatin (1-100 microM, 24 h) treatment. Combination of oxaliplatin and etodolac additively increased the death and growth inhibition of RKO cells. Survivin, an inhibitor protein of apoptosis, mediates anti-apoptosis and promotes cell division in cancer cells. Oxaliplatin or COX-2 inhibitors significantly decreased the levels of survivin proteins. Moreover, survivin proteins were markedly diminished following co-treatment with oxaliplatin and etodolac. Together, this is the first report that combination of COX-2 inhibitors and oxaliplatin can increase the reduction of survivin protein expression, growth inhibition, and death in human colon cancer cells.
Behavioral effects of cocaine that are relevant to its abuse have been associated with pharmacological actions at the dopamine uptake carrier. Benztropine (Cogentin) is an antiparkinson agent that has limited abuse despite its ability to block dopamine uptake, and has been suggested as a candidate for the treatment of cocaine dependence. Preclinical studies were conducted to assess the behavioral and toxic effects of benztropine alone and in conjunction with cocaine. Because of the mixed pharmacology of benztropine which includes antimuscarinic as well as dopaminergic actions, results obtained from parallel experiments with atropine and the selective dopamine uptake inhibitor, GBR 12935 (1-[2-(diphenylmethoxy)ethyl]-4-(3-phenyl-propyl)-piperazine), were performed. All of the drugs stimulated locomotor activity of mice, but atropine and benztropine had much lower efficacy. Nonstimulatory doses of GBR 12935 enhanced the locomotor stimulant effects of cocaine, whereas benztropine and atropine did not share this effect. GBR 12935, benztropine and cocaine increased fixed-interval responding, whereas atropine decreased fixed-interval response rates in rats. Only GBR 12935 and cocaine increased responding during timeout periods. GBR 12935, but not benztropine or atropine, fully reproduced the discriminative stimulus effects of cocaine (10 mg/kg). GBR 12935 and atropine augmented the discriminative stimulus effects of lower cocaine doses in rats. Only GBR 12935 and cocaine had convulsant effects and only GBR 12935 significantly enhanced the convulsant effects of cocaine in mice. These results document a behavioral and toxicity profile for benztropine distinct from that of classical dopamine uptake blockers. The data underscore further the potential of benztropine as a candidate for clinical evaluation in the treatment of cocaine dependence.
The NF-kappaB signalling pathway plays important roles in liver organogenesis and carcinogenesis. Mouse embryos deficient in IKKbeta die in mid-gestation, due to excessive apoptosis of hepatoblasts. Although activation of the NF-kappaB signalling pathway has been demonstrated in human hepatocellular carcinoma, the role of NF-kappaB is controversial. Here, we have generated transgenic mice in which a constitutively active form of IKKbeta was expressed in a hepatocyte-specific manner. Using electrophoretic mobility shift assay, we documented increased NF-kappaB activities and up-regulated levels of NF-kappaB downstream target genes, Bcl-xL and STAT5, in the transgenic mouse livers. These results confirmed that the NF-kappaB pathway was activated in the livers of the transgenic mice. However, there was no significant difference in tumour formation between transgenic and wild-type mice up to an age of 50 weeks. When we treated the transgenic mice with the chemical carcinogen diethylnitrosamine (DEN), we observed no significant differences in the incidence and size of liver tumours formed in these mice with and without DEN treatment at 35 weeks of age, suggesting that the activated NF-kappaB pathway in the livers of the transgenic mice did not enhance hepatocarcinogenesis. Interestingly, some of the transient transgenic embryos (E12.5) had abnormal excessive accumulation of nucleated red blood cells in their developing livers. In summary, NF-kappaB activation in hepatocytes did not significantly affect chemical hepatocarcinogenesis. In addition, the TTR/IKKCA transgenic mice may serve as a useful model for studying the role of NF-kappaB activation in hepatocarcinogenesis as well as inflammatory and metabolic diseases.
