Two cases of acute tubular necrosis without hepatic failure following acetaminophen overdose are reported. A 19-year-old Caucasian woman ingested 100 500-mg capsules of acetaminophen. She was admitted to a hospital 68 hours after ingestion, and serum acetaminophen concentration 70 hours after ingestion was 3 microgram/ml. Liver-function test results were markedly elevated, and urinalysis was abnormal on admission. Liver function improved over the next five days, but the patient's renal function deteriorated. Her condition initially was diagnosed as prerenal azotemia, but was later consistent with acute tubular necrosis. Hemodialysis was begun on the fifth day of hospitalization. On the eleventh hospital day, the patient's renal function began to improve, and she was subsequently discharged. In the second case, a 19-year-old Spanish-American woman ingested 30 500-mg capsules of acetaminophen. She was seen in an emergency room 16 hours after the ingestion; her serum acetaminophen concentration was 32 microgram/ml 19 hours after ingestion. Oral acetylcysteine therapy was begun, and liver-function test results were elevated and peaked on the third hospital day. Renal function began to decline on the fifth hospital day; her condition was consistent with acute tubular necrosis. She was hemodialyzed once, and her renal function improved on the tenth hospital day. She was subsequently discharged. It is concluded that acute renal failure without prior hepatic failure may occur after acetaminophen overdose.
Chronic renal failure was induced by administering lithium orally to 14 newborn rats. Seven rats were treated for 8 weeks followed by 8 weeks without lithium (group Li/C) and seven for 16 weeks (group Li/Li). Plasma urea and renal concentrating ability were measured, and one kidney fixed by vascular perfusion. Mean glomerular volume as well as volumes of individual glomeruli were estimated. In addition, the structural integrity between the glomerulus and the proximal tubule was investigated on serial sections. No sclerotic glomeruli were present. Only 37.6 and 27.9% of the glomeruli in the Li/C and Li/Li groups, respectively, were connected to a normal proximal tubule, and most remaining glomeruli were atubular. The mean glomerular volume was unchanged in the Li/C group and reduced by 40% in the Li/Li group. The intraindividual variation in glomerular volume was about 10-fold larger in the lithium-treated groups than in controls. The glomeruli connected to normal proximal tubules had the largest volumes, and hypertrophied glomeruli were encountered more frequently in the Li/C group than in the Li/Li group. There was a significant positive correlation between the plasma urea and the fraction of glomeruli that were not connected to normal proximal tubules. We previously demonstrated in this lithium model that there is a significant correlation between the tubulointerstitial lesion and the impairment of renal function. However, with the demonstration of atubular glomeruli we have a new explanation for the reduction in renal function in this model.
Ganodermanondiol, a biologically active compound, was isolated from the Lingzhi mushroom (Ganoderma lucidum). The present study examined the protective effects of ganodermanondiol against tert-butyl hydroperoxide (t-BHP)-induced hepatotoxicity. Ganodermanondiol protected human liver-derived HepG2 cells through nuclear factor-E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) pathway-dependent heme oxygenase-1 expressions. Moreover, ganodermanondiol increased cellular glutathione levels and the expression of the glutamine-cysteine ligase gene in a dose-dependent manner. Furthermore, ganodermanondiol exposure enhanced the phosphorylation of adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and its upstream kinase activators, LKB1 and Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase-II (CaMKII). This study indicates that ganodermanondiol exhibits potent cytoprotective effects on t-BHP-induced hepatotoxicity in human liver-derived HepG2 cells, presumably through Nrf2-mediated antioxidant enzymes and AMPK.
Aggravation of idiopathic generalized epilepsy (IGE) syndromes by inappropriate antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) is increasingly recognized as a serious and common problem. Precipitation of status epilepticus (SE) by inappropriate medication has rarely been reported. We retrospectively studied all adult patients with IGE taking at least one potentially aggravating AED, who developed video-EEG documented SE over 8 years, and whose long-term outcome was favourable after adjustment of medication. We identified 14 patients (seven male patients) aged 15-46 years with a mean duration of epilepsy of 16.4 years. Video-EEG demonstrated typical absence SE (ASE) in five, atypical ASE in five, atypical myoclonic SE (MSE) in three and typical MSE in one. Epilepsy had been misclassified as cryptogenic partial in eight cases and cryptogenic generalized in four. The correct diagnosis proved to be juvenile absence epilepsy (JAE) in six patients, juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME) in four, epilepsy with grand mal on awakening (EGMA) in two and childhood absence epilepsy (CAE) in two. All patients had been treated with carbamazepine (CBZ) and had experienced seizure aggravation or new seizure types before referral. Seven patients had polytherapy with phenytoin (PHT), vigabatrin (VGB) or gabapentin (GBP). Potential precipitating factors included dose increase of CBZ or of CBZ and PHT; initiation of CBZ, VGB or GBP; and decrease of phenobarbital. Withdrawal of the aggravating agents and adjustment of medication resulted in full seizure control. This series shows that severe pharmacodynamic aggravation of seizures in IGE may result in ASE or MSE, often with atypical features.
In a prospective, double-blind placebo controlled trial, the effect of oral diazepam premedication on post-succinylcholine fasciculations and myalgia was studied. Forty patients undergoing septoplasty procedures received orally identical capsules containing either 10 mg of diazepam or a placebo 90 minutes preoperatively. A standardized anaesthetic regimen included induction with 5 mg X kg-1 of thiopental and 1 mg X kg-1 of succinylcholine. The diazepam and control groups did not differ significantly in extent of fasciculations or ease of intubation. However, only 15 per cent of the diazepam premedicated patients had myalgias postoperatively compared to 50 per cent of the control patients, a statistically significant difference (p = 0.04).
The Pim proteins are a family of highly homologous protein serine/threonine kinases that have been found to be overexpressed in cancer. Elevated levels of Pim1 kinase were first discovered in human leukemia and lymphomas. However, more recently Pim1 was found to be increased in solid tumors, including pancreatic and prostate cancers, and has been proposed as a prognostic marker. Although the Pim kinases have been identified as oncogenes in transgenic models, they have weak transforming abilities on their own. However, they have been shown to greatly enhance the ability of other genes or chemical carcinogens to induce tumors. To explore the role of Pim1 in prostate cancer, we generated conditional Pim1 transgenic mice, expressed Pim1 in prostate epithelium, and analyzed the contribution of PIM1 to neoplastic initiation and progression. Accordingly, we explored the effect of PIM1 overexpression in 3 different settings: upon hormone treatment, during aging, and in combination with the absence of one Pten allele. We have found that Pim1 overexpression increased the severity of mouse prostate intraepithelial neoplasias (mPIN) moderately in all three settings. Furthermore, Pim1 overexpression, in combination with the hormone treatment, increased inflammation surrounding target tissues leading to pyelonephritis in transgenic animals. Analysis of senescence induced in these prostatic lesions showed that the lesions induced in the presence of inflammation exhibited different behavior than those induced in the absence of inflammation. While high grade prostate preneoplastic lesions, mPIN grades III and IV, in the presence of inflammation did not show any senescence markers and demonstrated high levels of Ki67 staining, untreated animals without inflammation showed senescence markers and had low levels of Ki67 staining in similar high grade lesions. Our data suggest that Pim1 might contribute to progression rather than initiation in prostate neoplasia.
Three deoxypreussomerins, palmarumycins CP1, JC1 and JC2, have been isolated from a collection of the stems of Jatropha curcas. The second and third compounds are antibacterial constituents which were characterized from spectral evidence. The X-ray crystallographic structure of palmarumycin JC1 was also studied. Deoxypreussomerins have been obtained here from a plant source in appreciable quantities.
Nephrotoxicity represents a serious side-effect of immunosuppression following orthotopic liver transplantation. In order to preserve the therapeutic potential of cyclosporin (CsA) and FK 506 in human liver transplantation and to differentiate the nephrotoxic action of either drug in a clinical setting, we evaluated the incidence of early and late nephrotoxicity in 121 patients, 60 randomly assigned to CsA- and 61 to FK 506-based immunosuppression. Early postoperative renal insufficiency (between POD0 and 30; SCr 1.5-3 mg/dl) was observed to a similar extent in patients treated with CsA (36.7%) and FK 506 (42.6%). Early postoperative acute renal failure (ARF; SCr > 3 mg/dl) occurred in 18.3%, regardless of the immunosuppressive management. Approximately 50% of patients with ARF required hemodialysis (CsA: 11.7%; and FK 506: 8.3%). Mean onset of hemodialysis in CsA-treated patients was POD1 and in FK 506-treated patients, POD6, which demonstrated a different time course of drug-specific nephrotoxicity of CsA and FK 506 in early ARF. All patients with early postoperative ARF requiring hemodialysis survived more than 1 year (100% survival). New onset of late ARF (between POD30 and 365), however, occurred in 6.5% under FK 506 and in 1.7% under CsA immunosuppression due to severe infections with the multiple organ failure syndrome. This observation was consistent with the assumption of over-immunosuppression rather than a primary nephrotoxic effect. Mortality of patients with late ARF requiring hemodialysis was 100%. Late renal insufficiency appeared in 23.3% of CsA- and in 29.4% of FK 506-treated patients, and represented a slowly progressing form of drug-specific nephrotoxicity. These preliminary results demonstrated a similar outcome in terms of early and late nephrotoxicity, but longer follow-up will delineate its overall efficacy and toxicity in humans.
Methylmercury (MeHg) is an environmental pollutant known to induce neurotoxicity in several animal species, including humans. However, studies focusing the effects of MeHg poisoning in chicks were based on phenomenological approaches and did not delve into the molecular mechanisms. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the postnatal consequences of the in ovo exposure to MeHg on behavioral, morphological and biochemical parameters in chicks. At the fifth embryonic day (E5), Gallus domesticus eggs were submitted to a single injection of 0.1 microg MeHg/0.05 ml saline. After treatment, the eggs returned to the incubator until hatching (E21). From first to fifth postnatal days (PN 1-PN 5), the MeHg-treated chicks showed lower frequency of exploratory movements and a significantly higher frequency of wing and anomalous movements. Cerebellar glutathione (GSH) levels and the activities of the GSH-related enzymes GSH reductase and GSH peroxidase were significantly higher (70, 72, and 80%, respectively) in MeHg exposed chicks in comparison to controls. Mercury impregnation was densest in the granular layer, followed by the Purkinje and molecular layers of treated chicks. A significant reduction of the number of Purkinje cells, as well as a greater distance between these cells were observed in chicks of MeHg group. Our results disclose that the prehatching exposure to MeHg induced motor impairments, which were correlated to histological damage and alterations on the cerebellar GSH system's development from PN 1 to PN 5.
Neurotoxicity is linked with high-dose manganese inhalation. There are few biomarkers that correlate with manganese exposure. Blood manganese concentrations depend upon the magnitude and duration of the manganese exposure and inconsistently reflect manganese exposure concentrations. The objective of this study was to search for novel biomarkers of manganese exposure in the urine and blood obtained from rhesus monkeys following subchronic manganese sulfate (MnSO(4)) inhalation. Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry was used to identify putative biomarkers. Juvenile rhesus monkeys were exposed 5 days/week to airborne MnSO(4) at 0, 0.06, 0.3, or 1.5 mg Mn/m(3) for 65 exposure days or 1.5 mg Mn/m(3) for 15 or 33 days. Monkeys exposed to MnSO(4) at >or= 0.06 mg Mn/m(3) developed increased brain manganese concentrations. A total of 1097 parent peaks were identified in whole blood and 2462 peaks in urine. Principal component analysis was performed on a subset of 113 peaks that were found to be significantly changed following subchronic manganese exposure. Using the Nearest Centroid analysis, the subset of 113 significantly perturbed components predicted globus pallidus manganese concentrations with 72.9% accuracy for all subchronically exposed monkeys. Using the five confirmed components, the prediction rate for high brain manganese levels remained > 70%. Three of the five identified components, guanosine, disaccharides, and phenylpyruvate, were significantly correlated with brain manganese levels. In all, 27 metabolites with statistically significant expression differences were structurally confirmed by MS-MS methods. Biochemical changes identified in manganese-exposed monkeys included endpoints relate to oxidative stress (e.g., oxidized glutathione) and neurotransmission (aminobutyrate, glutamine, phenylalanine).
Monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) recruits monocytes into atherosclerotic plaques. A single nucleotide polymorphism in the MCP-1 gene promoter (-2578A>G) results in greater production of MCP-1 protein. We examined the association of this polymorphism with occult coronary artery disease (CAD) and its interaction with CAD risk factor burden, as assessed by the Framingham risk score (FRS) for hard events. We genotyped 679 apparently healthy 24-59-year-old siblings (SIBS) of people with premature CAD, tested for occult ischemia with exercise treadmill tests and thallium-201 single photon emission computed tomography, and assessed CAD risk factors to calculate the FRS. Occult ischemia occurred in 18% of SIBS and overall was somewhat more prevalent in those with the G allele (20.6%) compared to those without (15.6%), p=0.095. In SIBS at higher risk (highest quartile of FRS, >or=6.8%), occult ischemia occurred significantly more frequently in those with the G allele (44.4% versus 26.1%, p=0.017), while there was no significant difference in SIBS with lower FRS. After adjusting for individual risk factors included in the FRS, multivariate logistic regression modeling demonstrated that the G allele independently predicted occult ischemia in the entire study population (p=0.014, OR=1.86, 95% CI=1.14-3.04). This study demonstrates for the first time that the MCP-1 gene -2578A>G polymorphism is associated with an excess risk of coronary atherosclerosis in an asymptomatic population and demonstrates an apparent interaction with CAD risk factor burden.
We report the case of a female patient with rheumatoid arthritis who developed acute cytolytic hepatitis due to meloxicam. Recently introduced in Belgium, meloxicam is the first nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug with selective action on the inducible form of cyclooxygenase 2. The acute cytolytic hepatitis occurred rapidly after meloxicam administration and was associated with the development of antinuclear antibodies suggesting a hypersensitivity mechanism. This first case of meloxicam related liver toxicity demonstrates the potential of this drug to induce hepatic damage.
The capacity of photosensitizing chemicals with ultraviolet A light (UVA) to induce apoptosis is one of the methods to assess their phototoxic and potentially photoallergic properties, since apoptotic cells may be easily presented by antigen-presenting cells.
We examined the photoaggravated ability to induce keratinocyte apoptosis of various chemicals that are known as causative agents of photocontact dermatitis and drug photosensitivity involving photoallergic and/or phototoxic mechanisms.
HaCaT keratinocytes were incubated with 3,3',4',5-tetrachlorosalicylanilide (TCSA), bithionol, diphenylhydramine, chlorpromazine, 6-methylcoumarin, sparfloxacin, and enoxacin at 10(-7) to 10(-4)M and irradiated with UVA at 4J/cm(2). As positive control, 8-methoxypsoralen (8-MOP) was also tested. Apoptosis and necrosis were evaluated by flow cytometric enumeration of annexin V(+) 7-AAD(-) and annexin V(+) 7-AAD(+) cells, respectively. The expression of apoptosis-related molecules, caspase-3 and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP), was tested by flow cytometric and Western blotting analyses.
In a comparison with non-irradiated cells, significant apoptosis was found in TCSA, bithionol, chlorpromazine, sparfloxacin and enoxacin at 10(-4) or 10(-5)M as well as 8-MOP as assessed by both annexin V and active caspase-3 stainings, while necrosis occurred in most of these chemicals at 10(-4)M. Neither apoptosis nor necrosis was seen in diphenylhydramine or 6-methylcoumarin. PARP were activated in HaCaT cells phototreated with TCSA, bithionol and chlorpromazine.
We suggest that our method is useful for in vitro assessment of phototoxicity and potential photoallergenicity of chemicals.
Familial renal hypouricemia with exercise-induced acute renal failure (ARF) is rare. A 45-year-old man presented with abdominal pain, vomiting, and oliguria after severe exercise. The diagnosis was ARF based on high serum creatinine (SCr) level (5.1 mg/dL [451 micromol/L]). Renal function recovered completely within 2 weeks of conservative treatment (creatinine clearance [Ccr], 100.4 mL/min [1.67 mL/s]). After remission, laboratory results showed serum urate (SUA) of 0.8 mg/dL (48 micromol/L), and fractional excretion of uric acid (FE(UA)) of 46%. The final diagnosis was ARF associated with idiopathic renal hypouricemia. Other diseases that could increase the excretion of urate were excluded. Because only mild responses were observed both in pyradinamide and benzbromarone loading tests, he was considered to be a presecretory reabsorption disorder type. The younger brother (42 years old) also had episodes of low and middle back pain after severe exercise and experienced similar attacks at least 5 times since the age of 29. SCr level was elevated in every attack. Hypouricemia (SUA, 1.0 mg/dL [59 micromol/L]) and high urinary urate excretion (FE(UA), 65.7%) also were detected. Renal function recovered almost completely without any specific treatment. Radiologic examination of the 2 cases showed bilateral urolithiasis probably caused by the high urinary urate excretion. Sequence analysis of a urate anion exchanger known to regulate blood urate level (URAT1 gene) in both brothers showed homozygous mutation in exon 4 (W258Stop), resulting in a premature truncated URAT1 protein. Both their parents and their children showed heterozygous mutation of the URAT1 gene. This is the first report of the 2 male siblings of familial renal hypouricemia complicated with exercise-induced ARF, with definite demonstration of genetic abnormality in the responsible gene (URAT1).
Hypersensitivity resulting from nerve injury or morphine tolerance/hyperalgesia is predicted to involve similar cellular and molecular mechanisms. One expected but incompletely explored mechanism is the activation of central neuroimmune responses associated with these conditions. To begin to address this, we undertook three separate studies: First, we determined the acute antinociceptive action of morphine, the rate of development of opioid tolerance, and withdrawal-induced hyperalgesia/allodynia in nerve-injured and sham-operated rats using noxious (thermal and mechanical) and non-noxious (mechanical allodynia) behavioral paradigms. Second, we investigated the impact of chronic morphine treatment on spinal glial activation and cytokine expression after L5 spinal nerve transection or sham surgery. Third, we examined the consequences of spinal administration of cytokine inhibitors on the development of morphine tolerance and morphine withdrawal-induced hyperalgesia and allodynia. Results demonstrated that after nerve injury, the antinociceptive effect of acute morphine was significantly decreased, and the rate of development of tolerance and opioid withdrawal-induced hyperalgesia/allodynia was significantly enhanced compared with that after sham surgery. Chronic administration of morphine to sham-operated rats activated spinal glia and upregulated proinflammatory cytokines [interleukin (IL)-1beta, IL-6, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha]. This neuroimmune activation was further enhanced in nerve-injured rats after chronic morphine treatment. Spinal inhibition of proinflammatory cytokines restored acute morphine antinociception in nerve-injured rats and also significantly reversed the development of morphine tolerance and withdrawal-induced hyperalgesia and allodynia in nerve-injured or sham-operated rats. Targeting central cytokine production and glial activation may improve the effectiveness of morphine and reduce the incidence of morphine withdrawal-induced hyperalgesia and allodynia in neuropathic pain conditions.
Pamidronate belongs to the class of nitrogen-containing bisphosphonates that are potent inhibitors of bone resorption frequently used for the treatment of osteoporosis and cancer-induced osteolysis. The inhibition of osteoclasts' growth has been suggested as the main mechanism of the inhibitory effect of pamidronate on bone metastases. Recent findings indicated that bisphosphonates also have a direct apoptotic effect on other types of tumour cells. Nitrogen-containing bisphosphonates were shown to inhibit farnesyl diphosphate synthase, thus blocking the synthesis of higher isoprenoids. By this mechanism they inactivate monomeric G-proteins of the Ras and Rho families for which prenylation is a functional requirement. On the background of the known key role of G-proteins in tumorigenesis, we investigated a possible beneficial use of pamidronate in the treatment of malignant melanoma. Our results indicate that pamidronate inhibits the cell growth and induces apoptosis in human melanoma cells in vitro. Susceptibility to pamidronate did not correlate to CD95 ligand sensitivity or p53 mutational status. Furthermore it is interesting to note that overexpression of bcl-2 did not abolish pamidronate-induced apoptosis. These data suggests that pamidronate has a direct anti-tumour effect on malignant melanoma cells, independently of the Bax/Bcl-2 level.
Manganese (Mn) is an essential trace element required for the proper functioning of a variety of physiological processes. However, chronic exposures to Mn can cause neurotoxicity in humans, especially when it occurs during critical stages of the central nervous system development. The mechanisms mediating this phenomenon as well as the contribution of Mn speciation and the sensitivity of different types of neuronal cells in such toxicity are poorly understood. This study was aimed to investigate the mechanisms mediating the toxic effects of MnCl(2), Mn(II) citrate, Mn(III) citrate, and Mn(III) pyrophosphate in primary cultures of neocortical (CTX) and cerebellar granular (CGC) neurons. Cell viability, mitochondrial function, and glutathione levels were evaluated after Mn exposure. CGC were significantly more susceptible to Mn-induced toxicity when compared with CTX. Moreover, undifferentiated CGC were more vulnerable to Mn toxicity than mature neurons. Mitochondrial dysfunction was observed after the exposure to all the tested Mn species. Ascorbate protected CGC against Mn-induced neurotoxicity, and this event seemed to be related to the dual role of ascorbate in neurons, acting as antioxidant and metabolic energetic supplier. CTX were protected from Mn-induced toxicity by ascorbate only when coincubated with lactate. These findings reinforce and extend the notion of the hazardous effects of Mn toward neuronal cells. In addition, the present results indicate that Mn-induced neurotoxicity is influenced by brain cell types, their origins, and developmental stages as well as by the chemical speciation of Mn, thus providing important information about Mn-induced developmental neurotoxicity and its risk assessment.
We report a male child with haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis who developed myocardial infarction after receiving etoposide. He recovered well with supportive measures and after discontinuation of etoposide. We discuss the possible mechanisms and differential diagnoses of myocardial infarction in our patient.
The neuromedin B receptor (NMB-R), a member of the mammalian bombesin receptor family, is frequently overexpressed in various tumors. In the present study, we found that exposure to hypoxic conditions increases the levels of NMBR mRNA and protein in breast cancer cells, which are tightly regulated by hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α). We confirmed the effect of HIF-1α on NMBR transcription by performing an NMBR promoter-driven reporter assay and then identified a functional hypoxia-responsive element (HRE) in the human NMBR promoter region. Further, the binding of HIF-1α to the NMBR promoter was corroborated by electrophoretic mobility shift and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays, which showed that HIF-1α specifically and directly bound to the NMBR promoter in response to hypoxia. Immunohistochemical analysis of a xenograft and a human breast cancer tissue array revealed a significant correlation between NMB-R and HIF-1α expression. Taken together, our findings indicate that hypoxia induces NMB-R expression through a novel mechanism to regulate HIF-1α expression in breast cancer cells.
Vitamin D analogs are being developed that retain therapeutic effects but are less calcemic and phosphatemic, a concern in CKD patients who are prone to vascular calcification. We tested a new analog of vitamin D, 2MbisP, and found that it suppresses PTH at doses that do not affect serum Ca or P.
Calcitriol is used for the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism. However, its use is often limited by the development of hypercalcemia and hyperphosphatemia, an important consideration in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) because they are prone to vascular calcification. To minimize this toxicity, structural modifications in the vitamin D molecule have led to the development of calcitriol analogs with selective actions.
In this study, we compared the effects of 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) and a new analog, 2-methylene-19-nor-(20S)-1 alpha-hydroxy-bishomopregnacalciferol (2MbisP), on the development of secondary hyperparathyroidism and established secondary hyperparathyroidism in uremic rats and on mobilization of calcium and phosphorus from bone in parathyroidectomized rats. The clearance from circulation, half-life, and binding affinities to the vitamin D-binding protein and vitamin D receptor of this compound were also evaluated.
Uremia produced a marked rise in plasma PTH, but treatment every other day for 2 wk with either 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) (4 ng) or 2MbisP (250, 750, 1500, or 3000 ng) suppressed this increase by >50%. The suppression by 1,25(OH)(2)D(3), however, was accompanied by increases in ionized calcium, phosphorus, and the calcium x phosphorus product, whereas these three parameters were unchanged by 2MbisP. The binding affinity of 2MbisP was 10-20 times less for the vitamin D receptor and 1000 times less for the serum vitamin D-binding protein compared with 1,25(OH)(2)D(3). Also, 2MbisP was cleared more rapidly from the circulation (t1/2 = 10 min) than 1,25-(OH)(2)D(3) (t1/2=7-9 h). In parathyroidectomized rats fed calcium-or phosphorus-deficient diets, daily injections of 2MbisP (1500 or 3000 ng), unlike 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) (50 ng), had no effect on calcium or phosphorus mobilization from bone.
In uremic rats, 2MbisP can suppress PTH at doses that do not affect plasma calcium, phosphorus, and calcium x phosphorus product. This new vitamin D analog may represent an important tool in the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism in patients with CKD.
Cardiac troponin T (cTnT) represents a sensitive and specific marker of ischemic myocardial damage in adult and neonatal populations. The aim of this study was to detect the potential ischemic effect of persistent patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) and indomethacin treatment on the coronary vascular bed by measuring cTnT concentrations. cTnT levels were measured in 23 preterm infants (<32 weeks of gestational age) with respiratory distress syndrome (RDS), 11 with PDA and 12 without, at 2, 4, and 7 days after birth. cTnT concentrations (mean +/- SEM) significantly decreased (P<0.05) from the 2nd (0.63+/-0.09 microg/l) and the 4th (0.77+/-0.13 microg/l) to the 7th postnatal day (0.28+/-0.04 microg/l). At day 2 after birth, cTnT levels in preterm infants with RDS were significantly higher (P<0.05) than our reference values for healthy preterm neonates (0.63+/-0.09 microg/l vs. 0.18+/-0.04 microg/l). No differences were found between RDS infants with and without PDA at 2 (0.65+/-0.13 vs. 0.61+/-0.14 microg/l), 4 (0.71+/-0.21 vs. 0.87+/-0.16 microg/l), and 7 (0.26+/-0.05 vs. 0.29+/-0.07 microg/l) days of life. In infants with PDA, cTnT levels did not differ before the first dose of indomethacin was given (0.65+/-0.14 microg/l) or 2 h (0.65+/-0.15 microg/l) and 48 h (0.71+/-0.21 microg/l) afterwards.
In preterm infants with RDS the occurrence of PDA and indomethacin treatment are not associated with ischemic cardiac damage as detected by cTnT measurements.
Arginine-induced insulin and glucagon secretion preceding and following clofibrate treatment was studied in 13 patients with endogenous hypertriglyceridemia. A positive correlation was demonstrated between fasting insulin and triglyceride levels and between the fasting insulin/glucagon molar ratio and triglyceride levels. In patients with endogenous hypertriglyceridemia, anginine infusion induced a significantly increased glucagon response with respect to that found in controls. No correlation was found to exist between glucagon and free fatty acids (FFA) or between glucagon and triglyceride levels. The same lack of correlation was found in normal subjects rendered hypertriglyceridemic by means of Intralipid infusion, which did not modify the fasting glucagon-like immunoreactivity (GLI) or the GLI response to arginine. Clofibrate treatment induces a triglyceride reduction (incrementTG) which is correlated with the reduction in the insulin/glucagon molar ration (incrementI/G). After clofibrate treatment there is also a significant reduction in fasting GLI levels and in the insulin response to arginine, and an increase in the glucagon response. Clofibrate could exercise its hypolipidemic effect by modifying the relationship between insulin and glucagon levels.
Brain and spinal tumors are the second most common malignancies in childhood after leukemia, and they remain the leading cause of death from childhood cancer. Autophagy is a catabolic cellular process that is thought to regulate chemosensitivity, however its role in pediatric tumors is unknown. Here we present studies in pediatric medulloblastoma cell lines (DAOY, ONS76) and atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor cell lines (BT-16, BT-12) to test this role. Autophagy was inhibited using siRNA against autophagy-related genes ATG12 and ATG7 or pharmacologically induced or inhibited using rapamycin and chloroquine to test the effect of autophagy on chemosensitivity. Autophagic flux was measured using Western blot analysis of LC3-II and p62 and cell viability was determined using MTS assays and clonogenic growth. We found that when pediatric brain tumor cells under starvation stress, exposed to known autophagy inducers such as rapamycin, or treated with current chemotherapeutics (lomustine, cisplatin), all stimulate autophagy. Silencing ATG12 and ATG7 or exposure to a known autophagy inhibitor, chloroquine, could inhibit this autophagy increase; however, the effect of autophagy on tumor cell killing was small. These results may have clinical relevance in the future planning of therapeutic regimens for pediatric brain tumors.
Polycystic ovary syndrome is characterized among other things by oligo-amenorrhea and may account for more than 75% of cases with anoluvatory infertility. Due to its positive effects on polycystic ovary syndrome-induced infertility metformin has become one of the most common drugs used in this group of patients. The efficacy of the drug as well as the first reports on metformin used in pregnancy has encouraged the continued use of the drug after conception. This MiniReview reviews the current pros and cons of metformin use in pregnancy while awaiting the results of ongoing randomised, controlled clinical trials addressing the subject.
The study was dedicated to evaluation of discriminative stimulus properties of opiate withdrawal syndrome precipitated by naloxon. The possibility of naloxon-appropriate reaction significantly increased in a dose-dependent manner (0-1.0 mg/kg, ED50 = 0.03 mg/kg) and was observed during the period of morphine withdrawal (8-96 h, peak at 24 h). Naloxone stimulus effects were antagonized by morphine (10-100.mg/kg), thus providing the experimental evidence for competitive and saturatable nature of interaction with opiate receptors. The probability of naloxone-appropriate reaction decreased during administration of the conditioned stimulus associated with morphine injection. Ligands of peripheral opiate receptors failed to either substitute for naloxone (methylnaloxon, 0.1-3.0 mg/kg) or attenuate naloxone stimulus effects (loperamide, 1-30 mg/kg).
Acute renal failure (ARF), which is diagnosed in 3.4-20% of newborns, is polyetiological in most cases. We present a newborn with non-oliguric ARF diagnosed in the first day of life, and caused by asphixia, intrauterine infection (IUI) and nephrotoxic effects of metotrexate treatment during pregnancy. Antibiotics, including netilmicin and vankomycin, were given because of IUI and infected central venous catheter. Dosage of drugs was adjusted to renal failure parameters, but monitoring of their serum levels was not available. It could cause augmented acute tubular necrosis and interstitial nephritis. Analysis of ARF risk factors in newborns helps in early diagnosis of renal damage and in prompt implementation of therapy.
In an effort to investigate the mechanism by which Yinchenhao decoction (YCHD) acts on liver injury, we investigated the potential antifibrogenic effects of YCHD in an experimental liver fibrosis rat model, with special focus on the mechanisms inhibiting the activation and promoting apoptosis of hepatic stellate cells (HSC).
The rats were initially randomized into two groups: the control (n = 10) and dimethylnitrosamine-treated (DMN; n = 30) groups. DMN (10 mg/kg body weight) was administered intraperitoneally to the DMN-treated rats for three consecutive days each week. At the end of the second week, three rats from the control and six rats from the DMN-treated groups were killed for the fibrosis development assessment. The remaining DMN rats were further randomized into two groups: the DMN-water group (n = 12) and the DMN-YCHD group (n = 12). Both groups continued to receive weekly DMN treatment for another 2 weeks in addition to daily administration of either water or YCHD, which were given intragastrically at a dose of 0.418 g/100 g body weight.
Hepatic hydroxyproline content decreased and had improved histopathology in the DMN-YCHD rats. Compared to the DMN group, alpha-smooth muscle actin (SMA) and CD68 expression in the DMN-YCHD group was reduced significantly; however, alpha-SMA-positive HSC apoptosis was not observed by confocal microscopy; Fibrogenic proteins (tissue inhibitor matrix proteinases-1 and 2 and matrix metalloproteinase [MMP]-2/14) and cytokines (tumor necrosis factor-alpha and transforming growth factor-beta(1)) were decreased; MMP-9 was significantly upregulated.
Yinchenhao administration attenuates liver fibrosis at least in part by inhibiting HSC activation directly, rather than promoting cell apoptosis of activated HSC, and the suppressive activation of Kupffer cells.
Two new triterpenoids, 21 beta-hydroxyolean-12-en-3-one (1) and a seco-dinor derivative of pristimerine named dzununcanone (2), were isolated from the root bark of Hippocratea excelsa. Their structures were assigned on the basis of spectroscopic evidence, mainly 1H and 13C 1D and 2D NMR including DEPT, COSY, ROESY, HSQC, and HMBC experiments, as well as EIMS and HREIMS. The known 21alpha-hydroxy-3-oxofriedelane (3), a compound new to the species, and the known methide quinones pristimerine (4) tingenone (5), and xuxuarine Ebeta (7) were also isolated. The antiprotozoal activities were determined against Giardia intestinalis. Pristimerine and tingenone were the most active antigiardial compounds, with IC50 values of 0.11 and 0.74 microM, respectively, compared with metronidazole, the current drug of choice (IC50 1.23 microM).
