This study addressed the hypothesis that the vestibular or lethal toxicities of allylnitrile depend on CYP2E1-mediated bioactivation. Wild-type (129S1) and CYP2E1-null male mice were exposed to allylnitrile at doses of 0, 0.5, 0.75, or 1.0 mmol/kg (po), following exposure to drinking water with 0 or 1% acetone, which induces CYP2E1 expression. Induction of CYP2E1 activity by acetone in 129S1 mice and lack of activity in null mice was confirmed in liver microsomes. Vestibular toxicity was assessed using a behavioral test battery and illustrated by scanning electron microscopy observation of the sensory epithelia. In parallel groups, concentrations of allylnitrile and cyanide were assessed in blood after exposure to 0.75 mmol/kg of allylnitrile. Following allylnitrile exposure, mortality was lower in CYP2E1-null than in 129S1 mice, and increased after acetone pretreatment only in 129S1 mice. This increase was associated with higher blood concentrations of cyanide. In contrast, no consistent differences were recorded in vestibular toxicity between 129S1 and CYP2E1-null mice, and between animals pretreated with acetone or not. Additional experiments evaluated the effect on the toxicity of 1.0 mmol/kg allylnitrile of the nonselective P450 inhibitor, 1-aminobenzotriazole, the CYP2E1-inhibitor, diallylsulfide, and the CYP2A5 inhibitor, methoxsalen. In 129S1 mice, aminobenzotriazole decreased both mortality and vestibular toxicity, whereas diallylsulfide decreased mortality only. In CYP2E1-null mice, aminobenzotriazole and methoxsalen, but not diallylsulfide, blocked allylnitrile-induced vestibular toxicity. We conclude that CYP2E1-mediated metabolism of allylnitrile leads to cyanide release and acute mortality, probably through alpha-carbon hydroxylation, and hypothesize that epoxidation of the beta-gamma double bond by CYP2A5 mediates vestibular toxicity.
Prazosin hydrochloride, a new antihypertensive agent, is said to be of mild-to-moderate potency when used as a sole agent in mild-to-moderate hypertension and when used in conjunction with other agents in severe hypertension. In our study of 14 patients comparing hydrochlorothiazide with prazosin, the antigypertensive effect of prazosin was less than that of hydrochlorothiazide. The greatest application of prazosin may be in conjunction with thiazide diuretics and beta-adrenergic blocking agents as the second or third drug.
The authors report on a case of treatment-related myocardial infarction in a young man receiving chemotherapy (BEP) for testicular cancer and discuss the implications of the case.
Mutations in the SOD1 gene are responsible for approximately 25% of all familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) cases. However, the correlation between the clinical and pathological features and the various SOD1 gene mutations has not been well characterized.
To screen the SOD1 gene in search of potential mutations and to obtain clinical and pathological data for 2 Japanese families with ALS.
Clinical histories and neurological findings, gross and microscopic pathological features, and DNA analysis of the SOD1 gene.
The 2 families with ALS showed a novel missense mutation in the SOD1 gene, which was heterozygous for point mutation TTG to TCG, causing substitution of leucine for serine at codon 126 (Leu126Ser) in exon 5. Clinically, patients showed slower disease progression and lack of upper motor neuron signs. Neuropathologically, the autopsied patient showed the form of familial ALS with posterior column involvement, and the pontocerebellar tract and the dentate nuclei of the cerebellum were also involved. Furthermore, abundant Lewy body-like hyaline inclusions were observed in the affected motor and nonmotor neurons.
Familial ALS with a novel Leu126Ser mutation in the SOD1 gene showed mild clinical features and lack of upper motor neuron signs. We believe that Leu126Ser might be associated with the clinical features and that the mutation site in the SOD1 gene and disease duration might be associated with the formation of Lewy body-like hyaline inclusions.
Neurological disturbances due to lithium-carbamazepine combination therapy are infrequent, and only a few cases have been reported so far. We describe a most unusual case of a patient with a history of bipolar disorder who developed ataxic gait, imbalance, and intention tremor after lithium-and-carbamazepine combination treatment with therapeutic serum levels of both drugs; he recovered completely when carbamazepine was discontinued. We also review the literature about this infrequent relationship, discuss on its proposed origin, and underline its importance as a potential adverse effect in elderly patients, yet with therapeutic or even subtherapeutic serum levels.
Ciprofloxacin has been associated with several side effects including interstitial nephritis and hemolytic anemia. The combination of both side effects is extremely rare. In this report, we describe a case of ciprofloxacin-induced interstitial nephritis and autoimmune hemolytic anemia. Hemolytic anemia improved after stopping the drug and initiation of steroid therapy. Unfortunately, acute interstitial nephritis was irreversible and the patient developed end-stage renal disease.
During a ten-year period, 348 women were studied for a total of 5,877 patient months in four separate studies relating oral contraceptives to changes in hematologic parameters. Significant increases in certain factors of the blood coagulation and fibrinolysin systems (factors I,II,VII,VIII,IX, and X and plasminogen) were observed in the treated groups. Severe complications developed in four patients. All four had an abnormal blood coagulation profile, suggesting "hypercoagulability" before initiation of therapy. Some of these findings represented the most extreme abnormalities seen in the entire group of patients; some increased further during therapy. One of these patients developed a myocardial infarction before receiving any medication, shortly after the base-line values were obtained. One patient developed retinopathy 19 months after she began therapy, and another developed thrombophlebitis after 27 months of therapy. The fourth patient developed thrombophlebitis 14 days after initiation of contraceptive therapy. All four patients were of the A or AB blood group. Previous studies suggested the possiblility of increased propensity for thromboembolic episodes in patients possessing the A antigen. It appears from these data that hematologic work-ups may be useful in women who are about to start long-term oral contraceptive therapy.
A summary of a 10-year study on thromboembolic and other complications of oral contraceptive (OC) therapy in relationship to pretreatment levels of blood coagulation is presented. 348 women were studied for a total of 5877 patient months in 4 separate studies. Increases in certain factors of the blood coagulation and fibrinolysin systems (factors 1, 2, 7, 8, 9, and 10 and plasminogen) were observed in treated groups. 4 patients developed severe complications and all 4 had an abnormal blood coagulation profile suggesting "hypercoagulability" be fore initiation of therapy. 1 patient developed retinopathy 19 months after she began therapy and another developed thrombophebitis after 27 months of therapy. The 4th patient developed thrombophlebitis 2 weeks after initiation of therapy. All 4 patients were of the A or AB blood group. These data suggest that hematologic work-ups may be useful in women about to start OC therapy.
Accumulating evidence suggests that inflammation plays a major role in the pathogenesis of motor neuron death in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Important mediators of inflammation such as the cytokine tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and its superfamily member fibroblast-associated cell-surface ligand (FasL) have been implicated in apoptosis. We found increased TNF-alpha and FasL immunoreactivity in lumbar spinal cord sections of ALS patients and G93A transgenic mice. Both increased TNF-alpha and FasL immunostaining in the lumbar spinal cord of the G93A SOD1 transgenic mice occurred at 40-60 d, well before the onset of symptoms and loss of motor neurons. We tested the neuroprotective effect of thalidomide and its analog lenalidomide, pharmacological agents that inhibit the expression of TNF-alpha and other cytokines by destabilizing their mRNA. Treatment with either thalidomide or lenalidomide attenuated weight loss, enhanced motor performance, decreased motor neuron cell death, and significantly increased the life span in G93A transgenic mice. Treated G93A mice showed a reduction in TNF-alpha and FasL immunoreactivity as well as their mRNA in the lumbar spinal cord. Both compounds also reduced interleukin (IL)-12p40, IL-1alpha, and IL-1beta and increased IL-RA and TGF-beta1 mRNA. Therefore, both thalidomide and lenalidomide bear promise as therapeutic interventions for the treatment of ALS.
To determine pharmacokinetics of terbutaline in healthy horses and to relate serum terbutaline concentrations with the drug's pharmacodynamic effects.
6 healthy horses.
Horses were given terbutaline i.v. (10 microg/kg of body weight) and, 1 week later, p.o. (100 microg/kg). Responses to drug administration (eg, heart rate and serum lactate concentration) were measured. Serum terbutaline concentration was measured by means of gas chromatography with mass spectrometry. Protein binding was determined in vitro.
Following i.v. administration, median maximum serum terbutaline concentration and mean residence time were 9.3 ng/ml and 30 minutes, respectively. Bioavailability following oral administration was < 1%. All horses developed sweating, trembling, excitement, and tachycardia during i.v. infusion. The 2 horses with the highest serum terbutaline concentrations developed severe tachycardia and CNS stimulation; 30 minutes after the i.v. infusion was completed, they were hyperventilating and lethargic. Heart rate and serum lactate concentration increased as serum terbutaline concentration increased.
Results indicated that terbutaline is rapidly cleared from the bloodstream following i.v. administration to horses, suggesting that continuous i.v. infusion would be needed to maintain therapeutic serum concentrations. Oral administration of terbutaline to horses is not practical because of the low bioavailability.
Drug-induced renal injury is a common finding in the early preclinical phase of drug development. But the specific genes responding to renal injury remain poorly defined. Identification of drug-induced gene changes is critical to provide insights into molecular mechanisms and detection of renal damage. To identify genes associated with the development of drug-induced nephrotoxicity, a literature survey was conducted and a panel of 48 genes was selected based on gene expression changes in multiple published studies. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were dosed daily for 1, 3 or 5 days to the known nephrotoxicants gentamicin, bacitracin, vancomycin and cisplatin, or the known hepatotoxicants ketoconazole, 1-naphthyl isothiocyanate and 4,4-diaminodiphenylmethane. Histopathological evaluation and clinical chemistry revealed renal proximal tubular necrosis in rats treated with the nephrotoxicants, but not from those treated with the hepatotoxicants. RNA was extracted from the kidney, and RT-PCR was performed to evaluate expression profiles of the selected genes. Among the genes examined, 24 genes are confirmed to be highly induced or repressed in rats treated with nephrotoxicants; further investigation identified that 5 of the 24 genes were also altered by hepatotoxicants. These data led to the identification of a set of genomic biomarker candidates whose expression in kidney is selectively regulated only by nephrotoxicants. Among those genes displaying the highest expression changes specifically in nephrotoxicant-treated rats were kidney injury molecule 1 (Kim1), lipocalin 2 (Lcn2), and osteopontin (Spp1). The establishment of such a genomic marker set offers a new tool in our ongoing quest to monitor nephrotoxicity.
Intra-arterial thrombolysis has been demonstrated to improve recanalization and outcomes among patients with acute ischemic stroke. However, thrombolytic agents have limited effectiveness and are associated with a significant risk of bleeding. Bivalirudin is a direct thrombin inhibitor that has been demonstrated in the cardiology literature to have a more favorable efficacy and bleeding profile than other antithrombotic medications. We report the use of bivalirudin during endovascular treatment of acute stroke, when hemorrhagic complications are not uncommon.
A 71-year-old woman with atrial fibrillation presented with right hemiparesis and aphasia and was found to have a National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale score of 10. Computed tomographic scans revealed no evidence of intracranial hemorrhage, aneurysm, or ischemic stroke. Cerebral angiography revealed thromboembolic occlusion of the superior division of the left middle cerebral artery.
For anticoagulation, a loading dose of bivalirudin was intravenously administered before the interventional procedure, followed by continuous infusion. Attempts to remove the clot with an endovascular snare failed to induce recanalization of the vessel. Bivalirudin was then administered intra-arterially. Immediate postprocedural angiography demonstrated restoration of flow in the left middle cerebral artery. Repeat computed tomographic scans demonstrated no intracranial hemorrhage. The patient's hemiparesis and aphasia were nearly resolved and her National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale score was 2 at the time of her discharge 5 days later.
To our knowledge, this is the first report of the use of bivalirudin for treatment of acute ischemic stroke. Bivalirudin may be a useful agent for intravenous anticoagulation and intra-arterial thrombolysis in this setting.
The authors treat a case of mesenterial venous thrombosis that they have observed in a young woman during oral contraceptive treatment with estrogens. In the anamnesis the patient hadn't any unhealthy precedent that could be ascribed to vascular alteration and of hemocoagulation. Analysing the observations of some anglo-saxon authors and recent studies about the rol of plaques, the authors establish a casual relation between the use of oral contraceptives and endothelial lesions of vascular bottom, and they outline the utility, like a new screening, of antithrombin III dosage.
The authors report on the case of a 30-year-old woman hospitalized for sudden and acute abdominal pains. Surgery revealed mesenterial venous thrombosis; the clinical history of the patient had no antecedents of vascular alterations or of hemocoagulation problems. The thrombotic accident was attributed to oral contraceptive use prolonged for over 10 years. A detailed review of the literature on the subject published during the last 10 years reveals a vast amount of almost identical cases. Authors, however, greatly disagree on the screening methods of such accidents prior to eventual surgery. The authors of this article insist on early screening of antithrombin 3 dosage.
Only a few cases of severe acute water intoxication (AWI) due to intranasal desmopressin have been reported, none of which occurred in patients with primary polydipsia. We describe a case of AWI with semicoma and convulsions, due to intranasal desmopressin, in a 32-year-old patient with dipsogenic diabetes insipidus. Previous reported cases of AWI due to desmopressin are discussed. The importance of ruling out primary polydipsia when this drug is used, not only for central diabetes insipidus but also for other current indications such as classic hemophilia, is stressed.
Renal fibrosis is central to the progression of diabetic nephropathy; however, the mechanisms responsible for fibroblast and matrix accumulation in this disease are only partially understood. Macrophages accumulate in diabetic kidneys, but it is unknown whether macrophages contribute to renal fibrosis. Therefore, we examined whether macrophage accumulation is associated with the progression of renal injury and fibrosis in type 1 diabetic nephropathy and whether macrophages exposed to the diabetic milieu could promote fibroblast proliferation.
Kidney macrophages, renal injury and fibrosis were analysed in diabetic C57BL/6J mice at 2, 8, 12 and 18 weeks after streptozotocin injection. Isolated rat bone marrow macrophages were stimulated with diabetic rat serum or carboxymethyllysine (CML)-bovine serum albumin (BSA) to determine whether macrophage-conditioned medium could promote the proliferation of rat renal (NRK-49F) fibroblasts.
Progressive injury and fibrosis in diabetic nephropathy was associated with increased numbers of kidney macrophages. Macrophage accumulation in diabetic mice correlated with hyperglycaemia (blood glucose, HbA1c levels), renal injury (albuminuria, plasma creatinine), histological damage and renal fibrosis (myofibroblasts, collagen IV). Culture supernatant derived from bone marrow macrophages incubated with diabetic rat serum or CML-BSA induced proliferation of fibroblasts, which was inhibited by pre-treating fibroblasts with interleukin-1 (IL-1) receptor antagonist or the platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) receptor kinase inhibitor, STI-571.
Kidney macrophage accumulation is associated with the progression of renal injury and fibrosis in streptozotocin-induced mouse diabetic nephropathy. Elements of the diabetic milieu can stimulate macrophages to promote fibroblast proliferation via IL-1- and PDGF-dependent pathways which may enhance renal fibrosis.
Valproic acid (VPA) causes the failure of neural tube closure in newborn mice. However, the molecular mechanism of its teratogenesis is unknown. This study was conducted to investigate the genomewide effects of VPA disruption of normal neural tube development in mice.
Microarray analysis was performed on the head part of NMRI mouse embryos treated for 1 hr with VPA on gestational day (GD) 8. Subsequently, we attempted to isolate genes that changed in correlation with the teratogenic action of VPA by employing reduced teratogenic VPA analogs, valpromide (VPD) and valnoctamide (VCD), in a real-time PCR study.
Microarray results demonstrated that during neurulation, many genes, some of whose functions are known and some unknown, were either increased or decreased after VPA injection. Some genes were affected by VPD or VCD in the same way as VPA, but others were not changed by the analogs. In this way, our system identified 11 increased and 20 decreased genes. Annotation analysis revealed that the increased genes included gadd45b, ier5, per1, phfl3, pou3f1, and sox4, and the decreased genes included ccne2, ccnl, gas5, egr2, sirt1, and zfp105.
These findings demonstrate that expression changes in genes having roles in the cell cycle and apoptosis pathways of neural tube cells were strongly expected to relate to the teratogenic, but not antiepileptic, activity of VPA. Our approach has allowed the expansion of the catalog of molecules immediately affected by VPA in the developing neural tube.
To search for a new clinical application of melittin (Mel): treating hepatocellular carcinoma with Mel gene.
Recombinant adenoviruses carrying the Mel gene and alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) promoter (Ad-rAFP-Mel) were constructed through a bacterial homologous recombinant system. The efficiency of adenovirus-mediated gene transfer and the inhibitory effect of Ad-rAFP-Mel on the proliferation of hepatocarcinoma cells were determined by X-gal stain and MTT assay, respectively. The tumorigenicity of hepatocarcinoma cells transfected by Ad-rAFP-Mel and the antitumor effect of Ad-rAFP-Mel on transplanted tumor in nude mice were detected in vivo.
The Mel mRNA was transcribed in BEL-7402 hepatocellular carcinoma cells transducted by Ad-rAFP-Mel. The efficiency of adenovirus-mediated gene transferred to BEL-7402 cells was 100% when the multiplicity of infection of Ad-rAFP-Mel was 10 in vitro, and was also high in vivo. The inhibitive rates of Ad-rAFP-Mel and Ad-rAFP for BEL7402 cells were 66.2 +/- 2.7% and 2.9 +/- 2.3% (t=30.83, P=6.6 x 10(-6)) by MTT assay. The inhibitive rates of Ad-CMV-Mel for BEL7402, SMMC7721 and L02 cells were 58.9 +/- 9.6%, 65.9 +/- 3.8% and 31.7 +/- 1.2%, respectively, and of Ad-rAFP-Mel were 66.2 +/- 2.7%, 16.1 +/- 6.6% and 7.5 +/- 3.3%, respectively (t=1.27, P=0.27; t=11.31, P=3.5 x 10(-4); and t=12.12, P=2.7 x 10(-4) versus the Ad-CMV-Mel group in the same cells). The tumorigenicity rates of hepatocarcinoma cells transfected by Ad-rAFP-Mel were decreased. A significant antineoplastic effect was detected on transplanted tumor in nude mice by intratumoral injection of Ad-rAFP-Mel.
Ad-rAFP-Mel can inhibit specifically proliferation of AFP-producing human hepatocarcinoma cells in vitro and in vivo. This suggests that animal toxin gene can be used as an antitumor gene.
Manganese (Mn) is an essential metal that, at excessive levels in the brain, produces extrapyramidal symptoms similar to those in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). In the present study, Mn toxicity was characterized in a human neuroblastoma (SK-N-SH) cell line and in a mouse catecholaminergic (CATH.a) cell line. Mn was demonstrated to be more toxic in the catecholamine-producing CATH.a cells (EC50 = 60 microM) than in non-catecholaminergic SK-N-SH cells (EC50 = 200 microM). To test the hypothesis that the sensitivity of CATH.a cells to Mn is associated with their dopamine (DA) content, DA concentrations were suppressed in these cells by pretreatment with alpha-methyl-para-tyrosine (AMPT). Treatment for 24 h with 100 microM AMPT decreased intracellular DA, but offered no significant protection from Mn exposure (EC50 = 60 microM). Additional studies were carried out to assess if Mn toxicity was dependent on glutathione (GSH) levels. CATH.a cells were significantly protected by the addition of 5mM GSH (Mn EC50 = 200 microM) and 10mM N-acetyl cysteine (NAC) (Mn EC50 = 300 microM), therefore, indirectly identifying intracellular ROS formation as a mechanism for Mn neurotoxicity. Finally, apoptotic markers of Mn-induced cell death were investigated. DNA fragmentation, caspase-3 activation, and apoptosis-related gene expression were studied in CATH.a cells. No internucleosomal fragmentation or caspase activation was evident, even in the presence of "supraphysiological" Mn concentrations. cDNA hydridization array analysis with two differing Mn concentrations and time points, identified no noteworthy mRNA inductions of genes associated with programmed cell death. In conclusion, DA content was not responsible for the enhanced sensitivity of CATH.a cells to Mn toxicity, but oxidative stress was implicated as a probable mechanism of cytotoxicity.
Tea has recently attracted a great deal of attention for its beneficial health effects. Green tea polyphenols inhibit the production of arachidonic acid metabolites and leukotrienes resulting in decreased inflammatory responses. In the present study, the effect of green tea extract (GTE) on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced thermal and behavioural hyperalgesia in mice and the possible involvement of the cyclooxygenase pathway in this paradigm was evaluated. GTE (25 mg/kg, i.p.), nimesulide (2 mg/kg, i.p.) and rofecoxib (2 mg/kg, i.p.) significantly attenuated LPS-induced thermal and behavioural hyperalgesia but per se did not modify any of the behavioural effects. Concurrent administration of a subeffective dose of GTE (10 mg/kg, i.p.) and rofecoxib (2 mg/kg, i.p.) or nimesulide (2 mg/kg, i.p.) significantly potentiated the antinociceptive effect of GTE in both LPS-induced thermal and behavioural hyperalgesia with nimesulide showing a more pronounced enhancing effect. Thus it can be concluded that GTE attenuates LPS-induced central and peripheral hyperalgesia by selective inhibition of cyclooxygenase-2 enzyme.
Previous studies demonstrated that chronic systemic exposure to the pesticide and mitochondrial toxin rotenone through jugular vein cannulation reproduced many features of Parkinson's disease (PD) in rats, including nigrostriatal dopaminergic degeneration and formation of alpha-synuclein-positive cytoplasmic inclusions in nigral neurons (R. Betarbet et al., 2000, Nat. Neurosci. 3, 1301-1306). Although novel and conceptually important, the rotenone model of PD suffered from being extremely labor-intensive. The current paper demonstrates that these same features of PD can be reproduced by chronic, systemic exposure to rotenone following implantation of subcutaneous osmotic pumps. Chronic subcutaneous exposure to low doses of rotenone (2.0-3.0 mg/kg/day) caused highly selective nigrostriatal dopaminergic lesions. Striatal neurons containing DARPP-32 (dopamine and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein) remained intact with normal morphology, and NeuN staining revealed normal neuronal nuclear morphology. Neurons of the globus pallidus and subthalamic nucleus were spared. Subcutaneous rotenone exposure caused alpha-synuclein-positive cytoplasmic aggregates in nigral neurons. This new protocol for chronic rotenone administration is a substantial improvement in terms of simplicity and throughput.
Metoclopramide, a dopamine-2 receptor antagonist used for various gastrointestinal disorders, may cause or exacerbate a variety of extrapyramidal movement disorders. To draw attention to the frequent occurrence of metoclopramide-induced movement disorders, we identified and studied 16 patients who had been exposed to this neuroleptic. The average age at onset was 63 years (range, 24 to 85 years), and women outnumbered men 3 to 1. Tardive dyskinesia was the most common movement disorder (n = 10 [63%]). Five patients had metoclopramide-induced parkinsonism, 1 patient had tardive dystonia, and 1 patient had akathisia. The average duration of exposure prior to onset of movement disorders was 12 months (range, 1 day to 4 years). Therapy was continued for an average of 6 months (range, 1 day to 2 years) after the onset of symptoms, reflecting clinical nonrecognition of the movement disorder and its relationship to metoclopramide. To prevent persistent and disabling movement disorders, long-term use of metoclopramide should be avoided, and patients should be carefully observed for potential neurologic reactions.
Coniine, an alkaloid from Conium maculatum (poison hemlock), has been shown to be teratogenic in livestock. The major teratogenic outcome is arthrogryposis, presumably due to nicotinic receptor blockade. However, coniine has failed to produce arthrogryposis in rats or mice and is only weakly teratogenic in rabbits. The purpose of this study was to evaluate and compare the effects of coniine and nicotine in the developing chick. Concentrations of coniine and nicotine sulfate were 0.015%, 0.03%, 0.075%, 0.15%, 0.75%, 1.5%, 3%, and 6% and 1%, 5%, and 10%, respectively. Both compounds caused deformations and lethality in a dose-dependent manner. All concentrations of nicotine sulfate caused some lethality but a no effect level for coniine lethality was 0.75%. The deformations caused by both coniine and nicotine sulfate were excessive flexion or extension of one or more toes. No histopathological alterations or differences in bone formation were seen in the limbs or toes of any chicks from any group; however, extensive cranial hemorrhage occurred in all nicotine sulfate-treated chicks. There was a statistically significant (P < or = 0.01) decrease in movement in coniine and nicotine sulfate treated chicks as determined by ultrasound. Control chicks were in motion an average of 33.67% of the time, while coniine-treated chicks were only moving 8.95% of a 5-min interval, and no movement was observed for nicotine sulfate treated chicks. In summary, the chick embryo provides a reliable and simple experimental animal model of coniine-induced arthrogryposis. Data from this model support a mechanism involving nicotinic receptor blockade with subsequent decreased fetal movement.
Large doses of heparin given as a bolus may produce hypotension; however, conflicting reports exist about the mechanisms involved. This study was undertaken to determine the role of histamine in beef lung heparin-induced hypotension and the efficacy of histamine-receptor blockade in attenuating this undesirable side effect in patients undergoing cardiac surgery. Two hundred patients with good ventricular function were studied after they were randomized into four equal groups. Group I (control) received no histamine-receptor blockade, group II received 1 mg/kg of diphenhydramine 30 minutes prior to heparin administration, group III received 5 mg/kg of cimetidine 4 hours and again 30 minutes before heparin administration, and group IV received 1 mg/kg of diphenhydramine 30 minutes prior to heparin administration and 5 mg/kg of cimetidine 4 hours and 30 minutes before heparin administration. Hemodynamic variables, plasma histamine, and ionized calcium levels were measured before and after heparin administration. Significant hypotension occurred in group I patients after heparin administration. Mean arterial pressure decreased from 95 +/- 5 to 67 +/- 1.5 mm Hg (P less than 0.005) after 1 minute and to 85 +/- 2 mm Hg (P less than 0.05) at 4 minutes. Those changes were significantly greater than in group II (P less than 0.025) and Group IV (P less than 0.005) patients, in whom no significant hypotension was found. In group III, mean arterial pressure decreased from 92 +/- 3 to 75 +/- 1 mm Hg (P less than 0.05) after 1 minute and returned toward baseline values after 4 minutes. Histamine levels increased significantly in all groups of patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Earlier, we showed that streptozocin (STZ)-induced type 1 diabetes in rats leads to the development of painful peripheral diabetic neuropathy (PDN) manifested as thermal hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia accompanied by significant enhancement of T-type calcium currents (T-currents) and cellular excitability in medium-sized dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. Here, we studied the in vivo and in vitro effects of gene-silencing therapy specific for the Ca(V)3.2 isoform of T-channels, on thermal and mechanical hypersensitivities, and T-current expression in small- and medium-sized DRG neurons of STZ-treated rats. We found that silencing of the T-channel Ca(V)3.2 isoform using antisense oligonucleotides, had a profound and selective anti-hyperalgesic effect in diabetic rats and is accompanied by significant down-regulation of T-currents in DRG neurons. Anti-hyperalgesic effects of Ca(V)3.2 antisense oligonucleotides in diabetic rats were similar in models of rapid and slow onset of hyperglycemia following intravenous and intraperitoneal injections of STZ, respectively. Furthermore, treatments of diabetic rats with daily insulin injections reversed T-current alterations in DRG neurons in parallel with reversal of thermal and mechanical hypersensitivities in vivo. This confirms that Ca(V)3.2 T-channels, important signal amplifiers in peripheral sensory neurons, may contribute to the cellular hyperexcitability that ultimately leads to the development of painful PDN.
Erosive esophagitis is a recurring condition for which many patients require preventive therapy. If maintenance therapy must be provided, the most cost-effective treatment strategy should be established. We evaluated the costs and benefits associated with three treatment strategies: 1) maintenance therapy with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) strategy, 2) maintenance therapy with a high-dose histamine-2 receptor antagonist (H2RA) strategy, and 3) maintenance therapy with a standard-dose H2RA. If patients experience a symptomatic recurrence on the H2RA strategies, they then receive PPI maintenance.
We used a cost-effectiveness model with a 1-yr time frame; data were obtained from randomized trials of lansoprazole and ranitidine, from case series, and expert opinion.
In most situations, the high-dose H2RA strategy is the most costly, yet it is less effective than the PPI strategy. Among the remaining two options, the PPI strategy is more costly and more effective than the standard-dose H2RA strategy, requiring an additional $52-688 per recurrence prevented, depending on drug acquisition costs. The greater the degree to which esophagitis decreases quality of life, the more cost effective is the PPI strategy. For example, with a $50,000 per quality-adjusted life year cost-effectiveness threshold and a market-weighted average of drug costs, the PPI strategy appears cost effective for those patients who report that symptoms of esophagitis cause greater than a 9% decrement in quality of life.
The high-dose H2RA strategy is not preferred in terms of either costs or benefits. The PPI strategy appears cost effective relative to the standard-dose H2RA strategy in the following situations: when patients are significantly bothered by esophagitis and in institutional settings where the difference in drug costs between PPIs and H2RAs is small.
Fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP), the lack of which causes fragile X syndrome, is an RNA-binding protein encoded by the FMR1 gene. FMRP accompanies mRNAs from the nucleus to dendritic regions and is thought to regulate their translation at synapses. It has been shown that FMRP moves into nontranslating stress granules (SGs) during heat stress of cultured fibroblasts (Mazroui et al., 2002). We used a novel method to isolate SGs from neurons by virtue of their TIA-1 (T-cell intracellular antigen 1) protein component, and found that FMRP moved out of polyribosomes and into SGs subsequent to oxidative stress. We then examined FMRP changes in subcellular localization resulting from mechanically induced neuronal injury by placement of electrodes into the dentate gyrus and the perforant path of the hippocampus in vivo. During the first 10 min after electrode insertion into one hippocampus, FMRP shifted into SGs and away from polyribosomes, in both hippocampi. Although the injury discharge subsided beyond 10 s, FMRP levels in polyribosomes and stress granules did not return to basal levels until 30 min after electrode penetration. Our findings suggest that procedures for in vivo induction of long-term potentiation or long-term depression should incorporate a 30 min rest period after electrode insertion, and indicate that the contralateral hippocampus cannot be considered an unstimulated control tissue.
To quantify efficacy and harm of pharmacological prevention of acute mountain sickness.
Systematic search (Medline, Embase, Cochrane Library, internet, bibliographies, authors) in any language, up to October 1999.
Randomised placebo controlled trials.
Dichotomous data on efficacy and harm from 33 trials (523 subjects received 13 different interventions, 519 a placebo).
At above 4000 m the mean incidence of acute mountain sickness with placebo was 67% (range 25% to 100%); incidence depended on the rate of ascent, but not on the altitude or the mode of ascent. Across all ascent rates, dexamethasone 8-16 mg prevented acute mountain sickness (relative risk 2.50 (95% confidence interval 1.71 to 3.66); number needed to treat (NNT) 2.8 (2.0 to 4.6)), without evidence of dose responsiveness. Acetazolamide 750 mg was also efficacious (2.18 (1.52 to 3.15); NNT 2.9 (2.0 to 5.2)), but 500 mg was not. In two trials, adverse reaction (including depression) occurred after dexamethasone was stopped abruptly (4.45 (1.08 to 18); NNT 3.7 (2.5 to 6.9)). With acetazolamide, paraesthesia (4.02 (1.71 to 9.43); NNT 3.0 (2.0 to 6.0)) and polyuria (4.24 (1.92 to 9.37); NNT 3.6 (2.5 to 6.2)) were reported. Data were sparse on nifedipine, frusemide (furosemide), dihydroxyaluminium-sodium, spironolactone, phenytoin, codeine, phenformin, antidiuretic hormone, and ginkgo biloba.
At above 4000 m, with a high ascent rate, fewer than three subjects need to be treated with prophylactic dexamethasone 8-16 mg or acetazolamide 750 mg for one subject not to experience acute mountain sickness who would have done so had they all received a placebo. Acetazolamide 500 mg does not work.
