Docetaxel, a semi-synthetic taxane analogue, is used effectively in the treatment of metastatic prostate cancer. Zoledronic acid, the most potent member of bisphosphonates, has shown pleiotropic anti-tumoral effects on prostate cancer cells. We have explored the possible additive/synergistic effects and the apoptotic pathways induced by combination treatment of docetaxel and zoledronic acid in hormone and drug refractory, PC-3 and DU-145 prostate cancer cells. Combination of docetaxel and zoledronic acid synergistically inhibits cell growth in PC-3 and DU-145 cells. Moreover, this effect was due to downregulation of antiapoptotic protein Bcl-2 in PC-3 and DU-145 cells. In conclusion, docetaxel/zoledronic acid combination is potentially a novel and effective approach for the treatment of prostate cancer.
We have recently reported that adult male C57BL/6 mice exposed in utero to the environmental toxicant 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) confer an increased risk of preterm birth (PTB) to unexposed females. Risk of PTB was coincident with decreased placental progesterone receptor (Pgr) mRNA expression and increased toll-like receptor 4 (Tlr4) mRNA expression, suggesting that toxicant exposure induced a heightened inflammatory response at the maternal-fetal interface. Since omega-3 fatty acids exhibit anti-inflammatory activity, in this study, we provided TCDD-exposed males a fish oil-enriched diet prior to mating. Although PTB was common in control females mated to TCDD-exposed males on the standard diet, fish oil supplementation of TCDD-exposed males eliminated PTB in unexposed partners. We also determined the influence of preconception, paternal fish oil supplementation on the placental inflammatory response in late pregnancy (E18.5) by examining the expression of Pgr and Tlr4 mRNA as well as the expression of 15-hydroxyprostaglandin dehydrogenase (PGDH). PGDH catabolizes the inflammatory PGE2 to an inactive form; thus, reduced expression of this enzyme would promote tissue inflammation. Compared with control pregnancies, examination of E18.5 placentas arising from TCDD-exposed males on the standard diet revealed a significant increase in Tlr4 mRNA expression corresponding to a reduction in Pgr mRNA and PGDH protein expression. In contrast, fish oil supplementation of toxicant-exposed males led to normalization of placental expression of both Pgr and Tlr4 mRNA and a marked increase in PGDH expression. These studies suggest that a paternal preconception diet that includes omega-3 fatty acids prevents the toxicant-associated increase in the placental inflammatory response at late gestation, preventing PTB.
This study intended to provide a patient profile for trazodone (a triazolopyridine-derivative of phenylpiperazine) prescription in everyday clinical practice in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), and to describe clinical evaluation and the impact on caregiver burden at a 6-month follow-up. A naturalistic, prospective and observational study was performed, with a 6-month follow-up in 396 patients with probable AD, according to the NINCDS-ARDRA criteria. At the baseline and at the 6-month visit, patients were administered the Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI) to determine their Behavioral and Psychological Symptoms of Dementia (BPSD), and the Zarit Burden Interview (ZBI) to assess the impact on caregiver burden. Trazodone was prescribed for 6.1% of patients. With respect to the baseline visit, the untreated group showed an increased global NPI score (3.1 points; 95% CI=1.9-4.2; p=0.001) and ZBI score (2.2 points; 95% CI=0.9-3.4; p=0.001). At 6 months, the global NPI and ZBI scores remained unchanged for the treated group. The treated group showed a significant reduction in the NPI irritability subscale score (2.1 points; 95% CI=0.4-3.7; p=0.015). In the clinical practice, trazodone treatment was prescribed for patients with irritability, agitation and disinhibition. After 6 months, patients treated with trazodone exhibited no increase in BPSD frequency or severity, nor was an increase noted in the caregiver burden.
We investigated the effect of resveratrol, a popular natural polyphenolic compound with antioxidant and proautophagic actions, on postinfarction heart failure. Myocardial infarction was induced in mice by left coronary artery ligation. Four weeks postinfarction, when heart failure was established, the surviving mice were started on 2-week treatments with one of the following: vehicle, low- or high-dose resveratrol (5 or 50 mg/kg/day, respectively), chloroquine (an autophagy inhibitor), or high-dose resveratrol plus chloroquine. High-dose resveratrol partially reversed left ventricular dilation (reverse remodeling) and significantly improved cardiac function. Autophagy was augmented in those hearts, as indicated by up-regulation of myocardial microtubule-associated protein-1 light chain 3-II, ATP content, and autophagic vacuoles. The activities of AMP-activated protein kinase and silent information regulator-1 were enhanced in hearts treated with resveratrol, whereas Akt activity and manganese superoxide dismutase expression were unchanged, and the activities of mammalian target of rapamycin and p70 S6 kinase were suppressed. Chloroquine elicited opposite results, including exacerbation of cardiac remodeling associated with a reduction in autophagic activity. When resveratrol and chloroquine were administered together, the effects offset one another. In vitro, compound C (AMP-activated protein kinase inhibitor) suppressed resveratrol-induced autophagy in cardiomyocytes, but did not affect the events evoked by chloroquine. In conclusion, resveratrol is a beneficial pharmacological tool that augments autophagy to bring about reverse remodeling in the postinfarction heart.
In the 1700s, Bernardino Ramazzini was among the first to describe respiratory disease among agricultural workers. Since then, farmers continue to have higher rates of respiratory illnesses, even as changes occur in occupational and environmental exposures on farms. While grain and animal exposures have been well studied for their role in agricultural lung diseases, pesticide exposures have not. Using the Agricultural Health Study, a prospective cohort study of approximately 89,000 licensed pesticide applicators and their spouses in Iowa and North Carolina, we are currently assessing the association of pesticides with respiratory outcomes, including wheeze, adult asthma, farmer's lung, and chronic bronchitis. At enrollment (1993-1997), 19% of farmers and 22% of commercial pesticide applicators reported wheeze in the previous year. Using logistic regression models adjusted for age, state, smoking status, and body mass index, we evaluated the association of 40 individual pesticides with wheeze within these two groups separately. In both groups, we observed strong evidence of an association of organophosphates with wheeze. For farmers, the organophosphates chlorpyrifos, malathion, and parathion were positively associated with wheeze; for the commercial applicators, the organophosphates chlorpyrifos, dichlorvos, and phorate were positively associated with wheeze. Chlorpyrifos was strongly associated with wheeze in a dose-dependent manner in both groups; use of chlorpyrifos for at least 20 days per year had an odds ratio of 1.48 (95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.00-2.19) for farmers and 1.96 (95% CI = 1.05-3.66) for commercial applicators. Our wheeze results are consistent with recent animal models that support a role for organophosphates and respiratory outcomes.
Multi-drug resistance mediated by ATP-binding cassette trans-membrane protein pumps is an important cause of cancer treatment failure. Sulindac has been shown to be a competitive substrate for the clinically important resistance protein, multi-drug resistance protein-1 (MRP-1), and thus might enhance the anti-cancer activity of substrate chemotherapeutic agents, e.g. anthracyclines.
We conducted a dose-escalating, single arm, prospective, open label, non-randomised phase I trial of epirubicin (75 mg/m(2)) in combination with escalating oral doses of sulindac (0-800 mg) in patients with advanced cancer to identify an appropriate dose of sulindac to use in future resistance studies. Anthracycline and sulindac pharmacokinetics were studied in cycles 1 and 3.
Seventeen patients (8 breast, 3 lung, 2 bowel, 1 melanoma, 1 renal, 1 ovarian and 1 of unknown primary origin, 16/17 having had prior chemotherapy) were enrolled. Eight patients received a full six cycles of treatment; 14 patients received three or more cycles. Dose-limiting toxicity was observed in two patients at 800 mg sulindac (1 renal impairment, 1 fatal haemoptysis in a patient with advanced lung cancer), and sulindac 600 mg was deemed to be the maximum tolerated dose. Sulindac had no effect on epirubicin pharmacokinetics. Among 15 patients with evaluable tumour, two partial responses were seen (malignant melanoma and breast cancer). Four others had prolonged stable disease.
Epirubicin 75 mg/m(2) and sulindac 600 mg are the recommended doses for phase II studies for these agents in combination.
Clozapine was the first atypical 'broad spectrum' antipsychotic drug to be marketed and the first agent approved for the treatment of schizophrenia refractory to other medications. It is also effective for the treatment of aggressive behaviour in schizophrenic and demented patients and in the management of psychosis and aggression in Parkinson's disease and Lewy body dementia.
The aim of this review is to study the safety of clozapine for use in elderly patients.
An extensive Medline search was made. Some studies that were referenced in reports from our pharmacovigilance centre and from regulatory agencies such as the FDA, EMEA and WHO were included.
Clozapine treatment in the elderly requires a careful geriatric assessment. However, its use is strongly limited by the possibility of onset of severe adverse effects such as potentially fatal agranulocytosis, myocarditis and others such as seizures, weight gain and metabolic adverse effects.
This large-scale retrospective review evaluates the sedation profile of dexmedetomidine.
To determine the hemodynamic responses, efficacy and adverse events associated with the use of high dose dexmedetomidine as the sole sedative for magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies.
Dexmedetomidine has been used at our institution since 2005 to provide sedation for pediatric radiological imaging studies. Over time, an effective protocol utilizing high dose dexmedetomidine as the sole sedative agent has evolved.
As part of the ongoing Quality Assurance process, data on all sedations are reviewed monthly and protocols modified as needed. Data were analyzed from all 747 consecutive patients who received dexmedetomidine for MRI sedation from April 2005 to April 2007.
Since 2005, the 10-min loading dose of our dexmedetomidine protocol increased from 2 to 3 microg.kg(-1), and the infusion rate increased from 1 to 1.5 to 2 microg.kg(-1).h(-1). The current sedation protocol progressively increased the rate of successful sedation (able to complete the imaging study) when using dexmedetomidine alone from 91.8% to 97.6% (P = 0.009), reducing the requirement for adjuvant pentobarbital in the event of sedation failure with dexmedetomidine alone and decreased the mean recovery time by 10 min (P < 0.001). Although dexmedetomidine sedation was associated with a 16% incidence of bradycardia, all concomitant mean arterial blood pressures were within 20% of age-adjusted normal range and oxygen saturations were 95% or higher.
Dexmedetomidine in high doses provides adequate sedation for pediatric MRI studies. While use of high dose dexmedetomidine is associated with decreases in heart rate and blood pressure outside the established 'awake' norms, this deviation is generally within 20% of norms, and is not associated with adverse sequelae. Dexmedetomidine is useful as the sole sedative for pediatric MRI.
Irinotecan (CPT-11) is a chemotherapeutic drug for cancer that causes severe diarrhea by an uncertain mechanism. The aim of the present study was to investigate the time-course of apoptosis and whole intestinal damage after irinotecan to further elucidate the mechanism behind the diarrhea.
Groups of breast cancer-bearing dark agouti (DA) rats were treated with 100, 150 or 200 mg/kg doses of irinotecan or vehicle control daily for two days, and killed at 6, 24, 72 or 96 h after treatment. Apoptosis and morphometry were examined in both the small and large intestines. Histopathology and goblet cell numbers were recorded. Data were analyzed using the Peritz' F-test.
Irinotecan increased apoptosis and caused villous atrophy and crypt hypoplasia in the small intestine, and increased apoptosis, crypt hypoplasia, crypt dilation and mucus secretion in the large intestine. Irinotecan at 100 and 150 mg/kg caused crypt hypoplasia at 6 and 24 h, with rebound hyperplasia at 72 and 96 h. At 200 mg/kg, irinotecan caused a more pronounced crypt hypoplasia earlier and all animals died by 96 h. Apoptosis peaked at 6 h and remained elevated over the remainder of the time-points. This was not dose-dependent. Irinotecan at all doses altered colonic, but not jejunal, goblet cells. Irinotecan increased colonic mucus secretion.
We conclude that irinotecan causes diarrhea by inducing apoptosis and hypoproliferation in both the small and large intestines, and causes colonic damage with changes in goblet cells and mucin secretion.
To determine the incidence of induced systemic hypotension in patients after aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) and nimodipine treatment 87 consecutive cases were reviewed. The patients were managed according to the same Nimodipine treatment protocol. After confirmation of SAH the nimodipine treatment was started as a continuous intravenous perfusion at a dosage of 0.5 mg/h and gradually increased every 6 hours if haemodynamically tolerated until the maintenance dose of 2 mg/h was reached. Median systemic pressure was continuously measured and tolerated until a lowest limit of 75 mmHg. In 31 patients (36%) hypotension with values below 75 mmHg during at least 30 minutes was noted and needed Nimodipine reduction. Intravenous Nimodipine administration was responsible for hypotension in 26 cases as compared to 5 cases due to oral administration. 38% of all patients required support by vaso-active agents (Dopamine or Nor-adrenaline). There was no statistically significant difference of incidence of delayed ischaemic deterioration comparing the Nimodipine-reduction group with the normal dose group. This study demonstrates that a considerable risk exists of Nimodipine induced hypotension in intravenous administration despite gradually increasing the doses. Correction of hypotension through further induced hypervolaemia accompanied by vasoactive agents can lead to critical haemodynamic situations. We therefore recommend oral Nimodipine administration.
Sexually experienced male CFHB rats, castrated and implanted with testosterone, were chronically treated with domperidone (ca. 5 mg/kg/day). Twice-weekly tests of sexual behaviour showed a significant elevation of both mount latency and ejaculation latency, and suppression of mounting rate after 2-3 weeks of treatment. The number of mounts and intromissions before ejaculation was increased on some tests by domperidone. Experienced male WAG rats, also castrated and testosterone implanted, received three pituitary grafts under the kidney capsule. An increase in ejaculation latency was seen during the first week and then again several weeks after grafting, though implantation of non-endocrine tissue (muscle) into the controls may also have affected behaviour. Both treatments elevated serum prolactin levels, domperidone much more substantially than pituitary grafts. Serum testosterone levels were sustained within the normal intact range by the implants. The weights of the seminal vesicles, ventral prostate and adrenal glands were not significantly altered by either treatment. These experiments show that hyperprolactinaemia induced by two independent methods can retard sexual behaviour in male rats.
The biliary epithelium is involved both in bile production and in the inflammatory/reparative response to liver damage. Recent data indicate that inflammatory aggression to intrahepatic bile ducts results in chronic progressive cholestasis.
To understand the effects of nitric oxide on cholangiocyte secretion and biliary tract pathophysiology we have investigated: (1) the effects of proinflammatory cytokines on NO production and expression of the inducible nitric oxide synthase (NOS2), (2) the effects of NO on cAMP-dependent secretory mechanisms, and (3) the immunohistochemical expression of NOS2 in a number of human chronic liver diseases.
Our results show that: (1) tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, and interferon (IFN)-gamma, synergically stimulate NO production in cultured cholangiocytes through an increase in NOS2 gene and protein expression; (2) micromolar concentrations of NO inhibit forskolin-stimulated cAMP production by adenylyl cyclase (AC), cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP)-dependent fluid secretion, and cAMP-dependent Cl(-) and HCO(3)(-) transport mediated by cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) and anion exchanger isoform 2, respectively; (3) cholestatic effects of NO and of proinflammatory cytokines are prevented by NOS-2 inhibitors and by agents (manganese(III)-tetrakis(4-benzoic acid)porphyrin [MnTBAP], urate, trolox) able to block the formation of reactive nitrogen oxide species (RNOS); (4) NOS2 expression is increased significantly in the biliary epithelium of patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC).
Our findings show that proinflammatory cytokines stimulate the biliary epithelium to generate NO, via NOS2 induction, and that NO causes ductular cholestasis by a RNOS-mediated inhibition of AC and of cAMP-dependent HCO(3)(-) and Cl(-) secretory mechanisms. This pathogenetic sequence may contribute to ductal cholestasis in inflammatory cholangiopathies.
Intravesical doxorubicin rarely has been implicated as a cause of bladder contracture. We present a case of severe bladder contracture, documented radiographically and urodynamically after 8 weekly intravesical instillations of doxorubicin. The patient subsequently underwent cystectomy because of voiding dysfunction and the specimen demonstrated marked fibrosis in the bladder wall. We postulate that a benign, recurrent bladder ulceration during doxorubicin therapy may have potentiated the fibrotic response in the bladder to the doxorubicin. Objective monitoring of bladder capacity should be considered in patients treated with intravesical chemotherapy.
To determine the haemodynamic profile of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors during stress, the cardiovascular response to various stress tests was examined in patients with essential hypertension before and after three months of therapy with lisinopril. Eighteen white patients were enrolled in the trial, of whom 12 completed the protocol. ACE inhibition with lisinopril effectively reduced systolic and diastolic pressure in the office (P less than 0.001), at rest (P less than 0.002), during mental stress (P less than 0.003), cold pressor test (P less than 0.003), and reaction time task (P less than 0.05). During physical exercise only diastolic pressure was significantly reduced (P less than 0.02). The fall in peak systolic pressure during cold pressor test and reaction time task was more pronounced than the fall in casual systolic pressure (P less than 0.05). At rest, cardiac output was unchanged, but total peripheral resistance was reduced after medication with lisinopril (P less than 0.05). During the cold pressor test, the increase in total peripheral resistance was attenuated by ACE inhibition (P less than 0.04). The haemodynamic response profile was not altered during the other tests. It is concluded that in middle-aged men ACE inhibitors reduce blood pressure during a variety of stressful events without altering the haemodynamic profile and even attenuating vasoconstriction during stress. This response pattern to ACE inhibition with lisinopril may reduce the impact of recurring stress-induced increases of blood pressure and of exaggerated vasoconstrictive stimuli on the cardiovascular system.
The present study was to investigate the roles of cyclooxygenase-1 and -2 (COX-1 and COX-2) and prostaglandin (PG) on gastric mucosal integrity of partially sleep deprived (PSD) rats. A slowly moving drum was used to induce PSD. The PG levels in the gastric mucosa of PSD rats, with or without indomethacin or rofecoxib treatment, were determined. Exogenous prostaglandin E (PGE) analog, misoprostol, was administered to PSD rats to investigate the modulating effect of PG in indomethacin-induced gastric damage. It was observed that COX-1 mRNA and protein were up-regulated in the gastric mucosa of PSD rats. Selective COX-2 inhibition by rofecoxib failed to decrease mucosal PGE2 levels nor to affect mucosal integrity in both PSD and sleep undisturbed rats. However, indomethacin, a COX-1 preferential non-selective COX inhibitor, significantly reduced mucosal PGE2 content and produced more severe mucosal damage in PSD rats than in the controls. The deleterious effect of indomethacin on gastric mucosal integrity of PSD rats was significantly attenuated with the administration of misoprostol. These results suggest that PSD enhances COX-1 biosynthesis of gastroprotective PGE2 as an adaptive response of the stomach to stress. The administration of non-selective COX inhibitors to subjects with chronic sleep deprivation may induce more gastric damages.
To research early predictors of the efficacy of the ongoing mass immunoprophylaxis against perinatal hepatitis B virus (HBV) transmission in Taiwan and to analyse the possible causes of immunoprophylaxis failure, 52 hepatitis Be antigen (HBeAg)-positive carrier mothers were recruited for the study. Maternal blood samples were taken at the first and third trimesters and delivery. Umbilical blood was collected and venous blood samples were taken at 4, 7, 11 and 14 months of age. Serum hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) and antibody titres, HBeAg titre and HBV-DNA concentration were analysed. All the umbilical cord blood samples were negative for HBsAg. Among the 52 vaccinated infants, four were poor responders (anti-HBs less than 10 mIU ml-1 before vaccine booster). Another five infants became HBsAg-positive by 4 months of age and remained carriers. All these five carrier mothers were HBV-DNA-positive and three of them had risk factors related to maternal-fetal haemorrhage during pregnancy or delivery. The remaining 43 infants showed protective anti-HBs level (greater than 10 mIU ml-1) by 4 months of age. Three mothers out of these 43 cases also had the same haemorrhage risk factors during pregnancy or delivery, but were HBV-DNA-negative. Therefore, the anti-HBs level at 4 months is a predictor of the success of immunoprophylaxis. It may be helpful to distinguish HBV-DNA-positive carrier mothers among HBeAg-positive ones, to avoid inducing more maternal-fetal haemorrhage in such cases during pregnancy or delivery. Otherwise, additional hepatitis B immune globulin may be indicated in such cases to raise the successful prevention rate.
A 53-year-old man presented to the emergency department with posterior pharyngeal edema. He had taken a long-acting propranolol product the previous evening that had been prescribed for migraine headaches. After administration of epinephrine subcutaneously in the ED, he developed a severe adverse reaction, characterized by profound hypertension and bradycardia. This potentially serious drug interaction is described, and relevant literature is reviewed.
The aim of this research was to estimate the efficacy and safety of current high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C)-increasing drugs.
Epidemiologic evidence has shown that HDL-C is inversely related to coronary heart disease (CHD) risk. However, the evidence for reducing CHD risk by raising HDL-C is thin, predominantly due to the paucity of effective and safe HDL-increasing drugs.
Randomized controlled trials with fibrates and niacin, published between 1966 through February 2004 (MEDLINE), were retrieved. Information on treatment, baseline characteristics, serum lipids, end points, and side-effects were independently abstracted by two authors using a standardized protocol.
Data from 53 trials (16,802 subjects) using fibrates and 30 trials (4,749 subjects) using niacin were included. Random-effects model showed 11% versus 10% reduction in total cholesterol, 36% versus 20% reduction in triglycerides, 8% versus 14% reduction in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and 10% versus 16% increase in HDL-C for fibrates and niacin, respectively. Apart from flushes in the niacin group, both fibrates and niacin were shown to be well-tolerated and safe. Fibrates reduced the risk for major coronary events by 25% (95% confidence interval 10% to 38%), whereas current available data for niacin indicate a 27% reduction.
Fibrates reduce major coronary events and increase HDL-C levels without significant toxicity. Niacin has a more potent effect on HDL-C levels, whereas data on cardiovascular event rate reduction are limited. Future studies need to evaluate whether additional HDL increase by fibrates or particularly newer niacin formulations on top of statin therapy translates into further event reduction in high-risk subjects, without significant toxicity.
To investigate the effects of norcantharidin (NCTD) on angiogenesis of human gallbladder carcinoma and its anti-angiogenic mechanisms.
Human gallbladder carcinoma cells of the line GBC-SD were cultured. BALB/c nude mice were inoculated subcutaneously with the GBC-SD cells and then randomly divided into 6 groups: NCTD group, injected intraperitoneally with 1/5 of the LD(50) of NCTD twice a week for 6 weeks; 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) group, injected intraperitoneally with 1/5 of the LD(50) of 5-FU twice a week for 6 weeks; endostatin (ES) group, intraperitoneally with ES; NCTD + 5-FU group, injected intraperitoneally with 1/5 of the LD(50) of NCTD and 1/5 of the LD(50) of 5-FU twice a week for 6 weeks; NCTD + ES group, injected intraperitoneally with 1/5 of the LD(50) of NCTD and ES twice a week for 6 weeks; and normal saline (NS) group (control group), injected with NS. The mice were killed in the 7th week. The tumors were taken out to measure their volumes and undergo microscopy. SABC method of immunohistochemistry was used to measure the microvessel density (MVD) and the protein expression of the angiogenesis-related factors: proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), angiopoietin (Ang)-2, thrombospondin (TSP), and tissue inhibitor of metalloprotease (TIMP)(2). Suspension of single tumor cell was prepared to examine the cell apoptosis by flow cytometry. RT-PCR was used to examine the mRNA expression of PCNA, VEGF, Ang-2, TSP, and TIMP2.
(1) The MVD of the NCTD group was 4.12 +/- 1.4, significantly lower than those of the 5-FU group (15.8 +/- 5.9) and control group (17.6 +/- 3.2) (both P < 0.01), but not significantly different from those of the NCTD + 5-FU group (3.8 +/- 1.7), ES group (4.5 +/- 2.1), and NCTD + ES group (2.9 +/- 1.5) (all P > 0.05). The mice treated with NCTD showed significantly smaller tumor volume, lower PCNA protein expression, higher apoptotic rate, and higher PCNA/apoptosis ratio (P < 0.05 or P < 0.01), and significant correlation between MVD and tumor volume and between MVD and PCNA/apoptosis ratio (both P < 0.05). (2) The protein expression of VEGF and of Ang-2 of the NCTD group were both significantly lower than those of the control and 5-FU groups (all P < 0.01), however, not significantly different from those of the ES, NCTD + 5-FU, and NCTD + ES groups; and the protein expression of TSP and of TIMP2 of the NCTD group were both significantly higher than those of the control and 5-FU groups (all P < 0.01), however, not significantly different from those of the ES, NCTD + 5-FU, and NCTD + ES groups. MVD was positively correlated with VEGF and Ang-2 expression and negatively correlated with the expression of TSP and TIMP2 (all P < 0.05). (3) In comparison with the control group, the mRNA expression of VEGF and of Ang-2 of the tumor cells of the NCTD group were both significantly lower and the mRNA expression of TIMP2 was significantly higher.
NCTD down-regulates the expression of the angiogenic factors, such as VEF|GF and Ang-2, and up-regulates the expression of the anti-angiogenic factors, such as TDP and TIMP2, thus inhibiting the angiogenesis in tumor, such as human gallbladder carcinoma, and further inhibiting the growth of tumor.
Previously, we demonstrated that the early life stress of neonatal isolation facilitates acquisition of cocaine and food self-administration in adult female rats. We now test whether it enhances responding for these reinforcers after operant performance is established. Adult female rats were derived from litters that were either subjected to neonatal isolation (1 h/day isolation; postnatal days 2-9) or were nonhandled and assigned to one of two experiments. In Experiment 1, female rats well trained to self-administer cocaine were tested under a fixed-ratio 3 (FR3) schedule with several cocaine doses (0.0625-1.0 mg/kg/infusion) and under a progressive-ratio (PR) schedule (0, 0.5, and 1.0 mg/kg/infusion cocaine). In Experiment 2, female rats well trained to respond for food reinforcers under an FR15 schedule were tested under two PR schedules. Results show that neonatal isolation enhanced responding for cocaine under both schedules of reinforcement and increased responding for food under a PR schedule of reinforcement. These data extend our previous acquisition study in female rats to show that neonatal isolation enhances responding under maintenance conditions. These enduring behavioral changes may relate to the ability of neonatal isolation to increase striatal dopamine responses to psychostimulants, effects we showed previously in infant and juvenile rats. Neuropsychopharmacology (2006) 31, 70-76. doi:10.1038/sj.npp.1300779; published online 1 June 2005.
Sensory neuropathy is a common problem in HIV-infected patients and is the dose-limiting toxicity of stavudine. Affordable methods of predicting neuropathy risk are needed to guide prescribing in countries where some use of stavudine remains an economic necessity. We therefore aimed to identify factors predictive of neuropathy risk before antiretroviral use.
A total of 294 patients attending clinics in Melbourne, Kuala Lumpur, and Jakarta were enrolled in a cross-sectional neuropathy screening program in 2006. Neuropathy was defined by the presence of symptoms and signs on the AIDS Clinical Trials Group Brief Peripheral Neuropathy Screen. Demographic, laboratory, and treatment details were considered as possible risk factors for neuropathy. The role of patient demographics in predicting stavudine neuropathy were then assessed in 181 patients who reported that they were free of neuropathy symptoms when first prescribed this drug.
The prevalence of neuropathy was 42% in Melbourne (n = 100), 19% in Kuala Lumpur (n = 98), and 34% in Jakarta (n = 96). In addition to treatment exposures, increasing age (p = 0.002) and height (p = 0.001) were independently associated with neuropathy. Age and height cutoffs of > or=170 cm or > or =40 years predicted neuropathy. Among 181 patients who were asymptomatic before stavudine exposure, the risk of neuropathy following stavudine was 20% in younger, shorter patients, compared with 66% in older, taller individuals.
Stavudine neuropathy risk increases with patient age and height. Prioritizing older and taller patients for alternative agents would be an inexpensive strategy to reduce neuropathy rates in countries where the burden of HIV disease limits treatment options.
Isoproterenol (IPR) administered to rats in a dose of 5 mg/kg for seven days induces cardiomegaly. To determine the degree of myocardial enlargement, wet and dry heart weight, myocardial RNA, DNA, protein content and protein synthesis were measured. Wet and dry heart weight, and the level of cardiac RNA, DNA and protein were augmented by IPR treatment, with RNA increasing more than DNA and protein. Incorporation of 14C-leucine into the protein of the heart was enhanced by IPR. Thus the IPR-induced cardiomegaly may serve as a model for studying the development of cardiac hypertrophy under various conditions.
Application employment of the proposed nitroglycerin ointment, original in its composition, permits the attacks of angina pectoris to be controlled, their onset to be prevented and adverse events associated with the use of nitrates to be eliminated. Therapeutic benefit becomes clinically apparent with small doses of nitroglycerin, the ointment itself is good for repeated therapeutic and prophylactic application.
A patient with lactic acidosis showed a lowered pyruvate dehydrogenase E1 activity and fatigued on slight exercise. The cDNA encoding the pyruvate dehydrogenase E1 alpha-subunit from his lymphocytes, transformed by infection of Epstein-Barr virus, was cloned and sequenced. The nucleotide sequence determination revealed that the gene had a deletion of four nucleotides at the second codon upstream from the termination codon. This deletion would lead to a reading-frame shift and make a new termination codon at the 33d codon downstream from the "normal" termination codon. An S1 nuclease-protection experiment confirmed the presence of mRNA with its deletion in the patient. Amplification, by the polymerase chain reaction method, of the genomic-DNA region from his peripheral blood cells showed that the deletion was localized in an exon and that it was not caused by an abnormal splicing at the intron/exon junction. This is the first report on cloning a defective gene of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex.
The use of propylthiouracil (PTU) in patients with Graves' disease has been associated with multiple complications including rash, leukocytoclastic vasculitis, pulmonary hemorrhage, glomerulonephritis, and the presence of perinuclear antineutrophilic cytoplasmic antibodies (pANCA).
To report the association of Wegener's granulomatosis (WG) with the use of PTU in a patient with Graves' disease and to review the spectrum of systemic vasculitis seen in patients with Graves' disease taking PTU.
Retrospective review of data collected in a patient with WG. In addition, a Medline search (1980 to present) for PTU-associated vasculitis was conducted.
We report WG in a patient treated with PTU who fulfilled the criteria of the American College of Rheumatology for this disease. Furthermore, his serum was positive for cytosolic antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (cANCA) and anti-proteinase-3 (PR3) antibodies by indirect immunofluorescence and enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), respectively. WG is associated with high morbidity and mortality and usually requires extensive therapy with prednisone and cyclophosphamide. Our patient, however, did not need specific therapy except discontinuation of PTU to make a full recovery. In previous reports, PTU has been associated with different forms of vasculitis, but this is a the first description of classic WG in a patient treated with PTU.
PTU is capable of causing WG in susceptible patients with Graves' disease. Our patient did not require specific therapy for vasculitis and improved after discontinuation of PTU.
In a patient with psoriatic erythroderma treated with Methotrexate and later with Buthiopurine, porphyrinuria and later porphyria cutanea tarda developed, following a toxic reaction with bone marrow suppression. Hepatological examination before therapy did not reveal any signs of active liver disease.
We examined the effects of aprotinin on graft patency, prevalence of myocardial infarction, and blood loss in patients undergoing primary coronary surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass.
Patients from 13 international sites were randomized to receive intraoperative aprotinin (n = 436) or placebo (n = 434). Graft angiography was obtained a mean of 10.8 days after the operation. Electrocardiograms, cardiac enzymes, and blood loss and replacement were evaluated.
In 796 assessable patients, aprotinin reduced thoracic drainage volume by 43% (P < .0001) and requirement for red blood cell administration by 49% (P < .0001). Among 703 patients with assessable saphenous vein grafts, occlusions occurred in 15.4% of aprotinin-treated patients and 10.9% of patients receiving placebo (P = .03). After we had adjusted for risk factors associated with vein graft occlusion, the aprotinin versus placebo risk ratio decreased from 1.7 to 1.05 (90% confidence interval, 0.6 to 1.8). These factors included female gender, lack of prior aspirin therapy, small and poor distal vessel quality, and possibly use of aprotinin-treated blood as excised vein perfusate. At United States sites, patients had characteristics more favorable for graft patency, and occlusions occurred in 9.4% of the aprotinin group and 9.5% of the placebo group (P = .72). At Danish and Israeli sites, where patients had more adverse characteristics, occlusions occurred in 23.0% of aprotinin- and 12.4% of placebo-treated patients (P = .01). Aprotinin did not affect the occurrence of myocardial infarction (aprotinin: 2.9%; placebo: 3.8%) or mortality (aprotinin: 1.4%; placebo: 1.6%).
In this study, the probability of early vein graft occlusion was increased by aprotinin, but this outcome was promoted by multiple risk factors for graft occlusion.
Antihypertensive agents inhibiting the renin-angiotensin system (RAS), such as angiotensin II type 1 receptor blockers (ARB), are now part of the standard treatment of patients with diabetic nephropathy, regardless of the presence of systemic hypertension. Whether ARB achieve better renoprotection than other RAS-independent antihypertensive drugs has been an issue of controversy. Several lines of large clinical studies provided better renoprotection of ARB. However, a recent meta-analysis argued against additional benefits of ARB beyond blood pressure. We generated a novel mouse model of diabetic nephropathy; that is, megsin/receptor for advanced glycation end products/inducible nitric oxide synthase triple transgenic mice. This model is normotensive but progressively develops severe diabetic nephropathy that resembles those observed in humans.
In the present study, we tested whether olmesartan (ARB) achieves better renoprotection than amlodipine (calcium channel blocker). Drug treatment was initiated at the age of 6 weeks and lasted for 12 weeks.
This model develops significant glomerular lesions and albuminuria even at the age of 5 weeks. Despite equal blood pressure lowering, only olmesartan suppressed the progression of albuminuria. Neither olmesartan nor amlodipine modified histological lesions.
Proteinuria and its reduction are known to predict the progression of diabetic nephropathy. Our results support the additional benefit of ARB beyond blood pressure lowering.
To explore the effect and mechanism of compound Rhizoma Coptidis capsule (CRCC) on diabetic nephropathy in experimental rats.
The rat model of early diabetic nephropathy was induced by injection of streptozotocin (STZ). The rats were divided into 6 groups: normal control group, model group, 3 CRCC treatment groups and XKW treatment group. The fasting blood glucose (FBG), blood urea nitrogen (BUN), creatinine (Cr), insulin (Ins) and urinary protein (Upro) were tested 30 days later. The expression of transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) and type IV collagen (IV-C) proteins and the pathological changes in renal tissue of diabetic rats with nephropathy were observed by optical micrography.
CRCC could reduce the levels of FBG, BUN, Cr, Upro and the expression of TGF-beta1 and IV-C proteins, and alleviate pathological lesion in renal tissue of diabetic rats with nephropathy.
CRCC may protect the renal function and slow down the progression of diabetic nephropathy in rats by suppressing the expression of TGF-beta1 and IV-C proteins in renal tissue.
