A Monozygotic twin pair had febrile seizures, only one was treated with phenobarbital from 17-30 months of age. Standard intellectual and behavioral assessments were conducted during Treatment (30 months of age), and Post-Treatment (32, 41, 48, 66 months of age). Both twins showed normal global intelligence at all assessments, however, the phenobarbital twin scored lower at all assessments. Differences in specific abilities were also seen during Post-Treatment. When phenobarbital was withdrawn, the treated twin's behavior showed immediate improvement. This experience suggests that early phenobarbital treatment may affect global intelligence through the preschool period, but that the effect is not severe. Phenobarbital also may adversely affect behavior, although the effect disappears with termination of the drug.
In the neonatally 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned rat hyperlocomotor activity, first described in the 1970s, was subsequently found to be increased by an additional lesion with 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT) (i.c.v.) in adulthood. The latter animal model (i.e., 134 microg 6-OHDA at 3 d postbirth plus 71 microg 5,7-DHT at 10 weeks; desipramine pretreatments) was used in this study, in an attempt to attribute hyperlocomotor attenuation by D,L-amphetamine sulfate (AMPH) and m-chlorophenylpiperazine di HCl (mCPP), to specific changes in extraneuronal (i.e., in vivo microdialysate) levels of dopamine (DA) and/or serotonin (5-HT). Despite the 98-99% reduction in striatal tissue content of DA, the baseline striatal microdialysate level of DA was reduced by 50% or less at 14 weeks, versus the intact control group. When challenged with AMPH (0.5 mg/kg), the microdialysate level of DA went either unchanged or was slightly reduced over the next 180 min (i.e., 20 min sampling), while in the vehicle group and 5,7-DHT (alone) lesioned group, the microdialysate level was maximally elevated by approximately 225% and approximately 450%, respectively--and over a span of nearly 2 h. Acute challenge with mCPP (1 mg/kg salt form) had little effect on microdialysate levels of DA, DOPAC and 5-HT. Moreover, there was no consistent change in the microdialysate levels of DA, DOPAC, and 5-HT between intact, 5-HT-lesioned rats, and DA-lesioned rats which might reasonably account for an attenuation of hyperlocomotor activity. These findings indicate that there are other important neurochemical changes produced by AMPH- and mCPP-attenuated hyperlocomotor activity, or perhaps a different brain region or multiple brain regional effects are involved in AMPH and mCPP behavioral actions.
To determine incidence and risk factors of nevirapine (NVP)-associated severe hepatitis that led to NVP discontinuation among HIV-infected patients with CD4 < 250 cells/microL.
A retrospective cohort study was conducted among antiretroviral-naïve HIV-infected patients who had baseline CD4 < 250 cells/microL and were initiated NVP-based antiretroviral therapy (ART) between January 2003 and October 2005. All patients were categorized to group A: occurred clinical hepatitis and group B: did not occur clinical hepatitis. All were followed until 6 months after ART.
There were 910 patients with a mean age of 35.4 years, 57% were males and median (IQR) CD4 cell count was 27 (9-80) cells/microL; contributing 5,006 person-months of observations. Ten (1.1%) patients were in group A and 900 (98.9%) patients were in group B. Incidence of clinical hepatitis was 2 per 1,000 person-months. Probabilities of clinical hepatitis at 0.5, 1, 2, 3 and 6 months after ART were 0.2%, 0.5%, 0.7%, 0.8% and 1.1%, respectively. By Cox regression analysis, baseline AST > or = 1.5 times of upper limit was associated with higher incidence of clinical hepatitis (p = 0.019, HR = 5.83, 95% CI = 1.33-25.51).
Incidence of NVP-associated severe hepatitis that lead to NVP discontinuation among HIV-infected patients with baseline CD4 < 250 cells/microL is low. The higher baseline AST is also associated with a higher risk of severe hepatitis.
Today's developed world faces a major public health challenge in the rise in the obese population and the increased incidence in fatty liver disease. There is a strong association among diet induced obesity, fatty liver disease and development of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis but the environmental link to disease progression remains unclear. Here we demonstrate that in obesity, early steatohepatitic lesions induced by the water disinfection byproduct bromodichloromethane are mediated by increased oxidative stress and leptin which act in synchrony to potentiate disease progression. Low acute exposure to bromodichloromethane (BDCM), in diet-induced obesity produced oxidative stress as shown by increased lipid peroxidation, protein free radical and nitrotyrosine formation and elevated leptin levels. Exposed obese mice showed histopathological signs of early steatohepatitic injury and necrosis. Spontaneous knockout mice for leptin or systemic leptin receptor knockout mice had significantly decreased oxidative stress and TNF-α levels. Co-incubation of leptin and BDCM caused Kupffer cell activation as shown by increased MCP-1 release and NADPH oxidase membrane assembly, a phenomenon that was decreased in Kupffer cells isolated from leptin receptor knockout mice. In obese mice that were BDCM-exposed, livers showed a significant increase in Kupffer cell activation marker CD68 and, increased necrosis as assessed by levels of isocitrate dehydrogenase, events that were decreased in the absence of leptin or its receptor. In conclusion, our results show that exposure to the disinfection byproduct BDCM in diet-induced obesity augments steatohepatitic injury by potentiating the effects of leptin on oxidative stress, Kupffer cell activation and cell death in the liver.
The use of scolocidal solutions in the hepatobiliary system may result in caustic sclerosing cholangitis. In this study, the effectivenes of a biological metabolite of albendazole, albendazole sulfoxide, on scolices and the hepatobiliary system was evaluated. In the in vitro study, it was found that 100 microg/ml albendazole sulfoxide solution had strong scolocidal effect in 15 min. In the in vivo study, two experimental groups, each consisting of 8 rabbits aged 3-4 months and weighing 2,500 +/- 250 g, 100 microg/ml albendazole sulfoxide and normal saline were given into the biliary tract. ALP, GGT, SGOT and SGPT values on days 7, 30 and 60 were not found to be significantly increased compared to preoperative values. Total bilirubin values were high in the working group 7 and 30 days postoperatively and on day 30 in the control group, returning back to normal levels on day 60 in both groups. Histopathological evaluation of the liver parenchyma and the biliary system on day 60 revealed no differences between the groups. Consequently, albendazole sulfoxide solution may be used intraoperatively for scolocidal purposes.
Rats poisoned with one LD50 of thiopental or amytal are shown to increase oxygen consumption when intraperitoneally given sucinate, malate, citrate, alpha-ketoglutarate, dimethylsuccinate or glutamate (the Krebs cycle intermediates or their precursors) but not when given glucose, pyruvate, acetate, benzoate or nicotinate (energy substrates of other metabolic stages etc). Survival was increased with succinate or malate from control groups, which ranged from 30-83% to 87-100%. These effects were unrelated to respiratory depression or hypoxia as judged by little or no effect of succinate on ventilation indices and by the lack of effect of oxygen administration. Body cooling of comatose rats at ambient temperature approximately 19 degrees C became slower with succinate, the rate of cooling correlated well with oxygen consumption decrease. Succinate had no potency to modify oxygen consumption and body temperature in intact rats. A condition for antidote effect of the Krebs intermediate was sufficiently high dosage (5 mmol/kg), further dose increase made no odds. Repeated dosing of succinate had more marked protective effect, than a single one, to oxygen consumption and tended to promote the attenuation of lethal effect of barbiturates. These data suggest that suppression of whole body oxygen consumption with barbiturate overdose could be an important contributor to both body cooling and mortality. Intermediates of Krebs cycle, not only succinate, may have a pronounced therapeutic effect under the proper treatment regimen. Availability of Krebs cycle intermediates may be a limiting factor for the whole body oxygen consumption in barbiturate coma, its role in brain needs further elucidation.
Toxicity of Al(2)O(3)-NPs, as compared to that of Al(2)O(3), to L1-larval, L4-larval or young adult nematodes was evaluated. When exposure was performed at L1-larval stage, the significant increases of lethality, stress response, and intestinal lipofuscin autofluorescence were observed in 6.3-203.9 mg/L of Al(2)O(3)-NPs exposed nematodes. In contrast, when exposure was performed at L4-larval or young adult stage, the significant increases of lethality and intestinal lipofuscin autofluorescence were observed in 12.7-203.9 mg/L of Al(2)O(3)-NPs exposed nematodes, and the significant inductions of stress response were detected in 25.5-203.9 mg/L of Al(2)O(3)-NPs exposed nematodes. Moreover, the lethality was significantly correlated with the stress response and the intestinal lipofuscin autofluorescence in Al(2)O(3)-NPs exposed nematodes. These data imply that Al(2)O(3)-NPs exposure in L1 larvae causes more severe lethality toxicity than in L4 larvae or young adults by strengthening the formation of stress response and intestinal lipofuscin accumulation in nematodes.
To investigate the cause of recurrent central retinal vein occlusion in a 26-year-old white woman.
Case report. Complete blood analyses were done, including HLA tissue typing, immunoserologic and coagulation tests, with cardiovascular and capillaroscopy investigations. Factor V:R506Q and prothrombin 20210 GIA mutations were checked by polymerase chain reaction and restriction enzyme analysis.
DNA analysis showed the patient to be heterozygous for factor V:R506Q mutation. During a follow-up of 18-months, after starting anticoagulant therapy, the patient had not suffered from any other ocular or systemic occlusive vascular accident.
The R506Q factor V gene mutation may be associated with recurrent central retinal vein occlusions. Genetic investigation should be promptly recommended in thrombotic patients to establish a specific preventive treatment.
We report the case of a 57-year-old male patient with severe low back pain during streptokinase infusion administered to treat typical chest pain and elevation of the ST segment in the inferior wall. We reviewed the literature, emphasizing the differential diagnosis, the pathophysiology, and management of the event.
Treatment with cisplatin-containing chemotherapy regimens causes hearing loss in 40-60% of cancer patients. It has been suggested that genetic variants in the genes encoding thiopurine S-methyltransferase (TPMT) and catechol O-methyltransferase (COMT) can predict the development of cisplatin-induced ototoxicity and may explain interindividual variability in sensitivity to cisplatin-induced hearing loss. Two recently published studies however, sought to validate these findings and showed inconsistent results. The aim of this study was to evaluate the role of polymorphisms in the TPMT and COMT genes in cisplatin-induced ototoxicity. Therefore we investigated two independent cohorts of 110 Dutch and 38 Spanish patients with osteosarcoma and performed a meta-analysis including all previously published studies resulting in a total population of 664 patients with cancer. With this largest meta-analysis performed to date, we show that the influence of TPMT and COMT on the development of cisplatin-induced hearing loss may be less important than previously suggested.
To investigate the role of pegylated-interferon (IFN) alpha-2b in the management of patients with lamivudine-resistant chronic hepatitis B.
Twenty consecutive anti-HBe positive patients were treated with pegylated IFN alpha-2b (100 mug sc once weekly) for 12 mo. There was no interruption in lamivudine therapy. Hematology, liver biochemistry, serum HBV DNA levels were detected by PCR, and vital signs were also assessed. Liver histology was assessed in some patients at entry and at wk 52 for comparison.
Nine patients (45%) had a partial virological end-treatment response; seven patients (35%) showed complete virological end-treatment response. Eight patients (40%) showed biochemical end-treatment response. There was a trend for higher virological response rates in patients who had previously responded to IFN and relapsed compared to IFN non-responders (four out of seven patients vs none out of six patients, respectively; P=0.1). Patients without virological end-treatment response showed significant worsening of fibrosis [median score 2 (range, 1 to 3) vs median score 3 (range, 1 to 4)], in the first and second biopsy respectively (P=0.014), whereas necroinflammatory activity was not significantly affected. Patients with complete or partial virological end-treatment response did not show any significant changes in histological findings, possibly due to the small number of patients with paired biopsies (n=5). Nevertheless, after 12 mo of follow-up, only one patient (5%) showed sustained virological response and only 2 patients (10%) showed sustained biochemical response. Two patients (10%) discontinued pegylated IFN both after 6 mo of treatment due to flu-like symptoms.
Pegylated IFNalpha-2b, when added to ongoing lamivudine therapy in patients with lamivudine-resistant chronic hepatitis B, induces sustained responses only in a small minority of cases.
Melittin has antitumor effects on osteosarcoma, leukemia, and cervical cancer in vitro. Our previous experiments showed that melittin could inhibit proliferation and induce apoptosis of human hepatocellular carcinoma BEL-7402 cells. This study was to examine the effects of melittin on the growth and angiogenesis of BEL-7402 cell xenografts in nude mice.
The xenografts derived from BEL-7402 cells were established in BALB/C nude mice. Inoculated mice were randomly divided into normal saline (NS, 10 ml/kg) group, positive control (thalidomide, TLD, 200 mg/kg) group, low dose melittin (40 microg/kg) group, moderate dose melittin (60 microg/kg) group and high dose melittin (80 microg/kg) group. Tumor volume was measured. Tumor tissue was observed under microscope. Microvessel density (MVD) and the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) were detected by SABC immunohistochemistry. The mRNA levels of VEGF and bFGF were analyzed by real-time fluorescent quantitative polymerase chain reaction.
The relative tumor volume (V/V0) and MVD were significantly lower in low, moderate and high dose melittin groups than in NS group (4.42+/-0.58, 3.47+/-0.97, and 3.06+/-1.23 vs. 9.06+/-1.45, P<0.01; 11.33+/-1.86, 9.17+/-1.17, and 6.67+/-1.21 vs. 16.50+/-2.35, P<0.01). Tumor tissue necrosis was observed in melittin-treated groups and tumor vessels were destroyed by melittin. The positive expression indexes of VEGF (2.59+/-0.27, 2.61+/-0.17, 1.55+/-0.22 vs. 3.80+/-0.60, P<0.01), bFGF (2.45+/-0.78, 2.27+/-0.36, 2.10+/-0.27 vs. 4.43+/-0.34, P<0.01) and NF-kappaB (2.79+/-0.29, 2.71+/-0.66, 2.26+/-0.56 vs. 4.98+/-0.63, P<0.01) were significantly lower in low, moderate and high dose melittin groups than in NS group. The mRNA levels of VEGF and bFGF were also significantly lower in melittin-treated groups than in NS group.
Melittin could inhibit the growth of BEL-7402 cell xenografts in nude mice. The down-regulation of VEGF, b-FGF and NF-kappaB expression and the inhibition of angiogenesis might play key roles in the antitumor effect of melittin.
A group of 9 Mexican lepromatous leprosy patients was studied at the beginning of a type II reaction (erythema nodosum leprosum, ENL) and after 1 or 2 months of thalidomide treatment. ENL patients at the onset of the reaction had slightly higher amounts of anti-Mycobacterium leprae IgG1 and IgG2 antibodies, compared to similar lepromatous patients that did not develop ENL. Neither these antibody levels nor IgM and the other IgG subclasses were importantly modified after thalidomide treatment. Serum TNF was significantly higher in the patients that developed ENL compared to those that did not develop the reaction. TNF levels were slightly decreased after 1 month of thalidomide treatment and significantly decreased after 2 months of treatment. Serum IFN-gamma was significantly lower in patients at the onset of ENL and was increased after 1 and 2 months of thalidomide treatment.
Previous studies have shown that the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) is activated in diabetes and this may contribute to the subcellular remodelling and heart dysfunction in this disease. Therefore, we examined the effects of RAS blockade by enalapril, an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, and losartan, an angiotensin receptor AT1 antagonist, on cardiac function, myofibrillar and myosin ATPase activity as well as myosin heavy chain (MHC) isozyme expression in diabetic hearts. Diabetes was induced in rats by a single injection of streptozotocin (65 mg/kg; i.v.) and these animals were treated with and without enalapril (10 mg/kg/day; oral) or losartan (20 mg/kg/day; oral) for 8 weeks. Enalapril or losartan prevented the depressions in left ventricular rate of pressure development, rate of pressure decay and ventricular weight seen in diabetic animals. Both drugs also attenuated the decrease in myofibrillar Ca2+-ATPase, Mg2+-ATPase and myosin ATPase activity seen in diabetic rats. The diabetes-induced increase in beta-MHC content and gene expression as well as the decrease in alpha-MHC content and mRNA levels were also prevented by enalapril and losartan. These results suggest the occurrence of myofibrillar remodelling in diabetic cardiomyopathy and provide evidence that the beneficial effects of RAS blockade in diabetes may be associated with attenuation of myofibrillar remodelling in the heart.
To study the long-term effects of androgen treatment on atherosclerosis in postmenopausal women.
In a population-based study in 513 naturally postmenopausal women aged 54-67 years, we studied the association between self-reported intramuscularly administered high-dose estrogen-testosterone therapy (estradiol- and testosterone esters) and aortic atherosclerosis. Aortic atherosclerosis was diagnosed by radiographic detection of calcified deposits in the abdominal aorta, which have been shown to reflect intima atherosclerosis. Hormone therapy users were compared with never users.
Intramuscular hormone therapy use for 1 year or longer was reported by 25 women. In almost half of these women severe atherosclerosis of the aorta was present (n=11), while in women without hormone use severe atherosclerosis of the aorta was present in less than 20% (OR 3.1; 95% CI, 1.1-8.5, adjusted for age, years since menopause, smoking, and body mass index). The association remained after additional adjustment for diabetes, cholesterol level, systolic blood pressure, or alcohol use. No association was found for hormone use less than 1 year.
Our results suggest that high-dose testosterone therapy may adversely affect atherosclerosis in postmenopausal women and indicate that androgen replacement in these women may not be harmless.
A hyperactive mentally retarded patient receiving clozapin and other major tranquilizers had an unexpected seizure. The EEG revealed severe pathological patterns which disappeared after discontinuation of clozapin and could be reproduced as a function of clozapin medication. Other major tranquilizers had no particular effects. This study demonstrates how we determined whether clozapin or other major tranquilizers had seizure-promoting effects in a particular patient.
Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is an autosomal dominant multi-system disorder with two known disease loci on chromosomes 9q34 (TSC1) and 16p13.3 (TSC2). TSC has a prevalence of approximately 1 in 5,000-6,000, exhibits incomplete penetrance, and occurs in all racial groups. Our laboratory has undertaken the complete mutation analysis of the TSC2 gene in 42 TSC families using single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Of the total of 42 families, 16 show evidence of linkage to the chromosome 16 TSC2 locus and 26 are either sporadic or too small to establish chromosome linkage. The TSC2 gene spans at least 45 kilobases of genomic DNA, has 41 known exons, and codes for a 5,474-base pair transcript. After complete gene analysis, 16 TSC2 mutations have been identified, including DNA insertions, deletions, splice site mutations, and amino acid substitutions. The majority of putative TSC2 mutations were found in sporadic rather than TSC2-linked families. We have also detected 15 polymorphisms which occur in the TSC2 gene.
Mouse mutants of the homeobox transcription factor Engrailed2 (En2) and autistic individuals display similar cerebellar morphological abnormalities, which include hypoplasia and a decrease in the number of Purkinje cells. Human EN2 maps to 7q36, a chromosomal region that has demonstrated suggestive linkage to autism spectrum disorder (ASD). To investigate EN2 for evidence of association with ASD, four single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) (rs3735653, rs1861972, rs1861973, rs2361689) that span the majority of the 8.0 kb gene were assessed by the transmission/disequilibrium test. Initially, 138 triads of autistic individuals and their parents were tested. Two intronic SNPs (rs1861972 and rs1861973) demonstrated significant association with autism (rs1861972, P=0.0018; rs1861973, P=0.0003; haplotype, P=0.000005). Flanking exonic SNPs (rs3735653 and rs2361689) did not display association. This analysis was then extended to include 167 small nuclear ASD pedigrees and significant association was again only observed for rs1861972 and rs1861973 under both the narrow and broad diagnostic criteria (narrow: rs1861972 P=0.0290, rs1861973 P=0.0073, haplotype P=0.0009; broad: rs1861972 P=0.0175, rs1861973 P=0.0107, haplotype P=0.0024). These data demonstrate association between a cerebellar patterning gene and ASD, suggesting a role for EN2 as a susceptibility locus and supporting a neurodevelopmental defect hypothesis in the etiology of autism.
The literature was surveyed concerning the frequency and conditions for confusional states and deliria following Amitriptyline and Clozapine treatment, and certain discrepancies were noted. As a result a retrospective comparative investigation was carried out as to the frequency and the conditions for such events in a group of patients treated along the same lines. While our experience with Amitriptyline is not different from that reported by others, this does not seem to be the case with Clozapine. Confusional states and deliria are four times as frequent as the average reported in the literature; it is clear that they depend on conditions different from those of confusional states and deliria due to Amitriptyline; there is a slightly significant (p less than 0.05) correlation between the appearance of confusion and a temperature of over 37.5 degrees C. The anticholinergic properties of Amitriptyline and of Clozapine cannot explain the difference in frequency, nor the differing conditions for the appearance, of pharmacogenic confusional states and deliria with those two substances.
Arsenic is an important heavy metal intoxicant to livestock. Arsenical pesticides present significant hazards to animal health. The toxicity of arsenic varies with several factors--its chemical form, oxidation states, solubility. The phenylarsonic compounds are the least toxic and are used as feed additives in swine and poultry rations. However, roxarsone has a higher absolute toxicity than arsanilic acid. The mechanism of action is related to its reaction with sulfhydryl groups values to enzyme function and to its ability to uncouple oxydative phosphorylation. Most animals excrete arsenic quite readily. Toxicoses caused by inorganic and aliphatic organic arsenicals result in a different clinical syndrome than that from the phenylarsonic compounds. Arsenic poisoning may be confused with other types of intoxication. The specific antidote for inorganic arsenical poisoning is dimercaprol (BAL).
Experimental glutamate and capsaicin-induced pain has not been described in tendon tissue despite the implications of addressing these receptors in pain management strategies. This study investigated pain induction and modulatory interactions by injecting glutamate (0.5 ml, 1 M) and capsaicin (0.5 ml, 5 microg, 33 microM) to human tendon tissue. Following the initial glutamate or capsaicin injection, a second injection of either glutamate (following capsaicin), capsaicin (following glutamate) or hypertonic saline (after both glutamate and capsaicin) was given. Twelve male volunteers participated. Subjects had four sequences of injections to tibialis anterior tendon over two sessions 1 week apart. Pain intensity responses were scored on a visual analogue scale (VAS). Pressure pain thresholds (PPTs) were assessed before, during and after pain induction. Capsaicin caused significantly higher peak pain scores compared to glutamate (P < 0.003) whilst glutamate pain was of significantly longer duration (P < 0.0003). Capsaicin following glutamate resulted in significantly higher average VAS scores 180-450 s after injection compared to capsaicin as primary injection (P < 0.05). PPTs were significantly reduced during capsaicin pain (72 +/- 5 and 80 +/- 6% of pre-pain values at the injection site and 2 cm proximal, P < 0.002). Following capsaicin, hypertonic saline and glutamate showed significant reductions in PPT at the same sites and to a similar degree compared to baseline (P < 0.002). The results indicate in tendon tissue a facilitation of response to capsaicin injection following glutamate injection. PPTs were only reliably reduced by capsaicin injection. These results emphasize the possible importance of peripheral glutamate receptor antagonists in pain management in musculoskeletal conditions.
On the basis of a study of 156 patients the authors with the aid of a computer convened a dispersion analysis of interaction found in the process of treatment by conditional optimal doses of trimetin and succilep with 23 clinical parameters of the disease. It was established that on a statistically significant level the largest dose of trimetin (per 1 kg of body weight) was required in the treatment of myoclonic forms of seizures, with duration less that one year, pathological changes in the craniogram, signs of hypertension and the absence of prenatal noxious factors and pathology in the neurological state. The interaction of optimal doses of succilep with the cliniel characteristics is less expressed than for Trimetin and on a significant level is detected only for two of them: a larger dosage in longer duration of the disease and in the existence of prenatal noxious factors in the past history. It was established that with years the used amount of trimetin adn saccilep (per 1 kg of body weight) declines, while the therapeutical effectiveness does not drop.
To study the effect of interleukin-10 (IL-10) on the expression of transforming growth factor beta1 (TGF-beta1) in hepatic fibrosis rats and the anti-fibrotic role of exogenous IL-10.
Hepatic fibrosis was induced by carbon tetrachloride administered (CCl(4)) intraperitoneally. The experiment was performed in two stages. In the first stage, 60 SD rats were divided randomly into normal control group 1 (GN(1), n=8), hepatic fibrosis group (GC, n=28)and IL-10 intervened group (GI, n=24). At the beginning of the 7(th) and 11(th) wk, hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) were isolated, reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and immunocytochemistry were performed to detect the expression of TGF-beta1 in HSCs. Histological examination was used to determine the degree of hepatic fibrosis. In the second stage, 47 SD rats were divided randomly into normal control group 2 (GN(2), n=6)and CCl(4) group(GZ, n=41). At the end of the 9(th) wk, rats in GZ group were allocated randomly into model group(GM, n=9), IL-10 treatment group (GT, n=9)and recovered group (GR, n=9). At the end of the 12(th) wk, all rats were sacrificed. RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry were performed to detect the expression of TGF-beta1 in liver tissue. ELISA was used to assay serum TGF-beta1 levels.
Hepatic fibrosis developed in rats with the increase of the injection frequency of CCl(4). In the first stage, hepatic fibrosis developed and HSCs were isolated successfully. At the 7(th) and 11(th) wk, TGF-beta1 mRNA in GC group increased significantly compared with that in GN(1) (P=0.001/0.042) and GI groups (P=0.001/0.007), whereas there was no significant difference between the two groups. The levels of TGF-beta1 at the beginning of the 7(th) wk was higher than that of the 11(th) wk (P=0.049). Immunocytochemistry results of TGF-beta1 were consistent with the above findings. In the second stage, TGF-beta1 increased significantly in GM group compared to GN(2). After treatment with IL-10, TGF-beta1 declined obviously. The expression of TGF-beta1 decreased in GR group but was still higher than that in GT group.
The levels of TGF-beta1 are increased in hepatic fibrosis rats and decreased after treatment with exogenous IL-10. IL-10 may play an anti-fibrotic role by suppressing TGF-beta1 expression.
A double-blind crossover trial was performed comparing orciprenaline (10 mg) and fenoterol (5 mg) by oral administration in forty-four patients with bronchial asthma. Measurement of VC, FEV1, respiratory impedance (ZR), blood pressure and pulse rate, and observation of subjective symptoms, râles, and side-effects, were made over the 4 hours following oral administration of the drugs. FEV1 increased through the 4 hours reaching a peak at 3 hours with both drugs. The per cent increase of FEV1 was statistically significant at each measuring time for both drugs (p less than 0.01), and was significantly larger in fenoterol than in orciprenaline at 2 and 3 hours (p less than 0.05). ZR with fenoterol decreased from 2 hours to 4 hours with a significant difference from ZR with orciprenaline (p less than 0.05). Side-effects such as palpitation, finger tremor or headache were seen in 36.4% cases with fenoterol and 30.5% with orciprenaline, but the degree of the side-effects was minimal. Finger tremor was observed in one case with orciprenaline and ten cases with fenoterol. Palpitation was observed in five cases with each of the drugs. Because finger tremor seems to be due to beta 2-stimulation and palpitation seems to be due to beta 1-stimulation, fenoterol was supposed to be more beta 2-selective than orciprenaline. In conclusion fenoterol had a high beta 2-selectivity and a powerful and long-lasting broncho-dilating effect compared with orciprenaline.
