Patients with supraventricular arrhythmias have been safely and effectively treated with flecainide. We conducted an open-label, 20-center trial to define further the safety and efficacy profile of oral flecainide in patients with supraventricular arrhythmias, including atrial tachycardias (ectopic or multifocal), atrial-ventricular tachycardias (reentrant), paroxysmal atrial fibrillation/flutter (PAF), and chronic atrial fibrillation (CAF). Our study population of 151 patients with documented supraventricular arrhythmias requiring treatment included 67 with paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (PSVT), 67 with PAF (symptoms < 15 days), and 17 with CAF (symptoms > of = 15 days)> The initial flecainide dose of 100 mg twice daily could be increased by 50 mg bid every 4 days to a maximum of 200 mg twice daily. Patients who were effectively treated could receive flecainide for 1 year. The study was terminated April 26, 1989, in response to interim results reported by the Cardiac Arrhythmia Suppression Trial (CAST). All patients were removed from the study by August 1989. At study termination 87% of PSVT, 73% of PAF, and 56% of CAF patients had improved symptomatically while on flecainide therapy. Eleven patients experienced cardiac adverse experiences: proarrhythmic events (3 patients), new or worsened congestive heart failure (7 patients), sinus pauses (1 patient). Cardiac side effects appeared to be more frequent in patients in the CAF group (5/17 patients), all of whom had structural heart disease. Overall, 45 (67%) PSVT, 43 (64%) PAF, and 9 (56%) CAF patients reported at least 1 noncardiac adverse experience; the most common were abnormal vision, dizziness, and headaches. One patient from the CAF group died; the death was considered to be unrelated to flecainide. Flecainide appears to be safe and effective treatment for patients with supraventricular arrhythmias of a variety of mechanisms and appears particularly effective for patients with PSVT. The efficacy is lowest and side effects most frequent in patients with CAF, as seen with other trials of antiarrhythmic medication in these patients. In the context of the CAST experience and other trials of antiarrhythmic drugs in patients with CAF, the balance of risk and benefit of therapy should be considered carefully before initiating treatment.
Susceptibility to induction of both T helper 1- (Th1) and Th2-mediated autoimmunity is multifactorial and involves genetic linkage to the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II haplotype. Brown Norway (BN) rats exposed to mercuric chloride develop a Th2-dependent systemic autoimmunity, whereas Lewis rats, which are highly susceptible to Th1-mediated autoimmunity, develop immune suppression after mercuric chloride exposure. Exposure to mercuric chloride is known to enhance B-lymphocyte expression of the MHC class II molecule RT1.B, predominantly in BN rats. We demonstrate that, in contrast, expression of RT1.D was unmodified on these B cells, whereas both RT1.B and RT1.D were up-regulated on epithelial cells. Regulation of B-cell MHC class II isotype expression was further studied in vitro, using BN rat lymph node (LN) cells. Interleukin-4 (IL-4) strongly enhanced B-cell expression of RT1.B (2.8-fold), whereas RT1.D expression was only slightly, although significantly, modified (1.2-fold). B cells from Lewis rats showed a similar IL-4-induced enhancement of RT1.B expression (2.5-fold), whereas, in contrast, RT1.D expression was unmodified. Exposure of LN cells from BN rats to interferon-gamma induced a moderate increase of B-cell MHC class II expression, predominantly of RT1.B. Strong and rapid enhancement of B-cell RT1.D expression was observed after stimulation by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate and ionomycin. Rat IL-13 did not modify B-cell MHC class II expression; however, it induced typical morphological changes in peritoneal macrophages. These experiments demonstrate isotype-specific and strain-dependent regulation of MHC class II expression on rat B lymphocytes, which may be of pathophysiological relevance for the strain-dependent susceptibility for Th1- or Th2-mediated autoimmunity.
Nitric oxide (NO) plays an important role in initiation and maintenance of pain, and NO precursor nitroglycerin is able to activate spinal and brain structures involved in nociception. It is also known that acute and chronic stress induce biochemical changes affecting both pain threshold and behaviour, and that the biological pattern of depression can be mimicked in the laboratory using chronic unavoidable stress paradigms (learned helplessness). We, therefore, evaluated the effects of acute and chronic immobilization stress on pain response to nitroglycerin administration in the rat. Pain perception was expressed as the latency of response to a tail-flick test (hot stimulus). Measures were made 1, 2 and 4 h following nitroglycerin (10 mg/kg i.p.) or vehicle. Nitroglycerin caused hyperalgesia after 2 and 4 h (p < 0.05 versus baseline). Acute stress (90 min) induced a clear analgesic state (p < 0.01 versus non-stressed control animals), and nitroglycerin injection was unable to reverse stress-induced analgesia in this setting. By contrast, exposition to chronic immobilization stress (7 days) caused a significant increase in pain response (p < 0.05); in this case, hyperalgesia was shown to be further enhanced by nitroglycerin administration (p < 0.05 versus vehicle). These findings support the view that a condition of chronic stress used in the laboratory to reproduce the biological features of depression can enhance hyperalgesia induced by nitroglycerin administration. These observations may be relevant to pain disorders, and particularly to migraine, since nitroglycerin is able to induce spontaneous-like pain attacks in humans, and an unfavourable migraine outcome (transformation into a chronic daily headache) is associated with chronic stress and comorbid depression.
This report of a phase 2 trial of thalidomide (THAL) (200 mg/d; 200 mg increment every 2 weeks to 800 mg) for 169 patients with advanced myeloma (MM) (abnormal cytogenetics (CG), 67%; prior autotransplant, 76%) extends earlier results in 84 patients. A 25% myeloma protein reduction was obtained in 37% of patients (50% reduction in 30% of patients; near-complete or complete remission in 14%) and was more frequent with low plasma cell labeling index (PCLI) (below 0.5%) and normal CG. Two-year event-free and overall survival rates were 20% +/- 6% and 48% +/- 6%, respectively, and these were superior with normal CG, PCLI of less than 0.5%, and beta(2)-microglobulin of 3 mg/L. Response rates were higher and survival was longer especially in high-risk patients given more than 42 g THAL in 3 months (median cumulative dose) (landmark analysis); this supports a THAL dose-response effect in advanced MM.
Given the suspected effects of estrogens on breast cancer, xenoestrogenic insecticides may be a risk factor. Studies of the weak xenoestrogen, 1,1-dichloro-2,2-bis(p-chlorophenyl)ethylene (DDE), have failed to demonstrate a causal relationship, though another estrogenic organochlorine insecticide, dieldrin, belonging to the cyclodiene family, has recently been linked to breast cancer. Other cyclodienes such as heptachlor epoxide (HE) and oxychlordane (OC) present in breast tissue have not been evaluated as rigorously, presumably due to their lower concentration and lower recovery using solvent extraction procedures. We used sparging extraction coupled with gas chromatography to determine the levels of HE, OC, and DDE in adipose tissue within breast biopsies in a series of 34 women evaluated for breast abnormality. Of the three insecticides tested, only HE (p=0.007) was positively associated with prevalence of breast cancer in the biopsies. In rapid, non-genomic studies using isolated human leukocytes, flow cytometric methods were used to measure HE-induced oxidants and DNA damage. These studies indicated that HE, at concentrations similar to those in breast biopsies, induced an inverted-U increase in intracellular oxidants and DNA strand breaks [both blocked by specific nitric oxide- (NO-) synthesis blockade withL: -NMMA] in human polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNs). HE-treated PMNs also induced damage to surrounding lymphocytes in mixed-leukocyte incubations (also inhibited by NO blockade). The HE-induced changes in NO were inhibited by 17beta-estradiol-(17beta-E2) receptor antagonists and were mimicked by similar concentrations of 17beta-E2. The addition of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) increased intracellular oxidants and DNA damage and shifted the responses to lower HE concentrations. This study, along with others, suggests that HE-induced NO production may contribute to initiation, promotion, and progression of cancer.
We have studied the effect of acute trazodone (3--20 mg kg(-1)) and quipazine (1--3 mg kg(-1)) treatment on the apomorphine-induced (1 mg kg(-1), once daily over 2 weeks) aggressive behaviour in male Wistar rats. All doses of trazodone and quipazine tested attenuated the aggressiveness as evidenced by the abolished intensity of aggressive behaviour and increased time of latency before the first attack. The acute trazodone (3--10 mg kg(-1)) or quipazine (1--3 mg kg(-1)) treatment had no or only a minor effect on rat behaviour in the elevated plus-maze, open field, and forced swimming test. Concomitant apomorphine (1 mg kg(-1)) plus trazodone (3 mg kg(-1)), but not apomorphine (1 mg kg(-1)) plus quipazine (1 mg kg(-1)), treatment slowed the development of aggressive behaviour. Repeated apomorphine treatment moderately reduced the dopamine post mortem and increased the DOPAC and HVA contents in striatum. Other monoamines or their metabolites were unchanged. Neither trazodone and quipazine treatment nor forced swimming stress induced any changes in the monoamine contents. In conclusion, our results indicate that acute trazodone and quipazine treatment attenuates the apomorphine-induced aggressive behaviour in male rats, but this phenomenon cannot be implicated in the changes in emotional and motivational behaviour, or in changes of monoamine content post mortem.
The effect of intravenous ciprofloxacin (CPX) pretreatment on the kinetics and brain sensitivity for thiopental was studied in male rats using a previously developed electroencephalographic (EEG) threshold method. Thiopental was administered intravenously with constant infusion rate. Immediately after the appearance of the first burst suppression of 1 sec. or more (the "silent-second") in the EEG the infusion was stopped and the rats were killed by decapitation. The dose of thiopental needed to reach the criterion of silent-second was slightly reduced in ciprofloxacin pretreated rats when compared with saline pretreated controls. One rat that developed seizures after CPX pretreatment needed a considerably reduced dose of thiopental to induce the silent-second. The serum concentrations of thiopental were markedly reduced in the experimental group while no significant differences were found in the concentrations of thiopental in the different parts of the central nervous system (CNS), fat or muscle tissue. The kinetics of CPX were also affected. The experimental group (CPX + thiopental treated) had significant higher brain concentrations of CPX than the corresponding only CPX treated control group while no differences were found in the serum concentrations of CPX between the groups. As previously suggested, the distribution of thiopental in the CNS is not only dependent on its lipid solubility, but also as a weak organic acid, on the transport system for organic acids out of the CNS which both thiopental and ciprofloxacin seem to use and mutually compete for it.
Our aim was to test the hypothesis that the repeated, binge administration of methamphetamine would produce oxidative stress in the myocardium leading to structural remodeling and impaired left ventricular function.
Echocardiography and Millar pressure-volume catheters were used to monitor left ventricular structure and function in rats subjected to four methamphetamine binges (3 mg/kg, iv for 4 days, separated by a 10-day drug-free period). Hearts from treated and control rats were used for histological or proteomic analysis. When compared with saline treatment, four methamphetamine binges produced eccentric left ventricular hypertrophy. The drug also significantly impaired systolic function (decreased fractional shortening, ejection fraction, and adjusted maximal power) and produced significant diastolic dysfunction (increased -dP/dt and tau). Dihydroethedium staining showed that methamphetamine significantly increased (285%) the levels of reactive oxygen species in the left ventricle. Treatment with methamphetamine also resulted in the tyrosine nitration of myofilament (desmin, myosin light chain) and mitochondrial (ATP synthase, NADH dehydrogenase, cytochrome c oxidase, prohibitin) proteins. Treatment with the superoxide dismutase mimetic, tempol in the drinking water prevented methamphetamine-induced left ventricular dilation and systolic dysfunction; however, tempol (2.5 mM) did not prevent the diastolic dysfunction. Tempol significantly reduced, but did not eliminate dihydroethedium staining in the left ventricle, nor did it prevent the tyrosine nitration of mitochondrial and contractile proteins.
This study shows that oxidative stress plays a significant role in mediating methamphetamine-induced eccentric left ventricular dilation and systolic dysfunction.
Following recent success in genome-wide association studies, a critical focus of human genetics is to understand how genetic variation at implicated loci influences cellular and disease processes. Crohn's disease (CD) is associated with SNPs around IRGM, but coding-sequence variation has been excluded as a source of this association. We identified a common, 20-kb deletion polymorphism, immediately upstream of IRGM and in perfect linkage disequilibrium (r2 = 1.0) with the most strongly CD-associated SNP, that causes IRGM to segregate in the population with two distinct upstream sequences. The deletion (CD risk) and reference (CD protective) haplotypes of IRGM showed distinct expression patterns. Manipulation of IRGM expression levels modulated cellular autophagy of internalized bacteria, a process implicated in CD. These results suggest that the CD association at IRGM arises from an alteration in IRGM regulation that affects the efficacy of autophagy and identify a common deletion polymorphism as a likely causal variant.
Exposure of laboratory rats to Benzo(a)pyrene (BaP), an environmental contaminant with its high lipophilicify which is widely dispersed in the environment and can easily cross the blood brain barrier presenting in the central nervous system, is associated with impaired learning and memory. The purpose of the research was to examine whether subchronic exposure to BaP affects spatial learning and memory, and how it alters normal gene expression in hippocampus, as well as selection of candidate genes involving neurotransmitter receptor attributed to learning and memory. Morris water maze (MWM) was used to evaluate behavioral differences between BaP-treated and vehicle-treated groups. To gain a better insight into the mechanism of BaP-induced neurotoxicity on learning and memory, we used whole genome oligo microarrays as well as Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) to assess the global impact of gene expression. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were intraperitoneally injected with 6.25mg/kg of BaP or vehicle for 14 weeks. The results from the Morris water maze (MWM) test showed that rats treated with BaP exhibited significantly higher mean latencies as compared to vehicle controls. BaP exposure significantly decreased the number of crossing the platform and the time spent in the target area. After the hippocampus was collected from each rat, total RNA was isolated. Microarray and PCR revealed that exposure to BaP affected mRNA expression of neurotransmitter receptors. The web tool DAVID was used to analyze the significantly enriched gene ontology (GO) and KEGG pathways in the differentially expressed genes. Analysis showed that the most significantly affected gene ontology category was behavior. Furthermore, the fourth highest significantly affected gene ontology category was learning and memory. KEGG molecular pathway analysis showed that "neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction" was affected by BaP with highest statistical significance, and 9 candidate neurotransmitter receptor genes involving learning and memory were selected out. Our results revealed a close link between behavioral changes and altered neurotransmitter receptor gene expression in BaP-treated rats.
To determine whether patients with congestive heart failure on different beta adrenoreceptor blocking drugs have similar haemodynamic responses to dobutamine.
Single centre, single blind, randomised, two period crossover study comparing carvedilol with metoprolol CR/XL.
Ten patients with stable chronic congestive heart failure (ejection fraction < 40%) on chronic treatment with metoprolol CR/XL.
Patients were treated with carvedilol or metoprolol CR/XL (target dose 50 mg twice daily and 200 mg once daily, respectively) for eight weeks. Stress echocardiography was undertaken at the end of each maintenance period, using dobutamine 5 and 15 microg/kg/min.
No significant haemodynamic differences were seen at rest on the two treatments. There was a more pronounced increase in heart rate and cardiac output during dobutamine infusion when the patients were on metoprolol than when they were on carvedilol. Mean arterial pressure increased significantly when the patients were on carvedilol, and cardiac output increased during low dose dobutamine, without further change during high dose dobutamine. During the dobutamine infusion, there was no significant difference in ejection fraction between carvedilol and metoprolol treatment.
Patients with congestive heart failure on a non-selective beta adrenoreceptor blocker or beta1 selective blocker responded differently to the inotropic drug dobutamine: the beta1 blockade caused by metoprolol could be counteracted by dobutamine, whereas with carvedilol a low dose of dobutamine increased cardiac output, and a higher dose of dobutamine caused a pressor effect. These findings may be clinically relevant when choosing an inotropic drug.
Sarcoidosis is a complex chronic inflammatory disorder with predominant manifestation in the lung. In the first genome-wide association study (> 440,000 SNPs) of this disease, comprising 499 German individuals with sarcoidosis and 490 controls, we detected a series of genetic associations. The strongest association signal maps to the ANXA11 (annexin A11) gene on chromosome 10q22.3. Validation in an independent sample (1,649 cases, 1,832 controls) confirmed the association (SNP rs2789679: P = 3.0 x 10(-13), rs7091565: P = 1.0 x 10(-5), allele-based test). Extensive fine mapping located the association signal to a region between exon 5 and exon 14 of ANXA11. A common nonsynonymous SNP (rs1049550, C > T, [corrected] R230C) was found to be strongly associated with sarcoidosis. The GWAS lead SNP and additional risk variants in the region (rs1953600, rs2573346, rs2784773) were in strong linkage disequilibrium with rs1049550. Annexin A11 has complex and essential functions in several biological pathways, including apoptosis and proliferation.
Serotonin (5-HT) receptors are classified into seven groups (5-HT(1-7)), comprising at least 14 structurally and pharmacologically distinct receptor subtypes. Pharmacological antagonism of ionotropic 5-HT(3) receptors has been shown to modulate both behavioral and neurochemical aspects of the induction of sensitization to cocaine. It is not known, however, if specific molecular subunits of the 5-HT(3) receptor influence the development of cocaine sensitization. To address this question, we studied the effects of acute and chronic intermittent cocaine administration in mice with a targeted deletion of the gene for the 5-HT(3A)-receptor subunit (5-HT(3A)-/-). 5-HT(3A) (-/-) mice showed blunted induction of cocaine-induced locomotor sensitization as compared with wild-type littermate controls. 5-HT(3A) (-/-) mice did not differ from wild-type littermate controls on measures of basal motor activity or response to acute cocaine treatment. Enhanced locomotor response to saline injection following cocaine sensitization was observed equally in 5-HT(3A) (-/-) and wild-type mice suggesting similar conditioned effects associated with chronic cocaine treatment. These data show a role for the 5-HT(3A)-receptor subunit in the induction of behavioral sensitization to cocaine and suggest that the 5-HT(3A) molecular subunit modulates neurobehavioral adaptations to cocaine, which may underlie aspects of addiction.
DT-Diaphorase has been proposed to play a neuroprotective role in dopaminergic neurons by preventing aminochrome neurotoxicity. There are several studies supporting this idea, but in all studies, we used dicoumarol, an inhibitor of DT-diaphorase. We have designed and developed two siRNA to silence the expression of DT-diaphorase to study its role in aminochrome metabolism. We transduced RCSN-3 cells with retroviral particles containing a pRetroSuper plasmid coding a siRNA for DT-diaphorase. The cells selected in the presence of puromycin generated a stable cell line RCSN-3Nq6 and RCSN-3Nq7 with low expression of DT-diaphorase (27% and 33% of wild type, respectively). A significant cell death was observed in RCSN-3 cells expressing siRNA Nq6 and Nq7 for DT-diaphorase when were incubated with 100 μM aminochrome during 48 (4- and 3.5-fold, respectively; P < 0.01). These results support the protective role of DT-diaphorase against aminochrome neurotoxicity in dopaminergic neurons containing neuromelanin and show that Nq6 and Nq7 siRNA are very useful tools to study the role of DT-diaphorase in aminochrome metabolism.
A patient with systemic lupus erythematosus and anticardiolipin antibodies and antibodies to platelet factor 4/heparin complexes suffered an acute myocardial infarction caused by delayed heparin-induced thrombocytopenia after heparin administration given to treat pulmonary hypertension. Furthermore, additional heparin administration for emergency coronary angiography appeared to have led to an acute immunoreaction, which might have resulted in acute coronary occlusion during coronary angiography and to a decreased platelet count. The present findings suggest that one must suspect delayed-type HIT in rare cases of induction of thrombosis after the cessation of heparin treatment, and avoid re-exposure to heparin in such cases.
Community-based cumulative risk assessment requires characterization of exposures to multiple chemical and non-chemical stressors, with consideration of how the non-chemical stressors may influence risks from chemical stressors. Residential radon provides an interesting case example, given its large attributable risk, effect modification due to smoking, and significant variability in radon concentrations and smoking patterns. In spite of this fact, no study to date has estimated geographic and sociodemographic patterns of both radon and smoking in a manner that would allow for inclusion of radon in community-based cumulative risk assessment. In this study, we apply multi-level regression models to explain variability in radon based on housing characteristics and geological variables, and construct a regression model predicting housing characteristics using U.S. Census data. Multi-level regression models of smoking based on predictors common to the housing model allow us to link the exposures. We estimate county-average lifetime lung cancer risks from radon ranging from 0.15 to 1.8 in 100, with high-risk clusters in areas and for subpopulations with high predicted radon and smoking rates. Our findings demonstrate the viability of screening-level assessment to characterize patterns of lung cancer risk from radon, with an approach that can be generalized to multiple chemical and non-chemical stressors.
Previous studies from our laboratory have shown that the opioid peptide dynorphin-(1-13), although not analgesic when given by itself, can inhibit morphine-induced analgesia in naive mice and potentiate it in morphine tolerant mice. In the present study, we examined the effect of dynorphin-(1-13) with two other dynorphin-like peptides, alpha-neoendorphin and dynorphin-(1-10) amide, on respiration. Our results show that none of the peptides studied had any significant activity on the respiratory rate in mice when given alone. However, in the presence of morphine, dynorphin-(1-13) antagonized the morphine-induced respiratory rate depression in morphine-tolerant animals; alpha-neoendorphin enhanced the morphine-induced respiratory rate depression in naive but had no effect in morphine-tolerant animals and dynorphin-(1-10) amide had no modulatory effect on the morphine-induced respiratory rate depression in either group of animals.
Methotrexate may rarely provoke serositis, even with low doses and after just a few weeks of therapy. We report here a rare case of pleuropericarditis due to methotrexate. The effusion resolved after the withdrawal of the drug and the beginning of anti-inflammatory therapy; there was no relapse during a 10-month follow-up.
Discrepancies between the severity of toxicities reported in early clinical trials and recent clinical experience with vancomycin have led to confusion regarding the need for routine serum vancomycin level monitoring and discontinuation of vancomycin when toxicities occur. Therefore, the authors examined the incidence, outcomes, and predictive factors of vancomycin-associated toxicities in general oncology practice with the goal of developing clinically relevant prediction rules and guidelines.
All 742 consecutive cancer patients who received vancomycin at a comprehensive cancer center during a 3-month period were followed prospectively for the development and outcome of phlebitis, rash, ototoxicity, and nephrotoxicity. Logistic regression was used to derive a multiple variable model of the risk of nephrotoxicity. A clinical prediction rule, the Nephrotoxicity Risk Score, was developed from the risk model and validated prospectively.
Phlebitis occurred in 3% of patients (95% confidence interval [95% CI], 2-4%), predominantly those with recently inserted central venous catheters. Rashes occurred in 11% of patients (95% CI, 9-13%); however, all but 4 patients also were receiving beta-lactam antibiotics. Clinical evidence of ototoxicity developed in 6% of patients (95% CI, 4-9%) who were receiving vancomycin plus other ototoxic agents and only 3% of patients (95% CI, 2-5%) not receiving other ototoxic agents (P = 0.08). Nephrotoxicity occurred in 17% of patients (95% CI, 15-20%). Logistic regression revealed that factors associated with an increased risk of nephrotoxicity included administration of other mild to moderate (P = 0.01) or severely nephrotoxic agents (P < 0.001) or an acute physiology and chronic health evaluation (APACHE) score > 40 (P = 0.002). Elevated serum vancomycin peak levels did not reliably predict subsequent nephrotoxicity.
Vancomycin-associated toxicities usually are mild and self-limiting. Some patients are at a significantly higher risk of nephrotoxicity but the authors believe these individuals can be identified reliably with the Nephrotoxicity Risk Index using information available at vancomycin initiation. Further testing of the Nephrotoxicity Risk Index is ongoing.
A patient with progressive neurological deterioration characterized by cognitive impairment, myoclonus, Parkinson's syndrome, an abnormal electroencephalogram and fasciculations was considered for brain biopsy for suspected Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Complete clinical recovery followed discontinuation of lithium and nortriptyline. Awareness of this unusual drug-induced Creutzfeldt-Jakob like syndrome can avoid costly, invasive and unnecessary investigative procedures.
This article presents two cases of functional recovery in patients with brain injury after treatment with Amantadine, a dopaminergic stimulant. Also presented is a review of current data available concerning dopaminergic therapy after traumatic brain injury.
The objective of this study was to develop and test a combined therapeutic approach for patients with AIDS-related lymphoma (ARL), employing agents with independent mechanisms of action and nonoverlapping toxicity. This study was designed to test the feasibility and tolerance of combining low dose chemotherapy with infusional immunotoxin in the treatment of ARL patients.
Previously untreated patients received low dose methotrexate, bleomycin, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, and vincristine (m-BACOD) on a 21- to 28-day schedule. Patients who did not have progressive disease by Cycle 3 received anti-B4-blocked ricin (anti-B4bR), a murine monoclonal antibody linked to modified ricin, 20 microg/kg/day for 7 days administered by continuous infusion on an outpatient basis. A repeat cycle of anti-B4-bR was administered during Cycle 4 of chemotherapy based on tolerance. Patients received two cycles of chemotherapy beyond complete remission up to eight cycles. Study endpoints were toxicity, development of human antimurine antibody (HAMA) and human antiricin (HARA), tumor response, and survival.
Twenty-six of 44 patients received the immunotoxin therapy. Anti-B4-bR infusion was associated with transaminase elevation (Grade 3) in 14 of 26 patients (58%), and flulike symptoms were common. HAMA or HARA was observed in 8 patients (31%). The overall response rate was 57% (13 complete responses and 12 partial responses). The median survival for all patients was 8.9 months.
This study demonstrates the safety and feasibility of using chemotherapy and immunotoxin therapies in combination and supports their further evaluation to improve the outcomes of patients with ARL.
Hepatitis B virus (HBV), the leading cause of human hepatocellular carcinoma, is especially virulent in males infected at an early age. Likewise, the murine liver carcinogen Helicobacter hepaticus is most pathogenic in male mice infected before puberty. We used this model to investigate the influence of male sex hormone signaling on infectious hepatitis. Male A/JCr mice were infected with H. hepaticus or vehicle at 4 weeks and randomized into surgical and pharmacologic treatment groups. Interruption of androgen pathways was confirmed by hormone measurements, histopathology, and liver gene and Cyp4a protein expression. Castrated males and those receiving the competitive androgen receptor antagonist flutamide had significantly less severe hepatitis as determined by histologic activity index than intact controls at 4 months. Importantly, the powerful androgen receptor agonist dihydrotestosterone did not promote hepatitis. No effect on hepatitis was evident in males treated with the 5alpha-reductase inhibitor dutasteride, the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha agonist bezafibrate, or the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug flufenamic acid. Consistent with previous observations of hepatitis-associated liver-gender disruption, transcriptional alterations involved both feminine (cytochrome P450 4a14) and masculine (cytochrome P450 4a12 and trefoil factor 3) genes, as well gender-neutral (H19 fetal liver mRNA, lipocalin 2, and ubiquitin D) genes. Hepatitis was associated with increased unsaturated C(18) long-chain fatty acids (oleic acid and linoleic acid) relative to saturated stearic acid. Our results indicate that certain forms of androgen interruption can inhibit H. hepaticus-induced hepatitis in young male mice, whereas androgen receptor agonism does not worsen disease. This raises the possibility of targeted hormonal therapy in young male patients with childhood-acquired HBV.
5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) is a commonly used chemotherapeutic agent. However, its neurotoxicity is rare and not well recognized. We report a case of 5-FU neurotoxicity with organic brain syndrome and progression to multifocal leukoencephalopathy in a 44-year-old male patient having malignant gastrointestinal stromal tumor. 5-FU-induced neurotoxicity should, therefore, be considered as an important differential diagnosis in cancer patients with neurological abnormality and history of chemotherapy.
Succinylcholine is a popular muscle relaxant and one of its most common side effects is muscle fasciculation. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of remifentanil in preventing succinylcholine-induced fasciculation in patients undergoing general anesthesia.
In aprospective, double blind study, 60 ASA I & II patients were randomly assigned into two groups (30 each) to receive either remifentanil 1 microg/kg (Group R), or saline 3 ml (Group S) as a pretreatment agent, one minute before induction of general anesthesia by propofol, fentanyl, and 1.5 mg/kg succinylcholine. The duration and the intensity of fasciculation were assessed using a four-point rating scale. Data were analyzed by Mann-Whitney U-test, Fisher exact test and Student-t-test using SPSS software.
In the remifentanil group the duration (p < 0.001) and the intensity (p < 0.001) of fasciculation were lower compared to the saline group. However the incidence of bradycardia was higher in the remifentanil group in comparison to the group which received normal saline.
Our findings indicate that remifentanil can reduce the duration and the intensity of succinylcholine induced fasciculation. However, it induces greater bradycardia.
Macrophages play an integral role in the development of liver fibrosis by releasing mediators, such as platelet-derived growth factor-B (PDGF-B) and transforming growth factor-β1, which stimulate hepatic stellate cell proliferation, chemotaxis, and collagen production. However, the mechanism by which chronic liver injury stimulates macrophages to release these mediators is not completely understood. We tested the hypothesis that chronic liver injury activates hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) transcription factors in macrophages that regulate the production of mediators that promote fibrosis. To test this hypothesis, Cre/lox technology was used to generate myeloid cell-specific HIF-1α or HIF-1β knockout mice. When these mice were subjected to bile duct ligation (BDL), levels of α-smooth muscle actin and type I collagen in the liver were reduced compared with those of mice with normal levels of HIFs. The deficiency of HIFs in macrophages did not affect liver injury or inflammation after BDL but reduced PDGF-B mRNA and protein, suggesting that HIF activation in macrophages may promote fibrosis by regulating the production of PDGF-B. Consistent with a role for HIFs in liver fibrosis in cholestatic liver disease, nuclear HIF-1α protein was present in macrophages, hepatocytes, and fibroblasts in the livers from patients with primary biliary cirrhosis and primary sclerosing cholangitis. These studies demonstrate that HIFs are important regulators of profibrotic mediator production by macrophages during the development of liver fibrosis and suggest that HIFs may be a novel therapeutic target for the treatment of chronic liver disease in patients.
Therapeutic ototoxic drugs are one of the major causes of damage in the peripheral auditory system, leading to hearing loss. In this study, we have examined the toxic actions of three classes of ototoxins (sodium salicylate, gentamicin and cisplatin) in organotypic cultures of postnatal cochlear explants. In these cultures, afferent innervation of hair cells by primary auditory neurons remained intact. Double labelling with a monoclonal antibody against neurofilament protein and a phalloidin-fluorescein isothiocyanate conjugate revealed that the three types of drugs induced differential damage to auditory neurons and hair cells in the cochlea. While gentamicin preferentially caused hair cell death, sodium salicylate specifically induced degeneration of auditory neurons. In contrast, cisplatin resulted in destruction of both auditory neurons and hair cells. Neuronal degeneration was largely prevented by the addition of neurotrophin-4/5, brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-3 to the culture media together with the ototoxins, while nerve growth factor and other growth factors had no effect. In contrast, the hair cell loss caused by cisplatin or gentamicin was not attenuated by the presence of neurotrophins. These results suggest that ototoxic mechanisms of salicylates, aminoglycosides and chemotherapeutic agents are different. Auditory neuronal loss induced by ototoxins may be prevented by specific neurotrophins.
