Although several cases of metronidazole-induced encephalopathy have been reported, to our knowledge, there is no previous report of brain changes in anterior commissure, basal ganglia, cerebellar white matter, and inferior olivary nuclei on magnetic resonance images. The precise mechanisms of action of metronidazole-induced encephalopathy have not been determined.
To report a unique case of metronidazole-induced encephalopathy extensively involving multiple lesions and to determine the precise mechanism of action of metronidazole-induced encephalopathy.
University hospital. Patient A 74-year-old woman hospitalized with complaints of progressive dysarthria, dysphagia, and gait disturbance 3 months after the initiation of metronidazole therapy. Intervention Brain magnetic resonance imaging and discontinuation of metronidazole therapy. Main Outcome Measure We observed changes of multiple lesions found on magnetic resonance imaging and analyzed apparent diffusion coefficient map values.
Initial fluid-attenuated inversion recovery brain magnetic resonance images showed high signal intensities in diffuse subcortical white matter, anterior commissure, splenium, basal ganglia, midbrain, cerebellar white matter, and bilateral inferior olivary nuclei. These lesions were resolved after discontinuation of metronidazole therapy. However, the lesions in the inferior olivary nuclei were not resolved; rather they became hypertrophic. Apparent diffusion coefficient map values in the symptom period decreased and were normalized after discontinuation of metronidazole therapy.
We describe a patient with metronidazole-induced encephalopathy involving reversible lesions in the anterior commissure, basal ganglia, and cerebellar white matter, which have not been reported previously. We observed inferior olivary hypertrophy, believed to be the result of lesions in the midbrain and cerebellar white matter rather than the result of lesions induced by metronidazole therapy. By using diffusion-weighted imaging and apparent diffusion coefficient maps, we found that metronidazole-induced encephalopathy might be caused by cytotoxic edema.
The intradermal injection of mu (morphine, Tyr-D-Ala-Gly-NMe-Phe-Gly-ol and morphiceptin), kappa (trans-3,4-dichloro-N-methyl-N[2-(1-pyrrolidinyl) cyclohexyl]benzeneactemide) and delta ([D-Pen2.5]-enkephalin and [D-Ser2]-[Leu]enkephalin-Thr) selective opioid-agonists, by themselves, did not significantly affect the mechanical nociceptive threshold in the hindpaw of the rat. Intradermal injection of mu, but not delta or kappa opioid-agonists, however, produced dose-dependent inhibition of prostaglandin E2-induced hyperalgesia. The analgesic effect of the mu-agonist morphine was dose-dependently antagonized by naloxone and prevented by co-injection of pertussis toxin. Morphine did not, however, alter the hyperalgesia induced by 8-bromo cyclic adenosine monophosphate. We conclude that the analgesic action of opioids on the peripheral terminals of primary afferents is via a binding site with characteristics of the mu-opioid receptor and that this action is mediated by inhibition of the cyclic adenosine monophosphate second messenger system.
Autosomal dominant DOPA-responsive dystonia (DRD) is usually caused by mutation in the gene encoding guanosine triphosphate-cyclohydrolase I (GTPCH I). We studied 22 families with a phenotype of levodopa-responsive dystonia by sequencing the six coding exons, the 5'-untranslated region and the exon-intron boundaries of the GTPCH I gene. Eleven heterozygous mutations were identified, including five missense mutations, one splice site mutation, two small deletions and two nonsense mutations, in 12 families that included 27 patients and 13 asymptomatic carriers. Six mutations were new and five had already been reported. Four of the mutations caused truncation of the GTPCH I protein. One family carried a base-pair change in the 5'-untranslated region, not detected in controls, that could be responsible for the phenotype. Three of the remaining 10 families had deletions in the parkin gene on chromosome 6, underlining how difficult it is to distinguish, in some cases, between DRD and parkin mutations. No mutations were identified in seven families. The clinical spectrum extended from the classical DRD phenotype to parkinsonism with levodopa-induced dyskinesias, and included spastic paraplegia as well as the absence of dystonia.
A case of cholestatic jaundice following treatment with Augmentin is reported. The awareness of hepatotoxicity due to drug should help to avoid unnecessary invasive procedures in the evaluation of this reversible condition.
Side-effects and complications of lithium therapy were examined by evaluation of data registered from 73 patients. Transitory subjective complaints would often occur during the initial phase of therapy, but they do not require any additional therapy. Occasional development of struma and sometimes high increase of body weight require regular controls of these values. Disposing factors concerning the possible occurrence of epileptic seizures and extra-pyramidal disorders under lithium therapy are Melipramin as well as organic cerebral lesions.
Hyperlipidemia is the major risk factors of heart disease such as atherosclerosis, stroke, and death. In the present study, we studied the effect of gallic acid (GA), linoleic acid (LA), mixture of GA and LA (MGL), and chemically synthesized gallic acid-linoleic acid ester (octadeca-9,12-dienyl-3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoate, GLE) on the ability to ameliorate hyperlipidemia in C57BL/6 mice fed a high-fat diet (HFD). GLE, GA, LA, and MGL were mixed with HFD and the composition of the test compounds were 1% of the diet for 7 weeks. After 7 weeks, the average body weight of ND and GLE groups was lower than that of HFD group (P<0.05). The liver weight of mice decreased (P<0.05) in all treatment groups relative to HFD fed group. The plasma lipids such as triglyceride and LDL-cholesterol were found to be decreased (P<0.05) in GLE, GA, LA, and MGL fed mice when compared to that of HFD fed mice. But high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol increased (P<0.05) in HFD and GLE fed mice when compared to that of ND fed mice. The hepatic accumulation of fat droplets of GA, LA, GLE, and MGL group showed considerably lower than that of HFD group. Adipose histology showed that GLE supplementation was found to be more effective in decreasing the size of adipocyte relative to those of other treatment groups. In conclusion, the supplementation of synthetic GLE from gallic acid and linoleic acid ester may have a potential hypolipidemic effect on mice fed high-fat diet. Further studies are required to prove GLE as a hypolipidemic agent.
To review the adverse effects and risks of deferoxamine for the treatment of iron poisoning.
A literature search of deferoxamine induced adverse effects was used to identify pertinent articles. The references of these articles served as the source of other references not previously identified.
Deferoxamine is a relatively safe antidote for iron intoxication, but adverse effects have been recognized with increased usage, particularly with prolonged intravenous dosing. This paper focuses on deferoxamine induced cardiovascular, pulmonary, ocular and auditory toxicity as well as its potential to increase the risk of infection. Information on iron's toxicology and toxicokinetics and deferoxamine's pharmacology and pharmacokinetics are reviewed. With this background information a hypothesis is generated to maximize deferoxamine benefit while minimizing deferoxamine induced pulmonary toxicity. The hypothesis is based upon a stoichiometric approach to maximal chelation during the first 24 h following iron ingestion.
Deferoxamine is a relatively safe antidote for iron poisoning but the potential for pulmonary and cardiovascular toxicity should be respected. Studies defining maximum regimens over defined periods of time will allow a more logical utilization of deferoxamine, optimizing benefit and minimizing risk.
A 55-year-old woman with bipolar disorder who had been taking lithium for several years developed hyperosmolar coma following osteosynthesis of a hip fracture. The coma was attributed to decompensation of undiagnosed nephrogenic diabetes insipidus due to chronic lithium intake. The lengthy perioperative fasting and large fluid loading (necessitated by the anesthetic technique) led to acute hypernatremia. Closer monitoring and a different anesthetic strategy might have avoided this classical complication of chronic lithium therapy. The patient recovered after symptomatic treatment. We discuss the perioperative management of patients taking (or having taken) lithium, based on a review of the literature.
Clinical and pathological findings of five cases of acute hepatitis due to amoxicillin-clavulanic acid intake are reported. Liver biopsies revealed cholestasis in all cases, associated with varied degrees of interlobular bile duct injury in four patients. There was no ductopenia. These alterations may mimic lesions observed in intra- and/or extrahepatic biliary tract obstruction. Drug-induced intrahepatic bile duct injuries are not uncommon and can lead to diagnosis difficulties.
The frequency and spectrum of adverse events associated with the antimalarial therapeutic regimen of mefloquine (MQ) (750 and 500 mg at an interval of 6 h) was assessed in 22 healthy volunteers who were monitored for 21 days following drug administration. An unexpected high frequency of side effects of any grade were reported by all 22 subjects. The most commonly reported symptoms were vertigo (96%), followed by nausea (82%) and headache (73%). Participants suffering from severe (grade 3) vertigo (73%) required bed rest and specific medication for 1 to 4 days. More females than males reported severe adverse reactions. The majority (77.3%) of the participants (f: 8/12, m: 9/10) showed symptom resolution within 3 weeks (510 h) after drug administration. Biochemical and haematological findings stayed within the normal range of values, but showed nevertheless a significant rise of Na, Cl, Ca, bilirubin, GGT and LDH. The unexpectedly high frequency and severity of adverse reactions after normal therapeutic dosage of MQ in healthy subjects may influence future recommendations regarding the use of MQ for stand-by treatment of suspected malaria in travellers.
Saethre-Chotzen syndrome is a common autosomal dominant form of craniosynostosis, the premature fusion of the sutures of the calvarial bones of the skull. Most Saethre-Chotzen syndrome cases are caused by haploinsufficiency for the TWIST gene. Mice heterozygous for a null mutation of the Twist gene replicate certain features of Saethre-Chotzen syndrome, but have not been reported to exhibit craniosynostosis. We demonstrate that Twist heterozygous mice exhibit fusions of the coronal suture and other cranial suture abnormalities, indicating that Twist heterozygous mice constitute a better animal model for Saethre-Chotzen syndrome than was previously appreciated.
We report a case of successful mitral valve replacement performed on the patient who is an infective endocarditis due to MRSA. She was 27-year-old female and treated by antibiotics medication because of remittent fever two years ago. On August 1995, cerebral infarction occurred and she was pointed out endocarditis. After high fever continued, blood cultures demonstrated MRSA. Furthermore, echocardiography showed vegetation on posterior mitral valve leaflet and moderate mitral regurgitation so, mitral valve replacement with a S.J.M. 25 mm performed to control MRSA sepsis condition. During operation, we used VCM 2 g into the extracorporeal circulation and after operation 0.5 g intravenously every 6 hours. Two weeks later we changed antibiotics to FOM, Viccillin and ABK according to the result of minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) obtained through blood culture. The patient was discharged on the 44 th postoperative day because of her uneventful postoperative course.
Hypotension is a major contributor to mortality in tricyclic antidepressant overdose. Recent data suggest that tricyclic antidepressants inhibit calcium influx in some tissues. This study addressed the potential role of calcium channel blockade in tricyclic antidepressant-induced hypotension.
Two interventions were studied that have been shown previously to improve blood pressure with calcium channel blocker overdose. CaCl2 and 4-aminopyridine. Anesthetized rats received the tricyclic antidepressant desipramine IP to produce hypotension, QRS prolongation, and bradycardia. Fifteen min later, animals received CaCl2, NaHCO3, or saline. In a second experiment, rats received tricyclic antidepressant desipramine IP followed in 15 min by 4-aminopyridine or saline.
NaHCO3 briefly (5 min) reversed hypotension and QRS prolongation. CaCl2 and 4-aminopyridine failed to improve blood pressure. The incidence of ventricular arrhythmias (p = 0.004) and seizures (p = 0.03) in the CaCl2 group was higher than the other groups.
The administration of CaCl2 or 4-aminopyridine did not reverse tricyclic antidepressant-induced hypotension in rats. CaCl2 therapy may possibly worsen both cardiovascular and central nervous system toxicity. These findings do not support a role for calcium channel inhibition in the pathogenesis of tricyclic antidepressant-induced hypotension.
Congenital cataracts are a common major abnormality of the eye that frequently cause blindness in infants. At least a third of all cases are familial; autosomal dominant congenital cataract (ADCC) appears to be the most common familial form in the Western world. Cerulean cataracts have peripheral bluish and white opacifications in concentric layers with occasional central lesions arranged radially. Although the opacities may be observed during fetal development and childhood, usually visual acuity is only mildly reduced until adulthood, when lens extraction is generally necessary. We have been studying a family (ADCC-1) with cerulean blue ADCC, in which the affected daughter of a first cousin mating was presumed to be homozygous for the cataract gene. Recently, we mapped an ADCC gene in this family to a region of chromosome 22 containing three beta-crystallin genes. Here we report that a chain-termination mutation in CRYBB2 is associated with ADCC in this family.
To assess the role of Thymidine Phosphorylase and β-tubulin III in clinical outcome of Chinese advanced gastric cancer patients receiving first-line capecitabine plus paclitaxel.
The clinical data and tumor biopsies prior treatment from 33 advanced gastric cancer patients receiving capecitabine plus paclitaxel (cohort 1, experimental group) and 18 patients receiving capecitabine plus cisplatin (cohort 2, control group) in Beijing Cancer Hospital from July 2003 to December 2008 were retrospectively collected and analyzed for Thymidine Phosphorylase and β-tubulin III expressions by immunohistochemistry. The relationships between expressions of biomarkers and response or survival were determined by statistical analysis.
The median age of 51 patients was 57 years (range, 27-75) with male 34 and female 17, and the response rate, median progression-free survival and overall survival were 43.1%, 120d and 265d. Among cohort 1, the response rate, median progression-free survival and overall survival in β-tubulin III positive (n = 22) and negative patients (n = 11) were 36.4%/72.7% (positive vs negative, P = 0.049), 86d/237d (P = 0.046) and 201d/388d (P = 0.029), respectively; the response rate (87.5% vs 14.3%, P = 0.01) and median progression-free survival (251d vs 84d, P = 0.003) in Thymidine Phosphorylase positive & β-tubulin III negative patients (n = 8) were also significantly higher than those in Thymidine Phosphorylase negative & β-tubulin III positive patients (n = 7). There was no correlation between β-tubulin III expression and response or survival among cohort 2 (n = 18).
In Chinese advanced gastric cancer, Thymidine Phosphorylase positive & β-tubulin III negative might predict response and prognosis to capecitabine plus paclitaxel chemotherapy. Further prospective evaluation in large samples should be performed to confirm these preliminary findings.
Childhood cancer survivors (CCSs) have an increased risk of morbidity and mortality. We evaluated the prevalence and determinants of left ventricular (LV) dysfunction in a large cohort of long-term CCSs treated with different potentially cardiotoxic therapies.
The study cohort consisted of all adult 5-year CCSs who were treated with potentially cardiotoxic therapies and who visited our late effects outpatient clinic. Echocardiography was performed in patients who had received anthracyclines, cardiac irradiation, high-dose cyclophosphamide, or high-dose ifosfamide. Detailed treatment data were registered. Both multivariate linear and logistic regression analyses were performed.
Of 601 eligible CCSs, 525 (87%) had an echocardiogram performed, of which 514 were evaluable for assessment of the LV shortening fraction (LVSF). The median overall LVSF in the whole group of CCSs was 33.1% (range, 13.0%-56.0%). Subclinical cardiac dysfunction (LVSF <30%) was identified in 139 patients (27%). In a multivariate linear regression model, LVSF was reduced with younger age at diagnosis, higher cumulative anthracycline dose, and radiation to the thorax. High-dose cyclophosphamide and ifosfamide were not associated with a reduction of LVSF. Vincristine sulfate was associated with a nonsignificant decrease of cardiac function (P = .07). Epirubicin hydrochloride was as cardiotoxic as doxorubicin when corrected for tumor efficacy, and daunorubicin hydrochloride seemed less cardiotoxic.
A high percentage (27%) of young adult CCSs have an abnormal cardiac function. The strongest predictors of subclinical cardiac dysfunction are anthracycline dose, cardiac irradiation, and younger age at diagnosis. There is a suggestion that daunorubicin is less cardiotoxic than other anthracyclines.
Lung cancer is a heterogeneous disease with individual differences in histological type, rate of progression, and response to therapy. Definition of the molecular and genetic basis of specific tumor characteristics would provide a better assessment of prognosis and a basis for a more individualized therapy. Here the authors compare the quantitative and qualitative phenotypes of lung tumors in mice of O20/A and OcB-9/Dem strains subjected to 2 regimens of N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU) treatment: (1) prenatal tumor induction by a single intraperitoneal (IP) injection of 40 mg/kg body weight into pregnant females and (2) after the same prenatal induction, the progeny received on weeks 9 and 11 additional IP ENU injections. The numbers, size, and histological characteristics of tumors were determined microscopically in semiserial lung sections. Unexpectedly, the authors observed very highly significant strain differences in a novel polymorphic phenotype-peribronchial versus nonperibronchial location of lung tumors, as well as in frequency of lymphocyte infiltration. To assess the reproducibility of these genetic differences, the authors classified both tumor location and lymphocyte infiltration also in an independent set of lung tumors that were induced in these strains in experiments performed more than 10 years ago in a different mouse facility and found the same strain differences. These results indicate that these qualitative phenotypes are very robust (P(c) 5.52 x 10(-6) and 2.27 x 10(-8), respectively) and relatively independent of environmental influences. They likely reflect different stages of lung differentiation at the time of tumor induction and differences in molecules involved in intercellular signaling, respectively. The definition of genes controlling these traits will provide novel insights into the determination of tumor phenotype.
We have demonstrated that volatile anesthetics reduce inflammation after renal ischemia/reperfusion injury in vivo. As hyperactive uncontrolled inflammation can lead to mortality and morbidity during early sepsis, we questioned whether the volatile anesthetic isoflurane could reduce mortality and protect against sepsis induced renal and hepatic dysfunction. Mice were anesthetized with isoflurane or with pentobarbital and subjected to cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) to induce septic peritonitis. Mice were anesthetized for an additional 3 h after CLP with either isoflurane or pentobarbital. Renal and hepatic function was assessed 24 h later and survival after CLP was assessed for 7 days. To determine if isoflurane protects by reducing inflammation, we quantified renal tubular expression of pro-inflammatory (intercellular adhesion molecule 1, tumor necrosis factor alpha [TNF-alpha], and interleukin [IL] 1beta) messenger RNA with reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. We also measured the plasma levels of the pro-inflammatory cytokines TNF-alpha, keratinocyte-derived chemokine (KC), and IL-6 and an anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10. Renal cortical apoptosis was also assessed 24 h after CLP. Twenty-four hours after the septic insult, isoflurane-treated mice had significantly improved renal and hepatic function compared with mice anesthetized with pentobarbital. Renal cortices of isoflurane-treated mice had significantly reduced expression of intercellular adhesion molecule 1, TNF-alpha, and IL-1beta messenger RNA and showed less apoptosis. Isoflurane-treated mice had lower plasma levels of TNF-alpha, KC, and IL-6. Isoflurane-anesthetized mice also had significantly prolonged and increased survival compared with pentobarbital-anesthetized mice. Therefore, isoflurane anesthesia conferred significant protection against renal and hepatic dysfunction and death after septic peritonitis and attenuated renal inflammation and apoptosis compared with pentobarbital anesthesia.
Waardenburg syndrome (WS) is a clinically and genetically heterogeneous disease accounting for >2% of the congenitally deaf population. It is characterized by deafness in association with pigmentary anomalies and various defects of neural crest-derived tissues. At least four types are recognized (WS1, WS2, WS3 and WS4) on the basis of clinical and genetic criteria. Two previously described families seemed to delineate a new subtype characterized by WS2 in conjunction with ocular albinism (OA). Since mutations in the MITF gene are responsible for some instances of WS2, we screened for mutations in one of the WS2-OA families and discovered a 1 bp deletion in exon 8 of MITF. OA previously has been associated with compound heterozygosity for a mutant TYR allele and the TYR(R402Q) allele, a functionally significant polymorphism that is associated with moderately reduced tyrosinase catalytic activity. In this family, all of the individuals with the OA phenotype are either homozygous or heterozygous for TYR(R402Q), and heterozyous for the 1 bp deletion in MITF This suggests that the WS2-OA phenotype may result from digenic interaction between a gene for a transcription factor (MITF) and a gene that it regulates (TYR).
The role of exposure to specific antiretroviral drugs on risk of myocardial infarction in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected patients is debated in the literature.
To assess whether we confirmed the association between exposure to abacavir and risk of myocardial infarction (MI) and to estimate the impact of exposure to other nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs), protease inhibitors (PIs), and non-NRTIs on risk of MI, we conducted a case-control study nested within the French Hospital Database on HIV. Cases (n = 289) were patients who, between January 2000 and December 2006, had a prospectively recorded first definite or probable MI. Up to 5 controls (n = 884), matched for age, sex, and clinical center, were selected at random with replacement among patients with no history of MI already enrolled in the database when MI was diagnosed in the corresponding case. Conditional logistic regression models were used to adjust for potential confounders.
Short-term/recent exposure to abacavir was associated with an increased risk of MI in the overall sample (odds ratios [ORs], 2.01; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.11-3.64) but not in the subset of matched cases and controls (81%) who did not use cocaine or intravenous drugs (1.27; 0.64-2.49). Cumulative exposure to all PIs except saquinavir was associated with an increased risk of MI significant for amprenavir/fosamprenavir with or without ritonavir (OR, 1.53; 95% CI, 1.21-1.94 per year) and lopinavir with ritonavir (1.33; 1.09-1.61 per year). Exposure to all non-NRTIs was not associated with risk of MI.
The risk of MI was increased by cumulative exposure to all the studied PIs except saquinavir and particularly to amprenavir/fosamprenavir with or without ritonavir and lopinavir with ritonavir, whereas the association with abacavir cannot be considered causal.
Anesthetics can alter the dose of exogenously administered epinephrine that causes cardiac arrhythmias. The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that in humans anesthetized with sevoflurane, the arrhythmic response to epinephrine is not different from the response in humans anesthetized with isoflurane.
We determined the arrhythmogenicity of submucosally administered epinephrine in 40 ASA physical status 1 or 2 patients who were to undergo transsphenoidal surgery. Patients were assigned randomly to be given 1.0-1.3 minimum alveolar concentration sevoflurane or isoflurane. A surgeon, blinded to the anesthetic and the concentration of epinephrine, injected into the nasal submucosa epinephrine 10, 13.3, or 20 micrograms/ml in saline of volume sufficient for surgical need. We defined a "positive" response as three or more premature ventricular contractions within 5 min after initiation of injection. Responses between anesthetic groups within each dose range of epinephrine were compared by chi-squared analysis.
No patient given either anesthetic developed premature ventricular contractions with doses of epinephrine less than 5 micrograms/kg. At larger doses of epinephrine (5-9.9 and 10-14.9 micrograms/kg), the frequency of arrhythmias did not differ between patients given sevoflurane and patients given isoflurane. Patients anesthetized with 1.2 minimum alveolar concentration sevoflurane had blood pressure similar to and heart rate less than those of patients anesthetized with similar concentrations of isoflurane. Blood pressure and heart rate were increased similarly in both groups after laryngoscopy and tracheal intubation and after epinephrine injection.
Sevoflurane and isoflurane do not differ in their sensitization of the human myocardium to the arrhythmogenic effect of exogenously administered epinephrine.
In rats with unilateral carotid artery ligation pyramidal tract responses were studied during hypoxia and during trimethaphan-induced hypotension. Observations on EEG activity during hypoxia suggest that unilateral carotid artery ligation produces a more severe perfusion defect in lateral portions of the hemisphere. During hypoxia and during trimethaphan-induced hypotension indirect PTRs disappeared first from the hemisphere on the side of carotid artery ligation and next from the opposite hemisphere. This was followed by loss of direct PTRs in the same order. Animals could not be resuscitated once the direct PTR from the non-ligated hemisphere had disappeared. Hypotension appears to be a late contributing factor in impairing electrocerebral activity during hypoxia in this study.
A series of 3-alkyl/aryl-8-(furan-2-yl)thiazolo[5,4-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidine-2(3H)-thiones (3a-3f) were synthesised in good yield and evaluated for their anti-Parkinsonian and neuroprotective potential. The structures of the synthesised compounds were confirmed on the basis of their spectral data and elemental analysis. All of the compounds were found to be active in haloperidol-induced catalepsy and oxidative stress in mice. The most active compound carried a propyl group at the 3-position of the thiazolotriazolopyrimidine nucleus while substitution with a phenyl ring produced the least active compound among the series. A computational study was carried out for the prediction of pharmacokinetic properties and none of the compounds violated Lipinski's rule of five, making them potentially promising agents for the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Carcinogen-induced formation of DNA adducts and other types of DNA lesions are the critical molecular events in the initiation of chemical carcinogenesis and modulation of such events by chemopreventive agents could be an important step in limiting neoplastic transformation in vivo. Vanadium, a dietary micronutrient has been found to be effective in several types of cancers both in vivo and in vitro and also possesses profound anticarcinogenicity against rat models of mammary, colon and hepatocarcinogenesis. Presently, we report the chemopreventive potential of vanadium on diethylnitrosamine (DEN)-induced early DNA damages in rat liver. Hepatocarcinogenesis was induced in male Sprague-Dawley rats with a single, necrogenic, intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of DEN (200 mg/kg body weight) at week 4. There was a significant induction of tissue-specific ethylguanines, steady elevation of modified DNA bases 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosines (8-OHdGs) (P<0.0001; 89.93%) along with substantial increment of the extent of single-strand breaks (SSBs) (P<0.0001) following DEN exposure. Supplementation of 0.5 ppm of vanadium throughout the experiment abated the formations of O(6)-ethylguanines and 7-ethylguanines (P<0.0001; 48.71% and 67.54% respectively), 8-OHdGs (P<0.0001; 81.37%), length:width (L:W) of DNA mass (P<0.01; 62.12%) and the mean frequency of tailed DNA (P<0.001; 53.58%), and hepatic nodulogenesis in preneoplastic rat liver. The study indicates that 0.5 ppm vanadium is potentially and optimally effective, as derived from dose-response studies, in limiting early molecular events and preneoplastic lesions, thereby modulating the initiation stage of hepatocarcinogenesis. Vanadium is chemopreventive against DEN-induced genotoxicity and resulting hepatocellular transformation in rats.
Patients treated with valproic acid (VPA) present a high incidence of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) (around 61%). Several recent studies suggest that low copper stores could be associated with NAFLD, and a significant decrease of copper availability in VPA-treated patients has been described.
In 101 adult epileptic patients treated with valproic acid in monotherapy (n = 75) and polytherapy (n = 26) the copper availability was evaluated using the specific oxidase activity of ceruloplasmin (activity per unit mass of enzyme protein) and the copper/ceruloplasmin ratio. Copper deficiency was supposed in the cases in which this biochemical variable was smaller than the lower reference limit (333 U/g).
The differences between the groups of patients with ceruloplasmin oxidase activity smaller or greater than 333 U/g for the serum levels of aminotransferases, gamma-glutamyltransferase, butyrylcholinesterase, cholesterol, triglycerides, and C-reactive protein, and the APRI and FIB-4 liver fibrosis scores were not statistically significant. Most patients (93%) had low APRI and FIB-4 scores, suggesting absence of significant liver fibrosis.
The results obtained do not confirm the hypothesis of an association between diminished copper availability and NAFLD in patients treated with valproic acid.
