A renal tumor developing in a patient receiving cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan) therapy for Wegener granulomatosis is reported. The tumor was similar histologically to the "immunoblastic" sarcoma that develops in renal allograft recipients as a complication of immunosuppressive therapy. This case report strengthens the cause and effect relationship between immunosuppressive drug usage and the subsequent development of neoplasia.
Multiple Ca2+ channels confer diverse functions to hair cells of the auditory and vestibular organs in the mammalian inner ear. We used gene-targeting technology to generate alpha1D Ca2+ channel-deficient mice to determine the physiological role of these Ca2+ channels in hearing and balance. Analyses of auditory-evoked brainstem recordings confirmed that alpha1D-/- mice were deaf and revealed that heterozygous (alpha1D+/-) mice have increased hearing thresholds. However, hearing deficits in alpha1D+/- mice were manifested mainly by the increase in threshold of low-frequency sounds. In contrast to impaired hearing, alpha1D-/- mice have balance performances equivalent to their wild-type littermates. Light and electron microscope analyses of the inner ear revealed outer hair cell loss at the apical cochlea, but no apparent abnormality at the basal cochlea and the vestibule. We determined the mechanisms underlying the auditory function defects and the normal vestibular functions by examining the Ba2+ currents in cochlear inner and outer hair cells versus utricular hair cells in alpha1D+/- mice. Whereas the whole-cell Ba2+ currents in inner hair cells consist mainly of the nimodipine-sensitive current (approximately 85%), the utricular hair cells express only approximately 50% of this channel subtype. Thus, differential expression of alpha1D channels in the cochlear and utricular hair cells confers the phenotype of the alpha1D null mutant mice. Because vestibular and cochlear hair cells share common features and null deletion of several genes have yielded both deafness and imbalance in mice, alpha1D null mutant mice may serve as a model to disentangle vestibular from auditory-specific functions.
To study the change of lipid metabolism by antiandrogen therapy in patients with prostate cancer.
We studied with a 2.5 years follow-up the changes in plasma cholesterols (C), triglycerides (TG), lipoproteins (LP), and apolipoproteins (Apo) B-100, A-I, and A-II pro fi les in 24 patients of mean age 60 years with low risk prostate cancer (stage: T1cN0M0, Gleason score: 2-5) during treatment with cyproterone acetate (CPA) without surgical management or radiation therapy.
Significant decreases of HDL-C, Apo A-I and Apo A-II and an increase of triglyceride levels in VLDL were induced by CPA. After a period of 2.5 years on CPA treatment, four patients out of twenty-four were found to be affected by coronary heart disease.
Ischaemic coronary arteriosclerosis with an incidence rate of 16.6% as caused by prolonged CPA therapy is mediated through changes in HDL cholesterol, Apo A-I and Apo A-II pro fi les, other than the well-known hyperglyceridemic effect caused by estrogen.
The study examined whether adjunctive treatment with trazodone would reduce negative symptomatology in patients with chronic, residual schizophrenia.
Patients selected for the study had an established clinical diagnosis of chronic schizophrenia with stable symptomatology, an absence of florid psychotic symptons, a stable regimen of neuroleptic medication, and an absence of depressive disorder. Active psychotic symptoms were assessed using the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS) score on the thinking disturbance factor. Negative symptoms were assessed using the BPRS withdrawal retardation factor as well as the affective flattening and alogia subscales from the Scale for Assessment of Negative Symptoms. Forty-nine patients were randomly assigned to either trazodone or placebo in a six-week double-blind trial.
Forty-seven patients, 23 men and 24 women with an average age of 60 years, completed the six-week trial. Twenty-six of the patients received trazodone. Adjunctive treatment with trazodone significantly reduced the severity ratings on two of three measures of negative symptoms and did not significantly increase the severity of positive symptoms; however, the magnitude of the therapeutic effect was modest. The scores for negative symptoms were reduced by approximately 10 to 15 percent, and only three of the 26 actively treated patients showed moderate clinical improvement.
Trazodone, used in conjunction with neuroleptics, mildly reduces the severity of negative symptoms in residual schizophrenia and does not exacerbate florid psychosis. The potential benefits of adjunctive trazodone therapy may outweigh the risk of worsening psychosis.
The cardiac safety of digoxin therapy for congestive heart failure (CHF) is a source of concern, especially among those with renal impairment.
Using a case-control design, we examined the risk of primary cardiac arrest (PCA) associated with digoxin therapy within three levels of renal function.
After adjustment for other clinical characteristics, digoxin therapy for CHF was not associated with an increased risk of PCA [odds ratio (OR)=0.97, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.59-1.62] among patients with normal renal function (serum creatinine </=1.1 mg/dL). In contrast, digoxin therapy was associated with a modest increase in risk (OR=1.58, CI 0.89-2.80) among patients with mild renal impairment (serum creatinine=1.2-1.4 mg/dL); and a twofold increase in risk (OR=2.39, CI 1.37-4.18) among patients with moderate renal impairment (serum creatinine=1.5-3.5 mg/dL).
These findings suggest that the risks of digoxin may offset the benefits among patients with moderately impaired renal function, but not among patients with normal renal function.
Women with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) exhibit a high prevalence of hypertension and renal injury. Rosiglitazone (Rosi), a peroxisome proliferator activator receptor gamma (PPARgamma) agonist, has renal protective and antihypertensive effects. We tested whether Rosi ameliorates hypertension and renal injury in a female mouse model of SLE (NZBWF1). Thirty-week-old SLE and control (NZW/LacJ) mice (n > or = 6/group) were fed Rosi (5 mg.kg(-1).day(-1) in standard chow) or standard chow for 4 wk. SLE mice had increased blood pressure (BP in mmHg) compared with controls (139 +/- 4 vs. 111 +/- 4, P < 0.05). Rosi treatment lowered BP in SLE mice (127 +/- 4, P < 0.05) but not in controls (111 +/- 4). Urinary albumin (mug/mg creatinine) was increased in SLE mice compared with controls (12,396 +/- 6,525 vs. 50 +/- 6) and reduced with Rosi treatment (148 +/- 117). Glomerulosclerosis (% of glomeruli with sclerosis) was reduced in Rosi-treated SLE mice (4.2 +/- 1.6 vs. 0.4 +/- 0.3, P < 0.05). Renal monocyte/macrophage numbers (cell number/1,320 points counted) were reduced in SLE mice treated with Rosi (32.6 +/- 11.0 vs. 10.6 +/- 3.6, P < 0.05) but unchanged in controls (3.7 +/- 1.6 vs. 3.7 +/- 2.0). Renal osteopontin expression, a cytokine-regulating macrophage recruitment, was reduced in Rosi-treated SLE mice. Urinary endothelin (in pg/mg creatinine) was increased in SLE mice compared with controls (1.9 +/- 0.59 vs. 0.6 +/- 0.04, P < 0.05) and reduced in SLE mice treated with Rosi (0.8 +/- 0.11, P < 0.05). PPARgamma protein expression in the renal cortex was significantly lower in SLE mice compared with controls and was unaffected by Rosi. These data suggest that Rosi may be an important therapeutic option for the treatment of SLE hypertension and renal injury.
The potential promotion activity on nasal carcinogenesis of 2,6-dimethylaniline (DMA), an alpha2-adrenergic agonist metabolite of xylazine which is used for food-producing animals as a sedative agent, was examined. Male F344 rats received diet containing 0 or 3000 ppm DMA for 52 weeks after initiation with N-bis(2-hydroxypropyl)nitrosamine (DHPN). Histopathological assessment showed the incidence of carcinomas in the DHPN+DMA group (33%) to be significantly elevated as compared with that for the DHPN-alone group (5%). Incidences and/or multiplicity of epithelial hyperplasias and dysplastic foci were also increased in the DHPN+DMA group. These lesions were exclusively observed in the olfactory mucosa. The lowest plasma levels of DMA in tumor- and dysplastic foci-bearing rats were 0.05 and 0.20 microg/ml, respectively. These results indicate that DHPN acts as an appropriate initiator for nasal carcinogenesis and that DMA exerts a tumor-promoting effect on the olfactory mucosa in the rat nasal cavity.
To evaluate the roles of P-D-xylosyltransferase I (XT-I) and beta-D-endoglycosidase heparanase (Hpa) in renal tissue with the development of adriamycin (ADR) nephropathy and relevance for proteinuria.
150-200 g Sprague-Dawley rats (n=10 per group) were used to make the nephropathy model induced by tail intravenous injection of 6 mg/kg ADR. Rats were housed in metabolic cage for 24 hours so as to collect the urine prior to disease induced and at day 7, 14 and 21 following disease induction. By using the method of reverse transcriptase-PCR (RT-PCR), XT- I and Hpa genes from renal tissue of these groups were assayed respectively.
(1) Rats with nephropathy at day 7, 14 and 21 showed the marked up-regulated XT- I mRNA and the significant difference in contrast to the normal rats,and rats at day 21 showed the marked up-regulated XT- I mRNA and significant difference in contrast to nephropathy rats at day 7. There was a positive linear correlation between the expression level of XT- I mRNA from the renal tissue of nephropathy rats and the quantity of urinary protein (r = 0.760, P < 0.05). (2) The nephropathy rats at day 7, 14 and 21 showed marked up-regulated Hpa mRNA and significant difference in contrast to the normal rats,the rats at day 14 and 21 showed marked up-regulated Hpa mRNA and significant difference in contrast to the rats at day 7. There was a positive linear correlation between the expression level of Hpa mRNA from renal tissue and quantity of rat urinary protein (r = 0.757, P < 0.05).
The up-regulated expressions of XT- I and Hpa mRNA in rat renal tissue exist in Adriamycin nephropathy. Higher Hpa mRNA expression, more quantity of urinary protein;more quantity of urinary protein,higher XT-I mRNA expression.
The renal toxicity of antitumoral drugs is an increasingly disturbing problem. These drugs are now prescribed in an ever wider variety of cases, and delayed renal reactions, previously unknown, are revealed by the longer survivals obtained. For a number of years, patients whose cancer had been cured have been placed under haemodialysis on account of drug-induced renal failure. The renal toxicity of cisplatinum, nitrosoureas and methotrexate is well-known, but mitomycin C is also capable of inducing permanent renal failure; the delayed toxicity of this drug explains that it has long been underestimated. This example emphasizes the need for close co-operation between oncologists, nephrologists and pharmacologists in order to determine, for each patient, the most effective treatment with the minimum of side effects.
Pain on injection is a recognized adverse event (AE) with propofol, an agent used to induce general anesthesia in surgical patients. Lidocame (LID) has been found efficacious in reducing pain on injection of propofol; however, this type of pain may not be completely eliminated with LID. Metoclopramide (MET) is a dopamine receptor agonist with antiemetic and prokinetic properties used for the treatment of nausea and facilitation of gastric emptying in patients with gastroparesis. MET also has local anesthetic properties similar to those of LID.
The aim of this study was to examine the effects of LID administered with 3 different doses of MET or saline on pain on injection of propofol in Japanese adults undergoing elective surgery.
This randomized, double-blind study was conducted at the Department of Anesthesiology, University of Tsukuba Institute of Clinical Medicine, Tsukuba, Japan. Japanese patients aged 20 to 67 years who were scheduled to undergo elective surgery were eligible for participation. Patients were randomized to receive N administration of LID 40 mg + MET 2.5, 5, or 10 mg or saline. A rubber tourniquet was used to perform 1 minute of venous occlusion before administration of the study and control drugs, and then 25% of the total calculated dose of propofol (2 mg/kg) was injected into the dorsal vein of the hand through a 20-G N cannula at a rate of 1 mL/s. During a 10-second pause before the induction of anesthesia, patients were questioned by a blinded investigator about the pain intensity on injection. Pain intensity was assessed through the use of a 4-point verbal rating scale, with scores ranging from 0 (no pain) to 3 (severe pain). Incidence and intensity of pain (as assessed by mean pain scores) were determined in each of the 4 study groups. Extrapyramidal reactions and injection-site AEs, including pain, edema, wheals, and inflammation occurring up to 24 hours after surgery were recorded by a blinded investigator.
The study enrolled 240 patients (126 men, 114 women; mean [SD] age, 43 [13] years [range, 20-67 years]; mean [SD] height, 160 [8] cm [133-181 cm]; mean [SD] body weight, 57 [10] kg [range, 33-85 kg]). There were 60 patients randomized to each of the 4 study groups, which were comparable in distribution of demographic characteristics. Incidence of propofol-induced pain was significantly lower, but the intensity of pain was not less, in the groups that received LID/MET 40/5 or 40/10 (both, 5%) compared with those who received LID/MET 40/2.5 or LID/saline (18% and 20%, respectively) (all, P < 0.05). There were no reports of injection-site AEs or extrapyramidal reactions after injection of the control or study drugs in any of the study groups.
Among these 240 Japanese patients undergoing elective surgery, N administration of LID/MET 40/5 or 40/10 was associated with lower incidence, but not lower mean pain intensity scores, of pain on injection of propofol than LID/MET 40/2.5 or LID/saline before induction of anesthesia.
The contributing factors that result in significant, postoperative proteinuria and glucosuria after low-flow isoflurane and sevoflurane anesthesia are unknown. The present study compared renal responses after anesthesia with desflurane (negligible metabolism), sevoflurane, or intravenous propofol.
Informed consent was obtained from 52 patients with American Society of Anesthesiologists physical status I-III (aged 36-81 yr). Patients with diabetes or renal insufficiency were excluded. Desflurane (n = 20) or sevoflurane (n = 22), without nitrous oxide, was given at 1 l/min fresh gas flow for elective surgical procedures lasting more than 2 h; 10 patients received propofol without nitrous oxide as the primary anesthetic. Blood and urine chemistries were obtained before surgery. Blood and 24-h urine collections were obtained for 3 days after surgery and were analyzed for liver and renal indices.
Length of surgery averaged approximately 300 min (range, 136-750 min), minimum alveolar concentration-hour averaged 4.3 (range, 1.2-11.0), and infusion rates of propofol were 99-168 microg x kg(-1) x min(-1). Plasma creatinine concentration did not change, plasma blood urea nitrogen decreased significantly, and significant increases in urine glucose, protein, and albumin occurred similarly in all groups. Mean (+/- SD) postoperative urine glucose values for day 1 after desflurane, sevoflurane, and propofol were 1.4 +/- 3.0, 1.1 +/- 2.1, and 1.9 +/- 2.6 g/d (normal, < 0.5 g/d). The average daily protein/creatinine ratios for postoperative days 2-3 after desflurane, sevoflurane, and propofol were 240 +/- 187, 272 +/- 234, and 344 +/- 243 (normal, < 150 mg/g). Regardless of anesthetic, there were significantly greater urine protein concentrations after surgical procedures in central versus peripheral regions.
Alterations in postoperative renal function were common and unrelated to the choice of anesthetic. These findings implicate nonanesthetic factors in producing changes in biochemical indices of renal excretory function.
It is not known why viable hepatocytes in fatty livers are vulnerable to necrosis, but associated mitochondrial alterations suggest that reactive oxygen species (ROS) production may be increased. Although the mechanisms for ROS-mediated lethality are not well understood, increased mitochondrial ROS generation often precedes cell death, and hence, might promote hepatocyte necrosis. The aim of this study is to determine if liver mitochondria from obese mice with fatty hepatocytes actually produce increased ROS. Secondary objectives are to identify potential mechanisms for ROS increases and to evaluate whether ROS increase uncoupling protein (UCP)-2, a mitochondrial protein that promotes ATP depletion and necrosis. Compared to mitochondria from normal livers, fatty liver mitochondria have a 50% reduction in cytochrome c content and produce superoxide anion at a greater rate. They also contain 25% more GSH and demonstrate 70% greater manganese superoxide dismutase activity and a 35% reduction in glutathione peroxidase activity. Mitochondrial generation of H(2)O(2) is increased by 200% and the activities of enzymes that detoxify H(2)O(2) in other cellular compartments are abnormal. Cytosolic glutathione peroxidase and catalase activities are 42 and 153% of control values, respectively. These changes in the production and detoxification of mitochondrial ROS are associated with a 300% increase in the mitochondrial content of UCP-2, although the content of beta-1 ATP synthase, a constitutive mitochondrial membrane protein, is unaffected. Supporting the possibility that mitochondrial ROS induce UCP-2 in fatty hepatocytes, a mitochondrial redox cycling agent that increases mitochondrial ROS production upregulates UCP-2 mRNAs in primary cultures of normal rat hepatocytes by 300%. Thus, ROS production is increased in fatty liver mitochondria. This may result from chronic apoptotic stress and provoke adaptations, including increases in UCP-2, that potentiate necrosis.
To evaluate the reliability and renal safety of an original schedule of high-dose methotrexate (HDMTX) administration with hyper-alkalinization, and without hyper-hydration.
Patients with osteosarcoma received HDMTX (8-12 g/m(2)) as a 4-h infusion. Hypertonic 8.4% sodium bicarbonate was infused prior to HDMTX, then once daily for 3 days. Methotrexate serum concentrations were measured at hour 4 (Cmax), hour 24, hour 48, and hour 72. Urinary pH was measured on each miction. Serum creatinine was assessed on days 1, 3, and 8.
Twenty-six patients (median age: 18 years, range: 15-25) received a total of 344 cycles of HDMTX, including 16 patients treated in an outpatient basis. Urinary pH remained constantly higher than 7.5 in all patients. Grade 1 creatininemia toxicity was observed in 31 cycles (9%), and grade 2 creatinine toxicity was observed in one patient. No episode of acute severe nephrotoxicity was observed. No significant worsening was observed in serum creatinine and calculated creatinine clearance from baseline to the end of therapy (P = 0.74). The main extra-renal toxicity was alkalinization-related hypokalemia from H48. No re-hospitalization was required.
Hyper-alkalinization appears an efficient and reliable method to prevent the acute renal toxicity of HDMTX and allows its safe administration in the outpatient setting.
Typical antipsychotic drugs, including haloperidol and pimozide, have been shown to produce parkinsonian motor effects such as akinesia and tremor. Furthermore, there is an antagonistic interaction between adenosine A(2A) and dopamine D(2) receptors in the basal ganglia, which is important for motor functions related to the production of parkinsonian symptoms. Several experiments were conducted to assess the effects of the selective adenosine A(2A) antagonist KW 6002 on both the motor and cellular effects of subchronic administration of pimozide. The motor test employed was tremulous jaw movements, which is used as a model of parkinsonian tremor. In addition, c-Fos expression in the ventrolateral neostriatum, which is the striatal area most associated with tremulous jaw movements, was used as a marker of striatal cell activity in animals that were tested in the behavioral experiments. Repeated administration of 1.0 mg/kg pimozide induced tremulous jaw movements and increased ventrolateral striatal c-Fos expression, while administration of 20.0 mg/kg of the atypical antipsychotic quetiapine did not. The tremulous jaw movements induced by pimozide were significantly reduced by co-administration of either the adenosine A(2A) antagonist KW 6002 or the muscarinic antagonist tropicamide. Pimozide-induced increases in ventrolateral striatal c-Fos expression were reduced by a behaviorally effective dose of KW 6002, but c-Fos expression in pimozide-treated rats was actually increased by tropicamide. These results indicate that two different drug manipulations that act to reduce tremulous jaw movements can have different effects on DA antagonist-induced c-Fos expression, suggesting that adenosine A(2A) antagonism and muscarinic receptor antagonism exert their motor effects by acting on different striatal circuits.
Inorganic arsenite (iAs(3+)) is a two-edged sword. iAs(3+) is a well-known human carcinogen; nevertheless, it has been used as a therapeutic drug for acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), which is caused by a fusion protein comprising retinoic acid receptor-α and promyelocytic leukemia (PML). PML, a nuclear transcription factor, has a RING finger domain with densely positioned cysteine residues. To examine PML-modulated cellular responses to iAs(3+), CHO-K1 and HEK293 cells were each used to establish cell lines that expressed ectopic human PML. Overexpression of PML increased susceptibility to iAs(3+) in CHO-K1 cells, but not in HEK293 cells. Exposure of PML-transfected cells to iAs(3+) caused PML to change from a soluble form to less soluble forms, and this modification of PML was observable even with just 0.1 μM iAs(3+) (7.5 ppb). Western blot and immunofluorescent microscopic analyses revealed that the biochemical changes of PML were caused at least in part by conjugation with small ubiquitin-like modifier proteins (SUMOylation). A luciferase reporter gene was used to investigate whether modification of PML was caused by oxidative stress or activation of antioxidant response element (ARE) in CHO-K1 cells. Modification of PML protein occurred faster than activation of the ARE in response to iAs(3+), suggesting that PML was not modified as a consequence of oxidative stress-induced ARE activation.
In a few patients diclofenac produces mild increases in serum aminotransferase activity and in rare cases may be associated with the occurrence of fulminant hepatic necrosis. Both direct toxic effects of a diclofenac metabolite and hypersensitivity reactions have been suggested as possible molecular mechanisms of liver injury. We investigated the pathways of bioactivation and cytotoxicity of diclofenac, which undergoes both aromatic hydroxylation and acyl glucuronidation, in short-term cultured rat hepatocytes. LDH release was first evident after 4 hr of incubation with diclofenac (> 500 microM). In addition, time- and concentration-dependent covalent binding of [14C]diclofenac to hepatocellular proteins occurred, indicating the presence of a reactive intermediate. To specifically explore the role of the acyl glucuronidation pathway in the induction of cytotoxicity and covalent drug-protein adducts, we used two inhibitors of the UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UDPGT), borneol and 7,7,7-triphenylheptyl-UDP. LDH release was markedly increased in the presence of either UDPGT inhibitor. Alternatively, covalent binding to hepatocellular proteins was greatly reduced when the glucuronide formation was selectively blocked. Furthermore, in vitro inhibition of P450-dependent oxidative biotransformation with the selective inhibitor of the CYP2C subfamily sulfaphenazole or with cimetidine markedly reduced the extent of cytotoxicity, whereas the degree of covalent adduct formation remained unchanged. Similarly, pretreatment of the rats with phenobarbital (80 mg/kg/day for 4 days) delayed the onset and reduced the extent of diclofenac-induced LDH release. Collectively, these results indicate that the formation of a toxic diclofenac metabolite(s) catalyzed by P4502C in hepatocytes leads to acute lethal cell injury, whereas diclofenac acyl glucuronide formation is associated with covalent binding of a reactive metabolite to hepatocellular proteins that is not related to the acute cytotoxicity. The protein adduct formation and its modulation by UDPGT may, however, be toxicologically relevant for the expression of diclofenac hepatitis.
Aggressive fibromatosis (desmoid tumour) is a locally invasive tumour caused by mutations resulting in β-catenin protein stabilisation. Apc1638N mice are predisposed to developing aggressive fibromatosis tumours, and male mice develop greater numbers of tumours than female mice, suggesting a role for androgens in this tumour type.
Human aggressive fibromatosis tumours were examined for the expression of the androgen receptor, and primary human tumour cell cultures were treated with testosterone. Orchidectomised Apc1638N mice were investigated for the development of tumours, and were treated with testosterone to study the effect of tumour formation and the level of β-catenin.
Androgen receptors are universally expressed in human aggressive fibromatosis tumours. Testosterone increased the proliferation rate and β-catenin protein level in a dose-dependent manner in human aggressive fibromatosis tumours. Orchiectomy reduced the number and size of tumours that formed in male Apc1638N mice to a similar level as observed in female mice. Testosterone treatment increased the number of tumours that formed in orchidectomised male mice, and resulted in a marked increase in β-catenin protein levels.
Testosterone regulates β-catenin protein level and proliferation rate in this mesenchymal tumour. This work identifies the therapeutic use of testosterone blockade in aggressive fibromatosis as an area for further investigation.
Pathological gambling is a rare potential complication related to treatment of Parkinson disease (PD). However, the etiology of this behavior is poorly understood.
To examine the relationship between medical therapy for PD and pathological gambling.
In our routine movement disorders practice (2002-2004), we encountered 11 patients with idiopathic PD who had recently developed pathological gambling. We assessed the relationship to their medical therapy and compared them with cases identified by systematic review of the existing literature on pathological gambling and PD.
All 11 patients with PD and pathological gambling were taking therapeutic doses of a dopamine agonist; 3 of these patients were not treated with levodopa. In 7 patients, pathological gambling developed within 3 months of starting to take or escalating the dose of the agonist; in the other 4 with a longer latency, gambling resolved after the agonist use was discontinued. Pramipexole dihydrochloride was the agonist in 9 of 11 cases in our series and 10 of 17 in the literature (68% in total).
Dopamine agonist therapy was associated with potentially reversible pathological gambling, and pramipexole was the medication predominantly implicated. This may relate to disproportionate stimulation of dopamine D(3) receptors, which are primarily localized to the limbic system.
Low dose Arabinosyl Cytosine (LD ARA-C) is widely used for treatment of acute non-lymphocytic leukemia (ANLL) and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) in the elderly, based on a favorable response rate and on the hypothesis that LD ARA-C can induce differentiation or maturation of leukemic cells. We investigated the effect of low concentration of ARA-C on the growth of marrow cells that were obtained from 6 cases of MDS and from 11 cases of ANLL by using the in vitro culture system for normal granulo-monocyte precursors (CFU-GM). At ARA-C concentrations equal to or higher than 1 ng/ml cell growth was inhibited in a dose-dependent manner. At ARA-C concentration of 0.1 ng/ml cell growth was slightly affected, but colony number and colony cell composition were identical to control cultures. This experiment did not support the hypothesis that ARA-C can induce leukemic cells to recover any normal growth patterns but confirmed that even very low ARA-C concentrations can inhibit or slow down leukemic cell proliferation.
Nicotinamide phosphoribosyltransferase (NAMPT) is a pleiotropic protein with intra- and extra-cellular functions as an enzyme, cytokine, growth factor, and hormone. NAMPT is of interest for oncology, because it catalyzes the rate-limiting step in the salvage pathway to generate nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD), which is considered a universal energy- and signal-carrying molecule involved in cellular energy metabolism and many homeostatic functions. This manuscript describes NAMPT inhibitor-induced retinal toxicity that was identified in rodent safety studies. This toxicity had a rapid onset and progression and initially targeted the photoreceptor and outer nuclear layers. Using in vivo safety and efficacy rodent studies, human and mouse cell line potency data, human and rat retinal pigmented epithelial cell in vitro systems, and rat mRNA expression data of NAMPT, nicotinic acid phosphoribosyltransferase, and nicotinamide mononucleotide adenylyltransferease (NMNAT) in several tissues from rat including retina, we demonstrate that the retinal toxicity is on-target and likely human relevant. We demonstrate that this toxicity is not mitigated by coadministration of nicotinic acid (NA), which can enable NAD production through the NAMPT-independent pathway. Further, modifying the physiochemical properties of NAMPT inhibitors could not sufficiently reduce retinal exposure. Our work highlights opportunities to leverage appropriately designed efficacy studies to identify known and measurable safety findings to screen compounds more rapidly and reduce animal use. It also demonstrates that in vitro systems with the appropriate cell composition and relevant biology and toxicity endpoints can provide tools to investigate mechanism of toxicity and the human translation of nonclinical safety concerns.
Recently, gene amplification and gain-of-function mutations of ALK have been found in some neuroblastoma cell lines and clinical tumor samples. We have previously reported that knockdown of ALK by RNAi induced apoptosis in neuroblastoma cells with gene amplification of ALK. We report that all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) downregulates ALK in neuroblastoma cell lines. Downregulation of ALK protein by ATRA was accompanied by apoptosis in neuroblastoma cells with gene amplification or gain-of-function mutation of ALK but not in neuroblastoma cells without these genetic alterations. These results suggest that ALK downregulation by ATRA might lead to apoptosis in neuroblastoma cells with activated ALK.
