Numerous laboratory-based studies have shown that chronic posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is associated with alterations in catecholamines. In a recent neuroendocrine challenge study, IV yohimbine caused exaggerated subjective, behavioral, cardiovascular and catecholamine responses among combat veterans with PTSD compared to healthy controls. Yohimbine is an alpha-2-adrenergic receptor antagonist that activates noradrenergic neurons.
This report describes the experience of 4 individuals with PTSD who took over-the-counter oral yohimbine that they had purchased from a health food store or pharmacy.
All 4 subjects experienced a marked exacerbation of anxiety/panic and PTSD-specific symptoms immediately after ingesting yohimbine in a natural setting.
The response in these individuals closely resembled the response observed after IV yohimbine in combat veterans with PTSD. The present cases occurred in a natural setting and thus complement laboratory-based findings. The authors caution against the recreational or medical use of yohimbine in individuals who have PTSD.
Longitudinal assessment of intensive care nursery infants given aminoglycoside antibiotics revealed no significant difference in the incidence of hearing impairment when compared with age- and sex-matched controls. Bilateral sensorineural impairment was confirmed in three (2%) infants, one each given netilmicin and amikacin and one untreated control infant. There was a high incidence of transient auditory abnormalities in this intensive care infant population. These findings emphasize the importance of long-term follow-up hearing evaluations in infants who require intensive care management in the neonatal period.
Open clinical treatment with risperidone was administered to a clinically heterogeneous group of 11 children and adolescents (age range 5.5-16 years, mean 9.8 years) with concurrent presentation of affective symptoms (mostly suggestive of bipolar disorder), aggressive and violent behavior, and marked management problems. These patients had responded inadequately to several mood-stabilizing medications. In this outpatient sample, 8 of 11 children (73%) appeared to have therapeutic responses to risperidone. Risperidone doses were low (0.75-2.5 mg daily) and clinical responses were observed at times within days of receiving the medication. Improvement was clinically judged to be moderate to marked in 7 of 8 children. In addition, the treatment of 2 children was stopped because of drowsiness; one also experienced a weight gain of 6 kg (13 lbs). An additional child with autism and aggressive behavior who lacked affective symptoms did not respond to risperidone. None of the children showed behavioral deterioration. Seven of the 8 responders were taking concurrent medications; including 4 on mood-stabilizing medications (either lithium, carbamazepine, or valproic acid) in subtherapeutic doses. Even in combination with other medications, side effects at these doses were minimal and limited to mild sedation and, at times, troubling weight gain. Pending controlled studies, these preliminary findings suggest that risperidone--alone or in combination with mood stabilizers--may be of value in treating children and adolescents with mood disorders (especially subthreshold bipolar disorder) and aggressive behavior.
We examined the effect of neurohypophysectomy with and without vasopressin replacement on the ACTH response to hypotension and ovine CRF infusion and on the adrenocortical response to ACTH and angiotensin II infusion in conscious dogs. Nitroprusside hypotension (decrease in mean arterial pressure of 25 mm Hg) in the intact state resulted in large increases in plasma arginine vasopressin (pAVP; from 2.6 +/- 0.3 to 296 +/- 63 pg/ml) and ACTH (from 35 +/- 6 to 395 +/- 92 pg/ml). Neurohypophysectomy resulted in greatly attenuated pAVP (8.4 +/- 1.6 pg/ml) and ACTH (80 +/- 10 pg/ml) responses to hypotension which were not normalized by physiological low dose vasopressin replacement (6-18 pg/kg.min continuously, iv, for 2 weeks). However, acute administration of vasopressin (4-6 ng/kg.min) simultaneously with hypotension in the neurohypophysectomized (neurohypox) dog, which produced pAVP levels equivalent to the hypotensive response to intact dogs, almost completely normalized the ACTH response to hypotension (to 248 +/- 74 pg/ml). The ACTH response to 20 ng/kg.min ovine CRF, iv (from 43 +/- 8 to 268 +/- 77 pg/ml), was not attenuated by neurohypophysectomy. The cortisol responses to infusion of 0.5 and 2 ng/kg.min ACTH-(1-24), iv, were essentially normal in neurohypox dogs. However, the ACTH and aldosterone responses to 5 ng/kg.min angiotensin II infusion iv were attenuated in neurohypox dogs off AVP replacement. Histological examination revealed normal adrenal glands and anterior pituitaries in neurohypox dogs. Immunocytochemical staining for vasopressin and neurophysin revealed normal cell bodies in the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei of the hypothalami from neurohypox dogs. However, median eminence staining for AVP and neurophysin was greatly diminished in neurohypox dogs. In summary, neurohypophysectomy 1) attenuated the ACTH response to hypotension and angiotensin II, but not to CRF, and 2) attenuated the aldosterone response to high dose angiotensin II. Furthermore, the deficit in ACTH secretion was almost completely normalized by increasing plasma AVP levels to those observed in the intact dogs. We conclude that an action of circulating pAVP increases ACTH secretion by a direct effect at the pituitary and by activating afferent input to the hypothalamus.
Two groups of 10 chronically heroin addicted patients who were admitted to the Emergency Ward because of hypoventilation and coma, were treated random- aselectively with naloxone, 3 micrograms kg-1 BW iv, or with physostigmine salicylate 0,04 mg kg-1 BW iv. Patients in both groups completely regained consciousness and breathed spontaneously, regularly and adequately within 10 minutes. One essential difference in the treatment was that physostigmine caused no signs of acute opiate withdrawal, the patients felt fine and stayed for further control, in contrast with naloxone where the patients felt bad and occasionally escaped prematurely from the ward. Another difference is that the beneficial effect of one dose of physostigmine is shorter lived than that of naloxone. Authors emphasise the fact that treatment of heroin overdose in an addict need not jeopardize the patient's well-being by a withdrawal syndrome.
Selenium (Se) is an essential micronutrient for all mammalian species and is associated with a variety of physiological functions, notably immune system, in the form of selenoproteins. Inadequate Se nutrition has been linked to various diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis, cardiomyopathy, and cancer. Important to this discussion is that cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) is over-expressed in all the aforesaid pathologies; however, a casual relationship between Se status and COX-2 expression remains to be established. The present study is based on the hypothesis that oxidant stress, a consequence of Se deficiency, lowers the activation potential of the redox-sensitive transcription factor, NF-kappaB, and that the activated NF-kappaB is required for the altered expression of COX-2. To test this hypothesis, we have investigated the relationship between Se status and COX-2 expression in response to LPS stimulation in RAW 264.7, a macrophage-like cell line. In Se-deficient cells, the Se-dependent glutathione peroxidase activity (Se-GPx), a measure of Se status, was markedly reduced and the overall oxidative stress was significantly higher than Se-supplemented cells. Upon lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulation, we found 2-3-folds higher COX-2 protein expression as well as higher PGE2 levels in Se-deficient cells than Se-supplemented cells. In comparison, COX-1 protein expression was not affected by either LPS stimulation or Se status. Following LPS stimulation, the nuclear localization of NF-kappaB was significantly increased in Se-deficient macrophages, thereby leading to increased expression of COX-2. This is the first report demonstrating an inverse relationship between Se status and the expression of COX-2.
We have encountered a 53 year-old female with myasthenia gravis (MG) possibly induced by the treatment with D-penicillamine (D-pc). She has had a long-standing history of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) prior to the onset of MG. The diagnosis for MG was made based on the clinical findings and tests including antiacetylcholine receptor antibody and EMG. Although the drug had been efficacious for RA, it was discontinued after the development of MG. The symptoms and signs for MG were immediately disappeared, whereas clinical manifestations for RA was relapsed shortly after. Since D-Pc has been frequently used for the treatment of RA, an awareness of this side effect appears to be of particular importance for physicians in clinical practice who deal with RA. Furthermore, it may also provide some important immunological insights into the study of pathogenesis of MG.
In 28 aged patients (means = 73.1 years) with arterial hypertension nifedipine has been administered sublingually in a single dose of 20 mg and the hypotensive effect of that drug under the control of its concentration in the blood serum was evaluated. The nifedipine concentration was determined by the use of gas chromatography with electron capture detector. The mean drug concentration increased from 38.1 ng/ml to 82.3 ng/l during the 2nd hour of observation. After 3 hours the lowering of the nifedipine concentration and the decrease of its hypotensive effect was observed. After 15 min from the drug application the systolic pressure lowered by the average 22.1 mmHg whereas the diastolic pressure was 7.0 mmHg lower. The most significant pressure decrease (mean of systolic pressure 52.7 mmHg) 7.03 kPa and that of diastolic pressure 23.2 mmHg (3.1 kPa) occurred after 2 and 1.5 hours. The decrease of pressures after nifedipine correlated with the start-point value of systolic pressure. The frequency of the heart action in the whole group did not altered significantly, however, in individual cases both the acceleration of that action (34 per min) or acceleration (42 systoles per min) was noted. Slight typical side-effects were noted in 5 treated patients. A single-dose sublingual 20 mg nifedipine (Cordafen--Polfa) administration enabled in all the subjects the obtaining of therapeutic drug level in the blood and in the aged patients with hypertension may be regarded as efficacious antihypertensive treatment.
Effects of celiprolol on the cardiovascular system and renal function, and its antiarrhythmic effects were studied. 1. In anesthetized dogs, celiprolol (0.01-3 mg/kg, i.v.) dose-dependently depressed the maximum rate of rise of left ventricular pressure, cardiac output and cardiac work less severely than propranolol and atenolol. 2. Celiprolol (0.01 mg/kg, i.v.) decreased the myocardial oxygen consumption in anesthetized dogs as potently as propranolol. 3. Celiprolol (0.03-3 mg/kg, i.v.) tended to increase femoral blood flow. Celiprolol (1 mg/kg, i.v.) increased common carotid blood flow. 4. Celiprolol decreased urine volume and urinary excretion of Na+ and Cl- at doses of 1 and 10 mg/kg and increased the sodium reabsorption rate at a dose of 10 mg/kg in anesthetized dogs, whereas it produced no change in plasma renin activity. 5. Celiprolol inhibited both halothane-adrenaline arrhythmia in dogs and ouabain-induced arrhythmia in rabbits. Its antiarrhythmic effects were 1/10-1/3 as potent as those of propranolol. 6. Celiprolol suppressed the maximum rate of rise of action potential at a concentration of 3 x 10(-4) M, which was 30 times as high as that of propranolol. Celiprolol (3 x 10(-5)-3 x 10(-4) M) dose-dependently shortened the effective refractory period (ERP), but it produced no change in the ratio of ERP to action potential duration. 7. These results suggest that celiprolol may be a useful drug for the treatment of ischemic heart disease and some types of arrhythmia, and that it has only a little influence on renal function.
Does the use of nifedipine and magnesium sulfate together increase serious magnesium-related effects?
This was a retrospective chart review of women who were admitted to BC Women's Hospital and Health Centre (1997-2001) and were given intravenous magnesium sulfate for preeclampsia. Serious magnesium-related effects were compared among 162 cases who received magnesium sulfate and contemporaneous nifedipine and 215 control subjects who received magnesium sulfate and either another antihypertensive (n=32 women) or no antihypertensive (n=183 women) medication. Chi-squared test, Fisher's exact test, or the Student t test was used for data comparison between cases and each control group. A probability value of <.05 was considered statistically significant.
The cases had more severe preeclampsia and a longer magnesium sulfate infusion. However, cases had no excess of neuromuscular weakness (53.1%) versus control subjects who received antihypertensive medication (53.1%; P=.99) or control subjects who received no antihypertensive medication (44.8%; P=.13) or other serious magnesium-related effects. Cases versus control subjects who received antihypertensive medication had less neuromuscular blockade (odds ratio, 0.04; 95% CI, 0.002-0.80). Cases versus control subjects who received no antihypertensive medication had less maternal hypotension (41.4% vs 53.0%; P=.04).
The use of nifedipine and magnesium sulfate together does not increase the risk of serious magnesium-related effects.
Twenty male Sprague-Dawley rats were trained in a two-choice food-reinforced drug discrimination task (10 min sessions) using the state-dependent interoceptive stimulus attributes of ethanol's (EtOH) delayed or rebound effects (EDE) versus "normal" basal homeostasis. Cross-generalization tests were conducted with 0.18 mg/kg naloxone injected after three days of three injections per day of either SAL or 10 mg/kg morphine. Naloxone failed to generalize to the EDE-state after chronic saline; however, the precipitated morphine withdrawal state produced complete generalization to the EDE training cue. Daily tests were conducted after 8 h photoperiod phase-shifts. An 8 h phase-advance, equivalent to a west-to-east intercontinental night-time flight in humans, produced a biphasic, graded, increase in EDE-appropriate responding, which peaked on the second day after the phase-advance and recovered by the fourth day. The 8 h phase-delays failed to engender significant EDE-appropriate responding. These data provide evidence for the subjective similarity between EtOH hangover, opiate withdrawal states, and the physiological disruption induced by circadian phase-advances.
Microbleeds (MBs), proposed as a biomarker for microangiopathy, have been suggested as a predictor of spontaneous or thrombolysis-related intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) in acute ischemic stroke. However, the relationship between MBs and warfarin-induced ICH is not clear.
We describe two patients who developed warfarin-induced ICH at the site of MBs documented in previous MRI.
The presence of MBs might increase the risk of ICH after warfarin use in ischemic stroke patients. A large cohort study is required to confirm the relationship of MBs with warfarin-induced ICH.
The processing of Amyloid Precursor Proteins (APPs) results in several fragments, including soluble N-terminal ectodomains (sAPPs) and C-terminal intracellular domains (AICD). sAPPs have been ascribed neurotrophic or neuroprotective functions in cell culture, although β-cleaved sAPPs can have deleterious effects and trigger neuronal cell death. Here we describe a neuroproprotective function of APP and fly APPL (Amyloid Precursor Protein-like) in vivo in several Drosophila mutants with progressive neurodegeneration. We show that expression of the N-terminal ectodomain is sufficient to suppress the progressive degeneration in these mutants and that the secretion of the ectodomain is required for this function. In addition, a protective effect is achieved by expressing kuzbanian (which has α-secretase activity) whereas expression of fly and human BACE aggravates the phenotypes, suggesting that the protective function is specifically mediated by the α-cleaved ectodomain. Furthermore, genetic and molecular studies suggest that the N-terminal fragments interact with full-length APPL activating a downstream signaling pathway via the AICD. Because we show protective effects in mutants that affect different genes (AMP-activated protein kinase, MAP1b, rasGAP), we propose that the protective effect is not due to a genetic interaction between APPL and these genes but a more general aspect of APP proteins. The result that APP proteins and specifically their soluble α-cleaved ectodomains can protect against progressive neurodegeneration in vivo provides support for the hypothesis that a disruption of the physiological function of APP could play a role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's Disease.
Recent studies indicate that the proinflammatory enzyme cyclooxygenase (COX)-2, an enzyme involved in inflammatory cascades but also normal neuronal activities, is elevated in the brain and spinal cord of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) patients and ALS mouse model systems. On the basis of this evidence, we explored the impact of COX-2 inhibition on the onset and progression of ALS-like disease in the G93A human superoxide dismutase (SOD)1 mouse model of ALS. We found that prophylactic administration of nimesulide, a preferential COX-2 inhibitor, in the feed resulted in a significant delay in the onset of ALS type motor impairment. This delay of ALS symptomatology temporally overlapped with the inhibition of prostaglandin E2 elevation in the spinal cord of SOD1-G93A transgenic mice relative to untreated SOD1-G93A controls. This study strongly supports a role for COX-2 in the pathophysiology of ALS and provides the first experimental evidence that prophylactic treatment with COX-2 inhibitors can significantly delay the onset of motor dysfunction in the SOD1-G93A transgenic mouse model of ALS.
To investigate the synergistic effects of 3'-azido-3'-deoxythymidine (AZT) and FA-2-b-beta extracted from Ling Jin mushroom on apoptosis of gastric cancer cells MKN45 in vitro.
MTT analysis was made to examine the inhibition rate of MKN45 cells treated with AZT (2.5, 5, 10 and 20 mg/L) and FA-2-b-beta (5, 10, 20 and 40 mg/L) singly and combinatively for 24, 48 and 72 h. Apoptotic effects were evaluated by morphological methods, DNA agarose gel electrophoresis and flow cytometry, respectively. Telomerase activity was estimated by TRAP-ELISA. The mRNA expression of caspase-3 and Bcl-2 were detected by RT-PCR.
AZT and FA-2-b-beta could significantly inhibit MKN45 cell proliferation and induce its apoptosis. MKN45 cells were inhibited in dose- and time- dependent manner. The inhibition effect of AZT combined with FA-2-b-beta was obviously better than that used singly (0.469 +/- 0.022 vs 1.075 +/- 0.055, P < 0.05, 0.325 +/- 0.029 vs 0.469 +/- 0.022 P < 0.01). AZT used singly and combination of FA-2-b-beta could decrease the activity of tumor cell telomerase, and AZT has synergistic function with FA-2-b-beta. A certain concentration of AZT could up-regulate the expression of caspase-3 mRNA (r = 0.9969, P < 0.01), which was positively related to apoptosis rate, and could down-regulate the expression of Bcl-2 mRNA, which was negatively related to apoptosis rate (r = 0.926, P < 0.01). Furthermore, the effect of AZT combined with FA-2-b-beta was significantly higher than that used singly.
Combination of AZT and FA-2-b-beta has an obviously synergetic effect in the gastric cancer cells MKN45, which has provided a new approach to the treatment of gastric cancer clinically.
Methylmercury (MeHg) is one of the ubiquitous environmental toxicants, which can induce oxidative stress and an indirect excitotoxicity caused by altered glutamate (Glu) metabolism. However, little is known of the interaction between oxidative stress and Glu metabolism play in MeHg poisoning rats. We have investigated the neuroprotective role of MK-801, a non-competitive N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors (NMDAR) antagonist, against MeHg-induced neurotoxicity. Fifty rats were randomly divided into five groups of 10 animals in each group: control group, MK-801 control group, MeHg-treated group (4 and 12 μmol/kg) and MK-801 pre-treated group. Administration of MeHg at a dose of 12 μmol/kg for four weeks significantly increased in ROS and total Hg levels and that caused lipid, protein and DNA peroxidative damage in cerebral cortex. In addition, MeHg also reduced nonenzymic (reduced glutathione, GSH) and enzymic (glutathione peroxidase, GPx and superoxide dismutase, SOD) antioxidants and enhanced neurocyte apoptosis rate in cerebral cortex. MeHg-induced ROS production appears to inhibit the activity of the glutamine synthetase (GS), leading to Glu metabolism dysfunction. Pretreatment with MK-801 at a dose of 0.3 μmol/kg prevented the alterations of the activities of PAG and GS and oxidative stress. In addition, pretreatment with MK-801 significantly alleviated the neurocyte apoptosis rate and histopathological damage. In conclusion, the results suggested ROS formation resulting from MeHg- and Glu-induced oxidative stress contributed to neuronal injury. MK-801 possesses the ability to attenuate MeHg-induced neurotoxicity in the cerebral cortex through mechanisms involving its NMDA receptor binding properties and antioxidation.
In recent years, minocycline has become a commonly used agent for the treatment of acne vulgaris and rosacea. With this increased use have come reports of severe and in some cases life-threatening toxicity, often occurring in otherwise healthy young women after prolonged courses of minocycline. These adverse reactions include hepatotoxicity, drug-induced lupus erythematosus, eosinophilic pneumonitis, and hypersensitivity syndrome. We describe a 35-year-old woman who had necrotizing vasculitis of the skin and uterine cervix after 2 years of minocycline therapy for acne vulgaris. Skin and cervical biopsies revealed acute inflammation involving through-and-through necrosis of vessel walls with thrombosis, focal fibrinoid change, and a perivascular lymphohistiocytic infiltrate. The disease fully resolved within 3 months of discontinuance of the minocycline therapy. Patients should be informed of these rare but potentially serious adverse effects before the initiation of minocycline therapy. Early recognition of these complications can result in complete resolution.
Continuing advances in genotyping technologies and the inclusion of DNA collection in observational studies have resulted in an increasing number of genetic association studies.
To evaluate the overall progress and contribution of candidate gene association studies to current understanding of the genetic susceptibility to cancer.
We systematically examined the results of meta-analyses and pooled analyses for genetic polymorphisms and cancer risk published through March 2008.
We identified 161 meta-analyses and pooled analyses, encompassing 18 cancer sites and 99 genes. Analyses had to meet the following criteria: include at least 500 cases, have cancer risk as outcome, not be focused on HLA antigen genetic markers, and be published in English.
Information on cancer site, gene name, variant, point estimate and 95% confidence interval (CI), allelic frequency, number of studies and cases, tests of study heterogeneity, and publication bias were extracted by 1 investigator and reviewed by other investigators.
These 161 analyses evaluated 344 gene-variant cancer associations and included on average 7.3 studies and 3551 cases (range, 508-19 729 cases) per investigated association. The summary odds ratio (OR) for 98 (28%) statistically significant associations (P value <.05) were further evaluated by estimating the false-positive report probability (FPRP) at a given prior probability and statistical power. At a prior probability level of 0.001 and statistical power to detect an OR of 1.5, 13 gene-variant cancer associations remained noteworthy (FPRP <0.2). Assuming a very low prior probability of 0.000001, similar to a probability assumed for a randomly selected single-nucleotide polymorphism in a genome-wide association study, and statistical power to detect an OR of 1.5, 4 associations were considered noteworthy as denoted by an FPRP value <0.2: GSTM1 null and bladder cancer (OR, 1.5; 95% CI, 1.3-1.6; P = 1.9 x 10(-14)), NAT2 slow acetylator and bladder cancer (OR, 1.46; 95% CI, 1.26-1.68; P = 2.5 x 10(-7)), MTHFR C677T and gastric cancer (OR, 1.52; 95% CI, 1.31-1.77; P = 4.9 x 10(-8)), and GSTM1 null and acute leukemia (OR, 1.20; 95% CI, 1.14-1.25; P = 8.6 x 10(-15)). When the OR used to determine statistical power was lowered to 1.2, 2 of the 4 noteworthy associations remained so: GSTM1 null with bladder cancer and acute leukemia.
In this review of candidate gene association studies, nearly one-third of gene-variant cancer associations were statistically significant, with variants in genes encoding for metabolizing enzymes among the most consistent and highly significant associations.
The early years of life have a profound effect on a child's developmental pathway. The children born to mothers suffering from depression may be at risk of increased morbidity and mortality in the first years of life.
The objective of this study was to investigate the hospital admissions and mortality of children whose mothers were dispensed a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) during their pregnancy.
This was a population-based study of all pregnancy events in Western Australia (WA) from 2002 to 2005. The study used linkable state health administrative data from the WA Data Linkage System (WADLS) and the national Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS), enabling birth outcomes, hospital admissions and deaths to be ascertained for the children of women dispensed an SSRI during their pregnancy.
There were 3764 children born to 3703 women who had been dispensed an SSRI during their pregnancy (3.8% of all pregnancies in WA, 2002-5), and 94 561 children born to 92 995 women who had not been dispensed an SSRI. Mean birth weight, length and APGAR score at 5 minutes were significantly lower in children of women dispensed an SSRI, regardless of whether the SSRI was dispensed in trimester 1, or, trimester 2 or 3 only. 0.9% of the live born children in the SSRI group had died before the age of 1 year compared with 0.5% of the non-SSRI group (odds ratio [OR] 1.8; 95% CI 1.3, 2.6). Before the age of 2 years, 42.9% of the children in the SSRI group had been admitted to hospital after their birth admission, compared with 34.1% of the non-SSRI group (OR 1.4; 95% CI 1.3, 1.6). The most common reason for admission to hospital was acute bronchiolitis (OR 1.6; 95% CI 1.3, 1.8), with an increased risk seen in children of mothers who did not smoke during their pregnancy (OR 1.7; 95% CI 1.4, 2.0).
The children in the SSRI group were more likely to be admitted to hospital in the first years of life, and this may reflect their prenatal exposure to SSRIs, be related to maternal depression, or SSRI use may be a proxy for an environmental exposure such as smoking, or a combination of these factors. Although the numbers of deaths in the first year of life were small, the increased risk of death in the first year of life in the SSRI group (OR 1.8; 95% CI 1.3, 2.6) is a new finding and should be investigated further.
To elucidate the potential mechanisms of anemia induced by cisplatin (CDDP) we have evaluated hemolysis, dyserythropoiesis, ferrokinetics and cytotoxicity on erythroid progenitors in 12 patients treated by a CDDP-containing combination chemotherapy and in 6 patients treated by a similar combination but without CDDP. Eight patients, from the CDDP treated group, experienced a pronounced anemia. None had signs of hemolysis. Ferrokinetic study showed a very deep and protracted decrease of 59Fe incorporation during the chemotherapy cycle and the following 2 weeks. These results, along with a normal medullary erythroblastic cellularity, suggest that CDDP induces a deep but transient erythropoiesis alteration leading to anemia in some cases.
Two cases of severe delayed neurologic toxicity related to the administration of intrathecal (IT) combination chemotherapy including thiotepa (TSPA) are presented. Both cases developed axonal neuropathy with motor predominance in the lower extremities 1 and 6 months after IT chemotherapy was administered. Neurologic toxicities have been described with IT-methotrexate, IT-cytosine arabinoside and IT-TSPA. To our knowledge, however, axonal neuropathy following administration of these three agents has not been previously described. In spite of the fact that TSPA is a useful IT agent, its combination with MTX, ara-C and radiotherapy could cause severe neurotoxicity. This unexpected complication indicates the need for further toxicology research on IT-TSPA.
Long-term effectiveness of controlled-release melatonin in 25 children, aged 2.6-9.6 years with autism without other coexistent pathologies was evaluated openly. Sleep patterns were studied using Children's Sleep Habits Questionnaire (CSHQ) and sleep diaries at baseline, after 1-3-6 months melatonin treatment and 1 month after discontinuation. Sleep diary and CSHQ showed a more problematic sleep in autistic children compared with controls. During treatment sleep patterns of all children improved. After discontinuation 16 children returned to pre-treatment score, readministration of melatonin was again effective. Treatment gains were maintained at 12 and 24-month follow-ups. No adverse side effects were reported. In conclusion, controlled-release melatonin may provide an effective and well-tolerated treatment for autistic children with chronic sleep disorders.
In a phase II trial the effect of vincristine as a single agent was evaluated in patients with small-cell anaplastic carcinoma of the lung. The dosage of vincristine was 1.5 mg/m2/week given iv for 4 weeks, followed by 1.5 mg/m2 given every other week with dose modifications according to neurologic tolerance. Nineteen of 27 patients included in the study were evaluable. Objective response was observed in eight patients (42%) including three who were not previously treated and five who were previously treated. The median duration of response was 60 days (range, 21-182 days) with the response always occurring within 4 weeks. This study demonstrates that vincristine is an active agent for small-cell anaplastic carcinoma without cross resistance to CCNU, cyclophosphamide, or methotrexate.
We previously reported that mice made deficient for the transcriptional factor USF2 fail to express hepcidin 1 and hepcidin 2 genes as a consequence of targeted disruption of the Usf2 gene lying just upstream in the locus. These mice developed an iron overload phenotype with excess iron deposition in parenchymal cells and decreased reticuloendothelial iron. At that time, although the role of USF2 was still confounding, we proposed for the first time the role of hepcidin as a negative regulator of iron absorption and iron release from macrophages. Accordingly, we subsequently demonstrated that hyperexpression of hepcidin 1, but not hepcidin 2, resulted in a profound hyposideremic anemia. To analyze the consequences of hepcidin 1 deletion on iron metabolism without any disturbance due to USF2 deficiency, we disrupted the hepcidin 1 gene by targeting almost all the coding region. Confirming our prior results, Hepc1(-/-) mice developed early and severe multivisceral iron overload, with sparing of the spleen macrophages, and demonstrated increased serum iron and ferritin levels as compared with their controls.
The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) is well known for mediating the toxic effects of TCDD and has been a subject of intense research for over 30 years. Current investigations continue to uncover its endogenous and regulatory roles in a wide variety of cellular and molecular signaling processes. A zebrafish line with a mutation in ahr2 (ahr2(hu3335)), encoding the AHR paralogue responsible for mediating TCDD toxicity in zebrafish, was developed via Targeting Induced Local Lesions IN Genomes (TILLING) and predicted to express a non-functional AHR2 protein. We characterized AHR activity in the mutant line using TCDD and leflunomide as toxicological probes to investigate function, ligand binding and CYP1A induction patterns of paralogues AHR2, AHR1A and AHR1B. By evaluating TCDD-induced developmental toxicity, mRNA expression changes and CYP1A protein in the AHR2 mutant line, we determined that ahr2(hu3335) zebrafish are functionally null. In silico modeling predicted differential binding of TCDD and leflunomide to the AHR paralogues. AHR1A is considered a non-functional pseudogene as it does not bind TCCD or mediate in vivo TCDD toxicity. Homology modeling, however, predicted a ligand binding conformation of AHR1A with leflunomide. AHR1A-dependent CYP1A immunohistochemical expression in the liver provided in vivo confirmation of the in silico docking studies. The ahr2(hu3335) functional knockout line expands the experimental power of zebrafish to unravel the role of the AHR during development, as well as highlights potential activity of the other AHR paralogues in ligand-specific toxicological responses.
