Acute interstitial nephritis with severe acute renal failure is reported following tetracycline treatment in a 22-year-old male medical student. Acute renal failure developed within 48 h of a single repeated tetracycline dose and presented 2 days after taking the drug when there was oliguria, nausea, vomiting and bilateral loin pain without rash and fever. The serum creatinine concentration was 8.6 mg/dl and blood urea nitrogen 84 mg/dl. Examination of the urinary sediment revealed 15-20 RBCs per high-power field, and occasional granular and hyaline casts. Percutaneous renal biopsy performed immediately after admission revealed acute interstitial nephritis with immune complexes along the tubular basement membrane and intact glomeruli and was consistent with type 2 interstitial nephritis. Within 4 days of commencement of steroid treatment and hemodialysis, the urine output started to increase with improvement in serum creatinine and BUN levels and after 2 weeks of therapy hemodialysis was discontinued. He remains well 1 year following his illness with complete normalization of his renal function. Although a number of renal side effects of tetracycline antibiotics have been reported, acute interstitial nephritis is rarely caused by tetracycline treatment having been reported just twice following systemic use of minocycline.
The expression of COX-2 is up-regulated in the rat stomach after administration of indomethacin, and the inhibition of this enzyme may be a key to NSAID-induced gastric damage. The present study investigated the mechanism for COX-2 expression induced in the rat stomach by indomethacin, in relation with the ulcerogenic processes. The animals were given indomethacin or SC-560 p.o., and the gastric mucosa was examined 8 hr later. Indomethacin decreased the mucosal PGE2 content and produced gross damage with gastric hypermotility and the expression of COX-2 mRNA in the mucosa. Although SC-560 did not produce damage, this agent caused a decrease in the PGE2 content and an increase in gastric motility as well as the up-regulation of COX-2 expression, and provoked damage in the presence of rofecoxib. Gastric lesions induced by indomethacin were prevented by both atropine (even in the presence of exogenous HCl) and omeprazole, although the hypermotility response was inhibited only by atropine. The COX-2 expression induced by indomethacin or SC-560 was inhibited by atropine, even in the presence of exogenous HCl, while omeprazole had no effect. The mucosal PGE2 content was decreased by SC-560 at 2 hr but recovered 8 hr later, and this recovery of PGE2 was attenuated by both atropine and rofecoxib but not omeprazole. These results suggested that the COX-2 expression in the stomach following treatment with indomethacin is functionally associated with gastric hypermotility response induced by COX-1 inhibition. Luminal acid does not play a role in the up-regulation of COX-2 expression in the stomach following administration of indomethacin.
To determine the antitumor activity and toxicity of paclitaxel administered as a 3-hour infusion in patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
Fifty-one patients with advanced measurable or assessable NSCLC and performance status 0 to 2 who had not received prior chemotherapy were treated with paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 over 3 hours with premedication. Cycles were repeated every 3 weeks for a maximum of nine cycles. Most patients had prior radiotherapy (57%), extrathoracic metastatic disease (65%), and measurable disease (75%). Twenty-two percent had previously untreated stage III disease.
The objective response rate was five of 51 (10%; 95% confidence interval, 3% to 21%). No subgroup with a higher response rate could be identified. There were no complete responses (CRs) and all responses lasted less than 5 months. Treatment was well tolerated with brief World Health Organization (WHO) grade IV neutropenia in only 16% of patients. Grade III/IV myalgia/athralgia occurred in 22% of patients. No significant hypersensitivity reactions occurred.
The antitumor activity of this dose and schedule appears inferior to that reported in previously published phase II trials in NSCLC that used higher doses of paclitaxel infused over 24 hours, although confidence intervals for response overlap. Determining the optimal dose and schedule for using paclitaxel in NSCLC requires further investigation, and these results should caution against using shorter infusions outside appropriate clinical trials.
Fibrous dysplasia is characterized by intense marrow fibrosis and increased rates of bone turnover. The lesions of fibrous dysplasia resemble those described in the long bones of transgenic mice overexpressing the c-fos proto-oncogene. Activating mutations in the alpha subunit of the stimulatory guanine-nucleotide-binding protein (GS alpha) linked to adenylate cyclase have recently been described in bone cells from patients with the McCune-Albright syndrome and fibrous dysplasia.
We used in situ hybridization to determine the level of expression of c-fos in bone-biopsy specimens from two normal subjects, eight patients with fibrous dysplasia, and six patients with other bone disorders characterized by high rates of bone turnover. The probe used corresponded to the fourth exon of the c-fos gene.
High levels of c-fos expression were detected in the bone lesions from all eight patients with fibrous dysplasia. No expression of c-fos was detected in bone specimens from the normal subjects or from specimens of normal bone obtained from patients with fibrous dysplasia. The cells that expressed c-fos in the dysplastic lesions were fibroblastic and populated the marrow space. A very low level of c-fos expression was detected in the biopsy specimens from the patients with other bone diseases. One patient with polyostotic fibrous dysplasia and one patient with the McCune-Albright syndrome were tested for the previously described GS alpha gene mutations and were found to express these mutations in bone.
Increased expression of the c-fos proto-oncogene, presumably a consequence of increased adenylate cyclase activity, may be important in the pathogenesis of the bone lesions in patients with fibrous dysplasia.
Estimation of the population-based relative incidence (RI) of contact sensitization to a set of topical drug allergens (cases/100,000 defined daily doses (DDDs) per year) (1995-2004) and comparison of the RI for drugs with a similar therapeutic scope.
Clinical data regarding the frequency of contact sensitization to important topical drug allergens in Germany were obtained from the Information Network of Departments of Dermatology (IVDK). This was extrapolated to the general population level using the 'clinical epidemiology and drug utilization research' (CE-DUR) approach. As denominator of exposure, national prescription data (DDDs of topical drug specialties) provided by the WIdO Research Institute (Bonn) were aggregated per substance.
The probable RIs of contact sensitization to topical 'skin' corticosteroids ranged from 0.3 (dexamethasone phosphate disodium salt) to 23.3 (amcinonide) cases/100,000 DDDs per year. Concerning topical aminoglycoside antibiotics, the RI of framycetin sulphate was about threefold higher than that of gentamicin sulphate. Regarding topical ophthalmic use, the RI of kanamycin sulphate was higher compared to gentamicin sulphate. Active principles marketed over-the-counter (OTC) had, in general, lower RIs, with the exception of bufexamac, benzocaine, clioquinol and phenylephrine.
The population-based risk assessment--quantitatively considering exposure in the RI estimation--revealed a ranking of contact sensitization risk to topical drugs which partly differed from the respective frequencies in the clinical patch test population. Some drugs available OTC carry non-negligible risk, too. The current findings should contribute to differential therapeutic considerations regarding topical drug use.
An 81-year-old woman developed symptomatic liver disease 3 weeks after beginning clopidogrel as adjunctive antiplatelet therapy for a coronary stent implantation. Symptomatic liver disease associated with short-term periprocedural administration of clopidogrel for coronary stenting has not been well described. The clinical significance of this event as well as a possible interaction between clopidogrel and other drugs metabolized by the cytochrome P450 2C9 pathways coadministered to this patient are discussed.
We have studied the chemopreventive effect of d-limonene, a monoterpene monocyclic compound, against N-nitrosodiethylamine (NDEA) alone and along with phenobarbital (PB) induced hepatocarcinogenesis in AKR mice. Histopathological analysis clearly indicates the maintenance of normal features when the mice were given limonene 15 days prior to carcinogen treatment. The immunohistochemical analysis of c-jun and c-myc oncoprotein shows an increased protein expression (2-3 fold) in NDEA and NDEA-PB mediated hepatocarcinogenesis after 60 days of NDEA treatment. Our earlier work by northern blot analysis has already indicated an increased transcription of c-jun and c-myc in NDEA mediated hepatocarcinogenesis. However, such overexpression of c-myc and c-jun both at mRNA and oncoprotein levels has been completely inhibited when d-limonene was used along with NDEA or NDEA-PB. Thus, the present investigation explains the anti-tumour effect of d-limonene for the first time on the level of oncogene expression in NDEA and NDEA-PB mediated hepatocarcinogenesis.
Three cases of visceral leishmaniasis are presented: two children who got the disease in Florence and the imported case of a girl coming from Albania with her disease in act. The diagnosis was made showing Leishmania in bone marrow specimen. Therapy with melglumine antimonate was effective and well borne, leading the three children to a complete healing. In the province of Florence visceral leishmaniasis is very rare, but such protozoa and the sand flies are present as shown by the high number of dog with leishmaniasis.
Despite a number of attempts to improve treatment of ovarian cancer, it remains the most common cause of death from gynecological cancers. Thus, it is very important to identify more effective drugs for treatment and prevention of ovarian cancer. All-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) has been shown to arrest the growth of ovarian carcinoma cells in G0/G1 and to significantly elevate levels of Rb2/p130 protein, a member of the retinoblastoma family of tumor suppressors. As ATRA treatment leads to a significant increase in the amount of Rb2/p130 protein but not mRNA, the elevated levels of Rb2/p130 protein is likely the result of increased stability. In studies to elucidate the mechanism by which ATRA alters Rb2/p130 stability in ovarian cancer cells, it was determined that PP2A, a serine/threonine phosphatase, binds and dephosphorylates Rb2/p130. Dephosphorylated Rb2/p130 exhibits decreased ubiquitination and thus is not degraded by the proteasome. The sites at which PP2A catalytic subunit (PP2Ac) interacts with Rb2/p130 have been localized to the NLS in the C-terminus of Rb2/p130. These sites are also involved in the interaction of Rb/p130 with importin beta and importin alpha, members of the nuclear transport machinery. It is known that importin alpha recognizes a NLS on a target protein and importin beta binds the nuclear pore complex. Moreover, it has been shown that the binding of importin alpha to NLS significantly decreases with phosphorylation of NLS. In ATRA-treated ovarian carcinoma cells, PP2A binds to Rb2/p130 and dephosphorylates the NLS of Rb2/p130 leading to the interaction of importin alpha with Rb2/p130. Importin beta then binds to the importin alpha-Rb2/p130 complex, leading to the translocation of the Rb2/p130 to the nucleus where it acts to arrest ovarian cancer cells in G1 and suppress proliferation.
Amikacin or gentamicin was used to treat 174 patients with suspected severe gram-negative infections in a prospective, randomized, double-blind trial. Enteric gram-negative bacilli were pathogenic in 71 cases (39 treated with amikacin, and 32 with gentamicin). Amikacin was effective in 10 to 12 bacteremias, 21 of 24 urinary-tract infections, two of five pneumonias and four of six other serious tissue infections. The toal favorable response rate was 77 per cent for amikacin and 78 per cent for gentamicin. Nephrotoxicity and auditory toxicity could be evaluated in 124 and 67 cases respectively. Definite nephrotoxicity developed in five of 62 (8 per cent) receiving amikacin and seven of 62 (11 per cent) given gentamicin, and possible nephrotoxicity developed in four patients in both groups. Definite ototoxicity developed in four patients in both groups. Definite otoxicity developed in two of 34 (6 per cent) and three of 30 (10 per cent) respectively. These differences were not statistically significant (by chisquare analysis, P greater than 0.05). The results indicate that amikacin is effective against severe gram-negative infections and is not more and not less ototoxic or nephrotoxic than gentamicin.
We are using 5-FU, MMC, and FT-207 in combination for the treatment of the patients with gastric cancer for a long term, and the renal dysfunction was found in two cases. The 1st case was a 69 years old male, suffering from gastric cancer which was unresectable. He was treated with the anticancer drugs for 2.5 years after exploratory laparotomy and no development of gastric cancer was detected endoscopically. But renal function of the patient was damaged. The 2nd case was a 58 years old male, also suffering from gastric cancer. The chemotherapy lasting for 1.5 years after gastrectomy resulted also in renal dysfunction.
Since metoclopramide increases lower-esophageal-sphincter pressure in patients with gastroesophageal reflux, we compared the effects of metoclopramide, 10 mg four times daily, with those of placebo on symptoms in 31 patients with chronic heartburn. Eighteen patients completed a random-order, double-blind crossover study of two consecutive eight-week periods. The final 13 patients crossed over only if their symptoms were not substantially improved after the first eight weeks. Response of low-esophageal-sphincter pressure to metoclopramide did not correlate significantly with symptomatic improvement. After the metoclopramide treatment period, mean basal pressure was unchanged from values before study. In both treatment periods, metoclopramide-treated patients had significantly more symptomatic improvement than the control group (P less than 0.05).
To elucidate the natural course of gold and penicillamine nephropathy and to facilitate appropriate clinical management 54 patients with rheumatoid arthritis who developed proteinuria during treatment with intramuscular gold thiomalate (21) or oral D penicillamine (33) were studied in detail throughout the whole of their renal illnesses. Renal biopsy was performed and creatinine clearance and proteinuria were measured serially for a median period of 60 months (range 16-130 months) in the gold treated and 74 months (range 13-158 months) in the penicillamine treated patients. During gold (penicillamine) treatment 48% (43%), 71% (82%) and 86% (91%) of patients had presented with proteinuria by 6, 12 and 24 months of treatment. After stopping gold (penicillamine) treatment proteinuria reached a median maximum of 2.1 g/day (4.2 g/day) at 2 months (1 month) before resolving spontaneously so that by 6, 12 and 18 months 38% (36%), 62% (64%) and 76% (88%) of patients were free of proteinuria. The median initial and most recent creatinine clearances of the gold (penicillamine) treated patients were 77 ml/min (80 ml/min) and 59 ml/min (78 ml/min) respectively and no patients died from or needed treatment for chronic renal failure. HLA B8 and/or DR3 alloantigens were identified in 64% of the gold treated and 56% of the penicillamine treated patients. In the gold (penicillamine) treated patients renal biopsy revealed membranous glomerulonephritis (GN) in 72% (88%), an immune complex mesangial glomerulonephritis in 10% (6%), minimal change nephropathy in 10% (6%) and no significant glomerular abnormalities in 8% (0%). The study has demonstrated the close similarity between gold and penicillamine nephropathy. It has also demonstrated that some 75% of cases develop during the first year of treatment, the proteinuria resolves completely when treatment is withdrawn, progressive deterioration of renal function is most uncommon, corticosteroid therapy is unnecessary and several different types of glomerulonephritis are associated with gold and penicillamine treatment.
Sildenafil citrate (Viagra) is one of the frequently prescribed drugs for men with erectile dysfunction. We describe a 52-year-old man with bilateral middle cerebral artery (MCA) territory infarction after sildenafil use. He ingested 100 mg of sildenafil and about 1 h later, he complained of chest discomfort, palpitation and dizziness followed by mental obtundation, global aphasia and left hemiparesis. Brain magnetic resonance imaging documented acute bilateral hemispheric infarction, and cerebral angiography showed occluded bilateral MCA. Despite significant bilateral MCA stenosis and cerebral infarction, systemic hypotension persisted for a day. We presume that cerebral infarction was caused by cardioembolism with sildenafil use.
The free radical scavenger 3-methyl-1-phenyl-2-pyrazolin-5-one (edaravone) is used to treat patients with ischemic brain damage. We and others reported previously that in vitro and in vivo reactive oxygen species (ROS) act as second messengers to develop cardiac hypertrophy. In this study, we used an in vivo murine model of pressure overload-induced cardiac hypertrophy to examine the effects of edaravone on left ventricular hypertrophy. The animals were subjected to the transverse thoracic aorta constriction, and edaravone (10 mg/kg) was infused intraperitoneally twice daily. Seven days after the operation, we observed a significant increase in ROS production in hearts, which was eliminated by the treatment with edaravone. Pressure-overloaded hearts showed a significant increase in left ventricular weight/body weight ratio and the expression level of atrial natriuretic factor mRNA, which were attenuated by edaravone. It also reduced perivascular and intermuscular fibrosis and inhibited pressure overload-induced activation of apoptosis signal-regulating kinase 1 (ASK1) and its downstream kinases of c-Jun N-terminal protein kinase and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase. Edaravone attenuated the hypertrophic response even when the treatment was started after the onset of cardiac hypertrophic response. These findings indicate that edaravone significantly attenuates pressure overload-induced cardiac hypertrophy mediated through its antioxidative function and subsequent inhibition of ASK1 signaling pathway.
Acute administration of cocaine leads to left ventricular dysfunction and a decrease in coronary blood flow. This experiment studied the relationship between function and flow over time in cocaine heart disease and examined the effects of captopril on this relationship.
Dogs anesthetized with pentobarbital (n = 13) were given a 3 mg/kg body weight intravenous bolus of cocaine followed by a 7 mg/kg infusion over 10 minutes. Animals were then randomly assigned to receive either captopril (0.5 mg/kg infused over 5 minutes, followed by 0.5 mg/kg/h) or an equivalent volume of saline beginning 15 minutes after cocaine administration. Coronary blood flow (radioactive microspheres and Doppler flow probes) and left ventricular function (two-dimensional echocardiogram and dP/dt) were monitored for 2 hours.
Within 15 minutes, cocaine caused a drop in dP/dt by 39% to 42% and in coronary blood flow by 35%. Cocaine also caused an increase in left ventricular end-diastolic pressures in both groups. Cocaine resulted in prolongation of an index of end-diastolic isovolumic relaxation time (tau) from a baseline of 34 milliseconds to 56 milliseconds at 15 minutes after cocaine administration in the control group and from a baseline of 35 milliseconds to 49 milliseconds in the captopril group (P < 0.05). By 2 hours after therapy, the tau in the control group remained elevated, whereas in the captopril group it returned toward baseline. At 2 hours of observation, systolic function recovered while coronary flow remained depressed. There was no difference between the captopril and control groups in coronary blood flow or systolic cardiac function at any time during the study.
Cocaine caused left ventricular systolic and diastolic dysfunction as well as reduced coronary blood flow. At 2 hours there is a dissociation of systolic function, which recovers, and of coronary blood flow, which does not. Captopril had no effect on coronary blood flow or systolic left ventricular function following cocaine administration.
Anthracyclines are well established and highly efficacious antineoplastic agents for various haematopoietic and solid tumours, such as breast cancer. The main adverse effect of anthracycline therapy is cardiotoxicity. The aim of this prospective study was to determine the role of plasma levels of N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) in assessing left ventricular function in early breast cancer patients receiving adjuvant anthracycline treatment.
Thirty-three newly diagnosed breast cancer patients who received a total doxorubicin dosage of 240 mg/m2 over four treatment cycles as part of adjuvant chemotherapy after curative breast surgery were included in this study. Venous NT-proBNP levels were measured before and at the end of doxorubicin therapy. Left ventricular function was measured by echocardiography conducted 3 weeks after surgery and at the end of doxorubicin therapy.
NT-proBNP levels were significantly higher in patients (n=10) with decreased left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) [p=0.02]. There was no difference in LVEF (p=0.164) or NT-proBNP levels (p=0.844) between the patients who had high NT-proBNP levels and those who had normal NT-proBNP levels before doxorubicin chemotherapy. None of the factors studied (breast cancer grade, estrogen receptor status, progesterone receptor status, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 status, age) was found to be significantly related to NT-proBNP.
The association between higher NT-proBNP levels and reduced LVEF in asymptomatic breast cancer patients after doxorubicin administration could be an early indication of subclinical acute anthracycline cardiotoxicity. Furthermore, breast cancer patients experiencing a progressive increase in NT-proBNP levels might be in a higher risk group for acute anthracycline cardiotoxicity.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) signaling pathways are involved in the stress response, and there is growing evidence supporting hair growth inhibition of murine hair follicle in vivo upon stress exposure. We investigated whether the blockade of CRF receptors influences the development of hair loss in CRF over-expressing (OE)-mice that display phenotypes of Cushing's syndrome and chronic stress, including alopecia. The non-selective CRF receptors antagonist, astressin-B (5 µg/mouse) injected peripherally once a day for 5 days in 4-9 months old CRF-OE alopecic mice induced pigmentation and hair re-growth that was largely retained for over 4 months. In young CRF-OE mice, astressin-B prevented the development of alopecia that occurred in saline-treated mice. Histological examination indicated that alopecic CRF-OE mice had hair follicle atrophy and that astressin-B revived the hair follicle from the telogen to anagen phase. However, astressin-B did not show any effect on the elevated plasma corticosterone levels and the increased weights of adrenal glands and visceral fat in CRF-OE mice. The selective CRF₂ receptor antagonist, astressin₂-B had moderate effect on pigmentation, but not on hair re-growth. The commercial drug for alopecia, minoxidil only showed partial effect on hair re-growth. These data support the existence of a key molecular switching mechanism triggered by blocking peripheral CRF receptors with an antagonist to reset hair growth in a mouse model of alopecia associated with chronic stress.
From January 1986 to May 1989, 160 cancer patients proven by pathology were treated by combined chemotherapy with adriamycin (ADM) as the chief agent. Of them, 20 were given simultaneous cyclophosphamide (CTX) and 14 had received mediastinal irradiation. 40 mg/m2 of ADM was given by rapid IV bolus injection which was repeated every 3 weeks. All but 9 had normal electrocardiogram (ECG) before ADM administration. In these 9 patients, when ADM reached certain accumulated dose, ECG showed no further changes. Thirty-seven (24.5%) cases had various types of abnormal ECG, manifested as arrhythmia in 11, non-specific ST-T changes in 12 and low voltage in 14. Of these 37 patients, fatal congestive heart failure developed in 4 cases. To reduce ADM cardiotoxicity, its indication should be strictly adhered to; ADM may be divided to two fractions on Day 1 and 2, for those patients receiving simultaneous CTX or who had had mediastinal irradiation, ADM accumulated dose should be limited to 400 mg/m2; ADM should never be given to patients with lowered QRS voltage greater than or equal to 30% of the normal value or with obvious ST-T changes; the accumulated doses should range from 450 to 550 mg/m2, simultaneous anti-histamines, anti-adrenaline, coenzyme Q10 and vitamin E are indicated.
It is known that sedation by H1 antihistaminic drugs can be reduced or avoided if slow release formulations are used for their administration, probably because of a slower increase of the drug concentration in plasma and brain. The aim of this study was to compare two different formulations of dimenhydrinate (CAS 523-87-5), a single fast release tablet with three chewing gums (divided dose principle), with regard to their efficacy in a motion sickness model and their detrimental effect on vigilance and central nervous system (CNS) performance. Caloric stimulation of the eardrum (air at 44 degrees C) was used to induce the symptoms of motion sickness in 24 symptomatic volunteers in a three-way cross-over design comparing three chewing gums (Superpep forte, chewed for 30 min each) containing 20 mg dimenthydrinate each with a 50 mg dimenhydrinate tablet and placebo. During caloric stimulation the following parameters were measured in order to compare efficacy: Quantitative analysis of sodium excretion by sweat (main target parameter), subjective well being (vertigo) by visual analogue scales (VAS) and frequency of binocular nystagmus by computer nystagmography. Unwanted effects on vigilance and CNS performance were measured by means of the N1-P2 peak to peak amplitudes of auditory evoked potentials (AEPs) as an objective, quantitative parameter of vigilance and the latency to correct responses and the number of correct responses (complex choice reaction task) in the oculodynamic test (ODT) as parameters of complex choice reaction ability. As a main efficacy result sodium excretion by sweat was markedly reduced by the chewing gums and by the tablet. The differences to placebo were highly significant (chewing gums vs. placebo p < 0.0001, tablet vs. placebo p < 0.0001). There was no relevant and no significant difference between both medications (p = 0.308). The secondary efficacy parameters, frequency of binocular nystagm and the VAS vertigo were markedly reduced by both medications in comparison to placebo, i.e. both medications were markedly effective. In both cases, however, this result failed statistical significance. The unwanted depressing effects on vigilance and CNS performance of the chewing gums were less pronounced than that of tablets. The N1/P2 peak-to-peak amplitudes of the AEPs were significantly reduced by both the chewing gums and the tablets. The effect of the tablets was, however, larger than that of the chewing gums. This highly significant (tablet vs. chewing gums, p = 0.0003) difference shows that the tablet had a larger depressing effect on vigilance (greater sedation). In line with this result, the number of correct responses in the ODT was markedly and significantly reduced by the tablet (p = 0.0027) but not significantly by the chewing gums (p = 0.8140). The difference between the tablet and the chewing gums was highly significant (p = 0.0052). The complex choice reaction time was markedly and nearly significantly (p = 0.0558) prolonged by the tablet whereas the chewing gums produced only a very small and insignificant prolongation. That the objective measurements of vigilance and CNS performance showed significantly larger detrimental effects of the tablet than of the chewing gums is probably a consequence of a faster increase of the dimenhydrinate concentration in the CNS after administration of the tablet in comparison to the divided dose principle of the chewing gums.
There are many visually threatening conditions that may result from long-term use of systemic medications. Many of these adverse side effects can be greatly reduced or prevented with close monitoring of patients. In view of current knowledge, updated clinical guidelines for appropriate monitoring of ocular toxicity from systemic medications need to be developed for the eye care practitioner.
There have been many reports of ocular toxicity from isoniazid, thioridazine, steroids, and amiodarone therapy. Clinical cases illustrating possible adverse ocular side effects are presented, which include INH-induced optic neuropathy, phenothiazine-induced retinopathy, steroid-induced glaucoma, and vortex epitheliopathy secondary to amiodarone.
Optometrists should be aware of the potential for ocular side effects from systemic medications. Eye care guidelines for monitoring ocular side effects from thioridazine, INH, steroids, and amiodarone use are suggested.
Stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus is proposed for the treatment of patients presenting with severe Parkinson disease. The effect on gait is not clearly established.
To evaluate objectively the influence of bilateral subthalamic nucleus stimulation on gait in Parkinson disease and to compare it with the effects of levodopa treatment.
Ten patients underwent bilateral subthalamic nucleus stimulation. The preoperative and postoperative (3 months after surgery) clinical gait disturbances, as well as spatial and temporal gait parameters, were analyzed in off and on-drug conditions. The gait analysis was performed using a video motion analysis system (optoelectronic VICON system; Oxford Metrics, Oxford, England).
In the off condition, there was an improvement after surgery for the total motor score and the gait subscore. In the on-drug condition, there was an improvement in levodopa-induced dyskinesias and the motor score, whereas the gait subscore was unchanged. For the gait parameters measured by the video motion analysis system system, there was also an improvement in the off condition and to a lesser extent in the on-drug condition.
Our method allowed exact quantification of the benefit of surgery on gait parameters. Compared with the levodopa treatment, the effect of stimulation on gait kinematic parameters seems to be qualitatively similar but quantitatively different with a lower benefit on gait velocity and stride length. Concerning the pathophysiology of gait troubles in Parkinson disease, the deficit in control of stride length would be the fundamental deficit. The study underlines the possible role of the subthalamic nucleus on the stride length regulation.
