Chronic L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) often leads to debilitating involuntary movements, termed L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID), about which the rodent analog, the abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs), has been associated consistently with an activation of the Ras-extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling pathway. Previous studies have shown that lovastatin, a specific inhibitor of the rate-limiting enzyme in cholesterol biosynthesis, can also inhibit Ras isoprenylation and activity and subsequently the phosphorylation of ERK1/2 (pERK1/2). We hypothesized that lovastatin treatment-commenced previous L-DOPA exposure could reduce AIM incidence and severity in the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) rat model of PD by secondarily preventing the L-DOPA/Benserazide-induced increase in pERK1 levels. The lovastatin-L-DOPA/Benserazide-treated 6-OHDA animals displayed less severe rotational behavior as well as a dramatic reduction in AIM severity than the L-DOPA/Benserazide-treated ones. Such lower AIM severity was associated with a decrease in L-DOPA-induced increase in the following: (1) striatal pERK1 and (2) DeltaFosB levels, and (3) theta/alpha oscillations of substantia nigra pas reticulata (SNr) neurons as well as (4) a normalization of SNr firing frequency. Those results strongly suggest that lovastatin might represent a treatment option for managing LID in PD.
To explore possible effects of cariporide, a new Na(+)-H+ exchanger (NHE-1) inhibitor, against injuries of vascular endothelial function induced by hypercholestrolemia.
Twenty-two healthy New Zealand rabbits were randomly divided into 3 groups: Six were fed with normal diet as the control; eight were fed with high cholesterol plus high fat diet (HCHF) as the injured control group; and the other eight were fed with HCHF plus cariporide orally (0.1 mg/kg.d-1) as the treated group. The animals were weighed and their blood was drawn from the central ear artery to analyze plasma cholesterol at the pre-experiment and in the 10th week of postexperiment. The animals were killed in the 10th week and the aortic artery was isolated to analyze vascular endothelial function.
1. The HCHF diet significantly attenuated endothelium-dependent relaxation (EDR) of rabbit aortic rings to acetylcholine (ACh), but cariporide significantly protected against HCHF diet-injured EDR of rabbit aortic rings. The dose-response curves elicited by ACh from HCHF diet rabbits were more significantly shifted to the right than those from HCHF diet plus HOE 642-treated rabbits. 2. The HCHF diet and cariporide did not significantly influence the endothelium-independent relaxation of the rabbit artery elicited by sodium nitroprusside (SNP). 3. There was no significant difference in the levels of total cholesterol and LDL-C between the HCHF diet and the HCHF diet plus cariporide rabbits.
The Na(+)-H+ exchanger (NHE-1) inhibitor can protect against injuries of vascular endothelial function induced by hypercholesterolemia. The activized Na(+)-H+ exchangers of cellular membranes may be involved in injuries of vascular endothelial function induced by hypercholesterolemia.
Comorbid cocaine abuse adversely affects clinical outcomes in schizophrenia. Using a prospective, randomized, parallel group design (N = 24), we tested the hypothesis that patients with schizophrenia treated with olanzapine have reduced cocaine craving and abuse compared with those treated with haloperidol. In addition, we examined whether this differential effect correlated with reductions in extrapyramidal symptoms, positive and negative symptoms, and/or depression. There were no significant differences overall in proportions of positive drug screens between treatment groups; no differences in positive, negative, or depressive symptoms; and few differences between treatment conditions in extrapyramidal symptoms. However, craving for cocaine was rated significantly lower by patients treated with haloperidol compared with patients treated with olanzapine. Important study limitations include a small sample size and high attrition rates. Larger controlled studies are necessary to determine optimal antipsychotic therapy for patients with schizophrenia and comorbid cocaine abuse.
Resveratrol is a naturally occurring polyphenol with cancer chemopreventive properties. The objective of the current study was to investigate the effect of resveratrol on the human colonic adenocarcinoma cell line Caco-2. The compound inhibited cell growth and proliferation of Caco-2 cells in a dose-dependent manner (12.5-200 micromol/L) as assessed by crystal violet assay, [(3)H]thymidine and [(14)C]leucine incorporation. Furthermore, apoptosis was determined by measuring caspase-3 activity, which increased significantly after 24 and 48 h of treatment with 200 micromol/L resveratrol. Perturbed cell cycle progression from the S to G2 phase was observed for concentrations up to 50 micromol/L, whereas higher concentrations led to reversal of the S phase arrest. These effects were specific for resveratrol; they were not observed after incubation with the stilbene analogs stilbenemethanol and rhapontin. Levels of cyclin D1 and cyclin-dependent kinase (cdk) 4 proteins were decreased, as revealed by immunoblotting. In addition, resveratrol enhanced the expression of cyclin E and cyclin A. The protein levels of cdk2, cdk6 and proliferating cell nuclear antigen were unaffected. Similar results were obtained for the colon carcinoma cell line HCT-116, indicating that cell cycle inhibition by resveratrol is independent of cyclooxygenase inhibition. The phosphorylation state of the retinoblastoma protein in Caco-2 cells was shifted from hyperphosphorylated to hypophosphorylated at 200 micromol/L, which may account for reversal of the S phase block at concentrations exceeding 50 micromol/L. These findings suggest that resveratrol exerts chemopreventive effects on colonic cancer cells by inhibition of the cell cycle.
Acute phase serum amyloid A proteins (A-SAAs) are multifunctional apolipoproteins produced in large amounts during the acute phase of an inflammation and also during the development of chronic inflammatory diseases. In this study we present a Saa1-luc transgenic mouse model in which SAA1 gene expression can be monitored by measuring luciferase activity using a noninvasive imaging system. When challenged with LPS, TNF-alpha, or IL-1beta, in vivo imaging of Saa1-luc mice showed a 1000- to 3000-fold induction of luciferase activity in the hepatic region that peaked 4-7 h after treatment. The induction of liver luciferase expression was consistent with an increase in SAA1 mRNA in the liver and a dramatic elevation of the serum SAA1 concentration. Ex vivo analyses revealed luciferase induction in many tissues, ranging from several-fold (brain) to >5000-fold (liver) after LPS or TNF-alpha treatment. Pretreatment of mice with the proteasome inhibitor bortezomib significantly suppressed LPS-induced SAA1 expression. These results suggested that proteasome inhibition, perhaps through the NF-kappaB signaling pathway, may regulate SAA1 expression. During the development of acute arthritis triggered by intra-articular administration of zymosan, SAA1 expression was induced both locally at the knee joint and systemically in the liver, and the induction was significantly suppressed by bortezomib. Induction of SAA1 expression was also demonstrated during contact hypersensitivity induced by topical application of oxazolone. These results suggest that both local and systemic induction of A-SAA occur during inflammation and may contribute to the pathogenesis of chronic inflammatory diseases associated with amyloid deposition.
1 The mechanism of the cataleptic effect of metoclopramide was analyzed by using drugs which alter the activity of dopaminergic or cholinergic neurones or the content of psi-aminobutyric acid in the central nervous system of rats. 2 The cataleptic effect of metoclopramide (20 mg/kg) was antagonized by apomorphine (10 mg/kg) and by atropine (50 mg/kg). Aminoxyacete acid (AOAA, 25-50 mg/kg) potentiated the catalepsy induced by metoclopramide (5 mg/kg). 3 Metoclopramide alone did not alter the rectal temperature of rats. It did not alter the AOAA-induced hypothermia, but it partially antagonized apomorphine-induced hypothermia. 4 Metoclopramide induced a six-fold increase in striatal homovanillic acid (HVA) concentration, but it did not change the dopamine or noradrenaline content in the brain of rats. Apomorphine decreased the striatal HVA concentration in control and in metoclopramide-treated rats. Atropine and AOAA did not alter the metoclopramide-induced increase in striatal HVA concentration. 5 The results suggest that metoclopramide produces catalepsy by blocking striatal dopamine receptors.
Fluoroquinolones (FQ) are broad-spectrum antibacterial agents widely used for the treatment of infections with various types of gram negative and gram positive bacteria. Specifically, gatifloxacin (GFX) is under development as a component in a new antituberculosis fixed-dose drug combination. In the context of this project, GFX was also tested for genotoxic activity in human peripheral lymphocytes, and the induction of chromosomal aberrations by GFX in PHA-M stimulated cultured human lymphocytes, investigated under conditions of conventional and increased expression times, was further compared to the analogous effects induced by some other second- and third-generation FQ antibacterial agents, namely ofloxacin (OFX), ciprofloxacin (CFX) and sparfloxacin (SFX). OFX did not induce any significant chromosomal aberrations in human lymphocytes. CFX and SFX exhibited slight to moderate clastogenic potential at cytotoxic concentrations (150, 175, 200 and 225 microg/ml), and GFX, a third-generation FQ, induced a clear, concentration-dependent increase in the frequency of chromosomal aberrations at cytotoxic concentrations (150, 200 and 250 microg/ml). These effects were not apparent when metaphases were analysed at the conventionally used sampling time of 24 h, but only after prolongation of the expression time between treatment and harvesting to a sampling time of 36 h (4 h exposure and 32 h expression period). Also, an increased incidence of numerical aberrations (polyploidy and endoreduplication) was seen with GFX at non-cytotoxic concentrations (12.5, 25, 50 and 75 microg/ml). These effects can be attributed to the slight cross-reactivity of FQs between their inhibitory activity towards their intended targets, the prokaryotic type II topoisomerase enzymes DNA gyrase and topoisomerase IV, and the analogous mammalian enzyme topoisomerase II. We have also observed the formation of polycentrics, i.e., chromosomes with five to six centromeres, a rarely reported structural aberration, in GFX-treated cells. The significance of these observations with respect to the conventional conduct of such studies and to the interpretation of the effects is discussed.
Mono(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (MEHP) is one of the main metabolites of di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate. The evidence shows that DEHP may exert its toxic effects primarily via MEHP, which is 10-fold more potent than its parent compound in toxicity in vitro. MEHP-induced apoptosis is mediated by either p53-dependent or -independent pathway. However, the detailed mechanism of its toxicity remains unclear. In this study, immortalized normal human liver cell line L02 was chosen, as an in vitro model of nonmalignant liver, to elucidate the role of p53 in MEHP-induced apoptosis. The cells were treated with MEHP (6.25, 12.50, 25.00, 50.00, and 100.00 μM) for 24 and 36 h, then small interfering RNA (siRNA) was used to specifically silence p53 gene of L02 cells. The results indicated that MEHP caused oxidative DNA damage and apoptosis in L02 cells were associated with the p53 signaling pathway. Further study found that MEHP (50.00 and 100.00 μM) induced apoptosis in p53-silenced L02 cells, along with the up-regulations of Fas and FasL proteins as well as increased the Bax/Bcl-2 ratio and Caspase 3, 8, and 9 activities. Additionally, both FasL inhibitor (AF-016) and Caspase inhibitor N-benzyloxycarbonyl-Val-Ala-Asp- fluoromethylketone (Z-VAD-FMK) could prevent the cell apoptosis induced by MEHP. The findings suggested that MEHP-induced apoptosis in L02 cells involving a Caspases-mediated mitochondrial signaling pathway and/or death receptor pathway. p53 was not absolutely necessary for MEHP-induced L02 cell apoptosis. © 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Environ Toxicol, 2014.
Parkinson's disease (PD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) frequently overlap with Alzheimer's disease, which is linked to brain impairments in insulin, insulin-like growth factor (IGF), and neurotrophin signaling. We explored whether similar abnormalities occur in PD or DLB, and examined the role of manganese toxicity in PD/DLB pathogenesis. Quantitative RT-PCR demonstrated reduced expression of insulin, IGF-II, and insulin, IGF-I, and IGF-II receptors (R) in PD and/or DLB frontal white matter and amygdala, and reduced IGF-IR and IGF-IIR mRNA in DLB frontal cortex. IGF-I and IGF-II resistance was present in DLB but not PD frontal cortex, and associated with reduced expression of Hu, nerve growth factor, and Trk neurotrophin receptors, and increased levels of glial fibrillary acidic protein, alpha-synuclein, dopamine-beta-hydroxylase, 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (HNE), and ubiquitin immunoreactivity. MnCl2 treatment reduced survival, ATP, and insulin, IGF-I and IGF-II receptor expression, and increased alpha-synuclein, HNE, and ubiquitin immunoreactivity in cultured neurons. The results suggest that: 1) IGF-I, IGF-II, and neurotrophin signaling are more impaired in DLB than PD, corresponding with DLB's more pronounced neurodegeneration, oxidative stress, and alpha-synuclein accumulation; 2) MnCl2 exposure causes PD/DLB associated abnormalities in central nervous system neurons, and therefore may contribute to their molecular pathogenesis; and 3) molecular abnormalities in PD/DLB overlap with but are distinguishable from Alzheimer's disease.
Degradation of the extracellular matrix by metalloproteinases is a critical phenomenon in cancer invasion and metastasis. Recent studies have revealed that minocycline (minocycline hydrochloride, a tetracycline) suppresses in vivo and in vitro mammalian collagenolytic activity. We investigated whether minocycline inhibited in vitro invasion and experimental pulmonary metastasis in subline-2 of streptozotocin-induced mouse renal adenocarcinoma (MRAC-PM2) cells. In vitro invasion assay demonstrated that treatment with 0.5 microgram/ml or 5.0 micrograms/ml minocycline significantly inhibited the invasion of MRAC-PM2 cells. In addition, intraperitoneal administration of 0.5 mg per mouse minocycline reduced the number of metastatic nodules in the lung when MRAC-PM2 cells were injected intravenously. Minocycline also suppressed type IV collagenolytic activity of the cells. However, the drug did not affect [3H]-thymidine uptake, growth of subcutaneously inoculated cells, attachment to the extracellular matrices, or haptotactic migration of the cells. These results indicated that the inhibitory action of type IV collagen degradation by minocycline can contribute, in part, to suppression of the in vitro invasion and metastatic potential of MRAC-PM2 cells.
Modifying effect of fermented brown rice by Aspergillus Oryzae (FBRA) during the initiation or post-initiation phase of N-nitrosomethylbenzylamine (NMBA)-induced esophageal tumorigenesis was investigated in rats. Five-week-old male F344 rats were divided into 7 groups, and groups 1-5 were given subcutaneous injections of NMBA (0.5 mg/kg body weight/injection 15 times) for 5 weeks starting at 7 weeks of age. Groups 2 and 4 were fed the diet containing 5 and 10% FBRA during the initiation phase, respectively, whereas groups 3 and 5 were fed these diets during the post-initiation phase. Group 6 was given the diet containing 10% FBRA throughout the experiment, and group 7 was kept on the basal diet alone and served as an untreated control. Incidence and multiplicity of esophageal neoplasms of group 1 (NMBA alone) were 89% and 1.63+/-1.01/rat, respectively. Those of groups 3 (65%, 1.04+/-1.04) and 5 (58%, 0.77+/-0.86) were significantly less than those of group 1. Furthermore, the incidence and multiplicity of esophageal preneoplastic lesions (dysplasia) of group 5 were less than those of group 1. Post-initiation feeding of 10% FBRA significantly decreased BrdU incorporation in the non-lesional esophageal tissues when compared to that of the control. In addition, the analysis of expression levels of phase I enzymes of livers at the termination of experiment showed no clear differences among the groups. These observations indicate for the first time that FBRA inhibits NMBA-induced esophageal tumor development in rats possibly through inhibition of cell proliferation in the post-initiation phase, and suggest that FBRA is a promising dietary agent for prevention of human esophageal cancer.
To evaluate a salvage therapy (ST-HD-86) for patients with progressive and relapsed Hodgkin's disease after primary treatment in the pediatric DAL/GPOH studies. The essential chemotherapeutic regimens were ifosfamide, etoposide, and prednisone (IEP) and doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine (ABVD).
One hundred seventy-six patients with progression (n = 51) or first relapse (n = 125) were enrolled by 67 centers. The median time from initial diagnosis to progression/relapse was 1.1 year (range, 0.1 to 15.3 years), and the patients' median age was 14.7 years (range, 4.3 to 24.5 years). Salvage chemotherapy consisted of two to three cycles of IEP alternating with one to two cycles of ABVD supplemented in part by one to two cycles of cyclophosphamide, vincristine, procarbazine, and prednisone or lomustine (CCNU), etoposide, and prednimustine. Radiotherapy was given to involved areas using individualized doses. In the 1990s, additional high-dose chemotherapy with autologous stem-cell transplantation (SCT) was introduced for patients with unfavorable prognosis.
Disease-free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS) after 10 years are 62% and 75%, respectively (SE, 4% each). Of 176 patients, 73 suffered second events. The risk-factor analysis revealed the time to progression/relapse as the strongest prognostic factor (P = .0001). Patients with progression have an inferior outcome (DFS, 41%; OS, 51%), whereas patients with late relapse (> 12 months after end of therapy) do well (DFS, 86%; OS, 90%), although none of them received SCT in second remission.
The result can be considered favorable. Whereas the salvage strategy for progressive disease has to be optimized further, it is possible to reduce intensity and avoid SCT in late relapses after Hodgkin's disease in childhood/adolescence.
FK506 is a recently developed immunosuppressant that has been useful in improving the survival of transplanted organs. Among the numerous adverse side effects of FK506, thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA) stands out as an infrequent but severe complication.
We report two cases of FK506-associated TMA and review the 19 previous reported cases.
From these 21 cases, the reported incidence of FK506-associated TMA is between 1% and 4.7%. It is more frequent in females, and the mean age at presentation is 47 years. Eighty-one percent of the cases occurred in patients with kidney allografts, and the remaining patients had liver, heart, or bone marrow transplants. Clinically, TMA was diagnosed at an average interval of 9.3 months from the time of transplantation. Patients may be asymptomatic or may present with the full-blown picture of hemolytic uremic syndrome. All patients had an elevated serum creatinine level but did not always show signs of hemolysis. Trough levels of FK506 were not predictive for the development of TMA, but generally a reduction of drug dose correlated with kidney function improvement and disappearance of the hemolytic picture. The renal allograft biopsy provided a conclusive diagnosis in all 17 cases in which this procedure was performed. Treatment, which mainly consisted of reduction or discontinuation of FK506, anticoagulation, and/or plasmapheresis with fresh-frozen plasma exchange, resolved TMA in most patients (57%). However, in one of these patients (5%), the graft was subsequently lost due to causes unrelated to TMA, such as acute or chronic rejection. Despite treatment, one patient (5%) lost the graft due to acute rejection and persistent TMA, and three other patients (14%) who had bone marrow, heart, and liver transplants, died of multiple organ failure, probably unrelated to TMA. In the remaining four patients (19%), response to treatment was not reported.
TMA must be considered in organ transplant patients treated with FK506 whenever kidney function deteriorates, even in the absence of microangiopathic hemolytic anemia. Although TMA usually responds to treatment, it may, in rare cases, lead to loss of kidney function or even the patient's death.
The Breast Cancer Association Consortium (BCAC) has been established to conduct combined case-control analyses with augmented statistical power to try to confirm putative genetic associations with breast cancer. We genotyped nine SNPs for which there was some prior evidence of an association with breast cancer: CASP8 D302H (rs1045485), IGFBP3 -202 C --> A (rs2854744), SOD2 V16A (rs1799725), TGFB1 L10P (rs1982073), ATM S49C (rs1800054), ADH1B 3' UTR A --> G (rs1042026), CDKN1A S31R (rs1801270), ICAM5 V301I (rs1056538) and NUMA1 A794G (rs3750913). We included data from 9-15 studies, comprising 11,391-18,290 cases and 14,753-22,670 controls. We found evidence of an association with breast cancer for CASP8 D302H (with odds ratios (OR) of 0.89 (95% confidence interval (c.i.): 0.85-0.94) and 0.74 (95% c.i.: 0.62-0.87) for heterozygotes and rare homozygotes, respectively, compared with common homozygotes; P(trend) = 1.1 x 10(-7)) and weaker evidence for TGFB1 L10P (OR = 1.07 (95% c.i.: 1.02-1.13) and 1.16 (95% c.i.: 1.08-1.25), respectively; P(trend) = 2.8 x 10(-5)). These results demonstrate that common breast cancer susceptibility alleles with small effects on risk can be identified, given sufficiently powerful studies.
ECG changes, similar to those seen during myocardial ischaemia, together with symptoms of chest pain, are common during Caesarean section (CS). We hypothesized that oxytocin administration has cardiovascular effects leading to these symptoms and ECG changes.
Forty women undergoing elective CS under spinal anaesthesia were given an i.v. bolus of either 10 IU of oxytocin (Group OXY-CS, n=20) or 0.2 mg of methylergometrine (Group MET-CS, n=20), in a double-blind, randomized fashion after delivery. Ten healthy, non-pregnant, non-anaesthetized women were used as normal controls (Group OXY-NC, n=10) and were given 10 IU of oxytocin i.v. Twelve-lead ECG, on-line, computerized vectorcardiography (VCG), and invasive arterial pressure were recorded.
Oxytocin produced a significant increase in heart rate, +28 (SD 4) and +52 (3) beats min(-1) [mean (SEM); P<0.001], decreases in mean arterial pressure, -33 (2) and -30 (3) mm Hg (P<0.001), and increases in the spatial ST-change vector magnitude (STC-VM), +77 (12) and +114 (8) microV (P<0.001), in CS patients and controls, respectively. Symptoms of chest pain and subjective discomfort were simultaneously present. Methylergometrine produced mild hypertension and no significant ECG changes.
Oxytocin administered as an i.v. bolus of 10 IU induces chest pain, transient profound tachycardia, hypotension, and concomitant signs of myocardial ischaemia according to marked ECG and STC-VM changes. The effects are related to oxytocin administration and not to pregnancy, surgical procedure, delivery, or sympathetic block from spinal anaesthesia.
The severity and duration of cognitive performance capacity deficits after intravenous administration of propofol were determined using the validated psychological test procedure syndrome short test (SKT), a simple reaction test and original driving licence exam questions. The test battery was performed before, immediately after, as well as 1 and 2 h after propofol administration in 23 persons. Immediately after propofol anaesthesia, six individuals had a slight performance loss, and four subjects showed mild deficits, consistent with medium organic neuropsychologic disorder or dementia. The status of the subjects rapidly changed for the better, and 2 h after propofol anaesthesia, only one person (4%) showed slight deficits of memory and attention. Therefore, it is suggested that patients refrain from any participation in road traffic for at least 2 h after propofol anaesthesia. Driving a car should not be admitted until an interval of 6 h has elapsed.
An efficacious, reliable, and non-invasive route of administration for midazolam, a drug used for sedation and pre-anaesthetic medication, would have obvious advantages. This study compares two potential methods of administering midazolam by the nasal and nebulized routes.
Midazolam (0.2 mg kg(-1)) was given by both nebulizer and nasally by liquid instillation to 10 healthy volunteers in a randomized, double-blind crossover study. Plasma concentrations of midazolam, Ramsay sedation scores, visual analogue scores, critical flicker fusion frequency, and parameters of cardiovascular and respiratory function were measured over 60 min and summarized using 'area under the curve'.
Nasal instillation caused more sedation than nebulized administration. This was demonstrated by higher Ramsay sedation scores (P=0.005), lower visual analogue scores (P<0.001), and lower critical flicker fusion frequency (P<0.02). Nasal instillation was associated with higher plasma concentrations of midazolam (P<0.001). Unpleasant symptoms were recorded by six volunteers in the intranasal and one in the nebulized group (P=0.06).
There was some evidence that midazolam caused less discomfort when given by nebulizer compared with intranasally. Comparative bioavailability of midazolam, estimated by the ratio (nebulized:nasal) of area under the 60 min plasma concentration curve, was 1:2.9. A higher dose may need to be administered for adequate pre-anaesthetic medication when midazolam is given by nebulizer.
Human hair samples from male and female people aged 6-85 years, as well as muscle of crabs (Callinectes sapidus and Callinectes bocourti) were collected from different fishing places along the Caribbean coastal shoreline of Colombia and analyzed for total mercury (T-Hg) in order to establish the impact of mercury-polluted sediments in Cartagena bay on the ecosystem. Hair T-Hg in inhabitants varied between 0.1 and 21.8 microg/g, with average and median of 1.52 microg/g and 1.1 microg/g, respectively. Differences between sampling locations were significant (P<0.01) and median values decreased in the order: Caño del Oro (1.5 microg/g)<Bocachica (1.4 microg/g) (both located in Cartagena Bay)<Coveñas (1.2 microg/g)<Lomarena (0.7 microg/g)=Tasajera (0.7 microg/g). A similar trend was observed for T-Hg in muscle of crabs, however, along Cartagena bay, T-Hg distribution in these organisms varied widely, with highest values detected in samples collected in front of the extinct chlor-alkali plant. Although the T-Hg median for these people is equal to the threshold risk level recommended by U.S. EPA, this study highlights the fact that contaminated sediments are still driving the distribution of mercury through the food chain, allowing its accumulation in fishermen whose diet includes marine products as sources of protein.
Uterine glands and their secretions are required for conceptus (embryo/fetus and associated placenta) survival and development. In most mammals, uterine gland morphogenesis or adenogenesis is a uniquely postnatal event; however, little is known about the mechanisms governing the developmental event. In sheep, progestin treatment of neonatal ewes permanently ablated differentiation of the endometrial glands. Similarly, progesterone (P4) inhibits adenogenesis in neonatal mouse uterus. Thus, P4 can be used as a tool to discover mechanisms regulating endometrial adenogenesis. Female pups were treated with sesame vehicle alone as a control or P4 from Postnatal Day 2 (PD 2) to PD 10, and reproductive tracts were examined on PD 5, 10, or 20. Endometrial glands were fully developed in control mice by PD 20 but not in P4-treated mice. All other uterine cell types appeared normal. Treatment with P4 stimulated proliferation of the stroma but suppressed proliferation of the luminal epithelium. Microarray analysis revealed that expression of genes were reduced (Car2, Fgf7, Fgfr2, Foxa2, Fzd10, Met, Mmp7, Msx1, Msx2, Wnt4, Wnt7a, Wnt16) and increased (Hgf, Ihh, Wnt11) by P4 in the neonatal uterus. These results support the idea that P4 inhibits endometrial adenogenesis in the developing neonatal uterus by altering expression of morphoregulatory genes and consequently disrupting normal patterns of cell proliferation and development.
Extracts of eleven plants used in Nigerian traditional medicine have been evaluated for possible antileishmanial activity using a radiorespirometric microtest technique based on in vitro inhibition of catabolism of 14CO2 from a battery of 14C-substrates by promastigotes. Of 13 methanol extracts tested, 5 from Gongronema latifolia, Dorstenia multiradiata, Picralima nitida, Cola attiensis, and Desmodium gangeticum, were active at concentrations of 50 micrograms/ml or less against a visceral Leishmania isolate.
Regulator of G-protein signaling 9-2 (RGS9-2), a member of the RGS family of G GTPase accelerating proteins, is expressed specifically in the striatum, which participates in antipsychotic-induced tardive dyskinesia and in levodopa-induced dyskinesia. We report that RGS9 knock-out mice develop abnormal involuntary movements when inhibition of dopaminergic transmission is followed by activation of D2-like dopamine receptors (DRs). These abnormal movements resemble drug-induced dyskinesia more closely than other rodent models. Recordings from striatal neurons of these mice establish that activation of D2-like DRs abnormally inhibits glutamate-elicited currents. We show that RGS9-2, via its DEP domain (for Disheveled, EGL-10, Pleckstrin homology), colocalizes with D2DRs when coexpressed in mammalian cells. Recordings from oocytes coexpressing D2DR or the m2 muscarinic receptor and G-protein-gated inward rectifier potassium channels show that RGS9-2, via its DEP domain, preferentially accelerates the termination of D2DR signals. Thus, alterations in RGS9-2 may be a key factor in the pathway leading from D2DRs to the side effects associated with the treatment both of psychoses and Parkinson's disease.
Thirteen patients with meningeal carcinomatosis were treated by ventriculolumbar perfusion using methotrexate (MTX) and cytosine arabinoside (Ara-C). MTX (10-30 mg) and Ara-C (40 mg) were infused at 8- to 12-hour intervals on six or nine occasions via an Ommaya reservoir placed in the lateral ventricle. Nine of thirteen patients had evaluable response (69% response rate with a mean survival of 8.8 months among responders) and ventriculolumbar perfusion therapy was effective in improving cerebral, cranial nerve, and spinal root signs and symptoms, especially sensorimotor disturbance in the lower limbs. Three of the six bedridden patients became ambulatory without assistance and two of the four patients who were walking with assistance became ambulatory without assistance. Urinary incontinence also markedly improved, except in one nonresponder. Lumbar cerebrospinal fluid parameters (cytological findings and tumor markers) also improved in association with the clinical improvement. Our pilot results were encouraging, especially the improvement of sensorimotor function in the lower limbs. However, the toxicity was unacceptable when compared with that of standard intrathecal chemotherapy. Thus, this therapy needs to be investigated further to establish the most appropriate drug doses and perfusate volume to reduce toxicity as well as determine its true efficacy in the treatment of meningeal carcinomatosis.
Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) models, in animals, many characteristics of multiple sclerosis, for which there is no adequate therapy. We investigated whether lithium, an inhibitor of glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK3), can ameliorate EAE in mice. Pretreatment with lithium markedly suppressed the clinical symptoms of EAE induced in mice by myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein peptide (MOG35-55) immunization and greatly reduced demyelination, microglia activation, and leukocyte infiltration in the spinal cord. Lithium administered postimmunization, after disease onset, reduced disease severity and facilitated partial recovery. Conversely, in knock-in mice expressing constitutively active GSK3, EAE developed more rapidly and was more severe. In vivo lithium therapy suppressed MOG35-55-reactive effector T cell differentiation, greatly reducing in vitro MOG35-55- stimulated proliferation of mononuclear cells from draining lymph nodes and spleens, and MOG35-55-induced IFN-gamma, IL-6, and IL-17 production by splenocytes isolated from MOG35-55-immunized mice. In relapsing/remitting EAE induced with proteolipid protein peptide139-151, lithium administered after the first clinical episode maintained long-term (90 days after immunization) protection, and after lithium withdrawal the disease rapidly relapsed. These results demonstrate that lithium suppresses EAE and identify GSK3 as a new target for inhibition that may be useful for therapeutic intervention of multiple sclerosis and other autoimmune and inflammatory diseases afflicting the CNS.
Antihistamines are easily available over-the-counter medications, which are frequently involved in overdoses. The usual course is accompanied by the anticholinergic effects of these agents. We report a case of a suicide attempt in a young male, where ingestion of antihistamine pheniramine maleate was complicated by nontraumatic rhabdomyolysis and oliguric acute renal failure. Rhabdomyolysis and acute renal failure is a rarely reported but potentially serious complication among patients who present to the emergency after intentional overdoses making recognition and prompt intervention essential. We also describe the potential mechanism of muscle injury in antihistamine overdose.
Excessive apoptosis and leukocyte-dependent inflammation mediated by pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as TNFα, are cardinal features of acute liver injury. This study evaluated the ability of the newly designed bile acid-phospholipid conjugate ursodeoxycholyl lysophosphatidylethanolamide (UDCA-LPE) to protect from hepatocellular injury in comparison to the known hepatoprotectant ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) and phosphatidylcholine (PC).
Anti-apoptotic and anti-inflammatory properties of UDCA-LPE were evaluated after TNFα treatment of embryonic human hepatocyte cell line CL48 as well as of primary human hepatocytes. Acute liver injury was induced in C57BL/6 mice with d-galactosamine/lipopolysaccharide (GalN/LPS) in order to determine in vivo efficacy of the conjugate.
UDCA-LPE inhibited TNFα-induced apoptosis and inflammation in hepatocytes in vitro and markedly ameliorated GalN/LPS-mediated fulminant hepatitis in mice, whereas UDCA or PC failed to show protection. The conjugate was able to decrease injury-induced elevation of phospholipase A(2) activity as well as its product lysophosphatidylcholine. Analysis of hepatic gene expression showed that UDCA-LPE treatment led to favourable inhibitory effects on expression profiles of key pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines, which are crucial for leukocyte recruitment and activation thereby inhibiting chemokine-mediated aggravation of parenchymal damage.
Thus, UDCA-LPE as a synthetic bile acid-phospholipid conjugate may represent a potent anti-inflammatory agent that is more effective than UDCA and PC for treatment of liver diseases.
Inositol monophosphatase (IMPase) inhibition is a hypothesized mechanism of action of lithium (Li). To test this hypothesis, the authors used the approach of antisense administration. Three days of an intracerebroventricular (icv) administration of 5 microg/20 microl 3'-phosphorothioated IMPA-1 antisense oligonucleotide sequence resulted in 20% reduction of rat periventricular IMPase activity. Li potentiates pilocarpine-induced seizures, because inhibition of IMPase leads to reduction in brain inositol levels. However, antisense-induced reduction in IMPase activity was not followed by seizures induced by subconvulsive pilocarpine doses.
