It has been widely reported that in autism, the number of Purkinje cells (PCs) is decreased, and recently, decreased expression of glutamic acid decarboxylase 67 (GAD67) mRNA in Purkinje cells also has been observed. However, the autism literature has not addressed key GABAergic inputs into Purkinje cells. Inhibitory basket and stellate cell interneurons in the molecular layer of the cerebellar cortex provide direct key GABAergic input into Purkinje cells and could potently influence the output of Purkinje cells to deep cerebellar nuclei. We investigated the capacity for interneuronal synthesis of gamma-amino butyric acid (GABA) in both types of interneurons that innervate the remaining PCs in the posterolateral cerebellar hemisphere in autism. The level of GAD67 mRNA, one of the isoforms of the key synthesizing enzymes for GABA, was quantified at the single-cell level using in situ hybridization in brains of autistic and aged-matched controls. The National Institutes of Health imaging system showed that expression of GAD67 mRNA in basket cells was significantly up-regulated, by 28%, in eight autistic brains compared with that in eight control brains (mean +/- SEM pixels per cell, 1.03 +/- 0.05 versus 0.69 +/- 0.05, respectively; P < 0.0001 by independent t test). Stellate cells showed a trend toward a small increase in GAD67 mRNA levels, but this did not reach significance. The results suggest that basket cells likely provide increased GABAergic feed-forward inhibition to PCs in autism, directly affecting PC output to target neurons in the dentate nucleus and potentially disrupting its modulatory role in key motor and/or cognitive behaviors in autistic individuals.
To quantify global myocardial perfusion using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in patients with heart failure due to idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (IDC) and to compare myocardial perfusion and microvascular reactivity with healthy subjects.
A total of 19 subjects (healthy volunteers (N = 12) and IDC patients (N = 7)) were studied using cine MRI to measure left ventricular (LV) mass and a velocity-encoded cine MRI technique to measure coronary sinus flow at rest and after dipyridamole-induced hyperemia. Absolute values of total myocardial blood flow (MBF) were calculated from coronary sinus flow and LV mass.
At baseline, MBF was not significantly different in patients with IDC (0.48 +/- 0.07 mL/minute/g) and healthy subjects (0.55 +/- 0.19 mL/minute/g, P= 0.41). After dipyridamole administration, MBF in IDC patients increased to a level significantly less than that in normal volunteers (1.05 +/- 0.35 mL/minute/g vs. 1.99 +/- 1.05 mL/minute/g, P < 0.05). Consequently, MBF reserve was impaired in patients with IDC (2.19 +/- 0.77) compared to that in healthy subjects (3.51 +/- 1.29, P < 0.05). A moderate correlation was found between MBF reserve and LV ejection fraction (r = 0.48, P < 0.05).
MBF reserve is reduced in patients with IDC, indicating that coronary microcirculatory flow is impaired. This integrated MRI approach allows quantitative measurement of global MBF in humans and may have the potential to study the effects of pharmacological interventions on myocardial perfusion.
Effects of perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and perfluorooctanesulfonic acid (PFOS) on the neuronal lineage marker expression, cell-cell interaction, caspase-3 mRNA transcription and reactive oxygen species production by N2a neuronal cells were assesses in 3-dimensional (3D) spheroid cultures, and the cytotoxicity were thoroughly compared with those of a conventional 2D monolayer-based toxicity assay. Increasing concentrations of PFOA or PFOS resulted in an increase in cell death. The half maximal inhibitory concentrations measured with spheroids were approximately one and a half times greater than the respective values for monolayer cells. Necrosis was prevalent in spheroids regardless of the dose, whereas the major injury mechanism in monolayers was dependent on compound concentration. Both PFOA and PFOS inhibited neuronal, astrocyte and oligodendrocyte marker gene expression by monolayers and spheroids grown under undifferentiated and all-trans-retinoic acid-induced differentiating conditions. In the presence of PFOA or PFOS, expression levels of E-cadherin and connexin-43 mRNAs were significantly downregulated, and spheroids were dissociated into single cell populations, indicating that the compounds affect the synthesis of E-cadherin and connexin-43 at the transcriptional level. Results from 3D cultures may provide an insight into potential inhibitory mode of action on gap junctional intercellular communication.
Defects in mitochondrial translation are among the most common causes of mitochondrial disease, but the mechanisms that regulate mitochondrial translation remain largely unknown. In the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, all mitochondrial mRNAs require specific translational activators, which recognize sequences in 5' UTRs and mediate translation. As mammalian mitochondrial mRNAs do not have significant 5' UTRs, alternate mechanisms must exist to promote translation. We identified a specific defect in the synthesis of the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA)-encoded COX I subunit in a pedigree segregating late-onset Leigh syndrome and cytochrome c oxidase (COX) deficiency. We mapped the defect to chromosome 17q by functional complementation and identified a homozygous single-base-pair insertion in CCDC44, encoding a member of a large family of hypothetical proteins containing a conserved DUF28 domain. CCDC44, renamed TACO1 for translational activator of COX I, shares a notable degree of structural similarity with bacterial homologs, and our findings suggest that it is one of a family of specific mammalian mitochondrial translational activators.
We conducted a genome-wide association study of rheumatoid arthritis in 2,418 cases and 4,504 controls from North America and identified an association at the REL locus, encoding c-Rel, on chromosome 2p13 (rs13031237, P = 6.01 x 10(-10)). Replication in independent case-control datasets comprising 2,604 cases and 2,882 controls confirmed this association, yielding an allelic OR = 1.25 (P = 3.08 x 10(-14)) for marker rs13031237 and an allelic OR = 1.21 (P = 2.60 x 10(-11)) for marker rs13017599 in the combined dataset. The combined dataset also provides definitive support for associations at both CTLA4 (rs231735; OR = 0.85; P = 6.25 x 10(-9)) and BLK (rs2736340; OR = 1.19; P = 5.69 x 10(-9)). c-Rel is an NF-kappaB family member with distinct functional properties in hematopoietic cells, and its association with rheumatoid arthritis suggests disease pathways that involve other recently identified rheumatoid arthritis susceptibility genes including CD40, TRAF1, TNFAIP3 and PRKCQ.
The non-animal in vitro test methods, especially for assessment of kidney toxicity, have become invaluable tools due to the target organ-selective nature of many nephrotoxic xenobiotics. In vitro evaluation of biomarkers for nephrotoxicity assessment using human cell lines, which can provide more reliable information for toxicological risk evaluation in humans than animal cells, has not been well established to date. The present study investigated the potential use of biomarkers for cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity assessment in vitro using HK-2 cells derived from human kidney proximal tubule epithelial cells. Cisplatin induced apoptosis of HK-2 cells in which down-regulation of Bcl-2 and activation of caspase-3 were possibly involved. We investigated the effect of cisplatin on the protein levels of kidney injury molecule (KIM)-1, clusterin, calbindin, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase (TIMP)-1, cystatin C (CysC), β₂-microglobulin (β₂-M) and neutrophil gelatinase associated lipocalin (NGAL), which have been recently identified as in vivo biomarkers of nephrotoxicity. The protein levels of KIM-1, calbindin and TIMP-1 were significantly increased in the conditioned media of HK-2 cells treated with cisplatin, while β₂-M, CysC, NGAL and clusterin were not affected by cisplatin treatment. The mRNA levels of KIM-1, calbindin and TIMP-1 were increased by cisplatin, indicating that cisplatin-induced up-regulation involves transcriptional activation. The levels of KIM-1, calbindin and TIMP-1 were significantly increased in urine of cisplatin-treated rats, providing in vivo validation of the in vitro results. Taken together, our results clearly demonstrate that among the known in vivo nephrotoxic biomarkers, KIM-1, calbindin and TIMP-1 can be effectively used as in vitro biomarkers for cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity using a HK-2 human kidney cell system.
Opioids can induce central sensitization and hyperalgesia, referred to as "opioid-induced hyperalgesia." Our report describes a patient who underwent intestinal transplant followed by immunosuppressant-related neuropathic pain. Her pain was treated with limited success over the course of 3 yr with different therapies, including i.v. morphine. She developed opioid-induced hyperalgesia, which was successfully treated with rapid detoxification under general anesthesia. Detoxification improved her quality of life, including the ability to resume physiotherapy. Six months after treatment, she remained opioid free. Our experience suggests that rapid detoxification under general anesthesia may be an effective treatment for opioid-induced hyperalgesia and merits comparison to traditional detoxification methods.
The calcineurin inhibitors (CIs) cyclosporine A and tacrolimus are essential for graft-versus-host disease prophylaxis but are associated with adverse effects, including neurotoxicity. We report a case of irreversible CI-induced neuropathic pain following allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. The patient developed dysesthesia, electric shock-like pain, and severe itching followed by intractable analgesic-resistant pain in the lower extremities. There were no abnormal radiographic findings, and there was no improvement with a reduction of CI dosage or with administration of a calcium channel blocker. These clinical findings are similar to but inconsistent with CI-induced musculoskeletal pain syndromes previously reported in organ transplantation.
We examined whether nisoldipine, a calcium (Ca) channel blocker, increases coronary blood flow (CBF) without decreasing aortic blood pressure (AoP) with ischemic and nonischemic hearts, and whether the presence of cellular acidosis in ischemic myocardium contributes to the augmentation of coronary vasodilation due to nisoldipine. In 42 dogs, coronary perfusion pressure (CPP) was reduced so that CBF decreased to 60% of the baseline, and CPP was maintained constant thereafter. First, we administered nisoldipine into a systemic vein in the ischemic and nonischemic hearts. Second, nisoldipine was administered into the canine coronary artery of the ischemic myocardium, with and without administration of either sodium bicarbonate (NaHCO3), sodium hydroxide (NaOH), or amiloride. Nisoldipine (0.25-4.0 mg/kg, i.v.) increased CBF by 59% in the ischemic myocardium more than the nonischemic myocardium (by 34%) without reducing AoP. The infusion of nisoldipine (40 ng/kg/min, IC) increased CBF markedly by about 55% in the ischemic myocardium with increases in fractional shortening (FS; 11 +/- 2% to 21 +/- 2%) and lactate extraction ratio (LER; -19 +/- 4% to 15 +/- 2%). Increases in CBF, FS, and LER were markedly attenuated during administration of nisoldipine with concomitant administration of either NaHCO3 or NaOH. Furthermore, the extent of increases in CBF (54 +/- 2 mL/100 g/min), FS (13 +/- 2%), and LER (-17 +/- 4%) were also markedly attenuated due to the concomitant treatment with amiloride. We conclude that myocardial cellular acidosis plays an important role in mediating coronary vasodilation affected by nisoldipine in the ischemic myocardium. H+ may modulate the property of voltage-dependent Ca channels via Na(+)-H+ exchange.
Among 199 patients treated with thalidomide for multiple myeloma, four thromboses occurred in 49 cases during erythropoietin therapy (prevalence 8.1%; annual rate 7.25%), and another 14 events occurred in patients not on erythropoietin (9.3%; 7.56%). Thus, erythropoietin would seem not to increase the risk of thrombosis of myeloma patients receiving thalidomide.
The present study aimed to investigate the effect of the new tyrosine kinase inhibitor, nilotinib on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced acute lung injury (ALI) in rats and explore its possible mechanisms. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were given nilotinib (10mg/kg) by oral gavage twice daily for 1week prior to exposure to aerosolized LPS. At 24h after LPS exposure, bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) samples and lung tissue were collected. The lung wet/dry weight (W/D) ratio, protein level and the number of inflammatory cells in the BALF were determined. Optical microscopy was performed to examine the pathological changes in lungs. Malondialdehyde (MDA) content, superoxidase dismutase (SOD) and reduced glutathione (GSH) activities as well as nitrite/nitrate (NO(2)(-)/NO(3)(-)) levels were measured in lung tissues. The expression of inflammatory cytokines, tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), transforming growth factor-β(1) (TGF-β(1)) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) were determined in lung tissues. Treatment with nilotinib prior to LPS exposure significantly attenuated the LPS-induced pulmonary edema, as it significantly decreased lung W/D ratio, protein concentration and the accumulation of the inflammatory cells in the BALF. This was supported by the histopathological examination which revealed marked attenuation of LPS-induced ALI in nilotinib treated rats. In addition, nilotinib significantly increased SOD and GSH activities with significant decrease in MDA content in the lung. Nilotinib also reduced LPS mediated overproduction of pulmonary NO(2)(-)/NO(3)(-) levels. Importantly, nilotinib caused down-regulation of the inflammatory cytokines TNF-α, TGF-β(1) and iNOS levels in the lung. Taken together, these results demonstrate the protective effects of nilotinib against the LPS-induced ALI. This effect can be attributed to nilotinib ability to counteract the inflammatory cells infiltration and hence ROS generation and regulate cytokine effects.
High-dose prostacyclin treatment during cardiopulmonary bypass reduces platelet activation and possibly postoperative blood loss. A side-effect is arterial hypotension. We studied the incidence of cerebral complications in 79 patients requiring coronary bypass. Only patients without known cerebrovascular disease were studied. Thirty-nine patients received prostacyclin 50 ng/kg/min during cardiopulmonary bypass and 40 patients served as controls. Mean arterial blood pressure in the group given prostacyclin was below 30 mm Hg during the first 30 minutes of bypass but remained above 60 mm Hg in the control group. Postoperative neurological examination revealed transient cerebral dysfunction in six control patients and two prostacyclin-treated patients. Investigation of cerebrospinal fluid showed signs of blood-brain barrier damage in 12 control and seven prostacyclin-treated patients. Cytologic changes in cerebrospinal fluid consistent with brain tissue damage occurred in two control patients but in no patient given prostacyclin. Myelin basic protein and adenylate kinase in cerebrospinal fluid were assayed as being markers of brain damage. Myelin basic protein was within the normal range in all patients. Adenylate kinase was moderately increased (greater than 0.035 U/L) in five of 15 control patients and six of 13 prostacyclin-treated patients. We conclude that treatment with prostacyclin 50 ng/kg/min during cardiopulmonary bypass does not increase the risk of postoperative cerebral damage.
Cystatin E/M (CST6) is a natural inhibitor of lysosomal cysteine proteases. Recent studies have shown that experimental manipulation of CST6 expression alters the metastatic behavior of human breast cancer cells. However, the association of CST6 with prostate cancer invasion and progression remains unclear. Here, we show that CST6 is robustly expressed in normal human prostate epithelium, whereas its expression is downregulated in metastatic prostate cell lines and prostate tumor tissues. Treatment of metastatic prostate cell lines with the histone deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin A resulted in significant induction of CST6 mRNA levels and increased CST6 protein expression, indicating that epigenetic silencing may play a role in the loss of CST6 expression observed in prostate cancer. CST6 overexpression in human prostate cancer cells significantly reduced in vitro cell proliferation and matrigel invasion. Furthermore, the results from a bioluminescence tumor/metastasis model showed that the overexpression of CST6 significantly inhibits tumor growth and the incidence of lung metastasis. These results suggest that the downregulation of the CST6 gene is associated with promoter histone modifications and that this association plays an important role in prostate cancer progression during the invasive and metastatic stages of the disease.
A 52-year-old woman developed symmetric sensorimotor polyneuropathy and cerebellar syndrome after 24 months of amiodarone treatment. Sural nerve biopsy revealed mild demyelination and many inclusion bodies in the axoplasm and in Schwann cell cytoplasm. Improvement in her condition was evident 6 months after discontinuing amiodarone.
To evaluate the risk for chronic renal disease associated with regular use of nonaspirin nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Multicenter case-control study.
Patients were 554 North Carolina residents (age range, 30 to 79 years) hospitalized between 1980 and 1982 with a discharge diagnosis indicating newly diagnosed chronic renal dysfunction and a serum creatinine level consistently at or above 130 mumol/L (1.5 mg/dL). Controls were 516 persons chosen randomly by telephone screening (if younger than 65 years of age) and from listings of Medicare recipients (if 65 years of age or older), frequency-matched to patients by age, race, sex, and proximity to study hospitals.
Data on use of prescription NSAIDs and other analgesics before 1980, other risk factors, and potential confounders were obtained by telephone interviews. Patients were classified by frequency and duration of use; daily users were those who took an NSAID for at least 360 consecutive days.
A twofold risk for chronic renal disease was associated with previous daily use of NSAIDs (adjusted odds ratio, 2.1; 95% Cl, 1.1 to 4.1). Increased risk was predominantly limited to men older than 65 years, for whom the odds ratio for daily use was 10.0 (Cl, 1.2 to 82.7) after adjusting for use of other analgesics. In other age-sex groups, the risk associated with NSAID use tended to be increased among those with heart disease or other factors that might indicate compromised renal circulation. These findings did not result from confounding by known renal disease risk factors and were not readily explained by potential biases.
Regular use of NSAIDs may increase the risk for chronic kidney disease in some high-risk groups. With the recent over-the-counter availability and increasing popularity of NSAIDs, the possibility of an increased risk for chronic renal disease associated with their use may warrant further scrutiny.
The chimera nucleophosmin-anaplastic lymphoma kinase (NPM-ALK), the tyrosine kinase activity of which is constitutively upregulated, is the causative agent of 75% of the anaplastic large-cell lymphomas (ALCLs). We have demonstrated that NPM-ALK induces the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) by a pathway involving the arachidonic acid-metabolizing enzymes of the lipoxygenase (LOX) family. The use of the LOX inhibitor nordihydroguaiaretic acid (NDGA) and of the anti-oxidant N-acetylcysteine (NAC) demonstrated that ROS are important in maintaining the ALK kinase active. Consistent with this, NDGA treatment resulted in the inhibition of key pathways, such as Akt, signal transducer and activator of transcription factor 3 (STAT3) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), which are involved in NPM-ALK antiapoptotic and pro-mitogenic functions. Conversely, the stress-activated kinase p38, described in some instances as a mediator of apoptosis, was activated. Interestingly, 5-LOX, an isoform involved in many cancers, was found to be activated in NPM-ALK(+) cells. Functional studies have shown that transforming properties, namely proliferation and resistance to apoptosis, were abrogated by treatment with either NDGA or the 5-LOX inhibitor (N-(3-phenoxycinnamyl)-acetohydroxamic acid) (BW A4C). Together, these data point to the ROS/LOX pathway as a potential new target for therapy in NPM-ALK-positive tumors.
Sunset yellow FCF (SY), a permitted food color, is extensively used in various food preparations and quite often exceeds the permissible levels (100-200 mg/kg). Several toxicity studies on SY are reported, however immunomodulatory properties have not been explored yet. To investigate the immunotoxic properties of SY, splenocytes were isolated, cultured and subjected to mitogen stimulated proliferation assay (lipopolysaccharide, LPS or concanavalin A, Con A), mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR) assay, immunophenotypic analysis of cell surface receptor expression and assay for cytokines release in the culture supernatants were performed in the presence of SY. Since SY did not exhibit any cytotoxicity up to 250 μg/ml, this dose was used for further studies. It was observed that SY (250 μg/ml) significantly (p<0.05) suppressed the mitogen induced proliferation of splenocytes and MLR response. Further, immunophenotypic analysis revealed that SY alters the relative expression of CD3e/CD4/CD8 in T cells and CD19 in B-cells. Consistent with the suppression of T-cell and B-cell responses and altered surface receptor expression, SY also lowered the expression of IL2, IL4, IL6, IL-17, IFN-γ and TNF-α cytokines. These results suggest that non-cytotoxic dose of SY may have immunomodulatory effects.
The aim of this study was to examine the usefulness of an uncalibrated radial arterial pressure-based cardiac output monitor (FloTrac, Edwards Lifesciences, Irvine CA, USA) for dobutamine-induced hyperdynamic therapy in patients with cerebral vasospasm following subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). In 18 SAH patients diagnosed with vasospasm, the cardiac index (CI) was analyzed continuously via the radial FloTrac system. The time-course changes in hemodynamic variables following dobutamine infusion at each dose increment (3-24 microg/kg/min) for reversing vasospasm-related delayed ischemic neurological deficit (DIND) and infarction were measured. At therapeutic dobutamine doses (3-15 microg/kg/min), CI increased immediately after the onset of each dose administration, which gradually fell to a level slightly higher than the baseline value. In all of the cases whose neurological findings were able to be examined, an improvement of DIND occurred during the phase of acute elevation. However at high-dose (20-24 microg/kg/min), dobutamine depressed stroke volume which was compensated for by increasing the pulse rate, thus raising CI only slightly from the baseline values. These data suggest that step-up increase of dobutamine dosage is not always effective in raising CI in patients suffering from post-SAH vasospasm, but rather may cause some adverse effects associated with increased myocardial oxygen consumption as evidenced by high-dose infusion. The less-invasive FloTrac system might be useful as a device for tracking trends in hemodynamic outcomes of hyperdynamic therapy.
This is the case of a 27-year-old black man who was admitted to Loyola University Medical Center after a one-time experience of smoking free-base ("crack") cocaine. Clinical manifestations of the resulting cocaine intoxication were rhabdomyolysis, acute renal failure, and transient liver failure. This patient came to our attention because of the striking alterations in his blood-chemistry values, which indicated acute tissue damage, and his remarkable recovery within 96 h. We discuss the dramatic changes in the laboratory findings and the clinical course of this patient.
To study skin sensitization as well as liver and kidney impairment in guinea pigs treated with trichloroethylene (TCE).
Guinea pig maximization test (GPMT) was applied in this study, guinea pigs were divided into 3 groups, namely negative control, positive control and TCE treatment. Animals of 3 groups were administrated with olive oil, 2, 4-dinitrochlorobenzene (DNCB), and TCE, respectively, by intradermal injection. The animal skin was observed and blood was collected after various treatment, the liver function tests were conducted, including detection of activities of ALT, AST, LDH and levels of creatinine, uric acid, and urea with automatic biochemical analyzer.
Obvious skin impairment was observed in the groups of positive control and TCE treatment, the skin impairment included erythema and edema, the sensitization rate was 100% in positive control and 83.3% in TCE treatment group. Additionally, the activities of ALT, AST and LDH increased significantly in the groups of positive control and TCE treatment when compared with the negative control.
Trichloroethylene is one of the strong hypersensitizing substances, it could induce skin allergic reaction and liver impairment in guinea pigs.
Targeting of cancer stem cells is believed to be essential for curative therapy of cancers, but supporting evidence is limited. Few selective target genes in cancer stem cells have been identified. Here we identify the arachidonate 5-lipoxygenase (5-LO) gene (Alox5) as a critical regulator for leukemia stem cells (LSCs) in BCR-ABL-induced chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). In the absence of Alox5, BCR-ABL failed to induce CML in mice. This Alox5 deficiency caused impairment of the function of LSCs but not normal hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) through affecting differentiation, cell division and survival of long-term LSCs (LT-LSCs), consequently causing a depletion of LSCs and a failure of CML development. Treatment of CML mice with a 5-LO inhibitor also impaired the function of LSCs similarly by affecting LT-LSCs, and prolonged survival. These results demonstrate that a specific target gene can be found in cancer stem cells and its inhibition can completely inhibit the function of these stem cells.
To report a case of decreased theophylline clearance by the addition of levofloxacin in a patient receiving theophylline and clarithromycin.
A 59-year-old Japanese man who was receiving theophylline for emphysema experienced stimulation, insomnia, and tachycardia due to theophylline toxicity after clarithromycin and levofloxacin were added to the regimen. The combination of these agents resulted in a decrease in theophylline clearance to approximately 60% of the initial value obtained while the patient was receiving theophylline alone. The adverse effects disappeared after the dosage was reduced and the theophylline serum concentration decreased; however, there was no change in theophylline clearance. After discontinuation of levofloxacin, the theophylline serum concentration decreased, and theophylline clearance returned to the initial level even though clarithromycin was continued.
Levofloxacin is believed not to influence the clearance of theophylline, although some new fluoroquinolones have been reported to do so. This case indicates that levofloxacin and clarithromycin inhibited theophylline metabolic pathways catalyzed by both CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 and resulted in the decrease in theophylline clearance. The clearance of theophylline, therefore, is not influenced by clarithromycin alone.
Careful monitoring is required when levofloxacin is prescribed for patients who are taking clarithromycin with theophylline.
A 50-year-old woman allergic to penicillin with early latent syphilis was treated with two courses of doxycycline. Ten months after diagnosis, she had no evidence of serologic response. A lumbar puncture demonstrated asymptomatic neurosyphilis. Penicillin desensitization was performed and she was successfully treated. This case re-emphasizes the need for close serologic follow-up in patients with latent syphilis.
Amiodarone is a widely used and effective long-term antiarrhythmic drug but with known adverse effects. Prolonged oral administration of this drug has been implicated in numerous hepatic lesions, ranging from isolated, asymptomatic transaminase elevation to fulminant, fatal liver failure. Few cases of acute hepatotoxicity due to intravenous administration have been reported. We present a 69-year-old woman with atrial fibrillation who developed acute hepatitis within 24 hours of amiodarone infusion at the recommended dosage. The drug was withdrawn and laboratory findings progressively returned to normal over the following days. We analyze a possible mechanism of action for hepatotoxicity and highlight the importance of monitoring liver function in patients receiving this drug.
Dexamphetamine substitution is a widely practised, yet under-researched and controversial treatment for amphetamine abusers. This study aimed to evaluate the usefulness of substitute prescribing, to both oral and intravenous users, and to find out which factors predict doing well in treatment. In the absence of more rigorous controlled trials, it was hoped that this study would help make some inroads into what is a hitherto unexplored area.
The standardized records of 220 users receiving dexamphetamine prescriptions were examined retrospectively. Cross-sectional socio-demographic data, and longitudinal outcome data were obtained for 148 of them.
The amphetamine users had all attended and received treatment by Cornwall Community Drug Team, in the far South-West of England, during the period 1992-96.
Oral and intravenous users had remarkably similar outcomes, with intravenous users making more overall gains in treatment. Over half the injectors stopped injecting, and more than a third within 2 months of coming into treatment. Variables predicting a good outcome differed between oral and intravenous users; although for both groups being female was associated with a slower change in drug-use behaviours, but a longer period in treatment.
Dexamphetamine prescribing appears to be reasonably safe, and is associated with improvements in drug-use. Randomized trials are warranted to determine the specific efficacy of the treatment.
Fat soluble vitamins (except vitamin K) are protein bounded with subsequent storage in the body. It is generally accepted that plasma level of vitamin A is increased in majority of patients with chronic renal insufficiency (CRI) including those on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD). Thus, there is no need to supplement this vitamin in CRI patients (pts). Plasma level of vitamin E in CRI pts may be elevated, normal or decreased. It seems to be justified to supplement this vitamin, in spite of its normal plasma level, in case platelet aggregation is increased. Both in dialyzed and nondialyzed CRI pts a normal serum level of vitamin K has been observed. Decreased or extremely low serum level of vitamin D following the gradual loss of renal tissue is to be observed in CRI pts. This deficit is regarded as the main factor leading to the decrease in serum level of calcium, the secondary hyperparathyroidism and bone changes. Treatment with 1.25(OH)2D3 (calcitriol) proved to be most successful in alleviation of symptoms resulting from the deficit of vitamin D3 in the body. Intravenous "pulsating" administration of calcitriol results in rapid normalization of serum PTH level. Treatment with 25(OH)D3 (calcidiol) given orally 3 times a week ("pulsating" method) revealed also fairly good results in this respect. During treatment with vitamin D3 hypercalcemia tends to develop, serum alkaline phosphatase normalizes, elevated PTH serum level decreases. Vitamin D metabolites are less active than 1.25(OH)2D3 being less hypercalcemic.
Cocaine use by patients on methadone maintenance treatment is a widespread problem and is associated with a poorer prognosis. Recent studies have evaluated disulfiram as a treatment for individuals with comorbid alcohol and cocaine abuse. We evaluated the efficacy of disulfiram for cocaine dependence, both with and without co-morbid alcohol abuse, in a group of methadone-maintained opioid addicts.
Randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
Urban methadone maintenance clinic.
Sixty-seven cocaine-dependent, methadone-maintained, opioid-dependent subjects (52% female; 51% Caucasian).
Study medication, either disulfiram or placebo, was placed directly in the methadone to ensure compliance for 12 weeks.
Primary outcome measures included weekly assessments of the frequency and quantity of drug and alcohol use, weekly urine toxicology screens and breathalyzer readings.
Disulfiram treated subjects decreased the quantity and frequency of cocaine use significantly more than those treated with placebo. Alcohol use was minimal for all subjects regardless of the medication.
Disulfiram may be an effective pharmacotherapy for cocaine abuse among methadone-maintained opioid addicts, even in those individuals without co-morbid alcohol abuse. Disulfiram inhibits dopamine beta-hydroxylase resulting in an excess of dopamine and decreased synthesis of norepinephrine. Since cocaine is a potent catecholamine re-uptake inhibitor, disulfiram may blunt cocaine craving or alter the "high", resulting in a decreased desire to use cocaine.
