Troglitazone (TGZ) was the first glitazone used for the treatment of type II diabetes mellitus. TGZ undergoes an oxidative chroman ring-opening reaction to form a quinone product. Recently, cytochrome P450 (P450) was shown to be able to catalyze the formation of TGZ quinone. TGZ quinone was the major metabolite formed by dexamethasone-induced rat liver microsomes or myeloperoxidase (MPO) incubated with TGZ. The ultimate source for the quinone carbonyl oxygen atom of TGZ quinone was investigated using (18)O water in both enzyme reaction systems followed by liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectometry analysis of the TGZ quinone product. The resultant TGZ quinone formed by either liver microsomes or MPO contained a single atom of (18)O. The (18)O atom was determined to be the quinone carbonyl oxygen by collision-induced dissociation fragmentation of the (18)O-labeled TGZ quinone. The formation of TGZ quinone was inhibited approximately 90% by coincubation with ascorbic acid or cysteine in the MPO reaction system but only 10 to 20% in liver microsomes, which might reflect the difference in the mechanism by which TGZ quinone is formed by P450 and peroxidase. These results suggest that P450 catalyze an atypical reaction to form TGZ quinone, involving the incorporation of an oxygen from water into the quinone carbonyl position.
We have recently shown that maternal exposure to acrylamide (AA) impaired neurogenesis in rat offspring measured by the increase in interneurons producing reelin, a molecule regulating migration and correct positioning of developing neurons, in the hippocampal dentate gyrus. To clarify the cellular target of AA on hippocampal neurogenesis and its reversibility after maternal exposure, pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats were given drinking water containing AA at 0, 4, 20, 100 ppm on day 10 of pregnancy through day 21 after delivery on weaning. Male offspring were examined immunohistochemically on postnatal day (PND) 21 and PND 77. For comparison, male pups of direct AA-injection control during lactation (50 mg/kg body weight, intraperitoneally, 3 times/week) were also examined. On PND 21, maternal AA-exposure decreased progenitor cell proliferation in the subgranular zone (SGZ) from 20 ppm accompanied with increased density of reelin-producing interneurons and NeuN-expressing mature neurons within the hilus at 100 ppm, similar to the direct AA-injection control. In the SGZ examined at 100 ppm, cellular populations immunoexpressing doublecortin or dihydropyrimidinase-like 3, suggesting postmitotic immature granule cells, were decreased. On PND 77, the SGZ cell proliferation and reelin-producing interneuron density recovered, while the hilar mature neurons sustained to increase from 20 ppm, similar to the direct AA-injection control. Thus, developmental exposure to AA reversibly affects hippocampal neurogenesis targeting the proliferation of type-3 progenitor cells resulting in a decrease in immature granule cells in rats. A sustained increase in hilar mature neurons could be the signature of the developmental effect of AA.
Chlorprothixene (CPTX, Taractan) is a low potency antipsychotic mainly used for the treatment of psychotic disorders (e.g. schizophrenia) and acute mania occurring as part of bipolar disorders. As in the case of other numerous drugs used in the treatment of psychiatric disorders, CPTX presents geometric isomerism. Therefore, in vitro irradiation induces a rapid Z/E isomerization, which can affect its pharmacokinetic properties. This photoisomerization is not dependent on the oxygen concentration. The Z/E quantum yields determined for zCPTX in acetonitrile are 0.22 and 0.21 in anaerobic and aerobic environments, respectively. In the presence of water, both isomers decompose to produce 2-chlorothioxanthone (CTX) after prolonged irradiation. This process strongly depends on the water concentration and the irradiation time, i.e. it is autocatalyzed by the CTX through a triplet-energy transfer mechanism. The protonation state of the terminal amino group, on the other hand, has no effect on the isomerization process, but inhibits the formation of CTX. These results indicate that the phototoxicity of zCPTX is somehow affected by the formation of CTX.
We report on a 27-year-old woman of non-convulsive status epilepticus (NSE) very probably induced by antidepressants. She has no history of febrile convulsions, or epileptic seizures. There are no genetic factors for epilepsy in her family. As she developed depressive illness, she consulted a doctor. Clomipramine 25 mg i.v. drip/day and maprotiline 75 mg/os/day were started. Recently she began to doze, so an EEG was performed. Continuous generalized 2-3 Hz spike and wave complexes were observed. Clomipramine and maprotiline were stopped the same day, and the patient's drowsiness gradually improved. There are some case reports of NSE induced by antidepressants. However, the patients in these reports had received frequent electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) and were middle aged and may have been affected by an organic brain disorder. The present patient was young, and had not received ECT. It is therefore very likely that antidepressants may have been responsible for the occurrence of NSE in this patient. It is concluded that NSE should be considered an adverse effect of any antidepressant.
A dose-dependent cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis developed in a 34 year old man who was given amiodarone for supraventricular tachycardias resistant to other drugs. This adverse reaction disappeared within 2 weeks after discontinuation of amiodarone despite its very long half-life of 52 days in this patient. During previous treatment periods with amiodarone, the patient had experienced photosensitivity and dose-dependent polyserositis. Since high doses of amiodarone have been recently proposed for the treatment of resistant cardiac arrhythmias, dose-dependent adverse effects as described here may be encountered with increasing frequency.
To determine the safety and tolerability of extended release niacin (ERN) in HIV-infected patients.
This was a pilot, open-label, 36 week study evaluating the safety and tolerability of ERN in HIV-infected patients with hypertriglyceridemia. Subjects with cardiovascular disease, diabetes or liver disease were excluded. Subjects with persistent elevation of triglyceride (TG) > 200 after 8 weeks on American Heart Association Step One and Two Diets were started on ERN 500 mg once daily, with continuation of the diet and exercise recommendations until the end of the study. ERN was increased by 500 mg every 4 weeks, to a maximum of 1500 mg/day, depending on subject tolerability. Safety and tolerability of ERN were assessed.
Ten subjects enrolled received ERN. Dose titration and maintenance to 1500 mg/day were achieved in all 10 subjects. No subject required dose adjustment. Mild flushing was experienced in 8 subjects. Asymptomatic hypophosphotemia was noted in 4 subjects; all resolved with oral phosphate supplementation. Median TG was reduced by 254 mg/dL (p < 0.05). Non-significant changes were noted in liver enzymes, HDL, LDL, and total cholesterol. Fasting insulin and glucose levels did not change with treatment.
In this pilot study ERN was well-tolerated and resulted in reduction of TG. Although the results of this study are promising, the study is limited in the small number of subjects. Further investigation is warranted.
Tacrine (CAS 321-64-2) is a reversible acetylcholine esterase inhibitor that, despite exerting beneficial effects on Alzheimer's disease (AD), displays marked hepatotoxicity. Searching for safer drugs and taking into account the multi-pathogenesis of AD, two tacrine-NO donor hybrid molecules (FL16, FL38) as well as a tacrine-ferulic acid hybrid (FL67) were synthesized. NO donors coupled to the tacrine moiety may exert an additional beneficial effect on AD via an increased blood supply to the brain and by reducing inflammation. Ferulic acid is an antioxidant. To investigate the hepatotoxicity and effects on the cytochrome P450 (CYP) system of the liver, female rats were treated with the highest tolerated dose of tacrine or equimolar doses of the novel compounds 24 or 36 h, respectively, before sacrifice. Tacrine caused pericentral necrosis and fatty degeneration of the hepatocytes, loss of liver glycogen and (indicating oxidative stress) induction of heme oxygenase (HO)-1. No histopathological changes were observed with the hybrids, but a glycogen deficit and an elevation of HO-1 was noticed after FL38 or FL67 treatment. Both tacrine and the hybrids, but mainly FL38 and FL67, caused an induction of CYP1A1, 2B1 and 3A2 expression. CYP activity was noticeably increased after treatment with FL38 and FL67 only. Thus, since it displays much less hepatotoxicity and interaction potential at the CYP system than tacrine and the other hybrids, FL16 is a good candidate for further investigations.
The possible protective effects of resveratrol (RVT) against cardiotoxicity were investigated in Wistar albino rats treated with saline, saline+doxorubicin (DOX; 20 mg/kg) or RVT (10 mg/kg)+DOX. Blood pressure and heart rate were recorded on the 1st week and on the 7th week, while cardiomyopathy was assessed using transthoracic echocardiography before the rats were decapitated. DOX-induced cardiotoxicity resulted in decreased blood pressure and heart rate, but lactate dehydrogenase, creatine phosphokinase, total cholesterol, triglyceride, aspartate aminotransferase and 8-OHdG levels were increased in plasma. Moreover, DOX caused a significant decrease in plasma total antioxidant capacity along with a reduction in cardiac superoxide dismutase, catalase and Na+,K+-ATPase activities and glutathione contents, while malondialdehyde, myelopreoxidase activity and the generation of reactive oxygen species were increased in the cardiac tissue. On the other hand, RVT markedly ameliorated the severity of cardiac dysfunction, while all oxidant responses were prevented; implicating that RVT may be of therapeutic use in preventing oxidative stress due to DOX toxicity.
This paper describes a patient treated for 12 months with propylthiouracil for multinodular toxic goiter who developed vasculitis. The clinical picture consisted of nasal septal necrosis, pulmonary infiltrations and skin rash. Patient's serum were positive for anti neutrophil cytoplasmatic antibodies (c-ANCA). Histopathological examination revealed the presence of small vessel vasculitis without granuloma formation. This condition resulted in patient's critical state with respiratory failure and severe cardiovascular complications. The article also contains a brief review of available literature concerning this very rare complication. Conclusion. Propylthiouracil, a widely-used medicine, can cause severe life-threatening complication. It is associated with propylthiouracil-induced immunological disturbances.
Mutations in the sodium channel genes SCN1A and SCN2A have been identified in monogenic childhood epilepsies, but SCN3A has not previously been investigated as a candidate gene for epilepsy. We screened a consecutive cohort of 18 children with cryptogenic partial epilepsy that was classified as pharmacoresistant because of nonresponse to carbamazepine or oxcarbazepine, antiepileptic drugs that bind sodium channels. The novel coding variant SCN3A-K354Q was identified in one patient and was not present in 295 neurological normal controls. Twelve novel SNPs were also detected. K354Q substitutes glutamine for an evolutionarily conserved lysine residue in the pore domain of SCN3A. Functional analysis of this mutation in the backbone of the closely related gene SCN5A demonstrated an increase in persistent current that is similar in magnitude to epileptogenic mutations of SCN1A and SCN2A. This observation of a potentially pathogenic mutation of SCN3A (Nav1.3) indicates that this gene should be further evaluated for its contribution to childhood epilepsy.
Interferon-alpha-(IFN-alpha) induced depression presents a challenge when treating patients with the hepatitis C virus (HCV). Depression occurs in approximately one-third of patients during antiviral therapy and can lead to reduction in treatment dosage or discontinuation of treatment, thus reducing the likelihood of clearing HCV infection. This study examined the efficacy of paroxetine in preventing the development of depression during antiviral therapy.
In a double-blind, placebo-controlled study, 33 patients with HCV were randomly assigned to paroxetine or placebo prior to antiviral therapy. Patients were evaluated for psychiatric symptoms prior, during, and six months after antiviral therapy.
The rate of IFN-alpha-induced depression for the entire sample was 33.3%. The prophylactic use of paroxetine did not decrease the likelihood of IFN-alpha-induced depression (35.7% in the paroxetine group vs. 31.6% in the placebo group). However, in 10 of 11 patients who developed IFN-alpha-induced depression and entered the rescue arm of the study, open-label treatment with paroxetine helped reduce symptoms of depression. Group assignment did not appear to impact antiviral therapy completion rates, as a similar proportion of patients from each group completed treatment.
The antiviral treatment was changed during the trial and aspects of the sample limit the generalizability of the results.
A prophylactic approach to interferon-alpha-induced depression may not be indicated in patients with HCV infection.
Atracurium was administered by a variety of techniques to determine whether these influence the onset or duration of muscular relaxation, and the frequency of cutaneous reactions, after a standard induction dose of thiopentone. One-hundred-and-fifty patients were allocated randomly to receive the drug by one of five methods: into a fast-flowing crystalloid infusion in the antecubital fossa; into a winged needle in the antecubital fossa with flushing after the thiopentone; into a winged needle in the antecubital fossa without flushing; into a winged needle in the dorsum of the hand without flushing. The above groups received atracurium freshly removed from the refrigerator whereas the fifth group were given atracurium which had been maintained at room temperature for at least 2 weeks. The frequency of cutaneous reactions was between 60 and 70% overall and there were no significant differences either in this or in the onset or duration of action between the groups. A further 25 patients with a history of drug allergy were also investigated by the first method and showed no significant differences in response, but 25 patients aged over 70 years had a significantly lower frequency of cutaneous reactions with a higher frequency of hypotension than the other groups.
The authors report on the case history of a 61 year old woman with hyperthyroidism induced atrial fibrillation, tachycardiomyopathy and congestive heart failure, in whom life threatening ventricular proarrhythmia (torsades de pointes) developed in response to intravenous amiodarone. The patient in a septic state was resuscitated because of ventricular fibrillation. The atrial fibrillation complicated by a high ventricular frequency was slowed down with intravenous amiodarone; additionally, the iodine-containing antiarrhythmic drug was expected to counter thyrotoxicosis. In response to amiodarone (2 x 300 mg), the sinus rhythm was restored, but the excessive post-cardioversion bradycardia led to the development of extreme QT interval prolongation and torsades de pointes ventricular tachycardias that often degenerated into ventricular fibrillation. In connection with this case, the authors survey those electropharmacological and pathophysiological factors which may have played a role in the emergence of ventricular proarrhythmia based on a lengthening of repolarization through the exhaustion of the repolarization reserve.
Two groups of 16 set-stocked calves were used to evaluate a new strategy for the prevention of parasitic bronchitis and parasitic gastroenteritis. One group was left untreated while the calves in the other were treated with abamectin at 0.2 mg/kg at turnout and again six weeks later. The treatment prevented the output of nematode eggs and lungworm larvae in faeces for at least 70 days. The number of infective larvae subsequently appearing on the pasture was reduced by 90.2 per cent and the infectivity of the pasture (as monitored by tracer calves) by 96.0 to 99.8 per cent in the case of Dictyocaulus viviparus, 88.2 to 99.2 per cent for Ostertagia ostertagi and 69.3 to 98.1 per cent for Cooperia oncophora. Parasitic bronchitis occurred in the control calves and both bronchitis and gastroenteritis in the tracer calves grazing the paddock grazed by the control calves, but no disease occurred either in any of the calves treated with abamectin or in the tracer calves grazing the paddock grazed by these calves.
Pain on injection is still a major problem with propofol. Lignocaine (lidocaine) is effective in preventing propofol-induced pain on injection, but cannot entirely control the pain. The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of lignocaine plus ketamine, an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, on pain on injection of propofol.
Prospective, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
University Hospital.
120 female patients scheduled for gynaecological laparoscopy.
Patients received intravenously lignocaine 20mg plus either placebo (saline) or ketamine at three different doses (2.5mg, 5mg and 10mg), with manual venous occlusion for 1 minute, followed by administration of propofol 0.5 mg/kg into a dorsal hand vein (n = 30 in each group). A blinded researcher asked the patients to assess pain during the propofol injection. MAIN OUTCOMES MEASURES AND RESULTS: Twelve of 30 patients (40%) complained of pain in the lignocaine/placebo group compared with three (10%) in the lignocaine/ketamine 5mg group and three (10%) in the lignocaine/ketamine 10mg group (both p = 0.015). No significant differences were found between the lignocaine/ketamine 2.5mg (10 patients [33%]) and lignocaine/placebo groups. No complications such as pain, oedema, wheal or flare response were observed at injection sites within the first 24 hours after anaesthesia.
Combined lignocaine 20mg and ketamine 5mg, with manual venous occlusion, is more effective than lignocaine 20mg alone for pain control during propofol injection.
In the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) rt-PA Stroke Study, major neurological improvement within 24 hours (MNI) occurred significantly more frequently with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rtPA) treatment than with placebo. We explored the relationship between MNI and 3-month favorable outcome and sought clinical predictors of MNI.
Data from 312 rtPA-treated patients from the NINDS trial were used to assess the ability of MNI to predict favorable outcome at 3 months as defined by a modified Rankin Scale score of 0 to 1. Next, a multivariable predictive model was developed for MNI within the same data set. Clinical variables examined included age, time to treatment (TTT), diabetes, pretreatment glucose, baseline National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale score, pretreatment blood pressure, history of atrial fibrillation, weight >100 kg, and a dense artery sign. Finally, this model was used to forecast into the placebo group of the NINDS trial to assess the uniqueness of the predictors in the rtPA-treated group.
MNI had a positive predictive value and negative predictive value of 0.70 for predicting favorable 3-month outcome. Only age [odds ratio (OR), 0.68; 95% confidence interval (CI), 0.47 to 0.99] and TTT (OR, 0.56; 95% CI, 0.34 to 0.91) appear to be independently associated with MNI. The model performed only moderately well (area under the receiver-operating characteristic curve, 0.66). Age (OR, 0.67; 95% CI, 0.45 to 0.99) but not TTT was associated with MNI in the placebo group.
MNI may be a useful surrogate for thrombolytic activity and is predictive of favorable 3-month outcome. When rates of MNI in different populations of stroke patients treated with thrombolysis are compared, adjustments for age and TTT may be necessary.
Premature infants are at increased risk of developing airway hyper-reactivity (AHR) after oxidative stress and inflammation. Mast cells contribute to AHR partly by mediator release, so we sought to determine whether blocking mast cell degranulation or recruitment prevents hyperoxia-induced AHR, mast cell accumulation, and airway smooth muscle (ASM) changes. Rats were exposed at birth to air or 60% O2 for 14 d, inducing significantly increased AHR in the latter group, induced by nebulized methacholine challenge and measured by forced oscillometry. Daily treatment (postnatal d 1-14) with intraperitoneal cromolyn prevented hyperoxia-induced AHR, as did treatment with imatinib on postnatal d 5-14, compared with vehicle treated controls. Cromolyn prevented mast cell degranulation in the trachea but not hilar airways and blocked mast cell accumulation in the hilar airways. Imatinib treatment completely blocked mast cell accumulation in tracheal/hilar airway tissues. Hyperoxia-induced AHR in neonatal rats is mediated, at least in part, via the mast cell.
It is well documented that methamphetamine (MA) can cause obvious damage to the brain, but the exact mechanism is still unknown. In the present study, proteomic methods of two-dimensional gel electrophoresis in combination with mass spectrometry analysis were used to identify global protein profiles associated with MA-induced neurotoxicity. For the first time, 30 protein spots have been found differentially expressed in different regions of rat brain, including 14 in striatum, 12 in hippocampus and 4 in frontal cortex. The proteins identified by tandem mass spectrometry were Cu, Zn superoxide dismutase, dimethylarginine dimethylaminohydrolase 1, alpha synuclein, ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2N, stathmin 1, calcineurin B, cystatin B, subunit of mitochondrial H-ATP synthase, ATP synthase D chain, mitochondrial, NADH dehydrogenase(ubiquinone) Fe-S protein 8, glia maturation factor, beta, Ash-m, neurocalcin delta, myotrophin, profiling IIa, D-dopachrome tautomerase, and brain lipid binding protein. The known functions of these proteins were related to the pathogenesis of MA-induced neurotoxicity, including oxidative stress, degeneration/apoptosis, mitochontrial/energy metabolism and others. Of these proteins, alpha-synuclein was up-regulated, and ATP synthase D chain, mitochondrial was down-regulated in all brain regions. Two proteins, Cu, Zn superoxide dismutase, subunit of mitochondrial H-ATPsynthase were down-regulated and Ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2N, NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) Fe-S protein 8 were up-regulated simultaneously in striatum and hippocaltum. The expression of dimethylarginine dimethylaminohydrolase 1 (DDAH 1) increased both in striatum and frontal cortex. The parallel expression patterns of these proteins suggest that the pathogenesis of MA neurotoxicity in different brain regions may share some same pathways.
The host-virus interactions leading to cell infection with hepatitis C virus (HCV) are not fully understood. The tetraspanin CD-81 and human scavenger receptor SR-BI/Cla1 are major receptors mediating virus cell entry. However, HCV in patients' sera is associated with lipoproteins and infectious potential of the virus depends on lipoproteins associated to virus particles. We show here that lipoprotein lipase (LPL), targeting triglyceride-rich lipoproteins (TRL) to the liver, mediates binding and internalization of HCV to different types of cells, acting as a bridge between virus-associated lipoproteins and cell surface heparan sulfate proteoglycans (HSPG). The dimeric structure and catalytic activity of LPL are required for LPL-mediated HCV uptake to cells. Unexpectedly, exogenous LPL significantly inhibits HCVcc infection in vitro. This effect is prevented by anti-LPL antibodies and by tetrahydrolipstatin (THL) a specific inhibitor of LPL enzymatic activity. In addition, we show that antibodies directed to apolipoprotein B (ApoB)-containing lipoproteins efficiently inhibits HCVcc infection. Our findings suggest that LPL mediates HCV cell entry by a mechanism similar to hepatic clearance of TRL from the circulation, promoting a non-productive virus uptake. These data provide new insight into mechanisms of HCV cell entry and suggest that LPL could modulate HCV infectivity in vivo.
9-cis-Retinoic acid (9-cis-RA) has a particular pattern of binding and activating retinoid receptors. Treatment of chronic hand eczema is often refractory to conventional treatment.
Evaluation of oral 9-cis-RA therapy in chronic hand eczema in a pilot study.
Thirty-eight patients with refractory chronic hand eczema were treated in an exploratory open-label study with oral 9-cis-RA.
Twenty-one (55%) showed a very good response, 13 (34%) a good response, 2 (5.5%) a moderate response and 2 (5.5%) no response. Side effects were mild.
9-cis-RA is a valuable drug when given at low doses to patients with chronic hand eczema.
Thirty-five patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) were registered on protocol MDS 96-02 and were receiving continuous therapy with pentoxifylline 800 mg 3 times a day and ciprofloxacin 500 mg twice a day by mouth; dexamethasone was added to the regimen for the partial responders and the nonresponders after 12 weeks at a dose of 4 mg by mouth every morning for 4 weeks. Amifostine was administered intravenously 3 times a week at 3 dose levels (200 mg/M(2), 300 mg/M(2), and 400 mg/M(2)) to cohorts of 10 patients each. Therapy has been continued for 1 year in responders. Twenty-nine have completed at least 12 weeks of therapy and are available for response evaluation. Of the 21 men and 8 women (median age, 67 years), 20 had refractory anemia (RA), 3 had RA with ringed sideroblasts (RARS), 5 had RA with excess blasts (RAEB), and 1 had chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMMoL). Five had secondary MDS. No differences were noted in response rates among the 3 dose levels. Seven patients did not respond at all, and 22 showed an improvement in cytopenias (76%). Three had a triple lineage response, 10 had a double lineage response, and 9 had a single lineage response (8 of 9 in absolute neutrophil count [ANC] and 1 had more than a 50% reduction in packed red blood cell transfusions). Fifteen patients responded only after the addition of dexamethasone, whereas 7 responded before. When examined by lineage, 19 of 22 showed improved ANC, 11 of 22 demonstrated more than 50% reduction in blood transfusions, improved Hb levels, or both, and 7 of 22 showed improvement in platelet counts. Interestingly, the responses were frequently slow to appear, and continued improvement in counts was seen up to 12 months of therapy and beyond. This study supports the feasibility of treating patients with MDS with the unique approach of cytoprotection and anticytokine therapies as well as the principle that prolonged commitment to treatment is desirable when noncytotoxic agents are administered. (Blood. 2000;95:1580-1587)
The hemodynamic responses secondary to sympathetic suppression by esmolol may alter blood flow to splanchnic organs. We investigated whether esmolol might modify splanchnic organ blood flow responses during sodium nitroprusside (SNP)-induced hypotension in dogs anesthetized with sevoflurane.
The control group (n = 10) received SNP (SNP group). The ES25 and ES100 groups (n = 10, each) received SNP combined with esmolol infused at a constant rate of 25 and 100 micro g*kg(-1)*min(-1) during the hypotensive period after a mean arterial pressure (MAP) of 60 mmHg was attained by the infusion of a 0.03% SNP solution, respectively. The renal, hepatic, and pancreatic blood flows (RBF, HBF, and PBF) were measured by using the hydrogen clearance method.
Cardiac index in the SNP group increased (P < 0.01), but in the ES groups it decreased (P < 0.01). Left ventricular dP/dtmax in the SNP group remained unchanged, but in the ES groups it decreased (P < 0.01, each) during the hypotensive period. Except for HBF in the SNP group, the splanchnic blood flow in all groups decreased (P < 0.01, each). The HBF in the ES groups was lower than that in the SNP group (SNP vs ES25, ES100; 70 +/- 1 vs 64 +/- 5, 6 3 +/- 3 mL*min(-1)*100 g(-1)).
This study shows that the differences in HBF between SNP-induced hypotension with or without esmolol may be due to the changes in cardiac output caused by alterations of cardiac contractility. These findings suggest that a small dose of esmolol may impair the maintenance of HBF during SNP-induced hypotension.
Two patients with phaeochromocytoma having atypical biochemical features are described. Total catecholamine excretion was normal in one and only slightly raised in the other; both had a diagnostic rise in output of metadrenaline and 4-hydroxy-3-methoxymandelic acid whilst 4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenylglycol excretion was increased in one of them. During hypertensive attacks adrenaline excretion became greater than that of noradrenaline. The diagnostic usefulness of separate adrenaline and noradrenaline estimations in addition to catecholamine metabolite assay is discussed. A lack of relationship between tumour catecholamine content and urinary catecholamine output is emphasized.
The rate of acquisition of drug self-administration and the return to drug seeking are important elements of the overall drug profile, and are essential factors in understanding risks associated with drug abuse. Experiment 1 examined the effects of perinatal (gestation/lactation) lead exposure on adult rates of acquisition of intravenous (i.v.) methamphetamine self-administration. Experiment 2 investigated the effects of perinatal lead exposure on drug-maintained responding in a reinstatement (relapse) paradigm. In Experiment 1, female rats were gavaged daily with 0 or 16 mg lead for 30 days prior to breeding with nonexposed males. Lead exposure continued through gestation and lactation and was discontinued at weaning (postnatal day [PND] 21). Male rats born to control or lead-exposed dams were tested daily as adults in an acquisition paradigm that incorporated both Pavlovian and operant components. An initial 3-h autoshaping period preceded a 3-h self-administration period. For 35 daily training sessions i.v. methamphetamine infusions [inf] (0.02 mg/kg) were paired with the extension and retraction of a lever (autoshaping), while inf occurred during self-administration only when a lever press was executed (FR-1). In Experiment 2 animals developmentally exposed to lead were trained on an FR-2 to self-administer methamphetamine (0.04 mg/kg/inf) and then placed on an extinction schedule prior to receiving intraperitoneal (i.p.) priming injections of saline, 0.50, 1.00, or 1.50 mg/kg methamphetamine. The findings from Experiment 1 showed that acquisition was delayed in rats born to lead-exposed dams gavaged daily with 16 mg lead throughout gestation and lactation when a 0.02-mg/kg/inf of methamphetamine served as the reinforcement outcome. Additional data from Experiment 2 indicated priming cues (injections of methamphetamine [i.p.]) administered after extinction were less likely to occasion a return to drug seeking (relapse) in the 16-mg group relative to the 0-mg control group. These results suggest perinatal lead exposure alters patterns of methamphetamine self-administration during the adult cycle.
Although there are several reports of patients with cocaine dependence displaying cognitive deficits, the nature of their information processing deficits is not well characterized. In the present study, the attentional performance of cocaine-dependent patients (n=14) was examined and compared with that of healthy control individuals (n=15). Attention was assessed using an auditory oddball event-related task as well as the Continuous Performance Test (CPT, Identical Pairs version). The cocaine-dependent group displayed P300 amplitude reduction compared to controls. The group difference in P300 response latency did not reach significance. On the CPT, the cocaine-dependent patients displayed significantly poorer discriminability and greater errors of commission than the controls. There was a positive correlation between performance on the oddball event-related task and performance on the CPT. This investigation provides converging behavioral and electrophysiological evidence of attentional deficits in cocaine-dependent patients.
Anaesthesia was induced in 58 women (ASA I or II) undergoing elective gynaecological procedures, using propofol 2.5 mg kg-1 and fentanyl 1.5 micrograms kg-1. Patients were allocated to receive 20 ml kg-1 of crystalloid fluid preload over 20 min or to receive no fluids before induction of anaesthesia. A significant decrease in systolic arterial pressure (< 75% of baseline value) occurred in both the fluid-loaded and the control groups, and was similar in both groups. Administration of a fluid preload did not attenuate the decrease in systolic arterial pressure after induction of anaesthesia with propofol and fentanyl.
