2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD),12 the most toxic congener of dioxins, exhibits wide sensitivity differences between a sensitive Long-Evans (L-E) rat and a resistant Han/Wistar (H/W) rat. The sensitivity is determined probably by two autosomal genes and it is highly end point dependent. The difference is more than 1000-fold for acute toxicity and negligible for CYP1A1 induction. The rat strains were recently shown to have differences in the size of AH receptor (AHR), which mediates most effects of TCDD. In the present study, the rat strains were crossed and the resistant alleles of genes determining TCDD sensitivity were segregated to new rat lines. Selection was based on AHR phenotype determined by Western blot and resistance to TCDD lethality. Two genes determining resistance were found: the Ahr and a novel gene designated "B." In homozygous rats, the H/W type Ahrhw allele prevented TCDD lethality up to 2000 microg/kg or more, and the H/W type "Bhw" allele also increased resistance to TCDD lethality but to a lesser extent. Heterozygous rats were only slightly more resistant to acute lethality than the respective sensitive homozygous rats. CYP1A1 induction was similar irrespective of the Ahr and "B" genotypes, but a substantial increase in serum bilirubin seen after low doses in sensitive rats occurred only after large doses in "Bhw/hw" and not at all in Ahrhw/hw rats. In conclusion, the Ahrhw allele is a major determinant of the exceptional resistance of H/W rats to TCDD lethality. There is also an additional gene, whose function remains to be characterized, conferring limited resistance to TCDD toxicity. These two H/W rat-derived alleles are separately expressed in the new rat lines created.
The present study investigated whether a mixture of low doses of five environmentally relevant endocrine disrupting pesticides, epoxiconazole, mancozeb, prochloraz, tebuconazole and procymidone, would cause adverse developmental toxicity effects in rats. In rat dams, a significant increase in gestation length was seen, while in male offspring increased nipple retention and increased incidence and severity of genital malformations were observed. Severe mixture effects on gestation length, nipple retention and genital malformations were seen at dose levels where the individual pesticides caused no or smaller effects when given alone. Generally, the mixture effect predictions based on dose-additivity were in good agreement with the observed effects. The results indicate that there is a need for modification of risk assessment procedures for pesticides, in order to take account of the mixture effects and cumulative intake, because of the potentially serious impact of mixed exposure on development and reproduction in humans.
In the present investigation, the effect of an increased cardiac output on intrapulmonary gas mixing was studied in healthy male subjects. Increase of heart rate and cardiac minute output was induced by infusion of isoproterenol, intrapulmonary gas mixing was analyzed by simultaneous washout of inert gases widely differing in molecular weight (helium and sulfur hexafluoride). Parameters, appropriate to indicate quality of gas mixing, have been crossover point (COP) and separation index (SI). During isoproterenol-induced tachycardia, the COP occurred earlier and the SI decreased. Both changes then demonstrate an improved gas intrapulmonary mixing. The movement of the heart reduces stratified inhomogeneity.
Data concerning the outcome of lamivudine-resistant (LAM-R) chronic hepatitis B (CHB) patients with compensated cirrhosis under adefovir (ADV) treatment are limited. The aim of our study was to evaluate the medium term outcome of these, high-risk for fatal events, patients.
31 LAM-R patients with compensated cirrhosis who had been treated with ADV monotherapy (n=8) or ADV plus LAM (n=23) for a mean of 27.6 months, were evaluated. Virological response (VR) was defined as HBV-DNA levels <10(4) copies/ml within the first year of treatment.
Twenty-three patients (74.19%) achieved VR. Six patients (19.35%) developed ADV-related mutations (annual incidence 11%). Liver-related death, liver decompensation and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) were observed in 12.9%, 16.12% and 16.12% of patients, respectively. HCC (annual incidence 9.1%) was the main cause of liver decompensation (4/5, 80%) and of liver-related deaths (3/4, 75%). HCC development was not related to patients' age (p=0.440), HBeAg status (p=0.245), HBV genotype (p=0.598), baseline ALT levels (p=0.981), baseline viral load (p= 0.464), VR (p=0.504) as well as emergence of ADV resistance (p=0.871).
ADV suppresses viral replication in more than 70% of LAM-R cirrhotic patients during the first year of treatment. Despite that, HCC is frequently observed in these high-risk patients, irrespective of virological response or emergence of ADV resistance.
This study focused on the evaluation of interactions between MRZ 2/576 (8-chloro-4-hydroxy-1-oxo-1,2-dihydropyridazino(4,5-b)quinoline-5-oxide choline salt), an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist acting at the NMDA receptor/glycine(B) site and four newer antiepileptic drugs (felbamate, lamotrigine, oxcarbazepine, and topiramate) in the mouse maximal electroshock seizure model. Results indicate that MRZ 2/576 administered intraperitoneally, 5 min before the test, exerted a clear-cut anticonvulsant effect in the maximal electroshock seizure test in mice and its ED(50) value was 13.71 (11.95-15.73) mg/kg. In the subthreshold method, MRZ 2/576 (administered intraperitoneally, at a subthreshold dose of 5 mg/kg) significantly enhanced the anticonvulsant action of felbamate, oxcarbazepine and topiramate, by reducing their ED(50) values from 73.0 to 53.8 mg/kg (p < 0.05) for felbamate, from 10.77 to 7.48 mg/kg (p < 0.05) for oxcarbazepine, and from 49.3 to 28.7 mg/kg (p < 0.01) for topiramate. In contrast, MRZ 2/576 (5 mg/kg, i.p.) did not significantly affect the antiseizure effects of lamotrigine in the maximal electroshock seizure test in mice. Isobolographic transformation of data revealed that MRZ 2/576 (5 mg/kg, i.p.) exerted barely additive interactions with all investigated antiepileptic drugs in the maximal electroshock seizure test. In conclusion, the isobolographic analysis revealed that MRZ 2/576 additively cooperates with newer antiepileptic drugs in terms of suppression of maximal electroshock-induced seizures in mice.
The effect of maprotiline (N-methyl-9, 10-ethanoanthracene-9 (10H)-propylamine) on animal behavior was investigated in mice and rats and compared with those of amitriptyline and imipramine. Maprotiline inhibited reserpine hypothermia in mice and tetrabenazine ptosis in rats, while it potentiated the effects of methamphetamine, L-DOPA and apomorphine in mice, in a similar manner to that of amitriptyline and imipramine. Maprotiline was more potent than anitriptyline and imipramine in antagonizing haloperidol-induced catalepsy as well as in suppressing muricide induced by either olfactory bulbectomy or delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol in rats. Maprotiline potentiated anesthesia induced by thiopental or ether in mice to a lesser degree than did amitriptyline, and failed to counteract the lethal effect of physostigmine or oxotremorine tremor in mice, indicating that this drug has no central anti-cholinergic effect. Maprotiline markedly inhibited hyperemotionality of the rat with either septal lesions or olfactory bulb ablations, suggesting that it does have a tranquilizing effect. Inhibition of conditioned avoidance response of the rat in the shuttle box and reduction of methamphetamine group toxicity with maprotiline were similar to those with amitriptyline. Maprotiline exaggerated pentetrazol convulsion, decreased muscle tone and impaired coordinated motor activity in mice to a much lesser degree than amitriptyline and imipramine. LD50 of maprotiline was approximately twice that of imipramine and three times that of amitriptyline. These results indicate that maprotiline is a new type of antidepressant, has a low toxicity and shares both potent antidepressant and some tranquilizing effect, without possessing central anticholinergic action.
Seven cases of malignant syndrom due to neuroleptic drugs are reported, three of them in patients receiving long-acting medication. The authors point out the seriousness of such accidents, two of seven cases leading to death. Clinical features consist mainly of hyperthermia which can be erroneously attributed to infectious disease. Muscular hypertonicity is often associated with hyperthermia. Tetanus was evoked for two patients. In the absence of satisfactory physiopathologic explanation, treatment is merely symptomatic, based on intensive care. So far, this type of accident has been little known; it was important to focus our attention on it.
Cysteinyl leukotrienes (CysLTs) play important roles in the pathogenesis of eosinophilic airway inflammation characterized by bronchoconstriction, mucus secretion and airway hyper-responsiveness via cysteinyl leukotriene receptor 1 (CysLTR1)-mediated mechanism. CysLTR1-selective antagonists have anti-bronchoconstrictive and anti-inflammatory effects in asthma, particularly aspirin-intolerant asthma (AIA).
To investigate the association of CysLTR1 with AIA development, we identified three single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), -634C>T, -475A>C, -336A>G, in the 5' upstream region of CysLTR1 gene using a direct sequencing method in 105 AIA patients, 110 ASA-tolerant asthma (ATA) patients and 125 normal healthy controls (NC).
Significant differences were observed in allele frequencies of the three SNPs within male subjects; Male AIA patients had higher frequencies of the minor alleles of these three SNPs than male control groups (P=0.03 for AIA vs. NC; P=0.02 for AIA vs. ATA). Moreover, three-SNP haplotype, ht2 [T-C-G], was associated with increased disease risk (odds ratio (OR)=2.71, P=0.03 for AIA vs. NC; OR=2.89, P=0.02 for AIA vs. ATA) in males. CysLTR1 haplotypes were also associated with altered gene expression; luciferase activity was significantly enhanced with the ht2 [T-C-G] construct in comparison with the ht1 [C-A-A] construct in human Jurkat cells (P=0.04).
These results suggest that genetic variants of CysLTR1 are associated with AIA in a Korean population, and may modulate CysLTR1 expression.
To present a case of respiratory arrest following the use of intrathecal sufentanil and bupivacaine for combined spinal-epidural anaesthesia in a healthy labouring parturient.
A 20-yr-old term parturient received 10 micrograms sufentanil and 2.5 mg bupivacaine intrathecally as part of a combined spinal-epidural technique for labour analgesia. She had received no previous analgesics. Twenty-three minutes after the intrathecal injection she became unresponsive and suffered a respiratory arrest. Resuscitation included manual bag/mask ventilation with oxygen and intravenous naloxone.
Respiratory arrest is a rare but potentially life-threatening complication associated with the use of intrathecal opioids for labour analgesia. Vigilance in post-procedure patient monitoring is imperative.
To determine whether regenerating neural pathways can support visual behavior, adult goldfish (Carassius auratus) were injected intraocularly with ouabain and tested for the presence of reflexive visual behaviors (dorsal light reflex and optokinetic nystagmus) and the ability to respond to visual stimuli in a classical conditioning paradigm. All visual behaviors were absent or greatly diminished until 8 to 10 weeks, when retinal layering had returned. At 10 weeks post-ouabain, reflexive behaviors to supra-threshold stimuli were near normal; however the ability to detect supra-threshold stimuli in the conditioning paradigm did not recover until 13 weeks. Absolute dark-adapted threshold and light-adapted spectral sensitivity measured at 13 to 17 weeks were abnormal: Dark-adapted threshold was elevated by 1.5 log units and light-adapted spectral sensitivity was markedly narrower than normal. No responses to 50% contrast sinusoidal gratings could be obtained through ouabain-treated eyes using the classical conditioning technique, even though responses through the untreated eye remained. Results demonstrate that: (a) visually mediated behaviors return in goldfish with ouabain-treated retinas; (b) the time course of recovery of reflexive responses in luminance and spatial domains parallels return of ERG function and of tectal activity; and (c) visual function that is mediated by regenerating retina appears not to be as sensitive as vision via normally developed retinal pathways.
Deleterious germline variants in CDKN2A account for around 40% of familial melanoma cases, and rare variants in CDK4, BRCA2, BAP1 and the promoter of TERT have also been linked to the disease. Here we set out to identify new high-penetrance susceptibility genes by sequencing 184 melanoma cases from 105 pedigrees recruited in the UK, The Netherlands and Australia that were negative for variants in known predisposition genes. We identified families where melanoma cosegregates with loss-of-function variants in the protection of telomeres 1 gene (POT1), with a proportion of family members presenting with an early age of onset and multiple primary tumors. We show that these variants either affect POT1 mRNA splicing or alter key residues in the highly conserved oligonucleotide/oligosaccharide-binding (OB) domains of POT1, disrupting protein-telomere binding and leading to increased telomere length. These findings suggest that POT1 variants predispose to melanoma formation via a direct effect on telomeres.
The type I interferon system is integral to human antiviral immunity. However, inappropriate stimulation or defective negative regulation of this system can lead to inflammatory disease. We sought to determine the molecular basis of genetically uncharacterized cases of the type I interferonopathy Aicardi-Goutières syndrome and of other undefined neurological and immunological phenotypes also demonstrating an upregulated type I interferon response. We found that heterozygous mutations in the cytosolic double-stranded RNA receptor gene IFIH1 (also called MDA5) cause a spectrum of neuroimmunological features consistently associated with an enhanced interferon state. Cellular and biochemical assays indicate that these mutations confer gain of function such that mutant IFIH1 binds RNA more avidly, leading to increased baseline and ligand-induced interferon signaling. Our results demonstrate that aberrant sensing of nucleic acids can cause immune upregulation.
Diazepam is commonly used as premedicant for endoscopic procedures. Wide interindividual differences have been observed in the residual cognitive effects of the drug after gastrointestinal endoscopy. Our aim was to clarify the major factors, including pharmacokinetic factors, contributing to this wide variation in residual cognitive effect after gastrointestinal endoscopy in the study. Sixty-one outpatients undergoing gastrointestinal endoscopy participated in the study. Cognitive effects were evaluated in the diazepam group (n=52) by the digit symbol substitution test (DSST) twice before and 30 min after an intravenous administration of 5 mg diazepam; in the intervening time gastrointestinal endoscopy was performed. Plasma concentrations of diazepam were determined by HPLC. The control group (n=9) was tested by DSST in the same manner. The cognitive effects according to the change in DSST score was significantly decline in the diazepam group compared with the control group (by 0.2 versus -4.6; P=0.014). This prospective study confirmed that cognition was significantly impaired after gastrointestinal endoscopy by premedication to subjects with 5 mg diazepam. There were very wide variations in change in DSST score. However we could not identify the independent variables that best predicted DSST score difference in a multiple regression analysis for age, plasma albumin level, and plasma diazepam concentration 30 min after intravenous administration. We should pay attention to patients' individual states in cognitive performance following gastrointestinal endoscopy after single-dose diazepam.
Previous studies revealed novel genetic changes in the duodenal mucosa of iron-deprived rats during postnatal development. These observations are now extended to compare the genetic response to iron deficiency in the duodenum versus jejunum of 12-wk-old rats. cRNA samples were prepared from the duodenal and jejunal mucosa of three groups each of control and iron-deficient rats and hybridized with RAE 230A and 230B gene chips (Affymetrix). Stringent data reduction strategies were employed. Results showed that several genes were similarly induced in both gut segments, including DMT1, Dcytb, transferrin receptor 1, heme oxygenase 1, metallothionein, the Menkes copper ATPase (ATP7A), tripartitie motif protein 27, and the sodium-dependent vitamin C transporter. However, a subset of genes showed regulation in only one or the other gut segment. In duodenum only, gastrokine 1, trefoil factor 1 and claudin 2 were induced by iron-deficiency. Other genes previously identified were only regulated in the duodenum. Overall, these studies demonstrate similarities and distinct differences in the genetic response to iron deprivation in the duodenum versus jejunum and provide evidence that more distal gut segments also may play a role in increasing iron absorption in iron-deficiency anemia.
Loperamide is an antidiarrheal peripheral opiate agonist, with rare neurological secondary effects. We report the case of a 26-month-old child who had impaired consciousness under treatment by loperamide, and was treated successfully with naloxone. Limitations of the use of loperamide in young children are underlined. Naloxone may be used in case of impaired consciousness, for a diagnostic as well as therapeutic purpose.
Cholelithiasis is a rare condition seen during childhood. The aim of this study was to determine frequency of biliary sludge and cholelithiasis with ceftriaxone therapy.
Thirty-eight children aged between 1 month and 17 years were evaluated with ultrasonographic examination at the initiation of the ceftriaxone therapy and 10th day of therapy, consecutively. If biliary sludge or cholelithiasis were demonstrated, scans were repeated monthly until pathology disappeared.
Abnormal gallbladder sonograms were demonstrated in 36.8% (n = 14) of patients at the 10th day of therapy. Cholelithiasis was detected in 28.9% (n = 11) of patients and biliary sludge was detected in 7.9% (n = 3). Two children still had cholelithiasis at the 30th day after therapy and one had cholelithiasis after the 60th day. The 9-year-old girl who still had cholelithiasis after 60 days of therapy also had nausea, vomiting and abdominal pain at 7 days after cessation of therapy. Her 90th day sonographic examination was normal.
Reversible biliary sludge or pseudocholelithiasis due to ceftriaxone treatment is not a rare condition. Therefore it is benign, spontaneously resolved and clinical signs are usually absent.
The risk of hemorrhage in cavernous malformations (CMs) depends on lesion, host, and environmental factors. Anticoagulation therapy is a well-known risk factor for intracerebral bleeding, but the occurrence of hemorrhages in patients with CMs has not been reported. Low molecular weight heparin therapy is generally considered to be safe, although significant hemorrhagic complications have recently been reported. The authors report a case of intralesional bleeding in a CM after prophylactic anticoagulation therapy was administered in a patient with the familial form of the disease. The leaky endothelial structure of CMs may constitute an unexpected target of the vascular effects of heparin.
The lack of effective systemic therapies for patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) has stimulated interest in evaluating novel treatment strategies for this disease.
This was a two-institution, two-stage, phase II trial of continuous low-dose oral cyclophosphamide (50 mg daily) in combination with celecoxib (400 mg twice daily) in patients with progressive, locally advanced or metastatic RCC. The primary endpoint was disease control rate (DCR) defined as the number of patients with complete (CR) or partial response (PR) or prolonged (> or =6 months) stable disease (SD). Secondary endpoints included time to progression and toxicity.
Between May 2001 and January 2003, 36 patients were enrolled onto the trial of which 32 were evaluable for response. One patient had a PR and three others had SD for longer than 6 months (DCR 12.5%, 95% CI 3.5-29.0%). The median progression free survival was 3.5 months (95% CI, 1.9-4.1 months) and the median overall survival was 14.5 months (95% CI, 8.4-20.8 months). One patient experienced grade five gastrointestinal bleeding. Otherwise, the treatment was well tolerated.
Although generally well tolerated, continuous therapy with low-dose cyclophosphamide and celecoxib had limited activity in RCC.
Chemotherapeutic regimens that utilize fluorouracil, cytarabine, and doxorubicin have been shown to cause a dermatologic syndrome known as hand-foot syndrome, or palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia syndrome (PPES). Pegylated liposomal doxorubicin has proven effective in the treatment of AIDS-related Kaposi's sarcoma, ovarian cancer refractory to platinum and paclitaxel therapies, and metastatic breast cancer. In a study of the treatment of refractory epithelial cell ovarian cancers with lipozomal doxorubicin utilizing intravenous doses of 50 mg/m(2) every 3 weeks, grade 3 PPES was observed in 29% of patients (10/35) and required dose reductions and/or dose delay after a median of three therapy cycles.
Current methods to prevent pegylated liposomal doxorubicin-induced PPES include dose reduction, lengthening of the drug administration interval and ultimately, drug withdrawal. Topical 99% dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) also has shown strong activity in treating tissue extravasation reactions during intravenous administration of doxorubicin.
Two patients undergoing chemotherapy with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin, 50 mg/m(2) every 4 weeks, developed grade 3 PPE after three cycles. Their PPES resolved over a period of 1 to 3 weeks while receiving topical 99% DMSO four times daily for 14 days.
While these results are promising, patients must be treated in a prospective study of this topical DMSO formulation to definitively document its therapeutic efficacy.
Intravenous injections of Prostaglandin E1 were administered to 65 men suffering from erectile dysfunction. Later on, 59 of them administered the substance to themselves. Our experience as well as literary data have confirmed the efficacy of prostaglandin E1 administered intracavernously in the therapy of different forms of impotence, including the so-called psychogenic form. Its advantage is that it metabolizes directly in the cavernous tissue. Virtually no significant systemic side reactions were recorded and neither priapism nor fibrosis of the corpora cavernosa were observed after long-term treatment. Prostaglandin E1, a product of Léciva Praha, was used within the clinical study of this preparation.
The modulatory effect of higher doses of vitamin C (ascorbic acid) on the genotoxicity of the three pesticides (endosulfan, phosphamidon, and mancozeb) was assessed in the in vivo micronucleus test in Swiss albino mice. Concurrent administration of the vitamin in a dose (20 mg/kg bwt/day) equivalent to double the human therapeutic one, along with each of the three pesticides, was most effective as an antimutagen. The therapeutic dose (10 mg/kg bwt/day) was comparatively less so, and the quadruple (40 mg/kg bwt/day) of it did not show any further amelioration.
In a preliminary study pyroglutamate showed to be over 10 times increased in some lyophilised coffees with respect to brewed or filtered coffees, and probably that increase is related to some stage of the industrial process. Pyroglutamate is known to have a number of remarkable cognitive enhancing effects, which could be also related to the properties of coffee traditionally associated to caffeine. Pyroglutamate improves memory and learning and has anti-anxiety effects in rats. Therefore, a method has been developed and validated for the simultaneous determination of caffeine and pyroglutamate in coffee by capillary electrophoresis. Separation conditions employed MECK conditions with 50 mM borate buffer at pH 9.5 with 130 mM SDS. The applied potential was 10 kV and detection was performed at 200 nm. Afterwards, 10 soluble coffees from the market were measured and caffeine and pyroglutamate levels were compared. Those coffees with higher pyroglutamate with or without caffeine were preliminarily tested for sedative/stimulant properties and cognition enhancing effects in mice. The most relevant finding was a partial reversal of scopolamine-induced amnesia in the passive avoidance paradigm after oral administration of one coffee.
Loratadine is a second generation histamine H1 receptor antagonist, that has high potency antiallergic properties and is associated with low adverse effects compared with other antihistamines. Acute interstitial nephritis is a cause of acute renal failure that is most often induced by drugs or, less frequently, infection or sarcoidosis. Although the number of drugs associated with acute intersticial nephritis is too large, the antihistaminic loratadine have never been reported before. We report a case of an interstitial nephritis with acute renal failure that suggesting hypersensitivity reaction in a 77 old man who had received loratadine (10 mg/day) during ten days before his assessment to our hospital by disseminated pruritic syndrome. The initial suspect was rapidly progressive glomerulonephitis and renal biopsy was practice and treatment with corticosteroids were initiated (prednisone bolus of 500 mg three days and 1 mg/kg/day/later). The loratadine therapy was cessation. He exhibiting a slow and progressive improvement on renal function and one month later, urea and creatinine levels was normal and hematuria and proteinuria had disappeared. The corticosteroids therapy were progressive decreased until withdrawal. We think that this is an interesting case, basing in its clinical presentation and that it had never been reported before.
