Sexual activity is quite common among women aged 14 to 20 in developed countries, averaging perhaps 10% at age 15 to about 70% at 19. Thus, the need for contraception may begin quite early in life and will continue for as long as 30 years. One of the best candidates for long-term contraception for young sexually active females is the oral contraceptive (OC), which provides health benefits besides contraception. Long-term benefits include lowered rates of ovarian and endometrial cancer, as well as of benign breast disease and ovarian cysts. Another benefit is protection against upper-tract sequelae of sexually transmitted diseases. Short-term benefits are correction of menstrual irregularity, reduction in menstrual flow, and diminished premenstrual syndrome and dysmenorrhea. Recent OC formulations contain only one-third the estrogenic potency of older OCs and therefore are associated with dramatic decreases in what were always the major side effects of OCs: heart attack, stroke, and pulmonary embolism. Other side effects of OCs have been most closely associated with the progestogenic component, and are related to the androgenic effects of progestins, particularly some synthetic progestins. However, some new synthetic progestins have been found to have minimal androgen receptor activity in preclinical testing and to cause minimal or no androgen-related side effects in clinical trials. One of these new progestins having a favorable androgenic profile is norgestimate. Its efficacy and safety in combination with low doses of ethinyl estradiol have been documented in the European and the American literature.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Angiomatoid vascular changes in lungs and pulmonary hemorrhage are described in a woman in whom mitomycin C-associated hemolytic-uremiclike syndrome developed. These changes represent part of the spectrum of vascular damage that may complicate mitomycin therapy. Patients receiving mitomycin C chemotherapy require careful monitoring for possible development of these complications.
To evaluate the efficacy of the "daily" use of apomorphine SL compared with the "on demand" administration of the drug in patients with mild to moderate erectile dysfunction (ED) and mild hyperprolactinemia who were nonresponders to apomorphine administered "on demand."
In this open-label prospective study, 34 patients with mild-to-moderate ED and mild hyperprolactinemia were screened. The subjects answered the International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF) questionnaire and underwent follicle-stimulating hormone, luteinizing hormone, testosterone, free testosterone, and prolactin plasma testing, and Doppler sonography at the 2-week screening period to define the ED severity and etiology, at the end of a 4-week "as required" dose-escalation regimen of 2 mg/3 mg apomorphine SL, and at the end of a 4-week period of daily administration of the drug to assess the efficacy of each treatment modality.
Twenty patients (age range 27 to 46 years) were included in the study. Eighteen subjects completed the 4-week "as required" drug intake period, and three (16.7%) benefited from this modality of treatment (P <0.05). Fifteen nonresponder patients participated in the 4-week daily apomorphine SL use, and 13 (86%) reported satisfaction with the treatment (P <0.05). The 3-mg daily administration was more effective than the 2-mg daily administration for erectile function (P <0.02) but not for other sexual domains scored with IIEF. Adverse events were of mild or moderate severity, either during the "as required" drug intake (4 patients) or during daily use (3 subjects) and were mainly nausea, dizziness, or headache.
Data from the clinical evaluation of symptomatic apomorphine SL use have always shown a poor success rate, probably because it is used "as sildenafil." Using apomorphine SL as a treatment of ED, we observed a significant improvement in both subjective and objective aspects scored with the IIEF. The increase of prolactin could influence the erective mechanisms, and it cannot be excluded that a subgroup of men with ED may have an impairment of central dopaminergic function. Moreover, additional studies need to define the daily use of apomorphine SL in large subgroups of men on the basis of ED etiology and severity.
This study compared the effect of benazepril, an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor ([S-(R*,R*)]-3-[[1-(ethoxycarbonyl)-3-phenylpropyl]amino]-2,3,4,5- tetrahydro-2-oxo) to valsartan, an angiotensin AT1 receptor antagonist ((S)-N-valeryl-N-[2'-(1H-tetrazol-5-yl)biphenyl-4-yl]-methyl-valin e) on glucose metabolism and plasma lipid levels in 11- to 12-week-old conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats. Intraperitoneal infusion of benazepril or valsartan at 1, 3 and 10 mg/kg/day produced dose-related reductions in systolic blood pressure after 12 weeks which were not significantly different from each other. During the infusion, valsartan-treated animals gained weight at the same rate as controls, but all infusion rates of benazepril significantly suppressed normal weight gain, despite both compounds having similar antihypertensive effects. At the end of the 12-week treatment period, benazepril (3 and 10 mg/kg/day) significantly increased glucose disposal but did not significantly affect insulin disposal in insulin/glucose tolerance tests. In contrast, none of the infusion rates of valsartan significantly affected glucose or insulin disposal. Finally, compared to controls benazepril and valsartan were without effect on the fasting basal plasma concentrations of glucose, insulin, triglycerides, total cholesterol and K+. The results demonstrate that angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition and angiotensin AT1 receptor antagonism have similar antihypertensive effects, but express differences on body weight gain and insulin-stimulated glucose disposal in the conscious spontaneously hypertensive rat.
Inactivating mutations of the luteinizing hormone receptor (LHR) gene in males induce Leydig cell agenesis or hypoplasia, while activating mutations cause testotoxicosis. Recently, it was demonstrated that a somatic heterozygous activating mutation of the LHR gene (Asp578His), limited to the tumor, was the cause of Leydig cell adenomas in three unrelated patients. We describe the molecular study of two unrelated boys with gonadotropin-independent hypersecretion of testosterone due to Leydig cell adenomas. Genomic DNA was extracted from the tumor, the adjacent normal testis tissue, and blood leukocytes. Both individuals exhibited an heterozygous missense mutation, limited only to the tumor, consisting of a guanine (G) to cytosine (C) substitution at codon 578 (GAT to CAT), turning aspartic acid into histidine. The presence of the same mutation in different ethnic groups demonstrates the existence of a mutational hot spot in the LHR gene. Indeed, this mutation occurs at the conserved aspartic acid residue at amino acid 578, where a substitution by glycine is the most common mutation observed in testotoxicosis and where a substitution by tyrosine has been linked to a more severe clinical phenotype where diffuse Leydig cell hyperplasia is found. Our results confirm the fact that somatic activating mutations of gonadotropin receptors are involved in gonadal tumorigenesis.
Oleanolic acid is a molecule of current therapeutic interest. In the present study, oleanolic acid isolated from the cuticular epithelium of Viscum articulatum Burm. f. (Viscaceae) was investigated for its protective effects on gentamicin-induced renal damage in rats. Nephrotoxicity was induced in rats by intraperitoneal injection of gentamicin at a dose of 100 mg/kg/day for 8 days. The effect of Oleanolic acid administered orally at doses 40, 60 and 80 mg/kg/day was assessed biochemically by determination of albumin, urea and creatinine in serum and urine samples and also through histopathological examination of the kidneys. Oleanolic acid protected the rat kidneys from gentamicin-induced nephrotoxicity as evident from a decrease in the serum and urine levels of creatinine, albumin and urea. Oleanolic acid also protected the rat kidneys from histological alterations induced by gentamicin and also improved the glomerular filtration rate. Compared with an earlier report on intraperitoneal administration of oleanolic acid in paracetamol-induced nephrotoxicity in rats, the data show that orally administered oleanolic acid also exerted a nephroprotective effect even in the case of a nephrotoxicant such as gentamicin, which directly deteriorates the kidney function without prior metabolism.
Diffuse loss of cerebellar Purkinje cells and to some extent, of granule cells occurred in a 78-year-old woman who had been continually treated with phenytoin for more than 20 years and in whom progressive cerebellar deficits developed in the later years of life. In the absence of other demonstrable cause, the selective morphologic changes in the cerebellum are attributed to long-term administration of phenytoin.
Niemann-Pick type C disease (NPC) is a neurovisceral lipid storage disorder mainly characterized by unesterified cholesterol accumulation in lysosomal/late endosomal compartments, although there is also an important storage for several other kind of lipids. The main tissues affected by the disease are the liver and the cerebellum. Oxidative stress has been described in various NPC cells and tissues, such as liver and cerebellum. Although considerable alterations occur in the liver, the pathological mechanisms involved in hepatocyte damage and death have not been clearly defined. Here, we assessed hepatic tissue integrity, biochemical and oxidative stress parameters of wild-type control (Npc1(+/+); WT) and homozygous-mutant (Npc1(-/-); NPC) mice. In addition, the mRNA abundance of genes encoding proteins associated with oxidative stress, copper metabolism, fibrosis, inflammation and cholesterol metabolism were analyzed in livers and cerebella of WT and NPC mice.
We analyzed various oxidative stress parameters in the liver and hepatic and cerebellum gene expression in 7-week-old NPC1-deficient mice compared with control animals. We found signs of inflammation and fibrosis in NPC livers upon histological examination. These signs were correlated with increased levels of carbonylated proteins, diminished total glutathione content and significantly increased total copper levels in liver tissue. Finally, we analyzed liver and cerebellum gene expression patterns by qPCR and microarray assays. We found a correlation between fibrotic tissue and differential expression of hepatic as well as cerebellar genes associated with oxidative stress, fibrosis and inflammation in NPC mice.
In NPC mice, liver disease is characterized by an increase in fibrosis and in markers associated with oxidative stress. NPC is also correlated with altered gene expression, mainly of genes involved in oxidative stress and fibrosis. These findings correlate with similar parameters in cerebellum, as has been previously reported in the NPC mice model.
Food restriction and deprivation are known to modulate drug-related behaviors. However, the mechanisms through which metabolic manipulations intercede the rewarding effects of drug reward are unknown. Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is thought to be critically involved in the regulation of energy balance. Central administration of NPY induces feeding in sated animals, and importantly, is reported to increase the rewarding properties of food. NPY has also been shown to be involved in drug-related behavior. We have recently demonstrated that NPY injections augmented on-going heroin self-administration and induced a reinstatement of heroin seeking. The present study sought to support and expand our previous finding on NPY's role in addictive drugs-related behaviors by examining the effects of NPY on cocaine-induced locomotor hyperactivity and cocaine self-administration. In Experiment 1, rats received NPY injections (0.0, 2.5, 5.0microg/rat, ICV), followed by cocaine administration (0.0, 1.0, 5.0, and 10.0mg/kg, IP) and their locomotor activity was monitored over 90min. In Experiment 2, rats were trained to self-administer cocaine (0.50mg/kg/infusion) during one 3-h session per day for 12 days. Once trained, NPY (0.0, 4.0, 10.0microg/rat, ICV) was administered 15min prior to the self-administration session. Results revealed that NPY injections augmented cocaine-induced hyperactivity and moderately increased cocaine self-administration. Together with our previous findings, these results suggest that NPY is involved, albeit to a limited extent, in the augmenting effect of food deprivation on drug-related behaviors.
The aim of the study was to assess whether long-term antiretroviral therapy (ART) is associated with the risk of coronary plaques in HIV-infected cardiovascularly asymptomatic African Americans. Between August 2003 and December 2007, 176 HIV-infected cardiovascularly asymptomatic African Americans were consecutively enrolled in an observational study investigating the effects of ART on subclinical atherosclerosis in Baltimore, Maryland. Computed tomography coronary angiography was performed to detect coronary plaques. The overall prevalence rate of coronary plaques was 30%. After adjusting for gender, total cholesterol, and cocaine use, logistic regression analysis revealed that exposure to ART for more than 18 months (adjusted odds ratio [OR]: 2.20, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.01, 4.79) was independently associated with the presence of coronary plaques. A higher HIV viral load was univariately associated with the presence of noncalcified plaques. Use of ART (>18 months) was independently associated with the presence of noncalcified plaques (adjusted OR: 7.61, 95% CI: 1.67, 34.7), whereas cocaine use (>15 years) was independently associated with the presence of calcified plaques (adjusted OR: 2.51, 95% CI: 1.11, 5.67). This study suggests that long-term exposure to ART may be associated with coronary plaques. Because long-term use of ART and HIV replication may be associated with the presence of noncalcified plaques, some of which may be more vulnerable to rupture, an intensive lifestyle intervention to reduce traditional risk factors for coronary artery disease (CAD) is ultimately vital to those who are on ART. This study also suggests that cocaine cessation is the single most effective strategy to prevent CAD in HIV-infected cocaine users.
Hydroxychloroquine causes a vacuolar myopathy that is usually of mild to moderate severity. The myopathy may be underrecognized, especially in patients who receive multiple other medications for complex illnesses. We report two patients with connective tissue diseases and unusually severe, histopathologically proven hydroxychloroquine myopathy. Both had ventilatory failure; one also had primary pulmonary disease associated with scleroderma, but the other lacked a pulmonary etiology. The ventilatory failure and subsequent medical complications led to death despite discontinuation of hydroxychloroquine, thereby underscoring the potential severity of hydroxychloroquine myopathy and the need for its early recognition.
Previous studies have shown that free polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) reduce the excitability of cardiac myocytes and exert antiarrhythmic effects. Therefore, we hypothesized that retinoic acid (RA, vitamin A acid), which has structural characteristics similar to those of PUFA, may have similar antiarrhythmic effects. To test this hypothesis, we used an isolated, spontaneously beating, neonatal rat cardiac myocyte preparation to examine the effects of RA, added to the perfusion solution, on the cell contraction and arrhythmias induced by isoproterenol (ISO) or lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC). All-trans-RA (10-20 microM) induced a marked and reversible reduction in the contraction rate of the cell in 2-5 min without changing the amplitude of the contractions. Superfusion of the myocytes with either ISO (3 microM) or LPC (5 microM) induced sustained tachyarrhythmias characterized by spasmodic contractures and fibrillation. Addition of 15-20 microM all-trans-RA to the perfusion solution effectively prevented as well as terminated the arrhythmias induced by ISO and LPC. Furthermore, in a whole-animal model of arrhythmia in which the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) of the anesthetized rat was occluded for 15 min followed by reperfusion, both the incidence and severity of ventricular tachycardia and fibrillation (VT, VF) were significantly reduced during the ischemic and reperfusion periods by intravenous infusion of all-trans-RA. In contrast, other analogues, including retinol and retinal, and other fat-soluble vitamins, including vitamin D, E, and K, did not have such effects. Our results demonstrate that all-trans-RA can produce antiarrhythmic effects similar to those of PUFA, suggesting a novel role of RA as a potential antiarrhythmic agent.
The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of prophylactic treatment with the angiotensin type 1 (AT1) receptor antagonist losartan on right ventricular hypertrophy and cardiac angiotensin 1-converting enzyme (ACE) activity in a rat model of monocrotaline-induced pulmonary hypertension. Losartan failed to prevent either pulmonary hypertension or right ventricular hypertrophy. Right ventricular ACE in untreated pulmonary hypertensive rats did not differ from control rats. Losartan treatment in pulmonary hypertensive rats caused a significant 2-fold increase of ACE activity in the hypertrophied right (p < 0.005) but not in the left ventricle. Thus, cardiac ACE activity is not stimulated in rats with monocrotaline-induced right ventricular hypertrophy. Prophylactic losartan treatment in this model of progressive pulmonary hypertension failed to prevent or reduce the increase in ventricular afterload. The relevance of the increase in right ventricular ACE activity during pulmonary hypertension after losartan treatment is unknown and needs to be evaluated in further studies.
Various volatile organic compounds (VOCs) act as a causative agent of skin inflammation. We investigated the effect of topical application of several VOCs and formalin on microvascular leakage in rat skin. We tested capsaicin, which is a reagent that specifically causes the skin response via endogenously released tachykinins. Evans blue dye extravasation served as an index of the increase in skin vascular permeability. After shaving the abdomen, we applied formalin, m-xylene, toluene, styrene, benzene, ethylbenzene, acetone, diethyl ether, hexane, heptane, cyclohexane and capsaicin to the skin. At 40min after application, skin samples were collected. Among all of the VOCs tested, all of the aromatic compounds significantly produced skin microvascular leakage that was similar to formalin and capsaicin. We also investigated the skin responses seen after the intravenous administration of CP-99,994 (1.5 or 5mg/kg), which is a tachykinin NK1 receptor antagonist, ketotifen (1 or 3mg/kg), which is a histamine H1 receptor antagonist that stabilizes the mast cells, and the topical application of capsazepine (22.5 or 50mM), which is the transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) antagonist. The response induced by formalin and capsaicin was completely inhibited by CP-99,994. On the other hand, the antagonist partially reduced the response induced by m-xylene, toluene and styrene by 39%, 50% and 46%, respectively. Capsazepine and ketotifen did not alter the response induced by formalin or any of the aromatic compounds. Like capsaicin, formalin and the aromatic compounds at least partially caused skin microvascular leakage, which was due to tachykinin NK1 receptor activation related to the release of tachykinins from the sensory nerve endings. However, it is unlikely that mast cells and TRPV1 play an important role in the skin response.
In the rational development of anticancer drugs it is important to employ all the available pharmacological information. Early clinical trials provide an opportunity for hypothesis testing. MRS techniques have the potential to provide valuable data on the preclinical and clinical pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of drugs non-invasively. Here we illustrate advantages and pitfalls of MRS using studies of two fluorine-containing cancer drugs: a beta,beta-difluoro analogue of the alkylating agent chlorambucil and a fluorinated derivative of the nitroimidazole misonidazole, Ro 07-0741. Limitations include signal quenching via protein binding and inadequate sensitivity for more potent drugs like beta,beta-difluorochlorambucil; but fluoromisonidazole was shown to accumulate in tumours and shows promise as a chemical probe for tumour hypoxia, detectable by 19F MRS.
1 Diazoxide 300 mg and labetalol 150 mg were each injected intravenously on separate occasions into five patients with essentail hypertension. The reduction in BP caused by labetalol was slightly greater than that produced by diazoxide. 2 In contrast the reduction in cerebral blood flow (CBF) by labetalol was not statistically significant, whereas diazoxide gave a greater and statistically significant reduction in CBF. 3 These observations suggest that labetalol may have an advantage over diazoxide for the rapid reduction in BP.
Electrospray ionisation (ESI) mass spectrometry was used to examine the reactions of the clinically used antiarthritic agent [Au(S2O3)2]3-, and AuPEt3Cl, a derivative of another clinically used agent auranofin, with human serum albumin (HSA) obtained from a human volunteer. Both compounds reacted readily with HSA to form complexes containing one or more covalently attached gold fragments. In the case of AuPEt3Cl, binding was accompanied by the loss of the chloride ligand, while for [Au(S2O3)2]3- the mass spectral data indicated binding of Au(S2O3) groups. Experiments performed using HSA with Cys34 blocked by reaction with iodoacetamide were consistent with reaction of both gold compounds with this amino acid. Separate blocking experiments using diethylpyrocarbonate and AuPEt3Cl also provided evidence for histidine residues acting as lower-affinity binding sites for this gold compound. ESI mass spectra of solutions containing [Au(S2O3)2]3- or [Au(CN)2]-, and HSA, provided evidence for the formation of protein complexes in which intact gold molecules were non-covalently bound. In the case of [Au(S2O3)2]3-, these non-covalent complexes proved to be transitory in nature. However, for [Au(CN)2]- a non-covalent complex containing a single gold molecule bound to HSA was found to be stable, and constituted the main adduct formed in solutions containing low-to-medium Au-to-HSA ratios. Evidence was also obtained for the formation of a covalent adduct in which a single Au(CN) moiety was bonded to Cys34 of the protein. AuPEt3Cl reacted to a much lower extent with HSA that had Cys34 modified by formation of a disulfide bond to added cysteine, than with unmodified HSA. This suggests that the extent of modification of the protein in vivo may have an important influence on the transport and bioavailability of gold antiarthritic drugs.
We studied the effect of the chronic oral administration of dexamethasone (dexa) on arterial blood pressure (BP) in conscious rats. Special attention was paid to the effects of dexa on circadian rhythm of BP. As determined by the tail cuff-method, BP in the dexa-treated group was significantly higher than in the control group 24 h after treatment, then increased gradually, reaching a plateau on the 7th day of treatment. At that time, the difference in BP between the two groups was approximately 30 mmHg. When monitored directly and continuously on day 10, mean arterial pressure (MAP) in the dexa-treated group exceeded that of the control group by approximately 15 mmHg throughout the monitoring period. Thus, the circadian rhythm of MAP was sustained in the dexa-treated group, which was in contrast to the previously reported elimination of circadian rhythm in humans. In addition, the increase in BP may have been overestimated by tail-cuff plethysmography, possibly owing to a hightended cardiovascular reactivity to environmental stimuli in dexa-treated animals.
UROtsa cells exposed to 50 nM monomethylarsonous acid [MMA(III)] for 52 wk (MSC52) achieved hyperproliferation, anchorage independent growth, and enhanced tumorgenicity. MMA(III) has been shown to induce reactive oxygen species (ROS), which can lead to activation of signaling cascades causing stress-related proliferation of cells and even cellular transformation. Previous research established the acute activation of MAPK signaling cascade by ROS produced by MMA(III) as well as chronic up regulation of COX-2 and EGFR in MSC52 cells. To determine if ROS played a role in the chronic pathway perturbations by acting as secondary messengers, activation of Ras was determined in UROtsa cells [exposed to MMA(III) for 0-52 wk] and found to be increased through 52 wk most dramatically after 20 wk of exposure. Ras has been shown to cause an increase in O2(-) and be activated by increases in O2(-), making ROS important to study in the transformation process. COX-2 upregulation in MSC52 cells was confirmed by real time RT-PCR. By utilizing both antioxidants or specific COX inhibitors, it was shown that COX-2 upregulation was dependent on ROS, specifically, O2(-). In addition, because previous research established the importance of MAPK activation in phenotypic changes associated with transformation in MSC52 cells, it was hypothesized that ROS play a role in maintaining phenotypic characteristics of the malignant transformation of MSC52 cells. Several studies have demonstrated that cancer cells have lowered superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) activity and protein levels. Increasing levels of MnSOD have been shown to suppress the malignant phenotype of cells. SOD was added to MSC52 cells resulting in slower proliferation rates (doubling time=42h vs. 31h). ROS scavengers of OH also slowed proliferation rates of MSC52 cells. To further substantiate the importance of ROS in these properties of transformation in MSC52 cells, anchorage independent growth was assessed after the addition of antioxidants, both enzymatic and non-enzymatic. Scavengers of OH, and O2(-) blocked the colony formation of MSC52 cells. These data support the role for the involvement of ROS in properties of transformation of UROtsa cells exposed to MMA(III).
This study investigated the efficacy of methylergonovine maleate (Methergine) in the treatment of drug induced refractory headache (DIRH). Sixty consecutive patients (51 female and 9 male) diagnosed with DIRH were treated with methylergonovine maleate for a maximum of six months, using a within subject design. All patients were withdrawn from the medications they were taking upon entering the study. Concurrently, they were given 0.2-0.4 mg of methylergonovine maleate three times a day. Patients were provided the means to control breakthrough episodes of headache. Treatment outcome was assessed using a patient self-report scale (much better, better, same, worse, and much worse), and also visual analogue pain intensity scales. The side effects of the drug were assessed with patient self-report. Methylergonovine was effective in 44 (73%) patients. Twelve (20%) patients reported unchanged pain and 4 (6%) patients got worse. Side effects were reported by 24 patients. These were predominantly abdominal cramping. It is concluded that methylergonovine maleate is effective in the initial control of drug induced refractory headache. However, because methylergonovine is a metabolic byproduct of methysergide, the possibility or fibrotic disorders needs to be considered if methylergonovine is to be used for long term therapy.
Cadmium (Cd) is an environmental and industrial pollutant that affects various organs in human and experimental animals. Naringenin is a naturally occurring plant bioflavonoid found in citrus fruits, which has been reported to have a wide range of pharmacological properties. A body of evidence has accumulated implicating the free radical generation with subsequent oxidative stress in the biochemical and molecular mechanisms of cadmium toxicity. Since kidney is the critical target organ of chronic Cd toxicity, we carried out this study to investigate the effects of naringenin on Cd-induced toxicity in the kidney of rats. In experimental rats, oral administration of cadmium chloride (5mg/(kgday)) for 4 weeks significantly induced the renal damage which was evident from the increased levels of serum urea, uric acid, creatinine with a significant (p<0.05) decrease in creatinine clearance. Cadmium also significantly decreased the levels of urea, uric acid and creatinine in urine. A markedly increased levels of lipid peroxidation markers (thiobarbituric acid reactive substances and lipid hydroperoxides) and protein carbonyl contents with significant (p<0.05) decrease in non-enzymatic antioxidants (total sulfhydryl groups, reduced glutathione, vitamin C and vitamin E) and enzymatic antioxidants (superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and glutathione S-transferase (GST)) as well as glutathione metabolizing enzymes (glutathione reductase (GR) and glutathione-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD)) were also observed in cadmium-treated rats. Co-administration of naringenin (25 and 50mg/(kgday)) along with Cd resulted in a reversal of Cd-induced biochemical changes in kidney accompanied by a significant decrease in lipid peroxidation and an increase in the level of renal antioxidant defense system. The histopathological studies in the kidney of rats also showed that naringenin (50mg/(kgday)) markedly reduced the toxicity of Cd and preserved the normal histological architecture of the renal tissue. The present study suggest that the nephroprotective potential of naringenin in Cd toxicity might be due to its antioxidant and metal chelating properties, which could be useful for achieving optimum effects in Cd-induced renal damage.
A period of apnoea lasting 480 minutes following suxamethonium in a 6-week-old male infant is described. Neuromuscular function recovered following the administration of fresh frozen plasma. The infant was found to be homozygous for atypical cholinesterase (E1a E1a). This is believed to be the youngest reported case of suxamethonium apnoea.
Patients with cancer, including lung cancer are at an increased risk for venous thromboembolism and frequently are anticoagulated. Due to concerns of bleeding and drug-drug interactions, many clinical trials suggest the use of low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) rather than warfarin (coumadin) for patients requiring anticoagulation. We sought to evaluate, in a retrospective analysis, whether these recommendations were appropriate.
A pooled analysis of three lung cancer trials conducted by the NCIC Clinical Trials Group was performed to evaluate the risk of bleeding in patients receiving warfarin or LMWH; concomitant usage of nonsteroidal antinflammatories or aspirin. The Mantel-Haentzel test stratified by treatment group was used to analyze the prevalence of bleeding (all and > or =grade 3) according to LMWH, warfarin or nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs usage. Logistic regression was used to adjust for baseline characteristics including age, sex, performance status, creatinine, platelets.
Although bleeding was reported in a quarter of patients, only 2% experienced severe bleeding, with rates similar across the trials. In univariate analyses the risk of bleeding seemed higher with LMWH or warfarin usage, history of bleeding, thrombocytopenia, and increased age. However, in adjusted analyses only warfarin use was a significant risk factor (p = 0.073).
In this retrospective analysis, warfarin seemed to increase the risk of bleeding in lung cancer patients enrolled in clinical trials. Current recommendations in many clinical trials to preferentially use LMWH seem appropriate.
The peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) alpha, beta/delta, and gamma are ligand-activated transcription factors belonging to the nuclear receptor superfamily. In addition to their regulatory role on lipid and glucose metabolism, they exert anti-inflammatory properties. In skin both PPAR-alpha and PPAR-beta/delta regulate keratinocyte proliferation/differentiation and contribute to wound healing. The 3 PPAR isoforms are expressed by several cell types recruited into the dermis during inflammation.
We have investigated the role of PPAR-alpha in the regulation of atopic dermatitis (AD), a common skin inflammatory disease.
We chose a mouse model of inflammatory dermatosis with immunologic features of AD and used epicutaneous sensitization with ovalbumin in the absence of adjuvant, which mimics the human pathology.
On antigen sensitization, PPAR-alpha-deficient mice display increased epidermal thickening, dermal recruitment of inflammatory cells, lung inflammation, airway hyperresponsiveness, and IgE and IgG2a production compared with their wild-type counterparts. Increased inflammation was correlated to an enhancement of TH2 and, to a greater extent, TH1 responses and to increased skin expression of nuclear factor kappaB. Interestingly, PPAR-alpha expression was decreased in eczematous skin from patients with AD compared with skin from nonatopic donors, suggesting that defective PPAR-alpha expression might contribute to the pathology. Topical application of WY14643, a specific PPAR-alpha agonist, significantly decreased antigen-induced skin inflammation in the AD model.
PPAR-alpha acts as a negative regulator of skin inflammation in AD.
The aim of this study was to assess the effectiveness and safety of lisdexamfetamine dimesylate (LDX) in children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
This was a 7-week, open-label study evaluating 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, or 70 mg/day LDX in 318 children aged 6-12 years with ADHD. The ADHD Rating Scale IV (ADHD-RS-IV) was the primary efficacy assessment. Secondary measures included the Clinical Global Impressions-Improvement (CGI-I), Expression and Emotion Scale for Children (EESC), and Behavior Rating Inventory of Executive Function (BRIEF). Safety assessments included treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs), vital signs, and electrocardiograms.
At end point, mean (standard deviation [SD]) improvement from baseline in ADHD-RS-IV total score was 28.6 (10.9) (p < 0.0001). Most subjects (89.9%) were rated "improved" (i.e., CGI-I 1 or 2). Improvements from baseline were observed in the EESC total and subscale scores (p < or = 0.0002). LDX treatment resulted in significant improvement on the Global Executive Composite, Behavioral Regulation, and Metacognition indices of the BRIEF (p < 0.0001). TEAEs (incidences > or =10%) were decreased appetite, decreased weight, irritability, insomnia, headache, upper abdominal pain, and initial insomnia.
LDX was effective and generally well tolerated with a safety profile consistent with long-acting stimulant use. There was overall improvement in ADHD symptoms and executive function measures and no worsening of emotional expression measures.
clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00500071.
