Manganese has long been known to induce neurological degenerative disorders. Emerging evidence indicates that hyperphosphorylated tau is associated with neurodegenerative diseases, but whether such hyperphosphorylation plays a role in manganese-induced neurotoxicity remains unclear. To fill this gap, we investigated the effects of manganese on tau phosphorylation in PC12 cells. In our present research, treatment of cells with manganese increased the phosphorylation of tau at Ser199, Ser202, Ser396, and Ser404 as detected by Western blot. Moreover, this manganese-induced tau phosphorylation paralleled the activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK). The mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase-1 (MEK1) inhibitor PD98059, which inhibits the activation of ERK MAPK, partially attenuated manganese-induced tau hyperphosphorylation and cytotoxicity. Moreover, the activation of ERK MAPK was involved in the activation of glycogen synthase kinase-3β (GSK-3β) kinase, which also contributed to the hyperphosphorylation of tau and the cytotoxicity in PC12 cells induced by manganese. Taken together, we found for the first time that the exposure to manganese can cause the hyperphosphorylation of tau, which may be connected with the activation of ERK MAPK.
There is evidence that major psychiatric discords such as schizophrenia (SZ) and bipolar disorder (BD) are associated with dysregulation of synaptic plasticity with downstream alterations of neurotrophins. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is the most widely distributed neurotrophin in the central nervous system (CNS), and performs many biological functions such as promoting the survival, differentiation, and plasticity of neurons. Variants in the BDNF gene increase the risk of SZ and bipolar disorder. Chronic administration of drugs used to treat SZ and BD, such as lithium, valproate, quetiapine, clozapine, and olanzapine, increases BDNF expression in rat brain. To examine serum BDNF, three groups of chronically medicated DSM-IV SZ patients, on treatment with clozapine (n=27), typical (n=14), and other atypical antipsychotics (n=19), 30 euthymic BD patients, and 26 healthy control had 5 ml blood samples collected by venipuncture. Serum BDNF levels were significantly higher in SZ patients (p<0.001) when compared to either controls or euthymic BD patients. Increased BDNF in SZ patients might be related to the course of illness or to treatment variables. Prospective studies are warranted.
We describe the cardiopulmonary resuscitation efforts on five patients who presented in acute circulatory failure from myocardial dysfunction. Three patients had acute viral myocarditis, one had a carbamazepine-induced acute eosinophilic myocarditis, and one had cardiac hemosiderosis resulting in acute cardiogenic shock. All patients were continuously monitored with central venous and arterial catheters in addition to routine noninvasive monitoring. An introducer sheath, a pacemaker, and sterile pacing wires were made readily available for the patients, should the need arise to terminate resistant cardiac dysrhythmias. All patients developed cardiocirculatory arrest associated with extreme hypotension and dysrhythmias within the first 48 hours of their admission to the pediatric intensive care unit (PICU). Right ventricular pacemaker wires were inserted in all of them during cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). In four patients, cardiac pacing was used, resulting in a temporary captured rhythm and restoration of their cardiac output. These patients had a second event of cardiac arrest, resulting in death, within 10 to 60 minutes. In one patient, cardiac pacing was not used, because he converted to normal sinus rhythm by electrical defibrillation within three minutes of initiating CPR. We conclude that cardiac pacing during resuscitative efforts in pediatric patients suffering from acute myocardial dysfunction may not have long-term value in and of itself; however, if temporary hemodynamic stability is achieved by this procedure, it may provide additional time needed to institute other therapeutic modalities.
This study was performed to establish a useful method for monitoring the effects of inhibitors of 5-lipoxygenase (5-LO) and/or cyclooxygenase (CO) and for differential evaluation of these inhibitors. After oral dosing, CO inhibitors such as indomethacin (20-40 mg/kg) and ketoprofen (40-80 mg/kg), zileuton (5-LO inhibitor, 20-80 mg/kg) and MK886 (5-LO-activating-protein inhibitor, 640 mg/kg) potently suppressed arachidonic acid (AA, 0.25 mg)-induced ear edema in mice. Methysergide (serotonin antagonist, 20 mg/kg) showed a slight anti-edematous effect, while mepyramine (160 mg/kg) and bromelain (320 mg/kg) had no effect. The anti-edematous effects of indomethacin and ketoprofen were reduced by concomitant topical application of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2, 1 micrograms/ear), but not by concomitant intradermal application of leukotriene C4 (LTC4, 0.1 micrograms/ear). On the contrary, the anti-edematous effects of zileuton and MK886 were reduced by LTC4, but not by PGE2. Dual (5-LO and CO) inhibitors such as phenidone (80-160 mg/kg) and BW755C (40-80 mg/kg), which inhibited the biosynthesis of LTB4 13-15 times more potently than that of PGE2 in rat peritoneal exudate cells, also showed anti-edematous effects that were reduced by LTC4, but not by PGE2. These results suggest that the AA (0.25 mg)-induced ear edema in mice is mainly mediated by LTs and PGs and is suitable for evaluating inhibitors of 5-LO and/or CO, and that an application of LTC4 or PGE2 with AA is a useful method for differential evaluation of these inhibitors.
In a previously developed mouse model, arsenic exposure in utero induces tumors at multiple sites in the offspring as adults, often duplicating human targets. However, human environmental inorganic arsenic exposure occurs during the entire life span, not just part of gestation. Thus, "whole-life" inorganic arsenic carcinogenesis in mice was studied. CD1 mice were exposed to 0, 6, 12, or 24 ppm arsenic in the drinking water 2 weeks prior to breeding, during pregnancy, lactation, and after weaning through adulthood. Tumors were assessed in offspring until 2 years of age. Arsenic induced dose-related increases in lung adenocarcinoma (both sexes), hepatocellular carcinoma (both sexes), gallbladder tumors (males), and uterine carcinomas. Arsenic induced dose-related increases in ovarian tumors (including carcinomas) starting with the lowest dose. Adrenal tumors increased at all doses (both sexes). Arsenic-induced lung and liver cancers were highly enriched for cancer stem cells, consistent with prior work with skin cancers stimulated by prenatal arsenic. Reproductive tract tumors overexpressed cyclooxygenase-2 and estrogen receptor-α. Arsenic target sites were remarkably similar to prior transplacental studies, although tumors from whole-life exposure were generally more aggressive and frequent. This may indicate that arsenic-induced events in utero dictate target site in some tissues, whereas other exposure periods of arsenic enhance incidence or progression, though other factors could be at play, like cumulative dose. Whole-life arsenic exposure induced tumors at dramatically lower external doses than in utero arsenic only while more realistically duplicating human exposure.
Human and animal studies have shown that certain aromatic solvents such as toluene can cause hearing loss and can exacerbate the effects of noise. The latter effects might be due to a modification of responses of motoneurons controlling the middle-ear acoustic reflex. In the present investigation, the audition of Long-Evans rats was evaluated by measuring cubic (2f1 - f2) distortion otoacoustic emissions (f1 = 8000 Hz; f2 = 9600 Hz; f1/f2 = 1.2) prior to, during, and after activation of the middle-ear acoustic reflex. A noise suppressor was used to modify the amplitude of the 2f1 - f2 distortion otoacoustic emissions. It was delivered either contralaterally (band noise centered at 4 kHz), or ipsilaterally (3.5 kHz sine wave) to test the role played by the central auditory nuclei. This audiometric approach was used to study the physiological efficiency of the middle-ear acoustic reflex during an injection of a bolus of Intralipid (as a vehicle) containing 58.4, 87.4, or 116.2mM toluene via the carotid artery. The results showed that toluene could either increase or decrease middle-ear acoustic reflex efficiency, depending on the toluene concentration and the ear receiving noise suppressor. A new neuronal circuit of the middle-ear acoustic reflex has been proposed to explain findings obtained in this investigation. Finally, the depressing action of toluene on the central auditory nuclei driving the middle-ear acoustic reflex might explain the synergistic effects of a co-exposure to noise and aromatic solvents.
Troglitazone (TRO), an effective thiazolidinedione antidiabetic agent, was reported to produce idiosyncratic hepatotoxic effects in some individuals. In contrast, rosiglitazone (RSG), in the same group of agents, has no significant toxic effects and now is widely used. In this study, human hepatoma (HepG2) cell lines were exposed to various doses of TRO as well as RSG (0, 25, 50, and 75 microM) for 48 h. Cell lysates were separated by two-dimensional electrophoresis, and the gels were stained with coomassie brilliant blue to compare the spot profiles. The greatest protein expression at a MW of 75 kDa and isoelectric point of 5 was specifically increased with TRO treatments of 50 and 75 microM. The spot was identified as a mixture of immunoglobulin heavy chain binding protein (BiP) and, to a lesser extent, protein disulfide isomerase-related protein (PDIrp). Immunoblot analyses showed that the BiP protein was dose-dependently increased by TRO treatment and, to a lower degree, by RSG. These effects were also correlated with the high induction of BiP mRNA by TRO (50 and 75 microM) and the lower induction by RSG. However, both treatments showed no significant effects on PDIrp expression. The toxic effects of TRO in relation to the overexpression of BiP were also demonstrated in HLE cells, another human hepatoma cell line. In HLE cells, the inhibition of BiP expression by small interference RNA rendered cells more susceptible to the toxic effects of TRO. These results suggest that the overexpression of BiP is a defense mechanism of the endoplasmic reticulum in response to TRO-induced toxicity.
We attempted to determine if an association exists between vancomycin serum concentrations resulting from traditional dosing regimens, and efficacy and toxicity outcomes. We reviewed the medical charts of 273 consecutive patients prescribed 273 courses of vancomycin therapy for documented, gram-positive bacteremia. Of the 273 courses of therapy, 45 and 31 patients met all criteria and were evaluated for toxicity and efficacy, respectively. The duration of fever and abnormal white blood cell counts, length of hospital stay, overall mortality, serum creatinine, and serum vancomycin concentrations were evaluated retrospectively. No association between initial peak or trough levels with mortality was noted. However, patients were more likely to become afebrile within 72 hours if peak and trough concentrations were 20 micrograms/ml or greater and 10 micrograms/ml or greater, respectively (p < 0.01). Patients were also more likely to have their white blood cell count return to normal within 72 hours if trough concentrations were 10 micrograms/ml or above (p < 0.01). No statistically significant correlation between nephrotoxicity and initial serum creatinine, days of hospital stay, or days of vancomycin therapy were found. Serum concentrations of vancomycin, assessed before the development of nephrotoxicity, were significantly higher in patients who became nephrotoxic. Mean (SD) trough concentrations were 23.2 (2.5) micrograms/ml and 10.2 (3.8) micrograms/ml in nephrotoxic and nonnephrotoxic patients, respectively. Our results suggest that the commonly accepted therapeutic range for vancomycin trough concentrations (< 10 micrograms/ml) may be too restrictive in patients receiving vancomycin therapy alone.
Treatment for cancer has been indicated to negatively impact the quality of life for patients. Specifically, chemotherapy has been associated with fatigue, nausea, and peripheral neuropathy. More recently, chemotherapy has been found to be related to cognitive impairment in various domains including working memory, information processing speed, and visual attention. At this time, the mechanisms underlying cognitive impairment are not understood, and there is currently no treatment for this condition. The purpose of this study was to examine the development of chemotherapy-induced cognitive impairments and symptoms of peripheral neuropathy. While receiving the chemotherapeutic agent Taxol, animals were tested daily in the Five Choice Serial Reaction Time Task (5CSRTT), a task which requires animals to respond to a visually presented stimulus in order to obtain reinforcement. In addition, animals were tested for the development of peripheral neuropathy, measured by changes in sensitivity to mechanical stimulation. The results indicate Taxol treated animals developed mechanical sensitivity within 24h after the first injection of chemotherapy. However, relative to control animals, Taxol treated animals did not exhibit alterations in cognitive function in the 5CSRTT. These differential findings may provide interesting insight into the mechanisms underlying chemotherapy-related cognitive impairment.
The anti-inflammatory activity of the phytoalexin resveratrol (RSV) was evaluated in C5 anaphylatoxin (C5a)-stimulated primary neutrophils and in a mouse model of acute peritonitis. Pretreatment of human and mouse neutrophils with RSV significantly blocked oxidative burst, leukocyte migration, degranulation, and inflammatory cytokine production. The anti-inflammatory activity of RSV was a function of inhibition of sphingosine kinase (SphK) activity (IC(50) approximately 20 microM) within 5 min of exposure, its membrane localization, and SphK1-mediated Ca(2+) release. As an experimental control, the SphK1 pharmacological inhibitor N,N-dimethyl sphingosine (DMS) was used to compare the inhibitory effect of RSV. We also provide evidence that the SphK inhibitory effect of RSV was mediated via its ability to block phospholipase D (PLD) activity and membrane recruitment. Furthermore, RSV blocked ERK1/2 phosphorylation, which functioned independently of SphK1 in this study. To provide in vivo relevance to these data, C5a-induced model of acute peritonitis was established, and the effects of prior injection of RSV were investigated. Indeed, prior injection of RSV virtually completely attenuated the effects of C5a on vascular permeability, neutrophil migration, release of interleukin 1beta, tumor necrosis factor alpha, interleukin 6, and the chemokine MIP-1alpha. Taken together, these data demonstrate strong anti-inflammatory activity of RSV in vitro and in vivo and highlight SphK1 as a potential target of this remarkable phytoalexin. These data could have tremendous implications for the clinical use of RSV in inflammatory pathologies.
Ifosfamide is widely used in pediatric oncology but its nephrotoxicity may become a significant issue in survivors. This study is aimed at evaluating the incidence of late renal toxicity of ifosfamide and its risk factors.
Of the 183 patients prospectively investigated for renal function, 77 treated for rhabdomyosarcoma, 39 for other soft tissue sarcoma, 39 for Ewing's sarcoma, and 28 for osteosarcoma were investigated at least 5 years after treatment. No patients had received cisplatin and/or carboplatin. Glomerular and tubular functions were graded according to the Skinner system.
The median dose of ifosfamide was 54 g/m(2) (range, 18 to 117 g/m(2)). After a median follow-up of 10 years, 89.5% of patients had normal tubular function, and 78.5% had normal glomerular function rate (GFR). Serum bicarbonate and calcium were normal in all patients. Hypomagnesemia was observed in 1.2% and hypophosphatemia in 1%. The tubular threshold for phosphate was reduced in 24% of the patients (grade 1 in 15%, grade 2 in 8%, and grade 3 in 0.5%). Glycosuria was detected in 37% of the patients but was more than 0.5 g/24 hours in only 5%. Proteinuria was observed in 12%. Ifosfamide dose and interval from therapy to investigations were predictors of tubulopathy in univariate and multivariate analysis. In a multivariate analysis, an older age at diagnosis and the length of interval since treatment had independent impacts on the risk of abnormal GFR.
Renal toxicity is moderate with a moderate dose of ifosfamide. However, since it can be permanent and can get worse with time, repeated long-term evaluations are important, and this risk should be balanced against efficacy.
Elesclomol is a novel, small-molecule, oxidative stress inducer believed to exert selective cytotoxicity by increasing intracellular concentrations of reactive oxygen species, which results in cell death via mitochondrial apoptosis. We evaluated whether the addition of elesclomol to weekly paclitaxel could improve efficacy in patients with stage IV metastatic melanoma.
We randomly assigned patients with metastatic melanoma, measurable disease, and one or fewer prior chemotherapy regimens to elesclomol 213 mg/m(2) plus paclitaxel 80 mg/m(2) (E + P) or to paclitaxel 80 mg/m(2) alone at a 2:1 ratio; regimens were given as a 1-hour intravenous infusion weekly, during 3 of every 4 weeks until disease progression per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors or death occurred. Patients who experienced progression were unblended, and patients on paclitaxel alone were permitted to cross over to E + P. The primary efficacy end point was progression-free survival (PFS); secondary end points were response rate (RR), toxicity, and overall survival (OS; analyzed post hoc).
At 21 US sites, 53 patients were randomly assigned to E + P, and 28 patients were randomly assigned to paclitaxel. The addition of elesclomol to paclitaxel yielded a doubling of median PFS (112 v 56 days) and a 41.7% risk reduction for disease progression/death (hazard ratio, 0.583; P = .035). Respective RRs for the E + P and paclitaxel groups were 15% and 3%; median OS was 11.9 v 7.8 months. Of patients on paclitaxel alone, 19 (68%) of 28 crossed over to E + P after they experienced progression. Weekly E + P was well tolerated.
E + P resulted in a statistically significant doubling of median PFS, with an acceptable toxicity profile and encouraging OS. A multinational, phase III trial (SYMMETRY) of E + P compared with paclitaxel alone in metastatic melanoma has closed.
Riddelliine is a naturally occurring pyrrolizidine alkaloid, a class of compounds occurring in rangeland plants of the genera Crotalaria, Amsinckia, and Senecio. Two-week and 13-week rodent toxicity studies of riddelliine were conducted because riddelliine can be a contaminant of foodstuffs, such as meat, grains, seeds, milk, herbal tea, and honey. In addition to histopathology, evaluations included clinical pathology and reproductive toxicity. In vitro genetic toxicity studies included assessments of mutagenicity in Salmonella typhimurium and of the induction of chromosomal aberrations and sister chromatid exchanges in Chinese hamster ovary cells. Riddelliine was also evaluated in vivo for the induction of micronuclei in mouse bone marrow and in peripheral blood and for the induction of S-phase synthesis and unscheduled DNA synthesis in the liver of rats and mice. In the 2-week studies, groups of five male and five female F344/N rats and B6C3F1 mice were administered riddelliine in 0.1 M phosphate buffer by gavage at dose levels of 0, 0. 33, 1.0, 3.3, 10, or 25 mg/kg body weight five times per week, for a total of 12 doses. Four of five male rats in the 25 mg/kg group died or were killed moribund before the end of the study. Mean body weight gains of male rats in the 10 and 25 mg/kg groups were depressed. No deaths or body weight effects were observed in female rats. Male rats had dose-related hemorrhagic centrilobular hepatic necrosis, hepatocytic karyomegaly and cytologic alterations, pulmonary hemorrhage and/or edema, splenic extramedullary hematopoiesis, and pancreatic edema. Female rats exhibited fewer and less severe lesions than identically treated male rats. Heart weights of treated male and female rats were lower than those of the controls. No deaths or effects on body weight were observed in treated mice. Dose-related increases in absolute and relative liver weights and increased incidences of hepatic cytomegaly were the only treatment-related findings in male and female mice administered riddelliine. In the 13-week studies, groups of 20 male and 20 female F344/N rats and B6C3FI mice were administered riddelliine in 0.1 M phosphate buffer by gavage five times per week for 13 weeks. Rats received 0, 0.1, 0.33, 1.0, 3.3, or 10 mg/kg and mice received 0, 0.33, 1.0, 3.3, 10, or 25 mg/kg. Ten animals from each dose group were killed after 13 weeks of treatment. The remaining 10 animals in each dose group were observed without further treatment for up to 14 weeks; five animals from each dose group were killed after 7 weeks of recovery, and the remaining five animals per dose group were killed at the end of the 14-week recovery period. During the 13-week treatment period, 19 of 20 male rats in the high-dose group died; all others survived. Body weight gains were decreased with increasing dose at Week 13. During the 14-week recovery period, all male rats survived, but five high-dose females died. Mean body weight gains of dosed and control male rats were similar throughout the 1 4-week recovery period; the final mean body weights of the treated males approached the final mean body weight of the controls. Similarly, mean body weight gains among the treated female rats were similar to the control value at the end of the 14- week recovery period. However, the final mean body weight of female rats given 1.0 or 3.3 mg/kg remained lower than that of controls at the end of the 14-week recovery period. In the 13-week study, the most significant treatment-related histopathologic lesions in rats occurred in the liver and included hepatocyte cytomegaly and karyomegaly, cytoplasmic vacuolization, centrilobular necrosis, mixed inflammatory cell infiltration, and bile duct hyperplasia. Vascular lesions in the kidneys and lungs were observed in most high- dose rats after 13 weeks of riddelliine administration. Additional lesions were found in the heart, spleen, kidneys, and pancreas at 13 weeks. At the end of the 14-week recovery period, hepatocyte karyomegaly, cytomegaly, and cytoplasmic vacuolization persisted. In addition, the incidence of bile duct hyperplasia was markedly increased in dosed female rats, and foci of cytologic alteration or hyperplastic hepatocytes were observed in dosed rats that were allowed to recover for up to 14 weeks. Adenomas of the liver occurred in 2 of 10 females in the 10 mg/kg group at 13 weeks and in one of five females in this group after the 14-week recovery period; no adenomas were found in the livers of control females. Serum activities of alkaline phosphatase in male rats and sorbitol dehydrogenase in female rats increased with increasing dose. Reticulocyte counts consistently increased and platelet counts consistently decreased with increasing dose in treated male and female rats. The clinical pathology findings were indicative of liver damage and erythrocyte and platelet sequestration. In mice in the 13-week study, no deaths related to riddelliine treatment occurred. Body weight gains were depressed at the two highest dose levels (10 and 25 mg/kg); the depression in body weight persisted throughout the 14- week recovery period. Dose-related increases in erythrocyte counts in male mice and in reticulocyte counts in female mice were observed. Dose-related decreases in platelet counts were also observed in both males and females. Centrilobular cytomegaly in the liver was noted at 13 weeks in males and females administered 25 mg/kg riddelliine; this lesion persisted through the recovery period in females. At the end of the 14-week recovery period, bile duct hyperplasia was seen in the liver in high-dose female mice. Epithelial hyperplasia of the forestomach was noted in male and female mice in the 10 and 25 mg/kg groups after 13 weeks of treatment, but this lesion became less severe during the recovery period. In male rats administered up to 3.3 mg/kg and in male mice administered up to 25 mg/kg for 13 weeks, riddelliine did not adversely affect any of the reproductive end points evaluated. In female rats given 10 mg/kg and in female mice given 25 mg/kg, the length of the estrous cycle was increased. However, no unequivocal adverse effects were noted on fertility, pup growth and survival, or weight gain of dams during pregnancy during the mating trial in rats, although mean body weights of dams given 0.1 or 1.0 mg/kg were significantly lower than the mean body weight of the controls throughout gestation and lactation. In contrast, riddelliine administered at a dose of 25 mg/kg was toxic to the dams in the mouse mating trial, resulting in lower body weights at the beginning of gestation and throughout lactation. Administration of 25 mg/kg riddelliine to mouse dams also affected fetal growth and survival; the average live litter size was significantly reduced, the number of pups born dead was increased, and the average pup weight was reduced throughout the 21-day postpartum period. Riddelliine was mutagenic in Salmonella typhimurium strain TA100 with, but not without, S9 activation; results of mutagenicity testing were negative in strains TA97, TA98, and TA1535. Riddelliine induced sister chromatid exchanges in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells with and without S9. Chromosomal aberrations were induced in CHO cells only in the presence of S9. The frequency of micronucleated erythrocytes in mouse peripheral blood samples was not elevated after 4 or 13 weeks of daily gavage treatments; however, a weakly positive response was noted in the peripheral blood and bone marrow of male mice administered a single, high dose of riddelliine by gavage. Unscheduled DNA synthesis was detected in cultured hepatocytes from male and female rats and mice following 5 or 30 days of riddelliine treatment by gavage. In addition, an increase in S-phase DNA synthesis was observed in cultured hepatocytes of male and female rats treated for either time period. In summary, the administration of riddelliine to rodents by gavage for up to 13 weeks resulted in a spectrum of neoplastic and nonneoplastic effects similar to those previously described for other pyrrolizidine alkaloids. Rats were found to be somewhat more sensitive than mice, and males more sensitive than females, to the toxic effects of riddelliine. The no-observed-adverse-effect level (NOAEL) for histopathologic changes in the 13-week studies was 3.3 mg/kg body weight for mice and 0.1 mg/kg body weight for rats. The liver was the primary target of riddelliine-induced injury that resulted in lesions characterized by cytomegaly and cytologic alteration in rats and mice and also by marked necrotic and proliferative changes in rats. Riddelliine is carcinogenic to female F344/N rats, based on the occurrence of hepatocellular adenomas. Synonyms: 13,19-didehydro-12,18-dihydroxy senecionan-11,16- dione; trans-15-ethylidine-12b-hydroxy-12a-hydroxymethyl-13-methylenesenec-1-enine; 3-ethylidine-3,4,5,6,9,11,13,14,14a,14b-decahydro-6-hydroxy-6-(hydroxymethyl)-5-methylene (1,6)di-oxacyclododecino(2,3,4-gh)-pyrrolizidine-2,7-dione.
Genetic factors are thought to contribute to the pathogenesis of acute myocardial infarction (AMI). A common variant of factor XIII (FXIII), FXIII Val34Leu, may be protective against developing an AMI, but various studies show conflicting results. We performed a meta-analysis to determine whether the FXIII Val34Leu variant is associated with a decreased risk of AMI. One hundred ninety-five articles were reviewed and 12 case-control studies were selected. We included studies involving patients with objectively diagnosed AMIs (WHO criteria), provided that FXIII Val34Leu genotyping data were available. Inclusion decisions, quality assessment, and data extraction were conducted by two reviewers. Hypothesizing that the Leu allele was protective, we performed three analyses with the Val/Val genotype as the reference group. Pooled odds ratios (OR) and their 95% confidence intervals (95% CI) were determined. Prior to pooling, heterogeneity testing was performed using the I(2) statistic. These studies included a total of 8,743 patients, of which 3,663 were AMI patients and 5,080 were healthy controls. Using the random effects methods, protective effects were seen with the Leu/Val genotype alone (OR 0.79, 95% CI 0.68-0.93) and with Leu/Val and Leu/Leu genotypes combined (OR 0.79, 95% CI 0.66-0.93). There was also a protective effect with the Leu/Leu genotype alone, (not statistically significant: OR 0.83, 95% CI 0.61-1.12), likely due to the low frequency of this genotype. These results suggest that there is an association between the factor XIII Leu allele and a modest protective effect against AMI and may provide useful information in profiling susceptibility to myocardial infarction.
The antimalarial drug artemisinin from Artemisia annua demonstrated remarkably strong activity against Helicobacter pylori, the pathogen responsible for peptic ulcer diseases. In an effort to develop a novel antimicrobial chemotherapeutic agent containing such a sesquiterpene lactone endoperoxide, a series of analogues (2 natural and 15 semisynthetic molecules), including eight newly synthesized compounds, were investigated against clinical and standard strains of H. pylori. The antimicrobial spectrum against 10 H. pylori strains and a few other bacterial and fungal strains indicated specificity against the ulcer causing organism. Of five promising molecules, a newly synthesized ether derivative β-artecyclopropylmether was found to be the most potent compound, which exhibited MIC range, MIC(90), and minimum bactericidal concentration range values of 0.25 to 1.0 μg/ml, 1.0 μg/ml, and 1 to 16 μg/ml, respectively, against both resistant and sensitive strains of H. pylori. The molecule demonstrated strong bactericidal kinetics with extensive morphological degeneration, retained functional efficacy at stomach acidic pH unlike clarithromycin, did not elicit drug resistance unlike metronidazole, and imparted sensitivity to resistant strains. It is not cytotoxic and exhibits in vivo potentiality to reduce the H. pylori burden in a chronic infection model. Thus, β-artecyclopropylmether could be a lead candidate for anti-H. pylori therapeutics. Since the recurrence of gastroduodenal ulcers is believed to be mainly due to antibiotic resistance of the commensal organism H. pylori, development of a candidate drug from this finding is warranted.
We studied D-penicillamine toxicity in 259 patients with systemic sclerosis treated since 1972. The average daily dose of 635 mg was given for a mean of 1.8 years. Of patients with systemic sclerosis, 47% has side effects from D-penicillamine treatment, similar to the 56% of 807 patients with rheumatoid arthritis in seven separate series. Individual manifestations of toxicity included rash, proteinuria, gastrointestinal symptoms, dysgeusia, oral ulcers, thrombocytopenia, and neutropenia. Four episodes each of myasthenia gravis and pemphigus occurred in our patients; both were reported rarely in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Adverse effects occurred more frequently after rapid increases in dosage. Treatment had to be discontinued due to toxicity in 29% of patients with systemic sclerosis and in 33% of those with rheumatoid arthritis. Although toxic, with a high frequency of adverse effects, D-penicillamine can be used safely in the treatment of systemic sclerosis. Pemphigus and myasthenia gravis may occur more frequently with therapy for systemic sclerosis than with that for rheumatoid arthritis.
Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are neurodevelopmental disorders characterized by abnormalities in reciprocal social interactions and language development and/or usage, and by restricted interests and repetitive behaviors. Differential gene expression of neurologically relevant genes in lymphoblastoid cell lines from monozygotic twins discordant in diagnosis or severity of autism suggested that epigenetic factors such as DNA methylation or microRNAs (miRNAs) may be involved in ASD.
Global miRNA expression profiling using lymphoblasts derived from these autistic twins and unaffected sibling controls was therefore performed using high-throughput miRNA microarray analysis. Selected differentially expressed miRNAs were confirmed by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) analysis, and the putative target genes of two of the confirmed miRNA were validated by knockdown and overexpression of the respective miRNAs.
Differentially expressed miRNAs were found to target genes highly involved in neurological functions and disorders in addition to genes involved in gastrointestinal diseases, circadian rhythm signaling, as well as steroid hormone metabolism and receptor signaling. Novel network analyses of the putative target genes that were inversely expressed relative to the relevant miRNA in these same samples further revealed an association with ASD and other co-morbid disorders, including muscle and gastrointestinal diseases, as well as with biological functions implicated in ASD, such as memory and synaptic plasticity. Putative gene targets (ID3 and PLK2) of two RT-PCR-confirmed brain-specific miRNAs (hsa-miR-29b and hsa-miR-219-5p) were validated by miRNA overexpression or knockdown assays, respectively. Comparisons of these mRNA and miRNA expression levels between discordant twins and between case-control sib pairs show an inverse relationship, further suggesting that ID3 and PLK2 are in vivo targets of the respective miRNA. Interestingly, the up-regulation of miR-23a and down-regulation of miR-106b in this study reflected miRNA changes previously reported in post-mortem autistic cerebellum by Abu-Elneel et al. in 2008. This finding validates these differentially expressed miRNAs in neurological tissue from a different cohort as well as supports the use of the lymphoblasts as a surrogate to study miRNA expression in ASD.
Findings from this study strongly suggest that dysregulation of miRNA expression contributes to the observed alterations in gene expression and, in turn, may lead to the pathophysiological conditions underlying autism.
A case of prosthetic valve endocarditis due to methicillin susceptible Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA) with cerebral metastatic seeding is described. The patient is a 61 year old man with diabetes mellitus, chronic renal failure and previous bacterial endocarditis. Despite appropriate MSSA therapy, the patient was eventually cured with the introduction of linezolid, without needing surgical intervention.
To evaluate the effectiveness of medical therapy during watchful waiting in patients with distal ureter stones.
Ninety-six patients with radiopaque stones located in the distal tract of the ureter and with stone sizes of 1 cm or smaller were involved in the study. The patients were randomly divided into two groups. Group A (n = 48) received oral treatment with 30 mg of deflazacort daily (maximum 10 days) plus 30 mg of slow-release nifedipine daily (maximum 4 weeks). Group B (n = 48) underwent a wait-and-watch approach. Both groups of patients were allowed to use diclofenac on demand. Statistical analyses were carried out using Student's t test, the chi-square test, and Fisher's exact test.
The average stone size was 5.8 +/- 1.8 mm for group A and 5. 5 +/- 1.4 mm for group B. No statistically significant difference was found in stone size. Stone expulsion was observed in 38 (79%) of 48 patients in group A and in 17 (35%) of 48 patients in group B. The average expulsion time was 7 days (range 2 to 10) for group A and 20 days (range 10 to 28) for group B. A statistically significant difference was observed in both the expulsion rate and the expulsion time (P <0.05). The mean amount of sodium diclofenac used was 15 mg per patient for group A and 105 mg per patient for group B (P <0.05).
The medical treatment proved to be effective and safe, as demonstrated by the increased stone expulsion rate, decreased expulsion time, and reduced need for analgesic therapy.
We report three cases of jaundice in women taking 800 mg pirprofen.day-1 during 6 weeks to 4 months and a half. Two of them presented cutaneous side effects: one case was rapidly better with corticosteroids. Fatal case possibility incite to transaminase surveillance.
Ninety-one patients with acute myocardial infarction were assigned to intravenous treatment with streptokinase or rt-PA as part of the randomized trial carried out by the European Study Group for Recombinant Tissue-Type Plasminogen Activator (rt-PA). A patent coronary artery was found in 37 of 45 (82%) patients treated with rt-PA and in 27 of 46 (59%) patients treated with streptokinase 75-90 minutes after start of infusion. Patients were subsequently anticoagulated with heparin or dicoumarol up to a repeat angiography 3 weeks after the infarction. Of the 64 patients with successful reperfusion, 3 died and 3 suffered reocclusion of the vessel. Quantitative analysis of the coronary stenosis both immediately after thrombolysis and at 3 weeks follow-up was possible in 33 cases. Residual stenosis (percentage narrowing of diameter) decreased from 74 +/- 14% to 56 +/- 17% (P less than 0.05). No difference was observed between the groups of patients treated with streptokinase (74 +/- 9% to 57 +/- 12%, N = 17) and with rt-PA (74 +/- 17% to 56 +/- 21%, N = 16). Despite the significant regression, a coronary stenosis of more than 50% of the diameter persisted in 82% of the patients three weeks after the infarction.
Our aim was to study the evolution of cocaine-related health problems in Catalonia, Spain.
Analysis of first treatment admissions, emergency-room episodes, and mortality recorded by information systems on drug abuse in Catalonia and the city of Barcelona (Spain) in 1999.
In 1999, cocaine was the illegal drug most frequently reported among drug-related emergency-room episodes (1,093 episodes in the city of Barcelona). In addition, cocaine was the illegal drug most frequently found among fatal drug overdoses (80% of all deaths in the last quarter of 1999) and the one that caused the highest number of treatment admissions (1,547 cases in Catalonia).
There is an increase in cocaine-related health problems which means that it is needed health to improve the diagnosis, health education, treatment and prevention of complications associated with the use of this substance.
Obesity and metabolic syndrome are significant problems for patients taking antipsychotic drugs. Evidence is emerging of genetic risk factors.
To investigate the influence of two candidate genes, smoking and drug treatment on obesity and metabolic syndrome in patients with schizophrenia.
Patients (n=134) were assessed for measures of obesity, other factors contributing to metabolic syndrome, and two genetic polymorphisms (5-HT(2C) receptor -759C/T and leptin -2548A/G).
Neither genotype nor smoking was significantly associated with measures of obesity. However, both leptin genotype and smoking were significantly associated with metabolic syndrome. Significant interaction occurred between the genetic polymorphisms for effects on obesity, whereby a genotype combination increased risk. Drug treatment showed significant effects on measures of obesity and triglyceride concentrations; risperidone was associated with lower values than olanzapine or clozapine.
The findings suggest interacting genetic risk factors and smoking influence development of metabolic syndrome in patients on antipsychotic drugs.
The systemic administration of atorvastatin has been shown to be neuroprotective after spinal cord injury (SCI), by decreasing the inflammatory response at the lesion site and by reducing neuronal and oligodendrocyte apoptosis. The latter effect spares white matter at the injury site and improves locomotion. The aim of this study was to confirm the neuroprotective efficacy of atorvastatin as well as its early action in limiting apoptosis with its administration post-SCI. Female Sprague-Dawley rats received an intra peritoneal injection of: (1) statin/saline (5mg/kg) at 2h after the contusion injury; (2) physiological saline at 2h post-SCI; or (3) physiological saline without injury. Statin-treated rats showed significant (p<0.05) improvement in locomotion at week 4 post-SCI compared to vehicle-treated animals. Explaining this outcome, caspase-3 activity decreased by 50% (p<0.05), and the histological TUNEL method revealed a decrease of approximately 20% in apoptotic cells at the injury site (p<0.01) at 4h post-SCI in atorvastatin-treated rats in comparison to vehicle-treated controls. These data demonstrate that atorvastatin is effective after experimental spinal cord contusion injury in preventing early apoptosis at the injury site within 2h post-administration.
A prospective study was performed on the effect of epidural morphine (2 mg in 10 ml of saline) in three groups of patients: (1) following gynecological operations, 60; (2) following cesarean section, 120; (3) patients in active labor, 30. Pain relief in the first group was uniformly and almost invariably complete for up to 24 hours. In the second group spasmodic visceral pain was felt after about 10 hours, relieved by light analgesics. The wound was not painful. In the third group only hypoalgesia was obtained during labor, but if an episiotomy was done, the pain in the perineum was relieved. Few side effects were observed: urinary retention, vomiting, and non-segmental itching. Neither motor nor sympathetic block were noted. The somatic effect of epidural morphine was reliable and uniform, whereas visceral pain was poorly affected. The side effects cause relatively little disturbance at the dose used.
The haplotypes in the gene vitamin K epoxide reductase complex subunit 1 (VKORC1) have been found to affect warfarin dose response through effects on the formation of reduced-form vitamin K, a cofactor for gamma-carboxylation of vitamin K-dependent proteins, which is involved in the coagulation cascade and has a potential impact on atherosclerosis. We hypothesized that VKORC1-dependent effects on the coagulation cascade and atherosclerosis would contribute to susceptibility for vascular diseases.
To test the hypothesis, we studied the association of polymorphisms of VKORC1 with stroke (1811 patients), coronary heart disease (740 patients), and aortic dissection (253 patients) compared with matched controls (n=1811, 740, and 416, respectively). Five common noncoding single-nucleotide polymorphisms of VKORC1 were identified in a natural haplotype block with strong linkage disequilibrium (D'>0.9, r2>0.9), then single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) +2255 in the block was selected for the association study. We found that the presence of the C allele of the +2255 locus conferred almost twice the risk of vascular disease (odds ratio [OR] 1.95, 95% confidence interval [CI] .58 to 2.41, P<0.001 for stroke; OR 1.72, 95% CI 1.24 to 2.38, P<0.01 for coronary heart disease; and OR 1.90, 95% CI 1.04 to 3.48, P<0.05 for aortic dissection). We also observed that subjects with the CC and CT genotypes had lower levels of undercarboxylated osteocalcin (a regulator for the bone), probably vascular calcification, and lower levels of protein induced in vitamin K absence or antagonism II (PIVKA-II, a des-gamma-carboxy prothrombin) than those with TT genotypes.
The haplotype of VKORC1 may serve as a novel genetic marker for the risk of stroke, coronary heart disease, and aortic dissection.
