We describe a case of delirium due to olanzapine overdose. After ingestion of 280 mg of olanzapine, a 19-year-old schizophrenic patient developed a delirium (ICD-10: F 05.0) with consciousness disturbance, disorientation in time, space, and situation, acoustic and visual hallucinations, and agitation. The symptoms lasted for approximately 36 h. Blood pressure, temperature, and heart frequency showed no disturbance. There were no abnormalities in ECG, EEG, or routine blood tests. Approximately 36 h after the intoxication, the patient recovered fully. Until now, there have been no reports of delirium from this cause.
To assess the reproductive toxicity exerted by formaldehyde to adult male rats and the functional mechanism therein in volved.
Forty adult male rats were randomLy divided into 4 groups. One group served as control. The other 3 groups as exposure groups were intraperitoneally injected with formaldehyde at the dose of 0.10 mg/kg x d, 1.00 mg/kg x d, 10 mg/kg x d respectively and continuously for 14 days. The weight and morphology of testis, the quality and amount of sperm, and the serum hormone were examined. In addition, the apoptosis rate of testis tissue was examined by TUNEL and the expression of Fas gene in testis tissue by immunohistochemistry.
Compared with control, the weight of testis in the high-dose formaldehyde exposure group significantly decreased (P < 0.05); the convoluted tubules became atrophied, the layers of seminiferous epithelium decreased, the arrangement of seminiferous epithelium was in disorder in the medium- and high-dose formaldehyde exposure groups; the sperm count and sperm motility significantly decreased (P < 0.05), the percent of abnormal sperm significantly increased (P < 0.05)in the medium- and high-dose formaldehyde exposure groups; the serum testosterone content mildly decreased and the serum FSH and LH content mildly increased in the formaldehyde exposure groups, but no statistically significant difference was observed. Moreover, in comparison with control, the apoptosis rate and the expression of Fas gene increased in the testicular tissue of rats in the medium- and high-dose formaldehyde exposure groups (P < 0.05). The apoptosis rate was significantly correlated with the expression of Fas gene (r = 0.8832, P < 0. 05).
Formaldehyde exerts reproductive toxicity to adult male rats, and Fas-mediated apoptosis may be one of the functional mechanisms involved in the reproductive toxicity of formaldehyde.
The study was undertaken to evaluate the antidiabetic effect of coumarin on carbohydrate metabolic key enzymes in control and streptozotocin (STZ)-nicotinamide (NA)-induced diabetic rats. On oral administration of coumarin at a dose of 100mg/kg body weight per day to diabetic rats for 45 days; resulted in a significant reduction in the levels of plasma glucose, glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA(1)c) and increase in the levels of insulin and hemoglobin. Administration of coumarin caused a significant increase in the levels of glycolytic enzyme (hexokinase) and hepatic shunt enzyme (glucose-6-phophate dehydrogenase) whereas significant decrease in the levels of gluconeogenic enzymes (glucose-6-phosphatase and fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase) in diabetic treated rats. Furthermore, protection against body weight loss of diabetic animals also observed. This study indicates that the administration of coumarin to diabetic rats resulted in alterations in the metabolism of glucose with subsequent reduction in plasma glucose levels.
A role for nerve growth factor (NGF) in contributing to increased voiding frequency and altered sensation from the urinary bladder has been suggested. Previous studies have examined the expression and regulation of tyrosine kinase receptors (Trks) in micturition reflexes with urinary bladder inflammation. The present studies examine the expression and regulation of another receptor known to bind NGF, p75(NTR), after various durations of bladder inflammation induced by cyclophosphamide (CYP). CYP-induced cystitis increased (P < or = 0.001) p75(NTR) expression in the superficial lateral and medial dorsal horn in L1-L2 and L6-S1 spinal segments. The number of p75(NTR)-immunoreactive (-IR) cells in the lumbosacral dorsal root ganglia (DRG) also increased (P < or = 0.05) with CYP-induced cystitis (acute, intermediate, and chronic). Quantitative, real-time polymerase chain reaction also demonstrated significant increases (P < or = 0.01) in p75(NTR) mRNA in DRG with intermediate and chronic CYP-induced cystitis. Retrograde dye-tracing techniques with Fastblue were used to identify presumptive bladder afferent cells in the lumbosacral DRG. In bladder afferent cells in DRG, p75(NTR)-IR was also increased (P < or = 0.01) with cystitis. In addition to increases in p75(NTR)-IR in DRG cell bodies, increases (P < or = 0.001) in pericellular (encircling DRG cells) p75(NTR)-IR in DRG also increased. Confocal analyses demonstrated that pericellular p75(NTR)-IR was not colocalized with the glial marker, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). These studies demonstrate that p75(NTR) expression in micturition reflexes is present constitutively and modified by bladder inflammation. The functional significance of p75(NTR) expression in micturition reflexes remains to be determined.
This study evaluated the feasibility and impact of gradually reducing relatively high doses of fluphenazine decanoate by one-half for chronically impaired, poor inner-city patients with schizophrenia.
Forty-three patients currently receiving an average of 23 mg (0.3 mg/kg) of fluphenazine decanoate every 2 weeks were divided alternately into a group to remain at current doses (control group) and a group to undergo stepwise 50% dose reduction over 5 months under double-blind conditions. Clinical status and side effects were assessed quarterly for a year. Relapse was determined clinically and by changes in psychopathology ratings.
Eighty-six percent (N = 37) of the patients (control group, N = 17; reduced-dose group, N = 20) completed the study. The groups did not differ at baseline in demographic or clinical variables or neuroleptic dose. In the reduced-dose group, doses were lowered to an average of 11.5 mg every 2 weeks. The two groups did not differ throughout the year in number of relapses, and hospitalization rates fell similarly in both (overall, by about 67%). Clinical measures changed little. Extrapyramidal symptoms worsened in the control group but improved slightly in the reduced-dose group. Tardive dyskinesia worsened in both groups, but less in the reduced-dose group.
Maintenance neuroleptic doses much lower than the conventional ones can be achieved safely in schizophrenic patients by gradual reduction, without clinical worsening and perhaps with fewer extrapyramidal symptoms and less tardive dyskinesia. The two-thirds lower hospitalization rate, with substantial financial savings, apparently was due to nonspecific effects of research intervention.
The effect of exercise on the severity of isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction was studied in male rats. Ninety-three rats were randomly divided into three groups. The exercise-isoproterenol (E-1) and exercise control (EC) groups exercised daily for thirty days on a treadmill at 1 mph, 2% grade while animals of the sedentary-isoproterenol (S-I) group remained sedentary. Eight animals were assigned to the sedentary control (SC) group which remained sedentary throughout the experimental period. Forty-eight hours after the final exercise period, S-I and E-I animals received a single subcutaneous injection of isoproterenol (250 mg/kg body weight). Animals of the S-I group exhibited significantly (Pp less than 0.05) greater mortality from the effects of isoproterenol than animals of the E-I group. Serum CPK activity for E-I animals was significantly (p less than 0.05) greater than for animals in the S-I and EC groups twenty hours following isoproterenol injection. No statistically significant differences were observed between the two isoproterenol treated groups for severity of the induced lesions, changes in heart weight, or heart weight to body weight ratios. The results indicated that exercise reduced the mortality associated with the effects of large dosages of isoproterenol but had little on the severity of the infarction.
This study addressed the unique clinical properties attributed to the atypical antipsychotic clozapine, including its efficacy in patients with treatment-refractory psychosis and against negative symptoms, its lack of acute extrapyramidal side effects, and the longer time course of its therapeutic effects.
The clinical responses of 84 schizophrenic inpatients (66 with treatment-refractory illness and 18 who were intolerant of antipsychotic treatment) were examined. After all previous antipsychotic medications had been withdrawn, the patients were treated with clozapine according to a standardized titration and dosage schedule. Patients who tolerated and responded to treatment were discharged and maintained on a regimen of clozapine for up to 52 weeks. Patients were evaluated for behavioral response and side effects after weeks 3, 6, 12, 26, 39, and 52 of treatment.
Fifty percent of the patients with treatment-refractory illness and 76% of the treatment-intolerant patients responded to clozapine in up to 52 weeks. The optimal period for a trial of clozapine appeared to be 12-24 weeks. Clozapine exhibited therapeutic effects on negative symptoms, but these were not clearly independent of its effects on positive symptoms and extrapyramidal side effects. Several variables, including early age at onset of illness and female gender, were found to be predictors of poor response to treatment. Predictors of good response included the presence of extrapyramidal side effects during previous treatment with classic neuroleptics and a diagnosis of paranoid schizophrenia.
These findings have important implications for the use of clozapine and our understanding of the pathophysiology of treatment-resistant schizophrenia.
The c-ski proto-oncogene has been implicated in the control of cell growth and skeletal muscle differentiation. To determine its normal functions in vivo, we have disrupted the mouse c-ski gene. Our results show a novel role for ski in the morphogenesis of craniofacial structures and the central nervous system, and confirm its proposed function as a player in skeletal muscle development. Homozygous mutant mice show perinatal lethality resulting from exencephaly, a defect caused by failed closure of the cranial neural tube during neurulation. The timing of the neural tube defect in ski -/- embryos coincides with excessive apoptosis in the cranial neuroepithelium, as well as in the cranial mesenchyme. Homozygous ski mutants also exhibit a dramatic reduction in skeletal muscle mass, consistent with a defect in expansion of a myogenic precursor population. Nestin is an intermediate filament expressed in highly proliferative neuroepithelial stem cells and in myogenic precursors. Interestingly, we find decreased nestin expression in both the cranial neural tube and the somites of ski -/- embryos, compared with their normal littermates, but no reduction of nestin in the caudal neural tube. These results are consistent with a model in which ski activities are required for the successful expansion of a subset of precursors in the neuroepithelial or skeletal muscle lineages.
The effect of glucosamine sulfate on the analgesic properties and ulcerogenic action of ketoprofen has been experimentally studied in the course of drug adminstration in laboratory animals in comparison to the ketoprofen monotherapy. An analysis of the results shows that the combined application of glucosamine sulfate with ketoprofen produces a twofold increase in the analgesic activity of ketoprofen and decreases the drug-induced damage of the stomach mucous membrane. These effects are especially pronounced for the following ratio of components: ketoprofen, 16 or 24 mg/kg; glucosamine sulfate, 125 mg/kg.
The effects of chronic treatment with losartan, an angiotensin II type 1 (AT1) receptor antagonist, and benazepril, an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, on target-organ damage and abnormal circadian blood pressure (BP) rhythm were compared in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRSP). Losartan and benazepril were given by intraperitoneal infusion for 3 weeks after 17 weeks of age to minimize any influence of their different pharmacokinetic properties. BP was continuously monitored by telemetrical method before treatment and at the end of the observation period. The left ventricular (LV) weight, 24-hour urinary albumin excretion (UalbV) and morphological changes in the kidney were observed. Losartan and benazepril (1, 3 and 10 mg/day) reduced BP and LV weight in a dose-dependent manner with good correlation between the effects. Losartan significantly improved UalbV in a dose-dependent manner, whereas benazepril was effective at only 10 mg/day. Renal morphological analysis showed that reduction of glomerulosclerosis and collagen fiber thickness was related to the effect on UalbV, but not to the antihypertensive effects. Losartan improved the shifted circadian BP rhythm towards the active phase in a dose-dependent manner, whereas the improvement caused by 1 and 3 mg/day of benazepril was less effective than the same dosage of losartan. These results suggest that both losartan and benazepril can reduce cardiac hypertrophy showing good correlation with their antihypertensive effects, but losartan, especially at a low dose, alleviates renal damage more effectively than benazepril, with its effect correlating well with improvement of the abnormal circadian BP rhythm in SHRSP. Thus, the protective effect against hypertensive target organ damage of the AT1 receptor antagonist seems to be more effective than that of ACE inhibitor.
This study was undertaken to assess the effects of eugenol (EUG) on tracheal muscle (TM) and the putative mechanisms underlying these effects. Cumulatively increasing concentrations (1-1000 μm) of EUG did not affect the resting tonus of TM. However, EUG (1-2000 μm) reduced the contractions induced by electrical field stimulation (IC(50) = 842.3 ± 52.7 μm), an effect that was unaltered by either 10 μm montelukast (IC(50) = 816.1 ± 70.1 μm) or 2 μm indomethacin (IC(50) = 693.1 ± 170.8 μm). EUG also completely relaxed the sustained contractile responses to 80 mM K(+) (IC(50)  = 597.3 ± 60.6 μm) and 1 μm carbamoylcholine (IC(50) = 571.3 ± 148.8 μm), an effect that was unaltered by indomethacin (2 μm). Under Ca(2+) -free conditions, EUG reduced the ACh-induced contractions (IC(50) = 703.4 ± 256.1 μm), the CaCl₂ -induced contractions in preparations pretreated with 60 μm ACh in the presence of nifedipine, and the Ba(2+) -induced contractions in preparations depolarized with K(+) . In tracheal preparations maintained in Ca(2+) -containing solution, EUG (300-2000 μm) relaxed the contractile response to phorbol dibutyrate (1 μm), an activator of protein kinase C. It is concluded that in TM, EUG induces a myogenic antispasmodic effect (not modulated by arachidonic acid derivatives) either through various mechanisms almost with the same pharmacological potency or via an action on a step common to all of them. These mechanisms seem to include blockade of voltage- and receptor-operated Ca(2+) channels, IP₃ -induced Ca(2+) release from sarcoplasmic reticulum and reduction of the sensitivity of contractile proteins to Ca(2+) .
General anesthesia is commonly associated with sleep disorders, fatigue, drowsiness, and mood alterations in patients. The authors examined whether general (propofol) anesthesia can impact the circadian temporal structure by disturbing circadian rest-activity and body temperature rhythms under normal light-dark conditions (light-dark 12:12 h) in rats.
A group of rats was anesthetized with propofol, and another was injected with 10% Intralipid, which was used as a control lipidic solution. The authors examined six groups of rats according to the Zeitgeber time of intraperitoneal administration (ZT6, ZT10, ZT16) and the substance injected (propofol or Intralipid).
On the day after anesthesia, propofol induced a significant 60- to 80-min phase advance of both rest-activity and body temperature rhythms. A significant 45- to 60-min phase advance of body temperature and a significant 20-min phase advance of rest-activity were still observed on the second day after anesthesia. The amplitudes of both rest-activity and body temperature rhythms were decreased on the first and second days after anesthesia. The 24-h mean rest-activity rhythm was decreased on the day after anesthesia, whereas the 24-h mean body temperature rhythm was not modified.
The results demonstrate the disturbing effects of propofol anesthesia on the circadian time structure in rats under normal light conditions.
Oro-facial (tardive) dyskinesia, occurring in patients on long-term antipsychotic (dopamine antagonist) medication, can be suppressed temporarily by increasing the drug dose. Lowering the dose can exacerbate the condition. In patients receiving regular fluphenazine decanoate (FPZ) and flupenthixol decanoate (FPT) injections, characteristic profiles of the fluctuations in plasma level concentrations, occurring during the injection interval, have been demonstrated. The possible effects of these relatively predictable plasma level changes on the severity of oro-facial dyskinesia, and parkinsonism, were investigated. Regular assessment of oro-facial dyskinesia throughout the injection interval was carried out in six patients receiving FPZ and two patients receiving FPT. In both groups, changes were observed in the severity of oro-facial dyskinesia consistent with the expected effects of drug level fluctuations. The main implication of this finding is that, in investigations of tardive dyskinesia in patients receiving depot medication, ratings should be carried out at a standard time relative to injections.
In normal conscious rats investigated by continuous cystometry, intravesically instilled prostaglandin (PG) E2 facilitated micturition and increased basal intravesical pressure. The effect was attenuated by both the NK1 receptor selective antagonist RP 67,580 and the NK2 receptor selective antagonist SR 48,968, given intra-arterially, suggesting that it was mediated by stimulation of both NK1 and NK2 receptors. Intra-arterially given PGE2 produced a distinct increase in bladder pressure before initiating a micturition reflex, indicating that the PG had a direct contractant effect on the detrusor smooth muscle. The effect of intra-arterial PGE2 could not be blocked by intra-arterial RP 67,580 or SR 48,968, which opens the possibility that the micturition reflex elicited by intra-arterial PGE2 was mediated by pathways other than the reflex initiated when the PG was given intravesically. The present results thus suggest that intra-arterial PGE2, given near the bladder, may initiate micturition in the normal rat chiefly by directly contracting the smooth muscle of the detrusor. However, when given intravesically, PGE2 may stimulate micturition by releasing tachykinins from nerves in and/or immediately below the urothelium. These tachykinins, in turn, initiate a micturition reflex by stimulating NK1 and NK2 receptors. Prostanoids may, via release of tachykinins, contribute to both urge and bladder hyperactivity seen in inflammatory conditions of the lower urinary tract.
In a large prospective, observational study of pregnancy and child development, the anorectic drugs (amphetamines and phenmetrazine) prescribed to gravid women during different stages of pregnancy were evaluated for their teratogenicity. The severe congenital anomaly rate (SCA) per 100 live-born children at age five years did not differ from the SCA rate of the group of children whose mothers did not use these drugs. There was, however, an excess of oral clefts in the offspring of mothers who had amphetamines prescribed in the first 56 days from the last menstrual period. A rought test of efficacy of anorectic drugs by comparing mean weight gains in four-week periods before and after the prescription showed only short-term and limited reduction of weight gain.
A case of rhabdomyolysis with acute renal failure associated with bezafibrate and furosemide treatment is reported. The possible interaction between these drugs in determining myopathic toxicity is underlined.
Mutations of the neurofibromin gene (NF1) cause neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1), a disease in which learning disabilities are common. Learning deficits also are observed in mice with a heterozygous mutation of Nf1 (Nf1(+/-)). Dysregulation of regulated neurotransmitter release has been observed in Nf1(+/-) mice. However, the role of presynaptic voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels mediating this release has not been investigated. We investigated whether Ca(2+) currents and transmitter release were affected by reduced neurofibromin in Nf1(+/-) mice. Hippocampal Ca(2+) current density was greater in neurons from Nf1(+/-) mice and a greater fraction of Ca(2+) currents was activated at less depolarized potentials. In addition, release of the excitatory neurotransmitter, glutamate, was increased in neuronal cortical cultures from Nf1(+/-) mice. Dendritic complexity and axonal length were also increased in neurons Nf1(+/-) mice compared to wild-type neurons, linking loss of neurofibromin to developmental changes in hippocampal axonal/cytoskeletal dynamics. Collectively, these results show that altered Ca(2+) channel density and transmitter release, along with increased axonal growth may account for the abnormal nervous system functioning in NF1.
The subjects of this multicenter study were 159 patients aged 21 to 76 years with mild to moderate uncomplicated essential hypertension. The patients were randomly assigned to receive up to 40 mg of enalapril daily or 360 mg of sustained-release diltiazem daily for a titration period of eight weeks and then maintenance doses for four weeks. The treatment goal was a supine diastolic blood pressure of less than 90 mmHg or a fall of at least 10 mmHg from baseline. During titration, 62% of the enalapril-treated patients and 51% of the diltiazem-treated patients reached the treatment goal after two weeks, 82% and 74% after four weeks, 87% and 84% after six weeks, and 92% and 87% after eight weeks. During the maintenance period, 85% of the enalapril-treated and 87% of the diltiazem-treated patients maintained the goal blood pressure. Treatment side effects were reported by 21% of the enalapril-treated patients and 29% of the diltiazem-treated patients; treatment was discontinued in two patients from each group because of side effects. It is concluded that both drugs were generally well tolerated and effective in the treatment of adult mild to moderate essential hypertension.
The neurotrophic factor glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) may have therapeutic potential for preventing and treating cocaine addiction. Previously, we found that transplantation of a GDNF-expressing astrocyte cell line into the striatum and nucleus accumbens attenuates cocaine-seeking behavior in Sprague-Dawley rats. However, as a potential treatment for humans, cell transplantation presents several technical and ethical complications. Nanoparticulate systems are a safe and effective method for introducing exogenous compounds into the brain. Therefore, we examined the effect of GDNF-conjugated nanoparticles microinjected into the striatum and nucleus accumbens on cocaine self-administration in rats. GDNF-conjugated nanoparticles blocked the acquisition of cocaine self-administration compared to control treatments. Furthermore, a cocaine dose response demonstrated that decreased lever response in rats that received GDNF-conjugated nanoparticles persisted after substitution with different cocaine doses. This effect is not due to a non-specific disruption of locomotor or operant behavior, as seen following a water operant task. The current study is one of the first demonstrations that drug-conjugated nanoparticles may be effective in treating brain disorders. These findings suggest that GDNF-conjugated nanoparticles may serve as a novel potential treatment for drug addiction.
Systemic vasculitis is a rare complication of therapy with antithyroid medication. Antineutrophilic cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA)-associated vasculitis has been described in patients treated with propylthiouracil (PTU) and methimazole (MMI). The majority of cases have underlying Graves' disease. The authors report 2 children who developed ANCA-associated systemic vasculitis during PTU therapy of Graves' disease. One patient, after PTU treatment for 3 years, developed severe systemic vasculitis. After 3 weeks of arthritis, she abruptly presented with hematuria, proteinuria and edema concomitant with anemia. Her serum creatinine was elevated, to 6 mg/dl. Renal biopsy revealed crescentic glomerulonephritis. After admission, she developed intracerebral hemorrhage and pulmonary hemorrhage. She had positive perinuclear-ANCA (p-ANCA) with a titer of 1:160. Despite intensive therapy with immunosuppressive agents and plasmapheresis, as well as discontinuation of PTU, she died of the complications of severe systemic vasculitis. The other patient developed fever, arthralgia and leukocytoclastic vasculitis of the skin during treatment with PTU for about 2 years. Her symptoms and skin lesions disappeared after discontinuation of PTU. However, she has had a persistently high titer of p-ANCA 1:320 through 17 months follow-up time. Thus, patients who are treated with PTU can develop ANCA-positive vasculitis in a mild or severe form. Therefore, they should be carefully followed and monitored, not only for their thyroid status but also the serious complications of PTU.
The LRRK2 mutation G2019S is the most common genetic cause of Parkinson's disease (PD). To better understand the link between mutant LRRK2 and PD pathology, we derived induced pluripotent stem cells from PD patients harboring LRRK2 G2019S and then specifically corrected the mutant LRRK2 allele. We demonstrate that gene correction resulted in phenotypic rescue in differentiated neurons and uncovered expression changes associated with LRRK2 G2019S. We found that LRRK2 G2019S induced dysregulation of CPNE8, MAP7, UHRF2, ANXA1, and CADPS2. Knockdown experiments demonstrated that four of these genes contribute to dopaminergic neurodegeneration. LRRK2 G2019S induced increased extracellular-signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK) phosphorylation. Transcriptional dysregulation of CADPS2, CPNE8, and UHRF2 was dependent on ERK activity. We show that multiple PD-associated phenotypes were ameliorated by inhibition of ERK. Therefore, our results provide mechanistic insight into the pathogenesis induced by mutant LRRK2 and pointers for the development of potential new therapeutics.
To assess whether there is an association between the level of in utero cocaine exposure and findings on neonatal cranial ultrasound, controlling for potentially confounding variables.
In a prospective longitudinal study, three cocaine exposure groups were defined by maternal report and infant meconium assay: unexposed, heavier cocaine exposure (>75th percentile self-reported days of use or of meconium benzoylecogonine concentration) or lighter cocaine exposure (all others). Neonatal ultrasounds from 241 well, term infants were read by a single radiologist who was masked to the exposure group.
Infants with lighter cocaine exposure did not differ from the unexposed infants on any ultrasound findings. After controlling for infant gender, gestational age, and birth weight z scores and for maternal parity, blood pressure in labor, ethnicity, and use of cigarettes, alcohol, and marijuana during pregnancy, the more heavily cocaine-exposed infants were more likely than the unexposed infants to show subependymal hemorrhage in the caudothalamic groove (covariate adjusted odds ratio: 3.88; 95% confidence interval: 1.45, 10.35).
This is the first study to demonstrate that ultrasound findings suggestive of vascular injury to the neonatal central nervous system are related to the level of prenatal cocaine exposure. Inconsistency in previous research in identifying an association between prenatal cocaine exposure and neonatal cranial ultrasound findings may reflect failure to consider dose effects.
Tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) acts as an important co-factor for endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS). Glucocorticoids have been shown to inhibit expression of the rate-limiting enzyme for tetrahydrobiopterin synthesis, GTP cyclohydrolase, in other cell types. We hypothesized that endothelium-dependent vasodilator responses would be blunted in rats made hypertensive with dexamethasone. Further, we hypothesized that treatment of rat vascular segments with dexamethasone would result in attenuation of endothelial function accompanied by decreased GTP cyclohydrolase expression. We report that endothelium-dependent relaxation responses to the calcium ionophore A23187 are reduced in aortic rings from dexamethasone-hypertensive rats compared with sham values. Dexamethasone incubation abolishes contraction to Nomega-nitro-L-arginine (L-NNA, 10(-5) M) in endothelium-intact aortic rings, and inhibits expression of GTP cyclohydrolase. We conclude that inhibition of BH4 synthesis by glucocorticoid regulation of GTP cyclohydrolase expression may contribute to reduced endothelium-dependent vasodilation characteristic of glucocorticoid-induced hypertension.
Polymorphisms in genes involved in cholesterol synthesis, absorption, and transport may affect statin efficacy.
To evaluate systematically whether genetic variation influences response to pravastatin therapy.
The DNA of 1536 individuals treated with pravastatin, 40 mg/d, was analyzed for 148 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) within 10 candidate genes related to lipid metabolism. Variation within these genes was then examined for associations with changes in lipid levels observed with pravastatin therapy during a 24-week period.
Changes in lipid levels in response to pravastatin therapy.
Two common and tightly linked SNPs (linkage disequilibrium r2 = 0.90; heterozygote prevalence = 6.7% for both) were significantly associated with reduced efficacy of pravastatin therapy. Both of these SNPs were in the gene coding for 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase, the target enzyme that is inhibited by pravastatin. For example, compared with individuals homozygous for the major allele of one of the SNPs, individuals with a single copy of the minor allele had a 22% smaller reduction in total cholesterol (-32.8 vs -42.0 mg/dL [-0.85 vs -1.09 mmol/L]; P =.001; absolute difference, 9.2 mg/dL [95% confidence interval [CI], 3.8-14.6 mg/dL]) and a 19% smaller reduction in low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol (-27.7 vs -34.1 mg/dL [-0.72 vs -0.88 mmol/L]; P =.005; absolute difference, 6.4 mg/dL [95% CI, 2.2-10.6 mg/dL]). The association for total cholesterol reduction persisted even after adjusting for multiple tests on all 33 SNPs evaluated in the HMG-CoA reductase gene as well as for all 148 SNPs evaluated was similar in magnitude and direction among men and women and was present in the ethnically diverse total cohort as well as in the majority subgroup of white participants. No association for either SNP was observed for the change in high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol (P>.80) and neither was associated with baseline lipid levels among those actively treated or among those who did not receive the drug. Among the remaining genes, less robust associations were found for squalene synthase and change in total cholesterol, apolipoprotein E and change in LDL cholesterol, and cholesteryl ester transfer protein and change in HDL cholesterol, although none of these met our conservative criteria for purely pharmacogenetic effects.
Individuals heterozygous for a genetic variant in the HMG-CoA reductase gene may experience significantly smaller reductions in cholesterol when treated with pravastatin.
Peripheral administration of nicotinic receptor antagonists with a quaternary ammonium group (hexamethonium and chlorisondamine) did not prevent the development of seizures induced by systemic treatment with nicotine in the toxic dose. The Me3N+ group with stable positive charge inhibits transport of these compounds into the brain through the blood-brain barrier. Intracerebral and peripheral (intraperitoneal) administration of compound IEM-1460 with the Me3N+ group was equally potent in reducing the severity of nicotine-induced seizures in mice. This phenomenon is related to the fact that IEM-1460 acts as a nicotinic receptor antagonist and polyamine agonist, which increases blood-brain barrier permeability for polar compounds. These features contribute to IEM-1460 transport into the brain. High anticonvulsant activity of IEM-1460 on the model of nicotine-induced seizures is associated with combined blockade of nicotinic receptors (alpha3beta4 receptors) and glutamate receptors (GluR1 AMPA receptors).
Factors involved in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis, thrombosis and vasoconstriction contribute to the development of coronary heart disease. In a study comparing patients after myocardial infarction with controls, we have explored a possible association between coronary heart disease and a variation found in the gene encoding angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE). The polymorphism ACE/ID is strongly associated with the level of circulating enzyme. This enzyme plays a key role in the production of angiotensin II and in the catabolism of bradykinin, two peptides involved in the modulation of vascular tone and in the proliferation of smooth muscle cells. Here we report that the DD genotype, which is associated with higher levels of circulating ACE than the ID and II genotypes, is significantly more frequent in patients with myocardial infarction (n = 610) than in controls (n = 733) (P = 0.007), especially among subjects with low body-mass index and low plasma levels of ApoB (P < 0.0001). The ACE/ID polymorphism seems to be a potent risk factor of coronary heart disease in subjects formerly considered to be at low risk according to common criteria.
Pharmacological challenges with hallucinogens are used as models for psychosis in experimental research. The state induced by glutamate antagonists such as phencyclidine (PCP) is often considered as a more appropriate model of psychosis than the state induced by serotonergic hallucinogens such as lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD), psilocybin and N,N-dimethyltryptamine (DMT). However, so far, the psychological profiles of the two types of hallucinogenic drugs have never been studied directly in an experimental within-subject design.
Fifteen healthy volunteers were included in a double-blind, cross-over study with two doses of the serotonin 5-HT2A agonist DMT and the glutamate N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist (S)-ketamine.
Data are reported for nine subjects who completed both experimental days with both doses of the two drugs. The intensity of global psychological effects was similar for DMT and (S)-ketamine. However, phenomena resembling positive symptoms of schizophrenia, particularly positive formal thought disorder and inappropriate affect, were stronger after DMT. Phenomena resembling negative symptoms of schizophrenia, attention deficits, body perception disturbances and catatonia-like motor phenomena were stronger after (S)-ketamine.
The present study suggests that the NMDA antagonist model of psychosis is not overall superior to the serotonin 5-HT2A agonist model. Rather, the two classes of drugs tend to model different aspects or types of schizophrenia. The NMDA antagonist state may be an appropriate model for psychoses with prominent negative and possibly also catatonic features, while the 5-HT2A agonist state may be a better model for psychoses of the paranoid type.
