Recent decline in incidence rates of ALS in Guam and the Kii Peninsula of Japan strongly implicates environmental factors rather than inheritance in its causation. Environmental studies in Western Pacific foci showed identical mineral compositions in the soils and drinking water, i.e., extremely low calcium (Ca) and magnesium (Mg) and high aluminum (Al) and manganese (Mn). Series of trace-elemental analyses of the CNS tissue of ALS patients have revealed a high contents of Al and Ca with significant positive correlations between Al and Ca and/or between Ca and Mn, suggesting the prolonged exposure to these trace environment to cause abnormal mineral metabolism detrimental to neurons. Using electron energy loss spectrometry (EELS), Al was found to accumulate within DNA-containing chromatins and rRNA-containing cellular components, i.e., nucleolus, heterochromatin, rough endoplasmic reticulum, in lumbar motor neurons of ALS. Thus, Al may preferentially bind to nucleic acids and cause a progressive inhibition of the protein synthesis of rRNA and the transcription or gene modulation of DNA, leading to neuronal degeneration.
Delta-like-1 (Dlk1, also Pref-1), a transmembrane and secreted protein, is a member of the epidermal growth factor-like family, homologous to Notch/Delta/Serrate. We found that the expression of Dlk1 was up-regulated in CD34+ cells from patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) by analyzing the gene expression profiles determined by microarray. The expression levels of Dlk1 mRNA frequently observed higher in the bone marrow mononuclear cells of MDS patients was confirmed by real-time RT-PCR. Forced expression of Dlk1 in transfected K562 cells enhanced proliferation, affected apoptosis induced by As2O3, and also influenced cell cycle induced by 12-O-tetra decanoylphorbol-acetate (TPA). By using the same experimental system we found that forced expression of Dlk1 increased the mRNA levels of HES1. It also inhibited p38 phosphorylation in transfected K562 cells treated with TPA. These results warrant further investigation of the role of Dlk1 in abnormal hematopoiesis in MDS.
A patient had accelerated attacks of chest pain associated with transient ST elevation or depression in the anterior leads. Coronary angiogram revealed severe multi-vessel disease. Anginal attacks with conspicuous ST depression were induced repeatedly by both oral and sublingual administration of nifedipine. Among various vasodilator drugs tested on this patient, dipyridamole and hydralazine induced anginal attacks. These observations suggest that anginal attacks induced by administration of nifedipine may be related to the augmentation of myocardial oxygen consumption due to increases in cardiac output and heart rate, the coronary steal phenomenon, or an increase in venous return accompanied by the subendocardial underperfusion.
Alinidine (2.9 +/- 0.7 mg/kg) prevented an adrenaline-induced ventricular arrhythmia in dogs respired with halothane. In ouabain-induced ventricular tachycardia, a cumulative dose of alinidine (15.5 mg/kg) reduced the number of ventricular beats by 91.6 +/- 1.9%. The drug was much less effective in abolishing the ventricular tachycardia 24 h after ligation of a coronary artery, with only a 36 +/- 15% reduction in ventricular ectopic beats after 15.5 mg/kg. The administration of alinidine (0.5-1.0 mg/kg) to anaesthetized dogs with no cardiac arrhythmia reduced sinus node rate with little effect on the response of the node to vagal stimulation.
In the Ayurvedic system of medicine, the whole herb of 'Shankhpushpi' has been employed clinically for centuries for its memory potentiating, anxiolytic and tranquilizing properties. The present study was undertaken to investigate the effects of Evolvulus alsinoides (EA), considered as Shankhpushpi on learning and memory in rodents. Nootropic activity using Cook and Weidley's pole climbing apparatus, passive avoidance paradigms and active avoidance tests were used to test learning and memory. The ethanol extract of EA and its ethyl acetate and aqueous fractions were evaluated for their memory enhancing properties. Two doses (100 and 200 mg/kg p.o.) of the ethanol extract and ethyl acetate and aqueous fractions were administered in separate groups of animals. Both doses of all the extracts of EA significantly improved learning and memory in rats. Furthermore, these doses significantly reversed the amnesia induced by scopolamine (0.3 mg/kg i.p.). Nootropic activity was compared using piracetam as the standard. EA also exhibited potent memory enhancing effects in the step-down and shuttle-box avoidance paradigms.
The effects of short- and long-term risperidone treatment on serum prolactin were assessed in children and adolescents with autism.
Patients with autism (N = 101, 5-17 years of age) were randomized to an 8-week trial of risperidone or placebo and 63 then took part in a 4-month open-label follow-up phase. Serum samples were obtained at Baseline and Week-8 (N = 78), and at 6-month (N = 43) and 22-month (N = 30) follow-up. Serum prolactin was determined by immunoradiometric assay; dopamine type-2 receptor (DRD2) polymorphisms were genotyped.
Baseline prolactin levels were similar in the risperidone (N = 42) and placebo (N = 36) groups (9.3 +/- 7.5 and 9.3 +/- 7.6 ng/ml, respectively). After 8 weeks of risperidone, prolactin increased to 39.0 +/- 19.2 ng/ml, compared with 10.1 +/- 8.8 ng/ml for placebo (p < .0001). Prolactin levels were also significantly increased at 6 months (32.4 +/- 17.8 ng/ml; N = 43, p < .0001) and at 22 months (N = 30, 25.3 +/- 15.6 ng/ml, p < .0001). Prolactin levels were not associated with adverse effects and DRD2 alleles (Taq1A, -141C Ins/Del, C957T) did not significantly influence baseline levels or risperidone-induced increases in prolactin.
Risperidone treatment was associated with two- to four-fold mean increases in serum prolactin in children with autism. Although risperidone-induced increases tended to diminish with time, further research on the consequences of long-term prolactin elevations in children and adolescents is needed.
Anticoagulants have been used in patients with acute ischemic stroke to limit infarct volume and to prevent reinfarction and thrombotic complications like deep venous thrombosis. Three important randomized trials of anticoagulants have been reported recently. One trial showed that nadroparin reduced the percentage of patients with poor outcome at 6 months. One unblinded trial of subcutaneous unfractionated heparin showed that heparin reduced the rate of early recurrent stroke, but this benefit was offset by an increase in hemorrhages. A trial of the heparinoid ORG 10172 showed no efficacy overall at 3 months, although there was an increase in patients with very favorable outcomes at 7 days. The defibrinogenating agent ancrod has shown promise in a series of small clinical trials, but efficacy has not been established. There are no reliable data on the use of antithrombotic agents to prevent reocclusion after thrombolytic therapy. Anticoagulants are generally recommended in patients with cerebral venous thrombosis, but the recommendation is supported by only one small and methodologically limited trial.
In patients with lumbago-sciatica levomepromazine is a potent supplement to analgetics in pain treatment. The hypothesis that neuroleptics increase the risk of epileptic seizures after metrizamide myelography was not confirmed in a series of 77 patients, 26 with and 51 without levomepromazine medication, before and after lumbar metrizamide myelography. No differences existed between the groups with regard to the appearance of EEG abnormalities such as slow waves or spikes. Mild side effects were more frequent in the levomepromazine group, except nausea and vomiting. Lumbar metrizamide epidurography in 30 patients did not cause any abnormal EEG.
The cases of two asthmatic patients who became hypokalemic after inhalation of normal doses of albuterol are presented. One patient was symptomatic and the other had only electrocardiographic changes. Both were treated successfully with oral potassium. Albuterol-induced hypokalemia and its potential cardiac toxicity are discussed briefly.
Propofol is one of the most frequently applied intravenous anesthetics for the induction of general anesthesia. However, pain on injection of this agent is a considerable problem in daily anesthesia practice because of its severity. Administration of lidocaine prior to propofol injection is a standard technique for reducing the pain on injection. However, this method provides insufficient pain relief. To evaluate whether pretreatment with an ultra-short acting barbiturate, thiopental, is more effective than with lidocaine, a randomized and single-blinded trial was conducted. Patients (20-65 years old, n = 137) were allocated into six groups, and applied with physiological saline, thiopental (25, 50, 75, or 100 mg), or lidocaine (40 mg) at 30 second prior to propofol injection (1 mg/kg, 1200 ml/h). The patient was interviewed about the degree of pain just after propofol was totally injected. Both thiopental (> or =25 mg) and lidocaine decreased the severity of pain in comparison with physiological saline as evaluated by a six-graded pain score. Lidocaine failed to influence the incidence of pain (from 86% to 55%), although thiopental significantly decreased it to 40% (25 mg), 21% (50 mg), 12% (50 mg), and 0% (100 mg), respectively. Thiopental (> or =50 mg) decreased both the severity and incidence of pain more effectively than lidocaine. A Hill plot analysis of these data, after rearrangement by patient's body weight, estimated that the half-effective dose (ED50) and the ED99 of this drug to block pain on injection of propofol were 0.6 and 1.4 mg/kg, respectively.
Benzbromarone is an uricosuric structurally related to amiodarone and a known mitochondrial toxicant. The aim of the current study was to improve our understanding in the molecular mechanisms of benzbromarone-associated hepatic mitochondrial toxicity. In HepG2 cells and primary human hepatocytes, ATP levels started to decrease in the presence of 25-50μM benzbromarone for 24-48h, whereas cytotoxicity was observed only at 100μM. In HepG2 cells, benzbromarone decreased the mitochondrial membrane potential starting at 50μM following incubation for 24h. Additionally, in HepG2 cells, 50μM benzbromarone for 24h induced mitochondrial uncoupling,and decreased mitochondrial ATP turnover and maximal respiration. This was accompanied by an increased lactate concentration in the cell culture supernatant, reflecting increased glycolysis as a compensatory mechanism to maintain cellular ATP. Investigation of the electron transport chain revealed a decreased activity of all relevant enzyme complexes. Furthermore, treatment with benzbromarone was associated with increased cellular ROS production, which could be located specifically to mitochondria. In HepG2 cells and in isolated mouse liver mitochondria, benzbromarone also reduced palmitic acid metabolism due to an inhibition of the long-chain acyl CoA synthetase. In HepG2 cells, benzbromarone disrupted the mitochondrial network, leading to mitochondrial fragmentation and a decreased mitochondrial volume per cell. Cell death occurred by both apoptosis and necrosis. The study demonstrates that benzbromarone not only affects the function of mitochondria in HepG2 cells and human hepatocytes, but is also associated with profound changes in mitochondrial structure which may be associated with apoptosis.
Administration of pilocarpine or physostigmine to rats treated with lithium chloride produced sustained limbic seizures, widespread brain damage, and increased concentrations of D-myo-inositol-1-phosphate (a metabolite of the phosphoinositides, lipids involved in membrane receptor function) in the brain. The syndrome was preventable with atropine. The physostigmine doses and concentrations of blood lithium that caused the syndrome are similar to those considered appropriate for psychiatric chemotherapy.
In pithed rats with stimulated sympathetic outflow, the phosphodiesterase inhibitor milrinone (0.3 mg/kg, i.v.) decreased the peak tachycardiac response produced by both sympathetic nerve stimulation (15 s at 0.5-3 Hz) and norepinephrine administration (0.3-5 micrograms/kg, i.v.). However, another phosphodiesterase inhibitor, 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine (IBMX, 0.5 mg/kg, i.v.) had no effect on the peak tachycardic response to sympathetic stimulation. Similarly, in isolated rat atria, milrinone (9 mumol/L) inhibited the tachycardia produced by norepinephrine, whereas IBMX (1 mumol/L) had no effect. The inhibitory effect of milrinone on sympathetic responses was not due to changes in norepinephrine release since milrinone (9 mumol/L) increased norepinephrine release in isolated rat atria incubated with [3H]norepinephrine. When the duration of the tachycardia (rather than the peak tachycardic response) produced by sympathetic nerve stimulation was measured, it was found to be prolonged by both milrinone and IBMX, suggesting that in this case cyclic AMP was involved. Furthermore, in contrast to its inhibitory effects on norepinephrine-induced tachycardia in rat atria, milrinone enhanced the tachycardia produced by the adenylate cyclase activator forskolin. These results suggest that milrinone has complex actions on sympathetic control of heart rate and that beta-adrenoceptor tachycardia occurs by mechanisms dependent on and independent of cyclic AMP.
Hypersensitivity reactions to procainamide involving liver dysfunction are rare. We describe a patient who developed liver dysfunction after procainamide administration, manifested by fever, jaundice, elevated bilirubin concentration, and alkaline phosphatase concentration. Hepatobiliary scintigraphy demonstrated good hepatic uptake of the radionuclide without movement from hepatic parenchyma. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of procainamide-induced intrahepatic cholestasis as demonstrated by radionuclide hepatobiliary scintigraphy.
Unlike colorectal cancer, risk markers for adenocarcinoma of the small intestine (ASI) have not been identified. Because the demographic and pathological features of both of these diseases are similar, immunohistochemistry was performed using monoclonal antibodies for three colonic premalignant markers, Adnab-9 (recognizes a colonic adenoma epitope), CaCo3/61, and FBB2/29 (small intestine proteoglycans expressed ectopically in colonic neoplasms), in normal and neoplastic small intestinal epithelium, and the results were compared with normal controls. Adnab-9 was also examined in 20 familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) patients, a population known to be at an increased risk for ASI. Immunohistochemistry in normal and neoplastic tissue (adenoma, adenocarcinoma) from 18 patients with primary adenocarcinoma of the small intestine was compared with normal small intestine from 10 nonneoplastic controls. Four of 10 (40%) cases of normal small intestinal epithelium from controls were mildly positive in less than 10% of crypts, versus strong staining (>50% of crypts) in 16 of 18 (89%) patients with adenocarcinoma, and in 17 of 20 (85%) patients with FAP (P<.05). Adnab-9 predominantly stained Paneth cells as well as rare crypt and basal villous goblet cells. Adenomatous epithelium from the adenocarcinoma cases and adenomas from the FAP patients showed staining of Adnab-9 in 63% and 78% of cases, respectively. Only 17% of adenocarcinomas were positive for Adnab-9. In contrast, neither CaCo3/61 nor FBB2/29 showed any significant differences in the degree of staining in normal small intestinal epithelium in patients with adenocarcinoma compared with controls. Enhanced Adnab-9 staining in normal small intestinal epithelium from patients who harbor adenocarcinoma, and in FAP patients, supports its role as a risk marker of small intestinal neoplasia.
The mechanism of the antihypertensive properties of bromocriptine was investigated in dog and man. In anaesthetized dogs, bromocriptine induced a decrease in the pressor responses to adrenaline or phenylephrine and reduced the hypotensive properties of clonidine. In 6 hypertensive patients with Parkinson's disease, chronic treatment with bromocriptine (46.4 +/- 12.0 mg/day) elicited both a significant decrease in blood pressure and an improvement of extrapyramidal symptoms. During bromocriptine therapy, domperidone (60 mg/day during 1 month), a specific peripheral dopaminergic antagonist was introduced. The drug did not change the levels of blood pressure (before domperidone: 150.8 +/- 22.5/79.9 +/- 8.9 mmHg after domperidone: 150 +/- 17.3/87.5 +/- 12.9 mmHg). These results confirm the antihypertensive properties of bromocriptine and demonstrate that, beside their dopaminergic properties, the drug also possesses mixed alpha 1 and alpha 2 adrenolytic actions. These two properties may contribute to the mechanism of the antihypertensive effects of bromocriptine. These data also show that domperidone can be used in bromocriptine-treated hypertensive parkinsonians without side effects on blood pressure.
To evaluate hemodynamics in patients with severe traumatic brain injury (TBI) after cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP) management using cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) drainage.
Twenty-six patients with TBI (Glasgow Coma Score = 8 or less) were investigated. Mean arterial blood pressure, CPP, cardiac index (CI), systemic vascular resistance index (SVRI), and central venous pressure were measured. The patients were divided into 2 groups after craniotomy: the intraparenchymal ICP (IP-ICP) monitoring group (n = 14) and ventricular ICP (V-ICP) monitoring group (n = 12). Patient hemodynamics were investigated on the second hospital day to identify differences. Measurements indicated a target CPP above 70 mmHg and a central venous pressure of 8 10 mmHg in both groups. Mannitol administration (IP-ICP group) or CSF drainage (V-ICP group) was performed whenever the CPP remained below 70 mmHg.
High SVRI and low CI (p < 0.05) were observed in the IP-ICP group. The V-ICP group exhibited a reduction in the total fluid infusion volume of crystalloid (p < 0.01) and a reduction in the frequency of hypotensive episodes after the mannitol infusion.
CPP management using CSF drainage decreases the total infusion volume of crystalloid and may reduce the risk of aggravated brain edema after excess fluid resuscitation.
Ecstasy is a class A controlled drug often consumed by the young population for recreational purposes. Documented complications of its use include hyperpyrexia, disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), renal failure and rhabdomyolysis. We report on two patients who developed pneumomediastinum after Ecstasy abuse. Both patients obtained and consumed the drug at the same establishment and presented to the same hospital within half an hour. The possible pathogenesis of this complication are discussed and the literature reviewed. Pneumomediastinum should be recognized as a possible complication of Ecstasy use. Conservative management is appropriate.
Tricyclic quinazolinimines as a novel class of potent inhibitors of cholinesterases in vitro are micro- and sub-micromolar inhibitors with activities at both acetyl- (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) or at BChE only. To further establish the antiamnesic properties of this class of compounds, an in vivo test system has been established. Cognitive impairment in rats was reversibly induced by scopolamine (0.05 mg/100 g body weight) and evaluated in an eight-arm radial maze. A representative quinazolinimine (MD212) showed attenuation of cognitive deficits at a low dosage (0.01 mg/100 g body weight), whereas at a high dosage (>0.1 mg/100 g body weight) the effect of scopolamine is markedly reinforced. As MD212 applied alone does not influence rat's cognition at all, the reinforcement of scopolamine effect has to be due to the amplification of scopolamine action possibly by (1) inhibition of scopolamine metabolism, (2) influence of scopolamine on MD212 metabolism or (3) allosteric modulation of mACh receptors. Receptor-binding studies proved hypothesis (3): MD212 stabilizes [3H]N-methylscopolamine binding to muscarinic receptors allosterically.
To examine the mechanisms involved in the progression of mercury chloride (HgCl2)-induced acute tubular necrosis (ATN), we investigated the histopathological changes and the expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) mRNA and protein in renal cortices of rats at 20 hours after exposure to HgCl2. The expression of iNOS mRNA was significantly augmented in renal cortices of rats with HgCl2-induced acute renal failure (ARF). Likewise, the induction of iNOS protein was observed in damaged proximal tubule epithelial cells of rats with HgCl2-induced ARF. Pretreatment of rats with iNOS inhibitor aminoguanidine, however, suppressed the development of proximal tubule epithelial cell injury and prevented an increase in blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine as well as resulting in a marked fall in iNOS mRNA and protein in rats with HgCl2-induced ARF. These observations indicate that the induction of iNOS may play a role in the progression of HgCl2-induced ATN through the exacerbation of proximal tubule epithelial cell damage.
Fifteen patients with angiographic evidence of significant coronary artery disease, exertional myocardial ischemia, and positive dipyridamole echocardiographic test results at basal conditions and after 7 days of placebo treatment were prospectively studied to see whether captopril (containing sulfhydryl) and enalapril (nonsulfhydryl) modify myocardial ischemia induced by exercise testing and the effects of dipyridamole echocardiographic testing on regional myocardial contractility. Patients were randomized to captopril (150 mg/day in 3 separate doses) or enalapril (20 mg/day) for 1 week. At the end of this period each patient crossed over to the alternate regimen after a washout period of 7 days. Exercise stress testing and dipyridamole echocardiographic testing were repeated at the end of each treatment period. Neither captopril nor enalapril had a significantly greater anti-ischemic effect than placebo in any patient. Exercise duration, time to onset of ST-segment depression, maximal workload, degree of ST-segment depression, and rate-pressure product were not affected by either drug. Neither captopril nor enalapril improved dipyridamole-induced mechanical dysfunction or ST-segment depression.
We have studied 60 pediatric patients with different neoplastic diseases, treated with anthracyclines. We have followed them clinically and echocardiographically to detect the cardiotoxicity due to anthracyclines and the enhanced factors promptly. We have detected a more important incidence of cardiomyopathy in patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, osteosarcoma and neuroblastoma despite cumulative doses under 550 mg/m2 of anthracyclines. The 2 first groups were treated with high doses of cyclophosphamide and methotrexate, and neuroblastomas with melphalan. The anthracyclines cardiotoxicity is evaluated around 5% in patients treated with doses under 550 mg/m2, and is increased in case of previous or simultaneous aggressive therapy. Continued echocardiography enables a premature detection of cardiotoxicity in these high risk patients.
This prospective, open-label, clinical trial was conducted to describe the pharmacology of bumetanide in pediatric patients with edema. Nine infants, children, and young adults with edema who were selected for diuretic therapy were studied. After a brief baseline period, each patient received parenteral bumetanide 0.2 mg/kg divided into two equal doses and administered every 12 hours. Urine excretion rate, fractional and total excretion of Na+, Cl-, and K+, creatinine clearance, and plasma and urine concentrations of bumetanide were measured at multiple intervals after drug administration. Bumetanide caused significant increases in the excretion rate of urine and each measured electrolyte. Unexpectedly, creatinine clearance increased dramatically after each dose. Adverse effects, including hypokalemia and hypochloremic metabolic alkalosis, were evident by the end of the treatment period. The plasma pharmacokinetics of bumetanide revealed mean +/- standard deviation values for total clearance and apparent volume of distribution of 3.9 +/- 2.4 mL/min/kg and 0.74 +/- 0.54 L/kg, respectively. Patients excreted an average of 34% of each dose unchanged in the urine over 12 hours. Plasma concentrations of bumetanide accurately predicted several renal effects using a link model with similar pharmacodynamic parameters in each case. Parenteral bumetanide 0.1 mg/kg administered every 12 hours produced significant beneficial and adverse effects in these critically ill pediatric patients with edema. Pharmacokinetic parameters are similar to those previously reported for infants. Plasma concentrations of bumetanide can predict effect-compartment pharmacodynamics.
Atrial tachycardia-induced remodeling promotes the occurrence and maintenance of atrial fibrillation (AF) and decreases L-type Ca(2+) current. There is also a clinical suggestion that acute L-type Ca(2) channel blockade can promote AF, consistent with an AF promoting effect of Ca(2+) channel inhibition.
To evaluate the potential mechanisms of AF promotion by Ca(2+) channel blockers, we administered verapamil to morphine-chloralose anesthetized dogs. Diltiazem was used as a comparison drug and autonomic blockade with atropine and nadolol was applied in some experiments. Epicardial mapping with 240 epicardial electrodes was used to evaluate activation during AF.
Verapamil caused AF promotion in six dogs, increasing mean duration of AF induced by burst pacing, from 8+/-4 s (mean+/-S.E.) to 95+/-39 s (P<0.01 vs. control) at a loading dose of 0.1 mg/kg and 228+/-101 s (P<0.0005 vs. control) at a dose of 0.2 mg/kg. Underlying electrophysiological mechanisms were studied in detail in five additional dogs under control conditions and in the presence of the higher dose of verapamil. In these experiments, verapamil shortened mean effective refractory period (ERP) from 122+/-5 to 114+/-4 ms (P<0.02) at a cycle length of 300 ms, decreased ERP heterogeneity (from 15+/-1 to 10+/-1%, P<0.05), heterogeneously accelerated atrial conduction and decreased the cycle length of AF (94+/-4 to 84+/-3 ms, P<0.005). Diltiazem did not affect ERP, AF cycle length or AF duration, but produced conduction acceleration similar to that caused by verapamil (n=5). In the presence of autonomic blockade, verapamil failed to promote AF and increased, rather than decreasing, refractoriness. Neither verapamil nor diltiazem affected atrial conduction in the presence of autonomic blockade. Epicardial mapping suggested that verapamil promoted AF by increasing the number of simultaneous wavefronts reflected by separate zones of reactivation in each cycle.
Verapamil promotes AF in normal dogs by promoting multiple circuit reentry, an effect dependent on intact autonomic tone and not shared by diltiazem.
Recent studies have implicated an important role for the dorsal striatum during craving for cocaine and in cocaine-seeking after abstinence in rats.
We compared the effects of pharmacological inactivation of mesencephalic dopamine (DA) cell body regions and dorsal vs ventral striatal terminal fields in an animal model of relapse after chronic cocaine self-administration.
Rats self-administered cocaine for 2 h/day for ten sessions, followed by 2 weeks of abstinence (i.e., no extinction training). Immediately before being returned to the self-administration chamber, we assessed the effects of gamma-aminobutyric acid agonist inhibition of midbrain DA regions (substantia nigra [SN] and ventral tegmental area [VTA]) and striatum (dorsolateral caudate-putamen, nucleus accumbens core, and nucleus accumbens shell) on relapse to cocaine-seeking in the absence of reinforcement. Further testing examined daily extinction responding subsequent to the initial relapse test.
Inactivation of the dorsal caudate-putamen and midbrain regions attenuated cocaine seeking, while inactivation of the ventral striatum had no such effects. However, subsequent sessions under extinction conditions revealed a rebound in cocaine seeking in animals that had undergone inactivation in all regions except the dorsolateral caudate-putamen.
The dorsal but not ventral striatum plays a critical role in cocaine seeking immediately after abstinence. These data support the theory that chronic cocaine may shift activity from the ventral to dorsal striatum during drug seeking under certain conditions. While not necessary at the time of relapse, the ventral striatum appears to be involved in processing critical information of the relapse event.
The oral contraceptive ethinylestradiol 0.03 mg/drospirenone 3 mg contains a progestin component that differs from other oral contraceptives. Case reports and prescription event monitoring suggested that ethinylestradiol/drospirenone might be associated with an elevated risk of thromboembolism. We sought to estimate the association between ethinylestradiol/drospirenone and risk of thromboembolism relative to the association among other oral contraceptives.
We identified ethinylestradiol/drospirenone initiators and a twofold larger group of other oral contraceptive initiators between June 2001 and June 2004 within a U.S. health insurer database. The comparison group was selected to have demographic and health care characteristics preceding oral contraceptive initiation that were similar to ethinylestradiol/drospirenone initiators. Thromboembolism during the follow-up of the cohorts was identified through claims for medical services, and only medical record-confirmed cases were included in analyses. The primary (as-matched) analysis used proportional hazards regression, whereas a secondary (as-treated) analysis accounted for changes in oral contraceptives during follow-up using Poisson regression.
The 22,429 ethinylestradiol/drospirenone initiators and 44,858 other oral contraceptive initiators were followed for an average of 7.6 months, and there were 18 cases of thromboembolism in ethinylestradiol/drospirenone initiators and 39 in the comparators (rate ratio 0.9, 95% confidence interval 0.5-1.6). More than 9,000 women would need to be prescribed oral contraceptives to observe a difference of one case of thromboembolism. Results of the as-treated analysis were similar to those of the as-matched analysis.
Ethinylestradiol/drospirenone initiators and initiators of other oral contraceptives are similarly likely to experience thromboembolism.
II.
2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is a potent toxicant that alters normal brain development and produces cognitive disability and motor dysfunction. However, after decades of intense study, the molecular mechanisms of TCDD-induced neurotoxicity, the signaling pathways involved and its molecular targets in neurons still remain unknown. TCDD acts as an exogenous ligand of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) that becomes a key signaling molecule in the regulation of the toxic and carcinogenic properties of TCDD. We have used NGF-differentiated pheochromocytoma (dPC12) cells to determine the type of cell death that takes place by TCDD toxicity. TCDD induced cell death in dPC12 cultures with an EC(50) of 218+/-24 nM, similar to that obtained in undifferentiated PC12 cells, 171+/-31 nM. Nuclear fragmentation was observed after TCDD incubation in parallel to an increase in caspase-3 activity. Staurosporine, which readily induced apoptosis in dPC12 cells, showed a similar increase in caspase-3 activity and the characteristic pattern of nuclear fragmentation. Flow cytometry measurements showed that dPC12 cells in the presence of TCDD were positive for annexin V labeling but negative for propidium iodide staining. In addition, TCDD increased the area of the peak corresponding to hypodiploid (apoptotic) DNA content. All together these results support the hypothesis that TCDD toxicity in dPC12 cells takes place mainly through an apoptotic process.
Hepatic encephalopathy is neuropsychiatric derangement secondary to hepatic decompensation or portal-systemic shunting. Nitric oxide (NO) synthase inhibition aggravates encephalopathy and increases mortality in rats with thioacetamide (TAA)-induced acute liver failure, suggesting a protective role of NO. This study investigated the roles of endothelium-derived constitutive NO synthase (eNOS) and inducible NOS (iNOS) in the liver of rats with fulminant hepatic failure and encephalopathy.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats (300-350 g) were randomized to receive TAA 350 mg/kg/day, by intraperitoneal injection or normal saline for 3 days. Severity of encephalopathy was assessed with the Opto-Varimex animal activity meter. Plasma levels of alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alkaline phosphatase, and bilirubin were measured. Hepatic iNOS and eNOS RNA and protein expressions were assessed by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and Western blot analyses, respectively.
The TAA group showed lower motor activity counts than the normal saline group. Hepatic eNOS, but not iNOS, mRNA and protein expressions were enhanced in the TAA group. In addition, hepatic eNOS mRNA expression was negatively correlated with total movement but positively correlated with ALT and AST. Protein expression of hepatic eNOS was positively correlated with ALT, AST and bilirubin.
Upregulation of hepatic eNOS was observed in rats with TAA-induced fulminant hepatic failure and encephalopathy, which might play a regulatory role.
