There is accumulating evidence that advanced glycation end products (AGEs) play a role in the development and progression of chronic kidney disease (CKD). We have previously found that atorvastatin treatment significantly reduces serum levels of AGEs in type 2 diabetic patients and subjects with non-alcoholic steatohepatitis in a cholesterol lowering-independent manner. In this study, we examined whether atorvastatin could reduce proteinuria partly via reduction of serum levels of AGEs in non-diabetic CKD patients. Ten non-diabetic normotensive stage I or II CKD patients with dyslipidemia were enrolled. Patients were treated with atorvastatin (10 mg/day) for 1 year. All subjects underwent determination of blood chemistries, proteinuria and serum levels of AGEs at baseline and after 1 year. Atorvastatin treatment for 1 year significantly decreased circulating levels of total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, triglycerides, and AGEs, while it increased HDL-cholesterol levels. Further, although atorvastatin treatment did not affect estimated glomerular filtration rate, it significantly reduced proteinuria. In univariate analyses, proteinuria levels were correlated with total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, triglycerides, HDL-cholesterol (inversely) and AGEs. Multiple stepwise regression analysis revealed that AGE level was a sole independent correlate of proteinuria. In this initial examination of the patients in this study, our present study suggests that atorvastatin could decrease proteinuria in non-diabetic CKD patients with dyslipidemia partly via reduction of serum levels of AGEs. Atorvastatin may have AGE-lowering effects in CKD patients as well that could contribute to renoprotective properties of this agent.
Forty-six patients with cystic fibrosis and chronic bronchopulmonary Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection entered a study of tobramycin-related chronic and acute nephro- and acousticovestibular toxicity. The patients (mean age, 15.7 years) had previously received 2-week courses of tobramycin therapy, for a mean cumulative total of 279 days each. The cumulative tobramycin dose ranged from 632 to 7,644 mg/kg. The patients were studied before and at the end of a 2-week course of treatment with tobramycin (10 to 20 mg/kg per day) to discriminate between acute and chronic toxicity. In patients studied at the beginning of the present course of treatment, the glomerular filtration rate, measured as 24-h creatinine clearance, did not correlate with the cumulative dose of tobramycin received during previous courses. Eighteen patients (39%) had a reduced glomerular filtration rate compared with normal values (mean, 12.5% reduction) but normal serum creatinine values. Two patients (5%) had a high-frequency hearing deficit (above 8 kHz), but only one deficit was possibly related to tobramycin. No chronic vestibular toxicity was observed. During the course of treatment, no patients developed acute nephrotoxicity. After 2 weeks of treatment 32% had a slightly reduced hearing threshold (15 to 30 dB) in two or more high frequencies, and 28% had a fall in vestibular response greater than 25% of the initial value but remained within normal limits. Thus, the acute and chronic toxicity of repeated high-dose tobramycin treatment in cystic fibrosis patients seems to be very mild.
Epilepsy is a chronic illness which causes psychosocial problems in the patients affected. These disorders may be investigated by using the Washington Psychosocial Inventory (WPSI). We wish to show the variables which affect the WPSI most and also the changes seen in the results of this test and the control of seizures after treatment with lamotrigine for a year.
Using the WPSI, we studied 70 patients in the epilepsy outpatient clinic of the Psychiatric Hospital in La Habana during the period February-March 1998. The results of the WPSI were analysed according to the following variables: cerebral lesion, age of onset of epilepsy, frequency of seizures, more than one seizure per patient, and the antiepileptic drug used. The patients were followed-up during one year of treatment with lamotrigine, and the WPSI was repeated after one year (in March 1999). The following statistical tests were used to find the level of significance: variance analysis, standard deviation, chi deviation and difference between means.
The WPSI showed initially, at almost all levels, poor scoring; 48.86% had generally poor psychosocial function (FPG). Only the greater frequency of seizures significantly altered the WPSI. After treatment with lamotrigine for one year there was better seizure control, a better WPSI result and only 11.43% had poor FPG.
We consider that the high frequency of seizures is the variable which most affects the WPSI and that lamotrigine is useful both for control of epileptic seizures and to obtain psychosocial rehabilitation.
Authors sought to compare the efficacy of monotherapy versus combination antihypertensive therapy in elderly patients. Patients in this study, aged 65 to 85 years, were divided into 4 groups and entered an 8-week treatment period. First group: 22 patients, amlodipine 5 mg/d increasing to 10 mg; second: 20 patients, eprosartan 600 mg/d increasing to 600 mg twice a day; third: 21 patients, amlodipine 5 mg/d and indapamide 2.5 mg/d, increasing amlodipine to 10 mg/d; fourth: 23 patients, imidapril 10 mg/d and indapamide 2.5 mg/d, imidapril doubled to 20 mg/d. A greater drop in systolic and in diastolic blood pressure was obtained by combination of amlodipine and indapamide compared with amlodipine or eprosartan monotherapy. Imidapril and indapamide showed similar efficacy compared with eprosartan monotherapy but not with amlodipine monotherapy. Amlodipine and indapamide appeared more effective than imidapril and indapamide in diastolic blood pressure. Combination treatment with amlodipine and indapamide or imidapril and indapamide effectively reduces blood pressure in elderly patients with essential hypertension.
To assess the long-term success of treatment with repeated botulinum-A toxin (BTX-A; Botox) injections into the detrusor muscle for neurogenic detrusor overactivity in children.
We reviewed the charts of 10 children (average age at first injection 11.2 years) with neurogenic detrusor overactivity who had received at least three BTX-A detrusor injections; four had received five or more injections. The total dose of BTX-A was 85 to 300 U. We measured the urodynamic outcomes 6 months after each injection and compared the results after the first injection with the results after the third and fifth injections (in the children who had five or more injections).
The relative changes--each in comparison with the value before injection therapy--after the first versus the fifth injection were as follows: the reflex volume increased by 81% versus 88%, maximal detrusor pressure decreased by 7% versus 39%, maximal cystometric bladder capacity increased by 88% versus 72%, and bladder compliance showed no change at the 6-month follow-up visit after the first injection and an increase of 109% after the fifth injection. The results after the third injection were generally similar to those after the fifth injection. No major side effects occurred.
Although we surveyed only a few patients, the efficacy seems clear in all the urodynamic measures after repeated BTX-A detrusor injections in children with neurogenic bladder. Also, we found no evidence of drug tolerance. Thus, BTX-A detrusor injection has gained additional importance in the treatment of these difficult-to-treat patients.
Adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) therapy is an established treatment for West syndrome. However, some patients may relapse after this therapy, for whom there is no established treatment. We describe 3 patients with symptomatic West syndrome and multiple, poor prognostic factors who relapsed after initial ACTH therapy. They were treated with a second round of ACTH therapy, i.e., daily intramuscular injection for 2-3 weeks and subsequent withdrawal, alternative days for 1 or 2 weeks, every 3 days for 1 or 2 weeks, followed by weekly or biweekly for >/=1 year. Clinical seizures and hypsarrhythmia resolved in all 3 patients within 4 weeks, and these clinical improvements continued through a second round of ACTH therapy. Two patients developed other types of seizures and aggravation of paroxysms on electroencephalography, but no hypsarrhythmia, soon after termination of ACTH therapy. In the other patient, although electroencephalographic findings remained normal during weekly ACTH therapy, focal sharp waves with irregular slow waves appeared after the injection interval became biweekly. After a second round of ACTH therapy, all patients exhibited developmental progress, particularly in gross motor development and visual functions. No serious adverse events occurred during treatment. Long-term weekly ACTH therapy is a potentially effective treatment option for relapsed West syndrome.
The following work presents the case of undesired during side effect (toxic hepatocellular damage ) by Simvastatine (Cardin). The main syptoms were jaundice and pruritus. Conclusions draw the attention to the role of history taking in the diagnosis of the described disease, as well as the importance of regular patient checkups whoin those use statines.
The aim was to study the subchronic toxicity of perchloroethylene (Perc) by measuring injury and repair in liver and kidney in relation to disposition of Perc and its major metabolites. Male SW mice (25-29g) were given three dose levels of Perc (150, 500, and 1000 mg/kg day) via aqueous gavage for 30 days. Tissue injury was measured during the dosing regimen (0, 1, 7, 14, and 30 days) and over a time course of 24-96h after the last dose (30 days). Perc produced significant liver injury (ALT) after single day exposure to all three doses. Liver injury was mild to moderate and regressed following repeated exposure for 30 days. Subchronic Perc exposure induced neither kidney injury nor dysfunction during the entire time course as evidenced by normal renal histology and BUN. TCA was the major metabolite detected in blood, liver, and kidney. Traces of DCA were also detected in blood at initial time points after single day exposure. With single day exposure, metabolism of Perc to TCA was saturated with all three doses. AUC/dose ratio for TCA was significantly decreased with a concomitant increase in AUC/dose of Perc levels in liver and kidney after 30 days as compared to 1 day exposures, indicating inhibition of metabolism upon repeated exposure to Perc. Hepatic CYP2E1 expression and activity were unchanged indicating that CYP2E1 is not the critical enzyme inhibited. Hepatic CYP4A expression, measured as a marker of peroxisome proliferation was increased transiently only on day 7 with the high dose, but was unchanged at later time points. Liver tissue repair peaked at 7 days, with all three doses and was sustained after medium and high dose exposure for 14 days. These data indicate that subchronic Perc exposure via aqueous gavage does not induce nephrotoxicity and sustained hepatotoxicity suggesting adaptive hepatic repair mechanisms. Enzymes other than CYP2E1, involved in the metabolism of Perc may play a critical role in the metabolism of Perc upon subchronic exposure in SW mice. Liver injury decreased during repeated exposure due to inhibition of metabolism and possibly due to adaptive tissue repair mechanisms.
Pharmacological agents that increase tumor blood flow could be utilized to promote the delivery of anti-cancer drugs. We have demonstrated that administration of endothelin-1 (ET-1) to breast tumor bearing rats transiently increased tumor blood flow by stimulating endothelin B (ET(B)) receptors. The present study evaluated the effect of ET(B) receptor agonist, IRL 1620, on breast tumor perfusion, concentration of [3H]paclitaxel in tumor and tissues, and efficacy of paclitaxel in N-methyl nitrosourea induced breast tumor bearing rats. Administration of IRL 1620 (3 and 9 nmol/kg) significantly increased (203 and 140%, respectively) breast tumor perfusion. BQ 788, an ET(B) receptor antagonist, pretreatment completely abolished IRL 1620 induced increase in tumor perfusion. Tumor [3H]paclitaxel concentration was increased by 308% when [3H]paclitaxel was administered 15 min after IRL 1620 (3 nmol/kg) compared to vehicle treated rats. However, IRL 1620 did not increase [3H]paclitaxel concentrations in other organs. Efficacy study showed that paclitaxel (5 mg/kg) administration on every third day for a total of five doses produced 60.0, 4.5 and 0% reduction in tumor volume, tumor progression and complete tumor remission, respectively, compared to saline treated rats. However, paclitaxel (5 mg/kg) when administered 15 min after IRL 1620 (3 nmol/kg) produced 268.9, 210.3 and 20% reduction in tumor volume, tumor progression and complete remission of tumors, respectively, compared to saline treated rats. In conclusion, IRL 1620 significantly enhanced delivery and effectiveness of paclitaxel in an animal model of breast cancer.
Cefixime was compared with amoxicillin for treatment of acute otitis media in a randomized trial. Results of tympanocentesis on day 3 to 5 of therapy were used as the major outcome. Total daily doses were 8 mg/kg of cefixime and 40 mg/kg of amoxicillin. One hundred twenty-six patients were randomly assigned to receive treatment; 64 cultures grew pathogens. Pathogens were eradicated from the middle ear after 3 to 5 days of therapy in 27 (79.4%) of 34 children given amoxicillin and 26 (86.7%) of 30 children given cefixime (p = 0.47). When Streptococcus pneumoniae cases were analyzed, bacteriologic cure occurred in 14 (93.3%) of 15 children given amoxicillin and 12 (75%) of 16 given cefixime (p = 0.333). When cases of Haemophilus influenzae infection were analyzed, significantly more cures occurred with cefixime (10/10, 100%) than amoxicillin (8/13, 62%) (p = 0.046). Pathogens associated with failure of amoxicillin therapy were H. influenzae (five cases, two beta-lactamase-positive), S. pneumoniae (one case), and Moraxella catarrhalis (one case, beta-lactamase-positive). The four failures with cefixime therapy were all in patients infected with S. pneumoniae. Rates of rash, diarrhea, and vomiting were the same in both groups and did not necessitate stopping therapy. We conclude the following: (1) Cefixime and amoxicillin were equivalent in overall clinical and bacteriologic efficacy for otitis media. (2) Cefixime was more efficacious than amoxicillin in treating H. influenzae otitis media and should be preferred when H. influenzae is the suspected etiologic agent. (3) Side effects of both drugs were mild and equivalent.
A six-year-old girl with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma who was treated with both intravenous (IV) and intrathecal (IT) methotrexate and developed brain damage secondary to the cytostatic drug is described. This patient displayed hypertension, hypothermia/hyperthermia, lethargy, deterioration and coma as clinical findings, and bilateral, focal white matter hyperintensities in the occipital lobes were seen in her magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Treatment-related leukoencephalopathy is one such adverse effect of IT methotrexate administration on the central nervous system and usually appears in a generalized form.
Formaldehyde (FA) exposure induces upper airways irritation and respiratory abnormalities, but its mechanisms are not understood. Since mast cells are widely distributed in the airways, we hypothesized that FA might modify the airways reactivity by mechanism involving their activation. Tracheal rings of rats were incubated with Dulbecco's modified medium culture containing FA (0.1 ppm) in 96-well plastic microplates in a humid atmosphere. After 30 min, 6h, and 24-72 h, the rings were suspended in an organ bath and dose-response curve to methacholine (MCh) were determined. Incubation with FA caused a transient tracheal hyperresponsiveness to MCh that was independent from tracheal epithelium integrity. Connective tissue mast cell depletion caused by compound 48/80 or mast cell activation by the allergic reaction, before exposure of tracheal rings to FA prevented the increased responsiveness to MCh. LTB(4) concentrations were increased in the culture medium of tracheas incubated with FA for 48 h, whereas the LTB(4)-receptor antagonist MK886 (1 microM) added before FA exposure rendered the tracheal rings normoreactive to MCh. In addition, FA exposure did not cause hyperresponsiveness in tracheal segments incubated with l-arginine (1 microM). We suggest that airway connective tissue mast cells constitute the target and may provide the increased LTB(4) generation as well as an elevated consumption of NO leading to tracheal hyperresponsiveness to MCh.
In normotensive Wistar rats, systemic administration of exogenous ouabain for 10 days or more induces hypertension, presumably through central mechanisms. To identify which neuronal populations may be involved, we assessed Fos-like immunoreactivity (FLI) using an antibody that recognizes the protein products of the fos family comprising Fos, Fos B, Fra 1 and Fra 2, thus enabling detection of chronic neuronal activation. Young Wistar rats received s.c. infusions of either ouabain (50 microg/day) or saline for 7 or 14 days. At the end of the experimental period, mean arterial pressure (MAP) was assessed. In a separate set of rats FLI was detected immunohistochemically and quantified in cardiovascular and osmo-regulating centers. Resting MAP in ouabain-treated rats was significantly higher than in control rats at 14 but not at 7 days (125+/-4 vs. 101+/-6, P<0.05 and 102+/-4 vs. 98+/-6 (not significant), respectively). Within the supraoptic nucleus, ouabain induced significant increases in FLI compared with control rats at 14 days (9+/-2 vs. 2+/-2, P<0.05) but not at 7 days. Within the locus ceruleus, FLI was only detectable in rats that received ouabain infusions for 14 days but not in other groups of rats. Ouabain treatment did not induce significant changes in FLI within other areas. These results demonstrate that chronic s.c. ouabain infusion only increases neuronal FLI in the supraoptic nucleus and locus ceruleus where increases in FLI parallel the increase in blood pressure.
The disrupted in schizophrenia 1 (DISC1) gene is a candidate susceptibility factor for schizophrenia, but its mechanistic role in the disorder is unknown. Here we report that the gene encoding phosphodiesterase 4B (PDE4B) is disrupted by a balanced translocation in a subject diagnosed with schizophrenia and a relative with chronic psychiatric illness. The PDEs inactivate adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cAMP), a second messenger implicated in learning, memory, and mood. We show that DISC1 interacts with the UCR2 domain of PDE4B and that elevation of cellular cAMP leads to dissociation of PDE4B from DISC1 and an increase in PDE4B activity. We propose a mechanistic model whereby DISC1 sequesters PDE4B in resting cells and releases it in an activated state in response to elevated cAMP.
Twenty-three naturally occurring and synthetic alkenylbenzene derivatives structurally related to the hepatocarcinogen safrole (1-allyl-3,4-methylenedioxybenzene) were assayed for their hepatocarcinogenicity in mice. Some of these compounds (safrole, estragole, eugenol, anethole, methyleugenol, myristicin, elemicin, and dill and parsley apiols) may be ingested in very small amounts by human as natural components of certain spices, essential oils, or vegetables. Estragole (1-allyl-4-methoxybenzene) and its proximate carcinogenic metabolite 1'-hydroxyestragole, previously shown to induce hepatic tumors when administered to male CD-1 mice only during the preweaning period, also induced hepatic tumors on administration for 12 months in the diet of female CD-1 mice. Eugenol (1-allyl-4-hydroxy-3-methoxybenzene) and anethole (trans-4-methoxy-1-propenylbenzene) were inactive in this assay; they were also inactive when administered i.p. during the preweaning period at total doses of up to 9.45 mumol/mouse to male CD-1 or C57BL/6 x C3H F1 (hereafter called B6C3F1) mice. Methyleugenol (1-ally-3,4-dimethoxybenzene) and its 1'-hydroxy metabolite had activities similar to those of estragole and its 1'-hydroxy metabolite for the induction of hepatic tumors in male B6C3F1 mice treated prior to weaning; 1-allyl-1'-hydroxy-4-methoxynaphthalene was somewhat less active. At the levels tested, myristicin (1-allyl-5-methoxy-3,4-methylenedioxybenzene), elemicin (1-allyl-3,4,5-trimethoxybenzene) and its 1'-hydroxy metabolite, dill apiol (1-allyl-2,3-dimethoxy-4,5-methylenedioxybenzene), parsley apiol (1-allyl-2,5-dimethoxy-3,4-methylenedioxybenzene), 1'-hydroxyallybenzene, 3'-hydroxyanethole, and benzyl and anisyl alcohols had no detectable activity for the initiation of hepatic tumors on administration to male mice prior to weaning. The acetylenic derivative 1'-hydroxy-2',3'-dehydroestragole was much more active than either 1'-hydroxysafrole or 1'-hydroxyestragole when administered to preweanling mice. The 2',3'-oxides of safrole, estragole, eugenol, and 1'-hydroxysafrole, which are metabolites of these alkenylbenzenes, had little or no activity in this test. The 2',3'-oxides of safrole and estragole and their 1'-hydroxy derivatives likewise had little or no activity for the induction of lung adenomas in female A/J mice or for the induction of tumors on repetitive injections s.c. in male Fischer rats. However, the 2',3'-oxides of safrole, estragole, eugenol, 1'-hydroxysafrole, and 1'-hydroxyestragole, when administered topically to female CD-1 mice at relatively high doses, initiated benign skin tumors that could be promoted with croton oil.
Psychological disorders were originally thought to be the sole cause of vocal cord dysfunction (VCD). Subsequently, other organic diseases, including structural laryngeal abnormalities, have also been reported to be associated with VCD.
To describe the first patient with VCD concurrent with a nutcracker esophagus and to establish the association between VCD and gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) by using the Bernstein test.
Symptom assessments, neuropsychiatric evaluations, fiberoptic laryngoscopy, pulmonary function tests, allergic skin prick tests, radiographs of the chest and sinuses, esophageal manometry (including 24-hour ambulatory esophageal pH monitoring), and the Bernstein test were performed.
A 36-year-old woman had dyspnea, hoarseness, chest pain, and wheezes without relief for a decade. Neuropsychiatric evaluations disclosed mild depression. Fiberoptic laryngoscopy showed posterior laryngitis and paradoxical vocal cord adduction with audible inspiratory stridor. Pulmonary function tests showed attenuation of the inspiratory limb with notching in both flow-volume loops and a mid-vital capacity expiratory to inspiratory flow ratio of 4. All the symptoms except chest pain were improved dramatically by speech therapy and empirical treatment for GERD. Esophageal manometry revealed a nutcracker esophagus; 24-hour ambulatory esophageal pH monitoring demonstrated multiple short reflux episodes. The Bernstein test was conducted, and all the manifestations were reproduced with 0.1 N hydrochloric acid but not with isotonic sodium chloride infusion.
This is the first human case report confirming that GERD can trigger an acute attack of VCD and may induce chest pain as a nutcracker esophagus in patients with VCD. It strengthens this association and expands our knowledge of diverse manifestations of this clinical entity.
Cholangiocarcinoma is a malignant neoplasm arising from the biliary epithelium. The disease is notoriously difficult to diagnose and is usually fatal because of its late clinical presentation and the lack of effective nonsurgical therapeutic modalities. The overall survival rate, including in patients who underwent tumor resections, is poor, with less than 5% surviving more than 5 years. Over the past 5 years, several important studies have yielded new insight into the molecular mechanisms involved in the development and growth of these tumors. The tumor cells of the cholangiocarcinoma express an epidermal growth factor receptor which plays an important role in the pathogenesis of these tumors.
A 49-year-old woman with cholangiocarcinoma of the liver developed spinal metastases. The antiepidermal growth factor receptor (anti-EGFR) antibody was used successfully in combination with radiotherapy. The response to treatment was assessed by magnetic resonance imaging and positron-emission tomography.
The patient with cholangiocarcinoma had a response to cetuximab-based therapies. This may lead to another option for the treatment of hepatic cholangiocarcinoma.
The presence of P-glycoprotein, associated with multiple drug resistance and present in the normal adrenal cortex, was studied in 15 cases of adrenocortical carcinoma. P-glycoprotein was found in eight tumours; no correlation was found with clinical presentation, steroid production or histological index. 10 patients received mitotane. Remarkably, 3 patients with P-glycoprotein-positive tumours achieved complete remission. On the other hand, 2 patients with P-glycoprotein-negative tumours showed progression of the disease despite mitotane treatment. These findings suggest that the expression of P-glycoprotein in adrenocortical carcinoma is not related to clinical manifestations, steroid production, histological index or response to mitotane therapy.
Injection of the endogenous methyl donor, S-adenosyl methionine (SAM), into rat brain induces Parkinson's disease (PD)-like symptoms possibly by stimulating deleterious protein methylation. Gel-filtration chromatography of rat brain extracts treated with [3H-methyl]-SAM revealed the presence of radioactive peaks with apparent molecular weights of about 5 kDa. Treatment with guanidine HCl altered the elution volumes of the labeled peaks. Lyophilized peak fractions released volatile 3H-methanol on incubation with NaOH, indicating the presence of carboxyl methyl esters. Because prenylated proteins are avid methyl acceptors at the terminal carboxylic acid groups, 1 micromol S-farnesylcysteine (FC) analogs blocked the SAM-induced tremors in the experimental rats. FC analogs did not only reverse the associated rigidity, abnormal posture, and hypokinesia, but stimulated hyperactivity in the animals. This amphetamine-like effect was monitored for 20 min in an animal activity monitor and movement times between 400 +/- 100 and 560 +/- 125 s covering distances between 78 +/- 29 to 125 +/- 35 m were recorded for rats treated with FC analogs with or without SAM. Control animals moved only for 60 +/- 13 s covering about 6 +/- 1 m, indicating a 7-9-fold and 13-21-fold increase in duration of movement and distance covered, respectively. N-Acetyl-S-farnesylcysteine (AFC) potentiated amphetamine-induced ipsiversive rotation of 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats from 390 +/- 130 to 830 +/- 110, with AFC alone having no significant effect on net rotation compared to controls. These data indicate that intracerebroventricular injection of SAM may induce PD symptoms by interfering with the methylation/demethylation homeostasis of prenylated proteins that function in the dopaminergic and other signaling pathways, and that the FC analogs may counteract the SAM effects by acting synergistically on events subsequent to neurotransmitter release.
The specific mTor inhibitor sirolimus has been implicated in the pathogenesis of renal glomerular lesions and nephrotic syndrome appearance after transplantation. Podocyte injury and focal segmental glomerulosclerosis have been related to sirolimus therapy in some patients but the pathways underlying these lesions remain hypothetical.
To go further in the comprehension of these mechanisms, primary cultures of human podocytes were exposed to therapeutic-range concentrations of sirolimus.
Cell viability was not affected after 2 days' exposure to the drug but changes in cell phenotype and cytoskeleton reorganization were observed. We also evidenced that vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) synthesis and Akt phosphorylation were decreased by sirolimus addition. We did not observe any loss of podocyte differentiation markers with the notable exception of WT1, a transcription factor essential for maintaining podocyte integrity. WT1 gene and protein expression in podocytes were decreased in a dose-dependent manner after incubation with sirolimus.
Taken together, these data suggest that sirolimus could impair pathways essential for podocyte integrity and therefore predisposes to glomerular injury.
To describe a safe human model in which to study the treatment of fentanyl-induced muscle rigidity and report on the efficacy of thiopental sodium for this purpose.
Randomized, observer-blinded comparison of regimens.
Inpatient surgery at a university-affiliated teaching hospital.
Thirty patients scheduled for elective surgery in whom the administration of high-dose fentanyl was felt to be appropriate and who experienced severe muscle rigidity in the chest, abdomen, and upper extremities after the fentanyl was administered.
One arm was isolated from circulation with a blood pressure (BP) cuff inflated to 100 mmHg above systolic blood pressure (SBP), after which fentanyl 25 to 50 micrograms/kg was administered intravenously (IV) at a rate of 1 mg/min in the contralateral arm. If severe muscle rigidity became apparent in three muscle groups (the chest, abdomen, and arms), patients were either (1) observed for 3.5 minutes without further intervention, (2) given thiopental sodium 1.5 mg/kg IV, followed 120 seconds later by succinylcholine 1 mg/kg IV, or (3) given succinylcholine 1 mg/kg IV, followed 120 seconds later by thiopental sodium 1.5 mg/kg IV.
A single observer, blinded to the technique, evaluated and recorded the degree of muscle rigidity present in the chest wall, abdomen, and upper extremities (one isolated from the circulation by a tourniquet) 90 seconds and 3.5 minutes after the onset of muscle rigidity in the control group and 90 seconds after the administration of either thiopental sodium or succinylcholine in the two experimental groups. The observer was the same individual in all instances. The muscle rigidity associated with the administration of high-dose fentanyl was clinically attenuated by the administration of thiopental sodium, especially in the extremities. Succinylcholine was more effective than thiopental sodium in producing muscle flaccidity in all muscle groups not isolated by a tourniquet. In no case did the muscle rigidity compromise our ability to oxygenate the patient adequately.
Thiopental sodium does blunt the degree of muscle rigidity induced by high-dose fentanyl, though not as effectively as does succinylcholine. One can safely isolate an extremity prior to the administration of high-dose fentanyl and a muscle relaxant, intubate the trachea, and ventilate a patient, while retaining the ability to study the effect of centrally acting drugs on fentanyl-induced rigidity in the isolated extremity.
Rotational and functional motor behavioral changes were studied in five MPTP lesioned chronic hemiparkinsonian Macaca nemestrina monkeys after i.m. pramipexole, a predominant D2 subfamily agonist. Pramipexole induced contraversive rotations in a dose-dependent manner with an optimal dose of 56 microg/kg for approximately 2 to 4 hr after injection. Three different rating scales were used to determine drug-induced functional improvement. They included a monkey parkinsonism rating scale, volitional responses to fruit presentations, and number of hand movements that appeared volitional. A dose of 56 microg/kg of pramipexole produced functional improvements on hand disability, and on a parkinsonian rating scale for monkeys in a dose-dependent manner from 32 to 100 microg/kg. These doses produced an increase in significant hand movements in the affected (contralateral) as well as in the normal (ipsilateral) hand to the side of the brain lesion compared with 5% dextrose in water vehicle control. With a dose of 100 microg/kg, the therapeutic effects of pramipexole on hand movements were less than with 56 microg/kg, due to side effects such as scratching.
Acetaminophen (APAP) overdose is the most frequent cause of adult acute liver failure. Susceptibility or resistance to APAP toxicity is most likely accounted for by the interplay of several factors. One factor important in multiple different chronic liver diseases that may play a role in APAP toxicity is elevated hepatic iron. Hereditary hemochromatosis is traditionally associated with hepatic iron overload. However, varying degrees of elevated hepatic iron stores observed in chronic hepatitis C and B, alcoholic liver disease and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease also have clinical relevance. We employed an animal model in which mice are fed a 3,5,5-trimethyl-hexanoyl-ferrocene (TMHF)-supplemented diet to evaluate the effect of elevated hepatic iron on APAP hepatotoxicity. Three hundred milligrams per kilogram APAP was chosen because this dosage induces hepatotoxicity but is not lethal. Since both excess iron and APAP induce oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction, we hypothesized that the TMHF diet would enhance APAP hepatotoxicity. The results were the opposite. Centrilobular vacuolation/necrosis, APAP adducts, nitrotyrosine adducts, and a spike in serum alanine aminotransferase, which were observed in control mice treated with APAP, were not observed in TMHF-fed mice treated with APAP. Further analysis showed that the levels of CYP2E1 and CYP1A2 were not significantly different in TMHF-treated compared with control mice. However, the magnitude of depletion of glutathione following APAP treatment was considerably less in TMHF-treated mice than in mice fed a control diet. We conclude that a TMHF diet protects mice from moderate transient APAP-induced hepatotoxicity prior to the formation of APAP adducts, and one contributing mechanism is reduction in glutathione depletion.
Clopidogrel, one of the most commonly prescribed medications, is a prodrug requiring CYP450 biotransformation. Data suggest its pharmacologic effect varies based on CYP2C19 genotype, but there is uncertainty regarding the clinical risk imparted by specific genotypes.
To define the risk of major adverse cardiovascular outcomes among carriers of 1 (≈ 26% prevalence in whites) and carriers of 2 (≈ 2% prevalence in whites) reduced-function CYP2C19 genetic variants in patients treated with clopidogrel.
A literature search was conducted (January 2000-August 2010) in MEDLINE, Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, and EMBASE. Genetic studies were included in which clopidogrel was initiated in predominantly invasively managed patients in a manner consistent with the current guideline recommendations and in which clinical outcomes were ascertained.
Investigators from 9 studies evaluating CYP2C19 genotype and clinical outcomes in patients treated with clopidogrel contributed the relevant hazard ratios (HRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for specific cardiovascular outcomes by genotype.
Among 9685 patients (91.3% who underwent percutaneous coronary intervention and 54.5% who had an acute coronary syndrome), 863 experienced the composite end point of cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, or stroke; and 84 patients had stent thrombosis among the 5894 evaluated for such. Overall, 71.5% were noncarriers, 26.3% had 1 reduced-function CYP2C19 allele, and 2.2% had 2 reduced-function CYP2C19 alleles. A significantly increased risk of the composite end point was evident in both carriers of 1 (HR, 1.55; 95% CI, 1.11-2.17; P = .01) and 2 (HR, 1.76; 95% CI, 1.24-2.50; P = .002) reduced-function CYP2C19 alleles, as compared with noncarriers. Similarly, there was a significantly increased risk of stent thrombosis in both carriers of 1 (HR, 2.67; 95% CI, 1.69-4.22; P < .0001) and 2 (HR, 3.97; 95% CI, 1.75-9.02; P = .001) CYP2C19 reduced-function alleles, as compared with noncarriers.
Among patients treated with clopidogrel for percutaneous coronary intervention, carriage of even 1 reduced-function CYP2C19 allele appears to be associated with a significantly increased risk of major adverse cardiovascular events, particularly stent thrombosis.
Cadmium (Cd) is associated with male infertility and poor semen quality in humans. Increasing evidence demonstrates that Cd induces testicular germ cell apoptosis in rodent animals. However, the molecular mechanisms of Cd-induced testicular germ cell apoptosis remain poorly understood. In the present study, we investigated the role of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress on Cd-evoked germ cell apoptosis in testes. We show that spliced form of XBP-1, the target of the IRE1 pathway, was significantly increased in testes of mice injected with CdCl(2). GRP78, an ER chaperone, and CHOP, a downstream target of the PERK pathway, were upregulated in testes of Cd-treated mice. In addition, acute Cd exposure significantly caused eIF2α and JNK phosphorylation in testes, indicating that the unfolded protein response pathway in testes was activated by Cd. Interestingly, phenylbutyric acid (PBA), an ER chemical chaperone, attenuated Cd-induced ER stress and protected against germ cell apoptosis in testes. In addition, PBA significantly attenuated Cd-evoked release of cytochrome c from mitochondria to cytoplasm in testes. Taken together, these results suggest that crosstalk between ER stress signaling and mitochondrial pathway mediates Cd-induced testicular germ cell apoptosis.
