This article focuses on the authors' experience with a 25-year-old female patient exhibiting cocaine-induced cardiovascular dysfunction. A care plan is provided that emphasizes the patient's need for assistance with individual coping.
To examine hemodynamic variables in corticotropin-induced hypertension in rats and the effects of reversal of the hypertension by L-arginine on the hemodynamic profile.
Sixty male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into four groups: sham treatment (0.9% NaCl, injected subcutaneously); 0.5 mg/kg corticotropin per day, subcutaneously; 0.6% L-arginine in food plus sham; and L-arginine plus corticotropin. Systolic blood pressure, water and food intakes, urine volume, and body weight were measured every second day. After 10 days mean arterial blood pressure was measured by intra-arterial cannulation, and cardiac output, and renal, mesenteric, and hindquarter blood flows were determined using transonic small animal flowmeters.
Injection of corticotropin increased blood pressure, water intake, urine volume, and plasma sodium concentration, and decreased body weight and plasma potassium concentration. It increased cardiac output (P < 0.01), mesenteric blood flow (P < 0.05), and renal vascular resistance (P < 0.05), and decreased renal blood flow (P < 0.05), but did not change calculated total peripheral resistance, hindquarter blood flow, mesenteric or hindquarter vascular resistance. L-arginine prevented corticotropin-induced rises in blood pressure (P < 0.001) and renal vascular resistance (P < 0.05), and a fall in renal blood flow (P < 0.05), but did not affect other hemodynamic variables.
The hemodynamic profile of corticotropin-induced hypertension in the rat is characterized by a rise in cardiac output and renal vascular resistance, a fall in renal blood flow, but no change in total peripheral resistance, hindquarter blood flow, mesenteric vascular resistance, or hindquarter vascular resistance. L-arginine prevented corticotropin-induced rises both in blood pressure and in renal vascular resistance in the rat. These data suggest that the increase in renal vascular resistance might play a role in corticotropin-induced hypertension in the rat.
Recent studies have shown that l-tetrahydropalmatine (l-THP), an active component of Corydolis yanhusuo, can inhibit the development of the conditional place preference induced by opioid receptor agonists, but the effects of l-THP on locomotor sensitivity induced by opioid receptor agonists have not been documented. In the present study, the effects of l-THP on locomotor sensitization to oxycodone, which is an opioid receptor agonist, were studied.
Mice treated daily for 7 d with 5 mg/kg oxycodone and challenged with the same dose after 5 days of washout showed locomotor sensitization. In order to study the effects of l-THP on locomotor sensitization induced by oxycodone, l-THP was administered at doses of 6.25, 12.5, and 18.75 mg/kg, 40 min prior to treatment of oxycodone.
l-THP per se did not affect the locomotor activity at the doses of 6.25, 12.5, and 18.75 mg/kg, but could antagonize the hyperactivity induced by oxycodone (5 mg/kg). Co-administration of l-THP (18.75 mg/kg), 40 min prior to oxycodone, could inhibit the development of sensitization to oxycodone. In addition, l-THP (6.25, 12.5, and 18.75 mg/kg, i.g.) dose-dependently prevented the expression of oxycodone sensitization.
These results suggested that l-THP could attenuate the locomotor-stimulating effects of oxycodone and inhibit the development and expression of oxycodone behavioral sensitization.
Leber congenital amaurosis (LCA) causes blindness or severe visual impairment at or within a few months of birth. Here we show, using homozygosity mapping, that the LCA5 gene on chromosome 6q14, which encodes the previously unknown ciliary protein lebercilin, is associated with this disease. We detected homozygous nonsense and frameshift mutations in LCA5 in five families affected with LCA. In a sixth family, the LCA5 transcript was completely absent. LCA5 is expressed widely throughout development, although the phenotype in affected individuals is limited to the eye. Lebercilin localizes to the connecting cilia of photoreceptors and to the microtubules, centrioles and primary cilia of cultured mammalian cells. Using tandem affinity purification, we identified 24 proteins that link lebercilin to centrosomal and ciliary functions. Members of this interactome represent candidate genes for LCA and other ciliopathies. Our findings emphasize the emerging role of disrupted ciliary processes in the molecular pathogenesis of LCA.
In a first step, midazolam 0.1 mg/kg, midazolam 0.05 mg/kg and diazepam 0.15 mg/kg administered intravenously were blindly evaluated as a sedating preparation in 3 groups of each 30 patients undergoing gastroscopy. Although amnesia is better with midazolam 0.1 mg/kg, the induced sedation is protracted, which is not to be wished in ambulatory patients. On the other side, diazepam 0.15 mg/kg was locally less well tolerated. Taking into consideration the efficacy and the general and local tolerance, the dose of midazolam 0.05 mg/kg seems the best compromise. In a second step, the specific benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil was blindly evaluated at two intravenous doses, 1 mg and 0.5 mg, against placebo for reversal of midazolam (0.1 mg/kg) induced sedation in gastroscopy patients. 1 mg of flumazenil (and to a lesser degree 0.5 mg) suppresses the sedation and amnesia induced by midazolam and normalizes attention and sensori-motor functions. However a certain degree of resedation can reappear 45-60 min. after the administration of flumazenil. Though this phenomenon did not alter the tests measuring attention and sensorimotor functions and the recovery of memory (contrary to placebo), it incites to be cautious when the drug is given to ambulatory patients.
Beta-2 agonists are potent inhibitors of mast cell degranulation in vitro. Intradermally injected they also inhibit mast cell activation in human skin in vivo. To what extent orally administered beta(2)-agonists inhibit mast cell degranulation and allergic skin responses in vivo in daily recommended doses remains unclear.
The main purpose was to study the effects of oral administered terbutaline and bambuterol on allergen- and codeine-induced histamine release and skin responses in intact human skin in vivo. In addition, control studies were carried out with intradermally injected terbutaline.
Ten allergic subjects were randomized to receive bambuterol (10 mg tablets twice daily), terbutaline (7.5 mg controlled release tablets twice daily) and corresponding placebo for 5 days with a washout phase of 3 days between treatments in a double-blind, double-dummy, cross-over trial. The patients were studied at the fifth day of each regimen, i.e. at day 5, 13, and 21. Allergen- and codeine-induced histamine release was measured by microdialysis technique. Wheal and flare reactions to allergen, codeine, and histamine were measured planimetrically. Measurements were performed in the morning on day 5 on each regimen before medication and for additional 5 h after administration of the morning dose. In a separate series of experiments in another 10 allergic patients, 1-1,000 nM (0.05-50 pmoles) of terbutaline was injected intradermally for measurement of histamine release, prostaglandin D2 (PGD2) synthesis and skin responses.
Neither orally administered terbutaline nor bambuterol significantly reduced allergen- or codeine-induced histamine release. Flare reactions to allergen, codeine and histamine remained unaffected which was also the case for the majority of the wheal reactions. In comparison, intradermally injected terbutaline significantly reduced allergen-induced histamine release, PGD(2) synthesis, and skin reactions. Codeine-induced histamine release remained unaffected. Terbutaline significantly reduced flare reactions to codeine and histamine with no effect on wheal reactions.
Terbutaline, in micromolar concentrations, was a potent inhibitor of immediate allergic skin reactions primarily due to inhibition of mast cell degranulation. However orally administered terbutaline, as the active drug itself or released from its pro-drug bambuterol, did not inhibit mast cell activation or allergic skin responses.
Sodium saccharin and sodium ascorbate are known to promote urinary bladder carcinogenesis in rats following initiation with N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]formamide (FANFT) or N-butyl-N-(4-hydroxybutyl) nitrosamine. Sodium salts of other organic acids have also been shown to be bladder tumor promoters. In addition, these substances increase urothelial proliferation in short term assays in rats when fed at high doses. When they have been tested, the acid forms of these salts are without either promoting or cell proliferative inducing activity. The following experiment was designed to compare the tumor promoting activity of various forms of saccharin and to evaluate the role in promotion of urinary sodium, calcium, and pH as well as other factors. Twenty groups of 40 male F344 rats, 5 weeks of age, were fed either FANFT or control diet during a 6-week initiation phase followed by feeding of a test compound for 72 weeks in the second phase. The chemicals were administered to the first 18 groups in Agway Prolab 3200 diet and the last 2 groups were fed NIH-07 diet. The treatments were as follows: (a) FANFT----5% sodium saccharin (NaS); (b) FANFT----3% NaS; (c) FANFT----5.2% calcium saccharin (CaS); (d) FANFT----3.12% CaS; (e) FANFT----4.21% acid saccharin (S); (f) FANFT----2.53% S; (g) FANFT----5% sodium ascorbate; (h) FANFT----4.44% ascorbic acid; (i) FANFT----5% NaS plus 1.15% CaCO3; (j) FANFT----5.2% CaS plus 1.34% NaCl; (k) FANFT----5% NaS plus 1.23% NH4Cl; (l) FANFT----1.15% CaCO3; (m) FANFT----1.34% NaCl; (n) FANFT----control; (o) control----5% NaS; (p) control----5.2% CaS; (q) control----4.21% S; (r) Control----control; (s) FANFT----5% NaS (NIH-07 diet); (t) FANFT----control (NIH-07 diet). NaS, CaS and S without prior FANFT administration were without tumorigenic activity. NaS was found to have tumor promoting activity, showing a positive response at the 5 and 3% dose levels, with significantly greater activity at the higher dose. CaS had slight tumor promoting activity but without a dose response, and S showed no tumor promoting activity. In addition, NaCl showed weak tumor promoting activity, but CaCO3 was without activity. NH4Cl completely inhibited the tumor promoting activity of NaS when concurrently administered with it. NaCl administered with CaS or CaCO3 administered with NaS showed activity similar to that of NaS. Sodium ascorbate was also shown to have tumor promoting activity, with slightly less activity than NaS. Ascorbic acid showed no tumor promoting activity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Methemoglobin formation, as well as hemoglobin or DNA adducts, are useful biomarkers of occupational exposure to certain arylamines. It has been suggested that, in liver from animals not treated with a cytochrome P450 (CYP) inducer, hepatic CYP1A2 is the major P450 involved in N-hydroxylation. This is the first step in the metabolic activation of many arylamines, such as the human urinary bladder carcinogen 4-aminobiphenyl (ABP). The product of this catalytic step, N-hydroxy-4-ABP, reacts in the blood with oxyhemoglobin to form methemoglobin and nitrosobiphenyl. We therefore examined the role of CYP1A2 in causing methemoglobinemia in ABP-treated Cyp1a2(-/-) knockout mice. Application of ABP (100 micromol/kg body wt) to the skin resulted in a marked depletion in the levels of the hepatic thiols (reduced glutathione and cysteine) after 2 h, which rebounded to basal levels 24 h later, and we found no differences between the Cyp1a2(-/-) and wild-type Cyp1a2(+/+) animals. Unexpectedly, the methemoglobin levels were significantly (p < 0.05) higher in Cyp1a2(-/-) than Cyp1a2(+/+) mice at 2, 7, and 24 h following topical ABP. Treatment with dioxin, 24 h prior to ABP, decreased methemoglobin levels by about half at each of the time points in both the Cyp1a2(-/-) and Cyp1a2(+/+) mice. These data suggest that CYP1A2 does not play a positive role in methemoglobin formation via the activation of ABP; rather, the absence of CYP1A2 enhances ABP-induced methemoglobinemia. Because liver CYP1A2 levels are known to vary more than 60-fold between humans, our findings may be relevant to patients who are exposed to arylamines in the workplace.
The aim of the present study was to investigate, whether sensory nerves are involved in the gastroprotection induced by NO releasing non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NO-NSAID).
Studies were performed in Wistar rats with intact or inactivated sensory nerves by pretreatment with large dose of capsaicin (125 mg/kg sc).
Acute gastric lesions were induced by 100% ethanol (100% EtOH). 1 h before exposure to 100% EtOH, rats received vehicle, aspirin (ASA) or NO-releasing aspirin (NO-ASA) in the same dose (50 mg/kg). The animals were killed 1 h after exposure to 100% EtOH.
Determinations were made of gastric mucosal injury, mucosal gastric blood flow, mucosal mRNA expression of glutathione peroxidase (GPx), zinc copper superoxide dismutase (SOD) and heat shock protein (HSP70) by RT-PCR and protein expression for HSP70 by Western blotting.
Pretreatment with ASA aggravated the acute gastric injury induced by 100% EtOH, whereas pretreatment with NO-ASA led to a significant reduction in this injury. Administration of 100% EtOH was accompanied by a pronounced upregulation of HSP70, which was reduced by ASA, but enhanced by NO-ASA application. Sensory deactivation with capsaicin enhanced acute ethanol lesions and led to a significant attenuation in HSP70 expression. In contrast to ASA, NO-ASA attenuated gastric mucosal lesions and significantly upregulated HSP70 expression despite blockade of sensory nerves. NO-ASA, but not ASA, caused an upregulation of SOD and GPx mRNA in gastric mucosa with or without sensory denervation.
NO-ASA protects gastric mucosa even after blockade of sensory nerves due to the upregulation of HSP70 expression and attenuation of the oxidative injury resulting from strong upregulation of genes for antioxidant enzymes.
Antiproliferative and non-nephrotoxic properties of sirolimus have been exploited for treatment of patients with chronic graft dysfunction. In this paper we point to the possible association of nephrotic syndrome and renal impairment with rapid conversion from cyclosporine (CsA) to sirolimus in patients with chronic nephropathy. Five male patients, ages 34 to 56 years, with chronic renal failure in the course of glomerulonephritis, were transplanted between 1997 and 1999. For the first 49 to 65 months, the immunosuppressive regimen consisted of CsA, azathioprine (AZA), and prednisone. Thereafter, due to chronic nephropathy evidenced by biopsy, conversion to sirolimus was performed with sharp withdrawal of CsA. The serum creatinine level prior to conversion was 1.9 +/- 0.3 mg/dL. Trace to 86 mg/dL proteinuria was found in 3 patients, while 2 patients had about 200 mg/dL. After 2 to 4 months of sirolimus treatment the proteinuria progressed (558 +/- 183 mg/dL); edema, hypoproteinemia, hypoalbuminemia, and hyperlipidemia developed; and the serum creatinine increased to 3.5 +/- 0.8 mg/dL. Biopsies performed in three patients revealed new pathologic changes. After 4 to 5 months, we performed reconversion to calcineurin inhibitor. Proteinuria decreased to 0 to 150 mg/dL; nevertheless the serum creatinine was continuously rising. Six to 15 months after the conversion, 3 patients returned to dialysis. The fourth patient, who was earlier reconverted, has a serum creatinine level of 2.0 mg/dL after 15 months. In conclusion, conversion from CsA to sirolimus may induce nephrotic syndrome with progressive deterioration of renal function. Converted patients require careful monitoring of proteinuria and renal function. Early reconversion to calcineurin inhibitor may prevent progressive deterioration of graft function.
A prospective study was undertaken in 16 patients with chronic renal failure on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis, with 22 episodes of peritonitis treated with vancomycin, a known ototoxic agent. Twelve patients had one episode each, and four had recurrent peritonitis. Each treatment course consisted of two infusions of vancomycin (30 mg/kg body weight) in 2 L of peritoneal dialysate administered at 6-day intervals. Serum vancomycin analyzed by enzyme immunoassay showed a mean trough level of 11.00 microg/ml on day 6 and mean serum levels of 33.8 and 38.6 microg/ml about 12 hours after administration on days 1 and 7, respectively. Similar levels, well within the therapeutic range, were encountered with repeated vancomycin therapy for recurrent episodes of peritonitis, suggesting that no changes occurred in the pharmacokinetic profile of the drug. Pure-tone audiometry, electronystagmography, and clinical assessment performed during each course of treatment showed no evidence of ototoxicity even on repeated courses of vancomycin therapy. The results suggest that vancomycin therapy when given in appropriate concentrations as a single therapeutic agent is both effective and safe. We believe, however, that vancomycin administered in combination with an aminoglycoside may produce ototoxic effects that may be greatly aggravated, possibly because of synergism.
Although thoracic aortic aneurysms and dissections (TAAD) can be inherited as a single-gene disorder, the genetic predisposition in the majority of affected people is poorly understood. In a multistage genome-wide association study (GWAS), we compared 765 individuals who had sporadic TAAD (STAAD) with 874 controls and identified common SNPs at a 15q21.1 locus that were associated with STAAD, with odds ratios of 1.6-1.8 that achieved genome-wide significance. We followed up 107 SNPs associated with STAAD with P < 1 × 10(-5) in the region, in two separate STAAD cohorts. The associated SNPs fall into a large region of linkage disequilibrium encompassing FBN1, which encodes fibrillin-1. FBN1 mutations cause Marfan syndrome, whose major cardiovascular complication is TAAD. This study shows that common genetic variants at 15q21.1 that probably act via FBN1 are associated with STAAD, suggesting a common pathogenesis of aortic disease in Marfan syndrome and STAAD.
Age-related macular degeneration (AMD), the leading cause of irreversible blindness in the world, is a complex disease caused by multiple environmental and genetic risk factors. To identify genetic factors that modify the risk of exudative AMD in the Japanese population, we conducted a genome-wide association study and a replication study using a total of 1,536 individuals with exudative AMD and 18,894 controls. In addition to CFH (rs800292, P = 4.23 × 10(-15)) and ARMS2 (rs3750847, P = 8.67 × 10(-29)) loci, we identified two new susceptibility loci for exudative AMD: TNFRSF10A-LOC389641 on chromosome 8p21 (rs13278062, combined P = 1.03 × 10(-12), odds ratio = 0.73) and REST-C4orf14-POLR2B-IGFBP7 on chromosome 4q12 (rs1713985, combined P = 2.34 × 10(-8), odds ratio = 1.30). Fine mapping revealed that rs13278062, which is known to alter TNFRSF10A transcriptional activity, had the most significant association in 8p21 region. Our results provide new insights into the pathophysiology of exudative AMD.
We previously showed that resveratrol (3,4',5-trihydroxystilbene) stimulates NO production and is cardioprotective in rat heart subjected to ischemia-reperfusion (I/R rat heart). We now show that in I/R rat heart, inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expression is markedly induced, while expression of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) and nueronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) is unchanged. In animals preconditioned with resveratrol (0.5 to 1 mg/kg body wt), I/R-induced iNOS induction is abrogated; however, expression of eNOS and nNOS is greatly upregulated. The protective effects of resveratrol on I/R rat heart include reduced rhythm disturbances, reduced cardiac infarct size, and decreased plasma levels of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and creatine kinase (CK). Among these, the reductions in LDH/CK levels and infarct size are NO-dependent as the coadministration of N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME, 1 mg/kg body wt) with resveratrol abolishes the resveratrol effect. In contrast, the reductions in the severity of ventricular arrhythmia and mortality rate are not affected by L-NAME coadministration, suggesting that a NO-independent mechanism is involved.
The effect of post-treatment with diphenyl diselenide on liver damage induced by 2-nitropropane (2-NP) was examined in male rats. Rats were pre-treated with a single dose of 2-NP (100 mg/kg body weight dissolved in canola oil). Afterward, the animals were post-treated with a dose of diphenyl diselenide (10, 50 or 100 micromol/kg). The parameters that indicate tissue damage such as liver histopathology, plasma aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT), urea and creatinine were determined. Since the liver damage induced by 2-NP is related to oxidative damage, lipid peroxidation, superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT) and ascorbic acid level were also evaluated. Diphenyl diselenide (50 and 100 micromol/kg) effectively restored the increase of ALT and AST activities and urea level when compared to the 2-NP group. At the higher dose, diphenyl diselenide decreased GGT activity. Treatment with diphenyl diselenide, at all doses, effectively ameliorated the increase of hepatic and renal lipid peroxidation when compared to 2-NP group. 2-NP reduced CAT activity and neither alter SOD activity nor ascorbic acid level. This study points out the involvement of CAT activity in 2-NP-induced acute liver damage and suggests that the post-treatment with diphenyl diselenide was effective in restoring the hepatic damage induced by 2-NP.
Hazardous air pollutants are plausible candidate exposures for autism spectrum disorders. They have been explored in recent studies for their role in the development of these disorders.
We used a prevalent case-control design to screen perinatal exposure to 35 hazardous air pollutants for further investigation in autism etiology. We included 383 children with autism spectrum disorders and, as controls, 2,829 children with speech and language impairment. All participants were identified from the records-based surveillance of 8-year-old children conducted by the Autism and Developmental Disabilities Monitoring Network in North Carolina (for children born in 1994 and 1996) and West Virginia (born in 1992 and 1994). Exposures to ambient concentrations of metal, particulate, and volatile organic air pollutants in the census tract of the child's birth residence were assigned from the 1996 National Air Toxics Assessment annual-average model. We estimated odds ratios (ORs) for autism spectrum disorders and corresponding 95% confidence intervals (CIs), comparing across the 20th and 80th percentiles of log-transformed hazardous air pollutant concentration among the selected controls, using semi-Bayes logistic models and adjusting for sampling variables (surveillance year and state), a priori demographic confounders from the birth certificate and census, and covarying air pollutants.
We estimated many near-null ORs, including those for metals, established human neurodevelopmental toxicants, and several pollutants that were elevated in a similar study in California. Hazardous air pollutants with more precise and elevated OR estimates included methylene chloride, 1.4 (95% CI = 0.7-2.5), quinoline, 1.4 (1.0-2.2), and styrene, 1.8 (1.0-3.1).
Our screening design was limited by exposure misclassification of air pollutants and the use of an alternate developmental disorder as the control group, both of which may have biased results toward the null. Despite these limitations, methylene chloride, quinoline, and styrene emerged (based on this analysis and prior epidemiologic evidence) as candidates that warrant further investigation for a possible role in autism etiology.
Torasemide is a long-acting loop diuretic that combines the effects of both furosemide and spironolactone. It has been reported that torasemide may block the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system and therefore it might attenuate myocardial remodeling accompanied by left ventricular dysfunction. However, nothing is known about the effect of torasemide on myocardial remodeling in a rat model in which myosin-induced experimental autoimmune myocarditis might develop into dilated cardiomyopathy. Experimental autoimmune myocarditis was elicited in Lewis rats by immunization with porcine cardiac myosin. Twenty-eight days after immunization, we investigated the effects of torasemide on metabolic and neurohumoral parameters, cardiac fibrosis and remodeling in experimental autoimmune myocarditis rats. Diuresis was increased dose-dependently by torasemide; the urinary potassium and sodium excretion was significantly decreased and increased, respectively. Myocardial functional parameters measured by hemodynamic and echocardiographic studies were significantly improved by torasemide treatment in a dose-dependent manner. The area of fibrosis, myocyte size and the myocardial protein levels of transforming growth factor-beta1, collagen III, and aldosterone synthase were significantly decreased, and the sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ ATPase2 protein level was significantly increased by torasemide treatment. Moreover, the plasma levels of angiotensin II and aldosterone were increased and atrial natriuretic peptide was decreased in a dose-dependent manner. Our results indicate that torasemide treatment significantly improved left ventricular function and ameliorated the progression of cardiac remodeling beyond its renal effects in rats with chronic heart failure after experimental autoimmune myocarditis.
A patient with several episodes of jaundice associated with sulfamethoxazole therapy is described. In contrast to the histologic picture of hepatocellular necrosis with or without cholestasis that is generally associated with sulfonamide hepatotoxicity, in the present case a relatively pure cholestatic pattern was found. Associated clinical features, as well as the response to drug challenge, were compatible with a hypersensitivity mechanism. The patient's lymphocytes did not undergo in vitro blast transformation upon stimulation with sulfamethoxazole or sulfamethoxazole-containing plasmas.
This study aimed to identify and evaluate molecular targets for the development of a novel combination chemotherapy to treat refractory and recurrent diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL).
Lymphoma samples from 38 cases of primary and recurrent DLBCL were analyzed using real-time quantitative PCR of the RPS6KB1 and CDC2 genes, and immunohistochemistry for their gene products p70S6K/p85S6K and cdc2/cdk1. The Farage, Karpas422, Pfeiffer, and Toledo DLBCL cell lines were subsequently treated with rapamycin and UCN-01 alone or in combination. Cell proliferation, apoptosis, and cell cycle progression were analyzed after the drug treatment. In addition, the levels of several key protein kinases involved in the phosphoinositide 3'-kinase (PI3K)/Akt/mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway, apoptosis, and cell cycle progression were analyzed in the presence and absence of the drugs.
Amplification of the RPS6KB1 and CDC2 genes was found in both primary and recurrent DLBCL. Moreover, the vast majority of these lymphomas (approximately 94%) were strongly positive for phospho-p70S6K and cdc2/cdk1 proteins. The combination of rapamycin and UCN-01 synergistically inhibited the DLBCL cell proliferation by inducing G1 arrest as well as apoptosis by suppressing the phosphorylation of p70S6K/p85S6K and CDC2 expression.
RPS6KB1 and CDC2 overexpression is common in DLBCL. Simultaneously targeting the RPS6KB1 and CDC2 products phospho-p70S6K/p85S6K and cdc2/cdk1 is very effective in inhibiting DLBCL proliferation and overcoming drug resistance. This work suggests that multilevel inhibition of the PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway and double-block of cell cycle progression are effective strategies for DLBCL therapy.
In the skin surrounding a site of injury, hyperalgesia develops to mechanical stimuli. Two types of secondary hyperalgesia (to light touch and punctate stimuli) have recently been differentiated, based on different durations and sizes of the area involved. We studied secondary hyperalgesia in a subject who had a loss of myelinated afferent nerve fibres below the neck that spared the A delta group. Stroking with a cotton swab was not perceived anywhere on affected skin either before or after injection of 60 micrograms of capsaicin. Thus, there was no hyperalgesia to light touch. Capsaicin injection into the volar forearm evoked normal pain and flare. A von Frey probe exerting a force of 40 mN was perceived as sharp. The sensation of sharpness was more pronounced up to 2 cm outside the flare zone for at least 16 min following the injection (tested with a 200 mN von Frey probe). Thus, hyperalgesia to punctate stimuli developed as in healthy subjects. These data support the model that hyperalgesia to light touch (allodynia) is due to sensitisation of central pain-signaling neurones to low-threshold mechanoreceptor input (A beta fibres). In contrast, punctate hyperalgesia is likely to be due to sensitisation to nociceptor input (A delta or C fibres).
Since the earlier review in Drugs substantial additional data have accumulated regarding the antihypertensive efficacy of isradipine in various clinical situations, as well as data on its clinical effects in atherosclerosis. Recent therapeutic trials confirm that the efficacy of isradipine in the treatment of patients with mainly mild to moderate hypertension, when administered orally as a conventional or modified release preparation, is similar to that of titrated dosages of amlodipine, felodipine, nifedipine, diltiazem, captopril, methyldopa, metoprolol, prazosin and hydrochlorothiazide. A further decrease in blood pressure can be expected when isradipine is combined with another antihypertensive drug in patients who have not responded adequately to monotherapy. Initial studies have shown that intravenous isradipine is effective in controlling hypertension following coronary artery bypass graft surgery and that it appears useful in the treatment of intraoperative hypertension and hypertensive crisis, and in hypertensive disorders in pregnancy, when administered orally or intravenously. A large study, the Multicentre Isradipine Diuretic Atherosclerosis Study (MIDAS), was designed to compare the efficacy of isradipine and hydrochlorothiazide in reducing the rate of progression of carotid artery wall thickness, measured by B-mode ultrasound, as a surrogate for early atherosclerosis. Results indicated that wall thickness increased significantly less with isradipine than hydrochlorothiazide after 6 months of therapy. Thereafter the rate of progression remained parallel for the remainder of the 3-year trial. The confirmation of its antihypertensive efficacy, along with its favourable haemodynamic profile and reversal of left ventricular hypertrophy, minimal effect on glucose and lipid metabolism, preservation of quality of life and good tolerability, makes isradipine a suitable drug for the treatment of most patients with mild to moderate hypertension.
Chromium (Cr(3+)) supplementation facilitates normal protein, fat, and carbohydrate metabolism, and is widely used by the public in many countries. This study examined the effect of chromium niacinate (Cr-N) or chromium picolinate (Cr-P) supplementation on lipid peroxidation (LP), TNF-alpha, IL-6, C-reactive protein (CRP), glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA(1)), cholesterol, and triglycerides (TG) in diabetic rats. Diabetes (D) was induced in Sprague-Dawley rats by streptozotocin (STZ) (ip, 65 mg/kg BW). Control buffer, Cr-N, or Cr-P (400 microg Cr/kg BW) was administered by gavages daily for 7 weeks. Blood was collected by heart puncture using light anesthesia. Diabetes caused a significant increase in blood levels of TNF-alpha, IL-6, glucose, HbA(1), cholesterol, TG, and LP. Compared with D, Cr-N supplementation lowered the blood levels of TNF-alpha (P=0.04), IL-6 (P=0.02), CRP (P=0.02), LP (P=0.01), HbA(1) (P=0.02), TG (P=0.04), and cholesterol (P=0.04). Compared with D, Cr-P supplementation showed a decrease in TNF-alpha (P=0.02), IL-6 (P=0.02), and LP (P=0.01). Chromium niacinate lowers blood levels of proinflammatory cytokines (TNF-alpha, IL-6, CRP), oxidative stress, and lipids levels in diabetic rats, and appears to be a more effective form of Cr(3+) supplementation. This study suggests that Cr(3+) supplementation can lower the risk of vascular inflammation in diabetes.
Our purpose was to study the safety of controlled-onset, extended-release (COER) verapamil in patients with hypertension or coronary artery disease, with a focus on elderly patients.
Adverse event data were pooled from 7 double-blind, multicenter, randomized trials including 1999 patients with hypertension or chronic stable angina pectoris. There were 1042 patients who received COER verapamil 180 to 540 mg once daily in the evening for up to 10 weeks, 373 patients who received placebo, and 584 who received an active comparator agent. Data were analyzed according to the following groups: all patients, patients with hypertension, patients with angina, older patients (>/=65 years old), and younger patients (<65 years old). Adverse event rates were compared across the treatment groups by the Fisher exact test.
In all patients combined, the incidence of constipation (13% vs 2%), dizziness (6% vs 2%), and back pain (3% vs 1%) was higher in patients treated with COER verapamil than with placebo. Patients with hypertension had more back pain (4% vs 1%) and constipation (12% vs 1%) with COER verapamil than with placebo, whereas patients with angina had more bradycardia (2.6% vs 0%), dizziness (8% vs 2%), and constipation (15% vs 3%). Older patients treated with COER verapamil had more bradycardia, constipation, dizziness, and fatigue and had fewer headaches compared with younger patients treated with COER verapamil. Second- or third-degree atrioventricular block was not observed after administration of COER verapamil in any subgroup.
These data demonstrate that COER verapamil has an acceptable safety profile that is largely unrelated to age in patients with hypertension or coronary artery disease.
L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias in Parkinson's disease are a significant clinical problem for which few therapies are available. We recently showed that nicotine reduces L-DOPA-induced abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) in parkinsonian animals, suggesting it may be useful for the treatment of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias. The present experiments were performed to understand the mechanisms whereby nicotine reduces L-DOPA-induced AIMs. We used a well established model of dyskinesias, L-DOPA-treated unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats. Dose-ranging studies showed that injection of 0.1 mg/kg nicotine once or twice daily for 4 or 10 days most effectively reduced AIMs, with no worsening of parkinsonism. Importantly, a single nicotine injection did not reduce AIMs, indicating that nicotine's effect is caused by long-term rather than short-term molecular changes. Administration of the metabolite cotinine did not reduce AIMs, suggesting a direct effect of nicotine. Experiments with the nicotinic receptor (nAChR) antagonist mecamylamine were done to determine whether nicotine acted via a receptor-mediated mechanism. Unexpectedly, several days of mecamylamine injection (1.0 mg/kg) alone significantly ameliorated dyskinesias to a comparable extent as nicotine. The decline in AIMs with combined nicotine and mecamylamine treatment was not additive, suggesting that nicotine exerts its effects via a nAChR interaction. This latter finding, combined with data showing that mecamylamine reduced AIMs to a similar extent as nicotine, and that nicotine or mecamylamine treatment both decreased alpha6beta2* and increased alpha4beta2* nAChR expression, suggests that the nicotine-mediated improvement in L-DOPA-induced AIMs may involve a desensitization block. These data have important implications for the treatment of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias in Parkinson's disease.
We describe a patient treated with trazodone, isocarboxazid, and methylphenidate hydrochloride who developed confusion, agitation, poor concentration, rigidity, myoclonus, involuntary movements, orthostatic hypotension, and hyperreflexia. CK was normal, and the syndrome resolved spontaneously over 12 hours. The serotonin syndrome occurs following the use of serotomimetic agents (serotonin reuptake inhibitors, tricyclic and tetracyclic antidepressants, tryptophan, 3,4-methylenedioxy-methamphetamine, dextromethorphan, meperidine, S-adenosylmethionine) alone or in combination with monoamine oxidase inhibitors. It is characterized by various combinations of myoclonus, rigidity, hyperreflexia, shivering, confusion, agitation, restlessness, coma, autonomic instability, low-grade fever, nausea, diarrhea, diaphoresis, flushing, and rarely, rhabdomyolysis and death.
Recently cholinergic stimulation of the lower esophageal sphincter (LES) with bethanechol has been shown to be effective in the treatment of chronic gastroesophageal reflux. Since chronic reflux and esophagitis also occur in patients with vagotomy and antrectomy, we studied the effect of bethanechol on sphincter pressure in 10 patients who had had vagotomy and antrectomy. Both subcutaneous (0.08 mg/kg) and oral (25 mg) administration of bethanechol caused significant increases in LES pressure in these patients. In addition, both subcutaneous and oral administration of bethanechol elevated hypotensive sphincter pressures to normal levels. Orally administered bethanechol produced a sustained increase in LES pressure throughout a 90-min study period. These studies suggest that cholinergic stimulation of the LES with bethanechol may be of therapeutic benefit in vagotomized and antrectomized patients with gastroesophageal reflux.
