To study the effects of arsenic trioxide (As2O3) on the in vitro growth of human bladder cancer cells and the mechanisms. The growth inhibition rates of human bladder cancer cell line BIU-87 by various concentrations of As2O3 were detected by using MTT method. Cell apoptosis was detected by in situ terminally labeled transferase technique and bcl-2 gene expression of BIU-87 cells was observed by SABC immunohistochemical method. The results showed that As2O3 could inhibit the growth of BIU-87 effectively in a dose-dependent manner. After drug's action, the apoptotic bladder cancer cells were obviously increased, which depended on the prolongation of the action time and Bcl-2 expression of BIU-87 cells was decreased significantly. It was suggested that As2O3 could significantly inhibit the growth of bladder human cancer cells. Inducing cell apoptosis by down-regulating the expression of bcl-2 gene might be one of its action mechanisms.
Lithium may induce all clinical physiological abnormalities of the polydipsia- polyuria syndrome. Authors describe a 61-year-old woman patient in whom permanent disturbance of the water metabolism, nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI) was caused by lithium treatment, lasting longer than 10 years. The partial resistance of the fluid disturbance to vasopressin has been investigated by the administration of supramaximal doses of dDAVP. Considering the known antidiuretic effect of indomethacin, authors compared antidiuruetic activity of indomethacin and piroxicam (Hotemin) by studying standard parameters of water metabolism/free water clearance ect.) It was found that piroxicam, on mg basis a more effective antiinflammatory compound, was less antidiuretic then indomethacin. It was concluded, that there is no close parallelism between the structure and antiinflammatory and antidiuretic activity of nonsteroid antiinflammatory drugs. In the opinion of authors nonsteroid antiinflammatory drugs may have a role in the treatment of lithium-induced NDI, though, the establishment of the safety use of such therapy requires further studies.
This case report illustrates an unusual complication of chronic warfarin administration.
The presurgical determination that the destructive process at L1-L2 was not infection or neoplasm involved the recognition that there was instability at this level resulting from chronic stress fractures.
Periosteal or osseous hemorrhagic masses (pseudotumors) have been well described in patients with hemophilia. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first reported case of this well-known phenomenon occurring in the axial skeleton as a consequence of warfarin administration.
Serial radiographic studies of the lumbar spine were available showing a progressive destructive lesion at L1-L2 and coinciding with the initiation of warfarin anticoagulation after aortic valve replacement.
The destructive mass was demonstrated surgically to represent a large partially solidified chronic hematoma.
Patients with stress fractures of the posterior arch and subsequent instability may be subject to development of such a spondyloarthropathy. Recognition of this unusual potential complication of warfarin therapy would prevent an incorrect diagnosis of tumor or infection. Early recognition of its occurrence could lead to early spinal stabilization.
Mercury is a widespread environmental contaminant that is neurotoxic even at very low concentrations. In this study we investigated the effects of mercury chloride on soluble and membrane adenosine deaminase (ADA) activity and gene expression in zebrafish brain. Inhibition of ADA activity was observed in the soluble fraction at 5-250 microM HgCl(2) (84.6-92.6%, respectively), whereas inhibition occurred at 50-250 microM in membrane fractions (20.9-26%, respectively). We performed in vitro experiments with chelants (EDTA and DTT) to test if these compounds prevented or reversed the inhibition caused by HgCl(2) and found that the inhibition was partially or fully abolished. The effect on ADA activity in soluble and membrane fractions was evaluated after acute (24h) and subchronic (96h) in vivo exposure of zebrafish to 20 microg/l HgCl(2). ADA activity in the soluble fraction was decreased after both acute (24.5%) and subchronic (40.8%) exposures, whereas in brain membranes the enzyme was inhibited only after subchronic exposure (21.9%). Semiquantitative RT-PCR analysis showed that HgCl(2) did not alter ADA gene expression. This study demonstrated that ADA activity was inhibited by mercury and this effect might be related to the neurotoxicity of this heavy metal.
Exposure to naturally occurring inorganic arsenic (iAs), primarily from contaminated drinking water, is considered one of the top environmental health threats worldwide. Arsenic (+3 oxidation state) methyltransferase (AS3MT) is the key enzyme in the biotransformation pathway of iAs. AS3MT catalyzes the transfer of a methyl group from S-adenosyl-L-methionine to trivalent arsenicals, resulting in the production of methylated (MAs) and dimethylated arsenicals (DMAs). MAs is a susceptibility factor for iAs-induced toxicity. In this study, we evaluated the association of the polymorphism in AS3MT gene with iAs metabolism and with the presence of arsenic (As) premalignant skin lesions. This is a case-control study of 71 cases with skin lesions and 51 controls without skin lesions recruited from a iAs endemic area in Mexico. We measured urinary As metabolites, differentiating the trivalent and pentavalent arsenical species, using the hydride generation atomic absorption spectrometry. In addition, the study subjects were genotyped to analyze three single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), A-477G, T14458C (nonsynonymus SNP; Met287Thr), and T35587C, in the AS3MT gene. We compared the frequencies of the AS3MT alleles, genotypes, and haplotypes in individuals with and without skin lesions. Marginal differences in the frequencies of the Met287Thr genotype were identified between individuals with and without premalignant skin lesions (p=0.055): individuals carrying the C (TC+CC) allele (Thr) were at risk [odds ratio=4.28; 95% confidence interval (1.0-18.5)]. Also, individuals with C allele of Met287Thr displayed greater percentage of MAs in urine and decrease in the percentage of DMAs. These findings indicate that Met287Thr influences the susceptibility to premalignant As skin lesions and might be at increased risk for other adverse health effects of iAs exposure.
Sulphasalazine-induced Raynaud's phenomenon is reported in a patient who showed no other features of a drug-induced lupus syndrome. The vascular disturbance disappeared when the drug was withdrawn on 3 occasions. A simple technique for assessing the circulatory abnormality in Raynaud's phenomenon is described.
In the present study, the effects of systemic administration of morphine on spatial memory acquisition of a Morris water maze (MWM) task have been investigated in morphine-sensitized rats. Sensitization was obtained by subcutaneous (s.c.) injection of morphine, once daily for 3 days followed by 5 days free of the opioid before training. Then the rats were trained in the water maze task which was consisted of single training session of 8 trials and 24 h later a probe trial consist of 60 s free swim period without a platform and then non-spatial visual discrimination task was done. Our data indicated that pre-training single administration of morphine (2.5, 5 and 7.5 mg/kg) decreased the spatial memory acquisition in Morris water maze task with a maximum effect of 5 mg/kg of morphine. Amnesia induced by pre-training morphine was significantly reversed in morphine-sensitized (15 and 20 mg/kg) rats. The inhibition of morphine-induced amnesia in morphine-sensitized rats was decreased by once daily administration of naloxone (1 and 2 mg/kg) 30 min prior to injection of morphine during sensitization. The results suggest that morphine sensitization reverses the impairment of spatial memory acquisition induced by morphine and it is postulated that opioid receptors may play an important role in this effect.
Macrophages play an important role in immunogenic challenges by producing reactive oxygen species, NO and proinflammatory cytokines that can aggravate and propagate local inflammation. Multiple mechanisms regulate these inflammatory processes. NF-κB and activator protein 1 pathways are crucial in the expression of proinflammatory genes, such as TNF-α, IL-1 (α or β) and -6. Some polyphenols, which are present in beverages, vegetables and fruits, and PUFA, which are present in marine oils and fish food, possess anti-inflammatory effects in vivo and in vitro. Our aim in the present study was to assess whether polyphenols and PUFA have synergistic anti-inflammatory effects in murine macrophages in vitro. Inflammation in RAW 264.7 macrophages was induced by lipopolysaccharide at 100 ng/ml. The treatments with molecules were performed by co-incubation for 19 h. A NO production assay by Griess reaction, a phosphoprotein assay by Pathscan ELISA kit and gene expression analysis using the TaqMan® Low-density Array for ninety-one genes related to inflammation, oxidative stress and metabolism were performed to assess the synergistic anti-inflammatory effects of polyphenols, epigallocatechin gallate and resveratrol (Res; 2·5 μg/ml), and the PUFA, DHA and EPA (30 μm). Adding Res+EPA had an enhanced anti-inflammatory effect, in comparison with EPA and Res alone, leading to decreased NO levels; modulating the phospho-stress activated protein kinase/Jun N-terminal kinase (P-SAPK/JNK) level; down-regulating proinflammatory genes, such as IL, chemokines, transcription factors; and up-regulating several antioxidant genes. Therefore, this combination has a stronger anti-inflammatory effect than either of these molecules separately in RAW macrophages.
This study has investigated if individual DNA adducts formed in human glioma cells treated with (3)H-1-(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea ((3)H-CNU) could be used as molecular dosimeters of response after CENU treatment. The levels of individual DNA alkylation products were compared with the induction of cytotoxicity in six human glioma cell lines after treatment with (3)H-CNU. The levels of seven DNA adducts N7-(2-hydroxyethyl)guanine, (N7-HOEtG); N7-(2-chloroethyl)guanine, (N7-ClEtG); 1,2-[diguan-7-yl]-ethane, (N7-bis-G); N1-(2-hydroxyethyl)-2-deoxyguanosine, N1-HOEtdG; 1-[N1-2-deoxyguanosinyl], 2-[N3-2-deoxycytidyl]-ethane, dG-dC; O(6)-(2-hydroxyethyl)-2-deoxyguanosine, O(6)-HOEtdG and phosphotriesters (PTE), were quantified in each of the cell lines following treatment with (3)H-CNU. The levels of N7-HOEtG, N7-ClEtG; O(6)-HOEtdG and PTE were not significantly different in the glioma lines and their levels were not associated with the induction of cytotoxicity by CNU treatment. The levels of N7-bis-G, N1-HOEtdG and dG-dC crosslink were significantly lower in both SF-188 and SF-763 cell lines compared to their levels in U87MG, U251MG and SF-126. There was a significant correlation between CNU LD(10) values and with the levels of levels of N7-bis-G and N1-HOEtdG (R = -0.91, P = 0.01) and dG-dC crosslink (R = -0.94, P = 0.005) in the glioma cell lines. Pretreatment of SF-188 cells with varying concentrations of MNU prior to CNU treatment resulted in no change in the levels of N7-HOEtG, N7-ClEtG; O(6)-HOEtdG and PTE and a dose dependent increase in the levels of N7-bis-G, N1-HOEtdG and dG-dC crosslink. Taken together, these results suggest that the levels of the N7-bis-G, N1-HOEtdG and dG-dC crosslink could be used as molecular dosimeters of therapeutic response following treatment with BCNU or related CENU.
Toxicological investigations were performed on an intracerebral hematoma, antemortem blood, and postmortem blood of an individual who was found unresponsive in his home. The hematoma was found to have ethanol at a concentration of 0.05% (w/v), and benzoylecgonine (a cocaine metabolite) was also confirmed at a concentration of 0.43 mg/L by specific analysis using gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS). These results enabled the pathologist to record the cause of death as intracerebral hemorrhage due to acute cocaine intoxication.
Treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) with D-penicillamine (DP) is associated with development of dermatopolymyositis (DPM) in 0.2 to 1.2% of cases. A case of DPM which developed after four years DP therapy in a 58-year-old female with RA is reported. The favorable outcome after discontinuation of DP and administration of corticosteroids and the absence of recurrence or malignant disease after 4 years 9 months follow-up demonstrated the causal relationship between DP therapy and development of DPM. An analysis of 34 previously published cases of DP-induced DPM (DP/DPM) showed the following: development of DPM was not influenced by the dosage or duration of DP therapy; reported cases of DP/DPM were clinically identical with primary DPM but had a different outcome, with permanent recovery of DP/DPM occurring 1.5 to 6 months after withdrawal of DP; patients with DP/DPM had immune disorders, including antinuclear antibodies in 14 of 34 patients; the high prevalence of the B18, B35, DR4 haplotype in these patients denotes immunogenetic differences with primary DPM patients (B8-DR3) and DP-induced myasthenia (DR1).
The 61-bis(1-adamantylcarbamoyl)-1,2-methano[60]fullerene was synthesized from N,N'-di(1-adamantyl)malondiamide and C(60) in the presence of 1,8-diazabicyclo[5,4,0]-7-undecene. The intraperitoneal administration of this fullerene derivative (10mg/kg) caused an antagonistic effect on haloperidol-induced catalepsy in mice.
A monospecific antibody (anti-CF3CO antibody) was obtained by affinity chromatography on a N epsilon-trifluoroacetyl-L-lysine (CF3CO-Lys) matrix of a rabbit polyclonal antiserum, directed against trifluoroacetylated protein adducts (CF3CO-proteins). The anti-CF3CO antibody recognized distinct CF3CO-proteins on immunoblots of a liver biopsy obtained from a human individual 10 h after halothane anaesthesia. Cross-reactive proteins of 52 kDa and 64 kDa were recognized on immunoblots of livers obtained from human individuals not exposed to halothane. Recognition of both CF3CO-proteins and the 52-kDa and 64-kDa cross-reactive proteins was abolished in the presence of 1 mM CF3CO-Lys. Anti-CF3CO antibody, affinity-adsorbed to the 52-kDa or the 64-kDa cross-reactive proteins of human liver, recognized the majority of target CF3CO-proteins on immunoblots of the human liver biopsy of an individual exposed to halothane. Liver biopsies of 5 out of 7 (71%) patients with halothane hepatitis exhibited an absence or low amounts of immunorecognizable 52-kDa and/or 64-kDa cross-reactive proteins. In contrast, of 22 control human individuals tested, all liver tissue samples were positive for the 52-kDa and/or the 64-kDa cross-reactive proteins. These data indicate that epitopes on the cross-reactive proteins of 52 kDa and 64 kDa of human liver bear strong immunochemical resemblance to epitopes on human liver CF3CO-proteins. Low-level expression of the cross-reactive proteins of 52 kDa and 64 kDa is discussed as one possible factor in human susceptibility to halothane hepatitis.
The beneficial effects of pentoxifylline (PTX), which has an anti-inflammatory and renoprotective effect in diabetic nephropathy, are not completely understood. This study investigates whether prolonged administration of PTX (40 mg/kg, per oral) is effective in streptozotocin-induced diabetic nephropathy. The amount of urinary protein was higher in the diabetic rats than in the control rats. The amount remained unchanged after 4 weeks and decreased after 8 weeks of PTX treatment. Accumulation of monocyte chemoattractant peptide-1 (MCP-1) and mouse monoclonal anti-monocyte/macrophage antibody (ED-1) positive cells was higher in untreated diabetic rats than in the control rats. PTX administration ameliorated the urinary MCP-1 excretion and interstitial infiltration of ED-1 positive cells at 4 weeks. Further, in diabetic rats, administration of PTX for 4 weeks inhibited the renal inflammatory reaction, and when administration for 8 weeks, it prevented proteinuria. These findings support the hypothesis that prolonged administration enhances the protective effects of PTX.
The deleterious effects of nicotine treatment on skin haemodynamics and survival of 4 X 10 cm acute random pattern skin flaps constructed on the dorsum of the rat were studied. Rats were injected subcutaneously with 0.2 ml of saline containing varying doses (0, 1, 2, 4 or 8 mg kg-1; bid) of nicotine for 5 weeks, starting 4 weeks before flap surgery. It was observed that nicotine treatment at the dose of 2 mg kg-1 (bid), or higher, significantly (p less than 0.05) decreased the length and area of skin flap survival compared with the control. This dose of nicotine treatment also significantly (p less than 0.05) decreased the capillary blood flow and distal perfusion in the skin flaps compared with the control. However, the detrimental effect of nicotine treatment on the survival of acute random pattern skin flaps was not seen if the treatment was started 2 instead of 4 weeks preoperatively. It is concluded that nicotine may cause hypoperfusion and necrosis in acute random pattern skin flap surgery, and the deleterious effects are time-dependent.
Clopidogrel was superior to aspirin in patients with previous manifestations of atherothrombotic disease in the CAPRIE study and its benefit was amplified in some high-risk subgroups of patients. We aimed to assess whether addition of aspirin to clopidogrel could have a greater benefit than clopidogrel alone in prevention of vascular events with potentially higher bleeding risk.
We did a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial to compare aspirin (75 mg/day) with placebo in 7599 high-risk patients with recent ischaemic stroke or transient ischaemic attack and at least one additional vascular risk factor who were already receiving clopidogrel 75 mg/day. Duration of treatment and follow-up was 18 months. The primary endpoint was a composite of ischaemic stroke, myocardial infarction, vascular death, or rehospitalisation for acute ischaemia (including rehospitalisation for transient ischaemic attack, angina pectoris, or worsening of peripheral arterial disease). Analysis was by intention to treat, using logrank test and a Cox's proportional-hazards model.
596 (15.7%) patients reached the primary endpoint in the group receiving aspirin and clopidogrel compared with 636 (16.7%) in the clopidogrel alone group (relative risk reduction 6.4%, [95% CI -4.6 to 16.3]; absolute risk reduction 1% [-0.6 to 2.7]). Life-threatening bleedings were higher in the group receiving aspirin and clopidogrel versus clopidogrel alone (96 [2.6%] vs 49 [1.3%]; absolute risk increase 1.3% [95% CI 0.6 to 1.9]). Major bleedings were also increased in the group receiving aspirin and clopidogrel but no difference was recorded in mortality.
Adding aspirin to clopidogrel in high-risk patients with recent ischaemic stroke or transient ischaemic attack is associated with a non-significant difference in reducing major vascular events. However, the risk of life-threatening or major bleeding is increased by the addition of aspirin.
A trial of oral propranolol as a hypotensive agent was designed to provide adequate treatment periods. Twenty-eight patients with essential hypertension, with a mean blood pressure of 190/111 mm. Hg, were controlled on 120-320 mg. of propranolol daily. Their mean treated blood pressure was 153/91. They then entered, on a randomized and double-blind basis, a cross-over trial of two 16-week periods, blood pressure being measured fortnightly. Propranolol caused a statistically significant fall in blood pressure when compared with placebo. When propranolol was withdrawn blood pressures rapidly rose to hypertensive levels, though not to untreated levels. No postural hypotension was found, but a small change in blood pressure levels on exercise was noted.
Inflammation and hormonal signalling induce the cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) expression in solid tumours including breast cancer, which in turn affects cell proliferation, apoptosis and metastasis. The aim of this study was to investigate the expression of COX-2 and its association with clinical parameters, patient's survival, hormones receptors (oestrogen, progesterone), ERBB2 and TP53 expression in 83 cases of infiltrating ductal breast carcinomas. Moreover, the methylation status at the CpG islands of the COX-2 gene promoter was also explored in 70 specimens. We showed that tumours exhibiting moderate to intense COX-2 immunostaining were significantly more frequent in patients over 45 years old (p = 0.027). Moreover, a high level of COX-2 expression correlated with a shorter survival time (p log-rank = 0.04) and was an independent prognostic factor (p = 0.022; HR 6.4; 95% CI = 1.3-31.4). On the other hand, hypermethylation of the COX-2 gene promoter was observed in 27% of cases and strongly associated with smaller tumours (<5 cm, p = 0.011). Furthermore, patients with methylated COX-2 pattern have a better 4-year disease-free survival (p = 0.022) as well as a prolonged overall survival (p log-rank test = 0.034). In conclusion, we showed that high COX-2 expression was associated with reduced survival and was an independent prognostic factor. However, hypermethylation of the COX-2 promoter correlated with a better overall survival in Tunisian patients with breast carcinoma.
In 20 patients with idiopathic Parkinsonism maximum tolerated doses of L-dopa were found to induce a mean reduction in blood pressure (erect systolic) of 19.3 mm.Hg, without any significant change in pulse rate. This hypotension may be due to dopamine, acting on adrenergic nerve endings or on the central nervous system itself.
Benzene causes many kinds of blood disorders in workers employed in many different environments. These diseases include myelodisplastic syndrome and acute and chronic myelocytic leukemia. In the present study, five occupational work places, including six industrial process types, namely, printing, shoe-making, methylene di-aniline (MDA), nitrobenzene, carbomer, and benzene production were selected, and the levels of breath benzene, and trans,trans-muconic acids (t,t-MA) and phenol in urine were evaluated, as well as hematological changes and lymphocyte DNA damage. The concentration of benzene in breath was less than 3 ppm in the workplaces, and benzene exposure was found to be higher in work places where benzene is used, than in those where benzene is produced. At low levels of benzene exposure, urinary t,t-MA correlated strongly with benzene in air. Highest Olive tail moments were found in workers producing carbomer. Levels of breathzone benzene were found to be strongly correlated with Olive tail moment values in the lymphocytes of workers, but not with hematological data in the six workplaces types. In conclusion, the highest benzene exposures found occurred in workers at a company, which utilized benzene in the production of carbomer. In terms of low levels of exposure to benzene, urinary t,t-MA and DNA damage exhibited a strong correlation with breath benzene, but not with hematological data. We conclude that breath benzene, t,t-MA and lymphocytic DNA damage are satisfactory biomonitoring markers with respect to benzene exposure in the workplace.
In this study we have investigated the role of periaqueductal grey prostaglandin receptors in formalin-induced hyperalgesia in mice. Glutamate and GABA release changes have been monitored by in vivo microdialysis. Intra-periaqueductal grey microinjections of misoprostol, a non-selective prostaglandin receptor agonist, increased nociceptive responses in the formalin test only during the late phase. Prostanoid EP(1) (L-335677), EP(2) (AH 6809), EP(3) (L-826266) and EP(4) (L-161982) receptor antagonists prevented the nociceptive response induced by misoprostol in formalin-injected mice. Prostanoid EP(1), EP(2), EP(3) and EP(4) antagonists reduced, per se, the late hyperalgesic phase. Intra-periaqueductal grey perfusion with misoprostol increased periaqueductal grey glutamate, whereas it produced an increase followed by a decrease in GABA. Likewise, formalin increased glutamate and produced a biphasic response on GABA. When misoprostol was perfused in combination with the peripheral injection of formalin, we observed an increase of glutamate and an increase followed by a stronger decrease in GABA release. These data show that periaqueductal grey prostaglandin receptor stimulation increased formalin-induced nociceptive response in the late phase by increasing glutamate release and by producing a biphasic change in GABA release.
Methamphetamine induces hyperlocomotion, and high doses of methamphetamine induce self-injurious behavior (SIB) in rodents. It is well known that the monoaminergic system is involved in methamphetamine-induced behavior. However, the effects of dopamine- and serotonin (5-HT)-related compounds on high-dose methamphetamine-induced behavior have not been sufficiently clarified. Therefore, the present study was designed to investigate the effects of dopamine receptor antagonists and indirect 5-HT receptor agonists on high-dose methamphetamine-induced behavior in mice. Methamphetamine (20 mg/kg) initially increased locomotor activity. As the dosage increased, continuous SIB accompanied by a reduction in locomotor activity was observed. The hyperlocomotion and SIB induced by 20 mg/kg of methamphetamine was abolished by high doses of SCH23390 and haloperidol, indicating that the hyperlocomotion and SIB induced by high doses of methamphetamine are mediated by the activation of D1- and D2-receptors. Furthermore, haloperidol (0.1 mg/kg) potently increased locomotor activity in combination with 20 mg/kg methamphetamine. These results suggest that excess dopaminergic activation, especially activation of dopamine D2-receptors, may be involved in the decrease in locomotor activity induced by a high dose of methamphetamine. On the other hand, indirect 5-HT receptor agonists attenuated methamphetamine-induced SIB, suggesting that the stimulation of 5-HT receptors plays an important role in high-dose methamphetamine-induced SIB in mice.
A patient who experienced severe visual field loss whilst taking 100 mg of diazepam that reverted to normal on cessation of the drug is described. Diazepam affects GABA inhibitory neurones and the physiology of this in the retina and visual cortex is reviewed.
Sensori-neural hearing loss after H. influenzae meningitis in children has been reported to occur more frequently after treatment with ampicillin than with chloramphenicol. In the present survey, hearing was assessed clinically and, in most cases, audiometrically in 47 children seen after H. influenzae meningitis. Three children were found to have some sensori-neural hearing loss. In no case was this severe or suspected prior to examination. One was among 27 children treated with ampicillin; one was among eight treated with ampicillin and chloramphenicol; and one was treated with chloramphenicol and streptomycin. Most of the children received ampicillin in a dose of 250mg/kg/day or less, but the two who were treated with ampicillin and developed hearing loss were among five children who received higher doses, suggesting that ampicillin may be ototoxic when given in very high doses.
To report a case of warfarin-amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium (AM/CL) interaction resulting in an elevated international normalized ratio (INR) and hematuria.
A 58-year-old Hawaiian/Asian/European woman developed an elevated INR and microscopic hematuria as a result of a drug-drug interaction between warfarin and AM/CL.
Our report of an increased INR with bleeding complications as a result of an interaction between warfarin and AM/CL is consistent with those in the literature. Although the mechanism for this interaction is not fully known, it is suspected that a decrease in vitamin K-producing gut flora with resulting vitamin K deficiency would be the most likely contributing factor. An objective causality assessment revealed that this adverse drug event as a result of the warfarin and AM/CL interaction was possible.
An increased INR secondary to warfarin interactions with various antibacterial agents is a known phenomenon. An increased awareness of warfarin-AM/CL interaction and appropriate monitoring are essential to control the INR levels and prevent bleeding complications.
To report 2 cases of ticlopidine-induced cholestatic hepatitis, investigate its mechanism, and compare the observed main characteristics with those of the published cases.
Two patients developed prolonged cholestatic hepatitis after receiving ticlopidine following percutaneous coronary angioplasty, with complete remission during the follow-up period. T-cell stimulation by therapeutic concentration of ticlopidine was demonstrated in vitro in the patients, but not in healthy controls.
Cholestatic hepatitis is a rare complication of the antiplatelet agent ticlopidine; several cases have been reported but few in the English literature. Our patients developed jaundice following treatment with ticlopidine and showed the clinical and laboratory characteristics of cholestatic hepatitis, which resolved after discontinuation of the drug. Hepatitis may develop weeks after discontinuation of the drug and may run a prolonged course, but complete remission was observed in all reported cases. An objective causality assessment revealed that the adverse drug event was probably related to the use of ticlopidine. The mechanisms of this ticlopidine-induced cholestasis are unclear. Immune mechanisms may be involved in the drug's hepatotoxicity, as suggested by the T-cell stimulation study reported here.
Cholestatic hepatitis is a rare adverse effect of ticlopidine that may be immune mediated. Patients receiving the drug should be monitored with liver function tests along with complete blood cell counts. This complication will be observed even less often in the future as ticlopidine is being replaced by the newer antiplatelet agent clopidogrel.
In a 37 year old renal transplant woman haemolytic anaemia was observed in the course of a combined azathioprine-allopurinol therapy. Azathioprine is converted to 6-mercaptopurine, which then catalyzed by xanthine oxidase is oxidized to 6-thiouric acid. When allopurinol and azathioprine are administered simultaneously, high 6-mercaptopurine concentrations in plasma may be expected because of inhibition of xanthine oxidase activity by allopurinol. We assume that elevated plasma 6-mercaptopurine concentration could possibly be responsible for haemolytic anaemia in this renal transplant patient.
Auditory neuropathy is often characterized by normal thresholds, present otoacoustic emissions, poor speech discrimination, absent acoustic reflexes, absent or abnormal auditory brainstem response waveform, but normal late cortical potential. This paper describes an animal model that has many characteristics of auditory neuropathy. Chinchillas can be deprived of a significant portion of the neural inputs to the central auditory system by administering carboplatin, an antineoplastic agent that selectively destroys inner hair cells (IHCs) and type I auditory nerve fibers. Selective IHC loss has no effect on distortion product otoacoustic emissions or the cochlear microphonic potential, implying normal outer hair cell function. However, selective IHC loss causes the amplitude of the compound action potential to decrease in proportion to the degree of IHC loss. However, the threshold of the CAP shows little increase with mild to moderate IHC loss. Acoustically responsive auditory nerve fibers in ears with mild to moderate IHC loss have normal thresholds and tuning curves with narrowly tuned tips. Although the central auditory pathway is deprived of much of its sensory inputs, the amplitude of the local field potential in the auditory cortex was normal or enhanced, while those from the inferior colliculus were slightly reduced. The results are related to those of a patient with auditory neuropathy.
