One of the most feared complications after intracranial surgery is development of acute intracranial pathology, which may result in hypoperfusion and brain injury. Thus, early neurological assessment, performed in the operating room immediately after emergence from anesthesia, is a practice that may contribute to timely diagnosis of neurosurgical complications. Failure to awake after general anesthesia precludes conductance of neurological assessment. We report a patient who failed to emerge from anesthesia after suboccipital craniotomy and had absent brain-stem reflexes with fixed and dilated pupils consistent with severe brain injury. Approximately 60 minutes after termination of surgery, the patient suddenly woke up. After the fact, we discovered that the neurosurgeon performed a generous field block with bupivacaine along the neck incision line. We presume that our patient's failure to awaken was caused by paralysis of brain-stem caused by migration of bupivacaine from the site of the injection.
Androgen plays a vital role in prostate cancer development. However, it is not clear whether androgens influence stem-like properties of prostate cancer, a feature important for prostate cancer progression. In this study, we show that upon DHT treatment in vitro, prostate cancer cell lines LNCaP and PC-3 were revealed with higher clonogenic potential and higher expression levels of stemness related factors CD44, CD90, Oct3/4 and Nanog. Moreover, sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) was also simultaneously upregulated in these cells. When the SHBG gene was blocked by SHBG siRNA knock-down, the induction of Oct3/4, Nanog, CD44 and CD90 by DHT was also correspondingly blocked in these cells. Immunohistochemical evaluation of clinical samples disclosed weakly positive, and areas negative for SHBG expression in the benign prostate tissues, while most of the prostate carcinomas were strongly positive for SHBG. In addition, higher levels of SHBG expression were significantly associated with higher Gleason score, more seminal vesicle invasions and lymph node metastases. Collectively, our results show a role of SHBG in upregulating stemness of prostate cancer cells upon DHT exposure in vitro, and SHBG expression in prostate cancer samples is significantly associated with poor clinicopathological features, indicating a role of SHBG in prostate cancer progression.
Alumina cream epileptic focus was established in the right sensorimotor cortex in 20 split-brain cats (partial or complete). EEG and behavioral observations were made in a period ranging from 24 to 836 days. Four types of EEG changes after alumina cream injection were differentiated. These types could be related to the direct effects of brain damage and to development of epilepsy. Spikes and sharp waves and paroxysmal discharges (focal and multifocal) were observed in about 60% of the cats. Clinical seizures developed in about the same percentage of the animals. These values are below those reported for cats with intact interhemispheric commissures. Diphenylhydantoin (DPH) was given orally in a daily dose of up to 15 mg/kg body weight in 9 animals with developed epileptic EEG activity. Five of them had epileptic seizures. DPH was introduced not earlier than 1.5 months after intracortical alumina cream injection. The plasma level of DPH varied between 7-20 mug/ml. This dose produced chronic symptoms of intoxication. Neither EEG changes nor clinical seizures were entirely controlled by this drug. Additional doses of Relanium (diazepam), and phenobarbital were necessary to stop generalized seizures or status epilepticus.
Three different synthetic chocolate colourant agents (A, B and C) were administered to healthy adult male albino rats for 30 and 60 day periods to evaluate their effects on body weight, blood picture, liver and kidney functions, blood glucose, serum and liver lipids, liver nucleic acids (DNA and RNA), thyroid hormones (T3 and T4) and growth hormone. In addition, histopathological examinations of liver, kidney and stomach sections were studied. These parameters were also investigated 30 days after colourant stoppage (post effect). Ingestion of colourant C (brown HT and indigocarmine) significantly decreased rat body weight, serum cholesterol and HDL-cholesterol fraction, while, T4 hormone, liver RNA content, liver enzymes (S. GOT, S. GPT and alkaline phosphatase), total protein and globulin fractions were significantly elevated. Significant increases were observed in serum total lipids, cholesterol, triglycerides, total protein, globulin and serum transaminases in rats whose diets were supplemented with chocolate colours A and B (sunset yellow, tartrazine, carmoisine and brilliant blue in varying concentrations). Haematological investigations demonstrated selective neutropenia and lymphocytosis with no significant alterations of total white blood cell counts in all rat groups, while haemoglobin concentrations and red blood cell counts were significantly decreased in the rats who were administered food additives A and B. Eosinophilia was noted in rats fed on colourant A only. No changes were recorded for blood glucose, growth hormone and kidney function tests. Histopathological studies showed brown pigment deposition in the portal tracts and Van Küpffer cells of the liver as well as in the interstitial tissue and renal tubular cells of the kidney mainly induced by colourant A. Congested blood vessels and areas of haemorrhage in both liver and renal sections were revealed in those rats who were given colourants B and C. There were no-untoward-effects recorded in the stomach tissue.
We previously showed that a diet containing phloridzin suppressed the blood glucose levels in streptozotocin-induced diabetic mice most likely by inhibiting glucose absorption from the small intestine. In this study, we showed that 0.5% and 1% phloridzin diets significantly reduce the blood glucose levels in healthy normal BALB/c mice after 7 days of feeding. The 0.1% phloridzin diet did not suppress blood glucose levels but induced the alteration of the hepatic gene expressions related to carbohydrate and fatty acid metabolism in mice after 14 days. Ingenuity Pathway Analysis showed that 0.5% and 1% phloridzin diets suppressed the hepatic gene expressions related to the citrate cycle, gluconeogenesis, fatty acid metabolism, and valine, leucine, and isoleucine degradation in mice when compared with mice fed a control diet after 14 days. Thus the diet containing phloridzin reduces the blood glucose levels and the hepatic gene expressions associated with some metabolic functions in mice.
To estimate the frequency of undiagnosed vitamin B12 deficiency among patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus who had not taken metformin during at least the prior 5 years and to ascertain whether vitamin B12 deficiency among the patients with type 2 diabetes was due to nutritional deficiency or malabsorption.
Serum vitamin B12 levels were measured in 44 subjects with diabetes and a mean age of 51 years (range, 40 to 70), 21 (48%) of whom had low levels (<200 pg/mL). Of those 21 patients, 10 agreed to enroll in an intervention phase consisting of oral supplementation with mecobalamin, 1,500 microg daily for 3 months. Those patients in whom vitamin B12 levels failed to normalize after oral supplementation alone would be presumed to have vitamin B12 deficiency attributable to malabsorption.
Almost half of the subjects with type 2 diabetes not taking metformin had biochemically proven vitamin B12 deficiency. All 10 subjects who enrolled in the intervention phase had normalization of their vitamin B12 levels after 3 months of oral supplementation with mecobalamin.
We conclude that vitamin B12 deficiency is common among patients with type 2 diabetes and was related to nutrition in our study group. In addition to intensive glycemic control, vitamin B12 supplementation should be considered for treatment of diabetic neuropathy. In almost 50% of patients with low vitamin B12 levels, the deficiency was corrected with oral supplementation only. This, indeed, is an important finding, inasmuch as oral vitamin B12 supplementation is easy, convenient, and readily accepted by patients. This finding highlights the need for aggressive and early diagnosis and treatment to avoid complications of vitamin B12 deficiency.
Electrical stimulation of the anterior nucleus of the thalamus appears to be effective against seizures in animals and humans. As the optimal stimulation settings remain elusive, we studied the effects of different stimulation parameters against pilocarpine induced seizures and status epilepticus (SE).
Adult rats had electrodes implanted bilaterally into the AN. Five days later, different groups of animals were stimulated with 1000 microA, 500 microA, or 200 microA and frequencies of either 20 Hz or 130 Hz. Pilocarpine (350 mg/kg i.p.) was injected 5 min after stimulation onset and seizures were monitored. Sham-treated controls had electrodes implanted but did not receive stimulation until they developed SE. After SE, these animals had the electrodes turned on to assess whether AN stimulation could arrest ongoing ictal activity.
Compared to sham-treated controls (n=8), stimulation at 500 microA (n=13) significantly increased the latency for seizures and SE by 1.9-2.2-fold. In contrast, stimulation at 1000 microA (n=8) produced a non-significant decrease in the latencies to these events. No major effect was observed with stimulation at 200 microA (n=11). Similar results were obtained for each current intensity, regardless of the stimulation frequency used (20 Hz and 130 Hz). In sham-treated controls that had the electrodes turned on after SE, stimulation was not able to arrest ongoing ictal activity.
The anticonvulsant effects of AN stimulation against pilocarpine-induced seizures were mainly determined by the current and not the frequency of stimulation. AN stimulation initiated after SE onset was ineffective.
To alert clinicians about the risk of vasculitis and cross-reactivity of antithyroid medication.
We describe the clinical course and medical management of the study patient.
A 25-year-old woman with hyperthyroidism developed antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-positive vasculitis after 15 months of propylthiouracil therapy. Her condition improved when propylthiouracil was withdrawn, but recurred when she was prescribed methimazole. Propylthiouracil and methimazole are commonly used antithyroid medications, and propylthiouracil is a well-recognized cause of drug-induced vasculitis. Cross-reactivity between the 2 drugs is likely, but it has not been reported previously with regard to vasculitis. Many patients with propylthiouracil-induced vasculitis have been switched to methimazole.
Awareness of this rare, but potentially serious, adverse drug reaction is important because prompt discontinuation of medication is essential. Cross-reactivity between propylthiouracil and methimazole must be considered when selecting alternative therapies.
During induction of anaesthesia with etomidate, myoclonic muscle movements are frequent. In this study, pretreatment with a small dosage of etomidate or midazolam was compared with placebo for the prevention of myoclonic muscle movements. Sixty patients, premedicated with oral midazolam, were pretreated in a randomized double-blinded fashion with etomidate 0.05 mg/kg i.v., midazolam 0.015 mg/kg i.v. or normal saline i.v. (placebo) in three groups of 20 patients each. The pretreatment was followed after 90 seconds by etomidate 0.3 mg/kg i.v. One minute after onset of hypnosis, induction of anaesthesia was completed with sufentanil and rocuronium. From the time of pretreatment to completion of anaesthesia, patients were observed for myoclonic muscle movements by a single physician, blinded to group allocation. Myoclonic movements were graded on a scale of 0 to 3. The incidence of myoclonic movements was significantly lower in patients pretreated with midazolam (4 of 20) compared with placebo (18/20) (P < 0.01). Midazolam 0.015 mg/kg i.v., administered 90 seconds before induction of anaesthesia with etomidate, is effective in reducing etomidate-induced myoclonic muscle movements.
In November 1992, the New York State Department of Health was notified of a patient who underwent liver transplantation because of severe hepatitis that developed during the use of isoniazid (INH) preventive therapy (IPT) for latent tuberculous infection. Inquiry at liver transplant centers in New York revealed other patients who had hepatitis attributed to INH. This report summarizes findings of the ongoing investigation into the extent and causes of this problem.
Benzo[a]pyrene (BP) is an ubiquitous environmental pollutant with potent mutagenic and carcinogenic properties. The Ah receptor (Ahr) is important in the metabolic activation of BP and is therefore central to BP-induced carcinogenesis. Although Ahr(-/-) mice are refractory to BP-induced carcinogenesis, higher levels of BP-DNA and -protein adducts were formed in them than in wild-type mice. These results indicated the presence of an Ahr-independent and/or a slower biotransformation of BP in Ahr knockout mice. To address this issue further, we have now performed a time-course experiment, with mice receiving a single oral dose of BP (100 mg/kg). Wild-type mice have an effective clearance of BP metabolites, mainly through 3-hydroxybenzo[a]pyrene and 9-hydroxybenzo[a]pyrene in the feces with reduced levels of DNA and protein adducts in the examined tissues. On the other hand, the Ahr(-/-) mice appear to have a lower metabolic clearance of BP resulting in increased levels of DNA and protein adducts and of unmetabolized BP. In addition, we have performed an administration route experiment and found that skin-exposed Ahr(-/-) mice showed lower levels of protein adducts along with markedly reduced P450 1B1 expression, but only in the exposed area, as compared with the wild-type mice. In addition, the systemic uptake of BP is increased in the Ahr(-/-) mice as compared with the wild-type mice. Hence, the lack of a functional Ah receptor results in an Ahr-independent biotransformation of BP with a slower clearance of BP and higher levels of DNA and protein adducts, but the distribution and levels of BP and BP-protein adducts are clearly dependent on the route of exposure.
Although various combinations of chemotherapy regimens have been tried for patients with esophageal cancer, their duration of survival is extremely poor. In this study, we investigated the safety and clinical efficacy of paclitaxel and cisplatin chemotherapy in metastatic or recurrent esophageal cancer. 32 patients enrolled in this study and the median age was 60 yr. Of all the 32, 28 patients (88%) had been treated previously, 22 of them with chemotherapy or radiation therapy. All patients in the study received biweekly paclitaxel (90 mg/m(2)) followed by cisplatin (50 mg/m(2)). One patient (3%) responded completely, and 12 patients (38%) showed a partial response; in 9 patients (28%) the disease remained stable, and in 10 patients (31%) it progressed. The objective response rate was 41%. The median duration of response was 4.8 months, and the median overall survival in all patients was 7 months. The 1-yr and 2-yr survival rates were 28.1% and 7.1%, respectively. Grade 3 or 4 of neutropenia and anemia were observed in 6 (19%) and 5 (16%) patients, respectively. The major non-hematologic toxicity was fatigue, but most of them could manageable. In conclusion, biweekly paclitaxel and cisplatin is effective in patients with metastatic or recurrent esophageal cancer.
Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors can cause nephrolithiasis. We studied 20 patients receiving long-term carbonic anhydrase inhibitor treatment for periodic paralysis and myotonia. Three patients on acetazolamide (15%) developed renal calculi. Extracorporeal lithotripsy successfully removed a renal calculus in one patient and surgery removed a staghorn calculus in another, permitting continued treatment. Renal function remained normal in all patients. Nephrolithiasis is a complication of acetazolamide but does not preclude its use.
A 58-year-old man presented with jaundice 6 months after aortic valve replacement. Although non-A, non-B hepatitis was initially suspected, the final diagnosis of phenprocoumon (Marcoumar)-induced hepatitis progressing to cirrhosis was based on recurrence of jaundice after re-exposure to the drug, improvement after withdrawal and centrilobular necrosis with eosinophilic infiltration in the liver biopsy. Antibodies to hepatitis C virus were absent. The aortic valve was replaced by a bioprosthesis to eliminate the need for life-long anticoagulation.
Nevirapine is widely prescribed for HIV-1 infection. We characterized relationships between nevirapine-associated cutaneous and hepatic adverse events and genetic variants among HIV-infected adults.
We retrospectively identified cases and controls. Cases experienced symptomatic nevirapine-associated severe (grade III/IV) cutaneous and/or hepatic adverse events within 8 weeks of initiating nevirapine. Controls did not experience adverse events during more than 18 weeks of nevirapine therapy.
Cases and controls were matched 1: 2 on baseline CD4 T-cell count, sex, and race. Individuals with 150 or less CD4 T cells/μl at baseline were excluded. We characterized 123 human leukocyte antigen (HLA) alleles and 2744 single-nucleotide polymorphisms in major histocompatibility complex (MHC) and drug metabolism and transport genes.
We studied 276 evaluable cases (175 cutaneous adverse events, 101 hepatic adverse events) and 587 controls. Cutaneous adverse events were associated with CYP2B6 516G→T (OR 1.66, all), HLA-Cw*04 (OR 2.51, all), and HLA-B*35 (OR 3.47, Asians; 5.65, Thais). Risk for cutaneous adverse events was particularly high among Blacks with CYP2B6 516TT and HLA-Cw*04 (OR 18.90) and Asians with HLA-B*35 and HLA-Cw*04 (OR 18.34). Hepatic adverse events were associated with HLA-DRB*01 (OR 3.02, Whites), but not CYP2B6 genotypes. Associations differed by population, at least in part reflecting allele frequencies.
Among patients with at least 150 CD4 T cells/μl, polymorphisms in drug metabolism and immune response pathways were associated with greater likelihood of risk for nevirapine-related adverse events. Results suggest fundamentally different mechanisms of adverse events: cutaneous, most likely MHC class I-mediated, influenced by nevirapine CYP2B6 metabolism; hepatic, most likely MHC class II-mediated and unaffected by such metabolism. These risk variants are insensitive for routine clinical screening.
The effect of long-term treatment with indapamide in platelet alpha 2-adrenoceptors has been evaluated in 10 patients with essential hypertension, in a double-blind, cross-over study with placebo. After three months of therapy, indapamide significantly reduced mean blood pressure (from 137 +/- 12 to 116 +/- 6 mm Hg, p less than 0.001), whereas heart rate did not change (from 72 +/- 8 to 73 +/- 7 beats/minute). At the same time, platelet alpha 2-adrenoceptor number increased (from 168.2 +/- 48.4 to 256.8 +/- 14.5 fmol/mg protein, p less than 0.02), whereas the dissociation constant did not change (from 3.79 +/- 2.9 to 4.97 +/- 4.48). The plasma norepinephrine level was significantly reduced after long-term treatment with indapamide (from 275 +/- 118 to 210 +/- 56 pg/ml, p less than 0.02). These results bring about an inhibition of norepinephrine release from sympathetic nerve endings with a likely secondary increase of the number of platelet alpha 2-adrenoceptors.
To assess the pharmacokinetics of alosetron, its effect on in vivo enzyme activities, and influence of demographic factors during repeated dosing.
Thirty healthy men and women received 1 mg oral alosetron twice-daily for 29.5 days and a single oral dose of a metabolic probe cocktail before and on the last day of alosetron dosing. Serum alosetron concentrations were measured on days 1, 8, 15, 22 and 29. Probe-substrate and metabolite concentrations were measured after each cocktail dose.
Alosetron accumulation in serum was negligible. Exposure to alosetron did not alter probe-metabolite/substrate ratios associated with CYP2C19, 2E1, 2C9, or 3A4 activity, but modestly decreased those associated with CYP1A2 and N-acetyltransferase activity. Systemic exposure to alosetron was higher in women, positively correlated with age and body mass index, and negatively correlated with CYP1A2 activity. Incidence of constipation was higher in women, but not associated with alosetron concentration.
Single dose data can reliably predict the pharmacokinetics of alosetron after repeated doses. Alosetron exhibits limited potential for inhibition of cytochrome P450-mediated metabolism. Interindividual differences in alosetron pharmacokinetics associated with demographic factors may be related to strong dependence on metabolism by CYP1A2.
A 47 year old man presented with a two year history of increasing cervical dysphagia, dyspnoea, and cutaneous signs. He had been diagnosed 27 years previously with Wilson's disease and was treated with penicillamine (1.5 g daily). Systemic abnormality of elastic fibres was confirmed by light and electron microscopy following biopsy of skin, lung, oesophageal muscle, gum, pharyngeal tissue, and cervical connective tissue. Dysphagia was relieved by cricopharyngeal myotomy. Substitution of trientene dihydrochloride for penicillamine relieved cutaneous and systemic manifestations. This is possibly the first case demonstrating an association between prolonged penicillamine use and biopsy proved systemic pseudo-pseudoxanthoma elasticum. The presenting symptoms may have resulted from the abnormal numbers and properties of elastic fibres, and the changes were caused by penicillamine use, rather than by idiopathic, inherited pseudoxanthoma elasticum.
A levodopa/carbidopa/entacapone combination product (Stalevo) was recently approved to treat patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) who experience end-of-dose "wearing-off." Stalevo is available in dose combinations of levodopa/carbidopa/entacapone 50/12.5/200 mg (Stalevo 50), 100/25/200 mg (Stalevo 100), and 150/37.5/200 mg (Stalevo 150). A series of pharmacokinetic studies demonstrated bioequivalence between Stalevo and corresponding dosages of levodopa/carbidopa plus entacapone. A clinical advantage of Stalevo is that patients can take one pill rather than two (or more) separate tablets. In addition, Stalevo 50 and 100 tablets are smaller than entacapone tablets. These advantages may be particularly beneficial for patients taking many pills, those who have difficulty following complex medication regimens, and those with swallowing difficulty. Most PD patients taking levodopa/carbidopa immediate-release (IR) plus entacapone can be directly switched to the corresponding dose Stalevo product. For fluctuating PD patients taking levodopa/carbidopa IR without entacapone, switching to the corresponding Stalevo tablet is analogous to adding entacapone. In switching patients who are receiving levodopa/carbidopa controlled-release (CR), it should be noted that the bioavailability of levodopa from levodopa/carbidopa CR is approximately 70-75% that of levodopa/carbidopa IR products, including Stalevo.
Anti-cancer agent adriamycin (ADR) has demonstrated high anti-tumor efficacy. However, its use in chemotherapy has been limited largely due to its diverse toxicities, including renal toxicity, such as nephrotic syndrome with proteinuria. Podocyte injury leads to glomeruli proteinuria. Wulingsan (WLS) is a blended traditional Chinese herbal medicine specifically used for various kidney diseases. In the present study, we found that a water extract of WLS (480 mg/kg, p.o., x 28 days) reduced ADR-induced increase in urine protein excretion, plasma total cholesterol and triglyceride, and decrease in plasma total protein and albumin in rats. Furthermore, the results of electron microscopy demonstrated suppression by WLS of ADR-induced increase in width of foot process, increase in surface density and decrease in volume density. These results suggest that WLS ameliorates ADR-induced proteinuria and podocyte injury. Gene analysis results demonstrated a suppression of renal overexpression of nephrin mRNA and protein by WLS. Radioimmunoassay showed that WLS suppressed ADR-induced increased renal angiotensin II content in rats. Thus our results demonstrate that WLS ameliorates ADR-induced nephrotic syndrome in rats possibly by suppressing ADR-induced hyperactivity of renal renin-angiotensin system to modulate renal nephrin gene expression, thereby protecting podocyte from injury.
To investigate the antiestrogenic effect of environment teratogen on the gene expression of insulin-like growth factors (IGFs) family in osteoblast cells during rat skeleton development.
The fetal rat models with congenital skeleton malformation were constructed by treating 20 female Wistar rats with 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) on pregnant day 10. The MC-3T3-E1 cells were cultured with estrogen, TCDD, or a combination of the two chemicals for 24 hours. The IGF-II and IGFBP-6 mRNA levels in rat calvaria bone tissue and MC-3T3-E1 cells were detected by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Flow cytometer was used to determine the cell proliferation.
TCDD at the concentration of 5-15 microg/kg induced developmental skeleton defect of fetal rat, and the effect was dose-dependent. The expression of IGF-II mRNA gene was enhanced by estrogen in rat calvaria bone tissue and MC-3T3-E1 cells, whereas IGFBP-6 mRNA was decreased. Estrogen increased the cell proliferation in MC-3T3-E1 cells. TCDD, however, inhibited the effect of estrogen on regulation of IGF-II gene and IGFBP-6 gene as well as MC-3T3-E1 cell proliferation.
These findings provide the evidence that TCDD can induce congenital fetal skeleton malformation under the condition of high estrogen level in pregnant Wistar rats. TCDD has antiestrogenic effect and hence exerts negative influence on the osteoblast cells through target IGF-II and IGFBP-6 of IGFs family.
A 57-year-old man was given 40 mg of activated carbon aclacinomycin (ACM) emulsion into mesenteric lymph nodes during anesthesia with enflurane, nitrous oxide, oxygen and epidural anesthesia. He had no complications preoperatively. Immediately after the injection, his skin turned to red, and 5 minutes later, sinus tachycardia, R wave amplitude reduction, T wave amplitude elevation, QT prolongation and PVCs were noted, and then, ventricular fibrillation (Vf) occurred 15 minutes after the injection. We succeeded in electrical defibrillation within about 180 seconds. At that time, both arterial blood gas and electrocytes were normal. Serum ACM concentration was remarkably elevated 60 minutes after the administration, and remained high 22 hrs later. Postoperative course was uneventful and he was discharged on the 17th postoperative day. It has been said that ACM has relatively low cardiotoxicity compared with adriamycin because of rapid distribution and metabolism. However, it might cause cardiac complication such as ECG abnormality, heart failure, pericarditis, though the effects are transient and reversible. Therefore we should be ready for its rapid treatment. Coenzyme Q10 could counteract cardiotoxicity of ACM.
A case of hypokalaemia due to chronic administration of Clortalydone is reported. The histochemistry of muscle biopsy showed the morphologic changes which are usually found in the muscle fibers of periodic familial paralysis (necrotic fibers, accumulation of PAS positive substance, inflammatory cells, intermyofibrillar network degeneration, increase of lipids content). Such findings suggest some clues to the pathophysiology of the essential hypokalaemic paralysis and the possible practical importance of these histopathologic muscular findings in the diagnosis of secondary hypokalaemia.
This study analyses the neuropsychological profile of a sample of cocaine addicts and compares it with a control group from the same social environment. Also, it explores the predictive power of some neuropsychological tests on treatment outcome six months after the exploration.
We administered a neuropsychological battery to 30 patients with a diagnosis of cocaine abuse or cocaine dependence, and to 30 control participants with no history of drug abuse from the same social environment.
Verbal learning (p<0.001), immediate visual memory (p<0.05), attentional resources management (p<0.05), phonologic fluency (p<0.01), abstraction (p<0.001), complex problem-solving (p<0.05) and mental flexibility (p<0.05) are the functions most affected by cocaine use.
The alterations found in the addict participants were small and non-pathognomonic, though the deficits can be correlated with impact on quality of life and on everyday occupational performance. The neuropsychological exploration showed a certain predictive capacity of abstinence after 6 months (the addict participants with better verbal mnesic performance and greater mental flexibility at the beginning of the treatment seem to benefit more from this). Finally, the results suggest that addicts live in a cognitively poor social environment. It is suggested that drug use increases previous deficits, probably of an educational or environmental origin, that are common to their immediate social context.
This study was designed to determine how distal vasodilatory stimuli can alter coronary hemodynamics and the appearance of myocardial ischemia in the presence of severe coronary stenosis. In anesthetized open chest dogs, left circumflex coronary artery (LCx) flow, distal LCx perfusion pressure (DCPP), heart rate, and aortic pressure were monitored and regional myocardial ischemia was estimated from ST segment deviation in the epicardial and intramyocardial electrograms obtained from the electrodes located in the area supplied by LCx. In the presence of severe LCx constriction, intracoronary administration of adenosine (0.01 mg/Kg/min) and dipyridamole (0.05 mg/Kg) failed to augment LCx flow and induced further reduction in DCPP without changing systemic hemodynamics. In parallel with these hemodynamic changes, significant ST elevation was observed in the inner layer of the area supplied by the LCx. These results show that subepicardial vasodilation following vasodilatory stimuli can induce transmural flow redistribution and lead to subendocardial ischemia in the presence of severe coronary stenosis.
