Accumulating data indicate that there is significant genetic heterogeneity underlying the etiology in individuals diagnosed with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Some rare and highly-penetrant gene variants and copy number variation (CNV) regions including NLGN3, NLGN4, NRXN1, SHANK2, SHANK3, PTCHD1, 1q21.1, maternally-inherited duplication of 15q11-q13, 16p11.2, amongst others, have been identified to be involved in ASD. Genome-wide association studies have identified other apparently low risk loci and in some other cases, ASD arises as a co-morbid phenotype with other medical genetic conditions (e.g. fragile X). The progress studying the genetics of ASD has largely been accomplished using genomic analyses of germline-derived DNA. Here, we used gene and miRNA expression profiling using cell-line derived total RNA to evaluate possible transcripts and networks of molecules involved in ASD. Our analysis identified several novel dysregulated genes and miRNAs in ASD compared with controls, including HEY1, SOX9, miR-486 and miR-181b. All of these are involved in nervous system development and function and some others, for example, are involved in NOTCH signaling networks (e.g. HEY1). Further, we found significant enrichment in molecules associated with neurological disorders such as Rett syndrome and those associated with nervous system development and function including long-term potentiation. Our data will provide a valuable resource for discovery purposes and for comparison to other gene expression-based, genome-wide DNA studies and other functional data.
Autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by aberrant reciprocal social interactions, impaired communication, and repetitive behaviors. While the etiology remains unclear, strong evidence exists for a genetic component, and several synaptic genes have been implicated. SHANK genes encode a family of synaptic scaffolding proteins located postsynaptically on excitatory synapses. Mutations in SHANK genes have been detected in several autistic individuals. To understand the consequences of SHANK mutations relevant to the diagnostic and associated symptoms of autism, comprehensive behavioral phenotyping on a line of Shank1 mutant mice was conducted on multiple measures of social interactions, social olfaction, repetitive behaviors, anxiety-related behaviors, motor functions, and a series of control measures for physical abilities. Results from our comprehensive behavioral phenotyping battery indicated that adult Shank1 null mutant mice were similar to their wildtype and heterozygous littermates on standardized measures of general health, neurological reflexes and sensory skills. Motor functions were reduced in the null mutants on open field activity, rotarod, and wire hang, replicating and extending previous findings (Hung et al., 2008). A partial anxiety-like phenotype was detected in the null mutants in some components of the light ↔ dark task, as previously reported (Hung et al., 2008) but not in the elevated plus-maze. Juvenile reciprocal social interactions did not differ across genotypes. Interpretation of adult social approach was confounded by a lack of normal sociability in wildtype and heterozygous littermates. All genotypes were able to discriminate social odors on an olfactory habituation/dishabituation task. All genotypes displayed relatively high levels of repetitive self-grooming. Our findings support the interpretation that Shank1 null mice do not demonstrate autism-relevant social interaction deficits, but confirm and extend a role for Shank1 in motor functions.
entla (ent) is a novel recessive phenotype of mice. The underlying mutation was mapped to chromosome 9 (60.1 centimorgans) and identified as an allele of the Cacna2d2 gene encoding the alpha2delta-2 subunit of voltage-gated calcium channels. The Cacna2d2entla allele harbors a 38-kb duplication comprising the 117 nucleotides of exon 3. The predicted duplication of 39 amino acid residues near the subunit's N terminus results in the expression of a full-length, membrane-associated protein. Western blot data were consistent with correct cleavage of the alpha2delta-2entla precursor into alpha2entla and delta2 proteins but indicated loss of the disulfide linkage between the two proteins. ent/ent mice develop ataxia by postnatal day 13-15, followed by paroxysmal dyskinesia a few days later. Two distinct types of cortical and hippocampal epileptic activity at 2 and 4 Hz were recorded, indicative of absence epilepsy. Homozygotes display reduced size and weight, increased mortality before weaning, and female infertility. No overt neuroanatomical abnormalities were detected. Ca2+ current densities recorded from acutely dissociated Purkinje cells of homozygous entla animals were reduced by 50% compared with wild type. Ligand binding assays using the antiepileptic drug [3H]gabapentin, a specific ligand of the alpha2delta-1 and alpha2delta-2 subunits, revealed a >60% reduced maximum binding to cerebellar membranes of ent/ent compared with unaffected littermates. entla is allelic to ducky and ducky2J, representing the third murine Cacna2d2 allele identified and so far the only one encoding an untruncated protein that is incorporated into membranes.
Evidence suggests a link between Parkinson's disease and the dietary intake of omega (n)-3 and n-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs). Presently, we investigated whether an acute dose of parkinsonian neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+)) affects brain n-3 and n-6 PUFA content and expression of fatty acid metabolic enzymes cytosolic phospholipase A2 (cPLA2) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) in brain slices from C57Bl/6 mice. Furthermore, we investigated whether feeding a diet of n-3 PUFA ethyl-eicosapentaenoate (E-EPA) to these mice can attenuate the MPP(+) induced changes in brain PUFA content and expression of cPLA2 and COX-2, and attenuate MPP(+) induced changes in neurotransmitters and metabolites and apoptotic markers, bax, bcl-2 and caspase-3. MPP(+) increased brain content of n-6 PUFAs linoleic acid and arachidonic acid, and increased the mRNA expression of cPLA2. MPP(+) also depleted striatal dopamine levels and increased dopamine turnover, and depleted noradrenaline levels in the frontal cortex. The neurotoxin induced increases in bax, bcl-2 and caspase-3 mRNA expression that approached significance. E-EPA by itself increased brain n-3 content, including EPA and docosapentaenoic acid (C22:5, n-3), and increased cortical dopamine. More importantly, E-EPA attenuated the MPP(+) induced increase in n-6 fatty acids content, partially attenuated the striatal dopaminergic turnover, and prevented the increases of pro-apoptotic bax and caspase-3 mRNAs. In conclusion, increases in n-6 PUFAs in the acute stage of exposure to parkinsonian neurotoxins may promote pro-inflammatory conditions. EPA may provide modest beneficial effects in Parkinson's disease, but further investigation is warranted.
To summarize, concern has developed over the extra-label use of chloramphenicol in food-producing animals because a type of blood dyscrasia that is usually fatal to a significant subgroup of the population with an apparent predisposed sensitivity to chloramphenicol has been associated with extremely low levels of exposure to the drug. In a monitoring program, using a method of analysis that is limited as to the type of residues it can detect, USDA has found 4 to 8 animals a year that were slaughtered for use as human food that contained residue levels of chloramphenicol that approach or exceed those concentrations associated in a causal relationship with aplastic anemia in man. Given the preponderance of evidence presented above, the FDA must consider--under its mandate to protect the human health by assuring safe and effective veterinary drugs--a course of action that will preclude the availability and the use of chloramphenicol in food animals.
Glomerular epithelial cell (GEC) injury and apoptosis may contribute to sclerosis in glomerulonephritis. The present study addresses signals that regulate survival of GEC in culture and in the acute puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis (PAN) model of GEC injury in vivo. Compared with GEC on plastic substratum, adhesion to collagen increased activation of focal adhesion kinase (FAK), c-Src, and ERK and facilitated survival (prevented apoptosis). GEC on plastic exhibited increased caspase-8 and -9 activities, increased expression of the proapoptotic protein, Bax, and decreased the antiapoptotic protein, Bcl-XL, compared with collagen. Stable expression of constitutively active mutants of FAK (CD2-FAK) or MEK (R4F-MEK) activated the ERK pathway and supplanted the requirement of collagen for survival. In contrast, expression of a Ras mutant that activates phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase but blocks ERK activation or pharmacological inhibition of the ERK pathway decreased survival on collagen. Glomeruli isolated from rats with PAN revealed increased beta1-integrin expression, along with increased activation of FAK, c-Src, and ERK, compared with controls. EGF receptor activation was undetectable in PAN. Therefore, adhesion to collagen, resulting in activation of FAK and the Ras-ERK pathway, supports GEC survival. Analogous signals for GEC survival are activated in PAN.
The testicular effects of daily oral dosing with two glycol ethers--either ethylene glycol monomethyl ether (EGM) or monoethyl ether (EGE) were studied in the prepubertal rat by histological examination of the testes. Over the 11-day dosing period studied, EGM was found to produce testicular damage at dose levels of and in excess of 100 mg/kg/day with a no-effect level at 250 mg/kg/day. The findings at sequential time intervals throughout the dosing period indicated that primary spermatocytes undergoing pachytene development constituted the initial and major site of morphological damage. Within this population, differential sensitivity was demonstrated depending on the precise stage of meiotic maturation. A consistent order of spermatocyte susceptibility emerged from the results: dividing spermatocytes (Stage XIV) greater than early-pachytene spermatocytes (Stages I-III) greater than late-pachytene spermatocytes (Stages IX-XIII) greater than midpachytene spermatocytes (Stages IV-VIII). Leptotene/zygotene spermatocytes and Step 1 spermatids also showed degenerative changes but only after prolonged dosing at high-dose levels. The significance of the findings with respect to mechanisms of cellular toxicity in the testis is discussed.
This report describes an investigation of the pathological mechanism of acute renal failure caused by toxic tubular necrosis after treatment with aristolochic acid I (AAI) in Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats. The rats were gavaged with AAI at 0, 5, 20, or 80 mg/kg/day for 7 days. The pathologic examination of the kidneys showed severe acute tubular degenerative changes primarily affecting the proximal tubules. Supporting these results, we detected significantly increased concentrations of blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and creatinine (Cr) in the rats treated with AAI, indicating damage to the kidneys. Ultrastructural examination showed that proximal tubular mitochondria were extremely enlarged and dysmorphic with loss and disorientation of their cristae. Mitochondrial function analysis revealed that the two indicators for mitochondrial energy metabolism, the respiratory control ratio (RCR) and ATP content, were reduced in a dose-dependent manner after AAI treatment. The RCR in the presence of substrates for complex I was reduced more significantly than in the presence of substrates for complex II. In additional experiments, the activity of respiratory complex I, which is partly encoded by mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), was more significantly impaired than that of respiratory complex II, which is completely encoded by nuclear DNA (nDNA). A real-time PCR assay revealed a marked reduction of mtDNA in the kidneys treated with AAI. Taken together, these results suggested that mtDNA depletion and respiratory chain defects play critical roles in the pathogenesis of kidney injury induced by AAI, and that the same processes might contribute to aristolochic acid-induced nephrotoxicity in humans.
A 68-year-old asthmatic presented markedly unwell with arthralgia, mononeuritis multiplex, peripheral neuropathy, and eosinophilia. His past medical history included perennial rhinitis, and nasal polyps. Three months prior to admission his prednisolone was stopped and Montelukast was started. The diagnosis of Montelukast-associated Churg-Strauss syndrome was made. The drug was stopped and steroids started with general improvement and reduction of eosinophilia; however, the neurological deficit persisted.
We report here two cases of pituitary apoplexy or pseudoapoplexy revealing a gonadotroph adenoma. A 69-year-old man, who had just started antiandrogen treatment (Gn-RH agonist) for prostatic cancer, was admitted to neurosurgery emergency because of increasing headache and visual impairment. The CT-scan disclosed the presence of a large pituitary mass with lateral invasion of the left cavernous sinus. Hormonel testing showed panhypopituitarism. A few days later, diabetes insipidus appeared. The patient first received corticosteroid therapy and underwent surgical adenomectomy. Immunostaining of the tumor tissue was positive for FSHbeta, confirming the diagnosis of gonadotroph adenoma. Three months after surgery, the endocrine evaluation showed pituitary insufficiency. An 81-year-old man complained of mnemonic disorders. The CT-scan revealed a pituitary mass without extension. The Ophthalmological examination showed left temporal upper quadranopsia. Endocrinological tests with administration of GN-HR triggered headache and vomiting. A second CT-scan was unchanged. Hormone testing revealed increased serum levels of FSH and decreased serum levels of LH. Surgical management of the primary tumor was undertaken due to the visual field alteration. Immunohistochemical studies confirmed the diagnosis of gonadotroph FSHbeta adenoma.
To determine if 1,3-Butanediol (BD), which protects mice from hypoxia, would extend the tolerance of rats to ischemic-hypoxia, the Levine rat (unilateral carotid ligation and conscious hypoxic exposure) was modified to record mean arterial pressure (BP), heart rate (HR), central venous pressure (CVP), spontaneous respiration and EEG. Age and weight matched, male, Sprague-Dawley rats were anesthetized under halothane (1-2%), ligated, instrumented, and recovered 2 hrs before hypoxia (4.5% oxygen). Thirty minutes prior to hypoxia, groups of rats received, BD (47 mmoles/kg i.v.; n = 7), equal volumes of saline (S) (n = 6) or no-infusion (NI) (n = 7). Since no significant difference was observed between S and NI they were combined into a single control group (C). In a parallel group administered BD, resultant beta- hydroxybutarate ( BHB ) levels increased from 0.13 +/- 0.02 to 0.84 +/- 0.03 mM and temperature declined only 1.5 degrees C. The EEG of all ischemic-hypoxic rats invariably became isoelectric before cessation of spontaneous respiration and eventual loss of BP. BD significantly (p less than 0.01, Student's t) increased ischemic-hypoxic tolerance (time to isoelectric EEG) from 875 +/- 56 for the control group to 1338 +/- 67 seconds for the BD group, without changing the interval from isoelectric EEG to loss of BP. Further, EEG activity persisted at a lower mean BP (p less than 0.01) in the BD group (44 +/- 5 mm Hg) than in the control group (66 +/- 4 mm Hg). In summary, isoelectric EEG invariably precedes ventilatory failure and cardiovascular collapse. BD increases ischemic-hypoxic tolerance in the conscious rat by extending, at a lower mean BP, the time to isoelectric EEG.
Chronic cocaine administration reduces G protein signaling efficacy. Here, we report that the expression of AGS3, which binds to GialphaGDP and inhibits GDP dissociation, was upregulated in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) during late withdrawal from repeated cocaine administration. Increased AGS3 was mimicked in the PFC of drug-naive rats by microinjecting a peptide containing the Gialpha binding domain (GPR) of AGS3 fused to the cell permeability domain of HIV-Tat. Infusion of Tat-GPR mimicked the phenotype of chronic cocaine-treated rats by manifesting sensitized locomotor behavior and drug seeking and by increasing glutamate transmission in nucleus accumbens. By preventing cocaine withdrawal-induced AGS3 expression with antisense oligonucleotides, signaling through Gialpha was normalized, and both cocaine-induced relapse to drug seeking and locomotor sensitization were prevented. When antisense oligonucleotide infusion was discontinued, drug seeking and sensitization were restored. It is proposed that AGS3 gates the expression of cocaine-induced plasticity by regulating G protein signaling in the PFC.
We report the case of a bipolar patient developing severe delirium and extrapyramidal signs shortly after initiation of a lithium-neuroleptic combination therapy. Clinical presentation, EEG changes and lithium plasma levels showed a close correlation. The delirium was reversible when all drugs were stopped; however, dyskinesia was found to be persistent after a period of 6 months. This rare syndrome is difficult to differentiate from lithium intoxication and neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Given the additional use of valproate and biperiden in this patient, valproate encephalopathy and anticholinergic delirium are further differential diagnoses. To avoid this serious pharmacodynamic drug interaction, patients should be closely monitored when lithium-neuroleptic comedication is started.
In liver cirrhosis atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) decreases portal vascular resistance and tributary flow. The enzyme neutral endopeptidase (NEP) degrades ANP and bradykinin and generates endothelin-1 from big-endothelin. We determined the effects of NEP inhibition by candoxatrilat on hormonal status, liver function and arterial and portal pressures in rats with CCl4-induced cirrhosis.
Two groups of seven control rats received 1 ml 5% glucose solution alone or containing 10 mg/kg candoxatrilat; three groups of 10 ascitic cirrhotic rats received placebo, 5 or 10 mg/kg candoxatrilat. NEP protein concentration and immunostaining were analyzed in normal and cirrhotic livers.
In cirrhotic rats 10 mg/kg candoxatrilat significantly increased steady-state indocyanine green clearance (a parameter reflecting liver plasma flow) (P<0.01), decreased portal pressure (P<0.01), had no effect on arterial pressure and plasma renin activity but increased ANP plasma levels (P<0.05) and urinary excretions (P<0.01) of ANP and cGMP. In the cytosol fraction of rat cirrhotic livers a 280% increase in NEP content was found (P<0.01), chiefly localized in desmin-positive myofibroblast-like cells of fibrous septa.
Candoxatrilat has few effects on systemic hemodynamics and hormonal status; its portal hypotensive action depends on effects exerted on intrahepatic vascular resistance.
Cervical artery dissection occurs spontaneously and in multiple vessels with surprising frequency. An underlying arteriopathy is frequently suspected, but specific causes of vascular fragility are rarely identified. We describe a 35-year-old woman who developed multiple cervical artery dissections after scuba diving. She had no stigmata of connective tissue disease apart from bluish sclerae, and no family history of arterial dissection or congenital musculoskeletal disease. Analysis of the COL1A1 gene that encodes the pro alpha 1(I) chains of type I procollagen revealed a point mutation in one allele, resulting in substitution of alanine for glycine (G13A) in about half the alpha 1(I) chains of type I collagen. Genetic disorders of collagen, such as the mild phenotypic variant of osteogenesis imperfecta identified in our patient, should be considered in the differential diagnosis of unexplained cervical artery dissection.
Clinical characteristics of clonazepam (CZP) discontinuation seizures were clarified from 17 patients who developed seizure exacerbation after rapid discontinuation, including abrupt discontinuation, reduction, or replacement with nitrazepam (NZP). Safe discontinuation rates of CZP were estimated by comparing these patients with 23 patients without CZP discontinuation seizures. The seizures consisted of status epilepticus or frequent attacks of generalized tonic-clonic seizures (GTC) or non-GTC, and the first attack of GTC. Incidence did not differ significantly between CZP-effective cases and CZP-ineffective cases at discontinuation. The reasons for abrupt discontinuation included adverse effects, insufficient efficacy, difficulty in taking CZP owing to pneumonia, or carelessness of the doctors or the families. Seizure exacerbation occurred 1-6 days after CZP discontinuation. Most of the problems improved with readministration of the original or smaller dosages of CZP or of NZP in an amount threefold or more greater than the original CZP dose. Safe discontinuation rates were estimated to be < or = 0.04 mg/kg for abrupt discontinuation, < or = 0.04 mg/kg/week for reduction, and replacement with NZP of 2.5 or more times the original amount of CZP. These safe discontinuation rates were prospectively confirmed by 84 cases of CZP discontinuation in 54 other patients, and no seizure exacerbation occurred with these discontinuation rates.
Paroxetine (Paxil) is a widely prescribed antidepressant of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) class for which multiple cutaneous adverse effects have been reported, including urticaria, ecchymoses, vasculitis, and pruritus. In contrast, fluoxetine (Prozac) is the only SSRI previously reported to cause urticarial vasculitis. Urticarial vasculitis is a chronic disorder marked by recurrent episodes of erythematous, indurated wheals that histologically manifest the features of leukocytoclastic vasculitis. This case represents the first reported incidence of paroxetine-induced urticarial vasculitis, and highlights the need to consider the entire SSRI class as s as a potential cause of the condition.
Among inbred mice, genetic factors mediate differences in sensitivity to the convulsant properties of cocaine; however, the gene(s) underlying cocaine's effects have not been identified. To help elucidate the gene(s) responsible for cocaine seizure susceptibility, we used recombinant inbred-quantitative trait loci (RI-QTL) analyses to identify chromosomal loci associated with cocaine-induced seizures. RI-QTL analyses seek to identify associations between a quantitative measure of a particular phenotype and one or more previously mapped marker genes across a panel of RI strains. This report describes an RI-QTL analysis of cocaine seizure susceptibility among 26 BXD RI strains. These strains showed a skewed, bimodal range of seizure susceptibility which could be the result of one or more modifying genes acting in concert with a major gene to influence cocaine sensitivity. Correlating the percent seizures displayed by each strain following 60 mg/kg cocaine with chromosomal marker data for these strains revealed a number of significant correlations clustered in two regions on chromosomes 12 and 6. This is the first identification of putative chromosomal loci associated with a cocaine-related phenotype and should facilitate identification of the gene(s) underlying cocaine toxicity and other cocaine-related phenotypes.
The goal of this study was to analyze the relationship between cocaine use and outcomes of aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH).
A retrospective review was performed of the medical records of patients with intracranial aneurysms treated at a single institution between January 1996 and December 2001. Only patients who presented with SAH were included in the study. The covariates chosen for the statistical analysis included the following: patient age, sex, and race; systolic and mean arterial blood pressure measurements on hospital admission; Hunt and Hess and Fisher grades; pre-existent major systemic disease; and history of alcohol, tobacco, or cocaine use. The Glasgow Outcome Scale (GOS) was used to standardize outcome and was dichotomized such that a score between 1 and 3 was considered a poor outcome and a score of 4 or 5 was considered a favorable outcome. The records of 151 patients were reviewed and 108 of these presented with aneurysmal SAH. Of these 108 patients, 36 (33.3%) had used cocaine within 24 hours before presentation. A Hunt and Hess grade of IV or V was assigned to 20 (55.6%) of 36 patients who used cocaine, compared with eight (11.1%) of 72 patients who did not; this difference was found to be statistically significant (p < 0.0001). Twenty-eight patients (77.8%) in the cocaine user group and 20 patients (27.8%) in the non-cocaine user group experienced clinically significant, angiographically confirmed vasospasm during their hospital course (p < 0.0001). Cocaine use was associated with a 2.8-fold greater risk of developing vasospasm (95% confidence interval [CI] 1.86-4.22). A GOS score of 1, 2, or 3 was assigned to 33 patients (91.7%) in the cocaine user group and to 20 patients (27.8%) in the non-cocaine user group (p < 0.0001). Cocaine use was associated with a 3.3-fold greater risk of poor outcome (95% CI 2.24-4.85). This association was found to be independent of Hunt and Hess grade as well as of vasospasm.
Cocaine adversely affects both the presentation of and outcome in patients with aneurysmal SAH who are undergoing treatment for this disease. The vasoactive properties of the drug appear to aggravate the already tenuous situation of SAH and increase both the occurrence and influence of cerebral vasospasm. Statistical analysis demonstrates that cocaine directly affects both presentation and outcome in a significant manner. It is the authors' interpretation of the results of this retrospective review that cocaine use negatively affects outcome to such an extent that it should be considered equal to the presence of a major systemic illness when determining Hunt and Hess grade.
A 28-year-old man with seizures well controlled with carbamazepine (CBZ) and valproate (VPA) developed generalized convulsive status epilepticus three days after his CBZ tablets became wet during a rainstorm while he was camping out. He continued the CBZ but avoided ingesting obviously disintegrating tablets. The VPA was not exposed to excessive moisture. Previous random CBZ blood levels had been in the range of 9-13 micrograms/ml; at the time of admission to the emergency room the level had decreased to 3.8 micrograms/ml. The VPA level did not change significantly from baseline. The moisture-exposed CBZ tablets were of expected weight but were swollen and enlarged. Analysis of these tablets by USP paddle method 2 demonstrated a mean dissolution of 16% at 60 min as compared with > 80% for fresh CBZ tablets. After final dissolution of the moisture-exposed CBZ tablets, normal quantities of active drug were noted. We propose that poor dissolution of moisture-exposed CBZ tablets results in reduced bioavailability. We urge caution in the packaging and storage of CBZ to avoid exposure to moisture.
Pain on injection is still a problem with propofol. The purpose of the study was to compare the effectiveness of diphenhydramine and lidocaine on pain caused by propofol at the site of injection.
One hundred and eighty ASA I-II adults undergoing elective surgery were randomly assigned into three groups of 60 each. Group I (placebo) received 2 mL normal saline, Group II received 2 mL (40 mg) 2% lidocaine and Group III received 2 mL (20 mg) diphenhydramine intravenously (i.v.) during a 1-min venous occlusion, followed by propofol into a cephalic forearm vein of the antecubital fossa. Pain assessment was made immediately after propofol injection.
In the placebo group 25 (41.7%) patients experienced pain during propofol injection as compared to 2 (3.3%) and 3 (5.0%) in the lidocaine and diphenhydramine groups, respectively. The prevalence of pain and pain score were significantly less in both the lidocaine and diphenhydramine groups than in the placebo group (P = 0.00). No difference was found between the diphenhydramine and lidocaine groups (P = 0.60).
Previous injection of diphenhydramine with venous occlusion can be considered as an alternative to lidocaine for reducing the prevalence of pain caused by injection of propofol into peripheral veins.
Mature male and female mice from six inbred stains were tested for susceptibility to behavioral seizures induced by a single injection of cocaine. Cocaine was injected ip over a range of doses (50-100 mg/kg) and behavior was monitored for 20 minutes. Seizure end points included latency to forelimb or hindlimb clonus, latency to clonic running seizure and latency to jumping bouncing seizure. A range of strain specific sensitivities was documented with A/J and SJL mice being most sensitive and C57BL/6J most resistant. DBA/2J, BALB/cByJ and NZW/LacJ strains exhibited intermediate sensitivity. EEG recordings were made in SJL, A/J and C57BL/6J mice revealing a close correspondence between electrical activity and behavior. Additionally, levels of cocaine determined in hippocampus and cortex were not different between sensitive and resistant strains. Additional studies of these murine strains may be useful for investigating genetic influences on cocaine-induced seizures.
To evaluate the direct effect of atrazine (ATZ) and the protective effect of quercetin (QT) on testicular cells, we used primary cultures of rat Sertoli-germ cells (SGCs). ATZ (232 μm) up-regulated the mRNA expression of GATA-4, androgen receptor (AR), androgen-binding protein (ABP), steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (StAR), cytochrome P450 side-chain cleavage enzyme (CYP11A1), cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and NF-κappaB (NF-κB) and down-regulated the expression of stem cell factor (SCF) mRNA. There was no change on the mRNA expression of oestrogen receptor-alpha (ER-α). Simultaneous supplementation of QT in the culture normalizes the expression of these genes. The stimulatory action of follicle stimulating hormone (10 ng/mL) on ATZ-induced StAR and CYP11A1 mRNA levels were also prevented by QT. Furthermore, ATZ-stimulatory action on AR mRNA was opposed in a dose-dependent manner in the presence of increasing concentrations of QT (10-50 μm).The dislodgement of germ cells from the Sertoli cells monolayer and decrease in SGCs viability was prevented by QT. To show whether or not the disrupted interactions of Sertoli and germ cells impaired spermatogenesis, adult male rats exposed in vivo to ATZ (50 mg/kg b.wt) for 1 week had their daily spermatozoa production (DSP) per gram testis lowered by 30%. DSP was significantly increased in the QT(10 mg/kg) + ATZ-treated rats as compared with the ATZ-treated rats. Taken together, ATZ can alter SGCs expression of spermatogenesis- and steroiodogenesis-related genes resulting in a decrease in sperm production in the testis as well as cell viability. QT might block these molecular events-induced by ATZ thereby protecting testicular Sertoli-germ cells from ATZ-induced toxicity.
A neonate with a fatal cardiac malformation due to maternal valproate intake during pregnancy is presented.
