Rapid degradation of renal function may occur in patients given drug regimens combining a converting enzyme inhibitor, a diuretic and a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug.
A patient given flecainide and an enalapril /hydrochlorothiazide combination in a well-tolerated long-term regimen suddenly developed acute renal failure when a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug was introduced leading to an overdose of the anti-arrhythmic drug.
A poor understanding of the elimination routes for anti-arrhythmic drugs and the risks involved when combined with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs modifying glomerular hemodynamics can lead to dangerous prescriptions and life-threatening situations in patients on multiple drug regimens.
The involvement of dopaminergic receptors in the responses of conscious, restrained spontaneously hypertensive (SHR) and Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats to cocaine was examined using antagonists selective for DA-1 (SCH 23390) or DA-2 (sulpiride) dopamine receptors. Following pretreatment with saline vehicle, SCH 23390 (50 mg/kg, SC), sulpiride (50 mg/kg, IP) or SCH 23390 and sulpiride, cocaine was infused (1.25 mg/kg.min, IV) until death. Cocaine caused an initial pressor and tachycardiac response, which was followed by a progressively developing secondary pressor response. Combined (DA-1 and DA-2) antagonist pretreatment abolished the initial tachycardic response to cocaine. Rectal temperature during cocaine infusion increased in 38.5% of vehicle-treated SHR (designated SHRH), but decreased in the remaining SHR (SHRL) and all vehicle-treated WKY. The time-to-onset of cocaine-induced convulsions (Tc) was reduced in vehicle-treated SHRH compared to vehicle-treated SHRL and WKY. Sulpiride elevated rectal temperature in response to cocaine in SHR and WKY but reduced Tc only in SHR. SCH 23390 abolished hyperthermic responses to cocaine in SHR without altering toxicity in SHR or WKY. Combined pretreatment virtually abolished temperature responses to cocaine in SHR and WKY, but increased the Tc only in WKY. Dopamine receptors, particularly the DA-1 subtype, are involved in cocaine-induced hyperthermia.
Experienced drug takers and clinicians report that cocaine causes panic attacks. This claim is supported by laboratory evidence on the pharmacologic activity of the drug. In this paper, the authors have used an epidemiologic strategy to examine the suspected cocaine-panic association, with interview data from 5,896 adult household residents sampled in the early 1980s and followed prospectively for a collaborative multisite study of mental disorders in five US metropolitan areas: New Haven, Connecticut; Baltimore, Maryland; St. Louis, Missouri; Durham, North Carolina; and Los Angeles, California. The risk of panic attacks was observed to be greater for identified cocaine users in this sample, as compared with subjects who did not use cocaine during the follow-up interval. The cocaine-panic association remained strong after statistical adjustment for preexisting psychiatric conditions, use of alcohol and marijuana, and suspected sociodemographic risk factors for panic attacks. The risk was greatest among cocaine users who reported no marijuana use during the follow-up interval (estimated relative risk = 13.0, 95% confidence interval: 2.24-75.8). The study also identified other determinants for panic attack, including sex, marital status, employment status, job prestige, major depression, and heavy drinking.
In a 52-year-old patient with Bartter's syndrome, peripheral venous prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and plasma renin activity (PRA) levels were markedly elevated and plasma aldosterone concentration (pa) was at the upper limit of normal, though inappropriately high relative to the decreased plasma and whole body potassium levels. Blood pressure, plasma volume, exchangeable body sodium, plasma cortisol and urinary catecholamines were normal. Renal venous PGE2 was two to three times higher than peripheral PGE2. Indomethacin (300 mg/day) decreased peripheral PGE2 by 50%, PRA by 84% and PA by 72%, induced a positive potassium balance (greater than 350 mEq) with normal plasma potassium levels, and returned the previously marked resistance to the pressor effect of angiotensin II to normal. During the entire study, highly significant correlations (p less than 0.001) between peripheral PGE2 and PRA (r = 0.86) or PA (r = 0.90) were found. In this patient the hyperreninemia was not related to volume depletion. These data indicate that in Bartter's syndrome renal PGE2 secretion may be increased, systemic blood levels of PGE2 may be elevated and closely related to PRA, and indomethacin ameliorates these abnormalities and improves potassium balance. These results are consistent with the ascription of an important role to excessive renal PGE2 secretion in the pathogenesis of Bartter's syndrome.
Methotrexate is a well recognised cause of diffuse symmetrical leucoencephalopathy. The widespread use of the drug in chemotherapeutic regimes necessitates awareness of this complication. A case report and a brief literature review is presented.
This article reports the first single-blind study using psychotropic analgesic nitrous oxide (PAN) for treating acute withdrawal states following cocaine abuse. Thirty-one of the 33 cases responded by a reduction of symptom scores of 50% or more, which clinical experience has shown to be synonymous with observed recovery. Five subjects were placebo responders without further improvement following PAN. Eleven subjects were not improved by placebo but responded positively to PAN. Fifteen responded to both the O2 with a further improvement following PAN. Aggregate scores of symptoms such as craving, anxiety, and dysphoria were greatly decreased by O2. These improvements were even greater following PAN as compared to post O2 scores. Two patients failed to respond to any treatment condition. Thus 93.9% of the subjects were improved by the use of PAN and/or O2 alone.
Previous experiments in this laboratory have shown that microinjection of methyldopa onto the ventrolateral cells of the B3 serotonin neurons in the medulla elicits a hypotensive response mediated by a projection descending into the spinal cord. The present experiments were designed to investigate the role of the midline cells of the B3 serotonin neurons in the medulla, coinciding with the raphe magnus. In spontaneously hypertensive, stroke-prone rats, microinjection of methyldopa into the area of the midline B3 serotonin cell group in the ventral medulla caused a potent hypotension of 30-40 mm Hg, which was maximal 2-3 h after administration and was abolished by the serotonin neurotoxin 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT) injected intracerebroventricularly. However, intraspinal injection of 5,7-DHT to produce a more selective lesion of only descending serotonin projections in the spinal cord did not affect this hypotension. Further, 5,7-DHT lesion of serotonin nerves travelling in the median forebrain bundle, one of the main ascending pathways from the B3 serotonin cells, did not affect the fall in blood pressure associated with a midline B3 serotonin methyldopa injection. It is concluded therefore that, unlike the ventrolateral B3 cells which mediate a methyldopa-induced hypotension via descending projections, the midline serotonin B3 cells in the medulla contribute to the hypotensive action of methyldopa, either by way of an ascending projection which does not pass through the median forebrain bundle, or through a projection restricted to the caudal brainstem.
It has been shown that the induction rates of common and reversed common atrial flutter are comparable during baseline control study, whereas the rate is significantly greater for common flutter than reversed common flutter during administration of antiarrhythmic agents. The mechanism of this discrepancy is not known.
The study consisted of 15 patients (group 1) with clinically documented common atrial flutter either with (n = 10) or without (n = 5) Class I antiarrhythmic therapy, and 15 patients with paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (group 2). Bidirectional conduction velocity and minimal pacing cycle length of 1:1 conduction during incremental pacing from both the low lateral right atrium and coronary sinus were assessed. The response of these variables to procainamide was analyzed in correlation with the induction rate of each type of flutter during the pacing protocol. Conduction velocity in the clockwise (CW) direction was significantly slower for all pacing cycle lengths than conduction velocity in the counterclockwise (CCW) direction in group 1 but was similar in group 2. Minimal pacing cycle length of 1:1 conduction did not differ between CW and CCW conduction in either group. However, in group 1, minimal pacing cycle length of 1:1 conduction of CW conduction was prolonged to a greater degree after procainamide than that of CCW conduction. There also was a significant increase in the induction rate of common flutter. This preferential effect of procainamide on CW conduction was not observed in group 2.
CW conduction over the isthmus is preferentially influenced by procainamide compared with CCW conduction, which may explain the greater incidence and induction probability of common flutter during antiarrhythmic therapy.
To determine the cost-effectiveness of pharmacokinetic dosage adjustment of vancomycin to prevent nephrotoxicity. An analysis was performed for subpopulations of patients receiving nephrotoxic agents (aminoglycosides, amphotericin, and acyclovir), those in the intensive care unit, and those on the oncology service.
Decision analysis was used to model the cost-effectiveness of pharmacokinetic dosage adjustment of vancomycin. The reference case was determined, in part, by a retrospective review of 200 patients randomly selected from our clinical pharmacology consultation service. Patients were aged 18 years or older and had received intravenous vancomycin for at least 48 hours, with at least two--one peak and one trough--vancomycin serum concentrations obtained during therapy. Results of published clinical trials were used to determine the probability of vancomycin-induced nephrotoxicity.
The mean cost of treating nephrotoxicity was 11,233 dollars at our institution. The mean cost for all patients was 25,166 dollars (sensitivity analysis 15,000-27,500 dollars)/nephrotoxic episode prevented. The subgroup analysis revealed a cost of 8,363 dollars (sensitivity analysis 4,368-10,500 dollars)/nephrotoxic episode prevented in intensive care patients, 5,000 dollars (sensitivity analysis 1,687-13,250 dollars ) in oncology patients, and a dominant strategy showing a cost savings of 5,564 dollars (sensitivity analysis 2,724-12,428 dollars) in those receiving concomitant nephrotoxins.
Although pharmacokinetic monitoring and dosage adjustment are effective methods for reducing the toxicity of many drugs, controversy exists regarding the necessity of such monitoring with vancomycin. Evaluation by decision analysis over a range of assumptions, varying probabilities, and costs reveals that pharmacokinetic monitoring and vancomycin dosage adjustment to prevent nephrotoxicity are not cost-effective for all patients. However, such dosage adjustment demonstrates cost-effectiveness for patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxins, intensive care patients, and probably oncology patients.
In a double-blind study, 49 geriatric patients suffering from primary major depression were treated with maprotiline or doxepin. Efficacy and safety were assessed by the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale and the Zung Self-Rating Depression and Anxiety scales, side effects profile, routine laboratory tests, and measurements of blood levels. Although marked improvement was obtained with both antidepressants, patients on maprotiline showed statistically greater improvement than those on doxepin. No significant differences were detected between the two drugs with respect to side effects. A significant positive correlation was obtained between dosage and blood levels of maprotiline and doxepin, but there was no correlation between blood levels and clinical response. Overall, results suggest that maprotiline may be superior to doxepin in the treatment of geriatric depression.
This case report concerns a 29-year-old caucasian woman who developed cholestatic jaundice while taking Ortho-Novum 2 mg. Biliary stasis was diagnosed from laboratory tests and gradually subsided when the medication was withdrawn. The condition was found to be reproducible when Ortho-Novum 2 mg. was given again. The patient was later given C-Quens with no return of symptoms which indicated norethindrone was the cholestatic agent.
Both heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) and p21(WAF1/Cip1) (p21) are involved in the pathogenesis of human cancer and their functions are closely associated with apoptosis. However, how these two molecules regulate apoptosis in human gastric cancer is unknown. In this study, we studied how HO-1 and p21 were regulated in two gastric cancer cell lines, MKN-45 with wild p53 and MKN-28 with mutant p53. The cells were treated with hemin and cadmium to induce HO-1. The result showed that HO-1 protein was significantly induced by hemin and cadmium in both cells tested. Following the HO-1 expression, p21 level was also markedly induced. The cells with increased HO-1 and p21 showed obviously resistantance to apoptotic stimuli. The levels of HO-1 and p21 induced were significantly inhibited by p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38 MAPK) inhibitor (SB203580) and extracellular-regulated kinase (ERK) inhibitor (PD098059). Parallel to decreased HO-1 and p21 expression, the kinase inhibitors also significantly attenuated the resistance of the cells to apoptosis. The elevated HO-1 and p21 was further found to be associated with increase activity of the nuclear NF-kappaB and the inhibition of NF-kappaB led to the block of their induction. The elevated HO-1 and p21 were also demonstrated to be related to increased cellular inhibitor of caspase inbitory protein-2 (c-IAP2) and decreased caspapse-3 activity. It was noted that the above changes observed were not different between MKN-45 and MKN-28 cells, suggesting the functions of HO-1 and p21 were irrespective of the status of p53. In conclusion, we demonstrate that the resistance to apoptosis in gastric cancer cells with elevated HO-1 and p21 is independent of p53 status in a p38 MAPK- and ERK-mediated pathway with elevated c-IAP2 and decreased caspase-3 activity and that this pathway is sensitive to the inhibition of NF-kappaB.
Hemolytic anemia is a serious adverse effect of therapeutic drugs that is caused by increased destruction of drug-damaged erythrocytes by macrophages in the spleen and liver. We previously applied a toxicogenomic approach to the toxicity by analyzing microarray data of the liver of rats dosed with two hemolytic agents: phenylhydrazine and phenacetin. In the present study, we analyzed gene expression profiles in the spleen, the primary organ for destruction of damaged erythrocytes, of the same models in order to identify splenic gene expression alterations that could be used to predict the hematotoxicity. Microarray analyses revealed hundreds of genes commonly deregulated under all severe hemolytic conditions, which included genes related to splenic events characteristic of the hematotoxicity, such as proteolysis and iron metabolism. Eleven upregulated genes were selected as biomarker candidates, and their expression changes were validated by quantitative real-time PCR. The transcript levels of most of these genes showed strong correlation with the results of classical toxicological assays (e.g., histopathology and hematology). Furthermore, hierarchical clustering analysis suggested that altered expression patterns of the 11 genes sensitively reflected the erythrocyte damage even under a condition that caused no decrease in erythrocyte counts. Among the selected genes, heme oxygenase 1 was one of the most promising biomarker candidates, the upregulation of which on the protein level was confirmed by immunohistochemistry. These results indicate that altered splenic expression of a subset of genes may allow detection of drug-induced hemolytic anemia, with better sensitivity than that of erythrocyte counts in the blood.
Exposure to a nontoxic dose of bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) increases the hepatotoxicity of the histamine-2 (H2) receptor antagonist, ranitidine (RAN). Because some of the pathophysiologic effects associated with LPS are mediated through the expression and release of inflammatory mediators such as tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF), this study was designed to gain insights into the role of TNF in LPS/RAN hepatotoxicity. To determine whether RAN affects LPS-induced TNF release at a time near the onset of liver injury, male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with 2.5 x 10(6) endotoxin units (EU)/kg LPS or its saline vehicle (iv) and 2 h later with either 30 mg/kg RAN or sterile phosphate-buffered saline vehicle (iv). LPS administration caused an increase in circulating TNF concentration. RAN cotreatment enhanced the LPS-induced TNF increase before the onset of hepatocellular injury, an effect that was not produced by famotidine, a H2-receptor antagonist without idiosyncrasy liability. Similar effects were observed for serum interleukin (IL)-1beta, IL-6, and IL-10. To determine if TNF plays a causal role in LPS/RAN-induced hepatotoxicity, rats were given either pentoxifylline (PTX; 100 mg/kg, iv) to inhibit the synthesis of TNF or etanercept (Etan; 8 mg/kg, sc) to impede the ability of TNF to reach cellular receptors, and then they were treated with LPS and RAN. Hepatocellular injury, the release of inflammatory mediators, hepatic neutrophil (PMN) accumulation, and biomarkers of coagulation and fibrinolysis were assessed. Pretreatment with either PTX or Etan resulted in the attenuation of liver injury and diminished circulating concentrations of TNF, IL-1beta, IL-6, macrophage inflammatory protein-2, and coagulation/fibrinolysis biomarkers in LPS/RAN-cotreated animals. Neither PTX nor Etan pretreatments altered hepatic PMN accumulation. These results suggest that TNF contributes to LPS/RAN-induced liver injury by enhancing inflammatory cytokine production and hemostasis.
A fifty-year-old woman with developmental dysplasia of the hip underwent total hip arhtroplasty, and subsequently developed recurrent venous thrombophilia of the lower extremities. Hematological examination revealed an inherited disorder of blood coagulation (homozygous mutation of the 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase gene) and therefore longterm Warfarin anticoagulation therapy was started. A year later she was diagnosed with a large pelvic posthemorrhagic pseudocyst (hematoma) located below the musculus iliacus and adhering to bone in the region of posterior acetabulum. The condition was complicated by usuration and focal osteolysis of the adjacent pelvic bone. Histological examination of the hematoma showed characteristics of an unusual pseudoxanthoma mimicking Erdheim-Chester disease. The differential diagnosis of histological findings is discussed and recent relevant literature is reviewed.
In monoamine oxidase-inhibited dogs whose peripheral dopa decarboxylase was inhibited with MK-486, L-dopa (K mg/kg i.v.) caused significant hypotension and bradycardia. In addition, reflex bradycardia but not pressor responses to norepinephrine were markedly enhanced by the drug. Similar results were obtained after intracerebroventricular administration of L-dopa (0.5 mg/kg) in monoamine oxidase-inhibited dogs not receiving MK-486. Proparnolol prevented the bradycardia caused by L-dopa but was without effect on the reflex facilitation. Both atropine and phentolamine had no effect on L-dopa bradycardia but prevented the facilitatory effect on reflexes. Inhibition of both peripheral and central dopa decarboxylase with Ro 4-4602 prevented all the effects of L-dopa. Infusions of dopamine which had obvious cardiovascular effects had no effect on reflex responses to norepinephrine. It is concluded that L-dopa, after decarboxylation, causes a centrally mediated enhancement of reflex vagal bradycardia. Pharmacological analysis of this enhancement suggests that this effect appears to be a result of central alpha receptor stimulation.
Dyskinesia affects the majority of levodopa-treated parkinsonian patients within 5-10 years of treatment with levodopa. Clinical and preclinical observations suggest that an increase in serotoninergic transmission can contribute to the appearance of dyskinesias. It is thus conceivable that a modulation of synaptic dopamine (DA) levels induced by the inhibition of serotonin (5-HT) release, as a consequence of 5-HT(1A) agonists administration, might alleviate dyskinesias.
Since 5-HT(1A) receptors are expressed in the subthalamic nucleus (STN), the aim of the present study was to assess the effect of the intrasubthalamic administration of sarizotan, a compound with full 5-HT(1A) agonist properties, on levodopa-induced dyskinesias in the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) model of parkinsonism.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats received a unilateral 6-OHDA administration in the nigrostriatal pathway. A test of apomorphine was performed to evaluate dopamine depletion. One week later, a cannula was implanted in the STN. Animals were treated with levodopa (6 mg/kg, i.p., twice at day) for 22 consecutive days. On day 23, several doses (1 ng, 10 ng, or 1 microg) of sarizotan were administered through the cannula to the STN. The higher doses of sarizotan effectively attenuated all levodopa-induced dyskinesias including axial, limb, and orolingual subtypes.
These results suggest that the STN is a target structure for the antidyskinetic action of sarizotan and indicate that drug-mediated modulation of STN activity may be an alternative option for the treatment of levodopa-induced dyskinesias in Parkinson's disease.
To evaluate the potential role of endogenous zinc in the pathophysiology of epilepsy, we injected kainic acid into the medial septum, which evokes seizure activity and delayed hippocampal degeneration. Different approaches were used. In the hippocampus, we found a movement of zinc from the synaptic compartment to CA1 pyramidal neurons and astrocytes after kainate. The same was true in the amygdala. We found that in those areas showing intense zinc bleaching there was also a loss of reactive astrocytes, which supports the view that release of synaptic zinc induces astrocytic cell death. We have also tested whether the kainate-induced zinc movement from the synaptic compartment to neuronal or glial cells alters the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and its high-affinity receptor, trkB. There was a prominent loss of expression of trkB mRNA in areas that coincided precisely with those displaying astrocyte loss and zinc bleaching. In the amygdala, these events were accompanied by a high upregulation of BDNF mRNA. To demonstrate further a role of synaptic zinc in hippocampal pathology, we used two different approaches. We first injected different doses of zinc chloride in the CA1 area. At lower doses (0.1-10 nmol), zinc chloride selectively induced apoptosis in CA1 pyramidal neurons and dentate granular neurons. In a second approach, we found that hippocampal zinc chelation was effective in protecting CA1 pyramidal neurons against kainate-induced cell death.
To study the anti-fibrogenic mechanisms of S-adenosylmethionine (AdoMet), transgenic mice harboring the -17 kb to +54 bp of the collagen alpha2 (I) promoter (COL1A2) cloned upstream from the beta-gal reporter gene were injected with carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) to induce fibrosis and coadministered either AdoMet or saline. Control groups received AdoMet or mineral oil. AdoMet lowered the pathology in CCl4-treated mice as shown by transaminase levels, hematoxylin and eosin, Masson's trichrome staining, and collagen I expression. beta-Galactosidase activity indicated activation of the COL1A2 promoter in stellate cells from CCl4-treated mice and repression of such activation by AdoMet. Lipid peroxidation, transforming growth factor-beta (TGFbeta) expression, and decreases in glutathione levels were prevented by AdoMet. Incubation of primary stellate cells with AdoMet down-regulated basal and TGFbeta-induced collagen I and alpha-smooth muscle actin proteins. AdoMet metabolites down-regulated collagen I protein and mRNA levels. AdoMet repressed basal and TGFbeta-induced reporter activity in stellate cells transfected with COL1A2 promoter deletion constructs. AdoMet blocked TGFbeta induction of the -378 bp region of the COL1A2 promoter and prevented the phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 and the binding of Sp1 to the TGFbeta-responsive element. These observations unveil a novel mechanism by which AdoMet could ameliorate liver fibrosis.
The 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) play a prominent role in the treatment of dyslipidemia. Overall, statins are well tolerated, with a low occurrence of adverse effects. More serious reactions to statins have been reported, although they are rare (e.g., rhabdomyolysis 0.3-13.5 cases/million statin prescriptions). Combination therapy to treat dyslipidemia has become common in many patients; however, it can also increase the risk of serious adverse effects. We report the case of a patient who experienced muscle pain and elevated creatine kinase levels 16 days after the addition of ezetimibe to his atorvastatin therapy for hypercholesterolemia. Twelve days after stopping the ezetimibe, his muscle pain resolved and his serum creatine kinase level returned to baseline. This case report raises questions regarding the safety of high-dose atorvastatin and ezetimibe combination therapy and suggests that caution and careful monitoring may be warranted.
Oligodendroglial differentiation in gliomas is associated with enhanced sensitivity to chemotherapy. Antiapoptotic proteins, Bcl-xL and Bcl-2, are over-expressed in early passage cell lines derived from glioblastomas. Down-regulation of Bcl-xL and Bcl-2 with DNA antisense oligonucleotides promotes cell death in glioblastoma cells. Changes of expression of Bcl-xL and Bcl-2 after chemotherapy treatment have not been studied in glioma subtypes. The current experiments correlate decreased expression of both Bcl-xL and Bcl-2 after BCNU chemotherapy and cell death in two oligodendroglioma-derived cell lines. Expression of Bcl-2 family member proteins Bcl-xL, Bcl-2, and Bax were assessed in glioma cells both before and after chemotherapy treatment. Cell survival was assessed with a crystal violet bioassay. Levels of expression of Bcl-2 and Bcl-xL were elevated in two early passage oligodendroglioma-derived cell lines compared with a non-neoplastic glial cell line. BCNU chemotherapy markedly down-regulated expression of Bcl-xL and Bcl-2 proteins in both oligodendroglioma-derived cell lines. Changes in expression of Bcl-xL and Bcl-2 were associated with the increased sensitivity to chemotherapy. There were no changes noted in expression of Bax after BCNU treatment. Modulation of expression of the anti-apoptotic proteins, Bcl-xL and Bcl-2, in the two oligodendroglioma-derived cell lines was associated with increased sensitivity to BCNU chemotherapy. Down-regulation of Bcl-xL and Bcl-2 resulted in reversal of the ratio of Bax/Bcl-xL and Bax/Bcl-2 and enhanced cell death after treatment with BCNU. Mechanisms that control expression of the anti-apoptotic proteins Bcl-xL and/or Bcl-2 may be effective targets in treatment strategies in patients with malignant gliomas.
This paper reported that 40 schizophrenic patients treated with metoclopramide and haloperidol respectively with double blind observation. Dosage of these two drugs were 450 = 133 mg and 32 +/- 9.2 mg everyday respectively. The effect of metoclopramide were that: 67.5% (27/40) of patients had marked improvement and 85% (34/40) improvement. And the effect of haloperidol were 65% (26/40) and 80% (32/40) respectively. Both of these two drugs had no significant difference. Their main side effect was extrapyramidal reaction, and metoclopramide was milder in this. Detecting serum prolactin before and after treatment in 6 cases of metoclopramide therapy and 5 cases of haloperidol therapy. The ratio of serum levels of prolactin before and after treatment was 3.58 and 4.86 in both drugs therapy respectively.
Mice were given a drug per os and 2 h later were challenged with an intravenous LD95 of nicotine. Amitriptyline, imipramine, doxepin, meprobamate, chlordiazepoxide, diazepam, trifluoroperazine, haloperidol, thioridazine, chlorpromazine, phenobarbital, propranolol and diphenylhydantoin were all active in protecting mice from extensor convulsions and lethality. Iproniazid, tranylcypromine, atropine, benztropine and trimethadione were inactive. There appears to be a relationship between blockage of nicotine-induced extensor convulsions and lethality in mice and sedative-antianxiety effects in man. This relationship is especially good for drugs designated antidepressant, antianxiety and antipsychotic.
The constitutive activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) is frequently detected in most types of human cancer where it plays important roles in survival, drug resistance, angiogenesis, and other functions. Targeting constitutive STAT3 signaling is thus an attractive therapeutic approach for these cancers. We have recently developed novel small-molecule STAT3 inhibitors, known as FLLL31 and FLLL32, which are derived from curcumin (the primary bioactive compound of turmeric). These compounds are designed to bind selectively to Janus kinase 2 and the STAT3 Src homology-2 domain, which serve crucial roles in STAT3 dimerization and signal transduction. Here we show that FLLL31 and FLLL32 are effective inhibitors of STAT3 phosphorylation, DNA-binding activity, and transactivation in vitro, leading to the impediment of multiple oncogenic processes and the induction of apoptosis in pancreatic and breast cancer cell lines. FLLL31 and FLLL32 also inhibit colony formation in soft agar and cell invasion and exhibit synergy with the anticancer drug doxorubicin against breast cancer cells. In addition, we show that FLLL32 can inhibit the induction of STAT3 phosphorylation by IFNalpha and interleukin-6 in breast cancer cells. We also show that administration of FLLL32 can inhibit tumor growth and vascularity in chicken embryo xenografts as well as substantially reduce tumor volumes in mouse xenografts. Our findings highlight the potential of these new compounds and their efficacy in targeting pancreatic and breast cancers that exhibit constitutive STAT3 signaling.
Schnitzler's syndrome is an inflammatory disorder characterised by chronic urticarial rash and monoclonal gammopathy, accompanied by periodic fever, arthralgia or arthritis, and bone pain. The cause and treatment are still unknown.
To assess treatment with thalidomide and an interleukin 1 receptor antagonist, anakinra, in Schnitzler's syndrome.
Three patients with Schnitzler's syndrome are described, one with IgM gammopathy, two with IgG type. In one patient, thalidomide induced complete remission, but was stopped because of polyneuropathy. Anakinra 100 mg daily in all three patients led to disappearance of fever and skin lesions within 24 hours. After a follow up of 6-18 months, all patients are free of symptoms.
Anakinra proved to be effective in three patients with Schnitzler's syndrome. This treatment is preferable to thalidomide, which induced a complete remission in one of our patients, as it has fewer side effects.
Docetaxel, a new semisynthetic taxoid that has demonstrated promising activity as an antineoplastic agent, was administered in combination with cisplatin to 63 patients in a dose-escalating study. As both drugs were known to be potentially neurotoxic, peripheral neurotoxicity was prospectively assessed in detail. Neuropathy was evaluated by clinical sum-score for signs and symptoms and by measurement of the vibration perception threshold (VPT). The severity of neuropathy was graded according to the National Cancer Institute's 'Common Toxicity Criteria'. The docetaxel-cisplatin combination chemotherapy induced a predominantly sensory neuropathy in 29 (53%) out of 55 evaluable patients. At cumulative doses of both cisplatin and docetaxel above 200 mg m(-2), 26 (74%) out of 35 patients developed a neuropathy which was mild in 15, moderate in ten and severe in one patient. Significant correlations were present between both the cumulative dose of docetaxel and cisplatin and the post-treatment sum-score of neuropathy (P < 0.01) as well as the post-treatment VPT (P < 0.01). The neurotoxic effects of this combination were more severe than either cisplatin or docetaxel as single agent at similar doses.
The aim of this study was to determine whether oral sustained release d-amphetamine (SR-AMP) reduces cocaine and opioid/cocaine combination ('speedball'-like) seeking in volunteers with current opioid dependence and cocaine dependence. Following outpatient buprenorphine (BUP) 8 mg/day stabilization without SR-AMP, eight participants completed a 3-week in-patient study with continued BUP 8 mg/day maintenance and double-blind ascending SR-AMP weekly doses of 0, 30, and 60 mg/day, respectively. After 3 days (Saturday-Monday) stabilization at each SR-AMP weekly dose (0, 15, or 30 mg administered at 0700 and 1225 each day), on Tuesday-Friday mornings (0900-1200 hours), participants sampled four drug combinations in randomized, counterbalanced order under double-blind, double-dummy (intranasal cocaine and intramuscular hydromorphone) conditions: cocaine (COC 100 mg+saline); hydromorphone (COC 4 mg+HYD 24 mg); 'speedball' (COC 100 mg+HYD 24 mg); and placebo (COC 4 mg+saline). Subjective and physiological effects of these drug combinations were measured. From 1230 to 1530 hours, participants could respond on a choice, 12-trial progressive ratio schedule to earn drug units (1/12th of total morning dose) or money units (US$2). SR-AMP significantly reduced COC, but not HYD or speedball, choices and breakpoints. SR-AMP also significantly reduced COC subjective (eg, abuse-related) effects and did not potentiate COC-induced cardiovascular responses. This study shows the ability of SR-AMP to attenuate COC self-administration, as well as its selectivity, in cocaine/heroin polydrug abusers. Further research is warranted to ascertain whether SR-AMP combined with BUP could be a useful dual-agonist pharmacotherapy.
