To assess the antihypertensive and antiproteinuric efficacy and safety of the angiotensin II type 1 receptor blocker telmisartan in patients with hypertension and chronic kidney disease.
A multicenter, prospective trial was performed in adults with hypertension [systolic blood pressure (SBP)/diastolic blood pressure (DBP) >130/85 mmHg), chronic renal insufficiency (serum creatinine <4.0 mg/dl), and proteinuria (>1 g/24 h). In addition to existing antihypertensive therapy, the nature and doses of which remained unchanged throughout the study, patients received once-daily telmisartan 40 mg for the first 3 months followed by forced titration to telmisartan 80 mg for the subsequent 3 months to achieve a target SBP/DBP of <130/85 mmHg. The rationale for using telmisartan was its long half-life efficacy, greater antihypertensive effect compared with valsartan or losartan, and newly discovered potential antidiabetic effect.
The study was conducted in 92 patients (45 men, 47 women), of whom 60 had diabetes mellitus (54 patients with type 2 disease). Five patients discontinued prematurely: two because of hyperkalemia, two because of protocol violation, and one because of lack of efficacy. After 6 months' telmisartan treatment, office trough seated SBP was reduced by 19.6 mmHg (P<0.001) from 154.9+/-14.6 mmHg and DBP by 11.8 mmHg (P<0.001) from 91.7+/-8.1 mmHg. Seated trough SBP/DBP of <130/85 mmHg was achieved at 6 months in 34.8% of patients. Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring also demonstrated significant reductions in mean daytime SBP of 10.9 mmHg (P=0.01), night-time SBP of 12.1 mmHg (P=0.05), daytime DBP of 3.1 mmHg (P=0.05), and night-time DBP of 6.5 mmHg (P=0.05). Proteinuria decreased significantly from 3.6+/-3.4 to 2.8+/-2.8 g/24 h (P=0.01). A decrease in proteinuria depended significantly on a decrease in SBP at the end of the study (P=0.044). Each decrease in SBP of about 10 mmHg led to a decrease in proteinuria of about 0.79 g/24 h (95% CI 0.02-1.56 g/24 h). Serum creatinine increased from 1.96+/-0.79 to 2.08+/-0.89 mg/dl (P=0.01), whereas creatinine clearance did not change significantly.
Telmisartan effectively and safely reduced blood pressure and brought about regression of proteinuria in diabetic and nondiabetic, hypertensive, proteinuric patients with chronic kidney disease, even in those with mild-to-moderate chronic renal failure.
A 78 year old woman developed non-fatal pure red cell aplasia after taking Indomethacin for a long period. We gave the patient red cell transfusions and treated her with Methylprednisolon. Approximately 3 months after discontinuation of Indomethacin the patient felt well and blood picture was normal.
There is an ongoing debate as to whether propofol exhibits pro- or anticonvulsant effects, and whether it should be used in patients with epilepsy. We prospectively assessed the occurrence of seizure-like phenomena and the effects of intravenous propofol on the electroencephalogram (EEG) in 25 children with epilepsy (mean (SD) age: 101 (49) months) and 25 children with learning difficulties (mean (SD) age: 52 (40) months) undergoing elective sedation for MRI studies of the brain. No child demonstrated seizure-like phenomena of epileptic origin during and after propofol sedation. Immediately after stopping propofol, characteristic EEG changes in the epilepsy group consisted of increased beta wave activity (23/25 children), and suppression of pre-existing theta rhythms (11/16 children). In addition, 16 of 18 children with epilepsy and documented EEG seizure activity demonstrated suppression of spike-wave patterns after propofol sedation. In all 25 children with learning difficulties an increase in beta wave activity was seen. Suppression of theta rhythms occurred in 11 of 12 children at the end of the MRI study. In no child of either group was a primary occurrence or an increase in spike-wave patterns seen following propofol administration. The occurrence of beta wave activity (children with learning difficulties and epilepsy group) and suppression of spike-wave patterns (epilepsy group) were transient, and disappeared after 4 h. This study demonstrates characteristic, time-dependent EEG patterns induced by propofol in children with epilepsy and learning difficulties. Our data support the concept of propofol being a sedative-hypnotic agent with anticonvulsant properties as shown by depression of spike-wave patterns in children with epilepsy and by the absence of seizure-like phenomena of epileptic origin.
Several reports have associated tamoxifen administration with endometrial carcinoma. A retrospective study of the histologic features of uterine cancer in patients with a history of breast carcinoma was undertaken to determine the effect of treatment with tamoxifen.
A computer search of the Yale-New Haven Hospital Tumor Registry from 1980 to 1990 identified 53 patients with a history of breast carcinoma who subsequently developed a malignant tumor of the uterine corpus.
Fifteen patients received tamoxifen for breast carcinoma and 38 did not. The mean ages of the two groups were not significantly different. The mean interval between detection of breast and endometrial cancers was 5 years in the tamoxifen group and 12 years in the nontreated group (P = .0023). Sixty-seven percent of patients in the tamoxifen group had poorly differentiated endometrioid carcinomas (including adenosquamous carcinoma) or carcinomas associated with poor outcome (eg, uterine papillary serous carcinoma, clear-cell carcinoma, or mixed müllerian tumor), as compared with 24% in the nontreated group (P = .03). Patients in the tamoxifen group were much more likely to die of endometrial cancer (33.3% v 2.6% of the nontreated group, P = .005).
From this retrospective study, it appears that women receiving tamoxifen as treatment for breast cancer who subsequently develop uterine cancer are at risk for high-grade endometrial cancers that have a poor prognosis. These findings also indicate that tamoxifen-associated uterine cancers may have a different basis from those associated with steroidal estrogen treatment.
Muscle rigidity frequently accompanies induction of anesthesia with opioids. The authors sought to determine whether unconsciousness and amnesia occur when humans develop rigidity and apnea after intravenous fentanyl (without other concomitant anesthetics).
The incidence and duration of rigidity and level of consciousness were evaluated and associated plasma concentrations of fentanyl were measured in 12 healthy adult male volunteers given only intravenous fentanyl. Fentanyl was infused at a rate of 150 micrograms/min until a total of 15 micrograms/kg had been administered. Arterial blood samples for fentanyl assay were drawn and responsiveness, heart rate (HR), and systolic and diastolic arterial blood pressures were determined at frequent intervals during and after infusion. If rigidity was accompanied by an Spo2 < 90%, positive pressure ventilation with 100% O2 with a mask was instituted until spontaneous ventilation resumed.
The incidence of muscular rigidity was 50% (6/12). All subjects who developed rigidity were apneic, unresponsive, and had no recall of commands to breathe or of positive pressure ventilation. Subjects not developing rigidity remained awake and responsive. No subject developing rigidity required neuromuscular blockade to allow positive pressure ventilation and adequate oxygenation (Spo2 > 90%). When rigidity occurred, it started 3 +/- 0.9 (range 1-4) min after the peak plasma fentanyl concentration and lasted for 11.5 +/- 5.8 (range 7-23) min. Rigidity started at a plasma fentanyl concentration of 21.5 +/- 4.4 (range 16-28) ng/ml and ended at 6.9 +/- 1.5 (range 5.2-8.7) ng/ml. Baseline HR was less in the subjects who subsequently developed rigidity (56.7 +/- 7.8 vs. 67.2 +/- 7.8 P = 0.04). No differences in fentanyl plasma concentrations or predicted effect site concentrations for rigidity were detected between subjects who developed rigidity and those who did not.
These findings support the hypothesis that unconsciousness occurs in the unstimulated subject during fentanyl-induced apnea and rigidity.
Arsenic is an environmental toxicant and a human carcinogen. Epidemiology studies link human arsenic exposure to various diseases and cancers, including liver diseases and hepatocellular carcinoma. However, the molecular mechanisms for arsenic toxicity and carcinogenicity are poorly understood. To better understand these mechanisms, we used the human cancer cDNA expression array to profile aberrant gene expression in arsenic-exposed populations in Guizhou, China. The selected patients had a history of exposure to environmental arsenic for at least 6-10 years, and had arsenic-induced skin lesions and hepatomegaly. Samples were obtained by liver needle biopsy. Histology showed degenerative liver lesions, such as chronic inflammation, vacuolation, and focal necrosis. The University of North Carolina Hospitals provided normal human liver tissues from surgical resection or rejected transplants. Microarray was performed with total RNA from liver samples, and signal intensities were analyzed with AtlasImage software and normalized with 9 housekeeping genes. Means and SEM were calculated for statistical analysis. Approximately 60 genes (10%) were differentially expressed in arsenic-exposed human livers compared to controls. The differentially expressed genes included those involved in cell-cycle regulation, apoptosis, DNA damage response, and intermediate filaments. The observed gene alterations appear to be reflective of hepatic degenerative lesions seen in the arsenic-exposed patients. This array analysis revealed important patterns of aberrant gene expression occurring with arsenic exposure in human livers. Aberrant expressions of several genes were consistent with the results of array analysis of chronic arsenic-exposed mouse livers and chronic arsenic-transformed rat liver cells. Clearly, a variety of gene expression changes may play an integral role in arsenic hepatotoxicity and possibly carcinogenesis.
Humans and animals are exposed daily to a complex mixture of polyhalogenated aromatic hydrocarbons (PHAHs). Previous work has shown that exposure to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is associated with a dose-dependent increase in the incidence and severity of endometriosis in the rhesus monkey. Dioxin-like chemicals can also exert effects in combination with TCDD via the aryl hydrocarbon receptor. This study demonstrates that the serum levels of TCDD and specific dioxin-like PHAH congeners were increased in TCDD-treated animals with endometriosis 13 years after the TCDD exposure. Nine TCDD-exposed and 6 unexposed female rhesus monkeys were evaluated for serum content of relevant compounds and for endometriosis by surgical laparoscopy. Additional studies were done on 4 animals that died 7 to 11 years after exposure to TCDD and 4 lead-treated animals with no history of PHAH treatment. For TCDD-exposed and unexposed animals, TCDD exposure correlated with an increased serum TCDD concentration. Furthermore, TCDD exposure and an elevated serum TCDD concentration were associated with increased serum levels of triglycerides, 1,2,3,6,7,8-hexachlorodibenzofuran, 3,3',4,4'-tetrachlorobiphenyl (TCB) and 3,3'4,4',5-pentachlorobiphenyl (PnCB). Importantly, the animals with elevated serum levels of 3,3',4,4'-TCB, 3,3',4,4',5-PnCB and an increased total serum TEQ had a high prevalence of endometriosis, and the severity of disease correlated with the serum concentration of 3,3,',4,4'-TCB. Increased serum concentrations of coplanar PCBs were also present in lead-treated animals. Implications of these findings for human health and the prevalence of endometriosis in humans will be discussed.
Two randomized trials were started in 1976 by the European Organization for Research on Treatment of Cancer urological group. Trial 30761 compared 1 mg. diethylstilbestrol orally 3 times daily to 250 mg. oral cyproterone acetate daily and to 500 mg. medroxyprogesterone acetate intramuscularly 3 times weekly for 8 weeks, then 200 mg. orally daily. Trial 30762 compared 3 mg. diethylstilbestrol to 560 mg. estramustine phosphate orally for 8 weeks and then 280 mg. daily. The 239 patients in study 30761 and 226 in study 30762 were evaluated for cardiovascular toxicity during treatment. Various types of side effects (fluid retention, hypertension, electrocardiographic changes, myocardial infarction and thromboembolic disease) and their degrees of severity were analyzed. In both studies the most frequent type of cardiovascular toxicity was represented by fluid retention. Cardiovascular toxicity as a whole was higher with diethylstilbestrol than with estramustine phosphate or medroxyprogesterone acetate therapy, and was the lowest with cyproterone acetate therapy. The risk of severe cardiovascular complications developing was the highest during the first 6 months of treatment. Increasing age, body weight greater than 75 kg. and, especially, the presence of previous cardiovascular disease represented adverse factors in the development of cardiovascular toxicity.
Exposure to stressors that elicit fear and feelings of hopelessness can cause severe vagal activation leading to bradycardia, syncope, and sudden death. These phenomena though documented, are difficult to diagnose, treat clinically, and prevent. Therefore, an animal model incorporating these cardiovascular conditions could be useful. The present study examined 'sinking' during a 2-h swim stress, a phenomenon that occurs in 50% of rats during 25 degrees C water exposure. Concurrent measurements of body temperature, immobility, heart rate (HR), and PR interval (a measure of vagal activity) were made. Neither decreases in immobility nor variations in hypothermia during swim were correlated with sinking. Bradycardia was more severe in sinking rats (average minimum HR+/-SEM; 143+/-13 vs 247+/-14; p<0.01), and PR interval was elevated (p<0.0001). To examine potential modulation of vagal activity during stress, corticotropin-relasing factor (CRF) receptor antagonists (antalarmin, R121919 and astressin B), a glucocorticoid receptor antagonist (RU486), and a peripherally acting cholinergic antagonist (methylatropine nitrate) were administered. The centrally acting CRF antagonist, antalarmin (32 mg/kg), produced elongation of the PR interval (p<0.0001), robust bradycardia (135+/-18; p<0.001), and increased sinking (92%; p<0.05), and methylatropine nitrate (3.2 mg/kg) blocked these effects. Corroborating these data, two different CRF antagonists, R121919 (30 mg/kg) and astressin B (intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.), 0.03 mug/rat) increased sinking to 100%. RU486 (20 mg/kg) blocked HPA axis negative feedback and decreased percent sinking to 25%. From these studies, we concluded that sinking during a 2-h water exposure was a result of extreme vagal hyperactivity. Furthermore, stress-induced CRF release may serve to protect against elevated cardiac vagal activity.
The cardiovascular effects of elgodipine were studied and compared with those of nifedipine in the presence or absence of ganglion blockade. A bolus of elgodipine (5-25 microg/kg) or nifedipine (60-120 microg/kg) was given and sequential cardiovascular effects in rats were recorded. Both dihydropyridines induced a dose-dependent decrease in mean arterial pressure but, whereas nifedipine induced reflex tachycardia, elgodipine induced a dose-dependent bradycardia. Both substances induced decreases in left ventricular d P/dt(max) without significant changes in central venous pressure. Good linear correlation was observed between the elgodipine-induced decrease in mean arterial pressure and those of heart rate and left ventricular dP/dt(max). The profile of the decrease in mean arterial pressure in animals pretreated with hexametonium chloride (20 mg/kg) was the same but the nifedipine-induced tachycardia was abolished without changes in elgodipine-induced bradycardia. These characteristics of elgodipine makes this dihydropyridine a potentially beneficial therapeutic agent in the case of severe hypertension accompanied by obstructive coronopathy.
Personal experience with slow venous drip salbutamol is reported. The VC, MEVS and FEP values showed that the drug possessed a good bronchodilatatory action, though the presence of side-effects meant that doses had to be restricted.
Contrary to rats of the highly sensitive inbred strain BDIX, BDIV rats are resistant to the induction of malignant schwannomas by N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea, arising predominantly in the trigeminal nerves. A point mutation of the neu/erbB-2 gene diagnostic of N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea-induced rat schwannomas is an early marker of Schwann precursor cells at high risk of subsequent malignant transformation. Neu-mutant cells initially arise at a similar frequency in sensitive and resistant animals. However, these cells disappear from the trigeminal nerves of resistant rats while giving rise to highly malignant schwannomas in susceptible animals. The resistance of BDIV rats obviously includes mechanisms to recognize and eliminate premalignant cells. The involvement of a cellular immune response was investigated in trigeminal nerves of both strains at different times after neonatal carcinogen exposure. An inflammatory reaction involving sequentially CD4(+) macrophages and T helper cells, CD8(+) cytotoxic T cells, and ED1(+) and ED2(+) macrophages was detected as a consequence of N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea treatment as early as postnatal day 40, briefly after the emergence of premalignant neu-mutant Schwann cells. It persisted throughout the observation period (40-250 days). However, there were no gross differences in immune cell counts between tumor-susceptible and tumor-resistant rats, except for a moderate increase of ED2(+) macrophages in N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea-treated BDIX rats only. Differential interactions of immune effector cells with premalignant Schwann cells may thus be involved in genetically determined tumor susceptibility or resistance, which could include functional differences of immune effector cells and/or a differential capability of premalignant Schwann cells to escape or counteract the cellular immune response.
We present a 67-year-old right-handed male with a brachium pontis arteriovenous malformation on continuous anti-emetic therapy who demonstrated acute withdrawal symptoms after the abrupt discontinuation of ondansetron, a 5-HT(3) receptor antagonist. Removal of anti-emetic therapy led to the development of extreme flushing and tremor, but subsequent return of ondansetron resulted in the resolution of these symptoms. This is the first clinical report demonstrating acute withdrawal from an anti-emetic agent and we further highlight the need for future studies evaluating not only arterial supply with pressure gradients and anatomical location, but also the association with periventricular venous drainage, venous drainage stenosis, and mass effect from venous stasis as this may contribute partly to the sensitivity of the serotonergic receptors seen here.
The role of probiotics in the treatment of diverticulitis is still not known. The aim of our study was to investigate whether balsalazide and/or VSL#3 is effective in preventing diverticulitis recurrence.
In this pilot study, 30 consecutive patients (19 males, 11 females, mean age 60.1 years, range 47-75 years) affected by uncomplicated diverticulitis of the colon were monitored. After obtaining remission, the patients were randomly assigned to one of the following groups as follows: group A, balsalazide 2.25 g daily for 10 days every month plus VSL#3 450 billions/day for 15 days every month and group B, VSL#3 alone 450 billions/day for 15 days every month. Primary end-point was considered the maintaining of remission throughout a 12-month follow-up. Secondary end-points considered were (1) the assessment of the overall scores at the end of the follow-up and (2) the effects of the two different treatments with regards to every symptom assessed.
One group A patient was withdrawn from the study at the 6th month and one group B patient was lost at the 6th month of follow-up. One group A patient (6.66%) showed relapse of symptoms at the 10th month of follow-up. At the end of follow-up, 11 patients were completely symptom-free (73.33%), whilst 2 patients complained of only mild, recurrent symptoms (13%). Two group B patients (13.33%) showed relapse of the disease at the 5th and 8th month of follow-up, respectively. At the end of follow-up, 8 patients were completely symptom-free (60%), 2 patients complained of mild, recurrent symptoms (13.33%), 1 patient (6.66%) complained of mild but continuous symptoms. No side effects were recorded throughout the follow-up in both groups.
Combination probiotic/anti-inflammatory drug was found better than probiotic treatment in preventing relapse of uncomplicated diverticulitis of the colon, even if without statistical significance.
ALK fusion genes occur in a subset of non-small-cell lung cancers (NSCLCs). We assessed the tolerability and activity of crizotinib in patients with NSCLC who were prospectively identified to have an ALK fusion within the first-in-man phase 1 crizotinib study.
In this phase 1 study, patients with ALK-positive stage III or IV NSCLC received oral crizotinib 250 mg twice daily in 28-day cycles. Endpoints included tumour responses, duration of response, time to tumour response, progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival at 6 and 12 months, and determination of the safety and tolerability and characterisation of the plasma pharmacokinetic profile of crizotinib after oral administration. Responses were analysed in evaluable patients and PFS and safety were analysed in all patients. This study is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT00585195.
Between Aug 27, 2008, and June 1, 2011, 149 ALK-positive patients were enrolled, 143 of whom were included in the response-evaluable population. 87 of 143 patients had an objective response (60·8%, 95% CI 52·3-68·9), including three complete responses and 84 partial responses. Median time to first documented objective response was 7·9 weeks (range 2·1-39·6) and median duration of response was 49·1 weeks (95% CI 39·3-75·4). The response rate seemed to be largely independent of age, sex, performance status, or line of treatment. Median PFS was 9·7 months (95% CI 7·7-12·8). Median overall survival data are not yet mature, but estimated overall survival at 6 and 12 months was 87·9% (95% CI 81·3-92·3) and 74·8% (66·4-81·5), respectively. 39 patients continued to receive crizotinib for more than 2 weeks after progression because of perceived ongoing clinical benefit from the drug (12 for at least 6 months from the time of their initial investigator-defined disease progression). Overall, 144 (97%) of 149 patients experienced treatment-related adverse events, which were mostly grade 1 or 2. The most common adverse events were visual effects, nausea, diarrhoea, constipation, vomiting, and peripheral oedema. The most common treatment-related grade 3 or 4 adverse events were neutropenia (n=9), raised alanine aminotransferase (n=6), hypophosphataemia (n=6), and lymphopenia (n=6).
Crizotinib is well tolerated with rapid, durable responses in patients with ALK-positive NSCLC. There seems to be potential for ongoing benefit after initial disease progression in this population, but a more formal definition of ongoing benefit in this context is needed.
Lipid emulsion has been used in the successful treatment of local anaesthetic-induced cardiovascular collapse in animals and in two cases of cardiac arrest in humans. Previous reports of levobupivacaine toxicity in humans have been characterised by neurological signs and symptoms, without serious cardiovascular events. We present a case in which presumed intravenous injection of levobupivacaine led to neurological and cardiovascular consequences. This was treated successfully by resuscitation that included intravenous Intralipid infusion.
The efficacy and safety of trandolapril alone and in combination with a calcium channel blocker were evaluated in 13,147 hypertensive patients over 60 years old. Two patient groups were constituted. After a 2-week wash-out period, the patients in group I received monotherapy with trandolapril 2 mg/day for 4 weeks. Trandolapril was continued for another 4 weeks in responding patient, otherwise the dosage of trandolapril was doubled or another antihypertensive was added. Group 2, composed of patients previously treated with a calcium channel blocker with insufficient efficacy, was treated according to the same treatment regimen, but the calcium channel blocker was maintained throughout the study. 13,147 patients (group 1: 11,329 patients, group 2: 1,818 patients) with a mean age of 68 +/- 7 years were followed. After 4 weeks of treatment, the blood pressure measured by mercury sphygmomanometer decreased from 176 + 11/99 +/- 8 mmHg to 164 +/- 12/87 +/- 7 mmHg (p < 0.0001). This blood pressure fall was similar in group 1 (-22 +/- 12/-12 +/- 8 mmHg) and in group 2 (-21 +/- 11/-12 +/- 8 mmHg). In the pure systolic HT subgroup treated by trandolapril monotherapy, the antihypertensive effect predominantly affected the SBP (-23 +/- 12/- 4 +/- 6 mmHg). The antihypertensive effect was correlated with the initial blood pressure. In group 1, in the case of insufficient response to trandolapril monotherapy, the addition of a calcium channel blocker was the strategy which achieved the most marked antihypertensive effect (ANOVA, p < 0.0001). This bitherapy was more effective than the trandolapril+diuretic combination (-18 +/- 11/- 11 +/- 8 mmHg and -15 +/- 10/- 9 +/- 7 mmHg, respectively (p < 0.001). A total of 1,270 adverse events were reported by 996 patients (7.6%), leading to discontinuation of treatment in 372 patients (2.8%). The most frequent adverse effects were cough (2.8%), headache (0.8%), vertigo (0.8%) and nausea (0.5%). Only one minor equivalent of angioneurotic oedema was reported. In conclusion, trandolapril is effective and well tolerated in elderly hypertensive patients. In the case of pure systolic HTA, its action is essentially exerted on SBP. The combination of trandolapril+calcium channel blocker appears to be the most effective strategy in the case of incomplete blood pressure control by trandolapril alone.
Multiple osteochondromas is an autosomal dominant skeletal disorder characterized by the formation of multiple cartilage-capped tumours. Two causal genes have been identified, EXT1 and EXT2, which account for 65% and 30% of cases, respectively. We have undertaken a mutation analysis of the EXT1 and EXT2 genes in 39 unrelated Spanish patients, most of them with moderate phenotype, and looked for genotype-phenotype correlations. We found the mutant allele in 37 patients, 29 in EXT1 and 8 in EXT2. Five of the EXT1 mutations were deletions identified by MLPA. Two cases of mosaicism were documented. We detected a lower number of exostoses in patients with missense mutation versus other kinds of mutations. In conclusion, we found a mutation in EXT1 or in EXT2 in 95% of the Spanish patients. Eighteen of the mutations were novel.
Methanol administered to C57BL/6J mice during gastrulation causes severe craniofacial dysmorphology. We describe dysmorphogenesis, cell death, cell cycle assessment, and effects on development of cranial ganglia and nerves observed following administration of methanol to pregnant C57BL/6J mice on gestation day (GD) 7.
Mice were injected (i.p.) on GD 7 with 0, 2.3, 3.4, or 4.9 gm/kg methanol, split into two doses. In embryos of mice treated with 0 or 4.9 gm/kg methanol, we used histology and LysoTracker red staining on GD 8 0 hr through GD 8 18 hr to examine cell death and dysmorphogenesis, and we also evaluated cell-cycle distribution and proliferation using flow cytometry (FCM) and BrdU immunohistochemistry. On GD 10, we evaluated the effect of GD 7 exposure to 0, 2.3, 3.4, or 4.9 gm/kg methanol on cranial ganglia and nerve development using neurofilament immunohistochemistry.
Methanol treatment on GD 7 resulted in reduced mesenchyme surrounding the fore- and midbrain, and in the first branchial arches, by GD 8 12 hr. There were disruptions in the forebrain neuroepithelium and optic pit. Neural crest cell emigration from the mid- and hindbrain region was reduced in methanol-exposed embryos. Methanol had no apparent effect on BrdU incorporation or cell-cycle distribution on GD 8. Cell death was observed in the hindbrain region along the path of neural crest migration and in the trigeminal ganglion on GD 8 18 hr. Development of the cranial ganglia and nerves was adversely affected by methanol. Development of ganglia V, VIII, and IX was decreased at all dosage levels; ganglion VII was reduced at 3.4 and 4.9 gm/kg, and ganglion X was reduced at 4.9 gm/kg.
These results suggest that gastrulation-stage methanol exposure affects neural crest cells and the anterior mesoderm and neuroepithelium. Cell death was evident in areas of migrating neural crest cells, but only at time points after methanol was cleared from the embryo, suggesting an indirect effect on these cells. Birth Defects Research (Part A), 2004. Published 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
To investigate the relation between childhood acute leukaemia and household exposure to pesticides.
The study included 280 incident cases of acute leukaemia and 288 controls frequency matched on gender, age, hospital, and ethnic origin. The data were obtained from standardised face to face interviews of the mothers with detailed questions on parental occupational history, home and garden insecticide use, and insecticidal treatment of pediculosis. Odds ratios were estimated using unconditional regression models including the stratification variables parental socioeconomic status and housing characteristics.
Acute leukaemia was observed to be significantly associated with maternal home insecticide use during pregnancy (OR = 1.8, 95% CI 1.2 to 2.8) and during childhood (OR = 1.7, 95% CI 1.1 to 2.4), with garden insecticide use (OR = 2.4, 95% CI 1.3 to 4.3), and fungicide use (OR = 2.5, 95% CI 1.0 to 6.2) during childhood. Insecticidal shampoo treatment of pediculosis was also associated with childhood acute leukaemia (OR = 1.9, 95% CI 1.2 to 3.3).
The results reported herein support the hypothesis that various types of insecticide exposure may be a risk factor for childhood acute leukaemia. The observed association with insecticidal shampoo treatment of pediculosis, which has never been investigated before, requires further study.
The mechanism of the antiulcer effect of omeprazole was studied placing emphasis on its role to block oxidative damage and apoptosis during ulceration. Dose-response studies on gastroprotection in stress and indomethacin-induced ulcer and inhibition of pylorus ligation-induced acid secretion indicate that omeprazole significantly blocks gastric lesions at lower dose (2.5 mg/kg) without inhibiting acid secretion, suggesting an independent mechanism for its antiulcer effect. Time course studies on gastroprotection and acid reduction also indicate that omeprazole almost completely blocks lesions at 1 h when acid inhibition is partial. The severity of lesions correlates well with the increased level of endogenous hydroxyl radical (*OH), which when scavenged by dimethyl sulfoxide causes around 90% reduction of the lesions, indicating that *OH plays a major role in gastric damage. Omeprazole blocks stress-induced increased generation of *OH and associated lipid peroxidation and protein oxidation, indicating that its antioxidant role plays a major part in preventing oxidative damage. Omeprazole also prevents stress-induced DNA fragmentation, suggesting its antiapoptotic role to block cell death during ulceration. The oxidative damage of DNA by *OH generated in vitro is also protected by omeprazole or its analogue, lansoprazole. Lansoprazole when incubated in a *OH-generating system scavenges *OH to produce four oxidation products of which the major one in mass spectroscopy shows a molecular ion peak at m/z 385, which is 16 mass units higher than that of lansoprazole (m/z 369). The product shows no additional aromatic proton signal for aromatic hydroxylation in (1)H NMR. The product absorbing at 278 nm shows no alkaline shift for phenols, thereby excluding the formation of hydroxylansoprazole. The product is assigned to lansoprazole sulfone formed by the addition of one oxygen atom at the sulfur center following attack by the *OH. Thus, omeprazole plays a significant role in gastroprotection by acting as a potent antioxidant and antiapoptotic molecule.
We report an 82-year-old retired man who developed syndrome of inappropriate secretion of ADH (SIADH) caused by sodium valproate (VPA). He had been taking VPA for treatment of symptomatic epilepsy due to cardioembolic stroke. Although he was clinically asymptomatic, he was found to have decreased level of serum sodium concentration (128 mEq/l). Association of hyponatremia, normal urinary sodium concentration, high urine osmolality and increased concentration of serum ADH strongly suggested the presence of SIADH. There were no underlying disorders which can cause SIADH, such as malignant neoplasm with autonomous ADH release, non-malignant pulmonary diseases and active disorders of the central nervous system. Eight days after discontinuation of VPA administration serum sodium level increased (142 mEq/l) to the normal level. Then, we started the administration of VPA again to confirm that VPA was responsible for developing hyponatremia. As a result, he developed SIADH with hyponatremia (128 mEq/l) again, which improved after discontinuation of the administration. Therefore, we concluded that the SIADH might have been caused by administration of VPA. This is the first report on adverse effect of VPA causing SIADH.
A series of aminoalkanolic derivatives of xanthone were examined in some experimental models of epilepsia, i.e., pilocarpine, aminophylline and pentetrazole-induced seizures. A final objective of this research was to examine the action of these compounds on the central nervous system, namely on spontaneous locomotor activity, amphetamine-induced hyperactivity and narcotic sleep induced by hexobarbital, as well as their influence on the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) level and glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) activity in mice brain. The most interesting were the pharmacological results of (R)-2-N-methylamino-1-butanol derivative of 7-chloro-2-methylxanthone [Id], which displayed protective activity against the seizures induced by maximum electroshock and pentetrazole induced seizures; moreover, this compound had a relatively low toxicity and did not exhibit a neurotoxic effect. The influence on the locomotor activity as well as on the amphetamine-induced locomotor hyperactivity in mice was also seen for Id. Compound Id did not decrease the GABA level in mice brain.
By means of duplex sonography, gastric emptying can be related to antral motor activity. The aim of this study was to examine gastric emptying in relation to antral contractions during and immediately after ingestion of a liquid meal in healthy subjects and to study the effect of glyceryl trinitrate (GTN) on this early phase of gastric emptying.
Ten healthy, non-smoking men (median age, 36 years; range, 29-41 years) were studied twice on separate days, once without drug administration and once after taking a 0.5-mg sublingual GTN tablet 3 min before ingesting 500 ml of a meat soup (20 kcal; Toro). The subjects were investigated during 3 min of fasting, during 3 min of drinking the soup, and during the first 10 min postprandially.
Transpyloric forward flow commenced on average 80 sec and 95 sec after the start of drinking the soup without and with GTN, respectively (P = NS). Non-contractile, pulsatile transpyloric flow (that is, pendulating, transpyloric flow not associated with antral contractions) occurred during episodes of concurrent relaxation of the terminal antrum, the pylorus, and the duodenal bulb. This type of flow occurred mainly just before the start of contractile, pulsatile transpyloric flow (associated with propulsive antral contractions). Initial non-contractile, pulsatile transpyloric flow before commencement of contractile, pulsatile transpyloric flow lasted longer with GTN (188 sec) than without GTN (25 sec) (P < 0.05). Consequently, contractile, pulsatile transpyloric flow commenced later with GTN (302 sec) than without (102 sec) (P < 0.05).
Non-contractile transpyloric flow seems to be a physiologic phenomenon during the early phase of gastric emptying. GTN prolongs the initial phase of non-contractile, and delays the onset of contractile, pulsatile transpyloric flow.
