A common polymorphism positioned at +405 of the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) gene is known to influence VEGF protein production. In contrast, a second polymorphism, positioned at -460 polymorphism, has no reported functional effects. VEGF is linked to angiogenesis and might directly influence the clinical outcome of patients with chronic heart failure (CHF). We investigated the association between two VEGF polymorphisms and morbidity and mortality in patients with CHF.
VEGF promoter polymorphisms +405 and -460 were examined in 596 CHF patients enrolled in the Metoprolol CR/XL Randomized Intervention Trial in Heart Failure (MERIT-HF) study and in 187 healthy controls. In CHF patients, a risk ratio for each genotype was calculated using the combined endpoint of all-cause mortality or hospitalization. The allele frequencies of the +405 and -460 polymorphisms for the CHF cohort and for 187 healthy controls were not significantly different. However, the presence of the +405 CC genotype (frequency 0.14) was independently associated with an adverse outcome as described by the MERIT study combined endpoint compared with the +405 GG genotype (risk ratio 1.65; 95%CI 1.03-2.64; P = .039). The -460 polymorphism was not associated with an altered prognosis ( P = .60).
Our results indicate that the VEGF +405 CC genotype is associated with an adverse clinical outcome in patients with CHF. This genotype has been associated with lower plasma VEGF levels, suggesting a possible mechanism of action for the gene variant. This belief is further supported by the fact that the VEGF -460 polymorphism, which does not affect plasma VEGF levels, did not adversely affect the prognosis.
Blood coagulation starts immediately after damage to the vascular endothelium. This system is essential for minimizing blood loss from an injured blood vessel but also contributes to vascular thrombosis. Although it has long been thought that the intrinsic coagulation pathway is not important for clotting in vivo, recent data obtained with genetically altered mice indicate that contact phase proteins seem to be essential for thrombus formation. We show that recombinant Ixodes ricinus contact phase inhibitor (Ir-CPI), a Kunitz-type protein expressed by the salivary glands of the tick Ixodes ricinus, specifically interacts with activated human contact phase factors (FXIIa, FXIa, and kallikrein) and prolongs the activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) in vitro. The effects of Ir-CPI were also examined in vivo using both venous and arterial thrombosis models. Intravenous administration of Ir-CPI in rats and mice caused a dose-dependent reduction in venous thrombus formation and revealed a defect in the formation of arterial occlusive thrombi. Moreover, mice injected with Ir-CPI are protected against collagen- and epinephrine-induced thromboembolism. Remarkably, the effective antithrombotic dose of Ir-CPI did not promote bleeding or impair blood coagulation parameters. To conclude, our results show that a contact phase inhibitor is an effective and safe antithrombotic agent in vivo.
The possibility that arterial baroreceptors may be involved in the potentiation of vasopressin or oxytocin secretion observed after noxious stimuli was tested in male rats after sino-aortic denervation (SAD). There was no significant difference in plasma level of vasopressin or oxytocin between the SAD and the corresponding sham-operation control (SHAM) groups with or without electric shocks. An i.p. injected alpha 1-adrenergic receptor antagonist, prazosin, decreased arterial blood pressure both in the SAD and in the SHAM groups. However, the increased levels of these hormones after prazosin were significantly lower in the SAD than in the SHAM groups. Reflexly evoked tachycardia after prazosin occurred in the SHAM but not in the SAD groups. These results suggest that afferent neural signals originating from arterial baroreceptors are not involved in potentiation of vasopressin and oxytocin secretion after noxious stimuli in the rat.
We previously demonstrated that monotropein isolated from the roots of Morinda officinalis (Rubiaceae) has anti-inflammatory effects in vivo. In the present study, we investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying the anti-inflammatory effects of monotropein in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced RAW 264.7 macrophages and dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced colitis mouse model. Monotropein was found to inhibit the expressions of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), and interleukin-1β (IL-1β) mRNA in LPS-induced RAW 264.7 macrophages. Treatment with monotropein decreased the DNA binding activity of nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB). Consistent with these findings, monotropein also suppressed phosphorylation and degradation of inhibitory κB-α (IκB-α), and consequently the translocations of NF-κB. In the DSS-induced colitis model, monotropein reduced disease activity index (DAI), myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity, and inflammation-related protein expressions by suppressing NF-κB activation in colon mucosa. Taken together, these findings suggest that the anti-inflammatory effects of monotropein are mainly related to the inhibition of the expressions of inflammatory mediators via NF-κB inactivation, and support its possible therapeutic role in colitis.
The efficacy of telavancin, a novel lipoglycopeptide, was evaluated in experimental endocarditis in rabbits using two clinical isolates of glycopeptide-intermediate Staphylococcus aureus: ATCC 700788 and HIP 5836. Infected rabbits were treated for 2 days with telavancin (10 mg/kg of body weight once daily intravenously) or vancomycin (1 g twice daily intravenously), administered with a computer-controlled infusion pump system simulating human serum kinetics. Vegetations were harvested at 16 h postinoculation in the control group and at the end of treatment in the drug-treated group. For ATCC 700788, MICs and minimal bactericidal concentrations (MBCs), respectively, were 1 mg/liter and 4 mg/liter for telavancin and 8 mg/liter and 128 mg/liter for vancomycin. For HIP 5836, MICs and MBCs, respectively, were 4 mg/liter and 8 mg/liter for telavancin and 8 mg/liter and 128 mg/liter for vancomycin. Peak and trough levels were 90 microg/ml and 6 microg/ml, respectively, for telavancin and 46 microg/ml and 6 microg/ml, respectively, for vancomycin. In glycopeptide-intermediate S. aureus ATCC 700788, telavancin sterilized 6 of 16 vegetations (37%), whereas vancomycin sterilized 4 of 20 (20%) (P = 0.29) compared with 0 of 17 in the control group. In HIP 5836 experiments, telavancin and vancomycin sterilized 5 of 16 (31%) and 1 of 15 (7%) vegetations (P = 0.17), respectively, compared with none in the control group. Telavancin reduced vegetation titers by 2.0 and 2.3 logs greater than vancomycin for the ATCC 700788 (4.6 [2.0 to 5.8] versus 6.6 [2.0 to 6.9] log CFU/g vegetation; P = 0.05) and HIP 5836 (4.4 [2.0 to 7.4] versus 6.7 [4.5 to 8.7] log CFU/g vegetation; P = 0.09) strains, respectively; these differences did not reach statistical significance. All isolates from vegetations remained susceptible to telavancin after therapy. The results suggest that telavancin may be an effective treatment for endocarditis caused by glycopeptide-intermediate S. aureus.
Although adverse events in HIV patients taking tenofovir are relatively rare, postmarketing reports of nephrotoxicity have alerted physicians to other potentially serious outcomes. We present a series of 40 patients who developed hypokalemia associated with tenofovir. Identified risk factors included concomitant ritonavir or didanosine use, a lower weight and longer duration of tenofovir use. Recovery or improvement was seen in the majority of patients (66%) after the discontinuation of tenofovir; however, four deaths occurred. The associated consequences of tenofovir-related hypokalemia may be profound and life-threatening.
Severe proteinuria is a defining factor of nephrotic syndrome irrespective of the etiology. Investigation of congenital nephrotic syndrome has shown that dysfunction of glomerular epithelial cells (podocytes) plays a crucial role in this disease. Acquired nephrotic syndrome is also assumed to be associated with podocyte injury. Here we identify an association between variants in GPC5, encoding glypican-5, and acquired nephrotic syndrome through a genome-wide association study and replication analysis (P value under a recessive model (P(rec)) = 6.0 × 10(-11), odds ratio = 2.54). We show that GPC5 is expressed in podocytes and that the risk genotype is associated with higher expression. We further show that podocyte-specific knockdown and systemic short interfering RNA injection confers resistance to podocyte injury in mouse models of nephrosis. This study identifies GPC5 as a new susceptibility gene for nephrotic syndrome and implicates GPC5 as a promising therapeutic target for reducing podocyte vulnerability in glomerular disease.
Carbamazepine, an anticonvulsant, has shown efficacy in the treatment of a wide range of psychiatric disorders, including classical affective disorders. Because patients with borderline personality disorder show prominent affective symptomatology on the one hand and symptoms suggestive of an epileptoid disorder on the other, carbamazepine was included in a multidrug, placebo-controlled, double-blind study. During carbamazepine treatment, three of 17 (18%) patients developed melancholia, which remitted on discontinuation of carbamazepine. While carbamazepine may prove to be an effective medication for some patients with borderline personality disorder, careful attention to change in depressive symptoms is suggested.
Diabetes is an inflammatory condition associated with iron abnormalities and increased oxidative damage. We aimed to investigate how diabetes affects the interrelationships between these pathogenic mechanisms.
Glycaemic control, serum iron, proteins involved in iron homeostasis, global antioxidant capacity and levels of antioxidants and peroxidation products were measured in 39 type 1 and 67 type 2 diabetic patients and 100 control subjects.
Although serum iron was lower in diabetes, serum ferritin was elevated in type 2 diabetes (p = 0.02). This increase was not related to inflammation (C-reactive protein) but inversely correlated with soluble transferrin receptors (r = - 0.38, p = 0.002). Haptoglobin was higher in both type 1 and type 2 diabetes (p < 0.001) and haemopexin was higher in type 2 diabetes (p < 0.001). The relation between C-reactive protein and haemopexin was lost in type 2 diabetes (r = 0.15, p = 0.27 vs r = 0.63, p < 0.001 in type 1 diabetes and r = 0.36, p = 0.001 in controls). Haemopexin levels were independently determined by triacylglycerol (R(2) = 0.43) and the diabetic state (R(2) = 0.13). Regarding oxidative stress status, lower antioxidant concentrations were found for retinol and uric acid in type 1 diabetes, alpha-tocopherol and ascorbate in type 2 diabetes and protein thiols in both types. These decreases were partially explained by metabolic-, inflammatory- and iron alterations. An additional independent effect of the diabetic state on the oxidative stress status could be identified (R(2) = 0.5-0.14).
Circulating proteins, body iron stores, inflammation, oxidative stress and their interrelationships are abnormal in patients with diabetes and differ between type 1 and type 2 diabetes.
The mammalian ortholog of the retroviral oncogene v-Eyk, and a receptor tyrosine kinase upstream of antiapoptotic and transforming signals, Mer (MerTK) is a mediator of the phagocytic process, being involved in retinal and immune cell clearance and platelet aggregation. Mer knockout mice are viable and are protected from epinephrine-induced pulmonary thromboembolism and ferric chloride-induced thrombosis. Mer overexpression, on the other hand, is associated with numerous carcinomas. Although Mer adaptor proteins and signaling pathways have been identified, it remains unclear how Mer initiates phagocytosis. When bound to its nucleotide cofactor, the high-resolution structure of Mer shows an autoinhibited alphaC-Glu-out conformation with insertion of an activation loop residue into the active site. Mer complexed with compound-52 (C52: 2-(2-hydroxyethylamino)-6-(3-chloroanilino)-9-isopropylpurine), a ligand identified from a focused library, retains its DFG-Asp-in and alphaC-Glu-out conformation, but acquires other conformational changes. The alphaC helix and DFGL region is closer to the hinge region and the ethanolamine moiety of C52 binds in the groove formed between Leu593 and Val601 of the P-loop, causing a compression of the active site pocket. These conformational states reveal the mechanisms of autoinhibition, the pathophysiological basis of disease-causing mutations, and a platform for the development of chemical probes.
Doxorubicin remains one of the few drugs with consistent single agent activity in advanced Soft Tissue Sarcomas (STS), with a demonstrated dose-response relationship. Liposomal-encapsulated Doxorubicin (LED) has been shown to be at least as active as free doxorubicin in experimental models, and phase I and II human studies indicate that this novel strategy of drug delivery my have less myocardial toxicity. Few clinical trials in adult STS have been published until now, with disappointing and often contrasting results.
Twenty-five consecutive patients with measurable advanced and/or metastatic STS, previously pretreated with anthracycline-based chemotherapy, were enrolled into the trial. LED (Caelyx) was administered over 1-hour intravenous infusion at the dose of 30 mg/m2 in the first 5 patients, then at the fixed dose of 50 mg/m2 in the subsequent 20 patients. Treatment was given on ambulatory basis, at 3-week intervals. Antiemetics were generally not required and only used if indicated.
A total of 98 courses of chemotherapy were given (median 4 per patient, range 2 to 5). Amongst the 25 evaluable patients, there were 3 partial responses (12%, 95% confidence interval 4.2% to 29.9%) lasting 3-9+ months and all occurring in patients treated at 50 mg/m2/cycle. In addition, 2 minor responses (4+ months) and 17 stable disease (2-7+ months) were observed; the remaining 3 patients progressed while on therapy. The median delivered drug dose-intensity was 13.3 mg/m2/week (range 10 to 16.6 mg/m2/week). Treatment was well tolerated, with no patient requiring dose reduction or therapy delay because of toxicity. Only 2 cases of WHO grade 3 toxicity occurred, consisting of neutropenia and scrotal skin toxicity; respectively; no cardiotoxicity was seen.
This study shows that Caelyx has some activity in advanced, anthracycline-pretreated STS, with favourable toxic profile. From the analysis of available experiences it emerges that liposomal doxorubicin has not been tested at doses adequate to exploit the antitumor effects of the drug, being the reached dose-intensity being even lower than those deemed critical for obtaining optimal responses to free doxorubicin. We suggest that further and better addressed studies be performed in STS, including patients with less advanced stages of disease, focused on attempting to delivery the drug at optimal doses.
(1) When patients with Parkinson's disease who are taking levodopa develop motor fluctuations that do not respond to dose adjustments, the standard treatment is the addition of bromocriptine, a dopaminergic agonist. Evaluation of entacapone fails to show whether the risk-benefit balance of this catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) inhibitor is at least as favourable as that of bromocriptine. (2) Tolcapone, another COMT inhibitor, is back on the French market after being withdrawn because of serious hepatic effects. The summary of product characteristics (SPC) specifies that tolcapone must only be used when entacapone treatment fails or is poorly tolerated. (3) Renewal of marketing authorisation was based on one clinical trial in which about half the patients were probably not resistant to entacapone. No difference in efficacy was found between tolcapone and entacapone. There is no firm evidence that tolcapone is effective in a significant number of patients in whom entacapone fails. (4) Placebo-controlled trials show that first-line treatment with tolcapone 100 mg to 200 mg 3 times a day reduces the duration of motor freezing ("off") periods, but the global impact of tolcapone on parkinsonism appears to be limited. (5) Unblinded randomised controlled trials have failed to show that tolcapone is more effective than bromocriptine or pergolide. There are no trials assessing the use of tolcapone in combination with dopamine agonists. (6) Adverse effects were frequent during clinical trials. They were mainly neurological and gastrointestinal, and differed from those associated with bromocriptine. In 1988, shortly after worldwide marketing of tolcapone, 3 cases of fatal fulminant hepatitis were reported among about 60 000 patients who had taken this drug. Some countries, including European Union member states, withdrew marketing authorisation. Other countries, including the United States, left tolcapone on the market but required stringent monitoring of liver function. Due to a lack of transparency on the part of both the manufacturer and the health authorities, we do not know if these measures reduced the risk of severe hepatitis. In the trial versus entacapone, one of the 75 patients treated with tolcapone 300 mg/day had an abnormal increase in serum transaminase activity. (7) In practice, tolcapone has a negative risk-benefit balance.
Dysregulated Th subset responses, characterized by Th2-dominant allergic inflammation, are thought to be central to the pathogenesis of atopic dermatitis (AD). Glucosamine has been shown to have immunosuppressive properties, but its effect on AD has not been examined. In this study, the immunoregulatory effects of glucosamine, using dermatophagoides farinae (Df)-induced AD-like skin lesions in NC/Nga mice, were investigated. The clinical scores were reduced significantly by the treatment with glucosamine at 10 and 20 mg/day. Histological analysis of the skin also revealed that treatment of glucosamine at 10 and 20 mg/day significantly reduced the inflammatory cellular infiltrate, including mast cells and eosinophils. The levels of serum IgE and Th2 cytokines in spleen cells were reduced, whereas no significant change was detected in IFN-γ, a Th1 cytokine. To determine the mechanism associated with inhibition of the Th2 immune response, the effects of glucosamine on the selective differentiation pathway of the Th subset in vitro was examined in NC/Nga mice. The results showed that glucosamine suppressed the differentiation of naïve CD4(+) T cells to Th2 cells in vitro. On the basis of in vivo and in vitro results of the NC/Nga mice, the immunobiological effects of glucosamine on peripheral blood mononuclear cells from patients with AD were examined. The production of Th2 cytokines, such as IL-4 and IL-5, was significantly decreased after in vitro administration of glucosamine, which suggest that glucosamine might be a useful immunomodulatory agent for the treatment of human AD.
Established doxorubicin cardiomyopathy is a lethal disease. When congestive heart failure develops, mortality is approximately 50%. Extensive research has been done to understand the mechanism and pathophysiology of doxorubicin cardiomyopathy, and considerable knowledge and experience has been gained. Unfortunately, no effective treatment for established doxorubicin cardiomyopathy is presently available. Extensive research has been done and is being done to discover preventive treatments. However an effective and clinically applicable preventive treatment is yet to be discovered.
Inhibitors of transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) type I receptor (ALK5) offer a novel approach for the treatment of fibrotic diseases such as renal, hepatic, and pulmonary fibrosis. The optimization of a novel phenylpyridine pyrazole series (1a) led to the identification of potent, selective, and orally active ALK5 inhibitors. The cellular potency and pharmacokinetics profiles of these derivatives were improved and several compounds presented antifibrotic activity when orally administered to rats in an acute liver model of dimethylnitrosamine- (DMN-) induced expression of collagen IA1 mRNA, a major gene contributing to excessive extra cellular matrix deposit. One of the most potent ALK5 inhibitors identified in this chemical series, compound 13d (GW788388), reduced the expression of collagen IA1 by 80% at a dose of 1 mg/kg twice a day (b.i.d.). This compound significantly reduced the expression of collagen IA1 mRNA when administered orally at 10 mg/kg once a day (u.i.d.) in a model of puromycin aminonucleoside-induced renal fibrosis.
Isopropanol is the second most common cause of short-chain alcohol acute intoxication. Nonethanolic short-chain alcohols mediate their immunomodulatory effect by interfering with nuclear factor of activated T cells (NFAT) activation with or without additional activator protein-1 (AP-1) involvement. In the present study, we examined the immunomodulation induced by isopropanol in conditions that are not reliant on NFAT: the inflammatory cytokine response of lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated monocytes. Our hypothesis was that isopropanol acute exposure would have an attenuated effect or no consequence in this setting. To our surprise, the impairment of AP-1 activation was sufficient to mediate a severe and dose-dependent phenotype in human monocytes in vitro at alcohol concentrations as low as 0.16% (or 26 mM). There were three outcomes: interleukin (IL)-1β/IL-8 were unaltered; IL-6 was upregulated; and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α)/CCL2 were downregulated. The effector function of human monocyte-derived macrophages was also compromised. Our results showed that Toll-like receptor 4 early signaling was preserved, as isopropanol did not change the kinase activity of the IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 in LPS-stimulated cells. The nuclear factor-κB signaling cascade and the p38/c-Jun N-terminal kinase modules of the mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway were alcohol insensitive. Conversely, the activation of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase and, ultimately, of c-Fos and JunB were impaired. The alcohol-induced cytokine dysregulation was confirmed in a mouse model of isopropanol intoxication in which the production of TNF-α in response to LPS challenge was virtually abolished. The magnitude of this alcohol effect was sufficiently high to rescue animals from LPS-induced toxic shock. Our data contribute to the dismal body of information on the immunotoxicology of isopropanol, one of the most ubiquitous chemicals to which the general population is significantly exposed.
A rat model of vitamin E (alpha-tocopherol) deficiency with similar "clinical", electrophysiological and neuropathological abnormalities to that seen in man was used to investigate the effects of various dietary intakes of synthetic (all-rac-) and natural (RRR-) alpha-tocopheryl acetate (alphaTA) on visual function.
Longitudinal measurements of the electroretinogram (ERG) and visual evoked potentials (VEPs) were made monthly for 14 months in 9 groups of rats (n=12/group) receiving different amounts and types of alphaTA. The animals were then killed for biochemical analyses.
(1) The first significant abnormalities of both the ERG and VEP were found after 8 months of deficiency. (2) A diet containing 1.25 mg/kg of alphaTA provided marginal protection. (3) The biological activity of all-rac- was approximately 75% of RRR-alphaTA. (4) The concentration of free malondialdehyde (a measure of lipid peroxidation) was significantly increased in all tissues, including the eye, from deficient compared to control rats.
These results are consistent with alpha-tocopherol deficiency causing increased lipid peroxidation leading to abnormal visual function but could also be explained by more specific but undefined function(s) of alpha-tocopherol in the eye.
The therapeutic efficacy of intratumoral instillation of genetically engineered, CYP2B1-expressing, microencapsulated cells in combination with ifosfamide had been previously demonstrated in xenografted human pancreatic ductal carcinomas [Gene Ther 1998;5:1070-1078]. Prior to a clinical study, the feasibility of an intra-arterial application of microencapsulated cells to the pancreas and its consequences to the organ had to be evaluated.
Microencapsulated, CYP2B1-producing cells were instilled both in vivo (transfemoral angiographical access) and in vitro (perfusion model) in the splenic lobe of the pig pancreas. In vivo, animals were monitored clinically for 7 days, then treated with ifosfamide and sacrificed. In vitro, ifosfamide was administered intra-arterially.
In all animals, 100 microcapsules could be instilled safely via the femoral route without clinical, biochemical or histological signs of pancreatitis. Histological examination revealed partial obstruction of small arteries by the capsules, without causing any parenchymal damage. In vitro, instillation reduced blood flow by half. Ifosfamide, also in combination with the capsules, did not add any damage to the pancreas.
Intra-arterial instillation of microencapsulated cells to the pig pancreas is feasible and safe. Neither pancreatitis, foreign body reactions nor circulatory disturbances were observed. Clinical application of this genetically enhanced chemotherapeutic method seems possible.
A case of multifocal axonopathy associated with intrathecal methotrexate (IT MTX) and radiation therapy is presented. A 33-year-old woman suffering from meningeal carcinomatosis of breast cancer origin had developed prominent multifocal axonal degeneration in the cerebral white matter after treatment with IT MTX therapy and cranial irradiation. The principal features of this axonal degeneration were segmental hydropic swellings, macrophage infiltration of swollen axons, and scattered spheroid formation associated with reactive astrocytosis. These features were similar to those observed in our previous experimental study using cats treated with IT MTX alone. This "multifocal axonopathy" without necrotizing lesions seems to be different from disseminated necrotizing leukoencephalopathy, and, therefore, may be another form of MTX-related leukoencephalopathy. IT MTX and cranial irradiation seem to have exerted synergistic effects in producing the "multifocal axonopathy" in this case.
Low serum paraoxonase (PON) activity is thought to be a risk factor for the development of atherosclerosis. The present study was designed to evaluate PON1 activity and its relationship with preatherosclerotic markers such as lipid peroxidation and insulin resistance in hyperthyroid patients before and after propylthiouracil (PTU) treatment and in subjects with iatrogenic subclinical hyperthyroidism.
Twenty patients with hyperthyroidism, 20 patients with euthyroid multinodular goiter (MNG) and 20 age- and sex-matched healthy controls were enrolled in the study. Insulin sensitivity index, PON activity and lipid peroxidation were measured at baseline and 2 months after achieving euthyroidism or subclinical hyperthyroidism. Levothyroxine was given as a part of TSH suppression therapy in multinodular goitre patients.
Insulin sensitivity was determined by an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) based on the insulin sensitivity index (ISI) formula, serum paraoxonase activity was determined with a spectrophotometric method. Lipid peroxidation was measured by the formation of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARs).
ISI was significantly lower in the hyperthyroid group than baseline levels in MNG patients and controls (P < 0.001). While ISI increased after treatment in the hyperthyroid group (P < 0.01), it significantly decreased with L-T4 treatment in the MNG group (P < 0.01). Serum paraoxonase activity was significantly lower in the hyperthyroid group before treatment than baseline and final measurements of other groups (P < 0.05). While PON activity increased after restoration of the euthyroid state in the hyperthyroid group (P < 0.05), it decreased with L-T4 treatment in the MNG group (P < 0.05). Lipid peroxidation was significantly higher in hyperthyroid group compared to baseline levels of other groups (P < 0.05). It decreased after treatment in the hyperthyroid group (P < 0.05) but a significant increase was observed following L-T4 treatment in the MNG group (P < 0.05). Serum paraoxonase activity was found to be negatively correlated with serum TT4 (r = -0.32, P = 0.003), TT3 levels (r = -0.31, P = 0.004), TBARs levels (r = 0.32, P = 0.003) and positively correlated with ISI (r = 0.35, P = 0.001) and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol levels (r = 0.35, P = 0.0011) in the hyperthyroid and MNG groups.
Iatrogenic thyroid hormone excess seems to mimic the effects of endogenous thyroid hormone excess on paraoxonase activity, insulin sensitivity and oxidative stress. These findings suggest that TSH suppression with levothyroxine may increase oxidative stress and LDL oxidation and thereby promote atherogenesis.
The repeated administration of nicotine at small doses, which do not produce whole body tremor or convulsion, causes tremor only in the tail (tail-tremor) of rats. The tremor is accompanied by locomotor hyperactivity without rigidity and immobility of the whole body, suggesting that the nicotine-induced tail-tremor model is useful for studying the mechanism underlying tremor associated with movement. The tail-tremor induced by nicotine was suppressed by mecamylamine, a nicotinic antagonist, but not by atropine or scopolamine, muscalinic antagonists. Moreover, the tail-tremor was suppressed by the beta-blockers propranolol and pindolol, as well as the benzodiazepines diazepam and clonazepam. Tremor at rest is observed only in Parkinson's disease, which is improved with anti-muscalinic drugs. Essential tremor is one of the typical tremors connected with movement (postural and kinetic tremor) and is improved with beta-blocker. These findings and results suggest that nicotine-induced tail-tremor is useful for the study of essential tremor in animal models.
The nephrotoxicity of dactimicin, the first aminoglycoside possessing the N-formimidoyl group, was compared with that of astromicin and, in part, amikacin, ribostamycin, kanamycin and gentamicin as reference aminoglycoside antibiotics. When a dose of 200 mg/kg was given intramuscularly to dehydrated mice, dactimicin caused no change of BUN and serum creatinine, while reference aminoglycosides caused significant elevations of the parameters. In the urinalysis of rats at doses of 40 and 80 mg/kg per day for 11 days or 21 days, dactimicin caused little changes in urinary parameters except for nucleated cells and NAG. In a detailed comparison between dactimicin and astromicin at 20, 40, 80, 120, 180 and 270 mg/kg for 11 or 30 days, dactimicin induced fewer changes in nucleated cells and NAG at high dosages. While dactimicin and astromicin caused no significant changes in BUN and serum creatinine at dosages of 20-270 mg/kg, histological observations using light and electron microscopes revealed that dactimicin consistently showed fewer lesions on the proximal tubular cells than those of astromicin for all dosages. When injected intramuscularly in rats, dactimicin and astromicin showed a similar distribution in the blood and main organs, except for the kidney, in which renal accumulation of dactimicin was about 60% of that of astromicin. Dactimicin slowly degraded in vitro and in vivo to give fortimicin B as a main product which was accumulated in the kidney. Through comparative studies with astromicin, it was disclosed that the N-formimidoyl group of dactimicin did not increase but decreased the nephrotoxicity, probably by suppressing reabsorption of dactimicin via proximal tubular cells.
We sought to determine the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) and evaluate the toxicities and clinical activity of two irinotecan (CPT-11), fluorouracil (FU), leucovorin (LV), and oxaliplatin schedules in patients with advanced solid tumors. Additionally, we investigated the effect of CPT-11 on oxaliplatin pharmacokinetics.
Thirteen patients (cohort 1) received intravenous CPT-11 (infusion) and FU/LV (bolus) on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 and oxaliplatin (infusion) on days 1 and 15 every 6 weeks for a total 37 courses (median, three courses) at three dose levels. Twenty-two cohort 2 patients received intravenous CPT-11/oxaliplatin (infusion, day 1) and FU/LV (90-minute bolus infusion, days 2 to 5) every 3 weeks for a total of 122 courses (median, four courses) at three dose levels. Pharmacokinetic and neurotoxicity assessments were performed at the cohort 2 MTD.
Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) seen in both cohorts at the starting dose required dose de-escalation. Cohort 1 DLT included diarrhea and neutropenia. In cohort 2, diarrhea, vomiting, dehydration, neutropenia, febrile neutropenia, and paresthesias were DLTs. Antitumor activity was seen in both cohorts. In cohort 2, the total platinum area under the curve of patients increased 17% in cycle 2 (P =.048), but objective neurotoxicity was not seen.
The toxicities resulting from the addition of oxaliplatin to CPT-11/FU/LV are significant but manageable. The MTDs for the weekly schedule are CPT-11 (75 mg/m2), oxaliplatin (50 mg/m2), FU (320 mg/m2), and LV (20 mg/m2); and, for the 3-weekly schedule, the MTDs are CPT-11 (175 mg/m2), oxaliplatin (85 mg/m2), FU (240 mg/m2), and LV (20 mg/m2). Second-cycle platinum accumulation raises the possibility for enhanced cumulative neurotoxicity with CPT-11/oxaliplatin combinations.
Posterior leukoencephalopathy syndromes have been reported with hypertension, and immunosuppressive and chemotherapy agents. Cerebral vasospasm on MR angiography (MRA) has been noted in cases due to eclampsia. The authors report a case of Balint syndrome with irreversible posterior leukoencephalopathy on MRI following intrathecal methotrexate and cytarabine. Hypertension was not present. Diffuse, reversible arterial irregularities consistent with vasospasm were present on MRA during the acute illness.
Alterations in haemostasis are frequently observed in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). It was the objective of this study to analyse age-related disturbances in coagulation and fibrinolysis parameters during the induction phase of the antileukemic treatment. Sixty-four children were classified by age into three groups (1-5, 6-10, 11-16 years), and studied during induction treatment of ALL including four weeks of dexamethasone, followed by two weeks tapering of dexamethasone during which 6,000 IU/m(2) native L-Asparaginase (total 4 doses) was administered intravenously twice weekly. Blood samples were collected immediately before each L-Asparaginase infusion to analyze procoagulant (fibrinogen, factor [F] II, FV, FVII, F IX, F X) and anticoagulant factors (antithrombin [AT], protein C, protein S), parameters of thrombin generation (F1+2, TAT) and fibrinolysis (alpha2-antiplasmin, plasminogen, PAP, D-dimer). Children were in a hypercoagulable state after four weeks of dexamethasone due to upregulation of coagulation parameters. Upregulation was highest in the two youngest age groups. During L-Asparaginase treatment the 11- to 16-year-olds showed lower values in procoagulant and, even more, in anticoagulant factor levels compared to the younger children. Activation markers of thrombin generation and fibrinolysis did not change over time during the study period. Decreased synthesis of alpha2-antiplasmin and plasminogen during L-Asparaginase treatment resulted in less potential of clot lysis by plasmin in children older than 11 years of age. In conclusion, a more severe decline of anticoagulant and fibrinolytic parameters in children between 11 and 16 years of age underline that these children are at higher risk of thrombosis during ALL induction treatment.
Melphalan is widely used in the chemotherapeutic treatment of an ovarian cancer. Bone marrow depression, nail change, hypersensitivity, chronic pulmonary fibrosis, and nausea and vomiting, are the side effects reported as a result of the toxicity of Melphalan. So far as we know, renal toxicity caused by Melphalan has not been reported in the past literature. A case of acute renal failure induced by Melphalan in a patient with 3rd stage ovarian cancer is presented in this paper. This therefore is the first report of renal toxicity caused by Melphalan.
Volume-pulse digital plethysmography performed under ideal conditions on relatively fit adults has shown that lorazepam 4 mg intravenously abolishes the vasoconstriction of fear and restores the digital vasodilatation of the tranquil mind. The sedative effect of the drug is prolonged and is associated with several hours of anterograde amnesia from the time of its administration. The drug has no effect on the vasoconstrictor reaction to cold, pain, noise or other forms of adrenergic stimuli. Lorazepam seems to modify or prevent the psychomotor reactions which may complicate ketamine anaesthesia.
The treatment of a migraine attack can be difficult when first-line medication is unsuccessful and options for parenteral "rescue" therapy are limited.
A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, dose-ranging, multicenter study was conducted to assess the efficacy and tolerability of droperidol 0.1 mg, 2.75 mg, 5.5 mg, and 8.25 mg for the acute treatment of moderate to severe migraine headache in adults.
A total of 331 patients were enrolled; 305 were treated. Headache response at 2 hours was better (p < 0.002) in the treatment groups receiving droperidol IM at doses of 2.75 mg (87%), 5.5 mg (81%), and 8.25 mg (85%) compared with placebo (57%). The percent of patients achieving a pain-free response at 2 hours after treatment was significantly greater than placebo for the droperidol 2.75-mg, 5.5-mg, and 8.25-mg dose groups. The frequency of headache recurrence (within 24 hours) for patients initially responding by 2 hours was lower in patients treated with droperidol than placebo, but differences failed to reach significance. A significantly greater percentage of patients receiving droperidol 2.75 mg reported the elimination of migraine-associated symptoms (nausea, vomiting, photophobia, and phonophobia) than those who received placebo. Although most adverse events were of mild or moderate intensity, anxiety, akathisia, and somnolence were rated as severe in 30% of patients who experienced those symptoms. Hypotension was uncommon. No patient had QT prolongation.
Intermittent preventive treatment with sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine (IPT-SP) is currently the recommended regimen for prevention of malaria in pregnancy in endemic areas. This study sets out to evaluate the effectiveness of IPT-SP in the prevention of maternal and placental malaria in parturient mothers in Ibadan, Nigeria, where the risk of malaria is present all year round.
During a larger study evaluating the epidemiology of congenital malaria, the effect of malaria prophylaxis was examined in 983 parturient mothers. Five hundred and ninety eight mothers (60.8%) received IPT-SP, 214 (21.8%) received pyrimethamine (PYR) and 171 (17.4%) did not take any chemoprophylactic agent (NC).
The prevalence of maternal parasitaemia in the IPT-SP, PYR and NC groups was 10.4%, 15.9% and 17% respectively (p = 0.021). The prevalence of placental parasitaemia was 10.5% in the IPT-SP, 16.8% PYR and 17% NC groups, respectively (p = 0.015). The prevalence of maternal anaemia (haematocrit <30%) was 5.7% vs. 8.9% vs. 13.4% among the IPT-SP, PYR and NC groups respectively (p < 0.0001) while that of pre-term delivery (GA <37 weeks) was 10.5%, 19.2% and 25.3% among IPT-SP, PYR and NC groups respectively (p < 0.0001). Babies born to mothers in the IPT-SP, PYR and NC groups had mean birth weights of 3204 +/- 487.16, 3075 +/- 513.24 and 3074 +/- 505.92 respectively (rho < 0.0001). There was a trend towards a lower proportion of low birth weight babies in the IPT-SP group (p = 0.095).
IPT-SP is effective in preventing maternal and placental malaria as well as improving pregnancy outcomes among parturient women in Ibadan, Nigeria. The implementation of the recently adopted IPT-SP strategy should be pursued with vigour as it holds great promise for reducing the burden of malaria in pregnancy in Nigeria.
To determine under what circumstances hypertension is associated with brain oedema, the specific gravity of the brain was measured in acutely hypertensive, renal hypertensive and spontaneously hypertensive rats. Maximum mean arterial pressure (MAP) in acute hypertension induced by intravenous amphetamine or bicuculline was 171 +/- 5 and 181 +/- 5 mmHg respectively. In spite of pronounced extravasation of Evans blue-albumin, there was no decrease in specific gravity except in the diencephalon in rats given bicuculline (p less than 0.05). Cortical and cerebellar samples from renal hypertensive rats (MAP 174 +/- 14 mmHg) were lighter than corresponding regions in normotensive rats (p less than 0.001) although the brains showed little or no macroscopic extravasation of Evans blue-albumin. Neither macroscopic protein leakage nor increase in water content was observed in brains from spontaneously hypertensive rats (MAP 210 +/- 5 mmHg). It is concluded that renal hypertension is more likely to lead to brain oedema than spontaneous genetic hypertension or acute hypertension.
