We describe a patient without a previous history of migraine or epilepsy and with no known vascular risk factors, who suffered subarachnoid haemorrhage. During vertebral angiography using nonionic contrast medium (iohexol), spasm of the basilar artery was seen. The patient suffered transient global amnesia. Angiography 3 months later with the same contrast medium was normal and produced no further deficit. This case lends support to the supposed ischaemic aetiology of transient global amnesia; in patients without other evidence of cerebrovascular disease, arterial spasm may be responsible.
We investigated the functional mechanisms underlying the expression of inducible nitric oxide (NO) synthase (iNOS) in the rat small intestine following the administration of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and found a correlation with the intestinal ulcerogenic properties of NSAIDs. Conventional NSAIDs (indomethacin, diclofenac, naproxen, and flurbiprofen), a selective cyclooxygenase (COX)-1 inhibitor (SC-560) and a selective COX-2 inhibitor (rofecoxib) were administered p.o., and the intestinal mucosa was examined 24 hours later. Indomethacin decreased prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) production in the intestinal mucosa and caused intestinal hypermotility and bacterial invasion as well as the upregulation of iNOS expression and NO production, resulting in hemorrhagic lesions. Other NSAIDs similarly inhibited PGE2 production and caused hemorrhagic lesions with intestinal hypermotility as well as iNOS expression. Hypermotility in response to indomethacin was prevented by both PGE2 and atropine but not ampicillin, yet all these agents inhibited not only bacterial invasion but also expression of iNOS as well, resulting in prevention of intestinal lesions. SC-560, but not rofecoxib, caused a decrease in PGE2 production, intestinal hypermotility, bacterial invasion, and iNOS expression, yet this agent neither increased iNOS activity nor provoked intestinal damage because of the recovery of PGE2 production owing to COX-2 expression. Food deprivation totally attenuated both iNOS expression and lesion formation in response to indomethacin. In conclusion, the expression of iNOS in the small intestine following administration of NSAIDs results from COX-1 inhibition and is functionally associated with intestinal hypermotility and bacterial invasion. This process plays a major pathogenic role in the intestinal ulcerogenic response to NSAIDs.
Thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA) is one of the severe complications after stem cell transplantation (SCT) and is associated with graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis including FK506. In this study, we experimented on rats using FK506 to demonstrate the occurrence of intestinal TMA. FK506 was administrated into Wistar/ST rats intraperitoneally for 7 days. Rats were examined histopathologically after FK506 injection using light and electron microscopy and immunohistochemistry. FK506 concentrations in whole blood were measured by enzyme immunoassay. In the acute phase, hemorrhagic lesions with multifocal erosions and crypt loss were found in the small intestines of all treated rats. Capillary vessels were dilated, and a few platelet thrombi were found. Electron microscopy demonstrated degenerative swelling of endothelial cells and platelet aggregates adhering to the vessel walls. In the later phase, epithelial regenerative failure, characterized by crypt ghosts, was found in the affected mucosa. Apoptotic epithelial cells were increased in number. The extent of intestinal injury was proportional to the whole blood levels of FK506. The intestinal lesions in rats were consistent with TMA and induced by the injection of FK506 alone. Apoptotic enteropathy was also observed and similar to intestinal GVHD. In this study, we established an intestinal TMA model induced by immunosuppressant (Tacrolimus) only without irradiation.
Clomipramine, haloperidol, and placebo were compared with baseline in the treatment of autism, and overall outcome, specific symptoms, and side effects were examined. It was hypothesized that clomipramine would be better tolerated than haloperidol and prove superior on a measure of stereotypy. Individuals with a DSM-IV diagnosis of autistic disorder (mean age, 16.3 years; range, 10-36 years) were randomly assigned, by using a Latin square design, to the following 7-week trials: placebo, clomipramine (mean daily dose, 128.4 mg; range, 100-150 mg), or haloperidol (mean daily dose, 1.3 mg; range, 1-1.5 mg). Data on 36 subjects were analyzed and taken together; the results favored haloperidol. In those patients who were able to complete a full therapeutic trial, clomipramine proved comparable to haloperidol in terms of improvement compared with baseline. However, significantly fewer individuals receiving clomipramine versus haloperidol were able to complete the trial (37.5% vs. 69.7%, respectively) for reasons related to both side effects and efficacy or behavior problems. In the intent-to-treat sample, which is perhaps more clinically relevant, only haloperidol proved superior to baseline on a global measure of autistic symptom severity, as well as specific measures for irritability and hyperactivity. Clomipramine did not seem more effective on a measure of stereotypy, nor was it better tolerated.
Cuprizone is used to obtain demyelination in mice. Cuprizone-treated mice show symptoms similar to several neurodegenerative disorders such as severe status spongiosus. Although it has a simple chemical formula, its neurotoxic mechanism is still unknown. In this work, we examined both physico-chemical properties and biological effects of cuprizone. Our results indicate that cuprizone has very complicated and misunderstood solution chemistry. Moreover, we show here the inability of cuprizone to cross neither the intestinal epithelial barrier nor the neuronal cell membrane, as well its high tolerability by cultured neurons. If added to mice diet, cuprizone does not accumulate in liver or in brain. Therefore, its neurotoxic effect is explainable only in terms of its capability to chelate copper, leading to chronic copper deficiency.
The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between polymorphism of the anglotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) gene and the blood pressure response to ACE inhibition in a hypertensive cohort. Imidapril (5-10 mg/day) or benazepril (10-20 mg/day) was administered for 6 weeks to 517 essential hypertensives. ACE gene polymorphism was examined by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method and the patients were classified as having the 190-bp deletion homozygous (DD) genotype, the 490-bp insertion homozygous (II) genotype, or the 490-bp insertion, 190-bp deletion heterozygous (ID) genotype. The achieved change in systolic and diastolic blood pressure (SBP and DBP) was analyzed for association with genotypes at the ACE gene locus. The DD genotype was observed in 132 patients (25.5%), the ID genotype in 255 patients (49.3%), and the II genotype in 130 patients (25.2%). The SBP reductions in the patients with the DD genotype, II genotype, and ID genotype were -14.5 +/- 12.7 mmHg, -14.3 +/- 13.1 mmHg and -14.0 +/- 12.2 mmHg, respectively (p = 0.94). The DBP reductions in the patients with the DD genotype, II genotype, and ID genotype were -8.7 +/- 7.4 mmHg, -8.7 +/- 7.7 mmHg and -8.5 +/- 6.7 mmHg, respectively (p = 0.96). There was no significant association between the ACE gene polymorphisms and the response to ACE inhibition. These results suggest that ACE genotype does not predict the blood pressure-lowering response to antihypertensive treatment with ACE inhibition.
Isoniazid (INH) is the cause of one of the most common serious drug overdoses and can cause severe metabolic acidosis. We report a case of INH overdose that is most notable because the patient survived without apparent sequelae after experiencing an extremely low pH level (6.49). This is the lowest reported pH level with patient survival. Toxicity and pharmacology of INH and various aspects of metabolic acidosis are discussed.
Phenylpropanolamine (PPA), a synthetic sympathomimetic that is structurally similar to amphetamine, is available over the counter in anorectics, nasal congestants, and cold preparations. Its prolonged use or overuse has been associated with seizures, intracerebral hemorrhage, neuropsychiatric symptoms, and nonhemorrhagic cerebral infarction. We report the case of a young woman who suffered a cerebral infarction after taking a single oral dose of PPA.
Ziram, a dithiocarbamate fungicide, is extensively used in crop protection. Daily oral doses of ziram (5 and 25 mg kg(-1) day(-1)) for 30, 60 and 90 days produced significant mortality in male rats. The fungicide also caused a significant increase in the thyroid:body weight ratio, histological changes, and a reduced activity of thyroid (125)I uptake and protein bound (125)I. However, the animals did not show any change in the clinical enzyme profile of the liver, serum and brain. It is believed that ETU, the degradation product of ziram and a known antithyroid compound, is the causative agent for the high mortality, as well as for the pronounced thyrostatic and hepatotoxic effects found in the experimental animals.
Glutathione transferase-P (GST-P) in rats is specifically expressed in precancerous lesions and in hepatomas induced by carcinogens or spontaneously arising hepatomas. GST-P expression in preneoplastic lesions is suppressed by peroxisome proliferators. To determine the mechanism of suppression of GST-P expression by peroxisome proliferators on a molecular level, we have analyzed the effects of peroxisome proliferators and their receptor (peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha, PPAR alpha) on GST-P expression. GST-P gene expression linked to a reporter gene was specifically suppressed by cotransfection with a PPAR alpha expression plasmid in the presence of the peroxisome proliferator, clofibrate. The target element of the suppression was a 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate-responsive element located 61 nucleotides upstream from the cap site, which is also internal to a Maf consensus binding sequence. Both Jun and Maf bind to this element and activate the gene having this element, but only Jun-activated expression was specifically inhibited by PPAR alpha. Expression of a transfected reporter gene linked to a PPAR-responsive element was inhibited by cotransfection with a Jun expression plasmid. These results suggest that PPAR alpha and Jun interact and share inhibitory activities, similar to Jun and the glucocorticoid receptor.
Focusing on the disposition of cyclosporin A (CsA) in the liver and intestine, effects of gentamicin-induced acute renal failure (ARF) on the decreased oral bioavailability of CsA were evaluated in rats. The area under the CsA concentration-time curve (AUC) in ARF rats after oral administration (5 mg/kg) significantly decreased by 43% as compared to the control, while the apparent oral clearance significantly increased by 76% of the control. The portal AUC of CsA in ARF rats with bile flow decreased by 67% as compared to the control rats. Without bile flow, the portal AUC of CsA in control rats decreased by 50% as compared to those with bile flow, whereas ARF rats without bile flow showed no notable change as compared to those with bile flow. The AUC of CsA mono-oxidative metabolite via CYP3A (M-OH) in ARF rats after oral or intravenous administration increased significantly by 84% or 241%, respectively, while there was no difference in the portal M-OH between control and ARF rats, suggesting that the elimination of M-OH was prolonged because of nephrotoxicity. Although the exsorption clearance of CsA from the blood circulation to the intestine after intravenous administration to ARF rats decreased significantly as compared to the control; and basolateral-to-apical transport of CsA through Caco-2 monolayers was significantly retarded in the presence of uremic toxins, there was no significant change in the total body clearance of CsA between ARF and control rats. Moreover, there were no effects of uremic toxins on the protein binding of CsA in plasma. These observations suggest that hepatic or intestinal CYP3A and P-glycoproteine (P-gp) are not likely to be concerned with lowering the oral bioavailability of CsA, and that bile function under the ARF condition induced by gentamicin is responsible for a marked decrease in the fraction absorbed of CsA in the small intestine.
Two recent studies have demonstrated that clotrimazole, a well-known potential antifungal agent, inhibits the in vitro growth of chloroquine-resistant strains of the malaria parasite, Plasmodium falciparum. In a previous study, we suggested that clotrimazole acts as an anti-malarial agent by inhibiting heme catabolism in the malaria parasite and by enhancing heme-induced membrane damage. In this paper, we examined the mechanism of action by measuring hemolysis as an indicator of membrane damage. Our results showed that clotrimazole does not promote the binding of heme to membranes, and that the enhancement of heme-induced hemolysis by clotrimazole is not caused by lipid peroxidation or by oxidation of thiol groups in membrane proteins. Instead, clotrimazole inhibits glutathione-dependent heme degradation, resulting in an enhancement of heme-induced hemolysis. We also found that clotrimazole increases the susceptibility of erythrocytes to hypotonic lysis in the presence of heme and that sucrose could inhibit hemolysis induced by heme-clotrimazole complexes. Thus, it appears that the enhancement of heme-induced hemolysis by clotrimazole in our experiments is due to a colloid osmotic hemolysis mechanism. The hydrophobicity and the large molecular size of the heme-clotrimazole complex might be key factors for induction of hemolysis.
The role of olanzapine in treatment-resistant schizophrenia is still unresolved. This article presents an open-label, prospective, 14-week trial with olanzapine in patients with schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder selected for unambiguous resistance to either clozapine or risperidone and to typical antipsychotics. Forty-three inpatients (mean age, 41.6 years; mean duration of illness, 21.7 years) were enrolled and treated after cross-titration from their previous antipsychotic treatment with olanzapine 10 to 40 mg daily without any concomitant antipsychotic medication. Patients were evaluated with the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS), the Clinical Global Impressions Scale, and the Extrapyramidal Symptom Rating Scale. The change with olanzapine treatment was associated with a PANSS total score improvement of 3.7 (SD = 15.6; not significant). There was a significant improvement for the PANSS cognitive and depression/anxiety factors, whereas the PANSS excitement factor worsened. The improvement rate was superior in patients receiving olanzapine doses higher than 20 mg. A total of 16.7% of patients reached response criteria set forth by a previous study. There was a significant decrease in extrapyramidal side effects (t = 2.04; p < 0.05) and statistically significant, yet modest, weight gain. These results indicate that olanzapine is only modestly effective in these severely treatment-resistant patients with schizophrenia. However, a trial with olanzapine can be recommended in these patients before moving to augmentation strategies, given the lack of proven alternatives and the observation that 16.7% of patients reached the response criteria.
Polyamine levels and diamine oxidase (EC 1.4.3.6) activity were studied in hypertrophic heart of spontaneously hypertensive rats as well as in the heart of Wistar rats during the development and regression of cardiac hypertrophy induced by isoproterenol administration. In spontaneously hypertensive rats, putrescine content and diamine oxidase activity were higher than those found in normotensive Kyoto-Wistar control rats. During the development of cardiac hypertrophy induced by isoproterenol, there was an increase in polyamine content and diamine oxidase activity. The administration of cycloheximide or actinomycin D prevented the increase in diamine oxidase activity during the first 24 h after isoproterenol administration, demonstrating that the rise in diamine oxidase activity was due to synthesis of new enzyme. Following the cessation of isoproterenol treatment, cardiac hypertrophy regressed and polyamine levels and diamine oxidase activity diminished toward control values. The administration of aminoguanidine to isoproterenol-treated rats caused in the heart an inhibition of diamine oxidase activity that led to an increase in putrescine level beyond the values found in animals given isoproterenol alone. The results suggest that the enhancement of diamine oxidase activity plays a role in the regulation of putrescine level in hypertrophic heart.
The objective of this longitudinal prospective cohort study was to determine whether level of prenatal cocaine exposure, or the interaction between level of prenatal cocaine exposure and contextual risk variables, was associated with a higher rate of infant-caregiver insecure attachment and disorganized attachment, or with alterations in infant crying or avoidant behavior, after controlling for prenatal exposure to alcohol, tobacco, and marijuana, the quality of the proximal caregiving environment, and other covariates. Subjects were 154 full-term 12-month-old infants (64 unexposed, 61 with lighter cocaine exposure, 29 with heavier cocaine exposure) and their primary caregivers from low-income, urban backgrounds. Exposure status was determined in the maternity ward by biologic assay (infant meconium and/or maternal or infant urine) and maternal self-report. At the 12-month follow-up visit, infants were videotaped with their primary caregiver in Ainsworth's Strange Situation. Reliable coders masked to exposure status scored videotapes for attachment variables, amount of crying, and level of avoidance. Contrary to popular perceptions, level of prenatal cocaine exposure was not significantly related to secure/insecure attachment status, disorganized attachment status, or rated level of felt security. Foster care status also was not associated with attachment status. However, heavier prenatal cocaine exposure, in interaction with maternal contextual variables (public assistance or multiparity) was associated with alterations in infant socio-affective behavior, including a higher level of behavioral disorganization, more avoidance of the caregiver, and less crying.
The role of mitochondria in Adriamycin (ADR) -induced heart failure and the protective effects of Sini Decoction (SND) were investigated.
SD rats were randomly divided into three groups, control group, heart failure group (model group) and SND group. ADR was injected in the rats of heart failure group and SND group by caudal vein. After injection, the rats in SND group were given SND (3.75/kg/d, p. o.). Three weeks later, cardiac function, mitochondrial swelling, content of malondialdehyde (MDA), activity of Mn SOD, Na+-K+ ATPase and Ca2+ ATPase were measured. The mRNA expression of Mn SOD was also detected by RT-PCR.
Compared with model group, the cardiac function, the activity and the mRNA expression of Mn SOD and the activity of Na+-K+ ATPase and Ca2+ ATPase were significantly elevated, while the degree of mitochondria swelling and the content of MDA were reduced in SND-treated rats.
The data suggests that oxidative stress is present in the mitochondria of myocardium in ADR-induced heart failure rats and it can be reduced by SND. The mechanism may be closely related to the protective effects on mitochondria.
Fifty-five children (34 boys, 21 girls; age range, 1 day to 18 years) with increased echogenicity of the renal medullary pyramids at ultrasound evaluation were identified. The clinical diagnoses associated with hyperechoic medullary pyramids could be separated based on the presence or absence of hypercalciuria. Patients with drug-induced hypercalciuria included 10 infants treated with furosemide, two treated with long-term steroid therapy, and one treated with excessive amounts of vitamin D. Other clinical conditions associated with hypercalciuria included renal tubular acidosis (n = 10), Bartter syndrome (n = 5), hyperparathyroidism (n = 3), Williams syndrome (n = 2) and medullary sponge kidney (n = 2). Ten children with transient renal insufficiency and three with sickle cell disease had normal urine calcium concentration. Isolated disease entities accounted for the remainder of cases. A specific diagnosis can usually be made in a patient with hyperechoic renal medullary pyramids by using a systematic clinical approach that includes evaluation of patient age, serum and urine calcium concentration, and renal function.
The effectiveness of clonidine or lignocaine in reducing the cardiostimulatory effects of ketamine was studied. A double-blind, randomized design was used in three groups of 20 patients each, of ASA grade 1 or 2 presenting for minor elective surgery. The clonidine group received 0.3 mg clonidine orally with the premedication while the lignocaine group received 1.5 mg.kg-1 lignocaine prior to induction. The third group formed the controls. All patients were induced with 2 mg.kg-1 ketamine intravenously. The systolic blood pressure in the clonidine group was significantly lower than that of both the control and lignocaine groups throughout the study (P < 0.05). It was concluded that clonidine was effective in reducing the hypertensive response to ketamine, whereas lignocaine had no effect.
We attempted to determine whether betanin (from natural pigments) that has antioxidant properties would be protective against fructose-induced diabetic cardiac fibrosis in Sprague-Dawley rats. Fructose water solution (30%) was accessed freely, and betanin (25 and 100 mg/kg/d) was administered by intra-gastric gavage continuously for 60 d. Rats were sacrificed after overnight fast. The rat blood and left ventricle were collected. In vitro antiglycation assay in bovine serum albumin/fructose system was also performed. In rats treated only with fructose, levels of plasma markers: glucose, insulin, HOMA and glycated hemoglobin rised, left ventricle collagen accumulated and cross-linked, profibrotic factor-transforming growth factor (TGF)-β1 and connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) protein expression increased, and soluble collagen decreased, compared with those in normal rats, showing fructose induces diabetic cardiac fibrosis. Treatment with betanin antagonized the changes of these parameters, demonstrating the antifibrotic role of betanin in the selected diabetic models. In further mechanistic study, betanin decreased protein glycation indicated by the decreased levels of protein glycation reactive intermediate (methylglyoxal), advanced glycation end product (N(ε)-(carboxymethyl) lysine) and receptors for advanced glycation end products (AGEs), antagonized oxidative stress and nuclear factor-κB activation elicited by fructose feeding, suggesting inhibition of glycation, oxidative stress and nuclear factor-κB activation may be involved in the antifibrotic mechanisms. Betanin also showed anitglycative effect in BSA/fructose system, which supported that anitglycation was involved in betanin's protective roles in vivo. Taken together, the potential for using betanin as an auxillary therapy for diabetic cardiomyopathy deserves to be explored further.
Coronary artery spasm occurred during thoracotomy under cervical epidural anesthesia in a 60-year-old male patient who had no prior history of myocardial ischemia. It is most likely that the administration of methoxamine induced the spasm. Hypotension and venodilatation induced by the epidural anesthesia and increased vagal tone might also contribute to the spasm.
The efficacies of trans-cinnamaldehyde (TC) and eugenol (EG) for reducing Salmonella enterica serovar Enteritidis colonization in broiler chickens were investigated. In three experiments for each compound, 1-day-old chicks (n = 75/experiment) were randomly assigned to five treatment groups (n = 15/treatment group): negative control (-ve S. Enteritidis, -ve TC, or EG), compound control (-ve S. Enteritidis, +ve 0.75% [vol/wt] TC or 1% [vol/wt] EG), positive control (+ve S. Enteritidis, -ve TC, or EG), low-dose treatment (+ve S. Enteritidis, +ve 0.5% TC, or 0.75% EG), and high-dose treatment (+ve S. Enteritidis, +ve 0.75% TC, or 1% EG). On day 0, birds were tested for the presence of any inherent Salmonella (n = 5/experiment). On day 8, birds were inoculated with ∼8.0 log(10) CFU S. Enteritidis, and cecal colonization by S. Enteritidis was ascertained (n = 10 chicks/experiment) after 24 h (day 9). Six birds from each treatment group were euthanized on days 7 and 10 after inoculation, and cecal S. Enteritidis numbers were determined. TC at 0.5 or 0.75% and EG at 0.75 or 1% consistently reduced (P < 0.05) S. Enteritidis in the cecum (≥3 log(10) CFU/g) after 10 days of infection in all experiments. Feed intake and body weight were not different for TC treatments (P > 0.05); however, EG supplementation led to significantly lower (P < 0.05) body weights. Follow-up in vitro experiments revealed that the subinhibitory concentrations (SICs, the concentrations that did not inhibit Salmonella growth) of TC and EG reduced the motility and invasive abilities of S. Enteritidis and downregulated expression of the motility genes flhC and motA and invasion genes hilA, hilD, and invF. The results suggest that supplementation with TC and EG through feed can reduce S. Enteritidis colonization in chickens.
Quinolone antibiotics have potentially serious proarrhythmic effects. The effects on intracardiac potassium channels result in QT interval prolongation, leading to torsades de pointes. Evidence suggests fluoroquinolones cause QT-mediated proarrhythmia, and weak evidence links ciprofloxacin with QT-mediated arrhythmias. Ciprofloxacin may be given to select patients because the agent is believed to be safer than other drugs in its class. We report two cases of unexplained cardiac arrest temporally related to ciprofloxacin administration. Two female patients (ages 44 and 67 years) developed marked QTc prolongation (QTc 590 and 680 ms) within 24 hours of ciprofloxacin administration, with recurrent syncope and documented torsades de pointes requiring defibrillation. The patients previously were stable with sotalol and amiodarone therapy for supraventricular arrhythmia without obvious QTc prolongation prior to ciprofloxacin therapy. Marked QTc prolongation and subsequent proarrhythmia became a clinical concern only after initiation of ciprofloxacin. In both cases, the QTc normalized after cessation of ciprofloxacin. Ciprofloxacin may cause QTc prolongation and rarely torsades de pointes. This effect is of particular concern in patients with predisposing factors, such as concomitant medications or underlying heart disease reflecting decreased repolarization reserve.
Gastric mucosal damage is directly associated with extracellular matrix degradation in which matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) play a crucial role. Remodeling of connective tissues and loss of tissue integrity due to the action of MMPs are reported in several inflammatory diseases, including gastric ulcer. Indomethacin-induced gastric ulceration involves the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and a reduction in MMP-2 transcription and translation. Our aim was to identify the mechanism for suppression of MMP-2 activity by ROS during acute ulceration and further to examine the possible actions of antioxidants, especially melatonin, during healing. Melatonin (N-acetyl-5-methoxytryptamine) blocked hydroxyl radical and nitrite anion generation, protein oxidation, mucosal cell disruption, and MMP-2 downregulation. In addition, suppression of MMP-2 activity by H2O2 in a dose- and time-dependent manner in vitro is blocked by melatonin, omeprazole, and curcumin. We observed that melatonin and other antioxidants (e.g., curcumin and omeprazole) offered gastroprotection in vivo by upregulation of suppressed MMP-2 expression and activity at the level of secretion and synthesis. Moreover, antioxidants reversed the suppression of MMP-2 expression by upregulation of MT1-MMP and downregulation of TIMP-2. Hence, we hypothesize that antioxidants exerted protection against H2O2-mediated inactivation and downregulation of MMP-2 expression during onset of indomethacin-induced ulceration.
Insomnia is a common problem for people with chronic pain. Cortical GABAergic neurons are part of the neurobiological substrate that underlies homeostatic sleep regulation. In the present study, we confirmed that sciatic nerve ligation caused thermal hyperalgesia and tactile allodynia in mice. In this experimental model for neuropathic pain, we found an increase in wakefulness and a decrease in non-rapid eye movement sleep under a neuropathic pain-like state. Under these conditions, membrane-bound GABA (γ-aminobutyric acid) transporters (GATs) on activated glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive astrocytes were significantly increased in the cingulate cortex, and extracellular GABA levels in this area after depolarization were rapidly decreased by nerve injury. Furthermore, sleep disturbance induced by sciatic nerve ligation was improved by the intracingulate cortex injection of a GAT-3 inhibitor. These findings provide novel evidence that sciatic nerve ligation decreases extracellular-released GABA in the cingulate cortex of mice. These phenomena may, at least in part, explain the insomnia in patients with neuropathic pain. Neuropathic pain-like stimuli suppress the GABAergic transmission with increased GABA (γ-aminobutyric acid) transporters located on activated astrocytes in the cingulate cortex related to sleep disturbance.
A series of 31 Parkinson's disease (PD) patients suffering from panic attacks (PA), late in the evolution of their disease, was analyzed from a group of 131 levodopa-treated PD patients. We found that many of motor, sensory, and vegetative symptoms, previously described as complicating phenomena in PD, constituted some of the symptoms of panic disorders. Comparing PA series with the series of PD patients who did not complain of PA, we discovered a clear-cut relationship of PA with the presence of standing/gait troubles (p < 0.001), depression (p < 0.001), and dyskinesias/fluctuations (p < 0.001). The patients of the PA series also presented a more precocious age of PD onset, were put on levodopa therapy earlier, and needed to be treated with higher doses of levodopa than the patients without PA. Finally, we hypothesize that PA could be considered to be a sort of abstinence syndrome from levodopa, because they appears mostly (90.3%) in the OFF phase of fluctuations, and are relieved administering new doses of levodopa or dopaminergic agonists. Nevertheless, we suggest PA are not directly related to the pharmacological properties of levodopa, but to alterations of the noradrenergic systems in the CNS.
We describe a 16-year-old boy who presented with palpitations for 1 week while being on isotretinoin treatment for nodulocystic facial acne for 3 months. Twenty four-hour Holter monitoring showed frequent premature atrial beats and episodes of nonsustained atrial tachycardia. He never had any episodes of palpitations previously. His complaints almost disappeared within a week after stopping the treatment. He remained asymptomatic since the discontinuation of the drug. The temporal relationship between isotretinoin treatment and patient's symptoms in the presence of documented arrhythmia suggests a drug-related cause. As a result, clinicians should be aware of the possible arrhythmogenic effect of isotretinoin.
Recurrent and spontaneous seizures in epilepsy result from poorly defined cell signaling aberrations thought to include synaptic and extracellular matrix remodeling. Here we have used a rat hippocampal kindling model to study cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) gene expression in epileptogenesis. COX-2, encoded in an early-response gene, increases in a synaptic activity-dependent fashion and also during kainic acid-induced hippocampal damage. We found that during kindling, COX-2 induction occurred initially only in hippocampal neurons, and then spread to neocortical neurons. When rats were rekindled 34 days later, this spreading of COX-2 expression persisted. Induction of hippocampal and neocortical cytosolic phospholipase A(2) (cPLA(2)), an enzyme that catalyzes the synthesis of COX-2 substrate arachidonic acid (AA), occurred after 4 days of stimulation during kindling and rekindling. Moreover the COX-2 selective inhibitor nimesulide attenuated kindling development. We conclude that neuronal COX-2 gene induction and cPLA(2) activation are key signaling events in epileptogenesis.
