The adjunctive use of 5-aminolevulinic acid (5-ALA) with intense pulsed-light (IPL) treatments has been suggested to increase the benefit of IPL for photoaging; however, to our knowledge, no controlled trials have been performed.
A prospective, randomized, controlled, split-face study was designed. Twenty subjects participated in a series of 3 split-face treatments 3 weeks apart in which half of the face was pretreated with 5-ALA followed by IPL treatment while the other half was treated with IPL alone. Two additional full-face treatments (with IPL alone) were then delivered 3 weeks apart. Assessment of global photodamage, fine lines, mottled pigmentation, tactile roughness, and sallowness (on a scale of 0-4) was performed by a blinded investigator before each treatment and 4 weeks after the final treatment. Patients also completed an assessment at the conclusion of the study comparing their results with pretreatment photographs.
All 20 volunteers completed the study. Pretreatment with 5-ALA resulted in more improvement in the global score for photoaging (16 [80%] subjects vs 9 [45%] subjects; P = .008) and mottled pigmentation (19 [95%] subjects vs 12 [60%] subjects; P = .008) than IPL treatment alone. More successful results were achieved on the side pretreated with 5-ALA compared with the side treated with IPL alone for fine lines (12 [60%] subjects vs 5 [25%] subjects; P = .008) and mottled pigmentation (17 [85%] subjects vs 4 [20%] subjects; P < .001). While there was noticeable improvement over baseline scores with respect to tactile roughness and sallowness, pretreatment with 5-ALA did not seem to enhance the results of the IPL treatment. The final investigator cosmetic evaluations (P=.0002) and subject satisfaction scores (P=.005) were significantly better for the 5-ALA-pretreated side. Both treatments were well tolerated, with little difference in the incidence or profile of adverse effects with or without 5-ALA pretreatment.
The adjunctive use of 5-ALA in the treatment of facial photoaging with IPL provides significantly greater improvement in global photodamage, mottled pigmentation, and fine lines than treatment with IPL alone, without a significant increase in adverse effects. This combination treatment enhances the results of photorejuvenation and improves patient satisfaction.
Butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) inactivates the appetite stimulating hormone octanoyl-ghrelin. The hypothesis was tested that BChE-/- mice would have abnormally high body weight and high levels of octanoyl-ghrelin. It was found that BChE-/- mice fed a standard 5% fat diet had normal body weight. However, BChE-/- mice fed a diet containing 11% fat became obese. Their obesity was not explained by increased levels of octanoyl-ghrelin, or by increased caloric intake, or by decreased exercise. Instead, a role for BChE in fat utilization was suggested.
Calcium antagonists are currently considered first-choice agents for treating hypertension. They are also active antianginal drugs. Their protective effects against ischaemia and their antiatherogenic potential, which have been demonstrated in various experimental models, may contribute to their preventive effect against the early atherosclerotic processes. However, their effects on survival and cardiovascular events have been inconsistent and controversial. Recent studies have suggested that mortality may be increased by short-acting agents. The effects of certain long-acting calcium antagonists may be different. In early clinical trials, nifedipine and nicardipine did not alter the progression of significant coronary artery narrowing, but did reduce the development of new atherosclerotic lesions. Nevertheless, the number of cardiovascular events was not decreased. The Multicenter Isradipine Diuretic Atherosclerosis Study (MIDAS) showed a higher incidence of angina and more frequent cardiovascular events in patients treated with isradipine. In the Prospective Randomized Evaluation of the Vascular Effects of Norvasc Trial (PREVENT), after 3 years' follow-up, progression of significant atherosclerotic lesions and the development of new lesions were not significantly altered by treatment with amlodipine. However, it would appear that quantitative angiography may not be appropriate for monitoring the progression of atherosclerosis. Because of arterial remodelling, angiographic images may not show changes in the arterial lumen, in arteries where intravascular ultrasound may detect important atherosclerotic plaques. High resolution B-mode ultrasonography of the carotid artery may be more informative, since carotid intima media thickness is strongly correlated with cardiovascular risk factors, the prevalence of cardiovascular disease, and the presence of atherosclerotic lesions at other arterial sites. In the PREVENT trial, carotid ultrasonography showed that intima media thickness was stabilised in the amlodipine group, while progression was uninterrupted in the placebo group. The mechanism of amlodipine in slowing the progression of intima media thickness may be related to its antiatherogenic effect, as well as to its effect on cellular growth and hyperplasia of the arterial wall. It is interesting to note that, as a secondary objective of the PREVENT trial, patients treated with amlodipine had fewer ischaemic events than those treated with placebo. The beneficial effects of amlodipine on arterial thickening and on the prevention of ischaemic events suggest that amlodipine may be recommended for the management of all patients with stable angina. A larger trial with a longer follow-up period should be performed in order to confirm the promising results of PREVENT.
To identify risk factors associated with positive HIV serostatus among African American women who smoke crack and/or inject drugs and who are not enrolled in drug treatment or another institutional setting.
Baseline interviews were conducted from June 1998 to June 2000 with 379 heterosexually active women (ages 18 to 59) who had been recruited for potential enrollment into an HIV intervention trial.
Adjusted for age and drug using status, women who expressed more difficulty saying no to sex with male partners were more likely to be HIV-positive (adjusted odds ratio [aOR]=3.08, 95% confidence interval [CI] 2.02, 4.83). Similarly, those who indicated greater communication with casual sex partner(s) were less likely to test positive (aOR=0.29, 95% CI 0.10, 0.89). Lower HIV internal control and a history of cuts or burns on lips due to crack smoking were also associated with positive serostatus, and were important confounders in the final multivariate model. A higher level of internal control was associated with a decreased likelihood of positive serostatus, while a history of cuts or burns on the lips was associated with an increased likelihood of HIV antibodies, even after controlling for the amount of oral sex.
A broad array of factors may promote or avert infection with HIV. The degree to which personal attributes and beliefs, and relationship characteristics contribute to the likelihood of infection must continue to be addressed. The importance of oral sex and presence of oral sores and their potential role in transmission was suggested.
Despite the excellent chemotherapeutic effect of 5-fluorouracil, its cytotoxicity and genotoxicity in normal cells remain a major problem. We sought to assess whether Bupleuri Radix extract enhances 5-fluorouracil-induced cytotoxicity in HepG2 hepatoma cells, while protecting normal blood lymphocytes. Bupleuri Radix, used for treatment of liver disease in oriental medicine, possesses antitumour properties; it induces apoptosis through cell arrest in tumour cells, but does not affect normal lymphocytes. In this study, we evaluated the protective and enhancing effects of Bupleuri Radix on 5-fluorouracil-induced cytotoxicity in HepG2 cells and normal lymphocytes. Treatment with Bupleuri Radix increased the micronuclei frequency and DNA damage, resulting from 5-fluorouracil treatment. However, when human lymphocytes were cotreated with Bupleuri Radix and 5-fluorouracil, the frequency of 5-fluorouracil-induced micronuclei decreased. Although the extent of 5-fluorouracil-induced DNA damage, determined by single-cell gel electrophoresis, increased after treating HepG2 cells with Bupleuri Radix, it decreased in normal lymphocytes. When cells were treated with 20 microM 5-fluorouracil and 200 microg/ml Bupleuri Radix simultaneously, Bax protein increased in HepG2 cells at 24 hr; however, p21 and p53 proteins were up-regulated in normal human lymphocytes. Cotreatment with 200 microg/ml Bupleuri Radix and 20 microM 5-fluorouracil resulted in cell arrest at the late G(1)/early S phase in HepG2 cells (55.80 +/- 0.19%) and normal lymphocytes (97.19 +/- 0.27%). In addition, Bupleuri Radix and 5-fluorouracil treatment increased mitochondria membrane potential collapse only in HepG2 cells (19.02%), while it was not changed in lymphocytes. In conclusion, our findings suggest that Bupleuri Radix may be effective as a therapeutic agent to treat hepatomas.
It was recently reported that arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) can induce complete remission in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). In this present article, the biological effect of (As(2)O(3)) on human cervical cancer HeLa cells and HeLa cells overexpressing Bcl-2 is studied. By MTT and colony forming ability assays, morphology alteration, flow cytometric analysis, DNA gel electrophoresis and in situ cell death detection (TUNEL), it was found that As(2)O(3) inhibited the growth of HeLa cells and induced G2/M arrest and apoptosis of the cells. RT-PCR, Northern blot, Western blot analysis revealed that As(2)O(3) induced HeLa cell apoptosis possibly via decreasing the expression of c-myc and viral genes. HeLa cells overexpressing Bcl-2 partly resist As(2)O(3) induced apoptosis, which might be relative to preventing the cells from As(2)O(3) caused G2/M block, downregulation of c-myc gene expression and inhibition of viral gene expression was also noted. However, it was found that As(2)O(3) at a high concentration could also induce apoptosis of HeLa cells overexpressing Bcl-2 possibly mainly via downregulating Bcl-2 expression and slightly inhibiting viral gene expression.
Pyridoxine hydrochloride, the antidote for isonicotinic acid hydrazide (INH)--induced seizures, is available in solution at a concentration of 100 mg/mL at a pH of less than 3. Pyridoxine is often infused rapidly in large doses for INH-induced seizures. Effects of pyridoxine infusion on base deficit in amounts given for INH poisoning have not been studied in human subjects. We hypothesized that this infusion would result in transient worsening of acidosis.
We conducted a randomized, controlled crossover trial in human volunteers. Five healthy volunteers (mean age, 35 years; range, 29 to 43 years) were randomized to receive intravenous placebo (50 mL of normal saline solution) or 5 g of pyridoxine (50 mL) over 5 minutes. A peripheral intravenous catheter was established in each arm, and a heparinized venous blood sample was obtained for base deficit at baseline and 3, 6, 10, 20, and 30 minutes after infusion. After at least a 1-week washout period, the volunteers were assigned to the alternate arms of the experiments, thus acting as their own control subjects. Data were analyzed by using the 2-tailed paired t test, controlling for multiple comparisons.
No difference was noted between groups at baseline. A statistically significant increased base deficit was noted after the pyridoxine infusion versus control at 3 to 20 minutes but not at 30 minutes (P =.1). Maximal mean increase in base deficit (2.74 mEq/L) was noted at 3 minutes.
A transient increase in base deficit occurs after the infusion of 5 g of pyridoxine in normal volunteers.
Chest pain in the setting of cocaine use poses a diagnostic dilemma. Dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE) is a widely available and sensitive test for evaluating cardiac ischemia. Because of the theoretical concern regarding administration of dobutamine in the setting of cocaine use, we conducted a pilot study to assess the safety of DSE in emergency department patients with cocaine-associated chest pain.
A prospective case series was conducted in the intensive diagnostic and treatment unit in the ED of an urban tertiary-care teaching hospital. Patients were eligible for DSE if they had used cocaine within 24 hours preceding the onset of chest pain and had a normal ECG and tropinin I level. Patients exhibiting signs of continuing cocaine toxicity were excluded from the study. All patients were admitted to the hospital for serial testing after the DSE testing in the intensive diagnostic and treatment unit.
Twenty-four patients were enrolled. Two patients had inadequate resting images, one DSE was terminated because of inferior hypokinesis, another DSE was terminated because of a rate-related atrial conduction deficit, and 1 patient did not reach the target heart rate. Thus, 19 patients completed a DSE and reached their target heart rates. None of the patients experienced signs of exaggerated adrenergic response, which was defined as a systolic blood pressure of greater than 200 mm Hg or the occurrence of tachydysrhythmias (excluding sinus tachycardia). Further suggesting lack of exaggerated adrenergic response, 13 (65%) of 20 patients required supplemental atropine to reach their target heart rates.
No exaggerated adrenergic response was detected when dobutamine was administered to patients with cocaine-related chest pain.
We have previously shown that deficiency in the biotransformation enzyme glutathione-S-transferase theta (GSTT1) is a risk factor for multiple myeloma (MM). The present case-control study of 102 MM patients and 205 controls revealed a significant trend in increasing risk of MM with inheritance of multiple putative 'high risk' genetic variants in related pathways of benzene detoxification. Individuals who carried polymorphisms for GSTT1 null and/or high activity microsomal epoxide hydrolase (mEH 113YY+139HR or 113YY+139RR or 113YH+139RR) and/or low activity NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1 187PS/SS) were 1.65, 2.49 and 13 times more likely to have MM (P(trend)=0.001).
The bronchospasmolytic action of proxyphylline given intravenously in a dosage of 16 mg/kg body weight was assessed by spirometry and bodyplethysmography in 12 patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Proxyphylline serum levels were estimated in parallel repeatedly. In the majority of patients a bronchospasmolytic effect could be established (lowering of airway resistance by 30% in 9 and by 40% in 7 patients). In some an action was demonstrated for up to 4 hours. There were no serious side effects and in particular no adverse cardiovascular reactions or skeletal muscular tremor.
Stroke is the leading cause of long term disability and the third leading cause of death in the US. Nearly $US40.9 billion (1997 values) are spent each year on direct and indirect stroke-related costs in the US alone. Length of hospital stay, hospital overheads and nursing-related and rehabilitation costs account for the majority of stroke-related expenditures. Intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) therapy for patients presenting within 3 hours from onset of ischaemic stroke was shown to improve outcome at 3 months by the National Institute of Neurological Disease and Stroke (NINDS) investigators using a dosage of 0.9 mg/kg. When the NINDS rt-PA Stroke Study results were examined using a Markov model, savings of $US4 to $US5 million (1996 values) per 1000 patients treated with rt-PA were projected. These savings were predicted to result from decreases in length of hospital stay, inpatient rehabilitation and nursing home costs, increases in the number of patients discharged directly to home and improvements in quality-adjusted life-years. Furthermore, a recent meta-analysis has documented that the institution of stroke units, consisting of multidisciplinary specialised stroke teams, also decreased length of hospital stay, death and dependency. Because only a minority of patients who have a stroke are currently eligible for thrombolysis, implementation of specialised and standardised stroke care may further enhance cost benefits and improve patient outcomes.
To analyze the relationship between genotype and phenotype of homozygous hemoglobin Constant Spring (Hb CS) in Guangxi province, and to explore the reasons of missed diagnosis and the methods for screening and diagnosing.
Screening Hb CS by acetate fibrous membrane electrophoresis with benzidine staining. Gene mutation of homozygous Hb CS by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and DNA sequencing.
Out of the 9 patients, 4 had no clinical symptoms, 2 showed mild anemia and splenomegaly, 3 were jaundice. Hemoglobin levels were normal or mild anemia. MCVs were normal or reduced. Peripheral blood smear of all the patients displayed hypochromia, anisocytosis, poikilocytosis and target cells. The quantities of HbA(2) + Hb CS were 4.3% - 6.72%, while HbA(2) < 2%. Gene analysis confirmed the diagnosis of homozygous Hb CS.
There was quite different in clinical symptoms, hematological parameters and hemoglobin quantifications for patients with homozygous Hb CS. They might have no clinical and hematological signs and looked like the phenotype of Hb H disease. Homozygous Hb CS was very easy to miss diagnosis. Gene analysis can be helpful.
Mechanisms of prostate cancer (CaP) recurrence during a combined androgen blockade (CAB) are poorly understood. Previously, the role of androgen receptor (AR) gene mutations underlying the CAB therapy relapse has been raised. To investigate the hypothesis that AR gene aberrations are involved in CAB relapse, 11 locally recurrent CaP samples from patients treated with orchiectomy and bicalutamide were analyzed for copy number changes and DNA sequence alterations of the AR gene by fluorescence in situ hybridization and single-strand conformation polymorphism, respectively. Altogether, base changes were detected in four tumors (36%). Three of them were missense mutations (G166S, W741C, M749I) and two were silent polymorphisms. Interestingly, none of the tumors had AR amplification. These data suggest that different AR variants are developed and selected for during various types of hormonal treatments, and also, that CAB achieved by orchiectomy and bicalutamide does not act as a selective force for AR amplification.
This article describes a series of experiments investigating the effects of systemic or intraprefrontal administration of serotonergic agents on ketamine induced memory deficits in rats. First, rats were trained on an operant autoshaping task. Immediately after training, rats were injected with different doses of drug or saline. Following drug administration, rats were tested after 1.5 h for short-term memory (STM) and 24 h for long-term memory (LTM) of conditioned response. An increase or decrease in number of conditioned responses was an index of retention. The major results of this work show that ketamine impaired STM and this effect was reversed, by either systemic or intraprefrontal cortex administration of the agonist 5-HT(1A/7) 8-OH-DPAT, the 5-HT receptor antagonists MDL100907 (5-HT(2A)), SB-399885 (5-HT(6)), and SB-269970 (5-HT(7)). The ketamine STM-impairment effect was not altered by the 5-HT(1A) antagonist WAY 100635 or the 5-HT(1B) antagonist SB-224289. Notably, prefrontal cortex inhibition of translation or transcription interrupted STM without affecting LTM suggesting different signaling mechanisms. The interacting effect of NMDA and serotonin agents in memory function is an interesting and important area of study; both receptors are considered to be important targets for the development of antipsychotic medication. Particularly, 5-HT(1A/7), 5-HT(2A) 5-HT(6), and 5-HT(7) receptors present in prefrontal cortex, represent important targets for development of drugs for the treatment of SMT-deficits.
The beneficial effects of antimuscarinics on detrusor overactivity and overactive bladder syndrome are exerted during bladder filling, when there is no parasympathetic outflow from the spinal cord. We tested the hypothesis that, if tolterodine exerts some of its effects on afferent nerves, the functional elimination of C-fiber afferents should affect the actions of the drug on urodynamic parameters.
The study was performed in normal female Sprague Dawley rats and rats treated with resiniferatoxin to eliminate vanilloid sensitive afferent nerves. Tolterodine was given intravenously to normal and resiniferatoxin treated animals. To test if tolterodine at the doses used affects efferent neurotransmission the drug was given to normal and resiniferatoxin treated animals in which detrusor activity was induced by apomorphine.
In resiniferatoxin treated animals (0.3 mg kg-1 subcutaneously) the mean micturition interval and volume, and mean residual volume increased significantly compared to those in controls. Baseline and micturition pressures in control and resiniferatoxin treated animals were similar, whereas threshold pressures were higher in resiniferatoxin treated animals. In controls 10 microg kg-1 tolterodine administered intravenously increased the mean micturition interval, bladder capacity and micturition volume. In resiniferatoxin treated rats 1 and 10 microg kg-1 tolterodine increased the mean micturition interval, bladder capacity and micturition volume. Subcutaneous administration of 100 microg kg-1 apomorphine induced detrusor overactivity in all rats. The AUC of intravesical pressure during the initial 10 minutes from the start of detrusor overactivity showed no difference between normal and resiniferatoxin treated rats with or without tolterodine pretreatment.
Tolterodine increased the micturition interval and bladder capacity in controls and in resiniferatoxin treated animals, suggesting that these effects were exerted independently of resiniferatoxin sensitive afferents. Tolterodine did not decrease the contractile effects of apomorphine at the doses used, suggesting that the drug had no effect on efferent neurotransmission during voiding.
The ability of aminoglycoside antibiotics to promote readthrough of eukaryotic stop codons has attracted interest in these drugs as potential therapeutic agents in human disorders caused by nonsense mutations. One disease for which such a therapeutic strategy may be viable is classical late infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (LINCL), a fatal childhood neurodegenerative disorder with currently no effective treatment. Premature stop codon mutations in the gene CLN2 encoding the lysosomal tripeptidyl-peptidase 1 (TPP-I) are associated with disease in approximately half of children diagnosed with LINCL. The aim of this study was to examine the ability of the aminoglycoside gentamicin to restore TPP-I activity in LINCL cell lines. In one patient-derived cell line that was compound heterozygous for a commonly seen nonsense mutation, Arg208Stop and a different rare nonsense mutation, approximately 7% of normal levels of TPP-I were maximally restored with gentamicin treatment. In other cell lines from patients that were compound heterozygous for Arg208Stop and a splice junction mutation, approximately 0.5% of maximal activity was restored. These results suggest that pharmacological suppression of nonsense mutations by aminoglycosides or functionally similar pharmaceuticals may have therapeutic potential in LINCL.
Ibuprofen is a peripherally acting nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug indicated fo ranalgesia, antipyresis, and various arthritic conditions. A solubilized 200 mg liquigel formulation of ibuprofen has been shown to have a more rapid rate of absorption compared with ibuprofen 200 mg tablets. Ibuprofen liquigels have a kinetic profile similar to ibuprofen suspension, with both a higher Cmax and an earlier tmax than any solid tablet. The objective of this single-dose, double-blind, triple-dummy, parallel-group study was to assess the time to onset of relief and overall analgesic efficacy of liquigel ibuprofen 400 mg, ketoprofen 25 mg compared with acetaminophen 1000 mg, and placebo in 239 patients with moderate or severe pain following third molar extractions. Treatments were compared over 6 hours using standard scales for pain intensity and relief and stopwatch onset of meaningful relief. All active treatments provided meaningful relief significantly faster compared with placebo. Ibuprofen provided significantly faster relief compared with acetaminophen and ketoprofen. By the end of the study (6 h), onset of meaningful relief was achieved by 36%, 99%, 96%, and 88% of the patients in the placebo, ketoprofen, ibuprofen, and acetaminophen groups, respectively. The median times to onset of relief were > 6 hours for placebo, 25.5 minutes for ketoprofen, 24.2 minutes for ibuprofen, and 29.9 minutes for acetaminophen. In addition, both ibuprofen and ketoprofen showed statistical superiority over acetaminophen at earlier time points on the time-effect curves for pain relief and pain intensity difference. Consistent results were seen with respect to the 6-hour summary efficacy variables: the three active treatments were significantly better than placebo, and ibuprofen was significantly better than both acetaminophen and ketoprofen. Liquigel ibuprofen 400 mg was shown to provide faster relief and superior overall efficacy compared with ketoprofen 25 mg, acetaminophen 1000 mg, and placebo. No serious adverse effects were reported in this single-dose study.
In Langendorff-perfused adult rat heart with constant pressure at 80 mmHg, we found doxazosin, an alpha(1) adrenoceptor blocker, at 10 muM prolonged PR interval and induced occasional arrhythmia followed by complete inhibition of the sinus rhythm, whereas bunazosin, another alpha(1)-blocker, at same concentration did not. The results of voltage-clamp study showed that, at the concentration of 10 muM, doxazosin inhibited I (Na), I ( (Ca,L) ), I (to), and Iss without changing I (k1) but bunazosin only inhibited I ( (Ca,L) ) about 30%. Doxazosin also caused markedly negative shift of the I (Na) inactivation curve. In current-clamp study, doxazosin prolonged action potential duration in association with the decreased action potential amplitude and upstroke velocity, whereas bunazosin did not. We hypothesize that doxazosin-induced arrhythmia may result from the heterogeneous or different level of I ( (Ca,L) ) blockade of AV nodal tissue. In conclusion, the present study suggests that bunazosin is safer than doxazosin for long-term treatment in view of electrophysiological effect. However, the underlying mechanism of doxazosin induced nodal arrhythmia is still needed to be determined.
Acute granulomatous interstitial nephritis and acute granulomatous hepatitis were simultaneously observed in the same patient. Clinical and anamnestic arguments suggest that allopurinol could be responsible for this double localization, but a possible part played by furosemide cannot be excluded. The patient spontaneously recovered without corticosteroid therapy. Such an acute drug induced association did not have been proved so far.
We began a clinical trial in African Americans comparing sirolimus-tacrolimus to standard immunosuppression. We report two African American male living donor kidney recipients who developed acute renal failure after exposure to sirolimus-tacrolimus.
Both patients received similar doses of sirolimus and tacrolimus to achieve target levels of 5 to 15 ng/mL and prednisone in tapering doses. Renal function and tacrolimus and sirolimus levels were systematically monitored.
Although both kidneys functioned immediately, acute oliguric renal failure developed approximately 2 weeks after transplantation. Transplant kidney biopsy showed acute tubular necrosis in patient 2. Sirolimus-tacrolimus was then stopped in both patients. Both patients required temporary hemodialysis. Renal function returned 2 weeks later and was normal 2 months after transplantation on tacrolimus plus mycophenolate mofetil.
Combination sirolimus-tacrolimus may cause nephrotoxicity in some patients by mechanisms that are presently unexplained.
Krüppel-like factor 4 (Klf4) is a transcription factor involved in differentiation and proliferation in multiple tissues. We demonstrated previously that tamoxifen-induced deletion of the Klf4 gene in mice accelerated neointimal formation but delayed down-regulation of smooth muscle cell differentiation markers in carotid arteries following injury. To further determine the role of Klf4 in the cardiovascular system, we herein derived mice deficient for the Klf4 gene in smooth and cardiac muscle using the SM22alpha promoter (SM22alpha-CreKI(+)/Klf4(loxP/loxP) mice). SM22alpha-CreKI(+)/Klf4(loxP/loxP) mice were born at the expected Mendelian ratio, but they gradually died after birth. Although approximately 40% of SM22alpha-CreKI(+)/Klf4(loxP/loxP) mice survived beyond postnatal day 28, they exhibited marked growth retardation. In wild-type mice, Klf4 was expressed in the heart from late embryonic development through adulthood, whereas it was not expressed in smooth muscle. No changes were observed in morphology or expression of smooth muscle cell differentiation markers in vessels of SM22alpha-CreKI(+)/Klf4(loxP/loxP) mice. Of interest, cardiac output was significantly decreased in SM22alpha-CreKI(+)/Klf4(loxP/loxP) mice, as determined by magnetic resonance imaging. Moreover, a lack of Klf4 in the heart resulted in the reduction in expression of multiple cardiac genes, including Gata4. In vivo chromatin immunoprecipitation assays on the heart revealed that Klf4 bound to the promoter region of the Gata4 gene. Results provide novel evidence that Klf4 plays a key role in late fetal and/or postnatal cardiac development.
Isoniazid-induced seizures resulted in rhabdomyolysis and associated acute renal tubular necrosis in a dog. Rhabdomyolysis and myoglobinuric renal failure, although recognised in the dog, are reported infrequently as a consequence of seizures. The clinical presentation of isoniazid toxicity in a dog is described.
Apc gene-deficient Min and Apc(1309) mice feature a hyperlipidemic state with a markedly low expression level of lipoprotein lipase (LPL) compared to their wild-type counterparts. We previously showed that induction of LPL mRNA by peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) alpha and gamma agonists or an LPL selective inducer suppresses both high serum lipid levels and intestinal polyp formation in these model animals. Since the general cyclooxygenase inhibitor, indomethacin, is known to suppress intestinal tumor development, but not to affect serum lipids, its influence in Min mice was here investigated. Treatment with 2.5, 5 and 10 ppm indomethacin in the diet for 14 weeks from 6 weeks of age caused significant dose-dependent reduction in serum triglycerides, along with a reduction in the numbers of intestinal polyps to 25% of the untreated control value. LPL mRNA levels in the liver were slightly increased by indomethacin treatment. We further performed oligonucleotide microarray analysis and quantitative PCR analysis and found 8 lipid metabolism-related genes, regulated by sterol regulatory element binding protein-1c, to be modulated by indomethacin-treatment in the Min mouse liver. Furthermore, TNFalpha was downregulated. These results indicate that indomethacin might suppress intestinal tumor formation together with a hyperlipidemic state by regulating LPL and other lipid metabolic factors.
We investigated whether chronic deficiency of nitric oxide (NO) in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRSP) precipitates stroke and whether exogenous nitrates and other pharmacological agents can prevent stroke. Groups of five-week-old male SHRSP rats chronically received saline, L-nitro-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) in saline, L-NAME along with pharmacological agents (L-arginine, isosorbide dinitrate, enalapril maleate and L-158,809; angiotensin receptor antagonist; 5,7-dimethyl-2-ethyl-3(-)[[2'-(1H-tetrazol-5-yl)biphenyl-4-yl]meth yl]-imidazo[4,5-b]pyridine) in saline to drink. The development of visible neurological deficits following various treatments was considered as an occurrence of stroke. Within hours following onset of stroke, the rats were anesthetized, catheterized and attached to a Cardiomax blood pressure recorder. SHRSP treated with L-NAME (10+/-2 mg/day) developed stroke in 11+/-2 days while no neurological deficit was seen in animals receiving saline till the end of the study period (35 days). Blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with enalapril or L-158,809 significantly delayed the onset of stroke (19+/-2 and 20+/-2 days, respectively), but caused only slight reductions in mean arterial blood pressure. These results suggest that chronic inhibition of NO synthase in SHRSP is associated with the development of stroke and such stroke appears to be renin-angiotensin system-dependent.
Cadmium (Cd), a toxic heavy metal and carcinogen that is abundantly present in cigarette smoke, is a cause of smoking-induced lung disease. SLC39A8 (ZIP8), a zinc transporter, is a major portal for Cd uptake into cells. We have recently identified that ZIP8 expression is under the transcriptional control of the NF-κB pathway. On the basis of this, we hypothesized that cigarette-smoke induced inflammation would increase ZIP8 expression in lung epithelia, thereby enhancing Cd uptake and cell toxicity. Herein we report that ZIP8 is a central mediator of Cd-mediated toxicity. TNF-α treatment of primary human lung epithelia and A549 cells induced ZIP8 expression, resulting in significantly higher cell death attributable to both apoptosis and necrosis following Cd exposure. Inhibition of the NF-κB pathway and ZIP8 expression significantly reduced cell toxicity. Zinc (Zn), a known cytoprotectant, prevented Cd-mediated cell toxicity via ZIP8 uptake. Consistent with cell culture findings, a significant increase in ZIP8 mRNA and protein expression was observed in the lung of chronic smokers compared with nonsmokers. From these studies, we conclude that ZIP8 expression is induced in lung epithelia in an NF-κB-dependent manner, thereby resulting in increased cell death in the presence of Cd. From this we contend that ZIP8 plays a critical role at the interface between micronutrient (Zn) metabolism and toxic metal exposure (Cd) in the lung microenvironment following cigarette smoke exposure. Furthermore, dietary Zn intake, or a lack thereof, may be a contributing factor in smoking-induced lung disease.
Toluene, a widely used and commonly abused organic solvent, produces various behavioral disturbances, including motor incoordination and cognitive impairment. Toluene alters the function of a large number of receptors and ion channels. Blockade of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors has been suggested to play a critical role in toluene-induced behavioral manifestations. The present study determined the effects of various toluene doses on motor coordination, recognition memory, body temperature, and intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) thresholds in mice. Additionally, the effects of sarcosine on the behavioral and physiological effects induced by toluene were evaluated. Sarcosine may reverse toluene-induced behavioral manifestations by acting as an NMDA receptor co-agonist and by inhibiting the effects of the type I glycine transporter (GlyT1). Mice were treated with toluene alone or combined with sarcosine pretreatment and assessed for rotarod performance, object recognition memory, rectal temperature, and ICSS thresholds. Toluene dose-dependently induced motor incoordination, recognition memory impairment, and hypothermia and lowered ICSS thresholds. Sarcosine pretreatment reversed toluene-induced changes in rotarod performance, novel object recognition, and rectal temperature but not ICSS thresholds. These findings suggest that the sarcosine-induced potentiation of NMDA receptors may reverse motor incoordination, memory impairment, and hypothermia but not the enhancement of brain stimulation reward function associated with toluene exposure. Sarcosine may be a promising compound to prevent acute toluene intoxications by occupational or intentional exposure.
Multiple epiphyseal dysplasia (MED) is an autosomal dominantly inherited chondrodysplasia. It is clinically highly heterogeneous, partially because of its complex genetic background. Mutations in four genes, COL9A2, COL9A3, COMP, and MATR3, all coding for cartilage extracellular matrix components (i.e., the alpha2 and alpha 3 chains of collagen IX, cartilage oligomeric matrix protein, and matrilin-3), have been identified in this disease so far, but no mutations have yet been reported in the third collagen IX gene, COL9A1, which codes for the alpha1(IX) chain. MED with apparently recessive inheritance has been reported in some families. A homozygous R279W mutation was recently found in the diastrophic dysplasia sulfate transporter gene, DTDST, in a patient with MED who had a club foot and double-layered patella. The series consisted of 41 probands with MED, 16 of whom were familial and on 4 of whom linkage analyses were performed. Recombination was observed between COL9A1, COL9A2, COL9A3, and COMP and the MED phenotype in two of the families, and between COL9A2, COL9A3, and COMP and the phenotype in the other two families. Screening of COL9A1 for mutations in the two probands from the families in which this gene was not involved in the recombinations failed to identify any disease-causing mutations. The remaining 37 probands were screened for mutations in all three collagen IX genes and in the COMP gene. The probands with talipes deformities or multipartite patella were also screened for the R279W mutation in DTDST. The analysis resulted in identification of three mutations in COMP and one in COL9A1, but none in the other two collagen IX genes. Two of the probands with a multipartite patella had the homozygous DTDST mutation. The results show that mutations in COL9A1 can cause MED, but they also suggest that mutations in COL9A1, COL9A2, COL9A3, COMP, and DTDST are not the major causes of MED and that there exists at least one additional locus.
