Psychiatric issues present a challenge in the treatment of patients with multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB). Both baseline psychiatric disorders and development of psychiatric complications related to anti-tuberculosis drugs and psychosocial factors require aggressive management.
A community-based non-governmental health organization in Lima, Peru.
To review the literature for psychiatric complications associated with anti-tuberculosis medications, to describe the incidence and prevalence of depression, anxiety and psychosis among individuals receiving MDR-TB therapy, and to detail the management approach used in this cohort.
A retrospective case series was performed among the first 75 patients to receive individualized MDR-TB therapy in Lima, Peru, between 1996 and 1999.
Baseline depression and baseline anxiety were observed in respectively 52.2% and 8.7% of this cohort. Most individuals with baseline depression experienced improvement of depressive symptoms during the course of TB therapy. The incidence of depression, anxiety and psychosis during MDR-TB treatment was 13.3%, 12.0% and 12.0%, respectively. While the majority of individuals with depression, anxiety and psychosis required psychiatric pharmacotherapy, cycloserine was successfully continued in all but one case.
Psychiatric comorbidities are not a contra-indication to MDR-TB therapy. Management of psychiatric complications is possible without compromising anti-tuberculosis treatment.
Troglitazone, a first-generation thiazolidinedione antidiabetic drug, was withdrawn from the market due to an unacceptable risk of idiosyncratic hepatotoxicity. Troglitazone does not cause hepatotoxicity in normal healthy rodents, but it produces mitochondrial injury in vitro at high concentrations. The aim of this study was to explore whether genetic mitochondrial abnormalities might sensitize mice to hepatic adverse effects of troglitazone. We used heterozygous superoxide dismutase 2 (Sod2(+/-)) mice as a model of clinically silent mitochondrial stress. Troglitazone was daily administered for 4 weeks (0, 10 or 30 mg/kg/day, ip). We found that troglitazone caused overt liver injury in the high-dose group, manifested by increased serum alanine aminotransferase activity (> twofold) and midzonal areas of hepatic necrosis, in Sod2(+/-) but not in wild-type mice. No signs of hepatotoxicity were apparent at 2 weeks of treatment. Hepatic mitochondria isolated from troglitazone-treated mice exhibited decreased activities of aconitase (by 45%) and complex I (by 46%) and increased (by 58%) protein carbonyls, indicative of enhanced mitochondrial oxidant stress. This was paralleled by compensatory increases in mitochondrial glutathione levels. Finally, in hepatocytes isolated from untreated Sod2(+/-), but not wild-type mice, troglitazone caused a concentration-dependent increase in superoxide anion levels as demonstrated with a selective mitochondria-targeting fluorescent probe. In conclusion, prolonged administration of troglitazone can superimpose oxidant stress, potentiate mitochondrial damage, and induce delayed hepatic necrosis in mice with genetically compromised mitochondrial function. These data are consistent with our hypothesis that inherited or acquired mitochondrial abnormalities may be one of the contributing determinants of susceptibility to troglitazone-induced idiosyncratic liver injury.
Recent progress in the development of inhibitors of human Type II s-PLA2 as potential anti-inflammatory agents is presented. While many companies have curtailed their efforts in the PLA2 area, Eli Lilly and Shionogi are continuing to advance LY-315920 (S-5920) as a potential treatment for sepsis and other diseases that have an inflammatory component. The Lilly developmental effort leading to LY-315920 is extensively reviewed, as well as the current status of other small molecular weight inhibitors of Type II s-PLA2 that have been reported to be in late-stage development
Stimulation of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1)-infected donor peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) via the TCR-CD3 complex induces HIV-1 production in vitro (Zarling JM, et al.: Nature [London] 1990;347:92; Haffar OK, et al.: J Virol 1992;66:4279; Moran PM, et al.: AIDS Res Hum Retroviruses 1993;9:455). However, in addition to the primary stimulatory signal delivered through the TCR-CD3 complex, optimal T cell activation requires secondary or costimulatory signals delivered via various T cell accessory proteins (Alton A, et al.: Adv Immunol 1990;48:227). In this article we explore the role of costimulation of T cells via CD28 in HIV-1 replication. Ligation of CD28 with either a CD28-specific MAb or by coculture of PBMCs with Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell lines stably expressing either of the CD28 counterreceptors, B7-1 (CD80) or B7-2 (CD86), concomitant with stimulation via CD3, results in increased virus replication compared to stimulation via CD3 alone. CD28 ligation also augments de novo infection of CD3-stimulated seronegative donor PBMCs with cell-free virus. Increased virus replication following CD28 ligation is not solely attributed to increased levels of endogenous IL-2, because addition of an anti-IL-2-neutralizing antibody only partially inhibits the response. In contrast, interfering with the interaction between CD28 and its counterreceptors on antigen-presenting cells (APCs) using CTLA4Ig effectively inhibits virus replication. At high concentrations CTLA4Ig also reduces cell proliferation. These in vitro results suggest that CD28 plays a central role in HIV-1 replication and that interfering with the CD28 costimulatory pathway may modify the course of HIV-1 infection.
Fanconi's syndrome with phosphopenic rickets is described in a 2-year-old girl who had been treated for an embryonal sarcoma with multiagent chemotherapy including high-dose ifosfamide. The radiological and biochemical signs of rickets disappeared after treatment with 25-OH vitamin D3 and phosphorus supplements. Monitoring of tubular function in children during and after treatment with ifosfamide is mandatory.
Twenty patients with pulmonary complications associated with combination chemotherapy regimens containing bleomycin were studied to determine common patterns of pulmonary radiographic abnormalities. All patients were receiving bleomycin on one of two different regimens of combination chemotherapy. Ten patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma received a relatively low dose (22-64 mg total) and 10 patients with testicular cancer received a higher dose (360 mg total). The high-dose group showed subclinical radiographic lung toxicity changes in eight (80%) patients during and after therapy. Chronic pulmonary abnormalities were seen in nine (90%) patients in the high-dose group but in only three (30%) patients in the low-dose group. These was no significant difference in the pattern and distribution of lung infiltrates in these two groups. Infiltrates involving mainly the costophrenic triangle were seen in 18 (90%) patients; in six (33%) of these the changes were confined to the costophrenic triangles bilaterally and nearly symmetrically. Five (25%) patients had infiltrates at the periphery of the lungs. Elevation of the diaphragm was seen in 16 (80%) patients. A pleural reaction without gross effusion was seen in nine (45%) patients, of whom five (55%) demonstrated thickening of the interlobar fissures. Chronic lung changes were mostly confined to the bases in the form of failure of reexpansion of the costophrenic triangle (55%), persistent elevation of the diaphragm (35%), and a reticular meshwork of fibrosis at the costophrenic triangles (25%). Minimal lung disease was manifest as ground glass appearance at the lung bases and as fine, linear or reticulonodular densities that involved the costophrenic triangles.
Tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) represents a novel promising anticancer biotherapeutic. However, TRAIL-resistant tumor cells require combinatorial regimens to sensitize tumor but not normal cells for TRAIL-induced apoptosis. Here, we investigated the mechanism of the synergistic antitumor effect of bortezomib in combination with TRAIL in hepatoma, colon, and pancreatic cancer cells in comparison to the toxicity in primary human hepatocytes (PHH). TRAIL cotreatment at high but clinically relevant concentrations of bortezomib caused toxicity in PHH which potentially limits the clinical applicability of bortezomib/TRAIL cotreatment. However, at low concentrations of bortezomib TRAIL-resistant hepatoma, colon and pancreatic cancer cell lines but not PHH were efficiently sensitized for TRAIL-induced apoptosis. RNA interference and TRAIL receptor blockage experiments revealed that in bortezomib-treated hepatoma cells TRAIL-R1/TRAIL-R2 up-regulation, enhanced TRAIL DISC formation and cFLIPL down-regulation in addition to accumulation of Bak cooperatively sensitized for TRAIL. Bim, although accumulated upon bortezomib treatment, did not play a causal role for TRAIL sensitization in Hep3b cells. Combined treatment with bortezomib and TRAIL massively reduced the clonogenic capacity of hepatoma cells in vitro. Surviving clones could be resensitized for repeated TRAIL treatment.
Bortezomib/TRAIL cotreatment bears the risk of severe hepatotoxicity at high but clinically relevant concentrations of bortezomib. However, within a wide therapeutic window bortezomib sensitized different cancer cells but not PHH for TRAIL-induced apoptosis.
Studies were performed in fasted rats to establish if the propensity of 4 non-steroidal anti-inflammatory (NSAI) drugs to elicit varying degrees of gastric mucosal damage following oral administration is related to their rate of absorption by the mucosal and subsequent inhibitory effects on prostaglandin (PG) production in vivo. Aspirin (200 mg/kg p.o.) and indomethacin (10 mg/kg p.o.) produced ultrastructural signs of damage at 10-60 min to the surface mucous cells, parietal cells and endothelial cells of sub-mucosal capillaries coincident with the relatively rapid absorption of the radiolabelled drugs and reduction in the mucosal content of PGE2 and 6-keto PGF1 alpha determined by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. Azapropazone (100 mg/kg p.o.) failed to elicit mucosal damage either ultrastructurally or even visually up to 23 h after dosing and did not affect the content of PG's even though the drug was present in the mucosa in sufficient concentration to elicit reduction in prostaglandin synthesis in vitro. Benoxaprofen (110 mg/kg p.o.) reduced the content of PGE2 and somewhat variably, that of 6-keto PGF1 alpha, was more slowly absorbed c.f. aspirin and indomethacin, but failed to elicit appreciable mucosal damage. These results show that while reduction in PG synthesis is a factor in the development of damage by ulcerogenic drugs, it appears that the rate of absorption or other biochemical effects (including e.g. influences on the production of oxyradicals or 5-lipoxygenase products of eicosanoid metabolism) may contribute to the relatively low irritancy of drugs such as azapropazone or benoxaprofen.
Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH)-induced hypertension in the rat is accompanied by increased oxidative stress. This study examines the enzymatic source of reactive oxygen species in ACTH-hypertension.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into 10 groups of 10-20 rats per group. The NAD(P)H oxidase inhibitor apocynin (1.5 mmol/L in drinking water) or the xanthine oxidase inhibitor allopurinol (200 mg/kg/day via food) were administered daily. After 4 days, rats were co-administered ACTH (0.2 mg/kg/day) or saline by subcutaneous injection daily for 11 days (prevention study). In a reversal study, ACTH/saline was administered for 13 days and from day 8, apocynin or allopurinol was added for 5 days. Systolic blood pressure (SBP) was measured by the tail-cuff method and oxidative stress using plasma F2-isoprostane concentrations. Results were expressed as mean+/-SEM.
ACTH increased SBP (P<.001) but apocynin or allopurinol alone had no effect. Apocynin (but not allopurinol) co-treatment prevented (142+/-3 ACTH, 120+/-4 mm Hg apocynin+ACTH, P'<0.001) and reversed ACTH-induced hypertension (133+/-4 to 118+/-5 mm Hg, P<.05). Plasma F2-isoprostane concentrations were increased in ACTH-treated rats compared with saline (11.9+/-1.0 vs 8.2+/-0.8 nmol/L, P<.01), and apocynin attenuated the ACTH-induced rise in plasma F2-isoprostane concentrations. Serum urate concentrations were undetectable in 75% of rats treated with allopurinol and were not affected by ACTH.
Apocynin but not allopurinol prevented and reversed ACTH-induced hypertension in the rat. These results suggest superoxide production through NAD(P)H oxidase plays a role in ACTH-induced hypertension.
Amoxycillin/clavulanic acid liver injury is very rare. We describe an exceptional case of intrahepatic cholestasis without hepatitis induced by amoxycillin/clavulanic acid. Recognition of this benign cholestatic syndrome as a side-effect may obviate unnecessary complementary and costly procedures.
In this paper, we report the case of a 6(1/2)-year-old male patient diagnosed with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) who developed orofacial and extremity dyskinesias immediately after methylphenidate treatment. The episode lasted 5 hours, peaking in intensity 2 hours after the medication was administered before gradually subsiding. Five hours after the methylphenidate was administered, the child became extremely irritated and aggressive, which lasted approximately 2 hours. The patient's general intelligence (IQ) was measured to be below the normal range. The potential relationship between methylphenidate intake and the development of dyskinesia calls into question different mechanisms involving drug-receptor interaction or individual drug sensitivity related to a lower IQ. Our case report has practical implications for physicians by raising their awareness of dyskinesia as a potential side effect of methylphenidate treatment.
Rifampicin is one of the most effective antibiotics used for the treatment of tuberculosis and severe staphylococcal infections. Intermittent administration of high doses of rifampicin has been associated with frequent adverse reactions, including hepatotoxicity and nephrotoxicity, sometimes resulting in acute renal failure. We describe a case of rifampicin-associated acute renal failure, with biopsy findings of tubulointerstitial nephritis; inflammatory cells were characterized by immunohistochemistry, which showed immunoreactivity for CD3 and CD5 (T lymphocytes) and for CD68 (macrophages). The patient presented with a very rapid systemic reaction to the offending drug and rapid deterioration of renal function, which required dialysis treatment. The response to rifampicin discontinuation was excellent: no further therapy was required, as renal function began to improve within several days and returned to normal values (serum creatinine 1.17 mg/dl) seven months after the onset of symptoms. When prescribing rifampicin the physician should investigate previous use of the drug, because re-exposure is a critical factor in predicting the possibility of drug-induced acute renal failure.
Although there are reports on their use for the treatment of enuresis, we present three pediatric cases with serotonin-selective reuptake inhibitor (SSRI)-induced enuresis. Because SSRIs continue to be commonly prescribed in the pediatric population, the need to monitor for the possibility of enuresis precipitated by SSRIs is increasingly important.
A 44-year-old male presented to the emergency department with altered mental status. He was receiving niacin therapy for hypercholesterolemia, and 16 hours earlier had ingested a large quantity of wine. Past medical history was otherwise unremarkable; physical examination revealed paranoid ideation and asterixis. Laboratory evaluation was significant for metabolic acidosis with a calculated anion gap of 39. Liver enzymes were elevated, and lactic acid level was 9.5 mmol/L (normal: 0.5 to 2.2 mmol/L). White blood cell count was 23,100, but all cultures were negative, and all other diagnostic studies, including bilirubin, prothrombin time, and ammonia were normal. The patient recovered rapidly with hydration and administration of thiamine and magnesium. After psychiatric evaluation, a diagnosis of toxic delirium due to niacin and ethanol coingestion was made. This is the first case reporting toxic delirium and lactic acidosis due to niacin and ethanol coingestion. This occurred in the absence of significant hepatic impairment. Possible mechanisms for the observed derangements are discussed.
Current therapies for chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection do not provide adequate long-term control of viral replication in the majority of patients. Monotherapy with nucleoside analogs, such as lamivudine and famciclovir, is effective for short periods but results in the emergence of drug-resistant HBV in a substantial number of patients within 1 year of therapy. Adefovir dipivoxil (ADV) has demonstrated clinical activity against wild-type and lamivudine-resistant HBV, but it is unclear whether resistance mutations will emerge after long-term therapy with this drug. To determine whether extended treatment with ADV led to the emergence of drug-resistant populations of HBV, we analyzed virus isolated from patients currently enrolled in a long-term open-label study. The reverse transcriptase domain of HBV polymerase was amplified and sequenced from patients that had received a cumulative exposure of up to 60 weeks of ADV. During our analyses, several previously unreported amino acid substitutions were observed in the reverse transcriptase domain of HBV. Importantly, none of the observed mutations occurred in more than 1 patient, nor were they associated with an adefovir-resistant phenotype in vitro. Furthermore, none of the patients from whom these mutant viruses were isolated had evidence of virologic rebound. In conclusion, these results, although based on a limited number of patients, suggest that treatment with ADV does not lead to the emergence of resistant virus after up to 60 weeks of therapy.
The possible cataleptogenic or anticataleptic effects of cholecystokinin octapeptide sulphate ester (CCK-8-SE) and desulphated CCK-8 (CCK-8-NS) were evaluated in rats after intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration. Neither CCK-8-SE nor CCK-8-NS induced any sign of catalepsy. When haloperidol, in a dose of 1.0 mg/kg (i.p.), and either CCK-8-SE or CCK-8-NS, in doses of 8, 80 or 800 pmol (i.c.v.), were applied at the same time, the peptides significantly decreased the total duration of catalepsy, the 80 pmol dose being the most effective. For the inhibition of catalepsy CCK-8-NS was the more active as it decreased catalepsy scores even 120 min after administration. Both peptides showed only transient effects on the fully developed catalepsy induced by haloperidol.
We studied the prevention of phlebitis in 10 patients who had developed the symptoms after receiving vinorelbine to treat breast cancer at our outpatient chemotherapy clinic from July 2005 to August 2006. Veins proximal to the injection site were warmed using hot compresses during the vinorelbine injection and physiological saline was increased to wash out the drug after the injection from 250 mL to 500 mL in combination to investigate whether the treatment was effective in preventing phlebitis. The severity of phlebitis was significantly decreased after the combined treatment compared with the pre-treatment level (p=0.039). The combination was effective to relieve vascular pain during the injection in all 10 patients, and the number of event occurrences was significantly decreased (p<0.0005). It was also effective to decrease the frequency of vascular pain after patients returned home (p=0.001). The combination of hot compresses and increase of physiological saline for washing out was an effective treatment to prevent phlebitis caused by vinorelbine. The comparison of patient characteristics to find other contributing factors to phlebitis than vinorelbine revealed no association with the number of doses, diameter of the vein to be punctured, or pretreatment.
Studies in mouse models of atherosclerosis using 12/15-lipoxygenase (12/15-LO) gene disruption and transgenic overexpression demonstrate a pro-oxidative, pro-atherogenic role for this pathway. Vitamin E has been shown to suppress lipid peroxidation and reduce early atherogenesis in several mouse models, although conflicting results from several clinical trials have been reported. ApoE(-/-) and apoE(-/-)/12/15-LO(-/-) mice were maintained on normal chow diet with or without Vitamin E supplement (2000 IU/kg). Plasma Vitamin E, urinary 8,12-iso-iPF(2alpha)-VI and aortic lesion quantitation were assessed. Plasma Vitamin E levels significantly increased upon Vitamin E diet supplementation. 12/15-LO gene disruption resulted in significantly reduced aortic lesions and decreased urinary 8,12-iso-iPF(2alpha)-VI levels in apoE(-/-) mice, similar to Vitamin E administration in the absence of 12/15-LO gene disruption. However, Vitamin E dietary supplementation did not afford additive or synergistic protection in apoE(-/-)/12/15-LO(-/-) mice. These results suggest that early 12/15-LO-mediated lipid peroxidation triggers ensuing non-enzymatic peroxidation that is susceptible to Vitamin E antioxidant action in a common pathway of atherogenesis.
Early results with ifosfamide plus mesna in soft tissue sarcoma showed an initial response rate of 38% in 42 patients. All these patients treated at The Royal Marsden Hospital plus 30 more (total 67) have now been analysed. Single doses of 5 or 8 g/m2 ifosfamide were given over 24 h by infusion in dextrose saline together with 400 mg/m2 or 600 mg/m2, respectively, of mesnum every 4 h to give a total of 9 doses. A diuresis of 200 ml/hour was maintained during therapy. Treatment was repeated 3-weekly. CR was seen in 6 and PR in 10 patients. More recently doxorubicin was added to ifosfamide therapy in an attempt to improve on these results. At first only 20 mg/m2 doxorubicin was given but this was escalated to 40 mg/m2 and 60 mg/m2. Mesna has been given in higher dosage (5 g/m2 over 24 h), but otherwise the schedule is as above. In all 60 patients have been treated and most are now evaluable for response. Encephalopathy has been seen with both regimens. The incidence and patient characteristics are reported.
We reviewed the medication histories in 200 children with Gilles de la Tourette's syndrome to investigate how frequently CNS stimulants may unmask a latent syndrome or worsen existing tics. Forty-eight patients had received stimulant drugs. Nine were treated before the onset of tics, but only four were still receiving stimulants when tics began. In 39 patients with preexisting tics, stimulants increased tics in 11, caused no change in 26, and decreased tics in 2. Behavior improved in 22 patients. Thirteen of these 22 had no increase in tics when stimulants were used. Cautious trials of stimulant therapy may benefit some patients with this syndrome.
We examined the effects of cadmium on the bcl-2 family of proteins--bcl-2, bax, bad, and bcl-xS/L--in cadmium-induced cytotoxicity. Addition of 10 microM cadmium to cultured porcine kidney LLC-PK(1) cells caused apoptosis. Western blot analyses revealed that cadmium markedly increased endogenous bcl-2 protein (to 3-4 times the level in wild-type cells) earlier than metallothionein induction, but that the metal did not enhance the induction of bax, bad, or bcl-xS proteins. Cadmium also induced the transcript of bcl-2, with the amount of bcl-2 reaching a maximum at 1-2 hr of exposure; this increase occurred earlier than cadmium-induced increase in the protooncogene such as c-myc. A cadmium-induced increase in endogenous bcl-2 protein was also seen in rat primary thymocytes. Overexpression of the bcl-2 protein by gene transfection prevented cadmium-induced apoptosis. Following the detection of apoptosis, lactate dehydrogenase release in the culture medium (a marker of necrosis) was observed, and this release was also inhibited by overexpression of bcl-2. Electron microscopic observations also supported the fact that cadmium induced apoptotic chromatin condensation at an early stage of exposure, followed by necrotic features of the cells, both of which were also inhibited by overexpression of bcl-2 proteins. Thus, our data demonstrated that both apoptotic and necrotic actions of cadmium were attenuated by bcl-2.
This study was designed to determine the effects of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARγ) on airway inflammatory response to cigarette smoke (CS) exposure.
For the in vivo experiments, 50 male Wistar rats were randomly assigned to one of four groups and were exposed to CS and pretreatment with a PPARγ agonist, rosiglitazone or a vehicle (saline). PPARγ antagonist bisphenol A diglycidyl ether (BADGE) or saline was administered before rosiglitazone treatment. Leukotriene B4 (LTB4) and interleukin-8 (IL-8) were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. PPARγ and toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) expression levels were assessed by immunohistochemistry and real-time polymerase chain reaction. For the in vitro experiments, human bronchial epithelial cells were stimulated with CS or phosphate buffer saline, pretreated with PPARγ agonist rosiglitazone or 15-deoxy-(Δ12,14)-PG J2 before CS exposure. BADGE was administered prior to the agonist treatment. PPARγ, TLR4 and inhibitor of κB (IκBα) expression levels were assessed by Western bot.
CS exposure decreased PPARγ expression, as well as increased IL-8, LTB4 and TLR4 expression levels in bronchial epithelial cells in vivo and in vitro. Moreover, PPARγ ligands counteracted CS-induced airway inflammation by reducing IL-8 and LTB4 expression levels that are associated with TLR4 and nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB).
CS exposure increased the pro-inflammatory activity of bronchial epithelial cells by affecting PPARγ expression. Moreover, PPARγ may play a significant role as a modulator of the TLR4-dependent inflammatory pathway through NF-κB in bronchial epithelial cells.
The effect of the i.c.v. administration of pertussis toxin (PTX) and antisense oligodeoxynucleotide directed against the alpha subunit of different Gi-proteins (anti-Gialpha1, anti-Gialpha2, anti-Gialpha3) on amnesia induced by morphine was evaluated in the mouse passive avoidance test. The administration of morphine (6 - 10 mg kg(-1) i.p.) immediately after the training session produced amnesia that was prevented by PTX (0.25 microg per mouse i.c.v.) administered 7 days before the passive avoidance test. Anti-Gialpha1 (6.25 microg per mouse i.c.v.) and anti-Gialpha3 (12.5 microg per mouse i.c.v.), administered 18 and 24 h before the training session, prevented the morphine amnesia. By contrast, pretreatment with anti-Gialpha2 (3.12 - 25 microg per mouse i.c.v.) never modified the impairment of memory processes induced by morphine. At the highest effective doses, none of the compounds used impaired motor coordination, as revealed by the rota rod test, nor modified spontaneous motility and inspection activity, as revealed by the hole board test. These results suggest the important role played by Gi1 and Gi3 protein subtypes in the transduction mechanism involved in the impairment of memory processes produced by morphine.
We investigated how dizocilpine, a non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, affects the development of morphine dependence in mice. Co-administration of dizocilpine (0.25 mg/kg) and morphine (10 mg/kg) for 5 days attenuated the development of tolerance to the antinociceptive effects of morphine. The withdrawal manifestation induced by the naloxone-challenge (5 mg/kg) was significantly reduced in mice that were treated with a combination of dizocilpine and morphine, compared to the mice treated with morphine and saline. The present study revealed a significant increase in c-Fos protein expression in the cortex and thalamus of mice showing naloxone-precipitated withdrawal syndrome. The combination of dizocilpine and morphine prevented the increase of c-Fos protein expression in the cortex and thalamus. Interestingly, repeated co-administration of dizocilpine and morphine prevented the withdrawal-induced phosphorylation of Ca2+/calmodulin kinase II (p-CaMK II) in the cortex, but not in the thalamus. Acute dizocilpine treatment prior to the naloxone-challenge and repeated treatment with dizocilpine alone had no effect on analgesia, withdrawal manifestations, p-CaMK II levels or c-Fos protein levels. These results showed that co-administration of dizocilpine and morphine prevented the development of morphine tolerance and dependence and suggested that the preventive effect of dizocilpine results from the regulation of c-Fos protein expression, which is possibly involved in the activation of the Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent signal cascade in the cortex.
THP-adriamycin (pirarubicin) is a new anthracycline-analogue. In France, the drug is achieving the phase II studies and the step of phase III studies is going on. As this point of its development, it is already possible to conclude that the drug probably shares the same efficacy as adriamycine, especially in breast cancer, but exhibits a better tolerance in term of alopecia and cardiac toxicity, as predicted by preclinical studies. Its pharmacological properties make the drug an original compound, exciting for investigations in the field of loco-regional therapy.
