An infant with 21 months of chronic protracted diarrhea, associated with intestinal mucosal atrophy, decreased crypt mitotic activity, and anti-intestinal antibodies is reported. During a 4-month period, cimetidine was used in an attempt to stimulate mucosal growth. Thirty-minute postprandial serum gastrin levels rose significantly during cimetidine therapy (663 /+- 115 pg/ml, mean /+- SEM). Coincident with the cimetidine therapy, the jejunal mucosa showed progressive histologic improvement and the index of crypt mitotic activity (MI) steadily rose: pretreatment MI = 1.3 (mitoses/100 crypt cells); mid-study, 3.3; end of study, 4.5. There was a direct correlation between 30-min pp serum gastrin and MI (r = 0.989, P less than 0.005). The patient died in renal failure one month after cessation of cimetidine. At autopsy, the small bowel had returned to an atropic state. It is proposed that cimetidine may have influenced jejunal mucosal growth, possibly through meal-stimulated hypergastrinemia.
Drug hepatotoxicity is partially determined by genetic factors involved in drug metabolism, which may involve the debrisoquine oxidation polymorphism mediated by cytochrome (CYP) 2D6. The purpose of this study was to assess the relationship between drug hepatotoxicity and another genetic polymorphism of drug oxidation, namely that of S-mephenytoin metabolism mediated by CYP2CMP. Mephenytoin hydroxylation capacity was assessed by a hydroxylation index in 24 patients with drug-induced hepatitis and in 23 healthy controls. Hydroxylation index was calculated as the ratio of S-mephenytoin dose to the (0-10 h) urinary excretion of 4-hydroxymephenytoin after oral administration of 100 mg racemic mephenytoin. The test was performed following the patient's recovery. In three patients, hepatitis was related to Atrium, a drug containing phenobarbital, febarbamate and difebarbamate. The mean hydroxylation index (+/- SD) value in patients with Atrium hepatitis (12.4 +/- 8.3) was markedly higher than that found in healthy controls (1.8 +/- 0.4) or in patients with other drug-induced hepatitis (2.5 +/- 3.3). Mean hydroxylation index values were similar in the two latter groups. Considered individually, oxidation capacity was low (hydroxylation index > 9) in two of the three patients with Atrium hepatitis and intermediate (hydroxylation index between 4 and 9) in the third patient. In contrast, all 23 healthy subjects exhibited a high oxidation capacity (hydroxylation index < 4). In the 21 patients with other drug-induced hepatitis, oxidation capacity was high in 19 subjects, intermediate in one subject with chlorpromazine hepatitis, and low in one subject with dapsone hepatitis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A 17-year-old male patient presented with diffuse abdominal pain, acute drop in hemoglobin and free subhepatic fluid. The patient was transferred to our unit for investigation of presumed spontaneous hepatic bleeding. Questioning revealed daily medication of 2 g acetylsalicylic acid because of influenzal infection. At exploratory laparoscopy 1.8 l hematoma was removed; the origin of bleeding could not be identified. The liver surface appeared macroscopically unremarkable, with the exception of an aneurysmal dilatation of the cystic artery that was considered as possible bleeding cause. Postoperative angiography confirmed the presence of multiple aneurysmal dialatations of both left and right hepatic arteries. Extensive investigations did not show any further aneurysms or vascular abnormalities in any other part of the body. There was no evidence of a preexistent systemic vasculitis or primary collagen disease.
To report the use of sodium nitroprusside to induce deliberate hypotension to reduce hemorrhage and facilitate surgical ligation of complicated patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) in dogs.
Retrospective study.
Six dogs.
Hemorrhage occurred during surgical ligation of PDA in 5 dogs. Surgical dissection and isolation of the PDA were very difficult in a sixth dog that was considered to be at increased risk for ductus rupture. Sodium nitroprusside (5 to 25 microg/kg/min intravenously) was administered to these 6 dogs to induce hypotension to reduce blood loss and facilitate surgical ligation of the PDA.
Sodium nitroprusside infusion reduced blood pressure (mean arterial pressure, 45 to 60 mm Hg) within 5 to 10 minutes and hemorrhage from the PDA, facilitating its surgical ligation. Recovery from surgery and anesthesia was uneventful in all 6 dogs.
Sodium nitroprusside infusion can be used to induce deliberate hypotension in dogs to facilitate surgical ligation of PDA.
Sodium nitroprusside infusion produces hypotension within 5 to 10 minutes and is easy to control, rapidly abates, and should help to facilitate surgical ligation of PDA.
After using propofol for a decade, pain on injection had been considered routine by patients and medical personnel. When given propofol from a different manufacturer, patients did not complain. Two preparations of propofol were compared.
A comparative, double-blind, randomized study was conducted in 22 adult patients undergoing pain relief procedures; they received sedation by an intravenous injection of 1.7 mg/kg of propofol and then were treated with paravertebral injections. Pain on injection was assessed by verbal complaint, movement of the extremity, of the whole body and recollection of pain at induction, when discharged. Propofol from Baxter Laboratories, mixed with either 5 ml of 2% lidocaine or 5 ml of NaCl 0.9%, was compared with propofol Laboratorios Gray, which was similarly mixed. Injections were randomly administered four times, blindly, to each of 22 patients. Statistical analysis was conducted using the analysis of variance method.
A total of 352 propofol injections were given. Each of the four propofol solutions was administered 88 times; of patients receiving Baxter propofol+saline, 74 (84%) had pain; when mixed with 2% lidocaine 45 (50.2%) complained. After propofol Gray with NaCl 0.9% was given, two patients (2.2%) experienced pain. Propofol Gray with 2% lidocaine produced no pain. None of the latter group remembered having pain, whereas, those given propofol Baxter 54 (61.3%) and 26 (29.5%) remembered experiencing pain at injection. Pain on injection was prevented and statistically reduced (<0.01) with the propofol from Laboratorios Gray.
By changing the formulation (size of molecules and their dispersion) of propofol, pain on injection was avoided.
Long-term lithium therapy is associated with impairment in concentrating ability and, occasionally, progression to advanced chronic kidney disease from tubulointerstitial nephropathy. Biopsy findings in patients with lithium-induced chronic tubulointerstitial nephropathy include tubular atrophy and interstitial fibrosis interspersed with tubular cysts and dilatations. Recent studies have shown that cysts are seen in 33-62.5% of the patients undergoing lithium therapy. MR imaging is highly capable of defining renal morphological features and has been demonstrated to be superior to US and CT scan for the visualization of small renal cysts. The microcysts are found in both cortex and medulla, particularly in the regions with extensive atrophy and fibrosis, and can be multiple and bilateral. They tend to be sparse and do not normally exceed 1-2 mm in diameter. The renal microcysts in the image here reported are subtle, but consistent with lithium-induced chronic nephropathy. An MRI of the kidneys provides noninvasive evidence that strengthens the diagnosis of lithium-induced nephropathy.
Alcoholic steatosis is a fundamental metabolic disorder in the progression of alcoholic liver disease. Zinc deficiency is one of the most consistently observed biochemical/nutritional manifestations of alcoholic liver disease. The purpose of this study is to determine whether dietary zinc supplementation to mice previously exposed to alcohol could reverse alcoholic steatosis. Male 129S mice were pair-fed an alcohol or isocaloric maltose dextrin liquid diet for 16 weeks with or without dietary zinc supplementation for the last 4 weeks. Zinc supplementation significantly attenuated alcohol-mediated increases in hepatic triglyceride, cholesterol, and free fatty acids in association with accelerated hepatic fatty acid oxidation and very low density lipoproteins (VLDL) secretion. Hepatic genes related to fatty acid oxidation and VLDL secretion were up-regulated by zinc supplementation, which was accompanied by restoring activity of hepatocyte nuclear factor-4alpha (HNF-4alpha) and peroxisome proliferators activated receptor-alpha (PPAR-alpha). Zinc supplementation enhanced alcohol metabolism and attenuated oxidative stress and liver injury. Zinc supplementation also normalized alcohol-mediated increases in plasma triglycerides and partially reversed decrease in gonadal adipose depot mass. Studies in HepG2 cells showed that zinc deprivation significantly suppressed the DNA-binding activities of HNF-4alpha and PPAR-alpha, and reduced HNF-4alpha and PPAR-alpha target proteins. Consequently, zinc deprivation caused cellular accumulation of lipid droplets, triglycerides and free fatty acids in the HepG2 cells.
Zinc supplementation reverses alcoholic steatosis, and reactivation of HNF-4alpha and PPAR-alpha by increasing zinc availability and inhibiting oxidative stress are potential mechanisms underlying these beneficial effects of zinc on hepatic lipid homeostasis.
Laboratory studies of cocaine-exposed rodents, and positron emission tomographic studies of human cocaine abusers have suggested that chronic cocaine abuse downregulates dopaminergic function in the basal ganglia. The present study sought to provide behavioral evidence for this phenomenon by demonstrating enhanced levels of resting hand tremor among patients with previous histories of cocaine dependence. to determine the specificity of the phenomenon, patients with previous histories of alcohol dependence, cocaine/alcohol codependence, and cocaine/opiate codependence were also evaluated. Patients were assigned to one of four groups according to DSM-IIIR diagnostic criteria: (1) cocaine dependent (n = 19); (2) cocaine and alcohol dependent (n = 12); (3) cocaine and opiate dependent (n = 7); (4) alcohol dependent (n = 9). All were abstinent from their primary drug of abuse for a period of 1 to 5 months. The three patient groups with histories of cocaine dependence exhibited significantly more resting hand tremor than the alcohol-dependent and normal control groups. Furthermore, hand tremor in the former three groups was positively related to the number of self-reported uses of cocaine and negatively related to the number of months of cocaine abstinence.
Motor, sensory and thermoregulatory functions were examined in young (3 months) and mature (12 months) rats following PO administration of single low doses (10 and 50 mg/kg) of carbaryl, a carbamate insecticide, and these effects were related to blood cholinesterase activity. Carbaryl 50 mg/kg decreased the frequency of ambulation in the open-field arena within 30 min while it enhanced the duration of haloperidol-induced catalepsy in both young and mature rats. Administration of carbaryl also resulted in an increased nociceptive threshold to thermic stimuli mainly in mature rats. An age-related reduction in body temperature was observed at 30, 60 and 90 min after injection. Activity of blood cholinesterase was reduced in young and mature rats at 30 and 60 min following carbaryl exposure. These results indicate that carbaryl can induce an age-related impairment on some behavioral and autonomic functions in rats correlated to the inhibition of cholinesterase activity.
Prospective studies on the incidence of thrombosis in asymptomatic individuals with hereditary protein C- or protein S deficiency have not been performed so far.
We have carried out a prospective cohort study in 44 asymptomatic protein C- and protein S deficient subjects and in 49 asymptomatic non-deficient relatives (age at study entry > 14 years) of symptomatic deficient patients.
20 asymptomatic protein C deficient (median age 20 years) and 24 asymptomatic protein S deficient patients (median age 21.5 years) were prospectively followed and compared with 20 asymptomatic non-deficient relatives (median age 25 years) of protein C- and 29 (median age 27 years) of protein S deficient patients. The total observation period was 118.8 patient years for protein C deficient and 92.8 for protein S deficient patients. Patients were not on anticoagulants except for short duration in case of high risk situations.
Eight thromboembolic events (1 pulmonary embolism, 1 deep vein thrombosis + pulmonary embolism, 3 deep vein thrombosis, 1 caval vein thrombosis and 2 superficial vein thrombosis) occurred in 6 deficient patients. The incidence of thromboembolism was 2.5% per patient year for protein C deficient and 3.5% per patient year for protein S deficient patients. 4 events occurred spontaneously, in 2 patients thromboembolic events were triggered by high risk situations (caesarean section, minor trauma). In the controls no thromboembolic events occurred. The probability for thromboembolism was significantly higher in protein C and protein S deficient patients compared to the control group (Wilcoxon test, p = 0.002, log rank test, p = 0.001). One major and 5 minor uneventful surgeries were carried out in the deficient patients using heparin prophylaxis. 1/8 pregnancies was complicated by superficial vein thrombosis during the second trimester despite prophylactic heparin administration. The same pregnancy was complicated by pulmonary embolism 5 weeks after delivery after discontinuation of heparin.
Asymptomatic deficient relatives of symptomatic patients with protein C or protein S deficiency are at an increased risk of thrombosis compared to nondeficient individuals. Prophylactic treatment seems to be highly effective in high risk situations.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by the death of motor neurons, axon degeneration, and denervation of neuromuscular junctions (NMJ). Here we show that death receptor 6 (DR6) levels are elevated in spinal cords from post-mortem samples of human ALS and from SOD1(G93A) transgenic mice, and DR6 promotes motor neuron death through activation of the caspase 3 signaling pathway. Blocking DR6 with antagonist antibody 5D10 promotes motor neuron survival in vitro via activation of Akt phosphorylation and inhibition of the caspase 3 signaling pathway, after growth factor withdrawal, sodium arsenite treatment or co-culture with SOD1(G93A) astrocytes. Treatment of SOD1(G93A) mice at an asymptomatic stage starting on the age of 42 days with 5D10 protects NMJ from denervation, decreases gliosis, increases survival of motor neurons and CC1(+) oligodendrocytes in spinal cord, decreases phosphorylated neurofilament heavy chain (pNfH) levels in serum, and promotes motor functional improvement assessed by increased grip strength. The combined data provide clear evidence for neuroprotective effects of 5D10. Blocking DR6 function represents a new approach for the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders involving motor neuron death and axon degeneration, such as ALS.
Clinical evidence for failure with beta-lactam therapy has been lacking for patients with borderline oxacillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (BORSA) infections. We describe a failure of cloxacillin for a patient with endocarditis due to BORSA. The isolate also had false-negative thermonuclease and coagulase test results.
Unsolicited reports regarding potentially serious adverse drug reactions in neonates and young infants were reported to the Food and Drug Administration, leading to changes in the package label for ceftriaxone. This report describes and summarizes the reported cases that led to safety concerns regarding the concurrent administration of intravenous ceftriaxone and calcium in this age group.
Nine reported cases were assessed. The Food and Drug Administration Adverse Event Reporting System database was searched for potential drug interactions in patients who were receiving concomitant ceftriaxone and calcium therapy.
Eight of the reported 9 cases (7 were < or =2 months of age) represented possible or probable adverse drug events. There were 7 deaths. None of the cases were reported from the United States. The dosage of ceftriaxone that was administered to 4 of 6 infants for whom this information was available was between 150 and 200 mg/kg per day. The rate of occurrence of these serious adverse drug reactions cannot be accurately determined from available data.
The concurrent use of intravenous ceftriaxone and calcium-containing solutions in the newborn and young infant may result in a life-threatening adverse drug reaction. Contributing factors for infants in this report may include the use of ceftriaxone at dosages higher than those approved by the Food and Drug Administration, intravenous "push" administration, and administration of the total daily dosage as a single infusion.
The aim of the present study was to evaluate whether metabolic responses to inhaled salbutamol may be used to measure the cardioselectivity of beta-adrenoceptor antagonists. We therefore studied the effects of oral doses of atenolol 50 mg, 100 mg, 200 mg (A50, A100, A200), propranolol 40 mg (P40), and placebo (Pl) on the hypokalaemic (K) and hyperglycaemic (Glu) responses to inhaled salbutamol in five healthy subjects. Increasing doses of atenolol were associated with a progressive attenuation of delta K compared with placebo: -0.72 mmol.l-1 (Pl) vs -0.20 mmol.l-1 (A200). However, delta K with A200 was significantly different from the response with P40: +0.12 mmol.l-1. There were partial reductions in the hyperglycaemic response with the beta-adrenoceptor antagonists, although this was only significant (compared with Pl) for P40: delta Glu 1.92 mmol.l-1 (Pl) vs 0.76 mmol.l-1 (P40). These results show that beta 2-adrenoceptor blockade by atenolol is a dose-dependent phenomenon, which may be measured by the attenuation of salbutamol-induced hypokalaemia. However, beta 2-adrenoceptor blockade by atenolol 200 mg was less than that by propranolol 40 mg. The glucose response to salbutamol was only partially blocked by propranolol and may therefore not be suitable to assess beta 2-adrenoceptor antagonism.
Recent reports of embB306 mutations in ethambutol-resistant and ethambutol-susceptible drug-resistant strains of Mycobacterium tuberculosis have questioned the significance of these mutations in conferring resistance to ethambutol (EMB).
To determine the occurrence of embB306 mutations in all EMB-resistant and -susceptible drug-resistant M. tuberculosis strains isolated during a specified period at a single geographical location.
Twenty-five pansusceptible, all EMB-resistant and -susceptible M. tuberculosis strains resistant to other first-line drugs isolated in Kuwait during 2000-2003 were analyzed. The embB306 mutations were detected by PCR-restriction fragment length polymorphism and DNA sequencing. The PCR-based methods were also used for determining strain relatedness.
None of the pansusceptible M. tuberculosis strains contained a mutation at embB306. Fifteen of 50 (30%) EMB-resistant strains but only three of 122 (2%) EMB-susceptible isolates resistant to other first-line drugs contained a mutated embB306. The EMB-susceptible isolates with embB306 mutation were resistant to isoniazid plus other drug(s). The isolates carrying similar mutations were genotypically distinct strains.
The frequency of embB306 mutations in EMB-resistant strains compared to EMB-susceptible M. tuberculosis isolates resistant to other drugs was 15 times higher. Association of embB306 mutations in EMB-susceptible strains with isoniazid resistance and inherent problems associated with phenotypic EMB susceptibility testing suggest that these strains may actually be EMB-resistant.
Classically, the histological lesion observed in a drug-or heavy metal-induced nephrotic syndrome is membranous glomerulonephritis. We report two cases of "toxic" nephrotic syndrome with unusual histological features. One was secondary to mercury intoxication and the other, to D-penicillamine in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis. In both cases, renal biopsy revealed minimal glomerular changes. The proteinuria rapidly disappeared after exposure to the toxic agent was discontinued. Genetic factors and a disregulation of the immune system with lymphokine production may be responsible for these renal changes. This study demonstrates that renal biopsy is necessary in this clinical setting.
Eight pairs of subjects (each consisting of a narcoleptic and a control matched on the basis of age, sex, educational background and job) were evaluated under the following double-blind, randomized treatment conditions: baseline, placebo, low dose and high dose methamphetamine. Subjects were drug-free for 2 weeks prior to beginning the protocol. Methamphetamine was the only drug taken during the protocol and was given in a single morning dose of 0, 20 or 40-60 mg to narcoleptics and 0, 5 or 10 mg to controls. The protocol was 28 days long, with each of the four treatment conditions lasting 4 days followed by 3 days of washout. Nighttime polysomnography and daytime testing were done during the last 24 hours of each treatment condition. Daytime sleep tendency was assessed with the multiple sleep latency test (MSLT). Daytime performance was assessed with performance tests including a simple, computer-based driving task. Narcoleptics' mean MSLT sleep latency increased from 4.3 minutes on placebo to 9.3 minutes on high dose, compared with an increase from 10.4 to 17.1 minutes for controls. Narcoleptics' error rate on the driving task decreased from 2.53% on placebo to 0.33% on high dose, compared with a decrease from 0.22% to 0.16% for controls. The effects of methamphetamine on nocturnal sleep were generally dose-dependent and affected sleep continuity and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. Elimination half life was estimated to be between 15.9 and 22.0 hours. Mild side effects emerged in a dose-dependent fashion and most often involved the central nervous system and gastrointestinal tract. We concluded that methamphetamine caused a dose-dependent decrease in daytime sleep tendency and improvement in performance in both narcoleptics and controls. Methamphetamine at doses of 40-60 mg allowed narcoleptics to function at levels comparable to those of unmedicated controls.
Alcoholic liver disease may be in humans frequently complicated by mesangial proliferation and sclerosis. The influence of chronic ethanol administration on experimental nephrotic syndrome has not been, however, studied yet.
Experimental nephrotic syndrome was induced in rats by the i.v. administration of adriamycin in ethanol fed rats and in rats given common laboratory chow. Chronic administration of ethanol was in nephrotic rats accompanied by the exaggerated lipolysis (free fatty acids were in control nephrotic rats lower than in nephrotic ethylic rats 6 weeks after adriamycin administration: 914.8 + 96.8 mumol/l vs. 1186.3 + 178.7 mumol/l, p < 0.01) and increased proteocatabolism; the development of nephrotic syndrome was ameliorated, or at least delayed, however, in ethylic rats (control nephrotic rats had higher proteinuria than nephrotic ethylic rats 3 weeks after adriamycin administration: 5.79 + 3.15 vs. 0.55 + 0.34 g protein/mmol creatinine, p < 0.01). In autopsy, diffuse global glomerulosclerosis was found in control nephrotic rats with only mild focal and segmental changes in nephrotic ethylic rats.
Chronic ethanol administration ameliorated and/or delays the development of nephrotic syndrome in adriamycin nephropathy in rats. Mechanism of this effect of chronic ethanol feeding remains to be elucidated. Metabolic, immunosuppressive and renal haemodynamic effects of ethanol should be taken into consideration.
1. Optimization of myocardial energy substrate metabolism improves the recovery of mechanical function of the post-ischaemic heart. This study investigated the role of K(ATP)-channels in the regulation of the metabolic and mechanical function of the aerobic and post-ischaemic heart by measuring the effects of the selective K(ATP)-channel activator, cromakalim, and the effects of the K(ATP)-channel antagonist, glibenclamide, in rat fatty acid perfused, working hearts in vitro. The role of K(ATP) channels in the cardioprotective actions of the adenosine A1-receptor agonist, N6-cyclohexyladenosine (CHA) was also investigated. 2. Myocardial glucose metabolism, mechanical function and efficiency were measured simultaneously in hearts perfused with modified Krebs-Henseleit solution containing 2.5 mM Ca2+, 11 mM glucose, 1.2 mM palmitate and 100 mu l(-1) insulin, and paced at 300 beats min(-1). Rates of glycolysis and glucose oxidation were measured from the quantitative production of 3H20 and 14CO2, respectively, from [5-3H/ U-14C]-glucose. 3. In hearts perfused under aerobic conditions, cromakalim (10 microM), CHA (0.5 microM) or glibenclamide (30 microM) had no effect on mechanical function. Cromakalim did not affect glycolysis or glucose oxidation, whereas glibenclamide significantly increased rates of glycolysis and proton production. CHA significantly reduced rates of glycolysis and proton production but had no effect on glucose oxidation. Glibenclamide did not alter CHA-induced inhibition of glycolysis and proton production. 4. In hearts reperfused for 30 min following 30 min of ischaemia, left ventricular minute work (LV work) recovered to 24% of aerobic baseline values. Cromakalim (10 microM), administered 5 min before ischaemia, had no significant effect on mechanical recovery or glucose metabolism. CHA (0.5 microM) significantly increased the recovery of LV work to 67% of aerobic baseline values and also significantly inhibited rates of glycolysis and proton production. Glibenclamide (30 microM) significantly depressed the recovery of mechanical function to < 1% of aerobic baseline values and stimulated glycolysis and proton production. 5. Despite the deleterious actions of glibenclamide per se in post-ischaemic hearts, the beneficial effects of CHA (0.5 microM) on the recovery of mechanical function and proton production were not affected by glibenclamide. 6. The data indicate that the cardioprotective mechanism of adenosine A1-receptor stimulation does not involve the activation of K(ATP)-channels. Furthermore, in rat fatty acid perfused, working hearts, stimulation of K(ATP)-channels is not cardioprotective and has no significant effects on myocardial glucose metabolism.
Hemodynamic and blood volume changes, systolic time intervals, and baroreflex mechanisms were studied in 20 patients with hypertension after methyldopa (12 +/- 0.9 mg/kg/day). The drug was administered orally during 7 days' hospitalization on a normal sodium diet (110 mEq/day). There was a fall in blood pressure and in total peripheral resistance, without significant change in cardiac index, heart rate, and stroke index. There were increases in plasma and blood volume (p less than 0.05) but no change in cardiopulmonary blood volume or systolic time intervals. The unchanged heart rate was associated with an increased sensitivity ( less than 0.05) of the baroreflex mechanisms. The study supports the view that the unchanged cardiac output after methyldopa is related to important changes in control of cardiac output, including redistribution of blood volume and modifications in baroreflex mechanisms.
Risk factors for patients developing visual disturbances in association with proton pump inhibitors are unknown. As omeprazole is substantially metabolized by polymorphic CYP2C19, we retrospectively identified and genotyped patients who experienced this adverse reaction. Among 29 patients, we found two poor metabolizers (PMs) of CYP2C19. The PM genotype does not appear to be a risk factor for omeprazole-associated visual disorders.
The objective of the study was to evaluate the local effects of three antimuscarinics excreted into human urine after oral ingestion. Two normal adult collected their voided urine after taking oral doses of tolterodine, darifenacin, and solifenacin for 7 days with a 14-day washout period. The urodynamic effect of intravesically administered human urine on carbachol-induced bladder overactivity was studied in female rats. Cystometric parameters were measured during continuous infusion of saline and human urine and then a mixture of carbachol (30 microM) and human urine. Carbachol significantly reduced the intercontraction interval and bladder capacity in the control (urine taken in the absence of oral antimuscarinics) and tolterodine- or darifenacin-administered groups. However, human urine obtained after taking solifenacin prevented the carbachol-induced detrusor overactivity. Urine excreted after oral ingestion of solifenacin provides a localized pharmacological advantage for the treatment of the overactive bladder syndrome.
The present study was performed to determine whether acetaminophen (paracetamol) use after the measles-mumps-rubella vaccination could be associated with autistic disorder. This case-control study used the results of an online parental survey conducted from 16 July 2005 to 30 January 2006, consisting of 83 children with autistic disorder and 80 control children. Acetaminophen use after measles-mumps-rubella vaccination was significantly associated with autistic disorder when considering children 5 years of age or less (OR 6.11, 95% CI 1.42-26.3), after limiting cases to children with regression in development (OR 3.97, 95% CI 1.11-14.3), and when considering only children who had post-vaccination sequelae (OR 8.23, 95% CI 1.56-43.3), adjusting for age, gender, mother's ethnicity, and the presence of illness concurrent with measles-mumps-rubella vaccination. Ibuprofen use after measles-mumps-rubella vaccination was not associated with autistic disorder. This preliminary study found that acetaminophen use after measles-mumps-rubella vaccination was associated with autistic disorder.
Complex partial seizures comprise the major uncontrolled seizure type in adult patients with epilepsy. Any improvement of our understanding of the mechanisms through which these seizures are often refractory to antiepileptic drugs is therefore of considerable importance. By examining the effects of the anti-epileptic drug phenytoin in a large group of kindled rats, a widely used model of complex partial seizures, animals with different sensitivity to this drug were selected. Using determination of the focal seizure threshold for evaluation of phenytoin's anticonvulsant effect, most animals (about 60%) showed variable effects in response to phenytoin. However, about 20% of the animals ("phenytoin nonresponders") showed no increase in their focal seizure threshold at repeated test trials with phenytoin, and 20% ("phenytoin responders") exhibited reproducible increases in focal seizure threshold after injection of phenytoin. Phenytoin responders and nonresponders thus selected were used for subsequent experiments. The different response of focal seizures to phenytoin was not related to differences in pharmacokinetics or location of the stimulating electrode. Although phenytoin reproducibly increased the threshold for induction of afterdischarges in responders, it did not alter severity or duration of the elicited seizure response. In contrast to phenytoin, carbamazepine induced increases in focal seizure threshold in all kindled rats. Duration of seizures and afterdischarges were significantly reduced by carbamazepine in phenytoin responders, but not in nonresponders, although plasma levels of carbamazepine were the same in both groups. The difference in response of kindled rats to phenytoin was restricted to kindled seizures, because phenytoin induced the same anticonvulsant effect on the threshold for generalized tonic electroconvulsions (determined via transauricular electrodes) in both groups of kindled rats.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Nitric oxide (NO) has been demonstrated to be a principal effector molecule responsible for mediating intracellular killing of Leishmania parasites, the causative organism of leishmaniasis. As measurement of intracellular NO remains a challenge to biologists, we have developed a flow cytometric approach to perform real time biological detection of NO within Leishmania parasites and parasitized macrophages using a membrane permeable derivative of diaminofluorescein [4,5-diaminofluorescein diacetate (DAF-2DA)]. Initially, assay optimization was performed in Leishmania donovani promastigotes, assay specificity being confirmed using both a NO donor [S-nitroso-N-acetyl-penicillamine (SNAP)] and a NO scavenger [2-(4-carboxyphenyl)-4,4,5,5-tetramethylimidazoline-1-oxyl-3-oxide, C-PTIO]. Using 40 μM DAF-2DA, basal levels of intracellular NO were measured which varied in different Leishmania species; addition of conventional anti-leishmanial drugs, antimony and miltefosine translated into a dramatic increase in DAF-2T fluorescence. Furthermore, the assay also measured levels of NO in macrophages, but needed a 20 fold lower concentration of DAF-2DA, being 2 μM. Following parasitization, levels of NO decreased which was normalized following treatment with anti-leishmanial drugs. Similarly monocytes of patients with visceral leishmaniasis at disease presentation showed decreased levels of NO which too reverted on completion of treatment. Taken together, this study opens new perspectives of research regarding monocyte function and provides a real time approach for monitoring the effect of anti-leishmanial compounds.
This article examines the theoretical basis of decision-making deficits exhibited by cocaine abusers in a laboratory decision-making task first described by Bechara, Damasio, Damasio, and Anderson (1994). A total of 12 male cocaine abusers and 14 comparison subjects performed the task, and the cocaine group performed significantly worse than the comparison group. A cognitive modeling analysis (Busemeyer & Stout, 2002) was used to estimate three parameters that measure importance of the cognitive, motivational, and response processes for determining the observed performance deficit. The results of this analysis indicated, for the first time, that motivational and choice consistency factors, but not learning/memory were mainly responsible for the decision-making deficit of the cocaine abusers in this task.
We report a case of a patient who received nalbuphine during labor. The fetus was in an awake state, but when exposed to intravenous nalbuphine manifested quiet sleep. This suggest a physiological response and not a sign of fetal compromise.
Among the topoisomerase (topo) II isozymes (alpha and beta), topo IIbeta has been suggested to regulate differentiation. In this study, we examined the role of topo IIbeta in all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA)-induced differentiation of myeloid leukemia cell lines. Inhibition of topo IIbeta activity or downregulation of protein expression enhanced ATRA-induced differentiation/growth arrest and apoptosis. ATRA-induced apoptosis in topo IIbeta-deficient cells involved activation of the caspase cascade and was rescued by ectopic expression of topo IIbeta. Gene expression profiling led to the identification of peroxiredoxin 2 (PRDX2) as a candidate gene that was downregulated in topo IIbeta-deficient cells. Reduced expression of PRDX2 validated at the mRNA and protein level, in topo IIbeta-deficient cells correlated with increased accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) following ATRA-induced differentiation. Overexpression of PRDX2 in topo IIbeta-deficient cells led to reduced accumulation of ROS and partially reversed ATRA-induced apoptosis. These results support a role for topo IIbeta in survival of ATRA-differentiated myeloid leukemia cells. Reduced expression of topo IIbeta induces apoptosis in part by impairing the anti-oxidant capacity of the cell owing to downregulation of PRDX2. Thus, suppression of topo IIbeta and/or PRDX2 levels in myeloid leukemia cells provides a novel approach for improving ATRA-based differentiation therapy.
