We investigated the effect of diesel exhaust (DE) on pregnancy and fetal development in mice at day 14 postcoitum (pc) with a special focus on the placenta. The number of absorbed fetuses increased in groups exposed to DE, and congestion was observed in histological sections of placentas. During placental absorption expression of CYP1A1 mRNA decreased to undetectable levels, whereas expression of TNF alpha mRNA increased approximately twofold over that of the control. Levels of CYP1A1 mRNA in normal placentas from DE-exposed mice were unchanged. mRNA levels of inflammatory cytokines IL-2, IL-5, IL-12 alpha, IL-12 beta, and GM-CSF increased in placentas exposed to DE (0.3 and 3.0 mg diesel exhaust particles (DEP)/m3). Expression of IL-5 mRNA was markedly increased in DE-exposed placentas, although levels were barely detectable in control placentas. IL-6 mRNA expression was increased approximately 10-fold in placentas exposed to DE (3.0 mg DEP/m3). It has been reported that expression of mRNA encoding proteins involved in immune function in the placenta is increased during fetal absorption in mice. In the present study, expression of such mRNA by the placenta was increased by DE exposure. Because it is believed that expression of mRNA in the placenta also affects fetal development, DE may promote fetal absorption. These findings suggest that in mice exposure to DE affects fetal absorption and placental function by modifying expression of immune-related genes during early gestation and expression of endocrine-related genes during late gestation.
In established Leishmania donovani visceral infection in normal mice, anti-interleukin (IL)-10 receptor (IL-10R) monoclonal antibody (MAb) treatment induced intracellular parasite killing within liver macrophages. IL-10R blockade maintained IL-12 protein 40, markedly increased interferon (IFN)-gamma serum levels, and enhanced tissue inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expression and granuloma assembly. Optimal MAb-induced killing, including synergism with antimony chemotherapy, required endogenous IL-12 and/or IFN-gamma and at least one IFN-gamma-regulated macrophage mechanism-iNOS or phagocyte oxidase. However, in IFN-gamma knockout mice, anti-IL-10R also induced both granuloma formation and leishmanistatic activity. As judged by IL-10R blockade, endogenous IL-10 primarily regulates killing in L. donovani infection by suppressing production of and responses to the Th1 cell-type cytokines, IL-12, and IFN-gamma. However, because anti-IL-10R also released IFN-gamma-independent effects, IL-10 appears to act more broadly and suppresses multiple antileishmanial mechanisms.
Occupational trichloroethylene (TCE) exposure could induce generalized skin hypersensitivity reactions complicated with severe liver dysfunctions. Active extracellular matrix degradation and remodeling are involved in the skin hypersensitivity reaction induced by chemical exposure. In the present study, we have compared the effects of in vitro exposure to trichloroethanol (TCOH) and trichloroacetic acid (TCA) of a keratinocyte cell line (HaCaT). The modulation of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) was selected as marker of sensitization. HaCaT cells were treated with different concentrations of TCOH or TCA up to 6days. The gelatinolyic activities of MMP-2 and MMP-9 were detected by gelatin-zymography. MMP-2, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase (TIMP)-2, MMP-9 and TIMP-1 mRNAs were analyzed by real-time PCR and MMP-9 and TIMP-1 proteins were tested by Western blotting. A dose-effect relationship between TCOH treatment and MMP-9 activity, mRNA and protein expression levels was found in HaCaT cells. TCOH also induced up-regulation of TIMP-1 mRNA and protein. We found no such effects in HaCaT cells treated with TCA. Moreover, previously published literatures on patch tests suggested that TCOH could induce moderately positive reactions at low concentrations in hypersensitivity patients caused by occupational TCE exposure. In summary, these observations indicated that TCOH might play an important role in TCE-induced skin hypersensitivity.
Chronic exposure to copper induces hepatocellular apoptosis with greater injury in the periportal region compared to the perivenous region. Here we have identified the factors responsible for the development of regional damage in the liver under in vivo conditions. Enhanced production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) with predominance of superoxide radical (O(2)(-)) indicates the contribution of redox imbalance in the process. This may be linked with copper catalyzed oxidation of GSH to GSSG resulting in the generation of O(2)(-). Downregulation of Cu-Zn SOD in consequence of the degradation of this enzyme, causes decreased dismutation of O(2)(-), that further contributes to the enhanced level of O(2)(-) in the periportal region. Decreased functioning of Mn SOD activity, reduction in mitochondrial thiol/disulphide ratio and generation of O(2)(-) were much higher in the mitochondria from periportal region, which point to the involvement of this organelle in the regional hepatotoxicity observed during copper exposure. This was supported by copper-mediated enhanced mitochondrial dysfunction as evident from ATP depletion, collapse of mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) and induction of mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT). Results suggest the active participation of O(2)(-) in inducing mitochondrial dysfunction preferentially in the periportal region that eventually leads to the development of hepatotoxicity due to copper exposure under in vivo condition.
A case of skin necrosis at the sites of injection of subcutaneous heparin is described. The patient went on to develop heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and pulmonary embolism. Review of the previously described cases of heparin-associated skin necrosis reveals that this sequence of events is not uncommon.
Leishmaniasis is a sandfly-borne disease caused by a protozoan. The typical lesion of cutaneous leishmaniasis first appears as an erythematous papule at the site of inoculation, increases slowly in size, develops raised borders, and eventually ulcerates. The pentavalent antimony compounds continue to be a mainstay of therapy. We describe an Italian patient with an enlarging facial plaque that was found to be caused by leishmania and discuss the toxicity associated with therapy.
Aspirin-exacerbated respiratory disease (AERD) is a clinical syndrome that is characterized by nasal polyposis, general symptoms of asthma and sensitive response to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Although the exact function of tripartite motif-containing 26 (TRIM26) still remains unknown, the gene functions in the immune response. Thus, we hypothesized that TRIM26 polymorphisms may affect aspirin-induced bronchospasm and explored whether the gene can be a marker for diagnosis of AERD. To investigate our hypothesis that TRIM26 may serve as a genetic marker for diagnosis of AERD, this study focused on demonstrating the associations between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of the TRIM26 gene and AERD. We genotyped 18 polymorphisms of TRIM26 in a total of 189 asthmatics and examined their associations with the risk of AERD. We performed logistic analysis for obtaining P-values and regression analysis for demonstrating an association between the phenotype with FEV1 and the genotype. We observed no associations between polymorphisms in TRIM26 and the risk of AERD in both logistic and regression analyses. Although our results reveal a lack of association, the suggested functional role of TRIM26 makes it a putative candidate gene for AERD. Thus, replications in other populations using larger samples may provide valuable information for AERD etiology.
The case history of a patient developing tubulointerstitial nephritis (TIN) during carbamazepine therapy is described. After withdrawal of the drug and introduction of prednisone renal function normalised. TIN is a rare side-effect of carbamazepine of which only a few cases have been described. There seems to be a remarkable time interval of 2 months between the onset of therapy with carbamazepine and the development of TIN.
Cardiac contractile force in response to beta-adrenoceptor agonists and beta-adrenergic receptor density are decreased in failing human hearts. The effects of angiotensin I-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor on cardiac responsiveness to beta-adrenergic stimulation in failing hearts are not established. The present study was undertaken to determine whether ACE inhibitor may improve cardiac beta-adrenergic responsiveness in animals with chronic heart failure (CHF).
CHF was induced by left coronary artery ligation in rats. Cardiac output and stroke volume indices decreased 12 weeks after the operation. In sham-operated rats, dobutamine and isoprenaline increased cardiac output and stroke volume indices. In contrast, cardiac output and stroke volume responses to dobutamine and isoprenaline were severely blunted in the CHF rat. Cardiac beta 1-adrenergic receptor density was decreased while its dissociation constant (Kd) was not altered in the viable tissue of the left ventricle of the CHF rat, which is consistent with beta-adrenergic receptor downregulation. Cardiac norepinephrine content decreased in the CHF rats. Rats were treated orally with ACE inhibitors, 3 mg/kg trandolapril or 10 mg/kg enalapril once daily, or 5 mg/kg captopril twice daily from the 2nd to the 12th weeks after the operation. Treatment with ACE inhibitors attenuated the reduction in cardiac output and stroke volume indices and improved the inotropic response to dobutamine and isoprenaline and reversed partially the cardiac norepinephrine content in the CHF rat. ACE inhibitor treatment also attenuated the reduction in beta 1-adrenergic receptor density in the viable tissue of the left ventricle of the CHF rat.
The results suggest that ACE inhibitor treatment attenuates the blunting of cardiac responses to beta-adrenergic agonists in the CHF rat and that one of the mechanisms underlying this effect is prevention of cardiac beta 1-adrenergic receptor downregulation.
Even though atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ACVD) is the number one cause of death in the United States, the effects of environmental toxicants on this process are less well studied than the effects of chemicals on the second leading cause of death, cancer. There is considerable epidemiological evidence that workers exposed to carbon disulfide (CS2) have increased rates of ACVD, and there is conflicting evidence of the atherogenic potential of CS2 from animal studies. Chemical modification, such as oxidation of low-density lipoproteins (LDL), is tightly associated with increased LDL uptake by macrophages and the development of arterial fatty streaks. CS2 has been previously demonstrated to modify several proteins in vitro including LDL, and others in vivo through derivatization and covalent cross-linking. To investigate both the capacity of CS2 to induce arterial fatty deposits by itself, and its ability to enhance the rate of fatty deposit formation induced by a western style, high fat diet, groups of 20 female C57BL/6 mice were exposed to 0, 50, 500, or 800 ppm CS2 by inhalation. Half the animals in each group were placed on an atherogenic high fat diet and half on a control diet (NIH-07). Animals were sacrificed after 1, 4, 8, 12, 16, or 20 weeks of exposure, and the rates of fatty deposit formation under the aortic valve leaflets were evaluated. Exposure of mice on the control diet to 500 and 800 ppm CS2 induced a small but significant increase in the rate of fatty deposit formation over non-exposed controls. A more striking result was observed in the animals on the high fat diet. There was marked enhancement of the rate of fatty deposit formation in mice exposed to 500 and 800 ppm over the animals on the high fat diet alone. In addition, there was a small but significant enhancement in mice exposed to 50 ppm over the rate of fatty deposit formation induced by the high fat diet alone. Analysis of erythrocyte spectrin for protein cross-linking revealed a dose-dependent formation of alpha- and beta-heterodimers in animals on both diets. These data demonstrate that CS2 is atherogenic at high concentrations, but more importantly, suggest that, in conjunction with other risk factors, CS2 at relatively low concentrations can enhance atherogenesis.
Ethylene glycol monomethyl ether (EGME), which is extensively used in the chemical industries, has been associated with hematologic disorders in both humans and experimental animals. EGME is metabolized to the active compound methoxy-acetic acid (MAA), which readily crosses the placenta and impairs fetal development. However, little is known about the effect of maternal EGME exposure on the development of fetal immunity. In the present report, in utero treatment with EGME was found to alter expression of murine thymocyte and liver fetal cell-surface markers. Pregnant mice were exposed to 100, 150, or 200 mg/kg EGME from gestational days (gd) 10 to 17 and offspring examined on gd 18. Significant thymic atrophy and cellular depletion were found in EGME-exposed fetal mice. Flow cytometric analysis indicated that EGME treatment resulted in decreased percentages of CD4+8+ thymocytes and increased percentages of CD4-8- thymocytes. In vitro exposure to MAA did not result in decreased thymocyte viability or proliferation. These data suggest that EGME, in addition to producing thymic hypocellularity, may inhibit thymocyte maturation. EGME also reduced the percentage of CD45+ leukocytic cells present in fetal liver, an alteration that appeared to be largely manifested by decreased numbers of CD45R+ and CD44dim prolymphoid cells. In vitro MAA exposure of fetal liver cells enriched for lymphoid precursors resulted in significant inhibition of proliferation. Reconstitution of irradiated hosts with gd 18 fetal liver cells from vehicle and EGME-exposed syngeneic donors demonstrated impaired ability of the EGME-treated fetal liver to repopulate the host spleen with B or T lymphocytes. These data suggest that EGME-induced immunosuppression may result from targeting of multiple hematopoietic compartments. Further, the present data indicate that fetal liver prolymphocytes may represent sensitive targets of EGME exposure.
Familial diarrhea disorders are, in most cases, severe and caused by recessive mutations. We describe the cause of a novel dominant disease in 32 members of a Norwegian family. The affected members have chronic diarrhea that is of early onset, is relatively mild, and is associated with increased susceptibility to inflammatory bowel disease, small-bowel obstruction, and esophagitis.
We used linkage analysis, based on arrays with single-nucleotide polymorphisms, to identify a candidate region on chromosome 12 and then sequenced GUCY2C, encoding guanylate cyclase C (GC-C), an intestinal receptor for bacterial heat-stable enterotoxins. We performed exome sequencing of the entire candidate region from three affected family members, to exclude the possibility that mutations in genes other than GUCY2C could cause or contribute to susceptibility to the disease. We carried out functional studies of mutant GC-C using HEK293T cells.
We identified a heterozygous missense mutation (c.2519G→T) in GUCY2C in all affected family members and observed no other rare variants in the exons of genes in the candidate region. Exposure of the mutant receptor to its ligands resulted in markedly increased production of cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP). This may cause hyperactivation of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulator (CFTR), leading to increased chloride and water secretion from the enterocytes, and may thus explain the chronic diarrhea in the affected family members.
Increased GC-C signaling disturbs normal bowel function and appears to have a proinflammatory effect, either through increased chloride secretion or additional effects of elevated cellular cGMP. Further investigation of the relevance of genetic variants affecting the GC-C-CFTR pathway to conditions such as Crohn's disease is warranted. (Funded by Helse Vest [Western Norway Regional Health Authority] and the Department of Science and Technology, Government of India.).
Five hundred four outpatients suffering from a major depressive episode were randomly assigned to receive either amitriptyline, doxepin, alprazolam, or placebo. The study was conducted in three treatment centers during a six-week period. All three active medications produced significantly more clinical improvement than did placebo, irrespective of the patient's initial anxiety, depression, and psychomotor retardation and irrespective of the patient's assignment to various subtypes of depression, including the DSM-III melancholia subtype. Compared with placebo, sedation was reported more frequently with all three medications, whereas anticholinergic effects were reported more frequently only for the two tricyclic antidepressants, but not for alprazolam.
Atrial fibrillation (AF) with a rapid ventricular response was induced by intravenous (i.v.) aminophylline during treatment for symptomatic pulmonary disease in three patients who had no evidence of underlying heart disease or previous cardiac arrhythmia. Serum theophylline concentration was therapeutic in two patients and toxic in the third. Previous reports of AF related to aminophylline have underscored its association with toxic serum theophylline concentration. Conversion to sinus rhythm occurred at a time interval (9-14 hours) appropriate to the serum decay of aminophylline, after its cessation. A shortened atrial refractory period and dispersed recovery of excitability consequent to aminophylline may engender multiple reentrant circuits and lead to AF. i.v. diltiazem was more effective than digoxin in the ventricular rate control of AF prior to conversion to sinus rhythm.
Blastomycotic infections of the central nervous system (CNS) occur infrequently. The medical literature concerning blastomycosis of the CNS contains little information regarding indications for surgery.
We report five cases of CNS blastomycosis that required surgery: four intracranial and one intraspinal. One patient had a prior diagnosis of sarcoidosis, whereas none of the others had been diagnosed with any other systemic illness. The patients were evaluated with plain x rays as well as with computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging.
Four of these patients had extradural abscesses that required surgical drainage as well as debridement of granulomatous tissue and infected bone. The remaining patient had an intracerebellar abscess. Postoperatively, three patients were treated with amphotericin B, one with amphotericin B and ketoconazole, and one with an experimental protocol of fluconazole alone. All of the patients recovered without sequelae of seizures, recurrence of disease, or reaction to pharmacotherapy, although one patient had transient renal insufficiency due to amphotericin B.
Our experience with CNS blastomycosis managed surgically is reported. We propose three general surgical indications for these patients: mass lesions, diagnostic biopsy, and osteomyelitis refractory to pharmacotherapy.
Surgery for an area of focal cortical dysplasia in a critical region is reported in a right-handed female manifesting intractable focal epilepsy and verbal cognitive deterioration. She developed the first seizure at 2 years of age and was treated with phenytoin and zonisamide, with good control until 10 years of age. Although seizures did not occur at 9 years of age, she manifested dyscalculia, right-left disorientation, and finger agnosia, and N-isopropyl-p-iodoamphetamine single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) revealed focal hypoperfusion in the left parietal lobe. At 11 years of age, she developed regular nocturnal seizures and gradually lost the ability to understand the meaning of sentences. Verbal IQ declined from 94 to 63, and the area of hypoperfusion detected by interictal N-isopropyl-p-iodoamphetamine SPECT spread over the left parietotemporal lobes. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed focal cortical dysplasia mainly in the left parietal lobe, and ictal technetium-99m-ethyl cysteinate dimer SPECT images demonstrated an area of hyperperfusion around the focal cortical dysplasia, including the left precentral gyrus. Because of the overlap between the epileptogenic and functional cortex, the authors concluded that cortical resection, including focal cortical dysplasia, was inappropriate in this patient.
Renal proximal tubule dysfunction has been reported in patients treated with the chemotherapeutic agent ifosfamide. The present study investigated whether ifosfamide or its metabolites acrolein and chloroacetaldehyde would impair function in the isolated perfused rat kidney. Renal function was monitored before and after these chemicals were added to a modified Krebs-Ringer-bicarbonate perfusion medium containing 6.6 g/dl albumin and a mixture of substrates. No functional changes were observed when ifosfamide (470 microM) or acrolein (470 microM) was added to the perfusate. Addition of chloroacetaldehyde (210 microM) resulted in significant decreases in the fractional reabsorption of sodium (from 92 to 32%), glucose (from 97 to 46%), inorganic phosphate (from 88 to 22%), and inorganic sulfate (from 94 to 86%). There were no changes in glomerular filtration rate. PAH clearance also significantly decreased from 4.1 to 0.7 ml/min per gram of kidney weight, indicating impairment of proximal tubule organic acid secretion. This impairment was associated with a significant decline in the extraction ratio for PAH, suggesting abnormal PAH uptake at the basolateral membrane. These results show that chloroacetaldehyde causes generalized renal proximal tubule dysfunction and that it may be the ifosfamide metabolite responsible for nephrotoxic side effects.
We have observed two cases of chlorpromazine-induced neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS); both were transiently responsive to intravenous diazepam challenge, but not to blind placebo or amyobarbitol. The interrelationship, via feedback between central dopaminergic and gamma-aminobutyric (GABA) systems is reviewed. A theoretical role for a relative DA-GABA imbalance during NMS and treatment implications are discussed.
Evidence suggests that environmental and dietary factors may contribute to the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). High dietary intake of cholesterol is such a factor that has been shown to increase or decrease the risk of PD. However, because circulating cholesterol does not cross the blood-brain barrier, the mechanisms linking dietary cholesterol to the pathogenesis of PD remain to be understood. In contrast to cholesterol, the oxidized cholesterol metabolites (oxysterols), 24S-hydroxycholesterol (24-OHC) and 27-hydroxycholesterol (27-OHC), can cross the blood-brain barrier and may place the brain at risk of degeneration. In this study, we incubated the human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells for 24 h with 24-OHC, 27-OHC, or a mixture of 24-OHC plus 27-OHC, and have determined effects on tyrosine hydroxylase (the rate-limiting enzyme in dopamine synthesis) levels, alpha-synuclein levels, and apoptosis. We demonstrate that while 24-OHC increases the levels of tyrosine hydroxylase, 27-OHC increases levels of alpha-synuclein, and induces apoptosis. Our findings show for the first time that oxysterols trigger changes in levels of proteins that are associated with the pathogenesis of PD. As steady state levels of 24-OHC and 27-OHC are tightly regulated in the brain, disturbances in these levels may contribute to the pathogenesis of PD.
To assess whether chlorambucil or cyclophosphamide may have a better therapeutic index in patients with idiopathic membranous nephropathy, we compared two regimens based on a 6-mo treatment, alternating every other month methylprednisolone with chlorambucil or methylprednisolone with cyclophosphamide. Patients with biopsy-proven membranous nephropathy and with a nephrotic syndrome were randomized to be given methylprednisolone (1 g intravenously for 3 consecutive days followed by oral methylprednisolone, 0.4 mg/kg per d for 27 d) alternated every other month either with chlorambucil (0.2 mg/kg per d for 30 d) or cyclophosphamide (2.5 mg/kg per d for 30 d). The whole treatment lasted 6 mo; 3 mo with corticosteroids and 3 mo with one cytotoxic drug. Among 87 patients followed for at least 1 yr, 36 of 44 (82%; 95% confidence interval [CI], 67.3 to 91.8%) assigned to methylprednisolone and chlorambucil entered complete or partial remission of the nephrotic syndrome, versus 40 of 43 (93%; 95% CI, 80.9 to 98.5%) assigned to methylprednisolone and cyclophosphamide (P = 0.116). Of patients who attained remission of the nephrotic syndrome, 11 of 36 in the chlorambucil group (30.5%) and 10 of 40 in the cyclophosphamide group (25%) had a relapse of the nephrotic syndrome between 6 and 30 mo. The reciprocal of plasma creatinine improved in the cohort groups followed for 1 yr for both treatment groups (P < 0.01) and remained unchanged when compared with basal values in the cohort groups followed for 2 and 3 yr. Six patients in the chlorambucil group and two in the cyclophosphamide group did not complete the treatment because of side effects. Four patients in the chlorambucil group but none in the cyclophosphamide group suffered from herpes zoster. One patient per group developed cancer. It is concluded that in nephrotic patients with idiopathic membranous nephropathy both treatments may be effective in favoring remission and in preserving renal function for at least 3 yr.
Psoas and spinal epidural abscesses are rare conditions that are infrequently found occurring simultaneously in the same patient. This case presents an 18-year-old female with diabetes mellitus who presented with fever and leg pain. Blood and urine cultures were positive for methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus. A CT scan of the abdomen showed a large psoas abscess with loculations extending and involving the spinal canal. The abscesses were drained and the patient completed a 6-week course of intravenous antibiotics with remarkable improvement of her clinical condition. The diagnosis of psoas and epidural abscesses is difficult and can be overlooked or delayed as a result of their vague clinical manifestations and their rarity, which leads to a lack of clinical suspicion.
It is hypothesized that intravenous (IV) amiodarone is poorly effective for the acute termination of sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia because of the relatively slow onset of its Vaughn-Williams class III effect to prolong myocardial depolarization and the refractory period. This study is designed to determine the effectiveness and safety of IV amiodarone for the termination of sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia.
A retrospective case series was collected at 4 urban university-affiliated hospitals from September 1996 to April 2005 after institutional review board approval with waiver of informed consent. Emergency department (ED) patients treated with IV amiodarone for ventricular tachycardia were identified by ED treatment and hospital pharmacy billing records, International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Revision discharge codes, and ECG characteristics. All consecutive patients who received at least 150 mg amiodarone in 15 minutes or less for spontaneous sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia were eligible for inclusion. Sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia was defined as a tachycardia with uninterrupted duration or rapid recurrence despite automatic internal cardiac defibrillator therapy for at least 5 minutes before amiodarone treatment, monomorphic morphology, rate greater than 120 beats/min, QRS duration greater than 120 ms, and subsequently determined to be ventricular tachycardia by ECG criteria (eg, atrioventricular dissociation), implanted device interrogation, or formal electrophysiology study. Measured outcomes included sustained termination of ventricular tachycardia within 20 minutes of initiation of amiodarone infusion and any documented adverse effects. Rates of successful termination and adverse effects and their 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated. The presence or average values of potentially confounding predictors in patients with and without ventricular tachycardia termination after amiodarone were also calculated and compared.
Thirty-three patients were identified and included. Five patients received electrical therapy within 20 minutes of initiation of amiodarone infusion, and the response to amiodarone was unknown. Twenty-seven of the remaining 28 patients received 150 mg amiodarone, and the rate of successful ventricular tachycardia termination was 8 of 28, 29% (95% CI 13 to 49). Two of 33 patients, 6% (95% CI 1 to 20), required direct current cardioversion for presyncope or hypotension temporally associated with amiodarone treatment.
IV amiodarone, as currently administered, is relatively safe but ineffective for the acute termination of sustained ventricular tachycardia.
Persistent ecotoxicants, such as dioxin and PCBs, are thought to pose one of the greatest threats to public and ecological health in the industrial world. These compounds cause a range of macroscopic malformations, particularly to the craniofacial apparatus and cardiovascular system during vertebrate development. However, little is known about microscopic effects, especially on the sensitive early life stages or on the molecular basis of developmental neurotoxicity. Using zebrafish (Danio rerio), we have explored neurological deficits caused by early-life exposure to environmentally relevant concentrations of dioxin. We show, using a quantitative stereological technique, that 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) substantially reduces the capacity for embryonic brain development, causing a 30% reduction in total neuronal number in the 168-h larval brain. Using transgenic GFP-expressing zebrafish lines, we link this to decreased expression of key developmentally regulated genes, namely neurogenin and sonic hedgehog. This disruption of neuronal development provides the basis for understanding the neurotoxic effects of these compounds.
Disulfiram, 500 mg/day, raised serum cholesterol levels in alcoholic persons from a mean of 193 +/- 16.4 mg/dl to 227.2 +/- 17.2 mg/dl after 3 weeks and 264 +/- 40 mg/dl after 6 weeks. This increase was not seen in a group taking pyridoxine 50 mg/day in addition to disulfiram 500 mg/day. In contrast to the disulfiram and disulfiram-pyridoxine treatment groups, control groups receiving pyridoxine alone, or no drug, had a 33 mg/dl reduction in serum cholesterol during the first 3 weeks of abstinence, a finding consistent with other evidence showing a rapid decrease in serum lipids on abstinence from alcohol. Patients taking disulfiram 250 mg/day, with or without pyridoxine, did not have this expected decrease in serum cholesterol. Since increased serum cholesterol is one of the risk factors in a coronary heart disease, chronic disulfirm therapy may increase the incidence of arteriosclerotic cardiovascular disease, as has been the case with chronic exposure to carbon disulfide, a principal metabolite of disulfiram.
Epothilones are a new group of compounds with action mechanisms similar to taxanes. The aim of this study was to compare the effects of epothilone A (Epo A) and epothilone B (Epo B) on ovarian cancer cell line SKOV-3 with those of paclitaxel (PTX), a classic taxane. We evaluate glycoprotein P (P-gp) activity in the ovarian cancer cell line. Apoptotic and necrotic cell levels were measured by double staining with Hoechst 33258 and propidium iodide (PI) as well as Annexin V staining. The production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and changes in mitochondrial membrane potential (ΔΨm) in cells exposed to Epo A, Epo B and PTX were studied using specific fluorescence probes, DCFH(2)-DA (2',7'-dichlorodihydrofluorescein diacetate) and JC-1 (5,5',6,6'-tetrachloro-1,1',3,3'-tetraethylbenzimidazolcarbocyanine). The cytotoxic activity of the drugs was determined by the MTT (3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5 diphenyltetrazolium bromide) test. All probes were analyzed in both the presence and absence of the antioxidant N-acetylcysteine (NAC). The results obtained demonstrated that the antiproliferative capacity of Epo A and Epo B in SKOV-3 cell line (measured as IC(50) after 72 h continuous treatment) was six and five times greater than that of PTX's respectively. Epothilones induced timecourse-dependent apoptosis and necrosis. Apoptotic and necrotic events were partially blocked by NAC, indicating ROS played a substantial role in epothilone-induced apoptosis. Cell death was also associated with a decrease in mitochondrial membrane potential, which was more pronounced after treatment with epothilones as compared to paclitaxel.
Pentavalent antimonial drugs used for the treatment of leishmaniasis have been associated with sudden deaths, probably due to the development of ventricular tachyarrhythmias. Prolongation of the QT interval and ventricular tachyarrhymias have been described in patients on amiodarone therapy. We report a case of recurrent torsades de pointes following treatment with pentavalent antimonial drugs and amiodarone.
To determine the influence of acute regional toxic reactions on the incidence and characteristics of long-term morbidity after regional isolated perfusion with melphalan.
Retrospective study.
The Amsterdam and Rotterdam perfusion centers, the Netherlands.
All patients with melanoma who were treated between 1978 and 1990 and had a minimum follow-up of 1 year after perfusion (n = 367).
Fifty-four patients (15%) had perfusion of the upper limb, 313 (85%) had perfusion of the lower limb, and 164 patients (45%) underwent regional lymph node dissection at the time of perfusion.
Incidence and characteristics of morbidity 1 year after perfusion and the influence of acute regional toxic reactions on long-term morbidity.
One hundred sixty patients (44%) showed some degree of objective or subjective morbidity; most (104 [28%]) had lymphedema. Other long-term morbidity consisted of muscle atrophy or fibrosis (42 [11%]), limb malfunction (55 [15%]), neuropathy (13 [4%]), pain (28 [8%]), and recurrent infection (11 [3%]). Miscellaneous complications were seen in 14 patients (4%). Seventy-one patients (19%) had more than one complication. Acute regional toxic reactions had a statistically significant effect on the incidence of long-term morbidity (P < .01). Moderate to severe acute regional toxic reactions were strongly linked to the occurrence of muscle atrophy or fibrosis (P < .001) and limb malfunction (P < .001). Regional lymph node dissection was statistically significantly related to lymphedema (P = .05).
Improvement of the perfusion technique should be pursued in an effort to reduce acute regional toxic reactions, and thereby long-term morbidity, without compromising the therapeutic effect.
Diuretics have been particularly successful for treatment of low-renin hypertension (LRH), although they may cause metabolic complications such as hypokalemia and hyperglycemia. Since the efficacy of diuretics is largely limited by reactive angiotensin II production, a combination of a converting enzyme inhibitor with a diuretic should be synergistic, particularly in LRH, where heightened aldosterone production in response to angiotensin II has been noted. Eighteen patients with LRH were treated initially with either captopril alone (450 mg/day) or hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) (up to 100 mg/day). Captopril alone only reduced average placebo standing blood pressure from 151/100 to 146/96 mm Hg. Combination of HCTZ with captopril reduced average standing blood pressure to 111/76 mm Hg at 3 months and 116/81 mm Hg at 1 year while allowing reductions in average captopril dosage to 100 mg/day and HCTZ dosage to 40 mg/day and reductions in supplemental potassium administration and in HCTZ-induced hyperglycemia. Captopril monotherapy did not increase urinary excretion of kallikrein, prostaglandin E2, or 6-keto prostaglandin F1 alpha, a metabolite of prostacyclin, and did not reduce urinary aldosterone excretion chronically. Thus, a synergism of captopril with HCTZ may be advantageous in certain patients with LRH.
Hypertension present in more than 50% of successfully renal transplanted patients and its prevalence has slightly increased since the introduction of cyclosporine A. Twenty patients, 9 women and 11 men aged from 30 to 58 years, with stable cadaveric renal allograft function and moderate to severe hypertension, were included in the study. Renal artery graft stenosis causing hypertension were excluded. All patients were given triple drug immunosuppressive treatment with methylprednisolone, azathioprine and cyclosporine A (CsA) and their hypertension was treated with a nifedipine dose of 20 mg twice daily. To evaluate the effect of ACE inhibitors on renal hemodynamics and hypertension, a 4 mg/daily dose of perindopril was added to the above regimen for two months. Effective renal plasma flow (ERPF) decreased from 208 +/- 54 to 168 +/- 61 ml/min and renal vascular resistance (RVR) increased from 75 +/- 12 to 88 +/- 17 mm Hg/ml/min (P < 0.05 and P < 0.01, respectively). Mean blood pressure was significantly (P < 0.001) reduced by the combination of both agents in comparison to the blood pressure control by monotherapy with nifedipine. It is suggested that the combination of both antihypertensive agents was more effective than monotherapy with nifedipine in controlling blood pressure, but less favorable on the renal hemodynamic response in hypertensive renal transplant patients who were maintained on CsA.
