The role of thrombolytic therapy in patients with cocaine-associated acute myocardial infarction (AMI) is controversial. Some have suggested that because the AMI mortality may be low in young patients with cocaine usage, the risks outweigh the benefits of thrombolytic therapy. Two cases of cocaine-associated AMI are presented. Each case illustrates different aspects of this controversy. In one case, ECG interpretation and concerns with thrombolytic therapy in this setting led to prolonged treatment delay. The second case illustrates unrecognized cocaine-associated AMI treated safely with thrombolytic therapy and beta-blockade. The arguments for and against thrombolytic therapy in this setting are discussed. The available literature suggesting increased risk associated with thrombolytic therapy in patients with cocaine-associated AMI is critically reviewed.
The aim of this study was to explore the mechanisms that contribute to neurotoxicity induced by arsenite exposure focusing on the alteration of glutamate metabolism in primary cultured astrocytes. The cells were exposed to 0-30μM arsenite for 24h, and then cell viability, intracellular nonprotein sulfhydryl (NPSH) levels, mitochondrial membrane potential, activity of Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase, glutamine synthetase (GS) and glutamate transporter (GLAST and GLT-1), and protein expression of GS, GLAST and GLT-1 were examined. Compared with those in control, exposure to arsenite resulted in damages of astrocytes in a concentration dependent manner, which were shown by cell viabilities, and supported by morphological observation, mitochondrial membrane potential and intracellular NPSH levels. On the other hand, activities and protein expression of GS, GLAST and GLT-1 were significantly inhibited by arsenite exposure. Moreover, protein expression of GLAST and activities of GS were much more sensitive to arsenite. However, activities of Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase were not influenced obviously by arsenite exposure. In conclusion, findings from this study indicated that exposure to arsenite could inhibit glutamate metabolism in astrocytes, which might be related to arsenic-induced neurotoxicity.
Evidence suggests anti-tumor activities of glucosamine-hydrochloride (GS-HCl). In the present study, we investigated anti-proliferative, growth suppressive and/or pro-apoptotic effects of GS-HCl on YD-8 human oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) cells. Fundamentally, treatment with GS-HCl strongly inhibited proliferation and induced apoptosis in YD-8 cells, as determined by MTS and DNA fragmentation analyses. Of further note, as measured by Western analyses, GS-HCl treatment led to activation of caspase-3, cytosolic accumulation of cytochrome c, down-regulation of Mcl-1 and HIF-1α, up-regulation of GRP78, an indicator of ER stress, and generation of ROS in YD-8 cells. Importantly, results of pharmacological inhibition studies showed that treatment with z-VAD-fmk, a pan-caspase inhibitor, but not with vitamin E, an anti-oxidant strongly blocked the GS-HCl-induced apoptosis in YD-8 cells. Analyses of additional cell culture works further revealed that GS-HCl had a strong growth suppressive effect on not only YD-8 but also YD-10B and YD-38, two other human OSCC cell lines. These findings collectively demonstrate that GS-HCl has anti-proliferative, anti-survival, and pro-apoptotic effects on YD-8 cells and the effects appear to be mediated via mechanisms associated with the mitochondrial-dependent activation of caspases, down-regulation of Mcl-1, and induction of ER stress. Considering HIF-1α as a tumor angiogenic transcription factor, the ability of GS-HCl to down-regulate HIF-1α in YD-8 cells may further support its anti-cancer property. It is thus suggested that GS-HCl may be used as a potential anti-cancer drug against human OSCC.
Keratins 8 and 18 (K8/18) intermediate filament proteins are believed to play an essential role in the protection of hepatocytes against mechanical and toxic stress. This assertion is mainly based on increased hepatocyte fragility observed in transgenic mice deficient in K8/18, or carrying mutations on K8/18. The molecular mechanism by which keratins accomplish their protective functions has not been totally elucidated. Liver diseases such as alcoholic hepatitis and copper metabolism diseases are associated with modifications, in hepatocytes, of intermediate filament organisation and the formation of K8/18 containing aggregates named Mallory-Denk bodies. Treatment of mice with a diet containing griseofulvin induces the formation of Mallory-Denk bodies in hepatocytes. This provides a reliable animal model for assessing the molecular mechanism by which keratins accomplish their protective role in the response of hepatocytes to chemical injuries. In this study, we found that griseofulvin intoxication induced changes in keratin solubility and that there was a 5% to 25% increase in the relative amounts of soluble keratin. Keratin phosphorylation on specific sites (K8 pS79, K8 pS436 and K18 pS33) was increased and prominent in the insoluble protein fractions. Since at least six K8 phosphoepitopes were detected after GF treatment, phosphorylation sites other than the ones studied need to be accounted for. Immunofluorescence staining showed that K8 pS79 epitope was present in clusters of hepatocytes that surrounded apoptotic cells. Activated p38 MAPK was associated with, but not present in K8 pS79-positive cells. These results indicate that griseofulvin intoxication mediates changes in the physicochemical properties of keratin, which result in the remodelling of keratin intermediate filaments which in turn could modulate the signalling pathways in which they are involved by modifying their binding to signalling proteins.
To determine the antipsychotic efficacy and extrapyramidal safety of intramuscular (i.m.) olanzapine and i.m. haloperidol during the first 24 hours of treatment of acute schizophrenia.
Patients (n = 311) with acute schizophrenia were randomly allocated (2:2:1) to receive i.m. olanzapine (10.0 mg, n = 131), i.m. haloperidol (7.5 mg, n = 126), or i.m. placebo (n = 54).
After the first injection, i.m. olanzapine was comparable to i.m. haloperidol and superior to i.m. placebo for reducing mean change scores from baseline on the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BRPS) Positive at 2 hours (-2.9 olanzapine, -2.7 haloperidol, and -1.5 placebo) and 24 hours (-2.8 olanzapine, -3.2 haloperidol, and -1.3 placebo); the BPRS Total at 2 hours (-14.2 olanzapine,-13.1 haloperidol, and -7.1 placebo) and 24 hours (-12.8 olanzapine, -12.9 haloperidol, and -6.2 placebo); and the Clinical Global Impressions (CGI) scale at 24 hours (-0.5 olanzapine, -0.5 haloperidol, and -0.1 placebo). Patients treated with i.m. olanzapine had significantly fewer incidences of treatment-emergent parkinsonism (4.3% olanzapine vs 13.3% haloperidol, P = 0.036), but not akathisia (1.1% olanzapine vs 6.5% haloperidol, P = 0.065), than did patients treated with i.m. haloperidol; they also required significantly less anticholinergic treatment (4.6% olanzapine vs 20.6% haloperidol, P < 0.001). Mean extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) safety scores improved significantly from baseline during i.m. olanzapine treatment, compared with a general worsening during i.m. haloperidol treatment (Simpson-Angus Scale total score mean change: -0.61 olanzapine vs 0.70 haloperidol; P < 0.001; Barnes Akathisia Scale global score mean change: -0.27 olanzapine vs 0.01 haloperidol; P < 0.05).
I.m. olanzapine was comparable to i.m. haloperidol for reducing the symptoms of acute schizophrenia during the first 24 hours of treatment, the efficacy of both being evident within 2 hours after the first injection. In general, more EPS were observed during treatment with i.m. haloperidol than with i.m. olanzapine.
Peroxisome proliferator activated receptors (PPARs) are a class of nuclear receptors now actively investigated for their involvement in lipid and glucidic metabolism, immune regulation and cell differentiation. Drugs binding and activating PPARs are therefore attracting attention for their potential therapeutic role in various diseases like type 2 diabetes, dyslipidemias, atherosclerosis, obesity (i.e., metabolic syndrome). Agonists of these receptors have been already used in therapeutic protocols: fibrates (PPAR-alpha ligands) are being used in hyperlipidemias, and thiazolidinediones (mainly PPAR-gamma ligands) are being employed as insulin sensitizers. The latter drugs introduction into therapy, however, showed very soon some unwanted effects (hepatotoxicity at first and myocardiotoxicity later on) which confirmed some contradictory data already suggested by pre-clinical trial-experiments. In this study we show that some PPAR ligands impair mitochondrial oxidative metabolism in human liver cell line mainly by deranging NADH oxidation. Intriguingly, the PPAR-gamma ligand ciglitazone caused a dose-dependent inhibition of NADH-cytochrome c reductase that resulted, at a drug concentration of 50 microM, of about 60% (P<0.001), while other PPAR ligands with different receptor affinity - positive controls like clofibrate (0.7 mM), gemfibrozil (0.23 mM) and bezafibrate (1 mM) - reduced the activity of mitochondrial Complex I by about 20% (P<0.01, P<0.01 and P<0.05, respectively). The induced mitochondrial dysfunction imposed a series of metabolic compensatory adaptations characterized by a significant shift to anaerobic glycolysis. These findings underline the undervalued non-genomic effects of PPAR ligands and can provide a better understanding of the pharmacotoxicological profiles of these drugs and of their roles in the therapy of diabetes mellitus.
Although apoptosis induced by amyloid β (Aβ) has been identified, the effect of Aβ on telomerase activity in relation to apoptosis induction remains unclear. In the present study, Aβ(1-40) and Aβ(25-35), but not Aβ(1-16) and Aβ(35-25), reduce the viability of primary cerebral endothelial cells (CECs) in accordance with apoptosis induction. Increases in caspase 3 and PARP protein cleavage with reductions of the Bcl-2/Bax protein ratio accompanied by a loss in the mitochondria membrane potential were identified in Aβ(1-40) and Aβ(25-35)-treated CECs. A significant decrease in intracellular telomerase activity by Aβ(1-40) and Aβ(25-35) was detected; meanwhile, reduced telomerase activity by telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) siRNA enhanced the cytotoxic effect of Aβ. The addition of serum might block the Aβ(25-35)-induced cytotoxic effect via elevated telomerase activity in according with stimulating phospho-AKT protein expression, which was blocked by adding AKT inhibitor LY294002. Decreases in heat shock protein 90 (HSP90) and its client proteins including TERT, AKT, p53, CDK4 were observed in Aβ(1-40) and Aβ(25-35), but not Aβ(1-16) and Aβ(35-25), -treated CECs. The knockdown of HSP90 gene expression by HSP90 siRNA significantly inhibits telomerase activity with decreasing TERT protein expression. The application of HSP90 activity inhibitor geldanamycin (GA) and radicicol (RD) potentiates the telomerase inhibition and apoptosis induction of Aβ in CECs. An increase in protein ubiquitination by Aβ(25-35), but not Aβ(35-25), treatment was examined, and Aβ-inhibited HSP90 and TERT protein expression and telomerase activity was reversed by adding proteasome inhibitor, MG132. Additionally, increased TERT protein ubiquitination by Aβ(25-35) was detected in CECs via immunoprecipitation/Western blotting analysis. The data of the present study firstly demonstrates that telomerase inhibition contributes to the apoptosis induction of Aβ in CECs.
1 Chronic liver disease is characterized by an exacerbated accumulation of matrix, causing progressive fibrosis, which may lead to cirrhosis. Transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta), a well-known profibrotic cytokine, transduces its signal through the ALK5 ser/thr kinase receptor, and increases transcription of different genes including PAI-1 and collagens. The identification of GW6604 (2-phenyl-4-(3-pyridin-2-yl-1H-pyrazol-4-yl)pyridine), an ALK5 inhibitor, allowed us to evaluate the therapeutic potential of inhibiting TGF-beta pathway in different models of liver disease. 2 A cellular assay was used to identify GW6604 as a TGF-beta signaling pathway inhibitor. This ALK5 inhibitor was then tested in a model of liver hepatectomy in TGF-beta-overexpressing transgenic mice, in an acute model of liver disease and in a chronic model of dimethylnitrosamine (DMN)-induced liver fibrosis. 3 In vitro, GW6604 inhibited autophosphorylation of ALK5 with an IC(50) of 140 nM and in a cellular assay inhibited TGF-beta-induced transcription of PAI-1 (IC(50): 500 nM). In vivo, GW6604 (40 mg kg(-1) p.o.) increased liver regeneration in TGF-beta-overexpressing mice, which had undergone partial hepatectomy. In an acute model of liver disease, GW6604 reduced by 80% the expression of collagen IA1. In a chronic model of DMN-induced fibrosis where DMN was administered for 6 weeks and GW6604 dosed for the last 3 weeks (80 mg kg(-1) p.o., b.i.d.), mortality was prevented and DMN-induced elevations of mRNA encoding for collagen IA1, IA2, III, TIMP-1 and TGF-beta were reduced by 50-75%. Inhibition of matrix genes overexpression was accompanied by reduced matrix deposition and reduction in liver function deterioration, as assessed by bilirubin and liver enzyme levels. 4 Our results suggest that inhibition of ALK5 could be an attractive new approach to treatment of liver fibrotic diseases by both preventing matrix deposition and promoting hepatocyte regeneration.
A new synthetic retinoid, Am-80 is expected to overcome all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) resistance, because of several times more potent differentiation activity than ATRA and sustained plasma level during continuous administration due to a lower affinity for cellular retinoic acid binding protein. In a preliminary study in Japan, 14 (58%) of 24 acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) patients who had relapsed from ATRA induced complete remission (CR) achieved a second CR. Of these 14 CR patients, 4 of 6 who underwent allogeneic stem cell transplantation (SCT) are alive, and 4 of 8 patients who received only chemotherapy are alive without relapse for >4 years. Adverse events include xerosis, cheilitis, hyperlipidemia and so on, but these were generally milder than ATRA. In a phase 2 clinical trial, 25 (61%) of 41 patients entered CR. Among 23 first relapsed patients, 18 (78.3%) patients entered CR, indicating excellent salvage effects for ATRA-relapsed patients. Am-80 may improve disease free survival when used as remission induction and/or maintenance therapy, and it may be effective for relapse from ATRA-induced remission and be curative for patients who receive SCT or intensive post remission chemotherapy.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme is a peptidase involved in the formation of angiotensin II and the inactivation of bradykinin. In a previous study we found elevated angiotensin-converting enzyme activity in women with pregnancy-induced hypertension prior to magnesium sulfate therapy and lower levels during therapy. This prospective study was undertaken in order to determine if angiotensin-converting enzyme activity indeed decreased after magnesium sulfate therapy. Sixteen patients with pregnancy-induced hypertension were studied before and during magnesium sulfate therapy. Angiotensin-converting enzyme activity was found to decrease 1 to 8 hours into therapy and then plateau between 9 and 24 hours. Possible mechanisms for this observation are discussed.
Inborn errors of metabolism (IEM) are caused by mutations in genes coding for enzymes and other proteins involved in cell metabolism. Many IEM can be treated effectively. Although IEM have usually been considered pediatric diseases, they can present at any age, mostly with neurological and psychiatric symptoms, and therefore constitute an integral subspeciality of neurology. However, although they are increasingly being recognized, IEM remain rare, and the care for patients should be optimized in specialized reference centers. Since the number of different diseases is very large, the diagnostic approach needs to be rigorous, starting at the clinics and calling upon the additional help of neuroradiology, biochemistry and molecular biology. In practice, it is important for the neurologist to recognize: (1) when to start suspecting an IEM; and (2) how to correlate a given clinical presentation with one of the five major groups of diseases affecting the nervous system. These five groups may be classified as: (a) energy metabolism disorders such as respiratory chain disorders, pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency, GLUT1 deficiency, fatty-acid β-oxidation defects, and disorders involving key cofactors such as electron transfer flavoprotein, thiamine, biotin, riboflavin, vitamin E and coenzyme Q10; (b) intoxication syndromes such as porphyrias, urea-cycle defects, homocystinurias, organic acidurias and amino acidopathies; (c) lipid-storage disorders such as lysosomal storage disorders (Krabbe disease, metachromatic leukodystrophy, Niemann - Pick disease type C, Fabry disease and Gaucher's disease), peroxisomal disorders (adrenomyeloneuropathy, Refsum disease, disorders of pristanic acid metabolism, peroxisome biogenesis disorders), Tangier disease and cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis; (d) metal-storage diseases such as iron, copper and manganese metabolic disorders; and (e) neurotransmitter metabolism defects, including defects of serotonin, dopamine and glycine metabolism.
Norplant is a subcutaneous contraceptive with levonorgestrel. From March to October 1993. Norplant was implanted in 58 women and its side effects were observed for a period of six months. No pregnancy occurred during the study period. Almost all the women experienced irregular menstruations or amenorrhea. The most frequent side effect was weight gain in 21 women (36.2%) followed by headache (13.7%), hair loss (8.6%) and emotional changes (8.6%). However, they were usually mild and 86.2% of the women showed complete satisfaction at the end of study. Norplant was removed in 6 women for its side effects. Younger women appeared to tolerated better than older women. There was a significant relationship between the frequency of side effects with Norplant and those with previous use of birth control pills.
During the period of March-October 1993 Norplant was implanted in 58 women who appeared at first, third, and sixth monthly control examinations at the OB/GYN Service, US Army Hospital, Berlin, Germany. The six rods were inserted under local anesthesia within 4-5 minutes. The average age was 24.6 years, and they were counseled individually after watching a video film about the procedure. One month after the implantation the skin appeared normal without hematoma or infection. Only 2 women had a regular menstrual cycle in the course of six months, but no pregnancy occurred. 27 women (46.5%) reported at least one side effect. Most frequent was weight gain (21 cases, or 36.2%); other side effects were headache (8 cases, or 13.2%), loss of hair (5 cases, or 8.6%), mood changes (5 cases, or 8.6%), fatigue (2 cases, or 3.4%), decreased libido (1 case, or 1.7%), and nausea (1 case, or 1.7%). In women aged 20 years or younger fewer problems occurred than in older women (p 0.025). 54 women had also used oral contraceptives. 25 of these (46.3%) had side effects, i.e., headache, migraine, or nausea. There was an association between the side effects of Norplant and those of oral contraceptives (p 0.025). At the end of the study 86.2% of women (50) reported to be satisfied with Norplant, 10.3% of women (6) said they were not satisfied, and 3.4% of women (2) were undecided. Norplant was removed in 6 cases because of side effects. Among these were 3 women with heavy hair loss, 2 with mood changes, and 1 with increasing headaches. Almost 90% of the women accepted Norplant. It is very important to instruct women in detail about the action of Norplant and counsel them in order to reduce the rate of removals.
Dose-response curves for the incidence of coma after intraperitoneal injections of various doses of valproic acid (VP) and octanoic acid (OA) showed that, mole for mole, valproic acid was less toxic than octanoic acid. However, a simultaneous subcoma dose of pentobarbital (PB) enhanced the toxicity of VP more than that of OA. The dose-response curve for NH4Cl was affected by simultaneous subcoma doses of VP and OA but not by PB. VP enhanced the toxicity of the NH4+ by 52%; OA enhanced the toxicity by 12%. PB added significantly to the toxicity of VP and NH4+ when the three were given simultaneously. Doses of 0.7 mmol NH4+ and 0.5 mmol VP given separately had little or no encephalopathic effect, with blood ammonias of 250-1250 micrograms/dl. When given simultaneously they induced a deep coma and raised the blood ammonia threefold, to about 3600 micrograms/dl. Similar doses of OA and NH4+, induced a similar deep coma, but blood levels of ammonia were not as high. Simultaneous injections of 250 mg glucose did not alter the results. Thus VP toxicity is enhanced substantially by its synergistic interactions with PB and the NH4+.
Both industrial chemicals and environmental pollutants can interfere with bone modeling and remodeling. Recently, detailed toxicological bone studies have been performed following exposure to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD), which exerts most of its toxic effects through the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR).
The aims of the present study were to quantitatively evaluate changes in bone geometry, mineral density and biomechanical properties following long-term exposure to TCDD, and to further investigate the role of AhR in TCDD-induced bone alterations. To this end, tissue material used in the study was derived from TCDD-exposed Long-Evans (L-E) and Han/Wistar (H/W) rats, which differ markedly in sensitivity to TCDD-induced toxicity due to a strain difference in AhR structure.
Ten weeks old female L-E and H/W rats were administered TCDD s.c. once per week for 20 weeks, at doses corresponding to calculated daily doses of 0, 1, 10, 100 and 1000ngTCDD/kgbw (H/W only). Femur, tibia and vertebra from the L-E and H/W rats were analyzed by peripheral quantitative computed tomography (pQCT) and biomechanical testing at multiple sites. Dose-response modeling was performed to establish benchmark doses for the analyzed bone parameters, and to quantify strain sensitivity differences for those parameters, which were affected by TCDD exposure in both rat strains.
Bone geometry and bone biomechanical parameters were affected by TCDD exposure, while bone mineral density parameters were less affected. The trabecular area at proximal tibia and the endocortical circumference at tibial diaphysis were the parameters that showed the highest maximal responses. Significant strain differences in response to TCDD treatment were observed, with the L-E rat being the most sensitive strain. For the parameters that were affected in both strains, the differences in sensitivity were quantified, showing the most pronounced (about 49-fold) strain difference for cross-sectional area of proximal tibia.
The study provides novel information about TCDD-induced bone alterations at doses, which are of relevance from a health risk assessment point of view. In addition, the obtained results provide further support for a distinct role of the AhR in TCDD-induced bone alterations, and suggest that the benchmark dose modeling approach is appropriate for quantitative evaluation of bone toxicity parameters.
Methotrexate (MTX)-induced neurotoxicity may occur after intrathecal or systemic administration at low, intermediate and high doses for the treatment of malignant or inflammatory diseases. The mechanisms of MTX neurotoxicity are not totally understood, and appear to be multifactorial. In this study we characterized a model of MTX-induced seizures in mice to evaluate the convulsive and toxic MTX properties. Additionally, the effect of MTX-induced seizures on the activity of glutamate transporters, as well as the anticonvulsant role of MK-801, DNQX and adenosine on glutamate uptake in brain slices was investigated . MTX induced tonic-clonic seizures in approximately 95% of animals and pre-treatment with MK-801, DNQX and adenosine prevented seizure in 80%, 62% and 50% of animals, respectively. Moreover, MTX leads 59% of mice to death, which was prevented in 100% and 94% when animals received MK-801 and DNQX, respectively. Glutamate uptake decreased by 20% to 30% in cortical slices after MTX-induced seizures. Interestingly, when seizures were prevented by MK-801, DNQX or adenosine, glutamate uptake activity remained at the same level as the control group. Thus, our results demonstrate the involvement of the glutamatergic system in MTX-induced seizures.
Effects of cocaine on intracellular free calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) in cultured canine cerebral vascular smooth muscle cells were studied using digital imaging microscopy and the calcium molecular fluorescent indicator, fura-2. Acute treatment of cerebral vascular smooth muscle cells with cocaine HCl, from a low concentration of 10(-9) M up to 10(-5) M, induced significant increases of [Ca2+]i. Irrespective of the changes in [Ca2+]i, the subcellular distribution of [Ca2+]i appeared heterogeneous in both normal and cocaine-treated cells. These results suggest that cocaine induces cerebral vasospasm by a rapid elevation of [Ca2+]i in vascular smooth muscle cells; these ionic events could play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of cocaine-induced cerebral ischemia and stroke.
Excretion of urinary N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase (NAG), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and gamma-glutamyltransferase (gamma-GT) was studied following single intravenous administrations of a non-ionic monomeric contrast medium (iohexol) at doses of 5.0, 7.5, 10.0 and 12.5 g iodine/kg body wt in rats. Measurements of urinary enzymes, serum urea nitrogen and serum creatinine were carried out on the 2nd, 3rd, 4th and 8th days after treatment. Histological examinations of kidneys were performed on days 3 and 8. From 5.0 g iodine/kg onwards urinary NAG showed a dose-dependent and significant (multiple comparison, alpha = 0.05) increase in the first 18-h urine samples after application. A significant increase in urinary LDH could be observed only at the highest dose of 12.5 g iodine/kg. All other biochemical parameters showed no differences when compared to the control group. The dose-dependent increase in lysosomal NAG correlated with the histological findings, i.e. there was dose-dependent vacuolization of proximal tubular cells, so-called 'osmotic nephrosis'.
Tropisetron is a novel selective antagonist of the type-3 serotonin (5-HT3) receptor, with proven efficacy in the control of emesis related to cancer treatment. Epirubicin in doses of > 100 mg/m2 has a high emetogenic potential. This study was designed to determine whether a single intravenous administration of tropisetron could prevent acute nausea and vomiting in patients treated with high dose epirubicin. Forty chemotherapy naive breast cancer patients treated with epirubicin at a dose of 110 mg/m2 on an outpatient basis were enrolled in the study. Tropisetron 5 mg i.v. was used as antiemetic prophylaxis. "On demand" treatment with tropisetron 5 mg p.os was used for the rescue of patients who failed on the initial i.v. dose. Complete control of acute nausea and vomiting had 62.5% (95% C.I. 47.2-77.8), partial control 15% (95% C.I. 3.8-26.2) and 22.5% (95% C.I. 9.3-35.7) insufficient control or failure. Headache was the most common adverse event reported in 3 patients (7.5%) and constipation in 2 patients (5%). Interestingly, patients with a negative experience of nausea and vomiting during pregnancy and those treated for metastatic disease, had a better control of chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting. In conclusion, a single 5 mg i.v. dose of tropisetron is safe and effective in preventing acute emesis in patients treated with high dose epirubicin.
Exposure to 10 min of footshock stress (1 mA; 0.5 s on, with a mean off period of 40 s) reinstated heroin-seeking behavior in heroin-experienced, drug-free rats after many sessions of extinction and up to 6 weeks after last exposure to heroin. In reinstating the behavior, the footshock mimicked the effect of a non-contingent priming infusion of heroin (50 micrograms/kg). By contrast, the aversive state of acute opioid withdrawal induced by injection of the opioid receptor antagonist naltrexone (5 mg/kg, SC), following an acute injection of morphine (10 mg/kg, SC), had no effect on heroin-seeking behavior. In a second experiment it was shown in drug naive animals that these parameters of footshock increased dopamine overflow in the nucleus accumbens, a terminal region of the mesolimbic dopamine system implicated in the reinforcing effects of drugs. Similarly, dopamine overflow was increased by an injection of 10 mg/kg morphine, SC, an effect that was reversed by an injection of 5 mg/kg naltrexone given 40 min after to induce the withdrawal condition. A possible interpretation of the present results is that stressors can reinstate drug-taking behavior by activating neural systems in common with those activated by heroin.
Haemolysis caused by passive ABO antibodies is a rare transfusional complication. We report a case of severe haemolytic reaction in a 38-year-old man (blood group A) with lymphoma who had received one red blood cell (RBC) unit group O. After transfusion of 270 mL, the patient experienced fever, dyspnoea, chills and back pain. On the following morning he was icteric and pale. Haptoglobin was inferior to 5.8 mgdL(-1), haemoglobin was not increased and lactate dehydrogenase was elevated. Haemolysis was evident on observation of the patient's post-transfusion samples. The recipient's red cells developed a positive direct antiglobulin test and Lui elution showed anti-A coated the cells. Fresh donor serum had an anti-A titre of 1024, which was not reduced by treating the serum with dithiothreitol. Donor isoagglutinin screening has been determined by microplate automated analyser and showed titre higher than 100. Physicians should be aware of the risk of haemolysis associated with ABO-passive antibodies. There is generally no agreement justifying the isoagglutinin investigation prior to transfusion. However, automated quantitative isoagglutinin determination could be part of the modern donor testing process, mainly in blood banks where identical ABO group units (platelets or phenotyped RBCs) are not available owing to limited supply.
The syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone is a rare but well-recognized neurotoxic side effect of vincristine therapy. The first neuropathological report of a case is presented. A 6-month-old boy with skin leukemia developed inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone caused by vincristine. Postmortem examination revealed axonal spheroids in the ansa lenticularis and the area surrounded by the substantia innominata, amygdala and supraoptic nucleus. The lesion was confined to that area and the neurosecretory neurons were intact with well preserved neurophysin. The pathological findings suggest that these fibers play a role in the development of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone caused by vincristine therapy.
Compartment syndrome can be a devastating complication with significant morbidity when not recognized or treated expediently. Among the classic pentad of signs and symptoms associated with compartment syndrome, pain that is out of proportion to the injury is often cited as the earliest and most sensitive. We present a case report of an atypical presentation of compartment syndrome of the leg in which a patient taking lithium for bipolar disorder did not report pain out of proportion to the injury mechanism. Lithium has been implicated in altering pain perception and increasing the tolerance and threshold for pain, but this has not been widely reported in the orthopedic literature. In addition to compartment syndrome that was painless, the patient presented with 2 additional atypical findings. She presented with compartment syndrome that was atraumatic and isolated to only 1 out of the 4 compartments of the leg. A compartment syndrome that is painless, atraumatic, and isolated to a single compartment represents an unusual triad of atypical findings that has not been previously reported. With unusual presentations of compartment syndrome, there is an increased risk of late or unrecognized diagnosis, consequently increasing the likelihood of significant nerve damage or muscle necrosis. Clinicians have historically applied a higher level of scrutiny to patients who were deemed "obtunded," that is, those in whom an assessment of pain cannot be reliably determined. In the past, obtunded patients have included intubated or comatose patients, infants and children, mentally disabled patients, and patients with altered mental status, nerve injury, or distracting injuries. Based on evidence from the psychiatry and anesthesia literatures, we propose that patients taking lithium should be added to this list of "obtunded" patients in whom a reliable assessment of pain may not be possible.
The promoting effects of butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA), butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT) and sodium L-ascorbate on two-stage carcinogenesis initiated with methylnitrosourea (MNU) in F344 male rats were investigated. Animals were given injections of MNU (20 mg/kg ip) twice a week for 4 weeks, and then basal diet containing 2% BHA, 1% BHT or 5% sodium L-ascorbate for the next 32 weeks. Administration of BHA, BHT or sodium L-ascorbate in the diet significantly increased the incidences per group and numbers per rat of papilloma and papillary or nodular hyperplasia of the urinary bladder, and BHA and BHT also increased the number of cancers per rat. Furthermore BHA significantly increased the incidences of cancer and papilloma in the forestomach of rats initiated with MNU, whereas treatment with BHA alone was associated with papilloma but no carcinoma development in the rat forestomach. The incidence of adenoma, but not adenocarcinoma, of the thyroid was significantly increased by treatment with MNU plus BHT. These results show that BHA, BHT and sodium L-ascorbate have promoting activities on urinary bladder carcinogenesis in rats initiated with MNU, and that BHA also has a promoting effect on forestomach carcinogenesis after initiation with MNU.
The purpose of our study has to determine the myocardial protective effects of the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor temocapril (TEM, 7 mg/kg/day) simultaneously administered with doxorubicin (Adriamycin). Twenty male Sprague-Dawley rats were intraperitoneally administered a cumulative dose of 15 mg/kg of doxorubicin (each dose of 1.0 mg/kg x 15) for 3 weeks, and divided into TEM-untreated and -treated rats. Seven control rats were injected with saline intraperitoneally. Body weight, hemodynamics, and echocardiographic measurements including quantitative analysis of ultrasonic integrated backscatter (IB) were obtained for 12 weeks after treatment. Finally, rats were killed for histopathologic study. At 6 weeks, end-diastolic left ventricular diameter (LVD) and percentage fractional shortening (%FS) were similar in TEM-treated and TEM-untreated rats, but cyclic variation of IB (dB) significantly decreased in TEM-untreated rats (7.3 +/- 1.2; control rats, 9.7 +/- 0.9; p < 0.01). At 12 weeks, %FS decreased in TEM-untreated rats (26.1 +/- 6.1%: TEM-treated rats, 34.2 +/- 6.2; p < 0.05), and calibrated IB (dB) in TEM-untreated rats (15.5 +/- 0.5) increased as compared with that in TEM-treated rats (12.1 +/- 0.7; p < 0.01). Interstitial collagen accumulation increased in TEM-untreated rats and was inhibited in treated rats. Simultaneous administration of TEM with doxorubicin was beneficial in preventing doxorubicin-induced myocardial damage, and myocardial tissue characterization was useful for the early detection of myocardial damage and the assessment of therapy.
