We present a case of a 59-year-old Japanese man with therapy-related acute myeloblastic leukemia (AML) after the chemotherapy for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). Accumulated doses of cyclophosphamide, procarbazine, doxorubicin, mitoxantrone, and etoposide were 18,300 mg, 3000 mg, 580 mg, 100 mg, and 4150 mg, respectively, which had been administered for the treatment of NHL. Myeloblasts in the peripheral blood increased 43 months after the onset of NHL. He was diagnosed as having AML (M2; FAB classification). The karyotype of the bone marrow cells in the present case contained the following abnormalities: t(2;21)(q21;q22), t(8;21)(q22;q22), and add(13)(q34). In the present case, 645 base pairs of chimeric mRNA were detected by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, indicating the presence of AML1/MTG8 rearrangement. Translocation (2;21)(q21;q22) has not been described previously to our knowledge. It is interesting that the breakpoint of 21q22 existed both in t(2;21) and t(8;21). The disrupted AML1 gene resulting from two 21q22 rearrangements may be involved in the pathogenesis of AML in the present case. The clinical importance of therapy-related AML having the 21q22 rearrangement remains to be examined.
A 79-year 65 kg male called the ambulance service 4 h after ingestion of 100 tablets of digoxin 0.1 mg complaining of nausea and vomiting. The ECG showed an idioventricular escape rhythm with a heart rate of 30/min. After 0.5 mg atropine, heart rate increased to 80/min. Soon after admission to the emergency department, the patient developed electromechanical dissociation. Due to persistent cardiac arrest, percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass was started, and the ECG rhythm changed to ventricular fibrillation. Several attempts to terminate ventricular fibrillation by electrical defibrillation failed. Fifty-eight minutes after cardiac arrest, antidigoxin-Fab was administered and 1 h 25 min after cardiac arrest, ventricular fibrillation was terminated by the tenth electrical defibrillation attempt. Initially, the patient's overall status improved over the next 2 days, but then he developed a severe adult respiratory distress syndrome and died of unresponsive septic shock 12 days after ingestion of digoxin. This case demonstrates that percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass may provide support in patients with cardiac arrest due to massive digoxin overdose. This temporary support can maintain adequate tissue perfusion during the time required for drug neutralization in order to achieve successful defibrillation. Percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass should be considered in patients with severe, but temporary cardiac dysfunction due to a life-threatening drug overdose.
A study to evaluate the safety and immunogenicity of a recombinant hepatitis B vaccine containing the S and pre-S2 antigens (GenHevac B Pasteur) was conducted in healthy newborn infants. All infants received 20 micrograms of vaccine within 24 h of birth and at 1 and 2 months with a booster injection at month 12. The vaccine was administered alone in 19 infants born to low risk mothers, i.e. surface antigen (HBsAg)-negative and antibody to the core antigen (Anti-HBc)-positive mothers. The vaccine was administered in combination with 100 IU hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIg) at birth and 1 month in 18 infants born to high risk mothers, i.e. HBsAg positive mothers. In the group not receiving HBIg, the anti-HBs seroconversion rate at the 10 mIU ml-1 threshold was 50% 1 month after the first injection. In both groups, the anti-HBs seroconversion rates were 100% 1 month after the third injection and greater than 85% 1 month after the second injection. After the booster injection greater than 90% of the infants had an anti-HBs titre greater than 1000 mIU ml-1 which will probably provide them with adequate protection for several years. The kinetics of the anti-pre-S2 response was similar to that of the anti-HBs response and 100% of infants in both groups had seroconverted 1 month after the second injection of the vaccine. The side effects were scarce, all mild and transient.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project C-08 trial was designed to investigate the safety and effectiveness of adding bevacizumab to modified infusional fluorouracil, leucovorin, and oxaliplatin (FOLFOX) 6 regimen for the adjuvant treatment of patients with stage II or III colon cancer. We present safety information in advance of the planned analysis of efficacy.
Among 2,710 randomly assigned patients, demographic factors were balanced. Patients received modified FOLFOX6 every 2 weeks x 12 or modified FOLFOX6 plus bevacizumab (5 mg/kg every 2 weeks x 26, experimental group).
Overall rates of grade 4 or 5 toxicities were nearly identical in the FOLFOX6 and FOLFOX6 plus bevacizumab arms (15.2% and 15.0%, respectively). Six-month mortality rates were 0.96% and 0.90% for the control and experimental groups, respectively. Grade 3+ toxicities that occurred more often in the experimental arm versus control arm included hypertension (12% v 1.8%, respectively), wound complications (abdominal incisional hernia or infusion port dehiscence/inflammation; 1.7% v 0.3%, respectively), pain (11.1% v 6.3%, respectively), and proteinuria (2.7% v 0.8%, respectively). Grade 2+ neuropathy was increased in the experimental arm versus the control arm (grade 2, 33% v 29%, respectively; grade 3, 16% v 14%, respectively; and grade 4, < 1% each). In the experimental arm versus control arm, significantly less thrombocytopenia (1.4% v 3.4%, respectively) and fewer allergic reactions (3.1% v 4.7%, respectively) were observed. Advanced age was associated with a significantly greater rate of grade 4 and 5 toxicities regardless of treatment.
Bevacizumab with modified FOLFOX6 is well tolerated in the surgical adjuvant setting in these patients. No significant increase in GI perforation, hemorrhage, arterial or venous thrombotic events, or death with the addition of bevacizumab to modified FOLFOX6 has been observed. Follow-up for potential delayed adverse effects and efficacy is ongoing.
Expressed in renal carcinoma (ERC)/mesothelin is a good biomarker for human mesothelioma and has been investigated for its mechanistic rationale during the mesothelioma development. Studies are thus ongoing in our laboratories to assess expression of ERC/mesothelin in sera and normal/proliferative/neoplastic mesothelial tissues of animals untreated or given potentially mesothelioma-inducible xenobiotics, by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for N- and C-(terminal fragments of) ERC/mesothelin and immunohistochemistry for C-ERC/mesothelin. In the present paper, we intend to communicate our preliminary data, because this is the first report to show how and from what stage the ERC/mesothelin expression changes during the chemical induction of mesothelial proliferative/neoplatic lesions. Serum N-ERC/mesothelin levels were 51.4 +/- 5.6 ng/ml in control male Fischer 344 rats, increased to 83.6 +/- 11.2 ng/ml in rats given a single intrascrotal administration of 1 mg/kg body weight of multi-wall carbon nanotube (MWCNT) and bearing mesothelial hyperplasia 52 weeks thereafter, and further elevated to 180 +/- 77 ng/ml in rats similarly treated and becoming moribund 40 weeks thereafter, or killed as scheduled at the end of week 52, bearing mesothelioma. While C-ERC/mesothelin was expressed in normal and hyperplastic mesothelia, the protein was detected only in epithelioid mesothelioma cells at the most superficial layer. It is thus suggested that ERC/mesothelin can be used as a biomarker of mesothelial proliferative lesions also in animals, and that the increase of levels may start from the early stage and be enhanced by the progression of the mesothelioma development.
Am-80 is a newly snythesized retinoid with the structure of one aromatic amide among retinobenzoic acids. It exhibits specific biological activities of retinoic acid such as the activation of cellular differentiation and proliferation. We investigated the effect of Am-80 on collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) in mice and the immunopharmacological action on the production of several cytokines in the in vitro and in vivo models. Am-80, at doses of 0.3, 1 and 3 mg/kg, significantly inhibited the severity and development of the arthritis index, progression of foot pad swelling, bone damage and histopathological alterations. Am-80 also inhibited the production of anti-type II collagen (CII) IgG antibody, but did not affect the delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) response in arthritic mice. To determine the inhibitory mechanism of Am-80, we studied the effect of Am-80 on the production of cytokines. Am-80 did not affect the production of IFN-gamma by Th1 cells (1E10.H2 cells) and IL-4 by Th2 cells (D10.G4.1 cells), respectively. Am-80 selectively inhibited bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced IL-6, but not TNF-alpha and IL-1beta, production in mice. Moreover Am-80 inhibited IL-1beta induced IL-6 production and IL-6 mRNA expression in human osteoblast-like cells (MG-63). The inhibition of IL-6 production by Am-80 was due to downregulation of the pretranscription or the transcription of IL-6 in MG 63 cells. These findings suggest that the inhibitory effect of Am-80 on CIA is partially by modulating the production of the proinflammatory cytokine, IL-6.
Both the identity and source of the rodent collagenase(s) that mediates matrix remodeling in liver fibrosis remain elusive. We have recently demonstrated an unequivocal role for scar-associated macrophages (SAMs) in the spontaneous resolution of liver fibrosis and sought to determine whether SAMs are the source of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) 13 (collagenase 3), considered to be the primary interstitial collagenase in rodents. In this study, we demonstrate an association between MMP13 expression and the presence of SAMs in the regression of experimental liver fibrosis. mmp13 gene expression was restricted to regions of fibrosis that were rich in SAMs. Both MMP13 mRNA and protein colocalized to large phagocytes within and directly apposed to hepatic scars. Using the CD11b-DTR-transgenic mouse to deplete SAMs in a model of chronic CCl(4) injury, we found that SAM depletion resulted in a 5-fold reduction in mmp13 message (p = 0.005). Furthermore, resolution of CCl(4)-induced fibrosis was retarded in MMP13-deficient mice. Thus, SAMs selectively, during resolution of fibrosis induce and use the major collagenase MMP13 to mediate the resorption of interstitial matrix and successfully remodel the fibrotic liver.
Chronic exposure to drugs of abuse induces countless modifications in brain physiology. However, the neurobiological adaptations specifically associated with the transition to addiction are unknown. Cocaine self-administration rapidly suppresses long-term depression (LTD), an important form of synaptic plasticity in the nucleus accumbens. Using a rat model of addiction, we found that animals that progressively develop the behavioral hallmarks of addiction have permanently impaired LTD, whereas LTD is progressively recovered in nonaddicted rats maintaining a controlled drug intake. By making drug seeking consistently resistant to modulation by environmental contingencies and consequently more and more inflexible, a persistently impaired LTD could mediate the transition to addiction.
Newborn infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) still have high mortality. Recently, the possible role of a cardiac maldevelopment in the high mortality has been suggested. Human and animal studies have demonstrated that heart weight is significantly reduced in the presence of CDH. Basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) are pleiotropic regulatory peptides that are expressed in myocardium in precise developmental and spatial programs. PDGF and bFGF both stimulate cardiac growth by inducing cell proliferation and stimulating the synthesis of extracellular matrix. The aim of this study was to investigate the presence of heart hypoplasia in nitrofen-induced CDH in rats and the role of specific tissue growth factors (bFGF and PDGF) in its genesis. CDH was induced in pregnant rats following administration of 100 mg nitrofen on day 9.5 of gestation (term 22 days). In control animals the same dose of olive oil was given without nitrofen. Cesarean section was performed on day 21 of gestation. The fetuses were divided in two groups: normal controls (n = 8) and nitrofen-induced CDH (n = 8). Total RNA, DNA, and soluble proteins were extracted from the heart in each group and measured. mRNA was extracted from total RNA and a reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was performed to evaluate mRNA expression of bFGF and PDGF. The heart/body weight ratio (HBWR) and DNA content were significantly decreased (P < 0.01) in CDH animals compared to controls. RNA and protein content were also reduced in CDH. The expression of bFGF and PDGF mRNA was significantly reduced in the CDH group compared to controls (P < 0.01). The decreased HBWR, DNA, RNA, and protein content in the CDH heart indicates that the heart is hypoplastic in nitrofen-induced left CDH. The downregulation of bFGF and PDGF gene expression in the CDH heart suggests that these regulating peptides may play an important role in the genesis of cardiac hypoplasia in CDH.
Atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) plays a major role in electrolyte and volume homeostasis through potent biological effects including vasorelaxation, bronchorelaxation, lung permeability, and clearance. There are two distinct biochemical and functional classes of ANP receptors, guanylate cyclase receptor (GC-R) and clearance receptors (clearance-R). Two subtypes of GC-R have been described, GCA-R and GCB-R. Antenatal glucocorticoid therapy (AGT) has been demonstrated to improve pulmonary immaturity and abnormal structure of pulmonary arteries in animal models of congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH). The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of antenatal glucocorticoid administration on the ANP system in nitrofen-induced CDH hypoplastic lung in rats. A CDH model was induced in pregnant rats following administration of nitrofen on day 9.5 of gestation. Dexamethasone (Dex) was given intraperitoneally on days 18.5 and 19.5; cesarean section was performed on day 21. Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction was performed to evaluate the relative amounts of GCA-R, GCB-R and clearance-R mRNA expression. The mRNA expression of GCA-R, GCB-R, and clearance-R was significantly increased in CDH compared to control lung. ANP receptor mRNA expression was significantly decreased in CDH lung with compared to without Dex treatment. Our finding of increased ANP receptor mRNA expression in CDH lung suggests that the hypoplastic lung has high sensitivity for ANP. Decreased mRNA expression of ANP receptors in CDH lung after Dex treatment suggests that AGT may improve pulmonary physiological function of ANP in hypoplastic CDH lung.
We report a patient with a recurrent pelvic tumor after abdominoperineal resection of a rectal carcinoma who was treated sufficiently by repeated intra-arterial infusions of 5-fluorouracil.
A continuous, 24-hour 5-fluorouracil administration was made through the bilateral internal iliac artery at a dosage of 250 mg/m2/day by the subcutaneous reservoir located at both upper legs using a Baxter infusor.
In this patient pain in the hip and pelvis was relieved. A complete regression in the infused field of pelvic tumor was observed not only with computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging but also confirmed by operative findings at the seventh month after the intra-arterial infusion. The abnormal serum level of carcinoembryonic antigen and carbohydrate antigen 19-9 was decreased to within the normal range at the 19th and 3rd week respectively. When the repeated recurrence was suspected in follow-up, normalization of the re-elevated carcinoembryonic antigen and carbohydrate antigen 19-9 levels was also obtained by repeating the same treatment. The side effects and complications were tolerable, consisting of local skin erosion on the hips and lower extremity neuropathy caused by the 5-fluorouracil.
Clinical local regression of a pelvic recurrence was observed in a patient with rectal recurrent tumor who received continuous intra-arterial chemotherapy. Local recurrence of rectal cancer may be controlled effectively and safely by repeating long-term, continuous, intra-arterial 5-fluorouracil infusion.
Risperidone is an atypical antipsychotic drug that blocks dopamine as well as serotonin receptor systems. The present study was designed to examine the efficacy and safety of risperidone in a 6-week double-blind, randomized, parallel-group design in the treatment of aggression in adolescents with a primary diagnosis of DSM-IV disruptive behavior disorders and with subaverage intelligence.
We randomly assigned 38 adolescents (33 boys; 10 subjects with slightly subaverage IQ, 14 with borderline IQ, and 14 with mild mental retardation), who were hospitalized for treatment of psychiatric disorders associated with severe aggression, to receive risperidone or placebo. The main efficacy measures were the Clinical Global Impressions-Severity of Illness scale (CGI-S), the modified Overt Aggression Scale (OAS-M), and the Aberrant Behavior Checklist (ABC). Side effects were measured using the Extrapyramidal Symptom Rating Scale (ESRS).
The mean daily dose of risperidone at the end of treatment was 2.9 mg (range, 1.5-4 mg). Risperidone, compared with placebo, was associated with significant improvements on the CGI-S (p < .001) and the at-school ABC overall and hyperactivity scales (p < .05). During a 2-week washout following the 6-week trial, a statistically significant worsening was found in the risperidone group on the CGI-S scale, the OAS-M. and the ABC. Extrapyramidal symptoms were absent or very mild during risperidone treatment. Transient tiredness was present in 11 (58%) of 19 drug-treated subjects. Other untoward effects included sialorrhea, nausea, and slight weight gain (mean = 3.5% of body weight in the risperidone group). No clinically relevant changes were found in laboratory parameters, electrocardiogram, heart rate, or blood pressure.
These results suggest that risperidone may be effective for severe aggression in adolescents with disruptive behavior disorders and subaverage intelligence, and these results are consistent with reports suggesting its effectiveness for treating severe aggression in adolescents in general.
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are still present in the environment, with ongoing exposure in humans, including babies nursed by their mothers. Whereas toxicity of dioxin-like PCBs is well described, less systematic knowledge is available for non-dioxin like PCBs (NDL-PCBs) that do not act via the Ah receptor. This study compared effects of developmental exposure to two ultrapure NDL-PCB congeners (PCB52 and PCB180) on auditory function in rats, using the brainstem auditory evoked potential (BAEP). Pregnant rats received repeated oral doses of PCB52 (total dose-0, 30, 100, 300, 1000, or 3000 mg/kg body weight) or of PCB180 (total dose-0, 10, 30, 100, 300, or 1000 mg/kg). BAEPs were recorded in adult male and female offspring after stimulation with clicks or pure tones in the frequency range from 0.5 to 16 kHz. Significant elevation of BAEP thresholds was detected in the low-frequency range after developmental exposure to PCB52. Calculation of benchmark doses revealed lowest values in the frequency range of 0.5-2 kHz. Effects were more pronounced in male compared with female offspring. Latencies of waves II and IV were prolonged in exposed males, whereas only wave IV was affected in females. PCB180 increased thresholds only at few conditions and only in female offspring. These results confirm that developmental exposure to ultrapure NDL-PCBs affects auditory function, but different congeners exhibit differences in potencies.
(R)-3-(1-[2-(4-benzoyl-2-(3,4-difluorophenyl)-morpholin-2-yl)- ethyl]-4-phenylpiperidin-4-yl)-1-dimethylurea (SR 144190) is a new non-peptide antagonist of tachykinin NK2 receptors. SR 144190 potently and selectively inhibited neurokinin A binding to NK2 receptors from various species, including humans. In in vitro functional assays, it was a potent, selective and competitive antagonist of NK2 receptors with apparent affinities (pA2 values) between 9.08 and 10.10. In vivo, SR 144190 blocked [Nle10]neurokinin A-(4-10)-induced bronchoconstriction in guinea pigs (ID50 = 21 micrograms kg-1 i.v. and 250 micrograms kg-1 i.d.) and [beta Ala8]neurokinin A-(4-10)-induced urinary bladder contraction in rats (ID50 = 11 micrograms kg-1 i.v. and 190 micrograms kg-1 i.d.). It prevented citric acid-induced cough and airway hyperresponsiveness to acetylcholine in guinea pigs (1 mg kg-1 i.p.) as well as castor oil-induced diarrhoea in rats (0.01-10 micrograms kg-1 s.c. or p.o). Finally, it blocked the turning behaviour induced by intrastriatal injections of [Nle10]neurokinin A-(4-10) in mice (ID50 = 3 micrograms kg-1 i.v. and 16 micrograms kg-1 p.o.).
Concerns about possible risks of switching to mania associated with antidepressants continue to interfere with the establishment of an optimal treatment paradigm for bipolar depression.
The response of 44 patients meeting DSM-IV criteria for bipolar disorder to naturalistic treatment was assessed for at least 6 weeks using the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale and the Bech-Rafaelson Mania Rating Scale. Patients who experienced a manic or hypomanic switch were compared with those who did not on several variables including age, sex, diagnosis (DSM-IV bipolar I vs. bipolar II), number of previous manic episodes, type of antidepressant therapy used (electroconvulsive therapy vs. antidepressant drugs and, more particularly, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors [SSRIs]), use and type of mood stabilizers (lithium vs. anticonvulsants), and temperament of the patient, assessed during a normothymic period using the hyperthymia component of the Semi-structured Affective Temperament Interview.
Switches to hypomania or mania occurred in 27% of all patients (N = 12) (and in 24% of the subgroup of patients treated with SSRIs [8/33]); 16% (N = 7) experienced manic episodes, and 11% (N = 5) experienced hypomanic episodes. Sex, age, diagnosis (bipolar I vs. bipolar II), and additional treatment did not affect the risk of switching. The incidence of mood switches seemed not to differ between patients receiving an anticonvulsant and those receiving no mood stabilizer. In contrast, mood switches were less frequent in patients receiving lithium (15%, 4/26) than in patients not treated with lithium (44%, 8/18; p = .04). The number of previous manic episodes did not affect the probability of switching, whereas a high score on the hyperthymia component of the Semistructured Affective Temperament Interview was associated with a greater risk of switching (p = .008).
The frequency of mood switching associated with acute antidepressant therapy may be reduced by lithium treatment. Particular attention should be paid to patients with a hyperthymic temperament, who have a greater risk of mood switches.
Implantation of 1,3-bis (2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU) wafer for malignant glioma is not recommended in the case of surgical opening of the ventricular system during microsurgical tumor resection because the wafer material may dislocate from the resection cavity into the ventricular system and cause obstructive hydrocephalus. TachoSil is an adhesive collagen fleece used in different surgical disciplines that provides an air- and liquid-tight seal closing communications between the ventricular system and the resection cavity after tumor removal.
Occlusion of ventricular defects with TachoSil after microsurgical glioma resection was performed in two patients with newly diagnosed and seven patients with recurrent malignant glioma prior to BCNU wafer implantation into the resection cavity. Early postoperative cranial computed tomography (CCT)/MRI and follow-up MRI at 3 months' intervals were performed with a median follow-up of 10.4 months.
The collagen fleece was identified as a linear structure hypodense/hypointense to white matter on postoperative CT/MRI separating the resection cavity from the ventricular lumen in all cases. In no case did early CCT/MRI or follow-up MRI reveal wafer material within the ventricular system. In no case did signs of obstructive hydrocephalus occur.
Sealing of the ventricular system using a fibrinogen-coated collagen fleece effectively separates the resection cavity from the ventricular system and allows implantation of BCNU wafers into the resection cavity. No morphological evidence for wafer material dislocation into the ventricular system or obstruction of CSF pathways was found in nine patients who received 41 follow-up MRI over 10.4 months of follow-up.
Toxic actions of flurazepam (FZP) were studied in cats, mice and rats. High doses caused an apparent central excitation, most clearly seen as clonic convulsions, superimposed on general depression. Following a lethal dose, death was always associated with convulsions. Comparing the relative sensitivity to central depression and excitation revealed that rats were least likely to have convulsions at doses that did not first cause loss of consciousness, while cats most clearly showed marked central excitatory actions. Signs of FZP toxocity in cats included excessive salivation, extreme apprehensive behavior, retching, muscle tremors and convulsions. An interaction between FZP and pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) was shown by pretreating mice with FZP before PTZ challenge. As a function of dose, FZP first protected against convulsions and death. At higher doses, however, convulsions again emerged. These doses of FZP were lower than those that would alone cause convulsions. These results may be relevant to the use of FZP in clinical situations in which there is increased neural excitability, such as epilepsy or sedative-hypnotic drug withdrawal.
Recent concerns of adverse cardiac events associated with drugs used to treat attention-deficit-hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) have prompted debate over whether these drugs are truly safe. We describe a 17-year-old boy with a normal baseline echocardiogram who had been taking methylphenidate for ADHD for 18 months and experienced cardiac arrest. Emergency personnel attempted to resuscitate him, performing defibrillation twice for ventricular fibrillation, with subsequent pulseless electrical activity. The patient was immediately taken to the hospital where he received continued resuscitation, intravenous boluses of cardiac drugs, and additional defibrillation. A persistent pulsatile rhythm returned about 2 minutes after arrival. Overall, the patient was pulseless for 22 minutes. Emergency cardiac catheterization revealed wall motion abnormalities without coronary lesions. He was mechanically ventilated and was transferred to the intensive care unit, where he remained comatose. Neurologic studies performed the next day revealed diffuse encephalopathy due to anoxic brain injury. An echocardiogram on day 3 showed slightly improved left ventricular systolic function, which improved further by day 15. As the patient did not regain purposeful movement, he was discharged to a rehabilitation facility on day 33. The patient's methylphenidate therapy had been started at an appropriate dose of 18 mg/day and titrated over a period of 3 months up to 36 mg/day, which he continued until the event. The drug had been discontinued on admission, was not restarted, and for the next 2 years, the patient experienced no further cardiac events, although his severe mental deficiencies persisted. Use of the Naranjo adverse drug reaction probability scale indicated a probable relationship (score of 6) between the patient's adverse cardiac event and methylphenidate. To our knowledge, this is the first case report of a patient with documentation of a normal baseline echocardiogram who experienced cardiac arrest with pulseless electrical activity while taking methylphenidate for ADHD. Clinicians should be aware that despite performing a comprehensive cardiac examination before prescribing a stimulant for ADHD, patients may still be at risk for a serious cardiac event. The risks and benefits of using these drugs must be assessed by clinicians, parents, and patients.
Hyperphosphatasia mental retardation (HPMR) syndrome is an autosomal recessive form of mental retardation with distinct facial features and elevated serum alkaline phosphatase. We performed whole-exome sequencing in three siblings of a nonconsanguineous union with HPMR and performed computational inference of regions identical by descent in all siblings to establish PIGV, encoding a member of the GPI-anchor biosynthesis pathway, as the gene mutated in HPMR. We identified homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations in PIGV in three additional families.
This study was designed to compare flunarizine, a cerebro-specific calcium channel antagonist, and propranolol in the prophylaxis of migraine with or without aura. Following a 1 month single-blind placebo baseline period, 94 patients were equitably randomised under double-blind conditions to take flunarizine 10 mg daily or propranolol 80 mg twice daily for 4 months. Both treatments led to a significant reduction in the frequency of migraines and use of rescue analgesics with a significantly greater decrease in number of attacks for flunarizine after 1 and 4 months. Neither treatment affected the severity nor duration of migraines. Overall, 67% of flunarizine patients and 51% of propranolol patients responded positively. Propranolol significantly reduced blood pressure and heart rate; flunarizine had no effect on cardiovascular function. Weight gain was noted with both treatments. Flunarizine is at least as effective as propranolol in the prophylactic treatment of migraine and may have a better safety profile.
Atypical antipsychotics are increasingly used for the treatment of elderly patients. However, there are only few studies on their efficacy and side effects in this patient group. The case of a 67-year old patient is presented, in whom under treatment with olanzapine in usual dosage, serum level increased into the toxic range. This olanzapine overdosage was accompanied by severe impairments in visual and verbal memory and by an increase of slow-frequency activity in the EEG. Both alterations may be attributed to the anticholinergic effects of olanzapine and reversed rapidly after dose reduction and normalization of the olanzapine serum level.
Infection with Leishmania donovani is associated with IL-10 as well as with GM-CSF. Immune complexes (IC) exert important functions by stimulation of monocytes/macrophage-mediated production of pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines in rheumatic diseases. In this investigation, we have explored IC-induced cytokine production during Leishmania infection. Sera from 43 patients with visceral leishmaniasis (VL), 17 patients with post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis, and 20 healthy Sudanese controls were precipitated with polyethylene glycol (PEG). The PEG precipitates were added to serum-free PBMC for 20 h,whereupon supernatant levels of IL-1beta, IL-6, IL-10, IL-1 receptor antagonist protein, TNF-alpha, TNF receptor p75, and GM-CSF were investigated using ELISA. Circulating levels of C1q-binding IC were also measured in the serum samples. PEG precipitates from Leishmania-infected patients induced significantly higher levels of GM-CSF (p = 0.0037) and IL-10 (p < 0.0001), as well as of IL-6 (p < 0.0001) and IL-1 receptor antagonist (p = 0.0238) as compared with PEG precipitates from controls. Patients with acute VL as well as VL patients receiving sodium stibogluconate treatment displayed significantly increased levels of PEG precipitate-induced GM-CSF. The induction of GM-CSF by circulating IC was especially prominent in acute VL patients receiving sodium stibogluconate treatment; ANOVA revealed significant interaction between disease activity and treatment for PEG precipitate-induced levels of GM-CSF (disease activity, p = 0.0006; treatment, p = 0.0005; interaction, p = 0.0046). Parallel associations were determined for C1q-binding immune complexes, but not for any cytokine other than GM-CSF. The importance of IC-induced GM-CSF in leishmaniasis warrants further study.
Peritoneal fibrosis (PF) is one of the most serious complications after long-term continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD). Proliferation of human peritoneal mesothelial cells (HPMC) and matrix over-production are regarded as the main processes predisposing to PF. Dipyridamole (DP) has been reported to have potential as an antiproliferative and antifibrotic agent. We thus investigated the effect of DP in inhibiting proliferation and collagen synthesis of HPMC. A rat model of peritonitis-induced PF was also established to demonstrate the in vivo preventive effect of DP.
HPMC was cultured from human omentum by an enzyme digestion
Cell proliferation was measured by the methyltetrazolium assay. Intracellular cAMP was measured using an enzyme immunoassay (EIA) kit. Total collagen synthesis was measured by (3)H-proline incorporation assay. Expression of collagen alpha1 (I) and collagen alpha 1 (III) mRNAs was determined by Northern blotting. The rat model of peritonitis-induced PF was developed by adding dextran microbeads (Cytodex, 8 mg/1 mL volume) to a standardized suspension (3 x 10(9)) of Staphylococcus aureus. DP was administrated via intravenous infusion (4 mg in 1 h) daily for seven days. Macroscopic grading of intraperitoneal adhesions and histological analyses of peritoneal thickness and collagen expression were performed.
Addition of DP to HPMC cultures suppressed serum-stimulated cell proliferation and collagen synthesis. The antimitogenic and antifibrotic effects of DP appear to be predominantly mediated through the cAMP pathway, as DP increased intracellular cAMP in a dose-dependent manner. The macroscopic grade of intraperitoneal adhesion and peritoneal thickness were both significantly increased in animals treated with Cytodex plus S. aureus; on the other hand, DP attenuated these fibrotic changes with statistical significance (P < 0.01). Analysis of gene expression of collagen alpha 1 (I) and alpha1 (III) in the peritoneal tissue of experimental animals yielded similar results.
This study suggests that dipyridamole may have therapeutic potential in treating peritoneal fibrosis.
Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) is known to be activated under conditions of oxidative stress and/or radiation exposure. The role of this enzyme has been well demonstrated in the streptozotocin (STZ) induced model of diabetes. Inhibition of PARP by specific inhibitors is known to prevent the development of STZ induced diabetic nephropathy by reduction in oxidative stress induced apoptosis. This study shows for the first time the role of poly(ADP-ribose) glycohydrolase (PARG) inhibitors as an alternative approach for inhibition of PARP. Gallotannin (20 mg/kg/day, i.p.) treatment for 4 weeks led to a significant reduction in the levels of plasma creatinine which is a well known marker for diabetic nephropathy. Treatment with gallotannin resulted in protection up to a certain level of glomerular damage, suggesting compensatory glomerular hypertrophy. As a PARG inhibitor gallotannin treatment also showed protection in PARP cleavage which is a hallmark for apoptotic cell death signifying the protective role of gallotannin in cell death signaling.
Olanzapine has demonstrated efficacy in the treatment of acute mania in 2 double-blind, placebo-controlled trials. We describe the results of the open-label extension from one of these trials.
In a 3-week, double-blind study of patients with DSM-IV bipolar I disorder, olanzapine was superior to placebo for the treatment of acute manic symptoms. Of the 139 patients who entered the double-blind phase of the 3-week study, 113 patients continued into the 49-week open-label extension. Efficacy measurements including the Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS), the 21-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D-21), the Clinical Global Impressions scale-Bipolar Version, and the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale and safety measurements including the Simpson-Angus scale, the Barnes Akathisia Scale, and the Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale were completed throughout. The analysis considered all treatment results, starting with the first olanzapine dose. Adjunctive lithium and fluoxetine were allowed during the open-label extension.
The mean length of olanzapine treatment was 6.6 months, with a mean modal dose of 13.9 mg/day. A significant mean improvement in the YMRS total score, baseline to endpoint (-18.01, p < .001), was observed. During treatment, 88.3% of patients experienced a remission of manic symptoms (YMRS total score < or =12), and only 25.5% subsequently relapsed (YMRS total score > or = 15). Significant improvement in HAM-D-21 scores was observed (p < .001). Forty-one percent of patients were maintained on olanzapine monotherapy. The most common treatment-emergent adverse events reported were somnolence (46.0%), depression (38.9%), and weight gain (36.3%).
During up to 1 year of olanzapine therapy, either as monotherapy or in combination with lithium and/or fluoxetine, patients with bipolar disorder demonstrated significant improvement in mania and depression symptoms with a favorable safety profile. Further double-blind, controlled studies are needed to confirm these results.
Effects of the cholinesterase inhibitors tacrine and bis(7)- tacrine (0.25-20 micromol/kg, s.c.) on locomotor activity and passive-avoidance response were investigated in mice treated with scopolamine (SCP, 1 or 5 micromol/kg, i.p.), using an open-field test and step-through task with a 24-hour retention interval. Drugs were given 30 min prior to the first session. During the acquisition session, SCP treatment increased the locomotor activity (10-16%). Tacrine, but not bis(7)-tacrine, cotreatment significantly reduced the locomotor activity by 23 or 27%, when compared with the SCP-treated control mice. In the step-through task, tacrine or bis(7)-tacrine coadministration dose-dependently attenuated the increase in the number of footshocks (by 50 or 58%) in SCP-treated mice. The lowest dose of tacrine and bis(7)-tacrine for prolonging the retention latency (up to 500%) in SCP-treated mice was 5 and 1 micromol/kg, respectively. Tacrine and bis(7)-tacrine inhibited brain acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity 15 min (but not 30 min) after the drug administration in mice. At the same dose of 20 micromol/kg, the bis(7)-tacrine-induced AChE inhibition in serum was 14-fold higher than that of tacrine. The results indicated that bis(7)-tacrine was less potent than tacrine in causing motor dysfunction. However, bis(7)-tacrine was more potent than tacrine in the cognitive enhancement of SCP-induced memory loss and in AChE inhibition.
One of the major difficulties in the treatment of Parkinson's disease with L-Dopa alone or associated with a decarboxylase inhibitor lies in the frequent occurrence of involuntary movements. In some cases these movements can be prevented (eliminated) by increasing the plasma DCI concentration or by associating 3-oxy-methyl-dopa. In resistant cases the authors have conducted a trial with EP 19-088, which belongs to a new class of tricyclic derivatives of indenopyridine. The trial population comprised 42 patients. In 12 of these there was complete cessation of symptoms. In 9 patients a marked improvement was noted, while in 10 others the improvement was slight but definite. The treatment was discontinued in 2 cases due to episodes of increased confusion. In the other 9 patients the experimental treatment had no effect. No side effects were observed in 24 of the 42 patients tested. In addition to symptoms such as nausea or transient heartburn, the remaining patients reported either a slight worsening of their parkinsonian symptoms or an increase in diurnal fatigability.
A 62-year-old woman had been found unconscious on her bed. She had to be resuscitated several times in the ambulance on the way to hospital. On admission her pupils were dilated and fixed, the cardiovascular system was unstable. Her rectal temperature was 28 degrees C. She was a diabetic being treated with metformin and glimepiride and was in incipient renal failure (serum creatinine 1.5 mg/dl). She was also in heart failure due to coronary heart disease and was in a debilitated state.
She had marked lactic acidosis (lactate 45.3 mmol/l; pH 6.6). Toxicological screening tests were negative.
In the absence of a history she was at first treated symptomatically. Conventional management of the lactic acidosis neither corrected the acidosis nor stabilized the circulatory system. Continuous veno-venous haemodialysis with bicarbonate-buffered solutions succeeded in reducing the need for catecholamines. Neurological examination was supplemented by recording acoustic and sensory evoked potentials. Suspected metformin-induced lactic acidosis was confirmed by appropriate tests. Three weeks after admission she was well enough to be transferred to a normal medical ward and ultimately discharged without further complications.
Metformin should only be prescribed if the contraindications, in particular renal failure are carefully monitored. Severe lactic acidosis should be treated early with continuous veno-venous haemodialysis with bicarbonate-buffered substituting fluids. The good neurological results in this case are probably largely due to the marked hypothermia.
