The development of clevudine as a treatment for hepatitis B was terminated recently because of case reports of myopathy. In each case, the onset of symptoms occurred between 8 and 13 months after the initiation of treatment. Electromyography and muscle biopsy confirmed the presence of myonecrosis. One report also found evidence of mitochondrial toxicity. The delayed onset and the finding of mitochondrial damage are reminiscent of fialuridine toxicity. Telbivudine has also been reported to be associated with myopathy and neuropathy, particularly when used in combination with pegylated interferon. These findings serve as a sober reminder of the lack of data on long-term safety of nucleos(t)ide analogs for hepatitis B, the importance of balancing benefits versus risks before initiating treatment, and the need for more stringent post-marketing surveillance for drug toxicities.
Epidemiological studies show that benzene exposure is associated with an increased incidence of leukemia and perhaps lymphoma. Chromosomal rearrangements are common in these hematopoietic diseases. Translocation t(14;18), the long-arm deletion of chromosome 6 [del(6q)], and trisomy 12 are frequently observed in lymphoma patients. Rearrangements of the MLL gene located on chromosome 11q23, such as t(4;11) and t(6;11), are common in therapy-related leukemias resulting from treatment with topoisomerase II inhibiting drugs. To examine numerical and structural changes in these chromosomes (2, 4, 6, 11, 12, 14, and 18), fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) was employed on metaphase spreads from workers exposed to benzene (n = 43) and matched controls (n = 44) from Shanghai, China. Aneuploidy (both monosomy and trisomy) of all seven chromosomes was increased by benzene exposure. Benzene also induced del(6q) in a dose-dependent manner (P(trend) = 0.0002). Interestingly, translocations between chromosomes 14 and 18, t(14;18), known to be associated with follicular non-Hodgkin lymphoma, were increased in the highly exposed workers (P < 0.001). On the other hand, translocations between chromosome 11 and other partner chromosomes that are found in therapy-induced leukemias were not increased. These data add weight to the notion that benzene can induce t(14;18) and del(6q) found in lymphoma, but do not support the idea that benzene induces t(4;11) or t(6;11). However, they do not rule out the possibility that other rearrangements of the MLL gene at chromosome 11q23 may be induced by benzene.
Intrathecal methotrexate-overdosage in the meningosis therapy leads to CNS damages dependent on dose. It was given a own case report and a literature review with clinical symptoms and the therapy in this complication. Neuropathologic findings included demyelinisation und necrosis of the white matter.
Zomepirac at daily doses of 400 to 600 mg was well tolerated and provided continuing effective analgesia in the relief of chronic pain associated with osteoarthritis. In this long-term safety study, patients treated with zomepirac had significantly fewer adverse reactions and fewer limiting adverse reactions than did patients treated with aspirin. Thus zomepirac, which has previously shown efficacy in single-dose studies as well as good patient acceptability and efficacy in circumstances typical of clinical practice, has been found in this study to compare favorably to aspirin in a long-term (12-week) study in 238 patients with chronic pain secondary to osteoarthritis.
We attempt to demonstrate the association between neuroleptic-induced hyperprolactinemia and sexual dysfunction in schizophrenic patients treated with prolactin-elevating antipsychotics. Our findings indicate that sexual function improved with euprolactinemia in patients switched from treatment with prolactin-elevating antipsychotics to olanzapine.
Cholestatic jaundice caused by imidazole derivates is a rare complication of antithyroid therapy. Only 20 such cases have been reported in the literature since the introduction of methimazole in 1949 and of carbimazole in 1953. We present a further case of methimazole-induced cholestatic liver injury, mimicking sclerosing cholangitis, where the etiology has been proven by a clear chronological relationship and the lack of other causative factors.
Of 1,247 consecutive patients who underwent cardiac surgery, 297 (24%) developed a post-operative atrial tachyarrhythmia. Of these patients, 201 were suitable for treatment according to the study protocol. All patients were initially given digoxin 0.75 mg intravenously (i.v.). After two hours, those 156 patients whose atrial arrhythmias persisted were given a 2 mg/kg loading dose of disopyramide (i.v.), followed by a constant i.v. infusion (0.4 mg kg-1 h-1) or oral therapy (600 mg daily). Within a further 12 hours, 75 patients (48%) reverted to sinus rhythm, 24 within one hour. Thus 120/201 patients (60%) reverted to sinus rhythm within 14 hours of commencing therapy. Reversion rates of those patients with both atrial fibrillation and flutter (AF/AFL) were significantly lower than those with AF (p less than 0.001) or AFL (p less than 0.02) alone. A further 70 patients reverted to sinus rhythm in one to 13 (mean four) days on continued drug therapy. Elective cardioversion restored sinus rhythm in six subjects. Atrial arrhythmias persisted in five patients (2.5%) at hospital discharge. Side-effects of disopyramide were noted in 19% of patients. Urinary retention was common (11.5%). Four patients with atrial flutter developed 1:1 atrioventricular conduction with the disopyramide loading dose. One patient with atrial fibrillation developed ventricular tachycardia during injection of the loading dose of disopyramide, but was successfully cardioverted to sinus rhythm. Two further patients developed significant hypotension (less than 90 mmHg systolic). Disopyramide is effective in the treatment of post-operative atrial tachyarrhythmias, but its routine use in this situation may be associated with an unacceptably high incidence of side-effects.
To document the clinical characteristics of procaine with or without the addition of epinephrine.
In this randomized, prospective, double blind study, 62 patients received spinal anesthesia with 100 mg procaine and either 0.3 mg epinephrine (EPI group) or 0.3 ml NaCl 0.9% (SALINE group). Sensory anesthesia to needle prick was evaluated q 1 min for 10 min, q 3 min for 33 min and q 5 min until regression to L4. Motor block was assessed with the Bromage scale. Patients were questioned, by telephone, for transient radicular irritation (TRI) 48 hr later.
Time to reach highest sensory level and number of segments blocked showed no difference. Mean time for regression of the sensory level to T10 was longer in EPI (83 +/- 23 vs 66 +/- 20 min, P < 0.01). Time to recuperate to full flexion of knees and feet (Bromage 4) was longer in EPI (126 +/- 37 vs 100 +/- 30 min, P < 0.01). Patients in EPI received more ephedrine. Eighteen patients had nausea (15 EPI/3 SALINE, P < 0.0015). One patient had TRI, incidence: 1.67%, 95% CI (< 1%-9%).
Spinal procaine is appropriate for surgery of short duration. Epinephrine prolongs sensory and motor blocks by 25%. However, it is associated with a high incidence of nausea.
To describe the frequency and severity of ototoxicity in a series of pediatric patients treated with platinum-based chemotherapy.
Serial audiologic evaluations were conducted for 67 patients aged 8 months to 23 years who received platinum-based chemotherapy. Audiologic data was analyzed to determine time to hearing-loss using American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA) criteria, and the effects of treatment and patient characteristics on the incidence and severity of ototoxicity.
Bilateral decreases in hearing were seen in 61% of patients (median time to hearing loss, 135 days). Children treated for medulloblastoma, osteosarcoma, and neuroblastoma had greater incidence and severity of hearing loss. Agreement between the usually reported National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) and ASHA criteria was inadequate.
Traditional reporting of toxicity data (CTCAE) has under-reported ototoxicity and minimized the significance of hearing loss in children. As pediatric patients experience improved survival, the effects and implications of high-frequency hearing loss with regard to academic achievement and speech and language development are important considerations, especially in patients younger than 5 years.
Adjuvant chemotherapy, especially with anthracyclines, is known to cause acute and chronic cardiotoxicity in breast cancer patients. We studied the cardiac effects of chemotherapy in a population-based sample of breast cancer patients aged > or = 65 years with long-term follow-up.
In the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER)-Medicare database, we analyzed treatments and outcomes among women > or = 65 years of age who were diagnosed with stage I to III breast cancer from January 1, 1992 to December 31, 1999. Propensity scores were used to control for baseline heart disease (HD) and other known predictors of chemotherapy, and Cox proportional hazards models were used to estimate the risk of cardiomyopathy (CM), congestive heart failure (CHF), and HD after chemotherapy.
Of 31,748 women with stage I to III breast cancer, 5,575 (18%) received chemotherapy. Chemotherapy was associated with younger age, fewer comorbidities, hormone receptor negativity, multiple primary tumors, and advanced disease. Patients who received chemotherapy were less likely than other patients to have pre-existing HD (45% v 55%, respectively; P < .001). The hazard ratios for CM, CHF, and HD for patients treated with doxorubicin (DOX) compared with patients who received no chemotherapy were 2.48 (95% CI, 2.10 to 2.93), 1.38 (95% CI, 1.25 to 1.52), and 1.35 (95% CI, 1.26 to 1.44), respectively. The relative risk of cardiotoxicity among patients who received DOX compared with untreated patients remained elevated 5 years after diagnosis.
When baseline HD was taken into account, chemotherapy, especially with anthracyclines, was associated with a substantially increased risk of CM. As the number of long-term survivors grows, identifying and minimizing the late effects of treatment will become increasingly important.
[3H]Nimodipine and high-affinity [125I]omega-conotoxin GVIA (CgTX) binding were investigated in membranes from rat cerebral cortex, cerebellum, and hippocampus after electrically and chemically induced seizures. Animals were decapitated 30 min after a single electroconvulsive shock (ECS) or lidocaine-induced seizure and 24 h after the last of 10 once-daily ECS or six once-daily lidocaine-induced seizures. After a single ECS, [3H]nimodipine and [125I]CgTX binding sites decreased in cerebral cortex (by 10% and 17%, respectively). A downregulation of [3H]nimodipine binding sites in hippocampus occurred after single and repeated lidocaine-induced seizures (by 24% and 11%, respectively), whereas [125I]CgTX binding remained unaltered. An earlier report on changes in [3H]nitrendipine binding after chronic ECS in cortex and hippocampus was not confirmed.
Climacostol is a natural toxin isolated from the freshwater ciliated protozoan Climacostomum virens and belongs to the group of resorcinolic lipids. Climacostol exerts a potent antimicrobial activity against a panel of bacterial and fungal pathogens. In addition it inhibits the growth of tumor cell lines in a dose-dependent manner by inducing programmed cell death via intrinsic pathway. In this work, we investigated the possibility that climacostol exerts a prooxidant effect, inducing plasmid DNA strand breakage and eukaryotic DNA damage in presence of Cu(II) ions. Inhibition of DNA breakage using SOD, catalase and neocuproine confirmed the involvement of reactive oxygen species and Cu(I) ions in the DNA damage. UV-visible absorption changes and mass spectrometric analysis identified a product of reaction as a deprotonated form of climacostol. Study of the interaction with DNA, using fluorescence spectroscopic techniques, showed that climacostol binds with DNA. Given the structure-activity relationship of this compound and the mechanism of its prooxidant effect, we propose that the Cu(II)-mediated oxidative DNA damage by climacostol could explain its antimicrobial and antiproliferative activity.
A 45-year-old man with paranoid schizophrenia repeatedly developed hyponatraemia due to the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), both after treatment with haloperidol and after taking quetiapine. This side effect did not occur subsequently during clozapine treatment. SIADH has been described in connection with almost all psychotropic drugs. Since the risk of developing SIADH is increased with increasing age, comorbid somatic disorders and polypharmacy, and the mean age of the psychiatric patient will further increase in the years to come, the physician should be alert to the risk factors and the clinical symptoms of disturbances in water balance; moreover, the proper differential diagnostic deliberations should be made. In case of increased risk, it is recommended to monitor the serum sodium during the first 2-4 weeks of pharmacotherapy.
Galectin-3, a ubiquitous member of the galectin family, has been shown to control cellular proliferation, adhesion, migration and apoptosis; thus, it has a role in tumor development and progression. Galectin-3 expression is both up- and down-regulated during melanoma progression. However, conflicting data regarding its roles in tumor biology prompted us to investigate if the presence of galectin-3 influences the response of melanoma cells to a novel metallodrug because metastatic melanoma acquires chemo resistance and is reported to be redox-sensitive. Previously, it was demonstrated that the complex [bis-(2-oxindol-3-yl-imino)-2-(2-aminoethyl) pyridine-N,N'] copper (II) perchlorate, herein referred to as [Cu(isaepy)], induces ROS formation and apoptosis in neuroblastoma cells through mitochondrial uncoupling and the activation of AMPK/p38/p53 signaling. Here, we used a model of vertical growth melanoma (TM1), in which GAL3 expression is lost during tumor progression. When de novo expressed, galectin-3 was found to be ubiquitously present in all subcellular compartments. Our results demonstrate that de novo galectin-3 expression impairs the cellular antioxidant system and renders TM1G3 cells more susceptible than GAL3-null TM1MNG3 cells to [Cu(isaepy)] treatment. This compound, in contrast with the redox inactive [dichloro (2-oxindol-3-yl-imino)-2-(2-aminoethyl) pyridine-N,N'] zinc (II), herein referred to as [Zn(isaepy)], leads to increased intracellular ROS accumulation, increased carbonyl stress, increased mitochondrial depolarization, decreased cell adhesion, increased p38 activation and apoptosis in TM1G3, compared with TM1MNG3. Cell death was shown to be dependent on a hydrogen peroxide-derived species and on the activation of p38. Because mitochondria are a target of both [Cu(isaepy)] and galectin-3, we propose that the presence of galectin-3 in this organelle favors increased ROS production, thereby inducing oxidative cellular damage and apoptotic death. Therefore, [Cu(isaepy)] may be envisaged as a possible anti-melanoma strategy, particularly for melanomas that express galectin-3.
We have shown that niacin deficiency impairs poly(ADP-ribose) formation and enhances sister chromatid exchanges and micronuclei formation in rat bone marrow. We designed the current study to investigate the effects of niacin deficiency on the kinetics of DNA repair following ethylation, and the accumulation of double strand breaks, micronuclei (MN) and chromosomal aberrations (CA). Weanling male Long-Evans rats were fed niacin deficient (ND), or pair fed (PF) control diets for 3 weeks. We examined repair kinetics by comet assay in the 36h following a single dose of ethylnitrosourea (ENU) (30mg/kg bw). There was no effect of ND on mean tail moment (MTM) before ENU treatment, or on the development of strand breaks between 0 and 8h after ENU. Repair kinetics between 12 and 30h were significantly delayed by ND, with a doubling of area under the MTM curve during this period. O(6)-ethylation of guanine peaked by 1.5h, was largely repaired by 15h, and was also delayed in bone marrow cells from ND rats. ND significantly enhanced double strand break accumulation at 24h after ENU. ND alone increased chromosome and chromatid breaks (four- and two-fold). ND alone caused a large increase in MN, and this was amplified by ENU treatment. While repair kinetics suggest that ND may be acting by creating catalytically inactive PARP molecules with a dominant-negative effect on repair processes, the effect of ND alone on O(6)-ethylation, MN and CA, in the absence of altered comet results, suggests additional mechanisms are also leading to chromosomal instability. These data support the idea that the bone marrow cells of niacin deficient cancer patients may be more sensitive to the side effects of genotoxic chemotherapy, resulting in acute bone marrow suppression and chronic development of secondary leukemias.
In a randomized, double-blind clinical trial, we compared the postoperative analgesic effect and dose consumption of fentanyl after intraoperative high dose and low dose fentanyl administration.
Sixty ASA class I to II female patients undergoing total abdominal hysterectomy (TAH), were randomly allocated to receive either 1 microg x kg(-1) (low dose group, n = 30) or 15 microg x kg(-1) (high dose group, n = 30) fentanyl during induction of anesthesia. Anesthesia depth was maintained with inhalation of halothane in the low dose group, or combined with 100 microg x hr(-1) fentanyl i.v. in the high dose group. Postoperative pain was treated with an intravenous patient-controlled analgesia system and was assessed with a visual analog pain score at rest.
Patients in the high dose group had higher pain intensity at four and eight hours postoperatively, more fentanyl consumption and a greater incidence of emesis in the postoperative period of 16 hr than those in the low dose group (P < 0.05). Heart rate, blood pressure, and respiratory rate were similar between the two groups.
Our results suggest that acute fentanyl tolerance develops after administration of high dose fentanyl during surgery and, consequently, results in a higher postoperative pain intensity and greater fentanyl consumption.
We previously identified Nob1 as a quantitative trait locus for high-fat diet-induced obesity and diabetes in genome-wide scans of outcross populations of obese and lean mouse strains. Additional crossbreeding experiments indicated that Nob1 represents an obesity suppressor from the lean Swiss Jim Lambert (SJL) strain. Here we identify a SJL-specific mutation in the Tbc1d1 gene that results in a truncated protein lacking the TBC Rab-GTPase-activating protein domain. TBC1D1, which has been recently linked to human obesity, is related to the insulin signaling protein AS160 and is predominantly expressed in skeletal muscle. Knockdown of TBC1D1 in skeletal muscle cells increased fatty acid uptake and oxidation, whereas overexpression of TBC1D1 had the opposite effect. Recombinant congenic mice lacking TBC1D1 showed reduced body weight, decreased respiratory quotient, increased fatty acid oxidation and reduced glucose uptake in isolated skeletal muscle. Our data strongly suggest that mutation of Tbc1d1 suppresses high-fat diet-induced obesity by increasing lipid use in skeletal muscle.
The prevention of human neural tube defects by folic acid administration and the potential for fetal surgical intervention for myelomeningocele (MMC) have renewed interest in the molecular pathways and pathophysiology of spina bifida. Animal models for assessment of the early developmental biology and pathophysiology of this lesion are needed. The goal of this study was to develop and characterize a non-surgical rat model of MMC. Time-dated Sprague-Dawley rats were gavage fed different doses of retinoic acid (RA) dissolved in olive oil at E10 (maternal n = 55, fetal n = 505). Control animals received olive oil alone (maternal n = 20, fetal n = 265) or were untreated (maternal n = 5, fetal n = 63). Fetuses were analyzed by detailed histopathology and MRI. Overall, isolated MMC occurred in 60.7% (307/505) of RA-exposed fetuses and no controls. Histopathology confirmed the entire spectrum of severity observed in human MMC, ranging from exposure of the cord with intact neural elements to complete cord destruction. MRI of the brain of MMC fetuses confirmed structural changes similar to humans with Arnold-Chiari malformation, including downward displacement of the cerebellum to just above the foramen magnum and compression of the developing medulla into a small posterior fossa. In conclusion, the RA-induced rat model of MMC is developmentally and anatomically analogous to human MMC. This relatively efficient and cost-effective model of MMC should facilitate investigation of the developmental biology and pathophysiology of MMC, and may be useful for the evaluation of further strategies for prenatal treatment.
Light chain proteinuria was found in 9 of 17 tuberculosis patients treated with rifampin. Concomitant assay of cellular mediated immunity in these patients using skin test antigen and a lymphokine in vitro test provided results that were different. Response to Varidase skin test antigen was negative for all eight tuberculosis patients tested, but there occurred a hyper-responsiveness of the lymphocytes of these eight patients to phytomitogen (PHA-P). as well as of those of seven other tuberculous patients. This last finding may be related to time of testing and/or endogenous serum binding of rifampin which could have inhibited mitogen activity for the lymphocyte.
Increasing evidence has suggested an important role for environmental factors such as exposure to pesticides in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. In experimental animals the exposure to a common herbicide, rotenone, induces features of parkinsonism; mechanistically, rotenone-induced destruction of dopaminergic neurons has been attributed to its inhibition of the activity of neuronal mitochondrial complex I. However, the role of microglia, the resident brain immune cells in rotenone-induced neurodegeneration, has not been reported. Using primary neuron-enriched and neuron/glia cultures from the rat mesencephalon, we discovered an extraordinary feature for rotenone-induced degeneration of cultured dopaminergic neurons. Although little neurotoxicity was detected in neuron-enriched cultures after treatment for 8 d with up to 20 nm rotenone, significant and selective dopaminergic neurodegeneration was observed in neuron/glia cultures 2 d after treatment with 20 nm rotenone or 8 d after treatment with 1 nm rotenone. The greatly enhanced neurodegenerative ability of rotenone was attributed to the presence of glia, especially microglia, because the addition of microglia to neuron-enriched cultures markedly increased their susceptibility to rotenone. Mechanistically, rotenone stimulated the release of superoxide from microglia that was attenuated by inhibitors of NADPH oxidase. Furthermore, inhibition of NADPH oxidase or scavenging of superoxide significantly reduced the rotenone-induced neurotoxicity. This is the first report demonstrating that microglia play a pivotal role in rotenone-induced degeneration of dopaminergic neurons. The results of this study should advance our understanding of the mechanism of action for pesticides in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease.
This study was designed to scientifically evaluate the effects of an aqueous extract of Muntingia calabura L. (M. calabura), a medicinal herb, on isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction (MI) in rat models.
Six groups of Wistar albino rats, each comprising six animals, were selected for this study. Group I served as a control, Group II rats were given isoproterenol (20 mg/100g, subcutaneously), and Group III rats were given M. calabura leaf extract (300 mg/kg). Groups IV, V and VI rats were given M. calabura leaf extract (100 mg/kg, 200 mg/kg and 300 mg/kg, respectively) and isoproterenol (20 mg/100g subcutaneously) prior to MI induction. The transaminases (aspartate transaminase and alanine transaminase), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and creatine phosphokinase (CK), were estimated in both the serum and heart tissues, and the serum uric acid level was also estimated.
Isoproterenol significantly increased the activities of CK, LDH and the transaminases in serum with a concomitant decrease in these enzymes in tissue. Pretreatment with the aqueous leaf extract of M. calabura at a dose of 300 mg/kg body weight for 30 days had a significant effect on the activities of marker enzymes compared to the other groups. Serum uric acid level, which increased on isoproterenol administration, registered near normal values on treatment with the leaf extract under study.
The study confirms the protective effects of M. calabura leaf extract against isoproterenol-induced biochemical alterations in rats.
Preeclampsia is a syndrome of unknown etiopathogenesis. Recent studies carried out on preeclampsia have focused on the increase in free radicals in the feto-placental unit with poor perfusion. It is believed that the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) has a role in the poor perfusion of the placenta. It is uncertain whether there is a pre-existing impairment in RAS in pre-eclamptic pregnant women or not. In the present study, we measured angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE), malonaldehyde (MDA), zinc, and copper levels in the placental tissue of 16 pre-eclamptic pregnant women and compared them with those in 20 healthy pregnant women. Whereas ACE activity and MDA were found to be high in the placentas of pre-eclamptic patients, zinc and copper levels were low and there was a negative correlation between ACE activity and zinc concentration. These findings suggest that high ACE activity might play a role in the increase in tissue hypoxia and consequent lipid peroxidation through vasoconstriction; zinc deficiency in the placental tissue might cause insufficiency of superoxide dismutase, an antioxidant enzyme. Furthermore, deficiency in placental zinc also plays a role in the biosynthesis of connective tissue, maintaining its integrity, which might have an impact on the structure of the spiral arteries.
