The present study was done to characterize the effects of endogenous tachykinins on heart rate in urethane-anesthetized guinea pigs. Intravenous injection of capsaicin (32 nmol/kg) was used to evoke release of tachykinins and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) from cardiac sensory nerve fibers. Such injections caused a brief decrease in heart rate (-37+/-7 beats/min, n=6) that was followed by a more prolonged increase (+44+/-10 beats/min). Blood pressure was lowered by -11+/-2 mmHg. Bilateral vagotomy did not affect the chronotropic or depressor responses to capsaicin, but atropine (1 micromol/kg) nearly abolished the bradycardic response (-8+/-3 beats/min, n=7). Combined blockade of NK2 and NK3 receptors, with SR48968 and SR14801 respectively, also caused a significant reduction of capsaicin-evoked bradycardia (-14+/-3 beats/min, n=4) but did not affect bradycardia evoked by vagal nerve stimulation. Blockade of CGRP receptors eliminated capsaicin-evoked tachycardia and prolonged the capsaicin-evoked bradycardia. These findings suggest that capsaicin-evoked bradycardia in the anesthetized guinea pig is mediated by tachykinins that stimulate cardiac cholinergic neurons. This effect appears to be truncated by the positive chronotropic action of CGRP that is also released from cardiac afferents by capsaicin.
The aim of the study was to investigate the effect of curcumin on the liver fibrosis induced by carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)) in rats, and to elucidate its underlying molecular mechanisms. Rats were administered with CCl(4) together with or without curcumin for 6 weeks. Hepatic damage was evaluated by analysis of liver function tests in serum. Hepatic histopathology and collagen content were employed to quantify liver fibrosis; and activated hepatic stellate cells were assessed. Moreover, the mRNA and protein expression levels of interleukin (IL)-6, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, monocyte chemotactic protein (MCP)-1, high-mobility group box 1 (HMGB1), Toll like receptor (TLR) 2 and TLR4 were determined by quantitative real time PCR, Western blot or immunohistochemistry. Treatment with curcumin significantly attenuated CCl(4)-induce liver injury, hepatic inflammation and reduced the levels of proinflammatory mediators (TNF-α, IL-6 and MCP-1). Moreover, curcumin significantly inhibited extracellular matrix deposition, reduced the number of activated stellate cells, and decreased the levels of HMGB1, TLR4 and TLR2 expression in the rat model of fibrogenesis. These results suggest that curcumin could be an effective agent for preventing liver fibrosis and its mechanism may in part be a consequence of the reduction TLR2, TLR4 and HMGB1 expression.
The ketogenic diet (KD) is a high-fat, low-carbohydrate, and low-protein diet that is widely used to treat epilepsy in children. Although the KD has been shown to be efficacious in the treatment of childhood epilepsy, the long-term effects of the KD on brain development are not clear. The objective of this study was to examine the long-term effects of the KD on visual-spatial memory, activity level, and emotionality in immature rats after status epilepticus (SE). Weanling rats were subjected to lithium/pilocarpine-induced SE or saline injections and were then randomized to either the KD or regular rat diet, both fed ad libitum. One month later, rats were evaluated for visual-spatial memory in the water maze, activity level in the open field test, and emotionality with the handling test. Spontaneous recurrent seizures were measured using videotaping, and seizure susceptibility was tested with flurothyl inhalation. Brains were weighed and examined for mossy fiber sprouting and cell loss. Although rats treated with the KD were active and seemed healthy, their weight gain was substantially lower than that in rats that received regular rat diet. The KD reduced the number of spontaneous seizures but had no discernible effect on flurothyl seizure susceptibility. KD-fed rats, with or without SE, had significantly impaired visual-spatial learning and memory compared with rats that were fed regular diet. The KD had minimal effects on activity level and emotionality. Rats that were treated with the KD had significantly impaired brain growth. No differences in pathology scores between the KD and regular diet groups were seen after SE. Despite reducing the number of spontaneous seizures after SE, the KD resulted in severe impairment in visual-spatial memory and decreased brain growth, with no effect on mossy fiber sprouting. This study raises concerns about the long-term effects of the KD on brain development.
The present experiments examined whether pretreatment with the noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists, MK-801 and dextrorphan, could antagonize cocaine-induced convulsions and lethality in conscious Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats and whether urethane anesthesia alters the observed interactions. Conscious, restrained male SD rats received continuous i.v. infusions of cocaine hydrochloride (1.25 mg/kg.min) until convulsions and death occurred. Cocaine doses of 21.2 +/- 1.8 and 29.5 +/- 2.5 mg/kg caused convulsions and death, respectively, in saline treated rats (n = 8). Convulsions were absent in MK-801 (1 mg/kg, i.v.; n = 8) pretreated rats; the lethal cocaine dose was 44.0 +/- 2.7 mg/kg (p < 0.05). In contrast, urethane anesthesia (1.2 g/kg, i.p.) decreased the dose of cocaine required to cause toxicity, compared to that in saline controls (24.8 +/- 0.8 mg/kg, n = 13), in MK-801 (2.0 +/- 0.3, n = 7; p < 0.01) and in dextrorphan mg/kg, n = 13), in MK-801 (2.0 +/- 0.3, n = 7; p < 0.01) and in dextrorphan (25 mg/kg, i.v.; 13.1 +/- 1.4, n = 6; p < 0.01) pretreated rats. Pressor responses with little change in heart rate were evident during cocaine infusion in vehicle pretreated rats. Bradycardiac responses were noted to cocaine in groups following NMDA receptor blockade. Reversal of the pressor response to cocaine was noted in MK-801 pretreated animals, while dextrorphan pretreatment moderated cocaine-induced increases in blood pressure. Ventilatory support protected against cocaine lethality in urethane anesthetized rats, indicating that respiratory failure is the proximate cause of death with cocaine infusion. However, artificially ventilated rats, pretreated with MK-801, were more sensitive (lethal cocaine dose, 76.6 +/- 8.0 mg/kg, n = 5) than vehicle pretreated rats (129.4 +/- 15.8 mg/kg, n = 6), indicating that MK-801 may increase both the respiratory and the cardiac toxicity of cocaine in urethane anesthetized rats. Interactions between NMDA receptors and cocaine are modified by urethane anesthesia.
We identified an autosomal recessive condition in 11 individuals in the Old Order Amish of northeastern Ohio. The syndrome was characterized by distinctive craniofacial dysmorphism, skeletal anomalies, and mental retardation. The typical craniofacial dysmorphism included brachycephaly, highly arched bushy eyebrows, synophrys, long eyelashes, low-set ears, microdontism of primary teeth, and generalized gingival hyperplasia, whereas Sprengel deformity of scapula, fusion of spine, rib abnormities, pectus excavatum, and pes planus represented skeletal anomalies. The genome-wide homozygosity mapping using six affected individuals localized the disease gene to a 3.3-Mb region on chromosome 1q23.3-q24.1. Candidate gene sequencing identified a homozygous frameshift mutation, c.139_140delAG, in the transmembrane and coiled-coil domains 1 (TMCO1) gene, as the pathogenic change in all affected members of the extended pedigree. This mutation is predicted to result in a severely truncated protein (p.Ser47Ter) of only one-fourth the original length. The TMCO1 gene product is a member of DUF841 superfamily of several eukaryotic proteins with unknown function. The gene has highly conserved amino acid sequence and is universally expressed in all human tissues examined. The high degree of conservation and the ubiquitous expression pattern in human adult and fetal tissues suggest a critical role for TMCO1. This report shows a TMCO1 sequence variant being associated with a genetic disorder in human. We propose "TMCO1 defect syndrome" as the name of this condition.
Ajmaline, a reserpine derivative, is an effective class I antiarrhythmic agent. Herein we report two cases of ajmaline-induced abnormal QT prolongation accompanied by polymorphic ventricular tachycardia of the torsade de pointes type. Since ajmaline is increasingly used for the acute termination of wide complex tachycardia and as a diagnostic tool after syncope and in patients with idiopathic ventricular tachyarrhythmias, our observations suggest that caution should be exercised with regard to the effects of the drug on the QT interval and its potency to induce proarrhythmia of the torsade de pointes type.
A case is presented involving an acute fatality resulting from self-administered dichlorophen, a chlorophenol fungicide. The compound was quantified using gas chromatography/mass spectrometry after extraction with methyl-tert-butyl ether, derivatization by methylation and separation on a HP5-MS capillary column. The blood concentration was 9.77 mg/l and other drugs, including ethanol, were not detected.
Adefovir dipivoxil (ADV)-resistant mutations have been identified in treating hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection. This study aimed to analyze the response, the incidence of ADV resistance and the virologic characteristics of ADV therapy. A total of 29 CHB patients with confirmed lamivudine (LAM)-resistant HBV were treated with ADV for more than 52 weeks. Serum HBV DNA, HBV genotypes and sequences of HBV polymerase reverse-transcriptase domain were determined. Rates for the biochemical response, HBeAg loss, HBeAg seroconversion and virologic response (< 200 copies/mL of HBV DNA) were 82.8, 23.5, 11.8, and 48.3%, respectively, at week 52 of treatment. Lower pre-treatment mean HBV DNA level was the only significant factor associated with negative HBV DNA after ADV therapy. Six (20.7%) patients had clearance of LAM-resistant YMDD variants with replacement by the wild type HBV at week 52. The rtN236T, rtA181V/T and rtI233V were not identified before ADV therapy and the genotypic mutation of rtN236T was detected in one (3.4%) patient. In conclusion, the 52-week ADV treatment for patients with LAM-resistant HBV variants significantly achieved normalization of ALT levels, reduced serum HBV DNA levels and induced HBeAg loss and seroconversion. The emergence of ADV-resistant mutations seemed rare at weeks 52.
Eighty-five patients with extensive chronic plaque psoriasis, unresponsive to conventional topical therapy, were treated with long-term hydroxyurea in a dose of 0.5-1.5 g daily. Fifty-two (61%) had a satisfactory remission during treatment without significant adverse effects. Treatment was discontinued in 33 patients (39%), due to an inadequate response or significant relapse during treatment and because of adverse reactions (19%). Four (4.7%) patients on hydroxyurea developed actinic psoriasis. Significant haematological abnormalities occurred in 30 patients (35%), but these became normal following a reduction in the dose of hydroxyurea or temporarily stopping the drug. In only six was it considered necessary to discontinue treatment because of bone marrow suppression. Our experience suggests that hydroxyurea is an effective long-term treatment for psoriasis that is refractory to conventional topical therapy and that the incidence of serious adverse effects compares favourably with other cytotoxic drugs.
The effects of sevoflurane on bupivacaine toxicity have not been defined. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of sevoflurane and isoflurane on bupivacaine-induced arrhythmias and seizures in rats. Thirty-seven Sprague-Dawley rats received bupivacaine intravenously at a constant rate of 2 mg.kg-1.min-1 until both arrhythmias and seizures occurred while electrocardiogram (ECG) and electroencephalogram (EEG) recordings were made. The cumulative doses of bupivacaine inducing arrhythmias and seizures were determined in the presence of 1 minimum alveolar anesthetic concentration (MAC) of sevoflurane (sevoflurane group, n = 14) or isoflurane (isoflurane group, n = 10) and in the absence of anesthetic (control group, n = 13). The cumulative doses of bupivacaine inducing arrhythmias and seizures were larger in the sevoflurane and isoflurane groups than in the control group and were similar in the sevoflurane and isoflurane groups. These results indicate that sevoflurane and isoflurane attenuate bupivacaine-induced arrhythmias and seizures in rats.
Telavancin, a new multifunctional lipoglycopeptide antibiotic, exhibits broad-spectrum Gram-positive activity against a variety of pathogens. We examined the effects of human serum and antimicrobial concentrations on the activity of telavancin against glycopeptide-intermediate staphylococcal species (GISS), heteroresistant GISS (hGISS) and three vancomycin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (VRSA) compared with vancomycin, quinupristin/dalfopristin, linezolid and daptomycin.
MIC and MBCs were performed against all antimicrobials. Time-kill experiments were performed using two strains of GISS (Mu50; NJ992) and VRSA (VRSAMI; VRSAPA) at 1, 2, 4, 8, 16 and 32x MIC. Telavancin and daptomycin were evaluated in the presence and absence of serum.
All GISS and hGISS were susceptible to the tested agents with telavancin and quinupristin/dalfopristin demonstrating the lowest MIC, followed by daptomycin, linezolid and vancomycin. Against VRSA, daptomycin and quinupristin/dalfopristin had the lowest MIC, followed by linezolid, telavancin and vancomycin. In the presence of serum, telavancin and daptomycin MICs increased 1- to 4-fold. Concentration-dependent activity was demonstrated by telavancin and daptomycin, in the presence and absence of serum. Telavancin and daptomycin were bactericidal against GISS and performed similarly in the presence of serum. Quinupristin/dalfopristin demonstrated bactericidal activity at clinically achievable concentrations, whereas linezolid was bacteriostatic.
Telavancin demonstrated concentration-dependent bactericidal activity against GISS, hGISS and VRSA at concentrations equal to or above 4x MIC, which corresponds to therapeutic levels against GISS and clinically achieved concentrations against the VRSA. Similar to daptomycin, telavancin activity was diminished in the presence of serum but bactericidal activity was maintained. Further investigation with telavancin against GISS, hGISS and VRSA is warranted.
There are close to 1 million people in the world who are alive simply because they have access to one form or another of renal replacement therapy (RRT). Ninety percent live in high-income countries. Little is known of prevalence and incidence of chronic kidney disease and of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) in middle-income and low-income countries, where the use of RRT is scarce or nonexistent. However, no intervention is undertaken, these people will experience progression to ESRD and death from uremia, because RRT is out of reach for them. These are the individuals for whom efforts should be focused to prevent or delay progression toward ESRD. In 1992, the Mario Negri Institute for Pharmacological Research in Bergamo, Italy, with the cooperation of the young doctors of the Ospedale Giovanni XXIII in La Paz (Bolivia), activated a specific project titled "El Proyecto de Enfermedades Renales en Bolivia" (The Project for Renal Diseases in Bolivia). The project sought to demonstrate that in emerging countries the best strategies against renal disease are prevention and early detection. After proper training of local personnel at the Clinical Research Center "Aldo e Cele Dacco" of the Mario Negri Institute in Bergamo, Italy, an educational campaign titled "First Clinical and Epidemiological Program of Renal Diseases"-under the auspices of the Renal Sister Center Program of the International Society of Nephrology-was conducted in 3 selected areas of Bolivia, including tropical, valley, and plains areas. The goal was to define the frequency of asymptomatic renal disease in these areas by screening a large population of patients at relatively low costs. The screening was formally performed at first-level health centers (Unidad de Salud). Participants were instructed to void a clean urine specimen, and a dipstick test was performed. Patients with positive urinalysis were enrolled in a follow-up program with subsequent laboratory and clinical checks. The study was conducted by 21 clinical centers. Apparently healthy patients (14,082) were enrolled over a period of 7 months. Urinary abnormalities were found on first screening in 4261 patients, but only 1019 patients (23.9%) were available for follow-up. At second urinalysis, 35% of patients had no abnormalities. In the remaining positive group of patients, further investigations disclosed the following abnormalities: urinary tract infection (48.4%), isolated hematuria (43.9%), chronic renal failure (1.6%), renal tuberculosis (1.6%), and other diagnoses 4.3% (kidney stones, 1.3%; diabetic nephropathy, 1%; polycystic kidney diseases, 1.9%). The experience gained from this initial screening program formed the basis for a second study aimed to prevent renal disease progression in a selected Bolivian population with high altitude polycythemia. In conclusion, our studies show that mass screening of the population for renal disease is feasible in developing countries and can provide useful information on frequency of renal diseases. Also, in patients with altitude polycythemia, long-term treatment with low doses of enalapril safely prevents increase in arterial blood pressure and progressively reduces hematocrit and proteinuria. Aside from its scientific value, this last study can be taken as an example of how, by rationalizing resources and investing in research programs, renal disease progression and cardiovascular risk may eventually improve, which ultimately should translate into less demand for dialysis, and thus provide alternatives to costly RRT. The transformation of the Bolivian pilot model into a systematic program applicable to most emerging countries may be seen as a task of national nephrology societies, along with methodologic and economic support of international bodies.
We report a case of a relapse of Henoch-Schönlein Purpura (HSP) associated with intake of paracetamol (also known as acetaminophene) and codeine. A 69-year-old man presented with fever, gross hematuria, acute renal failure, palpable purpuric skin rash over the legs, feet and arms, arthralgias and abdominal discomfort. 1 week before he had started therapy with co-efferalgan (association of paracetamol and codeine) for cervical arthrosis. Blood test revealed increase in serum creatinine levels (2.6 mg/dl), CRP (375 mg/dl), with no thrombocytopenia or hypocomplementemia. Co-efferalgan was discontinued. Gross hematuria resolved in 2 days, purpuric rash disappeared in 10 days, renal function returned to normal after 2 weeks and abdominal pain and arthralgias improved on the following 2 - 3 weeks. An objective causality assessment in accordance with the Naranjo algorithm, revealed that the adverse drug reaction was probable between paracetamol/codeine and Henoch-Schönlein purpura. To our knowledge, and based on a medline search (up to 2005), we believe that this could be considered the first case of Henoch-Schönlein purpura, associated with intake of paracetamol and codein. Although this event could be considered rare, clinicians should to be aware of possible associations between HUS and the intake of paracetamol and/or codeine to provide an early therapeutic intervention and a close monitoring.
Aliskiren is a new renin inhibitor of a novel structural class that has recently been shown to be efficacious in hypertensive patients after once-daily oral dosing. We report the results of animal experiments performed in marmosets and rats in order to characterize aliskiren before its recent investigation in humans.
The effects of aliskiren were investigated in sodium-depleted marmosets (oral dosing) and in spontaneously hypertensive rats (dosing via subcutaneous osmotic minipumps). Blood pressure (BP) and heart rate were measured by radiotelemetry.
In sodium-depleted marmosets, single oral doses of aliskiren (1-30 mg/kg) dose-dependently lowered BP. At a dose of 3 mg/kg, peak effects were observed 1 h after dosing (-30 +/- 4 mmHg, n = 6) and the response persisted for more than 12 h. A single oral dose of 3 mg/kg aliskiren was more effective than the same dose of either remikiren or zankiren, two orally active renin inhibitors previously tested in humans. Aliskiren (10 mg/kg) was at least as effective as equal doses of the AT1-receptor blocker valsartan or the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor benazepril. In spontaneously hypertensive rats, aliskiren dose-dependently (10-100 mg/kg per day) decreased BP. Aliskiren also potentiated the antihypertensive effects of low doses of valsartan or benazeprilat (1 or 3 mg/kg per day).
Aliskiren is an orally effective, long-lasting renin inhibitor that shows antihypertensive efficacy in animals superior to previous renin inhibitors and at least equivalent to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and AT1-receptor blockers. Aliskiren may therefore represent an effective, novel approach to the treatment of hypertension and related disorders, alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents.
We investigated the effect of topical application of capsaicin cream on withdrawal latency in the hind foot of rat in response to radiant heat in an experimental model of neuropathic pain. A neuropathic state was induced by loose ligation of the sciatic nerve with chromic gut suture. A marked thermal hyperalgesia was observed in response to heat stimulus applied to the operated side from 3 days through 2 weeks, followed by a gradual return to the control level by 35 days after surgery. Capsaicin cream applied to both the bilateral hind instep and sole once a day for a continuous period of 2 weeks or 4 weeks alleviated thermal hyperalgesia in a dose-dependent manner. A remarkable effect was observed 2 weeks after the start of the application and this effect proved to be reversible. On the other hand, in sham-operated animals when capsaicin cream was applied once daily from day 7 after the sham operation, from 1 day through 3 weeks following capsaicin application, withdrawal latency of the sham-operated paws of the capsaicin-treated group was significantly increased as compared to that of the vehicle cream-treated group. The effects of antagonists of glutamate receptor and tachykinin receptors were investigated 7 days post surgery. Pretreatment with MK-801 (0.5 mg kg(-1), i.p.), but not with CNQX (0.5 mg kg(-1), i.p.), reversed the thermal hyperalgesia following nerve injury. Neither of RP67580 (1--10 mg kg(-1), i.p.) nor SR48968 (1--10 mg kg(-1), i.p.) had any effect on the withdrawal latency in the injured and non-injured hind paw. These results suggest that although the manifestation of effectiveness may be delayed by changes in networks of neurotransmitters related to the nociceptive pathways following nerve injury, longer-term repetitive application of capsaicin cream has a significant therapeutic effect on subjects with painful peripheral neuropathy.
Acute tubulo-interstitial nephritis (ATIN) is an important cause of acute renal failure resulting from a variety of insults, including immune complex-mediated tubulo-interstitial injury, but drugs such as non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are a far more frequent cause. Overall, as an entity, ATIN remains under-diagnosed, as symptoms resolve spontaneously if the medication is stopped. We report on a 14-year-old boy who developed acute renal failure 2 weeks after aortic valve surgery. He was put on aspirin following surgery and took ibuprofen for fever for nearly a week prior to presentation. He then presented to the emergency department feeling quite ill and was found to have a blood urea nitrogen (BUN) concentration of of 147 mg/dl, creatinine of 15.3 mg/dl and serum potassium of 8.7 mEq/l. Dialysis was immediately initiated. A kidney biopsy showed inflammatory infiltrate consistent with ATIN. However, in the tubular basement membrane (TBM), very intense granular deposits of polyclonal IgG and C3 were noted. He needed dialysis for 2 weeks and was treated successfully with steroids for 6 months. His renal recovery and disappearance of proteinuria took a year. In conclusion, this is a first report of NSAIDs-associated ATIN, showing deposits of granular immune complex present only in the TBM and not in the glomeruli.
Long-term studies show that 47% to 63% of schizophrenic patients treated with clozapine fail to respond after 12 years of treatment. Such high rates of resistance justify the growing interest in therapeutic strategies based on enhancing the effect of clozapine with other antipsychotics. The combination of clozapine and risperidone in the treatment of partial responders to clozapine has been one of those receiving most interest from research.
The present work reports the case of a 26-year-old man, diagnosed with schizophrenia who, after treatment with clozapine at appropriate doses over 12 weeks without observable response, showed a marked and sustained improvement after the addition of risperidone to the clozapine treatment. We also present a detailed review of publications related to the therapeutic combination of clozapine and risperidone in clozapine-resistant schizophrenia.
Despite the contradictory nature of the published data, our results are in support of other work reporting that treatment with a combination of clozapine and risperidone, apart from being well tolerated, may constitute an effective alternative in this type of patient. Nevertheless, there is a need for further, controlled studies, with larger samples, with a view to drawing definitive conclusions and making specific recommendations.
Cytokine profiling of local lymph node responses has been proposed as a simple test to identify chemicals, such as low molecular weight diisocyanates, that pose a significant risk of occupational asthma. Previously, we reported cytokine messenger RNA (mRNA) profiles for dinitrochlorobenzene (DNCB) and six isocyanates: toluene diisocyanate, diphenylmethane-4,4'-diisocyanate, dicyclohexylmethane-4,4'-diisocyanate, isophorone diisocyanate, p-tolyl(mono)isocyanate, and meta-tetramethylene xylene diisocyanate. The present study was conducted to test the hypothesis that relative differences in the cytokine profile are predictive of relative differences in total serum immunoglobulin (Ig) E and respiratory responses to methacholine (Mch) following dermal exposure to the chemicals. After a preliminary experiment to determine an exposure regimen sufficient to achieve responses to Mch following dermal diisocyanate exposure, BALB/c mice received nine dermal exposures over a period of 28 days to one of six isocyanates, DNCB, or vehicle. Mice were then challenged with increasing doses of Mch and responsiveness was assessed using whole-body plethysmography. Serum antibody responses and cytokine mRNA profiles in the draining lymph node were also assessed. In separate experiments, cytokine protein assays were performed after five dermal exposures over a 14-day period. The response pattern for interleukin (IL)-4, IL-10, and IL-13 for the different isocyanates was highly reproducible as determined by RNAse protection assay, reverse transcription-PCR, or cytokine protein levels. However, the relative differences in T-helper cytokine profiles were not predictive of relative differences in either total serum IgE or respiratory responses to Mch following dermal exposure. The data suggest that the cytokine profiling approach needs to be further developed and refined before adoption and that other approaches to hazard identification should be pursued as well. Based on the weight of evidence from all the assays performed, it appears that all six isocyanates tested have some potential to cause respiratory hypersensitivity following dermal exposure.
Maprotiline, a new tetracyclic antidepressant, has a pattern of toxicity that is different from that of tricyclics. Maprotiline overdosage appears more likely to cause seizures but less likely to cause the peripheral autonomic and cardiac manifestations seen with tricyclics. Two cases of maprotiline overdose resulting in seizures without significant anticholinergic or cardiotoxic effects are presented. Both patients were treated acutely with gastric emptying and were observed to have no further seizures during subsequent drug-free hospital and outpatient follow up. Physostigmine salicylate has been used as an antidote for the anticholinergic syndrome of tricyclic overdose, but probably offers less in maprotiline overdose. Careful observation for seizures appears to be warranted.
Hyperalgesia occurring after the cessation of chronic opioid administration occurs in humans and has been modeled in rodents with chronic systemic and intrathecal administration paradigms. It is, however, unclear if this type of postanalgesic hyperalgesia is unique to opioids. The alpha(2)-adrenergic receptor agonist, dexmedetomidine (Dex), is similar to opioids in that it is an analgesic that interacts with cell-surface receptors linked to the inhibition of adenylate cyclase and the modulation of ion channel activity. In these studies, we first constructed antinociceptive dose-response curves for Dex and morphine (MSO4). The 50% effective doses for Dex and MSO4 administered intraperitoneally to C57Bl/6 mice were 75 micro g/kg and 5.2 mg/kg, respectively. Using equally effective doses, we treated separate groups of mice with twice-daily injections of Dex or MSO4 for 5 days. Tolerance to these drugs was documented after this period. In the 16-72 h after cessation of administration, MSO4-treated mice demonstrated both thermal hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia. However, the Dex-treated mice showed no changes in their thermal or mechanical withdrawal thresholds. We conclude that using this experimental paradigm, opioids but not an alpha(2)-adrenergic agonist, cause hyperalgesia and allodynia after cessation of chronic administration.
The cessation of the administration of opioids is associated with hyperalgesia in both humans and other animals. However, antinociceptive dexmedetomidine does not seem to be associated with this type of hyperalgesia syndrome during periods of abstinence.
Iron is essential for a variety of cellular functions, but its levels and bioavailability must be tightly regulated because of its toxic redox activity. A number of transporters, binding proteins, reductases, and ferroxidases help maintain iron homeostasis to prevent cell damage. The multi-copper ferroxidase ceruloplasmin (Cp) converts toxic ferrous iron to its nontoxic ferric form and is required for iron efflux from cells. Absence of this enzyme in humans leads to iron accumulation and neurodegeneration in the CNS. Here we report on the changes that occur in the cerebellum of Cp null (Cp-/-) mice with aging. We show that iron accumulation, which is reflected in increased ferritin expression, occurs mainly in astrocytes by 24 months in Cp-/- mice and is accompanied by a significant loss of these cells. In contrast, Purkinje neurons and the large neurons in the deep nuclei of Cp-/- mice do not accumulate iron but express high levels of the iron importer divalent metal transporter 1, suggesting that these cells may be iron deprived. This is also accompanied by a significant reduction in the number of Purkinje neurons. These data suggest that astrocytes play a central role in the acquisition of iron from the circulation and that two different mechanisms underlie the loss of astrocytes and neurons in Cp-/- mice. These findings provide a better understanding of the degenerative changes seen in humans with aceruloplasminemia and have implications for normal aging and neurodegenerative diseases in which iron accumulation occurs.
Intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) has approval for use despite of its authorization for treatment of ischemic stroke within the 3-hour time window in 2003, is rarely used in community hospital (CH). It therefore remains questionable if the positive results of the key studies conducted in specialized centers may be extended to community hospitals less specialized in the management of stroke.
We report the results of an observational cohort study including 39 patients treated with intravenous rt-Pa (according to the NINDS rt-PA stroke trail treatment protocol) at St Jean Hospital (Perpignan, France) between March 1, 2002 and August 31, 2005. Results are compared to those of the treated arm of the NINDS study.
1.2p.cent of ischemic stroke were treated with intravenous rt-Pa. Results are similar to those of the NINDS study: The outcome was favorable (modified Rankin score (mRS) with 0 or 1) for 44p.cent of the patients (as compared to 39p.cent in the NINDS study (X2 = 0.34; p = 0.5)) and there was no significant difference in term of death or outcome as assessed by mRS at 3 months (X2 = 0.09; p = 0.75 and X2 = 0.77; p = 0.75, respectively). No symptomatic hemmorrhagic transformation related to the use of rt-Pa was observed.
Our results indicate that rt-PA therapy for ischemic stroke may be as safe and effective in the setting of a community hospital as it is in specialized centers.
Three patients are described in whom haemodynamic collapse and acute renal failure occurred following intercurrent gastrointestinal fluid loss during treatment with an angiotensin converting-enzyme inhibitor. The possible consequences of blockade of the formation of angiotensin II during fluid loss are discussed.
To determine whether a 72-hour infusion of nitroglycerin produces hemodynamic improvement in patients with severe congestive heart failure and to assess the contributing role of various possible causes of hemodynamic tolerance to nitroglycerin, 19 patients received an infusion of nitroglycerin 1.5 micrograms/kg/min for 72 hours. In a subgroup of patients (n = 10), there was an increase in stroke work index and a decrease in ventricular filling pressures throughout the infusion and even after it was discontinued. Tolerance to the hemodynamic effects of nitroglycerin was partially reversed 8 hours after the infusion was stopped. Neurohumoral changes occurred but appeared to play only a minor role in the development of nitroglycerin tolerance. However, hematocrit fell 9 +/- 5%, which suggests that an increased intravascular volume contributed to tolerance. In summary: (1) a 72-hour infusion of nitroglycerin improves ventricular function in some patients with severe heart failure; (2) volume shifts from the extravascular to the intravascular compartments may, at least in part, be responsible for nitroglycerin tolerance; and (3) reflex neurohumoral activation may also play a small role in nitrate tolerance.
p8 protein expression is known to be upregulated in the exocrine pancreas during acute pancreatitis. Own previous work revealed glucose-dependent p8 expression also in endocrine pancreatic beta-cells. Here we demonstrate that glucose-induced INS-1 beta-cell expansion is preceded by p8 protein expression. Moreover, isopropylthiogalactoside (IPTG)-induced p8 overexpression in INS-1 beta-cells (p8-INS-1) enhances cell proliferation and expansion in the presence of glucose only. Although beta-cell-related gene expression (PDX-1, proinsulin I, GLUT2, glucokinase, amylin) and function (insulin content and secretion) are slightly reduced during p8 overexpression, removal of IPTG reverses beta-cell function within 24 h to normal levels. In addition, insulin secretion of p8-INS-1 beta-cells in response to 0-25 mM glucose is not altered by preceding p8-induced beta-cell expansion. Adenovirally transduced p8 overexpression in primary human pancreatic islets increases proliferation, expansion, and cumulative insulin secretion in vitro. Transplantation of mock-transduced control islets under the kidney capsule of immunosuppressed streptozotocin-diabetic mice reduces blood glucose and increases human C-peptide serum concentrations to stable levels after 3 days. In contrast, transplantation of equal numbers of p8-transduced islets results in a continuous decrease of blood glucose and increase of human C-peptide beyond 3 days, indicating p8-induced expansion of transplanted human beta-cells in vivo. This is underlined by a doubling of insulin content in kidneys containing p8-transduced islet grafts explanted on day 9. These results establish p8 as a novel molecular mediator of glucose-induced pancreatic beta-cell expansion in vitro and in vivo and support the notion of existing beta-cell replication in the adult organism.
