ABI-007 is a novel solvent-free, albumin-bound, 130-nm particle formulation of paclitaxel designed to avoid solvent-related toxicities and to deliver paclitaxel to tumors via molecular pathways involving an endothelial cell-surface albumin receptor (gp60) and an albumin-binding protein expressed by tumor cells and secreted into the tumor interstitium (secreted protein acid rich in cysteine). This study determined the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) of ABI-007 monotherapy administered weekly (three weekly doses, repeated every 4 weeks) and assessed the pharmacokinetics of paclitaxel administered as ABI-007.
Patients with advanced nonhematologic malignancies received ABI-007 without premedication at dose levels from 80 to 200 mg/m(2) as a 30-minute intravenous infusion once a week for 3 weeks, followed by 1 week of rest (one cycle).
Thirty-nine patients were treated with an average of five cycles of ABI-007; 33% of patients received > or = six cycles of treatment. MTDs for heavily and lightly pretreated patients were 100 and 150 mg/m(2), respectively; and the dose-limiting toxicities were grade 4 neutropenia and grade 3 peripheral neuropathy, respectively. Maximum paclitaxel concentration and area under the curve increased linearly with dose. Dose-dependent changes in plasma clearance did not occur. Partial responses were observed in five patients with breast, lung, and ovarian cancers, all of whom had previously been treated with paclitaxel containing polyoxyethylated castor oil in the formulation.
This study demonstrated that weekly ABI-007 can be administered at doses exceeding those typically used for paclitaxel containing polyoxyethylated castor oil. Pharmacokinetics were linear over the dose range studied. Antitumor responses occurred in patients previously treated with paclitaxel containing polyoxyethylated castor oil.
Although the risk of oxaliplatin-induced neuropathy depends on cumulative oxaliplatin dose, susceptibility to this adverse event differs greatly among patients. In this study, we investigated the associations between oxaliplatin-induced neuropathy and the following polymorphisms: glutathione S-transferase pi (GSTP1) Ile(105)Val, and glyoxylate aminotransferase (AGXT) Pro(11)Leu and AGXT Ile(340)Met.
Eighty-two Japanese patients with histologically confirmed colorectal cancer who received at least six cycles of the modified FOLFOX6 (m-FOLFOX6) regimen were enrolled. To minimize differences in cumulative oxaliplatin dose between patients, oxaliplatin-induced neuropathy was evaluated using an oxaliplatin-specific scale during the 2-week period after completion of the sixth cycle of treatment.
Forty-four patients developed grade 2/3 oxaliplatin-induced neuropathy. There were more patients carrying at least one GSTP1(105)Val allele among the group with grade 2/3 neuropathy (18/44, 41%) than among the group with grade 1 neuropathy (9/38, 24%), although the difference was not statistically significant (P=0.098). There were similar numbers of patients carrying at least one AGXT(105)Met allele in the grade 2/3 neuropathy (7/44, 16%) and grade 1 neuropathy groups (5/38, 13%; P=0.725). The AGXT(11)Leu allele was not found in any of our patients or controls.
We found no significant association between oxaliplatin-induced neuropathy and the GSTP1 Ile(105)Val and AGXT Ile(340)Met polymorphisms. Given that no AGXT(11)Leu allele was found among our study population (n=177), evaluating this polymorphism in Japanese patients in future studies is likely to be uninformative.
Associations between cardiovascular diseases and mercury have been frequently described, but underlying mechanisms are poorly understood.
We investigate the procoagulant activation of erythrocytes, an important contributor to thrombosis, by low-level mercury to explore the roles of erythrocytes in mercury-related cardiovascular diseases.
We used freshly isolated human erythrocytes and ex vivo and in vivo thrombosis models in rats to investigate mercury-induced procoagulant activity.
Prolonged exposure to low-dose mercuric ion (Hg(2+); 0.25-5 microM for 1-48 hr) induced erythrocyte shape changes from discocytes to echinocytes to spherocytes, accompanied by microvesicle (MV) generation. These MVs and remnant erythrocytes expressed phosphatidylserine (PS), an important mediator of procoagulant activation. Hg(2+) inhibited flippase, an enzyme that recovers PS into the inner leaflet of the cell membrane, and activated scramblase, an enzyme that alters lipid asymmetry in the cell membrane. Consistent with these activity changes, Hg(2+) increased intracellular calcium and depleted ATP and protein thiol. A thiol supplement reversed Hg(2+)-induced MV generation and PS exposure and inhibited the increase in calcium ion (Ca(2+)) and depletion of ATP, indicating that free-thiol depletion was critical to Hg(2+)-mediated procoagulant activity. The procoagulant activity of Hg(2+)-treated erythrocytes was demonstrated by increased thrombin generation and endothelial cell adhesion. We further confirmed Hg(2+)-mediated procoagulant activation of erythrocytes in ex vivo and in vivo rat thrombosis models, where Hg(2+) treatment (0.5-2.5 mg/kg) increased PS exposure and thrombus formation significantly.
This study demonstrated that mercury could provoke procoagulant activity in erythrocytes through protein-thiol depletion-mediated PS exposure and MV generation, ultimately leading to enhanced thrombosis.
The objective of this project was to determine early tissue biochemical events associated with increased colonic secretion during the acute stage of castor-oil-induced colitis by measuring cecal mucosal and submucosal malondialdehyde (MDA) and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), levels in ponies. Intestinal tissue (inflamed or healthy) samples were obtained from 4 age- and sex-matched Shetland ponies. Biochemical methods were used to determine MDA and PGE2 levels in intestinal tissue samples from inflamed and healthy equine intestine. Inflamed tissue MDA and PGE2 levels increased with time after castor oil challenge and correlated with granulocyte infiltration, as determined by myeloperoxidase levels in a companion study. Elevated intestinal tissue MDA levels suggest that lipid peroxidation could be attributed to reactive oxygen metabolites (ROM) released from stimulated, recruited, and resident granulocytes. Tissue levels of MDA and PGE2 suggest a role for granulocyte-derived mediators of intestinal inflammation in the massive secretory response in cases of acute equine colitis. Tissue MDA and PGE2 levels may be useful laboratory tools to quantify and characterize intestinal secretory inflammatory responses in acute inflammatory conditions in the equine colon.
An autism susceptibility locus (AUTS1, MIM#608636) has been identified in chromosome 7q31. NrCAM is a candidate gene for AUTS1 because it is expressed in the brain and encodes a receptor involved in nervous system development. Polymorphisms in NrCAM have been reported to be associated with autism susceptibility and with substance abuse, implicating NrCAM in reward circuitry. Self-stimulatory, perseverative behavior in autism might be due to defects in reward circuitry. In addition, models of drug addiction have also borrowed from models of obsessive-compulsive behavior designed to reduce anxiety. Thus, our goals were to replicate previous associations of NrCAM with autism, making use of a large cohort, and to clarify whether NrCAM was associated with a specific endophenotype of autism in the repetitive behaviors and stereotyped interests domains.
We genotyped six NrCAM single nucleotide polymorphisms in 352 families and we tested for association between these polymorphisms and autism in the entire cohort and in two subsets, one with severe obsessive-compulsive behaviors and one with pronounced self-stimulatory behaviors.
We found no association between single nucleotide polymorphisms of NrCAM and autism in our large cohort, or in the severe obsessive-compulsive behavior and self-stimulatory behavior subsets. However, we observed a significant overtransmission (21 transmitted vs 6 nontransmitted, chi2=12.054, P=0.0005) of the haplotype G-G-A-G-C-A of rs722519-rs1269622-rs405945-rs6958498-rs401433-rs439587 in the severe obsessive-compulsive behavior subset, likely driven by the G-C haplotype of rs6958498-rs401433, which itself showed significant overtransmission (31 transmitted vs 13 nontransmitted, chi2=8.844, P=0.003).
Overtransmission of particular haplotypes of NrCAM, that may relate to the expression level of NrCAM in the brain, appeared to be associated with autism in the severe obsessive-compulsive behavior subset.
The authors describe a case of poststeroid balance disorder in a 20-year-old athlete. Previous information of such a doping pathology among sportsmen taking anabolics was not found. That anabolic steroids had a harm to central activities and could be suspected especially on the basis of reported psychiatric sequels and cerebrovascular disorders. The case described is of a patient who had been given metandienone, oxymetholone, and nandrolone phenyloproprionate in two courses. Vertigo appeared twice just after introducing doping and persisted in spite of a 1.5 year break in taking anabolics. In the electronystagmography a positional nystagmus was detected, the eye-tracking test was distempered, and abnormal responses in the caloric tests were obtained. In the computed dynamic posturography the number and length of body sway were increased and, consequently, the field of the outspread area was enlarged. The moment of appearance and long-lasting vertigo as well as the results of laboratory examinations indicate a poststeroid permanent disorder of the central part of the equilibrium organ. Such a diagnosis seems to be most probable here.
Considerable research points to the importance of genetic mechanisms in psychostimulant addiction. Behavioral sensitization, a well-documented response to repeated stimulant exposure, may be mechanistically important in clinical features of the disorder, including escalating patterns of drug use, craving and drug-induced paranoia. Basic studies in both Drosophila melanogaster and mice have suggested the importance of circadian rhythm genes in locomotor sensitization and reward. The primary objective of the current study was to assess the potential involvement of three human orthologs (CLOCK, PER1 and PER2) in clinical phenotypes of the disorder. Allelic associations of three single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were assessed for both cocaine dependence and cocaine-induced paranoia in 186 cases and 273 controls. Potential population stratification biases were controlled for by means of within-population comparisons, and by structured association methods (using all populations). No differences in allele frequencies were found for any of the three single nucleotide polymorphisms studied between cocaine dependent and control subjects or between paranoid and nonparanoid cocaine users. These results do not support the involvement of genetic variation in these three circadian gene SNPs for influencing risks for either of these cocaine phenotypes.
We used pilocarpine-induced seizures in mice to determine the impact of genetic background on the vulnerability of hippocampal neurons and associated changes of behavioral performance. The susceptibility of hippocampal neurons to seizure-induced cell death paralleled the severity of the seizures and depended on genetic background. Hippocampal neurons in C57BL/6 mice were most resistant to cell death, whereas they were highly vulnerable in FVB/N mice. The degree of neuronal degeneration in F1 hybrid mice obtained by crossing the two strains was at an intermediate level between the parent strains. Two weeks after the severe seizures, performance in a water-maze place navigation task showed a bimodal distribution. Seventeen of 19 (90%) F1 mice were completely unable to learn while the other two learned reasonably well. Of 28 C57BL/6 mice with similarly severe seizures, six were as strongly impaired as their F1 counterparts (22%). The remaining 22 performed normally, indicating a much lower probability of C57BL/6 mice to be affected. Treated mice showed a deficit of open-field exploration which was strongly correlated with the impairment in the place navigation task and was again more severe in F1 mice. Our results show that the vulnerability of hippocampal neurons to pilocarpine-induced seizures, as well as the associated behavioral changes, depended on genetic background. Furthermore, they confirm and extend our earlier finding that a relatively modest reduction of hippocampal cell death can be associated with dramatic changes of behavioral performance and emphasize the importance of tightly-controlled genetic backgrounds in biological studies.
Lesion studies have shown that the tuberomammillary nucleus (TM) exerts inhibitory effects on the brain reward system. To determine whether histamine from the TM is involved in that reward inhibitory function, we assessed the stimulant and rewarding effects of cocaine in knockout mice lacking histidine decarboxylase (HDC KO mice), the histamine-synthesizing enzyme. If histamine actually plays an inhibitory role in reward, then it would be expected that mice lacking histamine would be more sensitive to the behavioral effects of cocaine.
The first experiment characterized spontaneous locomotion and cocaine-induced hyperactivity (0, 8, and 16 mg/kg, i.p.) in wild-type and HDC KO mice. The rewarding effects of cocaine were investigated in a second experiment with the place-conditioning technique.
The first experiment demonstrated that histidine decarboxylase mice showed reduced exploratory behaviors but normal habituation to the test chambers. After habituation to the test chambers, HDC KO mice were slightly, but significantly, less stimulated by cocaine than control mice. This finding was replicated in the second experiment, when cocaine-induced activity was monitored with the place-conditioning apparatus. Furthermore, a significant place preference was present in both genotypes for 8 and 16 mg/kg cocaine, but not for 2 and 4 mg/kg.
Our data confirm previous results demonstrating that HDC KO mice show reduced exploratory behaviors. However, contrary to the hypothesis that histamine plays an inhibitory role in reward, histamine-deficient mice were not more responsive to the psychostimulant effects of cocaine.
Phenobarbital sodium (PB) was administered at dietary levels of 0 (control), 8, 30, 125 and 500 ppm to groups of 20 male F344/DuCrj rats for 104 weeks. There were no treatment-related clinical signs or adverse effects on survival rate, body weights, food consumption, and haematology or blood biochemistry data. Statistically significant increases of relative liver weights were found in the 500 and 125 ppm, but not the 30 and 8 ppm groups. Quantitative analysis of glutathione S-transferase placental form positive (GST-P+) hepatocyte foci/areas revealed clear increases limited to the 500 and 125 ppm groups. Western blotting revealed CYP2B1, 2C6 and 3A2 proteins to be also increased only with these high doses. In addition, significant increase of regenerative hepatocellular hyperplasias was noted in the 500 ppm group. No hepatocellular adenomas were observed, but a hepatocellular carcinoma arose in single rats of the 8 ppm and 125 ppm groups. No treatment-related changes were found in any other organs or tissues. Thus, under the experimental conditions used, the highest dose of PB (500 ppm) was not carcinogenic in male F344 rats. Furthermore, increase in putative preneoplastic proliferative hepatocytic lesions was only noted with 500 and 125 ppm.
We tested the role of the bladder in the pathogenesis of desmopressin resistant enuresis by evaluating the influence of urine production on the timing of the enuretic event and the response to anticholinergic medication.
We gave 33 children with monosymptomatic nocturnal enuresis resistant to the standard 0.4 mg. oral dose of desmopressin 0.4 and 0.8 mg. desmopressin and placebo tablets for 5 nights each in a double-blind crossover fashion. The time of enuresis or nocturia was documented. All 9 children who had at least 1 dry treatment period during the randomized portion of the study then received open label treatment with 0.8 mg. desmopressin. Nonresponders to this regimen and the remainder of the children were offered anticholinergic treatment.
Average time between bedtime and voiding was 5.0, 5.6 and 5.0 hours during the nights with placebo, and 0.4 and 0.8 mg. desmopressin, respectively (p = 0.12). Of the 9 children subsequently treated with 0.8 mg. desmopressin 5 became completely dry. Of the remaining 28 children given anticholinergic treatment 20 responded.
Antidiuresis does not delay the enuretic event in children with desmopressin resistant enuresis. This finding and the favorable response to anticholinergic medication favor the hypothesis that these children have nocturnal bladder instability. A subgroup of enuretic children responds to high but not normal doses of desmopressin.
MR imaging features of metronidazole-induced encephalopathy (MIE) have not been fully established. This study was undertaken to determine the topographic distributions and diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) findings of MIE.
We retrospectively evaluated the initial MR images (n = 7), including DWI (n = 5), and follow-up MR images (n = 4) after drug discontinuation in 7 patents with clinically diagnosed MIE. The topographic distributions of lesions were evaluated on MR images, and DWI signal intensities and apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) values of the lesions were assessed.
MR images demonstrated bilateral symmetric T2 hyperintense lesions in the cerebellar dentate nucleus (n = 7), midbrain (n = 7), dorsal pons (n = 6), medulla (n = 4), corpus callosum (n = 4), and cerebral white matter (n = 1). Brain stem lesions involved the following: tectum (n = 5), tegmentum (n = 4), red nucleus (n = 3) of the midbrain, vestibular nucleus (n = 6), and a focal tegmental lesion involving the superior olivary nucleus (n = 6) and abducens nucleus (n = 4) of the pons and vestibular nucleus (n = 4) and inferior olivary nucleus (n = 1) of the medulla. DWI (n = 5) showed isointensity or hyperintensity of lesions, and the decreased ADC value was found only in the corpus callosum lesions (n = 2). All detected lesions were completely reversible at follow-up except for the single corpus callosum lesion with an initial low ADC value.
Brain lesions were typically located at the cerebellar dentate nucleus, midbrain, dorsal pons, medulla, and splenium of the corpus callosum. According to DWI, most of the lesions in MIE probably corresponded to areas of vasogenic edema, whereas only some of them, located in the corpus callosum, corresponded to cytotoxic edema.
Ursolic acid (UA) is a pentacyclic triterpene naturally occurring in many plant foods. In the present study, we investigated anti-cancer activity of UA in vivo in Ehrlich ascites carcinoma (EAC) tumor. 15 × 10(6) EAC cells were implanted intraperitoneally (i.p., ascitic tumor) and subcutaneous (s.c., solid tumor) in Swiss albino mice. Mice with established tumors received UA i.p. at 25, 50 and 100mg/kg bw for 14 d in ascitic and 100mg/kg bw in solid tumor for 30 d. On day 15, blood samples were collected for hematological assessment of hemoglobin (Hb%), RBCs, WBCs and PCV. Tumor volume, cell viability, angiogenic, anti-angiogenic, anti-inflammatory factors and antioxidant parameters were determined. Immunohistochemistry analysis for VEGF, iNOS, CD31, caspase-3 and Bax were also performed. UA significantly inhibited tumor growth, cell viability, in both ascites and solid tumor model in vivo (p<0.001). The anti-angiogenic effects were accompanied with decreased VEGF, iNOS, TNF-α and increased IL-12 levels. UA at 100mg/kg bw dose significantly increased SOD and CAT activity (p<0.01). GSH and TBARS were increased as compared to control group (p<0.001). Furthermore, UA increased total RBCs, WBCs as well as Hb% significantly (p<0.05) compared to cyclophosphamide (CP). Histopathological examination of tumor cells in the treated group demonstrated signs of apoptosis with chromatin condensation and cell shrinkage. Decreased peritoneal angiogenesis showed the anti-angiogenic potential. UA downregulated VEGF & iNOS expression whereas bax and caspase-3 expressions were upregulated suggesting drug induced tumor cell apoptosis through activating the pro-apoptotic bcl-2 family and caspase-3 and downregulation of VEGF. The present study sheds light on the potent antitumor property of the UA and can be extended further to develop therapeutic protocols for treatment of cancer.
Seven cases of intracerebral haemorrhage were identified following the use of thrombolytic therapy in a total of 710 patients with acute myocardial infarction. Each case was reviewed in detail with particular attention to the presenting symptoms. A confusional state was the commonest initial feature. Increased age and male sex were associated with increased risk of cerebral bleed. The possible role of intravenous heparin in increasing risk and the management of affected cases is discussed. Early recognition and action is emphasized.
Electrocardiographic abnormality, similar to that observed in cancer patients during chemotherapy with the anthracycline antibiotics daunomycin and adriamycin, was produced in rabbits. They were chronically treated with adriamycin, and before each administration of the drug an electrocardiogram was recorded. They were subdivided into two categories with respect to the R-wave voltage in lead V1, on the same basis as our previous investigation in humans. In group A, there was a dose-response relationship, and they ultimately showed a QS pattern in the right precordial leads with or without ST-T changes in the left precordial leads. In group B, the electrocardiograms did not show a low R-wave in lead V1, but ST-T changes in the left precordial leads. The similarity of these electrocardiographic changes to those produced by myocardial infarction that we observed in humans suggests that more severe injury to the myocardium at the anterior septum and anterior left ventricular wall may be important in the pathogenesis of anthracycline cardiomyopathy.
We describe 2 patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) who developed an acute psychosis and a cerebrovascular accident after pulse methylprednisolone therapy. A literature review revealed 8 additional patients with SLE with acute central nervous system complications after pulse therapy.
(1) Methadone is an opiate used for replacement therapy of opiate addiction that causes dose-dependent QT prolongation. (2) Severe ventricular arrhythmias such as torsades de pointes have been reported, usually in patients on high doses (100 mg to 400 mg/day). (3) Methadone has a long plasma elimination half-life, and this poses a risk of accumulation. Accumulation is especially problematic when the dose is increased too rapidly. Combining methadone with a CYP 3A4 inhibitor increases the risk of torsades de pointes, as methadone is metabolised by this enzyme system. (4) Factors potentially predisposing patients to torsades de pointes must be analysed in each case; these include preexisting bradycardia, congenital QT prolongation, hypokalemia, and concomitant use of other drugs inducing QT prolongation. (5) This adverse effect has also been reported with levacetylmethadol (another opiate) and with heroin. It does not seem to occur with buprenorphine.
An 87-year-old woman died after the administration of an intravenous injection of antipyrine during the course of an investigation of the efficacy of oxerutins in venous ulceration. This is believed to be the first such fatality.
Lymphocytes from three of four patients with severe unexplained hepatitis following halothane anaesthesia were cytotoxic in vitro for liver cells isolated from rabbits following halothane anaesthesia, and less so for control hepatocytes. While the latter reaction could be blocked by addition of a purified liver membrane lipoprotein (LSP), this had no effect on the cytotoxicity to "halothane" hepatocytes. These results provide evidence that patients with severe halothane-associated hepatitis are sensitised to a liver cell antigen distinct from LSP, which arises as a result of halothane anaesthesia.
The proline-specific dipeptidyl peptidases (DPPs) are emerging as a protease family with important roles in the regulation of signaling by peptide hormones. Inhibitors of DPPs have an intriguing, therapeutic potential, with clinical efficacy seen in patients with diabetes. Until now, only recombinant forms of DPP8 and DPP9 have been characterized. Their enzymatic activities have not been demonstrated in or purified from any natural source. Using several selective DPP inhibitors, we show that DPP activity, attributable to DPP8/9 is present in human PBMC. All leukocyte types tested (lymphocytes, monocytes, Jurkat, and U937 cells) were shown to contain similar DPP8/9-specific activities, and DPPII- and DPPIV-specific activities varied considerably. The results were confirmed by DPPIV/CD26 immunocapture experiments. Subcellular fractionation localized the preponderance of DPP8/9 activity to the cytosol and DPPIV in the membrane fractions. Using Jurkat cell cytosol as a source, a 30-fold, enriched DPP preparation was obtained, which had enzymatic characteristics closely related to the ones of DPP8 and/or -9, including inhibition by allo-Ile-isoindoline and affinity for immobilized Lys-isoindoline.
Immunosuppressants are teratogenic in mice, rats, and rabbits and cause prenatal growth restriction in humans. As yet, there has been no proven teratogenicity in humans.
We present a chromosomally normal fetus with severe acrofacial dysostosis and orofacial clefts. These were bilateral transverse and oblique clefts and defects of the midface. In addition, there were preaxial limb anomalies with digitalization of thumbs and internal cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, and urogenital malformations. The mother had been treated with high doses of the immunosuppressant mycophenolate mofetil in early pregnancy for systemic lupus erythematosus.
Mycophenolate mofetil may have contributed to or even caused acrofacial dysostosis phenotype and extensive clefting.
A 36-year-old woman (height, 157 cm; weight, 117 kg; body mass index, 47.5) received fenfluramine and phentermine (fen-phen) for 7 months, and pulmonary hypertension subsequently developed. Her pulmonary arterial pressure was 56 mm Hg, and echocardiography showed right ventricular dilatation and hypokinesia. Cardiopulmonary arrest developed during right-heart catheterization, and she died 3 days later. At autopsy, right ventricular dilatation with fibroproliferative tricuspid valve was identified. The pulmonary arteries, including the main arteries and elastic arteries to the arterioles, revealed fibroproliferative plaque; the latter was more severe and more prominent in the upper lobes than in the lower lobes. Combined cardiac valvular disease and pulmonary hypertension appear to occur frequently in patients receiving fen-phen, and more autopsy cases of patients with a history of fen-phen usage are warranted to document the frequency of combined cardiac valvular disease and pulmonary hypertension in the United States.
We investigated the pathogenic mechanism(s) of small intestinal injury during acidosis in relation to circulating nitric oxide (NO) in an experimental rat model. Rats were anesthetized, paralyzed, and mechanically ventilated with room air. Hydrochloric acid (0.16 mmol bolus followed by 0.132 mmol/kg/h) was infused through the jugular vein for 5 hours. Control rats received a saline infusion. Arterial blood gases, blood pressure, and blood pH were measured every 30 minutes. The involvement of NO in this acidosis model was assessed by measuring plasma concentration of nitrite/nitrate (NOx) and by evaluating inducible NO synthase (iNOS) expression in small intestinal mucosa. Intestinal injury was assessed by measuring myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity, thiobarbituric acid reactants (TBARS), and histologic scores. HCl infusion was associated with hypotension, decreased blood pH, increased plasma concentration of NOx, augmented intestinal mucosal iNOS expression, MPO activity, TBARS, and histopathologic injury scores. Pretreatment with an iNOS inhibitor, aminoguanidine (AG, 50 mg/kg), reversed HCl-induced hypotension without a change in blood pH. HCl-induced lesions, MPO activity, TBARS, and plasma NOx production were decreased by AG. Our data show that the pathogenic mechanisms of acidosis-induced small intestinal lesions involve up-regulation of NO production by increased expression of iNOS and augmentation of superoxide radicals and MPO activity.
The antitussive dimemorfan phosphate was discovered through extensive screening of morphinic derivatives and was introduced in Japan in 1975. The majority of studies on dimemorfan have been published in Japanese, and this review aims to make these data more generally available. The antitussive action of dimemorfan appears to be directly on the cough center in the medulla. Dimemorfan does not induce any significant physical or psychologic dependence, and its antitussive action is not affected by the opioid-receptor blocker levallorphan. Dimemorfan is therefore considered a nonnarcotic antitussive. Studies of antitussive effects in animal models indicate that dimemorfan is up to three times more potent than codeine and is equivalent to dextromethorphan. Three major comparative clinical trials and postmarketing surveillance studies showed that dimemorfan is equally or slightly more efficacious than dextromethorphan, benproperine phosphate, or placebo for the control of coughing. Several animal and clinical studies have confirmed the efficacy and safety of dimemorfan. Dimemorfan was effective in the majority of patients. In contrast to the narcotic antitussives, dimemorfan caused no serious problems with the digestive system, such as constipation and disorders of the bile duct, caused no dependence or tolerance, and was unlikely to have clinical analgesic effects. Minor side effects, such as loss of appetite, nausea, and drowsiness, were seen in less than 10% of patients. A syrup formulation of dimemorphan that retains its efficacy and safety is also available. Overall, these data indicate that dimemorfan is an effective nonnarcotic antitussive agent with a low incidence of adverse events.
