The relative contribution of immunological dysregulation and impaired epithelial barrier function to allergic diseases is still a matter of debate. Here we describe a new syndrome featuring severe dermatitis, multiple allergies and metabolic wasting (SAM syndrome) caused by homozygous mutations in DSG1. DSG1 encodes desmoglein 1, a major constituent of desmosomes, which connect the cell surface to the keratin cytoskeleton and have a crucial role in maintaining epidermal integrity and barrier function. Mutations causing SAM syndrome resulted in lack of membrane expression of DSG1, leading to loss of cell-cell adhesion. In addition, DSG1 deficiency was associated with increased expression of a number of genes encoding allergy-related cytokines. Our deciphering of the pathogenesis of SAM syndrome substantiates the notion that allergy may result from a primary structural epidermal defect.
A case of acute urinary retention, presumably secondary to the use of the antiarrhythmic drug flecainide, is presented. A mechanism for this effect is proposed based on the possibility of a local anesthetic effect on bladder mucosa.
We report the results of a randomised, case matched, controlled, double blind study on 40 patients undergoing correction of their prominent ears, comparing efficacy of pH adjusted lignocaine to lignocaine alone in controlling operative pain. Each patient received commercial lignocaine in one ear and the same preparation reconstituted with 1 ml of 8.4% sodium bicarbonate in the other ear according to our randomisation protocol. 30 patients were studied to compare the difference between the buffered and commercial preparation infiltrated at room temperature. A further 10 patients were studied to assess the benefit the buffered preparation at room temperature had over commercial lignocaine warmed to body temperature. Linear analogue pain scores for discomfort at infiltration and during the operation itself were analysed. Buffered lignocaine imparts a significant reduction in pain on infiltration, compared to the commercial preparation at both room and body temperature. Both preparations were equally effective in obliterating pain during the operation itself.
It has recently been suggested that angiotensin-I converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors decrease the risk of cancer. However, studies to date have not investigated esophageal carcinoma. Therefore, we investigated the inhibitory effect of ACE inhibitors on growth of esophageal carcinoma xenografts. We used the EC9706 cell line, which expresses the highest vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) mRNA level, to establish xenografts in 21 BALB/c nude mice. The mice were then randomly allocated to receive normal saline, perindopril (4 mg/kg), or benazepril (6 mg/kg). Five weeks later, the nude mice were sacrificed and all tumors were dissected and weighed. The number of microvessels was counted by immunostaining endothelial cells for CD31 and the microvessel density was assessed. The EC9706 cell line showed the highest expression of VEGF mRNA of four esophageal squamous cell carcinoma lines. After treatment, the average tumor inhibitory rate in the benazepril group was 45.4%, which was significantly higher than that of the control group (P < 0.05). Similar findings were observed when we used tumor weight as an index for tumor growth inhibition (P < 0.05). By contrast, there was no significant difference between the perindopril group and the control group (P > 0.05). The benazepril group appeared to show less vascularization than the control group (P < 0.05), but we did not find a significant difference between the perindopril group and the control group (P > 0.05). The EC9706 cell line showed the highest expression of VEGF mRNA level of the four esophageal squamous cell carcinoma cell lines examined. Benazepril inhibited the growth of esophageal carcinoma in vivo. The potential mechanism of benazepril seems to involve suppression of new vessel formation. Therefore, benazepril could be used as an effective agent for the treatment of esophageal carcinoma.
In January 1991, a woman in Wisconsin contacted her local public health department to report that she and her two children had become ill after her landlord painted the walls and ceilings of two rooms of her apartment. Reported symptoms included a burning sensation in the nose and forehead, headache, nose bleed, cough, loss of appetite, nausea, and vomiting. The woman, who was in the third trimester of pregnancy, also complained of a persistent odor from the paint and provided an empty bottle of a paint additive used for mildew control. The label indicated that this product contained 25% bis(tributyltin) oxide (TBTO) as its only active ingredient.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs delay gastric ulcer healing, and the ability of proton pump inhibitors to counteract this detrimental effect is debated. This study evaluates the effects of pantoprazole on experimental gastric ulcer healing in the presence of indomethacin. Rats with acetic-acid-induced gastric ulcers were orally treated for 3 or 7 days with pantoprazole (15 micromol/kg/day) or famotidine (20 micromol/kg/day), alone or in combination with indomethacin (3 micromol/kg/day). Ulcerated tissues were processed to assess ulcer area, malondialdehyde, proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) and cleaved caspase-3. Experiments on pylorus-ligated rats indicated that pantoprazole and famotidine were employed at equivalent inhibitory doses on gastric acid secretion (-67.9% and -64.5%, respectively). Indomethacin delayed ulcer healing both at days 3 and 7 (+22 and +35 mm(2) vs control ulcer, respectively). At day 3, pantoprazole was more effective than famotidine in promoting ulcer healing in indomethacin-treated animals (-53.6 and -31.6 mm(2) vs indomethacin, respectively). Malondialdehyde levels and caspase-3 activation in ulcers were increased by indomethacin (+79% and +3.7 folds vs control ulcer, respectively), and these effects were counteracted by pantoprazole (-77.9% and -3.5 folds vs indomethacin, respectively), but not famotidine. Increments of ulcer PCNA expression (+2.5 folds vs normal) were enhanced further by pantoprazole or famotidine, alone or in combination with indomethacin (+8.6 and +10.3 folds vs normal, respectively). Similar results were obtained after 7-day treatments of ulcerated animals with test drugs. It is concluded that, along with acid suppression, pantoprazole exerts acid-independent effects on ulcer healing, which can be ascribed to a decrease in tissue oxidation and apoptosis.
We report a case of amiodarone-induced hepatitis accompanied by hyperthyroidism in which estimations of amiodarone in blood and in the liver and histological examinations were performed at the start and end of a 3-month interval. Our observation demonstrates the persistence in the liver of amiodarone and its principal metabolite for 3 months after the drug was withdrawn. There was no correlation between the persistence of the drug, the elevation of enzyme levels, and the extent of histological damage in the liver.
Phosphodiesterase inhibition promotes both cellular uptake and release of calcium, which should thus facilitate both myocardial relaxation and myocardial contraction. To test the hypothesis that phosphodiesterase inhibition augments both diastolic and systolic ventricular function, parameters of left ventricular ejection and filling were measured in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy before and after therapy with the phosphodiesterase inhibitor enoximone. Baseline radionuclide ventriculography was performed in all subjects with derivation of left ventricular ejection fraction and peak diastolic filling rate. These parameters were again assessed after 3 months of therapy with either placebo (six patients) or enoximone (seven patients). Ejection fraction increased significantly (p less than 0.05) in the enoximone group (change from baseline = 11 +/- 14 ejection fraction units) but did not change in the placebo group (0.2 +/- 5 ejection fraction units). Enoximone administration was associated with a significant (p less than 0.05) increase in peak filling rate, from 0.9 +/- 0.5 to 1.4 +/- 0.5 end-diastolic volumes per second, which was noted in the placebo group (1.2 +/- 0.6 to 1.4 +/- 0.9 end-diastolic volumes per second; p = not significant). Thus, in comparison with placebo, exoximone augmented both diastolic and systolic function in dilated cardiomyopathy. This identifies an additional influence of this class of inotropic agent on the function of the intact ventricle that is consistent with previously described cellular mechanisms and that may significantly contribute to a restoration of normal hemodynamic status in dilated cardiomyopathy.
The biological roles of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) in various diseases, including inflammation and cancer, have been highlighted recently. Although PPARgamma ligand is suspected to play an important role in carcinogenesis, its effects on colon tumorigenesis remain undetermined. The present time-course study was conducted to investigate possible modifying effects of a PPARgamma ligand, troglitazone, on the development and growth of aberrant crypt foci (ACF), putative precursor lesions for colon carcinoma, induced by azoxymethane (AOM) or dextran sodium sulfate (DSS) in male F344 rats. Oral troglitazone (10 or 30 mg / kg body weight (b.w.)) significantly reduced AOM (two weekly subcutaneous injections, 20 mg / kg b.w.)-induced ACF. Treatment with troglitazone increased apoptosis and decreased polyamine content and ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity in the colonic mucosa of rats treated with AOM. Gastric gavage of troglitazone also inhibited colitis and ACF induced by DSS (1% in drinking water), in conjunction with increased apoptosis and reduced colonic mucosal polyamine level and ODC activity. Our results suggest that troglitazone, a synthetic PPARgamma ligand, can inhibit the early stage of colon tumorigenesis with or without colitis.
Suppression of nitric oxide (NO) production alters the toxicity of cocaine and bupivacaine. We undertook this study to determine whether the systemic toxicity of two other local anesthetics that differ in antiarrhythmic activity, plasma clearance, and biotransformation are similarly affected by nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibition. Sprague-Dawley rats anesthetized with 70% N2O and 0.5% halothane mixed with O2 were pretreated with saline (0.2 mL x kg(-1) x min(-1) i.v.) or N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME; a competitive inhibitor of NOS) (2 mg x kg(-1) x min(-1) i.v.) for 30 min. The animals were then given tetracaine (3 mg x kg(-1) x min(-1) i.v.) or lidocaine (8 mg x kg(-1) x min(-1) i.v.) until cardiac arrest (asystole). Doses of lidocaine or tetracaine that produced arrhythmias, seizures, isoelectric encephalogram, and asystole were determined. Hemodynamic recordings were performed throughout the experiments, and plasma was collected to measure the concentration of lidocaine or tetracaine. L-NAME decreased tetracaine and lidocaine doses that produced arrhythmias (> or = 2 degrees atrioventricular conduction block) (tetracaine 14 +/- 2 mg/kg; lidocaine 102 +/- 9 mg/kg) versus saline treatment (tetracaine 28 +/- 2 mg/kg; lidocaine 136 +/- 9 mg/kg; P < 0.05). The tetracaine and lidocaine doses required to produce asystole were also smaller in animals with L-NAME pretreatment than those in saline-pretreated animals. L-NAME reduced the arrhythmia dose of tetracaine more than the arrhythmia dose of lidocaine (28 of 14 = 2.0 fold and 136 of 102 = 1.3-fold). The plasma concentration of lidocaine, but not tetracaine, was significantly higher at each sample time in L-NAME-pretreated animals than in saline-pretreated animals. Inhibition of NOS by L-NAME enhances the cardiotoxicity of lidocaine and tetracaine, with a greater effect on tetracaine than on lidocaine. Altered drug clearance by L-NAME was insufficient to explain these findings because L-NAME pretreatment increased the plasma levels of only lidocaine, not tetracaine.
Inhibition of nitric oxide production in rats markedly enhances the cardiovascular toxicity of lidocaine and tetracaine. Altered drug clearance by N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester was insufficient to explain these findings because N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester pretreatment increased the plasma levels of only lidocaine, not tetracaine.
Phosphodiesterase-6 (PDE6) is a multisubunit enzyme that plays a key role in the visual transduction cascade in rod and cone photoreceptors. Each type of photoreceptor utilizes discrete catalytic and inhibitory PDE6 subunits to fulfill its physiological tasks, i.e. the degradation of cyclic guanosine-3',5'-monophosphate at specifically tuned rates and kinetics. Recently, the human PDE6H gene was identified as a novel locus for autosomal recessive (incomplete) color blindness. However, the three different classes of cones were not affected to the same extent. Short wave cone function was more preserved than middle and long wave cone function indicating that some basic regulation of the PDE6 multisubunit enzyme was maintained albeit by a unknown mechanism. To study normal and disease-related functions of cone Pde6h in vivo, we generated Pde6h knock-out (Pde6h(-/-)) mice. Expression of PDE6H in murine eyes was restricted to both outer segments and synaptic terminals of short and long/middle cone photoreceptors, whereas Pde6h(-/-) retinae remained PDE6H-negative. Combined in vivo assessment of retinal morphology with histomorphological analyses revealed a normal overall integrity of the retinal organization and an unaltered distribution of the different cone photoreceptor subtypes upon Pde6h ablation. In contrast to human patients, our electroretinographic examinations of Pde6h(-/-) mice suggest no defects in cone/rod-driven retinal signaling and therefore preserved visual functions. To this end, we were able to demonstrate the presence of rod PDE6G in cones indicating functional substitution of PDE6. The disparities between human and murine phenotypes caused by mutant Pde6h/PDE6H suggest species-to-species differences in the vulnerability of biochemical and neurosensory pathways of the visual signal transduction system.
The effects of coffee on myocardial infarction are uncertain. We hypothesize that coffee in the presence of predisposing factors can induce a cascade of events that, through sympathetic nervous activation, can induce the onset of myocardial infarction.
We recruited 503 incident cases of nonfatal myocardial infarction between 1994 and 1998 in Costa Rica. We used a case-crossover design to calculate relative risks (RRs) and 95% confidence intervals (95% CIs).
The RR of myocardial infarction in the hour after coffee intake was 1.49 (95% CI = 1.17-1.89). Occasional coffee drinkers (< or =1 cup/day, n = 103) had a RR of myocardial infarction of 4.14 (2.03-8.42), moderate coffee drinkers (2-3 cups/day, n = 280) had a RR of 1.60 (1.16-2.21), and heavy coffee drinkers (> or =4 cups/d, n = 120) had a RR of 1.06 (0.69-1.63; P = 0.006, test of homogeneity). Patients with 3 or more risk factors (n = 101) had a RR of myocardial infarction of 2.10 (1.30-3.39), whereas patients with fewer than 3 risk factors (n = 396) had a RR of 1.39 (1.04-1.82; P = 0.15, test of homogeneity); and RR was 1.72 (1.30-2.30) among sedentary patients compared with 1.07 (0.66-1.72) among nonsedentary (P = 0.10, test of homogeneity).
The findings indicate that coffee intake may trigger myocardial infarction. The association is particularly strong among people with light/occasional intake of coffee (< or =1 cup/day), with sedentary lifestyle, or with 3 or more risk factors for coronary heart disease.
Ergot intoxication is a syndrome recognized in the Middle Ages that was due to the effects of intense vasoconstriction upon the extremities. The authors present a patient with self-induced ergotamine poisoning who presented with vasospasm of the right lower extremity and had historical evidence suggestive of vasoconstriction involving other vascular systems. Excess ergot effect should be considered in the differential diagnosis of vascular insufficiency.
Propylthiouracil-induced hepatitis is an uncommon entity. Two further cases are reported herein, and the clinical and laboratory features of the other six cases in the English literature are reviewed. The initial appearance of the disease is similar to that of viral hepatitis, characterized by nausea, vomiting, and jaundice. The biochemical pattern of injury is predominantly hepatocellular, with marked elevation of transaminase valves and less striking elevation of alkaline phosphatase values. Recovery is usually complete after withdrawal of the drug, but there have been at least two fatalities, including the first patient (to our knowledge) whose case is reported herein. Despite its rarity, the disease should be suspected in any patient receiving propylthiouracil in whom clinical or laboratory evidence of hepatocellular injury develops.
Long term use of typical neuroleptics such as haloperidol may be limited by unwanted motor side effects like tardive dyskinesia characterized by repetitive involuntary movements, involving the mouth, face and trunk. Atypical neuroleptics, such as clozapine and risperidone are devoid of these side effects. However the precise mechanisms of the neuronal toxicity induced by haloperidol are poorly understood. It is possible that typical and atypical antipsychotic differently affects neuronal survival and death and that these effects considerably contribute to the differences in the development of TD. The aim of the present study is to investigate the role of TNF-alpha and NFkappaB on the toxicity induced by chronic haloperidol administration in an animal model of tardive dyskinesia. Rats were treated for 21 days with: haloperidol (5 mg/kg), clozapine (5 and 10 mg/kg), risperidone (5 mg/kg) or saline. Orofacial dyskinetic movements and total locomotor activity was evaluated. Striatal levels of dopamine were measure by HPLC/ED whereas striatal levels of TNF-alpha and NFkappaB p65 subunit were measured by ELISA technique. Haloperidol increased orofacial dyskinetic movements and total locomotor activity (on day 22) (P<or=0.05). Clozapine and risperidone also increased the orofacial dyskinetic movements but that significantly less than haloperidol (P<or=0.05). Differential effect of haloperidol and atypical neuroleptics on striatal dopamine levels and striatal levels of TNF-alpha and NFkappaB p65 subunit was found out. Haloperidol significantly decreased the striatal dopamine levels whereas clozapine and risperidone did not. Haloperidol but not clozapine and risperidone significantly increased the levels of TNF-alpha and NFkappaB p65 subunit (P<or=0.05). The present study suggests the impossible involvement of striatal TNF-alpha and NFkappaB p65 subunit in haloperidol-induced orofacial dyskinesia in rats, an animal model for human tardive dyskinesia.
26 patients with hypertension while on hemodialysis or continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis for end-stage renal diseases were treated first with enalapril and then changed to metoprolol. Both drugs were shown to be similarly effective in controlling blood pressure. There was no difference between the two drugs in their effects on renal function, potassium balance, lipid profile, cardiac function, exercise tolerance, and quality of life. Mild worsening of anemia was observed during treatment with enalapril. No serious side effects were reported. Use of enalapril is safe in the treatment of hypertension in dialysis patients.
Numerous toxic exposures have been implicated in causing aplastic anemia. Thirteen cases of aplastic anemia and 5 cases of other blood dyscrasias, eg, red blood cell aplasia and thrombocytopenia, associated with lindane, have been reported in the literature. However, aplastic anemia secondary to the scabicidal product (lindane [Kwell]) has not been documented, to our knowledge. We present the case of a 21-year-old man with a diagnosis of aplastic anemia, known prolonged exposure to lindane, and documented elevated serum lindane levels. His clinical course is described as well as various defects are explored for the aplasia.
Transdermal hyoscine (Scopoderm TTS CIBA) was compared with placebo in 67 patients receiving postoperative analgesia via a patient-controlled analgesia system. All patients underwent an abdominal hysterectomy and had a standard anaesthetic. They were followed up in recovery and daily for 3 days postoperatively. Fewer patients in the hyoscine group suffered emetic sequelae in recovery and on the third postoperative day (p less than 0.05). The hyoscine group received half the number of supplementary antiemetic doses compared to placebo. However, despite transdermal hyoscine there was still a high (78%) incidence of nausea and vomiting. The only significant (p less than 0.05) increase in side effects attributable to hyoscine was a higher reported incidence of visual disturbance on the second day.
It is widely accepted that oxidative stress is involved in the pathogenesis of Down syndrome, but the effectiveness of antioxidant treatment remains inconclusive. We tested whether chronic administration of α-tocopherol ameliorates the cognitive deficits exhibited by Ts65Dn mice, a mouse model of Down syndrome. α-Tocopherol was administered to pregnant Ts65Dn females, from the day of conception throughout the pregnancy, and to pups over their entire lifetime, from birth to the end of the behavioral testing period. Cognitive deficits were confirmed for Ts65Dn mice fed a control diet, revealing reduced anxiety or regardlessness in the elevated-plus maze task test and spatial learning deficits in the Morris water maze test. However, supplementation with α-tocopherol attenuated both cognitive impairments. In addition, we found that levels of 8-iso-prostaglandin F(2α) in brain tissue and hydroxyoctadecadienoic acid and 7-hydroxycholesterol in the plasma of Ts65Dn mice were higher than those of control mice. Supplementation with α-tocopherol decreased levels of lipid peroxidation products in Ts65Dn mice. Furthermore, we found out that α-tocopherol improved hypocellularity in the hippocampal dentate gyrus of Ts65Dn mice. These results imply that α-tocopherol supplementation from an early stage may be an effective treatment for the cognitive deficits associated with Down syndrome.
A case is reported in which intravenous nimodipine therapy was associated with severe acute pulmonary hypertension in a patient with a subarachnoid haemorrhage. The patient had previously received enteral nimodipine without problems.
To investigate the role of renal sympathetic nerves in renal sodium transport in ouabain-hypertensive rats (OHR).
Sixteen male SD rats with sham renal denervation (Sham-RDNX) and 16 with renal denervation (RDNX) were randomly into normal control group and ouabain group to receive intraperitoneal injection of normal saline (1 ml/kg) and ouabain (27.8 µg/kg) once a day, respectively. Systolic blood pressure (SBP), heart rate and body weight were recorded weekly. Food consumption of the rats was determined twice a week. After a 4-week treatment, blood and 24 h urine samples were collected to measure the serum and urinary concentration of sodium, trace lithium and creatinine. Endogenous creatinine clearance rate (Ccr), fractional excretions of sodium (FENa), fractional excretions of lithium (FELi) and fractional reabsorption of sodium in the postproximal tubules (FDRNa) were calculated. Plasma renin activity was determined by radioimmunoassay. Norepinephrine was extracted from the renal tissue and assayed for norepinephrine content by HPLC.
The body weight, food intake and heart rate showed no significant difference among the 4 groups (P > 0.05). After 4 weeks, the SBP of control RDNX group (CDNX) was significantly lower than that of the control Sham-DNX group (Csham)(P < 0.05); the SBP of ouabain RDNX group (ODNX) was also significantly lower than that of ouabain Sham-DNX group (Osham) (P < 0.05); RNDX lowered SBP by about 10 mmHg in both ouabain groups and control groups. The SBP was significantly higher in Osham and ODNX groups than in the corresponding control groups (P < 0.01), also significantly higher in ODNX group than in Csham group (P < 0.01). Ccr showed no significant difference among the 4 groups(P > 0.05). FENa, FELi and FDRNa were significantly lower in ouabain groups than in the corresponding control groups (P < 0.05, P < 0.01, P < 0.05), but FENa, FELi and FDRNa of ODNX group were similar with those of Osham group (P > 0.05); FENa , FELi and FDRNa were similar between CDNX and Csham groups (P > 0.05). The plasma renin activity was comparable between the 4 groups (P > 0.05). Renal norepinephrine level was markedly reduced in RDNX group compared with that in Sham-RDNX group in both ouabain and control groups (P < 0.01).
The increase of proximal tubule sodium reabsorption in OHR is not dependent on the renal sympathetic nerve.
We report a case of a fatal toxic encephalomyelopathy in a 12-year-old girl due to prophylactic intrathecal injection of methotrexate and cytosine arabinoside, with a characteristic progressive symptomatology leading to death after 28 days. The location and type of neuropathological changes support the hypothesis of a direct toxic effect of methotrexate and/or cytosine arabinoside on structures directly exposed to the cerebrospinal fluid.
In West Bengal, India, more than 300,000 arsenic-exposed people are showing symptoms of arsenic toxicity, which include cancers of skin and different internal organs. Since only 15-20% of the exposed population manifest arsenic-induced skin lesions, it is thought that genetic variation might play an important role in arsenic toxicity and carcinogenicity. A total of 422 unrelated arsenic-exposed subjects (244 skin-symptomatic and 178 asymptomatic) were recruited for this study. Cytogenetic damage, as measured by chromosomal aberrations in lymphocytes and micronuclei formation in oral mucosa cells, urothelial cells and binucleated lymphocytes, was studied in unexposed, skin-symptomatic and asymptomatic individuals with similar socioeconomic status. Identification of null mutations in GSTT1 and GSTM1 genes were carried out by PCR amplification. GSTP1 SNPs, implicated in susceptibility to various cancers, were assessed by PCR-RFLP method. Symptomatic individuals had higher level of cytogenetic damage compared to asymptomatic individuals and asymptomatic individuals had significantly higher genotoxicity than unexposed individuals. No difference in allelic variants in GSTT1 and GSTP1 was observed between these 2 groups. Incidence of GSTM1 null gene frequencies was significantly higher in the asymptomatic group. Individuals with GSTM1-positive (at least one allele) had significantly higher risk of arsenic-induced skin lesions (odds ratio, 1.73; 95% confidence interval, 1.24-2.22). These results show a protective role of GSTM1 null in arsenic toxicity. This study also indicates that asymptomatic individuals are sub clinically affected and are also significantly susceptible to arsenic-induced genotoxicity.
Crotonaldehyde, a highly toxic α, β-unsaturated aldehyde, is a major component of cigarette smoke (CS) and a ubiquitous environmental pollutant. Exposure to crotonaldehyde-rich pollutants such as CS is associated with suppression of respiratory host defense against infections. The aim of this study was to evaluate the apoptotic and immunological effects of crotonaldehyde exposure in a rat alveolar macrophage (AM) cell line, NR8383. Our studies showed that crotonaldehyde induced AM cell death mainly via the apoptotic process. Crotonaldehyde also decreased the phagocytic activity of AMs. Crotonaldehyde caused inhibition of NO, TNF-α, IL-1β and IL-12 production in AMs treated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS), which is probably related to inhibition of NF-κB activation. These results indicate that crotonaldehyde can cause adverse effects in AMs via multiple mechanisms, and may contribute to compromised lung immunological response in smokers.
The PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway is considered to be an attractive target for the development of novel anticancer molecules. This paper reports for the first time that a small molecule, antrocin (MW = 234), from Antrodia camphorata was a potent antagonist in various cancer types, being highest in metastatic breast cancer MDA-MB-231 cells (MMCs) with an IC(50) value of 0.6 μM. Antrocin was a superior antiproliferator in MMCs as compared with doxorubicin and cisplatin, prevents colony formation, and was nontoxic to nontumorgenic MCF10A and HS-68 cells. Antrocin induced dose-dependent apoptosis in MMCs and caused cleavage of caspase-3 and poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase. Antrocin also caused a time-dependent decrease in protein expression of anti-apoptotic Bcl-2, Bcl-xL, survivin, and their mRNA, with concomitant increase in pro-apoptotic Bax and cytosolic cytochrome c. In a mechanistic study, antrocin suppressed the phosphorylation of Akt and its downstream effectors mTOR, GSK-3β, and NF-κB. Furthermore, down-regulation of Akt by small interfering RNA prior to antrocin treatment resulted in enhanced cell growth inhibition and apoptosis. Thus, antrocin as an Akt/mTOR dual inhibitor has broad applicability in the development of a clinical trial candidate for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer.
Combined effects of sodium nitrite (NaNO2) and 2-amino-3-methylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (IQ) on liver, colon and Zymbal's gland carcinogenesis were assessed using a rat two-stage carcinogenesis model, with a focus on involvement of oxidative stress. Male 6-week-old F344 rats were given a single intraperitoneal injection of 200 mg/kg of diethylnitrosamine and 4 subcutaneous injections of 40 mg/kg of 1,2-dimethylhydrazine for initiation. Then, they were administered 0 or 300 ppm IQ in the diet or 0, 0.1 or 0.2% NaNO2 in their drinking water for 27 weeks. The treatment with NaNO2+IQ significantly enhanced colon and Zymbal's gland carcinogenesis and tended to enhance hepatocarcinogenesis. The incidence of lung tumors in the IQ-treated groups was significantly increased as compared with the initiation alone group. In a second experiment, male rats were given IQ or NaNO2 under the same conditions as before for 1 week, and at sacrifice, their liver and colon tissue or mucosa were collected for analysis of 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine (8-OHdG), thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), acrolein-modified protein and the bromodeoxyuridine-labeling index (BrdU-LI) (in the colon). In the colon, 8-OHdG, acrolein-modified protein levels and BrdU-LI were significantly increased by the combined treatment. These results indicate that the treatment with NaNO2 enhances IQ-induced colon and Zymbal's gland carcinogenesis in rats and that oxidative DNA damage and lipid peroxidation may partly be involved, especially in the colon. In addition, this experiment showed that IQ can act as a potent lung carcinogen in rats.
A case is described in which administration of intravenous metoclopramide was twice followed by cardiac dysrhythmias. The literature is reviewed.
1. Supine plasma renin activity and its responsiveness to erect posture and frusemide were reduced in fifty-one patients with essential hypertension, compared with fifty-one age- and sex-matched control subjects. 2. Twenty-four hour urinary sodium excretion was similar in hypertensive patients nad control subjects. 2. Twenty-four hour urinary sodium excretion was similar in hypertensive patients and control subjects, but after intravenous frusemide hypertensive patients excreted significantly less sodium. 3. A significant inverse relationship between plasma renin activity and diastolic blood pressure was demonstrated in hypertensive patients and in normotensive control subjects. 4. A significant inverse relationship between plasma renin activity and age, independent of blood pressure, was shown in hypertensive patients and control subjects. 5. It is concluded that the reduced renin values found in essential hypertension are, in part, the result of the elevated blood pressure acting on the kidney.
Acute quadriplegic myopathy is a rare condition associated with the use of nondepolarizing muscle-blocking agents and corticosteroids in the course of severe systemic illness. A 17-month-old boy underwent liver transplantation for fulminant hepatitis. He was intubated for 24 days and treated with vecuronium bromide and high-dose methylprednisolone. The child was weaned from the ventilator and presented extreme weakness in the upper limbs and total paralysis of the lower limbs. Serum creatine kinase level was normal and electromyography showed myopathic abnormalities. Muscle biopsy showed severe type-1 fiber atrophy and selective loss of myosin thick filaments was seen on electron microscopy. Scattered regenerating fetal myosin-positive fibers were present, mu calpain was absent, while m calpain was diffusely expressed. Physical therapy was immediately started and the child recovered even though corticosteroids were not discontinued. The pathogenesis of acute quadriplegic myopathy is still unknown. We suggest that it could be due to abnormal protein turnover in the muscle. Several independent factors, such as corticosteroid treatment, immobilization, or cytokines, could take part in a cascade of events that leads to an excessive yet selective degradation of proteins involving myosin thick filaments and possibly components of sarcolemma, causing muscle inexcitability.
1. The pharmacological profile of BIBR 277, 4'-[(1,4'-dimethyl-2'-propyl[2,6'-bi-1H-benzimidazol]-1'-yl)methyl ]- [1,1'-biphenyl]-2-carboxylic acid, a novel, nonpeptide angiotensin II receptor antagonist has been investigated by use of receptor binding studies, enzymatic assays, functional in vitro assays in rabbit aorta as well as in vivo experiments in pithed, anaesthetized and conscious rats. 2. BIBR 277 potently interacted with rat AT1 receptors (Ki 3.7 nM). Competitive receptor interaction was shown by radioligand saturation experiments performed in the presence of BIBR 277. The failure to inhibit radioligand binding to AT2 sites demonstrates the selectivity of BIBR 277 for AT1 receptors. This is further substantiated by the findings that BIBR 277 neither interacted with other receptor systems investigated nor affected the activity of components of the human renin-angiotensin system, such as plasma renin or serum converting enzyme. 3. In rabbit aorta, BIBR 277 had no agonistic properties and was shown to be an insurmountable antagonist of angiotensin II-induced contractions (KB 0.33 nM). The antagonistic effect persisted even after several wash-out procedures. However, this interaction was not irreversible since the insurmountable antagonism was concentration-dependently reversed when BIBR 277 (0.1 microM) and the surmountable antagonist, losartan (0.1 and 1.0 microM) were incubated simultaneously. The specificity of BIBR 277 for the AT1 receptor was further substantiated in this preparation since micromolar concentrations of BIBR 277 neither affected potassium chloride and noradrenaline-induced contractions nor acetylcholine-mediated tissue relaxation. 4. In pithed rats, i.v. administration of BIBR 277 (0.1, 0.3 and 1.0 mg kg-1) shifted the dose-pressor response curve to angiotensin II dose-dependently to the right with ED50 values of 0.23 microg kg-1 (control)and 1.4 microg kg-1, 4.7 microg kg-1 and 20 microg kg-1, respectively. As observed in the in vitro experiments no agonistic effect was detected and the maximum of the blood pressure response to angiotensin II at the highest dose of BIBR 277 was decreased by 29%.5. In anaesthetized rats, bolus i.v. administration of 0.1, 0.3 and 1.0 mg kg-1 BIBR 277 attenuated the blood pressure response to bolus i.v. injections of angiotensin 11 (0.1 microg kg-1). At the highest dose an almost complete blockade was observed even after 2 h.6. Single oral administration of BIBR 277 (0.3 and 1.0 mg kg-1) to conscious, chronically instrumented renovascular hypertensive rats dose-dependently decreased the mean arterial blood pressure by 15 and 30 mmHg, respectively. At the higher dose a significant antihypertensive effect was maintained for more than 24 h. Moreover, consecutive daily dosing of 1 mg kg-1 orally resulted in a sustained reduction in blood pressure over the 4 day observation period.7. It is concluded that BIBR 277 is an effective and selective angiotensin II antagonist with antihypertensive activity after oral administration.
