The dose of carbamazepine required to achieve optimal seizure control varies widely from patient to patient. We investigated polymorphic variants in various genes involved in the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of carbamazepine in an effort to identify predictors of maintenance dose.
: A total of 70 patients with epilepsy (49% were males; median age, 34 years; range, 14-72 years) who had benefited (>50% reduction in seizure frequency for at least 12 months) from treatment with carbamazepine monotherapy were included in the analysis. Known variants in drug-metabolizing enzyme genes, including those encoding cytochrome P450s, uridine 5'-diphosphate-glycosyltransferase, and microsomal epoxide hydrolase, together with a sodium channel polymorphism in SCN2A, were screened using polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism or direct sequencing. Associations between demographic and genetic variables and carbamazepine dose were identified by univariate and multivariate regression analyses.
All genotype frequencies were consistent with Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium (P > 0.05). No single demographic or genetic variable was of sufficient strength to independently influence carbamazepine dosing requirements. However, a multivariate model, incorporating patient age and specific genotypes (c.337T>C, c.416A>G) of the EPHX1 gene encoding microsomal epoxide hydrolase, revealed a significant association with the maintenance dose of carbamazepine (r(2) = 0.362, P= 0.002).
This proof-of-principle study suggests that genetic variants in EPHX1 can be used to predict maintenance doses of carbamazepine. A large-scale prospective investigation of genetic influences on drug dosing strategies in epilepsy, with specific focus on whole gene variability for those proteins involved in the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of antiepileptic agents, is warranted.
In the present study we investigated the effects of the GABA(B) receptor antagonist (2S)-(+)-5,5-dimethyl-2-morpholineacetic acid (SCH 50911), the agonists baclofen and 3-aminopropyl(methyl)phosphinic acid (SKF 97541), and the allosteric positive modulator 3,5-bis(1,1-dimethylethyl)-4-hydroxy-beta,beta-dimethylbenzenepropanol (CGP 7930) on cocaine seeking behavior. The effects of the above drugs on the reinstatement of responding induced by natural reinforcer (food) were also studied. Male Wistar rats were trained to self-administer either cocaine (0.5 mg/kg/infusion) or food (sweet milk) and responding on the reinforcer-paired lever was extinguished. Reinstatement of responding was induced by a noncontingent presentation of the self-administered reinforcer (10 mg/kg cocaine, i.p.), a discrete contextual cue, or a contingent presentation of food. SCH 50911 (3-10 mg/kg) dose-dependently attenuated responding on the previously cocaine-paired lever during both reinstatement conditions, with slightly greater efficacy at reducing conditioned cue reinstatement. At the same time, it failed to alter reinstatement of food-seeking behavior. Baclofen (1.25-5 mg/kg) and SKF 97541 (0.03-0.3 mg/kg) attenuated cocaine- or food-seeking behavior; the effect of the drug appeared more effective for cocaine-seeking than food-seeking. CGP 7930 (10-30 mg/kg) reduced cocaine seeking without affecting food-induced reinstatement on reward seeking. Our results indicate that tonic activation of GABA(B) receptors is required for cocaine seeking behavior in rats. Moreover, the GABA(B) receptor antagonist SCH 50911 was effective in reducing relapse to cocaine at doses that failed to alter reinstatement of food-seeking behavior (present study), basal locomotor activity, cocaine and food self-administration (Filip et al., submitted for publication), suggesting its selective effects on motivated drug-seeking behavior. The potent inhibitory responses on cocaine seeking behavior were also seen following the GABA(B) receptor agonists or the allosteric positive modulator, however, doses of baclofen and SKF 97541 that inhibited cocaine-seeking were only threefold lower of those that inhibited food-seeking. In addition, the direct GABA(B) receptor agonists and the allosteric positive modulator cause decreases in cocaine or food self-administration (Filip et al., submitted for publication), indicating their nonspecific effects on relapse to drug-seeking and drug-taking behavior. In conclusion, the GABA(B) receptor antagonist SCH 50911 seems to be viable treatment for reducing cocaine craving and preventing relapse, while the GABA(B) receptor allosteric positive modulator CGP 7930 may hold the highest promise for attenuating cue-evoked relapses to cocaine as well as the direct rewarding properties of cocaine.
A 35-year-old patient with severe gout and mild renal insufficiency presented very low urinary urate excretion. Volume expansion induced by fludrocortisone combined or not with a uricosuric drug (Benzbromarone) was unable to significantly increase his urate excretion. A combined Probenecid (PB) and Pyrazinamide (PZA) test was performed. These drugs being considered to affect renal tubular reabsorption or secretion. No significant modification of uric acid fractional excretion (FE.uric acid) was observed after PB and PZA. When the same test was performed after the administration of Triglycyl-lysine vasopressine (TGLV), a potent V1 receptor stimulator, we observed a three fold increase in FE.uric acid after PB intake (from 6 to 18%) followed by a decrease after PZA (from 18 to 5.6%). When TGLV was administered alone their was no significant modification of uric acid fractional excretion. We propose that TGLV decrease proximal tubular urate reabsorption that could only be detected when postsecretory reabsorption is blocked by an uricosuric drug.
We report here the development of parkinsonian symptoms after carbamazepine discontinuation in two patients concurrently treated with risperidone. They had been receiving combined treatment of carbamazepine and risperidone for the control of aggressive behavior and psychotic symptoms. The parkinsonian symptoms had not occurred before carbamazepine discontinuation, and have achieved complete remission after the dose reduction of risperidone. These findings suggest that the development of parkinsonian symptoms may be associated with pharmacokinetic interaction between carbamazepine and risperidone.
A 47-year-old mildly obese female began a weight reduction program that included anorectic therapy with phentermine and phendimetrazine. A normal urinalysis and serum creatinine were documented at the start of therapy. After three weeks of treatment, the patient felt ill and discontinued her treatment. Subsequently she was found to have leukocyturia, a rash on her face and chest, and a rise in her serum creatinine from 0.8 mg/dl to 2.1 mg/dl. A renal biopsy confirmed the diagnosis of acute interstitial nephritis. The patient was treated with corticosteroids and her renal function returned to normal. Despite the recent withdrawal of two anorectic agents due to data linking them to severe cardiac and pulmonary disease, the appetite suppressants phentermine and phendimetrazine remain in widespread usage for the treatment of obesity. This case represents the first report of acute interstitial nephritis associated with phentermine or phendimetrazine.
A total of 1,030 patients, 40.2% men and 59.8% women, identified during the period of October 1998 to November 2002 as having cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL), were studied; 1,431 lesions were identified in the 1,030 patients. One lesion was present in 80.7% of the patients. The size of the lesions (longest axis) was 13.6 mm (standard, 12.1 mm; range 3-150 mm). Most of the lesions were of the papular type (51.2%), although several atypical clinical presentations of CL were observed. The duration of the disease ranged between 1 and 72 mo (mean duration, 10.8 mo). The clinical suspicion of CL was confirmed by the observation of amastigotes on lesion tissue samples stained by Giemsa. The test was positive in 851 of 1,030 patients (82.6%). Intralesional meglumine antimonate solution (85 mg Sb/ml, 0.2-1 ml, depending on the size of the lesion) weekly until complete cure or up to 20 wk was used for first-line therapy of 890 patients (86.4%). We found that this regimen of intralesional Sb has an efficacy of 97.2% with a low relapse rate of 3.9% and no serious adverse side effects.
Chronic use of efavirenz (EFV) has been linked to incidences of hepatotoxicity in patients receiving EFV to treat HIV-1. While recent studies have demonstrated that EFV stimulates hepatic cell death a role for the metabolites of efavirenz in this process has yet to be examined. In the present study, incubation of primary human hepatocytes with synthetic 8-hydroxyEFV (8-OHEFV), which is the primary metabolite of EFV, resulted in cell death, caspase-3 activation and reactive oxygen species formation. The metabolite exerted these effects at earlier time points and using lower concentrations than were required for the parent compound. In addition, pharmacological inhibition of cytochrome P450-dependent metabolism of EFV using 1-aminobenzotriazole markedly decreased reactive oxygen species formation and cell death. Treatment of primary human hepatocytes with EFV and 8-OHEFV also stimulated phosphorylation of c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) as well as phosphorylation of the JNK substrate c-Jun. Further, the mRNA and protein expression of an isoform of Bim (Bcl-2 interacting mediator of cell death) denoted as BimEL, which is proapoptotic and has been shown to be modulated by JNK, was increased. Inhibition of JNK using SP600125 prevented the EFV- and 8-OHEFV-mediated cell death. Silencing of Bim using siRNA transfected into hepatocytes also prevented cell death resulting from 8-OHEFV-treatment. These data suggest that the oxidative metabolite 8-OHEFV is a more potent inducer of hepatic cell death than the parent compound EFV. Further, activation of the JNK signaling pathway and BimEL mRNA expression appear to be required for EFV- and 8-OHEFV-mediated hepatocyte death.
Hemorrhage is the major complication of IV recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) treatment for stroke. We report three patients with mild or indistinct cardiac symptoms prior to thrombolysis in whom hemodynamically significant cardiac tamponade occurred after treatment with rt-PA. Acute ischemic stroke patients may have undetected myocardial or pericardial disease that may pose a risk for hemopericardium and life-threatening tamponade after treatment with rt-PA.
A 42-year old man with non-obstructive myocardiopathy complicated by paroxysmal atrial fibrillation treated with amiodarone (200 mg per day) received flecainide in daily doses of 400 mg for undocumented palpitations. Ten syncopes and numerous malaises occurred during the following two months. Electrophysiological testing was performed, showing prolongation of HV to 80 ms and discreet widening of QRS to 100 ms. Programmed atrial stimulation failed to demonstrate a second degree subnodal block and to induce tachycardia. In contrast, ventricular stimulation elicited a critical SH delay (260 ms), always followed by a left delay-type complex preceded by His bundle deflection which suggested reentry within the His-Purkinje system. Three extrasystoles on imposed rhythm started sustained ventricular tachycardia with the same 270 ms cycle morphology and reproducing the symptoms. Each V wave was preceded by an H potential, with HV varying from 100 to 300 ms. Three weeks after flecainide was discontinued, HV was 60 ms, and no ventricular tachycardia could be triggered by programmed stimulation. The patient remained symptom-free throughout the 5-month follow-up. This case illustrates the proarrhythmic effect of the flecainide-amiodarone combination. The mechanism of provoked tachycardia probably involves ventricular reentry through the His bundle branches, induced by a critical depression of conduction below the His bundle.
Central adenosine A(1) and A(2A) receptors mediate pressor and depressor responses, respectively. The adenosine subtype A(2A) receptor (A(2A)R)-evoked enhancement of phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase (pERK) 1/2 production in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM), a major neuroanatomical target for clonidine, contributes to clonidine-evoked hypotension, which is evident in conscious aortic barodenervated (ABD) but not in conscious sham-operated (SO) normotensive rats. We conducted pharmacological and cellular studies to test the hypothesis that the adenosine A(2A)R-mediated (pERK1/2-dependent) hypotensive action of clonidine is not expressed in SO rats because it is counterbalanced by fully functional central adenosine subtype A(1) receptor (A(1)R) signaling. We first demonstrated an inverse relationship between A(1)R expression in RVLM and clonidine-evoked hypotension in ABD and SO rats. The functional (pharmacological) relevance of the reduced expression of RVLM A(1)R in ABD rats was verified by the smaller dose-dependent pressor responses elicited by the selective A(1)R agonist N(6)-cyclopentyladenosine in ABD versus SO rats. It is important that after selective blockade of central A(1)R with 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine in conscious SO rats, clonidine lowered blood pressure and significantly increased neuronal pERK1/2 in the RVLM. In contrast, central A(1)R blockade had no influence on the hypotensive response or the increase in RVLM pERK1/2 elicited by clonidine in ABD rats. These findings support the hypothesis that central adenosine A(1)R signaling opposes the adenosine A(2A)R-mediated (pERK1/2-dependent) hypotensive response and yield insight into a cellular mechanism that explains the absence of clonidine-evoked hypotension in conscious normotensive rats.
Lymphatic filarial (LF) parasites have been under anti-filarial drug pressure for more than half a century. Currently, annual mass drug administration (MDA) of diethylcarbamazine (DEC) or ivermectin in combination with albendazole (ALB) have been used globally to eliminate LF. Long-term chemotherapies exert significant pressure on the genetic structure of parasitic populations. We investigated the genetic variation among 210 Wuchereria bancrofti populations that were under three different chemotherapy strategies, namely MDA with DEC alone (group I, n = 74), MDA with DEC and ALB (group II, n = 60) and selective therapy (ST) with DEC (group III, n = 34) to understand the impact of these three drug regimens on the parasite genetic structure. Randomly amplified polymorphic DNA profiles were generated for the three groups of parasite populations; the gene diversity, gene flow and genetic distance values were determined and phylogenetic trees were constructed. Analysis of these parameters indicated that parasite populations under ST with a standard dose of DEC (group III) were genetically more diverse (0.2660) than parasite populations under MDA with DEC alone (group I, H = 0.2197) or with DEC + ALB (group II, H = 0.2317). These results indicate that the MDA may reduce the genetic diversity of W. bancrofti populations when compared to the genetic diversity of parasite populations under ST.
Two cases with acute reversible renal failure while receiving sulfinpyrazone after acute myocardial infarction are presented. Sulfinpyrazone 200 mg q.i.d. was started a few days after the myocardial infarction. In both patients BUN and creatinine rose significantly, and returned to previous values when the drug was discontinued. No other known causes of renal failure were present in either of the patients.
Sepsis is associated with an activation of the renin-angiotensin system and causes acute kidney injury. The aim was to examine the effects of a low, nondepressor dose of the selective angiotensin II type 1 receptor antagonist candesartan on renal hemodynamics and function in endotoxemic rats. Endotoxemia was induced in Sprague-Dawley rats by a dose of LPS (Escherichia coli O127:B8; 7.5 mg kg(-1), i.p.). At 16 h after endotoxin administration, renal clearance experiments were performed in thiobutabarbital anesthetized rats. Study groups (1) sham-saline, (2) LPS-saline, and (3) LPS-candesartan received isotonic saline or candesartan (10 microg kg(-1), i.v.) after baseline measurements. Kidney function, renal blood flow (RBF), and cortical and outer medullary perfusion (laser-Doppler flowmetry) and oxygen tension (P(O2); Clark-type microelectrodes) were analyzed during 2 h after drug administration. At baseline, endotoxemic rats showed an approximately 50% reduction in glomerular filtration rate and RBF (P < 0.05), a decline in cortical and outer medullary perfusion, and Po2 (P < 0.05), but no significant alterations in MAP compared with saline-injected controls. Candesartan treatment significantly improved RBF (+40% +/- 6% vs. baseline), cortical perfusion (+18% +/- 3% vs. baseline), and cortical (+19% +/- 7% vs. baseline) and outer medullary (+22% +/- 10% vs. baseline) P(O2) in endotoxemic rats (P < 0.05 vs. LPS-saline). Candesartan did not significantly influence MAP or glomerular filtration rate, whereas filtration fraction was reduced by 27% +/- 5% vs. baseline (P < 0.05 vs. LPS-saline). In conclusion, candesartan, in a dose that did not significantly decrease MAP, caused renal vasodilation and markedly improved RBF and intrarenal P(O2) in endotoxemic rats. These findings suggest renoprotective effects of candesartan in sepsis.
To determine the maximum tolerated dose and describe the toxicities of 9-cis-retinoic acid (9cRA, ALRT1057) administered p.o. tid in pediatric patients with refractory cancer and to study the pharmacokinetics of 9cRA and determine whether systemic drug exposure changes with chronic dosing.
Children with refractory cancer (stratified by age, < or =12 and >12 years) were treated with p.o. 9cRA for 28 consecutive days. The starting dose was 50 mg/m(2)/day divided into 3 doses with planned escalations to 65, 85, and 110 mg/m(2)/day. Pharmacokinetic sampling was performed on days 1 and 29 of the first cycle.
Of the 37 patients entered, 18 patients < or =12 years of age and 11 patients >12 years of age were evaluable for toxicity. In patients >12 years of age, dose-limiting headache occurred in 2/2 patients at the 110 mg/m(2)/day dose level; 1/8 patients at 85 mg/m(2)/day developed dose-limiting pseudotumor cerebri. In patients < or =12 years of age, 3/5 patients at the starting dose level of 50 mg/m(2)/day developed dose-limiting pseudotumor cerebri; and 0/6 patients experienced dose-limiting toxicity at 35 mg/m(2)/day. Reversible non-dose-limiting hepatotoxicity was observed in 15 patients across all of the dose levels. There was considerable interpatient variability in 9cRA plasma concentrations. Peak plasma concentrations of 9cRA occurred at a median of 1.5 h after a p.o. dose, and the harmonic-mean terminal half-life was 43 min. By day 29 of 9cRA administration, the plasma 9cRA area under the curve declined by an average of 65% from day 1 values.
The dose-limiting toxicity of 9cRA in pediatric patients was neurotoxicity, primarily pseudotumor cerebri. Younger children tolerate significantly lower doses of 9cRA than older children. Similar to all-trans-retinoic acid, the pharmacokinetics of 9cRA demonstrated a wide degree of interpatient variability and decreased over time when administered on a daily basis. The recommended Phase II dose of 9cRA in patients < or =12 and >12 years of age is 35 and 85 mg/m(2)/day, respectively.
We report a case of accidental subdural block after epidural anesthesia that manifested as cardiac arrest due to extensive spinal blockade 20 minutes after administration of 50 mg of 0.5% bupivacaine. The event resolved without sequelae. Subdural placement of the catheter was verified by computed axial tomography contrast medium. Clinical signs of subdural block are highly variable, extensive neural block being among the possible rare presentations, with latency ranging from a few minutes to as long as 30. Recent electron microscope observations with new methods for fixing and preparing tissues suggest that the dubdural space does not exist naturally, but rather forms artificially within a low-resistance cell plane composed of neurothelial cells, as a result of trauma or the injection of a local anesthetic. The characteristics of the space depend, therefore, on factors that come together at the site. These data explain the great variability in the clinical manifestations of a subdural block. The case of cardiopulmonary arrest we report is rare in the literature.
Copper, an essential trace element acquired through nutrition, is an important co-factor for pro-angiogenic factors including vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). Decreasing bioavailable copper has been used as an anti-angiogenic and anti-cancer strategy with promising results. However, the role of copper and its potential as a therapy in mesothelioma is not yet well understood. Therefore, we monitored copper levels in progressing murine mesothelioma tumors and analyzed the effects of lowering bioavailable copper. Copper levels in tumors and organs were assayed using atomic absorption spectrophotometry. Mesothelioma tumors rapidly sequestered copper at early stages of development, the copper was then dispersed throughout growing tumor tissues. These data imply that copper uptake may play an important role in early tumor development. Lowering bioavailable copper using the copper chelators, penicillamine, trientine or tetrathiomolybdate, slowed in vivo mesothelioma growth but did not provide any cures similar to using cisplatin chemotherapy or anti-VEGF receptor antibody therapy. The impact of copper lowering on tumor blood vessels and tumor infiltrating T cells was measured using flow cytometry and confocal microscopy. Copper lowering was associated with reduced tumor vessel diameter, reduced endothelial cell proliferation (reduced Ki67 expression) and lower surface ICAM/CD54 expression implying reduced endothelial cell activation, in a process similar to endothelial normalization. Copper lowering was also associated with a CD4(+) T cell infiltrate. In conclusion, these data suggest copper lowering is a potentially useful anti-mesothelioma treatment strategy that slows tumor growth to provide a window of opportunity for inclusion of other treatment modalities to improve patient outcomes.
The present study was hypothesized to investigate the hepatoprotective nature of resveratrol in averting hyperglycemia-mediated oxidative stress by measuring extent of oxidant stress and levels of proinflammatory cytokines and antioxidant competence in the hepatic tissues of streptozotocin-nicotinamide-induced diabetic rats. After the experimental period of 30 days, the pathophysiological markers such as serum bilirubin and hepatic aspartate transaminase (AST), alanine transaminase (ALT) and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) were studied in addition to hepatic TNF-alpha, IL-1 beta, IL-6, NF-kappaB p65 and nitric oxide (NO) levels in control and experimental groups of rats. The levels of vitamin C, vitamin E and reduced glutathione (GSH) and activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase, glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione-S-transferase (GST) and glutathione reductase (GR) were determined in the liver tissues. Extent of oxidative stress was also assessed by hepatic lipid peroxides, hydroperoxides and protein carbonyls. A portion of liver was processed for histological and ultrastructural studies. Oral administration of resveratrol (5mg/kg b.w.) to diabetic rats showed a significant decline in hepatic proinflammatory cytokines and notable attenuation in hepatic lipid peroxides, hydroperoxides and protein carbonyls. The diminished activities of hepatic enzymic antioxidants as well as the decreased levels of hepatic non-enzymic antioxidants of diabetic rats were reverted to near normalcy by resveratrol administration. Moreover, the histological and ultrastructural observations evidenced that resveratrol effectively rescues the hepatocytes from hyperglycemia-mediated oxidative damage without affecting its cellular function and structural integrity. The findings of the present investigation demonstrated the hepatocyte protective nature of resveratrol by attenuating markers of hyperglycemia-mediated oxidative stress and antioxidant competence in hepatic tissues of diabetic rats.
Telmisartan, an angiotensin II-receptor blocker (ARB), is a partial agonist of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma). We investigated whether telmisartan improved the pathophysiology of myocardial infarction in diabetes partially through the PPAR-gamma pathway by assessing a variety of indices, e.g., hemodynamic, biochemical, histoarchitectural changes, and apoptosis. Diabetes was induced by a single dose of streptozotocin (70 mg/kg, IP). Diabetic rats received either telmisartan (10 mg/kg/day, orally), the PPAR-gamma antagonist GW9662 (1 mg/kg/day, IP), or both for 14 days with concurrent administration of isoproterenol (85 mg/kg, SC) on days 13 and 14. Compared with diabetic controls, diabetic rats with myocardial infarction exhibited altered hemodynamic profiles and reduction in the activities of creatine kinase-MB isoenzyme, lactate dehydrogenase, superoxide dismutase, catalase, and glutathione level along with increased level of malondialdehyde in the heart. Further, diabetic animals with myocardial infarction exhibited increased myonecrosis, edema, and apoptotic cell death. Treatment with telmisartan significantly improved the redox status of the myocardium with subsequent cardiac functional recovery. However, significant effects were lowered in animals treated with telmisartan plus GW9662. Telmisartan markedly inhibited Bax expression, TUNEL-positive cells, myonecrosis, and edema. On the other hand, administration of telmisartan plus GW9662 did not elicit the same effects, nor did they increase Bcl-2 protein expression in isoproterenol-induced myocardially infarcted diabetic rats when administered concomitantly or individually. Moreover, down-regulated PPAR-gamma expression in myocardially infarcted diabetic hearts was increased by telmisartan treatment. In addition to class effects of ARBs, telmisartan reduces oxidative stress and apoptosis and improves cardiac function via the PPAR-gamma pathway.
We report two cases of serious intracerebral haemorrhage occurring in young women following their first use of oral medications containing catecholaminergic agents (phenylpropanolamine in combination with ephedrine or pseudoephedrine). Both women were previously well, and there was no evidence for systemic vasculitis, coagulopathy, aneurysm or arteriovenous malformation. Angiography in both cases, performed approximately forty hours following drug ingestion, revealed the beading pattern typical of that seen in previously reported cases of presumed amphetamine-induced "vasculitis." We believe that this arteriographic abnormality is non-specific and should not be construed as necessarily indicative of arteritis.
We report the cases of two patients without significant past medical history in whom developed myocardial injury attributed to the use of anorectic agents containing phenylpropanolamine. The pharmacologic properties of phenylpropanolamine and the current management of common adverse reactions to phenylpropanolamine are briefly reviewed.
We systematically examined 226 epilepsy patients in a tertiary-referral center and found 6 (5.04%) to have valproate-induced Parkinsonism. There was a significantly higher prevalence of patients with Parkinsonism in the group of patients treated with valproate compared to those who were on other antiepileptic drugs (6 [5.04%] of 119 vs. 0 [0%] of 107; chi2 = 5.54; P = 0.025). These six patients had been on valproate for more than 3 years (mean, 75.67 +/- 25.32 months) at an average dose of 750 +/- 273.86 mg/day. The valproate doses were decreased or discontinued with supplementation from another antiepileptic medication. The mean UPDRS motor score significantly improved from 10.67 +/- 5.1 to 4.75 +/- 2.75 (P < 0.05). There was no relapse of seizures. Clinicians working in tertiary-referral centers should have a high index of suspicion for valproate-induced Parkinsonism. Early recognition and switching into another antiepileptic medication may help reduce unnecessary suffering in these patients.
Abecarnil (ZK 112119; isopropyl-6-benzyloxy-4-methoxymethyl-beta-carboxylate) is a metabolically stable beta-carboline derivative with potent anxiolytic and few sedative and ataxic effects in rodents. The anticonvulsant and muscle relaxant actions of abecarnil have been evaluated in mice, rats, gerbils and baboons. Abecarnil raised the threshold for tonic electroconvulsions in mice after corneal but not after auricular application, had no effect on maximal electroshock-induced tonic convulsions triggered by either method, protected mice against the tonic hindlimb extension in PTZ-, picrotoxin- and 3-mercaptopropionate-induced seizures and blocked clonus after PTZ, DMCM (methyl-4-ethyl-6,7-dimethoxy-9H-pyrido-(3,4-b)-indol-3-carboxylate) and 3-mercaptopropionate. Abecarnil had no effect on convulsions induced by bicuculline and strychnine. Furthermore, abecarnil blocked kindled seizures after chronic administration of PTZ and FG 7142 (beta-carboline-3-carboxylic acid methylamide) and protected mice and rats against limbic convulsions induced by pilocarpine. Severity and afterdischarge duration of amygdala-kindled seizures were reduced in rats treated with abecarnil. Abecarnil also antagonized selectively convulsions induced by i.c.v. administration of kainate, but not those triggered by N-methyl-D-aspartate or quisqualate. In genetic models of reflex epilepsy, abecarnil was effective against sound-induced convulsions in DBA/2 mice, against air blast-induced generalized seizures in gerbils and against myoclonus in baboons Papio papio. The anticonvulsant effect of abecornil in a PTZ seizure model in mice was potentiated by ethosuximide, whereas no significant potentiation was found with diazepam, clonazepam, diphenylhydantoin, carbamazepine and phenobarbital. Electromyographic monitoring in a etorphine model of muscle rigidity in rats showed no or little muscle relaxant effect of abecarnil.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To report a pharmacokinetic interaction between valproic acid (VPA) and anticancer agents observed in an epileptic patient.
A 34-year old male epileptic patient receiving VPA underwent cisplatin-based chemotherapy for the treatment of a testicular tumour. The first chemotherapeutic cycle decreased the serum VPA concentration and caused severe generalized tonic-clonic seizures. Thus, thereafter, the serum VPA concentration was monitored along with the chemotherapy.
In a patient receiving VPA daily, severe seizures were observed 7 weeks after the first chemotherapeutic cycle, at which the serum VPA concentration was found to be reduced by approximately 50% of the initial level (90-100 microg ml(-1)). The following cycles (six cycles over a 7-month period) also caused seizures in association with decreased serum VPA concentrations. In contrast, the serum concentration of phenytoin, which was given daily after the second chemotherapeutic cycle, remained at a therapeutic concentration (10-20 microg ml(-1)). After the completion of chemotherapy, the serum concentration of a tumour marker, hCGbeta, decreased to 1.2 ng ml(-1) from more than 120 ng ml(-1) prior to the chemotherapy in this patient.
Careful monitoring of VPA concentrations are necessary during cisplatin-based chemotherapy because anticancer agents can reduce the serum concentration and antiepileptic activity of VPA.
Recent observations suggest that calcium antagonists may enhance the antihypertensive effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. Twelve essential hypertensives who had blood pressures greater than 160/90 after a minimum of 6 weeks of monotherapy with the ACE inhibitor enalapril 20 mg daily received additional treatment with nicardipine 30 mg t.i.d. and placebo, each for 2 weeks, in a double-blind crossover study. The combination of nicardipine with enalapril was well tolerated. The addition of the first dose of nicardipine was associated with significant reductions (p less than 0.05) in blood pressure during the first 4 h: from a baseline of 165/99 to 128/80 (supine) at 2 h after nicardipine as compared with 167/101-146/90 following placebo. Two weeks of combined treatment with nicardipine and enalapril significantly reduced the predosing blood pressure, 12 h after the last dose of nicardipine (158/96 as compared with 172/106 with placebo), and there were further significant reductions in blood pressure during the subsequent dosage interval. The profile of plasma ACE inhibition and the pharmacokinetics of enalaprilat were unaffected by the addition of nicardipine. These results suggest that nicardipine and enalapril are an effective and well-tolerated antihypertensive combination.
