Histological examination of subcutaneous murine Meth A sarcomata 4 h after administration of endotoxin revealed an overt but superficial vasodilation, which had largely disappeared after 24 h. At this time hemorrhagic necrosis could be observed in that region mainly featured by degenerating tumour cells, diffuse hemorrhage and blood vessels filled with a yellow substance probably derived from disintegrated erythrocytes. Administration of the alpha-adrenoceptor antagonist phenoxybenzamine or the beta-adrenoceptor antagonist propranolol caused decrease of vasodilation at 4 h but an increase at 24 h especially after phenoxybenzamine. Only the latter agent prevented the induction of hemorrhagic necrosis by endotoxin. Endotoxin reduced tumour size within 24 h, which was prevented by both adrenoceptor blocking agents. Administration of these agents alone even enhanced tumour size. Mitotic activity of Meth A sarcoma was greatly reduced already 4 h after endotoxin injection. This was not significantly changed by both adrenoceptor antagonists, while these agents alone probably stimulate tumour cell division between 4 and 24 h after administration. The histological data are discussed in relation to earlier data on the influence of adrenoceptor blockade on endotoxin-induced hemorrhagic necrosis and tumour regression.
Coronary angiography occasionally results in ventricular fibrillation. To compare the fibrillatory propensity of conventional ionic and nonionic contrast media, we measured QT intervals and performed programmed electrical stimulation during intracoronary injection of Renografin 76 (R76), Hypaque 76 (H76), and iopamidol (IOP) in 16 open chest dogs. In ten dogs the incidence of ventricular fibrillation following induction of a single premature ventricular beat after every fourth atrial paced beat was 19/20 with R76, 8/20 with H76, and 0/20 with IOP (P less than .001). When two premature beats were induced, the incidence of ventricular fibrillation was 20/20 with R76, 19/20 with H76, and 1/20 with IOP (P less than .001). In six additional dogs, the mean prolongation of the QT interval was 170 +/- 20 msec with R76, 105 +/- 14 msec with H76, and 63 +/- 9 msec with IOP (P less than .001). Thus, programmed electrical stimulation readily induces ventricular fibrillation during intracoronary injection of conventional ionic contrast media. The incidence of ventricular fibrillation parallels the amount of QT interval prolongation produced. H76, which lacks EDTA and sodium citrate, is less fibrillatory than R76. However, the nonionic medium IOP appears far less fibrillatory than either R76 or H76.
Neurotoxicity is a well-recognized and commonly observed side effect associated with the use of vincristine sulfate in cancer chemotherapy. The clinical manifestations of vincristine neuropathy cover a wide spectrum of peripheral neurologic dysfunctions that have been described to be reversible and cumulative in most instances (1, 2). Paresthesias, loss of tendon reflexes, and progressive weakness are the most common clinical features (3, 4). Sensory impairment, cranial nerve palsies, gastrointestinal disturbances, and autonomic dysfunctions including atonic bladder, impotence, and orthostatic hypotension may occur (5). Acute CNS complications, usually presenting as generalized seizures, are extremely rare and only a few cases have been reported which were without underlying biochemical or structural abnormalities (1, 5-9). We describe the case of a woman with multiple myeloma, who developed fulminant encephalopathy following 4 days of continuous vincristine, adriamycin, and day 1-4 pulse dexamethasone (VAD) combination therapy.
Since recombinant human cyclooxygenase (COX) enzymes have been shown to activate environmental and dietary carcinogens implicated in human colorectal cancer etiology, we hypothesized that COX-2 inhibitors reduce arylamine-induced aberrant crypts (AC) and foci (ACF), preneoplastic lesions of colorectal cancer. Male weanling F344 inbred rats were fed modified AIN-76A control diet or the same diets supplemented with 320 ppm sulindac or 500, 1000, or 1500 ppm celecoxib. At 7 weeks of age, rats received a subcutaneous injection of 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl (DMABP), an aryl-amine colon carcinogen, once weekly for two weeks. Ten weeks after the initial DMABP or vehicle treatment (at 17 weeks of age), rats were euthanized with CO(2), and the entire colorectum was removed and scored for ACF and AC. ACF possessing one to five AC were identified in the colorectum of rats administered DMABP, whereas no AC/ACF were identified in vehicle-treated controls. Significant reductions (p<0.001) in ACF and AC frequencies were observed in DMABP-treated rats supplemented with sulindac or celecoxib. Celecoxib reduced AC and ACF more than sulindac, but this difference was not significant (p>0.05). Reductions in both AC and ACF were highest following treatment with 1000 ppm celecoxib. These results provide additional experimental support for the chemopreventive effects of COX inhibitors in arylamine-induced colorectal cancer.
The use of chemotherapeutic agents, such as anthracycline or trastuzumab, in oncology is limited by their cardiac toxicity. Recent experimental studies suggest that recombinant human erythropoietin (rhEPO) can be considered as a protective agent because its administration protects against cardiac ischemic injury, improving functional recovery, and reducing cell death. The aim of this study was to investigate whether pretreatment by rhEPO protects against acute cardiotoxicity induced by doxorubicin and trastuzumab, using the isolated rat heart model. Rats were treated with rhEPO (5000 IU/kg, intraperitoneally [i.p.]) or vehicle. One hour later, hearts were isolated and retrogradely perfused at constant flow. Following 20 mins of stabilization, hearts were perfused for 60 mins with modified-Krebs solution containing 6 mg/l doxorubicin or 10 mg/l trastuzumab. Hearts receiving doxorubicin were paced; those receiving trastuzumab were unpaced. Control hearts were perfused with modified-Krebs solution only. Doxorubicin exposure decreased left ventricular developed pressure (LVDP; approximately -40% of baseline) and increased end diastolic pressure (EDP; approximately +390% of baseline) and coronary perfusion pressure (CPP; approximately +70% of baseline). Incidence of ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation (VT/VF) was also significantly enhanced (86% vs. 0% in control group). Trastuzumab exposure increased CPP and EDP (approximately +70% of baseline for the both) without affecting LVDP. Prior rhEPO treatment significantly prevented doxorubicin-induced deleterious effects on LVDP, EDP, and VT/VF incidence. rhEPO administration also prevented trastuzumab-induced deleterious effects on CPP and EDP. This study shows that pretreatment by rhEPO protects myocardium against functional damage and electrophysiologic injury induced by acute doxorubicin or trastuzumab exposure. Further investigations are required to elucidate the precise mechanisms involved.
The role of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in bladder cancer progression remains an unexplored field. Expression levels of enzymes regulating ROS levels are often altered in cancer. A search of publicly available microarray data reveals that expression of mitochondrial manganese superoxide dismutase (Sod2), responsible for the conversion of superoxide (O(2)(-)) to hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)), is consistently increased in high-grade and advanced-stage bladder tumors. We aimed to identify the role of Sod2 expression and ROS in bladder cancer. Using an in vitro human bladder tumor model we monitored the redox state of both nonmetastatic (253J) and highly metastatic (253J B-V) bladder tumor cell lines. 253J B-V cells displayed significantly higher Sod2 protein and activity levels compared to their parental 253J cell line. The increase in Sod2 expression was accompanied by a significant decrease in catalase activity, resulting in a net increase in H(2)O(2) production in the 253J B-V cell line. Expression of the prometastatic and proangiogenic factors matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP-9) and vascular endothelial-derived growth factor (VEGF), respectively, was upregulated in the metastatic line. Expression of both MMP-9 and VEGF was shown to be H(2)O(2)-dependent, as removal of H(2)O(2) by overexpression of catalase attenuated their expression. Similarly, expression of catalase effectively reduced the clonogenic activity of 253J B-V cells. These findings indicate that metastatic bladder cancer cells display an altered antioxidant expression profile, resulting in a net increase in ROS production, which leads to the induction of redox-sensitive protumorigenic and prometastatic genes such as VEGF and MMP-9.
M-VAC (Methotrexate, vinblastine, adriamycin and cisplatin) combination systemic chemotherapy is useful for treating invasive or metastatic transitional cell carcinoma. Granulocytopenia is the major dose-limiting factor of this chemotherapy and it takes 4 weeks or more to complete a single course of M-VAC. We have tried to shorten the period of M-VAC chemotherapy from 4 to 3 weeks by using rhG-CSF. With this modified M-VAC regimen, the number of days on which the absolute neutrophil count was less than 1000/mm3 was significantly reduced and the period to reach the neutropenia nadir was shortened. No severe side-effects were observed. In all patients treated with 2 courses of this modified M-VAC short regimen, the period of hospitalization could be reduced by 2 weeks. We emphasize the possibility of shortening the M-VAC regimen.
Skeletal muscle ventricles (SMVs) were constructed from the latissimus dorsi muscle in 15 beagles. The animals were divided into two groups based on modifications in the SMV construction: group I consisted of 5 animals and group II of 10 animals. After a 3-week vascular delay and 6 to 8 weeks of 2-Hz electrical conditioning, the SMVs were connected to the thoracic aorta. In group I, counterpulsation at 33 Hz resulted in an initial 24.4% augmentation of the mean diastolic pressure, a 27.1% decrease in the presystolic pressure, and a 15.9% increase in the endocardial viability ratio. In group II, the mean diastolic pressure rose by 24.7%, the presystolic pressure decreased by 14.3%, and the endocardial viability ratio increased by 24.5%. During propranolol-induced heart failure, the percentage increase in the mean diastolic pressure was improved (12.9% before propranolol infusion versus 27.6% during propranolol infusion), as was the percentage increase in the endocardial viability ratio (11.2% versus 28.7%). Under low cardiac output conditions, SMV contraction resulted in small but statistically significant increases in the total cardiac output (4.3% at 33 Hz, 7.6% at 85 Hz). One animal in group I survived for 589 days with a functioning SMV before progressive dilation of the SMV (impending rupture) developed. Delayed rupture of the SMV sewing ring anastomosis occurred in 2 dogs. Five animals in group II are all alive, with functioning SMVs in the circulation for 377 to 464 days. No animals in group II had rupture of their SMV or showed evidence of thrombus formation.
The aim of this study was to investigate whether beta-2-adrenergic stimulation with inhaled salbutamol is therapeutically useful in hyperkalaemia. Ten patients with renal failure and hyperkalaemia (serum potassium concentration greater than 6 mmol l-1) were given 15 mg salbutamol via a nebulizer over a 30-min period. Serum potassium was measured 30, 60, 180 and 360 min thereafter. All patients had end-stage renal failure on chronic hospital haemodialysis. Serum potassium levels decreased significantly from a pretreatment value of 6.5 +/- 0.6 mmol l-1 to 5.6 +/- 0.6 mmol-1 after 30 min, and this level was maintained for 3 h. Six hours after treatment, the serum potassium concentration was 6 +/- 0.7 mmol l-1. There was a modest increase in heart rate and blood glucose level, but otherwise salbutamol was well tolerated and no serious side-effects occurred. It is concluded that the administration of salbutamol by inhalation is a simple, safe and reasonably effective method for treatment of hyperkalaemia in renal failure.
We conducted a randomized, open, placebo-controlled crossover trial to investigate the effects of the pregnane X receptor (PXR) agonist rifampin on an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) in 12 healthy volunteers. The subjects were administered 600 mg rifampin or placebo once daily for 7 days, and OGTT was performed on the eighth day. The mean incremental glucose and insulin areas under the plasma concentration-time curves (AUC(incr)) increased by 192% (P = 0.008) and 45% (P = 0.031), respectively. The fasting glucose, insulin, and C-peptide, and the homeostasis model assessment for insulin resistance, were not affected. The glucose AUC(incr) during OGTT was significantly increased in rats after 4-day treatment with pregnenolone 16α-carbonitrile (PCN), an agonist of the rat PXR. The hepatic level of glucose transporter 2 (Glut2) mRNA was downregulated by PCN. In conclusion, both human and rat PXR agonists elicited postprandial hyperglycemia, suggesting a detrimental role of PXR activation on glucose tolerance.
The effectiveness of a therapeutic dose of morphine in relieving migraine attacks was compared with placebo. Morphine was no more effective than placebo and provoked severe side effects. When low-dose morphine was administered to normal non-headache controls and migraineurs when headache-free, physical and psychologic reactions were induced only in migraineurs. On pupillometric study, only migraineurs had defective morphine-miosis. It is suggested that the observed clinical phenomena in response to morphine can be explained by differences in expression and sensitivity of some opioid receptor subtypes in migraine.
Co-dependence on opiates and cocaine occurs in about 60% of patients entering methadone treatment and has a poor prognosis. However, we recently found that desipramine (DMI) could be combined with buprenorphine to significantly reduce combined opiate and cocaine use among these dually dependent patients. Furthermore, contingency management (CM) has been quite potent in reducing cocaine abuse during methadone maintenance. To test the efficacy of combining CM with these medications we designed a 12-week, randomized, double blind, four cell trial evaluating DMI (150 mg/day) or placebo plus CM or a non-contingent voucher control in 160 cocaine abusers maintained on buprenorphine (median 16 mg daily). Cocaine-free and combined opiate and cocaine-free urines increased more rapidly over time in those treated with either DMI or CM, and those receiving both interventions had more drug-free urines (50%) than the other three treatment groups (25-29%). Self reported opiate and cocaine use and depressive and opioid withdrawal symptoms showed no differences among the groups and symptom levels did not correlate with urine toxicology results. Lower DMI plasma levels (average 125 ng/ml) were associated with greater cocaine-free urines. DMI and CM had independent and additive effects in facilitating cocaine-free urines in buprenorphine maintained patients. The antidepressant appeared to enhance responsiveness to CM reinforcement.
Under certain clinical circumstances, folic acid can have undesirable effects. We investigated the following: (i) the effects of moderately high folic acid supplementation on the course of liver impairment in CCl(4)-treated rats and (ii) the influence of folic acid supplements on the hepatic recovery following the interruption of the CCl(4)-induced toxic injury. Four experimental groups of rats were used: CCl(4)-treated rats (0.5 ml of CCl(4) twice a week i.p.) fed standard chow for up to 12 weeks (Group A); treated rats fed chow supplemented with 25 mg/kg folic acid from weeks 6 to 12 (Group B); treated rats fed a standard diet but with CCl(4) discontinued after 6 weeks to allow for tissue recovery over 4 weeks (Group C); rats as Group C but fed a diet supplemented with 25 mg/kg folic acid from weeks 6 to 10 (Group D). Liver and blood samples were obtained for biochemical, histological, and gene expression analyses. Animals that received the supplement had a higher content of collagen, activated stellate cells, and apoptotic parenchymal cells in biopsy tissue at weeks 8 and 10 of treatment and more extensive alterations in serum albumin and bilirubin concentrations (Group B vs. Group A). In some of the time periods analyzed, alterations were observed in the expression of genes related to apoptosis (B-cell leukemia/lymphoma 2, inhibitor of apoptosis 2) and to fibrosis (procollagen I, matrix metalloproteinase 7). In the recovery period (Groups C and D), folic acid administration was associated with increased hepatic inflammation and apoptosis and with a decrease in the tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-3 expression following 1 week of recovery. We conclude that folic acid administration aggravates the development of fibrosis in CCl(4)-treated rats. Follow-up studies are needed to determine whether folic acid treatment would be contraindicated in patients with chronic liver diseases.
Serotonin syndrome, a condition with numerous clinical neurological manifestations, is the result of central serotonergic hyperstimulation. Features of the syndrome include mental status and behavioral changes (agitation, excitement, hypomania, obtundation), motor system involvement (myoclonus, hemiballismus, tremor, hyperreflexia, motor weakness, dysarthria, ataxia) and autonomic symptoms (fever, chills, diarrhea). Serotonin syndrome has been reported exclusively in patients on medications for psychiatric illness and Parkinsonism, despite the fact that the putative action of many antimigraine agents also involves the serotonin system. We herein report six patients with migraine who developed symptoms suggestive of the serotonin syndrome. Five were taking one or more serotomimetic agents for migraine prophylaxis (sertraline, paroxetine, lithium, imipramine, amitriptyline). In each case the symptoms and signs developed in close temporal proximity with use of a migraine abortive agent known to interact with serotonin receptors. In three instances the agent was subcutaneous sumatriptan and, in three, intravenous dihydroergotamine. In each instance the symptoms were transient and there was full recovery. With the ever increasing use of migraine medications active at serotonin receptor sites, cases of serotonin syndrome will likely occur more frequently. It is important that physicians treating migraine are aware of the serotonin syndrome and are able to recognize its varying presentations.
A comparative post-marketing surveillance study of the safety and efficacy of flunarizine and propranolol in the treatment of migraine was carried out. General practitioners in Belgium and the Netherlands each recruited patients for whom they would prescribe one of the study medications in the normal course of their treatment and recorded all medical events on follow-up forms for up to 8 months. A total of 1601 migraine patients were enrolled; 838 in the flunarizine cohort and 763 in the propranolol cohort. Propranolol was somewhat better than flunarizine in reducing the severity of migraine attacks, although this may have been due to a selection bias. Discontinuations of therapy due to events considered likely to be treatment-related were mostly due to the recognized side effects of the two drugs. As regards the occurrence of depressions, a total of 58 patients had depressive events, 34 in the flunarizine cohort and 24 in the propranolol cohort. Whereas migraine itself appears to be associated with an increased risk of depression, the number of previous migraine treatments was shown to be an additional risk factor for the development of depression in patients receiving flunarizine as was a history of depression. Overall, there was no appreciable difference in the risk/benefit ratio between flunarizine and propranolol.
To clarify the regressive effect of an angiotensin II type 1 receptor blocker (ARB) on already formed fatty streaks, we investigated the effect of the administration of an ARB, olmesartan, on formed fatty streaks in monkeys fed a high-cholesterol diet.
After the monkeys were fed a high-cholesterol diet for 6 months, intimal hyperplasia was clearly observed on intravascular ultrasound. For the next 6 months, the high-cholesterol diet was continued, and olmesartan (3 mg/kg per day) or placebo was administered. A control group was fed a normal diet for 12 months.
Olmesartan did not significantly affect blood pressure or plasma cholesterol levels throughout the experiment. After 6 months of treatment with olmesartan, intimal hyperplasia was significantly lower than before treatment. Acetylcholine-induced relaxation in isolated carotid arteries was significantly less in the high-cholesterol diet placebo-treated group compared to the normal diet group, whereas its response was improved by olmesartan. Serum levels of monocyte chemoattractant protein were significantly increased with a high cholesterol load, but they were significantly suppressed by olmesartan.
We have demonstrated for the first time that an ARB, olmesartan, was found to have a regressive effect on formed fatty streaks in monkeys.
The role of promoter methylation in the inactivation of E-cadherin (E-cad) in salivary gland adenoid cystic carcinoma (ACC) is unknown. The objective of this study was to determine the role and potential clinical implications of promoter methylation of E-cad in salivary gland ACC.
The promoter methylation status of E-cad was determined by using methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis in 60 primary salivary gland ACC tissues and 3 ACC cell lines. The level of E-cad protein expression was determined by immunohistochemical analysis of each tumor. E-cad protein and messenger RNA (mRNA) expression levels were examined by immunohistochemical analysis and reverse transcriptase-PCR in 3 ACC cell lines. Associations between molecular alterations and patients' clinicopathologic characteristics were analyzed statistically. E-cad mRNA expression was examined in a 5-azacytidine-treated ACC-2 cell line.
Promoter methylation of E-cad was detected in 34 of 60 tumors (57%). Of those 34 tumors, 18 tumors (53%) showed no E-cad protein expression, whereas only 5 of the remaining 26 tumors (19%) without E-cad promoter methylation showed no E-cad protein expression (P = .01). Tumors that had E-cad promoter methylation had a significantly higher histologic grade (P = .01) and more perineural invasion (P = .02) compared with tumors that did not have methylation. All 3 ACC cell lines exhibited E-cad promoter methylation and a lack of E-cad mRNA and protein expression, whereas 5-azacytidine restoredE-cad mRNA expression in the ACC-2 cell line.
E-cad frequently is inactivated in salivary gland ACC through promoter methylation, and E-cad promoter methylation may play a role in tumor cell differentiation and perineural invasion.
Honokiol is an active component of Magnolia officinalis. It was reported to be 1000 times more potent than alpha-tocopherol in inhibiting lipid peroxidation in rat heart mitochondria. In this study, we investigated the in vivo antiarrhythmic and antiischemic effects of honokiol in coronary ligated rats. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were anesthetized with urethane. Honokiol, at dosages of 10(-7) g/kg, 10(-8) g/kg, and 10(-9) g/kg, was administered intravenously 15 min before ligation of the coronary artery. Incidence and duration of ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation during 30 min coronary ligation were significantly reduced by 10(-7) g/kg honokiol. Ventricular arrhythmia during 10 min reperfusion after the relief of coronary ligation was also reduced. In rats subjected to 4 hours coronary ligation, 10(-7) g/kg, 10(-8) g/kg, and 10(-9) g/kg honokiol significantly reduced the infarct zone. We concluded that honokiol may protect the myocardium against ischemic injury and suppress ventricular arrhythmia during ischemia and reperfusion.
Irbesartan (Avapro, Aprovel) is a potent and selective angiotensin II subtype 1 receptor antagonist indicated for use in patients with hypertension, including those with type 2 diabetes mellitus and nephropathy. Once-daily administration of irbesartan provided 24-hour control of blood pressure (BP). In patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension irbesartan was as effective as enalapril, atenolol and amlodipine, and more effective than valsartan in terms of absolute reduction in BP and response rates. Irbesartan produced a greater reduction in diastolic BP at trough than once-daily losartan, but had a smaller effect than olmesartan; the reduction in systolic BP achieved with irbesartan was similar or greater than that with losartan and similar to that seen with olmesartan. The combination of irbesartan with hydrochlorothiazide produced additive effects on BP reduction. Irbesartan also induced regression of left ventricular mass in patients with hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In two large studies (IRbesartan MicroAlbuminuria type 2 diabetes mellitus in hypertensive patients [IRMA 2] and the Irbesartan Diabetic Nephropathy Trial [IDNT]) irbesartan exerted a renoprotective effect in hypertensive patients with type 2 diabetes at both the early and later stages of diabetic nephropathy. The renoprotective effect was at least partly independent of the BP-lowering effect. In the IRMA 2 trial, the proportion of patients progressing to overt nephropathy was significantly lower for recipients of irbesartan 300mg once daily than placebo. In patients with overt nephropathy in the IDNT, irbesartan 300mg once daily provided significantly greater renoprotection than amlodipine 10mg once daily or placebo. The relative risk of doubling of serum creatinine was significantly lower with irbesartan than amlodipine or placebo. Irbesartan is well tolerated in hypertensive patients, including those with type 2 diabetes and incipient or overt nephropathy. The overall incidence of adverse events with irbesartan was similar to that with placebo. Irbesartan was associated with a lower incidence of cough than enalapril and was not associated with ankle oedema or with any clinically significant drug interactions. In conclusion, irbesartan is a well tolerated and effective antihypertensive agent. It also slows the progression of renal disease in hypertensive patients with type 2 diabetes at both the early and later stages of diabetic nephropathy. Thus, irbesartan is a valuable agent in the management of patients with these indications.
Synthetic estrogens act as tumor promoters in rat liver. Because estrogen treatment markedly increases the secretion of pituitary prolactin, also shown to be a tumor promoter in rat liver, the possibility of a pituitary influence in estrogen promotion was investigated in Wistar rats. In diethylnitrosamine (DEN)-initiated hypophysectomized (hx) female rats, 24 weeks of ethinyl estradiol (EE) administration (500 microg/kg/d, intraperitoneally) did not increase the number of hepatocyte nodules and did not induce hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in a 2-year study. Very few placental forms of glutathione-S-transferase (GST-P)-positive foci were observed at the end of EE administration. Estrogen receptor (ER) messenger RNA (mRNA) levels in hx females were 20% of the levels in intact females. EE administration (range, 160-210 microg/kg/d, subcutaneous release pellets) to DEN-initiated intact males and females increased the number and size of hepatocyte foci. A significant increase in HCC frequency was observed in EE-treated females compared with females receiving sham-release pellets, and the latency period for HCC induction was decreased by EE in both males and females. Inhibition of prolactin (PRL) secretion by bromocriptine (Brc) (ParlodelLAR, slow intramuscular release vehicles) during EE treatment decreased the number of foci without affecting their size and markedly prolonged the latency period in both sexes. EE treatment also significantly increased the expression of c-myc, and c-jun, enhanced the levels of growth hormone receptor (GHr) mRNA in females and the levels of ER mRNA in males and "feminized" the expression of the GH-regulated genes cytochrome P450 (CYP), 2C11, CYP 2C12, and GHr in male liver. Brc administration decreased the mRNA levels of the female-predominant CYP 2C12 in EE-treated males but otherwise had no effects. In conclusion, a decreased promotive effect of EE was obtained by decreasing the PRL levels, indicating that estrogens exert at least part of their promotion effects indirectly, by increasing the levels of pituitary PRL.
The stearoyl-CoA desaturase 1 (Scd1) gene is involved in the synthesis and regulation of unsaturated fatty acids. Its expression is increased by several treatments/conditions that are associated with hepatocarcinogenesis (peroxisome proliferators, iron overload, dichloroacetic acid). We found that the Scd1 gene is differentially expressed, showing >10-fold higher mRNA levels in the normal liver tissue of C3H/He mice, which are genetically susceptible to hepatocarcinogenesis, than of BALB/c mice, which are resistant. Similarly, Scd1 mRNA expression was approximately 4-fold higher in the normal liver of F344 rats, which are susceptible to hepatocarcinogenesis, than in Brown Norway (BN) rats, which are resistant. The chromosomal location of the Scd1 locus, both in mice and rats, excludes Scd1 candidacy as a hepatocellular tumor-modifier gene, as the Scd1 locus did not show allele-specific effects in a BALB/cxC3H/He intercross or in a BNxF344 backcross and intercross. No Scd1 coding polymorphisms were detected in the mouse and the rat strains showing elevated Scd1 expression. These results suggest that the Scd1 gene represents a downstream target of hepatocellular tumor-modifier loci in two rodent species.
To determine if patients receiving oral bisphosphonates are at excess risk of atrial fibrillation (AF), stroke and myocardial infarction.
Register-based restricted cohort study.
National Hospital Discharge Register and National Prescriptions Database (1995-2005).
Fracture patients beginning bisphosphonates (n = 15 795) were matched with unexposed fracture patients of the same age, sex and fracture type (n = 31 590).
Incidence rates of AF were 16.5/1000 person years in untreated fracture patients and 20.6/1000 person years in bisphosphonate users. An age- and sex-adjusted hazard ratio (HR) of 1.29 (1.17-1.41) was found for probable AF by Cox proportional hazards analysis. The effect size was reduced to HR of 1.18 (1.08-1.29) by adjustment for co-medications and comorbidity. Selective prescribing was suggested by the observation that (i) risks were increased even in patients who stopped therapy after the first packet and (ii) risks were not increased by high adherence. Bisphosphonate-exposed patients were at increased risk of hospital-treated AF [adjusted HR: 1.13 (1.01-1.26)], but the risk amongst bisphosphonate users was inversely proportional to adherence. There was no increased risk of ischaemic stroke and an increased risk of myocardial infarction was not significant after adjustment for comorbidity.
The increased occurrence of AF in fracture patients who are users of oral bisphosphonates should be attributed to targeting of bisphosphonates to patients who are already at increased risk of cardiovascular events.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a heterogeneous disease in which efforts to define subtypes behaviorally have met with limited success. Hypothesizing that genetically based subtype identification may prove more productive, we resequenced the ASD-associated gene CHD8 in 3,730 children with developmental delay or ASD. We identified a total of 15 independent mutations; no truncating events were identified in 8,792 controls, including 2,289 unaffected siblings. In addition to a high likelihood of an ASD diagnosis among patients bearing CHD8 mutations, characteristics enriched in this group included macrocephaly, distinct faces, and gastrointestinal complaints. chd8 disruption in zebrafish recapitulates features of the human phenotype, including increased head size as a result of expansion of the forebrain/midbrain and impairment of gastrointestinal motility due to a reduction in postmitotic enteric neurons. Our findings indicate that CHD8 disruptions define a distinct ASD subtype and reveal unexpected comorbidities between brain development and enteric innervation.
Ethylene glycol monomethyl ether (EGME) and ethylene glycol monoethyl ether (EGEE) were administered orally to young male rats at doses varying from 50 to 500 mg/kg/day and 250 to 1000 mg/kg/day for EGME and EGEE, respectively, for 11 days. At sequential times animals were killed and testicular histology examined. The initial and major site of damage following EGME treatment was restricted to the primary spermatocytes undergoing postzygotene meiotic maturation and division. EGEE produced damage of an identical nature, but a larger dose was required to elicit equivalent severity (500 mg EGEE/kg being approximately equivalent to 100 mg EGME/kg). Additionally, within the spermatocyte population, differential sensitivity was observed depending on the precise stage of meiotic maturation: dividing (stage XIV) and early pachytene (stages I-II) greater than late pachytene (stages VIII-XIII) greater than mid-pachytene (stages III-VII). Equivalent doses of methoxyacetic acid (MAA) and ethoxyacetic acid (EAA) gave injury similar to the corresponding glycol ether. When animals were pretreated with inhibitors of alcohol metabolism followed by a testicular toxic dose of EGME (500 mg/kg), an inhibitor of alcohol dehydrogenase (pyrazole) offered complete protection. Pretreatment with the aldehyde dehydrogenase inhibitors disulfiram or pargyline did not ameliorate the testicular toxicity of EGME. In mixed cultures of Sertoli-germ cells, MAA and not EGME produced effects on spermatocytes analogous to that seen in vivo, at concentrations approximately equivalent to steady-state plasma levels after a single oral dose of EGME (500 mg/kg). It would seem likely that a metabolite (MAA or possibly methoxyacetaldehyde) and not EGME is responsible for the production of testicular damage.
