Treatment strategies involving dose intensification have recently demonstrated improvements in cure compared with older trials. However, dose-intensive therapy is associated with increased acute and long-term toxicities, particularly in pediatric patients. The Children's Cancer Group initiated this pilot study to assess the feasibility and toxicity of a moderate dose-intensive regimen, BEACOPP (bleomycin, etoposide, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, procarbazine and prednisone), in children and adolescents with advanced-stage Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL).
Children with stage IIB or IIIB with bulk disease, or stage IV were eligible. Induction consisted of four cycles of escalated dose BEACOPP. The rapidity of response, defined as >70% reduction in disease burden, was assessed after two and four cycles. Rapid responders then received consolidation therapy as per gender-specific guidelines to reduce the risk of gender-specific long-term toxicities of therapy, i.e. females received four cycles of COPP/ABV (cyclophosphamide, vincristine, procarbazine, prednisone, doxorubicin, bleomycin and vinblastine) without radiation therapy and males received two cycles of ABVD (doxurubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine and dacarbazine) with involved field radiation therapy (IFRT). Slow responders received four cycles of BEACOPP and IFRT.
Ninety-nine patients were enrolled. Myelosuppression was frequent. Non-hematological grade 4 toxicities included allergic reaction (two patients), hypotension (one), mucositis (four), infection (three), seizure (one) and elevated transaminases (one). Typhlitis developed in four patients; three recovered and completed dose-modified chemotherapy, while one died of sepsis associated with grade 4 neutropenia. A rapid response was achieved by 45 and 72% of patients after two and four cycles, respectively. There are no disease progressions or secondary malignancies to date. There is only one reported relapse to date. Median follow-up for the cohort is 6 months.
BEACOPP chemotherapy is feasible and generally well tolerated in children with advanced-stage HL. The absence of reported progressive disease and only one relapse to date is encouraging.
A previously fit 12-yr-old boy, who had no previous history of anaesthesia, underwent general anaesthesia using isoflurane for an elective circumcision. After uneventful surgery and anaesthesia, he suffered a cardiorespiratory arrest in the recovery room. Prompt oxygenation and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) were instituted. The initial serum potassium was >13 mmol litre(-1) and prolonged CPR was required while potassium levels were reduced. Further investigation demonstrated a creatine kinase (CK) >70 000 U litre(-1) which was consistent with a diagnosis of rhabdomyolysis. Despite requiring CPR for 1 h 45 min and a prolonged intensive care admission for multi-organ failure, the child has made an excellent recovery, including normal cognitive function. Subsequent genetic analysis has shown that the boy has previously undiagnosed Becker's muscular dystrophy. We believe that the patient had acute rhabdomyolysis as a result of a volatile anaesthetic agent in association with an undiagnosed muscular dystrophy. In recent years, largely based on case report literature, there has been a shift in opinion as to the cause of such adverse perioperative events. What was previously thought to be malignant hyperpyrexia (MH) is now considered to be anaesthesia-induced rhabdomyolysis, an alternative and distinct reaction. The distinguishing feature of anaesthesia-induced rhabdomyolysis from MH is an acute rhabdomyolysis, without preceding hypermetabolism.
Abnormality of P300 waveforms of event-related potentials (ERPs) has been suggested to represent an aspect of the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Previous work points to the contribution of altered neural function in discrete brain regions in the left hemisphere to psychotic symptoms and cognitive deficits of schizophrenia. In this study, we sought to determine: 1) if patients with schizophrenia elicit a decreased P300 current source density in brain areas, such as the superior temporal gyrus (STG); 2) if decreased P300 generator density in the left STG is recovered by treatment with the most widely-used antipsychotic drug olanzapine; and 3) if the recovery of P300 source density is associated with improvements of cognitive and functional status. P300 in response to an auditory oddball task, as well as verbal learning memory, psychopathology, and quality of life were evaluated in 16 right-handed patients with schizophrenia before and after treatment with olanzapine for 6 months. ERP data were also obtained from 16 right-handed age and gender-matched normal volunteers. Low resolution electromagnetic tomography (LORETA) analysis was used to obtain current density images of P300. Patients with schizophrenia showed significantly smaller LORETA values in several brain regions in the left side, particularly STG, middle frontal gyrus, and precentral gyrus, compared with control subjects. Six-month treatment with olanzapine significantly increased P300 source density only in the left STG. Positive symptoms, negative symptoms, verbal learning memory, and quality of life were also improved during treatment. Significant correlations were found between the increase in LORETA values of left STG vs. improvements of negative symptoms, as measured by Scale for the Assessment of the Negative Symptoms, and verbal learning memory, as measured by the Japanese Verbal Learning Test. Improvement of quality of life, as evaluated by the Quality of Life Scale, were significantly associated with an increase in LORETA values of middle frontal gyrus, and tended to correlate with that of precentral gyrus. The results of this study suggest that changes in cortical activity, as measured by ERPs, are responsible for the ability of some antipsychotic drugs to improve cognition and functional outcome in patients with schizophrenia.
The purpose of this study was to compare the regional vascular effect of a novel dihydropyridine derivative, MPC-1304 [(+/-)- methyl-2-oxopropyl-1,4-dihydro-2,6-dimethyl-4-(2-nitrophenyl)-3, 5-pyridinedicarboxylate], with that of nifedipine and manidipine in conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY). The radioactive microsphere technique was used to measure systemic and regional hemodynamic parameters before and 1 hr after p.o. administration of drugs. In SHR, MPC-1304 at a dose of 1 mg/kg reduced the mean blood pressure and systemic vascular resistance and increased cardiac output, as did nifedipine (10 mg/kg) and manidipine (3 mg/kg). MPC-1304, as well as nifedipine, significantly increased the blood flow in pulmonary, gastric, small intestinal and skeletal muscular beds and reduced their vascular resistance. Manidipine increased regional blood flow only in small intestinal and skeletal muscular beds. Only MPC-1304 increased the renal blood flow. In WKY, MPC-1304 and nifedipine reduced the mean blood pressure and systemic vascular resistance to lesser degrees than in SHR. Both drugs significantly increased coronary and skeletal muscular blood flow. MPC-1304 significantly reduced the renal blood flow without altering renal vascular resistance, in striking contrast to its renal effect in SHR. These findings suggest that MPC-1304 possesses a genetic hypertension-dependent renal vasodilating action, unlike nifedipine and manidipine. One possible mechanism for this difference in the effect on renal circulation between SHR and WKY may involve the potent antagonizing effects of MPC-1304 on alpha-2 adrenoceptor-mediated vasoconstriction.
The modifying effects of the naturally occurring antioxidants n-tritriacontane-16,18-dione (TTAD), curcumin, dihydroguaiaretic acid (DHGA), chlorophyllin, tannic acid and phytic acid on the initiation stage in a rat multi-organ carcinogenesis model were examined in male F344 rats. Animals were initiated with two i.p. injections of 2,2'-dihydroxy-di-n-propylnitrosamine (DHPN), followed by two i.g. administrations of N-ethyl-N-hydroxyethylnitrosamine (EHEN), and then three s.c. injections of 3,2'-methyl-4-aminobiphenyl (DMAB) during the first 3 weeks. Starting 1 day before the first carcinogen application, groups of rats received diet containing one of the antioxidants (0.2% TTAD, the others at 1% each) until 1 week after the last carcinogen exposure. Surviving animals were killed and complete autopsies were performed at the end of week 36. Histological examination revealed no inhibitory effects in terms of the multiplicities and/or incidences of neoplastic lesions in any of the organs examined, other than a significant increase in seminal vesicle atypical hyperplasia observed in rats treated with tannic acid. Thus, the antioxidants, with the exception of tannic acid, did not show any modifying effects on the initiation stage in the present multi-organ carcinogenesis model and at the present dose levels applied.
This study compares changes in cardiopulmonary function, selected endpoints in exhaled breath, blood, and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BAL) following a single, high-level 30-min nose-only exposure of rats to chlorine and phosgene gas. The time-course of lung injury was systematically examined up to 1-day post-exposure with the objective to identify early diagnostic biomarkers suitable to guide countermeasures to accidental exposures. Chlorine, due to its water solubility, penetrates the lung concentration-dependently whereas the poorly water-soluble phosgene reaches the alveolar region without any appreciable extent of airway injury. Cardiopulmonary endpoints were continually recorded by telemetry and barometric plethysmography for 20h. At several time points blood was collected to evaluate evidence of hemoconcentration, changes in hemostasis, and osteopontin. One day post-exposure, protein, osteopontin, and cytodifferentials were determined in BAL. Nitric oxide (eNO) and eCO2 were non-invasively examined in exhaled breath 5 and 24h post-exposure. Chlorine-exposed rats elaborated a reflexively-induced decreased respiratory rate and bradycardia whereas phosgene-exposed rats developed minimal changes in lung function but a similar magnitude of bradycardia. Despite similar initial changes in cardiac function, the phosgene-exposed rats showed different time-course changes of hemoconcentration and lung weights as compared to chlorine-exposed rats. eNO/eCO2 ratios were most affected in chlorine-exposed rats in the absence of any marked time-related changes. This outcome appears to demonstrate that nociceptive reflexes with changes in cardiopulmonary function resemble typical patterns of mixed airway-alveolar irritation in chlorine-exposed rats and alveolar irritation in phosgene-exposed rats. The degree and time-course of pulmonary injury was reflected best by eNO/eCO2 ratios, hemoconcentration, and protein in BAL. Increased fibrin in blood occurred only in chlorine-exposed rats 1-day post-exposure. Hence, the analysis of NO and CO2 in exhaled breath, including endpoints in blood mirroring changes in the peripheral to pulmonary fluid distribution, seem to be sensitive diagnostic endpoints readily available for early prognostic assessment of severity of injury and efficacy of any chosen countermeasure.
Because the intensity of neuromuscular block at the diaphragm (DIA) is indirectly assessed, the electromyographic measurements of the DIA (DIA(EMG)) from surface electrodes were related to information provided by visual estimation of neuromuscular transmission at the adductor pollicis (AP) and the corrugator supercilii (CSC) during recovery from vecuronium block.
Twelve adult patients were studied during balanced anaesthesia. After induction of anaesthesia and tracheal intubation without neuromuscular blocking agent, supramaximal stimulations were applied to phrenic, ulnar and facial nerves. During recovery from vecuronium 0.1 mg kg(-1) an independent observer blinded to DIA(EMG) counted visually detectable train-of-four (TOF) at CSC (TOF(CSC)) and post-tetanic AP (PTC(AP)) responses. Times to recovery of PTC(AP) = 1, <or=5, <10 and >10, and TOF(CSC) = 1-4 responses were related to DIA(EMG). Values are means (sd).
Reappearance of the first response to PTC(AP) occurred significantly (P < 0.05) earlier and for a lower recovery of DIA(EMG) than that of TOF(CSC) [24 (8) min vs 33 (9) min, and 10 (10)% vs 25 (8)%, respectively]. With PTC(AP) <or= 5 response, DIA(EMG) recovery was 21 (11)%. Recovery of TOF(CSC) = 1 and 2 coincided with DIA(EMG) recovery of 25 (8)% and 47 (9)%, respectively.
PTC(AP) may better reflect early recovery of vecuronium-induced DIA paralysis than TOF(CSC). The findings suggested that PTC(AP) <or= 5 warranted deep neuromuscular block of the DIA.
The effects of the anticonvulsant agent felbamate (FBM) were examined on muscarinic and metabotropic-glutamate receptor agonist-induced responses and chemically induced epilepti-form activity, in guinea pig olfactory cortex slices in vitro. FBM (100-500 microM) had little effect on neuronal membrane properties and on postsynaptic potentials evoked by electrical stimulation of lateral olfactory tract terminals, whereas it reduced the duration of presumed Ca++ spikes induced by intracellular Cs+ loading. In contrast, the muscarinic receptor agonist oxotremorine-M (10 microM) or the metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist 1-aminocyclopentane-1S-3R-dicarboxylic acid (10 microM) induced a sustained membrane depolarization with repetitive firing, an increase in input resistance and the appearance of a slow poststimulus afterdepolarizing potential. These effects were reversibly reduced in the presence of FBM (100-500 microM). After preincubation of slices with Mg+(+)-free solution or 200 microM 4-aminopyridine, neurons exhibited spontaneous and stimulus-evoked epileptiform potentials that were suppressed by FBM (1 mM). We conclude that FBM can interfere with muscarinic and metabotropic-glutamate response generation and slow after-depolarization induction in olfactory cortical neurons, most likely by blocking Ca++ influx through voltage-sensitive Ca++ channels. A possible interaction of FBM with other voltage-insensitive Ca++ conductances is also considered. We also suggest that FBM can suppress epileptiform activity induced by Mg+(+)-free or 4-aminopyridine exposure primarily through inhibition of N-methyl-D-aspartate-gated ion channels, although additional actions on non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor sites and/or presynaptic transmitter release mechanisms cannot be excluded.
Iron-containing antianemic drug ferric-sorbitol-citrate (FSC) inhibits the proliferation of various cancer cell lines in vitro and causes a regression of experimental murine tumors in vivo but does not affect the proliferation of nonmalignant cells. Growth modification caused by FSC iron involves a diminished expression of Bcl-2 and an overexpression of p53 proto-oncogene, accompanied by an increased incidence of apoptosis. Aiming to evaluate further the activity principle of the anticancer effects of this antianemic drug, in this study, we analyzed the utilization of iron from FSC and the effects of FSC iron on transferrin receptor 1 (TfR1) and ferritin expression. Without FSC iron, all the cell lines had an equal expression of TfR1, but if cultured in FSC-supplemented medium, human colon SW620 and laryngeal carcinoma Hep cells exhibited a lower expression of TfR1-positive cells than nonmalignant Wi38 fibroblasts and pancreatic carcinoma MiaPaCa2 cells. The most sensitive to FSC iron were colon carcinoma SW620 cells, whereas Wi38 fibroblasts were not sensitive at all. Increased iron uptake by colon carcinoma cells was noticed in the first 3 hours of the incubation with FSC iron, whereas higher FSC iron concentrations and longer incubation also impaired ferritin expression in SW260 colon carcinoma cells. Thus, the anticancer ability of FSC could result from its higher initial utilization of iron and consecutive negative signal for the expression of TfR1 in tumor cells. Tumor cells containing lower amounts of ferritin are probably more sensitive to oxidative stress caused by iron overload, whereas FSC iron itself was proven to be chemically stable and did not induce lipid peroxidation.
Valproate (VPA) is a commonly prescribed mood stabilizer. However, emerging evidence indicates that VPA administration may cause reversible symptoms of Parkinsonism and cognitive decline (P/CD) in some manic patients. The mechanism of this phenomenon is unknown. In this study, we used human SY5Y neuroblastoma cells as a neuronal model to investigate the effects of VPA on neurite outgrowth and neurofilament expression. Data showed that the treatment with VPA at therapeutic plasma levels (0.5 mM) significantly reduced cell proliferation from day 4 through day 6, and neurite outgrowth length from day 1 through day 6. Conversely, VPA had no effect on cell proliferation of human CCF astrocytoma cells but stimulated nerve growth factor (NGF)-induced neurite outgrowth from rat PC12 pheochromocytoma cells. In parallel to these alterations in human SY5Y cells, both mRNA and protein levels of neurofilament 160 (NF160) were significantly reduced, starting at day 2 and day 3, respectively, by the treatment. The inhibition of neurite outgrowth by VPA was completely reversed 2 days after cessation of VPA exposure. Furthermore, NF160 protein levels also rebounded to control levels after VPA removal. NGF application significantly alleviated the inhibition of neurite outgrowth by VPA. These data suggest that VPA-modulated NF160 expression was involved in the inhibition and the reversal of neurite outgrowth in human neuronal cells.
Cocaine body packing, the internal concealment of cocaine for transportation between countries, may expose to life-threatening intoxications. No data is currently available on the pharmacokinetics of cocaine and its metabolites when a packet rupture occurs in a body packer.
We report the first pharmacokinetic data associated with a severe cocaine intoxication in a body packer, resulting in cardiac arrest. Massive concentrations of cocaine (observed maximal concentration: 1.66 mg/L, 1 hour after the cardiac arrest) were measured in plasma up to about 15 hours, suggesting a prolonged absorption due to a slow-release in the gastrointestinal tract despite surgical extraction of the packets. Apparent cocaine elimination half-life was 7.6 hours.
A prolonged apparent cocaine elimination half-life has been observed. Further pharmacokinetic studies are needed to understand better the pathophysiology of acute cocaine intoxication in body packers.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by the accumulation of intracellular and extracellular aggregates. According to the amyloid beta (Abeta) hypothesis, amyloidosis occurring in the brain is a leading cause of neurodegeneration in AD. Defects in the innate immune system may decrease the clearance of Abeta in the brain. Macrophages of most AD patients do not transport Abeta into endosomes and lysosomes, and monocytes from AD patients do not efficiently clear Abeta from AD brain. After stimulation with Abeta, mononuclear cells of normal subjects display up-regulated transcription of MGAT3, which encodes beta-1,4-mannosyl-glycoprotein 4-beta-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase, and Toll-like receptor (TLR) genes. Monocytes of AD patients generally down-regulate these genes. A commonly used, naturally occurring material from a spice that enhances certain key functions defective in cells of innate immunity of many AD patients has shown epidemiologic rationale for use in AD treatment. Bisdemethoxycurcumin, a natural curcumin, is a minor constituent of turmeric (curry), and it enhances phagocytosis and clearance of Abeta in cells from most AD patients. We confirmed the effectiveness of a synthetic version of the same compound. In mononuclear cells of most AD patients, bisdemethoxycurcumin enhanced defective phagocytosis of Abeta and increased the transcription of MGAT3 and TLR genes. The potency of bisdemethoxycurcumin as a highly purified compound in facilitating the clearance of Abeta in mononuclear cells suggests the promise of enhanced effectiveness compared to curcuminoid mixtures. Bisdemethoxycurcumin appears to enhance immune function in mononuclear cells of AD patients and may provide a novel approach to AD immunotherapy.
We examined the trajectory of childhood behavior problems after prenatal cocaine exposure.
The Maternal Lifestyle Study, a longitudinal cohort study, enrolled children between 1993 and 1995 at 4 centers. Prenatal cocaine exposure was determined from mothers who admitted use and/or meconium results. Exposed children were matched with a group of nonexposed children within site and by gestational age, gender, race, and ethnicity. The study began at the 1-month corrected age with a total of 1388 children enrolled. A total of 1056 were assessed for internalizing, externalizing, and total behavior problems at ages 3, 5, and 7 years using the Child Behavior Checklist. Longitudinal hierarchical linear models were used to determine the effect of prenatal cocaine exposure on behavior problem trajectories while controlling for other prenatal exposures; time-varying covariates, including ongoing caregiver use of legal and illegal substances; demographic factors; family violence; and caregiver psychological distress.
High prenatal cocaine exposure was associated with the trajectory of internalizing, externalizing, and total behavior problems; these effects were independent of and less than the significant combined effect of prenatal and postnatal tobacco and alcohol exposures. Caregiver depression and family violence had independent negative influence on all behavior outcomes.
Prenatal cocaine exposure has a negative impact on the trajectories of childhood behavior outcomes. When they co-occur with prenatal cocaine exposure, prenatal and postnatal tobacco and alcohol exposures have added negative effects on behavior outcomes.
Drugs which reduce central catecholamine activity increased the tremorigenic action physostigmine (0.25 mg/kg) in the rat. The potentiation of physostigmine tremor induced by these neuroleptic drugs was quantitated measuring the ratio of post- to prephysostigmine motor activity; this ratio may be useful index of catecholamine/cholinergic balance. Of the compounds tested, chlorpromazine HC1 (15 mg/kg) and reserpine (10 mg/kg) had the greatest potentiating effect on the tremor-producing action of physostigmine. LDOPA (500 mg/kg) reduced the tremor induced by physostigmine in rats pre-treated with reserpine, but not in rats pre-treated with chlorpromazine.
Epilepsy is characterized by hyperexcitability of hippocampal networks, excessive release of glutamate, and progressive neurodegeneration. Presynaptic group II metabotropic receptors (mGluR2 and mGluR3) are among different mechanisms that modulate presynaptic release of glutamate, especially at the mossy fibers in the hippocampus. Here, we explore whether mGluR2/3 expression is affected in a rat model of temporal lobe epilepsy obtained via pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE). Immunohistochemical assays were performed in age-matched controls and two groups of epileptic rats sacrificed at 25-35 days (1 month post-SE) and at 55-65 days (2 months post-SE) following SE onset. A dramatic lessening of mGluR2/3 immunofluorescence was observed at CA1 and CA3 stratum lacunosum/molecular (SLM) declining to 60% and 68% of control values in 1-month and 2-month post-SE, respectively. Additionally, thickness of mGluR2/3-stained SLM layer narrowed up to 70% of controls indicating atrophy at this branch of the perforant path. Epileptic rats exhibited a marked and progressive down-regulation of mGluR2/3 expression in mossy fiber at hilus and CA3 stratum lucidum in contrast with an enhanced expression of vesicular glutamate transporter type 1 (VGluT1) at the mossy fibers. Intense VGluT1 punctated staining was detected at the inner third molecular layer indicating glutamatergic sprouting. In the molecular layer, mGluR2/3 labeling slightly declined in the 1-month post-SE group but then increased in the 2-month post-SE group although it was diffusely distributed. Down-regulation of mGluR2/3 at the mossy fibers and the SLM may render epileptic hippocampal networks hyperexcitable and susceptible to glutamate-mediated excitotoxicity and neurodegeneration.
To investigate the functions of promoter hypermethylation of secreted Wnt-antagonist genes in colorectal tumorigenesis and progression.
Two colorectal cancer cell lines, HCT116 and SW480, were treated by 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (DAC) and trichostatin A (TSA) for demethylation. The promoter hypermethylation and expression of sFRP and WIF-1 genes in different stages of colorectal tumor and colorectal cancer cell lines were detected by methylation-specific PCR and reverse transcription PCR, respectively.
None of the normal colorectal mucosa samples showed methylated bands of any sFRP and WIF-1genes. Hypermethylation of sFRP1, 2, 4, 5 and WIF-1 was detected in 93.1% (67/72), 83.3% (60/72), 36.1% (26/72), 52.8% (38/72) and 84.7% (61/72) of adenocarcinomas, 87.9% (29/33), 81.8% (27/33), 24.2% (8/33), 57.6% (19/33) and 72.7% (24/33) of adenomas, 52.6%, 28.9%, 2.6%, 18.4%, 23.7% of the adjacent normal mucosa. Methylation was more frequently found in colorectal tumors than in normal mucosa and adjacent normal mucosa from patients with tumor (P < 0.05). No significant association between Wnt-antagonist genes hypermethylation and clinicopathological characteristics was found (P > 0.05). SFRP1, 2, 4, 5 and WIF-1 genes were methylated in HCT116 cell line. SFRP1, 2 and WIF-1 were methylated in SW480 cell line. The mRNA expression of sFRPs and WIF-1 genes was absent or significantly downregulated (P < 0.01) when they were methylated in two colorectal cancer cell lines. SFRP3 was expressed in two colorectal carcinoma cell lines. DAC/TSA combination treatment re-expressed the silenced sFRPs and WIF-1 genes mRNA expressions effectively. A single application of TSA could not re-express sFRPs and WIF-1 genes mRNA expressions. The influence of demethylation treatment on sFRP3 expression was minimal.
Hypermethylation of Wnt-antagonist genes is a common early event in the evolution of colorectal tumor. Methylation of sFRP1, 2, 5 and WIF-1 genes might serve as biomarkers for the early detection of colorectal tumor.
Patients with duodenal ulcer (DU; n = 79) or prepyloric ulcer (PPU; n = 39) received cimetidine, 400 mg twice daily, or Novaluzid, 10 ml four times daily (acid-neutralizing capacity, 340 mmol/day), in a multicentre, randomized, double-blind trial. Ulcer healing was almost identical with the two treatments at 4, 6, and 12 weeks in the DU group. Cimetidine was significantly more effective than antacids in alleviating symptoms in PPU disease, with no significant difference in ulcer healing. In the PPU group the symptomatic improvement was inferior irrespective of treatment, and there was a significantly lower healing rate at 4 weeks (p less than 0.05) than in the DU group. The relapse rate over a 1-year follow-up period with no therapy did not differ between the two treatment groups or between the two ulcer groups. No factors in history of disease or endoscopic or histologic variables were of predictive value with regard to delayed healing. The macroscopic appearance of the duodenal and antral mucosae improved significantly when ulcers had healed. In the subgroup of about 50% DU patients who experienced a relapse during the 1-year follow-up period, the histologic scoring of duodenitis remained basically unchanged, contrary to the significant improvement seen in the non-relapsing subgroup. The microscopic changes of the antral mucosa from the time of inclusion to healing seen in the PPU patients were of no predictive value with regard to relapse rate.
This patient is the first case of endoscopically documented massive hemobilia exacerbated by inadvertent warfarin overdose. The true frequency of this disorder should become evident with the widespread use of endoscopy and a high index of suspicion.
Silymarin, the purified extract from milk thistle Silybum marianum (L.) Gaertn, consists mainly of four isomeric flavonolignans: silibinin, isosilibinin, silidianin, and silichristin. The present study was carried out to evaluate the protective potential of silymarin in human erythrocytes against in vitro exposure to the carcinogen benzo(a)pyrene (B(a)P). Erythrocytes isolated from human blood were divided into four groups and treated with Vehicle [Group I], B(a)P (300 μM) [Group II], Silymarin (500 μM) + B(a)P (300 μM) [Group III], and Silymarin alone (500 μM)] [Group IV]. Silymarin treatment maintains the integrity of erythrocytes by preventing hemolysis, protein thiol oxidation and by decreasing the activity of AChE. SEM observations indicate that B(a)P induced significant alteration in the morphology of erythrocytes to echinocytes, which may be due to the interaction of B(a)P with the membrane's outer phopholipid monolayer. The light microscopic and SEM images show that silymarin treatment maintains the normal discocytic morphology of erythrocytes. The protective effect of silymarin might be attributed to its chemical structure and membranotrophic nature. The components silibinin, silydianin, and silychristin have OH in the 3rd, 5th, and 7th carbon atoms that may account for its increased antioxidant activity and removal of ROS formed during B(a)P metabolism.
The synthetic pyrethroids cypermethrin, delta-methrin, fenvalerate, permethrin, and the fenvalerate metabolite p-chlorophenylisovaleric acid were investigated for inhibition of gap-junctional intercellular communication in vitro in the Chinese hamster lung fibroblast (V79) metabolic cooperation assay. Fenvalerate was furthermore studied for enhancement of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase-positive enzyme altered foci incidence in partially hepatectomized, nitrosodiethylamine-initiated male Sprague Dawley rats. The in vitro studies showed that fenvalerate and p-chlorophenylisovaleric acid were inhibitors of intercellular communication at non-cytotoxic concentrations while cypermethrin, deltamethrin, and permethrin were inactive. In the in vivo study in rat liver, fenvalerate administered p.o. (75 mg/kg/day) 5 days a week for 10 weeks induced significantly more foci per cm3 and a larger percentage of liver tissue occupied by foci tissue compared to a vehicle control group. Analysis of size distributions of foci in fenvalerate- and vehicle-treated rats showed elevated foci incidences in fenvalerate-treated rats at all foci sizes. Fenvalerate induced no hepatotoxic effects as judged by plasma transaminase activities and histopathology. The results of this study suggest fenvalerate to be a potential tumour promoter.
During the development of streptozotocin-induced diabetic neuropathy in the rat, the axonal transport of 4 acetylcholinesterase molecular forms was studied by measuring their accumulation on both sides of transected sciatic nerves. Our results indicate that both the anterograde and retrograde axonal transport of all these forms remain normal between 2 and 5 weeks after the induction of diabetes by streptozotocin injection.
To report a case of probable trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (TMP/SMX)-induced higher-level gait disorder (HLGD) and nocturnal delirium in an elderly patient on high-dose oral therapy.
An 82-year-old man with a recent history of depression became comatose following an overdose of escitalopram and oxazepam. He was admitted, ventilated for 7 days in the intensive care unit, and treated with piperacillin/tazobactam and cefepime for aspiration pneumonia. Following discharge to a medical ward, respiratory symptoms persisted and imaging confirmed pulmonary abscesses. Stenotrophomonas maltophilia was isolated from sputum and, on day 15, TMP/SMX 800 mg/160 mg 1 tablet every 12 hours was initiated. On day 35, the dose was increased to 800 mg/160 mg 2 tablets every 12 hours. By day 37, the patient was unsteady when attempting to stand. From day 40, he was noted to have features of HLGD with gait ignition failure, poor balance, and frequent falls. His other medications at this time were thiamine 100 mg daily, multivitamin 1 tablet daily, omeprazole 20 mg every 12 hours, and modified-release venlafaxine 150 mg daily. Investigation did not reveal any cause for his acute gait disturbance. TMP/SMX was stopped on day 48 and, by day 51, the patient's gait had returned to normal.
Neuropsychiatric adverse reactions with TMP/SMX have been infrequently reported. The Naranjo probability scale indicated that TMP/SMX was the probable cause of HLGD in this patient.
At time of writing, this was the first reported case of HLGD associated with TMP/SMX. Clinicians should consider this adverse reaction as a potential cause of HLGD, especially in the elderly and those with malnutrition and hepatic or renal dysfunction.
Welding-generated metallic fumes contain a substantial amount of manganese (Mn), making welders susceptible to Mn toxicity. Although overt Mn toxicity manifests as a type of parkinsonism, the consequences of chronic, low-level Mn exposure are unknown. To explore region-specific Mn accumulation and its potential functional consequences at subclinical levels of Mn exposure, we studied seven welders without obvious neurological deficits and seven age- and gender-matched controls. Mn exposure for welders was estimated by an occupational questionnaire. High-resolution brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), Grooved Pegboard performance of both hands, Trail making, and olfactory function tests were obtained from all subjects. Compared with controls, the welders had a significantly higher T1 relaxation rate (R1) in the olfactory bulb (OB, p = 0.02), mean T1-weighted intensity at frontal white matter (FWM; p = 0.01), bilateral globus pallidus (GP; p = 0.03), and putamen (p = 0.03). The welders scored worse than the controls on the Grooved Pegboard test for both dominant (p = 0.06) and nondominant hand (p = 0.03). The dominant hand Grooved Pegboard scores correlated best with mean MRI intensity of FWM (R² = 0.51, p = 0.004), GP (R² = 0.51, p = 0.004), putamen (R² = 0.49, p= 0.006), and frontal gray matter (R² = 0.42, p = 0.01), whereas the nondominant hand scores correlated best with intensity of FWM (R² = 0.37, p = 0.02) and GP (R² = 0.28, p = 0.05). No statistical differences were observed in either the Trail-making test or the olfactory test between the two groups. This study suggests that Mn accumulates in OB and multiple other brain regions in "asymptomatic" welders and that MRI abnormalities correlate with fine motor but not cognitive deficits. Further investigations of subclinical Mn exposure are warranted.
With large-scale production and wide application of nanoscale ZnO, its health hazard has attracted extensive worldwide attention. In this study, cytotoxicity of different sized and shaped ZnO nanoparticles in mouse macrophage Ana-1 was investigated. And contribution of dissolved Zn(2+) and ROS in toxicity of ZnO particles was analyzed. The results indicated that ZnO particles manifested dose-dependent toxic effect on Ana-1 cells without size-dependence, and the particles shape may impact cytotoxicity of ZnO particles. When the concentration of dissolved Zn(2+) tended to equilibrium in the complete cell medium, the zinc ion concentration was approximately 10 μg/ml, inducing about 50% cell death, which was close to the cytotoxicity of ZnCl(2) (IC(50)=13.33 μg Zn/ml). The Zn(2+) concentration had significant correlations with cell viability and LDH level induced by the supernatant of ZnO particle suspensions (incubation at 37°C for 24h). Thus, the dissolved Zn(2+) played the main role in toxic effect of ZnO particles. Moreover, ROS generation assays demonstrated that ZnO particles produced intrinsically a small quantity of ROS, intracellular ROS was mainly produced after ZnO particles or the dissolved Zn(2+) entered into the cells. Although intracellular ROS had significant correlations with cell viability and LDH induced by ZnO particles, intracellular ROS may not be a major factor in cytotoxicity of ZnO nanoparticles, but the cytotoxic response.
