Ribavirin is a guanosine analogue that has little antiviral activity when used alone, but considerably enhances the efficacy of conventional and pegylated interferon in the treatment of hepatitis C virus (HCV). The precise mode of action of ribavirin is not fully understood; however, it is crucial for the achievement of high sustained virological response (SVR) rates by enhancing virological response and reducing relapse rates. Data from several studies have confirmed that higher initial doses of ribavirin lead to higher SVR rates. Furthermore, intensified ribavirin dosing might also improve SVR rates in 'difficult-to-cure' patients. It is also important to minimize ribavirin dose reductions to promote high SVR rates and to maintain ribavirin levels throughout treatment to prevent viral breakthrough and relapse. The pharmacokinetic profile of ribavirin reveals a long elimination half-life due to accumulation in the blood, such that its side-effect profile includes haemolytic anaemia. Therefore, finding the optimal ribavirin dose requires a balance between efficacy and its associated side effects to ensure improved patient outcomes. Here, we discuss how optimizing the ribavirin component of combined therapy for HCV is an essential part of treatment optimization.
The lethal effects of cocaine are unique among those of other illicit drugs because cocaine has the propensity to cause hyperthermia. The traditional view is that cocaine causes a hypermetabolic state with increased heat production. However, because cocaine-induced hyperthermia occurs primarily in hot weather, it is hypothesized that cocaine also impairs thermoregulatory adjustments that mediate heat dissipation.
To test the effects of cocaine on body temperature regulation in humans.
Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover trial.
A cardiovascular physiology laboratory in Dallas, Texas.
7 healthy, cocaine-naive volunteers.
Progressive passive heat stress, during which each participant received intranasal cocaine (2 mg/kg of body weight) or placebo (lidocaine, 2 mg/kg).
Esophageal temperature, skin blood flow, sweat rate, and perceived thermal sensation.
Three major new findings were noted. First, cocaine substantially augmented the progressive increase in esophageal temperature during heat stress (P < 0.001). Second, this augmentation was explained by a rightward shift in the esophageal temperature threshold for the onset of both cutaneous vasodilation (37.37 +/- 0.09 degrees C for cocaine vs. 37.06 +/- 0.07 degrees C for lidocaine; P = 0.01) and sweating (37.38 +/- 0.09 degrees C for cocaine vs. 37.07 +/- 0.06 degrees C for lidocaine; P = 0.002). Third, cocaine paradoxically impaired the perception of heating by attenuating the progressive increase in thermal discomfort associated with heat stress.
In humans, impaired heat dissipation is a major mechanism by which cocaine elevates body temperature. When healthy, cocaine-naive persons are subjected to passive heating, pretreatment with even a small dose of intranasal cocaine impairs sweating and cutaneous vasodilation (the major autonomic adjustments to thermal stress) and heat perception (the key trigger for behavioral adjustments).
We performed a meta-analysis of 14 genome-wide association studies of coronary artery disease (CAD) comprising 22,233 individuals with CAD (cases) and 64,762 controls of European descent followed by genotyping of top association signals in 56,682 additional individuals. This analysis identified 13 loci newly associated with CAD at P < 5 × 10⁻⁸ and confirmed the association of 10 of 12 previously reported CAD loci. The 13 new loci showed risk allele frequencies ranging from 0.13 to 0.91 and were associated with a 6% to 17% increase in the risk of CAD per allele. Notably, only three of the new loci showed significant association with traditional CAD risk factors and the majority lie in gene regions not previously implicated in the pathogenesis of CAD. Finally, five of the new CAD risk loci appear to have pleiotropic effects, showing strong association with various other human diseases or traits.
Genome-wide association studies have identified 11 common variants convincingly associated with coronary artery disease (CAD)¹⁻⁷, a modest number considering the apparent heritability of CAD⁸. All of these variants have been discovered in European populations. We report a meta-analysis of four large genome-wide association studies of CAD, with ∼575,000 genotyped SNPs in a discovery dataset comprising 15,420 individuals with CAD (cases) (8,424 Europeans and 6,996 South Asians) and 15,062 controls. There was little evidence for ancestry-specific associations, supporting the use of combined analyses. Replication in an independent sample of 21,408 cases and 19,185 controls identified five loci newly associated with CAD (P < 5 × 10⁻⁸ in the combined discovery and replication analysis): LIPA on 10q23, PDGFD on 11q22, ADAMTS7-MORF4L1 on 15q25, a gene rich locus on 7q22 and KIAA1462 on 10p11. The CAD-associated SNP in the PDGFD locus showed tissue-specific cis expression quantitative trait locus effects. These findings implicate new pathways for CAD susceptibility.
Hajdu-Cheney syndrome is a rare autosomal dominant skeletal disorder with facial anomalies, osteoporosis and acro-osteolysis. We sequenced the exomes of six unrelated individuals with this syndrome and identified heterozygous nonsense and frameshift mutations in NOTCH2 in five of them. All mutations cluster to the last coding exon of the gene, suggesting that the mutant mRNA products escape nonsense-mediated decay and that the resulting truncated NOTCH2 proteins act in a gain-of-function manner.
1. Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), a potent vasodilator released from capsaicin-sensitive trigeminal sensory nerves, seems to be involved in the pathogenesis of migraine. Hence, CGRP receptor antagonists may serve as a novel treatment for migraine. This study was therefore designed to investigate the effects of BIBN4096BS (100, 300 and 1000 microg kg-1, i.v.), a potent and selective CGRP receptor antagonist, on capsaicin-induced carotid haemodynamic changes in anaesthetised pigs. Both vagosympathetic trunks were cut and phenylephrine was infused into the carotid artery (i.c.) to support carotid vascular tone. 2. Infusions of capsaicin (0.3, 1, 3 and 10 microg kg-1 min-1, i.c.) did not alter the heart rate, but dose-dependently increased the mean arterial blood pressure. This moderate hypertensive effect was not modified by BIBN4096BS. 3. Capsaicin infusion (10 microg kg-1 min-1, i.c.) increased total carotid, arteriovenous anastomotic and tissue blood flows and conductances as well as carotid pulsations, but decreased the difference between arterial and jugular venous oxygen saturations. These responses to capsaicin were dose-dependently blocked by BIBN4096BS. 4. Capsaicin infusion (10 microg kg-1 min-1, i.c.) more than doubled the jugular venous plasma concentration of CGRP. This effect was not blocked, but rather increased, by BIBN4096BS. 5. The above results show that BIBN4096BS behaves as a potent antagonist of capsaicin-induced carotid haemodynamic changes that are mediated via the release of CGRP. Therefore, this compound may prove effective in the treatment of migraine.
We used an exome-sequencing strategy and identified an allelic series of NOTCH2 mutations in Hajdu-Cheney syndrome, an autosomal dominant multisystem disorder characterized by severe and progressive bone loss. The Hajdu-Cheney syndrome mutations are predicted to lead to the premature truncation of NOTCH2 with either disruption or loss of the C-terminal proline-glutamate-serine-threonine-rich proteolytic recognition sequence, the absence of which has previously been shown to increase Notch signaling.
Coronary artery disease (CAD) causes more than 700,000 deaths each year in China. Previous genome-wide association studies (GWAS) in populations of European ancestry identified several genetic loci for CAD, but no such study has yet been reported in the Chinese population. Here we report a three-stage GWAS in the Chinese Han population. We identified a new association between rs6903956 in a putative gene denoted as C6orf105 on chromosome 6p24.1 and CAD (P = 5.00 × 10⁻³, stage 2 validation; P = 3.00 × 10⁻³, P = 1.19 × 10⁻⁸ and P = 4.00 × 10⁻³ in three independent stage 3 replication populations; P = 4.87 × 10⁻¹², odds ratio = 1.51 in the combined population). The minor risk allele A of rs6903956 is associated with decreased C6orf105 mRNA expression. We report the first GWAS for CAD in the Chinese Han population and identify a SNP, rs6903956, in C6orf105 associated with susceptibility to CAD in this population.
The hydroxyl radical scavengers dimethylthiourea (DMTU), sodium benzoate, and dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) were administered to rats before doxorubicin hydrochloride (ADR) (5 mg/kg, IV) to probe the role of free radicals in mediating proteinuria in doxorubicin hydrochloride nephrosis (AN). Because ADR stimulates free radical production, the role of renal glutathione was also evaluated; glutathione metabolism is involved in tissue detoxification processes. DMTU administration to rats with AN caused a significant (p less than 0.01) reduction in their proteinuria after 7 days (52.84 +/- 13.21 mg/24 hours) when they were compared with ADR controls (155.81 +/- 20.16 mg/24 hours). In similar fashion, their urine albumin excretion was also significantly reduced when compared with that of ADR controls (11.13 +/- 2.75 mg/24 hours vs 32.08 +/- 4.14 mg/24 hours; p less than 0.01). DMTU-treated rats also had significantly (p less than 0.001) reduced urinary protein and albumin excretion at 14 days when compared with rats that received ADR alone. The urinary excretion of lysozyme and N-acetyl-glucosaminidase, markers of renal tubular injury, were significantly increased after 7 or 14 days in rats with AN, despite DMTU treatment. Creatinine clearance was significantly reduced (p less than 0.05) in rats receiving ADR alone (0.223 +/- 0.011 ml/min/100 gm) when compared with that in normal controls (0.331 +/- 0.027 ml/min/100 gm) or DMTU-treated rats (0.289 +/- 0.035 ml/min/100 gm). Unlike DMTU, neither sodium benzoate nor DMSO reduced proteinuria in rats with AN.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Through complementary application of SNP genotyping, whole-genome sequencing and imputation in 38,384 Icelanders, we have discovered a previously unidentified sick sinus syndrome susceptibility gene, MYH6, encoding the alpha heavy chain subunit of cardiac myosin. A missense variant in this gene, c.2161C>T, results in the conceptual amino acid substitution p.Arg721Trp, has an allelic frequency of 0.38% in Icelanders and associates with sick sinus syndrome with an odds ratio = 12.53 and P = 1.5 × 10⁻²⁹. We show that the lifetime risk of being diagnosed with sick sinus syndrome is around 6% for non-carriers of c.2161C>T but is approximately 50% for carriers of the c.2161C>T variant.
Etoposide is a highly schedule-dependent drug. We investigated combination chemotherapy of oral etoposide and intravenous cisplatin for small cell lung cancer (SCLC).
Fifty-seven patients with SCLC with extensive disease (ED) or limited disease (LD) with pleural effusion registered in the 21 institutions of the Japan Clinical Oncology Group were treated with oral etoposide 40 mg/m2/d for 21 days and cisplatin 80 mg/m2 on day 1 of every 28-period day. The entry period was between February 1992 and August 1995. The actual percentages of patients treated with etoposide were 93.6, 89.5, 92.3 and 96.9% in the first, second, third and fourth cycles, respectively.
Nine patients (15.8%) achieved a complete response resulting in an overall response rate of 82.5% (95% confidence interval, 70.1-91.3%). Leukopenia and thrombocytopenia of grade 3 or 4 were observed in 36 (49.1%) and 8 (14.0%) patients, respectively. Anemia of grade 3 or 4 occurred in 28 (49.1%) patients. Nausea, vomiting, anorexia and alopecia were common adverse events. One patient died of hemoptysis due to grade 4 thrombocytopenia. The mean survival time was 47.0 weeks.
This dose and schedule of administration of etoposide in combination with cisplatin are considered to be clinically active. However, prolonged gastrointestinal toxicity of oral etoposide was a problem in comparison with the standard etoposide platinum regimen given by intravenous administration.
Irrespective of their clinical relevance, side effects cannot be considered a negligible problem in antihypertensive therapy. The aim of this trial was to evaluate the tolerability profile of lercanidipine with that of two other calcium antagonists (amlodipine and lacidipine) in elderly hypertensives.
In a multicenter, double-blind, parallel study 828 elderly (aged > or =60 years) hypertensives were randomized to lercanidipine 10 mg/day (n = 420), amlodipine 5 mg/day (n = 200), or lacidipine 2 mg/day (n = 208) (ratio 2:1:1). If blood pressure (BP) control was unsatisfactory (systolic BP/diastolic BP > or =140/90 mm Hg), the dose of the double-blind medication was doubled and, as a further step, enalapril or atenolol (plus diuretic, if needed) was added. Patients were treated for an average of 12 months.
Amlodipine patients had significantly (P <.001) higher rates of edema (19%) and of early study discontinuations due to edema (8.5%) compared with lercanidipine (9% and 2.1%) and lacidipine patients (4% and 1.4%). Similarly, edema-related symptoms (lower limb swelling and heaviness) occurred significantly (P <.01) more often with amlodipine (50% and 45%, respectively) than with lercanidipine (35% and 33%) and lacidipine (34% and 31%). Most edema cases occurred in the first 6 months, a between-treatment difference being evident since beginning of treatment. Other drug-related adverse events did not differ between treatments. Blood pressure was equally and effectively reduced in the three groups.
The two lipophilic dihydropyridine calcium antagonists, lercanidipine and lacidipine, have an antihypertensive effect comparable to that of amlodipine, but a better tolerability profile.
The purpose of this study was to design a 'Traveller Friendly Drug Delivery System' for PM-HCl. Conventional promethazine (PM-HCl) tablets are bitter, need to be taken 1 h before symptoms and water is also needed. Taste-masked granules were produced with Eudragit E100 by extrusion, and analyzed with FTIR, DSC, and XRD. Tablets formulated from granules by direct compression using Ac-Di-Sol, Polyplasdone-XL, Primojel and ion-exchanger Tulsion339 and evaluated for mass uniformity, friability, tensile strength, drug content uniformity, water absorption ratio, in-vitro and in-vivo disintegration time and in-vitro dissolution studies. The observed drug-polymer interactions and reduced crystallinity may be reasons for increased dissolution rates. The formulated tablets were disintegrated within 15 s. Tablets (25 mg PM-HCl) with Ac-Di-Sol (4%) showed complete release within 1 min, while marketed conventional tablets (Phenergan; Rhone-Poulec) release 25% during the same period. A preliminary stability studies for the prepared tablets carried at 30 +/- 2 degrees C/60 +/- 5% RH, and 40 +/- 2 degrees C/75 +/- 5%RH for 3 months showed no significant changes in the tablets quality at 30 +/- 2 degrees C/60 +/- 5% RH. However, at 40 +/- 2 degrees C/75 +/- 5%RH marked increase in in-vitro disintegration time, tensile strength and decrease in friability and water absorption ratio was found. The present studies indicate the abilities of Eudragit E 100 for taste masking and improving the dissolution profile of PM-HCl after complexation. In addition, by employing cost effective direct compression method, fast-dissolving tablets of 400 mg total weight with an acceptable quality could be prepared.
It is well accepted that acetylcholine is involved in memory and learning processes and that loss of memory is characteristic of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Several muscarinic agonists have been shown to be clinically effective in the treatment of AD. However, their use has been limited due to adverse side effects. As a result, more selective M1 agonists are expected to be the next generation of agents for the treatment of AD. One pharmacological approach to evaluate possible cognitive effects of compounds includes their ability to reverse scopolamine-induced amnesia. In the current study the succinamide and succinimide of p-aminophenol, two newly synthesized compounds that were previously designed to be acetylcholine analogues, were evaluated in a Pavlovian/Instrumental autoshaped memory task. Simultaneously, docking studies on the M1 receptor were done. The scopolamine-induced amnesia was reversed by the amide but not the imide. These findings are in line with results derived from the docking simulations, and suggest that at least the succinamide of p-aminophenol could represent a novel candidate for the treatment of AD.
Patients with schizophrenia smoke more heavily than the general population and this contributes to their higher morbidity and mortality from smoking-related illnesses. It remains unclear what interventions can help them to quit or reduce smoking.
To evaluate the benefits and harms of different treatments for nicotine dependence in schizophrenia.
We searched the Cochrane Tobacco Addiction Group Specialized Register and electronic databases including MEDLINE, EMBASE and PsycINFO from inception to April 2010.
We included randomized trials for smoking cessation or reduction, comparing any pharmacological or non-pharmacological intervention with placebo or with another therapeutic control in adult smokers with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder.
Two reviewers independently assessed the eligibility and quality of trials and extracted data. Outcome measures included smoking abstinence, reduction in the amount smoked and any change in mental state. We extracted abstinence and reduction data at the end of treatment and at least six months after the intervention. We used the most rigorous definition of abstinence or reduction and biochemically validated data where available. Any reported adverse events were noted. Where appropriate, we pooled data using a random effects model.
We included 21 trials (11 trials of smoking cessation; four trials of smoking reduction; one trial for relapse prevention; five trials reported smoking outcomes for interventions aimed at other purposes). Seven trials compared bupropion with placebo; meta-analysis showed that smoking cessation rates after bupropion were significantly higher than placebo at the end of treatment (seven trials, N=340; risk ratio [RR] 2.84; 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.61 to 4.99) and after six months (five trials, N=214, RR 2.78; 95% CI 1.02 to 7.58). Expired carbon monoxide (CO) level and the number of cigarettes smoked daily were significantly lower with bupropion at the end of therapy but not after six months. There were no significant differences in positive, negative and depressive symptoms between bupropion and placebo group. There was no report of major adverse event such as seizures with bupropion.Contingent reinforcement (CR) with money may increase smoking abstinence rates and reduce the level of smoking in patients with schizophrenia. However, it is uncertain whether these benefits are maintained in the longer term. There was no evidence of benefit for the few trials of other pharmacological therapies (including nicotine replacement therapy (NRT)) and psychosocial interventions in helping smokers with schizophrenia to quit or reduce smoking.
Bupropion increases smoking abstinence rates in smokers with schizophrenia, without jeopardising their mental state. Bupropion may also reduce the amount these patients smoke. CR may help this group of patients to quit and reduce smoking. We failed to find convincing evidence that other interventions have a beneficial effect on smoking behaviour in schizophrenia.
The cardiac and hemodynamic effects of increasing doses (0.1-3 mg/kg i.v.) of the novel cardiotonic agent, DPI 201-106 (DPI), were investigated over a 60 min period in conscious dogs chronically instrumented for the measurement of arterial pressure, heart rate, left ventricular pressure (LVP), LV (+) dP/dtmax and cardiac output. LV (+) dP/dtmax, cardiac output and stroke volume were significantly increased by DPI whereas the total peripheral resistance was significantly decreased. These effects were dose-dependent in intensity and in duration. The mean arterial pressure and heart rate remained unaffected, except by the 3 mg/kg dose, which increased them slightly. Autonomic blockade with hexamethonium, atropine and propranolol did not alter the positive inotropic properties of DPI but unmasked its intrinsic bradycardic effect. At equipotent positive inotropic doses, DPI (0.3 mg/kg), milrinone (40 micrograms/kg) and dobutamine (5 micrograms/kg per min) induced similar increases in cardiac output and similar decreases in total peripheral resistance, but only dobutamine and milrinone accelerated the heart rate, whereas ouabain (17.5 micrograms/kg) induced a strong rise in the total peripheral resistance and markedly lowered the heart rate and cardiac output. After coadministration of DPI and ouabain, LV (+) dP/dtmax was further increased whereas the ouabain-induced bradycardia, the rise in the total peripheral resistance and the decrease in cardiac output were reinforced, halved and unaltered, respectively. We conclude that (a) DPI exhibits potent and direct positive inotropic properties, associated with a peripheral vasodilating action, and almost no positive chronotropic effects, and (b) coadministration of DPI and ouabain results in synergistic positive inotropic effects.
Aminophenylnorharman (APNH) is formed from non-mutagenic norharman and aniline, and is mutagenic to Salmonella typhimurium TA98 with S9 mix. Norharman and aniline are present in cigarette smoke and cooked foods and both compounds are detected in human urine samples, suggesting that APNH could be a mutagenic and carcinogenic human risk factor. The purpose of the present study was to determine the in vivo mutagenicity of APNH. Male gpt delta transgenic mice were fed a diet containing 10 or 20 p.p.m. APNH for 12 weeks. The gpt mutant frequency (MF) in the liver increased 10-fold in 20 p.p.m. APNH-treated mice, which was almost equivalent to the MF observed in the liver of the same transgenic mice treated with 300 p.p.m. 2-amino-3,8-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f] quinoxaline for 12 weeks. In the colon mucosa, the gpt MF increased approximately 5-fold in 20 p.p.m. APNH-treated mice. Our results suggest that APNH is a strong hepatic mutagen in mice. The APNH-induced gpt mutations in the liver were dominated by G:C to T:A transversions, followed by G:C to A:T transitions. They also included single G:C deletions in G:C run sequences and 2 bp deletions: GCGC to GC and CGCG to CG. The Spi- deletion MF in the liver was 13-fold higher in 20 p.p.m. APNH-treated mice, relative to the control, and were dominated by single base pair deletions, in particular, in G:C run sequences. Large deletions were rare. The mutational characteristics induced by APNH are compared with those induced by other heterocyclic amines, and the human risk of APNH is discussed.
This study was made in order to define risk factors for patients requiring spinal opioid therapy developing painful spastic muscle tone together with myoclonus and spinal jerking (MSJ). The case histories of 75 patients, all receiving morphine spinally, were retrospectively analysed and, of these, 10 suffered from the MSJ syndrome. The following were taken as evaluation criteria: age, sex, performance status, duration and dosage of previous systemic and current spinal morphine therapy, concomitant analgesic and co-analgesic medication, pretreatment of the dorsal column and neurological dysfunction due to damage either of the nerval plexus or of the medulla spinalis. As a result, high spinal morphine doses in conjunction with pathological changes within the spine were shown to be risk factors for this syndrome. Changing from spinal to systemic morphine application or reduction of spinal doses together with the addition of systemic morphine led to complete recovery from MSJ. As underlying mechanism, an imbalance between the activity of spinal and central opioid receptors and/or toxic morphine effects on the medulla spinalis are discussed. In conclusion, great care should be taken when applying morphine to the spine in patients with neurological dysfunction due to an apparent pathology of the medulla spinalis, especially if large amounts of morphine are likely to be required. Some systemic application of morphine might reduce the risk of patients developing MSJ syndrome.
Acute nephrotoxicity due to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs is usually observed in clinical situations in which renal perfusion is compromised as in volume contraction. We report a case of a 20 year-old woman who suffered from acute tubular necrosis after concomitant ingestion of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and binge drinking. This acute tubular necrosis is likely to have an hemodynamic origin due to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs in a patient with volume contraction secondary to binge drinking. The risk appears to be even more important since ethanol has been implicated in tubular necrosis by direct toxicity. This observation underlines the danger in associating nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and ethanol.
The role of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors on individual variations in animal seizure threshold induced by picrotoxin microperfusion in the hippocampus of freely moving rats was analyzed by testing the effects of NMDA receptor antagonists 2-amino 5-phosphonovalerate (AP-5) and dizocilpine (MK-801) on individual seizure thresholds. We found a correlation between the increased threshold levels induced by AP-5 and control seizure levels of each individual animal. However, no correlation was found with the increased threshold level induced by MK-801. These data suggest that the individual variations in seizure threshold in different animals reflect dynamic processes of NMDA mediated activity and emphasizes the value of whole-animal models to analyze NMDA receptor functions.
The ability of flunarizine to terminate ouabain-induced ventricular tachycardia was investigated in conscious dogs. These arrhythmias result from triggered activity based on delayed afterdepolarizations. Sustained ventricular tachycardia was induced by ouabain (48 +/- 6 micrograms/kg) and pacing in 13 animals with surgically induced complete atrioventricular block. Flunarizine was administered i.v. when the arrhythmia had persisted for at least 20 min. Flunarizine induced an increase of the R-R interval from 300 +/- 30 to 410 +/- 50 ms (P less than or equal to 0.001) in all dogs. Flunarizine (2 mg/kg) terminated ventricular tachycardia with long R-R intervals (330 +/- 20 ms) in seven dogs. An additional dose of flunarizine (1 mg/kg) resulted in termination of the faster tachycardias (280 +/- 15 ms). The arrhythmias were not induced again by pacing for 27 +/- 18 min. Reinitiated tachycardias could be suppressed again by flunarizine. In conclusion, flunarizine (1) slows and terminates arrhythmias resulting from delayed afterdepolarizations, and (2) prevents their reinitiation.
Therapeutic effectiveness of ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) for primary biliary cirrhosis strongly indicates that UDCA possesses immunomodulatory activities. In order to further investigate mechanical background of such UDCA action, we first asked whether UDCA modulates glucocorticoid-mediated signal transduction. Using electrophoretic mobility-shift assay, we demonstrated that treatment with UDCA promoted the specific complex formation between the cytosol protein and the glucocorticoid-response element DNA in a dose-dependent fashion in vitro, and also nuclear translocation of the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) in vivo. Gene transfer experiments revealed that UDCA induced cellular CAT activities in a GR-dependent fashion, but rather weakly as compared to synthetic glucocorticoid dexamethasone.
Baroreflex sensitivity assessed by phenylephrine-induced reflex bradycardia was markedly decreased by 5- an 10-min global cerebral ischemia in anesthetized dogs. Flunarizine, 0.1 and 1 mg/kg i.v., administered 5 min prior to 5-min ischemia, completely inhibited the decrease in baroreflex sensitivity while such a protective effect of the latter dose was incomplete against 10-min ischemia. In contrast, papaverine, 0.5 mg/kg per min i.v., infused for 5 min prior to 5-min ischemia, failed to protect the decrease in baroreflex sensitivity. Flunarizine may possess a certain direct cerebroprotective effect in addition to its cerebrocirculatory effect.
The effects of prenatal cocaine exposure on the metabolic function of major central neuronal systems in the periweanling rat are reported in this study. Pregnant Sprague--Dawley rats were administered cocaine at either 30 or 60 mg/kg or the vehicle from gestation day (G) 8 through 22 via daily gastric intubation. Since prenatal cocaine has been shown to alter behavior in weanling rats, brain functional activity was quantified using the deoxyglucose method in male and female 21-day-old offspring (one of each gender/litter). Cocaine's effects were most significant within the limbic system where a three-way interaction between cocaine treatment, sex and brain region was seen. Within the limbic system, two regions, the rostral accumbens and the diagonal band of Broca showed reductions in metabolic activity in the exposed male offspring compared to the control offspring while no changes were seen in females. At more caudal levels of the forebrain, the accumbens (at the level of 1.2 micro rostral to Bregma) and septum showed cocaine-induced reductions in metabolism which were not dependent upon the sex of the animal. Metabolism within the hypothalamus also tended to show a significant interaction between treatment, gender and brain region (P=0.06). Two regions, including the ventromedial nucleus and lateral hypothalamic area, were metabolically depressed in the males alone while three other regions; the dorsomedial, arcuate, and medial preoptic nuclei were also metabolically depressed in the treated groups collapsed across gender. There were no significant treatment or sex-related effects or interactions within the sensory and motor systems. Chronic prenatal cocaine exposure reduced metabolism significantly in a restricted portion of the forebrain, the mesocortical-limbic system, particularly in regions associated with the medial forebrain bundle. These reductions were seen primarily in males while some regions showed changes which were independent of the sex of the animal. These cocaine-induced effects resembled, to a great extent, those seen in similarly-treated males examined as adults. The data emphasize that cocaine use during a restricted period of early pregnancy depresses function within limbic and hypothalamic regions and that many of these effects are sexually dimorphic in nature.
To present a case of reversible hypercalcemia and hyperparathyroidism associated with lithium therapy and to discuss the pathophysiology and management of this condition.
The clinical and laboratory findings in a patient with lithium-induced hypercalcemia are presented. A PubMed search for associated English language articles (with use of the key words lithium, hypercalcemia, and hyperparathyroidism) was conducted, and the relevant literature to date was reviewed. An approach to the management of patients with lithium-induced hypercalcemia is suggested.
A 56-year-old man was referred for management of incidentally discovered hypercalcemia. The serum parathyroid hormone (PTH) level was increased; serum phosphorus and 24-hour urine calcium excretion were both normal. For 5 years, he had been treated with lithium carbonate for bipolar affective disorder. The laboratory features were consistent with lithium-induced primary hyperparathyroidism. Discontinuation of lithium treatment resulted in normalization of serum calcium and PTH levels. Review of the literature suggests that hypercalcemia and hyperparathyroidism are common consequences of lithium therapy.
Hypercalcemia associated with lithium-induced hyperparathyroidism is a common, but underrecognized, complication of lithium therapy. Most patients have mild asymptomatic hypercalcemia. The long-term consequences of mild lithium-induced hypercalcemia are unknown. After discontinuation of lithium, the hypercalcemia may not always resolve; thus, parathyroidectomy may be necessary in some cases. Measurement of the serum calcium and PTH levels before and periodically after the initiation of lithium treatment is advisable. The appropriate monitoring of patients with lithium-induced hypercalcemia and decisions regarding parathyroidectomy are unclear. The decision to continue lithium therapy in the presence of hypercalcemia should be individualized.
Partial limbic seizures in rodents induced by pilocarpine progress from stages I-II (mouth and facial movements; head nodding) to stage III (forelimb clonus) and then progress rapidly to stages IV-V (generalized limbic seizures; rearing, and rearing with falling) followed by status epilepticus (SE). Although limbic seizures in rodents are terminated by benzodiazepines, a group of gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABA(A))-receptor positive modulators, significant pharmacoresistance to benzodiazepines develops within minutes during SE. The alterations of GABA(A)-receptor function and allosteric modulation during development of SE are poorly understood. We induced seizures in juvenile rats by administration of lithium followed by pilocarpine, and whole cell recordings of miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs) were obtained from hippocampal dentate granule cells in brain slices. Compared with a sham-treated group, mIPSC amplitude was reduced and decay was accelerated at onset of the first occurrence of stage III (S3) seizures [S3(0)], resulting in a reduction in the total charge transfer at S3(0). Recovery of mIPSC amplitude and prolongation of mIPSC decay occurred 30 min after onset of S3 seizures [S3(30)]. The mIPSC frequency was not altered for S3(0) and S3(30) neurons compared with sham neurons. The net enhancement of total charge transfer by diazepam was smaller for S3(30) than that for sham and S3(0) neurons; however, the net reduction of total charge transfer by zinc was greater for S3(30) than that for sham and S3(0) neurons. These findings suggest that substantial plastic changes of GABA(A)-receptor function and allosteric modulation occur rapidly in neurons from juvenile animals during development of SE.
