We describe a 57-year-old woman with homozygous protein C deficiency and mild thrombotic manifestations consisting of three spontaneous distal deep vein thromboses occurring after the age of 45. Previous surgery and pregnancies had been uneventful. Low but detectable protein C antigen and activity levels (both 20%) were discovered on the occasion of skin necrosis induced by oral anticoagulation. This therapy was interrupted because of skin necrosis and several episodes of disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) at the initiation of treatment despite a cautious protocol. No recurrent thromboembolic event has occurred in our patient using prophylactic doses of low molecular weight heparin for 24 months. New therapeutic approaches might be the administration of low molecular weight heparin or oral anticoagulation associated with protein C replacement in the induction period. This case reflects the variability of expression of protein C deficiency as well as the potential hazards of antivitamin K anticoagulation in this disorder.
1. This study examined whether activation of group II metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors in the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) could reverse akinesia in a rodent model of Parkinson's disease (PD). 2. Male Sprague Dawley rats, stereotaxically cannulated above either the SNr or third ventricle, were rendered akinetic by injection of reserpine (5 mg kg-1 s.c.). Eighteen hours later, the rotational behaviour induced by unilateral injection of the group II mGlu receptor agonist, (2S,2'R,3'R)-2-(2',3'-dicarboxycyclopropyl)glycine (DCG-IV), was examined. 3. Following intranigral injection, DCG-IV (0.125-0.75 nmol in 0.1 microliter) produced a dose-dependent increase in net contraversive rotations (n = 6-8 animals per dose), reaching a maximum of 395 +/- 51 rotations 60 min-1 after 0.75 nmol. The effects of DCG-IV (0.5 nmol) were inhibited by 63.0 +/- 9.0% following 30 min pre-treatment with the group II mGlu receptor antagonist, (2S)-alpha-ethylglutamic acid (EGLU; 100 nmol in 0.2 microliter; n = 6). 4. Following intraventricular injection, DCG-IV (0.125-1.5 nmol in 2 microliters) produced a dose-dependent increase in bilateral locomotor activity (n = 6-7 animals per dose), reaching a maximum of 180 +/- 21 locomotor units 30 min-1 after 0.5 nmol. Pre-treatment with EGLU (200 nmol in 2 microliters) inhibited the effects of DCG-IV (0.5 nmol) by 68.2 +/- 12.3% (n = 5). 5. These data show that activation of group II mGlu receptors in the SNr provides relief of akinesia in the reserpinized rat model of PD. The reversal seen following intraventricular administration supports the likely therapeutic benefit of systemically-active group II mGlu receptor agonists in PD.
Some studies have reported the adulticidal effect of long-term ivermectin (IVM) administration on adult heartworms in canines; however, there are no detailed reports on the course of the pulmonary artery embolism caused by the bodies of dead heartworms during the administration period. In this study, the pulmonary embolism caused over time by the dead worms was observed using computed tomography (CT). We subcutaneously inoculated 2 beagles with 100 infective third-stage larvae (L3) of Dirofilaria immitis. The dogs were orally administered a formulation containing 272 microg of IVM and 652 mg of pyrantel pamoate (Panamectin Chewables P272; Meiji Seika, Tokyo, Japan) at monthly intervals, beginning from 10 months after the subcutaneous inoculation. Along with IVM administration, periodic CT examination of the chest was performed. At 15 months after the initiation of IVM administration, the dogs were euthanized, the living heartworms were collected, and histopathological examination was performed. Starting from 1 month after the IVM administration, peripheral dilation of the pulmonary artery (suspected to be pulmonary embolism) and pneumonia were observed in the CT images; however, these findings improved over time. The appearance and disappearance of these lesions were observed in all the lobes during the IVM administration period. During this period, the clinical symptoms of pulmonary embolism were not recognized. After 1 month of IVM administration, chest radiographic examination revealed radiopaque lesions in 1 dog. Only some of the lesions detected by CT could be detected by radiography. Using echocardiography, heartworms were observed in the pulmonary arteries of both dogs from 6 months after subcutaneous inoculation to the end of the study period. Microfilaria disappeared from the peripheral blood at 1 month after IVM administration in 1 dog, and at 7 months in the other dog. The adult heartworm antigen test yielded positive results starting from 6 months after subcutaneous inoculation in 1 dog and after 7 months in the other dog; these results remained positive until the end of the study period. After the initiation of IVM administration, the ALP and CK levels were transiently elevated. The number of surviving adult worms collected at necropsy was 25 in 1 dog and 31 in the other. Histopathological examination revealed that the peripheral pulmonary artery dilation detected by CT was the embolus that resulted from the bodies of the dead heartworms. Moreover, vessel recanalization and inflammation along with lymphocyte infiltration around the vessels was observed. These results revealed that long-term IVM administration has a gradual adulticidal effect on heartworms in canines and embolism. From recovery findings showed pulmonary embolism in the CT image and histopathologic examination, long-term IVM administration can potentially be used for adulticidal treatment in clinical cases where it is difficult to perform surgical extirpation and administer arsenic therapy.
We recently showed that topically applied PPARalpha activators promote epidermal differentiation in intact adult mouse skin. In this study we determined the effect of clofibrate and Wy-14,643, activators of PPARalpha, on hyperproliferative epidermis in hairless mice, induced either by repeated barrier abrogation (subacute model) or by essential fatty acid deficiency (chronic model). The hyperproliferative epidermis was characterized by an increased number of proliferating cells expressing proliferating cell nuclear antigen. Topical treatment with PPARalpha activators resulted in a substantial decrease in epidermal hyperplasia in both the subacute and chronic models of hyperproliferation. Following topical treatment, proliferating cell nuclear antigen-expressing cells were restricted to the basal layer, similar to normal epidermis. In hyperproliferative epidermis there was decreased expression of involucrin, profilaggrin-filaggrin, and loricrin as assayed by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. Following topical treatment with PPAR activators staining for these mRNAs and proteins increased towards normal levels. Finally, topically applied clofibrate also increased apoptosis. This study demonstrates that topical PPAR activators have profound effects on epidermal gene expression in hyperproliferative skin disorders. Treatment with PPARalpha activators normalizes cell proliferation and promotes epidermal differentiation, correcting the cutaneous pathology. This study identifies PPARalpha activators as potential skin therapeutic agents.
The analgesic effects of meperidine, anileridine, codeine and codeine + acetominophen on surgical and non-surgical pain in 101 patients were assessed using the McGill Pain Questionnaire. The quality of analgesia was determined by analyzing the changes in the pain descriptors chosen 1 hour after medication. Meperidine and anileridine differentially reduced pain qualities rated as "bright-phasic" by a student sample. Codeine and codeine + acetominophen produced similar patterns of analgesia that were homogeneous across "bright-phasic" and "dull-tonic" types of pain. The data suggest the possibility that opioids may differ in the quality of analgesia produced either as dose increases or different opioid receptor types are recruited.
Verapamil has been associated with hyperprolactinaemia, but there have been no population-based studies. Our objective was to determine the prevalence and degree of hyperprolactinaemia associated with verapamil in the clinical setting.
Observation with cross-sectional and longitudinal components in the setting of an urban teaching hospital and its satellite out-patient clinics.
Male out-patients excluding those taking other drugs known to raise PRL, renal failure and known primary hypothyroidism (1265 eligible subjects). Control subjects were drawn from eligible out-patients not taking verapamil.
Serum PRL levels, frequency of persistent hyperprolactinaemia and total testosterone levels.
Prolactin levels were obtained in 449 subjects on verapamil (35.5% response rate) and 166 controls. The proportions of individuals with hyperprolactinaemia (PRL > 460 mU/l) were 0.085 and 0.030 in the verapamil and control groups, respectively (P = 0.012, X2-test). The mean (+/- SD) serum PRL levels were 267 +/- 205 and 203 +/- 118 mU/l in the verapamil and control groups, respectively (P < 0.001, independent t-test). Of the 38 patients with previously determined elevated PRL levels, follow-up data were obtained in 25 (65.8%); one was found to have a pituitary adenoma and was excluded from the analysis. Fifteen of the 24 were still on verapamil (Group 1) and 14 (93.3%) continued to be hyperprolactinaemic. In 9 patients verapamil had been discontinued (Group 2) and all had normal PRL levels. Continued verapamil use was associated with persistent hyperprolactinaemia (odds ratio > 120, P < 0.00001). The mean +/- SD serum testosterone levels at follow-up were significantly lower in Group 1 (6.16 +/- 2.52 nmol/l) than in Group 2 (9.42 +/- 3.92 nmol/l, P = 0.029, independent t-test).
The prevalence of hyperprolactinaemia associated with verapamil use in this study of male out-patients was 8.5% (95% CI 5.9-11.1%). The persistence of hyperprolactinaemia when verapamil was continued (Group 1) and the return to normal PRL levels when verapamil was discontinued (Group 2) confirm verapamil's causal role in the development of hyperprolactinaemia. While low testosterone levels were common in both groups, testosterone levels were lower in patients on verapamil. Our data suggest that screening for hyperprolactinaemia should be considered in male patients taking verapamil.
Mutations within the X-linked cyclin-dependent kinase-like 5 (CDKL5) gene are important causes of early-onset epileptic encephalopathies. We sought to determine the historic, clinical, and prognostic features of epilepsy secondary to CDKL5 mutations. We performed retrospective chart reviews of children at our institution with epilepsy and CDKL5 mutations. Six children were identified. One manifested a deletion in exons 10-15 of the CDKL5 gene, another manifested a single base-pair duplication in exon 3, and the rest manifested base-pair exchanges. The mean age of seizure onset was 1.8 months (range, 1-3 months). Although the majority (4/6, 67%) presented with partial-onset seizures, all children developed infantile spasms. All children demonstrated developmental delay and visual impairment. Although such mutations are X-linked, two children were boys. They did not present with more severe phenotypes than their female counterparts. Despite trials of antiepileptic drugs (mean, 5; range, 3-7), steroids/adrenocorticotropic hormone (4/6; 67%), and the ketogenic diet (6/6; 100%), all children manifested refractory seizures at last follow-up. Although no treatment eliminated seizures, topiramate, vigabatrin, and the ketogenic diet were most helpful at reducing seizure frequency.
Although peroxisome proliferators are considered non-genotoxic agents, most of them, nevertheless, were found to promote and/or induce, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in rodents. The aim of the present study is, first, to investigate whether the peroxisome proliferator perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) possesses inherent liver cancer promoting activity, and second, to study the possible mechanisms involved. To acheive these aims two protocols have been applied, a biphasic protocol (initiation by diethyl-nitrozamine (DEN) 200 mg/kg i.p. followed by treatment with 0.005% or 0.02% perflourooctanoic acid (PFOA) for 14 and 25 weeks) and a triphasic initiation, selection-promotion (IS) protocol (initiation by giving 200 mg/kg DEN i.p. followed by a selection procedure for 2 weeks consisting of giving 0.03% 2-acetylaminofluorene (2-AAF) in diet). In the middle of this treatment a single oral dose of carbon tetrachloride (2.0 ml/kg) was given, followed by giving diet containg 0.015% of PFOA for 25 weeks. After applying both protocols, our results showed slight increase in the catalase activity while acyl CoA oxidase activity was markedly increased. Both experiments indicated that PFOA has a liver cancer promoting activity. Other groups of rats were given either basal diet or diet containing 0.02% PFOA. Five or nine weeks later they were sacrificed and the levels of 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine in the isolated DNA were estimated. The data showed a slight nonetheless insignificant increase in 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine. From the present data, it is concluded that PFOA is a true liver cancer promoter that may not require extensive initial DNA damage for its promoting activity.
Spontaneously hypertensive rats received 1 mg/kg of Adriamycin intravenously once a week for up to 12 weeks; their hearts were excised and perfused with buffer containing 5 mM [1-13C]glucose. Histological evidence of Adriamycin cardiotoxicity was evident after 8 and 12 weeks of treatment and was accompanied by a significant decrease in cardiac function. There were only minor changes in the 31P-NMR spectra in hearts following treatment; however, 13C-NMR spectra revealed decreased incorporation of label into the lactate, alanine and glutamate pools in hearts with severe tissue damage compared to hearts from untreated animals.
The established gold standard for prophylaxis against hepatitis B virus (HBV) recurrence post-liver transplant is combination hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) and lamivudine. This therapy reduces the risk of recurrence to less than 5% at 5 years; however, the cost of HBIG has led to the investigation of alternatives. This paper reviews the HBIG-sparing alternatives achieved with lamivudine and the prospects for the newer anti-HBV agents in post-liver transplant prophylaxis.
When used with lamivudine as part of combination prophylaxis, low-dose intramuscular HBIG is equivalent to high-dose intravenous HBIG. There is recent evidence that in patients receiving HBIG/lamivudine, HBIG can be replaced with adefovir dipivoxil at 6-12 months post-liver transplant without precipitating recurrence. Furthermore, a recent study showed that primary prophylaxis with combination adefovir/lamivudine therapy without the use of long-term HBIG was effective and well tolerated as primary prophylaxis.
Although there are few studies of potent newer anti-HBV agents such as entecavir or tenofovir being used as HBV prophylaxis, the properties of these drugs suggest that they should replace lamivudine within HBV prophylaxis regimes.
GDF15 (growth-differentiation factor 15) is a novel antihypertrophic factor which is induced in the heart in response to pressure overload and plays an important regulatory role in the process of hypertrophy. In the present study, we have investigated the relationship between GDF15 gene variants and left ventricular hypertrophy in human essential hypertension. A community-based hypertensive population sample of 1527 individuals (506 men and 1021 women) was genotyped for three GDF15 genetic variants, including one tag variant -3148C>G (rs4808793) and two exonic variants +157A>T (rs1059369) and +2438C>G (rs1058587). The effects of those variants on gene expression were studied by use of luciferase reporter assays and the determination of plasma GDF15 levels. Only the tag variant -3148G was significantly associated with a lower risk of left ventricular hypertrophy [odds ratio=0.75 (95% confidence interval, 0.63-0.89); P=0.0009]. Multiple regression analyses confirmed that -3148G predicted the decrease in left ventricular end-diastolic diameter (beta=-0.10, P=0.0001), end-systolic diameter (beta=-0.09, P=0.0007), mass (beta=-0.11, P<0.0001) and indexed mass (beta=-0.12, P<0.0001). These effects were independent of conventional factors, including gender, age, body surface area, blood pressure, diabetes, cigarette smoking and alcohol consumption. The transcription activity of the -3148G-containing construct was increased 1.45-fold (P=0.015) at baseline and 1.73-fold (P=0.008) after stimulation with phenylephrine when compared with the -3148C construct. The -3148G allele was also associated with a significant increase in the plasma GDF15 level in hypertensive subjects (P=0.04). In conclusion, the results show that a promoter haplotype containing the -3148G variant increases GDF15 transcription activity and is associated with favourable left ventricular remodelling in human essential hypertension.
Diuretics have been accepted as first-line treatment in refractory congestive heart failure (CHF), but a lack of response to them is a frequent event. A randomized, single-blind study was performed to evaluate the effects of the combination of high-dose furosemide and small-volume hypertonic saline solution (HSS) infusion in the treatment of refractory New York Heart Association (NYHA) class IV CHF and a normosodic diet during follow-up. Materials and Methods One hundred seven patients (39 women and 68 men, age range 65-90 years) with refractory CHF (NYHA class IV) of different etiologies, who were unresponsive to high oral doses of furosemide, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, digitalis, and nitrates, were enrolled. Inclusion criteria included an ejection fraction (EF) <35%, serum creatinine level <2 mg/dL, blood urea nitrogen level < or =60 mg/dL, reduced urinary volume, and low natriuresis. The patients were randomized in 2 groups (single-blind). Patients in group 1 (20 women and 33 men) received an intravenous (IV) infusion of furosemide (500-1000 mg) plus HSS (150 mL of 1.4%-4.6% NACl) twice a day in 30 minutes. Patients in group 2 (19 women and 35 men) received an IV bolus of furosemide (500-1000 mg) twice a day, without HSS, during a period lasting 6 to 12 days. Both groups received IV KCl (20-40 mEq) to prevent hypokalemia. At study entry, all patients underwent a physical examination and measurement of body weight (BW), blood pressure (BP), and heart rate (HR), an evaluation of signs of CHF, and measurement of control levels of serum Na, K, Cl, bicarbonate, albumin, uric acid, creatinine, urea, and glycemia daily during hospitalization, and measurements of the daily output of urine for Na, K, and Cl. A chest radiograph, electrocardiogram, and echocardiogram were obtained at study entry, during hospitalization, and at the time of discharge from the hospital. During the treatment and after discharge, the daily dietary Na intake was 120 mmol in group 1 versus 80 mmol in group 2, with a fluid intake of 1000 mL daily in both groups. An assessment of BW and 24-hour urinary volume, serum, and urinary laboratory parameters were performed daily until patients reached a compensated state, when IV furosemide was replaced with oral administration (250-500 mg/d). After discharge from the hospital, patients were observed as outpatients weekly for the first 3 months and, subsequently, once a month.
The groups were similar in age, sex, EF, risk factors, treatment, and etiology of CHF. All patients showed a clinical improvement. Ten patients in both groups had hyponatremia at entry. A significant increase in daily diuresis and natriuresis was observed in both groups, but it was more significant in the group receiving HSS (P <.05). The serum Na level increased in group 1 and decreased in group 2 (P <.05). The serum K level was decreased in both groups (P <.05). BW was reduced in both groups (P <.05). Group 2 had an increase in serum creatinine level. Serum uric acid levels increased in both groups. BP values decreased and HR was corrected to normal values in both groups. In the follow-up period (31 +/- 14 months), 25 patients from group 1 were readmitted to the hospital for heart failure. In group 2, 43 patients were readmitted to the hospital at a higher class than at discharge. Twenty-four patients in group 1 died during follow-up, versus 47 patients in group 2 (P <.001).
This treatment is effective and well tolerated, improves the quality of life through the relief of signs and symptoms of congestion, and may delay more aggressive treatments. The effects were also beneficial in a long period for mortality reduction (55% vs 13% survival rate) and for clinical improvement.
Zn exposure of Daphnia magna during one generation has been shown to modulate gene transcription differently in Zn exposed organisms compared to their non-exposed offspring. Here we studied the transcriptional gene regulation with a cDNA microarray in D.magna exposed to Zn for three generations (F0-F2). For the first time molecular effects of multigeneration toxicant exposure in D. magna are described. Out of 73 differentially transcribed genes in the F1Zn exposed generation (compared to the F1 control), only seven genes were also differentially transcribed in the same direction in the F0Zn exposed daphnids (up or down, compared to the F0 control). The majority of the differentially transcribed unigenes in F1Zn exposed daphnids (78%) were not differentially transcribed in the F0Zn exposed organisms. This indicates that Zn exposure affected other molecular pathways in the second exposed generation, although a reduced reproduction and a reduction in juvenile growth were observed in both Zn exposed generations, compared to the respective controls. In the third Zn exposed generation (F2), no reduction in growth or reproduction compared to the control was observed. This acclimation was reflected in a significantly lower number of differentially transcribed genes, compared to the Zn exposed F0 and F1 generations.
Wilson's disease (WD) is an inborn error of copper metabolism caused by a mutation to the copper-transporting gene ATP7B. The disease has an autosomal recessive mode of inheritance, and is characterized by excessive copper deposition, predominantly in the liver and brain. Diagnosis of the condition depends primarily on clinical features, biochemical parameters and the presence of the Kayser-Fleischer ring, and a new diagnostic scoring system has recently been proposed. Mutations in ATP7B can occur anywhere along the entire 21 exons, which makes the identification of gene defects particularly challenging. Identification of carriers and presymptomatic family members of affected individuals is achieved by polymerase-chain-reaction-based marker analysis. The traditional treatment for WD is based on copper chelation with agents such as D-penicillamine, but use of this drug has been questioned because of reported side effects. The use of agents such as trientine and ammonium tetrathiomolybdate has been advocated, although results of long-term trials are awaited. In selected cases, orthotropic hepatic transplantation can reverse the basic metabolic abnormality in WD and improve both hepatic and neurological symptoms. Studies of the underlying defects in ATP7B and its suspected modifiers ATOX1 and COMMD1 are expected to unravel the disease's genotype-phenotype correlation, and should lead to the design of improved drugs for ameliorating the suffering of patients.
Protein kinase B (PKB/Akt) is a member of the second-messenger regulated subfamily of protein kinases. It is implicated in signaling downstream of growth factors, insulin receptor tyrosine kinases and phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K). Current studies indicate that nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and PI3K help mediate inflammatory hyperalgesia. However, little is known about the role of PKB/Akt in the nociceptive system. In this study, we investigated whether PKB/Akt in primary sensory neurons is activated after noxious stimulation and contributes to pain behavior induced in rats by capsaicin. We demonstrated that phospho-PKB/Akt (p-PKB/Akt) is increased in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) at 5 min after intradermal injection of capsaicin. p-PKB/Akt is distributed predominantly in small- and medium-sized DRG cells. After capsaicin injection, p-PKB/Akt (473) is colocalized with isotectin-B4 (IB4), tyrosine kinase A (TrkA), and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP). Furthermore, most transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1) positive DRG neurons double label for p-PKB/Akt. Behavioral experiments show that intradermal injection of a PI3K (upstream of PKB/Akt) inhibitor, wortmannin, dose-dependently inhibits the changes in exploratory behavior evoked by capsaicin injection. The PKB/Akt inhibitor, Akt inhibitor IV, has the same effect. The results suggest that the PKB/Akt signaling pathway in the periphery is activated by noxious stimulation and contributes to pain behavior.
Potential action of ultra-wideband (UWB) electromagnetic field pulses on effects of N(G)-nitro- L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), an inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase (NOS), on nociception and locomotor activity was investigated in CF-1 mice. Animals were injected IP with saline or 50 mg/kg L-NAME and exposed for 30 min to no pulses (sham exposure) or UWB pulses with electric field parameters of 102+/-1 kV/m peak amplitude, 0.90+/-0.05 ns duration, and 160+/-5 ps rise time (mean+/-S.D.) at 600/s. Animals were tested for thermal nociceptive responses on a 50 degrees C surface and for spontaneous locomotor activity for 5 min. L-NAME by itself increased mean first-response (paw lift, shake, or lick; jump) and back-paw-lick response latencies and mean locomotor activity. Exposure to UWB pulses reduced the L-NAME-induced increase in back-paw-lick latency by 22%, but this change was not statistically significant. The L-NAME-induced hyperactivity was not present after UWB exposure. Reduction and cancellation of effects of L-NAME suggest activation of opposing mechanism(s) by the UWB pulses, possibly including increase of nitric oxide production by NOS. The action, or actions, of UWB pulses appears to be more effective on locomotor activity than on thermal nociception in CF-1 mice.
Diaminodiphenylmethane (DDM) is an aromatic diamine used in the manufacture of rubber, plastics, diisocyanates, dyes and adhesives. It may cross-react with para-(amino)compounds. Allergic patch test reactions to DDM are relatively frequent, but their relevance is often difficult to detect. We report our experience in 6809 patients (4589 female, 2220 male, mean age 39.9+/-17.8 years) with suspected contact dermatitis patch tested during the period 1997-1999 by the North-East Italy Contact Dermatitis Group (NEICDG). A positive patch test to DDM was detected in 132 (1.9%) patients (88 female, 44 male, mean age 49.5+/-16.2 years). Eczema was mostly localized on the hands. The relevance was detected in 31 patients. A logistic regression analysis showed an association with patient's age (odds ratio 5.4 for age 30-59 years), absence of atopic diseases (odds ratio 3.1) and presence of leg ulcer (odds ratio 5). We found a highly significant correlation (p<0.001) between sensitivity to DDM and to para-phenylenediamine, Disperse Yellow 3, cobalt chloride, fragrance mix, benzocaine, paraben mix and primin. Positive patch test results to DDM were relatively frequent. The difficulty in detecting the relevance of these sensitizations may be related to the surprisingly high frequency of concomitant positive reactions to other allergens.
Acute liver failure is a rare syndrome with rapid progression and high mortality. It is characterised by the onset of coma and coagulopathy usually within six weeks but can occur up to six months after the onset of illness. Viral hepatitis, idiosyncratic drug induced liver injury, and acetaminophen ingestion are common causes. This report describes the case of a 35 year old man who presented with acute liver failure shortly after binge drinking. Repeated history taking disclosed a gluteal disulfiram implant that the patient had received to treat his alcohol dependence. The patient recovered with maximum supportive care after surgical removal but without liver transplantation. This case illustrates that only meticulous history taking will disclose the sometimes bewildering causes of acute liver failure.
Chronic metformin use results in vitamin B12 deficiency in 30% of patients. Exhaustion of vitamin B12 stores usually occurs after twelve to fifteen years of absolute vitamin B12 deficiency. Metformin has been available in the United States for approximately fifteen years. Vitamin B12 deficiency, which may present without anemia and as a peripheral neuropathy, is often misdiagnosed as diabetic neuropathy, although the clinical findings are usually different. Failure to diagnose the cause of the neuropathy will result in progression of central and/or peripheral neuronal damage which can be arrested but not reversed with vitamin B12 replacement. To my knowledge, this is the first report of metformin-induced vitamin B12 deficiency causing neuropathy.
To further understand the molecular distinctions between kidney cancer subtypes, we analyzed exome, transcriptome and copy number alteration data from 167 primary human tumors that included renal oncocytomas and non-clear cell renal cell carcinomas (nccRCCs), consisting of papillary (pRCC), chromophobe (chRCC) and translocation (tRCC) subtypes. We identified ten significantly mutated genes in pRCC, including MET, NF2, SLC5A3, PNKD and CPQ. MET mutations occurred in 15% (10/65) of pRCC samples and included previously unreported recurrent activating mutations. In chRCC, we found TP53, PTEN, FAAH2, PDHB, PDXDC1 and ZNF765 to be significantly mutated. Gene expression analysis identified a five-gene set that enabled the molecular classification of chRCC, renal oncocytoma and pRCC. Using RNA sequencing, we identified previously unreported gene fusions, including ACTG1-MITF fusion. Ectopic expression of the ACTG1-MITF fusion led to cellular transformation and induced the expression of downstream target genes. Finally, we observed upregulation of the anti-apoptotic factor BIRC7 in MiTF-high RCC tumors, suggesting a potential therapeutic role for BIRC7 inhibitors.
Adenovirus (Ad) gene therapy has been proposed as a drug-delivery system for the targeted administration of protein-based therapies, including growth factors and biological response modifiers. However, inflammation associated with Ad transduction has raised concern about its safety and efficacy in acute inflammatory diseases. In the present report, intratracheal and i.v. administration of a first-generation adenoviral recombinant (E1,E3 deleted) either containing an empty cassette or expressing the anti-inflammatory cytokines viral or human IL-10 (IL-10) was administered to mice subjected to zymosan-induced multisystem organ failure or to acute necrotizing pancreatitis. Pretreatment of mice with the intratracheal instillation of Ad expressing human IL-10 or viral IL-10 reduced weight loss, attenuated the proinflammatory cytokine response, and reduced mortality in the zymosan-induced model, whereas pretreatment with a control adenoviral recombinant did not significantly exacerbate the response. Pretreatment of mice with pancreatitis using adenoviral vectors expressing IL-10 significantly reduced the degree of pancreatic and liver injury and liver inflammation when administered systemically, but not intratracheally. We conclude that adenoviral vectors can be administered prophylactically in acute inflammatory syndromes, and expression of the anti-inflammatory protein IL-10 can be used to suppress the underlying inflammatory process.
Fluid overload and dehydration are potentially serious physiologic perturbations. Their effects on the pharmacodynamics of drugs are essentially unknown. This investigation was designed to determine the effects of acute fluid overload or water deprivation on the hypnotic activity of phenobarbital and on the neurotoxicity of theophylline in male Lewis rats. In the first experiment, 5% dextrose in water (D5W) was infused i.v. in an amount equal to 5 or 10% of body weight and phenobarbital was infused immediately thereafter until the onset of loss of righting reflex (LRR). The total infused dose and the serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations of phenobarbital at that time were significantly lower than in control animals. When phenobarbital was infused about 2.5 hr after D5W, the infused dose and the serum and CSF concentrations of phenobarbital at LRR were normal. When the rats received D5W and an injection of vasopressin, 25 I.U./kg, or vasopressin only, the infused dose and the serum and CSF concentrations of phenobarbital at LRR were significantly lower than in controls despite the 2.5-hr interval between the respective pretreatments and the phenobarbital infusion. Water deprivation for 24 or 48 hr had no significant effect on phenobarbital dose and concentrations at LRR. Intravenous infusion of D5W to 10% of body weight immediately or 2.5 hr before theophylline infusion had no significant effect on the total infused dose and the serum and CSF concentrations of theophylline at onset of maximal seizures. This lack of effect occurred despite appreciable hyponatremia and hypomagnesemia immediately after D5W infusion.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Seizures have been reported as a late complication of medically treated prolactin-producing macroadenomas with lateral extension. Nine prolactin-producing macroadenomas with lateral extension to the cavernous sinus were treated with bromocriptine alone. In all cases, rapid decrease of serum prolactin level was recognized and in eight cases, evidence of tumor shrinkage on CT or MRI was demonstrated. During medical treatment, symptomatic seizures occurred in three cases. MRI showed small residual tumors on the medial surface of the temporal lobe in all these patients. Additionally, a hypointense signal on both T1- and T2-weighted images was recognized around the residual tumor. It was consistent with hemosiderin, a result of intratumoral hemorrhage caused by bromocriptine. On the contrary, the remaining six patients without seizures during treatment did not show abnormal hypointense signals on the medial surface of the temporal lobe. Seizures occur with a high incidence as a late complication of medical treatment of prolactin-producing macroadenomas with intradural supracavernous extension. The patients with seizure show hemosiderin deposit, which may be the trigger of the seizure, within the medial surface of the temporal lobe after bromocriptine therapy.
Ketamine has previously been shown to induce delusion-like or referential beliefs, both acutely in healthy volunteers and naturalistically among nonintoxicated users of the drug. Delusions are theoretically underpinned by increased superstitious conditioning or the erroneous reinforcement of random events.
Using a novel and objectively measured superstitious conditioning task, experiment 1 assessed healthy volunteers before and during placebo (n = 16), low-dose (n = 15), and high-dose ketamine (n = 16) under randomized and double-blind conditions. Experiment 2 used the same task to compare ketamine users (n = 18), polydrug controls (n = 19), and nondrug-using controls (n = 17).
In experiment 1, ketamine produced dose-dependent psychotomimetic effects but did not cause changes in superstitious conditioning. Experiment 2 found increased levels of superstitious conditioning among ketamine users compared to polydrug and nondrug-using controls, respectively, as evidenced by both objective task responses and subjective beliefs following the task.
Results indicate that chronic but not acute exposure to ketamine may increase the propensity to adopt superstitious conditioning. These findings are discussed in terms of acute and chronic ketamine models of delusion-like belief formation in schizophrenia.
The use of topical mitomycin (mitomycin-C) as a medical adjunct to pterygium and glaucoma surgery is increasing.
The authors report on a series of 10 patients who experienced serious, vision-threatening complications associated with the use of this drug after pterygium surgery.
Complications included severe secondary glaucoma (4 patients), corneal edema (3 patients), corneal perforation (1 patient), corectopia (2 patients), iritis (8 patients), sudden onset mature cataract (2 patients), scleral calcification (1 patient) and incapacitating photophobia and pain (8 patients). Two patients required penetrating keratoplasties and a third required three lamellar keratoplasties. Another patient underwent four additional surgeries including a conjunctival Z-plasty, scleral patch grafting, and conjunctival autografting before his intractable pain and photophobia resolved 15 months after the original surgery. Because of these complications, 6 patients required a total of 20 return visits to the operating room after their original pterygium surgery. In 5 eyes, visual acuity remained at 20/200 or less. Three of the six patients with the most severe complications had concomitant chronic external diseases (rosacea [3 patients], ichthyosis [1 patient], keratitis sicca [1 patient]).
The authors urge extreme caution in the use of mitomycin. If mitomycin is used, the lowest possible concentration should be applied for the shortest time period in an effort to avoid these complications. A prospective multicenter study of the ophthalmic use of this medication is needed.
We hypothesize that dysregulated expression levels of the developmental regulatory genes in the adult body result in tumor development and malignant progression. PAX genes discovered as human orthologous genes of Drosophila 'paired' encode transcription factors, which control the expression of target genes to go on along the program of development. In this study, we first quantified expression of 9 PAX genes in human nevus pigmentosus tissues, melanoma tissues and melanoma cell lines by the real-time reverse transcription-PCR method. As a result, we found that the expression levels of PAX4 and PAX9 were extremely low in melanoma tissues and cell lines compared to nevus pigmentosus tissues. We then established melanoma cells overexpressing PAX4 and examined roles of PAX4 in cell growth. PAX4-overexpression reduced in vitro cell growth of human melanoma C8161 and MeWo cells. BrdU-uptake assay and cell cycle analysis by flow cytometry indicated that the retardation of cell proliferation by PAX4-overexpression was due to decreased DNA synthesis and cell cycle arrest at the G0/G1 phase. Furthermore, treatment of C8161 and MeWo cells with 5-azacytidine, a DNA demethylating agent, induced the expression of PAX4, suggesting that DNA methylation repressed the PAX4 gene expression in human melanoma. These results suggest that PAX4 functions as a potent tumor suppressor.
Dopamine and glutamate are thought to interact in the ventral striatum and to play important roles there in the cocaine-seeking of cocaine-experienced animals.
We sought to determine the relative roles of the two transmitters in the two major zones of the nucleus accumbens (NAS), the core and shell subregions.
We assessed the effects of dopamine and glutamate receptor blockade in the core and shell on intravenous cocaine self-administration in rats. Trained animals were allowed to self-administer cocaine for an initial hour, and then D1-type or D2-type dopamine receptor blockers or NMDA-type or AMPA-type glutamate receptor blockers were infused by reverse microdialysis into one of the two regions for an additional 3 h of testing.
The D1-type antagonist SCH23390 and the D2-type antagonist raclopride each increased cocaine intake whereas the AMPA-type antagonist CNQX decreased responding when infused into the core. SCH23390 increased cocaine intake less strongly when infused into the shell, while raclopride and CNQX were each ineffective when infused into the shell. The NMDA-antagonist CPP failed to affect cocaine self-administration when infused into either site.
These findings implicate the core of NAS in the maintenance of established cocaine self-administration in trained animals, despite the fact that the reinforcement of responding in untrained animals appears to results from cocaine actions in the olfactory tubercle and medial shell and not the core of accumbens.
Teratological experiments were made with a recessive mouse gene (cranioschisis) causing exencephaly and a semidominant gene (delayed splotch) causing spina bifida. In studies with the cranioschisis gene administration of warfarin and thyroxine resulted in frequencies of exencephaly significantly below that expected of a recessive trait, perhaps indicating selective elimination of abnormal conceptuses. Studies with the delayed splotch gene tested the hypothesis that offspring with a hereditary defect of neural-tube closure have other, unexpressed CNS defects, which may be elicited by teratological impulses. This proposition was decisively upheld by administering 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine, cadmium sulfate and retinoic acid, as these treatments all caused significantly greater frequencies of induced exencephaly in offspring with spina bifida than in their genetically normal littermates.
