The primary cilium is an antenna-like structure that protrudes from the cell surface of quiescent/differentiated cells and participates in extracellular signal processing. Here, we report that mice deficient for the lipid 5-phosphatase Inpp5e develop a multiorgan disorder associated with structural defects of the primary cilium. In ciliated mouse embryonic fibroblasts, Inpp5e is concentrated in the axoneme of the primary cilium. Inpp5e inactivation did not impair ciliary assembly but altered the stability of pre-established cilia after serum addition. Blocking phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) activity or ciliary platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha (PDGFRalpha) restored ciliary stability. In human INPP5E, we identified a mutation affecting INPP5E ciliary localization and cilium stability in a family with MORM syndrome, a condition related to Bardet-Biedl syndrome. Together, our results show that INPP5E plays an essential role in the primary cilium by controlling ciliary growth factor and PI3K signaling and stability, and highlight the consequences of INPP5E dysfunction.
The RING finger ubiquitin ligase seven in absentia homolog 2 (Siah2) was identified in the R7 photoreceptor cells of Drosophila melanogaster, and it regulates the stability of prolyl hydroxylase domains (PHDs), with a concomitant effect on HIF-1α availability in the hypoxia response pathway. We previously reported that the hypoxia response pathway contributes to eye development during the embryonic development of Xenopus laevis. In this paper, the role of Siah2-mediated hypoxia response pathway in eye development of X. laevis embryos was further characterized. Xenopus Siah2 (xSiah2) mRNA was detected in lens tissue and xSiah2 overexpression caused a thickened lens placode, leading to loss of the optic lens. In embryos overexpressing xSiah2, lens marker gene transcription was reduced, suggesting that xSiah2 contributes to lens formation. xSiah2 overexpression decreased Xenopus PHD accumulation and increased Xenopus HIF-1α (xHIF-1α) accumulation. xHIF-1α degeneration with resveratrol restored the optical abnormality caused by xSiah2 overexpression, suggesting that the xSiah2-mediated hypoxia response pathway contributes to lens formation. Moreover, xSiah2 overexpression decreased endothelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)-related Notch signaling-responsive genes transcription during the invasion of the lens placode. Our results suggest that the hypoxia response pathway plays an important role in the regulation of the EMT via the Notch signaling pathway during lens formation.
Torsades de Pointes (TDP) is a potentially malignant ventricular arrhythmia that often has a drug-induced origin. Oral, but not intravenous, haloperidol has been generally associated with this arrhythmia. The authors detail three patient cases of TDP that occurred while the patients were receiving intravenous haloperidol. The authors discuss the known risk factors for the development of TDP and review the literature on ventricular arrhythmias associated with haloperidol use.
Toxic effects of hydroxychloroquine, like chloroquine, include membrane stabilization and hypokalemia, which is correlated with the severity of the overdose. Correction of hypokalemia can expose patients to the risk of ventricular arrhythmia.
A 19-year-old woman who had ingested 6 grams of hydroxychloroquine was admitted to intensive care with severe hypokalemia (1.5 mmol/L on admission). Thirty-six hours after correction of the hypokalemia, circulatory arrest followed ventricular fibrillation. Her potassium level at that time was 5.8 mmol/L. Outcome was favorable after it returned to normal.
Because its pathogenesis remains debatable, the hypokalemia following hydroxychloroquine poisoning must be corrected with care, even when severe. This correction is difficult, and extracellular transfer of the excess potassium after elimination of the toxin exposes the patient to the risk of ventricular arrhythmia.
Alcohol overindulgence is a risk factor of type 2 diabetes mellitus. However, the mechanisms by which alcohol overindulgence damages glucose metabolism remain unclear. Pancreatic islet β-cells are endowed with type-A γ-aminobutyric acid receptor (GABAAR) mediated autocrine signaling mechanism, which regulates insulin secretion and fine-tunes glucose metabolism. In neurons GABAAR is one of the major targets for alcohol. This study investigated whether ethanol alters glucose metabolism by affecting GABAAR signaling in pancreatic β-cells. Blood glucose level of test mice was measured using a blood glucose meter. Insulin secretion by the pancreatic β-cell line INS-1 cells was examined using a specific insulin ELISA kit. Whole-cell patch-clamp recording was used to evaluate GABA-elicited current in INS-1 cells. Western blot and immunostaining were used to measure the expression of GABAAR subunits in mouse pancreatic tissues or in INS-1 cells. Intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of ethanol (3.0g/kg body weight) to mice altered glucose metabolism, which was associated with decreased expression of GABAAR α1- and δ- subunits on the surface of pancreatic β-cells. Acute treatment of cultured INS-1cells with ethanol (60mM) decreased the GABA-induced current and reduced insulin secretion. In contrast, treating INS-1 cells with GABA (100μM) largely prevented the ethanol-induced reduction of insulin release. Importantly, pre-treating mice with GABA (i.p., 1.5mg/kg body weight) partially reversed ethanol-induced impairment of glucose homeostasis in mice. Our data suggest a novel role of pancreatic GABA signaling in protecting pancreatic islet β-cells from ethanol-induced dysfunction.
Alterations in hemostasis have frequently been observed in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Thrombotic events are well documented in patients receiving L-asparaginase as a single agent or in combination with other chemotherapeutic drugs. The present prospective, randomized study evaluated the effect of two different L-asparaginase preparations, native Escherichia coli L-asparaginase (Crasnitin; Bayer AG, Leverkusen, Germany; n = 10) and L-asparaginase derived from Erwinia chrysanthemi (Erwinase; Porton Pruducts, London, UK; n = 10) on the changes in parameters concerning hypercoagulability. Patients were randomized to receive a total of eight doses of 10,000 IU/m2 L-asparaginase intravenously with intervals of 3 days during induction therapy. Before starting L-asparaginase treatment all patients had already demonstrated an increased thrombin generation shown by the elevated levels of prothrombin fragment 1+2 and thrombin antithrombin III, presumably due to therapy with prednisone, daunorubicin and vincristine. A significant decrease in alpha2-antiplasmin and plasminogen levels was measured in the E. coli L-asparaginase but not in Erwinase-treated patients. Increased thrombin generation combined with a decrease in alpha2-antiplasmin and plasminogen levels may lead to a state of increased risk for thrombosis due to a delay in fibrin elimination in E. coli L-asparaginase-treated patients only.
The study aimed to evaluate the protective role of myricetin obtained from Vitis vinifera (Vitaceae) on heart rate, electrocardiographic (ECG) patterns, vascular reactivity to catecholamines, cardiac marker enzymes, antioxidant enzymes together with morphological and histopathological changes in isoproterenol (ISO) induced myocardial infarction (MI) in male Wistar rats. Rats treated with isoproterenol (85 mg/kg, administered subcutaneously twice at an interval of 24 h) showed a significant increase in heart rate and ST elevation in ECG, and a significant increase in the levels of cardiac marker enzymes - lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), creatine kinase (CK) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) in serum. Isoproterenol significantly reduced superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) activity and increased vascular reactivity to various catecholamines. Pretreatment with myricetin (100 mg/kg, p.o. and 300 mg/kg, p.o.) for a period of 21 days significantly inhibited the effects of ISO on heart rate, levels of LDH, CK, AST, SOD, CAT, vascular reactivity changes and ECG patterns. Treatment with myricetin (100 mg/kg and 300 mg/kg) alone did not alter any of the parameters compared with vehicle treated Wistar rats. Myricetin treated animals showed a lesser degree of cellular infiltration in histopathological studies. Thus, myricetin (100 mg/kg and 300 mg/kg) ameliorates the cardiotoxic effects of isoproterenol and may be of value in the treatment of MI.
Four cases of water intoxication in connection with oxytocin administration during saline-induced abortions are described. The mechanism of water intoxication is discussed in regard to these cases. Oxytocin administration during midtrimester-induced abortions is advocated only if it can be carried out under careful observations of an alert nursing staff, aware of the symptoms of water intoxication and instructed to watch the diuresis and report such early signs of the syndrome as asthenia, muscular irritability, or headaches. The oxytocin should be given only in Ringers lactate or, alternately, in Ringers lactate and a 5 per cent dextrose and water solutions. The urinary output should be monitored and the oxytocin administration discontinued and the serum electrolytes checked if the urinary output decreases. The oxytocin should not be administered in excess of 36 hours. If the patient has not aborted by then the oxytocin should be discontinued for 10 to 12 hours in order to perform electrolyte determinations and correct any electrolyte imbalance.
Dandy-Walker malformation (DWM), the most common human cerebellar malformation, has only one characterized associated locus. Here we characterize a second DWM-linked locus on 6p25.3, showing that deletions or duplications encompassing FOXC1 are associated with cerebellar and posterior fossa malformations including cerebellar vermis hypoplasia (CVH), mega-cisterna magna (MCM) and DWM. Foxc1-null mice have embryonic abnormalities of the rhombic lip due to loss of mesenchyme-secreted signaling molecules with subsequent loss of Atoh1 expression in vermis. Foxc1 homozygous hypomorphs have CVH with medial fusion and foliation defects. Human FOXC1 heterozygous mutations are known to affect eye development, causing a spectrum of glaucoma-associated anomalies (Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome, ARS; MIM no. 601631). We report the first brain imaging data from humans with FOXC1 mutations and show that these individuals also have CVH. We conclude that alteration of FOXC1 function alone causes CVH and contributes to MCM and DWM. Our results highlight a previously unrecognized role for mesenchyme-neuroepithelium interactions in the mid-hindbrain during early embryogenesis.
Calcineurin-inhibitor-induced pain syndrome (CIPS), a rare complication seen in patients with organ transplants, is associated with the use of calcineurin inhibitors (CIs) such as cyclosporine (CSP) and tacrolimus (FK). Patients with this syndrome usually present with severe leg pain. This case report demonstrates the successful pain control of this pain syndrome in a 42-year-old female patient who had been given CIs (FK and CSP) as an immunosuppressive agent after a bone marrow transplant. Twenty-one days after the transplantation, she complained of severe pain in her bilateral lower extremities; this lasted several weeks, and was resistant to ordinary analgesics such as intramuscular pentazocine, intravenous morphine, and even oral nifedipine, which is generally accepted as an effective analgesic agent for the pain in this syndrome. Due to the presence of allodynia, our patient's pain had neuropathic pain-like characteristics, unlike the pain in previously reported patients with other organ transplants. Her pain was successfully relieved by the administration of oral amytriptyline, clonazepam, oxycodone, and intravenous lidocaine, all of which ordinarily have an analgesic effect on neuropathic pain. CIPS in patients with hematopoietic stem cell transplants treated with FK may have a mechanism by which neuropathic pain may develop that is different from that in patients with other organ transplants.
Conventional therapy to prevent HBV recurrence in liver transplant (LTx) recipients consists of Hepatitis B Immune Globulin (HBIg). The aim of this review is to investigate the safety and efficacy of converting HBIg and LAM therapy to ADV and LAM therapy.
A retrospective review involving all liver transplant patients with HBV maintained on HBIg and LAM therapy. Results collected included: gender, age, HBV serological and DNA status (COBAS AmpliScreen PCR-based testing). Serologic testing was done every three months. Patients were followed for drug reactions, therapy compliance, and immune suppression compliance. A cost benefit analysis was done for drug comparisons using United States currency values.
Patient demographics included: Male (n=6), Female (n=4), mean age 44 years (range 33 to 65). The mean length of follow up since therapy conversion (from HBIg and LMV to ADV and LMV) was 21 months (range 16 to 25 months). Serological status at time of conversion revealed that DNA status remained negative in all patients, HBsAg negative in 10/10, HB eAg (+) (5/10) and HBeAb (+)(5/10). None of the patients experienced an increase in transaminases while on dual ADV and LAM therapy. All patients were maintained on immune suppression monotherapy (tacrolimus) at 7-9 ng/mL. All patients reported compliance with the dual therapy and that they experienced no drug related side effects. Mean yearly costs for ADV and LAM was 7,235.00 United States dollars (range 6,550.00 to 8,225.00); while mean monthly costs for HBIg and LAM; 9225.00 (range 7205.00 to 12005.00).
The above results demonstrate beneficial effects of ADV and LAM in place of the current standard of HBIg and LAM therapy. Safety and short term results show nucleoside therapy is adequate at preventing HBV viral recurrence. Lastly, the economic benefit for ADV and LAM vastly outweighed the HBIg and LAM group.
Serotonin reuptake inhibitor induced sensory disturbances are reported rarely in the literature. This case report describes numbness and dysmorphic symptoms in the upper facial area associated with fluoxetine. There is no previous report of such an adverse reaction with any serotonin reuptake inhibitor in the literature and this report is intended to draw attention towards these unusual adverse effects.
A new generation of intravascular contrast agents, the non-ionic monomers have safety profiles that are superior to those of older ionic compounds. There are, however, significant differences between these agents.
The aim of this study was to determine the incidence of early (<24h) and late (>24h to 7 days) reactions to two non-ionic contrast agents currently used during cardiac catheterisation: iopamidol 340 (Niopam Bracco UK Ltd.) and iomeprol 350 (Iomeron Bracco UK Ltd.).
This was a prospective, randomised, double blinded trial. One thousand nine hundred and eighty-five patients undergoing cardiac catheterisation received one of the following contrast agents on a weekly basis: iopamidol 340 (Niopam) and iomeprol 350 (Iomeron). Reactions that were possibly related to the contrast agents were recorded on predefined data collection forms during the first 24h of the procedure (early reaction) and after 24h to 7 days (late reaction) by means of a questionnaire.
The baseline characteristics were matched in both the groups. There was no significant difference in the incidence of heat sensation experienced between the two groups (p=0.1). Early non-heat reactions occurred in 2.7% of patients receiving iopamidol 340 (Niopam) and 4% of those receiving iomeprol 350 (Iomeron) (p=0.1). Significant electrocardiographic changes were recorded in 1.7% of patients who received iopamidol 340 (Niopam), and 1% of those who received iomeprol 350 (Iomeron) (p=0.2). Bradycardia occurred more frequently in the iopamidol 350 group (0.8%) compared to the iomeprol 350 group (0.1%) p=0.02. Late reactions occurred in 16.2% of those receiving iopamidol 340 (Niopam) and 21.7% of those receiving iomeprol 350 (Iomeron) (p=0.02). A total of 23 (3.7%) patients in the iopamidol group and 39 (6.2%) patients in the iomeprol group reported nausea, p=0.01.
The incidence of early adverse reactions was similar with the two non-ionic contrast agents. Although bradycardia was slightly more frequent using iopamidol 340, nausea was reported more commonly 24h after the procedure in patients receiving Iomeron 350 (Iomeron). We conclude that there were only minor clinical differences between these agents; both are safe and well tolerated.
Administration of prednisone to patients with nephrotic syndromes of different aetiologies caused an abrupt increase of proteinuria. The proteinuric effect started four hours after oral or intravenous administration and reached its maximum effect after eight to sixteen hours. In nine patients with epimembranous glomerulopathy mean proteinuria on non-prednisone (NP) days was 43.7 per cent lower than on prednisone (P) days. Variations were significantly greater at higher creatinine clearances. However, in individual patients there were neither differences in creatinine excretion nor in creatinine clearance between P and NP days.
These studies were conducted to examine the differential response to a drug challenge under varied experimental test conditions routinely employed to study drug-induced behavioral and neurophysiological responses in rodents. Apomorphine, a nonselective dopamine agonist, was selected due to its biphasic behavioral effects, its ability to induce hypothermia, and to produce distinct changes to dopamine turnover in the rodent brain. From such experiments there is evidence that characterization and detection of apomorphine-induced activity in rodents critically depends upon the test conditions employed. In rats, detection of apomorphine-induced hyperactivity was facilitated by a period of acclimatization to the test conditions. Moreover, test conditions can impact upon other physiological responses to apomorphine such as drug-induced hypothermia. In mice, apomorphine produced qualitatively different responses under novel conditions when compared to those behaviors elicited in the home test cage. Drug-induced gross activity counts were increased in the novel exploratory box only, while measures of stereotypic behavior were similar in both. By contrast, apomorphine-induced locomotion was more prominent in the novel exploratory box. Dopamine turnover ratios (DOPAC:DA and HVA:DA) were found to be lower in those animals exposed to the exploratory box when compared to their home cage counterparts. However, apomorphine-induced reductions in striatal dopamine turnover were detected in both novel and home cage environments. The implications of these findings are discussed with particular emphasis upon conducting psychopharmacological challenge tests in rodents.
The effects of cocaine on defensive withdrawal behavior in rats and elevated plus-maze behavior in mice were investigated. Cocaine (20 mg/kg IP) injected daily for 7 or 14 days induced defensive withdrawal; that is, the latency to emerge from a small chamber in an open field and the mean time in the chamber were both significantly increased. Acute cocaine administration also induced defensive withdrawal, and this effect was prevented by prior treatment with chlordiazepoxide (5 mg/kg IP). Both acute and chronic cocaine treatments significantly increased plasma concentrations of corticosterone and reduced the ratios of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid to dopamine and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid to serotonin in several brain regions. Further evidence for an acute anxiogenic effect of cocaine was obtained from mice studied in the elevated plus-maze. Acute cocaine administration decreased both the number of entries into and the time spent in the open arms of the maze. These results taken together strongly support an anxiogenic action of acute and chronic cocaine administration.
Dilevalol is a vasodilator with selective partial beta 2 agonism and nonselective beta-antagonist activity. In contrast to its potent beta 2-agonist activity, dilevalol is essentially devoid of beta 1-agonist action, and is therefore distinct from pindolol and celiprolol. Dilevalol inhibits beta 1- and beta 2-adrenergic receptors nonselectively in dogs, rats and in isolated tissues, including human myocardium, and its beta-antagonist potency is similar to that of propranolol. In contrast to its beta-antagonist activity, it exerts minimal if any alpha-adrenergic blockade. Dilevalol is 300- to 1,000-fold more potent at beta- than at alpha 1-adrenergic receptors, including those on human myocardium and mammary arteries. At antihypertensive and vasodilator doses in rats and dogs, dilevalol does not inhibit alpha 1-adrenergic receptors. Oral doses of 2.5 to 50 mg/kg of dilevalol reduce blood pressure in spontaneously hypertensive rats. Heart rate is not significantly affected. Tolerance does not develop to the antihypertensive response. In contrast, beta blockers such as propranolol do not reduce blood pressure in this model. Antihypertensive activity is also observed in dogs with renal hypertension. The hemodynamic profile of dilevalol is consistent with its vasodilator properties. In spontaneously hypertensive rats, antihypertensive doses of dilevalol reduce peripheral resistance without affecting cardiac output. Dilevalol also improves the compliance and distensibility of the large arteries. The vasodilator and antihypertensive responses to dilevalol are mediated by a partial agonist action at vascular beta 2 receptors, because they are inhibited by the nonselective beta blocker propranolol as well as the beta 2-selective antagonist ICI 118,551.
Patients with schizophrenia often experience comorbid obsessive-compulsive syndromes (OCSs). Within these patients, a significant subgroup developed secondary OCS during treatment with antiserotonergic, atypical antipsychotic agents such as clozapine. Although cognitive behavioral therapy and antiobsessive antidepressants brought up inconsistent results, in some cases, dose reductions of clozapine in combination approaches were able to alleviate OCS. One suggestive agent for antiobsessive add-on treatment is aripiprazole, a partial agonist at dopamine and serotonin receptors.Here, we summarize the courses of 7 patients (6 men; mean age, 37 years; mean duration of psychotic illness, 17 years). They had been treated with clozapine for 9 years. The distressing and treatment-resistant comorbidity with OCS emerged approximately 4 years after the start of clozapine therapy. During combined treatment with mean doses of 22.9 mg of aripiprazole for 9.7 weeks, we assessed a small yet statistically not significant improvement of the psychotic disorder, whereas a marked reduction of obsessions and significant improvements of compulsions could be observed. The mean total Yale Brown Obsessive Compulsive Rating Scale decreased from 18.7 to 12.4 (P = 0.003).These data support the findings of 2 previous case reports and point toward an antiobsessive potency of aripiprazole. The relevant disabling comorbidities of psychosis and OCS need further investigation with multimodal neurobiological approaches. The proposed strategy should be further evaluated in prospective controlled trials with severity of comorbid OCS as a primary end point.
This report concerns 34 cases of heparin-associated thrombocytopenia in which standard heparin has been systematically replaced by LMW heparin CY 216 Choay. There were 21 women and 13 men, mean age, 69 years. Twenty-six of the 34 cases had thrombotic complications. All of the patients were treated by standard heparin of porcine mucosal origin, in most cases for prevention of deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism. Twenty-six cases occurred along with orthopedic and traumatologic surgery (especially for total hip replacement, 15 cases). Four cases involved vascular surgery and three involved medical thrombotic disease. Standard heparin treatment was always replaced by LMW heparin CY 216. Initial doses were 0.30 ml three times daily, later increased to obtain global hypocoagulability. Surgical procedures (embolectomy and vena cava filter) were carried out when necessary. Five patients had thrombolytic treatment (urokinase) in conjunction with LMW heparin. The overall results were 31 recoveries, but with seven severe sequelae (three amputations and four hemiplegias) most often attributable to the first ischemic attack, and three deaths. For the last 16 patients, indirect platelet aggregation tests were performed (control platelet-rich plasma plus patient platelet-poor plasma plus LMW heparin): nine cases had negative tests, with nine recoveries and seven cases had positive tests, with five recoveries and two deaths.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Dose-response relationships, biochemical mechanisms, and sex differences in the experimental fatty liver induced by tetracycline were studied in the intact rat and with the isolated perfused rat liver in vitro. In the intact male and female rat, no direct relationship was observed between dose of tetracycline and hepatic accumulation of triglyceride. With provision of adequate oleic acid as a substrate for the isolated perfused liver, a direct relationship was observed between dose of tetracycline and both accumulation of triglyceride in the liver and depression of output of triglyceride by livers from male and female rats. Marked differences were observed between female and male rats with regard to base line (control) hepatic concentration of triglyceride and output of triglyceride. Accumulation of hepatic triglyceride, as a per cent of control values, in response to graded doses of tetracycline, did not differ significantly between male, female and pregnant rat livers. However, livers from female, and especially pregnant female rats, were strikingly resistant to the effects of tetracycline on depression of output of triglyceride under these experimental conditions. These differences between the sexes could not be related to altered disposition of tetracycline or altered uptake of oleic acid. Depressed hepatic secretion of triglyceride accounted only for 30 to 50% of accumulated hepatic triglyceride, indicating that additional mechanisms must be involved in the production of the triglyceride-rich fatty liver in response to tetracycline.
Striatal neurons convert L-dopa to dopamine (DA) following gene transfer of aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase (AADC) via adeno-associated virus (AAV) in parkinsonian monkeys. We investigated whether AAV-AADC could reduce or eliminate L-dopa-induced dyskinesias (LIDs) and side effects in MPTP-treated monkeys. Five monkeys were made parkinsonian by bilateral MPTP lesions. The optimal therapeutic dose of L-dopa was determined using an acute dose response regimen. After 3 weeks of chronic L-dopa treatment, AAV-AADC or control vector was bilaterally injected into the striatum. Animals were assessed for 6 months with the same L-dopa dosing as presurgery as well as chronic oral L-dopa treatment. Presurgery LID was observed at doses greater than 5 mg/kg. The AAV-AADC-treated animals displayed an average 7.3-fold decrease in the therapeutic dose of L-dopa throughout the 6-month follow-up period. Only AAV-AADC-treated monkeys were susceptible to dyskinesias even at sub-clinical doses. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed well-delineated foci of AADC within the striatum. These results suggest that high levels of focal DA were generated in response to L-dopa administration and may be responsible for the exacerbation of dyskinesias. This may be similar to focal dopaminergic activity in PD patients that developed off-drug or "runaway" dyskinesias following fetal mesencephalic grafts.
Because calcineurin inhibitor (CNI)-induced nephrotoxicity contributes significantly to late renal allograft loss, sirolimus (SRL)-based, CNI-free maintenance immunosuppression has been advocated, but data in the pediatric population are scarce. We therefore analyzed the efficacy and safety of an SRL-based immunosuppressive regimen plus mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) and corticosteroids vs. CNI minimization (mean dose reduction by 39%) plus MMF and corticosteroids in 19 pediatric recipients with biopsy-proven CNI-induced nephrotoxicity in a single-center case-control study. In the SRL group, we observed, one yr after study entry, an improvement of glomerular filtration rate (GFR) by 10.3 +/- 3.0 mL/min/1.73 m2 (p < 0.05 vs. baseline) in seven of 10 patients and a stabilization in the remaining three, while in the CNI minimization group GFR improved by 17.7 +/- 7.1 mL/min/1.73 m2 (p < 0.05) in six of nine recipients and stabilized in the remaining three. No patient in either group experienced an acute rejection episode. The main adverse event under SRL therapy was a transient hyperlipidemia in 70% of patients. In pediatric renal transplant recipients with declining graft function because of CNI-induced nephrotoxicity, CNI withdrawal and switch to SRL-based therapy or CNI minimization are associated with a comparable improvement of GFR after 12 months of observation.
A man aged 57 years with a chronic megakaryocytic granulocytic myelosis, treated with an intermittent low-dose busulfan schedule, developed intrahepatic cholestasis. We advise to do liver biopsy, if possible, to differentiate between busulfan hepatotoxicity and leukaemic activity. In the former case, it may be necessary to stop busulfan.
Withdrawal from an escalating-dose, bingelike regimen of cocaine administration in rats produced significantly depressed levels of locomotor activity during the nocturnal portion of the day-night cycle. This effect was observed during the first 48 hr of testing. Extracellular single-unit recordings of ventral tegmental area (VTA) dopamine (DA) neurons revealed no differences between saline- and cocaine-treated rats with respect to basal firing rates. However, significantly fewer spontaneously active VTA DA neurons were encountered in rats withdrawn from binge cocaine. As with the nocturnal hypoactivity, this effect was observed only during the first 48 hr of withdrawal. These findings suggest that short-term DA neuron dysfunction during cocaine withdrawal temporally corresponds to behavioral disruptions that are similar to those described in human addicts.
Ropinirole (4-[2-(dipropylamino)ethyl]-2-indolinone monohydrochloride) a nonergoline dopamine receptor agonist with high affinity for native dopamine D(2)-like receptors in human caudate tissue, was tested with respect to the stimulation of postsynaptic brain dopamine receptors in standard preclinical models of Parkinson's disease. Additionally, in these animal models the antiparkinsonian activity of ropinirole was compared to that of bromocriptine. The ED(50)s (95% confidence limits) of ropinirole and bromocriptine on the turning behavior in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats were 20.17 mg/kg (14.27-26.88 mg/kg) and 11.99 mg/kg (9.37-14.17 mg/kg), respectively. The ED(50)s (95% confidence limits) of ropinirole and bromocriptine on the catalepsy induced by reserpine were 18.55 mg/kg (15.29-22.99 mg/kg) and 12.56 mg/kg (10.25-14.64 mg/kg), respectively. Ropinirole and bromocriptine had no effect on the tremors induced by oxotremorine in mice, whereas atropine markedly suppressed the tremors. The ED(50)s (95% confidence limits) of ropinirole and bromocriptine on the tremors in VMT-lesioned monkeys were 0.18 mg/kg (0.12-0.29 mg/kg) and 2.63 mg/kg (1.06-6.45 mg/kg), respectively. In rodent parkinsonian models, bromocriptine was more potent than ropinirole; however, in the nonhuman primate parkinsonian model, ropinirole was a more potent inhibitor of parkinsonian activity than bromocriptine. This study suggests that ropinirole is a dopamine D(2)-like receptor agonistic drug of potential use in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) may cause progressive hepatic fibrosis, cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma. Treatment, thus far, has been restricted to diet and weight loss, but without compelling results. In this study we aimed to evaluate the efficacy of orlistat therapy in obese patients with NASH. Fourteen obese patients with NASH underwent liver biopsy prior to and subsequent to 6 months treatment with orlistat (120 mg tid). Hepatic fat extension was graded as normal, mild, moderate, or severe. Hepatic fibrosis was scored on a scale from 0 to 4, with 0 denoting no fibrosis and 4, cirrhosis. Portal inflammation was scored as 0-3, with 0 = normal, 1 = mild, 2 = moderate, and 3 = severe inflammation. Fourteen patients had NASH associated with diabetes, hyperlipidemia, or obesity. Orlistat reduced fatty infiltration in 10 patients (70%; P<0.01), 3 of whom had normal liver fat content after treatment. Orlistat improved inflammatory activity by 2 grades in 28% and by 1 grade in 50% of patients and effected no change in 22% of patients. Five patients (35%) returned to normal inflammatory activity. Orlistat improved hepatic fibrosis by 2 grades in three patients (21%) and by 1 grade in seven patients (50%). There was no change in four patients (28%). Orlistat lowered aminotransferases levels, total cholesterol, triglycerides and low-density lipoprotein, respectively. Insulin resistance index and malonyl dialdehyde levels improved significantly after orlistat therapy, whereas HbAic remained unchanged. In conclusion, in obese patients with NASH, liver fibrosis and inflammation improved after therapy with orlistat.
