The potential of a single dose of malaoxon (26.2 or 39.2 mg/kg i.p.) to produce convulsions and to increase cerebral levels of inositol-1-phosphate (Ins1P), an intermediate in phosphoinositide (PI) cycle, was followed for 1, 4, or 72 hr. The lower dose of malaoxon did not produce convulsions whereas the higher dose induced convulsions in 60% of the exposed rats. Malaoxon caused a dose-dependent, at most 2-fold, increase in brain regional Ins1P levels in nonconvulsing rats as compared to controls. At the higher dose of malaoxon, in convulsing rats, the Ins1P-levels increased 4-fold above the control Ins1P-levels. In nonconvulsing rats, the Ins1P-levels reached their maximum 1-4 hr after the administration of malaoxon, whereas in convulsing rats the levels increased for 72 hr. The results suggest that PI-signalling is associated with convulsions produced by malaoxon.
Neonatal withdrawal from maternal drugs and medications is common in some NICUs. Codeine-containing cough preparations given to pregnant mothers have been identified as a cause of neonatal abstinence syndrome. However, many women do not consider prescription cough syrups when asked about drug use. Maternal medication or illicit drug use has been identified as a cause of perinatal arterial stroke. Since codeine is an opiate with similar pharmacodynamic effects to morphine, it is reasonable to investigate if maternal codeine use has effects on the fetus that are similar to other opiates. The authors present 2 cases of newborn infants with perinatal arterial stroke that may have been associated with in utero exposure to codeine. Physicians should ask about maternal medication use, including codeine-containing cough preparations, when evaluating newborn infants with evidence of cerebral infarction.
Heat shock proteins and glucose-regulated proteins represent an extraordinary mechanism of defense induced in the kidney by chemicals or drugs and essential to survive. Here we resume our experience on the presence and regulation of stress proteins into acute and chronic nephrotoxic models in rodents and in vitro. In acute renal damage, induced in rats by a single injection of inorganic mercury, stress proteins enhanced in a dose-dependent manner to recover cytoskeleton and mitochondria and maintain nuclear activity. When we pre-treated mercury injected-rats with antioxidant melatonin or with bimoclomol, a stress proteins-coinducer, stress proteins expression was modulated together with tubular recovery. Similar data were obtained in ischemia-reperfusion in rats treated with stannous chloride, that provided cytoprotection stimulating heme oxygenase induction. During nephrotoxicity induced by administration of cyclosporine A at therapeutic dosage for 1-2 months, stress protein overexpression well correlated with oxidative and cell death, but decreased if we counteracted renal damage using antioxidants. In aluminium intoxication through drinking water for 3-6 months, we detected a time-dependent stress response in the rat kidney that was organ specific and different from the liver. In vitro studies on rat tubular proximal cells exposed to heavy metals demonstrated that stress protein expression was related to peculiar mechanisms of action of each metal. In conclusion, experimental studies on the renal chaperones can greatly contribute to understand their role, and agents able to modulate the stress response might be considered promising therapeutic tools to reduce nephrotoxicity.
To clarify the action of the new antidiabetic agent, troglitazone, on rat mesangial cells, we assessed its effect on the uptake and intracellular metabolism of glucose. Troglitazone increased the uptake of 2-deoxyglucose (2DOG) in a dose-dependent manner with an upregulation of glucose transporter 1 (GLUT1) mRNA, whereas it had no effect on the uptake of alpha-methyl glucoside (AMG). This troglitazone-induced glucose uptake was not suppressed by phlorizin. In 5 mmol/L glucose, 2 microg/mL (4.5 micromol/L) troglitazone increased glucose consumption 2.9-fold, similar to that in 20 mmol/L glucose. Troglitazone increased the production of pyruvate and lactate as a consequence of the increase in glycolysis, but did not increase the cellular ATP content. Troglitazone improved the high-glucose-induced accumulation of intracellular sorbitol and fructose and elevation of the cellular redox potential. These data suggest that troglitazone enhances glucose uptake through GLUT1 with an acceleration of glycolysis, and improves the abnormal intracellular glucose metabolism under high-glucose conditions in rat mesangial cells.
Administration of mercury at nontoxic doses induces systemic autoimmune disease in Brown Norway (BN) rats. The pathogenesis of lupus-like oral mucosal lesion by mercury-induced autoimmunity is still unclear, even though the oral mucosa is observed to be commonly affected in mercury-treated BN rats. In this study, we investigated the immunopathology of lupus-like oral mucosal lesions in a model of mercury-induced systemic autoimmunity.
Brown Norway male rats were injected subcutaneously with either phosphate-buffered saline (control) or mercury at a dose of 1.0 mg per kilogram of body weight on days 0, 3, 5, and 7. Blood, kidney, and tongue samples were taken at various timepoints for evaluation by immunohistochemistry, RT-PCR, and lupus band test (LBT).
Oral mucosal lesions were classified according to three consecutive temporal phases on the basis of infiltration of immunocompetent cells as follows: (phase I) infiltration of MHC class II+ dendritic cells (DC) and macrophages; (phase II) addition of ED1+ macrophage infiltrates; and (phase III) focal infiltration of pan T cells following increased infiltration of DC and macrophages. Dense infiltration of DC and macrophages was observed in the basement membrane (BM) zone of the oral epithelium. Tissue expression of IL-4 mRNA was detected in early lesions (phase I), suggesting that locally produced IL-4 may be responsible for Th2-mediated immune response. A linear and continuous smooth pattern of fluorescence was observed in the oral epithelial BM in addition to renal glomeruli, indicating immune complex deposits.
Local autoimmune responses are involved in the pathogenesis of mercury-induced lupus-like lesions of the oral mucosa.
Desmoplastic small cell tumor (DSCT) is a high-grade malignant neoplasm that shows polyphenotypic differentiation. Its almost exclusive involvement of serosal surfaces (particularly peritoneum) has led to the consideration of a putative "mesothelioblast" as the cell of origin. Although an extraserosal case involving the brain (presumably arising from the dura) has been reported, to date no case primary in the bone or soft tissues has been documented. The authors describe a 34-year-old man who presented with a 3-year history of pain in the right hand and a recently noted mass in the hypothenar area. Open biopsy followed by wide en bloc excision in combination with index ray resection was performed. Subsequently, the patient underwent ipsilateral axillary lymph node dissection. Extensive radiologic workup at the time of presentation and 12 months later revealed no tumor in the chest or abdomen. The patient was treated with an HD-CAV chemotherapy regimen (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, ifosfamide, etoposide) and was free of tumor until 18 months later, at which time he developed multiple metastases in the lungs. Currently, he is alive with tumor and in poor condition. The histologic sections of the mass displayed the characteristic features of DSCT involving bone and soft tissue. Immunohistochemical stains showed positivity of the tumor cells for muscle marker (desmin), neuroendocrine markers (chromogranin, synaptophysin), and epithelial markers (keratins CAM5.2, AE1:AE3, epithelial membrane antigen). Chimeric transcripts were detected by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, indicating the presence of EWS-WT1 gene fusion, which is characteristically associated with DSCT. Sequence analysis showed in-frame fusion of EWS exon 9 to WT1 exon 8--a variant not documented in any other case. This is a unique example of DSCT primary in bone and soft tissues, which raises interesting questions about the histogenesis of this tumor type and its relationship to other small round cell tumors. Although the "mesothelioblast" hypothesis as the origin of DSCTs is attractive, it does not account for the tumors that are located in the brain or, as in this patient, in the soft tissues and bone. In addition, this patient demonstrates a rare variant of EWS-WT1 gene fusion not described in DSCT involving serosal surfaces.
A single dose toxicity study of magnesium sulfate by intravenous administration was conducted in rats and dogs. The results are summarized in the following. Magnesium sulfate was administered once at dose levels of 90, 130, 200, 300 and 450 mg/kg to Crj:CD(SD) rats at 6 weeks of age. Deaths occurred in the 200 mg/kg and above groups in both sexes. The LD50 values were 206 mg/kg for males and 174 mg/kg for females. In the surviving animals, in the 130 mg/kg and above groups, tonic convulsions, abnormal gait and tachypnea were seen. However, these signs disappeared gradually and all animals returned to a normal state by 15 min after dosing. There were no treatment-related changes in the body weight or gross pathology. Magnesium sulfate was infused for 6 hr at dose levels of 75, 300 and 1200 mg/kg (12.5, 50 and 200 mg/kg/hr) to female beagle dogs at 6 months of age. No deaths were observed in any of the dose groups and it was considered that the lethal dose level would be higher than 1200 mg/kg(200 mg/kg/hr). In the 1200 mg/kg group, vomiting, decreased spontaneous movement, staggering gait, prone position and flush of the conjunctiva and ear auricles were seen. However, these signs disappeared gradually and animals returned to a normal state by 1 hr after dosing. There were no treatment-related changes in the body weight, food consumption or gross pathology.
A 4-week toxicity study of magnesium sulfate administered by 24-hr intravenous infusion at the dosage levels of 0, 12.5, 50 and 100 mg/kg/hr in female beagle dogs was conducted. No death occurred in any group. Changes attributable to the treatment with magnesium sulfate were decreased food consumption and body weight gain, anemic change, increased urine volume, decreased serum calcium level, increased inorganic phosphorus level, slight prolongation of conduction time in electrocardiogram and tubular basophilia in the kidneys in the group treated with 100 mg/kg/hr. In addition, essentially similar changes were also observed at the same dosage level in the 2-week study of this drug, in which recoverability was recognized with 2-week follow-up observation after drug withdrawal. In conclusion, the nontoxic dosage level was judged to be 50 mg/kg/hr under the condition of the present study.
To investigate the effects of topical application of the combination of substance P (SP) and insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1 on corneal epithelial barrier function and epithelial wound closure in rats with capsaicin-induced neurotrophic keratopathy.
Neonatal rats were injected subcutaneously with a single dose of capsaicin to induce neurotrophic keratopathy. Corneal epithelial barrier function was evaluated with an anterior fluorophotometer. Tear fluid secretion was measured by the Schirmer test. Corneal epithelial wound healing was determined by measurement of the size of the epithelial defect after debridement of the entire epithelium. The combination of SP (1 mM) and IGF-1 (1 micro g/mL) in phosphate-buffered saline was administered in eye drops six times daily.
Corneal epithelial barrier function was impaired and corneal epithelial wound healing was delayed in rats injected with capsaicin. The application of eye drops containing the combination of SP and IGF-1 to capsaicin-injected rats resulted in a significant improvement in corneal epithelial barrier function compared with that apparent in capsaicin-injected animals that received eye drops containing vehicle alone. Such treatment with SP and IGF-1 also significantly increased the rate of corneal epithelial wound closure in capsaicin-injected animals.
Topical application of the combination of SP and IGF-1 improved both corneal epithelial barrier function and epithelial wound healing in an animal model of neurotrophic keratopathy.
Since the introduction of multi-agent chemotherapy for osteosarcoma over 30 years ago, overall survival has exceeded 50%. A clear understanding of the acute complications and late effects of osteosarcoma therapy is required to care effectively for patients with osteosarcoma undergoing active treatment, and for the increasing number of osteosarcoma survivors. There has now been sufficient cumulative experience treating patients with osteosarcoma with active anti-osteosarcoma chemotherapy agents, high-dose methotrexate, doxorubicin, cisplatin, ifosfamide, and etoposide to recognise and understand rare toxicities associated with these agents, and to identify the late effects of osteosarcoma therapy. Late effects and rare toxicities of osteosarcoma include cardiac toxicity, acute and chronic nephrotoxicity, neurotoxicity, hearing loss, infertility, and second malignant neoplasms. Reducing the complications of osteosarcoma therapy is an important goal that will require the identification of clear prognostic indicators, the development of biologically-based therapies, and improved antidotes for the active anti-osteosarcoma cytotoxic drugs.
A 2-week toxicity study of magnesium sulfate administered by a 24-hr intravenous infusion at the dosage levels of 0, 12.5, 50, 100 and 200 mg/kg/hr in female beagle dogs was conducted, with 2-week follow-up observation after drug withdrawal. One of 2 animals in the 200 mg/kg/hr group died approx. 32 hr after the start of infusion. At the same time, the remaining 1 animal of the same group was sacrificed in a moribund state. Changes attributable to the treatment of magnesium sulfate were decreased food consumption and body weight gain, anemia, mild prolongation of conduction time in electrocardiogram and tubular basophilia in the kidneys in the animals treated with 100 mg/kg/hr. Furthermore, decreased calcium level was recorded in the animals treated with 50 mg/kg/hr or more. However, these changes disappeared after drug withdrawal, and reversibility was suggested. Judging from the mode of occurrence, since the change in calcium level observed in the group treated with 50 mg/kg/hr was slight, it was considered to be toxicologically insignificant. In conclusion, the nontoxic dosage level of magnesium sulfate was judged to be 50 mg/kg/hr under the condition of the present study.
C3H/HeJ and C3H/HeN female mice were fed diets containing targeted concentrations of 320 or 640 ppb diethylstilboestrol (DES) starting at 7 or 11 wk of age and continuing throughout their remaining lifespan. Regardless of the DES concentration there was a faster rate of development and higher final incidence of mammary adenocarcinomas among the C3H/HeN mice than among the C3H/HeJ mice. In C3H/HeN mice started on DES when 11 wk old, mammary tumours developed more rapidly than when treatment was started at 7 wk of age. This was also true for C3H/HeJ mice given 320 ppb DES but not for those treated with 640 ppb DES. Both age at the start of treatment and strain of C3H mice are important factors to be considered in designing experiments to study the tumorigenic activity of oestrogens such as DES.
A 53-year-old Caucasian woman with long-standing, well controlled, severe rheumatoid arthritis, treated with methotrexate, salazopyrin, naprosyn, prednisone and plaquenil, presented with progressive visual loss in each eye. She had a past history of non-necrotizing anterior scleritis that was treated with increased doses of prednisone. She developed left then right central scotomas, reduced vision and optic atrophy. Eventually a diagnosis of methotrexate-induced optic atrophy was made.
The ability of the selective dopamine D1 receptor agonist (5aR,11bS)-4,5,5a,6,7,11b-hexahydro-2-propyl-3-thia-5-aza cyclopent-1-ena[c]-phenanthrene-9,10-diol (A-86929) to induce contralateral rotation after repeated administration was determined in rodent and primate models of Parkinson's disease. Testing was conducted in rats previously given unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine injections and in macaques previously given unilateral, intracarotid infusions of the neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine. Both treatments have been shown to reduce forebrain dopamine levels on the side of the infusion. Such animals rotate contralaterally after injections of direct-acting dopamine receptor agonists. Rats were administered A-86929 (0.11 or 0.22 micromol/kg s.c.) three times daily for 10 days, with injections spaced 3 h apart, and rotation was measured across a 9-h period on various treatment days. Initially, monkeys were given various doses of A-86929 (0.03, 0.10 or 0.30 micromol/kg i.m.), and rotation was monitored for 3 h after each dose. Significant, dose-dependent levels of contralateral rotation were achieved. Monkeys were next treated three times daily at 3-h intervals with A-86929 (0.3 micromol/kg). Analysis of total, daily rotation scores indicated that the magnitude of the behavioral response did not change significantly across the 10-day treatment period in monkeys, although it increased in rats (0.22 micromol/kg). The first daily injection tended to elicit greater and longer-lived responses than the subsequent daily injections in both species. In monkeys, this was particularly true on the first test day and was not seen by the last test. This study suggests that a selective D1 receptor agonist, such as A-86929, with full intrinsic activity relative to dopamine, may be useful for the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
In vitro tumor models could support the process of development of new cytotoxic drugs and selection of suitable drugs for the individual patient. We investigated whether the testing of tumor cells from patients with kidney or urinary bladder carcinoma by fluorometric microculture cytotoxicity assay (FMCA) could provide clinically relevant data for these tumor types.
A total of 45 tumor samples from patients with kidney or urinary bladder carcinoma were compared with 247 samples of other tumor types with respect to sensitivity to 8 standard and 6 investigational cytotoxic drugs in the FMCA, a 72 hour assay based on the concept of total cell kill. In bladder carcinomas, sensitivity to standard drugs was correlated to various tumor characteristics.
The technical success rate for kidney and bladder carcinomas was high; approximately 90% of the samples could be analyzed successfully. Kidney carcinomas were highly resistant to standard drugs and bladder carcinomas essentially as sensitive as carcinomas of the breast and ovary but with a steeper dose-response relationship. In bladder carcinoma there was no clear relationship between tumor stage, grade, ploidy, mitoses or p53 expression and drug sensitivity. Except for suramin, kidney carcinomas were poorly sensitive to the investigational drugs CdA, gemcitabine, paclitaxel, vinorelbine and topotecan. In bladder carcinomas paclitaxel, gemcitabine and suramin showed promising activity.
The FMCA seems suitable for cytotoxic drug sensitivity testing of urinary tract carcinomas. This technique may have a role in new drug development in these tumor types.
Exposition to cadmium (Cd) has been linked to bone metabolism alterations and occurrence of osteoporosis. Despite its known renal toxicity which indirectly disrupts bone metabolism through impairment of vitamin D synthesis, increasing evidence argues for the direct action of Cd on bone-forming osteoblasts. Indeed, accumulation of Cd in osteoblasts and metal-induced cell death has been documented but little is known about the intracellular mechanisms of protection against this stress. In this work, we investigated the protection afforded by thiol-containing proteins against Cd cytotoxicity in MC3T3 osteoblastic cells. Viability of MC3T3 cells was reduced by Cd in a concentration-dependent manner with a LC(50) of 7.6±1.1μM. Depletion of glutathione by l-buthionine sulphoximine (BSO) increased cell sensitivity to Cd cytotoxicity, suggesting the involvement of thiol-containing peptides as a mechanism of protection. Accordingly, Cd was shown to promote progressive depletion of reduced thiol content and to stimulate the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Interestingly, low non cytotoxic concentrations of Cd increased the gene expression of macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF), also a thiol-containing protein. Inhibition of the transcription factor NFκB prevented Cd-dependent upregulation of MIF expression and consequently, increased Cd cytotoxicity in osteoblasts. Moreover, MIF deficient mouse osteoblasts were more sensitive to Cd cytotoxicity than the corresponding control cells. By gel-filtration chromatography, we demonstrated that MIF acts as a thiol-containing protein and thereby promotes Cd complexation. In accordance with its binding ability, addition of recombinant MIF to the culture medium reduced Cd cytotoxicity. Overall, upregulation of MIF expression by Cd may protect against the cytotoxicity of this metal in the osteoblasts.
The 22q13 deletion syndrome (Phelan-McDermid syndrome) is characterised by a global developmental delay, absent or delayed speech, generalised hypotonia, autistic behaviour and characteristic phenotypic features. Intranasal insulin has been shown to improve declarative memory in healthy adult subjects and in patients with Alzheimer disease.
To assess if intranasal insulin is also able to improve the developmental delay in children with 22q13 deletion syndrome.
We performed exploratory clinical trials in six children with 22q13 deletion syndrome who received intranasal insulin over a period of 1 year. Short-term (during the first 6 weeks) and long-term effects (after 12 months of treatment) on motor skills, cognitive functions, or autonomous functions, speech and communication, emotional state, social behaviour, behavioural disorders, independence in daily living and education were assessed.
The children showed marked short-term improvements in gross and fine motor activities, cognitive functions and educational level. Positive long-term effects were found for fine and gross motor activities, nonverbal communication, cognitive functions and autonomy. Possible side effects were found in one patient who displayed changes in balance, extreme sensitivity to touch and general loss of interest. One patient complained of intermittent nose bleeding.
We conclude that long-term administration of intranasal insulin may benefit motor development, cognitive functions and spontaneous activity in children with 22q13 deletion syndrome.
Tacrolimus (FK) is currently widely used in transplant immunosuppression and the treatment of autoimmune diseases. However, FK induces nephrotoxicity which is characterized by functional and structural renal injury. The ubiquitous protein annexin A1 (ANXA1) has potent anti-inflammatory effects and protects against ischemia/reperfusion injury. We investigated the effects of exogenous ANXA1 treatment in an experimental model of acute FK nephrotoxicity.
Munich-Wistar rats received a low-salt diet for 1 week and were randomized to treatment with ANXA1 (Ac2-26 peptide 0.5 mg/kg/day s.c.), FK (6 mg/kg/day p.o.), association (FK+ANXA1) and vehicles (1 ml/kg/day) for 7 days.
FK induced a significant decrease in glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and a significant increase in renal vascular resistance. In addition, FK caused extensive acute tubule-interstitial damage and an increase in anti-inflammatory ANXA1 expression in renal tissue. Exogenous ANXA1 treatment reduced FK-induced tubular dilatation and macrophage infiltration. For the first time, we observed that FK augmented ANXA1 expression in renal tissue.
Exogenous ANXA1 treatment partially protected against FK-induced tubular injury and macrophage infiltration, and may be targeted in renal intervention strategies.
This study was conducted to examine effects of nitric oxide (NO) donors on bladder hyperactivity induced by cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced cystitis.
Female Sprague-Dawley rats received a single intraperitoneal injection of CYP (100 mg./kg.), and then their micturition pattern including mean micturition volume and the number of micturitions during 24 hours was recorded in a metabolic cage before and after CYP treatment. Forty-eight hours after CYP injection, bladder function under urethane anesthesia was evaluated by cystometry with continuous saline infusion (0.04 ml. per minute) or under isovolumetric conditions (0.8 ml. bladder volume). NO donors, S-nitroso-N-acetyl-penicillamine (SNAP, 2 mM) or sodium nitroprusside (SNP, 1 mM), and an NO synthase (NOS) inhibitor, N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME, 20 mM) were administered intravesically. Direct action of SNAP on bladder afferent neurons was also tested in a patch-clamp recording study.
The number of micturitions significantly increased during the first 24 hours after CYP injection (19.0 +/- 0.88 versus 92.1 +/- 16.3 micturitions/24 hours, mean +/- SE, n = 25) (p <0.001). There was no significant difference in total micturition volume before (12.3 +/- 1.0 ml./24 hours) and after CYP treatment (15.6 +/- 1.5 ml./24 hours). During continuous infusion cystometry, intercontraction interval (ICI) was smaller in CYP-injected rats than in control rats. In CYP-injected animals, NO donors increased the ICI, but did not change the amplitude of bladder contractions. Continuous intravesical infusion of the NOS inhibitor did not alter the cystometric parameters. During cystometry under isovolumetric conditions, contraction frequency was decreased after NO donor administration. NO donors did not influence bladder activity in control rats. In patch clamp recordings, when SNAP (500 microM) was directly applied to dissociated afferent neurons innervating the urinary bladder, high-voltage-activated Ca2+ channel currents were suppressed by approximately 30%.
Intravesical NO donors can suppress CYP-induced bladder hyperactivity. We hypothesize that the effect of NO donors is not due to smooth muscle relaxation, but rather due to an inhibitory effect on bladder afferent pathways that was manifested by an increase in intercontraction interval without changes in contraction amplitude. NO donors may be considered as a possible treatment of CYP-induced and other types of bladder inflammation.
X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP) is the most potent member of the IAP gene family in terms of its ability to inhibit caspases and suppress apoptosis. In this study, we investigated the expression of XIAP in esophageal cancer tissues and cell lines, and found the elevated expression of XIAP in esophageal cancer tissues compared with normal tissues. Then we used small interfering RNA (siRNA) to block XIAP expression while evaluating the effect of XIAP siRNA on cell apoptosis, and the combined effects with Paclitaxel, Cisplatin, Fluorouracil and Etoposide in XIAP high expression ESCC cell line KYSE150 and EC9706. The results showed that XIAP siRNA efficiently decreased XIAP expression and induced cell apoptosis. Treatment with XIAP siRNA in combination with Paclitaxel, Cisplatin, Fluorouracil and Etoposide enhanced chemosensitivity. These results suggest that XIAP might be helpful for diagnosis of ESCC and XIAP siRNA combined with Paclitaxel, Cisplatin, Fluorouracil and Etoposide may be a feasible strategy to enhance the effects of chemotherapy in patients with ESCC.
Because methimazole has antioxidant properties, the effects of methimazole treatment on cephaloridine, S-(1,2-dichlorovinyl)-L-cysteine (DCVC), 2-bromohydroquinone (2-BHQ) and cis-diaminedichloroplatinum (II) (cisplatin)-induced nephrotoxicity were investigated. Rats given cephaloridine (1 g/kg), cisplatin (5 mg/kg), DCVC (100 mg/kg) or 2-BHQ (157 mg/kg) i.p. exhibited significant elevations in blood urea nitrogen concentrations, which correlated with appearance of distinct renal histopathological changes. Cephaloridine, DCVC or 2-BHQ-induced nephrotoxicity was reduced only when methimazole (20-40 mg/kg) was given 30 min before the nephrotoxicant, whereas cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity was reduced when methimazole was given 30 min before and up to 4 hr after cisplatin. Because the renal organic acid transport system plays an important role in the nephrotoxicity of cephaloridine, cisplatin and DCVC, the role of the organic acid transport system in the renal uptake of methimazole was investigated. With rat kidney cortical slices, methimazole uptake was time- and concentration-dependent; however, the organic acid transport substrates, probenecid (1 mM) and p-aminohippuric acid (7.5 mM), were ineffective in blocking methimazole uptake. Furthermore, cephaloridine (1 mM) uptake by kidney cortical slices was not affected by methimazole (5 mM). Rats given methimazole (40 mg/kg) 30 min before cephaloridine (2 g/kg) had serum and kidney cephaloridine concentrations similar to rats given cephaloridine only, but the methimazole-pretreated rats were significantly protected against cephaloridine-induced oxidation of renal nonprotein thiols. These results show that methimazole does not inhibit the transport of cephaloridine into the kidneys, but may protect against cephaloridine-induced renal damage by acting as an antioxidant within the kidneys.
Male F344 rats were given diethylnitrosamine in drinking water at a concentration of 40 p.p.m. for 5 weeks. One week later, the rats were fed diet containing clofibrate at concentrations of of 0,0.1, 0.25, 0.5, and 1% for 19 weeks. Hepatic tumors greater than 1 mm were counted. The doses of 0.1% and 0.25% clofibrate markedly enchanced the incidence of hepatic tumors, whereas 0.5% clofibrate had no effect and 1% clofibrate markedly inhibited hepatocarcinogenesis. It is clearly demonstrated in the present experiments that the lower doses of clofibrate (0.1% and 0.25%) promote hepatocarcinogenesis. The higher doses of clofibrate (0.5% and 1%) depress weight gain by lowering the intake of food. This lowered food intake might contribute to inhibition of hepatocarcinogenesis.
Free copper in Wilson disease (WD) is toxic and may reduce antioxidant, increase oxidative stress marker and thereby cytokine release and excitotoxic injury, but there is paucity of studies in humans. We report oxidative stress markers, cytokines and glutamate in neurologic WD and correlate these with their clinical severity, laboratory findings and extent of Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) changes.
29 patients with neurologic WD and 9 asymptomatic WD siblings were included and their clinical, treatment history, disease severity, biochemical findings and MRI changes were noted. Glutathione (GSH), total antioxidant capacity (TAC) and malonodialdehyde (MDA) were measured by spectrophotometer, cytokines by cytokine bead array and glutamate by the fluorometer.
In WD patients, the glutathione (mean±SEM, 2.20±0.06 vs. 2.73±0.04mg/dl, P<0.001) and TAC (1.70±0.03 vs. 2.29±0.02 Trolox_Eq_mmol/l, P<0.001) were reduced, and MDA and glutamate (23.93±0.54 vs. 19.96±0.27μmol/l; P<0.001) were increased (4.7±0.11 vs. 3.03±0.52nmol/ml, P<0.001) compared to controls. The serum IL6 {median (IQRs), 9.42(10.92) vs. 5.2(5.34) pg/ml; P=0.001}, IL8 {12.37(10.92) vs. 5.63(5.52) pg/ml; P<0.001}, IL10 {8.33(8.3) vs. 2.05(1.37) pg/ml; P=0.001} and TNFα {6.14(8.95) vs. 3.61(3.58) pg/ml; P<0.001} were also increased in WD patients compared to controls. These changes were more marked in the neurologic WD compared to asymptomatic WD and in the untreated compared to treated patients. TAC correlated with duration of illness, serum free copper, 24hour urinary copper and serum ceruloplasmin, and glutamate with MDA, TNFα, ceruloplasmin and 24-hour urinary copper.
In WD patients, antioxidants are reduced and MDA, cytokines and glutamate are increased which are more marked in symptomatic neurologic WD than asymptomatic patients.
Using two strains of Staphylococcus aureus, one susceptible and one heterogeneously resistant to methicillin, for which MICs and MBCs of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX) were 0.06 and 0.06 micrograms/ml and 0.06 and 0.25 microgram/ml, respectively (concentrations are those of TMP), we studied the efficacies of TMP-SMX and cloxacillin, teicoplanin, and vancomycin for treatment of experimental staphylococcal endocarditis. Rabbits were treated with dosages of TMP-SMX selected to achieve concentrations in serum equivalent to that obtained in humans treated for Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia. The overall mortality rate of rabbits treated with TMP-SMX was 84% at day 3, not different from that of the control groups (P > 0.1). No sterile vegetations were observed to be present in control groups or in animals treated with TMP-SMX. However, 26, 60, and 75% of rabbits treated with teicoplanin, cloxacillin, and vancomycin, respectively, showed sterile vegetations. For methicillin-susceptible S. aureus (MSSA), the mean vegetation counts were not significantly different between the control group and the group treated with TMP-SMX (P > 0.1). For methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA), treatment with TMP-SMX was more effective than no therapy, decreasing the number of organisms in vegetations (P < 0.01). For both strains, therapy with cloxacillin and therapy with teicoplanin or vancomycin were significantly more effective than therapy with TMP-SMX. Despite high concentrations of teicoplanin in serum which exceeded MBCs for staphylococci more than 50 times at the peak and 10 times at the trough, therapy with cloxacillin or vancomycin was superior to therapy with teicoplanin against both MSSA and MRSA. These data do not support the use of TMP-SMX in treatment of endocarditis and other severe staphylococcal infections with high bacterial counts.
The suggestion that hypertension is more prevalent in renal allograft recipients receiving cyclosporine (CyA), particularly those displaying nephrotoxicity, was tested by reviewing 200 patients' courses, including 92 cadaver (CAD) and 58 living-related (LRD) transplants using CyA and prednisone immunosuppression, and 19 CAD and 31 LRD transplants using azathioprine (Aza) and prednisone, all of whom had at least 1 year posttransplant complete outpatient follow-up. Both groups had a mean age of 33 years with a similar distribution of renal failure etiologies. Renal function was significantly impaired in the CyA group at all intervals (P less than .001, t test). The prevalence of hypertension was higher in the CyA group at all intervals, becoming significant at 12 (P less than .01) and 24 (P less than .05) months following transplantation (chi 2). While there was only a significant difference in mean diastolic BP at 12 months (P less than .05, t test), the mean number of antihypertensive and/or diuretic medications was significantly greater in the CyA group at 1 and 6 months (P less than .001) and at 12 months (P less than .01). By 24 months, the mean number of all antihypertensive and/or diuretic medications was no longer significantly different. However, the antihypertensive and diuretic requirements of the CyA group diminished with time, suggesting that the hypertension is not progressive if the CyA serum trough levels are maintained in the nontoxic range (less than 200 ng/mL).
Both platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) and transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) are known to be pivotal cytokines in liver fibrosis development. The aim of our current study was to elucidate the effects of dual inhibition of PDGF and TGF-beta by combination of the clinically used imatinib mesylate (STI-571) and perindopril (an ACE-inhibitor; ACE-I), respectively, on ongoing liver fibrosis development in rats. The effects of STI-571 and ACE-I at clinically comparable low doses were examined in a rat model of CCl4-induced liver fibrogenesis. Treatment with both STI-571 and ACE-I inhibited liver fibrogenesis and suppressed activation of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs). Administration of both agents exerted a more potent inhibitory effect than administration of either single agent. Our in vitro study demonstrated that STI-571 and ACE-I suppressed PDGF receptor (PDGFR) phosphorylation and TGF-beta expression in activated HSCs, respectively. Dual suppression of PDGF and TGF-beta with a combination of clinically comparable low doses of STI-571 and ACE-I exerted a significant inhibitory effect on ongoing liver fibrosis development. Since both agents are widely used in clinical practice, this combination therapy may provide a new strategy against liver fibrosis in the future.
Heat shock protein 60 (HSPD1) plays a critical role in myocardial protection. Its reduced expression may lower myocardial protection against ischemic injury in the diabetic state. This study was conducted to investigate the natural course of fructose-fed insulin-resistant rats, define changes in myocardial HSPD1 expression, and determine the effects of thiazolidinedione or anti-hypertensive treatment. Results showed that insulin resistance with hyperinsulinemia and hypertension developed after 6 weeks of fructose feeding. This time-course study also showed that myocardial HSPD1 expression was mildly increased in week 6 (P=0.05) and significantly increased in week 8. Rosiglitazone-treated rats had restored systolic blood pressure (BP) and normalized plasma insulin level during oral glucose tolerance tests, whereas amlodipine-treated rats restored only systolic BP. Both amlodipine and rosiglitazone treatments normalized the abundance of myocardial HSPD1 expression in fructose-fed rats. When these rats received streptozotocin injection and diabetes developed, myocardial HSPD1 expression decreased despite persistent hypertension. In conclusion, this is the first study to report that myocardial HSPD1 expression is increased in high-fructose-fed rats, which may be due to increased BP. Once the high-fructose-fed rats developed diabetes with insulin deficiency, the myocardial HSPD1 expression decreased in spite of persistent hypertension.
