Potential alteration of ouabain-induced cardiotoxicity by gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) in rats was tested by infusing ouabain for 10 min (0.7 mg/kg/min, i.v.) before or after continuous infusion of Ringer's solution with or without GABA (1 mg/min, i.v.). GABA evoked hypotension and bradycardia of similar magnitude under both conditions. The incidence of ouabain-induced ventricular fibrillation (VF) or cardiac arrest (CA) was similar in both groups. However, the time intervals to onset of VF and CA, in rats given ouabain before, but not after, GABA were shorter than in rats treated with Ringer's solution (p < 0.05). In experiments where baclofen (0.034 mg/min, i.v.) was infused after ouabain, hypotension and bradycardia occurred, but the incidence and times of ouabain-induced VF and CA were similar to control values. These results suggest that the enhancement in ouabain cardiotoxicity was mediated by GABAA receptors.
The response to levodopa changes over time in Parkinson's disease, probably due to alterations in the dopaminergic system, progression of the disease and pulsatile oral intake of the drug. Bilateral high-frequency stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) allows a large reduction or the complete cessation of levodopa intake in patients with advanced Parkinson's disease. We studied variation in the motor short-duration response (SDR) during a levodopa challenge in bilaterally STN-stimulated patients. Twenty-eight consecutive patients with a mean duration of Parkinson's disease of 16.6 +/- 6.0 years at the time of surgery were enrolled. Fourteen patients were evaluated both before STN stimulation and 3 months after surgery (group 1) whereas the other 14 patients were assessed before implantation and after a mean of 3 years of STN stimulation (group 2). After drug withdrawal for one night, the hand-tapping test (TT) was carried out every 15 min, together with evaluation of dyskinesias using a modified Goetz scale. The Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) motor score was assessed every 30 min. In operated patients, STN stimulation was stopped 15 min before starting the clinical evaluations. A suprathreshold oral levodopa dose was given after one motor evaluation and two TTs. The clinical evaluation was carried out until the TT score returned to the baseline. In group 1, six patients continued without levodopa after surgery and the other eight received a daily mean dose of 337 mg; in group 2, seven patients continued without levodopa and the other seven received a daily mean dose of 386 mg. The main change in the levodopa SDR was a significant reduction in levodopa-induced dyskinesias in both groups. In those patients of group 1 who did not receive levodopa after surgery, the motor UPDRS magnitude decreased and the 'on' UPDRS motor score worsened. In group 2, the results were similar, but in the patients who continued to receive levodopa after surgery the TT magnitude increased. On the whole, chronic bilateral STN stimulation tended to decrease the magnitude of the levodopa SDR without changing the duration and latency of the response. These results suggest that continuous STN stimulation induces long-term plastic changes of the dopaminergic system, with slow and partial desensitization. In addition, the persistence of levodopa intake after surgery might hinder this beneficial process.
Zinc has been shown to have antioxidant actions, which may be due, in part, to induction of metallothionein (MT). Such induction can protect tissues against various forms of oxidative injury because MT can function as an antioxidant. The objective of this study was to investigate if zinc or MT induction by zinc could afford protection against CYP2E1-dependent toxicity. HepG2 cells overexpressing CYP2E1 (E47cells) were treated with 60 microM arachidonic acid (AA), which is known to be toxic to these cells by a mechanism dependent on CYP2E1, oxidative stress, and lipid peroxidation. E47 cells were preincubated overnight in the absence or presence of metals such as zinc or cadmium that can induce MT. The culture medium containing the metals was removed, AA was added, and cell viability determined after 24 h incubation. Preincubation overnight with 150 microM zinc sulfate or 5 microM cadmium chloride induced a 20- to 30-fold increase of MT2A mRNA; high levels of MT2A mRNA were maintained during the subsequent challenge period with AA, even after the zinc was removed. MT protein levels were increased about 4- to 5-fold during the overnight preincubation with zinc and a 20- to 30-fold increase was observed 24 h after zinc removal during the AA challenge. The treatment with zinc was associated with significant protection against the loss of cell viability caused by AA in E47 cells. The zinc pretreatment protected about 50% against the DNA fragmentation, cell necrosis, the enhanced lipid peroxidation and increased generation of reactive oxygen species, and the loss of mitochondrial membrane potential induced by AA treatment in E47 cells. CYP2E1 catalytic activity and components of the cell antioxidant defense system such as glutathione (GSH), glutathione-S-transferase (GST), glutathione peroxidase (GPX), catalase, Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD), and MnSOD were not altered under these conditions. Zinc preincubation also protected the E47 cells against BSO-dependent toxicity. When E47 cells were coincubated with zinc plus AA for 24 h (i.e., zinc was not removed, nor was there a preincubation period prior to challenge with AA), AA toxicity was increased. Thus, zinc had a direct pro-oxidant effect in this model and an indirect antioxidant effect, perhaps via induction of MT. MT may have potential clinical utility for the prevention or improvement of liver injury produced by agents known to be metabolized by CYP2E1 to reactive intermediates and to cause oxidative stress.
Cataleptic effect of pentazocine in mice was affected by pretreatment with dexfenfluramine, fluoxetine, buspirone, p-chlorophenylalanine, cyproheptadine, mianserin, cisapride, ondansetron, pindolol and propranolol. The results suggest that drugs which influence the activity of central serotonergic systems do modulate pentazocine-induced catalepsy in mice.
Food additives can induce a wide range of adverse reactions in sensitive individuals. A prevalence of 0.03% to 0.23% is estimated. The complexity of the different pathophysiologic mechanisms possibly involved in the allergic (immunologic) or in the intolerant (nonimmunologic) reactions to food additives continues to create great difficulties in the understanding of such conditions. From the clinical point of view it is useful to make a distinction between an intolerance reaction and intolerance provocation. The pathogenic mechanisms of adverse reactions to the azo dye tartrazine and to sulfite preservatives are discussed briefly. Due to the lack of reliable skin or in vitro tests, the diagnosis of an intolerance to food additives is still based on placebo-controlled oral provocation tests. Two typical cases of a "restaurant syndrome" due to sulfite allergy or sensitivity are described, as well as a case of disulfite-induced urticaria-vasculitis and a case of anaphylactoid purpura associated with tartrazine and benzoates.
In a series of studies, we have shown that phenytoin, 300 mg daily for one week, produces consistent hepatic microsomal enzyme induction, resulting in a decrease of 25% in misonidazole half-life, without causing any toxicity per se. A longer period of administration gives only a slightly greater induction. Phenobarbitone in a daily dose of 90 mg causes a reduction of 18% and 23% in misonidazole half-life after 1 and 2 weeks' pre-treatment respectively, but is less suitable clinically because of its sedative effect. A further series of studies using phenytoin as the inducing agent has shown that, despite adequate enzyme induction and increased misonidazole metabolism, it is impossible to increase the total dose of misonidazole beyond the usually accepted value of 12 g/m2 because of unacceptable neuropathy (a rate of 50% at a dose of 14 g/m2 over three weeks). In single doses of above 3.0-4.0 g of misonidazole, severe nausea and vomiting are prominent, so that this side effect is a determining factor in the treatment fractionation. Audiometric studies show no correlation between the incidence of peripheral neuropathy and abnormal audiograms, and have no value in the early prediction of neurotoxicity. It seems that despite causing increased metabolism, enzyme induction does not protect against neurotoxicity and thus will not permit the use of higher doses of misonidazole for increased radiosensitisation.
Ziprasidone (CP-88,059) is a combined 5-HT (serotonin) and dopamine receptor antagonist which exhibits potent effects in preclinical assays predictive of antipsychotic activity. Whereas the compound is a dopamine antagonist in vitro and in vivo, its most potent action is antagonism of 5-HT2A receptors, where its affinity is an order of magnitude greater than that observed for dopamine D2 sites. Laboratory and clinical findings have led to a hypothesis that antagonism of 5-HT2A receptors in the brain limits the undesirable motor side effects associated with dopamine receptor blockade and improves efficacy against the negative symptoms of schizophrenia. Ziprasidone possesses an in vitro 5-HT2A/dopamine D2 receptor affinity ratio higher than any clinically available antipsychotic agent. In vivo, ziprasidone antagonizes 5-HT2A receptor-induced head twitch with 6-fold higher potency than for blockade of d-amphetamine-induced hyperactivity, a measure of central dopamine D2 receptor antagonism. Ziprasidone also has high affinity for the 5-HT1A, 5-HT1D and 5-HT2C receptor subtypes, which may further enhance its therapeutic potential. The prediction of antipsychotic efficacy without severe motor side effects is supported by the relatively weak potency of ziprasidone to produce catalepsy in animals, contrasted with its potent antagonism of conditioned avoidance responding and dopamine agonist-induced locomotor activation and stereotypy. The compound is well tolerated in animals at doses producing effective dopamine antagonism in the brain. Ziprasidone should be a valuable addition to the treatment of psychotic disorders.
Cocaine use during pregnancy results in an increase in different maternal and perinatal complications. The fetal effects of cocaine could be mainly related to the disturbances in the brain development, microcephaly being the most common brain abnormality. The aim of this study was to analyze maternal outcome and fetal somatic effects of cocaine and to evaluate the hypothesis that maternal cocaine exposure would specifically impair fetal global brain development. Fifty-four timed-pregnant female Sprague-Dawley rats were daily injected with 15 or 40 mg/kg per day from gestational day (GD) 1 or 8 and sacrificed at gestational day 20. By analyzing different maternal and fetal outcomes, it could be suggested that the cocaine exposure in pregnant rats decreased maternal weight gain without significant maternal mortality, did not affect the mean number of fetuses by litter, although notably increased stillbirths, reduced fetal birth weight, and reduced the fetal central nervous system weight. Present results are globally in agreement with the literature and underline a possible selective effect of cocaine on the fetal CNS resulting in symmetrical intrauterine fetal growth retardation in contrast to the asymmetrical retardation of undernutrition.
Lower expression of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), vascular adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1), and E-selectin may be responsible for attenuated ischemic-reperfusion neutrophil adhesion to vascular endothelium. Desflurane reduces ischemia-reperfusion injury. Therefore, we assessed whether desflurane affects the protein expression of ICAM-1 and E-selectin and mRNA expression of ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 of human umbilical venous endothelial cells (HUVEC) stimulated with tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha). HUVEC were preconditioned for 60 min with 1 minimum alveolar concentration desflurane before stimulating with TNF-alpha. Protein expression of adhesion molecules ICAM-1 and E-selectin of HUVEC were evaluated via immunocytochemical techniques combined with image cytometry. ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 mRNA expression of HUVEC were determined via reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Desflurane not only reduced the protein expression of ICAM-1 and E-selectin but also ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 mRNA expression of the HUVEC. The adhesion rate of neutrophils with desflurane-treated HUVEC was slower. The decreased neutrophil adhesion on the desflurane-treated HUVEC correlated well with the decrease in adhesion molecule expression. These results show that desflurane affects the expression of adhesion molecules involved in the multistep process of neutrophil recruitment. Desflurane related ischemia-reperfusion injury reduction correlates well with expression inhibition of ICAM-1, VCAM-1, and E-selectin that mediates neutrophil rotation and firm adhesion on the vascular endothelium.
Perry syndrome consists of early-onset parkinsonism, depression, severe weight loss and hypoventilation, with brain pathology characterized by TDP-43 immunostaining. We carried out genome-wide linkage analysis and identified five disease-segregating mutations affecting the CAP-Gly domain of dynactin (encoded by DCTN1) in eight families with Perry syndrome; these mutations diminish microtubule binding and lead to intracytoplasmic inclusions. Our findings show that DCTN1 mutations, previously associated with motor neuron disease, can underlie the selective vulnerability of other neuronal populations in distinct neurodegenerative disorders.
We identified 15q13.3 microdeletions encompassing the CHRNA7 gene in 12 of 1,223 individuals with idiopathic generalized epilepsy (IGE), which were not detected in 3,699 controls (joint P = 5.32 x 10(-8)). Most deletion carriers showed common IGE syndromes without other features previously associated with 15q13.3 microdeletions, such as intellectual disability, autism or schizophrenia. Our results indicate that 15q13.3 microdeletions constitute the most prevalent risk factor for common epilepsies identified to date.
It has been suggested that bradykinin (BK) and norepinephrine (NE) induce hyperalgesia, indirectly, by stimulating the production of prostaglandin products of the cyclo-oxygenase pathway of arachidonic acid metabolism. However, the specific PGs that mediate the hyperalgesic effects of BK and NE are unknown. Two endogenous PGs, prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and prostacyclin (PGI2) are known to produced hyperalgesia. Since the hyperalgesic effects of PGE2 and PGI2 can be distinguished by the duration of the hyperalgesia they induce, we have compared the duration of BK and NE hyperalgesia with those of PGE2 and PGI2. To further address the type of PG mediating BK and NE hyperalgesia, we have evaluated the ability of SC19220, a PG-receptor antagonist, to distinguish the hyperalgesia induced by PGE2 and PGI2. BK induces hyperalgesia with duration similar to that of PGE2. NE induces hyperalgesia with duration similar to that of PGI2. SC19220, at low doses, antagonizes PGE2 and BK hyperalgesia but not PGI2 and NE hyperalgesia. These data are compatible with the suggestion that the prostaglandin products mediating BK and NE hyperalgesia differ, BK hyperalgesia being mediated by PGE2 and NE hyperalgesia by PGI2.
Effects and side-effects of 150 mg and 225 mg maprotiline per day were compared by means of a double-blind trial in 20 depressed inpatients. The first 2 days patients received a high initial dosage of 300 mg per day. Patients were examined on days 0, 2, 5, 10, 15, 20, and 30. Symptoms were evaluated by the AMP system and the Hamilton scale for depressions. Laboratory examinations were carried out on days 0, 10, 20, and 30. Exanthemas developed in five patients, three of whom were on the higher dosage. Moreover, the lower dosage caused less fine hand tremor. Coinciding with the beginning of treatment a linear decrease of depressive symptoms was noted. This demonstrates the rapid onset of the antidepressant effect. Moreover, contrary to what has been stated for antidepressants generally, the onset of action was frequently noted well before 10-20 days of treatment. Some patients improved within a few days while others needed more time. The time lag until antidepressants influence depressive symptoms shows pronounced individual differences. No significant difference between the two dosages was found. The profiles show a better antidepressant effect for the higher dosage; however, because of a higher incidence of side-effects on the higher dosage of maprotiline, it cannot be recommended as routine. On the other hand, depressive inpatients should receive a daily dosage of at least 150 mg. Our findings suggest a dose-effect relationship for maprotiline.
To evaluate a commonly used 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor-atorvastatin-for potential activity against human bladder cancer. Patients with bladder cancer often have concomitant hyperlipidemia and cardiac disease due to common risk factors such as smoking and advanced age. As such, they are often prescribed HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins), which have been suggested to affect tumor growth patterns.
Two human transitional cell carcinoma cell lines--RT4 and KU-7--were exposed to atorvastatin at concentrations from 0 (control) to 100 microM for 48 or 72 hours. The effects on cell proliferation, DNA synthesis, and apoptosis were respectively evaluated using the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide colorimetric assay and the thymidine incorporation assay and by quantifying DNA fragmentation by propidium iodide fluorescence and flow cytometry.
Atorvastatin inhibited cell proliferation and DNA synthesis in both bladder cancer cell lines. This led to significant cytotoxicity as demonstrated by DNA fragmentation and induction of apoptosis.
Atorvastatin exhibits significant antiproliferative and pro-apoptotic activity in human bladder cancer cells. This, coupled with its established clinical safety profile, provides a rationale for its use as a potential chemopreventive agent against bladder cancer.
Two observations of severe neuropsychiatric reactions occurring during chemoprophylaxis with mefloquine are reported. The first case regards a 43 years old woman who developed a severe depression with visual and auditive hallucinations and a paranoid delusion. She was treated by clomipramine and risperidone. The second case concerns a 55 years old man who developed an acute psychosis with confusion. He was treated with halopridol during a short time. He presented twice an acute psychosis during a chemoprophylaxis with mefloquine. Several cases of neuropsychiatric side effects with mefloquine chemoprophylaxis or treatment have been described. Authors estimate that one of 250 therapeutic users has severe neuropsychiatric reactions, compared with one of 10,000 to 15,000 in the prophylaxis users. Disorders could last from 15 minutes to several weeks. Women and patients with personal or familial antecedents of psychiatric disorders are more frequently concerned. Alcohol and the association with other antimalarial drugs (like quinine) are two other risk factors. Therefore, some advices may be suggested regarding the use of mefloquine for malaria prophylaxis and treatment.
Inorganic arsenic is a known human skin carcinogen. Chronic arsenic exposure results in various human skin lesions, including hyperkeratosis and squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), both characterized by distorted cytokeratin (CK) production. Prior work shows the human skin keratinocyte HaCaT cell line, when exposed chronically for >25 weeks to a low level of inorganic arsenite (100nM) results in cells able to produce aggressive SCC upon inoculation into nude mice. In the present study, CK expression analysis was performed in arsenic-exposed HaCaT cells during the progressive acquisition of this malignant phenotype (0-20 weeks) to further validate this model as relevant to epidermal carcinogenesis induced by arsenic in humans. Indeed, we observed clear evidence of acquired cancer phenotype by 20 weeks of arsenite exposure including the formation of giant cells, a >4-fold increase in colony formation in soft agar and a approximately 2.5-fold increase in matrix metalloproteinase-9 secretion, an enzyme often secreted by cancer cells to help invade through the local extra-cellular matrix. During this acquired malignant phenotype, various CK genes showed markedly altered expression at the transcript and protein levels in a time-dependent manner. For example, CK1, a marker of hyperkeratosis, increased up to 34-fold during arsenic-induced transformation, while CK13, a marker for dermal cancer progression, increased up to 45-fold. The stem cell marker, CK15, increased up to 7-fold, particularly during the later stages of arsenic exposure, indicating a potential emergence of cancer stem-like cells with arsenic-induced acquired malignant phenotype. The expression of involucrin and loricrin, markers for keratinocyte differentiation, increased up to 9-fold. Thus, during arsenic-induced acquired cancer phenotype in human keratinocytes, dramatic and dynamic alterations in CK expression occur which are consistent with the process of epidermal carcinogenesis helping validate this as an appropriate model for the study of arsenic-induced skin cancer.
Advanced glycation and lipoxidation endproducts have been implicated in the pathogenesis of diabetic complications, including diabetic nephropathy. LR-90, a new advanced glycation endproduct inhibitor, was investigated for its effects on the development of renal disease in diabetic rats.
Diabetic animals were randomly allocated into groups receiving LR-90 or vehicle (untreated). Age- and weight-matched non-diabetic rats were studied concurrently. Body weight, plasma glucose, glycated haemoglobin, urinary albumin and creatine excretions were measured serially. Kidney histopathology, AGE accumulation in cells and tissues, protein oxidation, were also examined. In vitro assays were used to assess the possible mechanism of action of LR-90.
LR-90 inhibited the increase in albumin and creatinine concentrations, and concentrations of circulating AGE in diabetic rats without any effect on glycaemic control. LR-90 treated-rats also showed higher body weights than untreated diabetic rats. LR-90 prevented glomerulosclerosis, tubular degeneration and collagen deposition in the kidney. AGE-induced cross-linking and fluorescence of tail collagen were reduced by LR-90 treatment. LR-90 also decreased AGE accumulation in kidney glomeruli and nitrotyrosine deposition in the renal cortex. In vitro, LR-90 was capable of reacting with reactive carbonyl compounds and was a more potent metal chelator than pyridoxamine and aminoguanidine.
LR-90 reduces in vivo AGE accumulation, AGE-protein cross-linking and protein oxidation, and could be beneficial in preventing the progression of diabetic nephropathy. The AGE inhibitory and therapeutic effects of LR-90 could be attributed, at least in part, to its ability to react with reactive carbonyl species and/or potent metal chelating activity that inhibits glycoxidative-AGE formation.
Lipid peroxidation has been implicated in a variety of pathophysiological processes, including inflammation, atherogenesis, neurodegeneration, and the ageing process. Phospholipid hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase (GPX4) is the only major antioxidant enzyme known to directly reduce phospholipid hydroperoxides within membranes and lipoproteins, acting in conjunction with alpha tocopherol (vitamin E) to inhibit lipid peroxidation. Here we describe the generation and characterization of GPX4-deficient mice by targeted disruption of the murine Gpx4 locus through homologous recombination in embryonic stem cells. Gpx4(-/-) embryos die in utero by midgestation (E7.5) and are associated with a lack of normal structural compartmentalization. Gpx4(+/-) mice display reduced levels of Gpx4 mRNA and protein in various tissues. Interestingly, cell lines derived from Gpx4(+/-) mice are markedly sensitive to inducers of oxidative stress, including gamma-irradiation, paraquat, tert-butylhydroperoxide, and hydrogen peroxide, as compared to cell lines derived from wild-type control littermates. Gpx4(+/-) mice also display reduced survival in response to gamma-irradiation. Our observations establish GPX4 as an essential antioxidant enzyme in mice and suggest that it performs broad functions as a component of the mammalian antioxidant network.
In ras-mediated signal transduction pathway, c-raf.1 is believed to have predominant oncogenic potential and has been found to be highly expressed in certain human and animal malignancies including hepatocellular carcinoma. In the present study, anticancer efficacy of antisense c-raf.1 oligomer on the inhibition of c-raf.1 mRNA overexpression during hepatocarcinogenesis was determined.
Initially antiproliferating effect of the antisense oligomers was studied in vitro by measuring the rate of tritiated thymidine incorporation into DNA in rat hepatocellular carcinoma cells in culture medium. Based on the findings, the antisense treatment was carried out in rat hepatocarcinogenesis model-initiated with diethylnitrosamine and promoted using 2-acetylaminoflourene. Different drug-metabolizing enzymes, lipid peroxidation, liver morphology and histopathological studies along with c-raf.1 gene expression by in situ hybridization were performed.
c-raf.1 antisense oligomers exhibited an inhibitory effect (approximately 68%) on cancer cell proliferation in vitro. Gross and microscopic examination of liver showed fewer (29%) and smaller hyperplastic nodules and preneoplastic lesions (30%) in carcinogen and antisense oligomer-treated group as compared with carcinogen control group. Treatment of antisense c-raf.1 oligomers enhanced cytochrome P-450 content (81%) and reduced glutathione S-transferase activity (33%), UDP glucuronosyltransferase activity (74%) and MDA concentration (30%) in carcinogen and antisense oligomer-treated group as compared with carcinogen control animals. The oligomer treatment also resulted in less expression in terms of c-raf.1 expressed lesion count as compared to carcinogen control group.
The study demonstrates that the antisense oligomer targeted against c-raf.1 mRNA inhibits the overexpression of c-raf.1 gene during hepatocellular carcinoma in rats.
Feed restriction and dietary 1,3-butanediol were used with lactating goats in an attempt to induce metabolic changes characteristic of bovine lactation ketosis and fatty liver. In Experiment 1, midlactation goats were fed 80, 102, or 114% of metabolizable energy requirements and 0, 50, or 100 g/d of 1,3-butanediol. Concentration of beta-hydroxybutyrate in blood plasma decreased with increasing metabolizable energy but was increased greatly at 2 h after goats were fed 50 or 100 g butanediol and remained elevated at 6 h postfeeding with 100 g of butanediol. Concentration of glucose in plasma was decreased at 2 and 6 h postfeeding in goats fed 100 g of butanediol. In Experiment 2, goats in early lactation were fed for ad libitum intake or were restricted to 70% of ad libitum intake with 1,3-butanediol included at 10% of diet DM. The treatment decreased milk production, increased concentrations of beta-hydroxybutyrate and nonesterified fatty acids, and decreased the concentration of insulin and the insulin to glucagon ratio in plasma. Concentrations of glucose, acetate, and glucagon in plasma were not affected. After 28 d of treatment, concentration of total lipid in liver was increased, but concentrations of glycogen and triglyceride were unaffected. Changes caused in goats by feed restriction plus dietary 1,3-butanediol were characteristic of subclinical lactation ketosis in cows, but the response was more moderate than seen previously in cows.
In desperation, we have used retrovir in five hemophilic children (10-16 years old) over the past 22 months. All had presented with various clinical manifestations of acquired-immune-deficiency-syndrome (AIDS)-related complex or AIDS. Our decision to treat with retrovir was based on clinical manifestations and very low numbers of CD4 cells (less than 200). The most common clinical presentation was recurrent oral moniliasis. Other significant findings included recurrent herpes zoster, thrombocytopenia, growth failure, and biliary tract infection. Initially, all five children received the full adult dosage of retrovir (200 mg q 4 h x 6 doses/day). This dosage had to be reduced in four children because of toxicity. The most commonly observed toxic side effects were anemia and neutropenia. Alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels rose to 4-10 times the upper limit of normal in four of five children. One was on concomitant ketokonazole prior to the rise in ALT level. Myalgia and headache were reported by two patients. Improvement in clinical and immunological status was observed in all children initially. After 12-18 months of retrovir therapy, infectious complications secondary to prolonged neutropenia were seen in these immunocompromized children. However, compared to historic controls, these children have had fairly stable disease. We feel that all hemophilic children with symptomatic human immunodeficiency virus infection should be offered this drug, even though the optimal dosage for children is not yet established.
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs such as indomethacin can inhibit the growth of tumors through both the cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) dependant and COX-2 independent pathways, but the exact mechanism has not yet been shown. In our previous study, COX-2 independent proteins (Bfl-1, WISP-1 and proliferating cell nuclear antigens [PCNA]) in indomethacin-treated colorectal cancer cells with the use of proteomics technology had been identified.
To study and confirm the effect of indomethacin on the expression of Bfl-1, WISP-1 and PCNA in human colon cancer line HCT116 cells and the COX-2 independent tumor inhibiting pathway.
Human colon cancer cell line HCT116 cells were divided into a treatment with indomethacin (IC 50) group, and a treatment with dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) as a control group for 48 h. The expression of Bfl-1, WISP-1 and PCNA, mRNA and protein were determined by a real-time quantitative PCR and Western blot, respectively.
Indomethacin down-regulated the expression of Bfl-1, WISP-1 and PCNA mRNA in vitro (9.53 +/- 0.15 vs 27.87 +/- 0.12, 7.37 +/- 0.58 vs 20.17 +/- 0.58, 5.17 +/- 0.06 vs 0.87 +/- 0.06). Indomethacin also down-regulated the expression of Bfl-1, WISP-1 and PCNA protein (40.01 +/- 1.61 vs 43.76 +/- 1.63, 22.50 +/- 1.17 vs 30.30 +/- 1.55, 17.69 +/- 1.18 vs 20.80 +/- 1.08).
Inducing apoptosis and inhibiting proliferation contribute to the anticancer activity of indomethacin via COX-2 independent pathway of Bfl-1, WISP-1 and PCNA. This further confirms the results of our previous study.
The purpose of the present investigation was to determine whether peripheral beta-1 and alpha-2 receptors are regulated by the tricyclic antidepressant, imipramine. The administration of imipramine alone decreased the sensitivity of peripheral beta-1 receptor activity in anesthetized rats (isoproterenol-induced positive chronotropy) after 11 days, but not after 4 days. The coadministration of the selective alpha-2 antagonists, yohimbine or idazoxan (RX 781094), with imipramine resulted in a decrease in beta-1 receptor sensitivity in anesthetized rats within only 4 days. In isolated spontaneously beating right atria taken from drug-treated rats, beta-1 receptor sensitivity (isoproterenol positive chronotrophy) was not affected by the administration of imipramine for 4 days; however, administration of imipramine for 11 days resulted in significant decrease in beta-1 receptor sensitivity. The coadministration of yohimbine or idazoxan with imipramine resulted in a decrease in beta-1 receptor function in only 4 days. Beta-2 receptor sensitivity (isoproterenol-induced hypotension in anesthetized rats) was not significantly altered under conditions in which beta-1 receptor sensitivity was decreased. The destruction of central catecholamine-containing neurons with 6-hydroxydopamine prevented the subsensitivity of peripheral beta-1 receptor function in anesthetized rats induced by the coadministration of imipramine plus yohimbine (4 days). The sensitivity of peripheral alpha-2 receptors (clonidine-induced inhibition of electrically stimulated rat vas deferens) was depressed after the administration of imipramine alone (4 days) and imipramine plus yohimbine or idazoxan (4 days).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
This study was designed to examine the safety and efficacy of sodium nitroprusside (SNP) for patients with acute decompensated heart failure (ADHF) and low-output states.
Inotropic therapy has been predominantly used in the management of patients with ADHF presenting with low cardiac output.
We reviewed all consecutive patients with ADHF admitted between 2000 and 2005 with a cardiac index < or =2 l/min/m(2) for intensive medical therapy including vasoactive drugs. Administration of SNP was chosen by the attending clinician, nonrandomized, and titrated to a target mean arterial pressure of 65 to 70 mm Hg.
Compared with control patients (n = 97), cases treated with SNP (n = 78) had significantly higher mean central venous pressure (15 vs. 13 mm Hg; p = 0.001), pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (29 vs. 24 mm Hg; p = 0.001), but similar demographics, medications, and renal function at baseline. Use of SNP was not associated with higher rates of inotropic support or worsening renal function during hospitalization. Patients treated with SNP achieved greater improvement in hemodynamic measurements during hospitalization, had higher rates of oral vasodilator prescription at discharge, and had lower rates of all-cause mortality (29% vs. 44%; odds ratio: 0.48; p = 0.005; 95% confidence interval: 0.29 to 0.80) without increase in rehospitalization rates (58% vs. 56%; p = NS).
In patients with advanced, low-output heart failure, vasodilator therapy used in conjunction with optimal current medical therapy during hospitalization might be associated with favorable long-term clinical outcomes irrespective of inotropic support or renal dysfunction and remains an excellent therapeutic choice in hospitalized ADHF patients.
Herpetic meningoencephalitis is treated with acyclovir (15 mg/kg/8 h). This higher dosage enhance the risk of acute renal failure.
We report the case of a previously healthy 42 years old man treated by intravenous aciclovir 1g/8 h for a herpetic meningoencephalitis. He presented an acute renal failure and an acute confusional state at the end of the treatment. Renal function and neurologic status improved rapidly with increased hydration and stop of the antiviral therapy.
If acyclovir is usually well tolerated, there is also a risk of acute nephropathy, especially dose-dependent. We point out the need to monitor renal function when high dosage of acyclovir is indicated.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) is a ligand-dependent transcription factor involved in various processes including the inflammation and carcinogenesis. The aim of the present study was 1) to examine the mRNA and protein expression of PPARgamma in gastric cancer (GC); 2) to evaluate the effect of PPARgamma ligand (ciglitazone) on the proliferation and apoptosis of GC cell line; and 3) to assess the levels of gastric tissue proinflammatory cytokines, IL-1beta and IL-8, and plasma gastrin in GC patients before and after Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) eradication. The trial material included 30 H. pylori-negative controls and 30 sex- and age-matched GC patients without or with H. pylori before and after its eradication. Expression of tissue PPARgamma, tissue levels of IL-1beta and IL-8, and plasma concentration of gastrin were significantly higher in H. pylori-positive GC compared to controls, but H. pylori eradication significantly reduced these parameters. Kato III cells incubated with alive H. pylori upregulated PPARgamma expression and ciglitazone inhibited cell proliferation and induced apoptosis. PPARgamma, proinflammatory cytokines and plasma gastrin appear to be implicated in H. pylori-related gastric carcinogenesis and PPARgamma agonists may have potential in cancer therapy.
