Extrapyramidal symptoms such as torticollis, oculogyric crisis and blepharospasm are typical manifestations of phenothiazine-induced drug reactions. Widespread use of such drugs, especially in children make these symptoms relatively commonplace. A case of phenothiazine-induced oculogyric crisis is presented. Included is a discussion of phenothiazine pharmacology.
Tamoxifen (TAM) is a triphenylethylene antiestrogen used for the treatment, and in clinical trials for the prevention, of breast cancer in women. In rats, TAM is a strong liver carcinogen which induces the formation of liver DNA adducts. The DNA of 24 hepatocarcinomas (HCCs) collected at necropsy from individual female Sprague-Dawley rats that were given 22.6 mg/kg TAM daily for 12 months was studied for the presence of mutations in exons 5-9 of the p53 gene by single-strand conformation polymorphism and DNA sequencing analysis. The sequences of introns 5-8 of the rat p53 gene were determined in order to design primers homologous to regions located in these introns. p53 mutations were found in 50% (12 of 24) of the HCCs. These mutations were all specifically clustered in two sites, codons 231 (exon 6-7) and 294 (exon 8). Nine HCCs contained a transition from adenine to guanine in the second base of codon 231 (CAC to CGC), which resulted in a histidine to arginine amino acid substitution; 4 HCCs contained a nonmiscoding transition from cytosine to thymidine in the third base of codon 294 (TGC to TGT; cysteine to cysteine). One HCC contained both mutations. The present report supports previous observations on the genotoxicity of TAM in rodents and raises concerns about its use as a chemopreventive agent against breast cancer in women.
Cranial neural tube defects occur when heparin is added to the culture media of postimplantation rat embryos undergoing organogenesis in vitro. Timed-exposure studies were undertaken to determine whether the defects caused by heparin were the result of defective folding and fusion of the neural folds, or due to reopening of a closed neural tube. Experiments were also undertaken to elucidate whether the in vitro toxicity of heparin was due to an effect of heparin at the level of the culture medium, at the level of the visceral yolk sac, or at the level of the embryo proper. Heparin was found to cause defective folding and closure of the neural folds at between 9.5 and 10.5 days' gestation. Neural tube defects did not occur when embryos were cultured in media prepared using a culture medium depleted of heparin ligands by heparin-agarose affinity chromatography. However, studies with [G-(3)H]heparin demonstrated visceral yolk sac uptake and transfer of the radiolabel to the embryo proper. In addition, microinjection of heparin directly into the amniotic cavity of early head-fold embryo explants resulted in cranial neural tube defects similar to those caused by the addition of heparin to culture medium. These data indicate that heparin causes closure defects of cranial neurulation, primarily by an effect at the tissue level of the embryo proper.
A human promyelocytic leukemia HL-60 cell line was selected to examine the effect of (-)-Menthol on cell death. Based on the results from morphological changes and the percentage of viable cells in HL-60 cells after treatment with various concentrations of (-)-Menthol, it was shown that (-)-Menthol induced cell death through necrosis, not apoptosis. No cell cycle arrest was found in HL-60 cells examined by flow cytometry analysis. Also, the DNA gel electrophoresis method showed that (-)-Menthol did not induce apoptosis in HL-60 cells. However, it was found that (-)-Menthol induced the production of Ca2+ in these examined cells, dose-dependently. When HL-60 cells were pretreated with the chelator (BAPTA) of Ca2+ for 3 hours before addition of (-)-Menthol to the culture, a decrease of Ca2+ production was observed. Under the same conditions, the percentage of viable HL-60 cells was increased. Apparently Ca2+ production is associated with the induction of (-)-Menthol-induced cell death.
Serotonin 1A receptor agonists have attracted much interest recently as potential therapeutic agents for levodopa-induced motor complications, such as dyskinesia and motor fluctuations. The effects of piclozotan (SUN N4057) on a rat model of advanced Parkinson's disease were investigated. Parkinsonian rats, unilaterally 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats, were administered levodopa for 8 to 9 weeks. Based on the results of rotational behavior and forelimb hyperkinesia in Week 5, the rats were allocated to three treatment groups (saline and two dosing rates of piclozotan set at 0.018 and 0.036 mg/kg/h). Piclozotan was administered via continuous subcutaneous infusion using an osmotic pump for 3 to 4 weeks. At Week 7 of repeated levodopa dosing, the effects of piclozotan on levodopa-induced behavior were evaluated. In addition, extracellular levels of levodopa-derived dopamine in the striatum were measured using microdialysis in Weeks 8 to 9 after completion of the respective behavioral studies. Chronic treatment with levodopa-induced forelimb hyperkinesia and shortened the duration of rotational behavior. Piclozotan (0.018 and 0.036 mg/kg/h, plasma concentrations 5.3±0.7 and 14.3±2.9 ng/ml) reduced levodopa-induced forelimb hyperkinesia by 55% and 69%, respectively, at 1h relative to the control. Piclozotan (0.036 mg/kg/h) significantly lengthened the duration of rotational behavior by 26% versus the control and attenuated the increase in striatal levodopa-derived extracellular dopamine levels. These findings suggest that piclozotan, a serotonin 1A agonist, can improve motor complications in patients with advanced Parkinson's disease.
Our previous studies have demonstrated that endogenous bone arrow cells (BMCs) contribute to renal tubular regeneration after acute tubular injury. The aim of this study was to examine which fraction of BMCs, haematopoietic lineage marrow cells (HLMCs) or mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), are effective.
Six-week-old female mice were lethally irradiated and were transplanted with female enhanced green fluorescent protein-positive (GFP(+)), plastic on-adherent marrow cells (as a source of HLMCs) plus cloned cultured male GFP(-) MSCs. Four weeks later, they were assigned into two groups: control mice with vehicle treatment and mice treated with HgCl2. Tritiated thymidine was given 1 h before animal killing which occurred at intervals over 2 weeks. Kidney sections were stained for a tubular epithelial marker, cell origin indicated by GFP immunohistochemistry or Y chromosome in situ hybridization; periodic acid-Schiff staining was performed, and samples were subjected to autoradiography. One thousand consecutive renal tubular epithelial cells per mouse, in S phase, were scored as either female (indigenous) GFP+(HLMC-derived) or male (MSC-derived).
Haematopoietic lineage marrow cells and MSCs stably engrafted into bone marrow and spleen, but only HLMC-derived cells, not MSCs, were found in the renal tubules and were able to undergo DNA synthesis after acute renal injury. A few MSCs were detected in the renal interstitium, but their importance needs to be further explored.
Haematopoietic lineage marrow cells, but not cloned cultured MSCs, can play a role not only in normal wear-and-tear turnover of renal tubular cells, but also in repair after tubular injury.
Vindesine, a derivative of vinblastine, was administered to 39 patients with advanced colorectal cancer refractory to 5-fluorouracil alone or in combination with other chemotherapeutic agents. The initial dose of vindesine was 4 mg/m2 administered intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes every two weeks. Tumor regression of more than 50% was seen in 2 and stable disease in 13 of 33 patients evaluable for response. Prior treatment with vincristine did not seem to influence response to vindesine. The median survival time was four months. The major toxic effect of vindesine was peripheral neuropathy, which occurred in 35% of patients who received two or more courses of treatment. Methanol extract residue of BCG (MER) was administered IV to 20 of 39 patients receiving vindesine without randomization in order to evaluate toxicities associated with IV MER. The most common toxic reactions to MER were fever and chills, while malaise and headaches were less common. Transient respiratory distress associated with appearance of reticulonodular pulmonary infiltrates occurred in 1 patient. Thus, MER at a dose of less than 1 mg/m2 did not seem to significantly influence the response rate to vindesine or the survival of patients. However, it appeared to ameliorate the myelosuppression caused by vindesine.
We report a case of distal ureteral stenosis after transurethral resection of a small bladder tumor near the left ureteral orifice and early postoperative mitomycin C instillation for prevention of recurrence. The patient developed late recurrent stenosis of the ureteral orifice with histologic evidence of localized, severe benign inflammatory reaction. The recurrent stenosis was successfully managed by transurethral resection of the scar tissue and ureteric stenting. Although ureteral stenosis does occur after transurethral resection, the severity and time course of the stenosis in this case suggest an influence of the intravesical chemoprophylaxis used.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) released from sensory neurons, which are closely apposed to mast cells and blood vessels, mediates gastric hyperemia in response to acid challenge of the damaged mucosa. Substance P (SP) is coreleased with CGRP from sensory neurons, but the role of this peptide in gastric blood flow regulation is largely unknown. Chambered rat stomachs were exposed to 1.5 M NaCl and acidic saline after treatment with SP, aprotinin (serine protease inhibitor), and the mast cell stabilizers ketotifen and sodium cromoglycate (SCG). Gastric hyperemia (measured with a laser Doppler flow velocimeter) after hypertonic injury and acid challenge was nearly abolished by SP. Aprotinin infused together with SP and pretreatment with ketotifen and SCG before SP restored the gastric hyperemia. Ketotifen and SCG inhibited mast cell degranulation in SP-treated rats. Preservation of gastric hyperemia was correlated with improved mucosal repair. These data suggest that impaired hyperemia by SP during acid challenge of the gastric mucosa may be mediated by a mast cell-dependent mechanism involving the release of proteases from mast cells.
Cocaine is a commonly abused drug. We report three patients who had generalized seizures immediately following intravenous injection of cocaine. Previous experimental and clinical literature have documented a relationship between cocaine and convulsions. The rising incidence of cocaine use may be associated with a rising incidence of cocaine-associated seizures.
A 57-year-old female patient with widespread chronic plaque psoriasis and a 32-year-old male patient with severe oral lichen planus are reported, who developed sensory symptoms in the extremities 3 and 4 months after the onset of oral acitretin therapy, respectively. Both patients showed clinical and electrophysiological evidence of a sensory peripheral neuropathy, which completely resolved 2 and 2.5 years after discontinuation of oral acitretin administration, respectively.
Fifty-four consecutive patients were treated with amiodarone for symptomatic ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation refractory to treatment with conventional antiarrhythmic drugs. A reversible neurologic syndrome of tremor, ataxia, and occasionally peripheral neuropathy without nystagmus, dizziness, encephalopathy, or long-tract signs developed in 54% of the patients and was the most common reason for altering or discontinuing drug therapy. Neurologic side effects improved or resolved within 2 days to 4 weeks of decreasing or discontinuing amiodarone. Frequent neurologic toxicity is a hitherto undescribed complication of amiodarone therapy. Wider recognition of this syndrome will avoid unnecessary and costly diagnostic evaluation.
Evidence suggests that ethanol (EtOH) preexposure influences the rewarding valence of subsequent EtOH use. This study was conducted to determine if EtOH preexposure through EtOH/cocaine self-administration facilitates the motivational effects of EtOH alone. Rats self-administered intravenous (iv) EtOH/cocaine combinations (EtOH/Cocaine Fading group; EtOH 125.0 mg/kg/inj+Cocaine 0.1-0.75 mg/kg/inj) during a preexposure period. Consequently, these rats self-administered intravenous EtOH alone (62.5, 125.0, 250.0 and 500.0 mg/kg/inj) significantly more than a control group with prior cocaine self-administration experience (0.1-0.75 mg/kg/inj). In addition, at equal EtOH intake levels, locomotor activity was significantly enhanced in the EtOH/Cocaine Fading group but not the Cocaine Control animals (P=.01). The amount of EtOH self-administered in the EtOH/Cocaine Fading group during 1-h sessions (approximately 0.5-2.0 g/kg) corresponded with blood alcohol levels (BAL) ranging from 44 to 221 mg/dl. The highest BALs reported here have not previously been demonstrated after voluntary EtOH intake through any route of administration. These data suggest that preexposure to EtOH during EtOH/cocaine self-administration sessions modified neural substrates underlying both the reinforcing and locomotor responses to EtOH alone. Further studies utilizing intravenous EtOH self-administration will allow identification of various long-term behavioral and neural consequences of voluntary high EtOH intake.
Of 44 patients with neoplasia treated with cyclophosphamide (CPA), 19 (43%) had a transient elevation of serum levels of aminotransferases. In these patients, regardless of the combination chemotherapy regimen given, the incidence of liver dysfunction was 33%, when the total CPA dose was less than 400 mg/m2 (Group A) and 73% with higher doses (Group B). Prior to the initiation of CPA treatment, pharmacokinetics of CPA were investigated in 15 patients. Plasma AUCs of CPA and phosphoramide mustard (PM) in 8 patients in Group B were higher than those in 7 Group A patients. In contrast, urinary excretion of 3-hydroxypropyl-mercapturic acid (3-HPMCA) was lower in Group B than in Group A. The ratio of urinary 3-HPMCA to plasma AUC of PM was significantly lower in Group B than in Group A (p less than 0.05). These results indicate that CPA-induced liver injury is mainly dose-dependent and presumably results from impaired metabolism of CPA, and especially of its metabolite, acrolein.
We investigated the role of microsomal lipid peroxidation in halothane hepatotoxicity in guinea pigs. Animals were exposed to halothane, isoflurane or enflurane. Enhancement of microsomal lipid peroxidation was specific to halothane. The time-course of lipid peroxidation and hepatic damage following a single exposure to halothane was investigated by measuring the thiobarbituric acid (TBA)reactive products, serum transaminase activity, reduced glutathione (GSH) concentration and histopathological examination. Microsomal lipid peroxidation was enhanced most rapidly and preceded GSH depletion and hepatic injury. Metyrapone, an inhibitor of cytochrome P-450, and N-tert-butyl-alpha-phenylnitrone (BPN), a radical trapping agent, inhibited halothane-induced lipid peroxidation and the incidence and severity of liver injury. The metabolism of halothane was considered to be inhibited by metyrapone and the reactivity of radical intermediates was considered to be decreased by BPN. Microsomal lipid peroxidation was initiated by radical metabolites of halothane but did not result from GSH depletion. Inhibition of microsomal lipid peroxidation reduced the halothane hepatotoxicity. These results demonstrated that the halothane-induced liver injury was caused by microsomal lipid peroxidation in guinea pigs.
The efficacy and tolerability of mood stabilizers in older adults with bipolar disorder remains understudied. Authors retrospectively examined response to lamotrigine, lithium, and placebo in older (>or=age 55) adults with Bipolar I disorder (DSM-IV) who participated in two mixed-age, maintenance studies examining time to intervention for an emerging mood episode (manic/hypomanic/mixed or depressed) and drug tolerability.
In all, 588 patients received double-blind lamotrigine (LTG, 100 mg-400 mg/day), lithium (Li, 0.8 mEq/L-1.1 mEq/L), or placebo (PBO); data from 98 older adults (LTG: 33, Li: 34, PBO: 31) were examined. Mean modal total daily doses were LTG 240 mg and Li 750 mg.
LTG significantly delayed time to intervention for any mood episode and for a depressive episode, compared with placebo. Li significantly delayed time to intervention for mania/hypomania/mixed compared with placebo. Back pain and headache were the most common adverse events during LTG treatment; rash: LTG, 3%; Li, 6%; and PBO, 0; no serious rash was reported. The most common adverse events (>10%) during lithium treatment were dyspraxia, tremor, xerostomia, headache, infection, amnesia, dizziness, diarrhea, nausea, and fatigue.
Lamotrigine and lithium may be effective and well-tolerated maintenance therapies for older adults with Bipolar I depression.
Thepiperazine chlorcyclizine HCl (CCZ), possessing significant antimetabolic as well as virucidal and virustatic activities against the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and other retroviruses, was selected to determine its anticarcinogenic potential The anticancer activity of CCZ was evaluated against procarcinogen n-diethylnitrosamine (NDA)-initiated hepatocarcinogenesis, which was subsequently promoted by phenobarbital (PB) in male Sprague-Dawley rats. The anticancer efficacy of CCZ was monitored by estimating some potential markers of neoplastic and preneoplastic hepatic conditions, e.g., glutathione (GSH), glutathione-S-transferase (GST) and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (gammaGTP). CCZ exhibited antineoplastic activity on a long-term therapeutic basis. Furthermore, this drug restricted the exponential increase of the antioxidant markers in the hyperplastic nodule and the surrounding liver tissues in comparison with the carcinogen-controlled rats during the entire period of treatment. A decrease in the number of nodules was observed in the CCZ-treated group.
Colon tumors expressing high levels of beta-catenin and c-myc have been reported in male F344 rats given three short cycles of 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) alternating with a high-fat (HF) diet. Using the same experimental protocol, rats were euthanized 24 h after the last dose of PhIP so as to examine early changes in colonic crypt homeostasis and beta-catenin expression, before the onset of frank tumors. PhIP/HF dosing caused a significant increase in the bromodeoxyuridine labeling index throughout the entire colon, and within the colonic crypt column cleaved caspase-3 was elevated in the basal and central zones, but reduced in the luminal region. In vehicle/HF controls, beta-catenin was immunolocalized primarily at the border between cells at the top of the crypt, whereas in rats given PhIP/HF diet there was strong cytoplasmic staining, which appeared as a gradient of increased beta-catenin extending from the base of the crypt column to the luminal region. Quantitative real-time PCR and immunoblot analyses confirmed that beta-catenin and c-myc were increased significantly in the colonic mucosa of rats given PhIP/HF diet. Collectively, these findings suggest that PhIP/HF cycling alters beta-catenin and c-myc expression in the colonic mucosa, resulting in expansion of the proliferative zone and redistribution of apoptotic cells from the lumen to the central and basal regions of the colonic crypt. Thus, during the early stages of colon carcinogenesis, alternating exposure to heterocyclic amines and a high-fat diet might facilitate molecular changes resulting in dysregulated beta-catenin and c-myc expression.
Acquisition of resistance to tamoxifen is a critical therapeutic problem in breast cancer patients. Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), where cells undergo a developmental switch from a polarized epithelial phenotype to a highly motile mesenchymal phenotype, is associated with invasion and motility of cancer cells. Here, we found that tamoxifen-resistant (TAMR)-MCF-7 cells had undergone EMT, as evidenced by mesenchymal-like cell shape, downregulation of basal E-cadherin expression, and overexpression of N-cadherin and vimentin, as well as increased Snail transcriptional activity and protein expression. Given the roles of glycogen synthase kinase (GSK)-3beta and nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB in Snail-mediated E-cadherin deregulation during EMT, we examined the role of these signaling pathways in the EMT of TAMR-MCF-7 cells. Both Ser9-phosphorylated GSK-3beta (inactive form) and NF-kappaB reporter activity were increased in TAMR-MCF-7 cells, as was activation of the phosphatase and tensin homolog depleted on chromosome ten (PTEN)-phosphoinositide 3 (PI3)-kinase-Akt pathway. Pin1, a peptidyl-prolyl isomerase, was overexpressed in TAMR-MCF-7 cells, and Snail transcription and the expression of EMT markers could be decreased by Pin1 siRNA treatment. These results imply that Pin1 overexpression in TAMR-MCF-7 cells is involved in the EMT process via PTEN-PI3-kinase-Akt-GSK-3beta and/or GSK-3beta-NF-kappaB-dependent Snail activation, and suggest the potential involvement of Pin1 in EMT during breast cancer development.
Spinal processing of somatosensory and viscerosensory information is greatly facilitated in some persistent pain states. Growing evidence suggests that the so-called central sensitization depends in part on intracellular activation and signalling via specific MAP kinases. Here we studied the expression of phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 (phosphoERK), the active form of these kinases, in spinal neurons following innocuous and noxious distension of non-inflamed and cyclophosphamide (CYP)-inflamed rat urinary bladders. Additionally, we investigated the nature of bladder primary afferents responsible for spinal ERK activation. Finally, we used a specific inhibitor of ERK phosphorylation to study the influence of these kinases on the bladder reflex activity of normal and inflamed bladders. Results indicated that, in non-inflamed rats, noxious but not innocuous bladder distension significantly increased spinal phosphoERK immunoreactivity from its normal very low level. However, in CYP-inflamed rats, innocuous and noxious bladder distension significantly increased the number of spinal neurons immunoreactive to phosphoERK. ERK activation was rapid (within minutes) and transient. Desensitization of vanilloid-sensitive afferents by intravesical resiniferatoxin, a capsaicin analogue, did not decrease phosphoERK immunoreactivity in normal or CYP-inflamed rats. ERK inhibition by intrathecal PD 98059 had no effect on bladder reflex contractions of non-inflamed bladders but significantly decreased its frequency in inflamed animals. Our results suggest that spinal ERK intervene in acute and chronic inflammatory pain perception and mediate bladder reflex overactivity accompanying chronic bladder inflammation. In addition, bladder noxious input conveyed in vanilloid-resistant primary afferents is important to spinal ERK phosphorylation in both noninflamed and CYP-inflamed animals.
The interactions between genes and the environment are now regarded as the most probable explanation for autism. In this review, we summarize the results of a metallomics study in which scalp hair concentrations of 26 trace elements were examined for 1,967 autistic children (1,553 males and 414 females aged 0-15 years-old), and discuss recent advances in our understanding of epigenetic roles of infantile mineral imbalances in the pathogenesis of autism. In the 1,967 subjects, 584 (29.7%) and 347 (17.6%) were found deficient in zinc and magnesium, respectively, and the incidence rate of zinc deficiency was estimated at 43.5% in male and 52.5% in female infantile subjects aged 0-3 years-old. In contrast, 339 (17.2%), 168 (8.5%) and 94 (4.8%) individuals were found to suffer from high burdens of aluminum, cadmium and lead, respectively, and 2.8% or less from mercury and arsenic. High toxic metal burdens were more frequently observed in the infants aged 0-3 years-old, whose incidence rates were 20.6%, 12.1%, 7.5%, 3.2% and 2.3% for aluminum, cadmium, lead, arsenic and mercury, respectively. These findings suggest that infantile zinc- and magnesium-deficiency and/or toxic metal burdens may be critical and induce epigenetic alterations in the genes and genetic regulation mechanisms of neurodevelopment in the autistic children, and demonstrate that a time factor "infantile window" is also critical for neurodevelopment and probably for therapy. Thus, early metallomics analysis may lead to early screening/estimation and treatment/prevention for the autistic neurodevelopment disorders.
Escalation of drug intake reliably occurs when animals are allowed extended self-administration access. As a form of plasticity, escalation of drug intake may be accompanied by neuroadaptive changes that are related to the transition from controlled use to addiction. The purpose of the present experiment was to examine the effects of agmatine (decarboxylated L-arginine) on the escalation of intravenous (iv) fentanyl and cocaine self-administration in rats. Subjects were allowed 12 h of daily access to fentanyl (2.5 microg/kg) or cocaine (0.2 mg/kg) under a fixed-ratio (FR) 1 schedule of reinforcement for 30 days. Animals self-administering fentanyl were distributed into three groups: (1) low-dose agmatine (10 mg/kg) throughout self-administration; (2) high-dose agmatine (30 mg/kg) throughout self-administration; and (3) high-dose agmatine after significant escalation (Day 18) of drug intake had occurred. Animals in a fourth group were pretreated with a high dose of agmatine throughout 30 days of cocaine self-administration. Both doses of agmatine, when given throughout self-administration, significantly decreased the escalation of responding that occurred for fentanyl but not cocaine. In the group that received agmatine after significant escalation had occurred, fentanyl-maintained responding was not significantly altered. These data indicate that agmatine attenuates the escalation of fentanyl self-administration if administered before the escalation begins and may mediate neuroadaptive events related to chronic opioid self-administration.
Desipramine has the least anticholinergic and sedative effects of the first generation tricyclic antidepressant agents, but its pain-relieving potential has received little study. Other antidepressant agents--notably amitriptyline--are known to ameliorate postherpetic neuralgia, but those agents are often toxic. In a randomized double-blind crossover design, we gave 26 postherpetic neuralgia patients 6 weeks of treatment with desipramine (mean dose, 167 mg/day) and placebo. Nineteen patients completed both treatments; 12 reported at least moderate relief with desipramine and two reported relief with placebo. Pain relief with desipramine was statistically significant from weeks 3 to 6. Psychiatric interview at entry into the study produced a diagnosis of depression for 4 patients; pain relief was similar in depressed and nondepressed patients and was statistically significant in the nondepressed group alone. We conclude that desipramine administration relieves postherpetic neuralgia and that pain relief is not mediated by mood elevation. Blockade of norepinephrine reuptake, an action shared by desipramine, amitriptyline, and other antidepressant agents that have relieved neuropathic pain, may be involved in relief of postherpetic neuralgia.
To report a case of fulminant hepatic failure associated with the use of gatifloxacin.
A 76-year-old white man was found to have an approximate 1-week history of worsening jaundice on the last day of a 10-day course of gatifloxacin for treatment of impetigo while at his skilled nursing facility. Liver function tests including aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), international normalized ratio, activated partial thromboplastin time, and ammonia concentrations were found to be markedly elevated, consistent with hepatocellular necrosis commonly seen with fluoroquinolones. Screening for other causes of hepatotoxicity, including alcoholic or viral hepatitis, obstruction, or autoimmune-mediated processes, were negative. Other potential medication causes were less likely. The patient's liver function steadily declined, eventually resulting in multiple organ failure. The patient died 25 days after completing the course of gatifloxacin.
This case of hepatotoxicity was associated with gatifloxacin. Other fluoroquinolones, most notably trovafloxacin, have been observed to cause variable degrees of hepatotoxicity, ranging from asymptomatic elevations of liver enzymes to fulminant hepatic failure. Fluoroquinolones are thought to cause hepatocellular necrosis, which results in elevated ALT and AST concentrations with a normal alkaline phosphatase concentration. A variable degree of hyperbilirubinemia is often seen, with the presence and degree of jaundice often correlating to a poorer prognosis. Hepatic encephalopathy and coagulopathy are also commonly present.
Fluoroquinolones, including trovafloxacin, ciprofloxacin, ofloxacin, enoxacin, norfloxacin, and, in this case report, gatifloxacin, have been associated with hepatotoxicity. It is important that these medications be considered a possible cause when the patient being treated has liver disease.
We describe 2 cases of acute encephalopathy in patients with connective tissue disease caused by small doses of ibuprofen. In addition to aseptic meningitis, both patients had altered mental status and focal neurologic signs, ophthalmoplegia in one and hemiparesis in the other. The spectrum of neurologic manifestations of ibuprofen hypersensitivity is reviewed.
A causal relationship between sex steroids and meningioma proliferation has long been suspected. We report a case of the clinical progression of a sphenoid wing meningioma after the placement of Norplant, a subcutaneous contraceptive implant containing levonorgestrel, a progesterone agonist. Although not proof of causation, this observation lends further credence to the importance of progesterone receptors in the growth and possible treatment of meningiomas.
Reported is a female case study of a 40-year-old patient who 4 weeks previous had received a Norplant subcutaneous contraceptive implant. The patient presented at 4 weeks postimplant with blurred vision in her left eye. She further reported never having used hormonal contraceptives. Her vision continued to deteriorate over the next several months to 20/60 visual acuity. After examination by neuro-ophthalmologists at the University of Iowa Hospital and Clinics system, the following abnormalities in the left eye were reported: impaired color vision; a severely reduced critical flicker fusion rating (13 Hz); an abnormality in the temporal field (using Humphrey 30-2 program); and a 3 times greater light sensitivity. The fundus and the optic nerve heads appeared normal. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed a homogeneous mass along the medial sphenoid wing which continued into the left cavernous sinus and sella. Part of this mass crowded the left optic nerve opening (chiasm). During the subsequent 6 weeks, the patient's visual acuity continued to deteriorate to 20/100 despite removal of the Norplant implant. The tumor mass was surgically removed and pathologically examined. It was a meningothelial neoplasm and tested positive for progesterone receptors (125 fmol/mg of protein). It tested negative for estrogen receptors. Authors provide a discussion on the history of hormonal influence/agonist effects on meningiomas. The authors conclude that there is evidence which supports the theory that meningiomas may be subject to hormonal influence and may be stimulated by hormones to grow. They further conclude that their observations do not prove a cause-and-effect relationship and that further research is needed.
TDP-43 is an RNA binding protein found to accumulate in the cytoplasm of brain and spinal cord from patients affected with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD). Nuclear TDP-43 protein regulates transcription through several mechanisms, and under stressed conditions, it forms cytoplasmic aggregates that co-localize with stress granule (SG) proteins in cell culture. These granules are also found in the brain and spinal cord of patients affected with ALS and FTLD. The mechanism through which TDP-43 might contribute to neurodegenerative diseases is poorly understood. To investigate the pathophysiology of TDP-43 aggregation and to isolate potential therapeutic targets, we screened a chemical library of 75,000 compounds using high-content analysis with PC12 cells that inducibly express human TDP-43 tagged with green fluorescent protein (GFP). The screen identified 16 compounds that dose-dependently decreased the TDP-43 inclusions without significant cellular toxicity or changes in total TDP-43 expression levels. To validate the effect, we tested compounds by Western blot analysis and in a Caenorhabditis elegans model that replicates some of the relevant disease phenotypes. The hits from this assay will be useful for elucidating regulation of TDP-43, stress granule response, and possible ALS therapeutics.
Drug-induced dysosomia is rare and its prevalence difficult to estimate, notably because of the lack of satisfactory criteria of imputability.
In a 59 year-old patient consulting for olfactory disorders that had progressed over the past 4 month, diagnosis of dysosomia secondary to the administration of nifedipine was maintained with a considerable score of imputability (negative clinical controls and partial regression of the disorder).
Drugs used in cardiology represent one of the major therapeutic classes that can lead to dysfunction in smell and/or taste. These drugs are nifedipine reported in 1985, metoprolol (beta blocker), diltiazem and, more recently, enalapril.
