Lithium is widely used for the management of neuropsychiatric symptoms in bipolar disorders. A variety of hypotheses have been invoked to explain the mechanism of action of lithium. To determine if lithium exerts direct cardiac protection, in the present study perfused rat heart model was used. The mechanism of lithium-mediated cardioprotection was explored by combined use of lithium and nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME, a non-selective nitric oxide synthase inhibitor) or indomethacin (a non-selective cyclooxygenase pathway inhibitor). Rat isolated hearts were used for Langendorff perfusion. Hearts were either non-preconditioned or preconditioned with acute lithium (3 mM) or chronic lithium (600 mg/l in tap water for 4 weeks, 0.265 +/- 0.023 mM in serum) before 30 min global ischemia followed by 90 min reperfusion. Within each of these protocols, hearts were divided into two groups; one group was exposed to L-NAME (0.1 mM) and another group was exposed to indomethacin (10 microM). Infarct size was measured by the triphenyltetrazolium chloride method. Left ventricular function was assessed by left ventricular developed pressure (LVDP), heart rate and coronary flow (CF). In our experiment acute and/or chronic administration of lithium before prolonged ischemia offered significant myoprotective effects in terms of infarct size reduction and improved cardiac function against ischemia/reperfusion injury. The effects of lithium pretreatment were prevented by the administration of indomethacin but not L-NAME. In conclusion, our results demonstrate that preconditioning with acute and/or chronic lithium administration improves recovery of the ventricular function and reduces infarct size via cyclooxygenase (COX) pathway in isolated rat heart.
Pyridine has been shown to be a much more potent inhibitor than other solvents of the metabolism and therefore the clastogenicity of benzene. In this report, pyridine prevented benzene-derived micronucleus formation in the bone marrow of ICR Swiss mice at much lower levels than xylene did. Time-course experiments did not indicate any delay in the peak micronucleus response to benzene caused by either pyridine or xylene. Similar experiments using pyridine with benzo[a]pyrene and pyridine with cyclophosphamide indicated that the effect of pyridine was specific for benzene. Benzo[a]pyrene (150 mg/kg) was inhibited by pyridine only at levels of 100 mg/kg or more, compared to inhibition of benzene (440 or 880 mg/kg) by pyridine at levels of 5 mg/kg. Cyclophosphamide was not inhibited at any level, and micronucleus formation was increased at lower ratios of pyridine to cyclophosphamide. These results provide indirect conformation of the work by others indicating that benzene is activated in part by a cytochrome P450 isozyme different from those activating benzo[a] pyrene or cyclophosphamide. Since DBA/2 mice (AHH-non-inducible) are more sensitive to benzene than C57Bl/6 mice (AHH-inducible), single and multiple treatments with benzene were compared by micronucleus response in these two strains. DBA mice were more responsive in all cases. Pretreatment with methylcholanthrene caused a greater response to benzene in DBA/2 mice, suggesting that the cytochrome P450 isozyme involved is one of the forms induced by methylcholanthrene independent of the high-affinity Ah receptor. It is hypothesized that more efficient activation of benzene by the unique cytochrome P450 isozyme, perhaps combined with relatively less conjugation, may result in a greater sensitivity of the bone marrow versus the liver, and of DBA/2 versus C57Bl/6 mice.
It was recently reported that acute cocaine pretreatment can reduce the (+/-)-1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane (DOI)-induced 5-hydroxytryptamine2 (5-HT2)-receptor mediated head-twitch response (HTR) in mice via indirect stimulation of adrenergic alpha 2- and serotonergic 5-HT1A-receptors. The aim of the present investigation was to determine whether cocaine can alter the DOI-induced HTR in 5-HT2-receptor supersensitive mice. Supersensitivity was induced by a single injection of DOI 48 h prior to experimentation. These supersensitive mice exhibited a greater frequency of HTR to a challenge dose of DOI 48 h after its initial administration. Cocaine pretreatment dose-dependently reduced the DOI-induced HTR in the supersensitive mice. The stimulant was approximately four times more potent in the 5-HT2-receptor supersensitive mice relative to its reported effects in normal mice. Receptor blockade studies with yohimbine and alprenolol revealed that both of the inhibitory components of cocaine's actions (i.e., adrenergic alpha 2- and serotonergic 5-HT1A-receptor effects, respectively) were more efficient in reducing the DOI-induced HTR in supersensitive mice compared to normosensitive animals. The present results further support the previously suggested hypothesis that acute cocaine administration inhibits the 5-HT2-receptor function by increasing the synaptic concentration of norepinephrine and serotonin via inhibition of their uptake and therefore indirectly stimulating the respective inhibitory adrenergic alpha 2- and serotonergic 5-HT1A-receptors.
In a study of 16 psychotic patients with neuroleptic-induced tardive dyskinesia and 16 patients with Parkinson's disease and L-Dopa-induced hyperkinesia it was found that (1) tardive dyskinesia, compared to L-Dopa hyperkinesia, was localized almost exclusively to the oral region (P mean value of 0.01), whereas theL-Dopa hyperkinesia was more pronounced in the neck (P mean value of 0.05) and the extremities (P mean value of 0.05); (2) L-Dopa hyperkinesia showed an increasing tendency to oral preponderance with age, irrespective of the severity ofParkinsonism and extra-oral hyperkinesia, while tardive dyskinesia only itensified with age, without any change in distribution; and (3) extra-oral L-Dopa hyperkinesia was related to the localization and severity of pretreatment Parkinsonism, and more to bradykinesia than to rigidity and tremor. It is concluded that the irreversible neurotoxic effect of neuroleptic drugs may be associated with age-related changes in the oral somatotopic region of the basal ganglia (to be given consideration in any future search for the pathogenetic process underlying irreversible tardive dyskinesia), and that the pathophysiology of involuntary hyperkinesia in neuroleptic-treated psychiatric patients and in L-Dopatreated parkinson patients may consist of a primary dopamine deficiency (pharmacological or structural), and a secondary relative hyperactivity in the dopaminergic system ("dopaminergic hypersensitivity") possibly corresponding to hypoactivity in the cholinergic system.
Studies have demonstrated that oxidative stress is associated with amphetamine-induced neurotoxicity, but little is known about the adaptations of antioxidant enzymes in the brain after amphetamine exposure. We studied the effects of acute and chronic amphetamine administration on superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) activity, in a rodent model of mania. Male Wistar rats received either a single IP injection of D-: amphetamine (1 mg/kg, 2 mg/kg, or 4 mg/kg) or vehicle (acute treatment). In the chronic treatment rats received a daily IP injection of either D-: amphetamine (1 mg/kg, 2 mg/kg, or 4 mg/kg) or vehicle for 7 days. Locomotor behavior was assessed using the open field test. SOD and CAT activities were measured in the prefrontal cortex, hippocampus, and striatum. Acute and to a greater extent chronic amphetamine treatment increased locomotor behavior and affected SOD and CAT activities in the prefrontal cortex, hippocampus and striatum. Our findings suggest that amphetamine exposure is associated with an imbalance between SOD and CAT activity in the prefrontal cortex, hippocampus and striatum.
Acne vulgaris is a common problem, particularly among adolescents, which is usually resistant to monotherapy. We evaluated the efficacy and safety of a combination of azelaic acid (AA) 5% and erythromycin 2% gel (AzE) compared with AA 20% or erythromycin 2% gels in facial acne vulgaris.
We conducted a 12-week, multicenter, randomized double-blind study on 147 patients with mild-to-moderate acne vulgaris. Four treatment group were determined (placebo, erythromycin, AA and AzE) and followed in 4-week intervals for 12 weeks, except the placebo group which was changed to routine treatment after 4 weeks.
The combination of AA 5% and erythromycin 2% gel significantly reduced the number of papules, pustules and comedones compared with placebo (p < 0.001), erythromycin 2% (p < 0.01) or AA 20% (p < 0.05). The incidence of adverse effects observed in patients treated with AzE (27%) was less than that with erythromycin 2% (54%) and AA 20% (45%).
The combination of AA 5% and erythromycin 2% produced more potent therapeutic effects in comparison with erythromycin 2% or AA 20% alone, and with fewer side effects.
Paroxysmal non-kinesigenic dyskinesia (PNKD) is a rare autosomal dominant movement disorder triggered by stress, fatigue or consumption of either alcohol or caffeine. Attacks last 1-4 h and consist of dramatic dystonia and choreoathetosis in the limbs, trunk and face. The disease is associated with single amino acid changes (A7V or A9V) in PNKD, a protein of unknown function. Here we studied the stability, cellular localization and enzymatic activity of the PNKD protein in cultured cells and transgenic animals. The N-terminus of the wild-type (WT) long PNKD isoform (PNKD-L) undergoes a cleavage event in vitro, resistance to which is conferred by disease-associated mutations. Mutant PNKD-L protein is degraded faster than the WT protein. These results suggest that the disease mutations underlying PNKD may disrupt protein processing in vivo, a hypothesis supported by our observation of decreased cortical Pnkd-L levels in mutant transgenic mice. Pnkd is homologous to a superfamily of enzymes with conserved β-lactamase domains. It shares highest homology with glyoxalase II but does not catalyze the same reaction. Lower glutathione levels were found in cortex lysates from Pnkd knockout mice versus WT littermates. Taken together, our results suggest an important role for the Pnkd protein in maintaining cellular redox status.
Furocoumarins are a group of natural products with many biological activities. Clinical evidences have demonstrated the important contribution of furocoumarins to the toxicity of some foods and herbs. In order to assess liver and kidney toxicity of furocoumarins, male mice were orally administrated with psoralen, isopsoralen, imperatorin, isoimperatorin and xanthotoxin at 20 and 40 mg/kg once daily for 28 days, respectively. No changes of food or water intake were observed in furocoumarins-treated mice. Only 40 mg/kg isopsoralen reduced body weight. 40 mg/kg furocoumarins altered serum activities of alanine transaminase, aspartate aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase, and/or levels of albumin, showing hepatotoxicity. Furthermore, furocoumarins increased activity and protein expression of hepatic microsomal cytochrome P450 (CYP450) 3A11. CYP 2E1 activity and protein expression were suppressed by psoralen and isopsoralen and increased by xanthotoxin. Renal protein levels of organic cation/carnitine transporters (OCT1, OCT2 and OCTN2) and organic anion transporter 3 were increased by most furocoumarins. Renal urate transporter 1, glucose transporter 9 and multidrug resistance protein 4 were influenced by furocoumarins. These findings suggest that furocoumarins may interfere in metabolism, excretion and bioavailability of endogenous and exogenous compounds to impair liver and kidney functions mediated by affecting hepatic CYP450 and renal organic ion transport system.
Inflammation of the airways contributes to the multicomponent disease known as asthma. The primary cells that infiltrate the airway in response to antigen exposure are neutrophils and eosinophils. Eosinophils have been implicated in much of the histopathology of the airway following infiltration and degranulation. We used topical antigen exposure in the trachea of sensitized beagle dogs to study the kinetics of eosinophil infiltration with a modified double balloon endotracheal tube technique. After establishment of the eosinophilia, we used inhibitors with known actions to implicate certain mediators in the cellular response. Beagle dogs were sensitized to ascaria ova by feeding them orally by gavage. After 6 wk, challenge with 2.0 micrograms/ml ascaris antigen protein via the tracheal chamber resulted in a rapid (maximal in 4 h) and repeatable influx (p less than 0.05 versus vehicle) of eosinophils that was faster and larger than that of exogenously added LTB4 or PAF exposure. After 4 to 6 separate (every 2 wk) antigen challenges in which the response varied by (SEM +/- 13 to 50%), the individual dogs were rechallenged in the presence of various inhibitors administered either topically in the perfusate or systemically. The inhibitors that were effective in blocking the eosinophil influx by a statistically significant amount were: (1) the lazaroid U-78517F orally 0.5 to 30 mg/kg-18 h (2) Medrol acetate 5 mg/kg intramuscularly-18 h, (3) H1-antihistamines topically (10(-6) M) Astemizole, Cetirizine, and Mepyramine, also orally 30 mg/kg, and Azelastine. Inhibitors falling to inhibit influx topically were a LTB4 receptor antagonist (U-75302) and U-80271 (Merck L-652731), a PAF antagonist.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A 51-year-old woman with carcinoma of the ovary developed two episodes of supraventricular tachycardia during two consecutive cycles of combination chemotherapy. Both episodes occurred on day 5 of the 5-day continuous infusion schedule of cis-platinum. Underlying causes known to produce supraventricular tachycardia were ruled out. The possibility of platinum-related cardiac toxicity is discussed.
This study's objective is to evaluate the ability of glucagon and amrinone to reverse propranolol induced cardiovascular depression in a canine model, compared to a control of normal saline. The study design included 18 animals which received intravenous propranolol (10 mg/kg) resulting in significant depression in heart rate, cardiac output, mean arterial pressure, maximal ventricular dP/dt and stroke volume. Each canine was randomly assigned to one of three treatment groups; controls (normal saline only), glucagon (20 micrograms/kg bolus) and amrinone (4 mg/kg bolus). Cardiovascular parameters were monitored at 1, 6, 11, 21 and 31 min after treatment was rendered. Multiple comparison procedures at each time period controlled the overall alpha-level at .05. Compared to control animals, both amrinone and glucagon were effective in reversing propranolol-induced depression of dP/dtmax at 6 and 11 min for glucagon and 11 min for amrinone and cardiac output at 1, 6 and 11 min for glucagon and 1 min for amrinone. Amrinone and glucagon significantly increased stroke volume over control values at 1 min and tended to do so at the remaining time periods. The two days caused a similar degree of arteriolar vasodilation which was significantly greater than that seen in control animals at 1 and 6 min. Beta blocker induced bradycardia did not respond significantly to amrinone while glucagon induced a tachycardia which is unique to canines. It is concluded that in this canine model, amrinone appears to be an effective therapeutic alternative to glucagon for reversing depressed dP/dtmax, cardiac output and stoke volume induced by propranolol toxicity. Unlike glucagon, amrinone appears to lack positive chronotropic activity which may limit its clinical utility in the treatment of beta blocker overdose.
The new drug, sumatriptan, used to treat migraine, causes substernal tightness and severe angina-like pain in 3-21% of patients. Several reports have described sumatriptan-induced death, ventricular fibrillation, myocardial infarction, ischaemia and coronary vasospasm. We describe the case of a woman aged 40 years who suffered from bronchial asthma but was without known coronary heart disease. She experienced chest pain after intake of 100 mg sumatriptan orally. ECG was normal and there was no increase in coronary enzymes. Sumatriptan has a weak coronary constrictor effect. Endothelial dysfunction, with reduced release of vasodilating nitric oxide, may potentiate vasoconstriction induced by sumatriptan in the presence of thromboxane A2.
To verify the possible contribution of beta-adrenergic receptor down-regulation to the reversal of reflex tachycardia during chronic treatment with a dihydropyridine calcium antagonist, 11 hypertensive patients were studied with noninvasive blood pressure (BP) and heart rate (HR) monitoring after a placebo period, and on the first and seventh day of felodipine administration, 5 mg twice daily. Plasma catecholamines and neutrophil beta-adrenergic receptors were measured on the first and seventh day of treatment, immediately before and 2 h after drug administration. The first administration of felodipine was followed by a significant drop in BP (peak reduction in mean BP 24 +/- 7 mm Hg), lasting 6 h and mirrored by reflex tachycardia (peak increase in HR 14 +/- 9 beats/min). On the morning of the seventh day, 12 h after the previous felodipine administration, mean BP (MBP) was 16 mm Hg lower than on the last placebo day, while HR was unchanged. The next administration of felodipine was followed by a smaller drop in BP (MBP - 15 +/- 7 mm Hg; NS vs. placebo), while reflex tachycardia was the same as after acute felodipine (HR 13 +/- 8 beats/min; p less than 0.05 vs. placebo, NS vs. acute administration). Plasma noradrenaline concentration increased after both acute and chronic administration (p less than 0.0001), and preadministration values were highest on day 7 (p less than 0.05). Neutrophil beta-adrenergic receptor density and affinity did not change either acutely or chronically. This study gives both indirect and direct evidence that beta-adrenoceptor down-regulation does not occur during repeated felodipine administration in hypertension. Reflex tachycardia is not abolished, but is reset to lower BP levels.
The present studies demonstrate that growth and vitamin D treatment enhance the extent of artery calcification in rats given sufficient doses of Warfarin to inhibit gamma-carboxylation of matrix Gla protein, a calcification inhibitor known to be expressed by smooth muscle cells and macrophages in the artery wall. The first series of experiments examined the influence of age and growth status on artery calcification in Warfarin-treated rats. Treatment for 2 weeks with Warfarin caused massive focal calcification of the artery media in 20-day-old rats and less extensive focal calcification in 42-day-old rats. In contrast, no artery calcification could be detected in 10-month-old adult rats even after 4 weeks of Warfarin treatment. To directly examine the importance of growth to Warfarin-induced artery calcification in animals of the same age, 20-day-old rats were fed for 2 weeks either an ad libitum diet or a 6-g/d restricted diet that maintains weight but prevents growth. Concurrent treatment of both dietary groups with Warfarin produced massive focal calcification of the artery media in the ad libitum-fed rats but no detectable artery calcification in the restricted-diet, growth-inhibited group. Although the explanation for the association between artery calcification and growth status cannot be determined from the present study, there was a relationship between higher serum phosphate and susceptibility to artery calcification, with 30% higher levels of serum phosphate in young, ad libitum-fed rats compared with either of the groups that was resistant to Warfarin-induced artery calcification, ie, the 10-month-old rats and the restricted-diet, growth-inhibited young rats. This observation suggests that increased susceptibility to Warfarin-induced artery calcification could be related to higher serum phosphate levels. The second set of experiments examined the possible synergy between vitamin D and Warfarin in artery calcification. High doses of vitamin D are known to cause calcification of the artery media in as little as 3 to 4 days. High doses of the vitamin K antagonist Warfarin are also known to cause calcification of the artery media, but at treatment times of 2 weeks or longer yet not at 1 week. In the current study, we investigated the synergy between these 2 treatments and found that concurrent Warfarin administration dramatically increased the extent of calcification in the media of vitamin D-treated rats at 3 and 4 days. There was a close parallel between the effect of vitamin D dose on artery calcification and the effect of vitamin D dose on the elevation of serum calcium, which suggests that vitamin D may induce artery calcification through its effect on serum calcium. Because Warfarin treatment had no effect on the elevation in serum calcium produced by vitamin D, the synergy between Warfarin and vitamin D is probably best explained by the hypothesis that Warfarin inhibits the activity of matrix Gla protein as a calcification inhibitor. High levels of matrix Gla protein are found at sites of artery calcification in rats treated with vitamin D plus Warfarin, and chemical analysis showed that the protein that accumulated was indeed not gamma-carboxylated. These observations indicate that although the gamma-carboxyglutamate residues of matrix Gla protein are apparently required for its function as a calcification inhibitor, they are not required for its accumulation at calcification sites.
A 67 years-old man under amiodarone treatment for thirteen months due to a cardiac arrhythmia developed a mixed sensory-motor neuropathy. Proper diagnosis and withdrawal of the offending drug prompted marked improvement within months of his neurological dysfunction.
Several studies have shown that carvedilol, a multiple action neurohumoral antagonist, reduces mortality in patients with congestive heart failure (CHF). In addition to being a beta-adrenoceptor antagonist, carvedilol is a potent antioxidant. Since there is evidence for elevation of catecholamine levels in plasma and coronary artery endothelial cell injury in CHF, the present study was designed to test the hypothesis that carvedilol inhibits epinephrine-induced apoptosis, and the inhibitory effect is mediated by modulation of Fas, Fas ligand (FasL) and caspase-3 pathway, in cultured human coronary artery endothelial cells (HCAECs).
HCAECs were exposed to epinephrine alone, carvedilol + epinephrine, or atenolol + epinephrine for 24 h. Epinephrine increased the number of apoptotic cells, measured by in situ nick end-labeling staining (from 4.2 +/- 1.3% to 28.6 +/- 6.0%, P < 0.01, n = 6) and by DNA laddering on agarose gel electrophoresis. Epinephrine also increased Fas and FasL protein expression (P < 0.01 vs. control, n = 6), and activated intracellular protease caspase-3 (P < 0.01 vs. control, n = 6). These effects of epinephrine were completely inhibited by carvedilol. Atenolol in equimolar concentration also attenuated epinephrine-mediated effects, but the effects of atenolol were less marked than those of carvedilol (P < 0.01). To explore the basis of differential effects of carvedilol and atenolol, effects of these agents on epinephrine-induced lipid peroxidation was measured. Lipid peroxidation was completely blocked by carvedilol, whereas equimolar concentration of atenolol had much less (P < 0.05) effect.
Epinephrine induces apoptosis in HCAECs, and this effect is associated with activation of Fas-FasL and caspase-3 signal transduction pathway. Carvedilol can, more effectively than atenolol, inhibit these effects of epinephrine. The potent antioxidant effect of carvedilol is probably responsible for the superior effect.
Levetiracetam is a new antiepileptic drug, structurally and mechanistically dissimilar to other marketed antiepileptic drugs. It is effective in reducing partial seizures in patients with epilepsy, both as adjunctive treatment and as monotherapy. Levetiracetam has many therapeutic advantages for patients with epilepsy. It has favorable pharmacokinetic characteristics (good bioavailability, linear pharmacokinetics, insignificant protein binding, lack of hepatic metabolism, and rapid achievement of steady-state concentrations) and a low potential for drug interactions. Recommended starting dosages are considered to be clinically effective; therefore, patients can have some protection from seizures soon after they begin levetiracetam. The most common adverse effects observed with levetiracetam are mild and include somnolence, asthenia, and dizziness. Clinical experience and data from meta-analyses indicate that levetiracetam is well tolerated, with efficacy comparable or slightly better than that observed with other new antiepileptic drugs. Levetiracetam may be particularly useful in patients who are unresponsive to other antiepileptic drugs, patients receiving drugs with increased potential for drug interactions, or those with hepatic impairment.
Chronic coexposures to carcinogens inorganic arsenic and benzo[a]pyrene (B[a]P) are common in the living environment. However, little is known about their effects exerted at the proteome level. Our previous study in rat lung epithelial cells showed that cell transformation frequency increased by more than 100-fold when arsenic was given in combination with B[a]P than cells either exposed to arsenic or B[a]P alone. This demonstrated a synergism between them. Here, we reported that alterations to the proteome varied and were more pronounced in the transformed cells that were exposed to a combination of arsenic and B[a]P than to B[a]P and much less to arsenic alone when compared to passage-matched control cells. In general, three proteins belonging to intermediate filaments were found to be significantly down-regulated and six proteins belonging to antioxidative stress-, chaperone-, and glycolytic proteins were up-regulated in these transformed cells. These transformed cells were also associated with an increase of proliferation and de-differentiation. Taken together, our findings suggest that although arsenic or B[a]P alone is sufficient to induce cell transformation and alter the proteome to a similar extent, the effects of coexposure are much more pronounced. This further substantiates the notion that these carcinogens act in concert during cocarcinogenesis.
The dysfunction of hepatic heme synthesis by 2,3,7,8-tetrachlordibenzo- p-dioxin (TCDD) in mice, enhanced by iron, leads to accumulation of uroporphyrins I and III (uroporphyria) and resembles the human disorder porphyria cutanea tarda (PCT) precipitated by alcohol and estrogenic drugs. Although consequences of TCDD are considered entirely dependent on the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR), this is not proven for uroporphyria. Administration of TCDD (75 microg/kg) caused uroporphyria in susceptible C57BL/6J mice with high-affinity AHR after 5 weeks (>600-fold increase in hepatic uroporphyrins). Transcriptomics showed significant modified gene expressions for intermediary, heme, and iron metabolism as well as for oxidative stress and cell injury. Resistant low-affinity AHR DBA/2 mice (no increase in porphyrins) showed far fewer changes. At this dose of TCDD, persistent up-regulation of some traditional AH battery genes occurred in both strains. Essentiality of AHR was demonstrated with C57BL/6 Ahr knockout mice. Elevation of hepatic uroporphyrins was 964-fold in Ahr (+/+) mice, lower in Ahr (+/-) (60-fold), but undetectable with Ahr (-/-) . Consistent with an oxidative mechanism, iron overload enhanced porphyria as well as general liver injury in Ahr (+/+) and Ahr (+/-) mice but had no interactive effect in Ahr (-/-) . In contrast, when iron-treated mice received, instead of TCDD, the heme precursor 5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA), causing uroporphyia in Ahr (+/+) mice (242-fold rise in uroporphyrins), elevation of uroporphyrins I and III (42-fold) also occurred in Ahr (-/-) mice and was seemingly associated with AHR-independent expression of Cyp1a2. The findings prove that AHR is a key factor in porphyria induced in mice by TCDD. However, in other models of human PCT, participation of AHR may not be an essential requirement.
Markers of fibrinolysis, thrombin-activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor (TAFI), tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA), and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) levels were studied for the evaluation of short-term effects of raloxifene administration in postmenopausal women.
Thirty-nine postmenopausal women with osteopenia or osteoporosis were included in this prospective, controlled clinical study. Twenty-five women were given raloxifene hydrochloride (60 mg/day) plus calcium (500 mg/day). Age-matched controls (n = 14) were given only calcium. Plasma TAFI, tPA, and PAI-1 antigen levels were measured at baseline and after 3 months of treatment by commercially available ELISA kits. Variations of individuals were assessed by Wilcoxon's test. Relationship between those markers and demographic characteristics were investigated.
Three months of raloxifene treatment was associated with a significant decrease in the plasma TAFI antigen concentrations (16% change, P < 0.01), and a significant increase in tPA antigen concentrations (25% change, P < 0.05). A significant correlation was found between baseline TAFI antigen concentrations and the duration of amenorrhea (P < 0.05; r = 0.33).
We suggest that the increased risk of venous thromboembolism due to raloxifene treatment may be related to increased tPA levels, but not TAFI levels.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain is marked by severe neuronal death which has been partly attributed to increased oxidative stress. The pathophysiology accounting for this free radical injury is not well-delineated at this point, but one hypothesis is that a derangement in transition metal metabolism contributes to the process. We tested the hypothesis that peripheral derangement of transition metal metabolism is present early in the dementing process. We analyzed non-heme iron and copper levels in serum from subjects with normal cognition, mild cognitive impairment, and early stage senile dementia and followed these subjects over 5 years. An increase in the ratio of serum copper to non-heme iron levels predicted which subjects with mild cognitive impairment would progress to dementia versus those that would remain cognitively stable. This increase did not correlate with changes in expression of iron regulatory protein 2 or selected downstream targets in peripheral lymphocytes. A cDNA-based microarray (IronChip) containing genes relevant to iron and copper metabolism was used to assess transition metal metabolism in circulating lymphocytes from cognitively normal and demented subjects. No gene was identified as being dysregulated more than 2-fold, and verification using quantitative RT-PCR demonstrated no significant changes in expression for ALAS2, FOS, and CTR1. The increased ratio of serum copper to serum iron prior to dementia has potential as a biomarker for cognitive decline and mirrors other changes in serum previously reported by others, but iron and copper metabolism pathways appear to be broadly unaffected in peripheral blood in AD.
The amygdala is part of the brain reward circuitry that plays a role in cocaine-seeking and abstinence in animals and cocaine craving and relapse in humans. Cocaine-seeking is elicited by cocaine-associated cues, and the basolateral amygdala (BLA) and CeA are essential in forming and communicating drug-related associations that are thought to be critical in long-lasting relapse risk associated with drug addiction. Here we simulated a cue stimulus with high-frequency stimulation (HFS) of the BLA-CeA pathway to examine mechanisms that may contribute to drug-related associations. We found enhanced long-term potentiation (LTP) after 14-day but not 1-day withdrawal from 7-day cocaine treatment mediated through N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors (NRs), L-type voltage-gated calcium channels (L-VGCCs), and corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF)(1) receptors; this was accompanied by increased phosphorylated NR1 and CRF(1) protein not associated with changes in NMDA/AMPA ratios in amygdalae from cocaine-treated animals. We suggest that these signaling mechanisms may provide therapeutic targets for the treatment of cocaine cravings.
A multicenter double-blind comparative study with auranofin (Ridaura) and Na-auro-thiomalate (Tauredon) was carried out in order to investigate under controlled conditions whether the new oral gold compound may be an alternative to injections of gold salts. 121 patients were included in the study, data of 86 patients treated for at least one year could be analysed. The following parameters were examined at regular intervals: number of painful and swollen joints, grip strength, morning stiffness, pain and general health on the visual analogue scale, ESR; from these data the articular index and activity index (according to Lansbury, with slight modifications) were calculated. Blood samples for routine safety monitoring and serum gold levels as well as urine tests were obtained regularly. Both treatment groups showed similar improvement in the values for efficacy measurements after one year, starting within 8 to 12 weeks. Patients in the auranofin group with a disease duration of less than 2 years showed greater improvement in the values for efficacy assessment with the exception of grip strength and the number of tender joints than patients with a disease duration of 2 years or more. No such trend was seen in the Tauredon-subgroups. Numerous side effects were recorded in both groups: 89.7% of the patients on Tauredon and 68.8% of the patients on auranofin had observed one symptom during the course of one year. There was a clear distinction concerning the nature of side effects: mucocutaneous symptoms, especially rash and pruritus, were approximately twice as common with Tauredon, whereas diarrhoea was much more frequent in patients treated with auranofin.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Multidrug therapy (WHO/MDT) in multibacillary leprosy consists of treatment with rifampicin, dapsone and clofazimine. However, adverse effects can cause the patient to abandon treatment. We report on a patient who presented agranulocytosis and hemolytic anemia associated with this treatment regime. We also examined the importance of laboratory exams for diagnosis and follow-up of the patient, and for early detection of adverse effects,with a view to improving adhesion to treatment and contributing to the eradication of Hansen's disease as a public health issue.
Oxidants have been shown to be involved in the initiation of chronic puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis in rats, but it is uncertain whether they have a role in the progression of this disease. Rats given a single internal jugular venous bolus of puromycin aminonucleoside (PA) develop early nephrotic syndrome that subsides after about 28 days followed by a 4-wk period of minimal proteinuria and then the development of focal glomerulosclerosis and increasing proteinuria. Fifty-two rats on a high-cholesterol diet were divided into four groups. Two groups of 16 animals each received a single internal jugular venous bolus of PA. One of these groups was started on the dietary antioxidant, probucol (1% wt/wt), 4 days after the PA injection and continued on it until termination. The remaining rats were given an internal jugular venous injection of an equivolume of normal saline. Five of these animals were also started on dietary probucol 4 days after the saline injection. At 11 days postinjection all animals given PA, whether on probucol or not, developed marked proteinuria with histologically minimal glomerular change and significant increases in intraglomerular monocyte and proliferating cell nuclear antigen counts. Forty-two days after PA injection all PA-injected rats had minimal urinary protein injection and no glomerular changes. At 98 days postinjection rats given PA without probucol developed focal glomerulosclerosis and significant proteinuria compared with PA-injected rats on probucol and those injected with saline (P < 0.05). The probucol-fed PA-injected rats showed no glomerular disease and their urinary protein excretion rates were very similar to those of the saline controls. The results indicate that probucol inhibits the progression of chronic puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis and are consistent with the suggestion that oxidants are involved in the progression of this entity.
We used a 1.5-T MR scanner to investigate in vivo hydrogen 1 ((1)H) MRS to evaluate metabolic changes in the hepatocarcinogenesis experimental rat model.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) was induced by diethylnitrosamine in 70 treated rats with 20 normal rats used as controls. Single-voxel (1)H MRS is performed to obtained the relative choline-to-lipid (Cho/lipid) ratio. The liver and tumor tissues are incised for the histologic examination. Based on the histologic result, the progression of hepatocarcinogenesis of the animal model was divided into three stages: fibrosis stage, cirrhosis stage, and HCC stage. The mean (+/-SD) ratio values are calculated and compared at various stages between the treated group and the control group.
In control group, the calculated mean (+/-SD) Cho/lipid ratio was 0.15 +/- 0.05. With the progression of hepatocarcinogenesis, the Cho/lipid ratio increased significantly, to 0.18 +/- 0.05, 0.24 +/- 0.07, and 0.38 +/- 0.19, respectively.
The (1)H MRS is technically feasible for evaluation of the metabolic changes in the animal model. A significant increase in choline-containing compounds level was observed in the HCC stage in the treated group.
Progressive pigmentary purpura is a rare condition characterized by lymphocytic capillaritis histologically causing various clinical entities which are also named as persistent pigmented purpuric dermatoses. It is generally idiopathic; however, rare cases secondary to drugs and various diseases have been reported. In this report we describe a case of progressive pigmentary purpura induced by raloxifene, a selective estrogen receptor modulator which is primarily used in the treatment and prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis. As far as we know, no case of progressive pigmentary purpura has previously been reported as an adverse effect of raloxifene.
Seizures are commonly encountered in patients who do not have epilepsy. Factors that may provoke such seizures include organ failure, electrolyte imbalance, medication and medication withdrawal, and hypersensitive encephalopathy. There is usually one underlying cause, which may be reversible in some patients. A full assessment should be done to rule out primary neurological disease. Treatment of seizures in medically ill patients is aimed at correction of the underlying cause with appropriate short-term anticonvulsant medication. Phenytoin is ineffective in the management of seizures secondary to alcohol withdrawal, and in those due to theophylline or isoniazid toxicity. Control of blood pressure is important in patients with renal failure and seizures. Non-convulsive status epilepticus should be considered in any patient with confusion or coma of unclear cause, and electroencephalography should be done at the earliest opportunity. Most ill patients with secondary seizures do not have epilepsy, and this should be explained to patients and their families. Only those patients with recurrent seizures and uncorrectable predisposing factors need long-term treatment with anticonvulsant medication.
