Progression to androgen independent (AI) is the main cause of death in prostate cancer, and the mechanism is still unclear. By reviewing the expression profiles of 26 prostate cancer samples in a holistic view, we found a group of genes differentially expressed in AI compared with androgen-dependent groups (P-value<0.01, t-test). Focusing on apoptosis, proliferation, hormone and angiogenesis, we found a group of genes such as thioredoxin domain containing 5 , tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily, member 10a , ribosomal protein S19 and Janus kinase 2 upregulated in AI prostate cancer, could play important roles in the transition from AD to AI and could be biomarkers of prognosis.
Cholinesterase inhibitors and memantine can slow the course of Alzheimer's disease. In Austria the frequency of treatment is in the upper third among countries of the EU. Yet, the majority of Alzheimer patients does not receive adequate medication. Compliance to treatment is low. Studies on cholinesterase inhibitors show that only one third and one fifth of patients adhere to medication after 3 months and 12 months, respectively. Causes for low compliance are only partly patient-related, many factors are system-inherent. Knowledge of these factors is a pre-requisite for the treating physician to improve current unfavourable situation. Present treatment strategies are symptomatic, causal disease-modifying therapies are urgently needed. Research activity in the field is high and dominated by the amyloid hypothesis. We here review the basis and recent studies on secretase-inhibitors, immunization, aggregation of Abeta, statins and PPARgamma-agonists. Research towards strategies against tau-pathology is less dominant and focuses on inhibition of kinases and increase of activity of phosphatases. Causal therapies would have great effects on a population basis even if efficacy is only moderate. A disease-modifying therapy which delays the onset of Alzheimer disease by 5 years, will probably reduce the number of patients by nearly 50% during the next 50 years.
We designed, synthesized, and identified GRL-98065, a novel nonpeptidic human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) protease inhibitor (PI) containing the structure-based designed privileged cyclic ether-derived nonpeptide P2 ligand, 3(R),3a(S),6a(R)-bis-tetrahydrofuranylurethane (bis-THF), and a sulfonamide isostere, which is highly potent against laboratory HIV-1 strains and primary clinical isolates (50% effective concentration [EC(50)], 0.0002 to 0.0005 microM) with minimal cytotoxicity (50% cytotoxicity, 35.7 microM in CD4(+) MT-2 cells). GRL-98065 blocked the infectivity and replication of each of the HIV-1(NL4-3) variants exposed to and selected by up to a 5 microM concentration of saquinavir, indinavir, nelfinavir, or ritonavir and a 1 microM concentration of lopinavir or atazanavir (EC(50), 0.0015 to 0.0075 microM), although it was less active against HIV-1(NL4-3) selected by amprenavir (EC(50), 0.032 microM). GRL-98065 was also potent against multiple-PI-resistant clinical HIV-1 variants isolated from patients who had no response to existing antiviral regimens after having received a variety of antiviral agents, HIV-1 isolates of various subtypes, and HIV-2 isolates examined. Structural analyses revealed that the close contact of GRL-98065 with the main chain of the protease active-site amino acids (Asp29 and Asp30) is important for its potency and wide-spectrum activity against multiple-PI-resistant HIV-1 variants. The present data demonstrate that the privileged nonpeptide P2 ligand, bis-THF, is critical for the binding of GRL-98065 to the HIV protease substrate binding site and that this scaffold can confer highly potent antiviral activity against a wide spectrum of HIV isolates.
Insulin-like growth factor (IGF) -I is one of the candidates for cardiac hypertrophy induced by beta-adrenergic stimulation. However, the mechanisms by which the biologic actions of IGF-I are regulated under this condition remain unclear. IGF-I becomes bioavailable for its receptors upon its dissociation from IGF-binding protein (IGFBP) through IGFBP degradation. Because matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) have been implicated in the degradation of IGFBPs, the authors investigated the role of MMPs in the regulation of the IGF-I action through the degradation of IGFBPs in cardiac hypertrophy induced by beta-adrenergic stimulation. They examined the expression of MMPs in cardiac tissues of rats infused with isoproterenol (3 mg/kg per day), the effect of a MMP inhibitor, SI-27 (5 mg/rat per day), on cardiac hypertrophy, and the expression of IGF-I and IGFBP-3. MMP-1 and -2 activities increased and IGFBP-3 was degraded in heart hypertrophied by isoproterenol. MMP inhibition caused a regression in the myocyte hypertrophy in association with the suppression of both IGF-I protein in myocytes and the degradation of IGFBP-3 protein. These results suggest that the induction of myocyte hypertrophy by isoproterenol is mediated, at least in part, by a modulation of the IGF-I axis.
We examined the oral efficacy of a direct thrombin inhibitor, CVS-1123 [(CH3CH2CH2)(2)-CH-CO-Asp (OCH3)-Pro-Arg-CHO; MW, 575]. The object was to determine whether thrombin inhibition could reduce the incidence of occlusive coronary artery thrombosis in response to arterial wall injury.
Arterial wall injury was induced in conscious dogs by a 150-muA anodal current applied to the intimal surface of the circumflex coronary artery 30 minutes after oral CVS-1123 (20 mg/kg every 8 hours for three doses; n = 11) or placebo containing diluent (n = 10). Dogs were monitored for 8 hours and at 24 hours. The coronary artery remained patent for 24 hours in 8 of 11 CVS-1123-treated dogs. All dogs (n = 10) in the placebo group developed a sustained, occlusive arterial thrombus. Two hours after the initial oral dose, the plasma CVS-1123 concentration was 13 +/- 1 microgram/mL, reaching a maximum of 15 +/- 1 micrograms/mL after the second dose and 4.4 +/- 0.5 micrograms/mL at 24 hours. Ex vivo platelet aggregation to gamma-thrombin was inhibited and activated partial thromboplastin time was increased after treatment with CVS-1123 (P < .05).
The direct thrombin inhibitor CVS-1123 is effective after oral administration in reducing the incidence of primary thrombus formation in an experimental model of arterial wall injury. Thrombin-specific inhibitors, such as CVS-1123, may be alternative antithrombotic agents in clinical settings in which heparin-associated thrombosis is a complicating factor or when long-term anticoagulation is required.
Resveratrol (RSV) is a polyphenolic compound suggested to have anti-diabetic properties. Surprisingly, little is known regarding the effects of RSV supplementation on adipose tissue (AT) metabolism in vivo. The purpose of this study was to assess the effects of RSV on mitochondrial content and respiration, glyceroneogenesis (GNG), and adiponectin secretion in adipose tissue from Zucker diabetic fatty (ZDF) rats. Five-week-old ZDF rats were fed a chow diet with (ZDF RSV) or without (ZDF chow) RSV (200 mg/kg body wt) for 6 wk. Changes in adipose tissue metabolism were assessed in subcutaneous (scAT) and intra-abdominal [retroperitoneal (rpWAT), epididymal (eWAT)] adipose tissue depots. ZDF RSV rats showed lower fasting glucose and higher circulating adiponectin, as well as lower glucose area under the curve during intraperitoneal glucose and insulin tolerance tests than ZDF chow. [¹⁴C]pyruvate incorporation into triglycerides and adiponectin secretion were higher in scAT from ZDF RSV rats, concurrent with increases in adipose tissue triglyceride lipase (ATGL), hormone-sensitive lipase (HSL), and the phosphorylation of pyruvate dehydrogenase-E1α (PDH) (Ser293) protein content in this depot. Moreover, uncoupled mitochondrial respiration and complex I and II-supported respiration were increased in both scAT and rpWAT, which correlated with increases in cytochrome c oxidase subunit IV (COX4) protein content. In vitro treatment of scAT with RSV (50 μmol/l; 24 h) induced pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 4 (PDK4) and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-γ coactivator-1α (PGC-1α) mRNA expression. Collectively, these data demonstrate that RSV can induce adipose tissue mitochondrial biogenesis in parallel with increases in GNG and adiponectin secretion.
Adipose-derived stromal/mesenchymal stem cells (ASC) have gained interest as promising tools for delivering cancer therapy. Adipose tissue can be obtained readily in amounts sufficient for ASC isolation, which can be expanded rapidly, allowing its use at low passage numbers, and can be transduced by viral and nonviral means. Our goal was to examine the potential of ASC to deliver cytokine gene therapies melanoma differentiation associated gene-7 (MDA-7) or pigment epithelial-derived factor (PEDF) to cancer cells. These novel cytokines are a potent proapoptotic and an antiangiogenesis mediator, respectively, with potential as antitumor agents. Expression of cytokine therapies did not adversely affect ASC biology, and these cells were still able to differentiate and retain normal viability. The ASC cytokine therapies were efficient in reducing tumor cell growth in coculture and also in suppressing in vitro angiogenesis phenotypes. We also observed that ASC retained their innate ability to migrate toward tumor cells in coculture, and this ability could be blocked by inhibition of CXCR4 signaling. The ASC were found to be nontumorigenic in vitro using a soft agar assay, as well as in vivo, utilizing 2 prostate cancer xenograft models. The ASC-MDA7 only reduced tumor growth in the TRAMP-C2-Ras (TC2Ras) prostate cancer model. The ASC-PEDF, however, reduced growth in both the TC2Ras and the PC3 highly aggressive prostate cancer models, and it was able to completely prevent prostate tumor establishment in vivo. In conclusion, ASC expressing PEDF and MDA7 could effectively reduce prostate tumor growth in vivo, suggesting ASC-cytokine therapies might have translational applications, especially the PEDF modality.
Cadmium (Cd) impairs ovary structure and function in mature animals. However, the influence of Cd on follicle development from weaning to maturity is obscure. In the current study, 21-day-old Wistar rats were administered Cd chloride at doses of 0, 0.5, 2.0 and 8.0 mg/kg body weight once a day for eight weeks by gavage. After administration, a significant decrease in ovarian wet weight, ovarian/body weight ratios, and primordial follicles, in addition to an increase in atresic follicles, were observed. Transmission electron microscopy and TUNEL assay confirmed the increase of follicle apoptosis as Cd concentration increased. Real-time quantitative PCR and Western blotting showed a significantly decreased expression of follicle development-related factors, stem cell factor (SCF) and c-kit. Bisulfite sequencing suggested that the total methylation percentages of SCF/c-kit promoter region were not obvious change after Cd exposure. Real-time quantitative PCR revealed a significantly increased expression of miR-193, miR-221 and miR-222, which regulate c-kit, in the 2.0 mg/kg and 8.0 mg/kg treatment groups. Overall, this study proved that Cd administration from weaning to maturity could damage follicle development, suggesting that SCF/c-kit might play an important role in this effect. In addition, microRNAs might play a role in c-kit protein downregulation.
The mammary gland represents a unique model system to study gene functions in adult stem cells. Mammary stem cells (MaSCs) can regenerate a functional epithelium on transplantation into cleared fat pads. We studied the consequences of distinct genetic modifications of MaSCs on their repopulation and differentiation ability. The reconstitution of ductal trees was used as a stem cell selection procedure and the nearly quantitative lentiviral infection efficiency of the primary mammary epithelial cells (MECs) rendered the enrichment of MaSCs before their transplantation unnecessary. The repopulation frequency of transduced MaSCs was nearly 100% in immunodeficient recipients and the resulting transgenic ducts homogeneously expressed the virally encoded fluorescent marker proteins. Transplantation of a mixture of MECs, expressing different fluorescent proteins, resulted in a distinct pattern of ductal outgrowths originating from a small number of individually transduced MaSCs. We used genetically modified MECs to define multiple functions of Stat5 during mammary gland development and differentiation. Stat5-downregulation in MaSCs did not affect primary ductal outgrowth, but impaired side branching and the emergence of mature alveolar cells from luminal progenitors during pregnancy. Conversely, the expression of a constitutively active variant of Stat5 (cS5-F) caused epithelial hyperproliferation, thickening of the ducts and precocious, functional alveoli formation in virgin mice. Expression of cS5-F also prevented involution and caused the formation of estrogen and progesterone receptor positive (ER(+)PR(+)) adenocarcinomas. The tumors expressed activated Stat5 and Stat3 and contained a small fraction of CD44(+) cells, possibly indicative of cancer stem cells.
Toll-like receptors (TLRs) and members of their signaling pathway are important in the initiation of the innate immune response to a wide variety of pathogens. The adaptor protein Mal (also known as TIRAP), encoded by TIRAP (MIM 606252), mediates downstream signaling of TLR2 and TLR4 (refs. 4-6). We report a case-control study of 6,106 individuals from the UK, Vietnam and several African countries with invasive pneumococcal disease, bacteremia, malaria and tuberculosis. We genotyped 33 SNPs, including rs8177374, which encodes a leucine substitution at Ser180 of Mal. We found that heterozygous carriage of this variant associated independently with all four infectious diseases in the different study populations. Combining the study groups, we found substantial support for a protective effect of S180L heterozygosity against these infectious diseases (N = 6,106; overall P = 9.6 x 10(-8)). We found that the Mal S180L variant attenuated TLR2 signal transduction.
A 44-year-old white male with an isolated central nervous system relapse of acute lymphoblastic leukemia was treated with intrathecal cytarabine. He developed Staphylococcus epidermidis meningitis, which was treated successfully with intrathecal vancomycin. Four weeks after the initiation of intrathecal cytarabine, the patient developed progressive ascending paralysis to the upper cervical level. Initial magnetic resonance imaging of the brain and spine were normal, and cerebrospinal fluid evaluation showed no evidence of ongoing infection and clearance of lymphoblasts. Three weeks later, magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated marked edema and peripheral enhancement of the spinal cord, consistent with cytarabine toxicity.
Tamoxifen prevents recurrence after breast cancer and breast cancer among high-risk women, and may prevent myocardial infarction (MI). To assess the impact of tamoxifen on MI risk, we conducted a case-control study of first MI after breast cancer nested among women diagnosed with breast cancer, while enrolled in a health maintenance organisation from 1980 to 2000. We obtained information on breast cancer treatment and MI risk factors through medical record reviews and interviews. Data were analysed using conditional logistic regression. Of 11,045 women with breast cancer, 134 met MI criteria and were matched to two MI-free control subjects on year of birth and breast cancer diagnosis. After adjusting for smoking, hypertension and diabetes, tamoxifen was unassociated with MI (odds ratio (OR)=1.2, 95% confidence interval (CI)=0.7-1.9). Duration, cumulative dose and recency of use were not associated with MI. Radiation therapy was associated with MI (OR=2.0, 95% CI=1.1-3.5), an association that varied slightly but not statistically significantly by tamoxifen use (radiation with tamoxifen, OR=2.0, 95% CI=0.9-4.4; radiation without tamoxifen, OR=2.9, 95% CI=1.2-7.5). Tamoxifen treatment for breast cancer does not appear to increase or decrease MI risk, although radiation therapy appears to increase MI risk.
Spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 (SCA1) is a dominantly inherited neurodegenerative disease caused by expansion of a glutamine tract in ataxin-1 (ATXN1). SCA1 pathogenesis studies support a model in which the expanded glutamine tract causes toxicity by modulating the normal activities of ATXN1. To explore native interactions that modify the toxicity of ATXN1, we generated a targeted duplication of the mouse ataxin-1-like (Atxn1l, also known as Boat) locus, a highly conserved paralog of SCA1, and tested the role of this protein in SCA1 pathology. Using a knock-in mouse model of SCA1 that recapitulates the selective neurodegeneration seen in affected individuals, we found that elevated Atxn1l levels suppress neuropathology by displacing mutant Atxn1 from its native complex with Capicua (CIC). Our results provide genetic evidence that the selective neuropathology of SCA1 arises from modulation of a core functional activity of ATXN1, and they underscore the importance of studying the paralogs of genes mutated in neurodegenerative diseases to gain insight into mechanisms of pathogenesis.
Metastasis contributes to the escalating mortality rate among cancer patients worldwide. The search for novel and more effective anti-metastatic agent is crucial owing to the lack of anticancer drugs that can successfully combat metastasis. Hence, this study aims to examine the effects of 2-Methoxy-1,4-Naphthoquinone (MNQ) towards the metastasis of MDA-MB-231 cells. In invasion assays, the number of cells permeating across a Matrigel barrier was found to be decreased in a dose-dependent manner upon treatment with MNQ (0-7.5 μM). In wound-healing migration assays, MNQ exhibited dose-dependent inhibition of cell migration in which significant reduction in the zone of closure was observed as compared to untreated controls. Furthermore, the proteolytic activity of a pivotal metastatic mediator, matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) was also downregulated by MNQ as determined by gelatin zymography. This study reports for the first time, the ability of MNQ to inhibit the invasion and migration characteristics of a highly metastatic MDA-MB-231 cancer cell line.
The aim of this work was to study the effects of resveratrol (RES) as compared to silymarin (SM) pretreatments on tert-butylhydroperoxide (tBH) induced apoptotic/necrotic markers in hepatocytes. Hepatocyte in cultures (48 h) and in perifused immobilized agarose threads (5h) were used as cellular systems. Hepatocyte apoptosis was estimated morphologically using Annexin-V combined with propidium iodide, or toluidine blue staining. Hepatocyte viability and functionality were evaluated by ALT and urea synthesis. Nitric oxide (NO) and carbon monoxide involvements were also examined. Resveratrol and silymarin reduced tBH-induced hepatocyte toxic effects in short term experiments (5h) as measured by a significant reduction in ALT and NO increase produced by tBH. Both inducible nitric oxide synthase (NOS-2) and hemoxygenase-1 (HO-1) gene expression were increased by tBH and reduced by both RES and SM pretreatments. Morphologically, there were ameliorations in both apoptotic and necrotic markers under RES treatment and were similar to biochemical findings. In addition, RES improved hepatocyte stability in both cellular systems. It may be concluded that resveratrol and sylimarin ameliorative effects on tBH hepatocyte toxicity are comparable; involve NOS-2 and HO-1 expression and should be re-evaluated in various in vitro and in vivo experimental conditions.
Determine the efficacy and tolerability of olanzapine/fluoxetine combination (OFC) for treatment of acute bipolar I depression compared with lamotrigine.
The 7-week, acute phase of a randomized, double-blind study compared OFC (6/25, 6/50, 12/25, or 12/50 mg/day; N = 205) with lamotrigine ([LMG] titrated to 200 mg/day; N = 205) in patients with DSM-IV-diagnosed bipolar I disorder, depressed. The study was conducted from November 2003 to August 2004.
Completion rates were similar between treatments (OFC, 66.8% vs. LMG, 65.4%; p = .835). OFC-treated patients had significantly greater improvement than lamotrigine-treated patients in change from baseline across the 7-week treatment period on the Clinical Global Impressions-Severity of Illness scale (primary outcome) (p = .002, effect size = 0.26), Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) (p = .002, effect size = 0.24), and Young Mania Rating Scale total scores (p = .001, effect size = 0.24). Response rates did not significantly differ between groups when defined as > or = 50% reduction in MADRS score (OFC, 68.8% vs. LMG, 59.7%; p = .073). Time to response was significantly shorter for OFC-treated patients (median days [95% CI] = OFC, 17 [14 to 22] vs. LMG, 23 [21 to 34]; p = .010). There was a significant difference in incidence of "suicidal and self-injurious behavior" adverse events (OFC, 0.5% vs. LMG, 3.4%; p = .037). Somnolence, increased appetite, dry mouth, sedation, weight gain, and tremor occurred more frequently (p < .05) in OFC-treated patients than lamotrigine-treated patients. Weight, total cholesterol, and triglyceride levels were significantly elevated in OFC-treated patients compared with lamotrigine-treated patients (all p < or = .001).
Patients with acute bipolar I depression had statistically significantly greater improvement in depressive and manic symptoms, more treatment-emergent adverse events, greater weight gain, and some elevated metabolic factors with OFC than lamotrigine. Treatment differences were of modest size.
Dyspeptic symptoms, gastrointestinal bleeding, or the development of anaemia without dyspepsia in patients treated with indomethacin may be manifestations of peptic ulceration. Such manifestations occur with suppositories as well as with capsules. The ulcers in the present series tended to be prepyloric, and often aroused the suspicion of malignancy. Symptoms were promptly relieved and radiological healing occurred rapidly after withdrawal of the drug.
Resequencing genes provides the opportunity to assess the full spectrum of variants that influence complex traits. Here we report the first application of resequencing to a large population (n = 3,551) to examine the role of the adipokine ANGPTL4 in lipid metabolism. Nonsynonymous variants in ANGPTL4 were more prevalent in individuals with triglyceride levels in the lowest quartile than in individuals with levels in the highest quartile (P = 0.016). One variant (E40K), present in approximately 3% of European Americans, was associated with significantly lower plasma levels of triglyceride and higher levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol in European Americans from the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities Study and in Danes from the Copenhagen City Heart Study. The ratio of nonsynonymous to synonymous variants was higher in European Americans than in African Americans (4:1 versus 1.3:1), suggesting population-specific relaxation of purifying selection. Thus, resequencing of ANGPTL4 in a multiethnic population allowed analysis of the phenotypic effects of both rare and common variants while taking advantage of genetic variation arising from ethnic differences in population history.
To investigate the potential effects of lifetime cumulative ozone (O3) exposure on acute pulmonary responses to O3.
Fifteen healthy subjects from a larger cohort of young adults were exposed to 200 ppb O3 for 4 hours followed by bronchoscopy and bronchoalveolar lavage 18 hours later. Lung function, symptom questionnaires, and blood samples were obtained before and after each exposure. Subjects' lifetime cumulative O3 exposures were estimated from residential histories and air-quality monitoring data.
Acute exposure to O3 caused decrements in forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1), maximal mid-expiratory flow rate (FEF25-75), and forced expiratory flow rate at 75% of forced vital capacity (FEF75), and an increase in plasma clara cell protein (CC16) level. Changes in CC16 and lower respiratory symptoms, but not in lung function, were positively correlated with lifetime cumulative O3 exposure.
Higher lifetime cumulative O3 exposure was associated with airway injury and respiratory symptom responses, but not with airway inflammatory or lung function responses, to acute O3 exposure.
Hepatic function tests were performed on 48 dogs that had been given primidone, phenytoin, or a combination of anticonvulsant drugs for 6 months or longer. Except for histories of seizures, 44 of the dogs were healthy at the time the tests were performed. Abnormal test results were observed most frequently in dogs given only primidone and in dogs given combinations of anticonvulsant drugs. The test results that were abnormal most often were those for alanine transaminase and alkaline phosphatase activities, and sulfobromophthalein excretion. The dosage of anticonvulsant drug was found to modify certain test results. Statistically significant positive correlations were found between the dosage of primidone and serum alanine transaminase activity and between the dosage of phenytoin and serum alkaline phosphatase activity. Four of the dogs were examined because of signs of weakness and anorexia and 2 also had ascites. Three of the 4 dogs were euthanatized 2 to 49 days after admission with clinical signs compatible with hepatic failure, and cirrhosis of the liver was confirmed at necropsy. The fourth dog died at home and was not necropsied. Four of the remaining 44 dogs that apparently were healthy at the time of examination had abnormalities in hepatic biochemical test results that were comparable with those in the 4 dogs with clinical illness. We concluded that, although results of hepatic biochemical tests frequently may be abnormal in dogs given anticonvulsant drugs long-term, severe hepatic injury is observed less often.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) are common, heritable neurodevelopmental conditions. The genetic architecture of ASDs is complex, requiring large samples to overcome heterogeneity. Here we broaden coverage and sample size relative to other studies of ASDs by using Affymetrix 10K SNP arrays and 1,181 [corrected] families with at least two affected individuals, performing the largest linkage scan to date while also analyzing copy number variation in these families. Linkage and copy number variation analyses implicate chromosome 11p12-p13 and neurexins, respectively, among other candidate loci. Neurexins team with previously implicated neuroligins for glutamatergic synaptogenesis, highlighting glutamate-related genes as promising candidates for contributing to ASDs.
To present national data on the prevalence, correlates, and comorbidity of nonmedical prescription drug use and drug use disorders for sedatives, tranquilizers, opioids, and amphetamines.
Data were derived from the National Epidemiologic Survey on Alcohol and Related Conditions (NESARC), a face-to-face nationally representative survey of 43,093 adults conducted during 2001 and 2002.
Lifetime prevalences of nonmedical use of sedatives, tranquilizers, opioids, and amphetamines were 4.1%, 3.4%, 4.7%, and 4.7%, respectively. Corresponding rates of abuse and/or dependence on these substances were 1.1%, 1.0%, 1.4%, and 2.0%. The odds of nonmedical prescription drug use and drug use disorders were generally greater among men, Native Americans, young and middle-aged, those who were widowed/ separated/divorced or never married, and those residing in the West. Abuse/dependence liability was greatest for amphetamines, and nonmedical prescription drug use disorders were highly comorbid with other Axis I and II disorders. The majority of individuals with non-medical prescription drug use disorders never received treatment.
Nonmedical prescription drug use and disorders are pervasive in the U.S. population and highly comorbid with other psychiatric disorders. Native Americans had significantly greater rates of nonmedical prescription drug use and drug use disorders, highlighting the need for culturally-sensitive prevention and intervention programs. Unprecedented comorbidity between nonmedical prescription drug use disorders and between nonmedical prescription drug use disorders and illicit drug use disorders suggests that the typical individual abusing or dependent on these drugs obtained them illegally, rather than through a physician. Amphetamines had the greatest abuse/dependence liability, and recent increases in the potency of illegally manufactured amphetamines may portend an epidemic in the youngest NESARC cohort.
The beta2-adrenergic receptor is part of the catecholamine system, and variants at two polymorphic sites in the gene coding for the receptor (ADRB2) confer increased activity. Overstimulation of this receptor may alter brain development, and has been linked to autism in non-identical twins. The objective of this study was to determine whether alleles in ADRB2 are associated with diagnosis of autism in the Autism Genetic Resource Exchange (AGRE) population. Three hundred and thirty-one independent autism case-parent trios were included in the analysis. Subjects were genotyped at activity-related polymorphisms rs1042713 (codon 16) and rs1042714 (codon 27). Association between autism and genotypes at each polymorphic site was tested using genotype-based transmission disequilibrium tests, and effect modification by family and pregnancy characteristics was evaluated. Sensitivity to designation of the proband in each family was assessed by performing 1000 repeats of the analysis selecting affected children randomly. A statistically significant OR of 1.66 for the Glu27 homozygous genotype was observed. Increased associations with this genotype were observed among a subset of Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule confirmed cases and a subset reporting experience of pregnancy-related stressors. In conclusion, the Glu27 allele of the ADRB2 gene may confer increased risk of autism and shows increased strength with exposure to pregnancy related stress.
The subarachnoid administration of morphine is a well-established anesthetic technique of postoperative analgesia due to its efficacy safety and low cost. The objective of this paper was to report the accidental subarachnoid administration of 4 mg of morphine complicated by atrial fibrillation after administration of naloxone.
A 45-year old male patient with 75 kg, 1.72 m, physical status ASA II, hypertensive, was scheduled for reconstruction of the anterior cruciate ligament of the left knee. After spinal anesthesia, it was noticed that the vial of morphine had been changed resulting in the accidental subarachnoid administration of 4 mg of morphine (0.4 mL of the 10 mg vial). Respiratory rate varied from 12 to 16 bpm and the patient remained hemodynamically stable without intraoperative complaints. Thirty minutes after admission to the post-anesthesia recovery unit the patient developed vomiting and diaphoresis being treated with 0.4 mg of naloxone followed by continuous infusion of 0.2 mg x (-1) until the symptoms had subsided. Continuous naloxone infusion was maintained in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU), where blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate and oxygen saturation were monitored as well as the presence of nausea, pruritus, vomiting, sedation, pain and urinary retention. Two hours after arriving at the ICU the patient developed acute atrial fibrillation without hemodynamic instability. Sinus rhythm was reestablished after the administration of 150 mg of amiodarone and discontinuation of the naloxone infusion. During the following 18 hours the patient remained hemodynamically stable and did not experience any other intercurrence until his discharge from the hospital.
The present report is an alert for the risk of inadvertently switching of drugs during anesthesia, stressing the importance of referring patients being treated for opiate overdose to the ICU, due to the potential adverse reactions.
The TGF-betas are multifunctional proteins whose activities are believed to be controlled by interaction with the latent TGF-beta binding proteins (LTBPs). In spite of substantial effort, the precise in vivo significance of this interaction remains unknown. To examine the role of the Ltbp-3, we made an Ltbp-3-null mutation in the mouse by gene targeting. Homozygous mutant animals develop cranio-facial malformations by day 10. At 2 mo, there is a pronounced rounding of the cranial vault, extension of the mandible beyond the maxilla, and kyphosis. Histological examination of the skulls from null animals revealed ossification of the synchondroses within 2 wk of birth, in contrast to the wild-type synchondroses, which never ossify. Between 6 and 9 mo of age, mutant animals also develop osteosclerosis and osteoarthritis. The pathological changes of the Ltbp-3-null mice are consistent with perturbed TGF-beta signaling in the skull and long bones. These observations give support to the notion that LTBP-3 is important for the control of TGF-beta action. Moreover, the results provide the first in vivo indication for a role of LTBP in modulating TGF-beta bioavailability.
The use of deferoxamine for iron chelation in transfusion-dependent thalassemia major is limited by serious neurotoxicity (hearing and vision loss). We assessed whether interpatient variability in handling deferoxamine and resultant accumulation of the drug may account for the neurotoxicity. We studied steady-state deferoxamine pharmacokinetics during intravenous infusion in two groups of patients--one group exhibited severe manifestations of auditory and visual loss and one group was asymptomatic. The groups were matched for age, sex distribution, weight, treatment period, ferritin levels, and hemoglobin levels. Similarly, doses of deferoxamine at the time of the study were not different. Clearance rates were not different between the symptomatic and asymptomatic patients (39.83 +/- 4.54 versus 30.66 +/- 4.39 ml/min.kg). However, patients who exhibited toxicity received significantly higher daily doses of subcutaneous deferoxamine at the time of diagnosis of neurotoxicity (9.03 +/- 0.96 and 5.58 +/- 0.61 mg/kg.hr, respectively; p less than 0.005). These data suggest that deferoxamine induced neurotoxicity is dose-dependent and cannot be attributed to accumulation of the drug caused by slower clearance rates.
To compare the efficacy and tolerability of quetiapine and risperidone in the treatment of schizophrenia.
In this 8-week, double-blind, multicenter, flexible-dose study, patients with schizophrenia (DSM-IV diagnosis) were randomly assigned to quetiapine (200-800 mg/day) or risperidone (2-8 mg/day). The primary hypothesis was that quetiapine was not inferior to risperidone. The primary efficacy measure was change from baseline in Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) total scores; secondary outcomes included response rate (> or = 40% reduction in PANSS scores), Clinical Global Impression-Change (CGI-C), and cognitive and social functioning. Tolerability assessments included treatment-emergent adverse events and changes in weight, glucose, and prolactin. Patients were recruited from June 2001 to September 2002.
Patients (N = 673) were randomly assigned to quetiapine (N = 338, mean dose = 525 mg/day) or risperidone (N = 335, mean dose = 5.2 mg/day). The primary analysis demonstrated noninferiority between treatments (p < .05). Improvements with both treatments were comparable on PANSS total, negative, and general psychopathology subscales. Risperidone-treated patients had a significantly (p = .03) greater improvement in PANSS positive subscale score among all patients, but not among completers. Improvements in PANSS response rates, CGI-C, and cognitive function were similar between treatment groups. Changes in serum glucose and weight were minimal and comparable. The rate of extrapyramidal symptom (EPS)-related adverse events was significantly higher with risperidone (22%) than quetiapine (13%; p < .01). Somnolence was more common with quetiapine (26%) than risperidone (20%; p = .04). Prolactin levels increased with risperidone (+35.5 ng/mL), but decreased with quetiapine (-11.5 ng/mL; p < .001).
Quetiapine and risperidone had broadly comparable clinical efficacy. Both agents improved cognitive and social functioning, and neither had a clinically significant effect on weight or glucose. Somnolence was more common with quetiapine; EPS and elevated prolactin rates were significantly higher with risperidone.
Elevated thymidine phosphorylase has been shown to correlate with increased angiogenesis and poor prognosis in many cancers including transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. In vitro studies have demonstrated that thymidine phosphorylase activity causes cellular oxidative stress and increases secretion of vascular endothelial growth factor. In this study, we show that thymidine phosphorylase activity also augments levels of the hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha during in vitro hypoxia, and that thymidine phosphorylase activity and hypoxia act in concert to increase vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) secretion. We also demonstrate that thymidine phosphorylase overexpression confers tumorigenicity on an orthotopically implanted transitional cell carcinoma cell line. Administration of the antioxidant N-acetylcysteine together with a blocking anti-VEGF antibody abrogates the increase in tumorigenicity. Our results support the increased efficacy of combination approaches to antiangiogenic therapy.
