Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma is a nuclear receptor transcription factor that regulates cell growth, differentiation and homeostasis. PPARgamma agonists have been used to treat obesity, diabetes, cancer and inflammation and recent studies have shown the protective effects of PPARgamma agonists on experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE), a Th1 cell-mediated autoimmune disease model of multiple sclerosis (MS). Our studies have further demonstrated that the PPARgamma agonists, 15d-PGJ2 and Ciglitazone, inhibit EAE through blocking IL-12 signaling leading to Th1 differentiation and the PPARgamma deficient heterozygous mice (PPARgamma+/-) or those treated with PPARgamma antagonists develop an exacerbated EAE in association with an augmented Th1 response. In this study, we show that the PPARgamma antagonists, Bisphenol A diglycidyl ether (BADGE) and 2-chloro-5-nitro-N-(4-pyridyl)benzamide (T0070907), reverse the inhibition of EAE by the PPARgamma agonists, Ciglitazone and 15-Deoxy-Delta(12,14)-Prostaglandin J2, in C57BL/6 wild-type and PPARgamma+/- mice. The reversal of EAE by BADGE and T0070907 was associated with restoration of neural antigen-induced T cell proliferation, IFNgamma production and Th1 differentiation inhibited by Ciglitazone and 15d-PGJ2. These results suggest that Ciglitazone and 15d-PGJ2 ameliorate EAE through PPARgamma-dependent mechanisms and further confirm a physiological role for PPARgamma in the regulation of CNS inflammation and demyelination in EAE.
Little is known in regard to cerebral arterial reocclusion after successful thrombolysis. In the absence of arteriographic information, the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) rt-PA Stroke Trial investigators prospectively identified clinical deterioration following improvement (DFI) as a possible surrogate marker of cerebral arterial reocclusion after rt-PA-induced recanalization. Also, we identified any significant clinical deterioration (CD) even if not preceded by improvement. This observational analysis was designed to determine the incidence of DFI and CD in each treatment group, to identify baseline or posttreatment variables predictive of DFI or CD, and to determine any relationship between DFI, CD, and clinical outcome.
DFI was defined as any 2-point deterioration on the NIH Stroke Scale after an initial 2-point improvement after treatment. CD was defined as any 4-point worsening after treatment compared with baseline. All data were collected prospectively by investigators blinded to treatment allocation. A noncontrast brain CT was mandated when a 2-point deterioration occurred. All cases were validated by a central review committee.
DFI was identified in 81 of the 624 patients (13%); 44 were treated with rt-PA and 37 were treated with placebo (P:=0.48). DFI occurred more often in patients with a higher baseline NIH Stroke Scale score. CD within the first 24 hours occurred in 98 patients (16% of all patients); 43 were given rt-PA and 55 were given placebo (P:=0.19). Baseline variables associated with CD included a less frequent use of prestroke aspirin and a higher incidence of early CT changes of edema or mass effect or dense middle cerebral artery sign. Patients with CD had higher rates of increased serum glucose and fibrin degradation products, and they also had higher rates of symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage and death. Patients who experienced either DFI or CD were less likely to have a 3-month favorable outcome.
We found no association between DFI, CD, and rt-PA treatment, and no clinical evidence to suggest reocclusion. Deterioration was strongly associated with stroke severity and poor outcome and was less frequent in patients whose stroke occurred while they were on aspirin.
The widespread use of persistent organic polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) as commercial flame retardants has raised concern about potential long-lived effects on human health. Epigenetic mechanisms, such as DNA methylation, are responsive to environmental influences and have long-lasting consequences. Autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) have complex neurodevelopmental origins whereby both genetic and environmental factors are implicated. Rett syndrome is an X-linked ASD caused by mutations in the epigenetic factor methyl-CpG binding protein 2 (MECP2). In this study, an Mecp2 truncation mutant mouse (Mecp2(308)) with social behavioral defects was used to explore the long-lasting effects of PBDE exposure in a genetically and epigenetically susceptible model. Mecp2(308/+) dams were perinatally exposed daily to 2,2',4,4'-tetrabromodiphenyl ether 47 (BDE-47) and bred to wild-type C57BL/6J males, and the offspring of each sex and genotype were examined for developmental, behavioral and epigenetic outcomes. Perinatal BDE-47 exposure negatively impacted fertility of Mecp2(308/+) dams and preweaning weights of females. Global hypomethylation of adult brain DNA was observed specifically in female offspring perinatally exposed to BDE-47 and it coincided with reduced sociability in a genotype-independent manner. A reversing interaction of Mecp2 genotype on BDE-47 exposure was observed in a short-term memory test of social novelty that corresponded to increased Dnmt3a levels specifically in BDE-47-exposed Mecp2(308/+) offspring. In contrast, learning and long-term memory in the Morris water maze was impaired by BDE-47 exposure in female Mecp2(308/+) offspring. These results demonstrate that a genetic and environmental interaction relevant to social and cognitive behaviors shows sexual dimorphism, epigenetic dysregulation, compensatory molecular mechanisms and specific behavioral deficits.
Autism is a heterogeneous condition that is likely to result from the combined effects of multiple genetic factors interacting with environmental factors. Given its complexity, the study of autism associated with Mendelian single gene disorders or known chromosomal etiologies provides an important perspective. We used microarray analysis to compare the mRNA expression profile in lymphoblastoid cells from males with autism due to a fragile X mutation (FMR1-FM), or a 15q11-q13 duplication (dup(15q)), and non-autistic controls. Gene expression profiles clearly distinguished autism from controls and separated individuals with autism based on their genetic etiology. We identified 68 genes that were dysregulated in common between autism with FMR1-FM and dup(15q). We also identified a potential molecular link between FMR1-FM and dup(15q), the cytoplasmic FMR1 interacting protein 1 (CYFIP1), which was up-regulated in dup(15q) patients. We were able to confirm this link in vitro by showing common regulation of two other dysregulated genes, JAKMIP1 and GPR155, downstream of FMR1 or CYFIP1. We also confirmed the reduction of the Jakmip1 protein in Fmr1 knock-out mice, demonstrating in vivo relevance. Finally, we showed independent confirmation of roles for JAKMIP1 and GPR155 in autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) by showing their differential expression in male sib pairs discordant for idiopathic ASD. These results provide evidence that blood derived lymphoblastoid cells gene expression is likely to be useful for identifying etiological subsets of autism and exploring its pathophysiology.
In previous work from our laboratory, rats traversing a straight alley for a reward of IV cocaine have been observed to develop ambivalence about entering the goal box. Over trials, animals repeatedly run toward the goal box, stop at the entry point, and then retreat back toward the start box. This unique pattern of retreat behavior has been shown to reflect a form of "approach-avoidance conflict" that stems from the subjects' concurrent positive (cocaine reward) and negative (cocaine-induced anxiety) associations with the goal box. Buspirone, a partial 5-HT(1A) agonist, has been reported to produce anxiolytic-like actions in the clinic, but has had mixed results in experimental tests of anxiety using animal subjects. Since most animal tests of conflict/anxiety employ the administration of foot-shock - a relatively strong aversive stimulus - it was of interest to determine whether buspirone would alter the more subtle approach-avoidance conflict observed in well-trained animals running a straight alley for single daily injections of 1.0 mg/kg IV cocaine. Runway testing consisted of single daily trials that continued until consistent approach-avoidance retreats were exhibited. Each animal was then pretreated 30 min prior to runway testing with vehicle and one of three doses of buspirone (0.0, 1.0, 2.5 or 5.0 mg/kg IP). Testing continued in a counterbalanced manner until all rats had experienced each dose of buspirone with 3 days of cocaine-only trials between each test day. The number of retreats exhibited on each trial served as an index of the approach-avoidance conflict present on that trial. Results clearly demonstrated that buspirone (at the two higher doses) attenuated the retreat behavior of animals approaching a goal box for IV cocaine -- an action consistent with its anxiolytic-like actions in the clinic.
Two patients with pheochromocytoma initially responded to oral or sublingual nifedipine with marked reduction in systolic blood pressure (range 50-160 mmHg) without concomitant increment in the heart rate or clinical consequences. This could possibly be due to the combination of hypovolemia and negative inotropism.
In a randomized phase III trial performed by the Urological Group of the European Organization for Research on Treatment of Cancer low dose estramustine phosphate (280 mg. twice daily for 8 weeks and 140 mg. twice daily thereafter) was compared to diethylstilbestrol (1 mg. 3 times daily) in patients with stages T3 to T4, M0 or M1 prostatic cancer. Of 248 patients entered 227 were evaluable for analysis: 115 received estramustine phosphate and 112 received diethylstilbestrol. The best response of the local tumor as assessed by palpation was seen in patients receiving diethylstilbestrol. There was no significant difference between treatments for response rate of metastases, interval to local progression, distant progression, over-all survival and death of carcinoma of the prostate. Duration of survival was correlated with the assessment of local response as determined by palpation. The response of distant lesions also was correlated closely with survival. Diethylstilbestrol (1 mg. 3 times daily) was associated with a significantly worse degree of cardiovascular toxicity than estramustine phosphate. This finding was especially obvious in patients who had no history of cardiovascular disease. Gastrointestinal toxicity occurred in 25 patients treated with estramustine phosphate, including 6 in whom cessation of treatment was necessary. Further studies are required to determine the optimum dose of diethylstilbestrol and estramustine phosphate, and to establish the best form of hormonal treatment for prostatic carcinoma.
The role of renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system in cardiac remodelling was studied in isoproterenol-induced cardiac hypertrophy in rats. The effects of captopril and spironolactone were compared. Isoproterenol treatment increased ventricular to body weight ratio (4.6 vs 3.7) and collagen area (22.6 vs 8.2%), and reduced systolic (89.93 vs 107.5 mm Hg) and diastolic (59.6 vs 70.8 mm Hg) pressure. In these animals, captopril decreased systolic (67.4 mm Hg) and diastolic pressure (31.9 mm Hg), whereas spironolactone regressed systolic pressure to control values (101.2 mm Hg). Captopril and spironolactone prevented cardiac hypertrophy (4.01 and 3.95). However, only spironolactone prevented myocardial fibrosis (11.3%).
A 70-year-old woman was admitted to our hospital because of fever, numbness in her extremities and right drop foot. Because her hip prosthesis had loosened as a result of infection, she had been taking 100 mg of minocycline orally for eight months. Three months before admission, she had had melena several times and body weight loss and pyrexia developed. A month before admission, asymmetrical paresthesia and numbness appeared in her extremities and finally right drop foot developed. Laboratory tests showed elevated C-reactive protein and positive anti-nuclear antibody. Abnormalities found in nerve conduction study were compatible with mononeuritis multiplex. Sural nerve biopsy revealed an occluded medium-size artery in the epineurium and axonal degeneration in the nerve fascicles, confirming the diagnosis of vasculitic neuropathy. These manifestations met the American Congress Rheumatology criteria for polyarteritis nodosa. However, her clinical conditions markedly improved after discontinuing minocycline and therefore she was diagnosed as having minocycline-induced vasculitic neuropathy. Although minocycline-induced vasculitis is a well known adverse effect of the drug, peripheral neuropathy with biopsy findings has rarely been reported. Drug induced-vasculitis is important as a differential diagnosis for mononeuritis multiplex because the symptoms can be improved by the discontinuation of an offending drug.
Rippling muscle disease is caused by mutations in the gene encoding caveolin-3 (CAV3), the muscle-specific isoform of the scaffolding protein caveolin, a protein involved in the formation of caveolae. In healthy muscle, caveolin-3 is responsible for the formation of caveolae, which are highly organized sarcolemmal clusters influencing early muscle differentiation, signalling and Ca(2+) homeostasis. In the present study we examined Ca(2+) homeostasis and excitation-contraction (E-C) coupling in cultured myotubes derived from two patients with Rippling muscle disease with severe reduction in caveolin-3 expression; one patient harboured the heterozygous c.84C>A mutation while the other patient harbored a homozygous splice-site mutation (c.102+ 2T>C) affecting the splice donor site of intron 1 of the CAV3 gene. Our results show that cells from control and rippling muscle disease patients had similar resting [Ca(2+) ](i) and 4-chloro-m-cresol-induced Ca(2+) release but reduced KCl-induced Ca(2+) influx. Detailed analysis of the voltage-dependence of Ca(2+) transients revealed a significant shift of Ca(2+) release activation to higher depolarization levels in CAV3 mutated cells. High resolution immunofluorescence analysis by Total Internal Fluorescence microscopy supports the hypothesis that loss of caveolin-3 leads to microscopic disarrays in the colocalization of the voltage-sensing dihydropyridine receptor and the ryanodine receptor, thereby reducing the efficiency of excitation-contraction coupling.
Morphine is known as the best analgesic for patients with acute myocardial infarction complicated by heart failure. In patients with uncomplicated acute myocardial infarction, buprenorphine has recently been indicated as an alternative to the widely used pentazocine. In order to verify if the haemodynamic effects of the two drugs differed, a randomized double-blind controlled trial was performed on 20 patients with uncomplicated acute myocardial infarction: 10 patients were treated with i.v. pentazocine 30 mg. and 10 patients with buprenorphine 0.30 mg. (equianalgesic doses). Right atrial, ventricular and pulmonary artery and capillary pressure, cardiac index, total pulmonary and total systemic resistance were measured before testing and 15', 30', 60', 180' and 240' after drug injection. PO2 was measured before drug injection and 30' and 60' later. Data were analyzed using the Wilcoxon test. All patients in each group showed uniform results: pentazocine increased total systemic resistance (mean increase 17%) while buprenorphine lowered it (mean reduction 12%) (P less than 0.05). Pentazocine lowered cardiac index (mean reduction 5.9%) while buprenorphine increased it (mean increase 9.3%) (P less than 0.05). Maximum changes occurred within 60' after the administration of both drugs. The other parameters did not change significantly from basal values. These results suggest that in patients with acute myocardial infarction uncomplicated by heart failure pentazocine and buprenorphine may be used in different haemodynamic situations. In the cases in which a reduction in total systemic resistance is desired, buprenorphine seems most suitable. However, in the presence of vagal reaction for instance, pentazocine may be administered.
Renin-secreting tumor, though rare, should be considered in assessing severe hyperreninemic, hypertensive patients. We studied an 18-year-old girl with hypokalemic hyperreninemic hyperaldosteronism. No angiographic lesion could be detected. The plasma renin activity (PRA) of the right/left renal vein was 7.3. With a presumptive diagnosis of renin-secreting tumor (RST), the patient was operated on, and a cortical nodule was found on the right lower pole. Partial nephrectomy was followed by a rapid fall in PRA (half-life, 33-44 min) and normalization of blood pressure (BP). At 3 1/2 months postoperatively, the patient showed normotension, normokalemia, normal aldosterone, and slightly elevated PRA unresponsive to postural changes and furosemide treatment. Tumoral PRA secretion responded to postural stimulus, spironolactone use, and nitroprusside-induced hypotension. Neither the high aldosterone excretion nor hyperreninemia decreased after 3 days of DOCA; this agrees with a previously reported case suggesting the usefulness of this test in the diagnosis of RST.
Two recent randomized clinical trials--Fixed Dose Versus Concentration Controlled and the Apomygre--evaluating the benefit of therapeutic drug monitoring of mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) in renal allograft recipients reported conflicting results. In both studies, target mycophenolic acid (MPA) AUC(0-12 h) ranges (ie, values used to guide MMF dosing) were derived from a previous study establishing target MPA AUC(0-12 h) ranges in cyclosporine-treated patients between 30 and 60 mg/L x h(-1). Both studies found an association between MPA exposure and acute rejection. However, only one of the studies found concentration-controlled MMF dosing to be significantly associated with less biopsy-proven acute-rejection episodes compared with fixed dosing. No reduced incidence of MMF-related adverse events (AEs) was observed in either of the 2 trials when MMF concentration-controlled and fixed dosing were compared.
The aim of this study was to assess the clinical utility of target MPA AUC(0-12h) ranges between 30 and 60 mg/L x h(-1) in associating drug exposure with AEs within different time windows after transplantation, thereby identifying patients at increased risk for MMF-related AEs. The effects of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of the uridine glucuronosyltransferase 1A9 (UGT1A9) and MRP2 genes (ie, coding for the UGT1A9 and the multidrug resistance protein transporter MRP2)-both involved in MPA metabolism-on stratified MPA exposure were assessed by applying the current advised target MPA AUC(0-12h) ranges.
We conducted a 5-year clinical follow-up study in renal allograft recipients in whom MPA exposure was measured at 7 days, 6 weeks, 3 months, 1, 3, and 5 years post transplantation using abbreviated AUC measurements. MMF dose adjustments were based on clinical indications (eg, persistent leukopenia, chronic afebrile diarrhea, BK-polyomavirus infection of the renal allograft). Clinicians were blinded to the results of the AUC measurements.
One hundred white de novo renal allograft recipients (59 men, 41 women; mean [SD] age 51.4 [13.8] years) were included in this study. Ninety-eight patients received a renal allograft from a deceased donor. Significantly more episodes of leukopenia were associated with MPA AUC(0-12h) ranges >60 mg/L x h(-1) (P=0.03). Anemia was also significantly associated with higher MPA exposure ranges (incidence of anemia was 40.8%, 52.2%, and 64.3% for MPA AUC(0-12h) ranges <30, 30-60, and >60 mg/L x h(-1), respectively; P=0.004). Mean MPA AUC(0-12h) was significantly higher in the time window immediately preceding or following leukopenia (mean [SD] 59.7 [31.0] vs 46.5 [26.0] mg/L x h(-1); P=0.004) and anemia (mean [SD] hemoglobin <12 g/L x d(-1): 52.5 [30.0] vs 42.2 [21.2] mg/L x h(-1), P=0.002; hemoglobin <10 g/L x d(-1): 56.2 [32.5] vs 45.6 [24.7] mg/L x h(-1), P=0.005). No association was found between incident episodes. of diarrhea or infection and target MPA AUC(0-12 h) ranges. A significantly higher proportion of MPA AUC(0-12 h) measurements in recipients carrying the UGTIA9 T-275A and/or C-2152T SNP were in the low MPA exposure range (23.7%, 16.6%, and 12.6% for MPA AUC(0-12 h) ranges <30, 30-60, and >60 mg/L x h(-1), respectively; P=0.02).
Renal allograft recipients suffering from leukopenia or anemia related to MMF could potentially benefit, at least in part, from MMFdose adjustments based on target therapeutic MPA AUC(0-12 h) ranges between 30 and 60 mg/L x h(-1). This study did not find these target MPA AUC(0-12 h) ranges to be of clinical utility in guiding MMF dosing in patients with gastrointestinal or infectious AEs. Larger prospective studies are necessary to examine the risk for MPA underexposure in patients carrying the UGTIA9 T-275A and/or C-2152T SNP.
In a prospective, double-blind, intraindividual, cross-over, placebo-controlled multicenter study, clinical and biochemical effects of once daily postprandial dose regimens of 50, 100, and 200 mg spironolactone were investigated in 45 outpatients with primary hypertension, WHO (World Health Organization) Stage I-II. Each of the three active therapy periods, which were randomly allocated to patients, were of 2 months' duration, with intervening placebo periods, Clinical and biochemical parameters, including furosemide-stimulated plasma renin activity (PRA), were recorded at regular intervals. All three spironolactone doses resulted in statistically significant blood pressure (BP) reductions independent of initial pretreatment levels and yielded satisfactory BP control in more than half of the patients. The 200 mg daily dose of spironolactone was found to be more effective than 50 but not 100 mg. When, correlating blood pressure response (delta MAP) to PRA, the profiling for positive spironolactone responders was characterized by high age and low PRA, irrespective of sex. Spironolactone therapy resulted in decreased serum sodium and magnesium values; potassium, creatinine, urate, and triglyceride levels were increased. However, all treatment values were within normal ranges. Side effects were infrequent and mainly of endocrine nature.
We identified a novel mechanism of AKT signaling in the fucoidan-induced proliferation and migration of human urinary 5637 cancer cells. Fucoidan treatment showed a significant growth inhibition followed by G1-phase-associated up-regulation of p21WAF1 expression and suppression of cyclins and CDK expression in 5637 cells. Also, fucoidan treatment induced the activation of AKT signaling, which was inhibited by treatment with wortmannin, a PI3K-specific inhibitor. Blockade of the AKT function reversed the fucoidan-mediated inhibition of cell proliferation, the increased G1-phase-associated p21WAF1 expression, and the reduction of cell-cycle proteins. Moreover, treatment with fucoidan blocked migration and invasion of 5637 cells. This inhibition was attributed to decreased expression of MMP-9, which was mediated by down-regulation of AP-1 and NF-κB binding activity. Furthermore, wortmannin treatment abolished the decreased cell migration and invasion and the inhibition of MMP-9 expression via the suppression of NF-κB and AP-1 in fucoidan-treated cells. Similar results were observed in another bladder cancer T-24 cells treated with fucoidan. Finally, overexpression of the AKT gene inhibited the proliferation, migration and invasion of bladder cancer cells. These data suggest that the activation of AKT signaling is involved in growth inhibition and suppression of the migration and invasion of bladder cancer cells treated with fucoidan.
Baroreflex control of heart rate was studied in conscious diabetic rats at 12, 24 and 48 weeks after the induction of diabetes with streptozotocin. Baseline blood pressure (mean arterial blood pressure) of diabetic rats was significantly lower at 12 weeks after the induction of diabetes when compared to age-matched control rats. However, at 24 and 48 weeks of diabetes, no difference in blood pressure was observed between diabetic and age-matched control rats. In contrast, bradycardia (prolongation of pulse interval) was a consistent feature of diabetic rats at all time points (12, 24, and 48 weeks). To assess parasympathetic control of heart rate, baroreceptor sensitivity was determined by infusing phenylephrine. Baroreflexes in diabetic rats were changed from an increased sensitivity at 12 and 24 weeks to decreased sensitivity at 48 weeks after the induction of diabetes. This suggests that alterations in baroreflex sensitivity might depend upon the length of time the animals were exposed to the diabetes. Insulin treatment in diabetic animals reversed hypotension, bradycardia and altered baroreflex sensitivity observed in 12-week diabetic rats. Non-diabetic rats, in which the development of diabetes was prevented by pretreatment with 3-0-methylglucose before streptozotocin injection, or rats which did not develop diabetes after streptozotocin injection showed a similar baseline blood pressure, heart rate and baroreflex sensitivity to those of age-matched control rats (12, 24 and 48 weeks). This data suggests that changes in blood pressure, heart rate and baroreflex sensitivity are due to the diabetic state, not to streptozotocin toxicity.
Sprague-Dawley rats were given combinations of aminopyrine or oxytetracycline and sodium nitrite in drinking water. Of 30 animals receiving 0.1% (1,000 ppm) of aminopyrine and sodium nitrite for 30 weeks, 29 died with hemangioendothelial sarcomas of the liver. The same tumor caused death in 26 of 30 animals that received 0.025% (250 ppm) of both aminopyrine and sodium nitrite for 50 weeks. No animals in a control group of the same size that received 0.1% aminopyrine for 30 weeks developed this tumor, although one-half of them were still alive 2 years after the experiment was begun. After feeding a comparable dose (0.1%) of oxytetracycline and sodium nitrite for 60 weeks, liver tumors were present in 4 of 30 rats (3 hepatocellular tumors and 1 cholangioma). Since aminopyrine has been widely used for medicinal purposes in the human population, it is possible that many people have been exposed to a potent carcinogen (dimethylnitrosamine) by its formation in vivo. It is not certain whether the result of feeding oxytetracycline and sodium nitrite indicates significant carcinogenicity of this combination.
Infants with the cholesterol synthesis defect Smith- Lemli-Opitz syndrome (SLO) have reduced activity of the enzyme 7-dehydrocholesterol-7-reductase and accumulate 7-dehydrocholesterol, with the highest concentration in the brain. As a result of the generally reduced content of cholesterol, plasma levels of oxysterols would be expected to be reduced. 24S-hydroxycholesterol is almost exclusively formed in the brain, whereas 27-hydroxycholesterol is mainly formed from extrahepatic and extracerebral cholesterol. In accordance with the expectations, sterol-correlated plasma levels of 24S-hydroxycholesterol were reduced in infants with SLO (by about 50%). In contrast, the sterol-correlated levels of 27-hydroxycholesterol in the circulation were markedly increased. No side-chain oxidized metabolites of 7-dehydrocholesterol were detected in the circulation. Recombinant human CYP27 had markedly lower 27-hydroxylase activity toward 7-dehydrocholesterol than towards cholesterol. HEK293 cells expressing 24S-hydroxylase active toward cholesterol had no significant activity towards 7-dehydrocholesterol. The plasma levels of 3 beta,7 alpha-dihydroxy-5-cholestenoic in the patients acid were reduced, suggesting a generally reduced metabolism of 27-oxygenated steroids. It is concluded that the accumulation of 7-dehydrocholesterol in the brains of patients with SLO reduces formation of 24S-hydroxycholesterol. The condition is associated with markedly increased circulating levels of 27-hydroxycholesterol, most probably due to reduced metabolism of this oxysterol. We discuss the possibility that the circulating levels of 24S-hydroxycholesterol may be used as a marker for the severity of the disease.--Björkhem, I., L. Starck, U. Andersson, D. Lütjohann, S. von Bahr, I. Pikuleva, A. Babiker, and U. Diczfaulsy. Oxysterols in the circulation of patients with the Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome: abnormal levels of 24S- and 27-hydroxycholesterol. J. Lipid Res. 2001. 42: 366--371.
To investigate effects of pioglitazone on rat hepatic fibrosis and to explore its mechanism.
Rat hepatic fibrosis was induced by carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)). Forty Sprague-Dawley rats were divided randomly into 4 groups: control, model, and two treatment (PI, PII) groups. Except for rats in control group, all rats were given subcutaneous injection of 400 mL/L CCl(4), twice a wk for 8 wk. Rats in PI and PII groups were also treated with pioglitazone of 3 mg/kg, daily via gastrogavage beginning on the 1(st) day and at the end of the 2(nd) week, administration of CCl(4) respectively. Liver functions (ALT, AST), serum fibrotic markers (HA, LN, PCIII) and hepatic hydroxyproline (HP) concentration were determined respectively. Histochemical staining of formalin-fixed liver sections with HE, Masson-Trichrome, and immunohistochemical staining for alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA) were performed. Modified Knodell and Chevallier semi-quantitative scoring system (SSS) was used to evaluate necroinflammatory activity and fibrosis degree.
Compared with model group, pioglitazone significantly reduced the serum levels of ALT, AST, HA, LN and PCIII (P<0.05 or <0.01). The HP concentrations in PI (210.90+/-24.07 microg/g), and PII (257.36+/-30.55 microg/g) groups were also lower than those in model group (317.80+/-36.44 microg/g) (P<0.01). Histologic examination showed that PI and PII groups had milder hepatocellular degeneration, necrosis and infiltration of inflammatory cells, and thinner or less fibrotic septa than did model group. The scores for necroinflammation in PI (2.80+/-1.03), and PII (3.00+/-1.05) groups were significantly reduced as compared with model group (4.88+/-2.30) (P<0.05 or <0.01); the fibrosis scores in PI (3.40+/-1.65), and PII (4.60+/-1.35) groups were also markedly lower than those in model group (7.00+/-3.21) (P<0.05 or <0.01). Immunohistochemical staining showed that expression of alpha-SMA in PI and PII groups was ameliorated dramatically compared with model group.
PPARgamma agonist pioglitazone greatly retards the progression of rat hepatic fibrosis induced by CCl(4) through inhibition of HSC activation and amelioration of hepatocyte necroinflammation in rats.
Antagonism at the serotonin receptor 2A by the atypical antipsychotics clozapine and olanzapine has been suggested to be linked to these drugs' adverse effects on glucose-insulin homeostasis. Therefore, the aim of this study was to evaluate the impact of haplotypes based on the main functionally characterized polymorphisms of the serotonin receptor 2A (HTR2A) gene on parameters related to the glucose metabolism in clozapine- and olanzapine-treated patients.
Forty-nine patients, with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder and treated with clozapine (n = 22) or olanzapine (n = 27), were evaluated for fasting levels of C-peptide, insulin and blood glucose, homeostasis model assessment index for insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) and body mass index (BMI), and genotyped for the -1438A/G, -783A/G, 102T/C, and His452Tyr polymorphisms of the HTR2A gene.
About 50% of the patients had elevated levels of C-peptide (>0.68 nmol/L) and insulin (>or=79 pmol/L). However, patients carrying the haplotype [-1438A, -783A, 102T, 452Tyr] had significantly lower C-peptide levels compared with patients not carrying this haplotype (p = 0.039), despite no differences in blood glucose, HOMA-IR or BMI between the patient groups.
Our results indicate that patients with the HTR2A haplotype [-1438A, -783A, 102T, 452Tyr] are less likely to develop metabolic abnormalities like C-peptide and insulin elevations during clozapine and olanzapine treatment.
The immune system is critical for protection against infections and cancer, but requires scrupulous regulation to limit self-reactivity and autoimmunity. Our group has utilized a manganese porphyrin catalytic antioxidant (MnTE-2-PyP(5+), MnP) as a potential immunoregulatory therapy for type 1 diabetes. MnP has previously been shown to modulate diabetogenic immune responses through decreases in proinflammatory cytokine production from antigen-presenting cells and T cells and to reduce diabetes onset in nonobese diabetic mice. However, it is unclear whether or not MnP treatment can act beyond the reported inflammatory mediators. Therefore, the hypothesis that MnP may be affecting the redox-dependent bioenergetics of diabetogenic splenocytes was investigated.
MnP treatment enhanced glucose oxidation, reduced fatty acid oxidation, but only slightly decreased overall oxidative phosphorylation. These alterations occurred because of increased tricarboxylic acid cycle aconitase enzyme efficiency and were not due to changes in mitochondrial abundance. MnP treatment also displayed decreased aerobic glycolysis, which promotes activated immune cell proliferation, as demonstrated by reduced lactate production and glucose transporter 1 (Glut1) levels and inactivation of key signaling molecules, such as mammalian target of rapamycin, c-myc, and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase.
This work highlights the importance of redox signaling by demonstrating that modulation of reactive oxygen species can supplant complex downstream regulation, thus affecting metabolic programming toward aerobic glycolysis.
MnP treatment promotes metabolic quiescence, impeding diabetogenic autoimmune responses by restricting the metabolic pathways for energy production and affecting anabolic processes necessary for cell proliferation.
A 45-year-old female suffering from severe chronic schizophrenia of the paranoid type did not respond to typical antipsychotics. Five weeks after starting therapy with clozapine, she developed a clozapine-induced agranulocytosis (CA). Discontinuation of clozapine and treatment with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) led to normalization of blood neutrophil counts within three weeks. This report suggests enhanced apoptosis of blood neutrophils during the acute phase of CA resulting from enhanced expression of the pro-apoptotic proteins Bax and Bik and from a decrease of the anti-apoptotic BCl-X(L) mRNA. The time course of decline and recovery of neutrophilic cells, as well as the release pattern of endogenous G-CSF, resembles those of chemotherapy-induced neutropenia. The kinetics of CD 34-positive cells mimics that of cytotoxic progenitor cell mobilization, e. g., after cytostatic drug administration. Our findings argue against the hypothesis that clozapine-mediated inhibition of G-CSF or granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) release is involved in CA development. Because clozapine-induced cell death mainly affects the neutrophil lineage, the elucidation of the exact mechanism of CA may open new perspectives for the treatment of psychiatric and possibly hematological disorders.
A great number of acute, severe self-poisoning cases are due to tricyclic neuroleptic overdose. These drugs may induce several effects on the myocardium, mainly related to arrhythmias and electrical conduction and excitation abnormalities. These abnormalities are particularly evident after massive ingestion of these drugs for suicidal purposes. More recently, abnormal ventricular repolarization, in association with QRS widening, that mimics an acute ischemic event has been reported. However, these transient ECG abnormalities have never been associated with organic cardiac alterations. We report the case of a young woman who - according to ECG, enzyme release, and echocardiography - developed transient acute myocardial ischemia and minimal myocardial damage following self-poisoning with promazine hydrochloride. To our knowledge, this is the first case of documented minimal myocardial damage after tricyclic drugs overdose.
A 41-year-old woman with a strong history of postoperative nausea and vomiting presented for abdominal hysterectomy 3 months after a previous anaesthetic where ondansetron prophylaxis had been used. She had developed a severe acute major depression disorder almost immediately thereafter, possibly related to the use of a serotonin antagonist. Nine years before she had experienced a self-limited puerperal depressive episode. Anaesthesia with a propofol infusion and avoidance of serotonin antagonists provided a nausea-free postoperative course without exacerbation of the depression disorder.
Current literature suggests that the incidence of sexual dysfunction secondary to fluvoxamine therapy is 1% to 8%, while other selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors may have rates as high as 75%. The objective of this study was to determine the incidence of sexual dysfunction secondary to fluvoxamine in healthy volunteers.
20 healthy volunteers (10 men, 10 premenopausal women) had adverse effects assessed at 6 visits while not receiving fluvoxamine, then twice while taking 150 mg fluvoxamine daily. Assessments occurred at 2-week intervals. Incidence rates for sexual dysfunction were calculated.
No sexual dysfunction was reported prior to fluvoxamine therapy. After 2 weeks and 4 weeks of therapy respectively, sexual dysfunction occurred in 20% (N = 4) and 35% (N = 7) of the healthy volunteers.
The incidence of sexual dysfunction during fluvoxamine therapy in healthy volunteers is 35%. This incidence is higher than previously reported and similar to that of other selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors.
Different ergot structures (lumilysergol and lysergol) were chlorinated or brominated in the position 2, and the development of antidopaminergic activity was studied. The tested 2-halo-lysergols exerted neuroleptic-like action indicated by the suppression of conditioned avoidance response (CAR), and other effects characteristic of dopamine antagonists (cataleptogenic effect, prevention of amphetamine-induced toxicity, inhibition of L-DOPA-induced hyperactivity, lowering of spontaneous body temperature, antagonism of apomorphine-induced hypothermia). A second halogen substitution in the position 8 of the lysergol structure left the CAR suppression activity untouched, but abolished other dopamine antagonistic effects. This unique psychopharmacological profile refers to potential usefulness of the compounds in schizophrenia, and at the same time perhaps in particular forms of Parkinson's disease or tardive dyskinesia.
Previous studies have shown significantly lower metabolism and functional activity in the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) of human cocaine addicts. The present study examined whether this ACC hypoactivity is associated with altered glutamate (Glu), the primary excitatory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system (CNS), which has been recently implicated in drug addiction. Participants comprised 14 chronic cocaine addicts and 14 matched healthy volunteers who were examined using (1)H magnetic resonance spectroscopy at 3 T. A new quantification strategy for echo time (TE)-averaged point-resolved spectroscopy (PRESS) was applied to disentangle relaxation effects from J-evolution of coupled spin systems such as Glu. The concentrations of Glu as well as N-acetyl aspartate (NAA), total creatine (tCr), choline-containing compounds (tCho), and myo-inositol (Ins) were estimated from both groups. Glu/tCr was significantly lower in chronic cocaine users compared to control subjects and was significantly correlated with years of cocaine use. Glu/tCr was also positively correlated with NAA/tCr. NAA/tCr significantly decreased with age but was not significantly different between the two groups. These findings suggest a metabolic/neurotransmitter dysregulation associated with cocaine addiction and support a possible therapeutic intervention strategy aimed at normalizing the Glu transmission and function in the treatment of cocaine addiction.
