The chronic effects of captopril on maternal hemodynamics and organ perfusion were investigated in 10 untreated and 10 captopril-treated pregnant spontaneously hypertensive rats by means of the radioactive-labeled microsphere technique. The normal decrease in blood pressure during gestation was prevented by reduction of litter size to two conceptuses on day 7 of gestation. Captopril (approximately 10 mg/kg/day) or drug vehicle (50% ethyl alcohol) was administered intraperitoneally by an osmotic pump from day 7 to 21. At term mean arterial pressure was 23% lower in the captopril-treated group as the result of a 29% decrease in total peripheral resistance without a significant change in cardiac output. The decrease in total peripheral resistance was primarily caused by a decline in splanchnic and skin resistances. Maternal organ and uteroplacental perfusion were not significantly altered. We conclude that administration of captopril during the last 2 weeks of pregnancy in the hypertensive rat effectively lowers maternal blood pressure without adverse effects on organ and uteroplacental perfusion.
Chronic levodopa treatment for Parkinson's disease often results in the development of abnormal involuntary movement, known as L-dopa-induced dyskinesia (LIDs). Studies suggest that LIDs may be associated with aberrant corticostriatal plasticity. Using in vivo extracellular recordings from identified Type I and Type II medium spiny striatal neurons, chronic L-dopa treatment was found to produce abnormal corticostriatal information processing. Specifically, after chronic L-dopa treatment in dopamine-depleted rats, there was a transition from a cortically evoked long-term depression (LTD) to a complementary but opposing form of plasticity, long-term potentiation, in Type II "indirect" pathway neurons. In contrast, LTD could still be induced in Type I neurons. Interestingly, the one parameter that correlated best with dyskinesias was the inability to de-depress established LTD in Type I medium spiny striatal neurons. Taken as a whole, we propose that the induction of LIDs is due, at least in part, to an aberrant induction of plasticity within the Type II indirect pathway neurons combined with an inability to de-depress established plastic responses in Type I neurons. Such information is critical for understanding the cellular mechanisms underlying one of the major caveats to L-dopa therapy.
We investigated the effect of infusion rate and experimental renal failure on the pharmacodynamics of cefoselis (CFSL)-induced seizures. As an animal model of CFSL-induced seizures, male Wistar rats received an intravenous infusion of CFSL at one of three different rates (1.4-5.8 g/h/rat) until the onset of maximal seizures (which occurred after 8.0 to 36.0 min of infusion). Samples of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), blood (for serum), and brain were obtained immediately after stopping infusion of CSFL. The serum concentration of CFSL at the onset of seizures increased with increasing infusion rate, but brain and CSF concentrations of CFSL at the onset of seizures were not affected by the infusion rate. Ureter-ligated (UL) and control rats received an intravenous infusion of CFSL at 1.4 g/h/rat until the onset of seizures. Then the same procedure as used to determine the effect of infusion rate on the concentrations of CFSL was carried out. Renal failure was associated with a significant decrease in the amount of CFSL required to induce seizures. Serum, brain, and CSF concentrations of CFSL in UL rats were significantly lower than those in control rats. These results indicate that the experimental strategy and animal model in this investigation would be useful to assess the effects of diseases and other variables on the pharmacodynamics of CFSL-induced seizures and that renal failure is one of the risk factors for neurotoxicity of CFSL.
Treatment of nonhealing forms of human leishmaniasis with antimonial drugs in combination with gamma interferon (IFN-gamma) may promote healing more effectively than conventional drug therapy. Although the natures of immune responses in patients prior to treatment are often unclear, it is generally assumed that such therapy also promotes a switch from a Th2-type response to a dominant Th1-type response. We have examined the efficacy of IFN-gamma therapy, in combination with drug therapy, to promote healing and a Th2-to-Th1 switch in highly susceptible BALB/c mice infected with Leishmania major. Short-term treatment with the antileishmanial drug sodium stibogluconate failed to significantly alter the course of disease or the immune response when it was given during the third and fourth weeks of infection. IFN-gamma therapy, administered over the same time period, also failed to induce cure or a Th1 dominant response. In contrast, mice treated with a combination of drug and IFN-gamma therapy resolved their infections and developed Th1-type responses. However, administration of an antibody to interleukin 12 (IL-12) reversed the therapeutic effects of therapy with drug plus IFN-gamma, suggesting that IFN-gamma promotes cure through an IL-12-dependent mechanism. Analysis of mRNA levels within parasitized lesions suggests that drug treatment plus IFN-gamma treatment, in addition to reducing parasite numbers, results in reduced levels of IL-4, IL-10, and transforming growth factor beta transcripts but increased levels of transcripts of the p40 chain of IL-12 and inducible nitric oxide synthase, which catalyzes the production of nitric oxide. Together, these results suggest that such immunotherapy may promote the development of a protective Th1-type response in susceptible mice by a mechanism which involves both suppression of regulatory cytokines and enhancement of IL-12 and nitric oxide production.
Myocardial infarction (MI) has become one of the leading causes of death in the world. Its pathogenesis includes chronic formation of plaque inside the vessel wall of the coronary artery and acute rupture of the artery, implicating a number of inflammation-mediating molecules, such as the cytokine lymphotoxin-alpha (LTA). Functional variations in LTA are associated with susceptibility to MI. Here we show that LTA protein binds to galectin-2, a member of the galactose-binding lectin family. Our case-control association study in a Japanese population showed that a single nucleotide polymorphism in LGALS2 encoding galectin-2 is significantly associated with susceptibility to MI. This genetic substitution affects the transcriptional level of galectin-2 in vitro, potentially leading to altered secretion of LTA, which would then affect the degree of inflammation; however, its relevance to other populations remains to be clarified. Smooth muscle cells and macrophages in the human atherosclerotic lesions expressed both galectin-2 and LTA. Our findings thus suggest a link between the LTA cascade and the pathogenesis of MI.
Chronic manganese (Mn) exposure produces a neurological syndrome with psychiatric, cognitive, and parkinsonian features. Gene expression profiling in the frontal cortex of Cynomologous macaques receiving 3.3-5.0 mg Mn/kg weekly for 10 months showed that 61 genes were increased and four genes were decreased relative to controls from a total of 6766 genes. Gene changes were associated with cell cycle regulation, DNA repair, apoptosis, ubiquitin-proteasome system, protein folding, cholesterol homeostasis, axonal/vesicular transport, and inflammation. Amyloid-beta (Abeta) precursor-like protein 1, a member of the amyloid precursor protein family, was the most highly up-regulated gene. Immunohistochemistry confirmed increased amyloid precursor-like protein 1 protein expression and revealed the presence of diffuse Abeta plaques in Mn-exposed frontal cortex. Cortical neurons and white matter fibers from Mn-exposed animals accumulated silver grains indicative of on-going degeneration. Cortical neurons also exhibited nuclear hypertrophy, intracytoplasmic vacuoles, and apoptosis stigmata. p53 immunolabeling was increased in the cytoplasm of neurons and in the nucleus and processes of glial cells in Mn-exposed tissue. In summary, chronic Mn exposure produces a cellular stress response leading to neurodegenerative changes and diffuse Abeta plaques in the frontal cortex. These changes may explain the subtle cognitive deficits previously demonstrated in these same animals.
1-Naphthylisothiocyanate (ANIT) produces cholangiolitic hepatitis in rats. This injury is characterized by periportal bile duct and hepatic parenchymal cell necrosis with inflammatory cell involvement. In contrast, 2-naphthylisothiocyanate (BNIT) does not induce cholangiolitic hepatitis. The mechanism(s) involved in ANIT-induced hepatic injury remain to be elucidated. To investigate this difference in toxicity further, we examined the cytotoxicity of ANIT and BNIT in primary rat hepatocyte cultures. Since neutrophils (PMNs) are required for the development of ANIT-induced cholangiolitic hepatitis in vivo, we also examined the potential for PMNs to modulate ANIT and BNIT cytotoxicity in rat hepatocyte-PMN cocultures. Both ANIT and BNIT injured rat hepatocytes within the range of concentrations examined (0-100 microM); however, BNIT was more potent. The presence of PMNs did not significantly influence the hepatocellular injury produced by either naphthylisothiocyanate (NIT). In an attempt to clarify the disparity between these results in vitro and observations reported in vivo, we examined, in hepatocyte PMN cocultures, the cytotoxic potential of bile collected from NIT-treated rats. Bile from BNIT-treated rats was markedly more cytotoxic to hepatocytes than was bile from ANIT-treated rats. As was observed in earlier experiments, the inclusion of PMNs had no effect on the hepatocellular toxicity of bile from NIT-treated rats. These findings prompted evaluation of the effect of NITs on rat PMNs. ANIT (1 and 10 microM) had no effect on phorbal myristate acetate (PMA)-induced superoxide production by PMNs, whereas BNIT (1 and 10 microM) markedly inhibited PMA-induced superoxide production. In contrast, ANIT and BNIT were equally effective at inhibiting f-met-leu-phe (fMLP)-induced PMN degranulation (beta-glucuronidase release). Altogether, the relative NIT toxicity observed in hepatocyte primary cultures is contrary to reports of hepatotoxic potential of these NITs in vivo. The PMN-dependence of ANIT hepatotoxicity in vivo was not reproduced in hepatocyte-PMN cocultures exposed to ANIT, suggesting that the PMN dependence in vivo involves factors not present in hepatocyte PMN cocultures. The greater PMN inhibitory effect of BNIT may, in part, underlie its inability to elicit the PMN-dependent liver injury in vivo that characterizes ANIT-induced cholangiolitic hepatitis.
The efficacy of eprosartan, a highly selective, orally-active non-biphenyl, non-tetrazole, type 1 angiotensin II (AT1) receptor antagonist, was compared with that of the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, enalapril, with the addition of hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) when necessary in patients with severe hypertension (sitting diastolic blood pressure [sitDBP] > or = 115 mmHg and < or = 125 mmHg). Patients (n = 118) were randomized into an 8-week, double-blind titration phase and were started on oral eprosartan 400 mg total daily dose, given b.i.d., or oral enalapril 10 mg total daily dose, given o.d. The dose of eprosartan was increased to 600 and 800 mg daily, given b.i.d., and that of enalapril to 20 and 40 mg daily, given o.d., at weeks 2 and 4 if sitDBP was > or = 90 mmHg. If blood pressure remained uncontrolled on maximum doses of eprosartan or enalapril at week 6, HCTZ 25 mg o.d. was added to the treatment regimen. Patients whose blood pressure was deemed medically acceptable by the investigator at week 8 entered a 2-week maintenance phase on the final dose used in the titration phase. The primary efficacy measure was the difference between treatments of the mean reduction from baseline in sitDBP at the end of the study. Eprosartan and enalapril caused a similar reduction in sitDBP at study endpoint. The mean change in sitDBP at the end of the study for the eprosartan group was -20.1 mmHg vs -16.2 mmHg for the enalapril group. However, eprosartan produced significantly greater decreases in both sitting and standing systolic blood pressure (sitSBP and staSBP, respectively) than enalapril. The mean decrease in sitSBP was 29.1 mmHg for eprosartan compared with 21.1 mmHg for enalapril (p = 0.025). The mean reduction in staSBP was 27.8 mmHg for eprosartan compared with 20.0 mmHg for enalapril (p = 0.032). At the end of the study, the response rate (sitDBP < 90 mmHg or decreased from baseline by at least 15 mmHg) was 69.5% in the eprosartan group and 54.2% in the enalapril group. The proportion of patients in each treatment group who required addition of HCTZ was similar. Eprosartan was well tolerated; the overall incidence of adverse events was comparable to that in the enalapril group. These results demonstrate that in patients with severe hypertension, eprosartan is well tolerated and may be more effective than enalapril in reducing systolic blood pressure.
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is characterized by disturbance of pro-inflammatory cytokines and anti-inflammatory cytokines. Previous studies have demonstrated the effect of anti-inflammatory cytokines, such as interleukin-10 (IL-10) or IL-4 on IBD, but their data were controversial. This study further investigated the effect of IL-4 (IL-4), IL-10 and their combination on treatment of trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced murine colitis.
pcDNA3.0 carrying murine IL-4 or IL-10 cDNA was encapsulated with LipofectAMINE 2000 and intraperitoneally injected into mice with TNBS-induced colitis. The levels of intestinal IL-4 and IL-10 mRNA were confirmed by quantitative-RT-PCR. Inflamed tissues were assessed by histology and expression of interferon (IFN)-γ, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α and IL-6.
The data confirmed that IL-4 or IL-10 over-expression was successfully induced in murine colon tissues after intraperitoneal injection. Injections of IL-4 or IL-10 significantly inhibited TNBS-induced colon tissue damage, disease activity index (DAI) and body weight loss compared to the control mice. Furthermore, expression of IFN-γ, TNF-α and IL-6 was markedly blocked by injections of IL-4 or IL-10 plasmid. However, there was less therapeutic effect in mice injected with the combination of IL-4 and IL-10.
These data suggest that intraperitoneal injection of IL-4 or IL-10 plasmid was a potential strategy in control of TNBS-induced murine colitis, but their combination had less effect.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a highly lethal malignancy mostly because of de novo and acquired resistance to conventional chemotherapy. Constitutive activation of Akt and nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) represent major cellular abnormalities associated with both the pathogenesis and therapeutic resistance of HCC. The aim of the present study was to determine whether genistein, a natural Akt/NF-κB inhibitor, could enhance the anti-HCC efficacy of ATO both in vitro and in vivo. Our results demonstrated that genistein not only potentiated the proliferation-inhibiting and apoptosis-inducing effect of ATO on human HCC cell lines in vitro, but also dramatically augmented its suppressive effect on both tumor growth and angiogenesis in nude mice. The mechanism is at least partially due to the suppressive effect of genistein both on the proper and ATO-induced Akt activation, and on the activity of NF-κB, and the latter correlated with the suppression of NF-κB regulated gene products, including cyclin D1, Bcl-xL, Bcl-2, c-myc, COX-2, and VEGF. These data suggest that the combination of ATO with genistein presents a promising therapeutic approach for the treatment of HCC.
In 19 patients on lithium maintenance therapy, impairment of renal concentrating ability was found to correlate with daily lithium dose. The correlation between dose and impaired renal concentrating ability was strongest for patients on regular lithium preparations and not significant for patients on a slow release preparation. In 2 patients with severe polyuria, renal concentrating ability increased markedly with thiazide treatment. No relationship between lithium dosing parameters and other side effects was found. These results emphasize the importance of dose and type of preparation of lithium in the production of renal side effects.
Potassium dichromate (K2Cr2O7)-induced nephrotoxicity is associated with oxidative and nitrosative stress. In this study we investigated the relation between the time course of the oxidative and nitrosative stress with kidney damage and alterations in the following antioxidant enzymes: Cu, Zn superoxide dismutase (Cu, Zn-SOD), Mn-SOD, glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione reductase (GR), and catalase (CAT).
Nephrotoxicity was induced in rats by a single injection of K2Cr2O7. Groups of animals were sacrificed on days 1,2,3,4,6,8,10, and 12. Nephrotoxicity was evaluated by histological studies and by measuring creatinine clearance, serum creatinine, blood urea nitrogen (BUN), and urinary excretion of N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG) and total protein. Oxidative and nitrosative stress were measured by immunohistochemical localization of protein carbonyls and 3-nitrotyrosine, respectively. Cu, Zn-SOD, Mn-SOD, and CAT were studied by immunohistochemical localization. The activity of total SOD, CAT, GPx, and GR was also measured as well as serum and kidney content of chromium and urinary excretion of NO2 -/NO3-. Data were compared by two-way analysis of variance followed by a post hoc test.
Serum and kidney chromium content increased reaching the highest value on day 1. Nephrotoxicity was made evident by the decrease in creatinine clearance (days 1-4) and by the increase in serum creatinine (days 1-4), BUN (days 1-6), urinary excretion of NAG (days 1-4), and total protein (day 1-6) and by the structural damage to the proximal tubules (days 1-6). Oxidative and nitrosative stress were clearly evident on days 1-8. Urinary excretion of NO2-/NO3- decreased on days 2-6. Mn-SOD and Cu, Zn-SOD, estimated by immunohistochemistry, and total SOD activity remained unchanged. Activity of GPx decreased on days 3-12 and those of GR and CAT on days 2-10. Similar findings were observed by immunohistochemistry of CAT.
These data show the association between oxidative and nitrosative stress with functional and structural renal damage induced by K2Cr2O7. Renal antioxidant enzymes were regulated differentially and were not closely associated with oxidative or nitrosative stress or with kidney damage. In addition, the decrease in the urinary excretion of NO2-/NO3- was associated with the renal nitrosative stress suggesting that nitric oxide was derived to the formation of reactive nitrogen species involved in protein nitration.
Forty-nine schizophrenic outpatients stabilized on oral antipsychotic medication and procyclidine received 12.5 mg or 18.75 mg of fluphenazine enanthate or fluphenazine decanoate and were examined for extrapyramidal side effects one and two weeks later. Extrapyramidal side effects were present in 30 patients (61%) but were clinically significant in only 11 (22%). Fluphenazine enanthate produced more clinically significant extrapyramidal symptoms, particularly akathisia, than did fluphenazine decanoate.
Streptomycin sulfate (300 mg/kg s.c.) was injected for various periods into preweanling rats and for 3 weeks into weanling rats. Beginning at 8 days of age, body movement and hearing were examined for 6 and up to 17 weeks, respectively. Abnormal movements and deafness occurred only in rats treated during the preweaning period; within this period the greatest sensitivities for these abnormalities occurred from 2 to 11-17 and 5 to 11 days of age, respectively, indicating that the cochlea is more sensitive to streptomycin than the site (vestibular or central) responsible for the dyskinesias.
Follicular neoplasms of the thyroid gland developed in 79 of 200 Fischer 344 rats of both sexes, fed either 0.0375% or 0.075% 4,4'-methylene-bis-(N,N-dimethyl)-benzenamine (MDBA) mixed with the diet. Hyperplastic changes in the follicular epithelium occurred in 12 rats fed the higher concentration of this chemical. One of 40 control rats had a follicular carcinoma of the thyroid gland.
Genome-wide DNA methylation patterns are established and maintained by the coordinated action of three DNA methyltransferases (DNMTs), DNMT1, DNMT3A and DNMT3B. DNMT3B hypomorphic germline mutations are responsible for two-thirds of immunodeficiency, centromere instability, facial anomalies (ICF) syndrome cases, a rare recessive disease characterized by immune defects, instability of pericentromeric satellite 2-containing heterochromatin, facial abnormalities and mental retardation. The molecular defects in transcription, DNA methylation and chromatin structure in ICF cells remain relatively uncharacterized. In the present study, we used global expression profiling to elucidate the role of DNMT3B in these processes using cell lines derived from ICF syndrome and normal individuals. We show that there are significant changes in the expression of genes critical for immune function, development and neurogenesis that are highly relevant to the ICF phenotype. Approximately half the upregulated genes we analyzed were marked with low-level DNA methylation in normal cells that was lost in ICF cells, concomitant with loss of repressive histone modifications, particularly H3K27 trimethylation, and gains in transcriptionally active H3K9 acetylation and H3K4 trimethylation marks. In addition, we consistently observed loss of binding of the SUZ12 component of the PRC2 polycomb repression complex and DNMT3B to derepressed genes, including a number of homeobox genes critical for immune system, brain and craniofacial development. We also observed altered global levels of certain histone modifications in ICF cells, particularly ubiquitinated H2AK119. Therefore, this study provides important new insights into the role of DNMT3B in modulating gene expression and chromatin structure and reveals new connections between DNMT3B and polycomb-mediated repression.
During spinal anaesthesia for Caesarean section, the optimal phenylephrine regimen and the optimal blood pressure (BP) to which it should be titrated are undetermined. The ideal regimen would balance efficacy for maintaining uteroplacental perfusion pressure against potential for uteroplacental vasoconstriction, both of which may affect fetal acid-base status. We compared phenylephrine infusion regimens based on three different BP thresholds.
After intrathecal injection, we infused phenylephrine 100 microg min(-1) for 2 min. Then, until delivery, we infused phenylephrine whenever systolic BP (SBP), measured every 1 min, was below a randomly assigned percentage of baseline: 100% (Group 100, n=25), 90% (Group 90, n=25) or 80% (Group 80, n=24). We compared umbilical blood gases, Apgar scores and maternal haemodynamics and symptoms.
Patients in Group 100 had fewer episodes [median 0 (range 0-8)] of hypotension (SBP <80% baseline) compared with Group 80 [5 (0-18)] and Group 90 [2 (0-7)] (P<0.001 in each instance). Total dose of phenylephrine was greater in Group 100 [median 1520 microg (interquartile range 1250-2130 microg)] compared with Group 90 [1070 (890-1360) microg] and Group 80 [790 (590-950) microg]. Umbilical arterial pH was greater in Group 100 [mean 7.32 (95% confidence interval 7.31-7.34)] than in Group 80 [7.30 (7.28-7.31)] (P=0.034). No patient had umbilical arterial pH <7.2. In Group 100, 1/24 (4%) patients had nausea or vomiting compared with 4/25 (16%) in Group 90 and 10/25 (40%) in Group 80 (P=0.006).
For optimal management, phenylephrine should be titrated to maintain maternal BP at near-baseline values.
High amounts of albumin in urine cause tubulointerstitial damage that leads to a rapid deterioration of the renal function. Albumin exerts its injurious effects on renal cells through a process named endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress due to the accumulation of unfolded proteins in the ER lumen. In addition, albumin promotes phosphorylation and consequent activation of MAPKs such as ERK1/2. Since ERK1/2 activation promoted by albumin is a transient event, the aims of the present work were to identify the phosphatase involved in their dephosphorylation in albumin-exposed cells and to analyze the putative regulation of this phosphatase by albumin. We also sought to determine the role played by the phospho/dephosphorylation of ERK1/2 in the cellular response to albumin-induced ER stress. MAP kinase phosphatase-1, MKP-1, is a nuclear enzyme involved in rapid MAPK dephosphorylation. Here we present evidence supporting the notion that this phosphatase is responsible for ERK1/2 dephosphorylation after albumin exposure in OK cells. Moreover, we demonstrate that exposure of OK cells to albumin transiently increases MKP-1 protein levels. The increase was evident after 15 min of exposure, peaked at 1 h (6-fold) and declined thereafter. In cells overexpressing flag-MKP-1, albumin caused the accumulation of this chimera, promoting MKP-1 stabilization by a posttranslational mechanism. Albumin also promoted a transient increase in MKP-1 mRNA levels (3-fold at 1 h) through the activation of gene transcription. In addition, we also show that albumin increased mRNA levels of GRP78, a key marker of ER stress, through an ERK-dependent pathway. In line with this finding, our studies demonstrate that flag-MKP-1 overexpression blunted albumin-induced GRP78 upregulation. Thus, our work demonstrates that albumin overload not only triggers MAPK activation but also tightly upregulates MKP-1 expression, which might modulate ER stress response to albumin overload.
In a 12-week controlled study ethopropazine was compared to benztropine in the treatment of parkinsonism induced by fluphenazine enanthate in 60 schizophrenic outpatients. Ethopropazine and benztropine were found to be equally effective in controlling parkinsonian symptoms and were as efficacious as procyclidine, their previous antiparkinsonian drug. However, benztropine treated patients had a significant increase in tardive dyskinesia compared to their condition during procyclindine treatment, and significantly more anxiety and depression than ethopropazine treated patients. This suggests that benztropine is not the anticholinergic drug of choice in the treatment of neuroleptic-induced parkinsonian symptoms, because of its more toxic central and peripheral atropinic effect.
Herbal hepatotoxicity has been increasingly reported in clinical context, but the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. Saikosaponin D (SSD) is a major component of saikosaponins isolated from Bupleurum falactum, a herb that has been linked to hepatotoxicity. Our current study was to examine the toxic effect of SSD on human hepatocyte LO2 cells and explore the possible mechanism. The results demonstrated that SSD reduced cell viability and led to dramatic morphological alterations in LO2 cells. Hoechst staining and flow cytometry analyses showed that SSD stimulated hepatocyte apoptosis. SSD-treated cells exhibited apparent nuclear condensation and fragmentation, and the apoptotic cells were increased by SSD dose-dependently. Subsequent experiments showed that SSD decreased mitochondrial membrane potential and downregulated Bcl-2 but upregulated Bax. Moreover, caspase-9 and caspase-3 were activated in SSD-treated LO2 cells. These data consistently indicated that SSD stimulated mitochondrial apoptosis in hepatocytes. Mechanistic investigations showed that SSD disrupted p38 signaling and that p38 specific inhibitor SB203580 mimicked the pro-apoptotic effect of SSD. In addition, platelet-derived growth factor-β receptor (PDGF-βR) blocker imatinib reduced p38 phosphorylation and also mimicked the pro-apoptotic effect of SSD in LO2 cells. These data collectively indicated that SSD induced apoptosis by interrupting PDGF-βR/p38 pathway in LO2 hepatocytes.
Nephrotoxicity is an adverse effect of cyclosporine and tacrolimus. Studies comparing their long-term nephrotoxicities are lacking. This study evaluates the nephrotoxicity of these agents over a 7-year period following heart transplantation. Pediatric heart-transplant recipients receiving cyclosporine or tacrolimus as primary immunosuppression were evaluated at two centers from 1982 to 1998. Data collected included serum creatinine, height and weight prior to transplantation, at 1 and 6 months and 1 years post transplantation, and at yearly intervals thereafter. Creatinine clearance was calculated and compared between the two groups. Glomerular filtration rate was measured using Tc-99m diethylenetriaminepentacetic acid. In total, 123 patients were evaluated. Demographic data of the two groups were comparable. Creatinine clearance demonstrated a steady decline. This decline did not differ statistically between the two groups: tacrolimus 98.9 and 90.7mL/min/1.73 m2 at 1 month and 5 years, respectively; cyclosporine 110.7 and 81.7 mL/min/ 1.73 m2 at 1 month and 5 years, respectively. Four patients developed end-stage renal failure. Calculated creatinine clearance consistently overestimated glomerular filtration rate, the latter being greater than 2 standard deviations below the mean normal in 38% of patients. We conclude that the nephrotoxicities of tacrolimus and cyclosporine are comparable over the medium- to long-term in pediatric heart-transplant recipients.
Although the neurochemical mechanisms contributing to alcohol withdrawal seizures are poorly understood, withdrawal seizures probably reflect neuronal hyperexcitability resulting from adaptation to chronic alcohol. Altered kappa-Opioid receptor (KOP-R) signaling has been observed in multiple seizure types; however, a role for this system in ethanol withdrawal seizures has not been systematically characterized. We hypothesized that pharmacological manipulations of the KOP-R would alter withdrawal in mice selectively bred for differences in ethanol withdrawal severity. Withdrawal Seizure-Prone (WSP) and Withdrawal Seizure-Resistant (WSR) mice were made physically dependent using chronic ethanol vapor inhalation, and the effects of the KOP-R antagonist nor-binaltorphimine or agonist U-50,488H on withdrawal severity were examined. Pretreatment with nor-binaltorphimine significantly increased handling-induced convulsion (HIC) severity in withdrawing WSR mice, with no observable effects in withdrawing WSP mice. In contrast, U-50,488H significantly decreased HIC severity in WSP mice, with no effects in WSR mice. During extended withdrawal (i.e. hours 12+), a rebound hyperexcitability was observed in WSP mice given agonist. Thus, administration of a KOP-R antagonist increased withdrawal severity in mice normally resistant to withdrawal seizures, while a KOP-R agonist reduced convulsion severity in animals susceptible to withdrawal seizures. These observations are consistent with differences in the KOP-R system observed in these lines at the molecular level, and suggest the KOP-R system may be a promising therapeutic target for management of ethanol withdrawal seizures. Finally, these findings underscore the importance of determining the potential for rebound increases in withdrawal severity during later withdrawal episodes.
The concentration of tricyclic antidepressants in plasma may be a more important factor than the oral dose in determining whether or not a patient will respond to treatment. Knowledge of the drug dose-response curve and its levels in blood may enable the physician to convert a patient from a "nonresponder" into a "responder."
Hyperlipidemia is common in patients with glomerular proteinuria. It may contribute to atherosclerotic complications and accelerate glomerular damage. Early trials of the fibric acid derivative clofibrate led to a myositis syndrome causing many nephrologists to abandon attempts at treatment of nephrotic hyperlipidemia. Recent trials with lipid-lowering medications have been successful without major side effects. The bile acid sequestrants colestipol and cholestyramine bind bile acids in the gut and deplete the hepatic cholesterol pool, thus inducing LDL hepatocyte receptors. Recent studies showed a reduction of total cholesterol of 8-20% and LDL cholesterol of 19-31% without significant changes in HDL cholesterol. Probucol has reduced total cholesterol 23-30% and LDL cholesterol 23-25% in nephrotic patients. Although HDL cholesterol was reduced, the LDL/HDL ratio remains favorably changed. The fibric acid derivative gemfibrozil inhibits adipose lipolysis and enhances lipoprotein lipase activity thus decreasing LDL synthesis and increasing its removal. It caused a large decrease in triglycerides with a 13-15% decrease in total and LDL cholesterol in a recent trial. HDL cholesterol increased 18%. The HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors inhibit the rate-limiting step in cholesterol biosynthesis hence inducing an increase in LDL receptors on hepatocytes. Trials have shown decreases of 18-36% in total cholesterol and 18-47% in LDL cholesterol, while HDL cholesterol was either increased or unchanged. The use of lipid-lowering agents of several classes has been effective in ameliorating the progression of glomerular damage in a number of different models of glomerulosclerosis. Nevertheless, so far in humans lipid lowering drugs have not been established to have an effect on either the degree of proteinuria or the progression of glomerulosclerosis.
N-Amidino-2-(2,6-dichlorophenyl)-acetamide hydrochloride (guanfacine) reduces blood pressure dose-dependently for more than 38 h. The blood pressure lowering effect is not seen immediately after medication. Side effects are: decrease in heart rate, orthostatic effect, dizziness and weariness.
Decreased nitric oxide production has been reported in preeclampsia, which is also frequently associated with glucose intolerance. It was thus considered of interest to investigate the effects of moxonidine, a centrally acting antihypertensive drug that reduces insulin resistance, in a rat model of preeclampsia. Hypertension was induced in Wistar rats by dietary l-NNA (N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine, 0.063%, 31 mg/kg/d, days 13-19 of gestation) and, over the same period, moxonidine or vehicle was administered orally (2 mg/kg/d by gavage). On day 20, blood pressure was measured in the pentobarbital anesthetized animals, glucose tolerance was tested (2 g/kg glucose i.p.), and morphologic studies were conducted on the litter to determine the benefits with respect to fetal outcome. Hypertension was reduced with daily moxonidine treatment (P < 0.05). Basal plasma insulin and insulin/glucose index were decreased with moxonidine treatment evidencing improved insulin sensitivity in the control and l-NNA-treated pregnant rats (P < 0.05). After glucose challenge, plasma insulin increased in all the groups as expected and plasma insulin and insulin/glucose index were significantly higher in the l-NNA group than in the control, moxonidine, or l-NNA + moxonidine groups (P < 0.05 for time 60 minutes). Thus, moxonidine improved glucose tolerance in l-NNA-treated pregnant rats. Moreover, moxonidine treatment very effectively decreased the number of necroses (1 necrosis in 71 fetuses in the l-NNA + moxonidine group versus 15 necroses in 79 fetuses in the l-NNA group, P < 0.01). In conclusion, the 7-day treatment with moxonidine suppressed hypertension and reduced glucose intolerance and fetal necrosis, thus demonstrating the effectiveness of moxonidine in the preeclamptic model.
Gene expression profiling of breast cancer has identified two biologically distinct estrogen receptor (ER)-positive subtypes of breast cancer: luminal A and luminal B. Luminal B tumors have higher proliferation and poorer prognosis than luminal A tumors. In this study, we developed a clinically practical immunohistochemistry assay to distinguish luminal B from luminal A tumors and investigated its ability to separate tumors according to breast cancer recurrence-free and disease-specific survival.
Tumors from a cohort of 357 patients with invasive breast carcinomas were subtyped by gene expression profile. Hormone receptor status, HER2 status, and the Ki67 index (percentage of Ki67-positive cancer nuclei) were determined immunohistochemically. Receiver operating characteristic curves were used to determine the Ki67 cut point to distinguish luminal B from luminal A tumors. The prognostic value of the immunohistochemical assignment for breast cancer recurrence-free and disease-specific survival was investigated with an independent tissue microarray series of 4046 breast cancers by use of Kaplan-Meier curves and multivariable Cox regression.
Gene expression profiling classified 101 (28%) of the 357 tumors as luminal A and 69 (19%) as luminal B. The best Ki67 index cut point to distinguish luminal B from luminal A tumors was 13.25%. In an independent cohort of 4046 patients with breast cancer, 2847 had hormone receptor-positive tumors. When HER2 immunohistochemistry and the Ki67 index were used to subtype these 2847 tumors, we classified 1530 (59%, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 57% to 61%) as luminal A, 846 (33%, 95% CI = 31% to 34%) as luminal B, and 222 (9%, 95% CI = 7% to 10%) as luminal-HER2 positive. Luminal B and luminal-HER2-positive breast cancers were statistically significantly associated with poor breast cancer recurrence-free and disease-specific survival in all adjuvant systemic treatment categories. Of particular relevance are women who received tamoxifen as their sole adjuvant systemic therapy, among whom the 10-year breast cancer-specific survival was 79% (95% CI = 76% to 83%) for luminal A, 64% (95% CI = 59% to 70%) for luminal B, and 57% (95% CI = 47% to 69%) for luminal-HER2 subtypes.
Expression of ER, progesterone receptor, and HER2 proteins and the Ki67 index appear to distinguish luminal A from luminal B breast cancer subtypes.
