A 17-year-old girl with a clinical diagnosis of adult-type juvenile rheumatoid arthritis developed a severe hepatotoxic reaction to 3.6 g of aspirin per day. This was associated with a microangiopathic anemia and transient congestive cardiac failure. She responded well to steroids, and when all laboratory test findings were back to normal, she was "challenged" with five divided doses of aspirin (total, 3.0 g). This produced a salicylate level of 9.1 g/dl and was associated with an immediate deterioration in liver function test findings and a return of microangiopathic blood features with elevation of fibrin split products and a prolonged prothrombin time. These changes were again reversed by promptly starting steroid therapy. This case suggests that disseminated intravascular coagulation, and its rare association with hepatotoxicity, is a potentially fatal side effect of aspirin therapy.
The safety of topical epinephrine (1:1000 concentration) has recently been called into question. No objective data have been presented examining this issue.
We retrospectively reviewed all cases of endoscopic sinus surgery performed by the senior authors at their respective institutions. Perioperative records were reviewed for use of topical 1:1000 epinephrine and for any intraoperative or postoperative complications related to its use.
During the study periods, 1998 cases of endoscopic sinus surgery were identified where topical 1:1000 epinephrine was used. Two complications were identified (0.1%), one at each institution. One patient suffered coronary artery vasospasm, attributed to the use of topical 1:1000 epinephrine during surgery. The other patient developed transient intraoperative hypertension immediately after inadvertent submucosal injection of concentrated epinephrine. This event was caused by an erroneous switch with the 1% lidocaine/1:100,000 solution. This error occurred early in the institution's experience with concentrated topical epinephrine. After implementation of additional preventative safeguards, no further errors or complications have occurred.
Concentrated epinephrine has the potential for complications when used during endoscopic sinus surgery. Nevertheless, with appropriate safeguards described in this study, its topical use is safe.
We selected highly metastatic lines from mouse renal adenocarcinoma (STZ-RCC) chemically induced with streptozotocin. At eight weeks after an intrasplenic injections (IS injection) of original STZ-RCC, this procedure yielded metastatic foci in the liver, which we transplanted serially in syngeneic mice (STZ-HM1). STZ-HM1 was then injected into the spleen of a syngeneic mouse, which provided a source for further cycles of hepatic metastasis selection. Three cycles of selection for hepatic metastasis yielded a high hepatic metastasis line (STZ-HM3). Intravenous injection of the parent line (original STZ-RCC) yielded metastatic foci in the lung eight weeks later, which we also transplanted serially in syngeneic mice (STZ-PM1). The repeated IS injection of the cells was clearly responsible for the increase in the frequency of hepatic metastasis and the number of its nodules. In particular, STZ-HM3 was revealed to have more metastatic nodules in the liver ranging from 293 to 432 (median; 368) in all five mice at eight weeks after IS injection. STZ-PM1 had a significantly higher rate of pulmonary metastasis and more pulmonary metastatic nodules after intravenous injection than the parent line. These results confirm that the parent line, STZ-RCC, has a heterogeneity in the metastatic phenotype. In vitro invasion assay for STZ-RCC, STZ-HM1, -HM2 and -HM3 demonstrated that in vitro invasive potential was paralleled with in vivo hepatic metastasis potential. The result suggests that the invasion potential revealed by in vitro invasion assay is important in metastasis formation.
The long noncoding RNA HOTAIR has been reported as a poor prognostic biomarker in patients with breast cancer. The aim of the present study is to examine the expression pattern of HOTAIR in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and its clinical significance as well as its biological role in tumor progression.
We examined the expression of HOTAIR in 110 HCC samples using real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and analyzed its correlation with clinical parameters and prognosis in 60 HCC patients that have undergone liver transplantation (LT). Suppression of HOTAIR using siRNA was performed to explore its roles in tumor progression.
The expression level of HOTAIR in cancer tissues was higher than in adjacent noncancerous tissues. High expression level of HOTAIR was an independent prognostic factor for predicting HCC recurrence in LT patients (P = .001, hazard ratio, 3.564). Furthermore, in patients exceeding the Milan criteria, those with a high expression level of HOTAIR revealed a significantly shorter recurrence-free survival. Moreover, siRNA suppression of HOTAIR in a liver cancer cell line reduced cell viability and cell invasion, sensitized TNF-α induced apoptosis, and increased the chemotherapeutic sensitivity of cancer cells to cisplatin and doxorubicin.
The high expression level of HOTAIR in HCC could be a candidate biomarker for predicting tumor recurrence in HCC patients who have undergone liver transplant therapy and might be a potential therapeutic target.
In this evaluation of baseline drug use as a predictor of treatment outcome, cocaine use during a 5-week baseline was compared in methadone maintenance patients who had < 5 (n = 10) versus > or = 5 (n = 9) weeks of abstinence during an experimental cocaine abstinence reinforcement treatment. Cocaine use was evaluated at the 1st and last visit and the 1st and last week of baseline and as a mean across the 5-week baseline treatment; response was calculated as a mean across 12 weeks of experimental treatment. Those who had successful outcomes (abstainers) used significantly less cocaine in the 5-week baseline than those with less successful outcomes (nonabstainers). Differences in cocaine use were not evident in the 1st baseline visit or week, but the abstainers used significantly less cocaine in the last visit and week of baseline compared with the nonabstainers. Cocaine use during baseline provided critical predictors of response to the experimental treatment.
We studied the effects of lisinopril on mean arterial blood pressure (MAP), plasma renin activity (PRA), and renal hemodynamics in nine patients with chronic renal disease and hypertension, before, and after three months of therapy. Lisinopril normalized blood pressure in five of nine patients (responders) and did not in the remaining four (nonresponders). PRA rose after lisinopril (4.8 +/- 2.6 ng/mL/h to 25 +/- 15 ng/mL/h, P less than 0.05) in responders, but not in nonresponders (2.0 +/- 1.4 ng/mL/h to 3.4 +/- 2.9 ng/mL/h). Glomerular filtration rate remained stable in both groups (responders: 43 +/- 11 mL/min to 43 +/- 22 mL/min; nonresponders: 39 +/- 25 mL/min to 32 +/- 21 mL/min). In the responders renal hemodynamics remained stable after lisinopril (renal plasma flow: 223 +/- 80 mL/min to 216 +/- 91 mL/min; filtration fraction: .20 +/- .04 to .20 +/- .05; renal vascular resistance: 386 +/- 179 to 326 +/- 209 units). In the nonresponders, renal plasma flow decreased (228 +/- 141 mL/min to 162 +/- 117 mL/min, P less than 0.005), filtration fraction increased (.19 +/- .08 to .24 +/- .12, P less than 0.05), and renal vascular resistance increased (695 +/- 747 to 1265 +/- 1574 units, P less than 0.05) after chronic lisinopril therapy. We conclude (1) there is a heterogeneous response to lisinopril in patients with chronic renal disease and hypertension, (2) lisinopril monotherapy may result in effective blood pressure control without renal hemodynamic compromise, and (3) an increase in PRA following converting enzyme inhibition may identify those in whom the circulating renin angiotensin system is participating in systemic hypertension and intrarenal hemodynamic changes.
Nitroglycerin has been the drug of choice for relieving myocardial ischemia for more than a hundred years. Several studies have indicated that a significant reduction in arterial oxygen tension (PaO2) occurs after the administration of sublingual nitroglycerin to patients with coronary artery disease breathing room air. Because available oxygen in arterial blood is reduced, it would be reasonable to assume that oxygen delivery to the myocardium would also be impaired. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether nitroglycerin-induced arterial desaturation results in compromised oxidative metabolism of myocardium assessed by coronary sinus lactate concentration and oxygen content in patients with coronary artery disease undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery.
Ten randomly selected patients undergoing coronary bypass surgery.
All studies were performed at Siyami Ersek Cardiovascular and Thoracic Surgery Center.
A catheter was inserted into the radial artery to measure blood gases and arterial lactate concentration. After sternotomy, and aortic and venous cannula placement, a coronary sinus catheter was introduced into the coronary sinus to measure oxygen content and lactate concentration. Control coronary sinus and arterial blood samples were obtained before nitroglycerin infusion. Nitroglycerin was then given in a dose of 2 micrograms/kg/min for a period of 5 minutes. At the end of 5 minutes, second samples were obtained from the coronary sinus and arterial catheters.
It was found that arterial and coronary sinus oxygen tension decreased significantly. Arterial lactate concentration did not change, coronary sinus lactate concentration decreased. Despite a substantial fall in arterial oxygen tension after administration of nitroglycerin, a significant reduction in coronary sinus lactate concentration occurred.
Nitroglycerin-induced hypoxia does not compromise oxidative metabolism of myocardium as can be assessed by a concomitant decrease in coronary sinus lactate concentration.
Acetazolamide has been shown to be effective prophylaxis for both hypokalemic and hyperkalemic paralysis. A patient with paramyotonia congenita, a related disorder with myotonia and episodic weakness, was studied during treatment with acetazolamide. Athough the patient's myotonia was virtually abolished, severe quadriparesis was produced during each trial of acetazolamide. This response distinguished this patient's condition from other forms of familial periodic paralysis and suggests that acetazolamide may be deleterious to some patients with periodic paralysis.
This study was conducted to investigate the effects of centrally administered baclofen on blood pressure and heart rate in conscious spontaneously hypertensive (SHR) and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats. Administration of baclofen (1.0 microgram/kg) into the lateral cerebral ventricle (icv) produced an increase in mean arterial pressure (MAP) in both SHR and WKY rats. The increase in MAP was significantly lower in SHR (13 +/- 3 mmHg) when compared with WKY (27 +/- 5 mmHg). The changes in heart rate (HR) were variable, from no change to a very small increase and did not differ significantly between SHR and WKY rats. The ability of baclofen to interfere with baroreceptor reflexes was also tested in separate experiments. In SHR, icv injection of baclofen (1.0 microgram/kg) significantly suppressed the pressor response and bradycardia evoked by phenylephrine 3.0 micrograms/kg iv, whereas in WKY, the pressor and HR responses to similar injections of phenylephrine were not affected by icv baclofen. Similarly, baclofen treatment modified hypotensive response and reflex tachycardia induced by nitroprusside (10.0 micrograms/kg) iv in SHR but not in WKY rats. Administration of sympathetic ganglionic blocker hexamethonium (HEX; 25 mg/kg) iv produced an equivalent decrease in MAP between SHR and WKY following icv injection of baclofen (1.0 microgram/kg). These results suggest that the effects of baclofen on the baroreceptor reflexes in SHR may not be mediated by a change in peripheral sympathetic tone.
Two men who sustained skull fractures secondary to blunt head trauma developed meningitis due to Hemophilus influenzae type b. The isolates in both cases were resistant to ampicillin but susceptible to chloramphenicol. Based of this experience, and recent epidemiological trends, it is suggested that chloramphenicol, rather than penicillin G, might be the initial therapy of choice for posttraumatic meningitis when no micro-organisms are recognized on Gram-stained smears of the cerebrospinal fluid.
Because small quantities of x-ray contrast agents can cross the blood-brain barrier, the authors evaluate the properties that contribute to neurotoxicity.
The acute toxicity of various monomer and dimer contrast media was assessed after intracerebroventricular (ICV) injection to mice and intracisternal (ICI) injection to rats.
In mice, median lethal dose (LD50) values for monomer contrast media apart from iohexol were higher than those for dimer contrast media. In rats, iopentol and iopromide were more neurotoxic than all other contrast media. The signs of toxicity for all contrast media included convulsions, dyspnea, hypoactivity, and sedation. Hypertonic D-mannitol solution was tolerated as well as artificial cerebrospinal fluid. Neither the hydrophilicity of the molecules nor the physicochemical properties of their solutions explain the toxicities satisfactorily.
Neurotoxicity of monomer or dimer contrast media depends more on chemical structure characteristics other than hydrophilicity than on the physicochemical characteristics of their solutions.
We describe the first case of sirolimus-induced drug fever in a female liver transplant recipient, with a history of hepatitis C-induced end-stage liver cirrhosis in 1999. In 2005, six years after transplantation, she developed calcineurin inhibitor-induced renal function impairment. Immunosuppression was switched from tacrolimus to sirolimus. Two days after the intake of sirolimus, she developed daily fever spikes, but no infectious focus was found. Antibiotic therapy had no influence on the fever. After fourteen days, sirolimus was switched back to tacrolimus and the fever disappeared. In history, the patient developed ciclosporin-induced generalized seizures eleven days after liver transplantation, followed by the development of a motoric speech disorder. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings were consistent with leucoencephalopathy, therefore immunosuppressive therapy was changed from ciclosporin to tacrolimus and the neurologic symptoms improved significantly. Our case is the first reported case of sirolimus-induced drug fever. In addition, the patient showed the rare occurrence of ciclosporin-induced leukencephalopathy with seizures.
Amoxicillin/clavulanate is associated with liver injury, mostly of a cholestatic pattern. While outcomes are usually benign, progression to cirrhosis and death has been reported. The role of immunosuppressive therapy for patients with a protracted course is unclear. We report the case of an elderly patient who developed prolonged cholestasis secondary to amoxicillin/clavulanate. Vanishing bile duct syndrome was confirmed by sequential liver biopsies. The patient responded to prednisone treatment, but could not be weaned off corticosteroids, even when azathioprine was added. Complete withdrawal of both prednisone and azathioprine was possible by using mycophenolate mofetil, an inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase inhibitor. Sustained remission has been maintained for more than 3 years with low-dose mycophenolate mofetil.
The K+ channel blocker 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) causes epileptiform activity in in vitro preparations and is a potent convulsant in animals and man. In mice, 4-AP produces behavioral activation, clonic limb movements and wild running, followed by tonic hindlimb extension and death (ED97, 13.3 mg/kg, s.c.). We evaluated the ability of a series of anticonvulsant drugs to protect against 4-AP-induced seizures using lethality as the endpoint. Drugs with a phenytoin-like profile of activity were protective with ED50 values (all in mg/kg, i.p.) of 34.4 for phenytoin, 18.6 for carbamazepine, 26.9 for felbamate, and 41.5 for zonisamide. Phenobarbital and valproate also protected against 4-AP-induced seizures and lethality (ED50s, 30.6 and 301, respectively). In contrast the NMDA antagonists (+/-)-CPP and (+)-MK-801 were inactive as were the GABA enhancers diazepam, vigabatrin and tiagabine; the antiabsence drug ethosuximide; and the L-type Ca2+ channel blocker nimodipine. We conclude that drugs like phenytoin which block seizure spread are effective antagonists of seizures induced by K+ channel blockade. Drugs with specific actions on other cellular targets may be weak or inactive, presumably because they are unable to attenuate the spread of intense (non-NMDA receptor mediated) excitation evoked by 4-AP.
Oxcarbazepine (OXC) is considered to be a promising new antiepileptic drug with similar efficacy and better tolerability compared to carbamazepine (CBZ). However, hyponatremia is supposed to occur even more often than with CBZ. We report on a patient who developed hyponatremic coma under OXC with a serum sodium level of 115 mmol/l, the second published case of OXC-induced hyponatremia with serious clinical adverse effects.
Environmental compounds are known to promote epigenetic transgenerational inheritance of adult onset disease in subsequent generations (F1-F3) following ancestral exposure during fetal gonadal sex determination. The current study was designed to determine if a mixture of plastic derived endocrine disruptor compounds bisphenol-A (BPA), bis(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (DEHP) and dibutyl phthalate (DBP) at two different doses promoted epigenetic transgenerational inheritance of adult onset disease and associated DNA methylation epimutations in sperm. Gestating F0 generation females were exposed to either the "plastics" or "lower dose plastics" mixture during embryonic days 8 to 14 of gonadal sex determination and the incidence of adult onset disease was evaluated in F1 and F3 generation rats. There were significant increases in the incidence of total disease/abnormalities in F1 and F3 generation male and female animals from plastics lineages. Pubertal abnormalities, testis disease, obesity, and ovarian disease (primary ovarian insufficiency and polycystic ovaries) were increased in the F3 generation animals. Kidney and prostate disease were only observed in the direct fetally exposed F1 generation plastic lineage animals. Analysis of the plastics lineage F3 generation sperm epigenome previously identified 197 differential DNA methylation regions (DMR) in gene promoters, termed epimutations. A number of these transgenerational DMR form a unique direct connection gene network and have previously been shown to correlate with the pathologies identified. Observations demonstrate that a mixture of plastic derived compounds, BPA and phthalates, can promote epigenetic transgenerational inheritance of adult onset disease. The sperm DMR provide potential epigenetic biomarkers for transgenerational disease and/or ancestral environmental exposures.
A randomized, investigator masked, intra individual comparative study was conducted in 30 healthy volunteers to compare the cutaneous effects of adapalene 0.1% gel and adapalene 0.1% cream with their respective vehicles, using tretinoin 0.05% cream (n = 21) or tretinoin 0.1% cream (n = 9) and a tretinoin cream vehicle (n = 30) as controls. The products were applied to hip/buttock skin for 4 days under occlusive conditions. Cytosolic retinoic acid binding protein-II (CRABP-II) mRNA levels were measured using the RT-PCR technique in punch biopsies taken from 10 subjects. Epidermal thickness was assessed using image analysis of haematoxylin and eosin stained sections from another 11 subjects. Erythema was assessed in all subjects both by a visual scoring system and by chromameter. Adapalene 0.1% gel and adapalene 0.1% cream produced similar significant increases in CRABP-II mRNA levels compared to their vehicles (P < 0.01). The two tretinoin formulations also resulted in similar significant increases in CRABP-II compared to the cream vehicle (P < 0.001). However, only the two tretinoin formulations resulted in an increase in epidermal thickness and only the tretinoin 0.1% cream resulted in significant erythema. Adapalene 0.1% gel and adapalene 0.1% cream induce RAR-mediated gene expression to a similar degree in this model, without the irritant effects of tretinoin.
IL-6/6R signaling is closely associated with tumor growth and poor prognosis. Although there is evidence that interleukin-6 receptor (IL-6R)-mediated signaling promotes the growth and malignancy of cancer, the role of IL-6R in cancer stem cells (CSCs) is poorly defined. This study investigated the role of IL-6R in the proliferation of CSCs. Sphere-forming cells were isolated from the H460 non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cell line and identified as CSCs using confocal microscopy, RT-PCR and WST-1 assay. The H460 spheres demonstrated the typical characteristics of CSCs, including CD133 expression, upregulation of Nanog, self-renewal, and drug resistance to methotrexate (MTX) and fluorouracil (5-FU). The release of IL-6R and its ligand, IL-6, were quantitatively determined and compared between CSCs and non-CSCs. The concentration of soluble IL-6R (sIL-6R) was remarkably high in CSCs compared to that in non-CSCs. Furthermore, significant upregulation of the IL-6R gene was also observed in the CSCs. The growth of CSCs was significantly inhibited by transfection with IL-6R small-interfering RNA (siRNA), as well as with the IL-6R monoclonal antibody (mAb). In addition, blocking both IL-6R and IL-6 using siRNA or mAbs intensified the inhibition of CSC proliferation. These findings indicate that IL-6R is present in CSCs and has an important role in the proliferation of CSCs in the H460 lung cancer cell line. Therefore, we suggest that IL-6R is both a viable target for the development of CSC-directed lung cancer therapeutics and a potential CSC marker in NSCLC.
Orally administered Madopar (levodopa/benserazide 4:1) dose-dependently antagonized haloperidol-induced (1 mg/kg s.c.) catalepsy in MPP(+)-lesioned mice. Pretreatment with a new selective catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) inhibitor, tolcapone (30 mg/kg p.o.), slightly potentiated the antagonistic effect of Madopar (15 mg/kg p.o.) on haloperidol-induced catalepsy. The ability of tolcapone to increase the Madopar effect was significantly attenuated by high doses of 3-O-methyldopa (3-OMD) (800 mg/kg i.p.). This might suggest a competitive blockade of the active transport of levodopa through the blood-brain barrier. In conclusion, the inhibitory effect of tolcapone on the O-methylation of levodopa to 3-OMD by COMT is largely due to improved levodopa and dopamine availability in the brain, and to the reduced formation of 3-OMD.
The aim of this study was to confirm a recent report that the non-invasive niacin skin flush test can be used to demonstrate impaired arachidonic acid-related signal transduction in schizophrenia. The response to topical aqueous methyl nicotinate solution was recorded at five-minute intervals over 20 minutes in 21 patients with schizophrenia, and in 20 age- and sex-matched normal individuals with no personal or family psychiatric history. The response was significantly lower in the patients with schizophrenia. At a concentration of 0.001 M, at the 15-minute timepoint, only two out of the 21 patients with schizophrenia showed a response, compared with 15 out of 20 of the controls (p < 0.00002), giving a sensitivity of the niacin skin test of 90% and a specificity of 75%. Our results are therefore consistent with the previous published report and suggest that this test may be useful clinically in the diagnosis of schizophrenia.
We describe the case of a 51-year-old woman who developed a hemolytic uremic syndrome nine weeks after the end of chemotherapy with mitomycin C for cancer of the anus. Episodes of hemolytic uremic syndrome recurred within a period of up to six months. They were treated with plasma infusion and exchange, antiplatelet agents and rigorous control of blood pressure. The patient was followed for eight years. Her blood pressure has been normal without the use of antihypertensive agents and the renal function has remained stable with serum creatinine at 110 mumol/1. The tumor has remained in remission. This case suggests that recovery from the acute phase of hemolytic uremic syndrome leads to good long-term prognosis.
Brazilein, a bioactive compound isolated from Caesalpinia sappan L., has long been used in oriental folk medicines. Cancer metastasis is a primary cause of cancer death. However, the anti-metastatic effects of brazilein remain elusive. In this study, we found that brazilein inhibited human breast cancer MDA-MB-231 cell migration and invasion using wound-healing assay and Boyden chamber assay. The results of Western blot, gelatin zymography and reversed transcription-PCR analysis showed that brazilein suppressed matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) expression in a concentration-dependent manner. Brazilein also decreased the nuclear protein level of nuclear factor kappaB (NF-κB). Brazilein potently suppressed the phosphorylation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38 MAPK), phosphatidylinositide-3-kinase (PI3K) and Akt, but did not affect phosphorylation of extracellular signal regulating kinase (ERK)1/2 and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK). Additionally, treatment of SB203580 (p38 MAPK inhibitor) or wortmannin (PI3K inhibitor) resulted in a reduced activity and expression of MMP-2 as well as inhibition on cell migration and invasion in MDA-MB-231 cells. Taken together, these results suggest that brazilein inhibition of MDA-MB-231 cells may be mediated through inactivation of both PI3K/Akt and p38 MAPK signaling pathways, leading to inhibitory effect on NF-κB activation. Consequently, brazilein suppresses MMP-2 expression, and thus confers anti-migration and anti-invasion of MDA-MB-231 cells.
The neuroprotective effect of carnosine, an endogenous antioxidant, was examined against methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity in rats. Carnosine pretreatment had no effect on dopamine terminal loss induced by methamphetamine (assessed by [3H]1-(2-[diphenylmethoxy]ethyl)-4-[3-phenylpropyl]piperazine([3H]GBR 12935) binding) but prevented microgliosis (increase in [3H]1-(2-chlorophenyl)-N-methyl-N-(1-methylpropyl)-3-isoquinolinecarboxamide ([3H]PK 11195) binding) in striatum. The 27-kDa heat-shock protein (HSP27) expression was used as indicator of astroglial stress. Methamphetamine treatment induced the expression of HSP27 in striatum and hippocampus, which was inhibited by carnosine, indicating a protective effect. Carnosine had no effect on methamphetamine-induced hyperthermia. Thus, carnosine prevents the microgliosis in striatum (where we did not detect loss of serotonergic terminals by [3H]paroxetine binding) and the expression of HSP27 in all the areas, but fails to prevent methamphetamine-induced loss of dopamine reuptake sites. Therefore, carnosine inhibits only some of the consequences of methamphetamine neurotoxicity, where reactive oxygen species play an important role.
Autosomal recessive Robinow syndrome (RRS) is a severe skeletal dysplasia with short stature, generalized limb shortening, segmental defects of the spine, brachydactyly, and a dysmorphic facial appearance. The gene encoding receptor orphan receptor tyrosine kinase 2 (ROR2) is located on chromosome 9q22 and homozygous loss-of-function mutations in this gene are responsible for RRS. Moreover, knocking out the mouse Ror2 gene causes mesomelic dwarfism in the homozygous state, with almost identical features to recessive Robinow syndrome. The protein product of this gene is a cell membrane receptor, containing distinct motifs including an immunoglobulin-like (Ig) domain, a Frizzled-like cysteine-rich domain (FRZ or CRD), and a kringle domain (KD) in the extracellular region; and an intracellular region with tyrosine kinase (TK), serine/threonine-rich, and proline-rich structures. The extracellular motifs of the ROR2 protein are known to be involved in protein-protein interactions. The tyrosine kinase domain is involved in an as yet uncharacterized signaling pathway. Interestingly, heterozygous mutations in ROR2 have recently been shown to give rise to autosomal dominant brachydactyly type B1 (BDB1). This condition is characterized by terminal deficiency of fingers and toes. A variety of mutations have been reported in ROR2. Here, these genetic defects are compiled and possible genotype-phenotype correlations are discussed.
Risperidone has been found efficacious for decreasing severe tantrums, aggression, and self-injurious behavior in children and adolescents with autistic disorder (autism). The authors report on whether risperidone improves the core symptoms of autism, social and communication impairment and repetitive and stereotyped behavior.
The database from an 8-week double-blind, placebo-controlled trial (N=101) and 16-week open-label continuation study (N=63) of risperidone for children and adolescents with autism was used to test for drug effects on secondary outcome measures: scores on the Ritvo-Freeman Real Life Rating Scale, the Children's Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale, and the maladaptive behavior domain of the Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scales.
Compared to placebo, risperidone led to a significantly greater reduction in the overall score on the Ritvo-Freeman Real Life Rating Scale, as well as the scores on the subscales for sensory motor behaviors (subscale I), affectual reactions (subscale III), and sensory responses (subscale IV). No statistically significant difference was observed, however, on the subscale for social relatedness (subscale II) or language (subscale V). Risperidone also resulted in significantly greater reductions in scores on the Children's Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale and Vineland maladaptive behavior domain. This pattern of treatment response was maintained for 6 months.
Risperidone led to significant improvements in the restricted, repetitive, and stereotyped patterns of behavior, interests, and activities of autistic children but did not significantly change their deficit in social interaction and communication. Further research is necessary to develop effective treatments for the core social and communicative impairments of autism.
This study demonstrated that pretreatment of succinylcholine with rocuronium failed to decrease the incidence or the severity of postoperative myalgia. However, in most patients, pretreatment was associated with muscle weakness before loss of consciousness. Thus, there is no convincing evidence supporting routine pretreatment with succinylcholine.
Public concern about exposure to emissions from the regional industrial park (IP), including 17 chemical plants and the national industrial toxic waste site, initiated this study of the possible association between major congenital malformations (MCM) and residence near the IP in Israel's Southern District.
The study was conducted during the period 1995-2000 and included 63,850 deliveries. Data on deliveries and MCM detected at births were obtained from the regional medical center, and stratified by ethnicity and type of locality. As exposure indicator we used distance categories (proximal and distant) and predominant wind direction from the IP. Distance stratification was based on the geographical distribution of the localities and complaints about the odor related to IP emissions. Based on these complaints, localities up to 20 km from the IP were considered proximal to the IP.
Average rates of MCM were 5.0% and 4.1% for Bedouin and Jewish newborns, respectively. The rate of MCM for Bedouin from proximal localities was significantly greater compared with distant localities (5.6% vs. 4.8%; RR = 1.17 with 95% CI: 1.04-1.29). In the proximal Bedouin permanent localities, the MCM rate reached 8.2 %, which was significantly higher than in distant areas (RR = 1.63, 95% CI: 1.39-1.80). Significant risk increase of central nervous system MCM was found in these localities, compared to distant ones (RR = 2.27, 95% CI: 1.44-3.60). Among newborns from the traditional tribal settlements, proximity to the IP was associated with increased rates of the following MCM: 1) all combined, 2) those associated with chromosomal abnormalities, and 3) those defined as "others unclassified MCM." Comparison of autosomal recessive disease rates by proximity to the IP in Bedouin newborns indicates that the observed increased risk of MCM is not explained by consanguineous marriages. The rates of MCM in the Jewish population were similar among "exposed" and "unexposed" inhabitants.
Residential proximity to the IP is associated with increased rates of MCM among Arab-Beduin but not in Jewish populations. These observations indicate the need for public health protection of a vulnerable society in transition, although the relative importance of chemical exposure and health care utilization requires further study.
It has been suggested that the negative effects associated with nicotine withdrawal promote continued tobacco use and contribute to the high relapse rate of smoking behaviors. Thus, it is important to understand the receptor-mediated mechanisms underlying nicotine withdrawal to aid in the development of more successful smoking cessation therapies. The effects of nicotine withdrawal are mediated through nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs); however, the role of nAChRs in nicotine withdrawal remains unclear. Therefore, we used mecamylamine-precipitated, spontaneous, and conditioned place aversion (CPA) withdrawal models to measure physical and affective signs of nicotine withdrawal in various nAChR knockout (KO) mice. beta2, alpha7, and alpha5 nAChR KO mice were chronically exposed to nicotine through surgically implanted osmotic minipumps. Our results show a loss of anxiety-related behavior and a loss of aversion in the CPA model in beta2 KO mice, whereas alpha7 and alpha5 KO mice displayed a loss of nicotine withdrawal-induced hyperalgesia and a reduction in somatic signs, respectively. These results suggest that beta2-containing nAChRs are involved in the affective signs of nicotine withdrawal, whereas non-beta2-containing nAChRs are more closely associated with physical signs of nicotine withdrawal; thus, the nAChR subtype composition may play an important role in the involvement of specific subtypes in nicotine withdrawal.
A novel mycotoxin named acrebol, consisting of two closely similar peptaibols (1726 and 1740 Da), was isolated from an indoor strain of the mitosporic ascomycete fungus Acremonium exuviarum. This paper describes the unique mitochondrial toxicity of acrebol, not earlier described for any peptaibol. Acrebol inhibited complex III of the respiratory chain of isolated rat liver mitochondria (1 mg of protein mL(-1)) with an IC(50) of approximately 80 ng mL(-1) (50 nM) after a short preincubation, and 350 ng mL(-1) caused immediate and complete inhibition. Acrebol thus is a complex III inhibitor almost as potent as antimycin A and myxothiazol but completely different in structure. Similarly to myxothiazol but in contrast to antimycin A, acrebol decreased the level of mitochondrial superoxide anion detectable by chemiluminescent probe 3,7-dihydro-2-methyl-6-(4-methoxyphenyl)imidazol[1,2-a]pyrazine-3-one. Unlike other peptaibols, acrebol in toxic concentrations did not increase the ionic and solute permeability of membranes of isolated rat liver mitochondria, did not induce disturbance of the ionic homeostasis or the osmotic balance of mitochondria, and did not release apoptogenic proteins like cytochrome c from the intermembrane space of mitochondria. In boar spermatozoa, acrebol inhibited the respiratory chain and caused ATP depletion by activation of the oligomycin-sensitive F(0)F(1)-ATPase, which resulted in the inhibition of the progressive movement. In mouse insulinoma MIN-6 cells, whose energy supply solely depends on oxidative phosphorylation, acrebol induced necrosis-like death. The pathophysiological relevance of these findings is discussed.
