Pulmonary inflammation, increased production of the inflammatory cytokine interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), and vitamin A deficiency are risk factors for the development of bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) in premature infants. To determine the mechanisms by which IL-1beta influences lung development, we have generated transgenic mice in which human IL-1beta is expressed in the lung epithelium with a doxycycline-inducible system controlled by the Clara cell secretory protein promoter. Perinatal IL-1beta production in these mice causes a phenotype that is strikingly similar to BPD. Pulmonary pathology in the mice shows inflammation, lack of alveolar septation, and impaired vascular development of the lung, similar to the histological characteristics of BPD. Retinoic acid (RA), one of the most biologically active derivatives of vitamin A, increases septation. Proteins involved in mediating the cellular responses to RA include the cellular retinoic acid binding proteins CRABP-I and CRABP-II and the nuclear retinoic acid receptors RAR-alpha, RAR-beta, and RAR-gamma.
To test the hypothesis that IL-1beta inhibits the expression of proteins involved in mediating the cellular response to RA.
The mRNA expression of CRABP-I, CRABP-II, RAR-alpha1, RAR-beta2, RAR-beta4, and RAR-gamma2 was studied with real-time RT-PCR on gestational day 18, and postnatal days 0, 1, 5, and 7 in IL-1beta-expressing mice and their control littermates. In addition, immunohistochemistry for CRABP-I was performed.
IL-1beta decreased the mRNA expression and protein production of CRABP-I as well as the mRNA expression of RAR-gamma2. In contrast, no differences between IL-1beta-expressing and control mice were detected in the expression of CRABP-II, RAR-alpha1, RAR-beta2, or RAR-beta4.
The present study demonstrates for the first time a link between inflammation and the retinoic acid pathway. Inhibition of CRABP-I and RAR-gamma2 expression may be one mechanism by which inflammation prevents alveolar septation. The therapeutic potential of RA in promoting septation in the setting of perinatal lung inflammation deserves further investigation.
The authors report three cases of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia. Two cases were associated with deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism and the other case was associated with arterial embolism. The clinical course was serious, with one death and one amputation of a limb. The thrombocytopenia developed suddenly, 10 to 15 days after the start of treatment; the platelet count was always below 100 000/mm3. The platelet aggregation test is an important diagnostic element, together with the rapid return to normal of the platelet count once the heparin is stopped. An anti-platelet antibody was detected in two patients, suggesting an immuno-allergic mechanism for this new complication of heparin treatment. The treatment consist of immediately stopping the heparin and replacing it with an anti-vitamin K drug or low-molecular weight heparin. The platelet count should be monitored systematically in all patients receiving heparin treatment for more than 8 days.
To present a case of syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) associated with the use of tolterodine.
An acute-care unit at a university hospital with a comprehensive program for elders.
In this case report, we present a 99-year-old female who was admitted to our unit for suspected gastrointestinal bleeding who subsequently developed hyponatremia. After the initiation of tolterodine for urinary incontinence, the patient's sodium dropped to 121 mEq/L (from a usual baseline that ranged between 128 mEq/L and 134 mEq/L). Laboratory and urinary findings revealed a serum osmolality of 220 mOsm/kg, a urinary osmolality of 340 mOsm/kg, and a urinary sodium of 101 mmol/L, suggesting a euvolemic hyponatremic state consistent with SIADH. Tolterodine therapy was promptly discontinued, and patient sodium levels normalized.
Although the etiology of SIADH is often obscure and multifactorial, clinicians should be aware that it is a major cause of hyponatremia among hospitalized elderly patients, and drug therapies must always be evaluated to prevent further complications.
To analyze occupational health hazards exposure to doses lower than the Chinese occupational health standard in a selected VC polymerization plant in China, and also to elucidate the relationship between genetic polymorphisms and genetic susceptibility on liver lesions of workers exposed to vinyl chloride monomer(VCM).
In order to explore the mechanism of VCM-related health effects, we used a case-control design to investigate the association between the genetic polymorphisms of metabolic enzymes and liver lesions in workers occupationally exposed to VCM. Genotypes of CYP2E1, GSTT1, GSTM1, ALDH2 and ADH2 were identified using PCR and PCR-RFLP.
Even when the concentration of VCM was lower than the current Chinese occupational health standard, neurasthenia, pharyngeal irritation, liver ultrasonography abnormalities and hemoglobin disorders were significantly higher in exposure subjects compared to non-exposure subjects, and the relative risks (RR and 95% CI) were 1.74 (1.06-2.85), 1.97 (1.56-2.48), 10.69 (4.38-26.12), and 2.07 (1.20-3.57). CYP2E1 c1c2/c2c2 genotype was significantly associated with liver damages (OR 3.29, 95% CI 1.51-7.20, P<0.01).
The incidences of neurasthenia and liver ultrasonography abnormalities significantly increase when the cumulative exposure dose increases. The genotypes of metabolic enzymes (CYP2E1 c1c2/c2c2, null GSTT1 and ADH2 1-1) play important roles in VCM metabolism. Polymorphisms of CYP 2E1, GSTT1 and ADH2 may be a major reason of genetic susceptibility in VCM-induced hepatic damage.
1-Benzyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline (1BnTIQ), an endogenous neurotoxin, is known to cause parkinsonism in rodents and nonhuman primates. The levels of 1BnTIQ in cerebrospinal fluid of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) were reported to be three times higher than those in control subjects. In the present study, we have evaluated the effects of 1BnTIQ on alpha-synuclein (alpha-syn) expression together with biochemical and morphological changes in human dopaminergic SH-SY5Y cells in culture. 1BnTIQ at lower concentrations (1-50 microM) increased alpha-syn protein expression in a time- and dose-dependent manner in these cells. There was also up-regulation of alpha-syn mRNA by 1BnTIQ. Inhibition of complex I by rotenone and depletion of glutathione by L-buthionine sulfoxamine also correlated with an increase in alpha-syn expression, suggesting that oxidative stress may cause an increase in alpha-syn levels in dopaminergic cells. Furthermore, 1BnTIQ significantly depleted glutathione levels. 1BnTIQ at higher concentrations (500 microM) increased reactive oxygen species levels, decreased ATP levels, and caused nuclear damage in the cells. The 1BnTIQ-induced alpha-syn up-regulation was inhibited by cotreatment with the antioxidants selegiline, coenzyme Q(10), and N-acetylcystein and the caspase inhibitor DEVD-CHO. Taken together, these results suggest that alpha-syn up-regulation and oxidative stress are contributing factors in 1BnTIQ-induced neurotoxicity in dopaminergic neurons in PD.
We report a case of cerebral venous thrombosis (CVT) due to tyrotoxicosis in a patient with methylenetetrahydro-folate-reductase (MTHFR) gene polymorphism C677T, (genotype 677TT), in which discontinuation of intravenous heparin was followed by clinical and radiological worsening despite warfarin treatment. We discuss the relationship between CVT, MTHFR hyperthiroidism and anticoagulant therapy.
Anti-promotional effects of arctiin, a lignan with antiestrogenic action, against 17-beta ethinyl estradiol (EE) and 2-acetylaminofluorene (2-AAF) were examined using a medium-term liver bioassay based upon the induction of glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P) positive foci in rat liver. Male F344 rats were initially injected with diethylnitrosamine (DEN, 200 mg/kg body weight) intraperitoneally and two weeks later were treated with arctiin (1%), EE (1.5 ppm or 5 ppm), 2-AAF (20 ppm), arctiin + EE (1.5 ppm or 5 ppm), or arctiin + 2-AAF (20 ppm) in the diet for 6 weeks and then killed, all rats being subjected to partial hepatectomy at week 3. EE and 2-AAF clearly increased the development of GST-P foci. Antipromotional effects of arctiin were observed only for 2-AAF. These findings provide experimental evidence that arctiin exerts weak-protective potential against hepatocarcinogenesis in rats.
To improve the electrocardiogram screening process and early detection of patients at high risk for cardiac arrhythmias, the authors created a model in their clinic where they provided an onsite electrocardiogram screening that might be feasible and practical. The authors then performed a retrospective chart review to access the efficacy and feasibility of their new onsite procedure in identifying methadone maintained patients at high risk for cardiac arrhythmias. Records from all patients who are currently or had previously been maintained on methadone in the methadone maintenance program at the Atlanta VA Medical Center between 2002 and 2009 were evaluated. Of the 140 patients treated at the clinic between 2002 and 2009, 85 were excluded from the study because they had been treated as guests (had been in treatment in other clinics but received methadone dosing temporarily from our clinic), were treated in the clinic for less than 6 months, or dropped out of treatment. Thus, 55 patient charts were selected for review. Most patients (95%) received baseline and annual electrocardiogram screening. The average baseline QTc was (417 +/- 30) and most recent QTc (442 +/- 25). This QTc prolongation from baseline showed statistical significance (P < .0001). Sixty-seven percent of patients had statistically significant QTc prolongation from baseline but was less than 450 ms (mean: 428 +/- 16, P = .008). Twenty-seven percent of patients had statistically significant QTc prolongation from baseline of more 450 ms but was less than 500 ms (mean: 460 +/- 8, P < .0001). Six percent of patients had statistically significant QTc prolongation from baseline of more 500 ms (mean: 503 +/- 1.15, P = .027). Recent cocaine use was the only individual variable that showed statistically significant correlation with QTc prolongation (F = 6.98, P = .01). The authors demonstrated in this study that providing an onsite electrocardiogram screening with a focus on patient education and limiting the referral to specialty care for patients at high risk for cardiac arrhythmias could be practical and feasible.
Hypothermia has been shown to have neuroprotective effects in various models of neurological damage. However, its effects on pediatric status epilepticus (SE) are relatively unknown. In order to understand the effects of hypothermia on pediatric SE, we conducted experiments to determine the neuroprotective effects of mild hypothermic pretreatment in a model of pediatric SE. Juvenile (21-day-old) rats were subjected to mild hypothermic or normothermic conditions prior to intraperitoneal injections of pilocarpine. We analyzed the seizure response of these animals via electroencephalogram and conducted ex-vivo analysis for apoptotic cells in the hippocampus via a TUNEL assay. We found that mild hypothermia increased both seizure latency and time to SE onset. It also reduced the overall average spike frequency and spike area compared to normothermia controls. Furthermore, the number of apoptotic cells was reduced in the hippocampus. In conclusion, these data indicate that mild hypothermia reduces both seizure activity and neurotoxicity in a pilocarpine model of pediatric SE. This expands previous findings examining the neuroprotective effect of hypothermia by showing neuroprotection in a pediatric model of SE. We believe these findings will help researchers find better preventative treatments for pediatric SE in the future.
Tension-type headache (TTH) is associated with noxious input from neck muscles. Intravenous administration of the unspecific nitric oxide synthase inhibitor L-NMMA in chronic TTH patients caused analgesia and reduction of neck muscle tenderness.
The unspecific nitric oxide synthase inhibitor L-NMMA was applied in an experimental model for neck muscle nociception in anesthetized mice (N = 25).
Local injection of α,β-meATP into semispinal neck muscles induced sustained facilitation of brainstem nociception as monitored by the jaw-opening reflex. Preceding intraperitoneal administration of L-NMMA (0.05, 0.1, 1 mg/kg) prevented reflex facilitation evoked by α,β-meATP in a dose-dependent manner. Intraperitoneal injection of L-NMMA subsequent to intramuscular α,β-meATP application reversed established brainstem reflex facilitation back to baseline values.
Both experiments with preceding and subsequent L-NMMA indicate the involvement of nitric oxide synthases in the induction and maintenance of facilitation. However, future experiments will have to address the involvement of various isoenzymes in order to provide for new therapeutic concepts in TTH.
Hsp90 is a chaperone for over 100 'client proteins' in the cell, most of which are involved in signaling pathways. For example, Hsp90 maintains several nuclear hormone receptors, such as the estrogen receptor (ER), as agonist-receptive monomers in the cytoplasm. In the presence of agonist, Hsp90 dissociates and the receptors dimerize, enter the nucleus and ultimately activate transcription of the target genes. Increasing evidence suggests that Hsp90 also has a role in modifying the chromatin conformation of many genes. For example, Hsp90 has recently been shown to increase the activity of the histone H3 lysine-4 methyltransferase SMYD3, which activates the chromatin of target genes. Further evidence for chromatin-remodeling functions is that Hsp90 acts as a capacitor for morphological evolution by masking epigenetic variation. Release of the capacitor function of Hsp90, such as by environmental stress or by drugs that inhibit the ATP-binding activity of Hsp90, exposes previously hidden morphological phenotypes in the next generation and for several generations thereafter. The chromatin-modifying phenotypes of Hsp90 have striking similarities to the trans-generational effects of the ER agonist diethylstilbesterol (DES). Prenatal and perinatal exposure to DES increases the predisposition to uterine developmental abnormalities and cancer in the daughters and granddaughters of exposed pregnant mice. In this review, we propose that trans-generational epigenetic phenomena involving Hsp90 and DES are related and that chromatin-mediated WNT signaling modifications are required. This model suggests that inhibitors of Hsp90, WNT signaling and chromatin-remodeling enzymes might function as anticancer agents by interfering with epigenetic reprogramming and canalization in cancer stem cells.
The effect of glucagon in arrhythmias induced by coronary artery occlusion and ouabain was studied in dogs. Intravenous administration of glucagon (50 microgram/kg) to 6 dogs with more than 70% ectopic activity after coronary artery occlusion, resulted in significant (P less than 0.01) decrease in ectopics and increase in heart rate. Infusion of glucagon (2.5 microgram/kg/min) for 30 min caused complete elimination of ectopic activity during infusion period. In another series of 7 experiments, glucagon failed to abolish the ouabain-induced ectopic beats. In fact the hormone itself caused a significant (P less tha 0.01) increase in ectopic activity and heart rate. However, in 7 dogs with complete heart block produced after ouabain conversion to normal sinus rhythm was observed after glucagon.
To determine if obese non-insulin-dependent diabetic patients lose more weight when treated for 24 weeks (6 months) with orlistat (120 mg t.i.d.), in conjunction with a hypocaloric diet plus behavioural counselling, than when treated by placebo (t.i.d.) plus similar instructions. The secondary objectives were to evaluate the effects on glucose profile and to determine the tolerability and safety of orlistat.
Double-blind, parallel, randomized, placebo-controlled, multicentre study.
Obese, non-insulin-dependent diabetic patients, aged 18-70 years old, with BMI > 27 kg/m2, evaluated at 10 Latin-American centres, in five countries. EFFICACY AND TOLERABILITY MEASUREMENTS: After screened, eligible patients passed by a 2-week placebo run-in period receiving a hypocaloric diet. On day 0, patients were randomized to orlistat or placebo for 24 weeks. At each visit, body weight, blood pressure and waist circumference were measured. At the screening visit, baseline visit (week 0), and at weeks 8, 16 and 24, a central laboratory was in charge of measuring fasting glucose and insulin, HbA1c, postprandial glucose and insulin, fasting total cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, triglycerides, and postprandial triglycerides. Other safety laboratory assessments were measured locally at the screening visit, baseline visit and at the end of the study. Adverse events were assessed at each visit from baseline.
After 24 weeks of treatment, the orlistat group lost an average of 4.7% of initial body weight vs. 3.0% in the placebo group (p = 0.0003). A greater weight loss was achieved in the orlistat compared with the placebo group (4.24 +/- 0.23 vs. 2.58 +/- 1.46 kg, p = 0.0003). Almost twice as many patients receiving orlistat (30% vs. 17%) lost > or = 5% of initial body weight (p = 0.003). Orlistat treatment plus diet compared to placebo plus diet was associated with significant improvement in glycaemic control, as reflected in decreases in HbA1c (p = 0.04), fasting plasma glucose (p = 0.036) and postprandial glucose (p = 0.05). Orlistat-treated patients had a mean decrease in glucose levels of 1.00 +/- 0.34 mmol/l [3.7%] vs. 0.01 +/- 0.30 mmol/l for placebo group, at week 24 and an absolute decrease of HbA1c of 0.61 +/- 0.15 vs. a decrease of 0.22 +/- 0.14% in the placebo group. Orlistat therapy also resulted in significantly greater improvements than placebo in lipid profile, with reductions in total cholesterol (p = 0.0001) and LDL-cholesterol (p = 0.002). Mild to moderate transient gastrointestinal events were reported, mainly with orlistat treatment, but their association with withdrawal from the study was low.
Orlistat is a useful and an effective therapy in obese diabetic patients, promoting clinically significant weight loss and improved glycaemic control and lipid profile.
In anesthetized rats, intrathecal (i.t.) administration, at the upper thoracic level of the spinal cord of fenoldopam (a selective dopamine D1-receptor agonist) or quinpirole (a selective D2-receptor agonist) decreased blood pressure (BP) and heart rate (HR) in a dose-dependent manner. Apomorphine, a nonselective DA receptor agonist, produced similar effects. Apomorphine-induced hypotension was competitively antagonized by either SCH 23390 or remoxipride, selective D1- and D2-receptor antagonists, respectively, but only remoxipride antagonized the bradycardia. Furthermore, SCH 23390 antagonized the hypotensive effect of fenoldopam but did not change that induced by quinpirole. Remoxipride antagonized the hypotensive effect of quinpirole but did not alter the hypotensive effect of fenoldopam. Quinpirole-induced bradycardia was antagonized only by remoxipride. Bradycardia elicited by fenoldopam did not appear to be generated by dopamine receptor stimulation, as suggested by the lack of blocking effects of SCH 23390 and remoxipride. Data obtained with fenoldopam were corroborated with use of SK&F 38393, another dopamine D1-receptor agonist. We conclude that hypotensive effects of i.t.-administered DA receptor agonists appear to result from activation of spinal D1- and D2-receptors whereas bradycardia is related only to activation of spinal D2-receptors.
Although is clear that exposure to high dosage levels of some phthalates delays the onset of puberty in the male rat, it has been hypothesized that low levels of di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) accelerate puberty by enhancing testicular androgen synthesis. The current study was designed to determine if the dose response to DEHP was nonmonotonic, as hypothesized. Pubertal administration of DEHP delayed the onset of puberty and reduced androgen-dependent tissue weights in both Long-Evans (LE) and Sprague-Dawley (SD) male rats 300 and 900 mg DEHP/kg/day. These effects were generally of greater magnitude in LE than SD rats. By contrast, alterations in testis histopathology (300 and 900 mg/kg/day) were more severe in SD than in LE rats. Taken together, these results suggest that DEHP may be acting on the pubertal male rat testis via two modes of action; one via the Leydig cells and the other via the Sertoli cells. Treatment with DEHP generally reduced serum testosterone and increased serum luteinizing hormone (LH) levels, demonstrating that the reduction in testosterone was due to the effect of DEHP on the testis and not via an inhibition of LH from hypothalamic-pituitary axis. Testosterone production ex vivo (with and without human chorionic gonadotropin stimulation) was consistently reduced in males at the time of puberty and shortly thereafter. DEHP treatment did not accelerate the age at puberty or enhance testosterone levels at 10 or 100 mg/kg/day in either LE or SD rats, as some have hypothesized. Taken together, these results do not provide any evidence of a nonmonotonic dose response to DEHP during puberty.
Twenty-four patients treated with 150 mg amitriptyline per day for an episode of major depression underwent a standardized heart rate analysis (HRA) before therapy and after 14 days. The battery of cardiovascular reflex tests included the determination of the coefficient of variation (CV) while resting and during deep respiration, a spectral analysis of heart rate, the heart rate response to standing, and the Valsalva manoeuvre. The results of the initial HRA did not differ from a group of 24 normal control subjects matched for age and sex. On day 14 of treatment the patients showed significantly reduced values of heart rate variability in all tests (P < 0.0001), probably due to the anticholinergic side effects of amitriptyline. Heart rate increased from 78.1 to 93.6 bpm on average (P < 0.0001). Abnormal CV at rest was registered in 96% of the patients; during deep respiration 29% showed abnormal CV results. An abnormal spectral analysis was found in 100% of the cases (low frequency peak: 42%, mid-frequency peak: 100%, high frequency peak: 79%). The heart rate response to standing was abnormal in 75% and the Valsalva test in 33% of the cases. Eighty-eight percent of the patients fulfilled the criteria of a cardiovascular autonomic neuropathy under the conditions of amitriptyline therapy. As yet, the consequences of these changes for the patients have not been sufficiently elucidated.
Carbamazepine was switched to its 10-keto analogue oxcarbazepine among six difficult-to-treat schizophrenic or organic psychotic patients using concomitantly haloperidol, chlorpromazine or clozapine. This change resulted within 2-4 weeks in the 50-200% increase in the plasma levels of these neuroleptics and the appearance of extrapyramidal symptoms. None of the patients showed any clinical deteriotation during the following 3-6 months. The results of this case report support the idea that in contrast with carbamazepine oxcarbazepine does not induce the hepatic microsomal enzyme systems regulating the inactivation of antipsychotic drugs.
Nitrosamines are associated with the potential to induce cancer in the digestive tract. Ethanol has also been shown to enhance the effects of nitrosamine-induced carcinogenesis. The aim of this study was to investigate a murine model of the prevalence and types of epithelial lesions induced in the stomach by diethylnitrosamine (DEN), and to evaluate the influence of ethanol and N'-nitrosonornicotine (NNN) as promoters of gastric carcinogenesis.
Two hundred eight (n = 208) mice were distributed into five groups and administered either water (G1), DEN+water (G2), DEN+NNN (G3), DEN+Ethanol (G4), or DEN+NNN+Ethanol (G5) for a period of 180 days. Mice were sacrificed; their stomachs were sectioned and stained with hematoxylin/eosin. Stomachs were analyzed for normal histology; foveolar hyperplasia; gastritis; ulcer; adenoma; metaplasia; dysplasia; squamous-cell cancer (SCC); and adenocarcinoma (ACA).
One hundred eighty-four (N = 184) specimens were studied. No statistically significant differences were observed between the average DEN consumption of groups (P > 0.05). Unlike G1, in all four groups exposed to carcinogens, gastric SCC and ACA were induced (P < 0.001). SCC was identified in 91 (49.5%) and ACA in 77 (41.8%) of all mice (including controls). In 47 mice (25.5%), we identified two histological types of carcinoma that occurred simultaneously. The prevalence of ACA in G5 was higher when compared with the other exposed groups (P < 0.001).
We created an optimal murine model for investigation of the development of gastric carcinogenesis, as there was a high rate of development of tumors, but low mortality and morbidity. The coadministration of DEN, ethanol, and NNN induced carcinogenesis to the largest extent compared with the other combinations.
The liver plays a central role in the control of glucose homeostasis and is subject to complex regulation by substrates, insulin, and other hormones. To investigate the effect of the loss of direct insulin action in liver, we have used the Cre-loxP system to inactivate the insulin receptor gene in hepatocytes. Liver-specific insulin receptor knockout (LIRKO) mice exhibit dramatic insulin resistance, severe glucose intolerance, and a failure of insulin to suppress hepatic glucose production and to regulate hepatic gene expression. These alterations are paralleled by marked hyperinsulinemia due to a combination of increased insulin secretion and decreased insulin clearance. With aging, the LIRKO liver exhibits morphological and functional changes, and the metabolic phenotype becomes less severe. Thus, insulin signaling in liver is critical in regulating glucose homeostasis and maintaining normal hepatic function.
Intraperitoneal LD50 (lethal dose 50% kill) values and minimal liver toxic doses in female Sprague-Dawley rats were determined for the following industrial solvents: toluene, methylene chloride, carbon tetrachloride, 1,1,1-trichloroethane, 1,1,2-trichloroethane, trichloroethylene, ethanol, methyl ethyl ketone, and dioxane. For the following solvents LC50 values and minimal liver toxic air concentrations were also determined: xylene, styrene, chloroform, tetrachloroethylene, and dimethylformamide (DMF). The serum activity of the enzyme sorbitol dehydrogenase (SDH) was used as an indicator of liver damage. Carbon tetrachloride, chloroform, and DMF were hepatotoxic in low doses compared to LD50 values (TD50 (toxic dose 50%) values approximately 30, 90, and 50 mg/kg). Chloroform and DMF were hepatotoxic in comparatively low concentrations after a 4-hr inhalation exposure (TC50 (toxic concentration 50%) values approximately 590 and 740 mg/m3). Even relatively high doses of the other solvents did not raise the SDH activity. Significant direct (metabolite-mediated) hepatotoxicity seems to be an uncommon feature among commonly used industrial solvents.
Autism has been described in association with a variety of medical and genetic conditions. We previously reported on a patient whose clinical phenotype was compatible with both fetal valproate syndrome (FVS) and autism. Here we present five additional patients with FVS and autism. In all five of our patients, there was evidence of cognitive deficits, manifestations of autism, and typical phenotypic characteristics of FVS. The association between this known teratogen and autism has both clinical and research implications.
Erythropoietic protoporphyria (EPP) is characterized by toxic accumulation of the hydrophobic compound protoporphyrin (PP). Ferrochelatase-deficient (fch/fch) mice are an animal model for human EPP. Recently, we have demonstrated that the accumulation of another hydrophobic compound, unconjugated bilirubin, could effectively be treated by stimulation of fecal fat excretion. We investigated whether stimulation of fecal fat excretion enhanced the disposal of PP in fch/fch mice. Fch/fch mice were fed for 8 wk with a high-fat diet (16 wt% fat; control) or with the high-fat diet mixed with either a nonabsorbable fat (sucrose polyester) or the intestinal lipase inhibitor orlistat. The effects of the treatments on fecal excretion of fat and PP and on hepatic PP concentrations were compared with control diets. Fecal fat excretion in fch/fch mice on a high-fat diet was higher than in mice on a low-fat diet (+149%, P < 0.05). Sucrose polyesters and orlistat increased fecal fat excretion even more, up to sixfold of control values. However, none of the different treatments affected fecal PP excretion or hepatic PP concentration. Treatment of fch/fch mice with a high-fat diet, a nonabsorbable fat diet, or with orlistat increased the fecal excretion of fat but did not increase fecal PP excretion or decrease hepatic PP concentration. The present data indicate that accumulation of PP is not amenable to stimulation of fecal fat excretion.
Liver cirrhosis is the end stage of various chronic liver diseases and its prognosis is very poor. One of the most important causes of liver cirrhosis appears to be impaired proliferative capability of hepatocytes caused by continuous hepatic damage. Cell cycle-related molecules have been shown to play essential roles in cell proliferation. Specifically, G1-related cell cycle molecules are important, because they are requisite for the entry into the cell cycle from the quiescent state. However, the role of these cell cycle molecules during the development of liver cirrhosis remains to be examined. In the present study, liver cirrhosis was produced in rats by intraperitoneally administering dimethylnitrosamine (DMN). Proliferative capability of hepatocytes estimated immunohistochemically by proliferating cell nuclear antigen staining was markedly increased at an early stage of cirrhosis development. However, it was gradually decreased thereafter and suppressed substantially at the time of cirrhosis manifestation. Cyclin D1 expression estimated by a real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method was also increased markedly at an early stage of cirrhosis development but decreased substantially thereafter. mRNA levels of catalytic subunits of cyclin D1, cyclin-dependent kinase 4 (Cdk4) and Cdk6, did not show significant changes during the development of liver cirrhosis. Among G1-specific Cdk inhibitors, expression of p15INK4b and p16INK4a estimated by an RT-PCR method was increased according to the progression of cirrhosis and reached a peak at the time of cirrhosis manifestation. Conversely, p18INK4c expression did not change significantly during the development of liver cirrhosis. These results suggest that cyclin D1 plays an essential role in hepatocyte proliferation in response to hepatic damage. However, with the decrease of cyclin D1 expression and increase of p15INK4b and p16INK4a expression, proliferative capability of hepatocytes is severely impaired and extracellular matrix components are deposited to retrieve space lost by the destruction of hepatic parenchyma, resulting in establishment of liver cirrhosis.
Biological trace metals such as iron, zinc, copper, and manganese are essential to life and health of humans, and the success of platinum drugs in the cancer chemotherapy has rapidly grown interest in developing inorganic pharmaceutical agents in medicinal chemistry, that is, medicinal inorganic chemistry, using essential elements and other biological trace metals. Transition metal complexes with unique chemical structures may be useful alternatives to the drugs available to address some of the incurable diseases. In this review, we emphasize that metal complexes are an expanding of interest in the research field of treatment of diabetes mellitus. Especially, orally active anti-diabetic and anti-metabolic syndrome zinc complexes have been developed and progressed since the discovery in 2001, where several highly potent anti-diabetic zinc complexes with different coordination structures have quite recently been disclosed, using experimental diabetic animals. In all of the complexes discussed, zinc is found to be biologically active and function by interacting with some target proteins related with diabetes mellitus. The design and screening of zinc complexes with higher activity is not efficient without consideration of the translational research. For the development of a clinically useful metallopharmaceutics, the research of zinc complexes on the long-term toxicity including side effects, clear-cut evidence of target molecule for the in vivo pharmacological action, and good pharmacokinetic property are essential in the current and future studies.
The therapeutic antitumor effect of clarithromycin (CAM) was examined with the 13762NF mammary adenocarcinoma and F-344 rat system. When CAM treatment at a dosage of 2 mg/kg of body weight orally for 21 days was commenced after inoculation of the tumor, no significant decrease in death rate was observed, although the loss in body weight was less than that in the untreated group. When tumor-bearing (TB) rats were treated with CAM in combination with carboplatin or cyclophosphamide, a significant decrease in the death rate was obtained, although neither treatment alone proved to be effective. A beneficial effect was also observed when CAM treatment was combined with surgical treatment. CAM showed no direct cytotoxicity to this tumor in vitro according to the MTT (3-[4, 5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide) assay. Spleen cells obtained from TB rats receiving CAM treatment showed a stronger tumor-neutralizing activity than those from rats which had not received CAM treatment (Winn assay). Enhanced induction of cytotoxic cells to allogeneic tumor was also observed in rats immunized with allogeneic tumor cells together with CAM treatment (51Cr release assay). The 13762NF tumor produces transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta), tumor necrosis factor alpha, and matrix metalloproteinase-9, and treatment of tumor cells with CAM in vitro for 24 h significantly inhibited the expression of the genes coding for these proteins (reverse transcription-PCR). Levels of expression of the TGF-beta and interleukin-6 genes of spleen cells obtained from CAM-treated TB rats were both significantly lower than those of spleen cells from CAM-untreated TB rats. This study suggests that CAM has biological response modifier activities resulting in a beneficial therapeutic antitumor effect and might be useful for the treatment of human cancers.
Arsenic is a known human bladder carcinogen; however, the mechanisms underlying arsenical-induced bladder carcinogenesis are not understood. Previous research has demonstrated that exposure of a nontumorigenic human urothelial cell line, UROtsa, to 50 nM monomethylarsonous acid (MMA(III)) for 52 weeks resulted in malignant transformation. To focus research on the early mechanistic events leading to MMA(III)-induced malignancy, the goal of this research was to resolve the critical period in which continuous MMA(III) exposure (50 nM) induces the irreversible malignant transformation of UROtsa cells. An increased growth rate of UROtsa cells results after 12 weeks of MMA(III) exposure. Anchorage-independent growth occurred after 12 weeks with a continued increase in colony formation when 12-week exposed cells were cultured for an additional 12 or 24 weeks without MMA(III) exposure. UROtsa cells as early as 12 weeks MMA(III) exposure were tumorigenic in severe combined immunodeficiency mice with tumorigenicity increasing when 12-week exposed cells were cultured for an additional 12 or 24 weeks in the absence of MMA(III) exposure. To assess potential underlying mechanisms associated with the early changes that occur during MMA(III)-induced malignancy, DNA methylation was assessed in known target gene promoter regions. Although DNA methylation remains relatively unchanged after 12 weeks of exposure, aberrant DNA methylation begins to emerge after an additional 12 weeks in culture and continues to increase through 24 weeks in culture without MMA(III) exposure, coincident with the progression of a tumorigenic phenotype. Overall, these data demonstrate that 50 nM MMA(III) is capable of causing irreversible malignant transformation in UROtsa cells after 12 weeks of exposure. Having resolved an earlier timeline in which MMA(III)-induced malignant transformation occurs in UROtsa cells will allow for mechanistic studies focused on the critical biological changes taking place within these cells prior to 12 weeks of exposure, providing further evidence about potential mechanisms of MMA(III)-induced carcinogenesis.
