The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of acute hypoprolactinemia on tuberoinfundibular dopamine (DA) neurons using a rabbit anti-rat prolactin antiserum (PRL-AB) to immunoneutralize circulating prolactin under basal conditions and at various times after haloperidol-induced hyperprolactinemia. The specificity of PRL-AB for prolactin was determined by examining the ability of unlabelled hormone to displace binding of 125I-labelled prolactin to PRL-AB. Tuberoinfundibular DA neuronal activity was estimated by measuring the concentrations of the DA metabolite 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) in the median eminence which contains terminals of these neurons. Systemic (i.v.) administration of 200 microl of PRL-AB decreased plasma prolactin concentrations below detectable levels for at least 4 h, and this was accompanied by a pronounced decrease in DOPAC concentrations in the median eminence of females, but not males. Central (i.c.v.) administration of 2 microl PRL-AB diluted up to 1:100 mimicked the inhibitory effect of systemic administration of PRL-AB on median eminence DOPAC concentrations suggesting that the tonic stimulatory effect of prolactin on the basal activity of tuberoinfundibular DA neurons in females occurs via a central site of action. In male rats, blockade of anterior pituitary DA receptors with haloperidol (1 mg/kg; s.c.) caused an prompt (by 1 h) increase in plasma prolactin concentrations which was maintained for at least 12 h. Haloperidol-induced hyperprolactinemia also caused a delayed (at 6 and 12 h) increase in median eminence DOPAC concentrations in these animals which was blocked by PRL-AB. Exposure of rats to initial priming periods of endogenous hyperprolactinemia of up to 6 h duration (followed by 6 h or more of PRL-AB-induced hypoprolactinemia) failed to alter median eminence DOPAC concentrations unless prolactin exposure was reinstated by an i.c.v. injection of prolactin. These results confirm that prolactin mediates the stimulatory effects of haloperidol on tuberoinfundibular DA neurons, and reveal that delayed induced activation of these neurons by prolactin is dependent upon a priming period of sustained hyperprolactinemia longer than 3 h for initiation and maintenance of this response.
This case is the first report of a patient who had phenobarbital (PB) withdrawal seizures after having been seizure-free for 3 years following temporal lobe surgery. The patient had been taking PB for 14 years when a gradual taper of PB was started. When PB was at 60 mg/d, a titration of lamotrigine (LTG) was started. However, typical complex seizures occurred when the patient was on PB 60 mg/d, along with LTG 25mg/d. PB was increased back to 90 mg/d and levetiracetam (LEV) was titrated. Seizures appeared when the patient was on PB 30 mg/d and LEV 750 mg BID and continued for 3 weeks after PB was stopped and the patient was on LEV 1,000 mg BID. For the following 6 months, her aura frequency remained elevated in comparison to her baseline aura of two auras per month for the previous year before the start of the PB taper. She was followed for 24 months after her last PB withdrawal seizure. During the last 8 months, her aura frequency returned to her baseline. As suggested by animal studies, the PB withdrawal seizures and increase in aura frequency in this patient may be explained by changes in her levels of GABA(A) receptor subunits.
Interferon alfa therapy for chronic hepatitis C infection is commonly associated with neuropsychiatric symptoms, including depression. These side effects may necessitate reduction or even cessation of interferon alfa, but there is little information regarding the management of this important problem. We report 10 cases of interferon-alfa-induced depressive disorder treated with the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor sertraline. All patients obtained rapid symptom relief without the need for reduction or cessation of interferon alfa.
We studied the early phase after 5/6 nephrectomy in Munich-Wistar rats to determine whether treatment with angiotensin II receptor antagonist (AIIRA) modulates the expression of platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) mRNA and its protein among the glomeruli which are undergoing progressive hypertrophy and sclerosis. Average PDGF-B immunohistochemistry staining score (IHS, 0 to 3 scale) in glomeruli and PDGF-B chain mRNA from kidneys were both increased in 5/6 nephrectomy rats (N = 6) versus age-matched normal (N = 5) at week 4, when glomeruli were at early stages of sclerosis (IHS, 0.81 +/- 0.12 vs. 0.19 +/- 0.05; sclerosis index, S.I., 0 to 4 scale: 0.41 +/- 0.04 vs. 0.05 +/- 0.01, both P < 0.05). AIIRA (80 mg/liter drinking water, N = 6) started at time of 5/6 nephrectomy prevented the development of sclerosis (S.I. 0.08 +/- 0.03) and decreased PDGF-B protein (IHS 0.22 +/- 0.08, both P = NS vs. normal), and PDGF-B chain mRNA. In contrast, triple therapy (TRX; hydralazine, reserpine and hydrochlorothiazide, N = 5) in doses which controlled systemic blood pressure resulted in intermediate level of glomerulosclerosis at this early time point of progressive injury. Concurrently, TRX failed to affect the expression of PDGF-B protein (IHS 0.86 +/- 0.19) or its mRNA expression. The PDGF-B distribution was not uniform amongst the glomeruli with varying stages of sclerosis. There was a strong correlation in individual glomeruli of increased PDGF-B staining with early sclerotic changes (P < 0.01), with the disappearance of this correlation in glomeruli with advanced sclerosis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To study isoform-specific effects of apolipoprotein E (apoE) in vivo, we generated mice with a human APOE*2 allele in place of the mouse Apoe gene via targeted gene replacement in embryonic stem cells. Mice expressing human apoE2 (2/2) have virtually all the characteristics of type III hyperlipoproteinemia. Their plasma cholesterol and triglyceride levels are both twice to three times those in (normolipidemic) mice that are expressing human apoE3 (3/3) made in an identical manner. The 2/2 mice are markedly defective in clearing beta-migrating VLDL particles, and spontaneously develop atherosclerotic plaques, even on a regular diet. An atherogenic diet, high in fat and cholesterol, exacerbates development of atherosclerosis and xanthomas in the 2/2 mice. Thus, comparisons between the 2/2 and 3/3 mice unequivocally demonstrate that a single amino acid difference (Arg158 Cys) in the apoE protein is sufficient to cause type III HLP and spontaneous atherosclerosis in mice.
The dioxin/aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) functions as a ligand-activated transcription factor regulating transcription of a battery of genes encoding xenobiotic metabolizing enzymes. Known receptor ligands are environmental pollutants including polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and polychlorinated dioxins. Loss-of-function (gene-disruption) studies in mice have demonstrated that the AhR is involved in toxic effects of dioxins but have not yielded unequivocal results concerning the physiological function of the receptor. Gain-of-function studies therefore were performed to unravel the biological functions of the AhR. A constitutively active AhR expressed in transgenic mice reduced the life span of the mice and induced tumors in the glandular part of the stomach, demonstrating the oncogenic potential of the AhR and implicating the receptor in regulation of cell proliferation.
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in many developed countries, including Taiwan. Quercetin, a widely distributed bioflavonoid, is well known to induce growth inhibition in a variety of human cancer cells. Quercetin glucuronides are the main circulating metabolites after dietary supplements with quercetin in humans. However, there is little information available as to how quercetin glucuronides affect human cancer cells. We investigated the effects of quercetin glucuronides in a human lung cancer cell line NCI-H209. We checked the cell viability, cell cycle checkpoint proteins, pro- and antiapoptotic proteins, caspase-3 activity, and gene expression by flow cytometry and Western blot. The viability of cells decreased in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Cell cycle analysis revealed a significant increase of the proportion of cells in G2/M phase and subG0/G1 phase (corresponding to apoptotic cells). Moreover, quercetin glucuronides increased the expressions of cyclin B, Cdc25c-ser-216-p, and Wee1 proteins, indicating the G2/M arrest. We also demonstrated a concurrent decrease of the mitochondrial membrane potential, release of cytochrome c, up-regulation of Bax, down-regulation of Bcl-2, and activation of caspase-3, and subsequently, cleavage of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase. In addition, quercetin glucuronide-induced apoptosis was totally blocked by the broad-spectrum caspase inhibitor benzyloxycarbonyl-Val-Ala-Asp fluoromethylketone. Taken together, we demonstrated that quercetin glucuronides inhibited proliferation through G2/M arrest of the cell cycle and induced apoptosis via caspase-3 cascade in the human lung cancer cell line NCI-H209. Delineation of the biological effects of specific major quercetin metabolites on chemotherapeutic potential or chemoprevention of human cancers warrants further investigation.
Craniofacial birth defects result from defects in cranial neural crest (NC) patterning and morphogenesis. The vertebrate craniofacial skeleton is derived from cranial NC cells and the patterning of these cells occurs within the pharyngeal arches. Substantial efforts have led to the identification of several genes required for craniofacial skeletal development such as the endothelin-1 (edn1) signaling pathway that is required for lower jaw formation. However, many essential genes required for craniofacial development remain to be identified.
Through screening a collection of insertional zebrafish mutants containing approximately 25% of the genes essential for embryonic development, we present the identification of 15 essential genes that are required for craniofacial development. We identified 3 genes required for hyomandibular development. We also identified zebrafish models for Campomelic Dysplasia and Ehlers-Danlos syndrome. To further demonstrate the utility of this method, we include a characterization of the wdr68 gene. We show that wdr68 acts upstream of the edn1 pathway and is also required for formation of the upper jaw equivalent, the palatoquadrate. We also present evidence that the level of wdr68 activity required for edn1 pathway function differs between the 1st and 2nd arches. Wdr68 interacts with two minibrain-related kinases, Dyrk1a and Dyrk1b, required for embryonic growth and myotube differentiation, respectively. We show that a GFP-Wdr68 fusion protein localizes to the nucleus with Dyrk1a in contrast to an engineered loss of function mutation Wdr68-T284F that no longer accumulated in the cell nucleus and failed to rescue wdr68 mutant animals. Wdr68 homologs appear to exist in all eukaryotic genomes. Notably, we found that the Drosophila wdr68 homolog CG14614 could substitute for the vertebrate wdr68 gene even though insects lack the NC cell lineage.
This work represents a systematic identification of approximately 25% of the essential genes required for craniofacial development. The identification of zebrafish models for two human disease syndromes indicates that homologs to the other genes are likely to also be relevant for human craniofacial development. The initial characterization of wdr68 suggests an important role in craniofacial development for the highly conserved Wdr68-Dyrk1 protein complexes.
The administration of d-tubocurarine (dTc) to animals and humans has been reported to produce hypotension. Experiments in animals suggest that the hypotension is a result of both ganglionic blockade and histamine release. In order to determine the role of histamine release in dTc-induced hypotension in humans, the authors developed a sensitive radioenzymatic assay for plasma histamine and measured plasma histamine following dTc administration (0.25-0.75 mg/kg) to 21 surgical patients. While neither fentanyl (3 microgram/kg) nor thiopental (6 mg/kg) produced a significant change in plasma histamine, dTc caused a dose-dependent increase in plasma [dose dTc vs. log (plasma histamine), r = 0.62 P less than 0.003]. The log (plasma histamine) correlated with the dTc-induced hypotension (r= 0.61, P less than 0.005). The data suggest that histamine release is an important factor in the hypotension accompanying dTc administration in humans.
Although amiodarone appears to have few pro-arrhythmic effects, torsade de pointes (TdP) has been observed during long-term drug administration, usually in conjunction with electrolyte disturbances, a change in drug dosage, or concomitant drug therapy. We report two cases of amiodarone-induced TdP shortly after administration of a low dose of oral amiodarone, in the absence of predisposing factors.
Current animal models of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) typically involve acute, drug-induced symptom provocation or a genetic association with stereotypies or anxiety. None of these current models demonstrate multiple OCD-like behaviors.
Neonatal rats were treated with the tricyclic antidepressant clomipramine or vehicle between days 9 and 16 twice daily and behaviorally tested in adulthood.
Clomipramine exposure in immature rats produced significant behavioral and biochemical changes that include enhanced anxiety (elevated plus maze and marble burying), behavioral inflexibility (perseveration in the spontaneous alternation task and impaired reversal learning), working memory impairment (e.g., win-shift paradigm), hoarding, and corticostriatal dysfunction. Dopamine D2 receptors were elevated in the striatum, whereas serotonin 2C, but not serotonin 1A, receptors were elevated in the orbital frontal cortex.
This is the first demonstration of multiple symptoms consistent with an OCD-like profile in animals. Moreover, these behaviors are accompanied by biochemical changes in brain regions previously identified as relevant to OCD. This novel model of OCD demonstrates that drug exposure during a sensitive period can program disease-like systems permanently, which could have implications for current and future therapeutic strategies for this and other psychiatric disorders.
To better characterize the clinical, electrodiagnostic, and pathologic aspects of amiodarone-induced neuromyopathy.
We reviewed medical records, performed electrodiagnostic studies, and examined histopathologic specimens of muscle and nerve in three patients with amiodarone-induced neuromuscular toxicity, as well as summarized the relevant literature.
Two patients had a slightly asymmetric, mixed, but primarily demyelinating sensorimotor polyneuropathy. One also had a substantial myopathy. The third had an acute neuropathy resembling Guillain-Barré syndrome. Seemingly, creatine kinase levels did not correlate with clinical or electromyographic evidence of myopathy. Histologic evaluations of peripheral nerves revealed demyelination, some axon loss, and a variable number of characteristic lysosomal inclusions. Muscle specimens from two patients showed evidence of a vacuolar myopathy. After discontinuation of amiodarone, two patients improved and one died of cardiac arrhythmia.
Although the clinical features and onset times vary, amiodarone neuromuscular toxicity manifests as a mixed polyneuropathy, vacuolar myopathy, or both. Creatine kinase levels may not correlate with the degree of myopathy. Variable numbers of lysosomal inclusions in peripheral nerve, endothelial cells, and muscle are characteristic.
Loss of sensory hair cells within the cochlea results in a permanent sensorineural hearing loss and initiates the gradual degeneration of spiral ganglion neurons (SGNs) - the primary afferent neurons of the cochlea. While these neurons are normally myelinated via Schwann cells, loss of myelin occurs as a precursor to neural degeneration. However, the relationship between demyelination and the status of Schwann cells in deafness is not well understood. We used a marker of peripheral myelin (myelin protein zero; P0) and a marker of Schwann cells (S100) to determine the temporal sequence of myelin and Schwann cell loss as a function of duration of deafness. Rat pups were systemically deafened for periods ranging from 2 weeks to greater than 6 months by co-administration of frusemide and gentamicin. Cochleae were cryosectioned and quantitative immunohistochemistry used to determine the extent of P0 and S100 labelling within the peripheral processes, SGN soma and their central processes within the modiolus. SGN density was also determined for each cochlear turn. P0 labelling decreased throughout the cochlea with increasing duration of deafness. The reduction in P0 labelling occurred at a faster rate than the SGN loss. In contrast, S100 labelling was not significantly reduced compared with age-matched controls in any cochlear region until 6 months post-deafening. These results suggest that Schwann cells may revert to non-myelinating phenotypes in response to deafness and exhibit greater survival traits than SGNs. The potential clinical significance of these findings for cochlear implants is discussed.
A 28-year-old woman received a single course of corticosteroids for treatment of ulcerative colitis. She subsequently became depressed; shortly thereafter, signs of mania developed. Despite discontinuation of corticosteroid therapy, the patient has had five bouts of mania, closely followed by severe depression, in the past 1 1/2 years. This seems to be the first case of persistent bipolar illness after exogenous steroid administration.
Refractory coeliac disease (RCD) is a rare syndrome with a poor prognosis, defined by malabsorption due to gluten-related enteropathy after initial or subsequent failure of a strict gluten-free diet and after exclusion of any disorder mimicking coeliac disease.
Nineteen patients were included and treated. Based on intraepithelial T-lymphocyte(IEL) phenotyping, patients were recorded as having RCD type I with normal IELs, or RCD type II with phenotypically immature IELs defined by a lack of characteristic T-cell markers. Treatment consisted of azathioprine combined with prednisone for 1 year, which was tapered and, if possible, stopped.
Clinical improvement was seen in nearly all patients in both groups. Eight of 10 RCD type I patients responded histologically, and complete normalization of villi was seen in four patients. In RCD type II, 6/8 patients developed enteropathy-associated T-cell lymphoma (EATL) and 7/8 patients died.
For the first time we report a promising therapeutic treatment option for RCD type I. In RCD type II, azathioprine and prednisone therapy (APT) is not effective, therefore we suggest that other (chemo)therapeutic agents are considered. Not all RCD type II patients presented with a monoclonal TCRgamma-gene rearrangement and immunohistological changes as is currently reported in the literature. Therefore, immunophenotyping seems mandatory in the work-up of RCD.
To determine the relative adverse symptomatic effects and benefits of therapy with oral corticosteroids at doses of 2 mg/kg vs 1 mg/kg daily in children with acute exacerbations of asthma.
Using a questionnaire that addressed symptoms, we conducted a prospective study of the adverse effects and benefits of therapy with prednisone or prednisolone at two dose levels in 86 children who were 2 to 16 years of age with mild persistent asthma during an acute exacerbation and were unresponsive to therapy with inhaled steroids and beta-adrenergic agents. Parents and physicians were blinded to the dose level. Children were assigned to either of the two doses by random allocation. Behavioral side effects were assessed via a questionnaire administered by a physician. Benefits were measured by the resolution of asthma symptoms (cough, shortness of breath, and wheeze) at the completion of the treatment with oral steroids.
Behavioral side effects, particularly anxiety (p < 0.02) and aggressive behavior (p < 0.002), were twice as common in patients receiving a dose of 2 mg/kg/d. Benefits were comparable in the two groups. The number needed to harm (ie, the number of patients receiving experimental treatment that would lead to one additional person being harmed vs patients receiving standard treatment) was 6.1 for anxiety, 8.6 for hyperactivity, and 4.8 for aggressive behavior.
Because the adverse side effects were greater at the higher dose but the benefits were comparable, we recommend using an oral corticosteroid dose of 1 mg/kg daily for children with mild persistent asthma who present with an acute exacerbation of asthma.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the influence of flumazenil on local anesthetic-induced acute toxicity. For each of the three tested anesthetics (etidocaine, mepivacaine and lidocaine) 6 groups of mice were treated by a single dose of flumazenil (0.125, 0.25, 0.5, 1 and 2 mg/kg), or an equal volume of saline, 15 minutes before the injection of the anesthetic (etidocaine: 50 mg/kg, mepivacaine: 110 mg/kg and lidocaine: 115 mg/kg). The convulsant activity, the time of latency to convulse and the mortality rate were assessed in each group. The local anesthetic-induced mortality was not significantly modified by flumazenil. The convulsant activity of lidocaine and mepivacaine was significantly increased by flumazenil but not for etidocaine. Also, increasing doses of flumazenil decreased the time of latency to obtain lidocaine-induced convulsions. This effect was not obtained with etidocaine or mepivacaine.
Wistar rats were nose-only exposed to multiwalled carbon nanotubes (MWCNT, Baytubes) in a subchronic 13-week inhalation study. The focus of study was on respiratory tract and systemic toxicity, including analysis of MWCNT biokinetics in the lungs and lung-associated lymph nodes (LALNs). The time course and concentration dependence of pulmonary effects were examined by bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) and histopathology up to 6 months postexposure. Particular emphasis was directed to the comparative characterization of MWCNT structures prior to and after micronization and dry powder dispersion into inhalation chambers. These determinations were complemented by additional analyses in digested BAL cells. Animals were exposed on 6 h/day, 5 days per week for 13 consecutive weeks to 0, 0.1, 0.4, 1.5, and 6 mg/m(3). The subchronic exposure to respirable solid aerosols of MWCNT was tolerated without effects suggestive of systemic toxicity. Kinetic analyses demonstrated a markedly delayed clearance of MWCNT from lungs at overload conditions. Translocation into LALNs occurred at 1.5 and 6 mg/m(3) and required at least 13 weeks of study to become detectable. At these exposure levels, the lung and LALN weights were significantly increased. Sustained elevations in BAL polymorphonuclear neutrophils and soluble collagen occurred at these concentrations with borderline effects at 0.4 mg/m(3). Histopathology revealed principal exposure-related lesions at 0.4 mg/m(3) and above in the upper respiratory tract (goblet cell hyper- and/or metaplasia, eosinophilic globules, and focal turbinate remodeling) and the lower respiratory tract (inflammatory changes in the bronchioloalveolar region and increased interstitial collagen staining). Granulomatous changes and a time-dependent increase of a bronchioloalveolar hyperplasia occurred at 6 mg/m(3). All end points examined were unremarkable at 0.1 mg/m(3) (no-observed-adverse-effect-level). In summary, this study demonstrates that the induced pathological changes are consistent with overload-related phenomena. Hence, the etiopathological sequence of inflammatory events caused by this type of MWCNT appears to be related to the high displacement volume of the low-density MWCNT assemblage structure rather than to any yet ill-defined intrinsic toxic property. Thus, the hypothesis of study is verified, namely, common denominators between carbon black and MWCNT do exist.
The incidence of nephrotoxicity occurring with the nonionic contrast agent, iohexol, and the ionic contrast agent, meglumine/sodium diatrizoate, was compared in 1196 patients undergoing cardiac angiography in a prospective, randomized, double-blind multicenter trial. Patients were stratified into four groups: renal insufficiency (RI), diabetes mellitus (DM) both absent (N = 364); RI absent, DM present (N = 318); RI present, DM absent (N = 298); and RI and DM both present (N = 216). Serum creatinine levels were measured at -18 to 24, 0, and 24, 48, and 72 hours following contrast administration. Prophylactic hydration was administered pre- and post-angiography. Acute nephrotoxicity (increase in serum creatinine of > or = 1 mg/dl 48 to 72 hours post-contrast) was observed in 42 (7%) patients receiving diatrizoate compared to 19 (3%) patients receiving iohexol, P < 0.002. Differences in nephrotoxicity between the two contrast groups were confined to patients with RI alone or combined with DM. In a multivariate analysis, baseline serum creatinine, male gender, DM, volume of contrast agent, and RI were independently related to the risk of nephrotoxicity. Patients with RI receiving diatrizoate were 3.3 times as likely to develop acute nephrotoxicity compared to those receiving iohexol. Clinically severe adverse renal events were uncommon (N = 15) and did not differ in incidence between contrast groups (iohexol N = 6; diatrizoate N = 9). In conclusion, in patients undergoing cardiac angiography, only those with pre-existing RI alone or combined with DM are at higher risk for acute contrast nephrotoxicity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A motor polyneuropathy developed in a woman with subcorneal pustular dermatosis of 16 years' duration, who had received at least 300 gm of dapsone over a five-year period and 80 gm during the four-month period of progression of her neurologic symptoms. Although the patient believed her muscle power had returned to normal four months after the drug was stopped, a slight peripheral neuropathy remained. Electrodiagnostic and clinical features during the period of greatest weakness and the subsequent 16 months were consistent with a polyneuropathy of the axonal type. The neurotoxicity of dapsone appears to be dose-dependent, but the mechanism by which it occurs is unknown.
Liver cirrhosis is the final consequence of a progressive fibrotic process characterized by excessive collagen deposition and destruction of the normal liver architecture. This study aimed to investigate the protective effects of curcumin, silybin-phytosome and alpha-R-lipoic acid against thioacetamide-induced cirrhosis. Male rats were allocated into five groups of which one group received saline and served as normal control. Animals from groups 2-5 were treated with thioacetamide administered intraperitoneally at a dose of 200 mg/kg 3 times per week for 7 weeks. Group 2 was left untreated while groups from 3 to 5 were given a daily oral dose of curcumin, silybin-phytosome or alpha-R-lipoic acid simultaneously with thioacetamide. Increases in hepatic levels of malondialdehyde (MDA) and protein carbonyls (Pr Co) associated with thioacetamide administration were partially blocked in those groups receiving supplements. Glutathione (GSH) depletion, collagen deposition, matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) activity, transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1) level as well as α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) and heat shock protein-47 (HSP-47) gene expressions were also decreased in response to supplements administration. Serological analysis of liver function and histopathological examination reinforced the results. In conclusion, the present study highlights the antioxidant and the antifibrotic potentials of these supplements against chronic liver diseases caused by ongoing hepatic damage.
Direct thrombin inhibitors (DTIs) provide an alternative method of anticoagulation for patients with a history of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) or HIT with thrombosis (HITT) undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). In the following report, a 65-year-old critically ill patient with a suspected history of HITT was administered argatroban for anticoagulation on bypass during heart transplantation. The patient required massive transfusion support (55 units of red blood cells, 42 units of fresh-frozen plasma, 40 units of cryoprecipitate, 40 units of platelets, and three doses of recombinant Factor VIIa) for severe intraoperative and postoperative bleeding.
Plasma samples from before and after CPB were analyzed postoperatively for argatroban concentration using a modified ecarin clotting time (ECT) assay.
Unexpectedly high concentrations of argatroban were measured in these samples (range, 0-32 microg/mL), and a prolonged plasma argatroban half life (t(1/2)) of 514 minutes was observed (published elimination t(1/2) is 39-51 minutes [< or = 181 minutes with hepatic impairment]).
Correlation of plasma argatroban concentration versus the patient's coagulation variables and clinical course suggest that prolonged elevated levels of plasma argatroban may have contributed to the patient's extended coagulopathy. Because DTIs do not have reversal agents, surgical teams and transfusion services should remain aware of the possibility of massive transfusion events during anticoagulation with these agents. This is the first report to measure plasma argatroban concentration in the context of CPB and extended coagulopathy.
We describe the case of a patient with aseptic meningoencephalitis after intrathecal iohexol injection for myelography and review the previous literature on similar cases of contrast-induced neurotoxicity.
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of compound pseudoephedrine [corrected] hydrochloride (New Contact sustained release capsules) in the treatment of the nasal symptoms associated with common cold or influenza.
Open label multi-center clinical trial was adopted: one capsule twice daily with an interval of 12 hours, successively for 4 days to treat the nasal symptoms associated with common cold or influenza.
A total of 416 patients were eligible for efficacy and safety analysis. The cure rates for nasal congestion from day 1 to day 4 were 7%, 31%, 64% and 88%, cumulatively; for runny nose were 9%, 36%, 68% and 89%; for sneezing were 20%, 51%, 76% and 93%, and for watery eyes were 36%, 68%, 89% and 96%, respectively. There were no serious adverse events during the study. Forty adverse events (AE's) with an incidence of 8% were developed in 35 patients. The most frequent AE's were drowsiness (24/416, 6%) and dry mouth (5/416, 1%). All AE's were in mild or moderate degree.
The results indicated that New Contact sustained released capsule was effective in controlling the nasal symptoms associated with common cold or influenza and it was well-tolerated.
The calcineurin inhibitor cyclosporine A (CsA) is a widely used immunosuppressive agent. However, nephrotoxicity is a serious side effect observed in patients which limits clinical use of CsA. CsA nephrotoxicity is associated with tubulointerstitial injury progressing to nephropathy. This is typically diagnosed by invasive renal biopsy and is often only detected when the disease process is well advanced. Therefore identification of novel, early indicators of CsA nephrotoxicity could be clinically advantageous. This study aimed to establish a murine model of CsA nephrotoxicity and to identify urinary proteins that may indicate the onset of CsA-induced nephropathy using 2-D gel electrophoresis. CsA nephrotoxicity was induced in CD-1 mice by daily CsA administration for 4weeks. By week 4, elevated serum creatinine and proteinuria were observed after CsA treatment indicating significant renal dysfunction. Decreased cadherin-1, increased α-smooth muscle actin and fibroblast specific protein 1 in kidney tissue indicated disruption of normal tubular architecture. Alterations in podocin and uromodulin were also observed which may indicate damage to other segments of the nephron. Proteomic analysis of urine identified a number of differentially regulated proteins that may be involved in early CsA nephropathy including cadherin 1, superoxide dismutase and vinculin. These findings suggest novel mechanisms of CsA nephrotoxicity and identify novel potential markers of the disease.
Mouse lines produced by bidirectional selection on the basis of maximum (AIRmax) or minimum (AIRmin) acute inflammatory reactions were examined for the development of chemically induced acute colitis and colon tumors and the development of lung tumors. AIRmax mice were more susceptible than AIRmin to acute colitis induced by ingestion of dextran sodium sulfate showing a 3-fold higher disease activity index and presenting an intense inflammatory infiltrate in the base of colon crypts as well as elevated expression of IL-1beta, TNFalpha, IFNgamma and IL-6 mRNA in colon tissue. AIRmax were also more susceptible than AIRmin to colon cancer induced by 2 or 7 weekly doses of 1,2-dimethylhydrazine (DMH), showing significantly higher numbers of colonic aberrant crypt foci (ACF) at 150 days after DMH treatment (P = 0.01) and significantly higher numbers of tumors affecting larger intestinal areas at 300-475 days. At the latter time point, however, multiple lung adenomas and large adenocarcinomas were found in AIRmin but not in AIRmax mice. Treatment of mice with nimesulide for 60 days beginning 24 h before the first of two DMH doses almost completely inhibited the appearance of ACF in both lines. Furthermore, ACF numbers and the degree of acute inflammation directly co-segregated in an F2 (AIRmax x AIRmin) intercross population. The results demonstrate that genetic determinants of the inflammatory response differentially influence susceptibility to colon and lung carcinogenesis in the AIRmax and AIRmin mouse model.
Two cases of pseudo-alcoholic amiodarone-induced hepatitis are reported. The authors mention the different clinical forms of the disease and describe its clinical, biochemical and histological features. They stress the unpredictable and discordant character of its course and the influence of associated pathological factors. The role played by Ito's cells in the genesis of the liver fibrosis observed in amiodarone toxicity is discussed.
