The anxiolytic effects of aniracetam have not been proven in animals despite its clinical usefulness for post-stroke anxiety. This study, therefore, aimed to characterize the anxiolytic effects of aniracetam in different anxiety models using mice and to examine the mode of action. In a social interaction test in which all classes (serotonergic, cholinergic and dopaminergic) of compounds were effective, aniracetam (10-100 mg/kg) increased total social interaction scores (time and frequency), and the increase in the total social interaction time mainly reflected an increase in trunk sniffing and following. The anxiolytic effects were completely blocked by haloperidol and nearly completely by mecamylamine or ketanserin, suggesting an involvement of nicotinic acetylcholine, 5-HT2A and dopamine D2 receptors in the anxiolytic mechanism. Aniracetam also showed anti-anxiety effects in two other anxiety models (elevated plus-maze and conditioned fear stress tests), whereas diazepam as a positive control was anxiolytic only in the elevated plus-maze and social interaction tests. The anxiolytic effects of aniracetam in each model were mimicked by different metabolites (i.e., p-anisic acid in the elevated plus-maze test) or specific combinations of metabolites. These results indicate that aniracetam possesses a wide range of anxiolytic properties, which may be mediated by an interaction between cholinergic, dopaminergic and serotonergic systems. Thus, our findings suggest the potential usefulness of aniracetam against various types of anxiety-related disorders and social failure/impairments.
Iodopropynyl butylcarbamate (IPBC) is an internationally recognized chemical that has been used for years because of its wide field of application. Initially used as a water-based paint and wood preservative and then in metalworking fluids, its role has expanded into the more recent uses in cosmetic products. The need for a potent, broad-spectrum, and safe preservative system in cosmetics allowed for the discovery of several combinations of IPBC effective against a wide variety of organisms. Although IPBC has claimed to be safe when used at concentrations less than 0.1%, the introduction of IPBC into cosmetics has led to several reports labeling IPBC as a potential new contact allergen. As the use of this seemingly safe preservative becomes vast, an increased number of cases of IPBC-induced contact allergy is likely.
A 75-year-old male outpatient with cardiac disease, diabetes, chronic renal insufficiency and iron deficiency anemia was prescribed linezolid 600 mg twice daily for a methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus diabetic foot osteomyelitis. After one week, his blood counts were consistent with baseline values. The patient failed to return for subsequent blood work. On day 26, he was admitted to hospital with acute renal failure secondary to dehydration, and was found to be pancytopenic (erythrocytes 2.5x10(12)/L, leukocytes 2.9x10(9)/L, platelets 59x10(9)/L, hemoglobin 71 g/L). The patient was transfused, and linezolid was discontinued. His blood counts improved over the week and remained at baseline two months later.The patient's decline in blood counts from baseline levels met previously established criteria for clinical significance. Application of the Naranjo scale indicated a probable relationship between pancytopenia and linezolid.Clinicians should be aware of this rare effect with linezolid, and prospectively identify patients at risk and emphasize weekly hematological monitoring.
Methotrexate is a major cause of treatment-related acute neurotoxicity in children with hematologic malignancies. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether diffusion-weighted MR imaging (DWI) detects acute methotrexate white matter neurotoxicity in this patient population.
Six children-three female and three male-with hematologic malignancies were studied at time of onset of neurologic dysfunction during the delayed intensification or consolidation phase of therapy, when intensive intrathecal methotrexate is given. MR imaging including DWI was performed on 1.5 T MR scanners.
DWI demonstrated abnormal restriction of motion of water in the centrum semiovale in all six patients. This finding correlated to the acute onset of hemiparesis or aphasia. Fluid-attenuated inversion recovery imaging was not positive at this time, but it was positive in all five patients in whom follow-up imaging was performed.
Early detection of methotrexate white matter injury by DWI has the potential to alert the oncologist to this event and provide a technique by which treatment of neurotoxicity can be monitored.
Residual symptoms are common and have a variety of consequences in depressed patients who respond to treatment, but seldom have specific residual symptoms been assessed. We examined the frequency and severity of residual depressive symptoms in 2 studies comparing the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) fluoxetine with the norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (NRI) reboxetine.
Data from two 8-week, previously published, double-blind, random-assignment studies comparing fluoxetine and reboxetine were obtained. Both studies included men and women who met DSM-III-R criteria for unipolar nonpsychotic major depression. Symptoms were assessed with the 21-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D). The frequency and severity of residual symptoms were determined in the patients who completed treatment and responded (had at least 50% improvement on the HAM-D).
In study 1, 117 patients completed treatment and responded. In study 2, 113 patients completed treatment and responded. The most frequent symptoms present after treatment were psychic anxiety, lack of interest, somatic anxiety, and depressed mood. No residual symptom differed significantly between treatment groups in both samples. Ordinal logistic regression, used to control for baseline symptom severity, revealed no other differences between drug groups except that decreased libido was significantly greater with fluoxetine in study 1 and study 2. Three composite scores for residual anxiety, sleep disturbance, and reduced drive did not differ between drug groups.
This study found no differences in residual symptoms in depressed patients who responded to treatment with the SSRI fluoxetine and the NRI reboxetine, with the exception that the fluoxetine group had a greater decrease in sexual interest, a likely side effect of that drug.
The frequency and significance of central nervous system (CNS), ocular, and dermatologic toxicities associated with high-dose cytosine arabinoside (HDARA-C) infusions was evaluated. Patients were selected from one of three Southeastern Cancer Study Group protocols using HDARA-C 2-3 g/m2 body surface area (BSA) and their medical records were reviewed to identify and document the frequency of the toxicities. Those exhibiting CNS toxicity were compared across age, sex, race, previous standard-dose ARA-C or HDARA-C therapy, and infusion rate for toxicity occurrence. Statistical analysis was performed using Fisher's exact test with p less than 0.05. Of the 53 patients evaluated, 37.7% exhibited CNS, 37.7% ocular, and 45.3% dermatologic toxicities. Of the risk factors evaluated, only increasing age and previous ARA-C therapy approached statistical significance. The CNS toxicities associated with HDARA-C are clinically significant since permanent damage may result. Ocular and dermatologic toxicities usually resolve without medical intervention when HDARA-C therapy is discontinued. Further study is necessary to determine appropriate prophylaxis for these toxicities.
A case is reported of muscle 'gibrillation' following the administration of thiopentone and pancuronium to a patient suffering from metachromic leucodystrophy and possible mechanisms are discussed.
Combined effects of prolonged prostaglandin E1 (PGE1)-induced hypotension and haemodilution on hepatic function were studied in 30 patients undergoing hip surgery. The patients were randomly allocated to one of three groups; those in group A (n = 10) were subjected to controlled hypotension alone, those in group B (n = 10) to haemodilution alone and those in group C (n = 10) to both controlled hypotension and haemodilution. Haemodilution in groups B and C was produced by withdrawing approximately 1000 mL of blood and replacing it with the same amount of dextran solution, and final haematocrit values were 21 or 22%. Controlled hypotension in groups A and C was induced with PGE1 to maintain mean arterial blood pressure at 55 mmHg for 180 min. Measurements included arterial ketone body ratio (AKBR, aceto-acetate/3-hydroxybutyrate) and clinical hepatic function parameters. AKBR and biological hepatic function tests showed no change throughout the time course in groups A and B. In group C, AKBR showed a significant decrease at 120 min (-40%) and at 180 min (-49%) after the start of hypotension and at 60 min (-32%) after recovery of normotension, and SGOT, SGPT, LDH and total bilirubin showed significant increases after operation. The results suggest that a prolonged combination of more than 120 min of PGE1-induced hypotension and moderate haemodilution would cause impairment of hepatic function.
Previously the NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptor (NMDAR) antagonist ketamine was shown to disrupt generation of the auditory event-related potential (ERP) mismatch negativity (MMN) and the performance of an 'AX'-type continuous performance test (AX-CPT)--measures of auditory and visual context-dependent information processing--in a similar manner as observed in schizophrenia. This placebo-controlled study investigated effects of the 5-HT(2A) receptor agonist psilocybin on the same measures in 18 healthy volunteers. Psilocybin administration induced significant performance deficits in the AX-CPT, but failed to reduce MMN generation significantly. These results indirectly support evidence that deficient MMN generation in schizophrenia may be a relatively distinct manifestation of deficient NMDAR functioning. In contrast, secondary pharmacological effects shared by NMDAR antagonists and the 5-HT(2A) agonist (ie disruption of glutamatergic neurotransmission) may be the mechanism underlying impairments in AX-CPT performance observed during both psilocybin and ketamine administration. Comparable deficits in schizophrenia may result from independent dysfunctions of 5-HT(2A) and NMDAR-related neurotransmission.
Convulsive status epilepticus is associated with subsequent hippocampal damage and development of mesial temporal sclerosis in a subset of individuals. The lithium pilocarpine model of status epilepticus (SE) in the rat provides a model in which to investigate the molecular and pathogenic process leading to hippocampal damage. In this study, a 2-DE-based approach was used to detect proteome changes in the hippocampus, at an early stage (2 days) after SE, when increased T2 values were detectable by magnetic resonance imaging. Gel image analysis was followed by LC-MS/MS identification of protein species that differed in abundance between pilocarpine-treated and control rats. The most significantly up-regulated species in the experimental animals was identified as heat shock 27-kDa protein, in line with findings in humans and in other experimental models of epilepsy. Additional up-regulated species included dihydropyrimidinase-related protein-2, cytoskeletal proteins (alpha-tubulin and ezrin) and dihydropteridine reductase. In summary, the hippocampus of rats subject to pilocarpine-induced SE exhibits specific changes in protein abundance, which likely relate to pathogenic, neuroprotective and neurogenic responses.
This study was designed to evaluate early postoperative cognitive recovery after total intravenous anaesthesia with remifentanil-propofol or sufentanil-propofol in patients undergoing craniotomy for supratentorial expanding lesions.
Sixty patients were consecutively enrolled, and randomly assigned to one of two study groups: remifentanil-propofol or sufentanil-propofol anaesthesia. To evaluate cognitive function the Short Orientation Memory Concentration Test (SOMCT) and Rancho Los Amigos Scale (RLAS) were administered to all patients in a double-blind procedure before surgery at 15, 45 min and 3 h after extubation.
Mean extubation time was similar in the two groups (13 +/- 5 min vs. 19 +/- 6 min). A significantly larger number of patients in the remifentanil-propofol group than in the sufentanil-propofol group required antihypertensive medication postoperatively to maintain mean arterial pressure within 20% of baseline (18/30 vs. 4/29; P = 0.0004). Intergroup analysis showed no differences in baseline SOMCT scores (28 +/- 1 vs. 28 +/- 1) whereas mean SOMCT scores at 15, 45 min and 3 h after extubation were significantly higher in the remifentanil-propofol group (30 patients) than in the sufentanil-propofol group (29 patients) (22 +/- 3 vs. 16 +/- 3; P < 0.0001 and 27 +/- 1 vs. 22 +/- 3; P < 0.0001; 28 +/- 1 vs. 26 +/- 2; P = 0.0126).
In conclusion, propofol-remifentanil and propofol-sufentanil are both suitable for fast-track neuroanaesthesia and provide similar intraoperative haemodynamics, awakening and extubation times. Despite a higher risk of treatable postoperative hypertension propofol-remifentanil allows earlier cognitive recovery.
When administered before training to 23-day-old Long-Evans rats, scopolamine hydrobromide significantly impaired both contextual and auditory-cue fear conditioning in a dose-dependent manner. Methylscopolamine which does not cross the blood-brain barrier, however, had no effect on either form of conditioned fear. Scopolamine administered up to 3 h after training also impaired both forms of fear conditioning when administered following a single pairing of the auditory cue and shock. When rats received three pairings, however, a posttraining treatment with scopolamine only impaired contextual fear conditioning. These results suggest that central cholinergic systems are involved in the posttrial processes that establish the memory trace for the conditioning experience.
Therapeutic success of atypical antipsychotics has focused the attention on the role of receptor systems other than dopaminergic system in the pathophysiology of neuroleptics-associated acute (Parkinson's like syndrome) and chronic (tardive dyskinesia) extrapyramidal side effects. This study was planned to investigate changes in striatal levels of norepinephrine, dopamine and serotonin after acute and chronic administration of classical neuroleptics (haloperidol and chlorpromazine). These changes were correlated with behavioural alterations in rats. In vivo microdialysis with HPLC/ECD system revealed that there was a marked decrease in striatal neurotransmitter contents (NE, DA and 5-HT), which was also correlated with severe cataleptic response in rats after acute administration of haloperidol (2 mg/kg) and chlorpromazine (20 mg/kg). Chronic administration of haloperidol (1 mg/kg for 21 days) and chlorpromazine (5 mg/kg for 21 days) resulted in time dependent increase in orofacial hyperkinetic movements. The microdialysis studies also showed a significant decrease in the striatal levels of all the neurotransmitters. The results provide evidence for the involvement of striatal adrenergic and serotonergic systems, besides dopaminergic system in neuroleptic-induced acute and chronic extrapyramidal symptoms.
Administration of imipramine plus serotonin (5-HT) to rats has been proposed as an animal model of Duchenne muscular dystrophy. We studied the skeletal muscle necrosis produced in male rats given 5-HT after pretreatment with imipramine, other tricyclic antidepressants, or antihistamines, which like the tricyclic antidepressants, can block neuronal reuptake of 5-HT. Following one of these agents plus 5-HT, 20 mg/kg subcutaneously (s.c.), necrosis was more severe in the soleus muscle than the quadriceps. There was no significant difference in the incidence of necrosis in the soleus and quadriceps muscles following one of these agents plus 5-HT, 100 mg/kg, intraperitoneally (i.p.). After one of these agents plus 5-HT i.p., but not 5-HT s.c., extensive necrosis was significantly more frequent and severe in the quadriceps muscle than after 5-HT s.c. Chlorpheniramine (CP) plus 5-HT, 2.5 mg/kg intravenously, produced less muscle necrosis than CP plus 5-HT s.c. or i.p. The necrosis produced by CP plus 5-HT s.c. was comparable ipsilateral and contralateral to the injection site. The necrosis following CP plus 5-HT i.p. was maximal at 24 hr and remained fairly constant until 5 days. Regeneration was prominent by 7 days. The muscle necrosis produced by CP plus 5-HT is blocked by some 5-HT blockers, e.g., methiotepin and methysergide. It is also partially blocked by denervation. The capacity of tricyclic antidepressants and antihistamines to block neuronal 5-HT reuptake tended to be negatively correlated with the capacity to potentiate the muscle necrosis they produced with 5-HT, which suggests that blockade of 5-HT uptake is not the mechanism of the pathology produced by the combined treatment. The tricyclic antidepressants and the antihistamines are "membrane stabilizers-labilizers". Other drugs which are "membrane stabilizers-labilizers" such as trihexyphenidyl and procaine also promoted skeletal muscle necrosis when given prior to 5-HT. It is proposed that the effects of imipramine plus 5-HT on skeletal muscle are not due to the blockade of neuronal uptake of 5-HT and subsequent vascular-induced ischemia, but reflect direct toxic effects of these agents on skeletal muscle.
The kidneys are a vital organ in the human body. They serve several purposes including homeostatic functions such as regulating extracellular fluid volume and maintaining acid-base and electrolyte balance and are essential regarding the excretion of metabolic waste. Furthermore, the kidneys play an important role in uric acid secretion/reabsorption. Abnormalities associated with kidney transporters have been associated with various diseases, such as gout. The current study utilized Xenopus oocytes expressing human uric acid transporter 1 (hURAT1; SLC22A12) as an in vitro method to investigate novel compounds and their ability to inhibit (14)C-uric acid uptake via hURAT1. We have prepared and tested a series of 2-ethyl-benzofuran compounds and probed the hURAT1 in vitro inhibitor structure-activity relationship. As compared to dimethoxy analogues, monophenols formed on the C ring showed the best in vitro inhibitory potential. Compounds with submicromolar (i.e., IC(50) < 1000 nM) inhibitors were prepared by brominating the corresponding phenols to produce compounds with potent uricosuric activity.
Heart failure and atrial fibrillation are associated with apoptosis of cardiomyocytes, suggesting common abnormalities in pro-apoptotic cardiac molecules. Activation of the receptor tyrosine kinase EphA2 causes apoptosis in vitro, and dysregulation of EphA2-dependent signalling is implicated in LEOPARD and Noonan syndromes associated with cardiomyopathy. Molecular pathways and regulation of EphA2 signalling in the heart are poorly understood. Here we elucidated the pathways of EphA2-dependent apoptosis and evaluated a therapeutic strategy to prevent EphA2 activation and cardiac cell death.
EphA2 signalling was studied in an established model of doxazosin-induced apoptosis in HL-1 cells. Apoptosis was measured with TUNEL assays and as cell viability using a formazan method. Western blotting and siRNA for EphA2 were also used.
Apoptosis induced by doxazosin (EC(50) = 17.3 μM) was associated with EphA2 activation through enhanced phosphorylation (2.2-fold). Activation of pro-apoptotic downstream factors, phospho-SHP-2 (3.9-fold), phospho-p38 MAPK (2.3-fold) and GADD153 (1.6-fold) resulted in cleavage of caspase 3. Furthermore, two anti-apoptotic enzymes were suppressed (focal adhesion kinase, by 41%; phospho-Akt, by 78%). Inactivation of EphA2 with appropriate siRNA mimicked pro-apoptotic effects of doxazosin. Finally, administration of lithocholic acid (LCA) protected against apoptosis by increasing EphA2 protein levels and decreasing EphA2 phosphorylation.
EphA2 phosphorylation and activation of SHP-2 are critical steps in apoptosis. Reduction of EphA2 phosphorylation by LCA may represent a novel approach for future anti-apoptotic treatment of heart failure and atrial fibrillation.
To investigate if sevoflurane preconditioning attenuate neuronal apoptosis induced by ischemia-reperfusion.
Thirty-six male SD rats weighing 250 - 300 g were randomly divided into three groups (n = 12 each): control group (group C), ischemia-reperfusion group (group IR) (rats were established cerebral artery clamped and reperfusion model), sevoflurane preconditioning group (group S) (rats were established cerebral artery clamped and reperfusion model after 1 h 2.4% sevoflurane preconditioning). Apoptosis neurons were observed by Hematoxylin and Eosin (HE) staining and transmission electron microscope, TdT mediated Dutp nick end labeling (TUNEL) method was used to count apoptosis neurons density, fresh ischemic brain tissue was taken out, while Caspase-3 zymogen and 20 000 segment were checked by Western blot.
apoptosis neurons in group IR were more than ones in group S under HE staining and light microscope and transmission electron microscope, and apoptosis neurons density (cell number/0.1 mm(2)) by TUNEL staining: group C, 13.0 +/- 1.4; group IR, 189.8 +/- 6.8; group S, 110.5 +/- 4.3, the relative gray values of the contents of procaspase-3 and its 20 000 cleavage fragment were 16.72 +/- 3.0, 76.1 +/- 3.4, 51.2 +/- 3.1 and 8.2 +/- 2.3, 59.0 +/- 6.3, 31.2 +/- 5.4 respectively.
Sevoflurane pretreatment can protect neuron on ischemia-reperfusion injury by attenuating neuronal apoptosis in rats.
Apomorphine administered by subcutaneous infusion has been used efficiently in parkinsonian patients to treat severe motor fluctuations and levodopa-induced dyskinesias. Despite increasing evidence of its efficacy and its relative safety, apomorphine infusion therapy is still underused. This article reviews pharmacokinetic properties, efficacy, tolerability and indications of apomorphine infusion in Parkinson's disease.
Post-weaning multisystemic wasting syndrome (PMWS), primarily caused by porcine circovirus type 2 (PCV-2), is an economically important disease of pigs in many countries. A trial was designed to investigate the hypothesis that non-specific immuno-modulation can influence the clinical and pathological expression of PMWS in pigs naturally infected with PCV-2. Eighty-four pigs on a commercial pig farm were allocated to three groups of 28 pigs each, during an outbreak of PMWS. The pigs in the first group received an intramuscular injection of a vaccine against Mycoplasma hyopneumoniae (RespiSure, Pfizer, NY, USA) at each of 7 and 28 days of age, followed by an intramuscular injection of normal saline at 42 days of age. The animals in the second group received, by intramuscular injection, normal saline at 7 days of age followed by a non-specific immuno-modulating drug (Baypamun, Bayer, Leverkusen, Germany) at each of 28 and 42 days of age. The pigs in the third (control) group received an intramuscular injection of normal saline on each of 7, 28 and 42 days of age. The trial was concluded when the pigs had reached the age of 73 days. Clinical signs characteristic of PMWS developed in 42.9% of pigs inoculated with RespiSure and in 50% of pigs treated with Baypamun; six pigs from each of these groups died. Moderate to severe gross and histopathological lesions of PMWS, associated with abundant PCV-2 antigen, were seen in a wide range of tissues of pigs from these groups at the end of the trial. In contrast, only 10.7% of pigs in the control group developed clinical signs and only one died. Mild to moderate lesions and scant PCV-2 antigen were occasionally observed in tissues of control pigs at the end of the trial. This is the first study to demonstrate that non-specific stimulation of the immune system by a vaccine or an immuno-modulator drug can potentiate viral replication and increase the severity of clinical signs during an outbreak of PMWS.
Studies in animals suggest that the bispiperazinedione ICRF-187 can prevent the development of dose-related doxorubicin-induced cardiac toxicity. In a randomized trial in 92 women with advanced breast cancer, we compared treatment with fluorouracil, doxorubicin, and cyclophosphamide (FDC), given every 21 days, with the same regimen preceded by administration of ICRF-187 (FDC + ICRF-187). Patients were withdrawn from the study when cardiac toxicity developed or the cancer progressed. The mean cumulative dose of doxorubicin tolerated by patients withdrawn from study was 397.2 mg per square meter of body-surface area in the FDC group and 466.3 mg in the FDC + ICRF-187 group (no significant difference). Eleven patients on the FDC + ICRF-187 arm received cumulative doxorubicin doses above 600 mg per square meter, whereas one receiving FDC was able to remain in the study beyond this dose. Antitumor response rates were similar (FDC vs. FDC + ICRF-187, 3 vs. 4 complete responses; 17 vs. 17 partial responses; and 9.3 vs. 10.3 months to disease progression). Although myelosuppression was slightly greater in the FDC + ICRF-187 group, the incidence of fever, infections, alopecia, nausea and vomiting, or death due to toxicity did not differ between the groups. Cardiac toxicity was evaluated by clinical examination, determination of the left ventricular ejection fraction by multigated nuclear scans, and endomyocardial biopsy. In comparisons of the FDC group with the FDC + ICRF-187 group, clinical congestive heart failure was observed in 11 as compared with 2 patients; the mean decrease in the left ventricular ejection fraction was 7 vs. 1 percent when the cumulative dose of doxorubicin was 250 to 399 mg per square meter (P = 0.02), 16 vs. 1 percent at 400 to 499 mg (P = 0.001), and 16 vs. 3 percent at 500 to 599 mg (P = 0.003); and the Billingham biopsy score was 2 or more in 5 of 13 patients undergoing biopsy vs. none of 13 (P = 0.03). We conclude that ICRF-187 offers significant protection against cardiac toxicity caused by doxorubicin, without affecting the antitumor effect of doxorubicin or the incidence of noncardiac toxic reactions.
Silica was listed as a human carcinogen by International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) in 1996. However, the molecular mechanisms to induce cancer are not understood yet. Our recent published study showed that silica inhibited the expression of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerases-1 (PARP-1) mRNA. However, the mechanisms responsible for low PARP-1 expression have not yet been elucidated. In this study, the human bronchial epithelial cells (16HBE) were treated with 300 microg/ml silicon dioxide for 35 passages, the mode of silica-associated malignant transformation of human bronchial epithelial cells (M-16HBE) was established and identified by soft agar assay and nude mouse tumorigenesis. The mRNA expression and methylation status of PARP-1 in M-16HBE with or without treatment of the cytosine methylation inhibitor 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-aza) were detected by real-time PCR and methylation-specific PCR (MSP), respectively. The data showed that silica decreased PARP-1 expression at the transcriptional levels in M-16HBE and the above epigenetic inhibitors reversed the transcriptional inhibition of PARP-1 through the demethylation of PARP-1, suggesting that the epigenetic mediated transcriptional activation of PARP-1.
To the authors' knowledge, few studies have been conducted to date regarding dietary selenium and the potential gene-nutrient interactions with single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in different pathways on the risk of esophageal cancer.
The authors investigated the role of dietary selenium intake and its interplay with SNPs of the ALDH2 (glutamic acid [Glu] 487 lysine [Lys]) and the X-ray repair cross-complementing 1 (XRCC1) (arginine [Arg] 399 glutamine [Gln]) genes on the risk of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) in a population-based, case-control study in China. In total, 218 patients with ESCC and 415 healthy population control participants were interviewed. Dietary selenium intake was estimated from a food frequency questionnaire with 97 food items. ALDH2 and XRCC1 polymorphisms were detected with a polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism assay.
The adjusted odds ratio (OR) for the highest quintile of dietary selenium intake, compared with the lowest quintile of intake, was 0.48 (95% confidence interval [95% CI], 0.25-0.89), with a strong dose-response relation (P for trend, <.01). The ALDH2 Lys and XRCC1 Gln variant alleles were associated with an increased risk of ESCC with adjusted ORs of 1.91 (95% CI, 0.96-3.80) and 1.67 (95% CI, 1.08-2.59), respectively. An elevation of the risk for ESCC was pronounced most among carriers of ALDH2 Lys/Lys and XRCC1 399Gln/Gln or Gln/Arg who consumed a low level of dietary selenium (adjusted OR, 4.16; 95% CI, 1.14-15.12).
To the authors' knowledge, this is the first in-depth study to suggest that genetic susceptibility may modify the association between selenium intake and the risk of ESCC. The findings indicated that individuals with low dietary selenium intake and ALDH2 Lys/Lys and XRCC1 399Gln/Gln or Gln/Arg genotypes were associated with an increased ESCC risk, especially in the presence of exposure to tobacco and alcohol carcinogens.
We describe the case of a 42 year old woman with abdominal pain, ascites, and splenomegaly after having taken dihydroergotamine continuously for three months due to frequent hemicranic episodes. The celiac-mesenteric angiography demonstrated diffuse thrombosis of splenic, superior mesenteric and portal veins. No surgical intervention was possible. We believe that it is possible that dihydroerogotamine, a hydrogenated derivative of ergotamine, inasmuch as it is capable of causing peripheral vasoconstriction, intimal lesions, arterial and venous thrombi, was also the cause of our patient's portal thrombosis. We therefore suggest the minimum effective amount of the drug be utilized to achieve the relief of cephalalgia.
Using a questionnaire and serum antibody studies, we evaluated 13 workers exposed to phthalic anhydride (PA) and tetrachlorophthalic anhydride (TCPA). The questionnaire was designed to identify symptoms compatible with anhydride-induced immunologic or irritant syndromes. Specific IgG and IgE for both PA-human serum albumin (PA-HSA) and TCPA-HSA were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in two different laboratories. In addition, 11 workers had cutaneous testing with PA-HSA and TCPA-HSA, and nine workers were interviewed. One worker was found to have PA-associated asthma and rhinitis. We conclude that a questionnaire and serologic assays for specific IgG and IgE are helpful to identify workers who have or are at risk for developing occupational immunologic lung disease such as those induced by anhydrides. However, additional evaluation may be necessary in those workers with such diseases as intrinsic asthma that may be difficult to differentiate from occupational immunologic lung disease.
Rimonabant is a cannabinoid receptor 1 antagonist, and is used to treat anorexia and obesity. However, it has been suggested that rimonabant may act as a depressant. In the present study, we investigated the depressive effects of rimonabant using behavioral and biochemical methods. A single treatment with rimonabant (10mg/kg, p.o.) reduced immobility duration in the forced swimming test (FST) to a level similar to that observed for the tricyclic antidepressant, imipramine (15mg/kg, i.p.). However, mice treated with rimonabant for 2 weeks did not show any significant reductions in immobility duration versus vehicle-treated controls. To investigate why the antidepressant effect of rimonabant disappeared after extended treatment, we carried out 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU) and doublecortin (DCX) immunohistochemistry assay. Numbers of BrdU-immunoreactive cells were not significantly changed after administering rimonabant (10mg/kg, p.o.) for 2 weeks in the hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG), but interestingly, numbers of DCX-immunopositive cells in the DG were significantly reduced after 2 weeks of rimonabant treatment at doses of 1 or 10mg/(kgday) compared with vehicle-treated controls (P<0.05). These results suggest that sub-chronic treatments with rimonabant inhibit cell proliferation in DG, and that a lack of antidepressive activity may be related to a reduction in cell proliferation in this region.
To date, the ketamine/PCP model of psychosis has been proposed to be one of the best pharmacological models to mimic schizophrenic psychosis in healthy volunteers, since ketamine can induce both positive and negative symptoms of schizophrenia. At subanesthetic doses, ketamine has been reported to primarily block N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor complex giving support to a glutamate deficiency hypothesis in schizophrenia. Positron emission tomography was used to study ketamine-induced psychotic symptom formation in relation to cerebral metabolic alterations in healthy volunteers. Our study shows that NMDA receptor blockade results in a hyperfrontal metabolic pattern. Increased metabolic activity in the frontomedial and anterior cingulate cortex correlated positively with psychotic symptom formation, in particular with ego pathology. Analysis of correlations between syndrome scores and metabolic rate of glucose (CMRglu) or metabolic gradients (ratios) revealed that each psychopathological syndrome was associated with a number of metabolic alterations in cortical and subcortical brain regions, suggesting that not a single brain region, but distributed neuronal networks are involved in acute psychotic symptom formation.
Mixed magnesium and potassium glutamates with different ion ratio are synthesized. The antiarrhythmic activity of the compounds obtained is studied on the models of strophantin, calcium chloride, aconitine arrhythmia, and arrhythmia after Harriss. It is found that magnesium and potassium glutamate of the composition KMg(HGlu)4.4H2O exhibits higher activity compared to glutamate of the composition KMg(HGlu)4.3H2O on the strophantin and calcium chloride arrhythmia models. The study performed on the strophantin and calcium chloride models as well as on the Harriss arrhythmia model showed that KMg(HGlu)4.4H2O is more effective as antiarrhythmic drug than asparkam and panangine but, at the same time, the effect of KMg(HGlu)4.4H2O within the aconitine model is somewhat less pronounced compared to panangine.
