We report a case of severe cholestasis and sicca syndrome after thiabendazole administration for Strongyloides stercoralis infection in a 26-year-old patient. Liver biopsy, performed 15 days after the onset of jaundice, revealed a marked paucity of bile ducts, and cholestasis rapidly progressed to biliary cirrhosis. Because of the progression of jaundice and the development of esophageal varices, orthotopic liver transplantation was performed, 18 months after the beginning of disease. The mechanism responsible for thiabendazole-induced biliary injury is unknown. The association between sicca syndrome and biliary disease suggests an immunoallergic mechanism against an antigen which could be common to the biliary, lacrimal and salivary duct epithelium.
The ability of PET to image functional changes in tumors is increasingly being used to evaluate response and predict clinical benefit to conventional and novel cancer therapies. Although the use of (18)F-FDG PET is well established, 3'-deoxy-3'-(18)F-fluorothymidine ((18)F-FLT) PET has potential advantages as a more specific marker of cellular proliferation. c-MET signaling is frequently dysregulated in cancer and is therefore an attractive therapeutic target. Crizotinib (PF-2341066) is a novel adenosine triphosphate-competitive c-MET kinase inhibitor with antitumor activity in a range of tumor models. The aim of this study was to investigate the utility of PET of glucose metabolism and cell proliferation to monitor tumor response to crizotinib in 2 cell lines with aberrant c-MET signaling.
Mice bearing GTL-16 or U87MG xenografts were evaluated for changes in tumor volume and (18)F-FDG and (18)F-FLT uptake after daily oral treatment with up to 50 mg/kg crizotinib. GTL-16 and U87MG cells were treated with crizotinib in vitro and analyzed for (3)H-2-deoxyglucose uptake and expression of activated MET, AKT, and ERK by immunoblotting.
Treatment of c-MET-amplified GTL-16 xenografts with 50 mg/kg crizotinib caused tumor regression that was associated with a slow reduction in (18)F-FDG uptake (P < 0.05, day 13) and reduced expression of the glucose transporter 1, GLUT-1. Although baseline (18)F-FDG uptake into U87MG tumors was substantially higher than in GTL-16 tumors, (18)F-FDG uptake into U87MG tumors remained unchanged on treatment at 50 mg/kg crizotinib, despite tumor growth inhibition of 93% on day 8 of treatment. These findings were confirmed in vitro, where treatment of U87MG cells with 1 μM crizotinib had no demonstrable effect on glucose uptake. Furthermore, these cells demonstrated constitutive, crizotinib-independent phosphoinositide 3-kinase pathway signaling as demonstrated by phosphorylated AKT and ribosomal protein S6. Both U87MG and GTL-16 tumors showed high baseline uptake of (18)F-FLT, which was reduced by 50% and 53% on days 4 and 8 of treatment, respectively.
While the results provide a strong rationale to investigate the use of (18)F-FLT PET as a clinical biomarker for monitoring tumor response to c-MET inhibition, (18)F-FDG PET may be a less robust marker.
Female SNF(1) hybrid mice spontaneously develop an immune complex-mediated glomerulonephritis as early as 24 weeks of age, whereas the disease onset in males is much slower. Further, a rise in concentration of glomerulus-specific autoantibodies via autoreactive B cells is critical to progression of the disease in this strain. Environmental factors contributing to the onset or degree of such autoimmunity are of interest yet poorly understood. In the present study, time-pregnant SWR x NZB dams (10/treatment) were gavaged on gestational 12 with 40 or 80 mg/kg 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD), and the SNF(1) offspring were evaluated at 24 weeks of age. Bone marrow B220(low)CD24(-)AA4.1(+) committed B lineage progenitors were increased in female offspring by TCDD, however, committed progenitors and pro-B cells were decreased in males. Splenic marginal zone B cells (CD21(hi)CD24(low-int)) were decreased and follicular B cells (CD21(int)CD24(low)) were increased across sex by prenatal TCDD, whereas transitional-2 B cells (CD21(int)CD24(hi)) and (CD23(low-int) CD1(low-int)) were decreased in males only. Antibodies to double-stranded DNA were significantly increased across sex by TCDD. Anti-IgG and anti-C3 immune complex renal deposition was visibly worsened in females, and present in TCDD-treated males. These data suggest that developmental exposure to TCDD permanently and differentially alters humoral immune function by sex, and exacerbates a type III hypersensitivity lupus-like autoimmune disease in genetically predisposed mice.
A total of 283 adult and pediatric patients treated with drug combinations which include adriamycin (ADM) had at least one cardiac evaluation; 103 patients had two or more serial studies after a baseline evaluation. Changes in systolic time intervals, echocardiographically determined ejection fractions, and electrocardiographic voltage correlated with increasing cumulative ADM dosage. However, the incidence of congestive heart failure among these patients was less than 2%. It is estimated that 22%-31% of these patients would not have completed a cumulative dose of greater than 450 mg/m2 of ADM if the drug had been discontinued on the basis of these tests, using previously published criteria for cessation of treatment. Thus far, however, no adverse effects have been observed from the completion of planned courses of therapy. The clinical significance of serial changes in noninvasive tests is therefore uncertain. While such changes may reflect subclinical anthracycline cardiotoxicity and clinical cardiotoxicity can reliably be diagnosed, the utility of routine, serial noninvasie testing in planning conventional-dose anthracycline therapy is questionable.
No large, randomized, double-blind trials in children with proteinuria treated with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers have previously been reported.
This 12-week, double-blind, multinational study investigated the effects of losartan 0.7 to 1.4 mg/kg per day compared with placebo (normotensive stratum) or amlodipine 0.1 to 0.2 mg/kg per day up to 5 mg/d (hypertensive stratum) on proteinuria (morning-void urinary protein-creatinine ratio, baseline > or =0.3 g/g) in 306 children up to 17 years of age.
Twelve weeks of treatment with losartan significantly reduced proteinuria compared with amlodipine/placebo: losartan -35.8% (95% confidence interval: -27.6% to -43.1%) versus amlodipine/placebo 1.4% (95% confidence interval: -10.3% to 14.5%), P < or = 0.001. Significance remained after adjustment for differences across treatment groups in change in BP (losartan produced incremental systolic and diastolic BP reductions versus amlodipine of 5.4 and 4.6 mmHg, respectively; and versus placebo of 3.8 and 4.0 mmHg, respectively). Proteinuria reduction was consistently observed in the normotensive (-34.4% losartan; 2.6% placebo) and hypertensive (-41.5% losartan; 2.4% amlodipine) strata, and in all prespecified subgroups, including age, gender, race, Tanner stage, weight, prior therapy with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers, as well as among the most common etiologies of proteinuria. Adverse event incidence was low and comparable in all groups.
Losartan significantly lowered proteinuria and was well tolerated after 12 weeks in children aged 1 to 17 years with proteinuria with or without hypertension, a population that has not previously been rigorously studied.
The development and progression of liver cancer may involve abnormal changes in DNA methylation, which lead to the activation of certain proto-oncogenes, such as c-myc, as well as the inactivation of certain tumor suppressors, such as p16. Betaine, as an active methyl-donor, maintains normal DNA methylation patterns. However, there are few investigations on the protective effect of betaine in hepatocarcinogenesis.
Four groups of rats were given diethylinitrosamine (DEN) and fed with AIN-93G diets supplemented with 0, 10, 20 or 40 g betaine/kg (model, 1%, 2%, and 4% betaine, respectively), while the control group, received no DEN, fed with AIN-93G diet. Eight or 15 weeks later, the expression of p16 and c-myc mRNA was examined by Real-time PCR (Q-PCR). The DNA methylation status within the p16 and c-myc promoter was analyzed using methylation-specific PCR.
Compared with the model group, numbers and areas of glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-p)-positive foci were decreased in the livers of the rats treated with betaine (P < 0.05). Although the frequency of p16 promoter methylation in livers of the four DEN-fed groups appeared to increase, there is no difference among these groups after 8 or 15 weeks (P > 0.05). Betaine supplementation attenuated the down-regulation of p16 and inhibited the up-regulation of c-myc induced by DEN in a dose-dependent manner (P < 0.01). Meanwhile, increases in levels of malondialdehyde (MDA) and glutathione S-transferase (GST) in model, 2% and 4% betaine groups were observed (P < 0.05). Finally, enhanced antioxidative capacity (T-AOC) was observed in both the 2% and 4% betaine groups.
Our data suggest that betaine attenuates DEN-induced damage in rat liver and reverses DEN-induced changes in mRNA levels.
Pharmacological activation of the constitutive androstane receptor (CAR) protects the liver during cholestasis. The current study evaluates how activation of CAR influences genes involved in bile acid biosynthesis as a mechanism of hepatoprotection during bile acid-induced liver injury. CAR activators phenobarbital (PB) and 1,4-bis[2-(3,5-dichloropyridyloxy)]benzene (TCPOBOP) or corn oil (CO) were administered to C57BL/6 wild-type (WT) and CAR knockout (CAR-null) mice before and during induction of intrahepatic cholestasis using the secondary bile acid, lithocholic acid (LCA). In LCA-treated WT and all the CAR-null groups (excluding controls), histology revealed severe multifocal necrosis. This pathology was absent in WT mice pretreated with PB and TCPOBOP, indicating CAR-dependent hepatoprotection. Decreases in total hepatic bile acids and hepatic monohydroxy, dihydroxy, and trihydroxy bile acids in PB- and TCPOBOP-pretreated WT mice correlated with hepatoprotection. In comparison, concentrations of monohydroxylated and dihydroxylated bile acids were increased in all the treated CAR-null mice compared with CO controls. Along with several other enzymes (Cyp7b1, Cyp27a1, Cyp39a1), Cyp8b1 expression was increased in hepatoprotected mice, which could be suggestive of a shift in the bile acid biosynthesis pathway toward the formation of less toxic bile acids. In CAR-null mice, these changes in gene expression were not different among treatment groups. These results suggest CAR mediates a shift in bile acid biosynthesis toward the formation of less toxic bile acids, as well as a decrease in hepatic bile acid concentrations. We propose that these combined CAR-mediated effects may contribute to the hepatoprotection observed during LCA-induced liver injury.
Seventy-six endomyocardial biopsies obtained from 60 patients receiving adriamycin (ADM) and other anthracycline analogs were studied. The biopsies were studied by light and electron microscopy. Two main types of myocyte degeneration were consistently present, the lesions were focal, and inflammatory infiltrate was absent. The severity of pathologic changes was graded on a scale from 0 (normal) to 3 (marked abnormality). Twelve patients receiving previous mediastinal irradiation (600-5700 rads) showed a mean pathology grade (2.0 +/- 0.89) that was significantly higher than in those patients receiving a comparable dose of ADM but who were not irradiated (1.18 +/- 0.23) (P less than 0.01). This study indicated that radiation, even if remote, enhances ADM-induced cardiotoxicity and evokes a "recall" phenomenon of latent acute irradiation changes. Our data suggest that a specific, progressive, subclinical injury to the heart occurs with anthracycline therapy that cannot be detected reliably by conventional tests. Anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity in rabbits, monkeys, and dogs shows the same basic cellular lesions as in man. The analogs, adria-DNA and rubidazone, also show lesions similar to those produced by ADM in the human heart. The endomyocardial biopsy is a reliable method for monitoring cardiac damage due to anthracyclines in man.
Anthracycline derivatives may produce early or late cardiotoxic reactions in man. Early effects include: (a) pericarditis-myocarditis which can affect patients with no previous history of cardiac disease and which carries a high mortality rate ( approximately 20%); (b) left ventricular dysfunction which may lead to clinically significant heart failure in patients with limited cardiac reserve; and (c) arrhythmias, the most common of which is sinus tachycardia. Symptomatic supraventriclar tachycardia, heart block, and ventricular arrhythmias can occur, however, and may reflect primary effects on cardiac muscle or the conduction system. Late effects of anthracyclines are directly related to the degree of associated myocyte damage and include subclinical left ventricular dysfunction and overt heart failure. The implications for prognosis and further treatment are discussed for each of these entities and a common pathogenetic mechanism is proposed.
Recent work suggests that adriamycin (ADM) cardiotoxicity results from the depletion of coenzyme 10 (CoQ10) activity in myocardial mitochondria. CoQ10 is indispensable in the bioenergetics of coupled respiration of oxidative phosphorylation. It exists naturally in mitochondria, especially in the myocardium. Bertazzoli et al have reported a decrease in ADM-induced cardiotoxicity by CoQ10 both in vivo and in the in vitro isolated rabbit heart. The systolic time interval (ATI) (pre-ejection period/left ventricular ejection time ratio) has been shown to increase (indicating cardiac dysfunction) with increasing doses of ADM. We have noted a gradual increase in the STI in eight of ten patients receiving 200-500 mg/m2 of ADM. Two of these eight patients had congestive heart failure (CHF) at doses of 200 and 350 mg/m2. The continued daily oral administration of 50 mg of CoQ10 beginning with the first dose of ADM resulted in a decreased incidence of cardiac dysfunction, and a gradual increase in STI occurred in only two of eight patients receiving 200-400 mg/m2 of ADM. CHF was observed inone patient at a dose of 350 mg/m2. It is suggested that CoQ10 was nontoxic and did not affect the antitumor activity or modify the ADM-induced bone marrow toxicity. A prospective randomized study comparing ADM with and without CoQ10 is in progress.
Artemether (Art), a derivative of the antimalarial artemisinin, also exhibit antischistosomal properties. N-acetylcysteine (NAC) has a diversity of applications, largely because of the chemical properties of the thiol moiety present in its structure. The ability of this moiety to sweep reactive oxygen species is well-established with NAC. This study investigates the ability of NAC to enhance the therapeutic potential of Art against adult Schistosoma mansoni infection and evaluates the protective role of this antioxidant on S. mansoni-induced oxidative stress. Mice were divided into five groups; normal (i), infected control (ii), infected treated with NAC, 300mg/kg 5 days a week/4weeks (iii), infected treated with Art (300mg/kg) 7 weeks post infection (iv) and infected treated with both NAC and Art (v). Results showed that Art produced a significant reduction in total number of worms when used alone. Also, it decreased hepatic ova count significantly accompanied with an increase in the percentage of dead ova. Treatment with NAC alone increased the percentage of dead ova; meanwhile, it enhanced the decrease in total number of worms and hepatic ova count when used with Art. Infection with S. mansoni significantly increased tissue GSH, GR, SOD and serum ALT and GGT, while decreased the activities of GST, GPx and the levels of proteins and albumin compared to normal control. Treatment with NAC alone approximately recovered the contents of GSH, activities of GPx and levels of serum albumin, ALT and GGT relative to normal control. A tendency for normalization in activities of the antioxidant enzymes mentioned above and serum levels of liver function tests was observed in the groups treated with Art alone or Art+NAC.
NAC downregulates oxidative stress induced by S. mansoni infection and enhances the therapeutic potential of artemether against adult schistosomes.
The protective effects of high dose antenatal vitamin E on hypoxemia in newborn rats were investigated. The subjects were 1-d-old Wistar rats weighing 5-6 g which were born to mothers weighing 245-250 g. Three groups of rat pups, each consisting of eight newborn rats, were used: nontreated control group, hypoxic group, and vitamin E group. The mothers of pups in the last group were given vitamin E (2000 mg/kg/d) antenatally on 3 consecutive days. Hypoxia was induced by breathing of a mixture of 8% oxygen and 92% nitrogen for 3 h. Then pups were allowed to inhale normal atmospheric air for 30 min. All rats were killed on the first day of life after the procedure of hypoxia and reoxygenation. The brains, lungs, livers, intestines, and kidneys were studied biochemically and histopathologically. The hypoxia-induced biochemical changes were determined by measuring lipid peroxidation and myeloperoxidase activity. Vitamin E effectively inhibited hypoxia-induced lipid peroxidation in liver and intestines, and decreased the levels of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances in brain. In agreement with lipid peroxidation, tissue associated myeloperoxidase activity was increased in liver, intestines, and kidneys, but not in brain and lungs, of the hypoxic group. Histopathologic changes in intestines were epithelial separation and submucosal polymorphonuclear leukocyte infiltration. In the liver, leukocyte infiltration was observed only near the portal areas. These changes were not observed in the vitamin E group. It was concluded that high doses of antenatal vitamin E may protect the newborn rat pups against hypoxia-induced tissue injury.
We have identified a novel RPGR gene mutation in a large Dutch family with X-linked retinitis pigmentosa (RP3). In affected members, a G-->T transversion was found at position +1 of the 5' splice site of intron 5 of the RPGR (retinitis pigmentosa GTPase regulator) gene. Analysis of this mutation at the RNA level showed cryptic splicing upstream of the mutation in exon 5 leading to a frameshift and downstream termination codon. Identification of the causative mutation in this family has facilitated the detection of females at risk of having an affected son.
We describe 2 patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome who had potentially fatal bradyarrhythmia that occurred shortly after commencement of antiretroviral therapy. Lopinavir-ritonavir was the only drug that both patients were using.
Carvedilol, a new beta-blocker with antioxidant properties, has been shown to be cardioprotective in experimental models of myocardial damage. We investigated whether carvedilol protects against experimental autoimmune myocarditis (EAM) because of its suppression of inflammatory cytokines and its antioxidant properties. We orally administered a vehicle, various doses of carvedilol, racemic carvedilol [R(+)-carvedilol, an enantiomer of carvedilol without beta-blocking activity], metoprolol, or propranolol to rats with EAM induced by porcine myosin for 3 wk. Echocardiographic study showed that the three beta-blockers, except R(+)-carvedilol, suppressed left ventricular fractional shortening and decreased heart rates to the same extent. Carvedilol and R(+)-carvedilol, but not metoprolol or propranolol, markedly reduced the severity of myocarditis at the two different doses and suppressed thickening of the left ventricular posterior wall in rats with EAM. Only carvedilol suppressed myocardial mRNA expression of inflammatory cytokines and IL-1beta protein expression in myocarditis. In addition, carvedilol and R(+)-carvedilol decreased myocardial protein carbonyl contents and myocardial thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance products in rats with EAM. The in vitro study showed that carvedilol and R(+)-carvedilol suppressed IL-1beta production in LPS-stimulated U937 cells and that carvedilol and R(+)-carvedilol, but not metoprolol or propranolol, suppressed thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance products in myocardial membrane challenged by oxidative stress. It was also confirmed that probucol, an antioxidant, ameliorated EAM in vivo. Carvedilol protects against acute EAM in rats, and the superior cardioprotective effect of carvedilol compared with metoprolol and propranolol may be due to suppression of inflammatory cytokines associated with the antioxidant properties in addition to the hemodynamic modifications.
Male rats with complete transections of the spinal cord were administered vehicle or methylprednisolone (MP) for 24 h, with or without infusion, for 7 days, of testosterone at either a replacement or low pharmacological doses. Muscles were collected at 7 days after SCI.
The objective of this study is to determine, in a rat model of complete spinal cord transection, whether testosterone reduces muscle atrophy or upregulates muscle atrophy-linked genes, induced by 24 h of MP administration at doses comparable to those prescribed in man during the period immediately following acute spinal cord injury (SCI) in an attempt to preserve neurological function.
MP significantly reduced the mass of triceps, soleus and plantaris, and significantly increased expression of genes that promote atrophy. Testosterone significantly reduced muscle atrophy induced by MP, but did not prevent it; there was no difference between low- or high-dose testosterone in reducing MP-induced muscle loss. High-dose testosterone reduced expression of muscle atrophy genes more than did low dose. Testosterone-induced declines in mRNA levels for these atrophy-associated genes did not correlate well with protection against MP-induced muscle atrophy.
MP induces marked and lasting changes in the biology of muscle that persisted for at least 7 days, or 6 days after MP has been eliminated from the body. Testosterone partially protected against muscle atrophy and gene expression changes caused by 1 day of MP.
Two cases of deliberate self-poisoning with 5 g and 3.6 g of amisulpride, respectively, are reported. In both cases, QT prolongation and hypocalcaemia were noted. The QT prolongation appeared to respond to administration of i.v. calcium gluconate.
Organic solute transporter (OSTalpha-OSTbeta) is a novel heteromeric bile acid and sterol transporter expressed at the basolateral membranes of epithelium in the ileum, kidney, and liver. To determine whether OSTalpha-OSTbeta undergoes farnesoid X receptor (FXR)-dependent adaptive regulation following cholestatic liver injury, mRNA and protein expression levels were analyzed in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC) and following common bile duct ligation (CBDL) in rats and Fxr null and wild-type mice. Hepatic OSTalpha and OSTbeta mRNA increased 3- and 32-fold, respectively, in patients with PBC compared with controls, whereas expression of Ostalpha and Ostbeta also increased in the liver of rats and mice following CBDL. In contrast, expression of Ostalpha and Ostbeta mRNA was generally lower in Fxr null mice, and CBDL failed to enhance expression of Ostalpha and Ostbeta compared with wild-type mice. HepG2 cells treated for 24 h with chenodeoxycholic acid, a selective FXR ligand, had higher levels of OSTalpha and OSTbeta mRNA and protein. Increases in OST protein were visualized by confocal microscopy at the plasma membrane. These results indicate that expression of Ostalpha and Ostbeta are highly regulated in response to cholestasis and that this response is dependent on the FXR bile acid receptor.
A high incidence of urethral strictures was noted in patients with prostatic cancer who were treated by antiandrogen therapy. Retrograde urethrograms showed urethral stricture in 24 of 42 patients (57%) after or during the therapy, despite the fact that no stricture was found before initiation of therapy. The stricture was long and the entire penile urethra was narrowed, associated with more severely constricted portions. All of the patients with urethral stricture had received estrogens, while none of the patients who had undergone castration alone or had not received any therapy showed a stricture. The strictures disappeared after the cessation of estrogen administration. These results indicate that estrogen administration induces stricture in the male anterior urethra. It is suggested that large amounts of estrogen cause atrophy and fibrosis of the spongy and cavernous bodies of the penis, depriving the urethra of its normal elasticity, which results in urethral stricture. The stricture is one of the complications of estrogen therapy for cancer of the prostate.
Endomyocardial biopsies and cardiac catheterizations were performed in 55 patients treated with adriamycin (ADM). Eleven patients underwent serial invasive studies. In addition, most of these patients had systolic time interval determinations, echocardiograms, and electrocardiograms at the time of catheterization. The relationship of these various tests to cumulative dose of ADM and to the incidence of cardiac dysfunction was analyzed. Only pathologic assessment of ADM-induced myocardial damage showed a progressive stepwise increase in severity at successively higher doses of ADM. In addition, the incidence of myocardial dysfunction correlated well only with pathologic findings on biopsy. We conclude that standard noninvasive methods of assessing ADM cardiotoxicity are inadequate and that histopathologic assessment by means of endomyocardial biopsy is a valuable, reliable, and accurate technique.
Perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA, also known as C8) and perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) are stable compounds with many industrial and consumer uses. Their persistence in the environment plus toxicity in animal models has raised concern over low-level chronic exposure effects on human health.
We estimated associations between serum PFOA and PFOS concentrations and thyroid disease prevalence in representative samples of the U.S. general population.
Analyses of PFOA/PFOS versus disease status in the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) for 1999-2000, 2003-2004, and 2005-2006 included 3,974 adults with measured concentrations for perfluorinated chemicals. Regression models were adjusted for age, sex, race/ethnicity, education, smoking status, body mass index, and alcohol intake.
The NHANES-weighted prevalence of reporting any thyroid disease was 16.18% (n = 292) in women and 3.06% (n = 69) in men; prevalence of current thyroid disease with related medication was 9.89% (n = 163) in women and 1.88% (n = 46) in men. In fully adjusted logistic models, women with PFOA >or= 5.7 ng/mL [fourth (highest) population quartile] were more likely to report current treated thyroid disease [odds ratio (OR) = 2.24; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.38-3.65; p = 0.002] compared with PFOA <or= 4.0 ng/mL (quartiles 1 and 2); we found a near significant similar trend in men (OR = 2.12; 95% CI, 0.93-4.82; p = 0.073). For PFOS, in men we found a similar association for those with PFOS >or= 36.8 ng/mL (quartile 4) versus <or= 25.5 ng/mL (quartiles 1 and 2: OR for treated disease = 2.68; 95% CI, 1.03-6.98; p = 0.043); in women this association was not significant.
Higher concentrations of serum PFOA and PFOS are associated with current thyroid disease in the U.S. general adult population. More work is needed to establish the mechanisms involved and to exclude confounding and pharmacokinetic explanations.
It has been shown that bromocriptine-induced tachycardia, which persisted after adrenalectomy, is (i) mediated by central dopamine D2 receptor activation and (ii) reduced by 5-day isoproterenol pretreatment, supporting therefore the hypothesis that this effect is dependent on sympathetic outflow to the heart. This study was conducted to examine whether prolonged pretreatment with isoproterenol could abolish bromocriptine-induced tachycardia in conscious rats. Isoproterenol pretreatment for 15 days caused cardiac hypertrophy without affecting baseline blood pressure and heart rate. In control rats, intravenous bromocriptine (150 microg/kg) induced significant hypotension and tachycardia. Bromocriptine-induced hypotension was unaffected by isoproterenol pretreatment, while tachycardia was reversed to significant bradycardia, an effect that was partly reduced by i.v. domperidone (0.5 mg/kg). Neither cardiac vagal nor sympathetic tone was altered by isoproterenol pretreatment. In isolated perfused heart preparations from isoproterenol-pretreated rats, the isoproterenol-induced maximal increase in left ventricular systolic pressure was significantly reduced, compared with saline-pretreated rats (the EC50 of the isoproterenol-induced increase in left ventricular systolic pressure was enhanced approximately 22-fold). These results show that 15-day isoproterenol pretreatment not only abolished but reversed bromocriptine-induced tachycardia to bradycardia, an effect that is mainly related to further cardiac beta-adrenoceptor desensitization rather than to impairment of autonomic regulation of the heart. They suggest that, in normal conscious rats, the central tachycardia of bromocriptine appears to predominate and to mask the bradycardia of this agonist at peripheral dopamine D2 receptors.
A case report describing the occurrence of nephrotoxicity in a 26-year-old black male with sickle cell anemia after concurrent i.v. administration of gentamicin sulfate and cephalothin sodium is presented. Cephalothin 1 g.i.v. every six hours was given for three days for a Klebsiella infection demonstrated by urine and blood culture to be cephalosporin sensitive. Cephalothin was then discontinued and gentamicin, after an i.v. loading dose of 2.6 mg/kg, was given for 14 days in a dosage of 1.3 mg/kg every eight hours. After cultures of pus aspirated from the right thigh demonstrated Klebsiella, 2 g of cephalothin was administered i.v. every six hours and gentamicin sulfate was discontinued. Gentamicin therapy was reinstituted two days later, at a dosage of 5 mg/kg/day. The gentamicin-cephalothin therapy was continued for nine days. The gentamicin dosage interval was increased from every eight to every 16 hours when serum creatinine and gentamicin levels became elevated. Gentamicin was discontinued entirely two days later because serum gentamicin levels were not decreasing. Previous case reports and studies of nephrotoxicity associated with concurrent gentamicin-cephalothin therapy are reviewed. Pharmacists should be alert to the possible increased incidence of nephrotoxicity occurring with concurrent genticin-cephalothin therapy.
Recently, we have shown that low iron state reduces benzoyl peroxide-mediated tumor promotion in murine skin. To further test the dependence of iron on skin tumor development, we assessed the effect of a low iron diet on 12- O-tetradecanoyl phorbol-13-acetate (TPA)-mediated tumor promotion in murine skin. Female Swiss albino mice were fed on a low iron diet and initiated with a single dose of 7,12-dimethylbenz[ a]anthracene (DMBA, 40 microg as 150 microl per mouse) and promoted with TPA (2.5 microg as 200 microl per mouse, twice-weekly application for 20 weeks). The appearance of the first papilloma and the number of tumors (papillomas and carcinomas) per mouse were recorded weekly. We observed a decrease in tumor incidence (papillomas and carcinomas) and number of tumors per mouse in TPA-promoted mice fed on low iron diet (0.23 mg Fe/kg diet) compared to normal mice fed on balanced mouse chow (1.70 mg Fe/kg diet). The total iron consumption per day by mice being fed on balanced mouse chow was 340-400 microg Fe/kg body weight, and the total iron consumption per day by mice being fed on low iron diet was 45-55 microg Fe/kg body weight. The number of papillomas per mouse was 45% lower and the conversion of papillomas to carcinomas was about 20% lower in mice fed a low iron diet. The tumor size was also smaller in mice being fed on low iron diet. TPA treatment resulted in decreases in the activities of antioxidant enzymes and depletion in the level of epidermal reduced glutathione (GSH). Feeding mice on low iron diet along with TPA treatment resulted in approximately 50-75% recovery of the depleted levels of GSH and antioxidant enzymes. In addition, TPA-mediated induction of biological markers of tumor promotion, viz. ornithine decarboxylase activity and [(3)H]thymidine incorporation into cutaneous DNA, was about 60% lower in TPA-treated mice fed on low iron diet than in normal mice treated with TPA. Cutaneous iron levels were also lower in mice fed on low iron diet than in mice fed on normal diet. Histopathological sections of the skin portion adjoining tumors showed a lower degree of epidermal hyperplasia and lesser infiltration of inflammatory cells in the dermis, and absence of hyperkeratosis in mice fed on low iron diet. Thus, in this study we observe that the tumor promoting potential of TPA is reduced in mice fed on low iron diet, which is also accompanied by lesser inflammatory changes in the skin of tumor-bearing mice fed on low iron diet.
In the present study, the role of endothelin-1 (ET-1) on alterations of hepatic and renal metallothionein (MT) and trace metals (Zn, Cu, and Fe) were investigated in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats. Diabetic rats, age- and sex-matched controls, as well as control and diabetic animals on a dual ETA/ETB receptor blocker, bosentan, were investigated after 6 months of follow-up. MT was measured by cadmium-heme assay. Metals were measured by atomic absorption spectrometer. ET-1 mRNA was analyzed by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) technique. Hepatic and renal ET-1 mRNA was increased in diabetic rats as compared to control rats, along with an increase in both hepatic and renal MT proteins. The increased hepatic MT protein level was associated with decreases in hepatic Cu and Fe, whereas increased renal MT was associated with increases in renal Cu and Fe accumulation. Zn levels were unaltered in both organs in diabetic rats. Bosentan treatment partially prevented the increase in MT levels in both liver and kidney, along with reduced serum creatinine and increased urinary creatinine levels. Further bosentan treatment corrected the increased Cu and Fe levels in the kidney in diabetic rats, but reduced hepatic Cu and Fe levels. No significant effects of bosentan treatment on nondiabetic rats were observed. The data suggest that the possible effects of ET antagonism in diabetes may be mediated via changes in MT and trace metals.
(1) Parkinsonian syndromes have occasionally been attributed to diltiazem, a calcium channel blocker, sometimes with a positive rechallenge. (2) Verapamil and amlodipine have also been implicated. (3) Prescribers should be aware of the possible role of these drugs in patients presenting with a parkinsonian syndrome.
