Bacillus thuringiensis strains C-4, C-9, GM-7, and GM-10, isolated from northeast Mexico and selected for their high toxicity against lepidopteran and coleopteran pests, were characterized following United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)'s guidelines. Flagellar serotyping revealed that GM-7 and GM-10 belonged to serotype aizawai, whereas C-4, C-9 corresponded to the kumamotoensis serotype. GM-10 and C-9 were also shown to be the most effective against lepidoptera and coleoptera larvae, respectively. None of the tested strains produced beta-exotoxin or showed activity against mosquitoes. GM-7 and GM-10 were sensitive to R-41 and CP-51 phages. All strains synthesized crystal proteins of 130-140 kDa. PCR analysis showed that C-4, GM-7, and GM-10 strains expressed cry1 genes, and C-9 expressed cry3 and cry7/8 genes, but not cry1. However, the C-9 strain had no cross-reaction with antisera raised against Cry3A and Cry7A proteins. GM-7 and GM-10 were sensitive to R-41 and CP-51 phages. When the delta-endotoxin (crystal) from the four strains was subcutaneously injected to Balb/c mice, alone or in combination with spores, only C-4 and C-9 provoked tissue necrosis similar to that caused by the beta-exotoxin producer HD-41. Tissue necrosis was prevented with the injection of pentoxifylline, an inhibitor of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) production, suggesting a role of this cytokine in the observed effect. Our results demonstrated that GM-7 and GM-10 strains are effective and suitable for control of lepidopteran pests and safe for mammals under EPA regulations. The potential of the C-9 strain for the control of several coleopteran pests, and the induction of tissue necrosis in mice by C-4 and C-9 strains, are discussed.
Nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB) is activated by oxidative stress such as that induced by transient focal cerebral ischemia (tFCI). Whether NF-kappaB has a role in cell survival or death in stroke is a matter of debate. We proposed that the status of oxidative stress may determine its role in cell death or survival after focal ischemia. To characterize the coordinated expression of genes in NF-kappaB signaling after mild cerebral ischemia, we investigated the temporal profile of a NF-kappaB-pathway-focused DNA array after 30 mins of tFCI in wild-type (WT) mice and human copper/zinc-superoxide dismutase transgenic (SOD1 Tg) mice that had a significantly reduced level of superoxide. Differentially expressed genes among 96 NF-kappaB-related genes were further confirmed and compared in the WT and SOD1 Tg mice using quantitative polymerase chain reaction, Western blotting, and immunohistochemistry. Persistent upregulation of NF-kappaB seen at 7 days in the WT mice was decreased in the SOD1 Tg mice. Lymphocytotrophic cytokine genes such as interleukin-2, interleukin-12, and interferon-alpha1 were increased in the SOD1 Tg mice compared with the WT mice after tFCI. In addition, antiapoptosis factors bcl-2 and tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 1 rapidly increased in the SOD1 Tg mice compared with the WT mice. This study indicates that reduced oxidative stress by SOD1 overexpression increased NF-kappaB-related rapid defenses, such as immune response and antiapoptosis factors, and prevented brain damage after tFCI-induced oxidative stress.
Capsaicin (trans-8-methyl-N-vanillyl-6-nonenamide) is thought to produce analgesic and possibly also antipruritic effects when applied topically. Capsaicin 0.05% was applied three times daily over a 5-day period to the same infrascapular region. The effects of the pretreatment upon the pruritogenic and wheal and flare reactions to subsequent histamine iontophoresis (20 mC) were evaluated on the following day. The antipruritic effects of the pretreatment were compared with the effects of placebo pretreatment and no pretreatment. Wheal and flare areas were evaluated planimetrically. Itch or pain were rated every minute over a 24-min period. The areas of alloknesis, i.e. the induction of perifocal itch sensation by usually nonitching (e.g. mechanical) stimuli, were also evaluated. In control subjects, but not in atopic eczema (AE) patients, capsaicin pretreatment significantly reduced the flare area. Compared with control subjects, AE patients showed a lack of alloknesis or significantly smaller areas of alloknesis in pretreated and nonpretreated skin. In control subjects, capsaicin pretreatment significantly reduced itch sensations compared with nonpretreated skin, whereas in AE patients no differences were seen. Itch sensations in capsaicin-pretreated skin were significantly lower in control subjects than in AE patients. We conclude that capsaicin does effectively suppress histamine-induced itching in healthy skin but has less effect in AE. The diminished itch sensations and the absence of alloknesis in atopic individuals indicate that histamine is not the key factor in itching in AE.
This study evaluated the safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics of zidovudine administered intravenously and orally to infants born to women infected with the human immunodeficiency virus. Thirty-two symptom-free infants were enrolled before 3 months of age. The pharmacokinetics of zidovudine were evaluated in each infant after single intravenously and orally administered doses of zidovudine on consecutive days, and during long-term oral administration of the drug for 4 to 6 weeks. As new patients were enrolled, doses of zidovudine were progressively increased from 2 to 4 mg/kg. Therapy was continued for up to 12 months in 7 of the infants proved to be infected with human immunodeficiency virus. Zidovudine was generally well tolerated; 20 children (62.5%) had anemia (hemoglobin level < 10.0 gm/dl) during therapy and 9 (28.1%) had neutropenia (neutrophil count < or = 750 cells/mm3); these hematologic abnormalities usually resolved spontaneously. The total body clearance of zidovudine increased significantly with age, from an average of 10.9 ml/min per kilogram in infants < or = 14 days of age to 19.0 ml/min per kilogram in older infants (p < 0.0001). Concurrently, there was a significant decrease in serum half-life from 3.12 hours in infants < or = 14 days to 1.87 hours in older infants (p = 0.0002). Oral absorption was satisfactory and bioavailability decreased significantly with age, from 89% in infants < or = 14 days to 61% in those > 14 days of age (p = 0.0002). Plasma concentrations of zidovudine were calculated to be in excess of 1 mumol/L (0.267 micrograms/ml) for 4.12 +/- 1.86 hours and 2.25 +/- 0.78 hours after oral doses of 2 mg/kg in infants younger than 2 weeks and 3 mg/kg in older infants, respectively. We conclude that zidovudine administered at oral doses of 2 mg/kg every 6 hours to infants aged less than 2 weeks and 3 mg/kg every 6 hours to infants older than 2 weeks resulted in plasma concentrations that are considered virustatic against human immunodeficiency virus. Zidovudine was well tolerated by infants at these doses.
The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that, in the presence of high circulating catecholamines, ACTH decreases renal excretory capability and that its natriuretic effects are caused by increased renal arterial pressure (RAP). In six conscious dogs, norepinephrine (NE, 0.4 micrograms.kg-1.min-1) alone for 5 days caused a small but significant rise in arterial pressure (AP) from 102 +/- 6 to 115 +/- 8 mmHg. An infusion of ACTH (600 micrograms/day) for 7 days, superimposed upon the NE, caused a further rise in AP to a plateau of 143 +/- 9 mmHg after 5 days while cumulative sodium balance fell to -149 +/- 41 meq by the 7th day. Cumulative water balance fell to -660 +/- 232 ml by the 3rd day and then increased slightly. In contrast, when ACTH infusion was repeated during NE infusion while RAP was prevented from increasing using a servo-controlled aortic occluder, cumulative sodium balance increased to 197 +/- 35 meq and AP rose from 108 +/- 5 to 168 +/- 5 mmHg after 7 days and did not plateau. Cumulative water balance rose to 2,325 +/- 445 ml. Thus, in dogs receiving a background infusion of NE, ACTH causes moderate hypertension and natriuresis. However, when RAP is not allowed to rise, ACTH is associated with sodium retention and severe systemic hypertension, suggesting that the natriuretic effects of ACTH are caused by increased RAP and that the natriuresis blunts the chronic hypertensive effects of ACTH.
General toxicity and genetic materials damage of formaldehyde on germ cells in different stages was studied. In order to discover the toxicity mechanism of formaldehyde on germ cells and the biomarkers of effect after the presence of damage in germ cells and the estimation index, the relationships between the damage of germ cells and the MDA, SDH activity and Cu and Zn. in testicle tissue were investigated. Male mice exposed to formaldehyde by i.p. for 5 days. Formaldehyde doses were: 0.20 mg/kg, 2.00 mg/kg, 20.00 mg/kg. Mice were killed at the 6th day and the 14th day. HE staining was used to study the pathological changes happened in testicle tissue. In order to study the changes in sperm, the sperms and the abnormality of the sperm's heads were observed. In order to study the damage of the genetic material in the germ cells, the frequencies of sister chromosome exchanges and the frequencies of MN cells were studied. MDA was measured by MDA diagnosis box. Copper and zinc were determined by FAAS. US was used to determine the SDH activity in serum and testicle tissue. The results showed that: The main pathological changes in testicle tissue of formaldehyde groups were degeneration; The sperm quantity was decreased and the sperm heads deformation ratio was increased in all formaldehyde groups; There were a significant increase of MN ratio in early spermatogenic cells and SCE ratio in medial and high dose groups; The MDA in testicle tissue significant increased in high dose group. The SDH activity in testicle tissue was declined in all formaldehyde groups; There were a significant decline of copper and zinc in testicle tissue in high dose group. It is suggested that: Formaldehyde could induce genetic materials in spermatogone, primary spermatocyte and caused degeneration and necrosis in secondary spermatocyte, spermatogenic cell, sperm; The damage of LPO, decline of copper and zinc and SDH activity in mice's testicle tissue could be caused by formaldehyde; The effect of lipid peroxidation may be one of the toxicity mechanisms of formaldehyde on genetic materials; SDH is the biomarkers of effect after the toxicity effects induced by formaldehyde on germ cells appeared; Testing the sperm heads deformation ratio is the estimation index that can be used to judge the general toxicity of germ cells and the damage on their genetic materials of formaldehyde.
Most of the bone, cartilage and connective tissue of the lower jaw is derived from cranial neural crest cells (NCCs) arising from the posterior midbrain and hindbrain. Multiple factors direct the patterning of these NCCs, including endothelin-1-mediated endothelin A receptor (Edn1/Ednra) signaling. Loss of Ednra signaling results in multiple defects in lower jaw and neck structures, including homeotic transformation of lower jaw structures into upper jaw-like structures. However, since the Ednra gene is expressed by both migrating and post-migrating NCCs, the actual function of Ednra in cranial NCC development is not clear. Ednra signaling could be required for normal migration or guidance of NCCs to the pharyngeal arches or in subsequent events in post-migratory NCCs, including proliferation and survival. To address this question, we performed a fate analysis of cranial NCCs in Ednra-/- embryos using the R26R;Wnt1-Cre reporter system, in which Cre expression within NCCs results in permanent beta-galactosidase activity in NCCs and their derivatives. We find that loss of Ednra does not detectably alter either migration of most cranial NCCs into the mandibular first arch and second arch or their subsequent proliferation. However, mesenchymal cell apoptosis is increased two fold in both E9.5 and E10.5 Ednra-/- embryos, with apoptotic cells being present in and just proximal to the pharyngeal arches. Based on these studies, Ednra signaling appears to be required by most cranial NCCs after they reach the pharyngeal arches. However, a subset of NCCs appear to require Ednra signaling earlier, with loss of Ednra signaling likely leading to premature cessation of migration into or within the arches and subsequent cell death.
Activation of the Wnt signaling pathway has been implicated recently in the pathogenesis of leukemia. We studied the function of epigenetic regulation of the Wnt pathway and its prognostic relevance in acute myelogenous leukemia (AML). We used a methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction approach to analyze the promoter methylation status of a panel of Wnt antagonists including sFRP1, sFRP2, sFRP4, sFRP5, DKK1 and DKK3. Aberrant methylation of Wnt antagonists was detected in four AML cell lines and in up to 64% of AML marrow samples. Treatment of the cell lines with 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine induced reexpression of methylated Wnt antagonists and inactivation of the Wnt pathway by downregulating the Wnt pathway genes cyclin D1, TCF1 and LEF1 and reducing nuclear localization of beta-catenin. In a subgroup of patients 60 years and younger with newly diagnosed AML and intermediate-risk cytogenetics, abnormal methylation of Wnt antagonists was associated with decreased 4-year relapse-free survival (28 vs 61%, respectively, P=0.03). Our results indicate a function of the epigenetic regulation of the Wnt pathway in predicting relapse in a subgroup of AML patients.
Potential risk factors responsible for development of doxorubicin-induced congestive heart failure were examined through retrospective analysis of 4018 patient records. The overall incidence of drug-induced congestive heart failure was 2.2% (88 cases). The probability of incurring doxorubicin-induced congestive heart failure was related to the total dose of doxorubicin administered. There was a continuum of increasing risk as the cumulative amount of administered drug increased. A weekly dose schedule of doxorubicin was associated with a significantly lower incidence of congestive heart failure than was the usually employed every 3-week schedule. An increase in drug-related congestive heart failure was also seen with advancing patient age. Performance status, sex, race, and tumor type were not risk factors. These data will enable clinicians to better estimate the risk/benefit ratio in individual patients receiving prolonged administration of doxorubicin. They also provide a basis for the investigation of less cardiotoxic anthracycline analogues or for designing measures to prevent doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy.
We report the first case of lethal intracranial haemorrhage complicating a treatment by rt-PA in a patient presenting with a simultaneous staphylococcal septicemia with meningoencephalitis and an acute myocardial infarction with cardiogenic shock. The presence of microvascular lesions in the central nervous system seems to be important risk factor for intracranial haemorrhage and we recommend extreme caution in the use of thrombolytic treatment in septicemic patients with acute myocardial infarction, particularly when neurological symptoms are present.
Effect of carvedilol on lipid peroxidation was investigated in patients with stable angina. The study comprised 30 patients (20 men and 10 women), aged 38-55 years (mean 48.3 years) with stable angina. The patients were administered carvedilol in increasing every four weeks doses: 12.5 mg/day, 25 mg/day, 50 mg/day. The control group consisted of 12 healthy subjects aged 39-49 years (mean 45.7 years). Blood samples were collected before and 4,8 and 12 weeks after therapy in patients and once in control group. Our study has been approved by the local Ethics Committee. MDA concentration in plasma and erythrocytes, which is a recognised indicator of tissue injury caused by reactive oxygen species, was measured according to Placer et al. MDA concentration was significantly higher (p < 0.05) in patients with stable angina than in control group. After 4, 8 and 12 weeks of carvedilol therapy, decrease in MDA concentration was observed in comparison to the initial values. MDA concentration did not differ in patients from that observed in healthy subjects after 8 and 12 weeks of therapy The results of our study have shown that carvedilol inhibits lipid peroxidation in patients with stable angina.
Azelaic acid (AZA) has been used successfully in the treatment of lentigo maligna melanoma. Since it is generally accepted that the fibrinolytic potential of tumour cells is related to their malignant phenotype, it was the aim of this study to investigate the effect of AZA on the fibrinolytic potential of three different human melanoma cell lines (Bowes, GUBSB and MJZJ). Melanoma cells were incubated with AZA in doses ranging from 10(-2) M to 4 x 10(-2) M for 5, 8 and 24 h. The expression of tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA), urokinase-type PA (u-PA) and PA inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) in such treated cells was investigated by specific ELISAs on the protein level and by Northern blotting on the mRNA level. AZA caused a time and dose dependent decrease in the fibrinolytic potential of all three cell lines investigated by decreasing t-PA antigen in Bowes, by decreasing u-PA antigen in GUBSB and by increasing PAI-1 antigen in MJZJ cells, respectively. There was no significant difference between the viability of cells in control cultures and those treated with AZA. The effect of AZA on specific mRNA for t-PA in Bowes cells, u-PA in GUBSB and PAI-1 in MJZJ was consistent with its effect on the secretion of these fibrinolytic proteins by the respective cells. The results show that AZA decreases the fibrinolytic potential of the three human melanoma cell lines in vitro. This decrease may be operative in the mechanism by which AZA has been shown to affect malignant melanoma in vivo.
We studied calcitriol metabolism in white patients with chronic renal failure and in age- and sex-matched normal subjects. The plasma levels of calcitriol (21.9 +/- 1.6 pg/mL, n = 7, v control, 37.4 +/- 2.9 pg/mL, P less than 0.001), metabolic clearance rate (MCR) of calcitriol (0.45 +/- .01 mL/min/kg v control, 0.58 +/- .02 mL/min/kg, P less than 0.001), and production rate (PR) of calcitriol (14.2 +/- 1.0 ng/kg/d v control, 31.8 +/- 3.2 ng/kg/d, P less than 0.001) were significantly lower in patients with moderate renal failure (average creatinine clearance, 0.59 +/- 0.01 mL/s [35.1 +/- 6.1 mL/min]) when compared with the respective values of normal control subjects. The MCR of calcitriol was determined again in patients with renal failure after they received calcitriol, 1 microgram/d, for 1 week. The MCR remained unchanged (0.46 +/- .04 mL/min/kg, n = 7) and plasma levels of calcitriol were increased to 34.6 +/- 2.77 pg/mL. The mechanism by which the MCR of calcitriol decreases in renal failure is partly due to the presence of inhibitory factors of degradation enzymes in uremic plasma. When the ultrafiltrates of uremic plasma obtained from hemodialysis patients were infused to normal Sprague-Dawley rats, the MCRs of calcitriol (0.20 +/- .01 mL/min/kg, n = 6) were markedly suppressed in comparison to those of rats infused with the ultrafiltrates of normal plasma (0.37 +/- .01 mL/min/kg, n = 6, P less than 0.001). The uremic plasma also contained factors that inhibit the synthesis of calcitriol. We conclude that metabolic degradation of calcitriol is decreased in patients with renal failure, and uremic plasma contains inhibitory factors that suppress the synthesis and degradation of calcitriol.
Heparin is a commonly implemented anticoagulant used to treat critically ill patients. Recently, a number of commercial lots of heparin products were found to be contaminated with an oversulfated chondroitin sulfate (OSCS) derivative that could elicit a hypotensive response in pigs following a single high-dose infusion. Using both contaminated heparin products and the synthetically produced derivative, we showed that the OSCS produces dose-dependent hypotension in pigs. The no observed effect level (NOEL) for this contaminant appears to be approximately 1mg/kg, corresponding to a contamination level of approximately 3%. We also demonstrated that OSCS can be identified in heparin products using a simple, inexpensive, commercially available heparin enzyme immunoassay (EIA) kit that has a limit of detection of approximately 0.1%, well below the NOEL. This kit may provide a useful method to test heparin products for contamination with oversulfated GAG derivatives.
We encountered a renal transplant recipient who developed an unexplained 0.09 decrease in hematocrit value while taking enalapril for hypertension, which reversed when the drug was stopped. This experience, and a previous similar case report, prompted a review of all our 27 transplant patients treated with enalapril. Of these, 10 patients (37%) had developed an otherwise unaccounted for anemia: the pre-enalapril hematocrit value was 0.42 +/- 0.01 and it decreased to the nadir value of 0.33 +/- 0.01 (P less than 0.001) within 12.3 +/- 0.9 weeks after initiation of 9 +/- 2.4 mg of enalapril daily; enalapril was stopped in seven patients and their anemia resolved within 9.1 +/- 0.7 weeks to a final hematocrit value of 0.40 +/- 0.01. The remaining three patients were maintained on enalapril at their physicians' discretion, without further decrease in hematocrit values. No appreciable changes in drug regimens, clinical course, or other laboratory parameters were noted during this period. A causal relationship between enalapril and anemia was suggested by the effect of drug withdrawal and rechallenge on hematocrit in one of the patients. There were no statistically significant differences in baseline clinical and laboratory characteristics between those patients who did (group I) and those who did not (group II) develop enalapril-associated anemia, with the exception of a normal hematocrit value of 0.42 +/- 0.01 in group I versus a lower hematocrit value of 0.36 +/- 0.02 in group II (P less than 0.05). We conclude that enalapril should be considered in the differential diagnosis of anemia following renal transplantation. Susceptibility to this effect might emanate from the immunosuppressed state.
Methotrexate (MTX) treatment at high doses may cause renal failure. The effects of treatment with low MTX doses on kidney function are, however, unknown. The objective of our study was to investigate the effect of low MTX doses on kidney function.
The glomerular filtration rate was measured as the plasma clearance of 51Cr-EDTA and the clearance of 99mTc-dimercaptoacetyl-triglycine (correction of triglycerine) (99mTc-MAG3), a new renal tubular function agent, was used to measure tubular effects of MTX.
Significant decrease of both 51Cr-EDTA clearance from 92 +/- 7 to 83 +/- 5 ml/min x 1.73 m2 (mean +/- SEM) and of the 99mTc-MAG3 clearance from 360 +/- 18 to 309 +/- 15 ml/min x 1.73 m2 (p < 0.05) was observed.
Our results indicate that low dose MTX treatment (15 mg weekly) may significantly impair kidney function which has to be considered particularly in situations with combined treatment with other potentially nephrotoxic substances.
In this article, we demonstrate the expression of functional progesterone binding sites at the cell membrane in murine mammary carcinomas that are stimulated by progestins and inhibited by antiprogestins. Using confocal immunofluorescence, ligand binding and cell compartment-specific western blots, we were able to identify the presence of the classical progesterone receptors. Medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) and RU-486 (1 × 10(-11) and 1 × 10(-8) M) behaved as agonists activating extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs) and progestin-regulated proteins, except for Cyclin D1 and Tissue factor which failed to increase with 1 × 10(-8) M RU-486, an experimental condition that allows PR to bind DNA. These results predicted a full agonist effect at low concentrations of RU-486. Accordingly, at concentrations lower than 1 × 10(-11) M, RU-486 increased cell proliferation in vitro. This effect was abolished by incubation with the ERK kinase inhibitor PD 98059 or by OH-tamoxifen. In vivo, at a daily dose of 1.2 μg/kg body weight RU-486 increased tumor growth, whereas at 12 mg/kg induces tumor regression. Our results indicate that low concentrations of MPA and RU-486 induce similar agonistic non-genomic effects, whereas RU-486 at higher concentrations may inhibit cell proliferation by genomic-induced effects. This suggests that RU-486 should be therapeutically administered at doses high enough to guarantee its genomic inhibitory effect.
To evaluate the impact of caffeine in medication on sleep complaints in a community population of persons aged 67 or older.
Cross-sectional analysis.
Iowa 65+ Rural Health Study.
Those who completed their own interview, including a section on the use of medications, during the third annual in-person follow-up in 1984-1985.
trouble falling asleep or other sleep complaints. Covariates: use of caffeine-containing medication, spasmolytic, or sympathomimetic drug; number of drugs used; depressive symptoms; self-perceived health; comorbidity, hip fracture, arthritis, ulcer of stomach or intestines; and consumption of caffeinated beverages.
The prevalence of caffeinated medication use by participants was 5.4%. Those reporting the use of any caffeine-containing medication were at an increased risk of having trouble falling asleep (Odds Ratio [OR] = 1.79, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.19-2.68). There was no significant risk of other reported nighttime or daytime sleep problems associated with use of caffeine-containing drugs. Even after adjusting for other factors that could interfere with initiation of sleep, such as painful disease, depressive symptoms, polypharmacy, use of specific medications known to interfere with sleep, and coffee consumption, the use of caffeine-containing medication still presented a significantly increased risk of having trouble falling asleep (OR = 1.60, CI = 1.04-2.46). Although those participants using over-the-counter analgesic medication containing caffeine had an increased risk of trouble falling asleep (OR = 1.88, CI = 1.22-2.90), there was no significant risk of trouble falling asleep for those who took similar noncaffeinated OTC analgesic drugs (OR = 1.26, CI = 0.87-1.83).
The use of caffeine-containing medication is associated with sleep problems. Healthcare providers should be aware of potential problems associated with over-the-counter medications containing caffeine and should counsel patients about the potential of sleep problems. Older patients should be encouraged to read the label on medications and to select drugs that are caffeine-free when that is possible.
The immediate effects of sublingual nifedipine (20 mg) were evaluated in 18 men with stable, exercise-related angina pectoris and angiographically confirmed coronary artery obstructions, stratified at the time of left ventricular (LV) angiography according to the degree of LV dysfunction supine at rest (Group 1: n = 9, left ventricular end-diastolic pressure [LVEDP] less than 20 mm Hg; Group 2: n = 9, LVEDP greater than 20 mm Hg). At rest, in the upright posture in both groups, nifedipine reduced the systemic vascular resistance (p less than 0.01). The systemic arterial mean (p less than 0.05) and diastolic (p less than 0.01) pressures were reduced despite an increase in the cardiac output (p less than 0.05). Heart rate was increased only in Group 1 (p less than 0.05). Pulmonary artery occluded pressure was unchanged in both groups. During upright bicycle exercise in all patients, compared to control measurements, systemic arterial pressure (p less than 0.01) and vascular resistance (p less than 0.05) were similarly reduced, while exercise cardiac output response and LV filling pressure did not change after nifedipine. Heart rate was increased in Group 1 (p less than 0.05) and decreased in Group 2 (p less than 0.05). Stroke volume during exercise after nifedipine decreased 1 ml/m2 in Group 1 (p greater than 0.05) and increased 2 ml/m2 in Group 2 (p greater than 0.05) compared to control measurements; the between-group difference in the exercise heart rate and stroke volume responses after nifedipine were significant at the 5% level.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
This study tests the clinical value of femoral artery pressure measurements by analysis of the relationship between iliac artery pressure gradients (PGs) and both femorofemoral bypass graft patency and the hemodynamic changes produced in the donor and recipient limbs.
Systemic and donor femoral artery systolic and mean pressures were measured during surgery at rest and during papaverine-induced hyperemia before 94 femorofemoral bypasses. Ankle/brachial (A/B) pressure ratios and pulse volume recordings (PVRs) were measured before and early after surgery. Donor iliac artery stenosis was 25% +/- 23% (mean +/- 1 SD). Follow-up was 23+/- 20 months.
Eight bypasses failed at 21 +/- 20 months. Patients with failed bypasses had a resting systolic and mean PG of 23 +/- 22 mm Hg and 5 +/- 7 mm Hg, respectively, compared with 10 +/- 11 mm Hg (p = 0.007) and 1 +/- 2 mm Hg (p = 0.001) for the 86 patent bypasses. Donor limb A/B ratios and PVRs decreased 9% +/- 5% and 15% +/- 14%, respectively, had a linear regression slope less than 0 (p < 0.05) with resting and hyperemic PGs, and correlated best with resting PGs (p < 0.05). Recipient limb A/B ratios and PVRs increased 86% +/- 48% and 191% +/- 111%, respectively, had a linear regression slope greater than 0 (p < 0.05) with all resting and hyperemic PGs, and correlated best with hyperemic systolic PGs (p < 0.05). However, all regressions had a large SD, wide 95% confidence limit, and a low correlation coefficient. Sensitivity-specificity receiver-operating characteristic curves for optimal PG criteria for both graft failure and donor limb hemodynamic impairment are weak, with an accuracy of 50% to 75%. Recommended criteria for not performing a femorofemoral bypass are a resting systolic PG of 28 mm Hg or greater or a resting mean PG of 6 mm Hg or greater.
Although iliac artery PGs correlate with graft failure and both the degree of donor limb hemodynamic impairment and recipient limb improvement, the large variability in PGs between patients with similar outcomes and the low accuracy of optimal PG criteria indicate that they have limited clinical value in decision making.
Bupropion sustained release is considered to be a weak inhibitor of dopamine and serotonin reuptake.
We report the case of an amphetamine-abusing patient who self-administered bupropion.
Since 30 years, a 52-year-old women used amphetamine derivates. She explained her need for amphetamine use in order to perform daily activities. Recently, she decided to experiment with bupropion. She abruptly stopped taking clobenzorex and simultaneously started taking bupropion (150 mg/day). The seventh day she reported a concomitant intake of clobenzorex; this induced adverse effects. Whilst taking bupropion, she described experiencing an euthymic state without any compulsion to take amphetamine drugs and was able to perform daily activities. After stopping it, no symptoms of withdrawal were reported by the patient.
This observation supports an another report suggesting that bupropion may be of help in weaning from amphetamine users and should be confirmed by clinical trials.
Many clinical clues suggest a link between abnormal catecholamine function during a phase of rapid cardiac development and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. However, experimental investigation focusing on abnormal catecholamine function during the fetal period as the pathogenesis of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy has not yet been carried out. In this study, isoproterenol (ISO) was administered to pregnant female rats and the effects of the drug on the hearts of their offspring were studied morphologically. Fifty micrograms/kg/day of ISO was administered subcutaneously to 15 pregnant female rats 5 days a week for 3 weeks and the offspring were killed at 2 days, 4 weeks or 7 weeks after birth. Isotonic saline was administered to 15 pregnant female rats as control. The hearts of the offspring were removed and weighed immediately. The ventricles were cut in two, parallel to the atrio-ventricular groove. Left and right ventricular free wall thickness and interventricular septal thickness were measured. Under light-microscope, myocardial fiber diameter was measured and myocardial fiber disarray was assessed. Fine structural alterations of the cardiac muscle cells were observed by an electron microscope. The hearts of newborn offspring from pregnant rats treated with ISO showed disproportionate septal hypertrophy and frequent inter- and intra-cellular disarray in the interventricular septum. However, these changes were not prominent at 7 weeks after birth. These results suggest that abnormal catecholamine function during the fetal period may result in disproportionate septal hypertrophy.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) play important roles in cancer initiation and development. Several polymorphisms in the promoters of a number of MMP genes, which can affect the respective MMP production in an allele-specific manner, have been well characterized. We examined whether these functional polymorphisms were related to the risk of nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) in Chinese populations. Eight polymorphisms in the promoter of MMP1, MMP2, MMP3, MMP7, MMP9, MMP12, and MMP13 were genotyped in two independent case-control populations; one is from Guangxi province (593 patients with NPC and 480 controls), and the other is from Guangdong province (239 patients and 286 controls). We observed significantly increased susceptibility to NPC for the MMP2 -1306CC (rs243865:C>T) (odds ratio [OR] = 2.01, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.30-3.10) and -735CC (rs2285053:C>T) (OR = 1.56, 95% CI = 1.17-2.09) genotype carriers compared with noncarriers in the Guangxi population. This association was confirmed in the Guangdong population (for -1306CC: OR = 2.19, 95% CI = 1.21-3.96; for -735CC: OR = 1.60, 95% CI = 1.13-2.28). The C(-1306)-C(-735) haplotype was also significantly associated with increased susceptibility to NPC in both the Guangxi (OR = 1.64, 95% CI = 1.35-1.99) and Guangdong population (OR = 1.68, 95% CI = 1.29-2.19). Furthermore, stratified analysis indicated that the increased susceptibility to NPC related to the -1306CC and -735CC genotype and the C(-1306)-C(-735) haplotype was more pronounced in heavier smokers. Our findings suggest that the genetic polymorphisms or haplotype in the MMP2 promoter may play a role in mediating the susceptibility to NPC in Chinese populations.
Cocaine can induce transient psychotic symptoms. We examined the phenomenology of such cocaine-induced psychosis (CIP) using a modified version of the Scale for Assessment of Positive Symptoms (SAPS), a well-validated instrument for the assessment of schizophrenic psychosis.
We developed a new instrument, the Scale for Assessment of Positive Symptoms for Cocaine-Induced Psychosis (SAPS-CIP), based on the well-validated SAPS. We interviewed 243 unrelated cocaine-dependent adults using both the SAPS-CIP and an instrument for the identification of cocaine-induced paranoia, the Cocaine Experience Questionnaire (CEQ).
One hundred and eighty-one (75%) of the subjects endorsed CIP using the CEQ. With the SAPS-CIP, hallucination (HAL) and delusion (DEL) scores correlated strongly, and the DEL domain showed excellent concurrent validity with the CEQ. We observed significant positive correlations, respectively, between severity of HAL and DEL, and lifetime number of episodes of cocaine use, and negative correlations with age at onset of cocaine use.
The results suggest that CIP consists of transient delusional and hallucinatory symptoms, which tend to occur together and co-vary in severity. It appears that rating cocaine-induced paranoia alone (e.g., with the CEQ) can identify most subjects experiencing CIP. However, the SAPS-CIP is useful for quantifying the severity of CIP according to operational criteria. Our data provide additional evidence that CIP is a sensitizing response.
Chemosensitive response prior to transplantation has been shown to be most significant for survival post transplant. To estimate toxicity of a dose-intensive regimen that was to improve chemosensitive response rate, 15 patients with primary refractory lymphoma were enrolled in dose escalation of pre-transplant salvage chemotherapy. The first cycle had a fixed dose of ifosfamide 6 g/m2 and mitoxantrone 12 mg/m2, with arabinosyl cytosine (Ara-C) 2 g/m2, and methylprednisolone 2.0 g. Each cycle of the second and third had cisplatin 90 mg/m2, Ara-C 6 g/m2, methylprednisolone 2.0 g, and escalated doses of ifosfamide from 7.5 g/m2 to 15 g/m2 and mitoxantrone from 16 to 28 mg/m2. Blood stem cells were collected before the second cycle and > or = 3 x 10(6) CD34 cells/kg were infused 2 days after the second and third cycles, respectively. The maximum tolerated doses of ifosfamide and mitoxantrone were 11.25 g/m2 and 16 mg/m2, respectively. Acute renal failure and bacterial infection occurred as non-hematologic dose limiting toxicities. Eleven patients completed therapy. Five patients achieved complete remission and five had partial remission. Nine patients received autologous and four received allogeneic transplants. Currently, six are alive without evidence of disease, with a 3-year survival of 40%. Although preliminary, the regimen suggests acceptable toxicity and significant activity that warrants further study.
The loss of control over cocaine use and persistently heightened susceptibility to drug relapse that define human cocaine addiction are consequences of drug-induced neuroplasticity and can be studied in rats self-administering cocaine under conditions of daily long access (LgA) as escalating patterns of drug intake and heightened susceptibility to reinstatement. This study investigated the potential contribution of elevated glucocorticoids at the time of LgA cocaine self-administration (SA) to these behavioral indices of addiction-related neuroplasticity. Rats provided 14 days of 6-h access (LgA) to cocaine showed a progressive escalation of SA and were more susceptible to cocaine-induced reinstatement (10 mg/kg, i.p.) compared to rats self-administering under short-access (ShA; 2 h) conditions. A surgical adrenalectomy and corticosterone replacement (ADX/C) regimen that eliminated SA-induced increases in corticosterone (CORT) while maintaining the diurnal pattern of secretion failed to alter SA or reinstatement in ShA rats but slowed escalation and attenuated later reinstatement in LgA rats when applied before but not after chronic LgA SA testing. Although the contribution of other adrenal hormones cannot be ruled out, these data suggest that elevated glucocorticoids at the time of cocaine exposure may be required for the effects of LgA SA on cocaine intake and later reinstatement. The inability of daily CORT administration before daily ShA SA, at a dose that reproduced the response during LgA SA, to mimic the effects of LgA SA suggests that elevated glucocorticoids during SA may play a permissive role in cocaine-induced neuroplasticity that contributes to addiction.
These studies describe experimental conditions where aspirin is less effective than other antiplatelet and anticoagulant drugs in inhibiting acute arterial thrombosis. External electrolytic injury of the rat carotid artery was used to induce occlusive thrombi in 97% of vehicle-treated rats. Thrombi were revealed by light and electron microscopy to be comprised primarily of platelets enmeshed in a fibrin network. The thrombin inhibitor D-phenylalanyl-L-prolyl-L-arginyl chloromethylketone (PPACK; 6 mg/kg, i.v.) decreased thrombus weight by 90%. Aspirin alone (1, 10 and 30 mg/kg, i.v.), dipyridamole alone (5 mg/kg i.v.) and aspirin (1 and 10 mg/kg, i.v.) in combination with dipyridamole (5 mg/kg, i.v.) did not inhibit thrombosis. The platelet-activating factor (PAF) antagonist, WEB 2086, (1 mg/kg i.v.) was also ineffective. Other drugs had intermediate activity. Thrombi were decreased 56% by the thromboxane receptor antagonist, BMS 180,291, either alone (5.8 mg/kg i.v.) or in combination with aspirin (10 mg/kg, i.v.). Heparin (900 U/kg, i.v.), warfarin (0.25 mg/kg, p.o. once daily for 3 days) and ticlopidine (200 mg/kg, p.o. once daily for 3 days) reduced thrombus weight by 63, 73 and 43% respectively. Reductions in thrombus weight were always associated with improvements in either average blood flow or vessel patency.
Recent evidence suggests that neurokinin (NK)-receptor activation may have a protective role in maintaining lung integrity when challenged by airborne toxicants such as sulfur dioxide, ozone, acrolein, or hydrocarbons. To investigate the effect of NK1-receptor activation on hydrocarbon-induced lung injury, B6.A.D. (Ahr d/Nats) mice received subchronic exposures to JP-8 jet fuel (JP-8). Lung injury was assessed by the analysis of pulmonary physiology, bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, and morphology. Hydrocarbon exposure to target JP-8 concentrations of 50 mg/m3, with saline treatment, was characterized by enhanced respiratory permeability to 99mTc-labeled diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid, alveolar macrophage toxicity, and bronchiolar epithelial damage. Mice administered [Sar9,Met(O2)11]substance P, an NK1-receptor agonist, after each JP-8 exposure had the appearance of normal pulmonary values and tissue morphology. In contrast, endogenous NK1-receptor antagonism by CP-96345 administration exacerbated JP-8-enhanced permeability, alveolar macrophage toxicity, and bronchiolar epithelial injury. These data indicate that NK1-receptor activation may have a protective role in preventing the development of hydrocarbon-induced lung injury, possibly through the modulation of bronchiolar epithelial function.
An unusual case of mepivacaine toxicity with ventricular tachycardia in a newborn infant is presented. The mepivacaine probably reached the infant by direct injection into the scalp. Effective removal of the drug by gastric lavage was demonstrated. Exchange transfusion may also have been instrumental in the infant's survival by reducing the high blood concentration of mepivacaine.
