We previously generated mice lacking aromatase activity by targeted disruption of Cyp19 (ArKO mice), and reported phenotypes of the female mice, showing hemorrhage formation and follicular depletion in the ovary, diminution in uterine size, and bone loss. In the present study, we examined the influence of dietary bisphenol A (BPA), a monomer used for the production of polycarbonate and known to have estrogenic activity, on these phenotypes of the ArKO mice. When ArKO mice were fed chow diets supplemented with 0.1% or 1% (w/w) BPA for 5 months, they were protected from ovarian degeneration, uterine diminution and bone loss in a dose-dependent manner. Northern blot analyses of ovarian RNA of ArKO mice showed differences in the expression levels of insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-I, IGF-I receptor, growth differentiation factor 9 and bone morphogenetic protein 15 as compared with those in the ovaries of wild-type mice. The differences in the expression levels were restored by dietary BPA. In the ArKO uteri, expression of progesterone receptor and vascular endothelial growth factor mRNAs was diminished, and was restored by BPA to the levels in wild-type mice. In contrast, BPA had little effect on the ovarian, uterine and skeletal structures of wild-type mice. In conclusion, estrogenic effects of BPA on the reproductive tract as well as skeletal tissue were evident in adult female ArKO mice. These results suggest that the ArKO mouse is an animal model suitable for studying effects of estrogenic chemicals as well as estrogen in vivo.
Diabetes mellitus represents an intense metabolic strain for the liver. Inhibitors of angiotensin-converting enzymes (ACEI) are drugs of choice in the therapy of hypertension in coincidence with diabetes mellitus. The effect of ACEI is complex. The attention is drawn to the study of metabolic effects of ACEI.
The aim of the study was to investigate whether the administration of ramipril affects the levels of glycated hemoglobin and fructoseamine in the blood of rats with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM), and whether bioenergetics of mitochondria in the liver undergo changes.
In our experiments, we used rats of the Wistar strain. The control group was composed of healthy animals. The experimental groups were formed by rats with IDDM evoked by streptozotocine (45 mg/kg) and rats with IDDM + ramipril (10 mg/KG). Both, insulin MONO-ID in the doses of 6 U/kg administered subcutaneously, and water solution of ramipril administered by gastric probe were applied for the period of 8 weeks. We have assessed blood levels of glucose, glycated hemoglobin, fructoseamine and the concentration of cholesterol and triacylglycerols have been assessed also in the liver. Oxidative phosphorylation in mitochondria of the liver were measured polarographically.
In the group with IDDM + ramipril, the glycated haemoglobin (M 6.85 CI 5.7-7.0%) and fructoseamine (M 1.45 CI 1.2-1.6 mmol/l) have significantly dropped in comparison with the group with IDDM glycated haemoglobin (M 8.8 7.7-10.7%) and fructoseamine (M 2.04 CI 1.69-2.4 mmol/l). Ramipril did not affect the concentration of cholesterol and triacylglycerols in the blood and liver in rats with IDDM. Ramipril has positively affected oxidative phosphorylation in mitochondria of the liver in coincidence with IDDM. The group with IDDM + ramipril has yielded an increase in the velocity of oxygen consumption in coincidence with stimulated breathing with ADP, the state 3 (M 107.97 CI 96.78-134.51 n AtO/mg of proteins/min.) and phosphorylation velocity (M 232.67 CI 209.38-284.97 nmolATP/protein/min) in contrast to the group with IDDM: the state 3 (M 76.71 CI 66.81-85.99 nAtO/mg of proteins/min and the velocity of phosphorylation (M 161.84 CI 143.55-189.99 nmol ATP/mg of proteins/min) in coincidence with substrate glutamate. A similar trend is present also in coincidence with FAD succinate substrate.
After the administration of ramipril to rats with IDDM, the indicators have improved, and they express the rate of compensation of diabetes mellitus. An increased capacity of the respiratory chain and an increased origin of energy in mitochondria in the livers of rats with IDDM after administration of ramipril indicates an improvement in the metabolic capacity of the liver. (Tab. 4. Ref. 47.)
Renal morphology was studied by light and electron microscopy in 10 patients after 25 mg/kg body weight of amphotericin B as part of a controlled study designed to evaluate the possible protective effects of mannitol against the nephrotoxicity of amphotericin B. Five patients received amphotericin B 1 mg/kg body weight every other day and five received amphotericin B and mannitol 1 g/kg body weight in the infusion. Small arterial and arteriolar changes were present in all biopsies and were characterized by focal vacuolization of medial smooth muscle cells. Electron microscopy suggested formation of these vacuoles by fusion of dilated endoplasmic reticulum. A few small vacuoles were also seen in renal biopsies of age matched patients who did not receive amphotericin B. Vacuoles in biopsies of the amphotericin treated patients were considerably larger (P less than 0.001) and much more numerous (P less than 0.001) than in controls. It is hypothesized that the vacuoles in the amphotericin B treated group represent the morphologic effect of intrarenal vasoconstriction caused by amphotericin B therapy. Nephrocalcinosis was observed in all biopsies and appeared to originate by precipitation of calcium salts in tubular casts.
Significant increases in serum levels and decreases in hair copper levels have been previously described in epileptic patients treated with anticonvulsant drugs. A condition not directly related to copper nutriture, such as chronic treatment with these drugs, could increase the serum concentrations of copper and ceruloplasmin and would mask a possible copper deficiency produced by drug-increased biliary copper excretion. Serum immunoreactive ceruloplasmin concentration and its oxidase activity were determined in 90 adult epileptic patients treated with phenobarbital (n=60), phenytoin (n=70), carbamazepine (n=33) and valproic acid (n=8). The levels of ceruloplasmin and oxidase activity were significantly higher (P<0.001) than in an age and gender-matched control group (n=49). The significant correlations (P<0.01) between ceruloplasmin and the urinary excretion of D-glucaric acid, serum gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGT) and drug score in the patients group, would suggest that phenobarbital-type enzyme-inducing agents may increase the hepatic synthesis of ceruloplasmin. In 11 patients with a beta-globulin migrating GGT isoform (GGT3), a sensitive marker of cholestasis, the levels of ceruloplasmin, oxidase activity and total GGT activity were significantly higher (P<0.05) than in the group of 79 patients without the GGT3 isoform; consequently, in some cases a drug-induced cholestasis may also contribute to the increase of serum copper and ceruloplasmin. The values obtained for the specific oxidase activity of ceruloplasmin (activity per unit mass of enzyme protein) suggest that in the most of the cases, chronic administration of phenobarbital, phenytoin, carbamazepine or valproic acid, does not produce marginal or moderate copper deficiency.
Perinatal carcinogenesis as a cross-disciplinary concern is the subject of this special issue of Toxicology and Applied Pharmacology, which consists of a total of eight reviews or commentaries in the areas of epidemiology, risk assessment, and animal models. Some of the conclusions from these articles, and the Questions and Answers section that follows most of them, are summarized here. There is adequate reason to suspect that perinatal exposures contribute to human cancer risk, both childhood cancers, and those appearing later in life. The latter type of risk may actually be quantitatively the more important, and involve a wide range of types of effects, but has received only limited attention. With regard to childhood cancers, fetal irradiation and diethylstilbestrol exposure are known etiological agents, and it is likely, but not yet certain, there are additional external causes of a portion of these. Some current focal points of interest here include nitroso compounds, DNA topoisomerase inhibitors, viruses, anti-AIDS drugs, and endocrine disruptors. Regulatory agencies must rely heavily on animal data for estimation of human risk due to perinatal exposures to chemicals, and the quantity and quality of these data presently available for this purpose are greatly limiting. Correctly designed conventional animal studies with suspect chemicals are still needed. Furthermore, genetically engineered mouse models for childhood cancers, especially medulloblastoma, have become available, and could be used for screening of candidate causative agents for this cancer type, and for better understanding of gene-environment interactions.
The micronutrient element selenium (Se) has been shown to be effective in reducing the incidence of cancer in animal models and human clinical trials. Selenoproteins and low molecular weight Se compounds were implicated in the chemopreventive effect, but specific mechanisms are not clear. We examined the role of Se and selenoproteins in liver tumor formation in TGFalpha/c-Myc transgenic mice, which are characterized by disrupted redox homeostasis and develop liver cancer by 6 months of age. In these mice, both Se deficiency and high levels of Se compounds suppressed hepatocarcinogenesis. In addition, both treatments induced expression of detoxification genes, increased apoptosis and inhibited cell proliferation. Within low-to-optimal levels of dietary Se, tumor formation correlated with expression of most selenoproteins. These data suggest that changes in selenoprotein expression may either suppress or promote tumorigenesis depending on cell type and genotype. Since dietary Se may have opposing effects on cancer, it is important to identify the subjects who will benefit from Se supplementation as well as those who will not.
Lithium (Li) treatment for 4 wk has previously been shown to increase the fraction of intercalated cells in parallel with a decrease in the fraction of principal cells in the kidney collecting duct (Christensen BM, Marples D, Kim YH, Wang W, Frøkiaer J, and Nielsen S. Am J Physiol Cell Physiol 286: C952-C964, 2004; Kim YH, Kwon TH, Christensen BM, Nielsen J, Wall SM, Madsen KM, Frøkiaer J, and Nielsen S. Am J Physiol Renal Physiol 285: F1244-F1257, 2003). To study how early this fractional change starts, the origin of the cells and the possible mechanism behind the changes, we did time course studies in rats subjected to different durations of Li treatment (i.e., for 4, 10, and 15 days). Increased urine output was already observed at day 4 of Li treatment with decreased AQP2 levels although not statistically significant. At days 10 and 15, both a significant polyuria and downregulation in AQP2 expression were observed. At day 10, the density of H+-ATPase-positive cells was increased in the IMCD of Li-treated rats and this was further pronounced at day 15. Some of the H+-ATPase-positive cells did not costain with Cl-/HCO3- exchanger AE1, indicating that they were not fully differentiated to type A IC. By double labeling for either H+-ATPase and proliferating-cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) or for AQP4 and PCNA, we found that proliferation mainly occurred in proximal IMCD cells at day 4 and it increased toward the middle part of the IMCD in response to prolonged Li treatment. Most cells expressing PCNA were stained with AQP4 but not with H+-ATPase. Triple-labeling for H+-ATPase, AQP4, and PCNA showed a subset of cells negative for all three proteins or only positive for PCNA. In contrast, a 4-wk recovery period after 4 wk of Li treatment reversed the enhanced proliferative rate to the control levels. In conclusion, the Li-induced increase in the density of intercalated cells is associated with a high proliferative rate of principal cells in the IM-1 and IM-2 rather than a selective proliferation of intercalated cells as expected. This is likely to contribute to the remodeling of the collecting duct after Li treatment.
Deliberate hypotension was produced during general anesthesia by the infusion of sodium nitroprusside in 13 patients undergoing total hip replacement. Hemodynamic data from these patients were compared with those obtained from 5 patients under normotensive anesthesia for the same procedure. During the hypotensive period, which averaged 1.5 hours, the cardiac index rose 20 percent compared with controls. No acidotic tendency was seen. Blood loss in the study group averaged 475 ml, compared with 1475 ml in controls. From these data, a dose-response curve was derived which may allow the accurate prediction of the minute dosage of sodium nitroprusside required to safely induce hypotension during anesthesia.
The purpose of this study was to investigate left ventricular wall motion changes during dobutamine-induced myocardial ischemia.
Dobutamine is increasingly used as a stress test. It has been assumed that high doses of the drug induce the same changes in contractility as physical exercise. However, some data suggest that ischemic myocardium can respond to dobutamine with an increase in contractility.
Sixty-three postinfarction patients twice underwent the dobutamine test (up to 40 micrograms/kg per min) within 1 to 2 days. Thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and gated equilibrium radionuclide ventriculography were performed on each patient at rest and with dobutamine. Both global and regional ejection fractions were quantified. Sixty patients underwent coronary cineangiography within 1 week. The presence of redistribution was correlated with global and regional ejection fraction changes and with coronary lesions.
Redistribution was present in 45 patients, and no change or a decrease in global or regional ejection fraction was detected in 22. In the entire group of patients global ejection fraction increased from 46 +/- 12% to 56 +/- 14%. The six patients with triple-vessel disease had a flat (-0.2 +/- 5%) ejection fraction response to dobutamine, whereas the remaining patients had an increase of 11 +/- 7% (p = 0.003). The regional ejection fraction of the hypokinetic area increased from 27 +/- 10% to 41 +/- 19%, showing no change or a decrease in 13 patients. The 44 patients with peri-infarct redistribution had a significantly higher increase in regional ejection fraction than those without redistribution (16.4 +/- 10% vs. 4.7 +/- 17%, p = 0.003). In the patients with peri-infarct redistribution, an inverse linear correlation was found between redistribution score and dobutamine-induced regional ejection fraction change (r = -0.44, p = 0.004).
Mild to moderate dobutamine-induced peri-infarct ischemia is compatible with an increase in contractility, whereas severe ischemia induces worsening of wall motion.
The effects of nicotine on vascular endothelial cells have not been completely elucidated. We performed this study to assess the changes in cellular behaviors of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) treated with nicotine. We examined changes in cell count and morphology and assayed cellular migration with Boyden chamber and microcapillary tube formation in a Matrigel matrix following treatment with various concentrations of nicotine. Compared to the control, nicotine stimulated cell proliferation, migration, and tube formation at concentrations similar to those found in smokers. Although there were no specific morphological changes in HUVECs treated with nicotine at the concentration similar to that in smokers, at high concentration (10(-4) M), morphological changes such as cytoplasmic vacuolization and irregular cell shape were observed, which were assumed to be the result of direct cytotoxicity of nicotine. In HUVECs, nicotine enhanced cellular proliferation, migration and angiogenesis in vitro, and thus caused a functional change, not a morphological change at a concentration similar to that in habitual smokers.
Indapamide, 2.5 mg administered once daily for periods up to 36 months, was found to be safe and effective for the long-term control of mild to moderate hypertension. The effects of hydrochlorothiazide, 50 mg, and indapamide, 2.5 mg, were studied in two randomized, double-blind, multicenter trials. Data from the two multicenter trials (20 study sites) were pooled for purposes of comparison. Significant reductions in systolic and diastolic blood pressure, with patients in both supine and standing positions, occurred in both groups within the first 8 weeks of treatment. This effect was maintained throughout the active treatment period. Success, as determined by the therapeutic success rate (percentage of patients with decreases of standing phase V diastolic blood pressure of at least 10 mm Hg or to below 90 mm Hg), occurred in 53% of the patients given hydrochlorothiazide and in 56% of the indapamide-treated patients. During the study period, the nature, frequency, and severity of adverse reactions were similar for both groups. There was no clinically significant difference between the treatment groups for the laboratory assessments. Patients who completed the multicenter trials were eligible for participation in an ongoing long-term extension study of the safety of indapamide. Data are available for periods up to 36 months and demonstrate neither augmentation of clinical or laboratory adverse effects nor any potentially harmful indicators that could be attributed to prolonged treatment.
In a double-blind crossover trial, 15 captopril (daily dose 600 mg) treated patients received in addition to the converting enzyme inhibitor, placebo, propranolol (240 mg), or bendroflumethiazide (7.5 mg). Propranolol produced an additional hypotensive effect, while pulse rate slowed, indicating effective beta-adrenoceptor blockade. Plasma renin activity decreased, but the hypotensive effect of propranolol was not accompanied by changes in the plasma angiotensin II and aldosterone levels or in the urinary aldosterone excretion. Also bendroflumethiazide lowered blood pressure, while body weight decreased slightly. During captopril-bendroflumethiazide treatment, serum sodium and potassium decreased while the plasma renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system was stimulated. In these captopril-treated patients, the hypotensive response to bendroflumethiazide tended to be somewhat larger than the response to propranolol, but the difference was small and statistically not significant.
Indapamide, a new methylindoline diuretic that appears to act on the distal renal tubules, is also reported to reduce vascular smooth muscle vasopressor reactivity and possibly to have a calcium-antagonist effect. Since 1973, sixteen studies by a number of European investigators who treated 301 patients with indapamide have revealed satisfactory control in 53% of patients with mild hypertension (standing diastolic pressures less than 90 mm Hg) and in 43% of patients with moderate hypertension when the drug was used without other agents. Multiple American clinical trials of indapamide in hypertension have been conducted, including double-blind, placebo-controlled protocols and trials comparing indapamide with traditional diuretic agents. A cooperative, double-blind, 40-week study compared antihypertensive response to indapamide, 2.5 mg and 5 mg daily, with response to hydrochlorothiazide, 50 mg daily, in the treatment of mild to moderate hypertension. Pretreatment diastolic blood pressures averaged 101 mm Hg. At 40 weeks of treatment, indapamide, 2.5 mg daily, had produced a fall in diastolic pressure of 15 mm Hg; indapamide, 5 mg daily, a reduction of 16 mm Hg; and hydrochlorothiazide, 50 mg daily, a fall of 15 mm Hg. Seventy-five percent of patients taking 2.5 mg of indapamide daily and 88% of those taking 5 mg achieved satisfactory blood pressure reduction. Hypokalemia may occur with indapamide but is a minor problem and seldom necessitates potassium supplementation. Serum uric acid increases were observed in only a few subjects, and clinical side effects are infrequent and mild. Indapamide is a useful antihypertensive agent with good patient tolerance in mild or moderate hypertension and may offer advantages over traditional diuretics in view of its possible vasodilator and calcium-antagonist properties, once-a-day dosage, and good therapeutic effect with prolonged usage.
Tricyclic antidepressants have notable cardiac side effects, and this issue has become important due to the recent reports of increased cardiovascular mortality in patients with depression and anxiety. Several previous studies indicate that serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SRIs) do not appear to have such adverse effects. Apart from the effects of these drugs on routine 12-lead ECG, the effects on beat-to-beat heart rate (HR) and QT interval time series provide more information on the side effects related to cardiac autonomic function. In this study, we evaluated the effects of two antidepressants, nortriptyline (n=13), a tricyclic, and paroxetine (n=16), an SRI inhibitor, on HR variability in patients with panic disorder, using a measure of chaos, the largest Lyapunov exponent (LLE) using pre- and posttreatment HR time series. Our results show that nortriptyline is associated with a decrease in LLE of high frequency (HF: 0.15-0.5 Hz) filtered series, which is most likely due to its anticholinergic effect, while paroxetine had no such effect. Paroxetine significantly decreased sympathovagal ratios as measured by a decrease in LLE of LF/HF. These results suggest that paroxetine appears to be safer in regards to cardiovascular effects compared to nortriptyline in this group of patients.
Our aim was to determine whether the aldosterone synthase (CYP11B2) -344 C/T polymorphism was associated with the blood pressure (BP)-lowering response to antihypertensive treatment.
Patients with mild-to-moderate primary hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy were randomized in a double-blind study to receive treatment with either the angiotensin II type 1 (AT1) receptor antagonist irbesartan (n = 43), or the beta1-adrenergic receptor blocker atenolol (n = 43). The aldosterone synthase (CYP11B2) -344 C/T polymorphism was analyzed using solid-phase minisequencing and related to BP reduction after 3 months treatment. Serum aldosterone levels were measured.
After 3 months treatment the mean reductions in BP were similar for both treatment groups. When assessing the systolic BP reduction in the irbesartan group, patients with the TT variant had a more pronounced reduction (-21 +/- 19 SD mm Hg, n = 17) than both the TC (-14 +/- 18 mm Hg, n= 18) and CC (0 +/- 17 mm Hg, n = 8) genotypes (P = .04). There was no association between this polymorphism and the diastolic BP response. The -344 C/T polymorphism was not associated with the BP response to atenolol. Nor was it related to the baseline serum aldosterone level.
The aldosterone synthase -344 C/T polymorphism was related to the BP-lowering response in hypertensive patients treated with the AT1-receptor antagonist irbesartan.
S-1 is a new antitumor agent which was developed based on biochemical modulation of fluorouracil. S-1 consists of tegafur (FT), 5-chloro-2,4-dihydroxypyridine (CDHP), and potassium oxonate (Oxo) in a molar ratio of 1:0.4:1. S-1 has been reported to enhance therapeutic effects and to reduce the gastrointestinal toxicity as compared with 5-fluorouracil. In this study performed in rats, S-1 was used to assess the relationship between gastrointestinal mucosal toxicity and changes in intestinal barrier function.
Fifteen rats were equally divided into three groups: group A (untreated controls), group B (FT and CDHP mixture), and group C (FT and CDHP in combination with Oxo). The animals in groups B and C received equitoxic doses of the drugs in their food for 14 consecutive days. The intestinal permeability was determined on the basis of the urinary recovery of orally administered lactulose and mannitol (L/M). Injury to the small intestines was evaluated by light microscopy. The cell surface expression of CD44 was evaluated immunohistochemically.
Recovery of L/M in urine (expressed as a fraction of the dose administered) was 0.15 +/- (SE) 0.08, 0.23 +/- 0.13, and 0.09 +/- 0.04 in groups A, B, and C, respectively. The intestinal permeability in group B was significantly higher than that in group C (p < 0.05). Treatment with FT and CDHP (groups B and C) induced injury to the small intestine and decreased expression of CD44 within the intestinal mucosa, but the extent of damage was reduced by coadministration of Oxo (group C).
This experimental study suggested that the gastrointestinal toxicity resulting from administration of anticancer drugs is accompanied by an impaired gut barrier function measurable as an increase in intestinal permeability to L/M.
A 28-year-old female patient was operated on account of symptomatic hepatocellular adenomas of the liver. Tumours with a diameter of 10 x 11 cm in the left lobe and 9 x 7 cm in the right lober were extirpated. In the adenomas non-ferric pigment resembling the pigment in Dubin-Johnson's syndrome was detected. The patient did not use contraceptives and was treated for more than 10 years for epilepsy. The size, pigmentation, frequency of adenomas and absence of contraceptives in the case-history made the authors consider another aetiology of these adenomas. The authors discuss the possible development of adenomas of the liver as a result of long-term use of phenobarbital. As a basis they use experimental observations where this drug acts as a strong promotor of DNA synthesis and leads to the development of multiple adenomas and carcinomas in the liver of rats and mice.
Alterations in fetal heart rate variability and baseline may be seen with maternal administration of magnesium sulfate. In this case, a dose-related decrease in the baseline fetal heart rate was observed in association with magnesium sulfate administration.
A primiparous woman was given parenteral magnesium sulfate for preterm labor. After tocolytic administration, the fetal heart rate baseline decreased to 110 beats per minute (bpm) from its initial rate of 140 bpm, although good variability was maintained. Increasing the dosage was accompanied by a further drop in the baseline heart rate, to 100 bpm. Fetal echocardiography was normal except for sinus bradycardia. Stopping magnesium sulfate administration was accompanied by a return to the pretherapy baseline heart rate. The pregnancy progressed without any further complications, and a healthy infant was delivered three weeks later.
Maternal administration of magnesium sulfate may be associated with a profound decrease in the baseline fetal heart rate, resulting in fetal sinus bradycardia.
The objective of this population-based case-referent study in Matlab, Bangladesh, was to assess the susceptibility to arsenic-induced skin lesions by age and sex, in a population drinking water from As-contaminated tube wells.
Identification of As-related skin lesions was carried out in three steps: a) screening of the entire population > 4 years of age (n = 166,934) by trained field teams; b) diagnosis of suspected As-related cases by physicians; and c) confirmation by experts based on physicians' records and photographs. A total of 504 cases with skin lesions were confirmed. We randomly selected 2,201 referents from the Matlab health and demographic surveillance system; 1,955 were eligible, and 1,830 (94%) were available for participation in the study. Individual history of As exposure was based on information obtained during interviews and included all drinking-water sources used since 1970 and concentrations of As (assessed by atomic absorption spectrophotometry) in all the tube wells used.
Cases had been exposed to As more than referents (average exposure since 1970: male cases, 200 microg/L; female cases, 211 microg/L; male referents, 143 microg/L; female referents, 155 microg/L). We found a dose-response relationship for both sexes (p < 0.001) and increased risk with increasing socioeconomic status. Males had a higher risk of obtaining skin lesions than females (odds ratio 10.9 vs. 5.78) in the highest average exposure quintile (p = 0.005). Start of As exposure (cumulative exposure) before 1 year of age was not associated with higher risk of obtaining skin lesions compared to start of As exposure later in life.
The results demonstrate that males are more susceptible than females to develop skin lesions when exposed to As in water from tube wells.
Psychostimulant drugs such as methylphenidate are increasingly being used in patients with traumatic brain injury or other brain injuries for a variety of cognitive and behavioral problems. However, there is some reluctance among clinicians and family members to use methylphenidate in brain injured patients because of warnings of seizure occurrence, which are prominently reported by the product labeling included in the Physicians' Desk Reference.
We retrospectively studied the use of methylphenidate in 30 consecutive patients with active seizure disorders. We compared the seizure frequency in the 3 months before and after methylphenidate with the seizure frequency during methylphenidate treatment, using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test.
Overall, the findings demonstrated a trend toward a lesser incidence of seizures in patients during methylphenidate treatment. Only 4 patients had greater seizure frequency during methylphenidate treatment, and 3 of these 4 were receiving tricyclic antidepressants.
Methylphenidate can be safely used in brain injured patients, even those at high risk for seizures, as it was associated with a trend toward reduction (rather than increase) in seizure frequency in this population.
Glucocorticoid hormones are very potent inhibitors of keratinocyte proliferation. Their function is mediated by the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) which is highly expressed in mouse epidermis. In the study reported here we compared the effect of 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate (TPA) and non-phorbol ester tumor promoters such as okadaic acid, chrysarobin, and benzoyl peroxide on the levels of GR protein and mRNA in SENCAR mouse epidermis. Glucocorticoid binding assay and Northern blot analysis revealed that all four tumor promoters decreased both GR protein and mRNA levels in keratinocytes in vivo. We also found that TPA and okadaic acid inhibited GR expression in keratinocyte cell line. These results suggest that GR inhibition may play an important role in mouse skin hyperplasia and promotion of skin carcinogenesis.
It has been demonstrated that vitamin E deficiency from birth increases anxiety-related behavior using knockout animals with no vitamin E transfer proteins. The current study was undertaken to elucidate the effect of dietary vitamin E deficiency on anxiety-related behavior of rats in different housing conditions. Male Wistar strain rats were divided into two groups during the weaning period and fed a control or vitamin E-deficient diet. All rats were housed in groups (three rats per cage) for 3 weeks. In the fourth week, half of the rats in each dietary treatment were kept in social housing and the other half were kept in individual housing. Before sacrifice, rota-rod and elevated plus-maze (EPM) tests were performed to measure motor coordination and anxiety, respectively. The EPM test revealed that vitamin E-deficient rats spent less time in the open arms and showed more stretch-out posture than the control rats, showing that anxiety increased with dietary vitamin E deficiency. Furthermore, vitamin E deficiency-induced anxiety behavior was observed more prominent in individual housed rats than in social housed rats. On the basis of these results, we conclude that dietary vitamin E deficiency induces anxiety in rats especially under stress of social isolation.
In a double-blind, cross-over study, the comparative therapeutic effects of 6-week courses of two prototypic neuroleptics--haloperidol and chlorpromazine--and the reversal of those effects with benztropine were investigated in a group of 18 schizophrenics. Periodic measurements were made for 32 dimensions of psychopathology, social participation, span of attention, sleeplessness, pulse rate and neurological side effects. The results showed that haloperidol was generally a more effective drug over the period studied. This was particularly apparent in terms of social and emotional responsiveness, communicativeness and cognitive processes. The only superiority of chlorpromazine seemed to be that patients felt less dysphoric on it than they did on haloperidol. Haloperidol also proved to be more rapid in its action. The data failed to support the clinical validity of the distinction often made between "sedative" and "activating" neuroleptics. Consistent with previous reports, benztropine had the effect of diminishing therapeutic response to both neuroleptics. However, haloperidol again proved less susceptible to this effect. The slowness and lesser therapeutic efficiency of chlorpromazine and its greater susceptibility to benztropine reversal were all considered to be due to its built-in anti-cholinergic properties acting in opposition to its antipsychotic activity. The low potency of chlorpromazine-like drugs was attributed to their inherent anticholinergic characteristics. It was suggested that one of the factors determining potency difference among neuroleptics may be the degree of built-in anticholinergic activity.
The trabecular meshwork is considered a smooth muscle like tissue contributing to aqueous outflow regulation and thus to regulation of intraocular pressure. An elevation in intraocular pressure is one of the greatest risk factors for most forms of glaucoma. We assume that contraction of trabecular meshwork reduces aqueous humor outflow and thus enhances intraocular pressure, whereas relaxation exerts the opposite effect. The present paper supports the hypothesis of the trabecular meshwork being a smooth muscle-like tissue. We perform measurements of isometric force in isolated bovine trabecular meshwork strips. Contractility of this tissue is induced by carbachol or endothelin-1. The contractile force is successfully inhibited by ML-7, a highly specific inhibitor of myosin light chain kinase. The contraction is also reduced in the presence of the RhoA kinase inhibitor Y-27632. We further describe the protein expression of smooth muscle myosin and its regulatory kinase, the myosin light chain kinase, in human and bovine trabecular meshwork cells. Additionally, the serine phosphorylation of myosin light chain kinase is shown. These data indicate that the trabecular meshwork expresses major contractility regulating proteins which are involved in tissue function. Inhibition of the signaling pathways which lead to myosin phosphorylation causes inhibition of contractile force in trabecular meshwork. According to our concept of aqueous humor outflow regulation, trabecular meshwork relaxing substances appear to be ideal antiglaucomatous drugs, leading to increased outflow facility.
The beta 1 receptor blockade reduces cardiac work and may thereby lower myocardial blood flow (MBF) at rest. The effect of beta 1 receptor blockade on hyperemic MBF is unknown.
To evaluate the effect of selective beta 1 receptor blockade on MBF at rest and during dipyridamole induced hyperemia, 10 healthy volunteers (8 men, 2 women, mean age 24 +/- 5 yr) were studied using 13N-ammonia PET (two-compartment model) under control conditions and again during metoprolol (50 mg orally 12 hr and 1 hr before the study).
The resting rate pressure product (6628 +/- 504 versus 5225 +/- 807) and heart rate (63 +/- 6-54 +/- 5 bpm) declined during metoprolol (p < 0.05). Similarly, heart rate and rate pressure product declined from the baseline dipyridamole study to dipyridamole plus metoprolol (p < 0.05). Resting MBF declined in proportion to cardiac work by approximately 20% from 0.61 +/- 0.09-0.51 +/- 0.10 ml/g/min (p < 0.05). In contrast, hyperemic MBF increased when metoprolol was added to dipyridamole (1.86 +/- 0.27-2.34 +/- 0.45 ml/g/min; p < 0.05). The decrease in resting MBF together with the increase in hyperemic MBF resulted in a significant increase in the myocardial flow reserve during metoprolol (3.14 +/- 0.80-4.61 +/- 0.68; p < 0.01).
The beta 1 receptor blockade increases coronary vasodilatory capacity and myocardial flow reserve. However, the mechanisms accounting for this finding remain uncertain.
