Allergic contact dermatitis from topical corticosteroids has been regarded as rare. However, it should be considered in long-standing, resistant or worsening eczema in spite of topical steroid therapy. Cases of allergic dermatitis from amcinonide have been reported previously. We report an additional case.
We recently reported two common filaggrin (FLG) null mutations that cause ichthyosis vulgaris and predispose to eczema and secondary allergic diseases. We show here that these common European mutations are ancestral variants carried on conserved haplotypes. To facilitate comprehensive analysis of other populations, we report a strategy for full sequencing of this large, highly repetitive gene, and we describe 15 variants, including seven that are prevalent. All the variants are either nonsense or frameshift mutations that, in representative cases, resulted in loss of filaggrin production in the epidermis. In an Irish case-control study, the five most common European mutations showed a strong association with moderate-to-severe childhood eczema (chi2 test: P = 2.12 x 10(-51); Fisher's exact test: heterozygote odds ratio (OR) = 7.44 (95% confidence interval (c.i.) = 4.9-11.3), and homozygote OR = 151 (95% c.i. = 20-1,136)). We found three additional rare null mutations in this case series, suggesting that the genetic architecture of filaggrin-related atopic dermatitis consists of both prevalent and rare risk alleles.
Medullary thyroid cancer (MTC) is a C cell neoplasm-secreting calcitonin. Surgery remains the only treatment as the primary tumor and metastases resist radio- and chemotherapies. MTC produces high amounts of prostaglandins (PGs). Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs have an antitumoral effect, generally related to the decrease of PG levels. We assessed the therapeutic potential of indomethacin in a model of human (TT cells) tumors in nude mice. Indomethacin (1.5 or 2.0 mg/kg body weight.d for 7 wk) inhibited tumor volume by 49 or 77%, respectively, and decreased the plasma level of CT. Although the terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate nick end labeling method revealed few apoptotic nuclei, the number of proliferating cells was significantly decreased (Ki-67 antigen study). Immunological effector recruitment and vascular network was not modified by treatment. The inducible synthesis enzyme, cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), was revealed only in infiltrating cells, both in treated and control tumors. The expression of the constitutive synthesis enzyme COX-1 was diminished, and the expression of 15-prostaglandin dehydrogenase, the key enzyme catabolizing PGs, was increased in treated tumors. Thus, our results demonstrated the potential of indomethacin, inhibitor of COX-1 and COX-2, to prevent MTC growth. The synthesis enzyme, COX-1, and the catabolism enzyme 15-prostaglandin dehydrogenase, could be involved in MTC development.
Several minor tobacco alkaloids have been found to exhibit properties pharmacologically relevant to the addictive profile of tobacco; however, little is known of their effects on a behavioural model of drug addiction. In this study we compared the locomotor and reinforcing effects of intravenous nicotine (30 microg/kg per infusion) vs. a cocktail of nicotine plus five minor alkaloids found in tobacco smoke (anabasine, nornicotine, anatabine, cotinine and myosmine). Rats were initially tested for their locomotor response to nicotine or nicotine plus the minor alkaloids with six intravenous injections over 1 h. We then assessed the spontaneous acquisition of intravenous self-administration with nicotine or nicotine plus the minor alkaloids, under a fixed-ratio 1 schedule followed by responding on a fixed-ratio 5 schedule, progressive-ratio schedule and a single within-session ascending dose-response test. The activity test was repeated following the progressive-ratio phase to assess locomotor sensitization. A second group of rats were then tested on the locomotor procedure to better clarify the role of each individual minor alkaloid in nicotine-induced locomotor activity. Compared to nicotine alone, addition of the minor tobacco alkaloids increased locomotor activity and increased locomotor sensitization following self-administration. During fixed-ratio 5, progressive ratio and the dose-response test, rats receiving nicotine plus the minor alkaloids responded significantly more than those receiving nicotine alone. Testing of each minor alkaloid in the second experiment indicated that anatabine, cotinine and myosmine individually increased nicotine-induced locomotor activity. These results suggest that the minor tobacco alkaloids, particularly anatabine, cotinine and myosmine, may increase the motivation for nicotine and thus facilitate smoking behaviour.
We administered phenytoin (diphenylhydantoin) by mouth to 17 unselected patients to assess its ability to reduce blistering in recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa (RDEB). Therapeutic response was correlated with blood levels of the drug. Although there was a decrease in blistering of 53 +/- 6 per cent (mean +/- S.E.) among all patients at levels of more than 8 microgram of phenytoin per milliliter, the response was variable, with 12 of 17 patients having a decrease in blistering of more than 40 per cent. Since increased collagenase in human skin has been implicated in the pathogenesis of blistering in RDEB, we examined the effect of phenytoin on this enzyme. Although the drug did not inhibit collagenase activity directly, its addition to human-skin explant and fibroblast cultures produced a 50 to 60 per cent decrease in collagenase activity and immunoreactive protein concentrations. These in vitro studies suggest that phenytoin inhibits synthesis or secretion of collagenase of both, and that the favorable clinical response can be explained by this inhibition.
The aim of this study is to investigate the effect of sodium bicarbonate on doxorubicin-injected rats. Thirty female Wistar rats were injected with doxorubicin (3.5 mg/kg of body weight, intravenously) and 30 rats with 0.15 mol/L of sodium chloride solution (group C). Fifteen days later, we replaced the drinking water with a 0.15-mol/L sodium bicarbonate solution for 10 of the animals injected with doxorubicin (group AD-B). Three months after the beginning of treatment, urine samples were collected to quantify albumin, creatinine, and transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta). The rats were killed, and the kidneys were removed for histological, morphometric, immunohistochemical, and RNA studies. All doxorubicin-injected animals showed structural renal changes. However, these alterations were less intense in rats treated with doxorubicin plus sodium bicarbonate (P < 0.05). The percentage of glomerulosclerosis was 0.11% +/- 0.08% in group C, 14.7% +/- 12.8% in group AD (rats treated with doxorubicin only), and 4.38% +/- 1.9% in group AD-B, and the percentage of tubulointerstitial damage was 0. 01% +/- 0.03% in group C, 54.6% +/- 20.3% in group AD, and 16.6% +/- 10.3% in group AD-B. The immunostaining for TGF-beta in the renal cortex and glomeruli was more intense in the animals injected with doxorubicin only. A greater renal cortical TGF-beta messenger RNA content was observed in the animals injected with only doxorubicin that did not receive sodium bicarbonate (P < 0.05). These animals also presented a greater rate of urinary TGF-beta excretion reported as picograms of TGF-beta per milligram of urinary creatinine (P < 0.05), which was 202 +/- 11 pg/mg in group C, 1, 103 +/- 580 pg/mg in group AD, and 299 +/- 128 pg/mg in group AD-B. However, albuminuria was more intense in the sodium bicarbonate-treated animals (P < 0.05). The animals from group AD also showed higher immunostaining scores for vimentin and albumin in tubule cells (P < 0.05). In conclusion, treatment with sodium bicarbonate reduces structural renal damage, albumin reabsorption, and renal TGF-beta production in rats with doxorubicin-induced nephropathy.
Oxidative stress is believed to contribute to neurodegeneration following ischemic injury. The present study was undertaken to evaluate the possible antioxidant neuroprotective effect of curcumin (Cur) on neuronal death of hippocampal CA1 neurons following transient forebrain ischemia in rat. Treatment of Cur (200 mg/kg/day, i.p.) at three different times (immediately, 3 h and 24 h after ischemia) significantly (P<0.01) reduced neuronal damage 7 days after ischemia. Also, treatment of ischemic rats with Cur decreased the elevated levels of MDA and increased GSH contents, catalase and SOD activities to normal levels. In the in vitro, Cur was as potent as antioxidant (IC(50) = 1 microM) as butylated hydroxytoluene. The present study demonstrates that curcumin treatment attenuates forebrain ischemia-induced neuronal injury and oxidative stress in hippocampal tissue. Thus treatment with curcumin immediately or even delayed until 24 h may have the potential to be used as a protective agent in forebrain ischemic insult in human.
A 45-year-old woman developed signs of meningeal irritation after myelography with iohexol. Her condition improved very quickly (after antibiotic treatment). Rapid improvement, absence of pathogenic organisms in the pre-treatment CSF culture, the level of CSF pleocytosis and protein were in favor of chemical meningitis.
The modulating effect of estrogen on glucose homeostasis remains a controversial issue at present. In this study, we sought to determine the beneficial effect of 17β-estradiol (E₂) on hyperglycemia and islet β-cell functions in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were injected i.p. with STZ to induce a relatively mild diabetic condition. The rats were then treated with E₂ orally at 500 μg/kg body weight/day for 15 days to evaluate the modulating effect on hyperglycemia, insulin secretion, and islet β-cell proliferation. E₂ administration for 10 days significantly lowered plasma glucose levels, increased plasma insulin levels, and improved glucose tolerance by attenuating insulin response to oral glucose loading. These beneficial effects of E₂ were accompanied by increases in islet number and volume, rate of islet cell proliferation, and the amount of insulin secreted. The growth-stimulatory effect of E₂ on islet cells was linked to the functions of the estrogen receptor α. Notably, these protective effects of E₂ on diabetic conditions were basically not observed when the STZ-treated rats had a more severe degree of islet damage and hyperglycemia. Taken together, we conclude that E₂ can promote the regeneration of damaged pancreatic islets by stimulating β-cell proliferation in diabetic rats, and this effect is accompanied by improvements in glucose tolerance and a decrease in plasma glucose levels. These findings suggest that oral administration of E₂ may be beneficial in diabetic patients with an accelerated loss of islet β-cells.
To investigate the different effects of an angiotensin II type 1 (AT(1)) receptor antagonist, losartan, and an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, fosinopril, on cardiomyocyte apoptosis, myocardial fibrosis, and angiotensin II (Ang II) in the left ventricle of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs).
SHRs of 16-week-old were randomly divided into 3 groups: SHR-L (treated with losartan, 30 mg.kg(-1) x d(-1)), SHR-F (treated with fosinopril, 10 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1)), and SHR-C (treated with placebo). Each group consisted of 10 rats. Five rats, randomly selected from each group, were killed at the 8th and 16th week after treatment. Cardiomyocyte apoptosis, collagen volume fraction (CVF), perivascular collagen area (PVCA) and Ang II concentrations of plasma and myocardium were examined.
Compared with the controls at the 8th and 16th week, systolic blood pressures were similarly decreased in both treatment groups. Left ventricular weight and left ventricular mass indexes were significantly lower in both treatment groups. However, the latter parameter at the 16th week was reduced to a less extent in the fosinopril group than that in the losartan group. Compared with the controls, cardiomycyte apoptotic index was significantly reduced at the 8th week only in the fosinopril group, and at the 16th week in both treatment groups. The index of the fosinopril group was lower than that of the losartan group at the latter endpoint examined. Compared with the controls, the left ventricular collagen volume fraction and perivascular collagen area at the 8th and 16th weeks were significantly reduced in the SHRs treated with either fosinopril or losartan. However, the collagen volume fraction at the latter endpoint in the fosinopril group was lower than that in the losartan group. Compared with the controls at endpoints, plasma and myocardium Ang II levels were significantly increased in the losartan group. However, plasma Ang II concentrations were not altered, and myocardium Ang II concentrations at the 8th and 16th weeks were significantly reduced in the fosinopril group.
Both losartan and fosinopril could effectively inhibit cardiomyocyte apoptosis and myocardial fibrosis and reverse heart hypertrophy. Fosinopril may be more effective in these cardioprotective effects, suggesting that the effects of both drugs are related to the inhibition of myocardium renin-angiotension-aldsterone system.
The possible long-term renoprotective effects of treatment with thiazides, either as monotherapy or associated with renin-angiotensin suppressors, have not been assessed. We investigated the effect of hydrochlorothiazide (H), alone or combined with losartan (L), in the 5/6 renal ablation model (Nx). Adult male Munich-Wistar rats underwent Nx, remaining untreated for 1 mo. At this time, functional and morphological studies were performed in 21 rats (group Nx(pre)). The remaining rats were distributed among groups: Nx, no treatment; Nx+L, receiving L, 50 mg kg(-1) day(-1) in the drinking water; Nx+H, receiving H, 6 mg kg(-1) day(-1) in drinking water; and Nx+L+H, receiving both L and H as described. At 30 days of treatment, systemic and glomerular pressures were markedly elevated in group Nx. Both H and L attenuated hypertension, whereas combined L+H treatment completely normalized both pressures. Eight months after Nx, mortality approached 70% in untreated rats, whereas severe albuminuria, hypertension, glomerulosclerosis, and interstitial expansion were observed. H and L attenuated, but did not prevent, mortality, hypertension, and renal injury. Combined L+H treatment completely prevented mortality, normalized albuminuria and blood pressure, and arrested renal injury at levels found 1 mo after ablation, despite the unusually long period of observation. Combined L+H treatment may represent an effective therapeutic alternative to prevent progression of chronic nephropathies.
This study evaluated the effect of switching to quetiapine vs. risperidone continuation on sexual functioning in outpatients with risperidone-associated sexual dysfunction. Outpatients (n=42, age>or=18 years) with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder who experienced risperidone-associated sexual dysfunction were randomized to 6 weeks of double-blind risperidone continuation (mean dose=4.1 mg/day, S.D.=1.2) or quetiapine switch (mean dose=290.0 mg/day, S.D.=55.2) treatment. The five-item Arizona Sexual Experience Scale (ASEX) assessed sexual functioning at baseline and subsequently at weeks 2, 4 and 6. A mixed-model analysis of repeated measures included gender and baseline ASEX and PANSS scores as covariates. There was no significant Treatment Group effect for ASEX total scores and ASEX sub-items, and no significant Treatment GroupxPeriod interaction for ASEX total scores and ASEX sub-items. Treatment Group effects were not significantly different in any of the prospective weeks for ASEX total scores and ASEX sub-items. Adjusted mean ASEX total scores were slightly lower in the quetiapine switch group than in the risperidone continuation group at weeks 2 and 6 (21.27 vs. 22.18 and 18.51 vs. 20.53, respectively), but were nearly identical at week 4 (20.01 vs. 20.15). In this pilot trial, sexual functioning did not differ significantly between outpatients receiving quetiapine switch vs. risperidone continuation, although the quetiapine switch group had slightly lower adjusted mean ASEX total scores at weeks 2 and 6.
Desferrioxamine (DFO) was administered intravenously to a 63-year-old chronic hemodialysis patient with osteomalacia believed secondary to aluminum intoxication. Thrombocytopenia was noted after five doses of DFO. Platelet counts normalized after DFO was withheld. Thrombocytopenia recurred upon two rechallenges with this drug. It is suggested that platelet counts be monitored in hemodialysis patients receiving intravenous DFO.
The interaction of cells within the glomerulus plays an important role in the development and progression of glomerular disease. To investigate the interaction of glomerular mesangial cells (GMC) and epithelial cells (GEC), and mediator(s) of this interaction, we investigated the effect of Adriamycin (doxorubicin hydrochloride)-induced (ADR) rat GMC-conditioned medium (GMC-CM) on the incorporation of 35S, 3H-leucine, and 3H-thymidine in normal rat GEC, as well as 3H-thymidine uptake by normal rat GMC in response to ADR-rat GEC-CM. In addition, changes in the responsiveness to interleukin-6 (IL-6) and the products of IL-6 were assessed in ADR-rat GMC. The results showed that: (1) GMC-CM of ADR-rat with heavy proteinuria stimulated GEC proliferation and the synthesis of sulfated compounds and protein, while the GEC-CM of ADR-rat from the same nephrotic period increased GMC proliferation; (2) the ADR-rat GMC had altered responsiveness to IL-6 and its products. The stimulation index results demonstrated the interaction of GMC and GEC in the ADR-induced rat model, and that this interaction related closely to the degree of proteinuria and was mediated by soluble products of the damaged glomerular cell.
A large number of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) are available today, but they may not be satisfactory regarding clinical efficacy, tolerance, toxicity or pharmacokinetic properties. The purpose of this review is to focus upon the rationale behind the chemical modifications of several recently marketed AEDs or drugs in development and to categorize them according to the main purposes for the improvements: better efficacy or tolerability accompanied by improved pharmacokinetic properties.
AEDs that have been chemically modified to new derivatives during the last years are reviewed based on recent publications and PubMed-searches.
Improvement in pharmacokinetic parameters may affect both tolerability and efficacy. Modifications to improve tolerability include various valproate analogues, divided into aliphatic amides, cyclic derivatives or amino acid conjugates. Furthermore, there are the carbamazepine analogues oxcarbazepine and eslicarbazepine, the felbamate analogues fluorofelbamate and carisbamate (RWJ 33369), and the lamotrigine analogue JZP-4. The levetiracetam analogues brivaracetam and seletracetam and the derivatives of gabapentin, pregabalin and XP13512, have improved selectivity compared to their parent compounds. Other new drugs have new mechanisms of action related to GABA and glutamate receptors; the glutamate antagonists like topiramate (talampanel and NS-1209), and GABA(A) receptor agonists, benzodiazepine or progesterone analogues (ELB-139 and ganaxolone).
Further challenges for development of new AEDs include investigations of target molecules affected by pathophysiological processes and detailed structure-activity relationships with focus on stereoselectivity. These potential drugs may become of importance in future drug therapy in epilepsy and other CNS disorders.
To study the contact allergenic activities of trichloroethylene (TCE) and its three metabolites trichloroacetic acid, trichloroethanol and chloral hydrate.
A modified guinea pig maximization test (GPMT) was adopted. The skin sensitization (edema and erythema) was observed in trichloroethylene, trichloroacetic acid, trichloroethanol, chloral hydrate and 2,4-dinitrochlorobenzene.
The allergenic rate of TCE, trichloroacetic acid and 2,4-dinitrochlorobenzene was 71.4%, 58.3% and 100.0% respectively, and that of trichloroethanol and chloral hydrate was 0%. The mean response score of TCE, trichloroacetic acid and 2,4-dinitrochlorobenzene was 2.3, 1.1, 6.0 respectively. The histopathological analysis also showed an induction of allergenic transformation in guinea pig skin by both TCE and trichloroacetic acid.
TCE appears to be a strong allergen while trichloroacetic acid a moderate one. On the other hand, both trichloroethanol and chloral hydrate are weak sensitization potentials. Immunologic reaction induced by TCE might be postulated as the pathological process of this illness. Consequently, it is suggested that in the mechanism of Occupational Dermatitis Medicamentose-Like (ODML) induced by TCE, the chemical itself might be the main cause of allergy. As one of its metabolic products, trichloroacetic acid might be a subordinate factor.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) regulate gene expression post-transcriptionally and thus are involved in various physiological and pathological states. Due to their stability in biofluids miRNAs have also been proposed as biomarkers (BMs) for tissue injury. We investigated the usefulness of urinary miRNAs for detection of site-specific renal damage in an antiglomerular basement membrane glomerulonephritis (GN) model in rats by comparing GN-induced urinary miRNAs profiles to traditional and newer protein BMs, and to proximal tubular injury-induced urinary miRNA profiles observed previously after cisplatin (Cp) treatment. Male Wistar Kyoto and Sprague Dawley rats were dosed once with 1, 2.5, and 5 ml/kg nephrotoxic serum (NTS) or 1.5 and 5 ml/kg NTS, respectively. GN and tubular damage were observed histopathologically in all treated rats after 14 days. Although serum creatinine and BUN were not changed, several protein BMs and 74 urinary miRNAs were found to be increased 8 and 14 days after NTS administration. Of these 74 miRNAs, 5 were identified as increased after NTS but not after Cp treatment. Using in situ hybridization two of them, miR-10 b and -100, were found to be localized in distal segments of the nephron, potentially reflecting the tubular injury in those regions. Furthermore, evaluation of both miRNA and mRNA expression in the kidney revealed possible miRNA-mRNA interactions mostly associated with fibrotic and transforming growth factor β signaling. In conclusion, our investigations support the potential of urinary miRNAs as specific BMs for kidney injury, and suggest a role of miRNAs in pathological processes during GN in the kidney.
Diflunisal [5-(2,4-difluorophenyl)-salicylic acid] is a new analgesic antiinflammatory drug that, when administered orally to rabbits at 40 and 60 mg/kg/day, caused terata, most commonly axial skeletal defects. These same dosage levels also caused a severe maternal hemolytic anemia following a dramatic decrease in erythrocyte ATP levels. The teratogenicity, anemia, and depletion of ATP were unique to the rabbit among species examined. To test the possible causality between the teratogenic effects and anemia induced by diflunisal, a single dose of 180 mg/kg diflunisal was administered to rabbits on gestation day 5. This treatment produced an anemia that persisted through gestation day 15 in addition to causing the characteristic axial skeletal defects. Since diflunisal was cleared from maternal blood before gestation day 9, the critical day for induction of similar axial skeletal defects by hypoxia, the skeletal malformations probably resulted from maternal hypoxia secondary to anemia and not from a direct and specific effect of the drug on the embryo. In addition, we observed that the diflunisal level in the embryo was less than 5% of the peak maternal blood level probably as a result of high plasma protein binding of diflunisal in the maternal blood (greater than 98%). This relatively low placental transfer may explain the lack of diflunisal teratogenicity in rats and mice compared to aspirin which crosses the placenta more readily. These studies demonstrate that a species that exhibits unusually severe drug-specific maternotoxicity is probably an unsuitable model for the prediction of the teratogenic potential of that drug in humans.
This report extends the randomized, double-blind, multicenter trial at 14 centers in the United States that compared triple-therapy regimens containing mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), 2 or 3 g, with a similar regimen containing azathioprine (AZA) in recipients of cadaveric renal allografts. We investigated the continued long-term use of MMF with respect to graft and patient survival, graft function, and safety. All patients who received the study drug (MMF, 2 g, n = 165; MMF, 3 g, n = 166; AZA, n = 164) were included in the 3-year intent-to-treat evaluation of graft and patient survival. At 3 years posttransplantation, the weighted pairwise difference was 6.5%, and 95% confidence interval in graft and patient survival (ie, patients alive with a functioning graft) was -2.1 to 15.1 (P = 0.17) numerically in favor of MMF, 2 g, compared with AZA. Similar to the 1-year data, the principal adverse events were limited to the gastrointestinal and hematologic systems. Although cytomegalovirus (CMV) tissue-invasive disease occurred more often in the MMF-treated groups, most instances occurred during the first year posttransplantation. One patient in the AZA group and one patient in the MMF 2-g group developed lymphoma, whereas three patients in the MMF 3-g group developed lymphoma at 3 years posttransplantation. In conclusion, although the design of the study did not afford adequate statistical power to address survival end points, at 3 years posttransplantation, graft survival, patient survival, renal function, and safety were similar among the AZA, MMF 2-g, and MMF 3-g groups. There was an increased incidence of infection caused by invasive CMV and Aspergillus spp and mucormycosis seen in the MMF groups, but the long-term data confirm MMF is a safe and valuable addition to the range of drugs available to prevent rejection.
Magnesium influences the nervous system via its actions on the release and metabolism of neurotransmitters, and abnormal magnesium metabolism has been implicated in several neuropsychiatric disorders with prominent mood symptoms. The aim of this study was to compare the serum levels of magnesium of cocaine addicts to those of heroin addicts and normal controls. We also attempted to clarify the relationship between the pathophysiology of cocaine abuse and magnesium levels by investigating their association with various clinical dimensions.
Eighty-five consecutive subjects with a history of cocaine or opiate use disorders were recruited, evaluated and compared with 100 controls. The cocaine and heroin abusers were assessed with a 10-cm Visual Analogue Scale, the Symptom Check List-90 Revised, the Brown-Goodwin Scale, and the Barrat Impulsiveness Scale.
Magnesium levels were higher in the cocaine group compared to the opiate group and control. Male subjects had lower magnesium levels than the females of all three groups. Scores of impulsiveness, aggressiveness, craving and psychiatric symptomatology were not significantly different between the opiate and cocaine addicts.
This is the first study evaluating the magnesium level in cocaine addicts. Cocaine addicts showed higher total plasma magnesium levels than opiate addicts and normal controls, even though they remained in the normal range. The roles of the psychiatric comorbidity, of a pharmacokinetic association and of a pharmacodynamic interaction are discussed. Further prospective studies comparing serum levels of cocaine at different times are needed.
The effect of phenobarbital on total sleep time, night awakenings, and lengthy awakenings was examined as part of a randomized trial of children with febrile seizures; information about sleep patterns was gathered by parental observation. Children were between ages 8-36 months at enrollment and were examined subsequently for 2 1/2 years. Night awakenings were not more common in children assigned to phenobarbital except for those who were poor sleepers at the beginning of the study. Total sleep time was no different in children assigned to phenobarbital than in those assigned to placebo. It is concluded that sleep problems reported in most young children with febrile seizures treated with phenobarbital did not exceed those reported in children treated with placebo, but a subset of predisposed children did experience an increase in night awakenings.
The aim of this study was to determine whether parathyroidectomy (PTx) would modify hypertension secondary to adrenocorticotrophin (ACTH) administration. Male Sprague Dawley (SD) rats were randomly assigned to one of five groups; (i) sham (saline) treatment (NaCl 0.9% s/c 0.5 ml/kg/day), (ii) ACTH treatment (Synacthen Depot 0.5 mg/kg/day), (iii) saline/PTx/1% CaCl2 in water, (iv) ACTH/PTx/1% CaCl2 in water and (v) ACTH/1% CaCl2 in water. Tail cuff systolic blood pressure (SBP) and metabolic parameters were measured on alternate days for 4 control (C) and 11 treatment days (T0-T10). There was no change in SBP in the sham and saline/PTx/CaCl2 groups over T0-10. SBP increased in the ACTH treated groups. PTx did not modify ACTH-induced increases in SBP or metabolic effects. These results do not support a role for the parathyroids in the genesis of ACTH-induced hypertension in the rat.
Although acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin) is commonly used for patients with chronic cardiovascular disease, a minority of patients have a sensitivity to acetylsalicylic acid and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.
To provide a diagnostic strategy for evaluating and treating patients with aspirin sensitivity, with additional consideration for issues specific to patients with coronary artery disease (CAD).
Published articles were identified through a search of MEDLINE and the Cochrane databases using the dates 1966 to June 2004 and the search terms aspirin allergy, coronary artery disease, aspirin desensitization, and aspirin sensitivity. References of retrieved articles were also reviewed for pertinent studies. Articles were included in this review if they were controlled studies, published in the English language, and appeared in a peer-reviewed journal.
The prevalence of aspirin-exacerbated respiratory tract disease is approximately 10% and for aspirin-induced urticaria the prevalence varies from 0.07% to 0.2% of the general population. Aspirin sensitivity is most often manifested as rhinitis and asthma or urticaria/angioedema induced by cross-reacting nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs that inhibit cyclooxygenase 1. The primary mechanism of sensitivity is less often related to drug-specific IgE antibody production leading to urticaria/angioedema and rarely to anaphylaxis. Most patients with acetylsalicylic acid sensitivity are able to undergo desensitization therapy safely and successfully except in cases of chronic idiopathic urticaria. However, there have not been any randomized trials that specifically focus on the efficacy of aspirin desensitization. Furthermore, experience with acetylsalicylic acid desensitization in patients with CAD is very limited. After successful desensitization, acetylsalicylic acid therapy must be indefinitely continued to prevent resensitization.
Acetylsalicylic acid sensitivity is common and desensitization can be performed safely in many patients. Large-scale trials are warranted to determine the safety and efficacy of acetylsalicylic acid desensitization therapy in patients with concomitant CAD because data are currently limited to small case series.
Schindler disease is a recently recognized infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy resulting from the deficient activity of the lysosomal hydrolase, alpha-N-acetylgalctosaminidase (alpha-GalNAc). The recent isolation and expression of the full-length cDNA encoding alpha-GalNAc facilitated the identification of the molecular lesions in the affected brothers from family D, the first cases described with this autosomal recessive disease. Southern and Northern hybridization analyses of DNA and RNA from the affected homozygotes revealed a grossly normal alpha-GalNAc gene structure and normal transcript sizes and amounts. Therefore, the alpha-GalNAc transcript from an affected homozygote was reverse-transcribed, amplified by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and sequenced. A single G to A transition at nucleotide 973 was detected in multiple subclones containing the PCR products. This point mutation resulted in a glutamic acid to lysine substitution in residue 325 (E325K) of the alpha-GalNAc polypeptide. The base substitution was confirmed by dot blot hybridization analyses of PCR-amplified genomic DNA from family members with allele-specific oligonucleotides. Furthermore, transient expression of an alpha-GalNAc construct containing the E325K mutation resulted in the expression of an immunoreactive polypeptide which had no detectable alpha-GalNAc activity.
The effects of propranolol, digoxin and combination therapy (/D) on the resting and exercise ECG were studied in ten normal subjects and 20 patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) given a sequence of oral placebo, propranolol, P/D, digoxin and placebo, for two week periods. Digoxin produced a significant decrease in T-wave amplitude and often resulted in ST segment depression in the resting ECG. Propranolol, digoxin, and P/D tended to decrease the QTc interval and prolong the PR interval. However, CAD patients were more sensitive to PR prolongation than normals while receiving propranolol or digoxin alone. Propranolol therapy did not significantly affect the ST segment of the exercise ECG in the normal subjects or the CAD patients without an ischemic control exercise ECG. By contrast, 50 per cent of the normal subjects developed "false-positive" ischemic ST segment responses to exercise while receiving digoxin of P/D and three of eight CAD patients without ischemic control exercise ST segments had a similar response to digoxin or P/D. In 12 CAD patients with ischemic control exercise ST segments, propranolol did not affect the amount of ST segment depression at the onset of angina or the maximum amount of ST segment depression. Digoxin or P/D both uniformly increased the maximum amount of ST segment depression which was greater with digoxin than P/D. However, the maximum heart rate on P/D was significantly reduced as compared to that on digoxin. It is concluded that (1) CAD patients are more sensitive to propranolol or digoxin-induced AV block than normals, (2) propranolol does not change the magnitude of ischemic exercise ST segment depression, (3) digoxin increases ischemic exercise ST segment depression and results in a high incidence of false-positive exercise tests, and (4) the addition of propranolol to digoxin attenuates the effects of digoxin on the exercise ST segment.
A membrane-bound cytochrome b, a heterodimer formed by a 91-kD glycoprotein (heavy chain) and a 22-kD polypeptide (light chain), is an essential component of the phagocyte NADPH-oxidase responsible for superoxide generation. Cytochrome b is absent in two subgroups of chronic granulomatous disease (CGD), an inherited disorder characterized by the lack of oxidase activity. Mutations in the cytochrome heavy chain gene, encoded by the CYBB locus in Xp21.1, result in the X-linked form of CGD. A rare subgroup of autosomal recessive CGD also lacks cytochrome b (A- CGD), but the genetic defect has not previously been identified. In order to search for possible mutations in the cytochrome light chain locus, CYBA, the structure of this gene was characterized. The CYBA locus was localized to 16q24, and the approximately 600-bp open reading frame determined to be encoded by six exons that span approximately 8.5 kb. Three unrelated patients with A- CGD were studied for evidence of mutations in the light chain gene. One patient, whose parents were first cousins, was homozygous for a large deletion that removed all but the extreme 5' coding sequence of the gene. The other two patients had a grossly normal light chain transcript on Northern blot of mononuclear cell RNA. The light chain transcript was amplified by the polymerase chain reaction and sequenced. One patient was a compound heterozygote for two alleles containing point mutations in the open reading frame that predict a frame shift and a nonconservative amino acid replacement, respectively. The second patient, whose parents were second cousins, was homozygous for a different single-base substitution resulting in another nonconservative amino acid change. These results indicate that A- CGD can results from defects in the gene encoding the 22-kD light chain of the phagocyte cytochrome b.
