Thalidomide has become an important agent in the treatment of myeloma. However, thalidomide induced erectile dysfunction is a serious complication which has received very little attention. In our hematology department, 6 out of 11 male patients developed erectile dysfunction (grade 3 in 5/6) within 4 weeks of starting thalidomide. Our results suggest that thalidomide induced impotence is a common complication in male hematology patients.
The Y-box binding protein 1 (YB-1) regulates gene expression through transcription and translation. YB-1 has been shown to be associated with up-regulation of P-glycoprotein (Pgp), an ATP-binding transporter involved in multi-drug resistance. In this study, we determined the prognostic significance of YB-1 and its relationship with Pgp in patients with breast cancer. YB-1 and Pgp expression were evaluated by immunohistochemistry in resected specimens of infiltrative ductal breast cancers from 99 patients and 57 patients respectively and correlated with clinicopathological parameters and adjuvant chemotherapy regimes. The antibody for the YB-1 protein was prepared by injecting a rabbit with a purified recombinant chicken YB1 protein. The relationship between YB-1 and Pgp was also evaluated by a computational approach using the Resonant Recognition Model (RRM). We found that breast tumors which were both estrogen receptor-negative and lymph node positive were associated with high YB-1 expression (P=0.017). In patients who did not receive adjuvant chemotherapy, recurrence risk was reduced in breast cancers having lower YB-1 expression (P=0.034), suggesting that high levels of YB-1 expression in breast cancer is associated with tumor aggressiveness. We were able to demonstrate a direct interaction between YB-1 and Pgp using the computer-based RRM. Interestingly, we found that patients who were on a chemotherapy regime which contained an anthracycline (a Pgp substrate) and subsequently developed recurrence, had a higher YB-1 score compared to patients on the Cyclophosphamide/Methotrexate/5-Fluorouracil regime (P=0.024). YB-1 expression in breast cancer may be a potential marker of chemoresistance and could possibly aid in selection of the appropriate adjuvant chemotherapy regime for breast cancers.
The disparities in the burden of ill health caused by environmental risks should be an important consideration beyond their aggregate population effects. We used comparative risk assessment methods to calculate the mortality effects of unsafe water and sanitation, indoor air pollution from household solid fuel use, and ambient urban particulate matter pollution in Mexico. We also estimated the disparities in mortality caused by each risk factor, across municipios (counties) of residence and by municipio socioeconomic status (SES). Data sources for the analysis were the national census, population-representative health surveys, and air quality monitoring for risk factor exposure; systematic reviews and meta-analyses of epidemiological studies for risk factor effects; and vital statistics for disease-specific mortality. During 2001-2005, unsafe water and sanitation, household solid fuel use, and urban particulate matter pollution were responsible for 3,000, 3,600, and 7,600 annual deaths, respectively. Annual child mortality rates would decrease by 0.2, 0.1, and 0.1 per 1,000 children, and life expectancy would increase by 1.0, 1.2, and 2.4 months, respectively, in the absence of these environmental exposures. Together, these risk factors caused 10.6% of child deaths in the lowest-SES communities (0.9 deaths per 1,000 children), but only 4.0% in communities in the highest-SES ones (0.1 per 1,000). In the 50 most-affected municipios, these 3 exposures were responsible for 3.2 deaths per 1,000 children and a 10-month loss of life expectancy. The large disparities in the mortality effects of these 3 environmental risks should form the basis of interventions and environmental monitoring programs.
Comprehensive global data on the health effects of indoor air pollutants are lacking. There are few large population-based multi-air pollutant health assessments. Further, little is known about indoor air health risks in the Middle East, especially in countries undergoing rapid economic development.
To provide multifactorial indoor air exposure and health data, we conducted a population-based study of indoor air pollution and health in the United Arab Emirates (UAE).
We conducted a cross-sectional study in a population-based sample of 628 households in the UAE. Indoor air pollutants [sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), hydrogen sulfide (H2S), formaldehyde (HCHO), carbon monoxide (CO), and particulate matter] were measured using passive samplers over a 7-day period. Health information was collected from 1,590 household members via in-person interviews.
Participants in households with quantified SO2, NO2, and H2S (i.e., with measured concentrations above the limit of quantification) were twice as likely to report doctor-diagnosed asthma. Participants in homes with quantified SO2 were more likely to report wheezing symptoms {ever wheezing, prevalence odds ratio [POR] 1.79 [95% confidence interval (CI) 1.05, 3.05]; speech-limiting wheeze, POR 3.53 (95% CI: 1.06, 11.74)}. NO2 and H2S were similarly associated with wheezing symptoms. Quantified HCHO was associated with neurologic symptoms (difficulty concentrating POR 1.47; 95% CI: 1.02, 2.13). Burning incense daily was associated with increased headaches (POR 1.87; 95% CI: 1.09, 3.21), difficulty concentrating (POR 3.08; 95% CI: 1.70, 5.58), and forgetfulness (POR 2.68: 95% CI: 1.47, 4.89).
This study provides new information regarding potential health risks from pollutants commonly found in indoor environments in the UAE and other countries. Multipollutant exposure and health assessments in cohort studies are needed to better characterize health effects of indoor air pollutants.
Blockade of spinal glycine receptors with intrathecal strychnine produces an allodynia-like state in the anesthetized rat. Innocuous hair deflection in the presence of intrathecal strychnine induces a nociceptive-like activation of catechol oxidation in the locus coeruleus and enhances cardiovascular responses. Because prostaglandins play a central role in augmenting pain, this study evaluated the effect of intrathecal nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs in strychnine-induced allodynia.
In urethane-anesthetized rats, changes in catechol oxidation in the locus coeruleus, measured using in vivo voltammetry, and cardiovascular parameters evoked by hair deflection of caudal dermatomes were determined after strychnine (40 microg) or saline were administered intrathecally. Subsequently, the effects of 30 microg ketorolac, 10 microg S(+)-ibuprofen, and 10 microg R(-)-ibuprofen administered intrathecally were evaluated.
After strychnine was administered intrathecally, hair deflection evoked an increase in the locus coeruleus catechol oxidation (peak, 149.7+/-7.2% of baseline) and mean arterial blood pressure (peak, 127.5+/-3.8% of baseline). These responses were not observed after saline was administered intrathecally. All hair deflection-evoked, strychnine-dependent peak responses were attenuated significantly with intrathecally administered ketorolac and S(+)-ibuprofen but not with R(-)-ibuprofen.
Locus coeruleus catechol oxidation is a sensitive biochemical index of strychnine-induced allodynia and is correlated temporally with the cardiovascular responses evoked by hair deflection during spinal glycinergic inhibition. The ability of intrathecally administered ketorolac and S(+)-ibuprofen, but not R(-)-ibuprofen, to suppress the locus coeruleus catechol oxidation and cardiovascular peak responses evoked during strychnine-induced allodynia provide evidence that central prostaglandins play an important role in the abnormal sensory processing of strychnine-induced allodynia.
Primary mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) mutation at the nt 11778 site in Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON) has been reported to be present in patients with ethambutol-induced optic neuropathy. To study further this association between LHON and ethambutol-induced optic neuropathy, we tested ethambutol-induced optic neuropathy patients for the presence of the mtDNA mutations at nucleotides (nt)-11778, nt-14484, nt-3460, nt-15257, nt-9438, nt-9804, nt-13730, and nt-14459 in 24, 15, 8, 6, 5, 5, 5, and 5 patients respectively. However, none of the ethambutol-induced optic neuropathy patients was found to exhibit any pathogenic LHON mtDNA mutation. In conclusion, we found no evidence of any association between ethambutol-induced optic neuropathy and the LHON mutations.
The actions and interactions of putative mediators of inflammation, such as substance P (SP), histamine, bradykinin and prostaglandins (PGE2) were studied in human skin. In addition, the effects of capsaicin were examined as it is known to release (and to deplete) SP and calcitonin gene-related peptide from C-fibres. The flare evoked by bradykinin was abolished by pretreatment with lignocaine (local anesthetic), compound 48/80 (mast-cell histamine liberator), mepyramine (H1-receptor antagonist) and indomethacin (cyclo-oxygenase inhibitor) but was unaffected by atropine and ketanserin (serotonin antagonist). The weal response was not reduced by any of the drugs. The flare evoked by capsaicin was abolished by lignocaine and indomethacin but was unaffected by compound 48/80, mepyramine, atropine and ketanserin. The weal response was reduced by indomethacin. The flare response to bradykinin seems to reflect the activation of C-fibres and associated mast cells, while the flare response to capsaicin seems to reflect the activation of C-fibres only. Repeated injections of capsaicin and bradykinin produced tachyphylaxis (and cross-tachyphylaxis) and greatly reduced the SP-evoked flare. Capsaicin produced tachyphylaxis also after treatment of the skin with a local anaesthetic, suggesting that it develops independently of C-fibre impulse flow. The tachyphylaxis produced by bradykinin and capsaicin seems to reflect the depletion of messenger peptides from the C-fibres. The flare response to SP following capsaicin- or bradykinin-induced desensitization gradually returned to normal after 5-8 weeks. The erythema evoked by PGE2 was reduced by 30% following pretreatment with lignocaine, mepyramine or compound 48/80.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Carbon monoxide (CO) and the excitatory amino acid glutamate both dilate cerebral arterioles in newborn pigs. The key enzyme in CO synthesis is heme oxygenase, which is highly expressed in neurons with glutamatergic receptor activity as well as cerebral microvessels. During seizures the extracellular level of glutamate is increased, which results in excessive depolarization of neurons. We hypothesized that CO is a mediator of excitatory amino acid-induced dilation of the cerebral microvasculature during seizures. Three groups of piglets were examined: 1) i.v. normal saline (sham control), 2) topical chromium mesoporphyrin (Cr-MP, 15 x 10(-6) M), and 3) i.v. tin-protoporphyrin (Sn-PP, 4 mg/kg). Synthetic metalloporphyrins (Cr-MP and Sn-PP) are heme oxygenase inhibitors, thereby reducing CO synthesis. Implanted closed cranial windows were used to monitor changes in pial arteriolar diameters. Seizures were induced by administration of i.v. bicuculline. Changes in pial arteriolar diameters were monitored during 30 min of status epilepticus. The percent increase in pial arteriolar dilation in the saline group during seizures was 68 +/- 3%. In the metalloporphyrin groups, the pial arteriolar dilation was markedly reduced (35 +/- 3% and 13 +/- 1%, for Cr-MP and Sn-PP, respectively; p < 0.05, compared with the saline group). We conclude that metalloporphyrins by inhibition of heme oxygenase and prevention of CO synthesis attenuate pial arteriolar dilation during seizures. Therefore, CO appears to be involved in cerebral vasodilation caused by glutamatergic seizures.
The efficacy and safety of extrafine beclomethasone dipropionate 100 μg/formoterol 6 μg (BDP/F HFA) pressurized metered dose inhaler (pMDI) in patients with moderate-to-severe persistent asthma, has been demonstrated in randomised controlled trials (RCTs). The aim of this prospective observational study was to assess real-life effectiveness in terms of asthma control in smoking (most of the time excluded from RCTs) and non-smoking asthmatics.
Adult patients with persistent asthma, in whom treatment with an inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting β(2)-agonist (ICS/LABA) combination is indicated, were included. Pulmonary function (FEV1%pred or PEF absolute value), Asthma Control Questionnaire (ACQ) and asthma control according to GINA criteria were measured at baseline as well as 2-8 months and >8-14 months after treatment initiation with BDP/F HFA.
Overall, 619 patients were enrolled by 97 investigators. In the effectiveness cohort (N = 568), at baseline, smoking asthmatics (N = 123) had higher ACQ6 (p < 0.0001) and lower asthma control (p = 0.021) than non-smoking asthmatics. Treatment with BDP/F HFA pMDI was associated with significant (p < 0.0001) improvements in pulmonary function (+7.1% in FEV1% pred), ACQ6 (-1.32) and GINA asthma control (improvement of control in 49.8% of patients). Importantly, the same treatment benefits were observed in former or current smokers compared with non-smoking asthmatics. There was a reduction in the dose of ICS from 489 ± 192 μg BDP extrafine equivalents at baseline to 265 ± 125 μg after one year. The drug was well-tolerated.
This prospective cohort study demonstrates the real-life effectiveness and safety of BDP/F HFA in adult asthma patients, including smokers, in normal clinical practice.
Tardive dyskinesia is a severe complication of neuroleptic treatment. It may develop weeks, even years after starting a neuroleptic treatment and the symptoms may be irreversible. Neuroleptic compounds are not only used in cases of schizophrenia, but also in cases of severe depression with delusional symptoms. We want to present the case of a 67 year old female patient who developed haloperidol induced dyskinesea and stress unto the successful treatment of this complication with olanzapine in combination with paroxetine. Under this regime not only the improvement of the depression, but also of the tardive dyskinesea was impressive.
Systemic hypertension does not always reflect concomitant glomerular hypertension. At similar levels of systemic hypertension, glomerular injury occurs only in kidneys that lack protective preglomerular vasoconstriction, which results in glomerular hypertension. indeed, glomerular hypertension and glomerular injury do not develop in rats with spontaneous hypertension that have effective preglomerular vasoconstriction. In the experiments reported herein, the normal adaptive response (afferent arteriolar dilation) to a reduction of one and five-sixths of the renal mass in rats with spontaneous hypertension was examined to ascertain whether that response would expose the remaining nephrons to the injurious effects of high perfusion pressure. In addition, the efficacies of two different antihypertensive regimens were compared. Rats with spontaneous hypertension received either no therapy, or a combination of hydralazine, reserpine, and hydrochlorothiazide, or the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril. Three weeks after ablation of one and five-sixths of the renal mass, blood pressure, glomerular filtration rate, urinary protein excretion, and histologic injury scores for mesangial expansion and glomerulosclerosis were determined. Untreated rats with hypertension had severe glomerulosclerosis and mesangial expansion. Both antihypertensive regimens normalized systemic blood pressure and reduced glomerulosclerosis. However, enalapril was more effective than the combination of hydralazine, reserpine, and hydrochlorothiazide in reducing the exaggerated glomerular filtration rate (0.52 +/- 0.40 versus 0.82 +/- 0.10 ml per minute; p less than 0.05), the injury score for mesangial expansion (79 versus 103; p less than 0.05), and the degree of proteinuria (32 +/- 4 versus 42 +/- 3 mg per 24 hours; p less than 0.05). Persistence of hyperfiltration accompanied by increased mesangial expansion, may lead to progression of glomerular damage despite "adequate" control of systemic hypertension, as observed in rats treated with a combination of hydralazine, reserpine, and hydrochlorothiazide.
The incidence and intensity of muscle fasciculations as well as the occurrence of cardiac arrhythmias following succinylcholine were evaluated in 36 premedicated children (1.0-5.7 years) after intravenous induction with thiopentone or after inhalation induction with isoflurane (3.75 vol-% in 70% nitrous oxide in oxygen). The study was randomized. In the thiopentone group, fasciculations were seen in all children and in the isoflurane group in 5 of 18 children (P < 0.001). The median of the duration of fasciculations was 15 s with a minimum of 5 s and maximum of 36 s (1st quartile 9 s and 3rd quartile 20 s) in the thiopentone group and 0 (0-15) s with a 1st quartile of 0 and a 3rd quartile of 3 s in the isoflurane group (P < 0.001). No cardiac arrhythmias were noted in either group. In conclusion, isoflurane in nitrous oxide inhibits succinylcholine-induced muscle fasciculations in children.
Diabetes has been associated with memory and behavioral dysfunctions such as anxiety. However, exact mechanisms of how diabetes affect such changes remain to be characterized. The purpose of present study is to search for streptozotocin-regulated genes in hippocampus of the mice using a differential display PCR technique, in the hope of type I diabetes-related hippocampal gene(s). It has been found that expression of a PCR product was increased by streptozotocin treatment and it was identified as β amyloid precursor protein. These results were further confirmed by performing RT-PCR analysis. In addition, the protein expression of β amyloid precursor protein as evidenced by Western blot analysis was increased in the hippocampus of streptozotocin-induced diabetic mice. To explore if the changes in amyloid β precursor protein could be related with functional changes in the brain regarding memory activity and anxiety, passive avoidance test and elevated plus maze test were performed, respectively. There is significant reduction of memory formation and marked induction of anxiety in the streptozotocin-induced diabetic mice. These results suggest that increase of β amyloid precursor protein may play a role in the memory loss and anxiety induction in type I diabetic mice.
Implication of environmental endocrine disruptors, such as bisphenol A (BPA), on the development of cardiopathy has been poorly investigated. The aim of the study was to investigate the effects of long-term exposure to BPA at the reference dose on the myocardium of rats, and the underlying mechanisms. Male rats received corn oil or 50 μg/kg/day of BPA since delactation. At 24 and 48 weeks (wk), cardiac function and mitochondrial function were examined. The mRNA expression and the methylation status of PCG-1α, a major regulator of mitochondrial biogenesis in cardiac muscle, were also tested. At 48 wk, BPA-exposed rats displayed cardiomyopathy, characterized by myocardium hypertrophy, cardiomyocyte enlargement, and impairment of cardiac function. At 24 wk, significantly reduced ATP production, dissipated mitochondrial membrane potential (Ψm) and declined mitochondrial respiratory complex (MRC) activity in cardiomyocytes were observed in BPA-exposed rats compared with the control rats, indicating a decrease in mitochondrial function occurs before the development of cardiomyopathy. Additionally, BPA exposure decreased the expression of PGC-1α and induced hypermethylation of PGC-1 α in heart tissue in 24- and 48-week-old rats. The change in methylation of PGC-1α was observed more pronounced in BPA-exposed rats at 48 wk. Overall, long-term BPA exposure induces cardiomyopathy in male rats, and the underlying mechanism may involve the impairment of cardiac mitochondrial function and the disturbance of methylation of PGC-1α.
Nitrendipine (Bayotensin) is a dihydropyridine derivative that appears to preferentially dilate peripheral vessels by a cellular mechanism similar to those found with other calcium blocking agents. In this study nitrendipine when infused (0.2-0.3 mg/kg i.v.) into anaesthetized cats caused a release of a substance disaggregating platelet clumps which had adhered to blood superfused collagen strip. The appearance of this unstable disaggregating substance was prevented by the pretreatment of cats with acetylsalicylic acid (50 mg/kg i.v.). In atherosclerotic rabbits nitrendipine stimulated release of prostacyclin-like substance without effect on proaggregatory concentrations of arachidonic acid and adenosine diphosphate. In rats nitrendipine inhibited the development of atherosclerotic changes in the aorta evoked by the atherogenic diet with ergocalciferol (vitamin D2). It is suggested that nitrendipine may promote formation of prostacyclin in arteries and inhibit the development of atherosclerosis.
PDE4 (phosphodiesterase-4) plays a critical role in pathogenesis of allergic asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). PDE4 inhibitors are presently under clinical development for the treatment of asthma and/or COPD. Ciclamilast, a new PDE4 inhibitor, is a piclamilast (RP 73401) structural analogue, but has a more potent inhibitory effect on PDE4 and inflammation in the airway tissues and less side effects than that of piclamilast. In this study, we elucidate primarily on the roles of compound on PDE4 enzyme in physiological and pathological processes in a mouse model of asthma. The sensitized/challenged mice were reexposed to ovalbumin and airway response to inhaled methacholine was monitored. Orally administration of ciclamilast, in a dose-dependent manner, significantly inhibited changes in lung resistance and lung dynamic compliance, as well as upregulation of cAMP-PDE activity, increase of PDE4D mRNA expression, but not PDE4B from lung tissue in the murine model. In addition, the compound dose-dependently reduced mRNA expression of eotaxin, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and interleukin (IL)-4, but slightly increased mRNA expression of interferon (IFN)-gamma from lung tissue. Further, levels of eotaxin, TNF-alpha and IL-4, and eosinophil and neutrophil accumulation in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid were also significantly reduced. Pathological examination, goblet cell hyperplasia and inflammatory cells infiltration in lung tissue were suppressed by treatment with ciclamilast. A significant correlation was observed between the increases in PDE4D mRNA expression and airway hyperresponsiveness. These studies confirm that inhibitory effect of ciclamilast on airway hyperresponsiveness includes its inhibiting PDE4D mRNA expression, down-modulating PDE4 activity, anti-inflammation and anti-mucus hypersecretion, and ciclamilast may have therapeutic potential for the treatment of asthma.
The oxazolidinedione anticonvulsant trimethadione (3,5,5-trimethyl-2,4-oxazolidinedione, TMO) as well as its major metabolite, dimethadione (5,5-dimethyl-2,4-oxazolidinedione, DMO), and a structural analog from the barbiturate series, 5,5-dimethylbarbituric acid (DMB), were fed to F344/NCr male rats previously given a single initiating injection of N-nitrosodiethylamine (NDEA). The known promoter, phenobarbital (5-ethyl-5-phenylbarbituric acid, PB), was employed in this study as a positive control. At dosage levels equimolar to 500 ppm PB, none of the three compounds promoted development of hepatocellular adenomas or carcinomas, in contrast to PB. The two oxazolidinedione analogs and DMB caused minimal or no induction of cytochrome P450 isozyme 2B1 (CYP2B1)-mediated alkoxyresorufin O-dealkylase activities following short-term (2 weeks) feeding to separate groups of 6-week-old male F344/NCr rats, in contrast to the dramatic induction caused by PB. Promotion of neither thyroid nor renal neoplasia was observed following prolonged feeding of any of the tested compounds, although a significantly higher frequency of premalignant renal cortical tubular lesions (dysplasias) was seen in rats exposed to TMO following NDEA initiation than in those treated with NDEA alone. These studies provide important additional data on structure/liver tumor promoting activity relationships, and yield further evidence that within this group of structurally related anticonvulsants, it is possible to separate anticonvulsant activity from tumor promoting activity in the rat liver.
An increase in lipid peroxidation has been found in liver after poisoning with hepatotoxic substances and following dietary changes, i.e. choline-devoid diet and orotic acid-rich diet. In this study we analysed in the rat a model of fatty liver induced by administration of caffeine. The results seem to indicate an increased peroxidability in the liver of caffeine-treated animals, due to an increase in triglyceride content. A decrease of vitamin E which also occurs might contribute to the lipid peroxidation.
The purpose of the present study was to determine if elevated reactive oxygen (ROS)/nitrogen species (RNS) reported to be present in adriamycin (ADR)-induced cardiotoxicity actually resulted in cardiomyocyte oxidative/nitrative damage, and to quantitatively determine the time course and subcellular localization of these postulated damage products using an in vivo approach. B6C3 mice were treated with a single dose of 20 mg/kg ADR. Ultrastructural damage and levels of 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (4HNE)-protein adducts and 3-nitrotyrosine (3NT) were analyzed. Quantitative ultrastructural damage using computerized image techniques showed cardiomyocyte injury as early as 3 hours, with mitochondria being the most extensively and progressively injured subcellular organelle. Analysis of 4HNE protein adducts by immunogold electron microscopy showed appearance of 4HNE protein adducts in mitochondria as early as 3 hours, with a peak at 6 hours and subsequent decline at 24 hours. 3NT levels were significantly increased in all subcellular compartments at 6 hours and subsequently declined at 24 hours. Our data showed ADR induced 4HNE-protein adducts in mitochondria at the same time point as when mitochondrial injury initially appeared. These results document for the first time in vivo that mitochondrial oxidative damage precedes nitrative damage. The progressive nature of mitochondrial injury suggests that mitochondria, not other subcellular organelles, are the major site of intracellular injury.
We present the case of a 19-year-old female with nasopharyngeal carcinoma, who received two courses of chemotherapy with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) in combination with folic acid and cisplatin. Upon developing esophageal strictures in the course of her radiotherapy, she required total parenteral nutrition. In the course of therapy, the patient developed severe multisystem failure with encephalopathy, lactic acidosis, vegetative instability and neuropathy. The treatment with 5-FU can lead to severe toxicity due to enzyme deficiencies in the degradation of pyrimidines, but it can also lead to thiamine deficiency with the classic symptoms of beriberi. Beriberi is a rare disorder, usually attributed to malnutrition or alcoholism. 5-FU has been shown to induce thiamine depletion. Reduced food intake or total parenteral nutrition devoid of vitamin supplements may aggravate symptoms. We were unable to find a genetic cause for increased 5-FU toxicity in our patient, ruling out deficiencies of dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase, dihydropyrimidinase or β-ureidopropionase and double-strand break repair deficits. We come to the conclusion that, even without any definable enzyme deficiency, treatment with 5-FU can lead to high toxicity due to thiamine deficiency if vitamin supplementation is not undertaken.
In 30% of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC) ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) causes full biochemical normalization, while 70% are incomplete responders. The only differences between the two groups are the significantly higher cholestasis indices in the incomplete responders. In these patients we investigated whether the strongly choleretic sulindac together with UDCA is superior to UDCA monotherapy.
Twenty-three patients with PBC incompletely responding to UDCA monotherapy were entered in the open label study for 12 months. Eleven patients (stage II, seven; III, two; and IV, two) received UDCA (10-15 mg/kg/day) plus sulindac (100-300 mg/day) (Group I). Twelve patients (stage I, six; II, four; III, one; and IV, one) were treated with UDCA alone (Group II). Liver biochemistry, analysis of antimitochondrial, antinuclear, smooth muscle, and liver-kidney-microsomal antibodies, ultrasonography and gastroscopy were done in regular intervals.
In Group I all liver indices, IgG, IgM and IgA significantly improved although pretreatment data and stages of the disease tended to be higher than in Group II. In five patients of Group I liver histology improved slightly. Sulindac was well tolerated. The biochemical indices did not further improve on UDCA monotherapy.
Sulindac in combination with UDCA further improves liver biochemistries in patients with PBC who responded incompletely to UDCA alone.
An association between cardiac arrhythmias and ethanol use has been observed for some time. The sympathetic nervous system presumably plays an important role in the manifestation of cardiovascular ethanol responses. Therefore, we investigated the effects of ethanol treatment on epinephrine-induced arrhythmias. Female Wistar rats received 10 vol% ethanol or 2.5% glucose (control group) in their drinking water for 45 days. In ether anesthetized animals of both groups epinephrine (10 micrograms/kg.min) was infused via a lateral tail vein. The threshold dose for arrhythmias after epinephrine infusion (mainly 2nd and 3rd degree AV-blocks) was reduced beginning 2 days after the start of the ethanol treatment and the incidence of AV-blocks during epinephrine infusion was increased. During the ethanol treatment the prohypertensive epinephrine effect was slightly increased. The reflex bradycardia was not changed after repeated epinephrine infusion by ethanol treatment, whereas it was nearly abolished in the control group. No blood ethanol could be detected during the time of epinephrine infusion (9-12 a.m.), but determinations at 11 p.m. yielded a concentration of 0.13 +/- 0.02 mg/g. The results show that the epinephrine-induced bradyarrhythmia threshold is reduced and the frequency of arrhythmic events is augmented in rats exposed to ethanol in the drinking fluid.
The authors hypothesized that myoclonus after etomidate is dose-related, could be suppressed when small doses of etomidate were administered before induction, and is unassociated with seizure-like activity on electroencephalogram (EEG).
Three studies were performed. In the first study, 36 men were randomly assigned to receive 0.025, 0.050, 0.075, 0.100, 0.200, or 0.300 mg/kg of etomidate. In a second crossover study, eight men were randomly allocated to receive either a pretreatment dose of 0.050 mg/kg etomidate or placebo 50 s before 0.300 mg/kg etomidate was injected. EEG was recorded for subjects in the first two studies. In a third study, 60 patients were randomly allocated to one of three pretreatment doses of etomidate: 0.030, 0.050, or 0.075 mg/kg before 0.300 mg/kg was given.
In Study 1, myoclonus was not observed after 0.025 or 0.050 mg/kg etomidate. One volunteer had myoclonus after 0.075 mg/kg and another after 0.100 mg/kg etomidate; three had myoclonus after 0.200 mg/kg; and five after 0.300 mg/kg. Incidence of myoclonus was dose-related (P < or = 0.01). In Study 2, two volunteers (25%) with etomidate pretreatment had mild myoclonus compared to six (75%) with placebo pretreatment (P < or = 0.05). EEG changes, other than delta waves, were not seen during myoclonic epochs. In Study 3, myoclonus was less likely after the small pretreatment doses (0.030 or 0.050 mg/kg) than after the large dose (0.075 mg/kg, P < or = 0.01).
Incidence and intensity of myoclonus after induction with etomidate are dose-related, suppressed by pretreatment, and unassociated with seizure-like EEG activity.
Chronic arsenic poisoning remains a public health crisis in Bangladesh. As arsenic has been shown to bind to human hemoglobin (Hb), hematologic mechanisms may play a role in the pathway through which arsenic exerts its toxicity. Two separate studies, a case-control and a cohort, were conducted to investigate the role of Hb in the development of arsenic-induced skin lesions. In the first, conditional logistic regression was used to investigate the effect of Hb on skin lesions among 900 case-control pairs from Pabna, Bangladesh, in which individuals were matched on gender, age, and location. In the second, mixed linear regression models were used to examine the association between toenail arsenic, urinary arsenic, and Hb within a cohort of 184 individuals from 50 families in the same region who did not have arsenic-induced skin lesions. Hb was significantly associated with skin lesions but this association was gender specific. In males, a 40% reduction in the odds of skin lesions occurred for every 1 g/dL increase in Hb (odds ratio, 0.60; 95% confidence interval, 0.49-0.73). No effect was observed for females (odds ratio, 1.16; 95% confidence interval, 0.92-1.46). In the cohort of 184 individuals, no associations between toenail arsenic or urinary arsenic species and Hb levels were observed. Low Hb levels may exacerbate the detrimental health effects of chronic arsenic poisoning. Whereas providing clean water remains the optimal solution to Bangladesh's problem of arsenic poisoning, improving nutrition and reducing iron-deficiency anemia may ameliorate negative health effects, such as skin lesions in individuals who have been exposed.
Hemorrhagic cystitis is a well-known complication of cyclophosphamide therapy but extensive involvement of the entire urinary tract is far less common. We report here a patient who developed severe hemorrhagic pyelitis, ureteritis, and cystitis after one cycle of cyclophosphamide-containing combination chemotherapy.
A patient with synchronous carcinoma of the ovary and the uterus developed severe hemorrhagic pyelitis, ureteritis, and cystitis leading to bilateral hydronephroses and acute renal failure after one cycle of combination chemotherapy containing cyclophosphamide. The blood clots in the upper urinary tract were aspirated endoscopically and bilateral internal ureteric stents were inserted.
She underwent a prolonged diuretic phase with several episodes of hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, and hypocalcemia and required intensive fluid and electrolytes replacement. Subsequently, she recovered fully with the ureteric stents removed 26 days later.
In contrast to previous reports, where 2.8 g of cyclophosphamide was estimated to be the minimum cumulative dose required to cause hemorrhagic cystitis, this case illustrates that severe hemorrhagic complication can occur even after a low dose of cyclophosphamide (600 mg/m(2), total dose of 846 mg). Prompt diagnosis and intervention may be life-saving.
Endothelial dysfunction is a key triggering event in the development of cardiovascular diseases and the current study explored this phenomenon in the context of inflammation, apoptosis, reactive oxygen species (ROS) and the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt signaling pathway during chronic diabetes.
alpha-Lipoic acid (ALA) and wortmannin (WM) were chronically administered to aged Goto Kakizaki (GK) rats, a genetic model of non-obese type II diabetes. Key indices of inflammation, apoptosis and oxidative stress were assessed using western blotting, real-time PCR and immunofluoresence-based techniques.
A chronic inflammation (e.g., increased mRNA/protein levels of TNF-alpha, ICAM, fractalkine, CD-68, myeloperoxidase) in connection with increased caspase-based apoptotic cell death and heightened state of oxidative stress (HSOS)- appear to exist in diabetic cardiovascular tissues. An assessment of NF-kappaB dynamics in aged diabetic vessels revealed not only a marked increase in cytosolic phosphorylated levels of IkappaB-alpha, NIK, IKK but also an enhancement in nuclear localization of p65 concomitantly with augmented NF-kappaB-DNA binding activity. Most of the aforementioned cardiovascular-based diabetic abnormalities including reduced activities of PI3K and Akt kinase were ameliorated following chronic ALA therapy. WM, given to GK rats negated the anti-inflammatory and anti-apoptotic actions of ALA.
Our data highlight a unifying mechanism whereby HSOS through an induction of NF-kappaB activity together with an impairment in PI3K/Akt pathway favors pro-inflammatory/pro-apoptotic diabetic vascular milieu that culminate in the onset of endothelial dysfunction, a phenomenon which appears to be amenable to treatment with antioxidants and/or PI3/Akt mimetics (e.g., ALA).
There is increasing evidence that class III antiarrhythmic agents may be superior to class I agents for the long-term treatment of life-threatening ventricular tachyarrhythmias. This open study evaluated the acute electrophysiologic effects, antiarrhythmic efficacy, and safety of different doses of intravenous dofetilide, a new class III drug, in 50 patients with sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia inducible by programmed electrical stimulation who had previously been unsuccessfully treated with 0 to 7 (median 3) other drugs. Intravenous dofetilide was administered over 60 minutes at the following dose levels: 1.5, 3.0, 6.0, 9.0, and 15.0 micrograms/kg. Significant class III activity was apparent at doses of 3.0 to 15.0 micrograms/kg, as evidenced by dose-related prolongation of the QTc interval by 13.4% to 14.2%, ventricular effective refractory period by 7.9% to 20.6%, and ventricular functional refractory period by 7.3% to 25.0%. The corresponding mean +/- SD plasma dofetilide concentrations ranged from 1.45 +/- 0.52 to 6.48 +/- 1.31 ng/ml. There was no evidence of reverse use-dependence. At these electrophysiologically active dose levels, intravenous dofetilide suppressed (complete response) or slowed (partial response) inducible ventricular tachycardia in 17 of 41 patients (41%) compared with 0 of 9 patients receiving only 1.5 micrograms/kg. The response rate was fairly uniform among the groups receiving 3.0, 6.0, 9.0, and 15.0 micrograms/kg. Intravenous dofetilide was hemodynamically well tolerated. Torsades de pointes (which was self-limiting) developed in only 1 patient, who was allocated to receive 15.0 micrograms/kg. There were no other proarrhythmic episodes or serious adverse effects. Further evaluation of the therapeutic potential of dofetilide in the management of life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias is justified.
