Intracerebral hemorrhage is the major complication associated with antithrombotic and thrombolytic therapy. Despite efforts directed toward achieving hemorrhagic infarction, an ideal animal model of cerebral hemorrhage has not yet to be established. Using the photothrombotic technique in rabbits, we developed a model of cerebral hemorrhage by inducing cyclic flow reductions in the middle cerebral artery (MCA). Furthermore, the hemorrhage increased 4-fold after infusion of heparin at a dose prolonging activated partial thromboplastin time by about three times that of control animals. The photothrombotic occlusion of the MCA is based on a thrombosis induced by endothelial injury through singlet oxygen produced by Rose Bengal injection and green light irradiation (Acta Neuropathol. 72 (1987) 315; Acta Neuropathol. 72 (1987) 326; J. Pharmacol. Toxicol. Methods. 29 (1993) 165). Using a pulse Doppler flowmeter, spontaneous reperfusion of the MCA after the thrombotic occlusion following cyclic flow reductions was observed within 2 h in the majority of animals. This model is unusual with respect to the development of clinical stroke, because of the MCA cyclic flow reductions. Thus it is different from permanent or ischemia/reperfusion MCA occlusion in rodents and may be suitable for studying hemorrhagic risks associated with the use of antithrombotic agents.
Opioids as the strongest pain drugs are often used for chronic pain although their long-term efficacy has not yet been clarified. In this longitudinal study, we compared the pain sensitivity of patients with chronic low back pain (cLBP) under long-term opioid use and treated with multidisciplinary pain therapy.
The pain sensitivity was measured by the quantitative sensory testing (QST) technique at admission, discharge and 6 months after the beginning of the study in 34 patients with both cLBP and opioid medication, 33 opioid-naive cLBP patients and those neither with pain nor opioid use (HC). Both patient groups underwent a 3-week multidisciplinary pain therapy (MDPT).
Under opioid use, the patients showed significantly lower cold and heat pain thresholds compared to HC and delayed reaction to warm stimuli. After 3 weeks of MDPT, opioid-positive patients still had a lower pain threshold to cold and heat stimuli, while opioid-naive patients normalised their pain perception.
Our findings suggest that long-term use of opioids intensifies the peripheral sensitisation of cLBP. The MDPT can counteract this process.
A 4-week double-blind controlled clinical trial was carried out in which fluspirilene, an injectable diphenylbutylpiperidine neuroleptic given weekly, was compared to chlorpromazine in the treatment of 40 newly admitted schizophrenic patients with acute exacerbation. Similar therapeutic improvement was obtained with both drugs, but men needed a significantly higher mean dose of fluspirilene (23 mg/week) than women (13 mg/week). Fluspirilene induced more parkinsonism than chlorpromazine, but less drowsiness, dizziness, and dry mouth. The difference between the sexes in the potency of fluspirilene and its greater potential to induce parkinsonism may be related to its lesser presynaptic and D1-dopamine receptor blocking properties. The low incidence of autonomic side effects confirms the relative specificity of fluspirilene for dopamine receptors.
The aim of this study was to determine (1) whether ibuprofen treatment in very preterm infants causes an increase in the renal water channel aquaporin-2 (AQP2) activity in the collecting duct via prostaglandin synthesis inhibition and (2) whether AQP2 activity remains disturbed long after ibuprofen treatment has ended. This was a prospective study involving premature infants with a gestation age of 27-31 weeks who received treatment between December 2005 and August 2006 in a tertiary Neonatal Intensive Care Unit. Each ibuprofen-treated infant was matched to two controls. Renal glomerular and tubular function were evaluated weekly for 1 month, and urinary AQP2 was measured by immuno-dotting. In total, 166 longitudinal samples were analyzed in 36 infants. Median [interquartile range] gestational age and birthweight were 28 [27.0-29.5] weeks and 1160 [1041-1242] g, respectively. Perinatal factors were similar in both groups. Urine output was significantly decreased in the ibuprofen-treated infants during the treatment. The urinary AQP2 level decreased significantly from day 2 to day 7 in both groups and was similar thereafter for the first month of life in ibuprofen-treated and control groups. Based on our results, we conclude that ibuprofen-induced oligo-anuria is not associated with a change in AQP2 activity and that ibuprofen does not affect AQP2 activity during the first month of life in very preterm neonates.
Dioxins are persistent organic pollutants interfering with endocrine systems and causing reproductive and developmental disorders. The objective of our project was to determine the impact of an in utero exposure to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) on reproductive function of male and female offspring in the rat with a special emphasis on the immature period. We used a low dose of TCDD (unique exposure by oral gavage of 200 ng/kg at 15.5 days of gestation) in order to mirror a response to an environmental dose of TCDD not altering fertility of the progeny. We choose a global gene expression approach using Affymetrix microarray analysis, and testes of 5 days and ovaries of 14 days of age. Less than 1% of the expressed genes in gonads were altered following embryonic TCDD exposure; specifically, 113 genes in ovaries and 56 in testes with 7 genes common to both sex gonads. It included the repressor of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (Ahrr), the chemokines Ccl5 and Cxcl4 previously shown to be regulated by dioxin in testis, Pgds2/Hpgds and 3 others uncharacterized. To validate and extend the microarray data we realized real-time PCR on gonads at various developmental periods of interest (from 3 to 25 days for ovaries, from 5 to the adult age for testes). Overall, our results evidenced that both sex gonads responded differently to TCDD exposure. For example, we observed induction of the canonic battery of TCDD-induced genes coding enzymes of the detoxifying machinery in ovaries aged of 3-14 days of age (except Cyp1a1 induced at 3-10 days) but not in testes of 5 days (except Ahrr). We also illustrated that inflammatory pathway is one pathway activated by TCDD in gonads. Finally, we identified several new genes targeted by TCDD including Fgf13 in testis and one gene, Ptgds2/Hpgds regulated in the two sex gonads.
Recovery from lithium-induced neurotoxicity can take much longer than the 2 to 3 weeks previously reported. Contributing factors could include advanced age and underlying clinical or subclinical brain disease. However, the occurrence of lithium-induced neurotoxicity does not preclude reinstitution of lithium treatment. We report three case histories that illustrate these points.
Physicians are not always aware that locally administered glucocorticoids can cause systemic toxicity. This risk is greatly enhanced in the case of pharmacological interactions. We present two cases of HIV-infected patients who developed Cushing-like symptoms as a result of a pharmacological interaction. Their antiretroviral treatment regimen consisted of atazanavir, ritonavir, tenofovir and emtricitabine. One patient received salmeterol/fluticasone inhalations for asthmatic bronchitis. The other was treated with intra-articular triamcinolonacetonide injections for ongoing shoulder complaints. Ritonavir exhibits strong inhibition of hepatic enzyme CYP 3A4, which is part of the major metabolic pathway of most glucocorticoids. As a result of this interaction even locally administered glucocorticoids can cause symptoms of overdose, e.g. Cushing-like symptoms. Beclomethasone is a safe alternative for inhaled glucocorticoids as it is not metabolized by CYP 3A4. There is no substitute for intra-articular administration of triamcinolonacetonide. Depending on necessity of the administration of the drug, changing ritonavir-containing antiretroviral therapy to a non-interacting compound, e.g., an integrase inhibitor, is an option.
Protease inhibitors together with reverse transcriptase inhibitors are used in antiretroviral treatment. Indinavir, precipitating in renal tubules, quite often can cause nephrolithiasis. The case of a HIV infected patient with renal colic probably caused by indinavir, diagnostic and therapeutic options in such cases are described in the paper.
Nineteen men with mild to moderate hypertension and without a history of cardiac arrhythmias were randomized (double-blind) into groups to receive hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) at a dose of 25 mg/day, HCTZ at 50 mg/day, or HCTZ (25 mg) plus triamterene (50 mg) for a six-month period after a three-week (single-blind) placebo period. Serum electrolyte values were determined at baseline and at frequent intervals thereafter. Twenty-four hour ambulatory electrocardiograms were obtained at baseline and just before study termination. Mild hypokalemia (less than 3.5 mEq/L) occurred in approximately half of the patients and was unrelated to treatment group. Serious arrhythmias were infrequent, though some patients had large numbers of extra beats. The incidence of arrhythmia appeared unrelated to serum potassium concentration. We conclude that mild hypokalemia associated with low-dose diuretic therapy for hypertension is not arrhythmogenic.
Intravertebral artery injection of local anesthetics is a rare and alarming complication of neural blocks of the neck. Although seizures, apnea, and loss of consciousness occur, an unusual syndrome with sparing of eye movement might also occur. In transient locked-in syndrome, the patient remains conscious despite inability to breathe or move. The authors report a patient with apparent transient locked-in syndrome that resulted during a stellate ganglion block. This complication is different from frequently reported stroke-like complications. Needle position in the vertebral artery is a possible explanation for the negative aspiration of blood this patient experienced.
The renin-angiotensin system (RAS) in the brain is involved in the pathogenesis of hypertension. We hypothesized that inhibition of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) attenuates angiotensin II (ANG II)-induced hypertension via restoring neurotransmitters and cytokines. Rats underwent subcutaneous infusions of ANG II or saline and bilateral PVN infusions of ACE inhibitor enalaprilat (ENL, 2.5μg/h) or vehicle for 4weeks. ANG II infusion resulted in higher mean arterial pressure and cardiac hypertrophy as indicated by increased whole heart weight/body weight ratio, whole heart weight/tibia length ratio, left ventricular weight/tibia length ratio, and mRNA expressions of cardiac atrial natriuretic peptide and beta-myosin heavy chain. These ANG II-infused rats had higher PVN levels of glutamate, norepinephrine, tyrosine hydroxylase, pro-inflammatory cytokines (PICs) and the chemokine monocyte chemoattractant protein-1, and lower PVN levels of gamma-aminobutyric acid, interleukin (IL)-10 and the 67-kDa isoform of glutamate decarboxylase (GAD67), and higher plasma levels of PICs, norepinephrine and aldosterone, and lower plasma IL-10, and higher renal sympathetic nerve activity. However, PVN treatment with ENL attenuated these changes. PVN microinjection of ANG II induced increases in IL-1β and IL-6, and a decrease in IL-10 in the PVN, and pretreatment with angiotensin II type 1 receptor (AT1-R) antagonist losartan attenuated these changes. These findings suggest that ANG II infusion induces an imbalance between excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitters and an imbalance between pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines in the PVN, and PVN inhibition of the RAS restores neurotransmitters and cytokines in the PVN, thereby attenuating ANG II-induced hypertension and cardiac hypertrophy.
Peroxisomal biogenesis disorders (PBD) are groups of inherited neurometabolic disorders caused by defects in PEX genes. We report on a female infant, born to a consanguineous parents (first degree cousins), who presented with inactivity, poor sucking, and hypotonia early in the neonatal period. She had subtle dysmorphic features. Liver function tests were impaired with raised liver enzymes, conjugated and unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia. CT of the brain showed diffuse bilateral changes. She developed seizures with an abnormal EEG. Plasma very long chain fatty acid analysis showed high C26:0 levels and increasedC26:0/C22:0 and C24:0/C22:0 ratios, which is consistent with a PBD. Studies in fibroblasts including plasmalogen biosynthesis, peroxisomal fatty acid alfa and beta oxidation confirmed the diagnosis of PBD. Immunofluoresence microscopy revealed the absence of peroxisomes in fibroblasts. The patient was assigned to the PEX19 complementation group. Subsequent mutation analysis of the PEX19 gene revealed homozygosity for a c.320delA frameshift mutation. The patient had a stormy course with multiple admissions to the pediatric intensive care unit with pneumonia, liver impairment, sepsis, and epilepsy. At 1 year of age she developed metabolic acidosis with normal anion gap, proteinuria, aminoaciduria, and glucosuria consistent with a renal tubular defect. Abdominal ultrasound showed multiple gallstones. Other causes of gallstones like haemoglobinopathy were excluded. So far, only two siblings had been reported with mutations in the PEX19 gene. Our patient showed a previously unrecognized association of gallstones and a renal tubular defect with a PBD.
Thyroid carcinomas, even when well differentiated, usually appear as hypofunctioning at scintigraphy. We report a case of an aggressive insular thyroid carcinoma presenting as an autonomously functioning thyroid nodule and causing severe thyrotoxicosis. The tumor was metastatic to a cervical lymph node and both lungs. An activating mutation of the TSH receptor gene in both the primary tumor and the lymph node metastasis was found, due to a base substitution at codon 633 (normal guanine at position 1896 replaced by cytosine CAC for GAC causing aspartic acid substitution by histidine). Other known oncogenes (gsp, ras, PTC/ret, trk, met, and p53) were not involved. This is the first description of an activating TSH receptor mutation in a thyroid hyperfunctioning carcinoma in which an aggressive malignant phenotype coexisted with activation of the cAMP cascade and differentiated thyroid functions.
The C57BL/6J-Min/+ (multiple intestinal neoplasia) mouse has a heterozygous nonsense Apc(Min) (adenomatous polyposis coli) mutation, and numerous adenomas spontaneously develop in the intestine. Neonatal exposure of Min/+ mice to the food carcinogens 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) or 2-amino-3-methylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (IQ) (one injection of 50mg/kg) increased the number of small intestinal tumours about three- and two-fold, respectively. The number of colonic tumours was only increased in males. We examined whether the wild-type Apc allele was affected in intestinal tumours induced by either PhIP or IQ. In spontaneously formed and in IQ-induced small intestinal and colonic tumours from these mice, the main mechanism for tumour induction was loss of wild-type Apc allele, i.e. loss of heterozygosity (LOH). In contrast to the IQ-induced (84% LOH) and spontaneously (88% LOH) formed tumours, only 55% of the PhIP-induced small intestinal tumours from males showed LOH. Tumours that apparently had retained the wild-type Apc allele were further analysed for the presence of truncated Apc proteins by the in vitro synthesised protein (IVSP) assay. Truncated Apc proteins, indicating truncation mutations in exon 15 of the Apc gene, were detected in two of the 12 PhIP-induced tumours in segment 2 (codons 686-1217), and two of five IQ-induced tumours, one in segment 2 and the other in segment 3 (codons 1099-1693). Three of these four mutations, all in segment 2 of the Apc gene, were confirmed by sequencing. The PhIP-induced mutations were detected at codon 1125 (C deletion) and 1130 (G-T transversion), and the IQ-induced mutation was at codon 956 (C-T transition). Importantly, no truncated proteins were detected in tumours from unexposed mice with apparently retained wild-type Apc allele. These results show that one injection of either PhIP or IQ induces intestinal tumours in the Min/+ mice by inactivation of the wild-type Apc allele either by causing LOH or truncation mutations.
The tolerability profile of norfloxacin, the first of a new generation of fluoroquinolone carboxylic acid antibacterials, has been defined in numerous laboratory animal and human trials. Whether administered for moderate or protracted periods, norfloxacin has been relatively safe in animals over a wide range of doses. There has been no evidence of a teratogenic effect in any of the animal species tested (rat, rabbit, mouse, monkey) at six to 50 times the human dose (400 mg twice daily). However, norfloxacin has been shown to produce embryonic loss in monkeys when given in doses 10 times the maximal human dose, resulting in peak plasma levels that are two to three times those obtained in humans. Although there are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women, norfloxacin is not recommended for use in this population because it, like other drugs in this class, causes arthropathy in immature animals. In animals, norfloxacin is neither mutagenic nor carcinogenic, and, in clinical trials, norfloxacin-related adverse experiences have been uncommon. Those that have occurred have been generally mild, requiring discontinuation of therapy in less than 1 percent of patients. The most frequently reported side effects have been nausea, dyspepsia, headache, and dizziness. Administration of 400 mg of norfloxacin at two or three times a day has been associated with reasonably good gastrointestinal tolerance.
While chronic intermittent administration of stimulants often induces behavioral sensitization in adulthood, stimulant sensitization has rarely been reported prior to weaning [around postnatal day (P) 21]. Consistent pairing of drug administration with the test context often facilitates sensitization in adults, yet young animals have been typically returned to the home cage immediately post-injection. To determine whether promoting context-dependent sensitization might facilitate expression of sensitization in preweanlings, Sprague-Dawley rats were injected daily from P14 to P20 with 0, 5, 15, or 30 mg/kg cocaine HCl and placed for 30 min in either the experimental chamber or home cage. On P21 (test day), subjects were challenged with either 15 mg/kg cocaine or saline prior to placement in the experimental chamber. Significant sensitization of cocaine-induced stereotyped head movements was evident in animals given 15 or 30 mg/kg chronically in the experimental chamber, but not when these same doses were given in the home cage. Less consistent evidence for cocaine-induced sensitization was seen when examining locomotion, although trends for sensitization of this behavior were seen in animals chronically injected in either the test chamber or home cage. Thus, preweanlings can exhibit cocaine sensitization, particularly in terms of stereotypy, when tested shortly after the chronic exposure period, with expression of this sensitization being facilitated by pairing the chronic injections with the test context.
Tetrabromobisphenol A (TBBPA), a brominated flame retardant, is detected commonly in aquatic environments, where it is thought to be highly toxic to the development of aquatic life. In this study, zebrafish embryos and larvae were used to investigate the protective effects of puerarin after exposure to TBBPA. Malformation, blood flow disorders, pericardial edema, and spawn coagulation rates increased, whereas survival decreased significantly after exposure to 0.5 and 1.0 mg L(-1) TBBPA. The measured indices of morphological toxicity improved after treatment with puerarin. TBBPA also induced reactive oxygen species (ROS) production in a dose-dependent manner. Acridine orange staining results revealed that TBBPA exposure caused cardiomyocyte apoptosis and induced the expression of three proapoptotic genes: P53, Bax, and Caspase9. In contrast, the expression of the antiapoptotic gene Bcl2 was down-regulated. When genes related to cardiac development were assessed, the expression of Tbx1, Raldh2, and Bmp2b changed after exposure to the combination of TBBPA and puerarin. These results suggest that TBBPA induces cardiomyocyte apoptosis and ROS production, resulting in cardiac developmental toxicity in zebrafish embryos or larvae. Therefore, puerarin regulates the expression of cardiac developmental genes, such as Tbx1, Bmp2b, and Raldh2 by inhibiting ROS production, and subsequently modulates cardiac development after the exposure of zebrafish larvae to TBBPA. © 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Environ Toxicol, 2014.
Twenty-six of 300 patients (9%) with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) developed penicillamine-induced proteinuria. The mean daily dose and duration of therapy at onset of proteinuria were 591 mg and 9 months, respectively, while the mean duration of proteinuria was 5.5 months. However, six patients developed proteinuria at 250 mg/d and six after 9 months of therapy. Twelve patients were successfully either restarted (five) or maintained (seven) on penicillamine with resolution of proteinuria. No permanent renal impairment occurred. Positive risk factors included the presence of HLA-B8 and DR3 and prior gold-induced proteinuria. Patients with prior gold-induced proteinuria should be observed more carefully, but tissue typing is not recommended as proteinuria is reversible. Furthermore, penicillamine can be restarted or maintained in these patients if the RA has responded favorably to the drug.
Diclofenac is a widely used non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug, being the most commonly prescribed of its kind in the world. This paper describes five cases of hepatitis with clinical features indicating a direct link with diclofenac. All the patients presented with an acute hepatitis, three being jaundiced. They gave a history of taking diclofenac up to the time of presentation, four of the five having started the drug within the previous 3 months. There were no other features in the histories to suggest alternative causes for the liver dysfunction. Liver function tests were grossly abnormal in all cases, showing a hepatitic picture. A liver biopsy was performed in 4 cases, and showed features of an acute hepatitis with inflammation and hepatocyte damage dominating. The liver dysfunction returned to normal on drug withdrawal in four of the five cases, with full recovery by 3 months. One patient developed steroid-responsive chronic active hepatitis. Hepatotoxicity associated with diclofenac is documented, but previously only a few isolated cases have been described. The occurrence of five cases in one gastroenterology unit over a 12-month period suggests that hepatitis associated with diclofenac may be commoner than previously supposed.
Chronic subthalamic nucleus high frequency stimulation (STN HFS) improves motor function in Parkinson's disease. However, its efficacy on cognitive function and the mechanisms involved are less known. The aim of this study was to assess the effects of STN HFS in hemiparkinsonian awake rats performing different specific motor tests and a cognitive operant task. Unilateral STN HFS applied in unilaterally DA-depleted rats decreased the apomorphine-induced circling behaviour and reduced catalepsy induced by the neuroleptic haloperidol. DA-depleted rats exhibited severe deficits in the operant task, among which the inability to perform the task was not alleviated by STN HFS. However, in a few animals showing less impairment, STN HFS significantly reduced the contralateral neglect induced by the lesion. These results are the first to demonstrate a beneficial effect of STN HFS applied in awake rats on basic motor functions. However, STN HFS appears to be less effective on impaired cognitive functions.
A patient is described with hyperprolactinemia, post-pill amenorrhea, galactorrhea, and a normal pituitary fossa. Pregnancy occurred after induction of ovulation with bromocriptine. During pregnancy rapidly increasing visual field defects due to suprasellar extension of a pituitary tumor were observed. Operation was advised but refused. The patient was treated with bromocriptine in a dose of 15 mg daily, which resulted in normalization of the bitemporal hemianopia within 2 weeks.
Tacrolimus, an immunosuppressant agent, has been shown to reduce tissue injury and leukocyte accumulation after transient ischemia. This study was designed to evaluate quantitatively the inhibitory effects of tacrolimus on leukocyte rolling and on subsequent leukocyte accumulation in vivo after transient retinal ischemia and the protective effects of tacrolimus on ischemia-induced neural damage.
Retinal ischemia was induced for 60 minutes in anesthetized pigmented rats by temporary ligation of the optic sheath. Tacrolimus was administered at 10 minutes after ischemic induction. At 4, 12, 24, and 48 hours after reperfusion, leukocyte behavior in the retinal microcirculation was evaluated in vivo with acridine orange digital fluorography. After 7 days of reperfusion, ischemia-induced retinal damage was evaluated histologically.
Treatment with tacrolimus suppressed leukocyte rolling; the maximum number of rolling leukocytes was reduced by 60.1% at 12 hours after reperfusion (P<0.05). In tacrolimus-treated rats, the velocity of rolling leukocytes was significantly faster than in vehicle-treated rats (P<0.01). The subsequent leukocyte accumulation was reduced by 61.6% at 24 hours after reperfusion (P<0.01). Histological examination demonstrated the protective effect of tacrolimus on ischemia-induced retinal damage, which was more substantial in the inner retina (P<0.01).
The present study demonstrated the inhibitory effect of tacrolimus on leukocyte rolling and on subsequent leukocyte accumulation and the therapeutic potency to neural injury after transient retinal ischemia.
In experiments on rats, we studied the changes in stereotypy induced by apomorphine (2.5 mg/kg i.p.) or amphetamine (2 mg/kg i.p.) and in haloperidol (1 mg/kg i.p.) catalepsy in rats treated with dotarizine (25 mg/kg orally), flunarizine (25 mg/kg) or vehicle for 10 days. Dotarizine did not induce any significant changes in the intensity and duration of apomorphine- or amphetamine-induced stereotypy nor in haloperidol-induced catalepsy. The flunarizine-induced changes in the behavioral effects of apomorphine, amphetamine and haloperidol suggest the decrease of striatal dopaminergic neurotransmission, whereby the risk of occurrence of extrapyramidal side effects of the drug when used in clinical practice. Dotarizine is not associated with such a risk.
Cardiovascular diseases are emerging as a major public health problem in most parts of the world even in developing countries still afflicted by infectious diseases, undernutrition, and other illnesses related to poverty. In the present study, we investigated the protective effect of betaine, a potent lipotropic molecule, on changes in the levels of membrane-bound ATPase activities, lipid peroxidation, sulfhydryl activities, and mineral status in isoprenaline-induced myocardial infarction in Wistar rats, an animal model of myocardial infarction in man. Oral administration of betaine (250 mg/kg body weight/day for a period of 30 days) significantly (p < 0.05) reduced the isoprenaline-induced abnormalities noted in the levels of sodium, potassium, and calcium in plasma and heart tissue. Pretreatment with betaine significantly attenuated isoprenaline-induced membrane-bound ATPase depletion in the heart tissue and preserved the myocardial membrane-bound ATPase activities at levels comparable to that of control rats. Oral administration of betaine significantly attenuated the isoprenaline-altered sulfhydryl groups in the heart tissue and preserved the myocardial sulfhydryl activities at levels comparable to that of control rats. It also significantly counteracted the isoprenaline-mediated lipid peroxidation and maintained the level at near normal. In the results of the present study, betaine administration significantly prevented the isoprenaline-induced alterations in the activities of membrane-bound ATPases, lipid peroxides, myocardial sulfhydryl levels, and maintained the mineral status at near normal.
Although methadone maintenance is an effective therapy for heroin dependence, some patients continue to use heroin and may benefit from therapeutic modifications. This study evaluated a behavioral intervention, a pharmacological intervention, and a combination of both interventions.
Throughout the study all patients received daily methadone hydrochloride maintenance (initially 50 mg/d orally) and weekly counseling. Following baseline treatment patients who continued to use heroin were randomly assigned to 1 of 4 interventions: (1) contingent vouchers for opiate-negative urine specimens (n = 29 patients); (2) methadone hydrochloride dose increase to 70 mg/d (n = 31 patients); (3) combined contingent vouchers and methadone dose increase (n = 32 patients); and (4) neither intervention (comparison standard; n = 28 patients). Methadone dose increases were double blind. Vouchers had monetary value and were exchangeable for goods and services. Groups not receiving contingent vouchers received matching vouchers independent of urine test results. Primary outcome measure was opiate-negative urine specimens (thrice weekly urinalysis).
Contingent vouchers and a methadone dose increase each significantly increased the percentage of opiate-negative urine specimens during intervention. Contingent vouchers, with or without a methadone dose increase, increased the duration of sustained abstinence as assessed by urine screenings. Methadone dose increase, with or without contingent vouchers, reduced self-reported frequency of use and self-reported craving.
In patients enrolled in a methadone-maintainence program who continued to use heroin, abstinence reinforcement and a methadone dose increase were each effective in reducing use. When combined, they did not dramatically enhance each other's effects on any 1 outcome measure, but they did seem to have complementary benefits.
