The potential anti-tumour activity of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) has been previously discussed. This study was undertaken to assess the possible anti-tumour activity of the cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor; celecoxib in an animal model of mammary carcinoma; the solid Ehrlich carcinoma (SEC). The possibility that celecoxib may modulate the anti-tumour activity of doxorubicin on the SEC was also studied. Some of the possible mechanisms underlying such modulation were investigated. The anti-tumour activity of celecoxib (25 mg kg(-1)), diclofenac (12.5 mg kg(-1)) and doxorubicin (2 mg kg(-1)) either alone or in combination were investigated on SEC in vivo through the assessment of tumour growth delay (TGD) and tumour volume (TV), changes in tumour DNA content and nitric oxide (NO) levels, immunohistochemical staining of the tumour suppressor gene product; p53 histopathological examination and determination of apoptotic index of SEC. In addition, the influence of these drugs on the DNA fragmentation pattern of Ehrlich carcinoma cells (ECC) was studied. It was found that both celecoxib and diclofenac lack the anti-tumour activity on SEC. In addition there was a significant increase in doxorubicin anti-tumour activity when administered in combination with celecoxib. Moreover, it was found that both celecoxib and diclofenac have the potential to inhibit the function of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) in ECC using rhodamine uptake and efflux assays. Therefore, the current study suggested the chemosensitizing potential of celecoxib in the SEC animal model of mammary tumour, which could be explained in part on the basis of inhibition of P-gp function, with possible enhancement of doxorubicin anti-tumour activity.
To investigate the influence of paroxetine on metoprolol concentrations and its effect in patients treated for acute myocardial infarction (AMI) who are routinely given paroxetine as a co-treatment of depression.
We recruited 17 depressed AMI patients who received metoprolol as a routine part of their therapy (mean dose 75 +/- 39 mg/day). Patients were genotyped for CYP2D6 3, 4 and gene duplication. Metoprolol and alpha-hydroxy-metoprolol were analyzed in plasma 0, 2, 6 and 12 h post-dose. Heart rates (HR) at rest were registered after each sampling. Paroxetine 20 mg daily was then administered, and all measurements were repeated on day 8.
All patients were genotypically extensive metabolizers (EMs) (nine with 1/1 and eight with 1/3 or 4). Following the administration of paroxetine, mean metoprolol areas under the concentration-time curve (AUC) increased (1064 +/- 1213 to 4476 +/- 2821 nM x h/mg per kg, P = 0.0001), while metabolite AUCs decreased (1492 +/- 872 to 348 +/- 279 n M x h/mg per kg, P < 0.0001), with an increase of metabolic ratios (MR) (0.9 +/- 1.3 to 26 +/- 29; P < 0.0001). Mean HRs were significantly lower after the study week at each time point. Mean area under the HR versus time curve (AUEC) decreased (835 +/- 88 to 728 +/- 84 beats x h/min; P = 0.0007). Metoprolol AUCs correlated with patients' AUECs at the baseline (Spearman r = -0.64, P < 0.01), but not on the eighth day of the study. A reduction of metoprolol dose was required in two patients due to excessive bradycardia and severe orthostatic hypotension. No other adverse effects of the drugs were identified.
A pronounced inhibition of metoprolol metabolism by paroxetine was observed in AMI patients, but without serious adverse effects. We suggest, however, that the metoprolol dose is controlled upon initiation and withdrawal of paroxetine.
Thirty-two patients with advanced cancer were treated in a phase I-II trial with ifosfamide plus mesnum. At doses up to 300 mg ifosfamide/kg the administration of mesnum prevented most of the expected kidney and bladder toxicity. With this high dose range hemopoietic dose-limiting. Only one of twelve evaluable patients with breast cancer showed definite therapeutic benefit. Complete remission or partial remission was seen in three patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma and one patient with Hodgkin's disease.
Transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF alpha) has been localized to the anterior pituitary, specifically to the lactotroph and somatotroph cell populations, by our previous studies. Since pituitary lactotrophs are known to undergo growth in response to estrogens, we have used an estradiol-induced pituitary hyperplasia/adenoma model. Estradiol treatment resulted in induction of TGF alpha mRNA in anterior pituitary, evident by 48 h, preceding actual macroscopic growth, which attained a maximum greater than 500% by 12 weeks. This rapid effect of estradiol also enhanced PRL mRNA, but did not affect other species of mRNA encoding for proenkephalin, D2 receptor mRNA, or hexosaminidase-A. TGF alpha mRNA remained elevated for the duration of rapid pituitary growth. D2 receptor activation by its agonist bromocriptine resulted in marked attenuation of TGF alpha mRNA preceding regression of growth. Coadministration of bromocriptine with estradiol resulted in an involution of pituitary size, indicating the overriding influence of dopamine in spite of a continued estrogenic stimulus. Epidermal growth factor receptor mRNA was not affected by any of these manipulations, suggesting that the receptor was not coregulated in this tissue similarly to TGF alpha. Estradiol also induced uterine TGF alpha mRNA and marked growth of the organ, but TGF alpha in this location was not regulated by dopamine. These results indicate that TGF alpha in the anterior pituitary is rapidly induced by estrogen in a time course preceding the growth of the gland. Estrogen-induced TGF alpha is rapidly attenuated by D2 dopamine receptor activation and is accompanied by a regression of pituitary growth. Interaction between these opposing hormonal/transmitter responses will determine the growth potential of the anterior pituitary.
We report what we believe to be an infrequent but noteworthy complication of antiestrogen therapy with tamoxifen. Seven patients developed venous thrombosis or pulmonary embolism within 6 months of starting treatment. Guidelines similar to those employed in younger women treated with anovulatory drugs would appear indicated.
Adrenomedullin (AM) belongs to the calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) family and is a well known potent vasodilator. We show here that AM is a powerful pain-inducing neuropeptide. AM-like immunoreactivity is widely distributed in both CGRP-containing and lectin IB4-binding nociceptors in dorsal root ganglion and axon terminals in the superficial dorsal horn of the rat spinal cord. Specific binding sites for the radioligand, [(125)I]AM13-52 as well as immunoreactivity for receptor markers such as the calcitonin receptor-like receptor and three receptor-activity-modifying proteins are localized in the superficial dorsal horn, demonstrating the existence of AM/CGRP receptors in this region. Intrathecal injection of rat AM1-50, dose- and time-dependently, induced long-lasting heat hyperalgesia and increased the phosphorylation of Akt and GSK3beta in the dorsal horn. Pre- and posttreatments with the AM receptor antagonist AM22-52 and PI3 kinase inhibitors (LY294002 and Wortmannin) significantly blocked or reversed AM-induced heat hyperalgesia. Pre- and posttreatments with AM22-52 and Wortmannin also significantly blocked or reversed intraplantar capsaicin-induced heat hyperalgesia. Taken together, our results demonstrate that AM acts as a pain-inducing peptide in the dorsal horn. By activating specific receptors (likely AM2) and the PI3K/Akt/GSK3beta signaling pathway, AM could play a significant role in long-lasting heat hypersensitivity and inflammatory heat hyperalgesia.
Aim of the study was to investigate frequency and influence of alleles CYP2C9*2 and CYP2C9*3 on pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics and dosing regimen of warfarin and on development of hemorrhagic complications. We included 84 patients (mean age 62,8 +/- 10,5 years). Duration of follow-up varied between 1 month and 1 year. Carriage of allele variants was determined by polymerase chain reaction, measurement of plasma wafarin concentration was carried out with the help of high performance liquid chromatography. Wild type (CYP2C9*1/*1) was found in 68% of patients; overall frequency of 2C9*1/*1, *l/*3, *2/*2, *3/*3, *2/*3 genotypes was 32%. Average maintenance doses of warfarin for patients with allele variants CYP 2C9 *2 and 2C9 *3 were 3.6 and 3.1 mg/day, respectively, what was significantly lower than in wild type homozygotes (6.1 mg/day). Wild type homozygotes (1) had the highest warfarin clearance (3,51 ml/min). In carriers of 2C9 *2(2) and 2C9 *3(3) warfarin clearance was significantly lower (2.42 and 1.82 ml/min; p1 - 2 = 0,05; p1 - 3 = 0,0008). In carriers of allele variants CYP2C9*2, CYP2C9*3 values of international normalized ratio > 3,0 were met more often, especially in carriers of CYP2C9*3 (in 100% of cases) vs. 28% in wild type homozygotes (p=0,02). Carriers of CYP2C9*3 compared with wild type homozygotes had more hemorrhagic complications (67% and 16%, respectively, p=0,0008). Thus cytochrome P450 2C9 gene polymorphism influences frequency of development of hemorrhagic complications, metabolic clearance, and magnitude of warfarin maintenance dose.
The hydroxylated benzene metabolite hydroquinone (HQ) is mainly generated from benzene, an important industrial chemical, and is also a common dietary component. Although numerous reports have addressed the tumorigenesis-inducing effects of HQ, few papers have explored its molecular regulatory mechanism in immunological responses. In this study we characterized Akt (protein kinase B)-targeted regulation by HQ and its derivatives, in suppressing inflammatory responses using cellular, molecular, biochemical, and immunopharmacological approaches. HQ down-regulated inflammatory responses such as NO production, surface levels of pattern recognition receptors, and cytokine gene expression with IC(50) values that ranged from 5 to 10 microm. HQ inhibition was mediated by blocking NF-kappaB activation via suppression of its translocation pathway, which is composed of Akt, I kappaB alpha kinase beta, and I kappaB alpha. Of the targets in this pathway, HQ directly targeted and bound to the sulfhydryl group of Cys-310 of Akt and sequentially interrupted the phosphorylation of both Thr-308 and Ser-473 by mediation of beta-mercaptoethanol, according to the liquid chromatography/mass spectroscopy analysis of the interaction of HQ with an Akt-derived peptide. Therefore, our data suggest that Akt and its target site Cys-310 can be considered as a prime molecular target of HQ-mediated immunosuppression and for novel anti-Akt-targeted immunosuppressive drugs.
The clinical effects of central glutamatergic stimulation by the glycine prodrug milacemide were studied in six patients with Parkinson's disease under double-blind, placebo-controlled conditions. When administered as monotherapy at a single oral dose of 1,200 mg, the drug increased overall parkinsonian severity transiently, mostly due to an effect on rigidity. Milacemide did not, however, alter levodopa-induced dyskinesias. These results support the view that drugs acting on the glutamatergic system can influence motor function in patients with extrapyramidal movement disorders and that pharmaceutical agents that selectively block certain subtypes of glutamate receptors may ameliorate parkinsonian symptoms.
Infarct-avid radiopharmaceuticals are necessary for rapid and timely diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction. The animal model used to produce infarction implies artery ligation but chemical induction can be easily obtained with isoproterenol. A new infarct-avid radiopharmaceutical based on glucaric acid was prepared in the hospital radiopharmacy of the INCMNSZ. 99mTc-glucarate was easy to prepare, stable for 96 h and was used to study its biodistribution in rats with isoproterenol-induced acute myocardial infarction. Histological studies demonstrated that the rats developed an infarct 18 h after isoproterenol administration. The rat biodistribution studies showed a rapid blood clearance via the kidneys. Thirty minutes after 99mTc-glucarate administration the standardised heart uptake value S(h)UV was 4.7 in infarcted rat heart which is six times more than in normal rats. ROIs drawn over the gamma camera images showed a ratio of 4.4. The high image quality suggests that high contrast images can be obtained in humans and the 96 h stability makes it an ideal agent to detect, in patients, early cardiac infarction.
Intravenous cannulation is common and painful. Absorption of topical anesthetics is limited by the stratum corneum, the outermost layer of the epidermis. A single pulse of an erbium:yttrium-aluminum-garnet (Er:YAG) laser irradiation can remove an area of the stratum corneum, leading to enhanced uptake of topical agents, such as lidocaine, while leaving the rest of the epidermis intact.
The authors hypothesized that pretreatment of the skin with laser-assisted anesthesia would reduce the pain of venous cannulation.
This was a blinded, randomized, controlled clinical trial. Subjects were 30 healthy adult volunteers. Standardized venous cannulation was performed on the dorsum of both of each subject's hands. In the study hand, the area over the target vein was pretreated with a lightweight, portable Er:YAG unit, with a fluence of 3.5 J/cm(2), a pulse width of 600 microseconds, and a spot diameter of 6 mm. Lidocaine 4% cream was applied to the area. After 5 minutes, the cream was wiped off and a nurse inserted an intravenous (IV) catheter and verified placement. In the control hand, a sham laser was used. Pain of laser application and pain of IV cannulation were recorded on a validated 100-mm visual analog scale (VAS) marked "most pain" at the high end. The presence of burns, infection, and scarring at one week and at three months after the study was also noted. The levels of pain of cannulation were compared using a paired t-test.
Mean subject age was 32 years; 43% were female. The mean pain of cannulation after laser-assisted lidocaine application (13 mm, 95% CI = 8 to 19) was significantly less than after application of sham laser (29 mm, 95% CI = 22 to 36; mean difference, 15 mm, 95% CI = 6 to 24). No subject had persistent erythema or scarring.
Pretreatment of the skin with a laser device followed by a 5-minute topical lidocaine application reduces the pain of IV cannulation in volunteers.
In an effort to develop compounds with high antithrombotic activity and minimal toxicity, our laboratory has synthesized a number of nipecotamides. The effectiveness of one of these compounds, alpha,alpha'-bis[3-(N,N-diethylcarbamoyl)piperidino]-p-xylene dihydrobromide (A-1), in inhibiting both in vitro and in vivo platelet aggregation is reported here, along with its acute toxicity. The IC50 of A-1 in in vitro ADP- and PAF-induced platelet aggregation was 44.5 microM and 21.2 microM, respectively. Suppression of intraplatelet [Ca2+] is suggested as a likely mediator of the aggregation-inhibitory properties of A-1, since both the release of cytosolic Ca2+ and the influx of extracellular Ca2+ were decreased. The ED50 of A-1 in protecting mice against thromboembolism induced by a collagen-epinephrine challenge was 164 mumol/kg. The measurement of the acute toxicity of this compound as the LD50 was 691 mumol/kg, with the therapeutic index being 4.2. These data indicate that compounds in this family hold promise as clinically effective antithrombotic agents.
The effect of chronic experimental diabetes on the adenylate cyclase system (AC) in the rat heart was investigated. Rats were made diabetic by an intravenous injection of streptozotocin (65 mg/kg), hearts were removed 8 weeks later and washed cell particles were isolated. AC activity was measured in the absence and presence of different concentrations of forskolin, NaF, GTP analogue [Gpp(NH)p] or epinephrine. A significant depression in the epinephrine stimulated AC activity was observed in diabetic hearts. Basal AC activity and stimulation of AC with forskolin, NaF and Gpp(NH)p were not significantly different between control and diabetic preparations. These results indicate no apparent alterations in the regulatory or catalytic properties of AC in hearts from chronic diabetic rats. The observed depression in epinephrine stimulated AC activity may account for the depressed inotropic action of catecholamines in the diabetic cardiomyopathy.
Growth hormone-releasing peptides (GHRPs) are potent GH releasers which act at both pituitary and hypothalamic levels through specific G-protein coupled receptors, recently cloned. A synergistic effect from the simultaneous administration of GHRH + GHRP-6 on GH release is observed in normal subjects, while it is absent in patients with hypothalamo-pituitary disconnection. We studied the effects of GHRH, GHRP-6 and both secretagogues on GH release in patients harbouring pituitary tumours that may be reduced in size by medical treatment.
Analysis of peak GH response to GHRH, GHRP-6 and GHRH plus GHRP-6 in patients with micro- and macroprolactinomas. Integrated GH response over 2 hours calculated as AUG-GH mU/l x 120 min. Analysis of delta PRL above the basal level in response to the same GH releasers.
Eleven patients with macroprolactinomas aged 41.2 +/- 4.8 years (range 24-75), nine patients with microprolactinomas aged 31.5 +/- 3.4 (range 22-53) and 13 healthy subjects aged 42.1 +/- 4.7 years (range 22-64) were studied. Prolactinoma patients were then treated with bromocriptine (15-20 mg orally) for 6-24 months. Tests were repeated when there was evidence of tumour shrinkage and normalized plasma prolactin concentrations.
Peak GH response before treatment in macroprolactinoma patients was 4.9 +/- 0.9 mu/l after GHRH, 8 +/- 4 mU/l after GHRP-6 and 18 +/- 5 mU/l after GHRH + GHRP-6. Synergism was absent. AUC were 390 +/- 90; 500 +/- 100 and 1100 +/- 300 mU/l x 120 min respectively. These values were all significantly different (P < 0.05) from normal subjects and patients with microprolactinomas with peak GH 16.8 +/- 0.9 mU/l after GHRH; 43 +/- 6 mU/l after GHRP-6 and 130 +/- 10 mU/l after GHRH + GHRP-6. AUC-GH was 1200 +/- 400 after GHRH, 2200 +/- 400 after GHRP-6 and 9000 +/- 1000 mU/l x 120 min after GHRH + GHRP-6. As in normal subjects, synergism was preserved in patients with microprolactinoma (P > 0.05). After treatment with bromocriptine peak GH in patients with macroprolactinoma was 8 +/- 4 mU/l after GHRH, 22 +/- 5 mU/l after GHRP-6 and 70 +/- 20 mU/l after GHRH + GHRP-6. AUC-GH was 800 +/- 300, 1100 +/- 300 and 3500 +/- 800 mU/l x 120 min, respectively. The response of GH after GHRP-6 and GHRH + GHRP-6 improved significantly (P < 0.05) in treated patients with macroprolactinoma. There was no significant change in GH response in microprolactinoma patients after treatment with bromocriptine. Peak GH after GHRH was 30 +/- 20 mU/l, after GHRP-6 it was 75 +/- 8 mU/l and after GHRH + GHRP-6 it was 200 +/- 30 mU/l. AUC-GH was 1500 +/- 700 after GHRH, 4500 +/- 500 after GHRP-6 and 15,100 +/- 600 mU/l x 120 min. Delta prolactin after GHRP-6 did not change before and after bromocriptine treatment in patients with macroprolactinoma or microprolactinoma.
GH release after GHRP-6 or GHRH + GHRP-6 is fully preserved in patients with microprolactinomas and does not differ before and after treatment with bromocriptine. Patients with macroprolactinoma have blunted responses of GH after GHRH and GHRP-6 and synergism is severely compromised. GH responsiveness to and synergistic interaction between GHRH and GHRP-6 recovers after shrinkage of macroprolactinoma with bromocriptine. Prolactin release stimulated by intravenous administration of GHRP-6 in healthy subjects was not seen in patients with micro- or macroprolactinomas.
A 19-year-old patient intending to commit suicide gave himself an intravenous injection of about 14 g methyliodide. The patient was admitted to our hospital in a state of somnolence and agitation followed by a cerebral convulsion and severe hypotension. The serum concentration of methyl iodide was measured by mass spectroscopy. In addition to an antidote therapy with acetylcysteine, haemoperfusion was performed followed by a remarkable decrease of the methyliodide concentration. The patient survived this severe intoxication and was discharged from the hospital after a week.
Proteinuria has been recognized as a marker for an increased risk of chronic renal disease. It is unclear whether arsenic (As) exposure from drinking water is associated with proteinuria.
We evaluated the association between As exposure from drinking water and proteinuria in 11,122 participants in the Health Effects of Arsenic Longitudinal Study (HEALS). Proteinuria was detected by urinary dipstick tests at baseline and at 2-year intervals. As exposure variables included baseline well As and changes in urinary As during follow-up modelled as time-dependent variables in the analyses.
At baseline, well As was positively related to prevalence of proteinuria; prevalence odds ratios (PORs) for proteinuria in increasing quintiles of well As (≤ 7, 8-39, 40-91, 92-179 and 180-864 µg/l) were 1.00 (ref), POR 0.99 [95% confidence interval (CI) 0.77-1.27], POR 1.23 (95% CI 0.97-1.57), POR 1.50 (95% CI 1.18-1.89) and POR 1.59 (95% CI 1.26-2.00) (P for trend <0.01). Hazard ratios for incidence of proteinuria were POR 0.83 (95% CI 0.67-1.03) and POR 0.91 (95% CI 0.74-1.12) for participants with a decreasing level of >70 and 17-70 µg/l in urinary As over time, respectively, and were POR 1.17 (95% CI 0.97-1.42) and POR 1.42 (95% CI 1.16-1.73) for participants with an increasing level of 16-68 and >68 µg/l in urinary As over time, respectively, compared with the group with relatively little changes in urinary As as the reference group (urinary As -16 to 15 µg/l).
The findings suggest that there are adverse effects of As exposure on the risk of proteinuria and the effects are modifiable by recent changes in As exposure.
The effects of microinjection of an excitatory amino acid (glutamate, 10 micrograms) or several inhibitory amino acids (taurine 10 micrograms, GABA 10 ug or glycine 10 ug) into the dorsal raphe region on cardiovascular function were assessed in rats under pentobarbital sodium. Intra-raphe administration of glutamate, but not saline, caused an increase in the mean arterial pressure. By contrast, intra-raphe administration of taurine, GABA or glycine, but not saline, caused a decrease in both the mean arterial pressure and the heart rate. The glutamate-induced hypertension or both the hypotension and the bradycardia induced by taurine, GABA or glycine was antagonized by pretreatment with intra-raphe injection of a serotonergic receptor antagonist (1 ug cyproheptadine). In addition, the vasopressor and bradycardia responses to an intravenous dose of epinephrine (2.5 ug/kg) were assessed in saline-treated rats and amino acid-treated rats. Intra-raphe injection of glutamate produced a significant decrease in reflex bradycardia compared to the controls. On the other hand, administration of taurine, GABA or glycine into the dorsal raphe region led to an enhancement of epinephrine-induced bradycardia. Again, the reduction or the facilitation of the epinephrine-induced bradycardia following administration of these amino acids was antagonized by pretreatment with cyproheptadine. The results suggest that the serotonergic receptor mechanisms in the dorsal raphe region play a role in the elaboration or modulation of the cardiovascular responses to amino acids (including glutamate, taurine, GABA and glycine).
Lipid peroxidation in the kidney has been shown to precede proteinuria in puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN)-induced nephropathy. The aim of this study was to determine if L-2-oxothiazolidine-4-carboxylic acid (procysteine) would protect rats against PAN-induced nephrotoxicity. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with procysteine (16 mg/100 g body weight i.p.) 24 h and 30 min prior to receiving a single injection of PAN (15 mg/100 g body weight i.v.) followed by procysteine in the drinking water (4 g/l). Control rats received procysteine alone (intraperitoneally and in drinking water) or PAN alone and then plain water. Proteinuria was not significantly different between PAN/ procysteine and PAN groups, reaching a maximum at day 14 and persisting at day 28. Lipid peroxidation was more severe in PAN/procysteine rats reaching a maximum at day 3 (253 +/- 30 ng/mg protein) compared to day 5 in PAN rats (196 +/- 20 ng/mg protein). Procysteine alone did not modulate proteinuria over 28 days or lipid peroxidation over 7 days. GSH levels over 7 days were not elevated by procysteine and were virtually zero in PAN and PAN/procysteine rats. Focal glomerulosclerosis (FGS) was worse at day 28 in PAN/procysteine rats than in PAN rats (39 +/- 8.2 vs. 23 +/- 4.5%; p < 0.05). This study shows that procysteine as a potential source of reducing equivalents does not protect against renal lipid peroxidation and FGS in this model. On the contrary, PAN/procysteine rats developed significantly more FGS through yet unknown mechanisms.
Fourteen patients who developed persistent proteinuria while on penicillamine for rheumatoid arthritis, were collected over a period of one year. Eleven patients had a frank nephrotic syndrome and three had a lesser degree of proteinuria but no oedema. The patients had received penicillamine (mean daily dose 1015 mg) for less than one year (mean 7-5 months) when the nephropathy was detected. Clinical investigations have been correlated with renal biopsy material. Light microscopy detected no abnormalities except for minimal hypercellularity in a few patients. In markde contrast, the electron-microscope revealed numerous electron-dense deposits (EED's) in the outer layer of the basement membrane. Immunofluorescence showed the presence of IgG and complement in the basement membrane, the intensity of which correlated with the number of EED's. The pathological picture was essentially the same in those patients with the nephrotic syndrome and those with proteinuria. In this series, we found no evidence that penicillamine induced renal damage by any other mechanism except immune complex deposition. Serological tests revealed little evidence for complement activation or consumption and platelet aggregation was the only positive direct test for circulating immune complexes. Renal biopsies were performed at differing intervals after the cessation of penicillamine therapy, which allowed assessment of the natural history of the pathological lesion and revealed a striking persistence of EDD's in some patients. Two patients showed an almost identical picture initially and at re-biopsy one year later. Persistent proteinuria was also a feature of the group as a whole. The pathological picture has similarities with that of idiopathic membranous glomerulopathy. This study suggests that the use of penicillamine in rheumatoid arthritis may induce persistent renal damage.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an inherited neurodegenerative disease caused by a glutamine repeat expansion in huntingtin protein. Transcriptional deregulation and altered energy metabolism have been implicated in HD pathogenesis. We report here that mutant huntingtin causes disruption of mitochondrial function by inhibiting expression of PGC-1alpha, a transcriptional coactivator that regulates several metabolic processes, including mitochondrial biogenesis and respiration. Mutant huntingtin represses PGC-1alpha gene transcription by associating with the promoter and interfering with the CREB/TAF4-dependent transcriptional pathway critical for the regulation of PGC-1alpha gene expression. Crossbreeding of PGC-1alpha knockout (KO) mice with HD knockin (KI) mice leads to increased neurodegeneration of striatal neurons and motor abnormalities in the HD mice. Importantly, expression of PGC-1alpha partially reverses the toxic effects of mutant huntingtin in cultured striatal neurons. Moreover, lentiviral-mediated delivery of PGC-1alpha in the striatum provides neuroprotection in the transgenic HD mice. These studies suggest a key role for PGC-1alpha in the control of energy metabolism in the early stages of HD pathogenesis.
Topotecan, a novel topoisomerase-1 inhibitor, is a drug that appears to be effective against platinum-resistant ovarian cancers. However, the molecular mechanisms by which Topotecan treatment inhibits cancer cell proliferation are unclear. We investigated whether Topotecan increases the efficacy of Cisplatin in platinum-resistant ovarian cancer models in vitro and in vivo.
We used Cisplatin-resistant Caov-3 cells and Cisplatin-sensitive A2780 cells. We examined the effect of Cisplatin and Topotecan on the cell viability of Caov-3 and A2780 cells by MTS assay. We examined the Akt kinase activity, VEGF and HIF-1α expression after Cisplatin and Topotecan by a Western blot analysis. Moreover, we also evaluated the effects of Cisplatin and Topotecan on the intraabdominal dissemination of ovarian cancer in vivo.
Topotecan significantly inhibited Cisplatin-induced Akt activation in Caov-3 cells, but not in A2780 cells. In the presence of Topotecan, Cisplatin-induced growth inhibition and apoptosis were significantly enhanced in Caov-3 cells. Topotecan inhibited not only Cisplatin-induced Akt activation but also VEGF and HIF-1α expression. Moreover, treatment with Topotecan increased the efficacy of Cisplatin-induced growth inhibition in the intraabdominal dissemination and production of ascites in athymic nude mice inoculated with Caov-3 cells.
We herein demonstrated that Topotecan inhibits Akt kinase activity and VEGF transcriptional activation after Cisplatin treatment in platinum-resistant ovarian cancers. We clarified how Topotecan enhanced the clinical activity in the platinum-resistant ovarian cancer. These results provide a rationale for using Topotecan in clinical regimens aimed at molecular targeting agents in platinum-resistant ovarian cancers.
The effects of two sulfhydryl compounds, glutathione (GSH) and N-acetylcysteine (NAC), on the cardiotoxicity of doxorubicin (DXR) were tested on in vitro and in vivo models. DXR was administered to rats as 4 weekly i.v. doses of 3 mg/kg. GSH (1.5 mmoles/kg), given i.v. 10 min before and 1 hr after DXR, was found to prevent the development of the delayed cardiotoxic effects of DXR, as assessed by electrocardiographic and mechanical parameters, as well as by histological examination of left ventricular preparations. In contrast, equimolar oral doses of NAC (1 hr before and 2 hrs after DXR) were found to be ineffective. Both GSH and NAC prevented the negative inotropic effect produced by DXR on isolated rat atria. A good correlation exists between the cardioprotective effects of the two agents and their ability to enhance the non-protein sulfhydryl group content of the myocardium. Differences observed in vivo between GSH and NAC might be accounted for by pharmacokinetic factors.
Several studies have demonstrated liposomal doxorubicin (Doxil) to be an active antineoplastic agent in platinum-resistant ovarian cancer, with dose limiting toxicity of the standard dosing regimen (50 mg/m(2) q 4 weeks) being severe erythrodysesthesia ("hand-foot syndrome") and stomatitis. We wished to develop a more tolerable liposomal doxorubicin treatment regimen and document its level of activity in a well-defined patient population with platinum/paclitaxel-refractory disease.
Patients with ovarian or fallopian tube cancers or primary peritoneal carcinoma with platinum/paclitaxel-refractory disease (stable or progressive disease following treatment with these agents or previous objective response <3 months in duration) were treated with liposomal doxorubicin at a dose of 40 mg/m(2) q 4 weeks.
A total of 49 patients (median age: 60; range 41-81) entered this phase 2 trial. The median number of prior regimens was 2 (range: 1-6). Six (12%) and 4 (8%) patients experienced grade 2 hand-foot syndrome and stomatitis, respectively (no episodes of grade 3). One patient developed grade 3 diarrhea requiring hospitalization for hydration. Six (12%) individuals required dose reductions. The median number of courses of liposomal doxorubicin administered on this protocol was 2 (range: 1-12). Four of 44 patients (9%) evaluable for response exhibited objective and subjective evidence of an antineoplastic effect of therapy.
This modified liposomal doxorubicin regimen results in less toxicity (stomatitis, hand-foot syndrome) than the standard FDA-approved dose schedule. Definite, although limited, antineoplastic activity is observed in patients with well-defined platinum- and paclitaxel-refractory ovarian cancer.
Aluminum is neurotoxic both in animals and human beings primarily because of its interference with biological enzymes in key mechanisms of metabolic pathways. Mitochondrial dysfunction is one such mechanism that has been implicated in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer's disease. Aluminum toxicity is very closely related to Alzheimer's disease. We evaluated the potentials of curcumin, a known cytoprotectant, against neurotoxic consequences of aluminum that acts through a wide range of mechanisms. Curcumin has been reported to be an antioxidant, and it is this property that is widely held to be responsible for its protective effects in tissue. Aluminum was administered by oral gavage at a dose level of 100 mg/kg body wt/day for a period of 8 weeks. Curcumin was administered in conjunction with aluminum at a dose of 50 mg/kg of body wt i.p. for a period of 8 weeks on alternate days. The effects of different treatments were studied on oxidative phosphorylation and reduced glutathione of different regions of rat brain. The study indicates reduced activity of NADH dehydrogenase (complex I), succinic dehydrogenase (complex II), and cytochrome oxidize (Complex IV) in all the three regions of rat brain, i.e., cerebral cortex, mid brain, and cerebellum. Curcumin supplementation to aluminum-treated rats was able to normalize significantly the activities of all the three mitochondrial complexes as well as reduced glutathione content in all the three regions of brain which were altered following aluminum treatment. We conclude that curcumin, by attenuating oxidative stress, as evident by hypoxia in histological observations and mitochondrial dysfunction holds a promise as an agent that can potentially reduce aluminum-induced adverse effects in brain.
The human neurotropic JC virus (JCV) is responsible for progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), an infectious demyelinating brain disease with major morbidity and mortality, usually refractory to treatment. We describe a PML in a 67-year-old woman with a destructive polyarthritis associated with anti-JO1 antibodies treated with corticosteroids. Although glucocorticoid therapy was maintained, administration of cidofovir improved the neurological condition. Our observation demonstrates the expanding clinical importance of JCV in systemic rheumatic diseases, particularly when immunosuppressive agents are used, and neurological symptoms or white matter changes on central nervous system imaging should arouse the suspicion of PML.
To investigate the effects of aluminium hydroxide (AH), a phosphate binder, on the progress of chronic renal diseases, high doses (9.6 g/kg/day, group ADR-H), moderate doses (2.4 g/kg/day, group ADR-M), and low doses (1.2 g/kg/day, group ADR-L) of the compound, were orally administered for 34 weeks to rats with Adriamycin (ADR)-induced focal glomerular sclerosis. Serum creatinine and blood urea nitrogen were significantly lower in either group ADR-H or ADR-M than in group ADR at week 34. Urinary protein excretion was significantly lower in group ADR-H than in group ADR in all observation periods and was also lower in group ADR-M than in group ADR at weeks 28 and 32. Both glomerular sclerosis and tubular change were significantly less severe in group ADR-H, while tubular change was less marked in group ADR-M than in group ADR. These results revealed that phosphate depletion was induced, and progressive renal failure was ameliorated in proportion to the dosing of AH. On the other hand, body weight was significantly smaller in group ADR-H than in group ADR in more than half of the observation period. In conclusion, a high dose of AH may adversely affect the nutritional state irrespective of having an extremely protective effect on progress of renal dysfunction. Appropriate doses of AH should be used to prevent the renal deterioration.
