Anemia is common in patients with congestive heart failure (CHF), although its etiology and pathophysiology remain largely unexplained. The purpose of this study was to examine the prognostic significance of a low hematocrit (Hct) in patients with CHF and the possible role of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition in anemia development.
Hct was measured at the time of enrollment of 160 patients with CHF, mean age 56 +/- 12 years, in New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional class 2.6 +/- 0.7 and with left ventricular ejection fraction of 20 +/- 9%. They were randomized to standard (mean: 17.9 +/- 4.3 mg/day) or high (mean: 42 +/- 19.3 mg/day) doses of enalapril. The follow-up duration was 2 years. Cox regression models were used to identify prognostic factors, and correlations among individual variables were tested.
Mean baseline Hct was 42.7 +/- 5%. In multivariate analyses, low Hct (p = 0.036), older age (p = 0.022) and low systolic blood pressure (p = 0.032) were independent predictors of death within 2 years. A correlation was found between baseline Hct and NYHA class (Spearman's correlation coefficient: -0.183, p = 0.008). A significant decrease in Hct from 43.2 +/- 4.9% at baseline to 40.7 +/- 4.4% at 2 years was observed in the group treated with high doses of enalapril (p < 0.001).
Low baseline Hct predicted poor 2-year prognosis in patients with CHF. Enalapril administered in high doses increased the incidence of anemia in this population. The underlying pathophysiologic mechanism and effects of maintaining a normal Hct on clinical outcomes remain to be determined.
It has been suggested that neuropsychiatric events during use of mefloquine are more common in females than in males and are partly explained by the psychological stress of travelling. Therefore, we investigated neuropsychiatric events in females and males on mefloquine in the 3-week prophylactic period that precedes travelling. Furthermore, we investigated whether first-time users had a higher risk of neuropsychiatric adverse events than subjects with a history of mefloquine use.
We enrolled all patients who visited a Travel Clinic for mefloquine prophylaxis during the period 1 May 1999 to 7 March 2000. Each patient was followed from baseline (prior to starting mefloquine) up to 3 weeks after the start of mefloquine but before travelling. We asked patients to register any adverse event in a diary and measured the intra-individual change in scores on the Dutch Shortened Profile Of Mood States (POMS) at baseline and at the end of follow-up.
The final cohort consisted of 179 subjects with a mean age of 3 years. Females reported adverse events more frequently than males ( P=0.005). Overall, we observed a small but significant increase in the score on the domain fatigue [0.74 points, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.18, 1.30]. The effect was exclusively present in females and not in males. First-time users of mefloquine increased 2.81 points (95% CI 0.70, 4.92) on the total score of the POMS, and among those, women showed the largest increase of 4.58 points (95% CI 0.74, 8.43).
The use of mefloquine was associated with neuropsychiatric adverse effects. Females encountered neuropsychiatric effects more frequently than males, which could be confirmed by validated psychological tests. Neuropsychiatric effects were more common in first-time users than in individuals who had used mefloquine before.
This paper describes our experience with the respiratory effects of TDI. Five respiratory reactions attributable to TDI are described with supporting evidence. The reactions are sensitization, irritation from overexposure, acute loss of ventilatory capacity, accelerated loss of pulmonary function and induction of a general asthmatic state. Evidence is presented that suggests a safe exposure level.
1. The effects of the diterpene sclareol glycol (SG) of the labdane family on some dopamine (DA) related behavior (locomotor activity in mice, apomorphine-induced stereotypy in mice and rats, and haloperidol-induced catalepsy in rats) were studied. 2. The locomotion frequency of mice was significantly increased by SG (stronger effect by low and medium dose). SG antagonized the hypomotility induced by reserpine pretreatment. SG enhanced the apomorphine decreased motility (induced by small dose of apomorphine). 3. SG provoked increase of apomorphine stereotypy. The long-term SG treatment augmented the sensitivity of rats to apomorphine-induced stereotypy. 4. SG at low dose decreased haloperidol-induced catalepsy: at higher dose it increased the catalepsy. SG treatment alone did not induce catalepsy. 5. These results were discussed in the light of a possible interaction of SG with dopaminergic transmission (DA autoreceptors and postsynaptic DA receptors) at the level of the striatum and the nucleus accumbens. The interaction of SG with adenylate cyclase (stimulation of catalytic subunit) and with GABAergic transmission in realization of its effects on DA related behavior was also discussed.
Loop diuretics potently excrete water and electrolytes and therefore have been widely prescribed for the treatment of various kinds of edema for a long time. The potent diuretic action of loop diuretics, however, often causes hypokalemia, and therefore potassium sparing diuretics have also been supplied as a concomitant drug. Torasemide (LUPRAC), a novel diuretics, shows not only an effective loop diuretic action but also a potassium sparing action due to its anti-aldosteronergic effect. Torasemide also has a high bioavailability and is only slightly influenced by meals in humans. In addition, its pharmacodynamic features contribute to its stable diuretic action without any individual differences. In animal experiments, torasemide showed about a tenfold more potent diuretic action in comparison with furosemide, an authentic loop diuretic. On the one hand, the increase in the urinary potassium excretion by torasemide was relatively slight compared to the increase in urinary sodium excretion and, as a result, the urinary sodium to potassium (Na+/K+) ratio increased. The diuretic profile of torasemide was equal to that of the concomitant use of furosemide and an anti-aldosteronergic drug, spironolactone. Torasemide showed a significant efficacy and safety in comparison with furosemide in the patients with edema in both domestic and foreign clinical studies. Moreover, torasemide also showed a decreased rate of cardiac death in comparison to furosemide in patients with chronic heart failure in a large-scale clinical study (TORIC Study). The difference in cardiac death between these two diuretics has been suggested to depend on the anti-aldosteronergic effect of torasemide. In Japan, no new loop diuretics have been developed in over 10 years. Torasemide is therefore expected to be useful as an effective diuretic for diseases with edema.
Sodium chloride, saccharin sodium, phenobarbital sodium and aspirin were tested for tumor-promoting activity in the glandular stomach of rats after initiation with N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG) coupled with administration of a high salt diet. Male outbred Wistar rats were given MNNG in the drinking water (100 mg/liter) for 8 weeks, and during this period they were fed on diet supplemented with 10% sodium chloride. Thereafter, they were divided into 5 groups and fed on the basal diet or one of various diets supplemented with 10% sodium chloride, 5% saccharin, 0.05% phenobarbital or 1% aspirin until the end of the experiment. All animals were killed at the 40th experimental week for necropsy and histological examination. The incidence of adenocarcinoma was increased in the group given sodium chloride following initiation by MNNG and sodium chloride as compared with the group given MNNG and sodium chloride initiation only, but not significantly. However, the incidence of preneoplastic hyperplasia was significantly increased in this group. Saccharin also enhanced the development of adenocarcinomas of the glandular stomach. The results indicated that dietary administration of sodium chloride or saccharin after MNNG tends to promote tumor development. Phenobarbital or aspirin did not enhance tumor development, aspirin in fact rather showing a tendency to decrease the tumor incidence.
Since 1985 44 consecutive patients with testicular cancer have been treated with a modified BEP regimen. 70% had metastatic disease and 30% received adjuvant therapy. After mean follow-up of 26 (8-56) months, 91% of patients are alive and all are in remission. Chemotherapy-related side effects were alopecia (100%), myelosuppression (100%), nausea/vomiting (89%) and fever (66%). Patients reported nausea has been rare. It is concluded that BEP chemotherapy is a highly effective treatment which secures complete remission or cure even in patients with advanced metastatic disease. In retrospect the patients considered the treatment worthwhile despite the stress involved.
1. The responses of J receptors to certain excitants were recorded during pulmonary oedema produced by phosgene gas (320-1080 p.p.m.) or alloxan, 150 mg kg-1 i.v., in cats anaesthetized with sodium pentobarbitone, 35 mg kg-1 I.P. 2. The responses of fourteen (out of fifteen) J receptors to phenyl diguanide (PDG) were greatly enhanced after phosgene, the enhancement being highly significant (P = < 0.01) in twenty-one out of twenty-six responses. The enhancements were also highly significant after alloxan in the case of another twelve receptors. Similar enhancements were observed in the case of responses to nicotine and capsaicin. This suggests that the enhancement of the responses of J receptors to excitants occurs in a non-specific manner after phosgene and alloxan. 3. The enhanced responses occurred in the absence of any significant increase in the estimated concentration of the excitants in pulmonary artery blood. 4. The enhanced responses to PDG were not closely related to the oedema-induced activity; several occurred during periods of silence of the receptors and in thirteen receptors the enhanced responses occurred before the increase in the oedema-induced activity had begun. 5. A possible role of histamine, 5-HT, prostaglandins and bradykinin in enhancing the responses to PDG after phosgene was excluded. 6. The results therefore suggest that the non-specific enhancement of the responses of the J receptors to excitants must be due to the increased permeability of the capillaries produced by phosgene and alloxan leading to greater movement of the excitants to the J receptors. However, certain unidentified factors may also be involved.
In 30 patients (ASA-1) for elective Cesarean section who had given informed consent, characteristics of amnesia induced by midazolam (M) and their modulation by flumazenil (F) were examined. Spinal anesthesia was performed with dibucaine. After the delivery, the baby was shown to the mother. Then 21 patients were given bolus intravenous injection of M until the patient got into sleep and the inhalation of nitrous oxide mixed with oxygen was started. At the end of surgery bolus injection of F 0.1 mg was cumulatively repeated until the patient awoke. Nine patients were given only nitrous oxide and oxygen inhalation after the delivery. The remembrance of the baby face and the doses of M and F were compared. In group given M, 14 patients recalled their baby's face whereas 7 did not. The average doses of M and F in patients with memory were 69 micrograms.kg-1 and 2.5 micrograms.kg-1, respectively, whereas the average dose of M and F in patients without memory were 94 micrograms.kg-1 and 4.2 micrograms.kg-1, respectively. In the patients without M injection, all could recall the face of the baby. These results suggest that M could produce retrograde amnesia, when combined with nitrous oxide inhalation, which is not reversed by F.
Eosinophilic myocarditis is an inflammatory condition of the heart in which the infiltrate is composed predominately of eosinophils.
We identified three cases of eosinophilic myocarditis in which the infiltrating eosinophils showed a remarkable intimate association with bundles of collagen. Two of the hearts examined were explants from heart transplant recipients with hypersensitivity myocarditis at the time of transplant and the third was from an autopsied patient with Churg-Strauss syndrome. These hearts were examined using light and electron microscopy. The cellular infiltrate in all three cases was characterized using immunoperoxidase stains with a panel including antibodies against myeloperoxidase, common leukocyte antigen (CD45), B lymphocytes (CD20), T lymphocytes (CD3), active-memory T lymphocytes (CD45RO), inactive T lymphocytes (CD45RA), and macrophages (CD68).
Ultrastructural examination in all three cases confirmed the apposition of eosinophils to both large bundles of collagen and smaller aggregates of collagen fibrils. The eosinophils and the bundles of collagen stained strongly for myeloperoxidase, suggesting at least partial degranulation of the eosinophils. A KP-1 stain (CD68) revealed macrophages admixed with the eosinophils adjacent to the collagen bundles, and stains for CD45RA (naive lymphocytes) and CD45RO (memory T cells) showed an interstitial infiltrate of predominantly CD45RO-positive cells. Clinically, the cardiac decompensation of one of the transplant patients was most likely due to ranitidine-induced hypersensitivity myocarditis.
These results suggest that some cases of eosinophilic myocarditis may be caused by the expression of novel antigens bound to collagen bundles. In one of the patients awaiting cardiac transplant, cardiac decompensation was temporally associated with ranitidine therapy, an agent not previously implicated as a cause of hypersensitivity myocarditis.
More head-to-head comparisons of antipsychotics are needed to discern the relative efficacy and safety profiles of these compounds. Thus, we compared ziprasidone and risperidone in patients with acute exacerbation of schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder.
Patients with DSM-III-R acute exacerbation of schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder were randomly assigned to double-blind ziprasidone 40 to 80 mg b.i.d. (N = 149) or risperidone 3 to 5 mg b.i.d (N = 147) for 8 weeks. Primary efficacy measures included Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) total score and Clinical Global Impressions-Severity of Illness scale (CGI-S) score; secondary measures included scores on the PANSS negative sub-scale, CGI-Improvement scale (CGI-I), and PANSS-derived Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRSd) total and core items. Safety assessments included movement disorder evaluations, laboratory tests, electrocardiography, vital signs, and body weight. Efficacy analyses employed a prospectively defined Evaluable Patients cohort. Treatment equivalence was conferred if the lower limit of the 95% confidence interval of the ziprasidone/risperidone ratio of least-squares mean change from baseline was > 0.60. Data were gathered from August 1995 to January 1997.
Equivalence was demonstrated in PANSS total scores, CGI-S scores, PANSS negative subscale scores, BPRSd total and core item scores, and PANSS total and CGI-I responder rates. Both agents were well tolerated. Risperidone exhibited a significantly higher Movement Disorder Burden (MDB) score (p < .05) and higher incidences of prolactin elevation and clinically relevant weight gain. However, compared with current recommendations, study dosing may have been high for some risperidone-treated patients (mean dose = 7.4 mg/day) and low for some ziprasidone-treated patients (mean dose = 114.2 mg/day).
Both agents equally improved psychotic symptoms, and both were generally well tolerated, with ziprasidone demonstrating a lower MDB score and less effect on prolactin and weight than risperidone.
Agitation and aggression are potentially disruptive and dangerous features of bipolar mania. This analysis evaluated the effects of quetiapine on agitation and aggression in patients with bipolar I mania.
Four double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted using similar protocols; 407 patients with bipolar I mania were randomized to quetiapine monotherapy (200-800 mg/day) or placebo for 12 weeks, and 402 patients were randomized to quetiapine (200-800 mg/day) or placebo in combination with lithium (Li) or divalproex (DVP) for 3 or 6 weeks. Measurements of agitation included the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) Activation subscale, PANSS Supplemental Aggression Risk subscale scores, and Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS) items relevant to agitation.
Initial reductions in both the PANSS Activation and PANSS Supplemental Aggression Risk subscale scores were noted by Day 4 with quetiapine and placebo. The reduction in PANSS Activation subscale scores was significantly greater with quetiapine monotherapy than placebo first at Day 21 (-3.5 versus -1.4, P<0.001) and also at Day 84 (-4.8 versus -1.2, P<0.001). The improvement in PANSS Supplemental Aggression Risk subscale score was significantly greater with quetiapine monotherapy than placebo by Day 14 (P<0.01) and all time points thereafter including Day 21 (-4.0 versus -1.8, P<0.001) and Day 84 (-5.6 versus -1.7, P<0.001). In combination therapy, the mean improvement in PANSS Activation subscale score at Day 21 was numerically but not significantly different with QTP+Li/DVP than PBO+Li/DVP (-4.2 versus -3.2, P=0.087). The mean PANSS Supplemental Aggression Risk subscale scores were significantly improved at Day 21 with QTP+Li/DVP versus PBO+Li/DVP (-5.05 versus -3.69, P<0.05).
Quetiapine is an effective and appropriate treatment choice in managing agitation and aggression associated with bipolar mania.
This study evaluated the effectiveness of risperidone in women for the treatment of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) related to childhood physical, sexual, verbal, and emotional abuse.
Subjects were outpatient adult women, aged 18 to 64 years, with chronic PTSD related to childhood physical, sexual, verbal, or emotional abuse. Data were collected from November 18, 2001, to June 7, 2003. Subjects met DSM-III-R criteria for PTSD and criteria for PTSD on the Clinician-Administered PTSD Scale, 1-month version (CAPS-1). Subjects were randomly assigned to receive risperidone (N = 12) in flexible daily dosages in the range of 0.5 to 8 mg or placebo (N = 9) for 8 weeks. The primary outcome measures were changes in score from baseline on the CAPS-1 and the Clinician-Administered PTSD Scale, 1-week version (CAPS-2).
Risperidone-treated patients had a significantly greater reduction in total score on the CAPS-2 (z = -2.44, p = .015). Risperidone-treated patients also had significantly greater reductions in the intrusive (z = -5.71, p < .001) and hyperarousal (z = -2.74, p = .006) subscale scores of the CAPS-2.
The results of the current study indicate that low-dosage risperidone is a safe and effective treatment for intrusive and hyperarousal symptoms in adult women with chronic PTSD from childhood physical, sexual, verbal, and emotional abuse.
To examine the effect of curcumin on the proliferation and the migration of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) and on the corneal neovascularization in the corneal alkaline burn rat model.
HUVEC proliferation, migration, and apoptosis were examined after treatment with various concentrations of curcumin. The effect of curcumin on the activation of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) was measured by an electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) in vivo. Corneal neovascularization was induced in vivo by an alkaline burn of the cornea in Sprague-Dawley rats. After topical drug treatments with curcumin, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) was evaluated in the corneal tissue by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and by immunohistochemistry. Corneal neovascularization was evaluated by slit-lamp biomicroscopy.
Curcumin at a concentration of 40 micromol/l for 24 h significantly inhibited the growth of HUVECs. The Boyden microchamber assay showed that curcumin dramatically inhibited the migration of HUVECs at a concentration of 40 micromol/l. When TUNEL assays were performed, the number of apoptotic cells increased after treated with curcumin. The EMSA revealed that curcumin inhibits the activation of NF-kappaB in HUVECs. The expression of VEGF in the corneal tissues was inhibited by curcumin on days 7 and 14 after alkaline burn.
Curcumin may be useful as an angiogenic inhibitor in the treatment of corneal diseases that show neovascularization.
The effect of the converting enzyme inhibitor (CEI) enalapril was assessed in Munich-Wistar rats with established adriamycin nephrosis. Rats were given a single dose of adriamycin and one month later divided into four groups matched for albuminuria, blood pressure, and plasma albumin concentration. Groups 1 and 3 remained untreated while groups 2 and 4 received enalapril. Groups 1 and 2 underwent micropuncture studies after 10 days. These short-term studies showed that enalapril reduced arterial blood pressure (101 +/- 2 vs. 124 +/- 3 mm Hg, group 2 vs. 1, P less than 0.05) and glomerular capillary pressure (54 +/- 1 vs. 61 +/- 2 mm Hg, P less than 0.05) without reducing albuminuria (617 +/- 50 vs. 570 +/- 47 mg/day) or GFR (1.03 +/- 0.04 vs. 1.04 +/- 0.11 ml/min). Groups 3 and 4 were studied at four and at six months to assess the effect of enalapril on progression of renal injury in adriamycin nephrosis. Chronic enalapril treatment reduced blood pressure without reducing albuminuria in group 4. Untreated group 3 rats exhibited a progressive reduction in GFR (0.35 +/- 0.08 ml/min at 4 months, 0.27 +/- 0.07 ml/min at 6 months). Enalapril treatment blunted but did not prevent reduction in GFR in group 4 (0.86 +/- 0.15 ml/min at 4 months, 0.69 +/- 0.13 ml/min at 6 months, both P less than 0.05 vs. group 3). Reduction in GFR was associated with the development of glomerular sclerosis in both treated and untreated rats.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The in vivo effects of administration of the synthetic, functional biomimetic cation [Cr(3)O(O(2)CCH(2)CH(3))(6)(H(2)O)(3)](+) to healthy and type I and type II diabetic model rats are described. In contrast to current chromium-containing nutrition supplements, which only serve as sources of absorbable chromium, the trinuclear cation has been shown in in vitro assays to interact with the insulin receptor, activating its kinase activity, presumably by trapping the receptor in its active conformation. Thus, treatment of rats with the trinuclear cation would be expected to result in changes in lipid and carbohydrate metabolism related to insulin action. After 24 weeks of intravenous administration (0-20 micro g Cr/kg body mass), the cation results in a concentration-dependent lowering of levels of fasting blood plasma LDL cholesterol, total cholesterol, triglycerides, and insulin and of 2-h plasma insulin and glucose levels after a glucose challenge; these results confirm a previous 12-week study examining the effect of the synthetic cation on healthy rats and are in stark contrast to those of administration of other forms of Cr(III) to rats, which have no effect on these parameters. The cation has little, if any, effect on rats with STZ-induced diabetes (a type I diabetes model). However, Zucker obese rats (a model of the early stages of type II diabetes) after 24 weeks of supplementation (20 micro g/kg) have lower fasting plasma total, HDL, and LDL cholesterol, triglycerides, and insulin levels and lower 2-h plasma insulin levels. The lowering of plasma insulin concentrations with little effect on glucose concentrations suggests that the supplement increases insulin sensitivity.
A 63-year-old woman with seropositive rheumatoid arthritis was successfully treated with auranofin for 12 months. Heavy proteinuria then developed and the drug was stopped. However, the proteinuria apparently became worse. This was later recognised to be a spurious effect due to the introduction of tolmetin. Renal biopsy showed a type I membranous glomerulonephropathy.
Smilax glabra Roxb. (SGR), a member of the Smilacaceae family and a rhizome of the Liliaceae plant, has shown anti-inflammation and detoxification properties, and a few studies reported its anti-cancer effect. In this study, we showed that SGR inhibited growth of human breast cancer cell line MCF7, colon carcinoma cell line HT-29, and gastric cancer cell line BGC-823 in a dose-dependent manner. Furthermore, SGR could inhibit tumor growth of HT-29 in Balb/c nude mice and murine hepatoma H22 cells in ICR mice. SGR elicited apoptotic cell death, as confirmed by DNA ladder formation, changes in nuclear morphology, and the increased FITC-Annexin-V/PI staining. Permeabilization of mitochondrial membrane (MMP), production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), elevation of intracellular [Ca(2+)], relocation of cytochrome c, and the activation of caspase-3 were found to be associated with the initiation of apoptosis by SGR treatment. Using microarray analysis, we found the changes in expression profiles of genes related to apoptosis, proliferation and cell cycle control in the cells treated with SGR. Our results demonstrated the mitochondrial regulation of apoptosis by which SGR exerts the anti-cancer effect.
Halothane hepatitis can be life-threatening, and this severe adverse reaction may arise via an immune process. We have detected autoantibodies to purified human liver microsomal carboxylesterase in sera of 17 out of 20 patients with halothane hepatitis (85%) but not in 9 halothane-exposed controls and in only 2 (at low levels) of 33 patients with liver disease due to other causes. Immunohistochemical studies localised the carboxylesterase predominantly to the centrilobular region of liver sections, which is consistent with the area affected by halothane hepatitis. Human hepatic microsomal carboxylesterase is a target antigen in halothane hepatitis, and an immune response to this protein may be involved in the liver damage observed.
In the present study, we investigated the effects of the angiotensin (Ang) II receptor antagonist, irbesartan, on blood pressure and renal structural injury in obese Zucker rats (OZR), an experimental model of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM). Twenty-six-week-old OZR with established renal disease were administered either low-dose (15 mg/kg) or high-dose (50 mg/kg) irbesartan in the drinking water for a period of 18 weeks. Irbesartan caused dose-related reductions in blood pressure, and reduced by 47 to 60% the percent of glomeruli with sclerosis at 44 weeks of age (P < 0.05). In addition, irbesartan at the higher dose reduced the tubulointerstitial injury score at 44 weeks by approximately 75% (P < 0.05). By contrast, irbesartan did not significantly reduce albuminuria in OZR. The results of the present study demonstrate that the Ang II receptor antagonist irbesartan can reduce blood pressure and ameliorate glomerular and tubulointerstitial injury in an experimental model of NIDDM.
We previously reported a new animal model of progressive glomerulonephritis induced by a single intravenous injection of the anti-Thy-1 monoclonal antibody MoAb 1-22-3 into uninephrectomized rats (Clin Exp Immunol 102: 181-185, 1995). We examined the effects of angiotensin II (Ang II) receptor antagonist (candesartan) on the clinical features and morphological lesions of this new model. By 10 weeks after induction of nephritis, untreated rats had developed hypertension, massive proteinuria, renal dysfunction, and severe glomerular injury, while uninephrectomized control rats had not. There was a significant increase in levels of glomerular protein and cortical mRNA for transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) and type I and type III collagens in untreated nephritic rats. Ten week treatments with candesartan and hydralazine significantly reduced blood pressure (BP) to an equal extent. Candesartan, but not hydralazine, prevented proteinuria, normalized renal function, and ameliorated glomerular injury. Candesartan also reduced levels of glomerular protein and cortical mRNA for TGF-beta and type I and type III collagens, while hydralazine did not. These findings suggest that candesartan prevents progression to end-stage renal failure by modulating the effects of Ang II at least in part on the production of TGF-beta and type I and type III collagens, and not merely on systemic BP.
The purpose of this study was to compare morphine with ketamine to morphine alone in a double-blind investigation of postsurgical pain control.
Forty-two ASA 1 and 2 patients undergoing elective microdiscectomy were administered either 1 mg.ml-1 of morphine (n = 20) or 1 mg.ml-1 of both morphine and ketamine (n = 22) via iv patient controlled analgesia (IVPCA). Pain relief and side effects were assessed at 24 hr after surgery.
The mean (SD) visual analogue scale (VAS) pain rating of 2.3 (1.67) for patients receiving morphine with ketamine was lower (P < 0.001) than the VAS scores of patients receiving only morphine 4.5 (1.54). Patients receiving morphine and ketamine also had less difficulty with side effects, reporting less nausea (P < 0.05), pruritus (P < 0.001), and urinary retention (P < 0.05). Although dysphoria is reported to be a common side effect of ketamine, complaints of dysphoria were rare in both groups, with only one subject (5%) in the morphine with ketamine group and three (15%) subjects receiving morphine alone reporting this side effect.
IVPCA ketamine in combination with morphine provides superior postsurgical pain relief at lower dosage and with fewer side effects than morphine alone.
Nicotine is a neuroteratogen that targets synaptic function during critical developmental stages and recent studies indicate that CNS vulnerability extends into adolescence, the time that smoking typically commences. We administered nicotine to pregnant or adolescent rats via continuous minipump infusions, using dose rates that replicate the plasma nicotine levels found in smokers. Fetal nicotine exposure (gestational days 4-21) decreased the cerebrocortical binding of paroxetine (PXT), a marker for the serotonin (5HT) transporter, likely indicative of a decrease in nerve terminals in that region; the effect lasted into adulthood. There was a corresponding increase in PXT binding in the midbrain/brainstem, the region containing the 5HT cell bodies that project to the cerebral cortex, a pattern typical of reactive sprouting in response to nerve terminal damage. After adolescent nicotine treatment (postnatal days 30-47), PXT binding was reduced in the hippocampus and striatum instead of the cerebral cortex, again accompanied by increased binding in the midbrain and brainstem; the patterns of effects within each region were gender-selective, although both males and females displayed abnormalities. Superimposed on this overall effect, there were transient increases in PXT binding, likely due to acute stimulant effects of nicotine. We also assessed 5HT presynaptic activity (5HIAA/5HT ratio). Withdrawal from adolescent nicotine treatment led to suppression of activity in the cerebral cortex and activation in the midbrain. These results indicate that both fetal and adolescent nicotine exposure elicit apparent damage to 5HT projections with reactive increases in regions containing 5HT cell bodies. Long-term changes in 5HT innervation and/or synaptic activity may play a role in the subsequent development of depression in the offspring of women who smoke during pregnancy or in adolescent smokers.
Older individuals with dementia are highly sensitive to the effects of muscarinic receptor blockade.
This was a 6-week multisite, randomized clinical trial.
Eighty-six patients with probable Alzheimer's disease, vascular dementia, or mixed-etiology dementia (DSM-IV criteria) were randomly assigned to treatment with olanzapine or risperidone.
Anticholinergic activity was measured with a radioreceptor assay, and plasma levels of antipsychotic medications were determined. Primary outcomes were assessed with the Udvalg for Kliniske Undersogelser (UKU) scale and somnolence adverse events; secondary outcome measures included scores on the Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI) and other scales.
There were no between-treatment differences in the UKU scale or in somnolence adverse events. Statistically significant improvements (p < .001) from baseline were found for the NPI measures, with no between-treatment group differences. Olanzapine was associated with significant increases from baseline in anticholinergic activity, while risperidone was not; the between-treatment group differences were not statistically significant. Increase in anticholinergic activity was associated with an increase in anticholinergic side effects and slower performance on the Trail Making Test Part A. Higher endpoint anticholinergic activity was associated with higher endpoint scores on several items from the NPI, including delusions, anxiety, and aberrant motor behavior.
Efficacious doses of olanzapine increased anticholinergic activity in older patients with dementia, while similarly efficacious doses of risperidone did not. Patients whose anticholinergic activity increased were more likely to experience anticholinergic side effects and to have worsening in certain cognitive domains. These data suggest that certain patients may be vulnerable to the anticholinergic activity associated with antipsychotic treatment.
