2-(8-Hydroxy-6-methoxy-1-oxo-1Eta-2-benzopyran-3-yl)propionic acid (NM-3) is a small molecule isocoumarin derivative that has recently entered clinical trials as an orally bioavailable anticancer agent. NM-3 induces lethality of human carcinoma cells by both apoptotic and nonapoptotic mechanisms and potentiates the effects of cytotoxic chemotherapeutic agents. The present studies have evaluated the effects of NM-3 on human multiple myeloma (MM) cells. The results demonstrate that NM-3 potentiates dexamethasone-induced killing of both dexamethasone-sensitive MM1.S and dexamethasone-resistant RPMI8226 and U266 MM cells. We show that NM-3 enhances dexamethasone-induced release of the mitochondrial apoptogenic factors cytochrome c and Smac/DIABLO. The results also demonstrate that NM-3 enhances dexamethasone-induced activation of the intrinsic caspase-9->caspase-3 apoptotic pathway. In concert with these results, NM-3 potentiates dexamethasone-induced apoptosis of MM1.S cells. Moreover, NM-3 acts synergistically with dexamethasone in inducing apoptosis of the dexamethasone-resistant RPMI8226 and U266 MM cells. These findings indicate that NM-3 may be effective in combination with dexamethasone in the treatment of MM.
The outcome of cerebral venous sinus thrombosis (CVST) depends on rapid diagnosis and initiation of effective anticoagulation. We report seven cases of a subgroup with deep cerebral venous sinus thrombosis (DCVST) treated in our institution since 1990. Six of our seven patients presented with early neuropsychological deficits (mental obtundation, bradyphrenia or apathia). This clinical presentation, in combination with headache, and focal neurological deficits, aids the early diagnosis of DCVST. Thalamic hyperintensities on T2-weighted MRI images, previously considered infarctions, were fully reversible during treatment with heparin. This indicates that early in the course of the disease they correspond to vasogenic oedema.
This study reports the effect of intracisternal administration of papaverine in 15 patients with vasospasm due to rupture of aneurysm. All patients had undergone clipping of aneurysm and had neurological deterioration and decreasing level of consciousness. Bolus injection of 40 mg of 1% papaverine hydrochloride was started on day 6.3 +/- 1.7 and continued for 4.4 +/- 1.6 days. In seven cases serial angiogram after initial dose revealed dilatation of IC and/or anterior, middle cerebral arteries at 30 min and further dilatation up to 85% increase in diameter at 60 min, which continued at least 90 min. Arteries with marked vasospasm responded more to papaverine than those with less vasospasm. There was a close correlation between degree of vasospasm and vasodilatation effect (r = 0.88, p less than 0.01). In all but two cases vasodilatation tended to become prominent by repeat doses, twice a day, for two to seven days (r = 0.87, p less than 0.01). Vasodilatation was observed only in IC and proximal trunks of ACA and MCA where papaverine could make direct contact, but not in the distal branches beyond A3 or M3. Neurological examination showed improvement of paresis or level of consciousness in 7 cases but no effect in 6 cases. Intracerebral hematoma occurred in two cases (one by high concentration 4% papaverine) during the treatment. Therefore intracisternal papaverine is the treatment of choice in cases with symptomatic vasospasm with some cautions on concentration to be administered.
Uterine malignant mixed mesodermal tumor is a rare variant of uterine cancer. Data suggest that tamoxifen is involved in the pathogenesis. We report a case of a women in whom a malignant mixed mesodermal tumor was diagnosed while she was taking raloxifene, which is also a selective estrogen receptor modulator.
A malignant mixed mesodermal tumor was diagnosed in a 64-year-old woman with a bicornuate uterus while she was taking raloxifene for osteoporosis prevention. Diagnosis had been delayed secondary to sampling of the other uterine horn.
There may be an association between raloxifene and the development of malignant mixed mesodermal tumor. Special attention should be paid when attempting to sample the endometrium in patients with mullerian abnormalities.
Paclitaxel has been difficult to evaluate in preclinical tumor model systems because its poor solubility requires a Cremophor EL formulation, which results in lethal anaphylaxis. We tested the effectiveness of a novel polymeric micellar paclitaxel on androgen-independent tumor growth in the LNCaP tumor model.
Athymic male mice bearing LNCaP tumors were castrated and allowed to grow until their PSA levels increased to three times above precastration levels. The animals were then treated with 0.5 mg intravenous polymeric micellar paclitaxel once daily for the first 5 days of a 3-week cycle. In total, three cycles were given. Tumor volume and serum PSA levels were measured weekly to monitor tumor progression.
In vitro mitogenic assays demonstrated that polymeric micellar paclitaxel was effective in inhibiting LNCaP cell growth with an IC(50) of 5 nM. Paclitaxel precipitated apoptosis in vitro at a concentration of 1 nm and higher, confirmed by DNA laddering. Western blotting demonstrated that paclitaxel treatment phosphorylated and inactivated Bcl-2. In mice bearing LNCaP tumors treated with micellar paclitaxel, tumors regressed rapidly with the commencement of micellar paclitaxel treatment. Tumor size decreased 91% and PSA level decreased 96% after three cycles of treatment. TUNEL immunostaining of the tumor treated with micellar paclitaxel showed marked apoptosis when compared with the control. No significant side effects or mortality was observed in the micellar paclitaxel group (n = 7). In contrast, all (n = 7) mice treated with conventional Cremophor EL paclitaxel died within 1 day of injection.
The polymeric micellar paclitaxel formulation is water-soluble and capable of inducing complete response in mice bearing androgen-independent LNCaP tumors. The lack of toxicity of polymeric micellar paclitaxel permits in vivo preclinical testing of paclitaxel-based combination regimens.
This study examines whether anti-diabetic effects of genistein and daidzein are mediated by hepatic glucose and lipid regulating enzyme activities in type 2 diabetic animals. Male C57BL/KsJ-lepr(db)/lepr(db) (db/db) mice and age-matched non-diabetic littermates (db/+) were used in this study. The db/db mice were divided into control, genistein (0.02%, w/w) and daidzein (0.02%, w/w) groups. The blood glucose and HbA(1c) levels were significantly lower in the genistein and daidzein groups than in the control group, while glucose tolerance only was significantly improved in the genistein-supplemented group. The plasma insulin and C-peptide levels did not differ significantly between groups, yet the glucagon level was lower in the genistein and daidzein groups compared to that in the control db/db or db/+ group. The genistein and daidzein supplements increased the insulin/glucagon ratio in the type 2 diabetic animals. While the hepatic glucokinase activity was significantly lower in the db/db control group, the glucose-6-phosphatase and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase activities were significantly higher in the control group compared to the db/+ group. Interestingly, these hepatic glucose metabolizing enzyme activities were reversed by the genistein and daidzein supplementation in db/db mice compared to the control group. The hepatic fatty acid synthase, beta-oxidation and carnitine palmitoyltransferase activities were all significantly lower in the genistein and daidzein groups than in the control group. The genistein and daidzein supplements also improved the plasma total cholesterol, triglyceride, HDL-cholesterol/total cholesterol, free fatty acid and hepatic triglyceride concentrations in the db/db mice. These results suggest that genistein and daidzein exert anti-diabetic effect in type 2 diabetic conditions by enhancing the glucose and lipid metabolism.
Alterations in the physicochemical characteristics of peptide drugs can transform their biological and pharmaceutical features. In the present study, we explored the potentials of lithocholic acid (LCA)-modified exendin-4 derivatives as novel long-acting GLP-1 receptor agonists. Exendin-4 was modified with lithocholic acid at two lysine residues to produce three derivatives that were obtained by reverse-phase HPLC separation, namely, Lys(12)-LCA-exendin-4 (LCA-M2), Lys(27)-LCA-exendin-4 (LCA-M1), and Lys(12,27)-LCA-exendin-4 (LCA-Di)). The biological, pharmacological, and physicochemical characteristics of these three exendin-4 analogues were then investigated. Although slight reductions in the GLP-1 receptor binding capacity and insulinotropic activity of exendin-4 were observed after derivatization, the mono-LCA substitutions, especially LCA-M1, well-preserved antidiabetic activity in type 2 diabetic mice when administered subcutaneously or intraperitoneally. Furthermore, the pharmacokinetic characteristics were dramatically enhanced, that is, absorption was delayed and elimination half-life was increased (1.6+/-0.4 and 9.7+/-1.4h by exendin-4 and LCA-M1, respectively). The enhanced long-acting characteristics of the derivative was found to be due to albumin binding and nanoparticle formation, and these were verified by the restoration of normoglycemia in type 2 diabetic mice after single injection (>24h, >10 nmol/kg, s.c.) and daily injections (15 nmol/kg/day) maintained normoglycemia for the 4-week administration period. Furthermore, antidiabetic potentials, such as, glucose clearance kinetics and percentage areas occupied by pancreatic beta-cells were also enhanced by long-term LCA-M1 administration. The present study demonstrates that the derivatization of exendin-4 with LCA offers a possible means of producing a long-acting GLP-1 receptor agonist.
gamma-Glutamyl transpeptidase (gamma-GT) is a key enzyme in GSH metabolism that regulates intracellular GSH levels in response to extracellular GSH (GSH(o)). The objective of this study was to identify the role of gamma-GT in reversing pathogenic K(+) channel remodeling in the diseased heart. Chronic ventricular dysfunction was induced in rats by myocardial infarction (MI), and studies were done after 6-8 wk. Biochemical assays of tissue extracts from post-MI hearts revealed significant increases in gamma-GT activity in left ventricle (47%) and septum (28%) compared with sham hearts, which paralleled increases in protein abundance and mRNA. Voltage-clamp studies of isolated left ventricular myocytes from post-MI hearts showed that downregulation of transient outward K(+) current (I(to)) was reversed after 4-5 h by 10 mmol/l GSH(o) or N-acetylcysteine (NAC(o)), and that the effect of GSH(o) but not NAC(o) was blocked by the gamma-GT inhibitors, acivicin or S-hexyl-GSH. Inhibition of gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase by buthionine sulfoximine did not prevent upregulation of I(to) by GSH(o), suggesting that intracellular synthesis of GSH was not directly involved. However, pretreatment of post-MI myocytes with an SOD mimetic [manganese (III) tetrapyridylporphyrin] and catalase completely blocked recovery of I(to) by GSH(o). Confocal microscopy using the fluorogenic dye 2',7'-dichlorodihydrofluorescein diacetate confirmed that GSH(o) increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation by post-MI myocytes and to a lesser extent in myocytes from sham hearts. Furthermore, GSH(o)-mediated upregulation of I(to) was blocked by inhibitors of tyrosine kinase (genistein, lavendustin A, and AG1024) and thioredoxin reductase (auranofin and 13-cis-retinoic acid). These data suggest that GSH(o) elicits gamma-GT- and ROS-dependent transactivation of tyrosine kinase signaling that upregulates K(+) channel activity or expression via redox-mediated mechanisms. The signaling events stimulated by gamma-GT catalysis of GSH(o) may be a therapeutic target to reverse pathogenic electrical remodeling of the failing heart.
A patient with urticaria pigmentosa and systemic mastocytosis developed hypotension following indomethacin administration. He then developed further episodes not related to indomethacin. Based upon the experience of others with the management of patients with systemic mastocytosis who showed exceptional reaction to cyclooxygenase inhibition, it was decided to treat him with H1 and H2 blockade followed by aspirin, another cyclooxygenase inhibitor. The procedure was carried out under careful observation with cardiac monitoring. After 160 mg of aspirin, he developed hypotension, tachycardia, and flushing accompanied by difficulty of breathing and headache. A vasoconstrictor drug (levarterenol) was administered. The patient's symptoms subsided, and after 1 hour aspirin was again administered, this time with no side effects. The dosage was increased to 975 mg every 6 hours, and he has had no further hypotensive episodes on this regime for 2 years. Cyclooxygenase inhibition, combined with H1 and H2 blockade, is an effective treatment for this condition, but for these patients initiation of aspirin therapy should be carried out with extreme care.
The study was designed to assess the antihypertensive effect of combined angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition and angiotensin II type 1 receptor (AT1) antagonism in patients with essential hypertension. Twenty patients with uncontrolled ambulatory diastolic blood pressure (BP) after 6 weeks of ACE inhibitor monotherapy (benazepril, 20 mg, o.d.) were randomized to receive double-blind valsartan, 80 mg, o.d. (AT1 antagonist) or matching placebo for 5 weeks while continuing to receive background benazepril. Then patients crossed over to the alternative regimen for a second 5-week period. The 24-h ambulatory BP was monitored on the final day of the benazepril monotherapy period and on the final day of each double-blind treatment period. Valsartan added to benazepril produced a significant antihypertensive effect with a benefit over placebo of 6.5 +/- 12.6/4.5 +/- 8.0 mm Hg (systolic/diastolic) for average awake ambulatory BP (p < 0.05), 7.1 +/- 9.4/5.6 +/- 6.5 mm Hg for asleep BP (p < 0.01), and 6.8 +/- 9.7/4.9 +/- 6.8 mm Hg for average 24-h ambulatory BP (p < 0.01). Pulse rate was unaffected. Plasma active renin was higher on the benazepril-valsartan combination compared with benazepril-placebo (p < 0.05). There was no change in routine biochemical variables when valsartan was added to benazepril. Six patients reported mild dizziness or fatigue (three also with placebo). These data suggest that in hypertensive patients uncontrolled with an ACE inhibitor, the addition of an AT1 antagonist provides a powerful and safe antihypertensive drug combination.
A major problem in treating oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) with cisplatin is the development of drug resistance. In order to determine whether phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)-C2β (encoded by the PIK3C2B gene) reduced the sensitivity of ESCC to cisplatin, transfected Eca109 cells that overexpressed PIK3C2B were produced. Additionally, PI3K-C2β-siRNA was used to silence endogenous PI3K-C2β in EC9706 cisplatin-resistant cells. The relationship between PIK3C2B expression and clinicopathological characteristics was also investigated in samples from 61 patients. The overexpression of PIK3C2B in Eca109 cells significantly inhibited cisplatin-induced apoptosis and cleavage of caspase-3. Knockdown of PI3K-C2β enhanced cisplatin-induced apoptosis in EC9706 cells. PIK3C2B expression was associated with an increased level of phosphorylated Akt. Based on the tumour samples, expression of PIK3C2B was associated with tumour metastasis and in vitro assay suggested that it mediated cell migration. These results indicated that PI3K-C2β, via the Akt signalling pathway, might play a key role in cisplatin resistance and that targeting this pathway might be useful in treating cisplatin-resistant tumours.
Bromine is an industrial chemical that is irritating to the skin and causes cutaneous burns. An important factor in selecting or developing an effective treatment is to understand the underlying molecular mechanisms of tissue damage and wound healing. This study used a weanling swine burn model and microarray analysis to evaluate the effect of exposure length and sampling times on the transcriptional changes in response to cutaneous bromine injury. Ventral abdominal sites (N=4/treatment group) were exposed to 600microL undiluted bromine for 45 s or 8 min. At 24 h and 7d post-exposure, total RNA from skin samples was isolated, processed, and hybridized to Affymetrix GeneChip Porcine Genome Arrays. Expression analysis revealed that bromine exposure duration appeared to have less effect on the transcript changes than the sampling time. The percent transcripts changed at 24h were similar (30%) whether having a 45 s or 8 min bromine exposure; percent transcripts changed at 7d were also similar (62%) regardless of exposure length. However, only 13-14% of the transcripts were similar when comparing samples analyzed at 24h and 7d. Ingenuity Pathways Analysis (IPA) revealed six common biological functions among the top 10 functions of each experimental group, while canonical pathway analysis revealed 11 genes that were commonly shared among 24 significantly altered signaling pathways. Additionally, there were 11 signaling pathways in which there were no commonly shared transcripts. The present study is an initial assessment of the transcriptional responses to cutaneous bromine exposure identifying molecular networks and genes that could serve as targets for developing therapeutics for bromine-induced skin injury.
The effects of dopamine (DA) and the psychostimulants cocaine and amphetamine on excitatory transmission in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) were examined in rat NAc slices using both extracellular-field and whole-cell patch-clamp recording. DA, cocaine, and amphetamine reversibly reduced the excitatory synaptic responses (EPSPs/EPSCs) elicited by stimulation of prelimbic cortical afferents. DA and amphetamine increased paired-pulse facilitation, reduced the frequency of spontaneous miniature EPSCs (mEPSCs), and had no effect on mEPSC amplitude, suggesting a presynaptic mechanism for the observed reduction in excitatory synaptic transmission. The effects of DA and amphetamine were attenuated by the D1 receptor antagonist SCH23390 but not by the D2 receptor antagonist sulpiride. The broad-spectrum DA receptor agonist 6,7-ADTN mimicked the effects of DA and the psychostimulants, but neither the D1 receptor agonists SKF38393 and SKF81297 nor the D2 receptor agonist quinpirole caused a significant reduction in EPSP magnitude. SKF38393 at a higher concentration (100 microM) was effective in reducing the EPSP, however, and this reduction was sensitive to SCH23390. There was no difference in the effects of DA in cells from mutant mice lacking D1a receptors and cells from wild-type control mice. Unilaterally lesioning the dopaminergic afferents to the NAc using 6-hydroxydopamine attenuated the amphetamine-induced reduction in EPSP magnitude in slices from the lesioned hemisphere but not the control (unlesioned) hemisphere. These results indicate that DA and psychostimulants (acting indirectly by increasing endogenous extracellular DA levels) reduce excitatory synaptic transmission in the NAc by activating presynaptic DA receptors with D1-like properties.
Methoxyflurane nephrotoxicity results from its metabolism, which occurs by both dechlorination (to methoxydifluoroacetic acid [MDFA]) and O-demethylation (to fluoride and dichloroacetic acid [DCAA]). Inorganic fluoride can be toxic, but it remains unknown why other anesthetics, commensurately increasing systemic fluoride concentrations, are not toxic. Fluoride is one of many methoxyflurane metabolites and may itself cause toxicity and/or reflect formation of other toxic metabolite(s). This investigation evaluated the disposition and renal effects of known methoxyflurane metabolites.
Rats were given by intraperitoneal injection the methoxyflurane metabolites MDFA, DCAA, or sodium fluoride (0.22, 0.45, 0.9, or 1.8 mmol/kg followed by 0.11, 0.22, 0.45, or 0.9 mmol/kg on the next 3 days) at doses relevant to metabolite exposure after methoxyflurane anesthesia, or DCAA and fluoride in combination. Renal histology and function (blood urea nitrogen, urine volume, urine osmolality) and metabolite excretion in urine were assessed.
Methoxyflurane metabolite excretion in urine after injection approximated that after methoxyflurane anesthesia, confirming the appropriateness of metabolite doses. Neither MDFA nor DCAA alone had any effects on renal function parameters or necrosis. Fluoride at low doses (0.22, then 0.11 mmol/kg) decreased osmolality, whereas higher doses (0.45, then 0.22 mmol/kg) also caused diuresis but not significant necrosis. Fluoride and DCAA together caused significantly greater tubular cell necrosis than fluoride alone.
Methoxyflurane nephrotoxicity seems to result from O-demethylation, which forms both fluoride and DCAA. Because their co-formation is unique to methoxyflurane compared with other volatile anesthetics and they are more toxic than fluoride alone, this suggests a new hypothesis of methoxyflurane nephrotoxicity. This may explain why increased fluoride formation from methoxyflurane, but not other anesthetics, is associated with toxicity. These results may have implications for the interpretation of clinical anesthetic defluorination, use of volatile anesthetics, and the laboratory methods used to evaluate potential anesthetic toxicity.
A 37 year old man without coronary risk factors or known heart disease showed progression of Hodgkin's disease after radiation and multiple chemotherapy. One day after the first cycle of chemotherapy with methotrexate, Ifosfamide and etoposide, he had an acute myocardial ischemia. The creatinin-kinase was elevated up to 325 U/l. Coronary angiography showed a thrombus in the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD), while the other coronary arteries were normal. Ventriculography showed an apical akinesia. After 7 days of treatment with heparin coronary angiogram was normalized, without any stenosis in the LAD. To our knowledge this is the first documented case of a coronary artery thrombosis and myocardial ischemia after chemotherapy in a patient without coronary heart disease. We conclude that chemotherapy can cause myocardial ischemia by coronary artery thrombosis in patients without prior heart disease.
Methoxyflurane nephrotoxicity results from biotransformation; inorganic fluoride is a toxic metabolite. Concern exists about potential renal toxicity from volatile anesthetic defluorination, but many anesthetics increase fluoride concentrations without consequence. Methoxyflurane is metabolized by both dechlorination to methoxydifluoroacetic acid (MDFA, which may degrade to fluoride) and O-demethylation to fluoride and dichloroacetatic acid. The metabolic pathway responsible for methoxyflurane nephrotoxicity has not, however, been identified, which was the aim of this investigation.
Experiments evaluated methoxyflurane metabolite formation and effects of enzyme induction or inhibition on methoxyflurane metabolism and toxicity. Rats pretreated with phenobarbital, barium sulfate, or nothing were anesthetized with methoxyflurane, and renal function and urine methoxyflurane metabolite excretion were assessed. Phenobarbital effects on MDFA metabolism and toxicity in vivo were also assessed. Metabolism of methoxyflurane and MDFA in microsomes from livers of pretreated rats was determined in vitro.
Phenobarbital pretreatment increased methoxyflurane nephrotoxicity in vivo (increased diuresis and blood urea nitrogen and decreased urine osmolality) and induced in vitro hepatic microsomal methoxyflurane metabolism to inorganic fluoride (2-fold), dichloroacetatic acid (1.5-fold), and MDFA (5-fold). In contrast, phenobarbital had no influence on MDFA renal effects in vivo or MDFA metabolism in vitro or in vivo. MDFA was neither metabolized to fluoride nor nephrotoxic. Barium sulfate diminished methoxyflurane metabolism and nephrotoxicity in vivo.
Fluoride from methoxyflurane anesthesia derives from O-demethylation. Phenobarbital increases in methoxyflurane toxicity do not seem attributable to methoxyflurane dechlorination, MDFA toxicity, or MDFA metabolism to another toxic metabolite, suggesting that nephrotoxicity is attributable to methoxyflurane O-demethylation. Fluoride, one of many metabolites from O-demethylation, may be toxic and/or reflect formation of a different toxic metabolite. These results may have implications for interpreting anesthetic defluorination, volatile anesthetic use, and methods to evaluate anesthetic toxicity.
The cases of 4 young patients (3 males, 1 female) addicts to cocaine with acute myocardial infarction is reported. In the first case, in a 28 year-old woman was found a multisystemic disorder with anterolateral myocardial infarction, acute renal failure, rhabdomyolysis and death. In the necropsy examination no atherosclerotic coronary lesions were found. In other two cases, was carried out coronary angiography, who revealed in one case normal angiographically coronary arteries, and in the other case, a 80% coronary narrowing in the proximal segment of the infarct-related coronary artery. We reviewed the cocaine-induced heart disease, and the pathophysiology of the acute myocardial infarction related to cocaine use.
Blood pressure, diameter, volume distensibility, and compliance of brachial artery were measured noninvasively in patients with sustained essential hypertension before and after Captopril in 11 patients and before and after isosorbide dinitrate (ISDN) in 11 other patients. Both drugs caused a similar significant decrease in mean arterial pressure (MAP) (p less than 0.001) and increase in arterial compliance (p less than 0.001), defined as the product of arterial volume by distensibility. ISDN increased arterial compliance through a dominant increase in arterial diameter (0.524 +/- 0.029 vs. 0.455 +/- 0.022 cm; p less than 0.001) and hence volume, whereas Captopril increased compliance through an increase in volume distensibility (0.20 +/- 0.02 vs. 0.12 +/- 0.02% change volume/mm Hg; p less than 0.001) with minimal changes in arterial diameter. The study provided evidence that of the two vasodilating drugs, ISDN and Captopril, only Captopril caused a predominant pharmacological relaxing effect on the wall of hypertensive human brachial arteries studied in situ.
A 69-year-old diabetic woman with diffuse atherosclerosis presented with acute renal failure due to contrast nephropathy and severe metformin-induced lactic acidosis. There was a discrepancy between the patient's elevated serum creatinine level, indicative of severe renal insufficiency, and her very low blood urea nitrogen content. It is postulated that the patient's extremely severe acidosis interfered with her hepatic urea generation, contributing to this unusual biochemical abnormality.
One of twins was born with prune belly syndrome and congenital heart defect following exposure to Bendectin and Tigan. Red cell antigens and HLA typing were compatible with monozygosity. The possible associations of the prune belly syndrome to monozygotic twinning or to teratogenic agents is considered in light of this patient and review of the literature.
The aim of our study was to examine the effect of prenatal methamphetamine (MA) exposure and cross-fostering on cognitive functions of adult male rats tested in Morris water maze (MWM). Rat mothers were exposed daily to injection of MA (5mg/kg) or saline for 9 weeks: prior to impregnation, throughout gestation and lactation periods. Females without any injections were used as an absolute control. On postnatal day 1, pups were cross-fostered so that each mother raised 4 pups of her own and 8 pups from the mothers with the other two treatments. Four types of tests were used: (1) Place navigation test (Learning), (2) Probe test (Probe), (3) Retention memory test (Memory) and (4) Visible platform task. Our results demonstrate that the prenatal exposure to MA does not impact learning and memory, while postnatal exposure to MA shows impairments in cognition. In the test of learning, all animals fostered to MA-treated dams had longer latencies, bigger search error and used lower spatial strategies than the animals fostered to control or saline-treated mother, regardless of prenatal exposure. Regardless of postnatal exposure, the animals prenatally exposed to saline swam faster in all the tests than the animals prenatally exposed to MA and controls, respectively. This study indicates that postnatal but not prenatal exposure to MA affects learning in adult male rats. However, it is still not clear whether these impairments are due to a direct effect of MA on neuronal structure or due to an indirect effect of MA mediated by impaired maternal care.
Some hepatocarcinogens induce cytomegaly, which reflects aberrant cell cycling and increased ploidy, from the early stages of administration to animals. To clarify the regulatory molecular mechanisms behind cell cycle aberrations related to the early stages of hepatocarcinogenesis, we performed gene expression analysis using microarrays and real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction followed by immunohistochemical analysis in the livers of rats treated with the cytomegaly inducing hepatocarcinogens thioacetamide (TAA), fenbendazole, and methyleugenol, the cytomegaly non-inducing hepatocarcinogen piperonyl butoxide (PBO), or the non-carcinogenic hepatotoxicants acetaminophen and α-naphthyl isothiocyanate, for 28 days. Gene expression profiling showed that cell cycle-related genes, especially those of G(2)/M phase, were mostly upregulated after TAA treatment. Immunohistochemical analysis was performed on cell cycle proteins that were upregulated by TAA treatment and on related proteins. All hepatocarcinogens, irrespective of their cytomegaly inducing potential, increased liver cells immunoreactive for p21(Cip1), which acts on cells arrested in G(1) phase, and for Aurora B or Incenp, which is suggestive of an increase in a cell population with chromosomal instability caused by overexpression. PBO did not induce cell proliferation after 28-day treatment. Hepatocarcinogens that induced cell proliferation after 28-day treatment also caused an increase in p53(+) cells in parallel with increased apoptotic cells, as well as increased population of cells expressing M phase-related proteins nuclear Cdc2, phospho-Histone H3, and HP1α. These results suggest that hepatocarcinogens may increase cellular populations arrested in G1 phase or showing chromosomal instability after 28-day treatment. Hepatocarcinogens that induce cell cycle facilitation may cause M phase arrest accompanied by apoptosis.
The 2 aryl-3-indoleacetamides (FGIN-1) are a new class of compounds that potently (nM) and selectively bind to glial mitochondrial diazepam binding inhibitor (DBI) receptors (MDR), previously called peripheral benzodiazepine receptors, and increase mitochondrial steroidogenesis. The high-affinity binding of FGIN-1 to MDR derivatives depends on the following chemical characteristics: 1) the dialkylation of the amide; 2) the chain length of this alkyl substitution; and 3) the halogenation of aryl groups appended to the indole nucleus. FGIN-1 derivatives do not bind to gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABAA), GABAB, glycine, glutamate, dopamine, serotonin, opiate, cholecystokinin, beta adrenergic, cannabinoid or sigma receptors. FGIN-1-27 [N, N-di-n-hexyl 2-(4-fluorophenyl)indole-3-acetamide] enters the brain, and for this reason, this FGIN-1 compound is potent and efficacious behaviorally. Like the neurosteroid 3 alpha-5 alpha tetrahydrodeoxycorticosterone (THDOC), FGIN-1-27 delays the onset of isoniazid-induced convulsions, but fails to delay the onset of bicuculline-induced convulsions. However, differently from THDOC, the FGIN-1-27 anticonvulsant action is blocked by the isoquinoline carboxamide PK 11195. In the elevated plus maze test, FGIN-1-27 inhibits neophobia manner that is antagonized by PK 11195 but not by flumazenil. Because FGIN-1-27 binds to MDR and does not bind to the GABAA receptors, it is inferred that FGIN-1-27 may act on GABAA receptors indirectly, presumably via a stimulation of neurosteroid synthesis and release from glial cells.
Recent studies showed that in diabetic hypertensive patients, administration of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE)-inhibitors or calcium antagonists can effectively lower blood pressure (BP) and prevent diabetes-related cardiovascular complications with no adverse metabolic effects. We sought to assess the antihypertensive and metabolic effects of the new dihydropyridine calcium antagonist manidipine (M) in patients with diabetes mellitus and essential hypertension as compared with the ACE inhibitor enalapril (E). After 3 weeks of placebo, 101 (62 men; age range, 34-72 years) hypertensives with type II diabetes mellitus were randomized to M 10-20 mg or E 10-20 mg, od, for 24 weeks. At the end of the placebo period and the active-treatment phase, BP was measured with a mercury sphygmomanometer (office, O) and over the 24 h by ambulatory (A) monitoring. ABP recordings were analyzed to obtain 24-h, day (6 a.m. to midnight), and night (midnight to 6 a.m.) average systolic (S) and diastolic (D) BP and heart rate (HR) values. Homogeneity of the antihypertensive effect over the 24 h was assessed by the smoothness index [SI: i.e., the ratio between the average of the 24 hourly BP changes after treatment and the corresponding standard deviation (the higher the SI, the more uniform is the BP control by treatment over the 24 h]. The O SBP and DBP were significantly (p < 0.01) and similarly reduced by M (16 +/- 10 and 13 +/- 6 mm Hg, n = 49) and E (15 +/- 10 and 13 +/- 6 mm Hg, n = 45). The percentage of patients whose O DBP was reduced < or = 85 mm Hg (i.e., the value indicated to be the optimal DBP goal in diabetic hypertensives) was similar for M (37%) and E (40%). The reduction of 24-h BP also was similar between M (n = 38) and E (n = 38) for both drugs (systolic, 6 +/- 11 and 8 +/- 10 mm Hg; diastolic, 5 +/- 8 and 5 +/- 7; NS, M vs. E). The antihypertensive effect was distributed in a similar homogeneous fashion throughout the dosing interval, as shown by the similar SI values (M, 0.6 +/- 1.2 for SBP and 0.6 +/- 0.9 for DBP; E, 0.6 +/- 0.8 for SBP and 0.5 +/- 0.7 for DBP; NS, M vs. E). O and A HR were unchanged by either treatment. Markers of glucose and lipid metabolism and renal function were not significantly modified by treatment both with M and with E. In the diabetic hypertensives, M was as effective and metabolically neutral as the ACE-inhibitor E.
Perioperative pulmonary hypertension is a challenging clinical problem with numerous etiologies including hypoxia, adrenergic stimulation, and local inflammation. New oral phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitors used for the treatment of erectile dysfunction may have beneficial effects on the pulmonary vasculature owing to the abundance of PDE-5 receptors in the lung. The purpose of this study was to compare the efficacy of sildenafil, vardenafil, and tadalafil in preventing acute hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction and hypoxia-induced pulmonary artery tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin-1-beta (IL-1beta) expression.
Isolated rat pulmonary arteries suspended in physiologic organ baths for measurement of isometric force transduction were treated with vehicle (dimethyl sulfoxide), sildenafil, vardenafil, or tadalafil to assess (1) pulmonary artery relaxation; (2) inhibition of phenylephrine-induced pulmonary artery contraction; (3) inhibition of hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction (pO2 = 30-35 mm Hg); and (4) hypoxia-induced pulmonary artery TNF-alpha and IL-1beta expression (reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction).
Sildenafil, vardenafil, and tadalafil resulted in dose-dependent pulmonary artery relaxation and inhibited phenylephrine-induced pulmonary artery contraction, but only tadalafil significantly inhibited hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction (52.08% +/- 7.65% tadalafil versus 88.63% +/- 8.96% vehicle; 98.61% +/- 10.04% sildenafil; 68.46% +/- 15.84% vardenafil). Hypoxia-induced upregulation of TNF-alpha and IL-1beta mRNA in pulmonary artery was significantly decreased by tadalafil, but not sildenafil or vardenafil pretreatment.
We conclude that sildenafil, vardenafil, and tadalafil were equally efficacious in causing pulmonary artery relaxation, but only tadalafil inhibited hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction and attenuated hypoxia-induced pulmonary artery TNF-alpha and IL-1beta expression.
Unexpected nephrotoxicity has been described in high-dose, bolus ifosfamide (IFF) therapy. Renal injury is not thought to occur in patients receiving fractionated schedules, although microscopic hematuria from bladder irritation is not uncommon. IFF is undergoing trials in patients with malignant lymphomas, gynecologic malignancies, and advanced sarcomas and has shown promising results. This report describes renal abnormalities in four patients with malignant lymphoma receiving single-agent, fractionated IFF and suggests a proximal tubular defect in two patients who were studied in greater detail. These findings suggest an unreported and unique toxicity of IFF when given in smaller, fractionated doses.
