Follicular lymphoma is the most common human B-cell malignancy in the United States and Western Europe. Most of the tumours contain t(14;18) chromosome translocations involving the human bcl-2 gene. Translocation of bcl-2 sequences from chromosome 18 into the transcriptionally active immunoglobulin locus at chromosome band 14q32 in B cells deregulates bcl-2 gene expression, resulting in the accumulation of high levels of bcl-2 messenger. Human bcl-2 transcripts generate two proteins, p26 bcl-2-alpha and p22 bcl-2-beta, by virtue of alternative splice-site selection. Both proteins have in common their first 196 NH2-terminal amino acids but share little similarity with other sequences in a data bank. Although the biological and biochemical functions of bcl-2 are unknown, recent subcellular localization studies indicate that p26 bcl-2-alpha associates with cellular membranes, consistent with a stretch of hydrophobic amino acids in its carboxy terminus. The bcl-2 gene may represent a novel oncogene having no known retroviral counterpart. Here we demonstrate the oncogenic potential of bcl-2 through a gene transfer approach.
A 4-year-old girl with juvenile chronic myeloid leukemia relapsed after an allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT) and became refractory to conventional chemotherapy. Treatment with two courses of high-dose deferoxamine, an iron chelator (130-180 mg/kg/day), along with low-dose ARA-c (5 mg/kg/day) caused a remarkable decrease of the WBC and fetal Hb. Three days following the last dose of deferoxamine, the patient experienced an acute visual loss, confirmed by electroretinogram (ERG) and visual evoked response (VER). Slight improvement occurred a few days later, but the patient developed severe pancytopenia and died of Klebsiella septic shock. The ocular manifestations were attributed to deferoxamine toxicity in light of the rapid onset after first exposure, the electrophysiological pattern of metabolic damage in the ERG and VER, and the long interval between the last chemotherapy and BMT. The pathogenesis of deferoxamine toxicity is discussed.
A case of massive fatal liver necrosis during chemotherapy for stage IVA Hodgkin's disease is described. A previously healthy 50-year-old male was given doxorubicin 25 mg/m2, bleomycin 10 mg/m2 and vinblastine 6 mg/m2 on days 1 and 14 of the cycle combined with dacarbazine 150 mg/m2 on days 1-5 (ABVD) with 4-week intervals. During the fourth cycle of chemotherapy the patient developed fatal liver necrosis with anuria and uncontrolled bleeding. At autopsy, 80% of the liver was necrotic and viable cells were seen only in periportal areas. Dacarbazine may have caused the necrosis. Liver necrosis caused by drugs should be considered if unexplained hepatomegaly and a rise in serum liver enzyme levels is noted during ABVD treatment.
Furosemide is an ototoxic diuretic. Furosemide injection is followed by a rapid, but reversible decrease of the endocochlear potential and eighth nerve action potential with a more gradual decrease of the endolymph potassium concentration. In contrast to the reversible effects of furosemide alone on the cochlea, the combination of kanamycin with furosemide resulted in irreversible changes in cochlear function which were associated with elevated levels of kanamycin in the blood and perilymph of the experimental animals. There was a striking similarity between the blood level measured by high pressure liquid chromatography at the time of recovery of auditory function in experimental animals and the ototoxic blood levels proposed by others in clinical literature. These findings help to provide a pharmacologic basis for the clinical observation of furosemide-induced hearing loss.
Lamivudine is effective in inhibiting hepatitis B virus (HBV) replication, and its clinical use in patients with chronic hepatitis B is associated with improvements in serum aminotransferase levels and liver histopathologic characteristics. Few data are available on its use in patients with advanced liver disease. We report on the outcomes of 5 patients with hepatic decompensation caused by chronic hepatitis B treated long term with lamivudine. All patients were adult white men seropositive for hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) and hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) before therapy. All 5 patients had biopsy-proven cirrhosis with clinical and biochemical evidence of hepatic decompensation. Two patients had Child's class C cirrhosis; 2 patients, class B; and 1 patient, class A (although this patient had persistent portasystemic encephalopathy and developed variceal bleeding). HBV DNA became undetectable in all patients and remained so throughout the study. Both patients with Child's class C and 1 patient with class B cirrhosis had significant clinical improvement. Child-Pugh scores improved from 12 to 7 and 11 to 7 in the 2 patients with Child's class C cirrhosis, and the patient with class B cirrhosis had complete resolution of troublesome encephalopathy. Serum aminotransferase, albumin, and total bilirubin levels improved significantly in 3 of 5 patients. One patient with Child's class B cirrhosis underwent orthotopic liver transplantation at week 13 after dramatic increases in liver tests and clinical worsening. The patient subsequently cleared HBeAg and HBsAg from serum posttransplantation. In conclusion, prolonged therapy with lamivudine resulted in improved serum biochemical values and loss of HBV DNA in patients with decompensated cirrhosis. Clinical improvements, reflected in Child-Pugh classification and functional status, may also occur, particularly among those with Child's class C disease initially.
Five children with acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) developed encephalopathy following treatment with intrathecal or intraventricular methotrexate (MTX). In these patients computer assisted tomography was informative by revealing areas of decreased attenuation coefficient located periventricularly and in each centrum semiovale (three cases) and calcifications, mostly in the deep and cortical gray matter (two cases), as well as ventricular dilatation (four cases). Contrast injection used in one of these five patients, as well as in another child (not affected by ALL) with MTX encephalopathy, failed to reveal enhancement.
Since its original description over 10 years ago, the pilocarpine model of status epilepticus (SE) has gained considerable attention. Much work has been done with the model in order to characterize the involvement of different brain structures in seizure genesis and spread. Electrophysiological studies of temporal lobe epileptic slices of both human and animal models, have failed to reveal hyperexcitability, unless blockade of GABAergic inhibition is performed. Thus, we have decided to evaluate potential contributions of picrotoxin, a GABAA channel blocker, on pilocarpine-induced SE. Animals injected with three-specific dose combinations (pilocarpine dose/picrotoxin dose), 150/0.5, 75/1.5 and 50/2.0 mg/kg, evoked status epilepticus (SE) within 23, 31 and 27 min, respectively. Ictal events and EEG spikes were initially observed either in the amygdala or in the hippocampus, with a later spread to cerebral cortex. Neuropathological analysis, performed 5-7 days after SE, has shown a high degree of cell loss predominantly in the piriform cortex, amygdala, hippocampus, thalamus and substantia nigra. Mortality rates for 150/0.5, 75/1.5 and 50/2.0 mg/kg (pilocarpine dose/picrotoxin dose) were 53, 42 and 51%, respectively. Single injections of 150 mg/kg of pilocarpine or 3 mg/kg of picrotoxin did not evoke any form of sustained epileptic activity. Previous studies in which simultaneous injections of other GABAA antagonists (i.e. bicuculline) and pilocarpine were performed, did not show clear evidences of a synergistic action between these two systems. The present study reveals a proconvulsant role for picrotoxin when co-administered with subconvulsant doses of pilocarpine. Possible mechanisms that might account for the interactions between the cholinergic and GABAergic systems in regard to epileptogenesis are discussed.
To investigate the effects of simvastatin(Sim) and losartan(Los) on cardiac fibrosis and myocardial expression of MMP-2 mRNA, MMP-9 mRNA and TIMP-1 mRNA, TIMP-2 mRNA in pressure overloaded rat hearts.
The pressure overload model was induced by descending aortic constriction (DAC) in rats. SD rats were randomized into 6 groups (n = 20 each): normol control group, control sham group, DAC group, Los group (DAC + Los, 5 mg/kg), Sim group (DAC + Sim, 2 mg/kg), Los + Sim group (DAC + Los + Sim, Los 5 mg/kg, Sim 2 mg/kg). Water, Los or Sim drug was administrated by gavage daily beginning from day 5 after operation for 30 days. Collagen was measured on Masson stained myocardial sections, and the level of MMP-2 mRNA, MMP-9 mRNA and TIMP-1 mRNA, TIMP-2 mRNA in left ventricle were detected by RT-PCR.
Collagen volume fraction (CVF) in DAC group was significantly higher than the normal control and sham groups (P < 0.01) which could be significantly reduced by Los and Sim (P < 0.05), especially in DAC + Los + Sim group (P < 0.01). The levels of myocardial MMP-2 mRNA, MMP-9 mRNA and TIMP-1 mRNA, TIMP-2 mRNA were also significantly higher in DAC group than in normal control and sham groups (P < 0.01). Treatment Sim and Los alone and especially in combination significantly decreased the TIMP-1 mRNA, TIMP-2 mRNA expressions (P < 0.01) while MMP-2 mRNA, MMP-9 mRNA levels remained unchanged (P > 0.05).
Upregulation of myocardial MMP-2 mRNA, MMP-9 mRNA and TIMP-1 mRNA, TIMP-2 mRNA expressions might contribute to myocardial fibrosis in this model, Sim and Los significantly inhibited myocardial fibrosis possibly by downregulating myocardial TIMP-1 mRNA, TIMP-2 mRNA expressions in this model.
Elevated plasma levels of the lipoprotein Lp(a) are associated with increased risk for atherosclerosis and its manifestations, myocardial infarction, stroke and restenosis (for reviews, see refs 1-3). Lp(a) differs from low-density lipoprotein by the addition of the glycoprotein apolipoprotein(a), a homologue of plasminogen that contains many tandemly repeated units which resemble the fourth kringle domain of plasminogen, and single homologues of its kringle-5 and protease domain. As plasma Lp(a) concentration is strongly influenced by heritable factors and is refractory to most drug and dietary manipulation, the effects of modulating it are difficult to mimic experimentally. In addition, the absence of apolipoprotein(a) from virtually all species other than primates precludes the use of convenient animal models. Here we show that transgenic mice expressing human apolipoprotein(a) are more susceptible than control mice to the development of lipid-staining lesions in the aorta, and that apolipoprotein(a) co-localizes with lipid deposition in the artery walls.
We report the case of a 54-year-old woman who was admitted for benzodiazepine withdrawal. After 6 weeks of carbamazepine treatment (600, then 200 mg) the patient suddenly suffered from a grand mal seizure. Laboratory findings revealed a clinical significant hyponatremia of Na 125 mmol/l (baseline: 143 mmol/l). CCT and ECG were normal. To our knowledge, this is the first description of a seizure related to hyponatremia in an adult carbamazepine-treated patient.
The purpose was to ascertain whether the different schedules of long-term food restriction (FR) exert influence on genital reflexes (penile erection-PE and ejaculation-EJ) induced by paradoxical sleep deprivation (PSD) in male rats. Diet restriction began at weaning with 6 g/day and food was increased by 1 g per week until reaching 15 g/day by adulthood. Rats submitted to FR and those fed ad libitum were distributed into PSD or maintained as control groups and challenged with saline or cocaine. The results indicated that PSD+saline induced PE and EJ in both ad libitum and FR groups, but cocaine only potentiated reflexes in ad libitum group. In an attempt to revert the effects of FR on genital reflexes, we provided food ad libitum to the restricted group during the PSD period (4 days). When compared to FR rats, an increase in the frequency of PE was observed in the FR group fed ad libitum during PSD (both groups were challenged with cocaine). Further, we sought to investigate motivational behavior by placing food within the behavioral cage during the evaluation of genital reflexes. The FR PSD+saline group challenged with food did not display genital reflexes but when injected with cocaine the responses were similar to those observed in FR PSD+cocaine rats not challenged with food. Our data suggest that the facilitatory effect of PSD on genital reflexes did not override the inhibitory effect of FR on erectile function, but different schedules of FR produce distinct effects on genital reflexes. Further studies are warranted to dissect the effect of food restriction on sexual behavior.
The present study was aimed to evaluate the radioprotective efficacy of dendrodoine analog (DA), an aminothiazole derivative against X-ray radiation-induced cellular damage in cultured human peripheral blood lymphocytes. Different concentrations of DA (2, 4, 6, 8, 10 microg/ml or 6.15, 12.29, 18.44, 24.59, 30.73 microM) were pre-incubated with lymphocytes for 30 min prior to irradiation [4 Gy] and the micronuclei (MN) scoring and comet assay were performed to fix the effective concentration of DA against 4 Gy irradiation-induced cellular damage. The results indicated that among all the concentrations, 6 microg/ml concentration of DA showed optimum protection by effectively decreasing the MN frequencies and comet attributes. Based on the above results, 6 microg/ml concentration of DA was fixed as the effective dose to further investigate its radioprotective efficacy. This was carried out by pre-incubating the lymphocytes with 6 microg/ml concentration of DA followed by exposure of the lymphocytes to different doses (1, 2, 3 and 4 Gy) of radiation and investigating the radiation-induced genetic damage (MN, comet assay, DNA fragmentation assay) and biochemical changes (changes in the level of enzymic and non-enzymic antioxidants, lipid peroxidation). The results indicated a dose-dependent increase in both genetic damage and thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), accompanied by a significant decrease in the antioxidant status in the irradiated groups compared to DA treated groups which modulated the toxic effects through its antioxidant potential. Thus the current study shows DA to be an effective radioprotector against X-ray radiation induced in vitro cellular damage in lymphocytes.
We have previously demonstrated that hepatic matrixmetalloproteinase (MMP)-9 and gelatinase activity increased significantly after sepsis, and pretreatment with chemically modified tetracycline (CMT-3) inhibited these expressions and improved survivability. It has been established that MMP-9 release from hepatic nonparenchymal cells activates transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1, which in turn catalyzes the conversion of procaspase-8 into active caspase-8. Caspase-8 activates caspase-3, which in turn degrades fibronectin and focal adhesion kinase and leads to disruption of hepatic architecture and integrity. We have been interested in investigating the role of posttreatment with CMT-3 on hepatic MMP-9, TGF-beta1, and caspase-3 activity following sepsis.
Laboratory experiment.
University laboratory.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats.
In this study, sepsis was induced in rats by cecal ligation and puncture (CLP), and 2 hrs later, half of the rats received CMT-3 (25 mg/kg), whereas the other half received vehicle by gavage. Twenty-four and 48 hrs after sepsis induction, blood and liver samples were collected.
Plasma glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase (GOT) and glutamic pyruvic transaminase (GPT) levels were determined by enzymatic method, and the activation states of hepatic MMP-9, MMP-2, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase (TIMP)-1, TGF-beta1, and caspase-3 were determined by Western immunoblotting. Plasma GOT, GPT, and hepatic MMP-9 activity increased 2.5-fold, and TFG-beta1 and caspase-3 activity increased 1.5- to 2-fold at 24 hrs and 48 hrs post-CLP; CMT-3 treatment blocked these increases. Furthermore, CMT-3 treatment also led to increased TIMP-1 level, an in vivo inhibitor of MMP-9. MMP-2 level was unaffected by CLP. The 24-hr and 48-hr mortality rates for CLP rats were 29% and 50%, whereas posttreatment with CMT-3 resulted in 0% mortality.
Our results are consistent with an MMP-9-induced caspase-3 activation in response to CLP. CMT-3 posttreatment increased TIMP-1 level and thereby inhibited MMP-9, which in turn decreased TGF-beta1 and caspase-3 signaling pathways and improved survivability in septic rats.
Postnatal caffeine treatment of rats can influence brain excitability during development. To study the mechanism involved in the alterations of seizure susceptibility, we used an animal model that corresponds to the infants treated with caffeine for apnea of prematurity. Seizure susceptibility to four convulsant drugs (pentetrazol, picrotoxin, bicuculline and aminophylline) was assessed in 12- and 25-day-old rats exposed to caffeine at a daily dose of 10 and/or 20 mg/kg s.c. at postnatal days 7-11. Our results demonstrated that the changes in generalized tonic-clonic seizures (GTCS) are more expressed than changes in minimal clonic seizures. There are marked differences among individual convulsants with the highest sensitivity of aminophylline-induced seizures and nearly complete resistance of bicuculline-induced seizures. The changes in individual models are age specific: aminophylline- and picrotoxin-induced seizures are more affected in 12- than in 25-day-old rats whereas PTZ-induced seizures are more changed by early postnatal caffeine exposure in 25- than in 12-day-old animal. Taken together, repeated caffeine treatment from postnatal day 7 to 11 reduces the seizure susceptibility during development and this reduction is also model specific.
Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) constitutes a group of genetically heterogeneous progressive photoreceptor degenerations leading to blindness and affecting 50,000-100,000 people in the U.S. alone. Over 20 different RP loci have been mapped, of which six have been identified. Three of these encode members of the rod photoreceptor visual transduction cascade: rhodopsin, the rod cGMP-gated cation channel alpha subunit, and the beta subunit of cGMP-phosphodiesterase (PDEB). As null mutations in PDEB cause some cases of RP and since both alpha and beta subunits are required for full phosphodiesterase activity, we examined the gene encoding the alpha subunit of cGMP phosphodiesterase (PDEA) in 340 unrelated patients with RP. We found three point mutations in PDEA in affected members of two pedigrees with recessive RP. Each mutation alters an essential functional domain of the encoded protein and likely disrupts its catalytic function. PDEA is the seventh RP gene identified, highlighting the extensive genetic heterogeneity of the disorder and encouraging further investigation into the role of other members of the phototransduction cascade in RP.
To clarify the causes of death of residents with renal tubular dysfunction induced by cadmium (Cd) in the environment.
A 15 year follow up study was performed with the inhabitants living in the Cd polluted Kakehashi River basin in Japan. Standardised mortality ratios (SMRs) for causes of death, classified by ICD-9, were computed using the person-years method to investigate the excess mortality of subjects with urinary beta2-MG (microglobulin) > or =1000 microg/gCr. Mortality risk analysis was performed using Cox's proportional model to compare mortality between subjects with urinary beta2-MG > or =1000 and <1000 microg/gCr, and to investigate the relationship between the degree of urinary beta2-MG and mortality.
Excess mortality due to heart failure and cerebral infarction in both sexes, and nephritis and nephrosis in men, was observed among subjects with urinary beta2-MG > or =1000 microg/gCr. Significant increases in mortality risk for cerebral infarction in men and for malignant neoplasms in women with urinary beta2-MG > or =1000 microg/gCr were observed during the first five year observation period. For nephritis and nephrosis, the mortality risks for men and women with urinary beta2-MG > or =1000 microg/gCr significantly increased over the 15 year observation period. The mortality risks for heart failure and cerebral infarction increased in proportion to the increased urinary beta2-MG in both sexes. Increased mortality risks for nephritis and nephrosis were identified in the subjects with urinary beta2-MG > or =10000 microg/gCr in both sexes.
Renal tubular dysfunction induced by Cd affected the causes of death, and mortality for heart failure, cerebral infarction, and nephritis and nephrosis was increased among inhabitants living in a Cd polluted area in Japan. In women, cancer mortality may have been increased while Cd pollution was ongoing.
By using cDNA microarrays, we studied the expression profiles of 26 hepatocellular carcinomas (HCC) developing spontaneously in peroxisomal fatty acyl-CoA oxidase null (AOX-/-) mice. The development of liver tumors in AOX-/- mice is due to sustained activation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha) by the unmetabolized substrates of AOX, which serve as natural PPARalpha ligands. We then compared the AOX-/- liver tumor expression profiles with those induced by ciprofibrate, a non-genotoxic peroxisome proliferator, or by the genotoxic carcinogen diethylnitrosamine (DENA) to discern differences in gene expression patterns that may predict or distinguish PPARalpha-mediated liver tumors from genotoxically derived tumors. Our results show that HCCs developing in AOX-/- mice share a number of deregulated (up- or down-regulated) genes with ciprofibrate-induced liver tumors. The overall commonality of expression between AOX-/- and ciprofibrate-induced liver tumors but not with DENA-induced tumors strongly implicates the activation of PPARalpha and PPARalpha-regulated genes in liver, including those participating in lipid catabolism, as key factors in the development of HCC in AOX-/- and in ciprofibrate-treated mice. Northern blot analysis confirmed the differential expression of some of the genes identified in the present study, and also some genes identified previously as PPARalpha regulated, such as CD36, lymphocyte antigen 6 complex locus (Ly-6D), and C3f. We found a panel of 12 genes upregulated in all three classes of liver tumors, namely AOX-/-, ciprofibrate-induced and DENA-induced. These include an uncharacterized RIKEN cDNA, lipocalin 2, insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 1, Ly-6D and CD63 among others. In conclusion, these results identify distinguishing features between non-genotoxic and genotoxic carcinogen derived liver tumors as well as genes that are upregulated in both types and suggest that RIKEN cDNA, Ly-6D and lipocalin 2 in particular appear to be desirable molecular markers for further study in liver carcinogenesis and progression.
Antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA) binding to neutrophil elastase (NE) and proteinase 3 (PR3) are detectable in most patients with cocaine-induced midline destructive lesions (CIMDL), but the pathogenic role and antigen specificity of these antibodies are unknown. This study was undertaken to assess the effects of NE ANCA on the enzymatic activity of NE, to determine whether these antibodies interfere with the physiologic effect of secretory leukoprotease inhibitor (SLPI), and to investigate the antigen specificity of both NE and PR3 ANCA in patients with CIMDL. We also compared the binding of PR3 ANCA in patients with CIMDL with that in patients with Wegener's granulomatosis (WG).
PR3 ANCA and NE ANCA were detected by capture enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) and by indirect immunofluorescence. IgG was purified from the patients' sera, and the influence of NE ANCA on the enzymatic activity of NE and on the inhibitory activity of SLPI was investigated by determining the hydrolysis of N-methoxysuccinyl-Ala-Ala-Pro-Val p-nitroanilide by NE.
IgG from NE ANCA-positive sera of patients with CIMDL inhibited the enzymatic activity of NE and did not interfere with the activity of SLPI. In contrast to the findings in WG sera, measurement of PR3 ANCA in CIMDL sera showed only fair to moderate concordance between the 2 different capture ELISAs. Cross-inhibition experiments demonstrated that NE ANCA and PR3 ANCA represent distinct autoantibodies in patients with CIMDL.
The functional effects of NE ANCA on the enzymatic activity of NE or on the activity of SLPI cannot be implicated in the pathogenesis of CIMDL. The autoimmune reaction that targets neutrophil serine proteases in patients with CIMDL is frequently directed against more than one antigen. The ANCA response, including the reactivity of PR3 ANCA, in patients with CIMDL differs from what has been described in patients with WG.
Hiccup is a sudden contraction of the inspiratory muscles, followed by an abrupt closure of the glottis, thus producing a characteristic sound. In the literature, some drugs have been reported to induce hiccup. We discuss three case reports after administration of benzodiazepine to healthy young subjects during two clinical trials. In the first study (a bioequivalence trial of two forms of lormetazepam, tablets and oral solution), 12 subjects were included in an open controlled crossover study with two periods separated by a washout of 7 days. Two subjects presented with hiccup after administration of lormetazepam (2mg oral solution). The symptom resolved in 10 and 40 minutes, respectively. In one subject, rechallenge with a tablet of lormetazepam was positive. The aim of the second study was to assess the effect of sleep deprivation and lorazepam-induced sedation on saccadic eye movements in 12 healthy subjects. Hiccup occurred in one subject 3h 15 after administration of a single oral dose of lorazepam (2mg) and resolved in 45 minutes. All cases were evaluated according to the French imputation method. These observations are discussed with regard to the drug classes mentioned most frequently in the literature.
Adiponectin (Acrp30) is a physiologically active polypeptide hormone secreted by adipose tissue that shows insulin-sensitizing, antiinflammatory, and antiatherogenic properties. In humans, Acrp30 levels are inversely related to the degree of adiposity. In the current study, we tested the long-term weight-reducing and insulin-enhancing effects of Acrp30 cDNA delivered peripherally by a viral vector. To this end, we have generated a series of recombinant adeno-associated virus vectors of serotypes 1 and 5 encoding mouse Acrp30 cDNAs. The long-term expression of recombinant adeno-associated virus-Acrp30 vectors was tested after intramuscular or intraportal injection in female Sprague-Dawley rats with diet-induced obesity. We show that a single peripheral injection of 10(12) physical particles of Acrp30-encoding vectors resulted in sustained (up to 280 days) significant reduction in body weight, concomitant with the reduction in daily food intake. Acrp30 treatment resulted in higher peripheral insulin sensitivity measured by the i.p. glucose tolerance test in fasted animals. Ectopic expression of the Acrp30 transgene resulted in modulation of hepatic gluconeogenesis and lipogenesis, as demonstrated by the reduction of the expression of two key genes: PEPCK (phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase) and SREBP-1c (sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1c) in the liver. These data show successful peripheral therapy in a clinically relevant model for human obesity and insulin resistance.
Adenosine 5'-monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is an important sensor of energy balance. Stroke-induced AMPK activation is deleterious because both pharmacological inhibition and genetic deletion of AMPK are neuroprotective. Metformin is a known AMPK activator but reduces stroke incidence in clinical populations. We investigated the effect of acute and chronic metformin treatment on infarct volume and AMPK activation in experimental stroke.
Male mice were subjected to middle cerebral artery occlusion after acute (3 days) or chronic (3 weeks) administration of metformin. Infarct volumes, AMPK activation, lactate accumulation, and behavioral outcomes were assessed. The roles of neuronal nitric oxide synthase and AMPK were examined using mice with targeted deletion of AMPK or neuronal nitric oxide synthase.
Acute metformin exacerbated stroke damage, enhanced AMPK activation, and led to metabolic dysfunction. This effect was lost in AMPK and neuronal nitric oxide synthase knockout mice. In contrast, chronic metformin given prestroke was neuroprotective, improved stroke-induced lactate generation, and ameliorated stroke-induced activation of AMPK. Similarly, the neuroprotective effect of chronic prestroke metformin was lost in neuronal nitric oxide synthase knockout mice.
AMPK is an important potential target for stroke treatment and prevention. These studies show that the timing, duration, and amount of AMPK activation are key factors in determining the ultimate downstream effects of AMPK on the ischemic brain.
Tardive dyskinesia (TD) is a movement disorder that develops during the course of long-term treatment with neuroleptic agents and is characterized primarily by choreiform and athetotic movements. We report the case of a 34-year-old man suffering from schizophrenia, disorganized type. He received amisulpride (400 mg daily) and the result was much improvement. 20 months later, he was presented with TD, which resolved almost completely after change of treatment to 1200 mg quetiapine without any relapsing. To our knowledge, his is the first case report in the literature of tardive dyskinesia induced by amisulpride.
Dopamine (DA) has been implicated as an endogenous neurotoxin to explain the selective neurodegeneration as observed for Parkinson's disease (PD). In addition, oxidative stress and lipid peroxidation are hypothesized culprits in PD pathogenesis. DA undergoes catabolism by monoamine oxidase (MAO) to 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetaldehyde (DOPAL), which is further oxidized to 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) via aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH). As a minor and compensatory metabolic pathway, DOPAL can be reduced to 3,4-dihydroxyphenylethanol (DOPET) via cytosolic aldehyde or aldose reductase (AR). Previous studies have found DOPAL to be significantly more toxic to DA cells than DA and that the major lipid peroxidation products, that is, 4-hydroxynonenal (4HNE) and malondialdehyde (MDA), potently inhibit DOPAL oxidation via ALDH. The hypothesis of this work is that lipid peroxidation products inhibit DOPAL oxidation, yielding aberrant levels of the toxic aldehyde intermediate. To test this hypothesis, nerve growth factor-differentiated PC6-3 cells were used as a model for DA neurons. Cell viability in the presence of 4HNE and MDA (2-100 microM) was measured by MTT assay, and it was found that only 100 microM 4HNE exhibited significant cytotoxicity. Treatment of cells with varying concentrations of 4HNE and MDA resulted in reduced DOPAC production and significant elevation of DOPAL levels, suggesting inhibition of ALDH. In cells treated with 4HNE that exhibited elevated DOPAL, there was a significant increase in DOPET. However, elevated DOPET was not observed for the cells treated with MDA, suggesting MDA to be an inhibitor of AR. Using isolated cytosolic AR, it was found that MDA but not 4HNE inhibited reductase activity toward DOPAL, surprisingly. These data demonstrate that the oxidative stress products 4HNE and MDA inhibit the aldehyde biotransformation step of DA catabolism yielding elevated levels of the endogenous neurotoxin DOPAL, which may link oxidative stress to selective neurodegeneration as seen in PD.
The present study examines if Lycopodium 200 (Lyco-200) has demonstrable anti-cancer activities in mice which are chronically fed carcinogens, p-dimethylaminoazobenzene (p-DAB) and phenobarbital (PB) to induce liver cancer.
Mice in 5 different groups were chronically fed for varying periods of time: group I: normal diet; group II: normal diet + alcohol 200); group III: p-DAB + PB; group IV: p-DAB + PB + alcohol 200 (vehicle of Lyco-200 being ethyl alcohol); group V: p-DAB + PB + Lyco-200. They were sacrificed at day 7, 15, 30, 60, 90 or 120, and the following parameters were assessed: cytogenetic endpoints like chromosome aberrations, micronuclei, mitotic index and sperm-head anomaly; toxicity biomarkers like acid and alkaline phosphatases, alanine and aspartate amino transferase, glutathione reductase, succinate dehydrogenase and catalase activities, lipid peroxidation and reduced glutathione content. Additionally, scanning and transmission electron microscopic analyses of liver tissues were made at day 90 and 120, and immunodetection of p53 protein as well as gelatin zymography for matrix metalloproteinases in liver tissue were performed. Furthermore, studies were conducted on blood glucose, hemoglobin and cholesterol, estradiol, testosterone and cortisol, and lymphocyte and hepatic cell viabilities. Physical properties of Lyco-200 and potentized alcohol 200 were analyzed by using methods such as UV, Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FTIR), Fluorescence Spectroscopy, 1H-NMR and 13C-NMR (Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy).
Lyco-200 reduced cytogenetic damages yielding positive modulations of all biochemical, pathological and other risk factors, cell viability and expression of p53 protein and matrix metalloproteinases as compared to controls.
Studies on other mammals are recommended to further investigate the potential of Lyco-200 in liver cancer.
Chromosomal rearrangements leading to constitutive activation of anaplastic lymphoma receptor tyrosine kinase (ALK) define a category of lung adenocarcinomas that may be amenable to targeted therapy with the ALK inhibitor crizotinib. Defining distinctive features of ALK-rearranged (ALK+) lung adenocarcinomas may help identify cases that merit molecular testing. However, data describing the morphologic features of ALK+ lung adenocarcinomas are conflicting and are primarily based on analysis of resected primary lung tumors. It is unclear whether the findings from prior studies are applicable to metastatic lung tumors or to small biopsy/cytology specimens. To address these issues, we examined resection, excision, small biopsy, and cytology cell block specimens from 104 ALK+ and 215 ALK- lung adenocarcinomas from primary and metastatic sites. All cases were evaluated for ALK rearrangements by fluorescence in situ hybridization. The predominant histologic subtypes and distinctive cytomorphologic features were assessed in each case. Primary ALK+ lung adenocarcinomas showed a significant association with solid, micropapillary, and papillary-predominant histologic patterns and tumor cells with a signet ring or hepatoid cytomorphology. Among metastatic lung tumors and small biopsy/cytology specimens, the only distinguishing morphologic feature of ALK+ tumors was the presence of signet ring cells. Based on these results, we developed a morphology-based scoring system for predicting ALK rearrangements in lung adenocarcinomas. The scoring system predicted ALK rearrangements in a new cohort of 78 lung adenocarcinomas (29 ALK+ and 49 ALK-) with a sensitivity of 88% and a specificity of 45%. In conclusion, ALK+ lung adenocarcinomas have distinctive morphologic features, with signet ring cells showing a significant association with ALK rearrangements irrespective of tumor site (primary vs metastatic) or specimen type. However, morphologic screening alone will not detect a minority of ALK+ lung adenocarcinomas, and the routine use of ancillary studies may be warranted to identify all patients who may benefit from crizotinib treatment.
Copper is an essential trace element whose recommended intake is met by most North American diets. However, incidence of new cases of secondary copper deficiency is rising due to complications of gastric bypass surgery and high zinc exposure. Patients frequently are ataxic and anemic. Anemia of copper deficiency was first described in the 19th century, but the underlying biochemistry remains unknown. Approximately one dozen cuproenzymes have been characterized in mammals. Four of these are referred to as multicopper oxidases (MCO) due to their copper binding geometries. They have iron oxidase activity (ferroxidase). These include the hepatic secreted protein ceruloplasmin representing ∼90% of plasma copper, a splice-variant of ceruloplasmin originally characterized in brain linked by glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) to membranes, an intestinal enriched MCO named hephaestin, and newly described MCO in placenta called zyklopen. Limitation in available copper appears to limit function of the MCO group exhibited as impaired iron flux due to the copper requirement of MCO for their ferroxidase activity. Dietary copper deficiency is associated with lower levels of ceruloplasmin, GPI-ceruloplasmin, and hephaestin. Limitation of copper does not appear to limit synthesis of MCO but rather their stability and turnover. However, there appears to be a disconnect between limitation in MCO function and anemia, because humans and mice missing ceruloplasmin are not anemic despite hepatic iron overload and hypoferremia. Furthermore, anemic copper-deficient mammals are not improved by iron replacement. This suggests that the anemia of copper deficiency is not caused by iron limitation but rather impairment in iron utilization.
