The Ito Liver Model and the Ito Multi-organ Model are used in conjunction and constitute an efficient and rapid bioassay for the identification of both genotoxic and nongenotoxic carcinogenic chemicals. The Ito Liver Model is an 8-week bioassay system that uses the number and size of foci of hepatocytes positive for glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P) as the end-point marker. One hundred fifty-nine compounds were tested using the Ito Liver Model: 61 of 66 hepatocarcinogens tested positive, and 10 of 43 nonliver carcinogens were also positive. The false-positive detection of noncarcinogens was low; a single false-positive result was obtained from the 50 noncarcinogens tested. Since more than half of all known carcinogens are hepatocarcinogens in rodents, the initial 8-week bioassay is able to detect most carcinogens. The Ito Multi-organ Model is a 28-week bioassay system for the detection of carcinogens that were not identified by the Ito Liver Model. Results are evaluated by preneoplastic and neoplastic lesions in major organs. Forty-four compounds were tested using the Ito Multi-organ Model: 17 out of 17 liver carcinogens were positive, and 19 out of 22 (86%) nonliver carcinogens were positive. None of the five noncarcinogens tested positive.
A double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover study was conducted to examine the effects of pindolol for the treatment of 11 patients with impulsive, explosive behaviors and other emotional-behavioral abnormalities as a consequence of brain disease or injury. Pindolol treatment was associated with significant therapeutic benefits without sedation and without the use-limiting side effects that occur with propranolol.
Androgen ablation therapy is an effective treatment for advanced prostate cancer, but the tumor often progresses toward a more aggressive phenotype. We determined the changes in genes associated with the malignant progression and found increased thymosin beta4, involved in tumor metastasis, in androgen-sensitive LNCaP cells grown in the medium with androgen-deficient, charcoal-stripped fetal calf serum. The mRNA expression of thymosin beta4 was determined by real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis. The transcriptional activity of thymosin beta4 was measured by luciferase assay using reporter plasmid containing 5'-flanking region of thymosin beta4. Thymosin beta4 mRNA expression was increased in LNCaP cells in the androgen-deficient condition and decreased by dihydrotestosterone treatment. Androgen receptor antagonist bicalutamide inhibited thymosin beta4 expression in a dose-dependent manner. In androgen receptor-negative PC-3 cells, no significant effects on thymosin beta4 gene expression were observed. The regulation of thymosin beta4 mRNA expression by androgen is due to the transcriptional activation. Deletion analysis revealed that the region between -83 bp and -46 bp of the thymosin beta4 gene is responsible for the regulation of the transcriptional activity by androgen. Thymosin beta4 expression is negatively controlled at the transcriptional level by androgen.
Sotalol is the prototype class III agent that combines beta-blocking properties with the propensity to prolong the effective refractory period by lengthening the action potential duration. Its precise effect on the prevention of ventricular tachycardia-ventricular fibrillation (VTVF) compared to class I agents has not been evaluated in a blinded study. In a double-blind parallel-design multicenter study, the electrophysiologic and antiarrhythmic effects of intravenous and oral sotalol (n = 55) and procainamide (n = 55) were therefore compared in patients with VTVF inducible by programmed electric stimulation. Sotalol produced a greater effect on lengthening the ventricular effective refractory period (VERP). It prevented the inducibility of VTVF in 30% versus 20% for procainamide, but this was not significantly different. In an alternate therapy group (n = 41) of similar patients previously refractory to or intolerant of procainamide, intravenous sotalol prevented inducibility in 32%. The pooled overall sotalol efficacy rate was 31%. There was a significant relation between the increase in the VERP and the prevention of inducibility of VTVF (n = 56; p < 0.02). VERP of > or = 300 msec was critical for the prevention of VTVF inducibility. Thirteen sotalol and 6 procainamide responders from the randomized group and 30 from the nonrandomized groups completed 1 year of oral sotalol therapy follow-up. Life-table analysis of these patient in each group showed a trend in favor of sotalol; however, statistical analysis was not possible because of the small numbers of patients. Both sotalol and procainamide were well tolerated. In the randomized group there was one case of sudden death during treatment with sotalol and two cases of nonfatal torsades de pointes in the procainamide group and two in the sotalol group; in the nonrandomized alternate therapy group, there were 6 cases of nonfatal torsades de pointes. The data support the emerging role of sotalol in the control of symptomatic ventricular tachycardia and fibrillation.
In the last two decades, nanoparticles (NPs) have found applications in a wide variety of consumer goods. Titanium dioxide (TiO(2)) and silver (Ag) NPs are both found in cosmetics and foods, but their increasing use is of concern due to their ability to be taken up by biological systems. While there are some reports of TiO(2) and Ag NPs affecting complex organisms, their effects on reproduction and development have been largely understudied. Here, the effects of orally administered TiO(2) or Ag NPs on reproduction and development in two different model organisms were investigated. TiO(2) NPs reduced the developmental success of CD-1 mice after a single oral dose of 100 or 1000 mg/kg to dams, resulting in a statistically significant increase in fetal deformities and mortality. Similarly, TiO(2) NP addition to food led to a significant progeny loss in the fruit fly, Drosophila, as shown by a decline in female fecundity. Ag NP administration resulted in an increase in the mortality of fetal mice. Similarly in Drosophila, Ag NP feeding led to a significant decrease in developmental success, but unlike TiO(2) NP treatment, there was no decline in fecundity. The distinct response associated with each type of NP likely reflects differences in NP administration as well as the biology of the particular model. Taken together, however, this study warns that these common NPs could be detrimental to the reproductive and developmental health of both invertebrates and vertebrates.
Recent studies show that osteopontin (OPN) and its receptor cluster of differentiation 44 (CD44) are two pro-inflammatory cytokines contributing to the development of atherosclerosis. The objective of this study was to explore the inhibitory effect of kaempferol, a naturally occurring flavonoid compound, on atherogenesis and the mechanisms involved. The experiments were performed in aorta and plasma from C57BL/6J control and apolipoprotein E-deficient (ApoE(-/-)) mice treated or not with kaempferol (50 or 100mg/kg, intragastrically) for 4 weeks. Kaempferol treatment decreased atherosclerotic lesion area, improved endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation, and increased the maximal relaxation value concomitantly with decrease in the half-maximum effective concentration, plasma OPN level, aortic OPN expression, and aortic CD44 expression in ApoE(-/-) mice. In addition, treatment with kaempferol also significantly decreased reactive oxygen species production in mice aorta. The present results suggest that kaempferol regulates OPN-CD44 pathway to inhibit the atherogenesis of ApoE(-/-) mice.
Three placebo-controlled double-blind and crossover trials were carried out to analyze the effects of oral yohimbine (YOH) 0.8 mg/kg on mood and performance in 16 healthy students. Subjective assessments (visual analogue scales, side-effects on questionnaire) and objective measurements (digit symbols, flicker fusion, tapping, heterophoria) were done at baseline, and post treatment. YOH shifted the healthy subjects' mood towards feeling panicked, elevated systolic blood pressure and plasma prolactin concentrations, reduced digit symbol substitution, and induced drowsiness and passiveness. Caffeine (CAF) 10 mg/kg raised plasma cortisol and rendered the subjects slightly panicked. Muzziness, clumsiness, tremor, chills and nausea were common after both YOH and CAF. Diazepam (DZ) 0.3 mg/kg given at 60 min antagonized some effects of CAF but failed to antagonize YOH. Clonidine (CLO) 100 micrograms counteracted YOH effects on blood pressure but less the subjective and hormonal effects. CLO 200 micrograms partly antagonized the pressor, sedative but not the hormonal responses of YOH. DZ counteracted YOH effects on plasma cortisol on panic but not on other subjective measures or plasma prolactin. Since CLO did not abolish YOH-induced prolactin increase, it is suggested that these effects of YOH are mediated not only via adrenergic alpha 2-receptors; other mechanisms made important contributions.
Administration of the NO inhibitor N(wdelta)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (NAME) and a high-salt diet (HS) promotes severe albuminuria and renal injury, which regresses upon discontinuation of treatments.
We investigated whether these changes reappear after reinstitution of HS, and whether they are prevented by treatment with the antilymphocyte agent mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) or the AT-1 receptor blocker losartan (L). Adult male Munich-Wistar rats received NAME and HS. A control Group (C) received only HS. After 20 days, rats receiving HS and NAME exhibited severe hypertension and albuminuria. After a 30-day recovery period, hypertension was attenuated and albuminuria had virtually disappeared.
Rats were then distributed among the following groups: HS, receiving HS; NS, receiving a normal salt (NS) diet; HS-MMF, receiving HS and MMF; HS-LOS, receiving HS and L; HS-HDZ, receiving HS and hydralazine (HDZ). Sixty days later, NS rats showed only slight albuminuria and renal damage or inflammation. In contrast, HS rats developed severe hypertension, marked glomerulosclerosis with interstitial expansion and renal infiltration by macrophages and angiotensin II-positive cells. The group treated with losartan had lowered blood pressure and a lack of albuminuria or renal injury. MMF provided similar protection without altering blood pressure, suggesting a nonhemodynamic effect, a hypothesis reinforced by the finding that HDZ lowered blood pressure without preventing renal injury.
These results indicate that treatment with HS and NAME predisposes to the development of hypertension and renal injury upon salt overload, characterizing a new model of chronic nephropathy.
The response to MMF or L, but not HDZ, suggests a key role for inflammatory rather than hemodynamic factors.
Ankyloblepharon-ectodermal dysplasia-cleft lip/palate (AEC) syndrome and Rapp-Hodgkin syndrome are well-characterized clinical entities caused by mutations in the TP63 gene. While AEC and Rapp-Hodgkin had been thought to be clinically distinct entities, the elucidation of their molecular etiology confirmed that they are a clinical continuum as opposed to distinct disorders. We have evaluated 17 patients with AEC syndrome using a systematic clinical approach. In our study, we have identified new features and others that were thought to occur only rarely. These include short stature and poor weight gain with preservation of head circumference in nearly all subjects, trismus in 35% and hypospadias in 78% of males. In addition, we describe the frequency of phenotypic features and demonstrate the extreme clinical variability in the largest cohort of AEC individuals reported in the literature thus far.
Induction (neoadjuvant) chemotherapy has become an accepted treatment for stage IIIA (T1-3N2M0) non-small cell lung cancer. In two recent randomized trials, neoadjuvant chemotherapy plus surgery gave an increase in median survival at least fivefold greater than surgery alone. The Spanish Lung Cancer Group trial of preoperative chemotherapy, in which the cisplatin dose was randomized to either 50 mg/m2 or 100 mg/m2 plus 3 g/m2 ifosfamide and 6 mg/m2 mitomycin, examines the effect of K-ras gene mutations on tumor response and survival. Patients whose tumors contain K-ras gene mutations are more likely to develop distant metastases and have lower median survival than patients without such mutations. Microsatellite instability seems to be a frequent mechanism of genetic aberrations. Knowledge about these genetic alterations could have prognostic importance and may identify the patients who should receive the most aggressive additional treatment.
Netilmicin is a new semisynthetic aminoglycoside which was developed by Schering Corporation, USA, for the treatment of serious gram-negative and staphylococcal infections. Nephrotoxicity and ototoxicity in animal studies have indicated that netilmicin is both quantitatively and qualitatively safer than other aminoglycosides. Also, netilmicin has a broader spectrum of activity than either gentamicin or tobramycin. 37 clinical studies were conducted by 29 investigators in 10 countries. 840 courses of treatment in 960 infection sites were analyzed for effectiveness. Of the 724 courses in which a clinical determination could be made, 91% had either complete resolution or improvement. Bacteriologic responses were available for 782 infecting organisms and showed an 82% elimination rate. The pharmacokinetic profile of netilmicin permits twice daily administration in most patients with systemic infections and in all patients with urinary tract infections. The clinical safety of netilmicin was measured in 890 evaluable treatment courses, and only 0.4% auditory reactions, 0.6% vestibular reactions, and 0.9% renal reactions were considered to be probably netilmicin related, when netilmicin was given as recommended.
Transient administration of ANG II causes persistent salt-sensitive hypertension associated with arteriolopathy, interstitial inflammation, and cortical vasoconstriction; blocking the vascular and inflammatory changes with mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) prevents vasoconstriction. While infiltrating leukocytes during the salt-sensitive hypertension phase express ANG II, the functional role of ANG II during this phase is not known. We examined the acute effect of candesartan on renal hemodynamics during the established salt-sensitive hypertensive phase and related these findings to direct measurement of intrarenal ANG II and inflammatory cells in rats previously exposed to ANG II with or without MMF treatment. Sham controls were also examined. The administration of ANG II, followed by exposure to high-salt diet, resulted in hypertension, cortical vasoconstriction, an increase in interstitial inflammatory cells (44.8 +/- 1.3 lymphocytes/mm2, and 30.8 +/- 1.2 macrophages/mm2 ANG II vs. 19.6 +/- 2 lymphocytes/mm2, and 22 +/- 0.7 macrophages/mm2 Sham), and increase in renal ANG II levels (1,358 +/- 74.6 pg/ml ANG II vs. 194 +/- 9.28 pg/ml Sham). Treatment with MMF during the administration of exogenous ANG II resulted in reduction in renal interstitial inflammation (19.7 +/- 0.9 lymphocytes/mm2 and 15.9 +/- 0.8 machophages/mm2), ANG II levels (436.9 +/- 52.29 pg/ml), cortical vasoconstriction, and stable blood pressure levels during the subsequent challenge with a high-salt diet. Acute administration of candesartan similarly reduced renal vasoconstriction and blood pressure. We conclude that the cortical vasoconstriction occurring with salt-sensitive hypertension following exposure to ANG II is mediated by intrarenal ANG II, related, at least in part, to the interstitial inflammation.
We describe a patient who developed rapid irreversible blindness following treatment with ethambutol in the recommended dose of 15 mg/kg body weight which in clinical practice is widely considered to be safe. This case exemplifies the potential risks of ethambutol and re-emphasizes the importance of instructing patients to stop the drug at once if they develop visual symptoms.
Carmofur (1-hexylcarbamyl-5-fluorouracil), a derivative of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), has been widely used in Japan as a postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy agent for colorectal and breast cancer. Periventricular hyperintensity on T2-weighted MR images in carmofur-induced leukoencephalopathy confront the physician with a broad range of differential diagnoses. We describe two cases of carmofur-induced leukoencephalopathy in which diffusion-weighted MR imaging revealed periventricular hyperintensity. We compared their findings with those of age-related periventricular hyperintensity in five patients and found discrepancies in signal intensity of periventricular areas. Our results suggest that diffusion-weighted MR imaging may be useful to differentiate carmofur-induced leukoencephalopathy from age-related periventricular hyperintensity.
Encephalopathy secondary to aspirin-induced hepatoxicity developed in three patients with JRA. In each patient clinical and biochemical resolution occurred after discontinuing the drug, but toxicity appeared on rechallenge. Liver biopsies in two patients showed mild nonspecific changes. Acute hepatic decompensation and encephalopathy may occur as a consequence of aspirin hepatoxicity in JRA and justify sequential observations of liver function tests and salicylate levels in such patients.
In a double blind study of metoprolol in the treatment of suspected acute myocardial infarction 698 patients (study group) received metoprolol and 697 a placebo (control group). Metoprolol was given in an intravenous dose of 15 mg as soon as possible after admission to hospital followed by 50 g by mouth four times a day for two days and thereafter 100 mg twice a day for three months. A placebo was similarly given. Congestive heart failure occurred in a similar percentage of patients in both the study (27%) and the control groups (30%). Its severity was estimated by calculating the total dose of frusemide given during the first four days in hospital. Less frusemide was given to patients treated with metoprolol compared with those given a placebo in the total series. An appreciably lower total dose of frusemide was given to patients included in the trial less than or equal to 12 hours after the onset of pain and treated with metoprolol compared with a placebo, while no difference was seen among patients treated later. The initial heart rate, systolic blood pressure, and infarct site affected the results.
A double-blind crossover comparison of medazepam 10 mg three times a day against amylobarbitone 60 mg three times a day in outpatients with neurotic anxiety showed that medazepam was superior in relieving symptoms. At this dose of medazepam drowsiness or ataxia was rarely a problem.
Flecainide is a sodium channel blocker used mainly in the treatment of supraventricular arrhythmias. Central nervous system side effects such as dizziness, visual disturbances, headache and nausea are commonly associated with flecainide, but severe central nervous system toxicity is rare. We report the first case of flecainide toxicity in a patient with end-stage renal failure. Cessation of flecainide therapy resulted in a fall in serum flecainide levels, with associated resolution of adverse central nervous system effects. We also review the pharmacokinetics of flecainide in patients with chronic kidney disease.
A 30-year-old Japanese man with splenomegaly and lymphocytosis was examined in 1985. Blood analysis revealed that some of the lymphocytes had short-surface villi with polar distribution. The cells showed Ig lambda+, CD5+, CD11c+, CD19+, CD22+, CD23+, CD24+, FMC7+ phenotype. A small M peak was detected in the serum. Splenic lymphoma with villous lymphocytes (SLVL) was diagnosed on the basis of these findings. Remission was induced and was maintained with low-dose chlorambucil for more than 10 years. In 1996, the patient developed splenomegaly and lymphadenopathy with "B" symptoms and a high serum lactase dehydrogenase (LDH) level. Large blastoid cells with prominent nucleoli were observed in the bone marrow; later, a small number appeared in the peripheral blood. The bone marrow cells showed a complex chromosomal abnormality involving del(7)(q32). Southern blot analysis of immunoglobulin gene rearrangements in SLVL cells that had been cryopreserved in 1986 and of bone marrow cells in 1996 showed 2 rearranged bands in each cell sample; 1 band showed identical sizes in the 2 samples, and the other showed different sizes. These findings suggest that the blastoid cells were derived from SLVL cells through transformation. After this transformation, the disease followed a highly aggressive course. Various chemotherapeutic agents had little effect, and the patient died 3 months later.
Mitral valve prolapse (MVP) is a common cardiac valve abnormality that affects women more frequently than men. We have previously shown that mild dehydration induces echocardiographic signs of MVP in approximately 50% of healthy asthenic women with previously normal cardiac findings. The present study was designed to investigate whether dehydration can induce MVP in normal men. Ten healthy male volunteers with a mean body mass index of 24.2 kg/m2, unremarkable history, and normal cardiac findings and echocardiogram were examined after mild diuresis with 20 mg furosemide. Significant decrease in weight, left ventricular end-diastolic dimension, and cardiac output were detected in all subjects after furosemide administration. In 1 (10%) of the 10 subjects echocardiographic MVP developed after furosemide administration. All furosemide-induced changes resolved with hydration. These results demonstrate that dehydration-induced MVP in men without characteristic body habitus of MVP occurs with substantially lower frequency than previously documented in women with the characteristic body habitus of MVP. This study suggests the importance of gender and body habitus in dehydration-induced MVP.
4'-deoxy-doxorubicin, a new doxorubicin analog, was tested in 65 phase II patients with advanced malignancies. Cardiac toxicity evaluation was performed by means of electrocardiography (ECG), left ventricular systolic time intervals, echocardiography and radionuclide left ventricular ejection fraction. ECG abnormalities were observed in a lower percentage of patients (23%) compared to that described for doxorubicin and other anthracycline analogs such as 4'-epi-doxorubicin and 4-demethoxy-daunorubicin. Other functional parameters serially measured to evaluate chronic cardiotoxicity in 23 patients, who received more than 200 mg/m2 were not significantly different from mean pretreatment values. No patient developed congestive heart failure but some of them exhibited a fall of left ventricular function parameters more than 15% from pretreatment values. These data suggest that this new analogue is probably less cardiotoxic than the parent compound doxorubicin but not completely devoid of cardiotoxicity.
Insulin resistance, a hallmark of type 2 diabetes, is associated with oxidative stress. However, the role of reactive oxygen species or specific antioxidant enzymes in its development has not been tested under physiological conditions. The objective of our study was to investigate the impact of overexpression of glutathione peroxidase 1 (GPX1), an intracellular selenoprotein that reduces hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) in vivo, on glucose metabolism and insulin function. The GPX1-overexpressing (OE) and WT male mice (n = 80) were fed a selenium-adequate diet (0.4 mg/kg) from 8 to 24 weeks of age. Compared with the WT, the OE mice developed (P < 0.05) hyperglycemia (117 vs. 149 mg/dl), hyperinsulinemia (419 vs. 1,350 pg/ml), and elevated plasma leptin (5 vs. 16 ng/ml) at 24 weeks of age. Meanwhile, these mice were heavier (37 vs. 27 g, P < 0.001) and fatter (37% vs. 17% fat, P < 0.01) than the WT mice. At 30-60 min after an insulin challenge, the OE mice had 25% less (P < 0.05) of a decrease in blood glucose than the WT mice. Their insulin resistance was associated with a 30-70% reduction (P < 0.05) in the insulin-stimulated phosphorylations of insulin receptor (beta-subunit) in liver and Akt (Ser(473) and Thr(308)) in liver and soleus muscle. Here we report the development of insulin resistance in mammals with elevated expression of an antioxidant enzyme and suggest that increased GPX1 activity may interfere with insulin function by overquenching intracellular reactive oxygen species required for insulin sensitizing.
Decitabine (5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine) inhibits DNA methylation and has dual effects on neoplastic cells, including the reactivation of silenced genes and differentiation at low doses and cytotoxicity at high doses. We evaluated, in a phase 1 study, low-dose prolonged exposure schedules of decitabine in relapsed/refractory leukemias. Patient cohorts received decitabine at 5, 10, 15, or 20 mg/m2 intravenously over one hour daily, 5 days a week for 2 consecutive weeks, doses 5- to approximately 30-fold lower than the maximum tolerated dose (MTD). There were 2 groups that also received 15 mg/m2 daily for 15 or 20 days. A total of 50 patients were treated (44 with acute myelogenous leukemia [AML]/myelodysplasia [MDS], 5 with chronic myelogenous leukemia [CML], and 1 with acute lymphocytic leukemia [ALL]), and the drug was well tolerated at all dose levels, with myelosuppression being the major side effect. Responses were seen at all dose levels. However, the dose of 15 mg/m2 for 10 days appeared to induce the most responses (11 of 17 or 65%), with fewer responses seen when the dose was escalated or prolonged (2 of 19 or 11%). There was no correlation between P15 methylation at baseline or after therapy and response to decitabine. We conclude that decitabine is effective in myeloid malignancies, and low doses are as or more effective than higher doses.
