To investigate the mechanisms responsible for the protective action of berberine (Ber) against gut damage in endotoxemic mice.
Male BALB/c mice were administered intragastrically with distilled water (0.1 mL/10 g), Ber (50 mg/kg) alone, yohimbine (2 mg/kg) alone, or Ber (50 mg/kg) in combination with yohimbine (2 mg/kg) for 3 d. On the third day, lipopolysaccharide (LPS, 18 mg/kg) or normal saline was intraperitoneally injected one hour after the intragastric administration. Following the treatment, intestinal injury in the ileum was histopathologically accessed; enterocyte apoptosis was examined using TUNEL method; Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) mRNA expression was measured using RT-PCR assay; inhibitor protein-κBα (I-κBα) phosphorylation and myeloperoxidase content were examined using Western blloting. The macrophage inflammatory protein-2 (MIP-2) production was measured using ELISA assay.
Mice challenged with LPS caused extensive ileum injury, including a significantly increased injury score, decreased intestinal villus height, reduced gut mucosal weight and increased intestinal permeability. Furthermore, LPS significantly induced enterocyte apoptosis, increased TLR4 mRNA expression, I-κBα phosphorylation, MIP-2 production and myeloperoxidase content in the ileum. Pretreatment with Ber significantly alleviated all the alterations in the ileum in the endotoxemic mice. Pretreatment with the α2-adrenoceptor antagonist yohimbine did not block the protective action of Ber against LPS-induced intestinal injury. In addition, treatment with yohimbine alone did not prevent LPS-induced intestinal injury.
Pretreatment with Ber provides significant protection against LPS-induced intestinal injury in mice, via reducing enterocyte apoptosis, inhibiting the TLR4-nuclear factor κB-MIP-2 pathway and decreasing neutrophil infiltration that are independent of α2-adrenoceptors.
Human butyrylcholinesterase is the enzyme responsible of mivacurium and succinylcholine metabolism, which may be significantly impaired when mutation Asp70Gly is found in patients. We describe a simple PCR method for the detection of this variant. Thirteen out of sixteen patients tested after prolonged apnea were positive for the presence of this mutation (50.0% homozygotes and 31.3% heterozygotes), suggesting that this test contributes to the explanation of some clinical events and to their prevention in relatives of these patients.
Effects of xylazine (1.1 mg/kg of body weight, IV bolus, plus 1.1 mg/kg/h infusion) and subsequent yohimbine (0.125 mg/kg, IV bolus) administration on the arrhythmogenic dose of epinephrine (ADE) in isoflurane (1.8% end-tidal)-anesthetized dogs were evaluated. The ADE was defined as the total dose of epinephrine that induced greater than or equal to 4 premature ventricular contractions within 15 seconds during a 3-minute infusion period or within 1 minute after the end of infusion. Total ADE values during isoflurane anesthesia, after xylazine administration, and after yohimbine injection were 36.6 +/- 8.45 micrograms/kg, 24.1 +/- 6.10 micrograms/kg, and 45.7 +/- 6.19 micrograms/kg, respectively. Intravenous xylazine administration significantly (P less than 0.05) increased blood pressure and decreased heart rate, whereas yohimbine administration induced a significant (P less than 0.05) decrease in blood pressure. induced a significant (P less than 0.05) decrease in blood pressure. After yohimbine administration, the ADE significantly (P less than 0.05) increased above that after isoflurane plus xylazine administration. After yohimbine administration, blood pressure measured immediately before epinephrine-induced arrhythmia was significantly (P less than 0.05) less than the value recorded during isoflurane plus xylazine anesthesia. Heart rate was unchanged among treatments immediately before epinephrine-induced arrhythmia. Seemingly, yohimbine possessed a protective action against catecholamine-induced arrhythmias in dogs anesthetized with isoflurane and xylazine.
Epilepsy is very frequent in Rett syndrome (RTT) patients and often difficult to treat. Because most cases of RTT are caused by mutations in the MECP2 gene it is reasonable to assume that convulsions are based on common pathogenetic mechanisms and thus should have a similar response to antiepileptic drugs.
To find the optimal treatment for epilepsy in RTT.
We performed a retrospective study on 110 female patients with confirmed MECP2 mutations.
The median age was 10 years, 58% had a history of epilepsy and 55% received antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). Only sulthiame, carbamazepine and valproate were administered in an adequate frequency to allow statistical analysis. The best anticonvulsive results were seen in the RTT group that was treated with carbamazepine. Sulthiame was slightly less effective while valproate was significantly less effective. The rate of side effects was equivalent in all groups. In conclusion, carbamazepine should be recommended as first choice AED in RTT. If carbamazepine is not effective or not well tolerated sulthiame ought to be taken as second choice AED.
To document the clinical characteristics of spinal procaine with or without the addition of fentanyl in light of the failure rate observed previously with procaine 10%.
In a randomized, prospective, double-blind study, 52 patients received spinal anesthesia with 100 mg procaine and either saline 0.9% (0.4 ml) (CONTROL group) or 20 microg fentanyl (0.4 ml) (FENTANYL group). Sensory anesthesia to needle prick was evaluated each minute for ten minutes, every three minutes for 33 minutes and every five minutes until regression to T10. Motor block was assessed with the Bromage scale. Patients were questioned by telephone for pain suggesting transient radicular irritation (TRI) 48 hr later.
Mean time to reach highest sensory level, maximum number of segments blocked and mean time for regression of the sensory level to T10 showed no difference. Time to recuperate to full flexion of knees and feet (Bromage 4) showed no difference. Nine patients had nausea (five in CONTROL group and four in FENTANYL group) and nine had pruritus (three in CONTROL group and six in FENTANYL group). No patient reported pain suggesting TRI.
Spinal procaine is appropriate for short-duration surgery. Fentanyl does not change the characteristics of the block or the incidence of side effects associated with spinal procaine.
One hundred and twenty patients undergoing anaesthesia for elective surgery received either pancuronium or vecuronium for muscle relaxation. Within each of these two groups, half were given glycopyrronium and the remainder an inert placebo. The incidence of bradycardia or bradydysrhythmias was higher in the group having vecuronium compared with those given pancuronium. Glycopyrronium afforded protection against undesirable vagal activity.
A case of jaundice due to canalicular cholestasis during amiodarone therapy is reported. A definite diagnosis was attained by ultrastructural evidence of a phospholipidosis pattern, a characteristic amiodarone-induced injury. Jaundice occurred within the third month of therapy. Serum bilirubin levels continued to increase in the two weeks following drug withdrawal. A slow decrease was observed in the following three months. Only four cases of jaundice associated with amiodarone therapy have been reported until now.
Salsolinol (SAL), a novel dopaminergic catechol tetrahydroisoquinoline neurotoxin, has been speculated to contribute to the etiology of Parkinson's disease and neuropathology of chronic alcoholism. Our previous studies have demonstrated that SAL induces strand scission in øX174 supercoiled DNA and oxidative base modification in calf thymus DNA in the presence of cupric ion. We now report that treatment of rat pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells with SAL causes reduced viability, which was exacerbated by Cu(2+). The copper chelator bathocuproinedisulfonic acid ameliorated cytotoxicity induced by SAL and Cu(2+). N-Acetyl-L-cysteine and reduced glutathione protected against SAL- plus Cu(2+)-mediated PC12 cell death. Cells exposed to SAL underwent apoptosis, as revealed by characteristic morphological and biochemical changes. SAL treatment resulted in increased levels of Bax with a concomitant decrease in expression of Bcl-x(L). Furthermore, SAL rapidly activated c-Jun N-terminal kinase, whereas the activity of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase remained unchanged. Transfection with Bcl-x(L) or Bcl-2 led to protection against SAL-mediated PC12 cell death. Although SAL alone could cause apoptotic death in PC12 cells, cells treated with SAL together with Cu(2+) became necrotic. Cells exposed to both SAL and Cu(2+) exhibited higher levels of intracellular reactive oxygen species, malondialdehyde, and 8-oxo-7,8-dihydro-2'-deoxyguanosine than did those treated with SAL alone. These results suggest that copper accelerates redox cycling of SAL, leading to massive production of reactive oxygen species, which can divert the SAL-induced cell death to necrosis.
The hypothesis that prostaglandin inhibitors might reduce the incidence and severity of suxamethonium-induced myalgia was investigated using lysine acetyl salicylate (LAS) 13 mg kg-1 i.v. 3 min before the administration of suxamethonium in 20 patients. A comparison was made with atracurium 0.09 mg kg-1 (and placebo) in a double-blind prospective randomized trial. LAS and atracurium were effective in reducing the incidence and severity of postsuxamethonium myalgia and the increases in serum potassium concentration. There were no appreciable changes in serum calcium, sodium, chloride, phosphate, magnesium, creatinine, creatine phosphokinase concentrations or plasmacholinesterase activity. Atracurium caused a delay in the onset of action and a decrease in the intensity of suxamethonium-induced neuromuscular block. It is concluded that LAS pretreatment might have a place in suitable patients in the prevention of suxamethonium-induced myalgia and increases in serum potassium concentration.
Self-administered intracavernous injections, notably with alprostadil are currently the most widely used non-psychotherapeutical treatment of erectile dysfunction. We assessed the effectiveness of this treatment after 6 months of self-injections.
Efficacy, acceptability and tolerance to alprostadil self-administered via intracavernous injections for 6 months was evaluated in 144 men, age 24 to 72 years, and followed monthly after an initial training period and search for the optimal dose.
The mean number of self-injections was 5.5 at a mean dose of 18.6 micrograms per injection. From the first to sixth month, the frequency of complete erections after self-injection rose from 62% to 77% and failures declined from 8% to 3%. After six months, 40% of the patients had abandoned the treatment including 9% who abandoned during the first month, usually due to poor acceptance and because of cure in two patients (4.5%). Patients reported sexual intercourse after self-injections as satisfactory in 81% of the cases; 66% of their partners reported satisfactory intercourse. Tolerance assessment revealed pain in 14% of the patients and decreasing effect with time in two patients who discontinued self-injections for this reason. Other undesirable side effects were infrequent, usually related to technical injection errors and decreasing effect with time. One case of priapism and two indurations of the cavernous bodies were also observed.
Self-administration of intracavernous alprostadil can lead to rigid erection in patients with erectile dysfunction. Patients are generally well satisfied and tolerance is good.
Clozapine is an atypical antipsychotic drug with reduced risk of unwanted neurological effects in comparison with other drugs. In this multicenter study, 151 hospitalized schizophrenic patients were randomly assigned to treatment under double-blind conditions to assess the antipsychotic efficacy and safety of clozapine versus chlorpromazine. All patients exhibited tardive dyskinesia or other extrapyramidal side effects associated with at least two prior neuroleptics. Eleven patients were dropped from treatment due to extrapyramidal symptoms while being treated with chlorpromazine; only one clozapine patient's treatment was terminated for this reason. Clozapine patients exhibited clinical improvement superior to that of chlorpromazine patients as assessed by the Brief Psychiatric Rating and Clinical Global Impression scales. These results suggest that clozapine is well tolerated and may be therapeutically superior to chlorpromazine in treating psychotic behavior. Agranulocytosis potential can be minimized by frequent white blood cell counts and removing nonresponding patients from treatment prior to the peak risk period (months 2 through 6).
The mechanisms of sinoatrial node (SAN) dysfunction in patients with chronically elevated sympathetic tone and reduced pacemaker current (I(f); such as heart failure) are poorly understood. We simultaneously mapped membrane potential and intracellular Ca(2+) in the Langendorff-perfused canine right atrium (RA). Blockade of either I(f) (ZD-7288) or sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) release (ryanodine) alone decreased heart rate by 8% (n = 3) and 16% (n = 3), respectively. Combined treatment of ZD-7288 and ryanodine consistently resulted in prolonged (> or =3 s) sinus pauses (PSPs) (n = 4). However, the middle SAN remained as the leading pacemaking site after these treatments. Prolonged exposure with isoproterenol (0.01 micromol/l) followed by ZD-7288 completely suppressed SAN but triggered recurrent ectopic atrial tachycardia. Cessation of tachycardia was followed by PSPs in five of eight RAs. Isoproterenol initially increased heart rate by 75% from baseline with late diastolic intracellular Ca(2+) elevation (LDCAE) from the superior SAN. However, after a prolonged isoproterenol infusion, LDCAE disappeared in the superior SAN, the leading pacemaker shifted to the inferior SAN, and the rate reduced to 52% above baseline. Caffeine (2 ml, 20 mmol/l) injection after a prolonged isoproterenol infusion produced LDCAE in the SAN and accelerated the SAN rate, ruling out sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) depletion as a cause of Ca(2+) clock malfunction. We conclude that in an isolated canine RA preparation, chronically elevated sympathetic tone results in abnormal pacemaking hierarchy in the RA, including suppression of the superior SAN and enhanced pacemaking from ectopic sites. Combined malfunction of both membrane and Ca(2+) clocks underlies the mechanisms of PSPs.
Seventy-five patients, 55 years or older, were treated for major depression with either nortriptyline, phenelzine, or placebo during a 7-week period. There was a significantly greater mean orthostatic fall in systolic pressure in patients treated with nortriptyline and phenelzine as compared to the placebo group, but no significant difference was evident between the nortriptyline and phenelzine groups. The orthostatic changes appeared during the first week of treatment and were not correlated with plasma level of nortriptyline, percent platelet monoamine oxidase inhibition, or pretreatment orthostatic changes.
We conducted this retrospective study to analyze a modified dose schedule of mitoxantrone and prednisolone (MP) in patients with androgen-independent prostate cancer.
From June 1997 to April 2002, 28 patients were enrolled. Their median age was 69 years (range, 58-79 years). The median duration of hormonal therapy was 30 months (range, 6-84 months). The median performance status was 2. Sixteen of the patients had bone disease only. The chemotherapy consisted of 8 mg/m2 mitoxantrone by intravenous infusion every 3 weeks and 10 mg prednisolone orally twice per day. WHO response criteria, prostatic-specific antigen (PSA), pain and performance status were used to assess the response.
The median number of treatment cycles was six (range, 2-20). Nine (32.1%) and 15 patients (53.8%) had > or =80% and > or =50% reduction in serum PSA level, respectively. Of 16 patients using narcotics, five (31.3%) had a > or =50% reduction in narcotics consumption compared with the baseline. Nine patients (32.1%) showed improved performance. For 12 patients with measurable disease, only two (16.7%) showed a partial response. Grade 3-4 toxicities included neutropenia (three patients), anemia (three patients) and vomiting (one patient). The median survival was 12 months and the median time to PSA progression was 4 months.
This modified regimen is feasible for palliative intent. The toxicity of this regimen is manageable. Exploring further combinations of this regimen with novel agents against androgen-independent prostate cancer is warranted.
A consistent phenotype observed in both human patients and several different mouse models of autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease (ARPKD) is an increased activity of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) in the affected kidneys. To determine whether this increased activity of the EGFR is a functional event that is directly part of the disease pathway of renal cyst formation, we used a genetic approach to introduce a mutant EGFR with decreased tyrosine kinase activity into a murine model of ARPKD. We found that the modified form of the EGFR could block the increase in EGFR-specific tyrosine kinase activity that normally accompanies the development of renal cysts, and this correlated with an improvement in kidney function and a substantial decrease in cyst formation in the collecting ducts. These results suggest that changes in the expression of the EGFR contribute to the formation of cysts in the collecting ducts, and that drugs that target the tyrosine kinase activity of the EGFR may potentially be therapeutic in ARPKD.
A 27-year old African woman with history of regular chloroquine ingestion presented with progressive deterioration of vision, easy fatiguability, dyspnoea, dizziness progressing to syncopal attacks. Ophthalmological assessment revealed features of chloroquine retinopathy, cardiac assessment revealed features of heart failure and a complete heart block with right bundle branch block pattern. The heart block was treated by pacemaker insertion and the heart failure resolved spontaneously following chloroquine discontinuation. She however remains blind.
(+)-Cordiaquinone J is a 1,4-naphthoquinone isolated from the roots of Cordia leucocephala that has antifungal and larvicidal effects. However, the cytotoxic effects of (+)-cordiaquinone J have never being explored. In the present study, the effect of (+)-cordiaquinone J on tumor cells viability was investigated, showing IC(50) values in the range of 2.7-6.6muM in HL-60 and SF-295 cells, respectively. Studies performed in HL-60 leukemia cells indicated that (+)-cordiaquinone J (1.5 and 3.0muM) reduces cell viability and 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine incorporation after 24h of incubation. (+)-Cordiaquinone J showed rapid induction of apoptosis, as indicated by phosphatidylserine externalization, caspase activation, DNA fragmentation, morphologic changes, and rapid induction of necrosis, as indicated by the loss of membrane integrity and morphologic changes. (+)-Cordiaquinone J altered the redox potential of cells by inducing the depletion of reduced GSH intracellular content, the generation of reactive oxygen species and the loss of mitochondrial membrane potential. However, pre-treatment of cells with N-acetyl-l-cysteine abolished most of the observed effects related to (+)-cordiaquinone J treatment, including those involving apoptosis and necrosis induction.
The nuclear enzyme poly(ADP-ribose) polymerse-1 (PARP-1) has previously been reported to play an important role in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced pulmonary inflammation and is highly activated in COPD patients. In the present study, the anti-inflammatory efficacy of a previously identified poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1) inhibiting caffeine metabolite, 1,7-dimethylxanthine, was both in vivo as well as ex vivo evaluated. Orally administered 1,7-dimethylxanthine significantly attenuated lung myeloperoxidase-levels, transcription of IL-6, TNF-alpha, MIP1alpha and MIP2 genes as well as PAR-polymer formation in a mouse model of intratracheally LPS-induced acute pulmonary inflammation. Serum amyloid P component and plasma IL-6 were also lowered in 1,7-dimethylxanthine treated mice, indicating a reduced systemic inflammatory response. In addition, at 24h after LPS administration anti-inflammatory effects of 1,7-dimethylxanthine appeared more pronounced than those of the orally administered PARP-1 inhibitor 3-aminobenzamide. In the second model, in blood of COPD-patients and healthy controls ex vivo pre-incubated with a physiological concentration of 1,7-dimethylxanthine (10microM), LPS-induced production of the cytokines IL-6 and TNF-alpha was significantly suppressed. 1,7-Dimethylxanthine exerts anti-inflammatory effects, both in vivo mouse as well as ex vivo human. These results suggest that the PARP-1 inhibiting caffeine metabolite 1,7-dimethylxanthine may have therapeutic potential in pulmonary inflammatory diseases such as COPD.
Flavoprotein reductases are involved in the generation of reactive oxygen species by doxorubicin. The objective of the present study was to determine whether or not one flavoprotein reductase, endothelial nitric oxide synthase (nitric oxide synthase 3 [NOS3]), contributes to the cardiac dysfunction and injury seen after the administration of doxorubicin.
A single dose of doxorubicin (20 mg/kg) was administered to wild-type (WT) mice, NOS3-deficient mice (NOS3-/-), and mice with cardiomyocyte-specific overexpression of NOS3 (NOS3-TG). Cardiac function was assessed after 5 days with the use of echocardiography. Doxorubicin decreased left ventricular fractional shortening from 57+/-2% to 47+/-1% (P<0.001) in WT mice. Compared with WT mice, fractional shortening was greater in NOS3-/- and less in NOS3-TG after doxorubicin (55+/-1% and 35+/-2%; P<0.001 for both). Cardiac tissue was harvested from additional mice at 24 hours after doxorubicin administration for measurement of cell death and reactive oxygen species production. Doxorubicin induced cardiac cell death and reactive oxygen species production in WT mice, effects that were attenuated in NOS3-/- and were more marked in NOS3-TG mice. Finally, WT and NOS3-/- mice were treated with a lower dose of doxorubicin (4 mg/kg) administered weekly over 5 weeks. Sixteen weeks after beginning doxorubicin treatment, fractional shortening was greater in NOS3-/- than in WT mice (45+/-2% versus 28+/-1%; P<0.001), and mortality was reduced (7% versus 60%; P<0.001).
These findings implicate NOS3 as a key mediator in the development of left ventricular dysfunction after administration of doxorubicin.
Increasing recognition of the importance of calcium in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular disease has stimulated research into the use of calcium channel blocking agents for treatment of a variety of cardiovascular diseases. The favorable efficacy and tolerability profiles of these agents make them attractive therapeutic modalities. Clinical applications of calcium channel blockers parallel their tissue selectivity. In contrast to verapamil and diltiazem, which are roughly equipotent in their actions on the heart and vascular smooth muscle, the dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers are a group of potent peripheral vasodilator agents that exert minimal electrophysiologic effects on cardiac nodal or conduction tissue. As the first dihydropyridine available for use in the United States, nifedipine controls angina and hypertension with minimal depression of cardiac function. Additional members of this group of calcium channel blockers have been studied for a variety of indications for which they may offer advantages over current therapy. Once or twice daily dosage possible with nitrendipine and nisoldipine offers a convenient administration schedule, which encourages patient compliance in long-term therapy of hypertension. The coronary vasodilating properties of nisoldipine have led to the investigation of this agent for use in angina. Selectivity for the cerebrovascular bed makes nimodipine potentially useful in the treatment of subarachnoid hemorrhage, migraine headache, dementia, and stroke. In general, the dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers are usually well tolerated, with headache, facial flushing, palpitations, edema, nausea, anorexia, and dizziness being the more common adverse effects.
The aim of this study is to evaluate the effects on blood pressure and heart rate of i.v. calcium before the administration of verapamil during the treatment of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (PSVT) in elderly patients. Administration of i.v. verapamil with or without preceding i.v. calcium administration was performed in elderly patients with PSVT. Verapamil (1.0 mg/min) was administered i.v. in 10 patients (Group A) and calcium (3.75 mg/kg for 5 min) followed by verapamil (1.0 mg/min), which was administered i.v. in seven patients (Group B). Blood pressure and heart rate were measured during the study every 5 minutes. Verapamil was effective in suppressing PSVT in both groups. In Group A, i.v. verapamil caused sustained decreases in blood pressure and heart rate over 25 min. In Group B, systolic blood pressure transiently fell immediately after administration of i.v. verapamil, but reversed to the baseline level in 5 min. The absolute and percentage decreases in blood pressure were significantly smaller in Group B than in Group A, whereas changes in heart rate were identical in both groups. Thus, i.v. calcium was effective in preventing hypotension during the treatment of PSVT with verapamil. This regimen was beneficial for elderly patients, since a sufficient dose of verapamil for suppressing PSVT could be administered without causing hypotension.
Both cocaine and crack exert sympathetic and prothrombotic effects. The induced lesion may affect the skin, as well as other organ systems. Various types of vasculitis and infectious dermatoses are the predominant issues. In addition, tactile and visual hallucinations may occur suggesting insect crawling underneath the skin.
Acute overdose of tacrolimus appears to cause no or minimal adverse clinical consequences. We encountered a pediatric case who underwent liver transplantation associated with hepatic artery thrombosis (HAT), which recurred following acute tacrolimus overdose. A 10-month-old girl underwent living-related liver transplantation because of biliary atresia. To reconstruct the hepatic artery, the right gastroepiploic artery of the donor was interposed between the right hepatic artery of the recipient (2.5 mm in diameter) and the left hepatic graft artery (1 mm in diameter) under microscopy. On postoperative day 4, Doppler ultrasonography showed a remarkable reduction in hepatic arterial flow, which was consistent with HAT. The patient underwent immediate hepatic arteriography and balloon angioplasty. The stenotic sites were dilated by the procedure. Tacrolimus was infused intravenously after transplantation and the infusion rate was adjusted to achieve a target concentration of 18-22 ng/mL, which remained stable until the morning of day 6. An unexpectedly high blood concentration of tacrolimus (57.4 ng/mL) was detected at 6:00 PM on day 6, and tacrolimus was discontinued at 9:00 PM; however, the tacrolimus level reached 119.5 ng/mL at 0:00 h on day 7. While the concentration decreased to 55.2 ng/mL on the morning of day 7, the hepatic arterial flow could not be observed by Doppler ultrasonography. Emergent hepatic arteriography showed stenosis of the artery at the proximal site of the anastomosis. Balloon angioplasty was again performed and the stenotic site was successfully dilated. High level of tacrolimus exposure to the hepatic artery with injured endothelium by preceding angioplasty may have been related to the recurrence of HAT in the present case.
This prospective, double-blind study used invasive monitoring and echo-Doppler techniques to compare the hemodynamic effects of nebivolol, a new beta 1-selective beta-blocking agent with those of atenolol in patients recovering from coronary artery bypass grafting surgery. Five milligrams nebivolol and 50 mg atenolol equally decreased heart rate (HR) and blood pressure (BP) but, nebivolol, in contrast to atenolol, caused no decrease in stroke index (SI), cardiac index (CI), and right ventricular ejection fraction (RVEF). These differences appeared to be related in part to different peripheral effects of the two agents because nebivolol administration was associated with a reduction in systemic vascular resistance (SVR). After < or = 10 days of treatment, acceleration of aortic flow velocity increased and isovolumic relaxation time decreased with nebivolol but not with atenolol treatment. Both drugs were equally well tolerated. Therefore, nebivolol shares most of its effects with classical beta 1-blockers but is devoid of the potentially harmful effects on cardiac output (CO) and peripheral resistance.
Dipivefrin hydrochloride is a lipophilic prodrug for epinephrine hydrochloride, allowing lower concentration of the drug to achieve the same intraocular pressure lowering effect and having also less harmful effects than epinephrine hydrochloride. However, harmful effects have been associated also with the use of dipivefrin and here we report of a case of corneal vascularization during long-term use of dipivefrin.
In a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover design various side effects (= unwanted effects) during 6 months of therapeutic serum lithium levels (0.7-1.1 mmol/1) to nonpsychiatric patients were studied. The side effects were measured by self-rating scales and independent observer rating scales administered every 2-4 weeks throughout the study. After months of treatment, lithium induced hand tremor and thirst/polyuria; however, without any relationship to the serum levels of lithium. The frequency of tremor was highest in patients above the age of 60 years. No initial sedative-like lithium effect was found.
