Pepticare, a herbomineral formulation, was administered orally to rats at the dose levels of 125, 250, 500 and 1000 mg/kg to investigate its effect on isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction and cisplatin-induced renal damage. The drug reduced the levels of serum creatine kinase (CK), glutamic oxaloacetate transaminase (GOT), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and uric acid in isoproterenol-induced cardiac damage. In cisplatin-induced renal damage, Pepticare reduced the serum levels of creatinine, urea, blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and uric acid. It was further found that administration of Pepticare increased the levels of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), reduced glutathione (GSH), membrane bound enzymes like Ca2+ ATPase, Mg2+ ATPase and Na+ K+ ATPase and decreased lipid peroxidation (MDA) in heart and kidney, respectively. Thus it can be concluded that Pepticare possesses antioxidant activity and protects the heart and kidney from damage caused by isoproterenol and cisplatin, respectively.
Bupropion is a newer generation antidepressant that is commonly used for treatment of depression and for smoking cessation. Seizures are a frequently reported adverse effect of bupropion in therapeutic oral doses; however, there are limited data about the consequences of nasal insufflation of bupropion. We report the case of a patient who presented to the emergency department (ED) with a recent history of generalized tonic-clonic seizures whose etiology was initially a diagnostic mystery. After an initial visit to another ED, the patient presented to our ED later that day with a recurrence of the seizures after crushing and nasally insufflating oral bupropion tablets. We review important implications of this case to emergency medicine, including the potential for abuse of bupropion, the difference between intranasal and oral administration, the changing trends in the etiology of drug related seizures and the importance of examining the nares in patients with unexplained seizure and delirium.
For opioid-dependent patients, the need for detoxification has been a barrier to entry into long-term residential treatment. This report describes a retrospective observational cohort study with the first 38 opioid-dependent patients entering First Step, a 14-day buprenorphine-naloxone (Suboxone) detoxification regimen integrated into a long-term residential therapeutic community (TC) program. Eighty-nine percent (34 of 38) of First Step patients completed a 14-day buprenorphine taper protocol, 50% (19 of 38) completed an initial 3- to 4-week stay, and 39% (15 of 38) completed at least 3 months of residential treatment at the TC. Retention did not differ significantly in a demographically matched concurrently admitted control group without impending opioid withdrawal, in which 65% (24 of 37) completed an initial 3- to 4-week stay (p = .20) and 57% (21 of 37) completed at least 3 months of treatment (p = .14). Withdrawal symptoms were mild, and there were no instances of precipitated withdrawal. The findings suggest the potential for buprenorphine to serve as a bridge, improving the viability of long-term residential treatment for managing opioid dependence.
To study the antisecretory and antiulcer activity of Asparagus racemosus Willd. (methanolic extract) and its action against indomethacin (a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug) plus pyloric ligation (PL)-induced gastric ulcers in rats.
Indomethacin plus PL-induced gastric ulceration model was used in the study.
Treatment with Asparagus racemosus (Shatavari) crude extract (100 mg/kg/day orally) for fifteen days significantly reduced ulcer index when compared with control group. The reduction in gastric lesions was comparable to a standard antiulcer drug Ranitidine (30 mg/kg/ day orally). Crude extract also significantly reduced volume of gastric secretion, free acidity and total acidity. A significant increase in total carbohydrate (TC) and TC/total protein (TP) ratio of gastric juice was also observed. No significant change in the total protein was noted.
Asparagus racemosus was found to be an effective antiulcerogenic agent, whose activity can well be compared with that of ranitidine hydrochloride. The results of this study suggest that Asparagus racemosus causes an inhibitory effect on release of gastric hydrochloric acid and protects gastric mucosal damage.
The Authors report a case where cocaine abuse during pregnancy assessed by drug analysis at various site was associated with foetal microcephaly. Foetal pathologic findings revealed anomalies in neuronal migration and in the vascular architecture in the brain. Such anomalies might be the result of prolonged exposure to cocaine in utero, aggravated by the high concentration of cocaine metabolites in the amniotic fluid over a prolonged period.
The effect of prenatal exposure to coumarins (acenocoumarol, phenprocoumon) on neurological outcome was assessed in a cohort of 306 children aged 7-15 years. Findings were compared with those in a non-exposed cohort of 267 children, matched for sex, age, and demographic region. We used a neurological examination technique which pays special attention to minor neurological dysfunction (MND). None of the children was found to be neurologically abnormal. However, exposure to coumarins during gestation increases the risk for MND in children of school age, odds ratio (OR) 1.9 (CI(95) 1.1-3.4), predominantly after exposure in the second or third trimester, odds ratio 2.1 (CI(95) 1.2-3.8). We found a dose-response relationship with an odds ratio of 1.2 (CI(95) 1.0-1.5) per mg coumarin derivative prescribed per day. The results suggest that coumarins have an influence on the development of the brain which can lead to mild neurological dysfunctions in children of school age.
The current study characterizes the mechanism by which mercury, a toxic metal, induces death in murine macrophages. The cytotoxic EC(50) of mercury ranged from 62.7 to 81.1 microM by various assays in J774A.1 cultures; accordingly, we employed 70 microM of mercuric chloride in most experiments. Mercury-induced intracellular calcium modulated reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, which resulted in both cell apoptosis and necrosis indicated by annexin V binding and caspase-3 activity, and propidium-iodide binding. Calcium antagonists abolished ROS production. Mercury stimulated p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and additively stimulated lipopolysaccharide-activated p38. Mercury-activated p38 was decreased by pretreatment of cells with antioxidants, N-acetylcysteine (NAC) and silymarin, indicating that mercury-induced ROS were involved in p38 activation. Mercury increased the expression of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha); antioxidants and a specific p38 inhibitor decreased this effect. Pretreatment with antioxidants, p38 inhibitor, and anti-TNFalpha antibody decreased mercury-induced necrosis; however, anti-TNFalpha antibody did not decrease mercury-induced apoptosis. Results suggest that mercury-induced macrophage death is a mix of apoptosis and necrosis employing different pathways. P38-mediated caspase activation regulates mercury-induced apoptosis and p38-mediated TNFalpha regulates necrosis in these cells. Calcium regulates ROS production and mercury-induced ROS modulate downstream p38 that regulates both apoptosis and necrosis.
To assess the antitumor activity of vitespen (autologous, tumor- derived heat shock protein gp96 peptide complexes) by determining whether patients with stage IV melanoma treated with vitespen experienced longer overall survival than patients treated with physician's choice.
Patients (N = 322) were randomly assigned 2:1 to receive vitespen or physician's choice (PC) of a treatment containing one or more of the following: dacarbazine, temozolomide, interleukin-2, or complete tumor resection. This open-label trial was conducted at 71 centers worldwide. Patients were monitored for safety and overall survival.
Therapy with vitespen is devoid of significant toxicity. Patients randomly assigned to the vitespen arm received variable number of injections (range, 0 to 87; median, 6) in part because of the autologous nature of vitespen therapy. Intention-to-treat analysis showed that overall survival in the vitespen arm is statistically indistinguishable from that in the PC arm. Exploratory landmark analyses show that patients in the M1a and M1b substages receiving a larger number of vitespen immunizations survived longer than those receiving fewer such treatments. Such difference was not detected for substage M1c patients.
These results are consistent with the immunologic mechanism of action of vitespen, indicating delayed onset of clinical activity after exposure to the vaccine. The results suggest patients with M1a and M1b disease who are able to receive 10 or more doses of vitespen as the candidate population for a confirmatory study.
Lithium is known to be neurotoxic at higher serum levels. In rare cases patients develop symptoms of intoxication or full blown intoxications even when lithium levels are normal. Our aim was to detect predicting factors of lithium neurotoxicity at normal serum lithium levels in order to allow prevention of those constellations.
We report two cases of severe lithium intoxications at normal serum lithium levels and review the current literature concerning lithium neurotoxicity at normal serum levels.
It appears that the probability of developing signs of lithium intoxications in patients treated with lithium is increased with advanced age, co-morbidity with pre-existing neurological or other general diseases, especially those associated with fever, and in combination with the use of antipsychotics, antidepressants or mood stabilizers. The serum lithium level does not necessarily detect an intoxication.
In patients developing signs of intoxication under lithium therapy, further investigations should include serum levels and an EEG. Because intoxications can occur even in normal serum levels, discontinuation of lithium medication should be taken into account on the basis of clinical signs of intoxication.
Telmisartan is a nonpeptide angiotensin II receptor antagonist which selectively and insurmountably inhibits the angiotensin II AT1 receptor subtype without affecting other receptor systems involved in cardiovascular regulation. Oral telmisartan dose-dependently reduced blood pressure (BP) in various animal models of hypertension. In transgenic rats, telmisartan reduced cardiac hypertrophy and glomerulosclerosis. When administered at dosages of 40 to 160 mg once daily to patients with mild to moderate hypertension, telmisartan significantly reduced systolic and diastolic BP compared with placebo and was at least as effective as atenolol 50 or 100 mg and lisinopril 10 to 40 mg. One study showed telmisartan 80 mg/day to be more effective than enalapril 20 mg/day. In 2 studies that used ambulatory BP monitoring, once daily telmisartan provided better control of diastolic BP for the full dosing interval than losartan potassium 50 mg or amlodipine 5 or 10 mg. In a single study in patients with severe hypertension, a telmisartan-based regimen had antihypertensive efficacy similar to that of an enalapril-based regimen. Telmisartan had a tolerability profile similar to that of placebo in clinical studies.
The effect of intrapleural bupivacaine in the treatment of post-thoracotomy pain was evaluated. Bupivacaine, 0.5% 20 ml, with adrenaline (5 micrograms/ml) was given through an indwelling intrapleural catheter, at 4-h intervals four times daily for 2 days. No pleural suction was applied during and 10 min after each injection. A control group received intramuscular oxycodone on request. A visual analogue scale (VAS), a pain questionnaire (PQ) and registration of the need for supplementary analgesics were used for the assessment of postoperative analgesia. Blood-gas analyses showed elevated PaCO2 values in both groups on the day of operation and on the first postoperative day, without differences between the groups. Plasma concentrations of bupivacaine did not reach toxic values, and no symptoms of central nervous toxicity or any other untoward reactions were found during the study period. Clinically, there was some pain relief after the intrapleural bupivacaine. The VAS and PQ scores 30 min after bupivacaine instillations diminished to an extent similar to that after oxycodone treatment. The need for analgesics during the day of operation was less in the bupivacaine group than in the control group (P less than 0.001). The number of oxycodone supplementation doses during 48 h postoperatively was, however, not smaller in the bupivacaine group than in the control group.
Theophylline is generally considered to be a bronchodilatory drug. However, recent pharmacodynamic studies indicate that it has anti-inflammatory effects. It reduced eosinophil survival rates in vitro, and reduced eosinophil accumulation in bronchial tissue in patients with atopic asthma. Theophylline has also been shown to reduce T cell proliferation and accumulation. These changes were mirrored by improved pulmonary function in patients with asthma in studies that evaluated this parameter. Three randomised double-blind studies have evaluated the potential role of theophylline as an anti-inflammatory treatment in patients with asthma not controlled by low doses of inhaled corticosteroids. Patients were randomised to receive low dose theophylline (400 to 750 mg daily) plus low dose inhaled corticosteroids, or an increased dose of inhaled corticosteroids. Clinical pulmonary function improved to the same or a greater extent in patients who received low dose inhaled corticosteroids plus theophylline than in those treated with high dose inhaled corticosteroids plus placebo. Where reported, the dosages of theophylline used in these studies resulted in serum theophylline concentrations of approximately 9 to 10 mg/L. Approximate monthly costs were provided in one study: these were $60 (year and currency not specified) for theophylline plus budesonide 800 micrograms/day, compared with $100 for budesonide 1600 micrograms/day, and $155 for a regimen of budesonide 800 micrograms/day and salmeterol 100 micrograms/day.
Low dose theophylline has been shown to reduce requirements for inhaled corticosteroid therapy in patients with asthma and may reduce overall treatment costs.
The evaporation of formaldehyde from cadavers can produce high exposures among students and instructors. A possible causal role for formaldehyde has been considered likely for tumor of the nasopharynx and the nasal cavities in human beings. Due to this reason, Japan Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (MEXT) has set a guideline, which includes--decrease in gaseous formaldehyde in gross anatomy dissection laboratories and a guide to medical students about the toxicity of formaldehyde and protective method to avoid damages to skin, mucous, membrane, etc, in 2002. To understand what effective plans should be regarding the awareness of students about this notification, this study measured the gaseous formaldehyde concentrations in the anatomy dissection room and also analyzed the formaldehyde-related symptoms, and frequency of using protective measures. The study was conducted over a period of 3 months during the anatomy dissection exercise. We found that immediately after removing the cadavers' plastic covering, formaldehyde concentrations in the dissection room increased sharply. The concentration reached a peak point of 0.62 ppm after 10 minutes of starting of the class. This was much above the recommended level of 0.5 ppm set by Japan Society for Occupational Health. After 30 minutes of achieving the peak the formaldehyde level started decreasing gradually to a level of 0.11 ppm. Formaldehyde-related symptoms were observed in 59% of students. They had experienced symptoms of irritation of eyes, nose, throat, airways, skin, and headache during the course. Ocular discomfort was found significantly higher in the contact lenses users compared to the spectacle users or the normal eye sight group. Although, the guidelines about toxicity of formaldehyde and its protective measures to prevent damages to skin, mucous membrane etc. were informed to every student, only 52% of the students used both the mask containing activated carbon and the rubber gloves in every practical class without fail. Environmental Health Criteria 89 of International Program of Chemical Safety states, "It must be regarded that formaldehyde fluid is not absorbed directly into tissues through the skin". So the students may be allowed in some cases to touch the cadaver, treated by formaldehyde content fixative, by bare hands to understand the feel of certain organs and tissues. These results support that the rules of health supervision including necessity to use of protective measures, monitoring of indoor air formaldehyde etc. should be adhered by students and instructors in anatomy dissection room during the practical class.
This study investigated beat-to-beat QT variability in patients with panic disorder before and after treatment with nortriptyline (n = 13) and paroxetine (n = 16), using an automated algorithm to compute QT intervals. An increase in QT variability appears to be associated with symptomatic patients with dilated cardiomyopathy and also with an increased risk for sudden cardiac death. QTvi (QT variability index: a log ratio of QT variance normalized for mean QT over heart rate variability normalized for mean heart rate) was significantly higher in supine posture in patients with panic disorder treated with nortriptyline (P = 0.006) but not paroxetine. Thus paroxetine may be a better drug of choice especially in patients with coexisting cardiac disease. These findings are important especially in view of the recent reports of increased risk for cardiovascular mortality and sudden death in patients with anxiety and depression. QTvi can be a valuable noninvasive measure of temporal repolarization lability, especially to study the side effects of medications which affect cardiac autonomic function.
Epileptic seizures complicating treatment with selective inhibitors of phosphodiesterase type 5 are scarcely reported.
A previously non-epileptic 78-year-old patient presented with a partial epileptic seizure following oral intake, for the second time, of 10mg of vardenafil (Levitra). The brain MRI failed to show any preexisting lesion. To our knowledge, only 2 cases of generalized tonic-clonic seizures induced by sildenafil (Viagra) use have been reported. In our patient, the seizure could be due to the epileptogenic potential of the drug or to its vascular complications.
Further studies are needed to elucidate the association of phosphodiesterase inhibitors use and epileptic seizures.
Caffeine, the only licit psychoactive drug available to minors, may have a harmful impact on students' health and adjustment, yet little is known about its use or effects on students, especially from a developmental perspective. Caffeine use in 5th- and 10th-grade students was examined in a cross-sectional design, and relations and potential mediators of caffeine use to depression and anxiety symptoms were investigated.
Children (n = 135) and adolescents (n = 79) completed a measure of naturalistic use of caffeinated and noncaffeinated beverages. Furthermore, daily availability, perceived benefits, and stimulating, psychological, and withdrawal effects of caffeinated and noncaffeinated beverages were assessed. Measures of depression and anxiety were also administered.
Fifth and 10th graders used caffeine frequently. Depression was positively related to caffeine use for both cohorts, though mediated by caffeine withdrawal effects. Surprisingly, anxiety was unrelated to use. Fifth graders reported less daily access to caffeine, but more psychological and stimulating effects of caffeine than 10th graders.
Although both children and adolescents experience negative caffeine-related outcomes, intake is seemingly not greatly limited in either cohort. In particular, youth appear vulnerable to increased depressive symptoms with increasing caffeine consumption. Implications for school policy regarding students' caffeine use are discussed.
The widely used antiepileptic drug valproic acid (VPA) is known to exhibit teratogenicity in the form of a failure of the neural tube in humans. Embryonic stem cells (ESCs) are reported to be a promising cell source for evaluating chemical teratogenicity, because they are capable of reproducing embryonic developmental model and enable reduction in the number of experimental animals used. We previously investigated 22 genes for which expressions are altered by teratogens, specifically focusing on neural differentiation of mouse ESCs. In the present study, expressions of the investigated genes were evaluated by quantitative real-time PCR and compared during differentiation of human ESCs into neurons with or without VPA. Under the conditions, almost all gene expressions significantly changed in VPA-containing culture. Specifically, in neural development-related genes such as DCX, ARX, MAP2, and NNAT, more than 2-fold expression was observed. The findings suggest that the genes focused on in this study may help to elucidate the teratogenic effects of VPA and might be a useful tool to analyze embryotoxic potential of chemicals in humans.
Acetaminophen (APAP) toxicity involves both arylative and oxidative mechanisms. The shark bile salt, 5 beta-scymnol (5beta-S), has been demonstrated to act as an antioxidant and free radical scavenger in vitro. To determine if 5beta-S protects against either APAP-induced hepatic or renal toxicity, 3-4-month-old male Swiss Laca mice were given APAP (500 mg/kg), and 5beta-S (100 mg/kg) was given at 0 and 2 h after APAP. Plasma SDH at 12 h after APAP alone was 1630 U/l and BUN was 19 mg/dl versus 20 U/l and 10 mg/dl, respectively, in controls. Either simultaneous or 2 h delayed treatment with 5beta-S significantly decreased the APAP-induced SDH increase while only the simultaneous pretreatment prevented the BUN elevation. 5beta-S alone did not increase liver glutathione content. Western analysis of APAP covalent binding using anti-APAP antibodies indicated the 5beta-S did not alter protein arylation either qualitatively or quantitatively. These results suggest that 5beta-S treatment did not impair APAP activation and are consistent with 5beta-S protection that likely results from its antioxidant activity.
Statins reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in appropriately selected patients. However, statin-associated myopathy is a significant risk associated with these agents. Recently, variation in the SLCO1B1 gene was reported to predict simvastatin-associated myopathy. The aim of this study was to replicate association of the rs4149056 variant in SLCO1B1 with severe statin-associated myopathy in a cohort of patients using a variety of statin medications and to investigate the association with specific statin types. We identified 25 cases of severe statin-associated myopathy and 84 controls matched for age, gender, statin type and dose. The rs4149056 variant in SLCO1B1 was not significantly associated with myopathy in this group as a whole. However, when subjects were stratified by statin type, the SLCO1B1 rs4149056 genotype was significantly associated with myopathy in patients who received simvastatin, but not in patients who received atorvastatin. Our findings provide further support for a role for SLCO1B1 genotype in simvastatin-associated myopathy, and suggest that this association may be stronger for simvastatin compared with atorvastatin.
Vanadium treatment normalizes plasma glucose levels in streptozotocin-diabetic rats in vivo, but the mechanism(s) involved are still unclear. Here, we tested the hypothesis that the in vivo effects of vanadium are mediated by changes in gluconeogenesis. Diabetic rats were treated with bis(maltolato)oxovanadium(IV) (BMOV) in the drinking water (0.75-1 mg/ml, 4 wk) or, for comparison, with insulin implants (4 U/d) for the final week of study. As with insulin, BMOV lowered plasma glucose and normalized phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK) and glucose-6-phosphatase (G-6-Pase) mRNA in the liver and kidney of diabetic rats. To determine the importance of reducing hyperglycemia per se, diabetic rats were treated either with a single ED(50) dose of BMOV (0.1 mmol/kg, ip) or with phlorizin (900 mg/kg.d, 5 d). BMOV rapidly restored PEPCK and G-6-Pase mRNA and normalized plasma glucose in responsive (50%) diabetic rats but had no effect on the nonresponsive hyperglycemic rats. Phlorizin corrected plasma glucose but had no effect on PEPCK mRNA and only partially normalized G-6-Pase mRNA. In conclusion, 1) BMOV inhibits PEPCK mRNA expression and activity by rapid mechanisms that are not reproduced simply by correction of hyperglycemia; and 2) BMOV inhibits G-6-Pase expression by complex mechanisms that depend, in part, on correction of hyperglycemia.
Arsenic (As) is both a human carcinogen and an effective anticancer drug. These aspects of arsenic toxicity develop as a consequence of arsenic-induced oxidative stress and modifications to signal pathway activity which alter gene expression. Resveratrol (RVL) a food antioxidant found in grapes and other fruits, exhibits anti-carcinogenic properties by reducing oxidative stress and restoring signal pathway control. This study investigated the impact of RVL on arsenite [As(III)]-induced cell signalling in HaCaT keratinocytes by assaying phosphorylation status of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) signalling intermediates and measuring changes in expression of Phase II and DNA repair biomarkers. As(III) exposure produced dose-dependent toxicity which was associated with increased activation of EGFR pathway intermediates, cSrc, Rac1 and extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 (ERK1/2). Arsenic-mediated ERK1/2 activation negatively regulated DNA polymerase beta expression and up regulated heme-oxygenase-1 at toxic concentrations. RVL treatment modulated As(III)-mediated ERK1/2 activation by shifting the balance of cSrc regulatory domain phosphorylation. These effects significantly altered the response of the EGFR pathway to growth factor-induced stimulation. Our research provides evidence that treatment with pharmacologically relevant doses of RVL influences cellular responses to As(III), largely due to RVL-mediated changes to Src and ERK1/2 activation.
Dopaminergic mechanisms are thought to be critical in mediating relapse to cocaine-seeking behavior. This study examined the different roles of D1- and D2-like receptor mechanisms in the relapse process. Squirrel monkeys were given extended histories of i. v. cocaine self-administration under conditions in which responding was maintained jointly by response-contingent cocaine injections and a cocaine-paired visual stimulus (second-order schedule). Responding was then extinguished by substituting saline for cocaine injections and omitting presentations of the cocaine-paired stimulus. Subsequently, noncontingent priming injections of cocaine combined with restoration of the cocaine-paired stimulus induced dose-dependent reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior, with response rates approaching those maintained by active cocaine self-administration. The priming effects of cocaine were attenuated by several D1- and D2-like receptor antagonists and low efficacy agonists but not by the D3-preferring antagonists UH 232 and AJ-76. The priming effects of cocaine were mimicked by the D2-like receptor agonists R(-)-propylnorapomorphine hydrochloride (NPA) and quinpirole, less consistently by 7-OH-DPAT, and not by the D1-like receptor agonists SKF-81297 and SKF-82958, the D3-preferring agonist PD-128,907, or any low efficacy agonist. Cotreatment with NPA, PD-128,907, and 7-OH-DPAT did not alter reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior induced by a maximally effective priming dose of cocaine, whereas cotreatment with D1-like receptor agonists attenuated the priming effects of cocaine. The results suggest that D1- and D2-like receptors play fundamentally different roles in the relapse process. Although stimulation of D2-like, but probably not D3-like, receptors appears necessary for induction of relapse, either stimulation or blockade of D1-like receptors appears to be inhibitory with respect to relapse.
Docetaxel (Taxotere), a semisynthetic taxoid, acts as an antimicrotubule agent and is considered to have great potential in the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer, advanced breast cancer, ovarian cancer and some other tumours. Well-recognized side-effects include dose-limiting neutropenia, fluid retention, myalgia, neuropathy, hypersensitivity reaction, alopecia, mucositis, nail changes and cutaneous reactions such as acral erythema. We describe a unique docetaxel-induced cutaneous reaction presenting as fixed erythematous plaque(s) unrelated to extravasation or previous skin injury; histopathological studies were performed in three of the four cases.
Estramustine phosphate, a nor nitrogen mustard derivative of estradiol 17-beta-phosphate, was introduced in the treatment of prostatic carcinoma in 1966. Until March 1975, 466 patients have been reported on this treatment in open clinical trials: 82% of the patients were in stage IV. In 402 patients, nonresponsive to previous estrogen therapy, signigicant improvement occurred in 55%. In 64 previously untreated patients there was a favourable response in 83%. Side-effects were mainly bone marrow suppression. liver disturbance, thrombophlebitis following intravenous injection, and gastrointestinal troubles, mainly following oral administration. A prospective, randomized study comparing oral estramustine phosphate and conventional estrogen therapy in carcinoma of the prostate is in progress.
Chemotherapy-associated memory deficits in adults are prevalent with systemic treatment utilizing 5-fluorouracil (5-Fu). 5-Fu disrupts cell proliferation and readily crosses the blood-brain barrier. Proliferating cells within the adult dentate gyrus of the hippocampus give rise to new neurons involved in memory and learning and require neurotrophic factors such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) to nurture this process of adult neurogenesis. Some of these proliferating cells are anatomically and functionally supported by vascular endothelial cells. We propose that systemically administered 5-Fu chemotherapy will cause deficits in hippocampal memory that are associated with altered BDNF levels and proliferating cells (particularly vascular-associated cells) in the dentate gyrus. This was tested by determining the effect of 5-Fu on spatial working memory as modelled by the object location recognition test. Numbers of vascular-associated (VA) and non-vascular-associated (NVA) proliferating cells in the dentate gyrus were measured using double-labelling immunohistochemistry with markers of proliferation (Ki67) and endothelial cells (RECA-1). 5-Fu-induced changes in hippocampal BDNF and doublecortin (DCX) protein levels were quantified using Western immunoblotting. 5-Fu chemotherapy caused a marginal disruption in spatial working memory and did not alter the total proliferating cell counts or the percentage of VA and NVA proliferating cells in the dentate gyrus. In contrast, 5-Fu significantly reduced BDNF and DCX levels in the hippocampus, indicating alterations in neurotrophin levels and neurogenesis. These findings highlight the usefulness of animal models of 'chemobrain' for understanding the mechanisms that underlie chemotherapy-associated declines in cognitive performance and memory.
