Reactive oxygen species and oxidative stress were implicated in hepatic stellate cell activation and liver fibrosis. The aim of the present study was to examine whether the administration of free radical scavengers in vivo would prevent experimentally-induced hepatic cirrhosis in rats.
Cirrhosis was induced by administration of thioacetamide (TAA; 200 mg/kg, i.p.) twice/week, for 12 weeks. Rats were treated concurrently with either dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO; 4 g/kg, s.c. or p.o.) or dimethylthiourea (DMTU; 200 mg/kg i.p.) three times a week.
Liver fibrosis (histopathological score, spleen weight, and hepatic hydroxyproline) was abolished in rats treated with TAA and either DMSO or DMTU (P < 0.001). Accordingly, the hepatic expression of alpha smooth muscle actin, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 2 and collagen alpha1 (I) gene were inhibited. The hepatic level of methane-sulfinic acid (produced by the interaction of DMSO with hydroxyl radicals) was increased in rats treated with TAA + DMSO (P = 0.0005) and decreased after pretreatment of these rats with DMTU (P = 0.008). However, the hepatic levels of malondialdehyde, lipid peroxides and protein carbonyls were not lower in the DMSO- and DMTU-treated groups.
The administration of free radical scavengers prevented the development of TAA-induced liver cirrhosis probably associated with decreased oxidative stress.
This study was designed to evaluate the effects of long-term treatment with alpha-naphthyl-isothiocyanate (ANIT) on liver histology and at the mitochondrial bioenergetic level. Since, ANIT has been used as a cholestatic agent and it has been pointed out that an impairment of mitochondrial function is a cause of hepatocyte dysfunction leading to cholestatic liver injury, serum markers of liver injury were measured and liver sections were analyzed in ANIT-treated rats (i.p. 80 mg/kg/week x 16 weeks). Mitochondrial parameters such as transmembrane potential, respiration, calcium capacity, alterations in permeability transition susceptibility and ATPase activity were monitored. Histologically, the most important features were the marked ductular proliferation, proliferation of mast cells and the presence of iron deposits in ANIT-treated liver. Mitochondria isolated from ANIT-treated rats showed no alterations in state 4 respiration, respiratory control ratio and ADP/O ratio, while state 3 respiration was significantly decreased. No changes were observed on transmembrane potential, but the repolarization rate was decreased in treated rats. Consistently with these data, there was a significant decrease in the ATPase activity of treated mitochondria. Associated with these parameters, mitochondria from treated animals exhibited increased susceptibility to mitochondrial permeability transition pore opening (lower calcium capacity). Since, human cholestatic liver disease progress slowly overtime, these data provide further insight into the role of mitochondrial dysfunction in the process.
This 8-week, double-blind, randomized trial compared the efficacy and tolerability of venlafaxine and sertraline in patients with major depression.
Outpatients (N = 147) with DSM-IV major depressive disorder and a baseline 21-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D) score of at least 18 were randomly assigned to venlafaxine, 37.5 mg b.i.d., or sertraline, 50 mg once daily. From day 15, the doses could be increased to venlafaxine, 75 mg b.i.d., or sertraline, 50 mg b.i.d. Efficacy was assessed with the 21-item HAM-D, the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS), and the Clinical Global Impressions scale (CGI) using a modified intent-to-treat analysis.
No significant differences were noted between treatments for mean HAM-D, MADRS, or CGI scores. At week 8, the HAM-D response rate was 83% with venlafaxine (N = 75) and 68% with sertraline (N = 72) (p = .05). A HAM-D score less than 10 was recorded in 68% of venlafaxine-treated and 45% of sertraline-treated patients at week 8 (p = .008). Among patients who increased their dose, the remission rate (HAM-D score < 10) was 67% with venlafaxine and 36% with sertraline at week 8 (p < .05). The overall discontinuation rate was 21% with venlafaxine and 17% with sertraline. The most common adverse events with venlafaxine were nausea, headache, and sweating and with sertraline were nausea, headache, and diarrhea.
Among patients who increased their dose, approximately twice as many experienced a remission with venlafaxine, which is a more clinically relevant endpoint than response and represents the proportion of patients who have recovered or are well.
We determined the minimum effective plasma concentrations of several antiarrhythmic agents against canine halothane-adrenaline arrhythmia. Sustained ventricular tachycardia was produced by continuous adrenaline infusion at rates of 1.5 to 4 micrograms/kg/min under 1.5% halothane anesthesia. Procainamide, 20 mg/kg, produced ventricular fibrillation in three of nine dogs. Disopyramide, 3 mg/kg, suppressed the arrhythmia in nine of 11 dogs at a minimum effective plasma concentration of 4.2 micrograms/ml, but produced ventricular fibrillation in the remaining two dogs. Phenytoin, 5 mg/kg, was effective at a minimum concentration of 12 micrograms/ml. Lidocaine, 10 mg/kg, suppressed the arrhythmia at a minimum concentration of 15 micrograms/ml, which is much higher than the human toxic plasma level. These drugs may have suppressed the adrenaline arrhythmia by inhibiting the sodium channel, because their effective concentrations were very close to membrane-stabilizing concentrations in vitro. Small doses of 30 micrograms/kg propranolol and 0.1 mg/kg N-696, two beta-blockers, and 0.1 mg/kg verapamil, a calcium channel blocker, yielding a concentration of 0.03 micrograms/ml, suppressed the arrhythmia, probably by indirectly or directly blocking the calcium channel.
The purpose of investigation was to study the effect of intrathecal fentanyl on the onset and duration of hyperbaric bupivacaine-induced spinal block in adult male patients. Forty-three patients undergoing lower extremity or genitourinary surgery were enrolled to receive either 13.5 mg hyperbaric bupivacaine 0.75% + 0.5 ml CSF it, (Group I) or 13.5 mg hyperbaric bupivacaine 0.75% + 25 micrograms fentanyl it, (Group II) according to a randomized assessor-blind protocol. The onset and duration of sensory block were assessed by pinching the skin with forceps in the midclavicular line bilaterally every two minutes for first twenty minutes and then every five to ten minutes. Similarly, the onset and duration of motor block were assessed and graded at the same time intervals using the criteria described by Bromage. The time required for two sensory segment regression and sensory regression to L1 dermatome was 74 +/- 18 and 110 +/- 33 min vs 93 +/- 22 and 141 +/- 37 min in Groups I and II, respectively (P < 0.05). Intrathecal fentanyl did not enhance the onset of sensory or motor block, or prolong the duration of bupivacaine-induced motor spinal block. Fewer patients demanded pain relief in the fentanyl-treated group than in the control group in the early postoperative period (19% vs 59%; P < 0.05). Episodes of hypotension were more frequent in the fentanyl-treated group than in the control group (43% vs 14%; P < 0.05). We conclude that fentanyl, 25 micrograms it, prolonged the duration of bupivacaine-induced sensory block (sensory regression to L1 dermatone) by 28% and reduced the analgesic requirement in the early postoperative period following bupivacaine spinal block.
To compare the frequency and severity of adverse events associated with parenteral drugs commonly used for procedural sedation and analgesia (PSA) in a pediatric emergency department.
A database of consecutive patients receiving parenteral PSA was prospectively generated with the intent of monitoring safety in the emergency department. Data were logged onto a dedicated sedation sheet. A retrospective analysis was performed; comparisons were made based on sedation drugs used.
A total of 2,609 patients from June 1, 1996, to September 16, 2003, received PSA by emergency physicians. Patients who received PSA nonparenterally (n = 109) were excluded. A total of 2,500 patients (2,279, intravenous; 221, intramuscular) remained for analysis. Age range was 19 days to 32 years (median, 6.7 years). A total of 1,511 (60.4%) were male. Four major drug combinations were identified: ketamine alone (n = 1,492; 59.7%), ketamine/midazolam (n = 299; 12.0%), midazolam/fentanyl (n = 336; 13.4%), and midazolam alone (n = 260; 10.4%). A total of 113 patients (4.5%) received various other combinations of drugs. A total of 458 adverse events were observed in 426 patients (17%). Respiratory adverse events occurred as follows: ketamine alone, 91 patients (6.1%); ketamine/midazolam, 30 patients (10%); midazolam/fentanyl, 65 patients (19.3%); midazolam alone, 15 patients (5.8%). Vomiting occurred as follows: ketamine alone, 151 patients (10.1%); ketamine/midazolam, 16 patients (5.4%); midazolam/fentanyl, six patients (1.8%); midazolam alone, two patients (0.8%).
Drug types used in pediatric PSA are associated with different adverse event profiles. Patients receiving ketamine with or without midazolam experienced fewer respiratory adverse events but more vomiting than the commonly used combination of midazolam and fentanyl. Adverse events may occur in any patient receiving parenteral PSA.
Present study was designed to investigate modulation of experimental dementia by Pitavastatin and donepezil. Learning and memory of the swiss albino mice were studied on Morris water-maze. Celecoxib orally (p.o.)/Streptozotocin (STZ) intracerebroventricular administrations were used to induce experimental dementia. Brain acetyl cholinesterase activity was measured by EllMann's method to assess cholinergic activity of the brain. Brain thio barbituric acid reactive species (TBARS) levels and reduced glutathione (GSH) levels were measured by Ohokawa's and Beutler's method respectively, to assess total oxidative stress in brain. Total serum cholesterol level was measured by Allain's method. Celecoxib/STZ treatments produced a significant loss of learning and memory. Pitavastatin/Donepezil successfully attenuated this Celecoxib/STZ induced dementia. Higher levels of brain acetyl-cholinesterase (AChE) activity, TBARS and lower level of GSH were observed in Celecoxib/STZ treated animals, which were significantly attenuated by Donepezil. Pitavastatin also attenuated the Celecoxib/STZ induced high levels of TBARS & low levels of GSH without effecting AChE activity and total serum cholesterol levels. Celecoxib induced dementia noted in the present study may be attributed to its stimulatory effect on amyloid beta-42, brain AChE activity, and oxidative stress. Sub-diabetogenic STZ induced memory deficits closely related to Alzheimer's disease. Reversal of Celecoxib/STZ induced memory deficits by Pitavastatin may be due to its antioxidative, anti beta amyloid aggregatory property, and by Donepezil, due to its anticholinesterase and neuroprotective actions.
Antidepressants, especially tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are widely used for the treatment of various types of chronic and neuropathic pain. The antinociceptive effects of TCAs are, however, complicated. Therefore, two kinds of newer antidepressants whose functions have been more fully clarified were selected, milnacipran, a serotonin and noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) and paroxetine and fluvoxamine, which are selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). The antiallodynic effects of intrathecal administration of these newer antidepressants were examined in two rat models of neuropathic pain, chronic constriction injury (CCI) of the sciatic nerve and streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic neuropathy. The antiallodynic effect of these antidepressants was evaluated using the von Frey test. The intrathecal administration of milnacipran had an antiallodynic effect in both CCI and STZ-induced diabetic rats in a dose-dependent manner. On the other hand, the intrathecal administration of either paroxetine or fluvoxamine elicited little antiallodynic effect in CCI rats, while both SSRIs had antiallodynic effects in the STZ-induced diabetic rats in a dose-dependent manner. These results indicate a considerable difference to exist in the development and/or maintenance between these two animal models of neuropathic pain and suggest that each of these three antidepressants may be effective for the treatment of diabetic neuropathic pain.
Increased central sympathetic activity and/or deficient peripheral sympathetic nerve function are among the proposed pathophysiological changes in patients with the postural tachycardia syndrome (POTS). Little is known about sympathetic nerve outflow and its role in hemodynamic control in this disorder.
We recorded peroneal muscle sympathetic nerve activity in 9 POTS patients and 9 control subjects at rest and during a nitroprusside-induced hypotensive stimulus. Baseline blood pressure (BP) and heart rate were significantly higher in POTS patients than in controls. At rest, the burst frequency was similar in POTS patients and controls (18.1+/-6.2 and 20.1+/-7.9 bursts/min, respectively; P=NS), whereas the burst incidence was significantly lower (23.1+/-6.8 versus 32.2+/-11.4 bursts/100 heartbeats, P<0.05). Nitroprusside increased sympathetic outflow significantly more in POTS patients than in controls despite a similar BP decrease (burst frequency 20.4+/-7.5 versus 12.1+/-4.1 bursts/min, P=0.008, and burst incidence 21.8+/-8.4 versus 14.4+/-5.2 bursts/100 heartbeats, P=0.03). The change in mean burst area, a measure of the number of actively firing sympathetic neurons, was similar in patients and controls (117+/-15% versus 114+/-21%, P=NS).
At rest, the tachycardia and normal burst frequency result in normal or even elevated BP in POTS patients. During a hypotensive stimulus, cardiovascular homeostasis is maintained by the increased sympathetic outflow and normal heart rate response despite the lack of concomitant increase in mean burst area that is most likely due to sympathetic denervation.
To evaluate the effect of prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) or trimethaphan (TMP) induced hypotension on epidural blood flow (EBF) during spinal surgery, EBF was measured using the heat clearance method in 30 patients who underwent postero-lateral interbody fusion under isoflurane anaesthesia. An initial dose of 0.1 microgram.kg-1.min-1 of PGE1 (15 patients), or 10 micrograms.kg-1.min-1 of TMP (15 patients) was administered intravenously after the dural opening and the dose was adjusted to maintain the mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) at about 60 mmHg. The hypotensive drug was discontinued at the completion of the operative procedure. After starting PGE1 or TMP, MAP and rate pressure product (RPP) decreased significantly compared with preinfusion values (P < 0.01), and the degree of hypotension due to PGE1 remained constant until 60 min after its discontinuation. Heart rate (HR) did not change in either group. EBF did not change during PGE1 infusion whereas in the TMP group, EBF decreased significantly at 30 min and 60 min after the start of TMP (preinfusion: 45.9 +/- 13.9 ml/100 g/min. 30 min: 32.3 +/- 9.9 ml/100 g/min (P < 0.05). 60 min: 30 +/- 7.5 ml/100 g/min (P < 0.05). These results suggest that PGE1 may be preferable to TMP for hypotensive anaesthesia in spinal surgery because TMP decreased EBF.
The current practice of withdrawing antiplatelet therapy before major surgery has been challenged by the introduction of coronary drug-eluting stents (DESs) since evidence is accumulating that a DES requires dual antiplatelet therapy for at least a year. The authors present a case demonstrating difficulty in decision-making when it comes to appropriate perioperative antiplatelet therapy. The patient experienced a coronary stent thrombosis possibly due to discontinuation of clopidogrel prior to urologic surgery.
Two children, one with renal manifestations of systemic lupus erythematosus and the other with idiopathic nephrotic syndrome, were treated with methylprednisolone pulses. Neither had previous evidence of underlying cardiac disease. Within 24 h of pulse therapy, they complained of palpitations and developed atrial fibrillation which reversed spontaneously or after anti-arrhythmic therapy. Subsequent serial electro- and echocardiograms were normal. We propose that the arrhythmias were a complication of steroid pulse therapy.
Diagnostic evaluation of a mildly ataxic young gelding Quarterhorse included a contrast myelogram. Unfortunately, sodium diatrizoate was inappropriately administered by intrathecal injection resulting in severe unrelenting seizure activity and necessitated the destruction of the animal. The contrast agent was identified by analyzing cerebrospinal fluid by high-performance liquid chromatography and confirmed with probe mass spectrometric analysis. This contrast agent is highly ionic, has high osmolarity, and also blocks neurotransmission at specific receptors; for these reasons it is contraindicated for use in myelography. This is the first report of intrathecal administration of this agent in a horse, although there has been a previous report of similar untoward reactions in a dog, and numerous cases have been reported in humans.
We report a 6-week-old boy with meperidine neurotoxicity. What distinguished our patient from those previously reported was his minimal exposure to therapeutic doses of meperidine in the setting of normal renal function, and no history of sickle cell anemia, cancer, hepatitis, or cirrhosis. In addition, our patient had no abnormal changes in the electroencephalogram during the event. After only 2 doses of meperidine, he exhibited acute orofacial dyskinesias consisting of tongue thrusting, lip pursing, and facial grimacing combined with prominent flexion of the arms and stiffening of his legs. However, a normal sucking response remained. His symptoms resolved over the next 36 hours and did not respond to naloxone. We believe that this unique presentation of meperidine-induced neurotoxicity may be due to changes in the basal ganglia resulting from perinatal hypoxemia.
Persistent proteinuria in patients with quiescent lupus can result from membranous lupus nephritis and/or glomerular scarring following previous flares. This pilot study examined the effects of tacrolimus over two years in six patients with membranous/inactive lupus nephritis and persistent proteinuria despite angiotensin inhibition/blockade. Tacrolimus treatment reduced proteinuria and increased serum albumin (time effect, P = 0.047 and 0.032 respectively). Compared with baseline levels, proteinuria improved by more than 50% in five patients (83.3%) and hypoalbuminaemia was corrected in four patients. The efficacy was most prominent in four patients with biopsy-proven membranous lupus nephritis, whose protienuria improved by over 80%. One patient developed biopsy-proven chronic nephrotoxicity after 10 months of tacrolimus treatment, despite non-excessive blood levels. These data suggest that tacrolimus is an effective treatment for proteinuria due to membranous lupus nephritis, but should probably be reserved for patients who are refractory to other non-nephrotoxic treatments, in view of the potential risk of subclinical nephrotoxicity.
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of tramadol in patients with idiopathic detrusor overactivity (IDO).
A total of 76 patients 18 years or older with IDO were randomly assigned to receive 100 mg tramadol sustained release (group 1, n = 38) or placebo (group 2, n = 38) every 12 h for 12 weeks. Clinical evaluation was performed at baseline and every 2 weeks during treatment. All patients underwent urodynamics and ice water test at baseline and 12-week treatment. Main outcome measures were number of voids per 24 h, urine volume per void and episodes of urge incontinence per 24 h on a frequency volume chart and detailed recording of adverse effect.
After 12 weeks of treatment mean number of voids per 24 h +/- SD decreased from 9.3 +/- 3.2 to 5.1 +/- 2.1 (P < 0.001 vs. placebo) [95% confidence interval (CI) -5.1--0.4]. At that time mean urine volume per void increased from 158 +/- 32 to 198 +/- 76 ml (P < 0.001 vs. placebo) (95% CI 8-22), while mean number of incontinence episodes per 24 h decreased from 3.2 +/- 3.3 to 1.6 +/- 2.8 (P < 0.001 vs. placebo) (95% CI -2-0.3). Tramadol induced significant improvements in urodynamic parameters. More adverse effects were associated with tramadol treatment than with placebo (P < 0.05). The main adverse event with tramadol was nausea.
In patients with non-neurogenic IDO tramadol provided beneficial clinical and urodynamic results. Further studies are required to draw final conclusions on the efficacy of this drug in IDO.
Low levels of dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DbetaH) protein in the plasma or cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) are associated with greater vulnerability to positive psychotic symptoms in several psychiatric disorders. DbetaH level is a stable, genetically controlled trait. DBH, the locus encoding DbetaH protein, is the major quantitative trait locus controlling plasma and CSF DbetaH levels. We therefore hypothesized that DBH variants or haplotypes, associated with low levels of DbetaH in the plasma, would also associate with greater vulnerability to cocaine-induced paranoia. To test this hypothesis, we first showed that a di-allelic variant, DBH*5'-ins/del, located approximately 3 kb 5' to the DBH transcriptional start site, significantly associates with plasma DbetaH activity in European-Americans (n = 66). Linkage disequilibrium analysis of that polymorphism and DBH*444g/a, another di-allelic variant associated with DbetaH levels, demonstrated that alleles of similar association to DbetaH levels are in positive disequilibrium. We then estimated DBH haplotype frequencies in cocaine-dependent European Americans rated for cocaine-induced paranoia (n = 45). As predicted, the low-DbetaH-associated haplotype, Del-a, was significantly more frequent (P = 0.0003) in subjects endorsing cocaine-induced paranoia (n = 29) than in those denying it (n = 16). Comparison to control haplotype frequencies (n = 145 healthy European-Americans) showed that the association predominantly reflected under-representation of Del-a haplotypes in those denying cocaine-induced paranoia. We conclude that: (a) the two DBH polymorphisms we studied are associated with plasma DBH levels; (b) those two polymorphisms are in significant linkage disequilibrium in European Americans, with alleles of similar association to DbetaH levels in positive disequilibrium; and (c) the haplotype associated with low DBH activity is also associated with cocaine-induced paranoia. Molecular Psychiatry (2000) 5, 56-63.
Fatty acid synthase (FAS) is the key enzyme of de novo fatty acid synthesis and has been shown to be involved in carcinogenesis of numerous human malignancies, including breast, colorectal, and prostate carcinomas, often associated with a worse prognosis. Although FAS is mainly expressed in the liver, an implication of FAS in hepatocarcinogenesis, has not yet been investigated. FAS expression is stimulated by insulin and glucose, and insulin is also the primary trigger of hepatocarcinogenesis in an endocrine experimental model, which is induced by low-number transplantation of islets of Langerhans into the livers of diabetic rats. We therefore investigated, whether FAS is implicated in hepatocarcinogenesis in this model and in comparison to chemically induced hepatocarcinogenesis after N-nitrosomorpholine (NNM) treatment in diabetic and normoglycemic rats. Preneoplastic clear-cell foci of altered hepatocytes (FAH), harvested after laser-microdissection of kryostat sections, showed an overexpression of FAS messenger RNA in gene expression profiles, done by array-hybridization, and in quantitative RT-PCR (Light-Cycler). Virtually, all (96-98%) of the subsequently investigated FAH and the glycogenotic hepatocellular adenomas and carcinomas showed an additional strong FAS protein overexpression. In the NNM-model, FAS protein was also overexpressed in the vast majority (87%) of glycogenotic FAH and neoplasms, in particular in the diabetic animals. Also two spontaneous glycogenotic FAH in control animals displayed strong FAS overexpression. Basophilic lesions and neoplasms, which occasionally develop out of the primary clear-cell FAH at later stages of carcinogenesis, however, lost FAS overexpression. In conclusion, FAS overexpression is an early phenonemon in spontaneous, hormonally and chemically induced rat hepatocarcinogenesis, demonstrable in early clear-cell (glycogenotic) FAH and hepatocellular neoplasms. FAS overexpression can be attributed to the local hyperinsulinemia in the transplantation model and belongs to cellular and metabolic alterations in the chemical model, which are induced by an insulinomimetic but yet unknown mechanism.
Activity-dependent neuroprotective protein (ADNP) is widely distributed in the cytoplasm of neurons and astrocytes of the hippocampus. Kainic acid (KA)-induced seizures increases neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) in neurons and inducible NOS (iNOS) in glia cells which coincides with a reduction in ADNP in the hippocampus. Inhibitors of NOS or soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC) activity reduce ADNP under basal conditions in the absence of seizures. Treating animals with these inhibitors prior to KA-induced seizure, in particular, L-NAME (N(G)-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester), advances the onset of the first seizure but reverses the loss of ADNP by 3 days after the first seizure. This suggests that the NO-cGMP pathway has a role in regulating ADNP under both basal physiological conditions and in the pathophysiological changes produced during epileptogenesis.
Nonobese diabetic (NOD) mice, a model of type I diabetes mellitus, harbor certain unique defects in their immune system. The aim of this study was to investigate how NOD mice show hepatic injury and subsequent fibrogenic responses.
Hepatic fibrosis was induced by intraperitoneal injections of dimethylnitrosamine (DMN), and assessed biochemically and histologically. Expressions of cytokine messenger RNA (mRNA) in the liver were determined.
In a model of liver cirrhosis induced by dimethylnitrosamine (DMN), we found that NOD mice had lower levels of hepatic fibrosis and better survival than control ICR mice. The resistance to DMN-induced lethality in NOD mice was independent of apoptosis and necrosis of hepatocytes, but apparently due to the prevention of hepatic fibrosis. We also found increased inductions of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) mRNA in the liver of NOD mice and of intracellular IFN-gamma from intrahepatic T cells following DMN administration. Treatment with neutralizing anti-IFN-gamma-antibody cancelled the inhibition of hepatic fibrosis in NOD mice.
These results suggest that IFN-gamma is effective for inhibiting hepatic fibrosis and that genetic host factors may be important in determining differential responses to injury.
Acute graft thrombosis is a severe complication in vascular surgery that may require limb amputation or even cause death. Because nearly all patients undergoing vascular surgery have had previous exposure to heparin, the presence of heparin-related anti-platelet antibodies typical for heparin-associated thrombocytopenia (HAT) is one underlying possible mechanism of acute graft thrombosis. Although thrombocytopenia is a typical finding of HAT, it is not clear whether the occurrence of clinically important HAT is necessarily associated with thrombocytopenia.
Ten out of 246 patients undergoing vascular surgery were diagnosed with HAT because of otherwise unexplained acute graft thrombosis that required recurrent surgical interventions.
In all of the 10 patients, heparin-related anti-platelet antibodies were detected although the platelet counts were within the normal range. When HAT was diagnosed, heparin administration was stopped and, after autoantibody cross-reactivity with the heparinoid Danaparoid had been excluded, anticoagulation was continued using this anticoagulant. After heparin therapy was discontinued none of the 10 patients developed further thrombotic complications.
The data presented demonstrate clearly that a normal platelet count does not exclude the possibility of HAT. As a consequence of this, HAT should be suspected in patients who develop thrombotic complications during heparin treatment, regardless of the actual platelet counts.
The phenolic food antioxidant butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT) has been reported to inhibit the initiation stage of 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA)-induced mammary tumorigenesis in the female rat. However, the mechanism for this antitumorigenic effect of BHT is unknown. The present studies were conducted to evaluate the relative effect of the parent chemical BHT and two of its major oxidative metabolites, 2,6-di-tert-butyl-4-hydroxymethylphenol (BHT-BzOH) and 2,6-di-tert-butyl-1,4-benzoquinone (BHT-quinone), on DMBA-induced rat mammary tumorigenesis and on the formation of rat mammary DMBA-DNA adducts in vivo. The ip administration of either BHT or BHT-quinone at 200 mg/kg body weight for 2 wk before until 1 wk after DMBA administration inhibited the development of mammary tumours as compared with controls. The extent of tumour inhibition by BHT (39%) was greater than that exhibited by BHT-quinone (25%). The administration of BHT-BzOH at 200 mg/kg body weight did not inhibit mammary tumorigenesis. Thus, the inhibition of DMBA-induced mammary tumorigenesis by BHT does not appear to be mediated by the oxidative BHT metabolites BHT-BzOH or BHT-quinone. In addition, there was a good quantitative correlation between the inhibition of mammary tumorigenesis by BHT and BHT-quinone and their respective abilities to decrease total binding in vivo of DMBA to mammary DNA. The inhibition of specific mammary DMBA-DNA adducts by BHT was not identical to the inhibition of adducts by BHT-quinone. However, the decrease in formation of the major mammary adduct derived from the anti-dihydrodiolepoxide of DMBA bound to deoxy-guanosine most closely correlated to the relative abilities of BHT and BHT-quinone to inhibit mammary tumorigenesis. When mammary adduct formation was examined in response to BHT dose, the administration of BHT at doses of 100 mg/kg body weight and 200 mg/kg body weight resulted in the inhibition of anti-derived but not syn-derived mammary DMBA-DNA adducts. Together, these studies suggest that in addition to the inhibition of total mammary DMBA-DNA adduct formation, the inhibition of mammary DNA adducts formed from the anti-dihydrodiolepoxide of DMBA also may be specifically important in the inhibitory effect of BHT on DMBA-induced mammary tumorigenesis.
This study was performed to investigated the relationship between cross sectional areas of glomerular arterioles and glomerular volume in rats with puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN)-induced nephrosis, which is an experimental model of glomerular sclerosis. We also evaluated the effect of an anti-arteriosclerotic agent, elastase on these parameters. Six-week-old male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into 3 groups; control, PAN-treated (70 mg/kg i.p.), or PAN+elastase-treated (5 mg/kg/day i. m.) group. After 12 weeks of experimental period, microvascular cast of the kidney was prepared, and the cross sectional areas of afferent and efferent arterioles as well as glomerular volume were measured using scanning electron microscopy. In the juxtamedullary glomeruli with minor abnormalities, the efferent arteriole was narrower in PAN-treated rats than in the control rats and the elastase-treatment partially corrected it (control 55.7, PAN 35.9, PAN+elastase 43.7 x 10 microns 2). On the other hand, the cross sectional area of afferent arteriole was not different among the 3 groups. In glomeruli showing sclerosis, the cross sectional area of efferent arteriole correlated positively with the glomerular volume. There results suggest that constriction of the efferent arterioles contributes to the development of glomerular sclerosis in PAN-induced nephrosis. In addition, elastase possibly inhibits this process and thereby protect glomeruli from sclerosis.
A 66-year-old woman presented with new-onset complete left bundle branch block and congestive heart failure. She had had chronic paranoid schizophrenia for 35 years and had been taking medications to control her psychiatric disorder for the past 10 years. A 2-dimensional echocardiogram performed at the onset of congestive heart failure showed dilated cardiomyopathy with global impairment of left ventricular function (ejection fraction <0.25). Despite withdrawal of the medications most likely responsible for the heart problems (perphenazine, 2 mg; and amitriptyline, 25 mg), the patient died of refractory congestive heart failure 2 years later. Histologic examination at autopsy showed evidence of persistent toxic myocarditis with fibrosis of the heart and persistent chronic hepatitis. These autopsy findings were considered to be drug related.
Bezafibrate and fenofibrate show different binding properties against peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor subtypes, which could cause different clinical effects on circulating proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) levels and on various metabolic markers.
An open, randomized, four-phased crossover study using 400 mg of bezafibrate or 200mg of fenofibrate was performed. Study subjects were 14 dyslipidemia with impaired glucose tolerance or type 2 diabetes mellitus (61 ± 16 years, body mass index (BMI) 26 ± 3 kg/m², total cholesterol (TC) 219 ± 53 mg/dL, triglyceride (TG) 183 ± 83 mg/dL, high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-C) 46 ± 8 mg/dL, fasting plasma glucose 133 ± 31 mg/dL and HbA1c 6.2 ± 0.8%). Subjects were given either bezafibrate or fenofibrate for 8 weeks, discontinued for 4 weeks and then switched to the other fibrate for 8 weeks. Circulating PCSK9 levels and other metabolic parameters, including adiponectin, leptin and urine 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) were measured at 0, 8, 12 and 20 weeks.
Plasma PCSK9 concentrations were significantly increased (+39.7% for bezafibrate and +66.8% for fenofibrate, p<0.001) in all patients except for one subject when treated with bezafibrate. Both bezafibrate and fenofibrate caused reductions in TG (-38.3%, p<0.001 vs. -32.9%, p<0.01) and increases in HDL-C (+18.0%, p<0.001 vs. +11.7%, p<0.001). Fenofibrate significantly reduced serum cholesterol levels (TC, -11.2%, p<0.01; non-HDL-C, -17.3%, p<0.01; apolipoprotein B, -15.1%, p<0.01), whereas bezafibrate significantly improved glucose tolerance (insulin, -17.0%, p<0.05) and metabolic markers (γ-GTP, -38.9%, p<0.01; adiponectin, +15.4%, p<0.05; urine 8-OHdG/Cre, -9.5%, p<0.05).
Both bezafibrate and fenofibrate increased plasma PCSK9 concentrations. The addition of a PCSK9 inhibitor to each fibrate therapy may achieve beneficial cholesterol lowering along with desirable effects of respective fibrates.
Previous reports have described cimetidine psychotoxicity as predominantly an organic brain syndrome in older, severely ill patients. This paper reports a cimetidine-induced mental state change in a middle-aged man with a relatively uncomplicated medical history. Since toxic effects of cimetidine are likely to occur within 1 to 2 days of starting the medication, close observation during this time period, and prompt recognition of psychotoxicity, can prevent disruptive side effects.
From 1986 till 1988, 88 patients received sodium valproate for the first time as a therapy for epilepsy. One of them developed a fine tremor, three a coarse tremor with a cogwheel phenomenon, two developed a full parkinsonian syndrome. All these symptoms in these six patients disappeared completely or nearly completely after changing to another anti-epileptic drug or reducing the dose.
