Ovarian cancer causes more deaths than any other gynecologic malignancy in developed countries. Sixteen million sequence variants, identified through whole-genome sequencing of 457 Icelanders, were imputed to 41,675 Icelanders genotyped using SNP chips, as well as to their relatives. Sequence variants were tested for association with ovarian cancer (N of affected individuals = 656). We discovered a rare (0.41% allelic frequency) frameshift mutation, c.2040_2041insTT, in the BRIP1 (FANCJ) gene that confers an increase in ovarian cancer risk (odds ratio (OR) = 8.13, P = 2.8 × 10(-14)). The mutation was also associated with increased risk of cancer in general and reduced lifespan by 3.6 years. In a Spanish population, another frameshift mutation in BRIP1, c.1702_1703del, was seen in 2 out of 144 subjects with ovarian cancer and 1 out of 1,780 control subjects (P = 0.016). This allele was also associated with breast cancer (seen in 6/927 cases; P = 0.0079). Ovarian tumors from heterozygous carriers of the Icelandic mutation show loss of the wild-type allele, indicating that BRIP1 behaves like a classical tumor suppressor gene in ovarian cancer.
One challenge in understanding the polygenic disease of hypertension is elucidating the genes involved and defining responses to environmental factors. Many studies focus on animal models of hypertension; however, this does not necessarily extrapolate to humans. Current technology and cost limitations are prohibitive in fully evaluating hypertension within humans. Thus, we have designed a single-array platform that allows direct comparison of genes relevant to hypertension in animal models and non-human primates/human hypertension. The custom array is targeted to 328 genes known to be potentially related to blood pressure control. Studies compared gene expression in the kidney from normotensive rats and baboons. We found 74 genes expressed in both the rat and baboon kidney, 41 genes expressed in the rat kidney that were not detected in the baboon kidney and 34 genes expressed in the baboon kidney that were not detected in the rat kidney. To begin the evaluation of the array in a pathological condition, kidney gene expression was compared between the salt-sensitive deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA) rat model of hypertension and sham animals. Gene expression in the renal cortex and medulla from hypertensive DOCA compared with sham rats revealed three genes differentially expressed in the renal cortex: annexin A1 (up-regulated; relative intensity: 1.316 ± 0.321 versus 2.312 ± 0.283), glutamate-cysteine ligase (down-regulated; relative intensity: 3.738 ± 0.174 versus 2.645 ± 0.364) and glutathione-S transferase (down-regulated; relative intensity: 5.572 ± 0.246 versus 4.215 ± 0.411) and 21 genes differentially expressed in the renal medulla. Interestingly, few genes were differentially expressed in the kidney in the DOCA-salt model of hypertension; this may suggest that the complexity of hypertension may be the result of only a few gene-by-environment responsive events.
Familial digital arthropathy-brachydactyly (FDAB) is a dominantly inherited condition that is characterized by aggressive osteoarthropathy of the fingers and toes and consequent shortening of the middle and distal phalanges. Here we show in three unrelated families that FDAB is caused by mutations encoding p.Gly270Val, p.Arg271Pro and p.Phe273Leu substitutions in the intracellular ankyrin-repeat domain of the cation channel TRPV4. Functional testing of mutant TRPV4 in HEK-293 cells showed that the mutant proteins have poor cell-surface localization. Calcium influx in response to the synthetic TRPV4 agonists GSK1016790A and 4αPDD was significantly reduced, and mutant channels did not respond to hypotonic stress. Others have shown that gain-of-function TRPV4 mutations cause skeletal dysplasias and peripheral neuropathies. Our data indicate that TRPV4 mutations that reduce channel activity cause a third phenotype, inherited osteoarthropathy, and show the importance of TRPV4 activity in articular cartilage homeostasis. Our data raise the possibility that TRPV4 may also have a role in age- or injury-related osteoarthritis.
Inflammatory immune activation commonly occurs in heart failure and may perpetuate this syndrome. We sought to determine whether the immunomodulating agent pentoxifylline enhances left ventricular function in patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy. We also investigated the effect of therapy on levels of brain natriuretic peptide (NT-pro BNP), C-reactive protein (CRP), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), and the marker of apoptosis, Fas/Apo-1.
In a single-center, prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study, 38 patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy received pentoxifylline 400 mg TID or placebo in addition to standard therapy. Clinical assessment, radionuclide ventriculography, echocardiography, and blood analyses were performed at baseline and after 6 months. There were no differences in baseline characteristics between the groups. Five patients died (4 in the placebo group). Pentoxifylline treatment resulted in an improvement in functional class (P<0.005) and an increase in systolic blood pressure (P<0.05) and left ventricular radionuclide ejection fraction (P<0.05) compared with the placebo-treated group. There were reductions in plasma concentrations of CRP, NT-pro BNP, TNF-alpha, and Fas/Apo-1 in the pentoxifylline compared with the placebo-treated group.
In patients with heart failure due to ischemic left ventricular dysfunction, the addition of pentoxifylline to standard therapy results in improvements in clinical status and radionuclide ejection fraction, which are accompanied by reductions in plasma markers of inflammation, prognosis, and apoptosis.
Pregnant strain CD-1 mice were treated with diethylstilbestrol (DES) or vehicle. Their female offspring were raised to old age and autopsied when terminally ill. Squamous metaplasia and adenomyosis were more common in uteri of these old mice exposed prenatally to DES than in control mice. Tumors of the uterine horns were seen in 17 of 143 DES-exposed mice and in 3 of 64 control mice. The controls had only leiomyomas, whereas 14 of the DES-exposed mice had adenocarcinomas. There were 5 cervical adenocarcinomas and 1 vaginal adenocarcinoma among treated mice but none in the control mice. Thus the effects of prenatal exposure to DES interacted with the effects of aging to produce a relatively high frequency of uterine adenocarcinoma.
Acetaminophen (APAP) induced toxicities have been a major problem in clinical practice. The aim of the present study was to demonstrate a possible protective role of erdosteine, a mucolytic agent having antioxidant properties via its active metabolites, on APAP induced renal damage in rats. Female Wistar Albino rats were divided into groups including control, erdosteine (150 mg/kg, oral), APAP (1 g/kg, oral) APAP+erdosteine (150 mg/kg, oral) and APAP+erdosteine (300 mg/kg, oral). APAP treatment caused lipid peroxidation as well as high NO level in renal tissue. Also, APAP treated rats had decreased activities of CAT and GSH-Px, but not SOD. In addition, tubular epithelial degeneration, vacuolization and cell desquamation were clearly observed in the APAP treated rats. The cellular debris in the proximal tubules and cortical interstitial congestions were prominent in the kidneys of APAP treated rats. BUN and creatinine levels were increased after APAP administration. All these pathological changes were reversed after erdosteine treatments. Erdosteine treated APAP groups showed milder tubular degeneration, epithelial vacuolization in the proximal tubules, lesser cellular desquamation and better morphology when compared with APAP groups. In conclusion, erdosteine may be a choice of preventive treatment against APAP induced nephrotoxicity.
We explored the association between groundwater radon levels and childhood cancer mortality in North Carolina. Using data from two state-wide surveys of public drinking water supplies, counties were ranked according to average groundwater radon concentration. Age and sex-adjusted 1950-79 cancer death rates among children under age 15 were calculated for counties with high, medium, and low radon levels. Overall cancer mortality was increased in counties with medium and high radon levels. The strongest association was for the leukaemias, but risks were also suggested for other sites. These associations could be due to confounding or other biases, but the findings are consistent with other recent reports.
There is a growing body of evidence that amoxicillin-clavulanic acid may induce severe adverse effects in patients.
A medline search of case reports and reviews on amoxicillin-clavulanic acid induced adverse effects was performed. The criteria of a consensus conference on the reporting of drug-induced liver disease were applied.
Amoxicillin-clavulanic acid has been associated with drug-induced cholestatic hepatitis in 208 reported patients. In 153 evaluable patients there were 106 males and 47 females with a mean age of 60 years (1-90). Liver associated co-morbidity and co-medication does not play a major part in the development of disease. In most instances respiratory tract infection and sinusitis were treated by amoxicillin-clavulanic acid with a mean treatment duration of 13.9 days and a reaction time until first onset of jaundice of 25.2 days average. Infection and cholestasis from other reason were ruled out in most patients. Liver injury was classified according to laboratory parameters to be hepatocellular in 35 patients, cholestatic in 24 patients and mixed in 83 patients. Normalization of liver enzymes was observed 11.5 weeks after onset of drug administration (average); three of 153 patients did not survive the adverse event.
Amoxicillin-clavulanic acid which is marketed for treatment of respiratory infections and sinusitis/otitis may in some cases induce severe adverse effects and death in patients of different age, especially if they are on multidrug regimens. In consideration of this fact many authors recommend to reflect carefully, whether amoxicillin-clavulanic acid is necessary in treatment of patients with localized or uncomplicated infections. If amoxicillin-clavulanic acid is prescribed, transaminase, alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin tests should be obtained within the first two weeks and after four to five weeks after beginning of treatment to recognize early enough undesired hepatic side effects.
Midkine is a 13-kDa retinoic acid-induced heparin-binding growth factor involved in various biological phenomena such as cell migration, neurogenesis, and tissue repair. We previously demonstrated that midkine-deficient (Mdk(-/-)) mice exhibited a delayed hippocampal development with impaired working memory and increased anxiety only at the age of 4 weeks. To assess whether midkine gene could play important roles in development and maintenance of central nervous system, we investigated biochemical and behavioral parameters in dopamine and glutamate neurotransmission of Mdk(-/-) mice. The Mdk(-/-) mice exhibited a hypodopaminergic state (i.e., decreased levels of dopamine and its receptors in the striatum) with no alterations of glutamatergic system (i.e., normal level of glutamate, glutamine, glycine, d-serine, l-serine, and NMDA receptors in the frontal cortex and hippocampus). We also found prepulse inhibition deficits reversed by clozapine and haloperidol in the Mdk(-/-) mice. Our results suggested that midkine deficiency may be related to neurochemical and behavioral dysfunctions in dopaminergic system.
A single high-dose cycle of chemotherapy with stem cell support can produce disease-free survival of 15-20% for at least 3 years in women with responding stage IV breast cancer. North American Autologous Bone Marrow Transplant Registry data suggest that a complete response (CR) is the single most important prognostic factor associated with prolonged disease-free survival. Therefore, if sequential high-dose chemotherapy can increase the CR rate, then perhaps an increased proportion of patients will remain disease free. Women with at least a partial response (PR) to induction chemotherapy received three separate high-dose cycles of chemotherapy with peripheral blood progenitor support and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor. The first intensification was a dose escalation of paclitaxel (400-825 mg/ m2), the second intensification was melphalan (180 mg/m2), and the third intensification consisted of 6000 mg/m2 cyclophosphamide (1500 mg/m2/day), 500 mg/m2 thiotepa (125 mg/m2/day), and 800 mg/m2 carboplatin (200 mg/m2/day; CTCb). Thirty-six women were enrolled and 31 completed all three cycles. After the paclitaxel infusion most patients developed reversible predominantly sensory neuropathy. Of the 19 patients with measurable disease, 6 converted to CR, 7 converted to a PR* (the complete resolution of all soft tissue or visceral disease with sclerosis of prior lytic bone lesions), and 2 had a further PR for an overall response rate of 79%. Two patients had no further response and disease in two patients progressed, and thus they were taken off the study before CTCb. Seventy-eight percent are progression-free at a median follow-up of 14 months (range, 3-24+). Three sequential cycles of high-dose chemotherapy are feasible and were administered in this study with no mortality. Single agent paclitaxel at doses up to 825 mg/m2 were well tolerated with moderate reversible toxicity.
A 51-year-old woman with advanced rheumatoid arthritis developed a Goodpasture's syndrome during treatment with penicillamine and carbimazole. Circulating antiglomerular basement membrane antibodies (anti-GBM) were present. Renal biopsy showed focal necrotizing glomerulonephritis with crescents, and HLA typing showed the presence of DR3 and DR4. The patient responded dramatically to pulse methylprednisolone and cyclophosphamide, with both clinical remission and disappearance of anti-GBM antibodies.
To study the therapeutic effect of Bushen Rougan Recipe (BSRGR) on hepatic fibrosis in rats.
Forty male Wistar rats were randomly divided into normal control group (n=10), model group (n=15), and BSRGR-treated group (n=15). Rats in the model and BSRGR-treated groups were administered intraperitoneally with 0.5% dimethylnitrosamine (DMN), 10 mg.kg(-1).d(-1), successive 3 days per week for 4 weeks to induce hepatic fibrosis. Then rats in the above 2 groups were given normal saline and BSRGR (10 ml.kg(-1).d(-1), ig) for another 4 weeks, respectively. Rats in the 3 groups were all executed at the end of the 8th week. The serum total bilirubin (TBIL), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), albumin (A) and globulin (G) were determined and the serum hyaluronic acid (HA), laminin (LN) and collagen IV (IV-C) were measured.
The rat model of liver fibrosis was successfully induced by DMN. It was found that the serum TBIL, AST and ALT and the liver fibrosis marks were declined in BSRGR-treated group as compared with those in the model group (P<0.01). The content of total serum protein and the A/G in BSRGR-treated group were both increased as compared with those in the model group (P<0.05).
BSRGR can be used to treat hepatic fibrosis in rats.
The 2-vessel occlusion approach to produce global ischemia in rats requires concomitant reduction of systemic blood pressure. We have utilized the hypotensive effect of halothane administrated by artificial respiration to prevent respiratory arrest and to ensure stable physiological conditions. Systemic blood pressure was reduced to 40-45 mmHg by instant adjustments of the halothane concentration. Bilateral occlusion of the carotid arteries caused a profound and reproducible ischemia, as analyzed by laser-Doppler flowmetry. In the rats exposed to 11, 12, or 13 min of ischemia, 5% died and 5% developed seizures. The extent of neuronal death in CA1 was highly correlated to the duration of ischemia. Following 11 min of ischemia, CA1 neuronal cell death, as analyzed by Fluoro-Jade, was absent 1 day after injury, variable at day 4, and consistent at day 7. The numbers of cresyl violet- and NeuN-positive neurons at day 7 were 8% and 20% of control, respectively. OX42 immunoreactivity was low and variable at day 4, but pronounced at day 7. In conclusion, this rat global ischemia model is relatively simple to perform, has a low mortality, and produces a profound and highly reproducible delayed cell death of hippocampal CA1 neurons.
Vincristine is a common anti-cancer therapy administered for the treatment of many types of tumors. Its dose-limiting side effect is the production of peripheral neuropathy, resulting in chronic neuropathic pain in many patients. An animal model of vincristine-induced sensory neuropathy was developed after repeated intraperitoneal injection in male rats and used in the present work to study the effects of PL37, an orally active complete dual inhibitor of enkephalin-catabolizing enzymes, on mechanical hypersensitivity and allodynia and on cold allodynia. We used the Electronic Von Frey filament (mechanical static allodynia), acetone test (cold allodynia), and a new behavioural test we first describe in this study, the "paint-brush test" which evaluates dynamic mechanical allodynia and dynamic mechanical hypersensitivity. We used a smooth paint brush leading to an innocuous stimulus, and a rough-one leading to an intense mechanical stimulus. Mechanical hypersensitivity and allodynia due to vincristine-induced neuropathy, but not cold allodynia, are strongly reduced by oral or i.p. injected PL37, the dose-dependent effects being reversed by naloxone-methiodide supporting the peripheral action of the dual inhibitor. These results show that enkephalins protected from degradation by PL37 could bind to peripheral opioid receptors expressed only on C- and Adelta-mechanonociceptors but not on cold thermonociceptors. The fact that PL37 is also active on small intensity mechanical stimulus could reveal an expression of opioid receptors on low threshold mechanoreceptors in the vincrisitine-evoked pathological conditions. Thus the increase in endogenous enkephalin levels induced by PL37 offers a new way to reduced neuropathic pain without the possible side effects of opiates.
We present the case of a boy who underwent orthotopic heart transplantation at the age of 14 years because of doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy 9 years after treatment of a Wilms tumor of the left kidney. Three years after heart transplantation the patient enjoys a normal daily life. Invasive studies show normal cardiac hemodynamic results and in spite of previous nephrectomy and long-term cyclosporine treatment, renal function is only slightly impaired. So far no secondary neoplasia has occurred under chronic immunosuppression.
The mechanism of effect of arsenic trioxide on promyelocytic leukemia is different from that of all-trans retinoic acid. Arsenic trioxide exerts its action by accelerating cell apoptosis, while all-trans retinoic acid by inducing cell differentiation. However, both drugs can inhibit the transcription of tissue factor (TF) mRNA in acute promyelocytic leukemia, and decrease TF level and coagulative activity to normalize coagulopathy. The objective of the study was to observe whether combination of the two drugs could improve efficacy or in contrary accentuate adverse reactions.
Two groups of patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia were included. Twenty-two patients (17 untreated cases and 5 relapsed cases) from January 2000 to October 2001 in group I were treated only with oral retinoic acid [25 mg/(m(2)x d) in two divided doses] for less than 50 days. Nineteen cases (15 untreated cases and 4 relapsed cases) from November 2001 to June 2003) in Group II were treated with combination of arsenic trioxide and all-trans retinoic acid. 0.1% AS2O3 10 ml in 500 ml 5% glucose solution was given intravenously for 4 to 6 hours per day for 28 days. The dosage of retinoic acid in group II was the same as that in group I.
Nineteen of 22 cases in retinoic acid-treated group (group I)(16 untreated cases and 3 relapsed cases) achieved complete remission (CR). The CR rate was 86.4%. Seventeen of 19 cases in combination therapy group (group II)(15 untreated cases and 2 relapsed cases) achieved CR. The CR rate was 89.5%. The death rates were 13.6% (3/22, 1 untreated case, 2 relapsed cases) in group I and 10.5% (2/19, 2 relapsed cases) in group II, respectively. The median time to CR was 23 days in group I and 26 days in group II, and the median time to normalization of coagulopathy was 7 days in group I and 4 days in group II. Significant differences were found between the two groups. No significant adverse reaction was observed in both groups.
The CR rate and death rate were not different between the two groups. The combination therapy with AS2O3 and all-trans retinoic acid can shorten the time to CR and normalization of coagulopathy.
Resveratrol is a natural polyphenol that has beneficial effects across species and various disease models. Here, we investigate whether resveratrol is effective against hepatitis B virus (HBV)-associated hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) using HBV X protein (HBx) transgenic mice. We found that resveratrol (30 mg/kg/d) has a therapeutic effect on HBx-induced fatty liver and the early stages of liver damage. Resveratrol decreased intracellular reactive oxygen species and transiently stimulated hepatocyte proliferation. Interestingly, resveratrol inhibited LXRα and downregulated the expression of the lipogenic genes, Srebp1-c and PPARγ. The decrease in Srebp1-c seems to further downregulate the expression of its target genes, Acc and Fas. In addition, resveratrol stimulated the activity of Ampk and SirT1. Thus, resveratrol has a pleiotropic effect on HBx transgenic mice in terms of the downregulation of lipogenesis, the promotion of transient liver regeneration, and the stimulation of antioxidant activity. Furthermore, at the later precancerous stages, resveratrol delayed HBx-mediated hepatocarcinogenesis and reduced HCC incidence from 80% to 15%, a 5.3-fold reduction. Resveratrol should be considered as a potential chemopreventive agent for HBV-associated HCC.
Pulse-treatment of U-937 human promonocytic cells with cadmium chloride followed by recovery caused caspase-9/caspase-3-dependent, caspase-8-independent apoptosis. However, pre-incubation with the glutathione (GSH)-suppressing agent DL-buthionine-(S,R)-sulfoximine (cadmium/BSO), or co-treatment with H2O2 (cadmium/H2O2), switched the mode of death to caspase-independent necrosis. The switch from apoptosis to necrosis did not involve gross alterations in Apaf-1 and pro-caspase-9 expression, nor inhibition of cytochrome c release from mitochondria. However, cadmium/H2O2-induced necrosis involved ATP depletion and was prevented by 3-aminobenzamide, while cadmium/BSO-induced necrosis was ATP independent. Pre-incubation with BSO increased the intracellular cadmium accumulation, while co-treatment with H2O2 did not. Both treatments caused intracellular peroxide over-accumulation and disruption of mitochondrial transmembrane potential (delta psi m). However, while post-treatment with N-acetyl-L-cysteine or butylated hydroxyanisole reduced the cadmium/BSO-mediated necrosis and delta psi m disruption, it did not reduce the effects of cadmium/H2O2. Bcl-2 over-expression, which reduced peroxide accumulation without affecting the intracellular GSH content, attenuated necrosis generation by cadmium/H2O2 but not by cadmium/BSO. By contrast, AIF suppression, which reduced peroxide accumulation and increased the GSH content, attenuated the toxicity of both treatments. These results unravel the existence of two different oxidation-mediated necrotic pathways in cadmium-treated cells, one of them resulting from ATP-dependent apoptosis blockade, and the other involving the concurrence of multiple regulatory factors.
Four cases on a combination of lithium and thioridazine developed severe neurotoxic symptoms, e.g., delirium, seizures, encephalopathy and grossly abnormal EEG's. All patients had been on lithium without thioridazine prior to and after the neurotoxic episode with no complications or EEG changes. The possible risk of combining lithium and neuroleptics (thioridazine) is discussed and repeated EEGs are recommended as a preventive measure.
A circulating permeability factor is present in some patients with minimal change nephrotic syndrome (MCNS) or focal segmental glomerulosclerosis. Nephrotic syndrome occurs in less than 1% of patients with Hodgkin disease. A substance derived from T lymphocytes may be responsible for proteinuria in these patients, but a circulating permeability factor was not shown. Serum permeability activity (P(alb)) of a young man who presented with MCNS was tested over 11 years. He first was treated with oral prednisone, then cyclosporine (CsA; 4 mg/kg/d). Two years after the initial diagnosis, during CsA-induced remission of nephrotic syndrome, Hodgkin disease was diagnosed and he underwent systemic chemotherapy with doxorubicin hydrochloride, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine and radiation therapy. P(alb) was 0.67 before CsA therapy. Although CsA treatment decreased proteinuria to protein less than 100 mg/d, P(alb) did not change. P(alb) decreased to 0.19 within 2 weeks of initiation of chemotherapy for Hodgkin disease and has remained at less than 0.17 for the last 9 years. The patient, in remission from Hodgkin disease, has normal renal function and no detectable proteinuria. This is the first demonstration of the presence of P(alb) in a patient with MCNS and subsequent Hodgkin disease. It also is the first report that aggressive chemotherapy abolishes P(alb). Although the potential causal relationship between nephrotic syndrome and Hodgkin disease in this patient is not clear, the immediate decrease in P(alb) during treatment suggests that aggressive chemotherapy may be an effective treatment for patients with high P(alb) in steroid-resistant MCNS or focal segmental glomerulosclerosis.
Several drugs, including hydralazine and propylthiouracil, can induce antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA)-associated vasculitis. d-Penicillamine was implicated in a few patients with rheumatoid arthritis or systemic sclerosis, but in patients with both diseases, ANCA-associated vasculitides were described in the absence of the drug. Therefore, the role of d-penicillamine treatment could not be established. We report the first case of antimyeloperoxidase antibody-associated vasculitis in a patient treated with d-penicillamine for Wilson disease. Because Wilson disease was never associated with ANCA-related nephritis, this case strongly supports that d-penicillamine can induce ANCA-vasculitis. The presentation and rapidly progressive and potentially severe outcome of this complication dramatically contrast with those of membranous and minimal change glomerulopathy, also induced by the sulfhydryl compound.
It is well documented that epilepsy can increase neurogenesis in certain brain regions and cause behavioral alternations in patients and different epileptic animal models. A series of experimental studies have demonstrated that neurogenesis is regulated by various factors including glucocorticoid (CORT), which can reduce neurogenesis. Most of studies in animal have been focused on adulthood stage, while the effect of recurrent seizures to immature brain in neonatal period has not been well established. This study was designed to investigate how the recurrent seizures occurred in the neonatal period affected the immature brain and how CORT regulated neurogenesis in immature animals.
Neonatal rats were subjected to 3 pilocarpine-induced seizures from postnatal day 1 to day 7. Then neurogenesis at different postnatal ages (i.e. P8, P12, P22, P50) was observed. Behavioral performance was tested when the rats were mature (P40), and plasma CORT levels following recurrent seizures were simultaneously monitored.
Rats with neonatal seizures had a significant reduction in the number of Bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) labeled cells in the dentate gyrus compared with the control groups when the animals were euthanized on P8 or P12 (P<0.05); whereas there was no difference between the two groups on P22. Until P50, rats with neonatal seizures had increased number of BrdU-labeled cells compared with the control group (P<0.05). In Morris water maze task, pilocarpine-treated rats were significantly slower than the control rats at the first and second day, and there were no differences at other days. In probe trial, there was no significant difference in time spent in the goal quadrant between the two groups. Endocrine studies showed a correlation between the number of BrdU positive cells and the CORT level. Sustained increase in circulating CORT levels was observed following neonatal seizures on P8 and P12.
Neonatal recurrent seizures can biphasely modulate neurogenesis over different time windows with a down-regulation at early time and up-regulation afterwards, cause persistent deficits in cognitive functions of adults, and increase the circulating CORT levels. CORT levels are related with the morphological and behavioral consequences of recurrent seizures.
