Long-term immunoprophylaxis with hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) is widely accepted for the prevention of recurrent hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection after liver transplantation in HBV-infected patients without viral replication. We report long-term results of HBIG administration in 284 hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg)-positive transplant patients. In protocol 1, 259 patients were given HBIG with the goal of maintaining the anti-HBs antibody (Ab) titer over 100 IU/L. After December 1993, 25 HBV DNA-positive patients received HBIG, with a target anti-HBs Ab titer over 500 IU/L, combined with posttransplantation antiviral therapy (protocol 2). At 10 years, 44 patients without recurrence were tested for the presence of HBV DNA in serum using real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR); 28 were also tested in liver and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC). The overall 5- and 10-year posttransplantation actuarial rates of HBV recurrence were 24.2% and 25.4%, respectively. The 5-year recurrence rate in protocol 2 patients was 11.8%. On multivariate analysis, predictors of lower HBV recurrence risk were absence of serum HBV DNA before transplantation (P <.0001), acute liver disease (P =.0037), HDV superinfection (P =.012), and protocol 2 therapy (P <.0001). Low-level HBV DNA was detected by PCR in 45.4% of patients without HBV recurrence at 10 years. Overall actuarial 10-year survival was 74.4%. In conclusion, we confirm the efficacy of long-term HBIG immunoprophylaxis. Combination prophylaxis with HBIG and antiviral therapy is effective in patients with viral replication. Although there were only a few cases of HBV recurrence after 5 years, HBV DNA remained present in 45% of patients at 10 years.
Suppression of prostacyclin (PGI2) is implicated in the cardiovascular hazard from inhibitors of cyclooxygenase (COX)-2. Furthermore, estrogen confers atheroprotection via COX-2-dependent PGI2 in mice, raising the possibility that COX inhibitors may undermine the cardioprotection, suggested by observational studies, of endogenous or exogenous estrogens.
To identify an interaction between hormone therapy (HT) and COX inhibition, we measured a priori the association between concomitant nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), excluding aspirin, in peri- and postmenopausal women on HT and the incidence of myocardial infarction (MI) in a population-based epidemiological study. The odds ratio (OR) of MI in 1,673 individuals and 7,005 controls was increased from 0.66 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.50-0.88) when taking HT in the absence of traditional (t)NSAIDs to 1.50 (95% CI 0.85-2.64) when taking the combination of HT and tNSAIDs, resulting in a significant (p < 0.002) interaction. The OR when taking aspirin at doses of 150 mg/d or more was 1.41 (95% CI 0.47-4.22). However, a similar interaction was not observed with other commonly used drugs, including lower doses of aspirin, which target preferentially COX-1.
Whether estrogens confer cardioprotection remains controversial. Such a benefit was observed only in perimenopausal women in the only large randomized trial designed to address this issue. Should such a benefit exist, these results raise the possibility that COX inhibitors may undermine the cardioprotective effects of HT.
1alpha,25-Dihydroxyvitamin D(3) [1,25(OH)(2)D(3)], a vitamin D receptor (VDR) ligand, regulates calcium homeostasis and also exhibits noncalcemic actions on immunity and cell differentiation. In addition to disorders of bone and calcium metabolism, VDR ligands are potential therapeutic agents in the treatment of immune disorders, microbial infections, and malignancies. Hypercalcemia, the major adverse effect of vitamin D(3) derivatives, limits their clinical application. The secondary bile acid lithocholic acid (LCA) is an additional physiological ligand for VDR, and its synthetic derivative, LCA acetate, is a potent VDR agonist. In this study, we found that an additional derivative, LCA propionate, is a more selective VDR activator than LCA acetate. LCA acetate and LCA propionate induced the expression of the calcium channel transient receptor potential vanilloid type 6 (TRPV6) as effectively as that of 1alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D(3) 24-hydroxylase (CYP24A1), whereas 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) was more effective on TRPV6 than on CYP24A1 in intestinal cells. In vivo experiments showed that LCA acetate and LCA propionate effectively induced tissue VDR activation without causing hypercalcemia. These bile acid derivatives have the ability to function as selective VDR modulators.
Repeated administration of cocaine (45 mg/kg/day) for 7 days to Swiss-Webster mice resulted in a progressive increase in the convulsive response to cocaine and augmentation in lethality rate. Pretreatment with the nitric oxide (NO) synthase inhibitors, L-NAME (100 mg/kg/day) or NO-Arg (25 mg/kg/day), prior to cocaine administration completely abolished the sensitization to the convulsive and lethal responses to cocaine. These findings suggest a role for NO in cocaine-induced toxicity.
VAP-1 (vascular adhesion protein-1) is a copper-containing SSAO (semicarbazide sensitive amine oxidase) secreted by vascular smooth muscle cells, adipocytes, endothelial cells with functional monoamine oxidase activity. The oxidation process generates harmful products that may be involved in atherosclerosis and vascular damage. Elevation of SSAO activity is observed in atherosclerosis, diabetes mellitus and obesity. On the other hand, renalase, with possible monoamine oxidase activity, which breaks down catecholamines like SSAO, is also expressed in the endothelium as well as in the kidney. The aim of the study was to assess VAP-1 levels and its correlations with endothelial injury markers and renalase in 50 kidney allograft recipients.
Hemoglobin, urea, creatinine, rate were studied by standard laboratory method in the hospital central laboratory. We assessed markers of endothelial function/injury: vWF, thrombomodulin, ICAM, VCAM, CD40L, CD44, CD146, inflammation: hsCRP, and IL-6 and adipocytokines: leptin, adiponectin, visfatin, apelin with commercially available assays.
The mean serum VAP-1 in Tx was significantly higher comparing to the control group. In kidney transplant recipients VAP-1 correlated with BMI (r=0.39, p<0.01), CD44 (r=0.27, p<0.05), hsCRP (r=0.28, p<0.05), serum creatinine (r=0.29, p<0.05), eGFR (CKD-EPI formula r=-0.27, p<0.05, MDRD r=-0.27,p<0.05, Cockcroft-Gault r=-0.35,p<0.01), serum urea (r=0.27, p<0.05), CD146 (r=0.49, p<0.001), CD40L (r=0.26, p<0.06), and renalase (r=0.34, p<0.05). In multiple regression analysis VAP-1 was predicted 80% by serum creatinine (beta value 0.33, p=0.01), and CD146 (beta value 43, p=0.0005).
VAP-1, elevated in kidney transplant recipients, is predominantly dependent on endothelial damage and kidney function, which deteriorated with time after kidney transplantation.
L-Dopa (5 mg/kg i.v.) decreased blood pressure and heart rate after extracerebral decarboxylase inhibition with MK-486 (25 mg/kg i.v.) in anesthetize MAO-inhibited dogs. In addition, reflex bradycardia caused by injected norepinephrine was significantly enhanced by L-dopa, DL-Threo-dihydroxyphenylserine had no effect on blood pressure, heart rate or reflex responses to norepinephrine. FLA-63, a dopamine-beta-oxidase inhibitor, did not have any effect on the hypotension, bradycardia or reflex-enhancing effect of L-dopa. Pimozide did not affect the actions of L-dopa on blood pressure and heart rate but completely blocked the enhancement of reflexes. Removal of the carotid sinuses caused an elevation blood pressure and heart rate and abolished the negative chronotropic effect of norepinephrine. However, L-dopa restored the bradycardia caused by norepinephrine in addition to decreasing blood pressure and heart rate. 5-HTP (5 mg/kg i.v.) decreased blood pressure and heart rate and decreased the reflex bradycardia to norepinephrine. It is concluded that L-dopa enhances reflex bradycardia through central alpha-receptor stimulation. Furthermore, the effects are mediated through dopamine rather than norepinephrine and do not require the carotid sinus baroreceptors.
Protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) is a multifunctional phosphatase that plays important roles in many cellular processes including regulation of cell cycle and apoptosis. Because PP2A is involved in so many diverse processes, it is highly regulated by both non-covalent and covalent mechanisms that are still being defined. In this study we have investigated the importance of leucine carboxyl methyltransferase-1 (LCMT-1) for PP2A methylation and cell function. We show that reduction of LCMT-1 protein levels by small hairpin RNAs causes up to a 70% reduction in PP2A methylation in HeLa cells, indicating that LCMT-1 is the major mammalian PP2A methyltransferase. In addition, LCMT-1 knockdown reduced the formation of PP2A heterotrimers containing the Balpha regulatory subunit and, in a subset of the cells, induced apoptosis, characterized by caspase activation, nuclear condensation/fragmentation, and membrane blebbing. Knockdown of the PP2A Balpha regulatory subunit induced a similar amount of apoptosis, suggesting that LCMT-1 induces apoptosis in part by disrupting the formation of PP2A(BalphaAC) heterotrimers. Treatment with a pan-caspase inhibitor partially rescued cells from apoptosis induced by LCMT-1 or Balpha knockdown. LCMT-1 knockdown cells and Balpha knockdown cells were more sensitive to the spindle-targeting drug nocodazole, suggesting that LCMT-1 and Balpha are important for spindle checkpoint. Treatment of LCMT-1 and Balpha knockdown cells with thymidine dramatically reduced cell death, presumably by blocking progression through mitosis. Consistent with these results, homozygous gene trap knock-out of LCMT-1 in mice resulted in embryonic lethality. Collectively, our results indicate that LCMT-1 is important for normal progression through mitosis and cell survival and is essential for embryonic development in mice.
Adverse drug reactions account for approximately 5% of acute medical admissions. A 34-year-old male patient receiving antiretroviral therapy, methadone and flurazepam presented to the emergency room following collapse with associated loss of consciousness. Cardiac monitoring demonstrated marked Q-T prolongation followed by the cardiac arrhythmia, torsade de pointes. The patient made a full recovery following withdrawal of the antiretroviral therapy and a reduction in methadone dose. Methadone is a recognised cause of this potentially fatal cardiac arrhythmia which is more likely to occur when methadone metabolism is inhibited by drugs such as HIV tease inhibitors.
2-Amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP), the most abundant food-derived mutagenic/carcinogenic heterocyclic amine (HCA), has attracted particular attention as a probable human colon carcinogen. Some studies have shown that PhIP administered in the post-initiation phase is able to enhance rat colon carcinogenesis remarkably. To determine whether this genotoxicant leaves a DNA footprint in colon carcinogenesis, 6-week-old male F344 rats were first subcutaneously injected with azoxymethane (AOM) and then continuously treated with various doses (0-200 ppm) of PhIP added to their diet. Animals were killed at week 36 for histopathological examination, and colonic adenocarcinomas derived from animals receiving 0, 50 and 200 ppm PhIP were subjected to a novel three-dimensional (3D)-microarray and real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis. A total of five candidate genes were identified in adenocarcinomas following 200 ppm of PhIP and AOM initiation, with a dose-dependent increment. Among them, Stat1 (signal transducer and activator of transcription 1) and VEGFc (vascular endothelial growth factor c) demonstrated statistically significant upregulation by real-time RT-PCR. In addition, HSP90 (heat shock protein 90) and VEGFa showed a non-significant tendency to increase. In summary, overexpression of Stat1, VEGF and other genes could be involved in PhIP-enhanced colon tumorigenesis in the post-initiation phase.
Although the association between administration of the antitumor agent bleomycin and the development of cutaneous fibrosis is established, there are only a small number of cases of bleomycin-induced scleroderma described in the literature. We report the development of generalised scleroderma with wide spread hyperpigmentation in a 52-year-old male patient, who received a total dose of 360 mg bleomycin in combination with cisplatin and etoposid for therapy of a malignant testicular seminoma. The clinical cutaneous alterations as well as the histological findings were indistinguishable from those encountered in progressive systemic sclerosis (PSS). In contrast to PSS however, Raynaud's phenomenon, cutaneous calcinosis, teleangiectasia, arthritis and involvement of additional organs were all absent. PSS-typical auto-antibodies were negative. Even 18 months after discontinuation of the drug and treatment with UVA1 phototherapy (3-4 times per week with 20 J/cm2) as well as physiotherapy, the skin changes had still not resolved. Based on our case and a detailed review of the literature, we discuss characteristics of bleomycin-induced scleroderma including pathogenesis, treatment modalities and course.
The authors studied the response of 10 macaque monkeys to administration of sodium lactate, a panicogenic agent used in human panic disorder research, after treatment with the tricyclic antidepressant imipramine, the triazolobenzodiazepine alprazolam, or placebo. Both drugs effectively blocked the lactate-induced acute endogenous distress responses that had been reliably observed in the monkeys before drug treatment. Only alprazolam significantly reduced the occurrence of conditioned situational anxiety responses observed in the home cage. The alprazolam monkeys appeared to be sedated compared to the imipramine and placebo groups, and tremor and temporary exacerbation of anxious behaviors were observed during alprazolam withdrawal.
A 78 year old women developed acute fingertip necrosis just a few days after starting dihydroergotamine. The lesions healed in 3 weeks after the medication was stopped. The patient had suffered from Raynaud syndrome for 5 years and limited systemic sclerosis was diagnosed during the necrotic episode. Advanced age and microangiopathies are contraindications to the use of ergot-containing preparations.
This study was designed to investigate the role of nitric oxide on catalepsy induced by fentanyl and haloperidol.
Male albino mice were treated either with fentanyl (0.1-0.2 mg kg-1, s.c.) or haloperidol (0.5-2 mg kg-1, i.p.). The non-selective nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, NG-nitro-L-arginine (10 mg kg-1, i.p.), selective neuronal nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, 7-nitroindazole (3 mg kg-1, i.p.), and nitric oxide donors, L-arginine (30-300 mg kg-1, i.p.) and D-arginine (30 mg kg-1, i.p.), were applied 20 min prior to fentanyl or haloperidol injection. A mu-opioid receptor antagonist naloxone (1 mg kg-1, i.p.) was also given in some groups. The cataleptic status of mice was assessed by placing animals in a rearing position in the cage. If the mouse maintained cataleptic posture for more than 20 s, it was scored as cataleptic and duration of catalepsy was expressed in terms of minutes.
Both NG-nitro-L-arginine and 7-nitroindazole prolonged fentanyl-induced catalepsy (fentanyl: 3.6+/-0.8 min; fentanyl+NG-nitro-L-arginine: 77.4+/-14.6 min, fentanyl+7-nitroindazole: 56.0+/-10.4 min; n=6; P<0.01). This effect was reversed by L-arginine and naloxone, but not by D-arginine. Nitric oxide synthase inhibitors also prolonged the cataleptic action of haloperidol but to a lesser extent (haloperidol: 72.0+/-6.3 min; haloperidol+NG-nitro-L-arginine: 98.5+/-6.3 min, haloperidol+7-nitroindazole: 89.6+/-2.2 min; n=6; P<0.05). The prolongation of haloperidol-induced catalepsy with nitric oxide synthase inhibitors was not reversed by L-arginine.
These results suggest a common mechanism between mu-opioid receptors and the nitric oxide system in the development of fentanyl-induced catalepsy in mice different from haloperidol-induced catalepsy.
To compare the bleeding patterns, satisfaction and tolerability of 3 different contraceptive in an extended regimens in the service of Family Planning of the North Central Hospital of PEMEX.
Healthy, adult women with desire of contraception for one year (N 120) were randomly assigned to receive oral contraceptive drospirenone/ethinyl E2 (group1), the norelgestromin/ethinyl E2 transdermal patch (group 2) and vaginal ring etonogestrel/ ethinyl E2 (group 3) in an extended regimen (42 consecutive days, 1 hormone-free week). Study assessments were conducted at scheduled visits at the time of initial screening, at baseline after 1, 3, 6, and 12 months. Subjects recorded menstrual associated symptoms bleeding data and completed satisfaction questionnaires. Subjects and investigators provided overall assessments of the regimens.
Extended use of 3 different contraceptive resulted in fewer bleeding days in every group (66.6%, 55% and 58.3% P 0.0024), and less mastalgia and menstrual pain. Subjects were highly satisfied with three regimens (93.3%, 96.6% and 91.6% P 0.00421). Although not mayor adverse events were reported with this regimen, there was an increase in spotting days; it decreased with each successive cycle of therapy. Efficacy and safety were similar to those reported for traditional cycle.
Extended-contraceptive regimen delays menses and reduces bleeding, a profile that may be preferred by women who seek flexibility with their contraceptive method.
To compare the abortifacient efficacies of two intravaginally administered misoprostol doses and gemeprost in termination of second-trimester pregnancy.
Eighty-one women between 12 and 24 weeks' gestation requesting abortion were randomized to receive intravaginally either 100 micrograms of misoprostol at 6-hour intervals (n = 27), 200 micrograms of misoprostol at 12-hour intervals (n = 26), or 1.0 mg of gemeprost at 3-hour intervals (n = 28). The regimen was continued until abortion, or for 36 hours, with assessment of the rate of complete and incomplete abortions as well as side effects within 48 hours from the start of the treatment.
The final rates of terminations were 74% in the 100-microgram misoprostol group, 92% in the 200-microgram misoprostol group, and 89% in the gemeprost group. Abortion was complete in 37%, 61%, and 32% in each group, respectively (P = .03, when the 200-microgram misoprostol group was compared with the two other groups). The induction-to-abortion interval was longer (P = .001) in the misoprostol groups (mean 23.1 hours for the 100-microgram and 27.8 hours for the 200-microgram dose) than in the gemeprost group (14.5 hours). There was less pain (P = .01), diarrhea (P = .001), and vomiting (P = .01) in the misoprostol groups than in the gemeprost group. The mean blood loss in the misoprostol groups was lower than in the gemeprost group (P = .001).
Intravaginal application of 200 micrograms of misoprostol at 12-hour intervals in induction of second-trimester abortion is equally effective to a standard gemeprost regimen. Misoprostol causes fewer side effects and is cheaper and more practical to use.
The antileishmanial property of amarogentin, a secoiridoid glycoside isolated from the Indian medicinal plant Swertia chirata, was examined in a hamster model of experimental leishmaniasis. The therapeutic efficacy of amarogentin was evaluated in free and two different vesicular forms, liposomes and niosomes. The amarogentin in both liposomal and niosomal forms was found to be a more active leishmanicidal agent than the free amarogentin; and the niosomal form was found to be more efficacious than the liposomal form at the same membrane microviscosity level. Toxicity studies involving blood pathology, histological staining of tissues and specific enzyme levels related to normal liver function showed no toxicity. Hence, amarogentin incorporated in liposomes or niosomes may have clinical application in the treatment of leishmaniasis.
Using the rat paw pressure test, in which increased sensitivity is induced by intraplantar injection of prostaglandin E2, we assessed the antinociceptive effect of the ATP-sensitive K+ channel opener diazoxide and the large-conductance Ca(2+)-activated K+ channel opener NS-1619 (1,3-dihydro-1-[2-hydroxy-5-(trifluoromethyl) phenyl]-5-(trifluoromethyl)-2H-benzimidazol-2-one) on the peripheral hyperalgesia induced by prostaglandin E2. Diazoxide, administered locally into the right hindpaw (20, 38, 75, 150, 300 and 600 microg), elicited a dose-dependent antinociceptive effect on prostaglandin E2-induced hyperalgesia (2 microg/paw). The effect of diazoxide at the dose of 300 microg/paw was shown to be local since it did not produce any effect when administered in the contralateral paw. The action of diazoxide (300 microg/paw) as an ATP-sensitive K+ channel opener seems to be specific, since its effect was antagonized in a dose-dependent manner by glibenclamide (40, 80 and 160 microg/paw), a specific blocker of these channels, while tetraethylammonium (7.5, 15 and 30 microg/paw), dequalinium (12.5, 25 and 50 microg/paw) or charybdotoxin (0.5, 1 and 2 microg/paw), blockers of voltage-dependent K+ channels and of small- and large-conductance Ca(2+)-activated K+ channels, respectively, were not able to abolish the antinociception induced by diazoxide. The peripheral antinociceptive effect of diazoxide was not prevented by prior administration of naloxone (12.5, 25 and 50 microg/paw), an opioid receptor antagonist, or methylene blue (75, 125 and 300 microg/paw), an agent that inhibits the activation of guanylate cyclase by nitric oxide. A low dose of diazoxide (20 microg/paw) administered together with a low dose of sodium nitroprusside (125 microg/paw) or dibutyryl cGMP (db-cGMP, 50 microg/paw) induced a marked antinociceptive effect similar to that observed when each drug was administered alone. NS1619 (75, 150 and 300 microg/paw), a specific opener of large-conductance Ca(2+)-activated K+ channels, had no antinociceptive action on prostaglandin E2-induced hyperalgesia. This series of experiments provides evidence for a peripheral antinociceptive action of diazoxide and supports the suggestion that the activation of ATP-sensitive K+ channels could be the mechanism by which sodium nitroprusside and db-cGMP induce peripheral antinociception, excluding the involvement of large-contuctance Ca(2+)-activated K+ channels in the process.
The use of aspirin and non-aspirin analgesics has been associated with changes in blood pressure. The aim of this study was to investigate prospectively the association between the regular use of aspirin and non-aspirin analgesics and the incidence of hypertension.
The SUN project is an ongoing, continuously expanding, prospective cohort of Spanish university graduates initially free of hypertension, cardiovascular disease, diabetes and cancer; 9986 (mean age 36 years) were recruited during 1999-2005 and followed up for a mean of 51 months. Regular aspirin and non-aspirin analgesic use and the presence of other risk factors for hypertension were assessed by questionnaire at baseline, and the incidence of hypertension was assessed using biennial follow-up questionnaires.
In total, 543 new cases of hypertension were identified during follow-up. Regular aspirin use (i.e. 2 or more days/week) was associated with a higher risk of hypertension (hazard ratio=1.45; 95% confidence interval, 1.02-2.04) after adjustment for various confounding factors. Regular use of non-aspirin analgesic drugs was also associated with a higher risk of hypertension (hazard ratio=1.69; 95% confidence interval, 1.28-2.23).
The regular use of aspirin and non-aspirin analgesics were both associated with an increased risk of developing hypertension, independently of other risk factors.
Though it is clear that genomic variability plays an integral role in accounting for pain sensitivity, controversy exists over which genes are involved. While recent data suggest a "protective" (i.e., less pain) haplotype in the GTP cyclohydrolase (GCH1) gene, other research has failed to confirm this association. Possibly, the effects of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) vary depending on the pain task. The current investigation analyzed the association of five previously identified GCH1 SNPs with ratings of pain induced by topical high concentration (10%) capsaicin applied to the skin of 39 healthy human volunteers. Each of the GCH1 polymorphisms was associated with lower pain ratings. When combined, three of the five accounted for a surprisingly high 35% of the inter-individual variance in pain ratings. We conclude that SNPs of the GCH1 gene may profoundly affect the ratings of pain induced by capsaicin.
One parameter which might provide an insight into the underlying mechanism of the effect of formaldehyde (FA) inhalation on testicular tissue, is the assessment of heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70), which increases promptly in cells exposed to stress caused by chemical toxicity. Thus, following subchronic exposure at cytotoxic concentrations, we studied the immunohistochemical effect of FA inhalation on changes in Hsp70 content in testicular tissue. We used 18 albino Wistar rats divided into three groups, exposed to 0 (control), 5 and 10 ppm FA gas for a total of 91 days, 8 h/day, five days a week. Serum testosterone levels were determined using a chemiluminescent enzyme immunoassay. Testicular tissues were stained with Hematoxylin-Eosine and Hsp70 immunohistochemically performed. Diameters of seminiferous tubules and serum testosterone levels in animals inhaling FA were significantly decreased. In seminiferous epithelium stained for Hsp70, compared to those in the control group, the spermatogenetic cells in the experimental groups demonstrated an obvious increase in immunoreaction spermatides in the adluminal region and especially in the cytoplasm of spermatocytes. Immunoreaction of Hsp70 was detected in the spermatogonias of animals exposed to FA inhalation as opposed to those of the control group. Compared to the control, there was a significant increase in the immunoreactions observed not only in the cytoplasm of primary spermatocytes, but also spermatides in the adluminal region of the seminiferous tubules. In conclusion, FA gas may damage spermatogenetic cells and increase Hsp70 synthesis.
The pathology of halothane hepatotoxicity is described in detail in a guinea-pig model. Twenty-two of 40 guinea-pigs developed liver damage after exposure to 1% halothane in 21% O2 for 4 h. The other 18 animals showed no evidence of hepatic injury. Two distinct patterns of damage were identified: mild damage, in which livers had focal areas of necrosis, and severe damage, where necrosis was confluent around the terminal hepatic venules, often extending to the portal tracts. Serum alanine aminotransferase activity was significantly elevated in guinea-pigs with severe liver damage. Hepatocytes in the damaged areas showed degenerative changes ranging from vacuolization to ballooning degeneration and necrosis. Inflammatory cells, predominantly lymphocytes, were often present in the areas of necrosis. The pathology of mild and severe liver injury in the guinea-pig closely resembles the spectrum of injury observed in non-fatal halothane hepatitis in man.
One of the common side effects of acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) is the induction of pseudoallergic reactions that range from urticarial wheals to anaphylactic shock. At present there is no reliable detection method available for the diagnosis of ASA-hypersensitivity and its relation to clinical symptoms. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the functional eicosanoid typing (FET) score taking into account several parameters of the equilibrium between prostaglandins (PG) and peptido-leukotriens (pLT). A total eicosanoid pattern score (TEP) ranging from 0.0 to 3.0, was defined that exhibited significant differences (p <or= 0.001) between ASA-intolerant patients and healthy subjects. In addition to the differentiation of both groups at a TEP cut-off value of 1.0, the increasing TEP values correlated with an increasing severity of clinical symptoms in ASA-intolerant patients. We conclude that the FET has the potential for the safe and reliable detection of ASA-intolerance and, probably, other eicosanoid-related pseudoallergic reactions.
Niacin or nicotinic acid is a soluble vitamin with hypolipidemic properties. Niacin reduces triglycerides (20 50%), LDL-c (5-25%), and raises HDL-c (15-35%). The Coronary Drug Project study showed that the use of niacin was associated with reduction on coronary events and total mortality, and more recently it has been demonstrated that niacin combined with other hypolipidemic drugs can attenuate the progression of coronary atherosclerosis. Niacin appears to reduce the mobilization of free fatty acids from the adipocytes, acting on specific receptors, diminishing the liver formation of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins. There are two forms of niacin, one of rapid absorption (crystalline), more commonly associated with flushing, and another of extended release, recently reported to be better tolerated. The use of niacin can be associated with dyspepsia, increased plasma levels of liver enzymes and also with a modest elevation in glucose and uric acid plasma levels, at least using the extended-release preparation up to 2 g/d.
The current study assessed renal function based on medical records in adult hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients with proven or probable invasive fungal infection (IFI) transplanted between 1995 and 2000. We confirm that amphotericin B deoxycholate (AmB-d) is nephrotoxic in a large percentage of HSCT recipients. Due to nephrotoxicity, defined as serum creatinine (SCr) >2.5 mg/dl or a 100% increase in SCr from baseline, 88% of patients treated with AmB-d were switched to a lipid formulation of amphotericin B (LFAB). In total, 53% of patients initiated on AmB-d were switched within the first week of therapy. Significantly more patients (70.6%) treated with AmB-d experienced a 100% increase in SCr from baseline compared to patients treated with either AmBisome (44.4%) or Abelcet (41.2%). A Cox Proportional Hazards Model revealed that, compared to patients initiated on AmBisome or Abelcet, the risk of nephrotoxicity (RR=1.5 vs AmBisome; RR=1.7 vs Abelcet), dialysis (RR=2.4 vs AmBisome; RR=1.4 vs Abelcet), and death (RR=2.0 vs AmBisome; RR=1.1 vs Abelcet) were all increased for patients initiated on AmB-d. Study results suggest that renal function improves and mortality declines when an LFAB is given to HSCT patients as initial therapy rather than as second-line therapy, the current practice.
