The analysis of heart rate variability (HRV) has proven to be useful in evaluating the neuroautonomic dysfunctions associated with various clinical conditions. The purpose of this study was to investigate the linear and non-linear dynamic measures of HRV, and to evaluate their relationship with the psychotic symptom severity, in clozapine-treated schizophrenic subjects. Fifty schizophrenic patients treated with clozapine as monotherapy and 50 normal control subjects were evaluated for HRV analysis. The HRV measurements were obtained from a 30-min resting electrocardiogram (ECG). The severity of psychotic symptoms was assessed using the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS). In the patient group, the complexity and symbolic dynamics measures as well as the time and frequency domain measures of HRV were significantly lower than in the control group (P<0.01). The intermediate-term fractal scaling component value was significantly higher in the patient group (P<0.01). The PANSS total score and the positive symptom subscale score had significant negative correlations with the sample entropy (SampEn) value (P<0.01). In conclusion, schizophrenic patients treated with clozapine had markedly different heart rate dynamics compared to normal control subjects. The severity of psychotic symptoms was associated with the SampEn value, suggesting that the non-linear complexity measure might be useful in assessing the neuroautonomic dysfunction in schizophrenia.
Coenzyme Q(10) (CoQ(10)) plays a pivotal role in oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) in that it distributes electrons between the various dehydrogenases and the cytochrome segments of the respiratory chain. Primary coenzyme Q(10) deficiency represents a clinically heterogeneous condition suggestive of genetic heterogeneity, and several disease genes have been previously identified. The CABC1 gene, also called COQ8 or ADCK3, is the human homolog of the yeast ABC1/COQ8 gene, one of the numerous genes involved in the ubiquinone biosynthesis pathway. The exact function of the Abc1/Coq8 protein is as yet unknown, but this protein is classified as a putative protein kinase. We report here CABC1 gene mutations in four ubiquinone-deficient patients in three distinct families. These patients presented a similar progressive neurological disorder with cerebellar atrophy and seizures. In all cases, enzymological studies pointed to ubiquinone deficiency. CoQ(10) deficiency was confirmed by decreased content of ubiquinone in muscle. Various missense mutations (R213W, G272V, G272D, and E551K) modifying highly conserved amino acids of the protein and a 1 bp frameshift insertion c.[1812_1813insG] were identified. The missense mutations were introduced into the yeast ABC1/COQ8 gene and expressed in a Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain in which the ABC1/COQ8 gene was deleted. All the missense mutations resulted in a respiratory phenotype with no or decreased growth on glycerol medium and a severe reduction in ubiquinone synthesis, demonstrating that these mutations alter the protein function.
Transplant immunosuppression using either cyclosporine (CsA) or tacrolimus (FK506) leads to renal vasoconstriction and nephrotoxicity. Despite producing similar effects within the kidney and blood vessels, clinical hypertension occurs less frequently with tacrolimus during the first year after transplantation, compared with CsA. To examine the role of steroid dose in early posttransplant hypertension, we measured blood pressure and kidney function in liver transplant recipients treated with tacrolimus and either high-dose (TAC-HI-P, n = 19) or low-dose (TAC-LO-P,n = 20) prednisone, compared with CsA-treated recipients (n = 29) receiving prednisone doses similar to the TAC-HI-P group. At 1 month, hypertension occurred more often with CsA (72%) than with TAC-HI-P (42%, P < 0.05) or TAC-LO-P (30%, P < 0.05). By 4 months after transplantation, hypertension developed in nearly twice as many TAC-HI-P (63%) as TAC-LO-P patients (32%, P < 0.05), with no difference between TAC-HI-P and CsA (86%, NS). Daily prednisone dose at 1 month closely paralleled cumulative steroid dose in the first month in the TAC-HI-P and TAC-LO-P groups. Fourteen of 19 TAC-HI-P patients (74%) required bolus steroids for treatment of rejection within the first month, compared with 3/20 (15%) TAC-LO-P and 10/29 (34%) CsA recipients. Glomerular filtration rate fell from pretransplant levels at 1 month and 4 months to the same degree in CsA, TAC-HI-P, and TAC-LO-P patients. These results demonstrate a central role for steroid dose in the rate of onset of hypertension early after liver transplantation using tacrolimus immunosuppression. Both daily dose and cumulative dosage, including bolus treatment for rejection, may impact on the development of hypertension. Since prevalence rates rise to levels comparable to CsA by 24 months regardless of steroid dose, hypertension after liver transplant may be mediated by different mechanisms at different stages of the posttransplant course.
Trazodone was associated with the occurrence of life-threatening premature ventricular contractions and angina in a 45-year-old white man who had no prior cardiovascular disease. Caution in prescribing trazodone and in the cardiac monitoring of patients receiving trazodone is recommended.
Sideroblastic anaemia includes a heterogeneous group of rare conditions, characterized by decreased haem synthesis and mitochondrial iron overload, which are diagnosed by the presence of ringed sideroblasts in the bone marrow aspirate. The most frequent form is X-linked sideroblastic anaemia, caused by mutations of delta-aminolevulinic acid synthase 2 (ALAS2), the enzyme that catalyses the first and regulatory step of haem synthesis in erythroid precursors and is post-transcriptionally controlled by the iron regulatory proteins. Impaired haem production causes variable degrees of anaemia and mitochondrial iron accumulation as ringed sideroblasts. The heterogeneity and complexity of sideroblastic anaemia is explained by an increasing number of recognized molecular defects. New forms have been recognized as being linked to the deficient function of mitochondrial proteins involved in iron-sulphur cluster biogenesis, such as ABCB7 and GLRX5, which are extremely rare but represent important biological models. Local mitochondrial iron overload is present in all sideroblastic anaemias, whereas systemic iron overload occurs only in the forms because of primary or secondary deficiency of ALAS2.
4-Aminophenol (PAP) is known to cause nephrotoxicity in the rat where it produces selective necrosis to renal proximal tubules. The aim of this work was to investigate the toxicity of PAP and its known nephrotoxic metabolite 4-amino-3-S-glutathionylphenol using a well defined suspension of rabbit renal proximal tubules. PAP at a concentration of 0.5 mM and 1 mM caused proximal tubule cell death (measured by lactate dehydrogenase release) in a time-dependent manner over a 4-h exposure. In contrast, 4-amino-3-S-glutathionylphenol at 1 mM produced no proximal tubule cell death over a similar 4-h exposure. At 2 h, 1 mM PAP inhibited proximal tubule respiration by 30% and decreased cellular adenosine triphosphate (ATP) levels by 60%. These events preceded cell death. The addition of PAP to proximal tubules led to a rapid depletion of cellular glutathione, exposure to 0.5 mM causing a 50% depletion within 1 h. The cytochrome P-450 inhibitors SKF525A (1 mM) and metyrapone (1 mM), the iron chelator deferoxamine (1 mM) and the antioxidant N,N'-phenyl-1,4-phenylenediamine (2 microM) had no effect on PAP-induced cell death. However ascorbic acid (0.1 mM), afforded a marked protection against the depletion of cellular glutathione and completely protected against the cell death produced by 1 mM-PAP. These results indicate that oxidation of PAP to generate a metabolite that can react with glutathione is an important step in the toxicity, while mitochondria appear to be a critical target for the reactive intermediate formed.
Vasopressin-resistant nonoliguric renal insufficiency developed in a 57-year-old man after 2 1/2 hours of low-dose methoxyflurane anesthesia. Secobarbital, 100 mg daily, had been taken for 1 month before. Of 13 patients in whom the influence of methoxyflurane on renal function was being studied, he was the only one to have taken a drug that induces microsomal enzymes. Blood values of methoxyflurane in this patient were lower than group means on all five occasions during anesthesia. Postoperatively his serum inorganic fluoride value reached 114 mumol/l -- more than two standard deviations greater than the group mean. Peak values for serum urea nitrogen, creatinine and uric acid and postvasopressin urine osmolality, and the lowest creatinine clearance in this patient also differed by more than 2 SD from the group mean, and the peak amount of oxalate excreted in his urine was double the group mean. Pretreatment with the barbiturate appears to have altered methoxyflurane metabolism and led to toxic concentrations of metabolites in the blood.
Megacystis-microcolon-intestinal hypoperistalsis syndrome (MMIHS) is characterized by prenatal-onset distended urinary bladder with functional intestinal obstruction, requiring extensive surgical intervention for survival. While it is believed to be an autosomal recessive disorder, most cases are sporadic. Through whole-exome sequencing in a child with MMIHS, we identified a de novo mutation, p.R178L, in the gene encoding the smooth muscle gamma-2 actin, ACTG2. We subsequently detected another de novo ACTG2 mutation, p.R178C, in an additional child with MMIHS. Actg2 transcripts were primarily found in murine urinary bladder and intestinal tissues. Structural analysis and functional experiments suggested that both ACTG2 mutants interfere with proper polymerization of ACTG2 into thin filaments, leading to impaired contractility of the smooth muscle. In conclusion, our study suggests a pathogenic mechanism for MMIHS by identifying causative ACTG2 mutations.
Doxazosin is a selective alpha 1-inhibitor for the reduction of calculated coronary heart disease (CHD) risk in hypertensive patients. Atenolol, although a widely used beta-blocker, appears to adversely affect blood lipids by increasing triglycerides and decreasing high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol. The aim of our study was to compare doxazosin and atenolol for their therapeutic efficacy in reducing CHD risk (decrease in blood pressure and effect on lipid distribution) and toleration. Patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension were randomized into two groups of 20 patients to receive once-daily atenolol (100 mg) or doxazosin (2 to 8 mg) for 8 weeks. Doxazosin was as effective as atenolol in reducing supine and standing blood pressure. Unlike atenolol, doxazosin did not produce a marked bradycardia. Doxazosin therapy produced favorable modifications in plasma lipid profiles by decreasing triglycerides and total cholesterol and by increasing HDL cholesterol and HDL/total cholesterol ratio. A reverse in this lipid profile was seen with atenolol. Therefore doxazosin may reduce calculated CHD risk more effectively than atenolol, based on the Framingham equation.
Cocaine treatment paired with environmental cues establishes a conditioned place preference (CPP) for that environment. After expression of this preference, rats show elevated levels of immediate early genes (IEGs; e.g. c-fos) in the prelimbic cortex (PrL), basolateral amygdala complex (BLC), and nucleus accumbens core (NAcc) compared with drug-unpaired controls. These findings, together with the known connections between these regions, suggest that they function as a circuit contributing to cue-elicited craving. To investigate the function of this circuit during drug-seeking, we characterized Fos immunoreactivity of particular neuron classes in each region. To distinguish between IEG activation of GABAergic and non-GABAergic (principally, excitatory projection) neurons, we combined Fos immunohistochemistry with immunohistochemistry for glutamic acid decarboxylase 67 (GAD67) or calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CAMKII) proteins. Within the BLC and NAcc of drug-paired and drug-unpaired animals tested for CPP, we observed no significant differences in the percentage of Fos-immunoreactive (IR) cells that were also GAD67-IR. We also observed no group difference in the degree of Fos/CAMKII overlap in the BLC. However, in PrL, the degree of Fos/GAD67 overlap in the drug-paired group was significantly higher than in the drug-unpaired group. Also, the Fos/CAMKII overlap in the entire PrL as well as just its layer V was significantly lower in the drug-paired animals compared with controls. These findings suggest that, during CPP expression in cocaine-paired animals, the PrL GABAergic interneurons are preferentially activated while PrL output is attenuated, perhaps through greater inhibition of layer V pyramidal neurons. These results suggest a shifting prefrontal cortex cell population response during cocaine-seeking.
A sinus arrest occured during a surgical intervention in a patient suffering from a sinus nodal dysfunction. The Fentanyl acetate used as an analgésic, seems to have played an important role in the genesis of the accident, depressing sinusal and junctional automatisms. Though unusual, this complication leads to a further investigation in preoperative period for a possible sinus nodal dysfunction in order to anticipate an extreme preoperative bradycardia (sino atrial block) treated with intravenous administration of isoprenaline. Intraveinous atropine test is a simple preoperative technique of research in front all unexplained sinus bradycardia.
Ghrelin, identified in the gastric mucosa has been involved in control of food intake and growth hormone (GH) release but little is known about its influence on gastric secretion and mucosal integrity. The effects of ghrelin on gastric secretion, plasma gastrin and gastric lesions induced in rats by 75% ethanol or 3.5 h of water immersion and restraint stress (WRS) were determined. Exogenous ghrelin (5, 10, 20, 40 and 80 microg/kg i.p.) increased gastric acid secretion and attenuated gastric lesions induced by ethanol and WRS and this was accompanied by the significant rise in plasma ghrelin level, gastric mucosal blood flow (GBF) and luminal NO concentrations. Ghrelin-induced protection was abolished by vagotomy and attenuated by suppression of COX, deactivation of afferent nerves with neurotoxic dose of capsaicin or CGRP(8-37) and by inhibition of NOS with L-NNA but not influenced by medullectomy and administration of 6-hydroxydopamine. We conclude that ghrelin exerts a potent protective action on the stomach of rats exposed to ethanol and WRS, and these effects depend upon vagal activity, sensory nerves and hyperemia mediated by NOS-NO and COX-PG systems.
Zinc is an essential nutrient. Genetic evidence for this nutritional requirement in humans is the zinc deficiency disease, acrodermatitis enteropathica. This disorder is caused by mutations in hZIP4 (SLC39A4), a zinc importer required for zinc uptake in enterocytes and other cell types. Studies in mice have demonstrated that levels of the mZIP4 mRNA are reduced by elevated dietary zinc, resulting in a decreased abundance of the ZIP4 protein at the plasma membrane. Moreover, studies in cultured cells have demonstrated that low micromolar concentrations of zinc stimulate the endocytosis of the mZIP4 protein resulting in a reduction in cellular zinc uptake. In this study, we demonstrate an additional level of hZIP4 regulation involving ubiquitination and degradation of this transporter in elevated zinc concentrations. Mutational analysis identified a cytoplasmic histidine-rich domain that was essential for ubiquitin-dependent degradation of ZIP4 and protection against zinc toxicity. However, this motif was dispensable for zinc-induced endocytosis. These findings indicate that ubiquitin-mediated degradation of the ZIP4 protein is critical for regulating zinc homeostasis in response to the upper tier of physiological zinc concentrations, via a process that is distinct from zinc-stimulated endocytosis.
Dengue fever and dengue hemorrhagic fever are mosquito-borne viral diseases. Dendritic cell-specific ICAM-3 grabbing nonintegrin (DC-SIGN1, encoded by CD209), an attachment receptor of dengue virus, is essential for productive infection of dendritic cells. Here, we report strong association between a promoter variant of CD209, DCSIGN1-336, and risk of dengue fever compared with dengue hemorrhagic fever or population controls. The G allele of the variant DCSIGN1-336 was associated with strong protection against dengue fever in three independent cohorts from Thailand, with a carrier frequency of 4.7% in individuals with dengue fever compared with 22.4% in individuals with dengue hemorrhagic fever (odds ratio for risk of dengue hemorrhagic fever versus dengue fever: 5.84, P = 1.4 x 10(-7)) and 19.5% in controls (odds ratio for protection: 4.90, P = 2 x 10(-6)). This variant affects an Sp1-like binding site and transcriptional activity in vitro. These results indicate that CD209 has a crucial role in dengue pathogenesis, which discriminates between severe dengue fever and dengue hemorrhagic fever. This may have consequences for therapeutic and preventive strategies.
Okadaic acid (OA) is the major component of diarrhetic shell fish poisoning toxins and a potent inhibitor of protein phosphatase 1 and 2A. We investigated the signal transduction pathways involved in OA induced cell death in HeLa cells. OA induced cytotoxicity and apoptosis at IC50 of 100nM. OA treatment resulted in time dependent increase in reactive oxygen species and depleted intracellular glutathione levels. Loss of mitochondrial membrane permeability led to translocation of bax, cytochrome-c and AIF from mitochondria to cytosol. The cells under fluorescence microscope showed typical apoptotic morphology with condensed chromatin, and nuclear fragmentation. We investigated the mitochondrial-mediated caspase cascade. The time dependent activation and cleavage of of bax, caspases-8, 10, 9, 3 and 7 was observed in Western blot analysis. In addition to caspase-dependent pathway AIF mediated caspase-independent pathway was involved in OA mediated cell death. OA also caused time dependent inhibition of protein phosphatase 2A activity and phosphorylation of p38 and p42/44 MAP kinases. Inhibitor studies with Ac-DEVO-CHO and Z-VAD-FMK could not prevent the phosphorylation of p38 and p42/44 MAP kinases. Our experiments with caspase inhibitors Ac-DEVD-CHO, Z-IETD-FMK and Z-VAD-FMK inhibited capsase-3, 8 cleavages but did not prevent OA-induced apoptosis and DNA fragmentation. Similarly, pretreatment with cyclosporin-A and N-acetylcysteine could not prevent the DNA fragmentation. In summary, the results of our study show that OA induces multiple signal transduction pathways acting either independently or simultaneously leading to apoptosis.
In the nucleus accumbens (NAc), a key structure to the effects of all addictive drugs, presynaptic cannabinoid CB1 receptors (CB1Rs) and postsynaptic metabotropic glutamate 5 receptors (mGluR5s) are the principal effectors of endocannabinoid (eCB)-mediated retrograde long-term depression (LTD) (eCB-LTD) at the prefrontal cortex-NAc synapses. Both CB1R and mGluR5 are involved in cocaine-related behaviors; however, the impact of in vivo cocaine exposure on eCB-mediated retrograde synaptic plasticity remains unknown. Electrophysiological and biochemical approaches were used, and we report that a single in vivo cocaine administration abolishes eCB-LTD. This effect of cocaine was not present in D1 dopamine receptor (D1R) -/- mice and was prevented when cocaine was coadministered with the selective D1R antagonist 8-chloro-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-3-5-1h-3-benzazepin-7-ol (0.5 mg/kg) or with the NMDA receptor (NMDAR) blocker (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo [a,d] cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate (1 mg/kg), suggesting the involvement of D1R and NMDAR. We found that the cocaine-induced blockade of retrograde signaling was correlated with enhanced expression levels of Homer scaffolding proteins containing the coiled-coil domain and accompanied by a strong reduction of mGluR5 surface expression. The results suggest that cocaine-induced loss of eCB retrograde signaling is caused by a reduction in the ability of mGluR5 to translate anterograde glutamate transmission into retrograde eCB signaling.
The fluocinolone acetonide intravitreal implant was approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration in April, 2005 for treatment of noninfectious posterior segment uveitis (NIPU). This therapy is effective with respect to prevention of uveitis recurrence. However, corticosteroid-associated increased intraocular pressure frequently occurs in implanted eyes and must be managed appropriately to prevent glaucomatous vision loss.
Pooled results from three recent prospective randomized trials show that 75% of eyes receiving the fluocinolone acetonide implant required intraocular pressure (IOP) lowering therapy at some point within the 3-year study course. Eyes requiring surgical intervention had a high rate of hypotony but also showed stable postoperative visual acuity.
Fluocinolone acetonide intravitreal implants are an effective therapy for NIPU. However, patients receiving this treatment are at high risk for development of vision-threatening increased IOP. Therefore, we recommend that patients treated with fluocinolone acetonide implants receive frequent IOP monitoring and referral to a glaucoma specialist if pressure control is not achieved.
A new method for the quantitative assessment of acute ototoxic side effects of drugs is described. It is suitable for screening purposes. The method is based on the determination of the toxic dose (TD50) which causes a defined hearing loss in 50% of the animals tested. The hearing loss is defined as a complete suppression of the compound action potential (CAP) of the auditory nerve, elicited by clicks 30 dB above threshold. This is approximately equivalent to a clinical hearing loss of 30 dB. The TD50 is used to estimate the therapeutic range. With this approach ototoxic side effects of furosemide, piretanide and bumetanide were compared quantitatively in cats. The TD50 values for CAP suppression were 18.37 mg/kg for furosemide; 4.29 mg/kg for piretanide and 2.21 mg/kg for bumetanide. As equipotent diuretic doses are 2.61 mg/kg for furosemide, 0.26 mg/kg for piretanide and 1.16 mg/kg for bumetanide, it appears that the relative ototoxicity is least for piretanide and highest for bumetanide. Plasma concentrations, determined initially and when recovery of CAP to 50% of control had occurred, indicate that bumetanide may be more slowly eliminated from the cochlear spaces than furosemide and piretanide. In addition azosemide and ozolinone were tested. The TD50 for azosemide was less than 10 mg/kg. With ozolinone where there are two isomers, only the diuretic (-)ozolinone was ototoxic; the TD50 was less than 100 mg/kg.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Dacarbazine (DTIC) alone or in combination with other cytostatic drugs may lead to severe liver disease with acute thrombosis of intrahepatic veins and parenchymal cell necrosis. 6 such cases were described in the literature, an additional case is described here, all with fatal outcome. 6 of these 7 patients had malignant melanoma. The disease has been partly designed as Budd-Chiari-Syndrome (BCS), partly as veno-occlusive disease (VOD).-The pathoanatomical findings and the appearance of the clinical symptoms exclusively during the 2nd injections series suggest a Budd-Chiari-Syndrome, in terms of an allergic-hyperergic reaction of the liver as target organ. For future administration of Dacarbazine in malignant melanoma (a) patients with pre-existent liver disease should be excluded from DTIC-treatment, (b) the prodromi and cardinal symptoms should be carefully registered and (c) high dosage corticosteroid therapy with fibrinolytic measures should be immediately administered.
Thirty intact dogs were studied to determine digoxin concentration in various tissues after ventricular tachycardia had been induced by digoxin infusion. A control group was infused solely with digoxin. A second group was made acutely hypokalemic by glucose-insulin infusion before the digoxin infusion. A third group was infused with glucose and digoxin to determine the effect of increased blood glucose levels and osmalarity on the induction of ventricular tachycardia. Results were: (1) The amount of digoxin infused to produce ventricular tachycardia did not differ getween the normal and hypokalemic groups. (2) The concentration of digoxin in various parts of the heart, other muscle tissue, renal cortex, and liver did not differ between the normal and acutely hypokalemic dogs although the amount excreted in bile and urine was reduced in hypokalemia. (3) Acute hypokalemia did not sensitize the myocardium to the arrhythmogenic effects of digoxin. (4) Ventricular tachcardia occurred at a similar plasma digoxin level in normal and acutely hypokalemic dogs. (5) In dogs with a lowered plasma potassium level, junctional tachycardia occurred whereas it did not occur in normal dogs or those with only a high blood glucose level. (6) Ventricular tachycardia occurred in the hyperglycemic dogs at a plasma digoxin level of 170 ng/ml, which was significantly greater than in the other experiments (7) Acute hyperglycemia reduced the mean rate of myocaridal uptake of digoxin into atria and right and left ventricular tissue; and the concentration of digoxin in atria, left ventricle, and interventricular septum was lower at the time of ventricular tachycardia than occurred in normal dogs. (8) Lowering the plasma potassium level in the presence of acute hyperglycemia, which occurred with the glucose-insulin infusion, did increase the myocardial uptake of digoxin. Similar effects of hyperglycemia were noted on mean hepatic uptake and excretion of digoxin and also the renal uptake of the glycoside.
Adiponectin, an abundant adipocyte-derived plasma protein that modulates vascular function in type 2 diabetes, has been shown to provide cytoprotection to both pancreatic and vascular systems in diabetes. Therefore, we examined whether up-regulation of heme oxygenase (HO)-1 ameliorates the levels of inflammatory cytokines and influences serum adiponectin in Zucker fat (ZF) rats. ZF rats displayed a decrease in both HO activity and HO-1 and HO-2 protein levels and an increase in tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and interleukin (IL)-6 compared with Zucker lean (ZL) rats. Treatment of ZF animals with 2 mg/kg cobalt protoporphyrin IX (CoPP) increased protein levels of HO-1 and HO activity, but HO-2 was unaffected. The increase in HO-1 was associated with a decrease in superoxide levels (p < 0.05) and an increase in plasma adiponectin (p < 0.005), compared with untreated ZF rats. CoPP treatment decreased visceral and s.c. fat content, and it reduced weight gain (p < 0.01). In addition, the inflammatory cytokines TNF-alpha and IL-6 were decreased (p < 0.04 and p < 0.008, respectively). Treatment of human bone marrow-derived adipocytes cultured with CoPP resulted in an increase in HO-1 and a decrease in superoxide levels. Up-regulation of HO-1 caused adipose remodeling, smaller adipocytes, and increased adiponectin secretion in the culture medium of human bone marrow-derived adipocytes. In summary, this study demonstrates that the antiobesity effect of HO-1 induction results in an increase in adiponectin secretion, in vivo and in vitro, a decrease in TNF-alpha and IL-6, and a reduction in weight gain. These findings highlight the pivotal role and symbiotic relationship of HO-1 and adiponectin in the modulation of the metabolic syndrome phenotype.
These are two cases of cocaine abuse with the following previously unreported cocaine-associated features: 1) biopsy-proven accelerated/malignant hypertension, 2) association of cocaine with persistent hypertension, and 3) renal failure with rapid progression to end-stage renal disease that did not reverse following blood pressure control.
Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) initiates an inflammatory response with secondary growth of hemorrhage and cell death. Matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) gelatinolytic activity is increased in ICH, and synthetic inhibitors to MMPs reduce edema and hemorrhage size. Recently, we found that tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-3 (TIMP-3) is elevated after ischemia and colocalizes with TUNEL (terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated 2'-deoxyuridine 5'-triphosphate-biotin nick end-labeled)-labeled cells. Tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-3 promotes neuronal apoptosis in vitro by blocking the shedding of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) superfamily of death receptors/ligands by stromelysin-1 (MMP-3). However, the effect of TIMP-3 and synthetic MMP inhibitors on cell death in ICH is unclear. Therefore, we used the collagenase-induced intracerebral hemorrhage (CIH) model in Timp-3 knockout and C57Bl/6 wild-type mice to study MMP expression, hemorrhage volume, and cell death. Real-time PCR showed an increase in Mmp-3 mRNA in CIH, but similar Mmp-2 and -9 mRNA expression levels in CIH and saline-injected mice. Protein levels of pro and cleaved MMP-3 were increased in CIH, and zymographic gelatinolytic activity of MMP-9 was elevated after CIH at 72 h, suggesting an exogenous source. Apoptosis was shown by increased caspase-3 levels at 2 and 72 h, and active caspase-8 by 2 and 24 h. The Timp-3 null mouse and wild types had similar hemorrhage sizes and TUNEL-labeled cells. Unexpectedly, the broad-spectrum MMP inhibitor BB-94 increased hemorrhage size and TUNEL-labeled cells. Our results fail to implicate TIMP-3 in apoptosis in CIH, but show that BB-94 increased apoptosis in CIH, possibly by blocking shedding of TNF death receptors and/or their ligands.
This study focuses on the safety and hemodynamic effects of dobutamine stress echocardiography.
Seven hundred and thirty five consecutive patients underwent dobutamine stress echocardiography for the evaluation of coronary artery disease and or cardiomyopathy. Dobutamine was administered intravenously at incremental doses of 5, 10, 20, 30 micrograms/kg/min, at 3 min intervals. The maximal dose was 40 or 50 micrograms/kg/min.
Dobutamine significantly (p < 0.0005) increased the heart rate (from 72 +/- 12 bpm to 117 +/- 23 bpm), systolic blood pressure (from 133 +/- 21 to 157 +/- 29 mmHg) and the rate-pressure product (from 9.635 +/- 2.100 to 18.400 +/- 4.050, p < 0.0001) from baseline to peak infusion rate, respectively. There was a significant increase in heart rate (p < 0.05) at each infusion step, except for the 50 micrograms/kg/min dose, when the heart became stable. There were no deaths myocardial infarctions, or episodes of sustained ventricular tachycardia. Common non cardiac side effects included nausea, anxiety, headache, tremors and urgency in 55 (7.4%) of the patients. Angina pectoris occurred in 10 (1.4%) of the patients. The most common arrhythmias were usually mild.
Dobutamine stress echocardiography is safe, and well tolerated. In this study complications such as myocardial infarction, death, ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation did not occur. There was no additional increase in heart rate with doses greater than 40 micrograms/kg/min. The advantage of stress echocardiography protocol with peak doses of 50 micrograms/kg/min is questionable.
Our objective was to evaluate the link between occupational exposures to wood dust, formaldehyde, and solvents and the development of nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC). A case-control study was conducted among 375 newly diagnosed cases of NPC in Taipei, Taiwan, and 325 community controls matched to cases on sex, age, and geographical residence (99 and 87% response rates, respectively). Most cases (>90%) were diagnosed with WHO Types 2 or 3 (nonkeratinizing and undifferentiated carcinomas), whereas the remaining cases were diagnosed with WHO Type 1 (squamous cell carcinomas). A complete occupational history was obtained via a personal interview and blindly assessed by an industrial hygienist for intensity and probability of exposure to wood dust, formaldehyde, and solvents. Information on socio-demographic characteristics, cigarette smoking, dietary consumption of nitrosamines, and other potential confounding factors was obtained via a personal interview. Blood specimens were tested for human leukocyte antigen class I/II genotypes, polymorphisms in cytochrome P450 2E1 genotype, and various anti-EBV antibodies known to be associated with NPC. Analysis was performed using logistic regression; relative risk (RR) estimates and 95% confidence intervals (CI) were calculated. Individuals exposed to wood dust had an adjusted RR of 1.7 (95% CI = 1.0-3.0). Those exposed to wood dust for >10 years had an adjusted RR of 2.4 (95% CI = 1.1-5.0; p(trend) = 0.02). Risk was strongest for those first exposed before the age of 25 years and those seropositive to EBV. Individuals exposed to formaldehyde were at a more modest and nonsignificant increased risk of NPC (RR = 1.4; 95% CI = 0.93-2.2). Those exposed to formaldehyde for >10 years had an adjusted RR of 1.6 (95% CI = 0.91-2.9). The association between formaldehyde and NPC was stronger in analyses restricted to EBV seropositive individuals (RR = 2.7; 95% CI = 1.2-5.9). However, no dose response was observed with increasing duration or cumulative use. No association was observed between solvent exposure and NPC (RR = 1.2; 95% CI = 0.86-1.7). Occupational exposure to wood dust is likely to be involved in the development of NPC, a finding that is consistent with the known link between wood exposure and nasal adenocarcinomas. Formaldehyde exposure is less clearly linked to NPC, whereas exposure to solvents is unlikely to be involved in NPC pathogenesis.
Our objective in the study was to investigate the putative associations of specific pesticides with non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma [NHL; International Classification of Diseases, version 9 (ICD-9) 200, 202]. We conducted a Canadian multicenter population-based incident, case (n = 517)-control (n = 1506) study among men in a diversity of occupations using an initial postal questionnaire followed by a telephone interview for those reporting pesticide exposure of 10 h/year or more, and a 15% random sample of the remainder. Adjusted odds ratios (ORs) were computed using conditional logistic regression stratified by the matching variables of age and province of residence, and subsequently adjusted for statistically significant medical variables (history of measles, mumps, cancer, allergy desensitization treatment, and a positive history of cancer in first-degree relatives). We found that among major chemical classes of herbicides, the risk of NHL was statistically significantly increased by exposure to phenoxyherbicides [OR, 1.38; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.06-1.81] and to dicamba (OR, 1.88; 95% CI, 1.32-2.68). Exposure to carbamate (OR, 1.92; 95% CI, 1.22-3.04) and to organophosphorus insecticides (OR, 1.73; 95% CI, 1.27-2.36), amide fungicides, and the fumigant carbon tetrachloride (OR, 2.42; 95% CI, 1.19-5.14) statistically significantly increased risk. Among individual compounds, in multivariate analyses, the risk of NHL was statistically significantly increased by exposure to the herbicides 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D; OR, 1.32; 95% CI, 1.01-1.73), mecoprop (OR, 2.33; 95% CI, 1.58-3.44), and dicamba (OR, 1.68; 95% CI, 1.00-2.81); to the insecticides malathion (OR, 1.83; 95% CI, 1.31-2.55), 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis (4-chlorophenyl) ethane (DDT), carbaryl (OR, 2.11; 95% CI, 1.21-3.69), aldrin, and lindane; and to the fungicides captan and sulfur compounds. In additional multivariate models, which included exposure to other major chemical classes or individual pesticides, personal antecedent cancer, a history of cancer among first-degree relatives, and exposure to mixtures containing dicamba (OR, 1.96; 95% CI, 1.40-2.75) or to mecoprop (OR, 2.22; 95% CI, 1.49-3.29) and to aldrin (OR, 3.42; 95% CI, 1.18-9.95) were significant independent predictors of an increased risk for NHL, whereas a personal history of measles and of allergy desensitization treatments lowered the risk. We concluded that NHL was associated with specific pesticides after adjustment for other independent predictors.
To analyze the trends, demographics, and toxic effects associated with pediatric clonidine hydrochloride exposures reported to poison centers.
Retrospective.
Clonidine-only exposures followed up to known outcome in children younger than 19 years reported to the American Association of Poison Control Center's database from January 1, 1993, through December 31, 1999.
Frequency of exposures over time, acuity, reason, symptoms, management site, treatment, and outcome.
There were 10 060 reported exposures with 57% reported for children younger than 6 years, 34% for children between 6 and 12 years old, and 9% for adolescents between 13 and 18 years old. In 1999 there were 2.5 times as many exposures as in 1993. In 6- through 12-year-olds, clonidine was the child's medication in 35% of the exposures, compared with 10% in children younger than 6 years and 26% in adolescents. The proportion of cases involving the child's medication increased over 7 years. While unintentional overdose was most common in children younger than 6 years, therapeutic errors and suicide attempts predominated in 6- through 12-year-olds and adolescents, respectively. In 6042 symptomatic children (60%), the most common symptoms were lethargy (80%), bradycardia (17%), hypotension (15%), and respiratory depression (5%). Most exposures resulted in no effect (40%) or minor effects (39%). Moderate effects occurred in 1907 children (19%), major effects in 230 children (2%); there was 1 fatality in a 23-month-old.
While most of the clonidine exposures resulted in minimal toxic effects, serious toxic effects and death can occur. The trend toward increasing the number of exposures in children, especially with evidence of toxic effects in children receiving clonidine therapeutically, is cause for concern.
