By means of the Doppler ultrasound method, the cerebral blood flow (CBF) was assessed in 21 children with epilepsy undergoing treatment with adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH). The maximum reduction in the internal carotid velocity, as an index of CBF during therapy, was about 35 percent compared with the values before therapy. Furthermore, sequential computed tomography (CT) examinations of the same subjects were performed to evaluate the change in the area of the intracranial brain parenchyma during therapy. The maximum reduction in the parenchymal area during therapy was about 10 percent. This corresponds to a 20 percent reduction in CBF according to Poiseuille's law, however, the remaining reduction in CBF demonstrated by velocity measurement cannot be explained only by that mechanical vascular factor. From these findings, it is concluded that in order to elucidate the mechanism of the CBF reduction, physiological factors such as changes in metabolism during therapy should also be evaluated in addition to the mechanical and physical causes.
Recreational use of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, ketamine, is increasing. The present study aimed to examine both the acute and residual effects of this drug on cognitive function, dissociation and schizotypal symptomatology in recreational users.
A parallel group design was used to compare 20 volunteers who reported having taken ketamine with 19 volunteers who reported no consumption of ketamine on the relevant night (day 0). All 39 participants were tested on day 0 and again 3 days later. On each test occasion a battery of tests was administered which tapped a wide range of memory functions, attention, dissociation, schizotypal symptomatology and mood.
Groups were broadly matched for polydrug use apart from ketamine. Acute effects on day 0 replicated previous laboratory studies showing a broad spectrum of cognitive impairments following ketamine administration as well as marked dissociative effects and schizotypal symptomatology. Three days later, ketamine users had significantly higher scores than controls on both dissociation and schizotypal symptomatology. On some cognitive measures there were no group differences on day 3; however, on tests tapping semantic memory, the ketamine users showed persisting impairments compared with controls.
Ketamine appears to induce acute and severe impairments of working, episodic and semantic memory as well as psychotogenic and dissociative effects. Three days after drug ingestion, recreational users display semantic memory impairment and dissociative and schizotypal symptomatology which could reflect chronic or residual effects of taking the drug or pre-existing differences in ketamine users.
Rat liver cytosolic hydroxysteroid sulfotransferases form highly reactive sulfuric acid esters from some benzylic alcohols, such as 1-hydroxymethylpyrene. In this study we examined the expression of hydroxysteroid sulfotransferase a (STa) in carcinogen-induced enzyme-altered, presumably preneoplastic, rat liver foci. Female Wistar rats were given a single i.p. injection of diethylnitrosamine (0.15 mumol/g body wt) 1 day after birth to induce the liver foci. After weaning, rats were given 1-hydroxymethylpyrene or phenobarbital continuously in their diet (250 or 500 p.p.m. respectively) for a total of 120 days. Carcinogen-induced liver foci were identified by a change in the marker enzyme adenosine triphosphatase. Immunohistochemical staining of consecutive sections using an anti-STa rabbit antibody demonstrated that STa was expressed at decreased levels in most of the adenosine triphosphatase-negative liver foci. This effect was observed in both 1-hydroxymethylpyrene- and phenobarbital-treated animals. The decrease in STa content in enzyme-altered foci may lead to a selective advantage of the preneoplastic cells in the presence of agents that are able to form reactive sulfuric acid esters, such as 1-hydroxymethylpyrene. In some diethylnitrosamine/phenobarbital-treated rats, a small number of atypical foci were observed, most of them showing enhanced expression of STa and unchanged to moderately increased ATPase activity.
The present study on ACTH-administered suckling rats was undertaken to monitor the late behavioral sequelae due to the effects of this drug. The locomotor activity of rats treated with ACTH in the suckling period increased significantly as to the gross size of movements when compared with control rats. The increase in locomotor activity was correlated with the suppression of CNPase activity. These results show that administration of ACTH during the suckling period has suppressive effects on the development of the brain and behavior, and that these effects persist for a longer period after termination of the administration of ACTH than the direct effect of the peptide on endocrine functions.
A 12 month, multicentre, randomised, double blind, placebo controlled, phase 3, dose-response study was carried out. Exisulind inhibits tumour growth by induction of apoptosis. The aim of our study was to investigate if exisulind induces regression of sporadic colonic adenomas.
A 12 month multicentre randomised double blind placebo controlled phase 3 dose response study was carried out. At baseline colonoscopy, left sided polyps (3-10 mm) were tattooed, measured, and left in place. Subjects received exisulind 200 or 400 mg, or placebo daily. Follow up sigmoidoscopy was performed after six months, and removal of any remaining polyps at the 12 month colonoscopy. The primary efficacy variable was change in polyp size from baseline.
A total of 281 patients were enrolled and randomised; 155 (55%) fulfilled the criteria for the intention to treat (ITT) analysis and 114 (41%) fulfilled the criteria for the efficacy evaluation analysis (patients who underwent the 12 month colonoscopy). The decrease in median polyp size was significantly greater (p=0.03) in patients who received exisulind 400 mg (-10 mm2) compared with those who received placebo (-4 mm2). Complete or partial response was significantly higher in the exisulind 400 mg group (54.6%) compared with the placebo group (30.2%), and disease progression was significantly lower (6.1% v 27.9%) (p=0.04 and 0.02, respectively). Increased liver enzymes (8.4%) and abdominal pain (14.7%) were also reported at a greater frequency in the exisulind 400 mg group.
Exisulind caused significant regression of sporadic adenomatous polyps but was associated with more toxicity. This model of polyp regression, short in its term and involving a comparatively small patient sample size, may be the best available tool to assess a therapeutic regimen before launching into large preventive clinical studies.
Irreversible liver cirrhosis was induced in rats by supplementing their diet with 0.02% azathioprine and intubating them twice a week with carbon tetrachloride in corn oil. Over period of 3 mo, intoxicated rats showed an atypical acute-phase reaction (APR). The relative concentrations of haptoglobin, beta-lipoprotein, alpha-1-antitrypsin, an unknown peak "X, " and transferrin increased exponentially following a mild initial drop, while albumin, C3c + C3, alpha-1-acid glycoprotein, alpha-1-lipoprotein, and macroglobulin declined continually during the experiment. The accumulated peritoneal fluid was found to contain a similar spectrum of APR proteins. On the other hand, histological examination revealed gradual liver damage manifested as a gradual increase in the areas of collagen separating liver cells, and at the end of the experiment, severe liver damage was evident with isolated hepatocytes in a matrix of collagen. The available data point to the disparity that exists between the physical status of hepatocytes and their biochemical function, which suggests that the remaining metabolically fatigued hepatocytes of the cirrhotic liver continue to biosynthesize and release elevated concentrations of some secretable APR proteins and less of others. Changes in the spectrum of APR plasma components during the progression of inflammatory or physical lesion remain a valid biochemical measure of the pathological function of the acutely intoxicated liver. Partial hepatectomy (PH) of cirrhotic liver displayed a mute APR and no regenerative activity of the remnant hepatic tissue, most likely due to the substantial depletion of hepatic DNA and possible chemical damage to DNA of the remaining viable hepatocytes. A possible cause for the depressed APR to the surgical insult of PH is that the initial azathioprine-CCl4 intoxication had maximally affected APR gene expression and a second injury would then elicit minimal further changes in mRNA levels. Thus, in a compounded pathological condition, the initial inflammatory stimulus on various pre-rRNAs, rRNAs, and mRNAs is rate-limiting to the hepatic biosynthesis and secretion of APR proteins and may not respond linearly, if at all, to a second stimulus.
Of 26 patients enrolled in a study designed to assess the usefulness of dipivalyl epinephrine 0.1%, administered topically at 12-hour intervals, for lowering intraocular pressure in patients with glaucoma and ocular hypertension, six patients (23.1%) developed adverse external ocular side effects severe enough to require that the drug be discontinued. Four of these six patients had a history of previous intolerance to epinephrine. The other two had successfully used epinephrine HCl 2% for more than two years before being treated with dipivalyl epinephrine and developed an adverse reaction after taking the drug 18 and 22 months, respectively. One patient with a history of epinephrine intolerance has successfully used dipivalyl epinephrine for 26 months to date. Our observations suggest that duration of exposure is an important factor in the development of sensitization to topically applied dipivalyl epinephrine.
Though drug fever from methyldopa is well known, to my knowledge fever and hypotension simulating septic shock have never been described in this country as a syndrome resulting from methyldopa therapy. Three such cases are presented here, all proved on rechallenge. They erroneously accounted for almost 6% of all cases of septic shock at St Elizabeth Medical Center in the last ten years.
The effects of antiepileptic drugs (AED) on infants during pregnancy and delivery were studied in a total of 82 epileptic mothers on various monotherapies; 29 cases receiving valproic acid (VPA), 20 receiving phenytoin (PHT), 18 on carbamazepine (CBZ) and 15 on phenobarbital (PB). While AED serum concentrations were low in most cases of VPA, PHT and PB except for one case of VPA which exceeded therapeutic limits, concentrations were within therapeutic levels in many cases of CBZ.
When compared with normal controls, abnormal deliveries such as caesarian section were seen more frequently in epileptic mothers under AED treatment. In addition, infants in PB cases were shown to have significantly lower mean birth length, weight and head circumference, suggesting that PB may retard fetal growth. The incidence of malformation in cases of VPA, PHT, CBZ and PB, was 10.3%, 5.0%, 0% and 6.7%, respectively. There were five types of malformation: in VPA cases, spina bifida, Siamese twins and ventricular septal defect tended to be severe, while in PHT and PB cases, cor biloculare and hypospadias respectively were observed. In cases of VPA, serum levels in the umbilical cord were found to be 150% higher than those in the mother.
This study reviewed the hypertensive response of a large population of children to high-dose dexmedetomidine sedation with the aim of determining the incidence and predictors of hypertension.
When dexmedetomidine is used to provide sedation for children, fluctuations in blood pressure have been described in case reports. We report the incidence and predictors of hypertension in a large series of children who received dexmedetomidine.
At our institution, a computerized database holds patient demographics, sedation outcomes, adverse events, and hemodynamic data for all children who receive dexmedetomidine sedation for radiological imaging studies. After Institutional Review Board approval, this database was reviewed.
Three thousand five hundred twenty-two (3522) children received dexmedetomidine sedation between May 1, 2007 and December 31, 2008 for magnetic resonance imaging studies. Median age was 3.6 years (interquartile range: 1.8-5.9). A total of 172 patients (4.9%) developed hypertension, with a higher incidence in the younger age group (0-3 years) when compared to the older age groups (3-18 years) (P < 0.05). Multivariable logistic regression modeling confirmed that younger age (Wald test = 43.5 of 5 degrees of freedom, P < 0.001) and more than one bolus (Wald test = 22.7, P < 0.001) were highly significant predictors of the occurrence of hypertension.
When high-dose dexmedetomidine is used for pediatric sedation for MR imaging, the incidence of hypertension is low. Hypertension is most likely to occur in children <1 year of age during the continuous infusion, after they have received more than one bolus of dexmedetomidine.
The rare, autosomal recessive Roberts syndrome (RBS) is characterized by tetraphocomelia, profound growth deficiency of prenatal onset, craniofacial anomalies, microcephaly, and mental deficiency. SC phocomelia (SC) has a milder phenotype, with a lesser degree of limb reduction and with survival to adulthood. Since heterochromatin repulsion (HR) is characteristic for both disorders and is not complemented in somatic-cell hybrids, it has been hypothesized that the disorders are allelic. Recently, mutations in ESCO2 (establishment of cohesion 1 homolog 2) on 8p21.1 have been reported in RBS. To determine whether ESCO2 mutations are also responsible for SC, we studied three families with SC and two families in which variable degrees of limb and craniofacial abnormalities, detected by fetal ultrasound, led to pregnancy terminations. All cases were positive for HR. We identified seven novel mutations in exons 3-8 of ESCO2. In two families, affected individuals were homozygous--for a 5-nucleotide deletion in one family and a splice-site mutation in the other. In three nonconsanguineous families, probands were compound heterozygous for a single-nucleotide insertion or deletion, a nonsense mutation, or a splice-site mutation. Abnormal splice products were characterized at the RNA level. Since only protein-truncating mutations were identified, regardless of clinical severity, we conclude that genotype does not predict phenotype. Having established that RBS and SC are caused by mutations in the same gene, we delineated the clinical phenotype of the tetraphocomelia spectrum that is associated with HR and ESCO2 mutations and differentiated it from other types of phocomelia that are negative for HR.
The kidney is a primary target for numerous toxic compounds. Cytochrome P450 enzymes (P450) are responsible for the metabolic activation of various chemical compounds, and in the kidney are predominantly expressed in proximal tubules. The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that renal proximal tubular P450s are critical for nephrotoxicity caused by chemicals such as chloroform. We developed two new mouse models, one having proximal tubule-specific deletion of the cytochrome P450 reductase (Cpr) gene (the enzyme required for all microsomal P450 activities), designated proximal tubule-Cpr-null (PTCN), and the other having proximal tubule-specific rescue of CPR activity with the global suppression of CPR activity in all extra-proximal tubular tissues, designated extra-proximal tubule-Cpr-low (XPT-CL). The PTCN, XPT-CL, Cpr-low (CL), and wild-type (WT) mice were treated with a single oral dose of chloroform at 200mg/kg. Blood, liver and kidney samples were obtained at 24h after the treatment. Renal toxicity was assessed by measuring BUN and creatinine levels, and by pathological examination. The blood and tissue levels of chloroform were determined. The severity of toxicity was less in PTCN and CL mice, compared with that of WT and XPT-CL mice. There were no significant differences in chloroform levels in the blood, liver, or kidney, between PTCN and WT mice, or between XPT-CL and CL mice. These findings indicate that local P450-dependent activities play an important role in the nephrotoxicity induced by chloroform. Our results also demonstrate the usefulness of these novel mouse models for studies of chemical-induced kidney toxicity.
Phenobarbital (PB) is an antiepileptic drug that promotes hepatocarcinogenesis in rodents when administered subsequent to an initiating carcinogen like N-nitrosodiethylamine (DEN). In the mouse, the promotional effect of PB on liver tumor development results from a selective stimulation of clonal outgrowth of hepatocytes harboring activating mutations in the beta-catenin gene. Because glutamine synthetase (GS) has recently been shown to be a putative transcriptional target of beta-catenin, expression of GS during PB-mediated promotion of mouse hepatocarcinogenesis was investigated. Preneoplastic and neoplastic liver lesions were induced in 6-week-old male mice by a single injection of 90 micro g/g body weight of DEN, and groups of mice were subsequently kept on PB-containing (0.05%) or control diet for 39 weeks. In PB-treated mice, 46 of 51 lesions ( approximately 90%) were GS-positive in contrast to only 16 of 46 ( approximately 35%) in mice not treated with PB. Approximately 33% of liver was occupied by neoplastic tissue in PB-treated mice, of which >80% was GS positive. By contrast, only approximately 3.5% of liver consisted of neoplastic tissue in mice treated with DEN only, and approximately 25% of this was GS positive. We have previously shown that beta-catenin mutations are present in approximately 80% of liver tumors from PB-treated mice but are absent in liver tumors from mice treated with DEN only. By analyzing a panel of larger liver tumors, we now observed that tumors harboring beta-catenin mutations were GS positive, whereas tumors without beta-catenin mutations were GS negative. Similarly, tumors from an additional mouse carcinogenicity experiment where PB inhibited rather than promoted hepatocarcinogenesis were mostly GS negative. These data suggest that promotion of hepatocarcinogenesis by PB confers beta-catenin-mutated tumor cells with a selective advantage by up-regulation of GS expression.
This study was designed to evaluate the effect of indomethacin (ID) on renal perfusion in 13 neonates with symptomatic patent ductus arteriosus (PDA). Serial blood flow velocity in the left renal artery was measured just before and at 10, 30, 45, 60, 75 and 90 min after ID administration. Serum creatinine (Cr), sodium (Na), and osmolarity were measured just before, at 12 and 24 h, and at 3 days after ID administration. Timed urine also was collected for measurement of amount, fractional excretion of Na (FE(Na)), and creatinine clearance (C(Cr)). ID decreased end-diastolic flow velocity of renal artery and increased Pourcelot's index, starting at 10 min and lasting for 75 min (p < 0.05). Serum Cr significantly increased at 12 h, and hourly urine output and C(Cr) decreased for 24 h. Serum Na and osmolarity decreased for a period of at least 3 days (p < 0.05). FE(Na) decreased at 12-24 h (p < 0.05). We conclude that ID treatment can induce significant renal dysfunction due to diminution of renal perfusion in human neonates.
Induction of cell apoptosis and necrosis by paclitaxel was investigated in human leukemic U937 cells. To explore whether paclitaxel induces both apoptosis and necrosis in different cell cycle stages, we synchronized the cells in G1, S and G2/M stages by counterflow centrifugal elutriation (CCE). The Annexin V and PI analysis revealed that, after paclitaxel treatment, the cells in G1 and S stages died predominantly through apoptosis, whereas G2/M-stage cells died through both apoptosis and necrosis. These phenomena were verified by a trypan blue exclusion assay and by detection of the release of lactose dehydrogenase (LDH). Paclitaxel treatment significantly decreased viability in G2/M cells and led these cells to release more LDH than other cells. These treated cells also released certain substances that inhibited cell growth. These results strongly suggest that the cell membrane of the treated G2/M-cells is disrupted, leading to the leakage of LDH and cell growth inhibitory substances out of cell. Furthermore, the typical events of apoptosis, such as the release of cytochrome c and the decrease of mitochondria membrane potential, occur primarily in S stage rather than in the G2/M stages. These results suggest that paclitaxel induces typical apoptosis in the G1- and S- cells, but it induces both apoptosis and necrosis in G2/M-phase cells.
We conducted a comparative study to evaluate whether early (4-7 days of age) low-dose dexamethasone (DEX) therapy in preterm infants with surfactant-pretreated respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) would facilitate extubation and improve the clinical outcome. Twenty-six preterm infants with surfactant-pretreated RDS who were oxygen- and ventilator-dependent at 4 days of postnatal age were enrolled. Twelve infants were in the historical comparison group, and 14 infants were assigned to receive DEX 0.125 mg/kg i.v., every 12 h, for a total of 6 doses. At study entry, the two groups had a comparable clinical status. DEX therapy significantly facilitated weaning from mechanical ventilation (median interval, 6 vs. 24 days, p < 0.005) and shortened duration of oxygen supplementation (9 vs. 28 days, p < 0.05) as compared with the historical comparison group. At 28 days of age, the occurrence of chronic lung disease (CLD) was significantly lower (1/14 vs. 6/12, p < 0.05) and there was a significant decrease in the incidence of ventilator dependence (0/14 vs. 5/12, p < 0.05) in the DEX group. DEX therapy did not influence the incidence of significant complications such as infection, periventricular leukomalacia or retinopathy of prematurity. We conclude that in a selected high-risk group of preterm infants, early low-dose DEX treatment results in improvement in pulmonary outcome without significant side effects.
Catatonia is a syndrome that is often considered as a subtype of schizophrenia, although studies have shown that it is most often associated with affective disorders. There are also many medical causes of catatonia. A case is presented in which glutethimide withdrawal seems the most likely explanation for catatonic symptoms.
To report a case of a fatal myocardial infarction (MI) possibly induced by paclitaxel in a patient with metastatic breast cancer.
A 67-year-old African-American woman with metastatic breast cancer was treated with a paclitaxel infusion. Fifteen hours into the 24-hour continuous infusion, the patient developed tachypnea, respiratory distress, and chest pain. Paciltaxel infusion was discontinued. Electrocardiogram findings revealed ST elevation in leads 2, 3, and aVF acutely. The cardiac enzymes were abnormal and the echocardiogram changes showed severe global left ventricular dysfunction consistent with acute MI. The patient died 13 hours after stopping the paclitaxel infusion.
Cardiac adverse effects of paclitaxel have been described in preliminary studies. Paclitaxel-induced cardiac abnormalities are usually described as asymptomatic and transient. MI secondary to paclitaxel infusion has rarely been reported. The mechanism by which paclitaxel causes cardiac abnormalities, especially myocardial damage, is not well understood.
Myocardial damage secondary to paclitaxel infusion is a serious and life-threatening adverse effect. Caution should be exercised in all patients treated with paclitaxel until more information regarding risk factors is available.
To investigate the relationship between HBV lamivudine resistance and HBV genotypes or basic core promoter (BCP) mutations.
The common coated probes were synthesized according to the conserved regions of the preC gene of hepatitis B virus (HBV). Different colorized probes were chosen from the sequences of different genotypes of HBV (A to F), BCP and YMDD wild types and mutants, respectively. HBV DNA levels, HBV genotypes, BCP and YMDD resistants were analyzed by PCR microplate hybridization ELISA at the zero and 6th month after the patients were treated with lamivudine.
HBV genotyping results showed that HBV types B, C, D accounted for about 30%, 36% and 23% patients respectively. Thirteen BCP mutations (type B in 1 patient, type C in 8 and type D in 4) were found before treatment with lamivudine. HBV DNA levels were lower than 100 pg/ml in 2 patients and higher than 100 pg/ml in 11. 9.4% of the HBV patients (5/43; type C in 3 and type D in 2) showed YMDD resistants and 4 BCP mutations at the same time.
Oral treatment of lamivudine decreases the level of serum HBV DNA. The appearance of HBV YMDD resistants is related to certain HBV genotypes, and most of them are BCP mutations.
Dyskinesia, secondary to dopamine replacement therapy, is the major complication of currently available therapies for Parkinson's disease. Alpha(2) adrenoceptor antagonists, such as idazoxan, can significantly reduce levodopa-induced dyskinesia in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned, nonhuman primate model of Parkinson's disease and in human. This action of adrenoceptor antagonists may involve blockade of the actions of noradrenaline synthesised from levodopa. We hypothesise that, because dopamine receptor agonists, such as apomorphine, cannot be metabolised to produce noradrenaline, activation of adrenoceptors may not be involved in dyskinesia produced by such agents. If this were the case, idazoxan would not be expected to reduce apomorphine-induced dyskinesia. MPTP-lesioned marmosets with stable dyskinesia induced by prolonged levodopa therapy were given an acute challenge with apomorphine (0.3 mg/kg subcutaneously) or levodopa (8.0 mg/kg orally), these doses produced equivalent peak-dose dyskinesia. Idazoxan (2.5 mg/kg p.o.), or vehicle, was then administered with either apomorphine or levodopa. Idazoxan abolished levodopa-induced dyskinesia but did not affect apomorphine-induced dyskinesia (P < 0.05 and P > 0.05, respectively, Wilcoxon matched pairs test). Idazoxan also extended the anti-parkinsonian actions of levodopa but did not affect those of apomorphine. The pharmacological characteristics of the neural mechanisms underlying levodopa-induced dyskinesia and apomorphine-induced dyskinesia in parkinsonism thus appear to be distinct, at least with respect to the involvement of alpha(2) adrenoceptors. Specifically, levodopa, but not apomorphine-induced dyskinesia, involves activation of adrenoceptors. This finding may have major implications for understanding dyskinesia and should be borne in mind when designing clinical studies in which levodopa or dopamine receptor agonist challenges are employed to assess potential anti-dyskinetic properties of drugs.
1-Methylnicotinamide (MNA) is one of the major derivatives of nicotinamide, which was recently shown to exhibit antithrombotic and antiinflammatory actions. However, it is not yet known whether MNA affects gastric mucosal defense. The effects of exogenous MNA were studied on gastric secretion and gastric lesions induced in rats by 3.5 h of water immersion and water restraint stress (WRS) or in rats administered 75% ethanol. MNA [6.25-100 mg/kg intragastrically (i.g.)] led to a dose-dependent rise in the plasma MNA level, inhibited gastric acid secretion, and attenuated these gastric lesions induced by WRS or ethanol. The gastroprotective effect of MNA was accompanied by an increase in the gastric mucosal blood flow and plasma calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) levels, the preservation of prostacyclin (PGI(2)) generation (measured as 6-keto-PGF1alpha), and an overexpression of mRNAs for cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 and CGRP in the gastric mucosa. R-3-(4-Fluoro-phenyl)-2-[5-(4-fluoro-phenyl)-benzofuran-2-ylmethoxycarbonylamino]-propionic acid (RO 324479), which is the selective antagonist of IP/PGI(2) receptors, reversed the effects of MNA on gastric lesions and GBF. MNA-induced gastroprotection was attenuated by suppression of COX-1 [5-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(4-methoxyphenyl)-3-(trifluoromethyl)-1H-pyrazole; SC-560] and COX-2 [4-(4-methylsulfonylphenyl)-3-phenyl-5H-furan-2-one; rofecoxib] activity, capsaicin denervation, and by the pretreatment with CGRP(8-37) or capsazepine. Addition of exogenous PGI(2) or CGRP restored the MNA-induced gastroprotection in rats treated with COX-1 and COX-2 inhibitors or in those with capsaicin denervation. WRS enhanced MDA content while decreasing superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity in the gastric mucosa, but pretreatment with MNA reversed these changes. MNA exerts potent gastroprotection against WRS damage via mechanisms involving cooperative action of PGI(2) and CGRP in preservation of microvascular flow, antioxidizing enzyme SOD activity, and reduction in lipid peroxidation.
A case is described of a 47-year-old man who developed a manic psychosis while receiving pargyline treatment for concurrent depression and hypertension. The pharmacologic actions of pargyline are discussed with regard to its partial selectivity for MAO-B and presumed action in dopamine systems, and clinicians are alerted to this uncommon drug reaction.
Somatic side effects of antidepressant medications and of depression and anxiety were quantified in depressed patients before and after 4 weeks of treatment with amitriptyline (N = 11), or desipramine (N = 12). The entire group showed significant posttreatment decreases in depression. Side-effect symptoms were significantly reduced after treatment in the amitriptyline group; less reduction was seen in the desipramine group. Significant correlations were demonstrated between levels of anxiety and side effect symptoms both before and after treatment. The reduction in side effect symptoms in the amitriptyline group can be explained by the drug's anxiolytic property. Our findings suggest that symptoms resembling antidepressant side effects seen in medicated depressed patients are influenced by the patient's clinical condition more than by the anticholinergic activity of moderate dosages of the antidepressant.
We previously reported that corymine, an alkaloidal compound extracted from the leaves of Hunteria zeylanica native to Thailand, potentiated convulsions induced by either picrotoxin or strychnine. Therefore, to clarify the mechanism of action of corymine, the effects of corymine on gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and glycine receptors were examined. We used Xenopus oocytes expressing these receptors and the two-electrode voltage-clamp method. The receptors expressed in oocytes injected with rat brain and spinal cord RNA showed the pharmacological properties of GABAA and glycine receptors, respectively. Corymine (1-100 microM) partially (20-30%) reduced the GABA responses in oocytes injected with rat brain RNA, while marked (up to 80%) dose-dependent reductions were observed in the glycine responses in oocytes injected with rat spinal cord RNA. These observations suggest that corymine was more effective against the glycine receptors than the GABA receptors. The ED50 of corymine on the glycine response was 10.8 microM. Corymine, at 30 microM, caused a shift to the right, with a lower maximal response, of the glycine concentration-response curve. This indicated that the action of corymine on glycine receptors is neither competitive nor purely non-competitive. These observations suggest that a binding site other than the glycine recognition site of the glycine receptors is the site of action of corymine.
Thionamide drugs are widely used in the management of hyperthyroidism and are infrequently associated with adverse reactions. We report the development of the nephrotic syndrome during methimazole (Tapazole) therapy in a young man with Graves' disease. His proteinuria remitted promptly with discontinuance of the drug, and renal histologic features bore a striking resemblance to the toxic nephrosis induced in animals by the aminonucleoside of puromycin. In view of the histologic similarities, we propose that methimazole acted as a direct glomerular toxin, inducing the nephrotic syndrome in this patient.
The estrogenic action of O,P'-DDT has been known for many years. The majority of studies have used immature or ovariectomized adult rats to demonstrate estrogenic responses that require interaction with an intranuclear receptor and genic expression. However, evidence is accumulating that not all estrogenic effects are mediated by such a receptor; initiation of implantation being one such effect. The present study examined the ability of O,P'-DDT to initiate embryo implantation in the progesterone-primed uterus of a hypophysectomized adult rat. Not only did O,P'-DDT initiate implantation, it also maintained pregnancy for at least 3 days. However, when administered at the time of mating or early after fertilization, the same dosage caused loss of pre-implantation embryos. The results are consistent with the interpretation that O,P'-DDT has multiple estrogenic actions that may involve more than 1 kind of receptor.
In a previous study of propranolol poisoning, glucagon and milrinone significantly increased cardiac output, but the improvement caused by glucagon was almost entirely due to the chronotropic effect. This study investigates the combined effect of glucagon, in a dose not inducing tachycardia, and milrinone on beta-blocker poisoning. Following the administration of 10 mg/kg propranolol IV over ten minutes, dogs (N = 20) were divided into four treatment groups, group S (saline), group G (glucagon 2.5 micrograms/kg), group M (milrinone 100 micrograms/kg), and group G + M (glucagon 2.5 micrograms/kg plus milrinone 100 micrograms/kg). Hemodynamic parameters were observed over the next thirty minutes. Heart rate, cardiac output, and mean arterial pressure were decreased in all groups after the administration of propranolol. Heart rate, mean arterial pressure, cardiac output, and stroke volume recovered to the baseline values in group G + M. However, heart rate in group G + M showed a significant increase versus the other three groups. In a canine model of severe propranolol poisoning, the combined effect of glucagon 2.5 micrograms/kg and milrinone 100 micrograms/kg brought about a significant hemodynamic improvement, but it was accompanied by an excessive increase of heart rate. Combined therapy of milrinone and glucagon may not be preferable therapy in beta-blocker poisoning in the canine model.
