Greater levels of prenatal exposure to polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) have been associated with childhood obesity in epidemiological studies. However, the underlying mechanisms are unclear.
We hypothesized that prenatal PAH over-exposure during gestation would lead to weight gain and increased fat mass in offspring and grand-offspring mice. Further, we hypothesized that altered adipose gene expression and DNA methylation in genes important to adipocyte differentiation would be affected.
Pregnant dams were exposed to a nebulized PAH mixture versus negative control aerosol 5 days a week, for 3 weeks. Body weight was recorded from postnatal day (PND) 21 through PND60. Body composition, adipose cell size, gene expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) γ, CCAAT/enhancer-binding proteins (C/EBP) α, cyclooxygenase (Cox)-2, fatty acid synthase (FAS) and adiponectin, and DNA methylation of PPAR γ, were assayed in both the offspring and grand-offspring adipose tissue.
Offspring of dams exposed to greater PAH during gestation had increased weight, fat mass, as well as higher gene expression of PPAR γ, C/EBP α, Cox2, FAS and adiponectin and lower DNA methylation of PPAR γ. Similar differences in phenotype and DNA methylation extended through the grand-offspring mice.
Greater prenatal PAH exposure was associated with increased weight, fat mass, adipose gene expression and epigenetic changes in progeny.
We have shown previously that the 88 kDa glycoprotein PC cell-derived growth factor (PCDGF/GP88) is expressed and acts as an autocrine growth factor in human multiple myeloma cells. The present study investigates whether PCDGF/GP88 expression in multiple myeloma cells leads to the development of resistance to dexamethasone, a conventional drug for multiple myeloma patients.
PCDGF functions and signaling pathways in dexamethasone-induced apoptosis were studied using a representative dexamethasone-sensitive multiple myeloma cell line ARP-1. The effect of PCDGF/GP88 was further confirmed in PCDGF/GP88-overexpressed ARP-1 cells.
Dexamethasone inhibits cell growth and induces apoptosis in a time- and dose-dependent fashion. Exogenous addition of PCDGF/GP88 to the ARP-1 cells prevented dexamethasone-induced apoptosis as examined by flow cytometry analysis and poly(ADP-ribose)polymerase cleavage assay. Signaling studies showed that mitogen-activated protein kinase, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, and nuclear factor-kappaB were involved in the antiapoptotic effect of PCDGF/GP88. Overexpression of PCDGF/GP88 in ARP-1 cells rendered the cells refractory to dexamethasone-mediated apoptosis, enhanced their ability to form colonies in soft agar, and to form tumors in vivo without any change in glucocorticoid receptor expression and function.
These data suggest that expression of PCDGF/GP88 confers resistance to dexamethasone and increase tumorigenesis of multiple myeloma cells in mouse xenografts. Our data here also raises the possibility of PCDGF/GP88 as a potential therapeutic target for dexamethasone-resistant multiple myeloma.
Hepatotoxity associated with amoxicillin/clavulanic acid is usually a self-limited disease with complete recovery. We report a rapidly progressing liver disease with ductopenia and portal fibrosis in a 3-year-old boy treated with Augmentin.
The hypothesis was tested that oral antibiotic treatment in children with acute pyelonephritis and scintigraphy-documented lesions is equally as efficacious as sequential intravenous/oral therapy with respect to the incidence of renal scarring. A randomised multi-centre trial was conducted in 365 children aged 6 months to 16 years with bacterial growth in cultures from urine collected by catheter. The children were assigned to receive either oral ceftibuten (9 mg/kg once daily) for 14 days or intravenous ceftriaxone (50 mg/kg once daily) for 3 days followed by oral ceftibuten for 11 days. Only patients with lesions detected on acute-phase dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA) scintigraphy underwent follow-up scintigraphy. Efficacy was evaluated by the rate of renal scarring after 6 months on follow-up scintigraphy. Of 219 children with lesions on acute-phase scintigraphy, 152 completed the study; 80 (72 females, median age 2.2 years) were given ceftibuten and 72 (62 females, median age 1.6 years) were given ceftriaxone/ceftibuten. Patients in the intravenous/oral group had significantly higher C-reactive protein (CRP) concentrations at baseline and larger lesion(s) on acute-phase scintigraphy. Follow-up scintigraphy showed renal scarring in 21/80 children treated with ceftibuten and 33/72 with ceftriaxone/ceftibuten (p = 0.01). However, after adjustment for the confounding variables (CRP and size of acute-phase lesion), no significant difference was observed for renal scarring between the two groups (p = 0.2). Renal scarring correlated with the extent of the acute-phase lesion (r = 0.60, p < 0.0001) and the grade of vesico-ureteric reflux (r = 0.31, p = 0.03), and was more frequent in refluxing renal units (p = 0.04). The majority of patients, i.e. 44 in the oral group and 47 in the intravenous/oral group, were managed as out-patients. Side effects were not observed. From this study, we can conclude that once-daily oral ceftibuten for 14 days yielded comparable results to sequential ceftriaxone/ceftibuten treatment in children aged 6 months to 16 years with DMSA-documented acute pyelonephritis and it allowed out-patient management in the majority of these children.
The feasibility of using labetalol, an alpha- and beta-adrenergic blocking agent, as a hypotensive agent in combination with inhalation anaesthetics (halothane, enflurane or isoflurane) was studied in 23 adult patients undergoing middle-ear surgery. The mean arterial pressure was decreased from 86 +/- 5 (s.e. mean) mmHg to 52 +/- 1 mmHg (11.5 +/- 0.7 to 6.9 +/- 0.1 kPa) for 98 +/- 10 min in the halothane (H) group, from 79 +/- 5 to 53 +/- 1 mmHg (10.5 +/- 0.7 to 7.1 +/- 0.1 kPa) for 129 +/- 11 min in the enflurane (E) group, and from 80 +/- 4 to 49 +/- 1 mmHg (10.7 +/- 0.5 to 6.5 +/- 0.1 kPa) for 135 +/- 15 min in the isoflurane (I) group. The mean H concentration during hypotension in the inspiratory gas was 0.7 +/- 0.1 vol%, the mean E concentration 1.6 +/- 0.2 vol%, and the mean I concentration 1.0 +/- 0.1 vol%. In addition, the patients received fentanyl and d-tubocurarine. The initial dose of labetalol for lowering blood pressure was similar, 0.52-0.59 mg/kg, in all the groups. During hypotension, the heart rate was stable without tachy- or bradycardia. The operating conditions regarding bleeding were estimated in a double-blind manner, and did not differ significantly between the groups. During hypotension, the serum creatinine concentration rose significantly in all groups from the values before hypotension and returned postoperatively to the initial level in the other groups, except the isoflurane group. After hypotension there was no rebound phenomenon in either blood pressure or heart rate. These results indicate that labetalol induces easily adjustable hypotension without compensatory tachycardia and rebound hypertension.
Ketoconazole has only recently been recognized as a cause of hepatic injury, with most reports coming from outside the United States. In order to characterize more fully the U.S. experience, we undertook an analysis of 54 reports of alleged ketoconazole-induced liver injury submitted to the Food and Drug Administration from the time of initial marketing in 1980. Thirty-three reports were considered likely instances of ketoconazole-induced hepatitis. The majority of these cases occurred in women more than 40 yr of age. Jaundice was recorded in 27 individuals after therapy of 11-168 days with an average daily dose of 200 mg. Anorexia, malaise, nausea, and vomiting accompanied liver injury in one-third of cases. No instances of rash or eosinophilia were recorded. Serum transaminase and alkaline phosphatase values were consistent with acute hepatocellular injury in 18 patients, with primarily cholestatic injury in 5 patients, and with a mixed pattern in 9 individuals. Only one death seemed attributable to ketoconazole. In that patient, the drug was continued after the appearance of clinical and biochemical evidence of hepatic injury and massive hepatocellular necrosis was present at autopsy. The incidence of symptomatic, potentially serious hepatic injury appears to be very low, perhaps 1 in 15,000 exposed individuals. The presumed mechanism of injury is metabolic idiosyncrasy, although hypersensitivity has not been completely dismissed in some cases reported in the literature. The incidence of mild, asymptomatic, reversible elevations in serum transaminases occurring in ketoconazole recipients has been estimated to be 5%-10%. Periodic biochemical testing and monitoring for symptoms of hepatitis during ketoconazole therapy is recommended to help prevent the development of serious or fatal hepatic injury.
The underlying etiology of diabetic microvascular disease remains unknown. To examine the potential contribution of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), which is an angiogenic factor, and insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) to the development of diabetic microvascular disease, bFGF and IGF-I mRNA levels were measured in tissues of control, diabetic, and insulin-treated diabetic rats. Diabetes was induced in rats by intravenous injection of streptozotocin (STZ) 65 mg/kg, and the rats were maintained for 21 days. bFGF mRNA levels increased threefold in the eyes of diabetic versus control rats, whereas a consistent change in bFGF mRNA levels was not observed in other tissues. In contrast, IGF-I mRNA levels decreased in the eyes and other tissues, including kidney, lung, and skeletal muscle, of diabetic as compared with control rats. Insulin treatment prevented the diabetes-induced increase in bFGF and decrease in IGF-I mRNA levels. Acidic FGF (aFGF) mRNA levels were unchanged in eyes from diabetic versus control rats. In partially purified retinas, diabetes increased bFGF mRNA levels twofold as compared with levels in control retinas, whereas IGF-I mRNA levels decreased to 58% of control levels in retinas from diabetic rats. Insulin treatment again prevented the diabetes-induced increase in IGF-I mRNA levels in the retina but had no effect on the diabetes-induced increase in bFGF mRNA levels. bFGF peptide levels were minimally increased in diabetic versus control retinas.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the presence of motor disturbances, derived from the striatal dopamine depletion. Previously, we reported that CuSO4 pretreatment blocked an oxidative stress marker (lipid peroxidation) and prevented the striatal dopamine depletion induced by the administration of the 1-methyl-4-phenylpiridinium (MPP+), the toxic metabolite of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), a model of PD.
. To determine if tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the rate-limiting synthetic enzyme of dopamine, is implicated in the neuroprotective effect of CuSO4 pretreatment, and if this neuroprotective effect is able to prevent the hypokinetic state (measured as spontaneous locomotor activity, SLA) induced by the experimental model of PD.
C57 Black/6J mice received a single dose of CuSO4 (2.5 mg/kg, i.p.) either 16 or 24 h before the administration of MPP+ (18 microg/3 microl, i.c.v.). Twenty four hours later, mice SLA was registered and animals sacrificed. Striatal L-DOPA accumulation derived from the administration of a central dopamine descarboxilase inhibitor was evaluated, a strategy considered as a reliable indirect analysis of tyrosine hydroxylase activity (THA).
Administration of, MPP+ decreased SLA (-52%; p = 0.003) as compared to control group values, whereas those mice pretreated with CuSO4 16 h before MPP+, increased SLA by 47% as compared with control group (p = 0.015). Mice pretreated with CuSO4 24 h before MPP+, also showed a statistically significant increase in SLA (71%; p = 0.02), when compared with control group. As a consequence of MPP+ administration, THA was also reduced as compared to control group values (32%; p < 0.05). Reduction of THA was blocked when mice were pretreated with CuSO4 16 h before MPP+. Moreover, mice receiving the CuSO4 24 h before MPP+ showed a significant increase (38%; p < 0.05) in THA when compared with control group.
Results suggest that preservation of THA participates in the neuroprotective effects derived from the copper supplementation, a phenomenon that avoid the hypokinetic state induced by the MPP+ experimental model of PD.
A neuropharmacological study was performed to investigate the effect of valproate sodium (VS) used to suppress the barbiturate and phenytoin withdrawal syndrome induced experimentally in 1152 male Wistar rats. Valproate sodium was administered by mouth according to the following protocol: initial bolus dose of 400 mg/kg b.w. followed eight hours later by the first maintaining dose of 50 mg/kg b.w. This was given every 12 hours for five days. VS plasma levels were determined by gas chromatography. The therapeutic effect of valproate sodium was assessed by the seizure reactivity of the experimental and the control animals to an electroshock (50 mA/0.1 sec.). The results strongly indicate that valproate sodium inhibits the experimentally induced barbiturate and phenytoin withdrawal syndrome without causing drug dependance. It is suggested that some of the valproate sodium metabolites possess antiwithdrawal effect.
Exposure to anesthetics triggers apoptotic neurodegeneration in the neonatal rat brain; whether neuronal apoptosis also occurs in the spinal cord, a crucial target for analgesic and anesthetic drugs, is unknown.
We exposed 7-day-old rats were exposed to air or 75% nitrous oxide + 0.75% isoflurane in oxygen for 6 h (n = 19 per group). Caspase-3 immunoreactivity was evaluated in the lumbar spinal cord at the end of the gas exposure (n = 3 per group). Developmental nociceptive responses were tested using tail flick latencies on postnatal days 8, 15, and 30 (n = 3 per group). Motor responses were evaluated using the rotarod on postnatal day 30 (n = 7 per group).
Isoflurane plus nitrous oxide increased the numbers of caspase-3 positive neurons in the spinal cord (P < 0.01). Despite a preponderance of the injury in the ventral horn of the spinal cord, motor impairment did not occur (P > 0.05). No functional effect on nociception was observed at the three developmental stages tested (P > 0.05).
Anesthesia induces apoptosis in the neonatal rat spinal cord; however, the functional consequences of this injury, if any, remain obscure. Neither motor nor nociceptive responses were affected by anesthetic treatment. Nonetheless, further investigation is required as regional anesthetic techniques may also trigger neuroapoptosis in the spinal cord with unknown potency.
Prinzmetal's angina is a condition characterized by chest pain, transient ST elevation, and negative biochemical markers of myocardial cell necrosis. We describe a case of chemically-induced "silent" ST segment elevation related to Atenolol overdose in a patient without coronary artery stenosis. We conclude that the cause for the transient myocardial ischemia is coronary vasospasm, precipitated by beta-blocker overdose.
The effect of selective activation of nociceptive primary afferent fibers by capsaicin on a nociceptive lower limb flexion reflex was studied in healthy human subjects. Capsaicin (1%) applied topically to the skin produced a burning spontaneous pain sensation and allodynia in the treated region and in its immediate vicinity. Capsaicin applied to the distal innervation area of the sural or saphenous nerve produced a significant decrease of the threshold for the nociceptive limb flexion reflex induced by electric stimulation of the proximal sural nerve trunk, and this threshold decrease was rapidly attenuated by a cool compress concomitantly with the attenuation of the capsaicin-induced spontaneous pain. The latency of the flexion reflex response was not changed by capsaicin. The non-nociceptive H-reflex was not modified by capsaicin. It is concluded that a selective activation of nociceptive primary afferent fibers of the skin by capsaicin produces a central facilitation of a nociceptive flexion reflex in humans. This facilitation is selective on the nociceptive reflex and depends, at least partly, on the on-going afferent barrage in C-fibers.
The cases of two patients who received peridural and intradural anesthesia and propofol as sedation are presented. In one case generalized tonic and clonic convulsions, and in the other, opisthotonos appeared. Neither patient had previous neurologic disease nor, in the context of complications, did other causes to explain the same appear except for the possible association with propofol to which similar secondary effects have been described.
Although reversibility of acute ifosfamide-induced nephrotoxicity is well documented, there is a paucity of data concerning the long-term outcome of chronic renal toxicity, and full recovery from established damage has not been reported. A 4-year-old boy presented with hypophosphatemic rickets 9 months after completion of combination chemotherapy (including ifosfamide) for prostatic rhabdomyosarcoma. Further investigation confirmed glomerular and generalised tubular dysfunction with a Fanconi syndrome. However, serial investigation over the next 4 years revealed complete and sustained recovery of this chronic nephrotoxicity.
The aim was to investigate the efficacy of a combination of low-dose remifentanil (REMI) and ketamine (KET) compared to the single drugs and placebo (P) on whiplash associated pain (WAD) in a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, cross-over study. Twenty patients with chronic (>1 year) WAD were included. Four different drug combinations were tested in four sessions: placebo/placebo (P/P), placebo/remifentanil (P/REMI), ketamine/placebo (KET/P) and ketamine/remifentanil (KET/REMI). Target concentrations were 1 and 2ng/ml (stepwise) for remifentanil and 100ng/ml for ketamine. Habitual pain intensity was assessed on a visual analogue scale (VAS). Experimental pain was assessed with electrical stimulation (single and repeated) of tibialis anterior (TA) muscle, pressure pain algometry applied over infraspinatus (IS) and TA muscles and VAS scores after intramuscular hypertonic saline infusion in TA. KET/REMI significantly reduced habitual pain. KET/REMI infused at low REMI target concentration (1ng/ml) significantly elevated electrical intramuscular pain thresholds (single and repeated). Pain thresholds to electrical stimulation were similarly increased by both P/REMI and KET/REMI at 2ng/ml target concentration. Pressure pain thresholds were increased by both KET/REMI and P/REMI. VAS-scores after intramuscular saline were also similarly decreased by both REMI combinations. Seven out of 20 subjects were non-responders (<50% pain relief). No correlation was found between effects on spontaneous pain and experimental pain. KET/REMI showed an analgesic effect on habitual pain. Experimental pain was attenuated by both combinations containing the opioid, however, KET seemed to enhance the effect of REMI on electrical pain thresholds when a low REMI target concentration was used.
Effects of various calcium channel inhibitors have been studied in lithium-pilocarpine model of status epilepticus. Status epilepticus was induced by administration of lithium chloride (3 meq/kg) followed 21 hr later by pilocarpine (30 mg/kg). Diltiazem (5 and 10 mg/kg) was not effective in delaying onset of convulsions. Verapamil (20 mg/kg) showed protection against lithium-pilocarpine-induced convulsions. The dihydropyridine nifidepine (2.5 and 5 mg/kg) did not show any protection in this model. Amlodipine (5 and 10 mg/kg) as partially protective. Flunarizine (10 and 20 mg/kg) delayed the onset of forelimb clonus and rearing and only 60% of the rats underwent status in the 20 mg/kg group. Pre-treatment of MK-801 led to a potentiation of the antiseizure activity of calcium channel inhibitors. The percent increase in amplitude at various time points with amlodipine pretreatment was significant only at the 30th min recording, and at the rest of the time frames was practically similar as the controls. It can be concluded that the anticonvulsant action of MK-801 can be enhanced by centrally acting calcium channel inhibitors.
Postinfarction hypertrophied hearts have been shown to display a lower capillary density and reduced mechanical efficiency amplified by tachycardia. We investigated whether pharmacological reduction of postinfarction tachycardia would induce capillary growth by treating myocardial infarcted (MI) rats with aspirin, methylprednisolone, moxonidine or captopril, during the first 3 weeks after infarction.
Effects on in vivo heart rate were measured in conscious unrestrained rats, while in vitro heart rate effects were evaluated in isolated perfused hearts. Compared to sham-rats, MI-rats manifested a significant in vivo as well as in vitro tachycardia (increase 9% and 20% vs. sham, respectively). Whereas aspirin, methylprednisolone and moxonidine significantly reduced postinfarction in vivo tachycardia, captopril rather increased in vivo heart rate. In vitro tachycardia of MI-hearts was reduced to sham-values with aspirin and methylprednisolone (P<0.05), but not with moxonidine and captopril. Capillary density defined as the number of Lectin stained capillaries per tissue area, which significantly decreased in MI-hearts (decrease 42% vs. sham), was restored by all treatments (P<0.05). Concentric left ventricular hypertrophy after MI, defined as increased cross-sectional area of transversally cut Gomori stained myocytes, was indicated by almost double myocyte size (P<0.05), while capillary to myocyte ratio remained unchanged. Methylprednisolone, moxonidine and captopril, but not aspirin, prevented hypertrophy (P<0.05). However, treatment with aspirin and methylprednisolone, but not moxonidine and captopril, increased capillary to myocyte ratio (P<0.05) up to twice the values of non-treated MI hearts, indicating newly formed capillaries.
The above findings confirm that post-MI pharmacological treatment can increase capillary density in the remodeled left ventricle. Whereas prevention of left ventricular hypertrophy normalizes capillary density without actually affecting capillary number, increased capillary to myocyte ratio (at preserved hypertrophic response) indicates actual capillary growth.
Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis are severe cutaneous reactions caused by certain drugs, including antiepileptic carbamazepine. A strong association has been reported between human leucocyte antigen (HLA)-B*1502 and carbamazepine-induced SJS in Han Chinese patients. European studies suggested that HLA-B*1502 is not a universal marker but is ethnicity-specific for Asians.
To study the association between HLA-B*1502 and carbamazepine-induced SJS in Indian patients.
Eight individuals who fulfilled the diagnostic criteria of SJS induced by carbamazepine were identified and HLA-B molecular typing was performed. HLA-B genotyping was carried out by polymerase chain reaction using sequence-specific primers.
Out of eight patients studied for genotype, six patients were found to have the HLA-B*1502 allele.
This study suggests an association between HLA-B*1502 and carbamazepine-induced SJS in Indian patients.
The cardiovascular effects of bupropion hydrochloride and nortriptyline were compared in a double-blind, randomized, 6-week trial in adult outpatients with major depression. After a 1-week placebo phase, 58 patients were randomized to treatment with bupropion (225-450 mg/day) and 57 to nortriptyline (75-150 mg/day). Nortriptyline-treated patients had statistically significant heart rate increases at each assessment as determined by RR intervals on electrocardiogram (14.5-18 bpm). Bupropion-treated patients had small but statistically significant increases in supine diastolic blood pressure of 5.6 mm Hg on day 7 and 7.5 mm Hg on day 28. A few patients in each treatment group had orthostatic changes, but only nortriptyline-treated patients had symptomatic orthostatic hypotension. A slowing of cardiac conduction and possibly of rate-corrected repolarization occurred in patients treated with nortriptyline that did not occur in patients treated with bupropion. Compared to nortriptyline, bupropion appears to have a wider safety margin with regard to cardiovascular effects. This may be particularly true in the elderly, in patients with preexisting cardiovascular disease, or in overdose.
Vitamin A intoxication was diagnosed in a 14-year-old girl who presented with massive exudative ascites and right pleural effusion, impaired liver enzymes, and hypertriglyceridemia. Electron microscopy of liver biopsy material demonstrated numerous perisinusoidal lipid-filled Ito cells. The patient had taken 100-200,000 I.U. vitamin A per day for 15 months. Serum vitamin A level remained elevated for 4 months after vitamin discontinuation. The unusual severity of portal hypertension was documented by a high wedged hepatic vein pressure level. The ascites occurred 2 months after vitamin A had been discontinued, probably owing to particularly slow mobilization of large hepatic stores of vitamin A. Portal hypertension disappeared after a 6-month low vitamin A diet, but the liver biopsy failed to demonstrate any decrease in number or size of Ito cells, suggesting that lipid venous obstruction is unlikely to be the only mechanism responsible for portal hypertension in vitamin A-induced liver disease.
Under the condition of delayed intervention (30 days after deafening) following gentamicin+furosemide deafening in rats, we conclude that chronic intracochlear electrical stimulation (ES) and continuous intracochlear administration of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) enhance spiral ganglion cell (SGC) body and peripheral process survival and improve auditory sensitivity. Moreover, the combination of ES and BDNF has a synergistic protective effect rather than an additive effect. Both SGC body and peripheral process influence the auditory sensitivity, and the latter appears to be more important.
To determine the influence of delayed application of combined ES and neurotrophins on the survival of SGC body and peripheral processes after induced deafness in the rat. This study also explored the relationship between auditory sensitivity and SGC/peripheral process density.
The left cochlea of profoundly deafened rats was implanted with an electrode and drug-delivery system 30 days after deafening. BDNF or artificial perilymph (AP) was delivered continuously for 28 days. Experimental animals received ES with or without BDNF (BDNF+ES and ES+AP), and control animals received BDNF or AP without ES (BDNF and AP). The right cochleae of the animals served as deafened untreated controls. Electrically evoked auditory brainstem responses (EABRs) were recorded immediately after surgery and every 7 days.
In the AP group, EABR thresholds demonstrated a systematic and rapid increase throughout the treatment period after the deafening procedure and electrode implantation. However, in the other three treatment groups, EABR thresholds showed a slow increase at the beginning and then slow decrease. The thresholds of the BDNF and ES+AP groups were significantly less than those of the AP group from day 7 to 28 and those of the BDNF+ES group were significantly less than those of other three groups from day 21 to 28, indicating that BDNF infusion and chronic ES have a synergistic effect rather than an additive effect. In terms of SGC and peripheral process density, the difference between the treated and control ears of BDNF, ES+AP, and BDNF+ES groups was clearly significant. Analysis of the SGC/peripheral process density of the left cochlea across the treatment groups demonstrated that SGC/peripheral process density of the BDNF and ES+AP groups was significantly greater than that of the AP group and the density of the BDNF+ES group was significantly greater than that of the other three groups, indicating that BDNF infusion and chronic ES have a synergistic effect rather than an additive effect. Finally, a functional formula was developed relating the last EABR threshold and SGC density and process density.
The hypothesis that a primary stimulus for aortic medial hypertrophy in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) is increased blood pressure was tested by determining whether development of smooth muscle cell hypertrophy and hyperploidy in SHR could be dissociated from blood pressure levels in rats treated with various antihypertensive drugs with different mechanisms of action. Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY) and SHR were treated between 2 and 5 months of age with captopril (375 mg/L), hydralazine (40 mg/L), or propranolol (1.5 mg/L) administered in their drinking water. Smooth muscle hypertrophy and hyperploidy were analyzed by morphometric evaluation of medial smooth muscle content, flow cytometric analysis of the frequency of polyploid smooth muscle cells, and biochemical estimates of smooth muscle cell number. All drugs significantly lowered blood pressure in SHR compared with untreated controls (order of efficacy: captopril greater than hydralazine greater than propranolol). Captopril also was most effective at changing blood pressure in WKY, while propranolol and hydralazine had similar blood pressure-lowering effects. The efficacy of drugs in preventing the development of smooth muscle cell polyploidism and medial hypertrophy in SHR was the same as their efficacy in lowering blood pressure, although propranolol had no effect on medial smooth muscle hypertrophy despite lowering blood pressure by 26 mm Hg. Regression analyses showed a high degree of correlation between blood pressure and the frequency of polyploid smooth muscle cells and medial smooth muscle content. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that aortic medial hypertrophy may be, in part, a response to increased blood pressure or wall stress. However, analysis of covariance and two-stage multiple regression analyses indicated that captopril had an effect over and above that predicted by its blood pressure-lowering effect. Furthermore, propranolol lowered blood pressure but did not affect medial hypertrophy. These results suggest that smooth muscle hypertrophy is not simply a response to increased blood pressure, but that other factors, such as angiotensin II, may be important in modulating aortic medial hypertrophy in SHR.
A 65-year-old woman with adult-onset diabetes treated with chlorpropamide (Diabenese) had a toxic optic neuropathy that resolved with discontinuation of chlorpropamide therapy. Visual loss occurs in diabetics for a variety of reasons, and accurate diagnosis is necessary to institute appropriate therapy. The possibility of a drug-induced optic neuropathy should be considered in the differential diagnosis of visual loss in diabetics.
A new class of antipsychotic medication, the "atypical antipsychotics" are gaining popularity. We report 2 cases of toxicity associated with 1 of these new antipsychotics, risperidone. Both patients presented with fatigue, orthostasis, dry mucous membranes, and the unusual finding of miosis. The pathophysiology and clinical presentation of overdose with this agent are discussed.
An imbalance between the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and antioxidant defense mechanisms has been suggested to play an important role in podocyte injury in nephrotic syndrome. Experimental nephrotic syndrome induced by injection of puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) into rats is a well-established model of nephrotic syndrome, and can be largely prevented by pretreatment with antioxidant enzymes (AOE), suggesting that podocyte injury may be mediated by ROS.
To test the hypothesis that PAN-induced podocyte injury is modulated in part by podocyte antioxidant defenses, we analyzed AOE activities, lipid peroxidation products, and relative ROS levels in podocytes using our recently reported in vitro model of PAN-induced podocyte injury.
PAN treatment induced early increases in both podocyte hydrogen peroxide and superoxide and later increases in lipid peroxidation products. Compared to baseline activities, PAN also induced significant changes in the major cellular AOE activities (maximum increases of 151% for catalase, 134% for superoxide dismutase, and 220% for glutathione peroxidase vs. time-matched controls). These changes largely preceded the development of extensive podocyte process retraction and actin filament disruption, which was maximal at 7 days.
These results demonstrate that (1) PAN treatment induces significant early changes in podocyte ROS, (2) podocytes can mount an antioxidant defense against oxidant stress, and (3) this protective response is initiated prior to the development of extensive oxidant-induced podocyte structural injury. These findings suggest that enhancement of podocyte AOE activities represent a potential therapeutic target to protect from or ameliorate podocyte injury during nephrotic syndrome.
The National Kidney Foundation recently published guidelines stating that regular use of intravenous iron therapy will prevent iron deficiency and promote better erythropoiesis than oral iron therapy in patients with end stage renal disease (ESRD) who are undergoing hemodialysis. Although intravenous iron dextran has been shown to be clinically effective in maintaining iron stores in such patients, some clinicians are concerned about the incidence of adverse events associated with this mode of iron supplementation. We conducted a retrospective review of adverse events associated with the use of Dexferrum (American Regent Laboratories, Inc., Shirley, NY) in ESRD patients at an outpatient dialysis clinic. During the 6-month study period, only 1 patient out of 62 (1.6%) experienced adverse events (hypotension, chest pain) related to treatment with Dexferrum. No patients developed anaphylactoid reactions.
The intracavernous injection of vasoactive drugs is a valuable diagnostic aid and an important tool for the treatment of erectile failure. A comparative study with intracavernous injection of prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) and papaverine was performed in 60 patients with impotence. We evaluated the efficiency and side effects of both agents. The overall positive response rate was 85.0% in the PGE1 group and 65.0% in the papaverine group which suggests PGE1 has a stronger vascular effect. The mean onset of maximal erection was after 9.6 minutes in the PGE1 group and after 6.5 minutes in the papaverine group. The mean maintenance of erection was for 53.2 minutes in the PGE1 group and for 38.6 minutes in the papaverine group. There were no systemic side effects of either agent. Three instances of injection pain and 2 of burning sensation in the penis were noted in the PGE1 group, while in the papaverine group, there were 21 reports of injection pain, 4 of prolonged erection and 2 of burning sensation in the penis. These results suggest that PGE1 is a more desirable vasoactive alternative for the diagnosis of impotence.
