Pentobarbital was continuously infused intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) at the rate of 300 micrograms/10 microliters/h for 7 days, and withdrawal from pentobarbital was rendered 24 h after the stopping of the infusion. To eliminate the induction of hepatic metabolism by systemic administration of pentobarbital, an i.c.v. infusion model of tolerance to and withdrawal from pentobarbital was used. Little is known about the functional modulation of the G protein alpha-subunits at the molecular level. The effects of continuous infusion of pentobarbital on the modulation of G protein alpha-subunits mRNA were investigated by using in situ hybridization study. In situ hybridization showed that the level of G alpha s mRNA was increased in the septum and brainstem, and the level of G alpha o mRNA was elevated in the cortex during the pentobarbital withdrawal. The level of G alpha i mRNA was significantly elevated in almost all area of brain during the pentobarbital withdrawal. These results suggest that region-specific changes of G protein alpha-subunit mRNA were involved in the withdrawal from pentobarbital, whereas alpha-subunit is not so highly involved in the pentobarbital tolerance.
Oxidative stress has been implicated in the pathogenesis of Parkinson disease based on its role in the cascade of biochemical changes that lead to dopaminergic neuronal death. This study analyzed the role of oxidative stress as a mechanism of the dopaminergic neurotoxicity produced by the combined paraquat and maneb model of the Parkinson disease phenotype. Transgenic mice overexpressing either Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase or intracellular glutathione peroxidase and non-transgenic mice were exposed to saline, paraquat, or the combination of paraquat + maneb twice a week for 9 weeks. Non-transgenic mice chronically exposed to paraquat + maneb exhibited significant reductions in locomotor activity, levels of striatal dopamine and metabolites, and dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. In contrast, no corresponding effects were observed in either Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase or glutathione peroxidase transgenic mice. Similarly, the increase in levels of lipid hydroperoxides in the midbrain and striatum of paraquat + maneb-treated non-transgenic mice was not detected in either Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase or glutathione peroxidase transgenic mice. To begin to determine critical pathways of paraquat + maneb neurotoxicity, the functions of cell death-inducing and protective mechanisms were analyzed. Even a single injection of paraquat + maneb in the non-transgenic treated group modulated several key pro- and anti-apoptotic proteins, including Bax, Bad, Bcl-xL, and upstream stress-induced cascade. Collectively, these findings support the assertion that protective mechanisms against paraquat + maneb-induced neurodegeneration could involve modulation of the level of reactive oxygen species and alterations of the functions of specific signaling cascades.
We wanted to test whether assessment of both a central pain-related signal (chemo-somatosensory evoked potential, CSSEP) and a concomitantly recorded peripheral signal (negative mucosal potential, NMP) allows for separation of central and peripheral effects of NSAIDs. For this purpose, experimental conditions were created in which NSAIDs had previously been observed to produce effects on phasic and tonic pain by either central or peripheral mechanisms.
According to a double-blind, randomised, controlled, threefold cross-over design, 18 healthy subjects (11 males, 7 females; mean age 26 years) received either placebo, 400 mg ibuprofen, or 800 mg ibuprofen. Phasic pain was applied by means of short pulses of CO2 to the nasal mucosa (stimulus duration 500 ms, interval approximately 60 s), and tonic pain was induced in the nasal cavity by means of dry air of controlled temperature, humidity and flow rate (22 degrees C, 0% relative humidity, 145 ml.s-1). Both CSSEPs as central and NMPs as peripheral correlates of pain were obtained in response to the CO2 stimuli. Additionally, the subjects rated the intensity of both phasic and tonic pain by means of visual analogue scales.
As described earlier, administration of ibuprofen was followed by a decrease in tonic pain but-relative to placebo-an increase in correlates of phasic pain, indicating a specific effect of ibuprofen on the interaction between the pain stimuli under these special experimental conditions. Based on the similar behaviour of CSSEP and NMP, it was concluded that the pharmacological process underlying this phenomenon was localised in the periphery. By means of the simultaneous recording of interrelated peripheral and central electrophysiologic correlates of nociception, it was possible to separate central and peripheral effects of an NSAID. The major advantage of this pain model is the possibility of obtaining peripheral pain-related activity directly using a non-invasive technique in humans.
The main objective was to evaluate the safety and tolerability of prolonged-release nicotinic acid (niacin; Niaspan) in an usual care setting with patients receiving treatment for dyslipidaemia in Germany: the multiceNtre, open, uncontrolled sAfety and tolerability stUdy of a modified-release nicoTinic acId formuLation in sUbjects with dySlipidaemia and low HDL-cholesterol (NAUTILUS).
This was a multicentre, open-label, 15-week study. Eligible patients had a diagnosis of dyslipidaemia with lipids inadequately controlled by 4 weeks of diet treatment. Additionally, patients had low HDL-cholesterol (< 1.03 mmol/L [< 40 mg/dL]) in men and < 1.29 mmol/L [< 50 mg/dL] in women), and had triglycerides < 9.03 mmol/L (< 800 mg/dL). Exclusion criteria included uncontrolled diabetes (HbA(1C) > 9%), significant hepatic, vascular or renal disease. The target dose was 2000 mg once daily.
The main objective was to evaluate the safety and tolerability of prolonged-release nicotinic acid [incidence of adverse events (AE) and serious AE] in the overall population (the safety population). Efficacy parameters (lipid parameters) were also measured in the intent-to-treat population.
A total of 566 patients were recruited, mostly with metabolic syndrome (39.4%), mixed hypercholesterolaemia (31.6%), isolated low HDL-cholesterol and markedly elevated cardiovascular risk for other reasons (10.8%), and primary hypercholesterolaemia (8.8%), according to NCEP/ATP III guidelines. The target dose was achieved by 65% of patients. Flushing was the most common side-effect (42%), as expected, and 9.7% withdrew for flushing. Other drug-related AEs occurred at low frequency (18.6%), and 8.7% withdrew for an AE other than flushing. Most AEs were mild or moderate in severity. Serious AEs considered possibly related to treatment occurred in three patients (0.5%); all resolved following treatment withdrawal. There was no hepatotoxicity or serious muscle AE.
Prolonged-release nicotinic acid was well tolerated, and these results support its use in the management of patients at elevated cardiovascular risk due to low HDL-cholesterol.
The present study compares the effects of yohimbine, an alpha 2 adrenoceptor antagonist, and anetholtrithione, a reference drug in the treatment of dry mouth, in patients treated with psychotropic drugs (tricyclic antidepressants or neuroleptics) and suffering from xerostomia.
Ten patients were included in a randomized, double-blind, cross-over study, and receiving after yohimbine (3 x 6 mg per day) or anetholtrithione (3 x 25 mg per day) orally for 5 days. Salivary secretion was estimated under resting conditions, before any drug, and then on day 6, 1 h after the ingestion of yohimbine or anetholtrithione.
Compared with basal secretion, the increase in salivary flow was significantly more marked after yohimbine than after anetholtrithione.
This study demonstrates the sialogenic effect of yohimbine in drug-induced dry mouth.
Huperzine A is an anticholinesterase and cognitive enhancer, which is able to alleviate the symptoms of memory dysfunction in the mouse. The fast metabolization rate and narrow therapeutic spectrum makes it unfit for clinical use. Poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) microsphere as delivery system effectively maintains the blood concentration of huperzine A by a slow-release effect over a long time. In the present article, we investigated the prolonged protective effect of microsphere-containing huperzine A on memory dysfunction induced by scopolamine. Spectrophotometric assay was used to determine the activity of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and passive avoidance tests to evaluate memory performance. The results show that a bolus dose of microsphere-containing huperzine A (at a dose of 300 microg/kg or 600 microg/kg) administered intramuscularly can effectively maintain drug activity and significantly decrease the activity of AChE from day 3 to 14, the strongest effect seen on day 3 and 7. Accompanying the reduction of the activity of AChE, microsphere-containing huperzine A (300 microg/kg or 600 microg/kg) remarkably increased transfer latency time and no transfer response on the second trial through mitigating the memory impairments induced by scopolamine as compared to the scopolamine model group. Microsphere-containing huperzine A showed cognitive enhancing properties and anticholinesterase activity and may thus be a candidate for treatment of memory impairment.
Hyperglycemia-induced oxidative stress is a common phenomenon in diabetes. Since oxidative stress depletes adiponectin and insulin levels, we investigated whether an upregulated heme oxygenase (HO) system would attenuate the oxidative destruction of adiponectin/insulin and improve insulin sensitivity and glucose metabolism in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced type 1 diabetes. HO was upregulated with hemin (15 mg/kg ip) or inhibited with chromium mesoporphyrin (CrMP, 4 micromol/kg ip). Administering hemin to STZ-diabetic rats reduced hyperglycemia and improved glucose metabolism, whereas the HO inhibitor CrMP annulled the antidiabetic effects and/or exacerbated fasting/postprandial hyperglycemia. Interestingly, the antidiabetic effects of hemin lasted for 2 mo after termination of therapy and were accompanied by enhanced HO-1 and HO activity of the soleus muscle, along with potentiation of plasma antioxidants like bilirubin, ferritin, and superoxide dismutase, with corresponding elevation of the total antioxidant capacity. Importantly, hemin abated c-Jun NH2-terminal kinase (JNK), a substance known to inhibit insulin biosynthesis, and suppressed markers/mediators of oxidative stress including 8-isoprostane, nuclear-factor (NF)-kappaB, activating protein (AP)-1, and AP-2 of the soleus muscle. Furthermore, hemin therapy significantly attenuated pancreatic histopathological lesions including acinar cell necrosis, interstitial edema, vacuolization, fibrosis, and mononuclear cell infiltration. Correspondingly, hemin increased plasma insulin and potentiated agents implicated in insulin sensitization and insulin signaling such as adiponectin, adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK), cAMP, cGMP, and glucose transporter (GLUT)4, a protein required for glucose uptake. These were accompanied by improved glucose tolerance [intraperitoneal glucose tolerance text (IPGTT)], decreased insulin intolerance [intraperitoneal insulin tolerance test (IPITT)], and reduced insulin resistance [homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) index], whereas CrMP nullified the hemin-dependent antidiabetic and insulin-sensitizing effects. In conclusion, by concomitantly enhancing insulin and paradoxically potentiating insulin sensitivity, this study unveils a novel, unique, and long-lasting antidiabetic characteristic of upregulating HO with hemin that could be exploited against insulin-resistant and insulin-dependent diabetes.
Four patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma and two with acute lymphocytic leukemia (ages 4 and 4 months to 16 years 6 months) exhibited a unique reaction to intravenously administered cytosine arabinoside (Ara-C) given alone as a part of the previously reported LSA2-L2 treatment protocol. The syndrome was characterized by fever, myalgia, bone pain, and occasionally by chest pain, maculopapular rash, and conjunctivitis. Each of the eleven episodes of this syndrome occurred within 6-12 hours of drug infusion and always abated after cessation of Ara-C. Prior to the reaction, patients had been on therapy for an average of 13.5 months during which they were exposed to 2298-5387 mg/m2 (mean of 3200 mg/m2) of Ara-C. The high incidence of this syndrome (50% of our patients on the LSA2-L2 regimen and 33% of those receiving Ara-C) has not been previously reported. Considering the prolonged exposure to Ara-C and our inability to document infections in the patients or pyrogens contaminating the drug lots, the most likely explanation for this syndrome is a hypersensitivity reaction to Ara-C. Prevention of these symptoms with corticosteroids supports this contention and provides a reasonable alternative to discontinuing Ara-C.
Interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) exhibits diverse biological activities, including control of cell growth and tumor suppression. Here, we report that the treatment of M12 cells, a human metastatic prostate cancer cell line, with IFN-gamma, resulted in marked inhibition of cell proliferation and induced apoptosis. These effects were not seen with either IFN-alpha or IFN-beta. M12 cells, like many other human cancer cells, contain constitutively activated signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3). The basal levels of both Akt and ERK1/2 phosphorylation are also markedly elevated in M12 cells. Strikingly, IFN-gamma-induced apoptosis and growth inhibition of M12 cells were associated with persistent suppression of the constitutive tyrosine-phosphorylated STAT3 (pY-STAT3). The IFN-gamma-induced dephosphorylation of pY-STAT3, however, was inhibited when the mTOR pathway was specifically blocked by rapamycin. Inhibition of PI-3K with low-dose LY294002, or MAPK with PD98059 also suppressed the mTOR/p70 S6k pathway, and correlated with the blockage of IFN-gamma-induced dephosphorylation of pY-STAT3. Simultaneously, treatment with LY294002, PD98059, or rapamycin abolished IFN-gamma-induced apoptosis in M12 cells. The inhibition of the mTOR pathway, however, did not affect IFN-gamma-induced activation of STAT1 pathway, and suppression of STAT1 expression by siRNA had no effect on IFN-gamma-induced dephosphorylation of pY-STAT3. Taken together, these results demonstrate that an intact mTOR pathway is critical for IFN-gamma-induced suppression of pY-STAT3 and apoptosis. Our study thus provides novel insights into the contributions of signaling pathways other than the classical JAK/STAT1 pathway in the anti-proliferative, proapoptotic actions of IFN-gamma.
To establish whether thyroid hormone modifies the heart rate directly or through an action on other neuroendocrine modulators, the authors have examined several animals models differing in the plasma levels of such compounds. Induction of the hypothyroid state in rats produced a slow onset of bradycardia, which may be removed by a prolonged triiodothyronine treatment. The involvement of TSH was excluded as, by comparing thyroidectomized, hypophysectomized and cold exposed rats, the heart rate was found to vary according to the thyroid levels and not to the TSH levels. Moreover growth hormone, corticotropin and gonadotropins do not influence the heart rate, as the bradycardia induced by hypophysectomy was fully removed by triiodothyronine treatment. The lack of influence by ACTH and GnH was confirmed by treatment of thyroidectomized rats with corticosteroids or testosterone, respectively. Finally, thyroid hormone did not act on the heart rate by changing the norepinephrine output at the sympathetic nerve endings in the heart. In fact, thyroidectomy produced a more intense bradycardia than sympathectomy, and such bradycardia was equally removed by triiodothyronine treatment in thyroidectomized rats and in thyroidectomized and then sympathectomized ones. The authors suggest that the direct effect of the thyroid hormone on cardiac chronotropism is due to an early enhancement of beta-adrenoceptors, followed by a late modification of the electrophysiological properties of the myocardium.
Effective ocular tissue concentrations and prolonged residence times of antibacterial agents are important in treating both acute and chronic diseases. Conjunctival biopsy allows the determination of specific tissue concentration data for topical ophthalmic agents. Drug concentration analysis at various time points following instillation allows interpretation of the residence time and a rationale for dosing frequency.
This study compared the pharmacokinetic parameters of 2 currently available topical ocular antibiotics-azithromycin ophthalmic solution 1% and moxifloxacin ophthalmic solution 0.5%-in the conjunctiva of healthy volunteers after a single topical administration.
This single-dose, randomized, open-label, active-controlled clinical trial was conducted at ORA Clinical Research and Development, North Andover, Massachusetts. Subjects were randomly assigned to receive a single dose of azithromycin or moxifloxacin and to undergo biopsy sampling at 30 minutes or 2, 12, or 24 hours after administration. Concentrations of azithromycin and moxifloxacin were determined using liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry. Adverse events (AEs) were assessed at all visits using visual acuity measurements, slit-lamp biomicroscopy, and direct questioning.
Forty-eight subjects (mean age, 40.0 years; 48% female; 96% white, 2% black, and 2% Asian) underwent conjunctival biopsy. Mean (SD) concentrations of azithromycin in conjunctival tissue (lower limit of quantitation [LLOQ], 1 microg/g for 1-mg biopsy specimen) were 131 (89), 59 (19), 48 (24), and 32 (20) microg/g at 30 minutes and 2, 12, and 24 hours, respectively (median values, 117, 69, 46, and 30 microg/g). Mean concentrations concentrations of moxifloxacin in conjunctival tissue (LLOQ, 0.05 microg/g for 1-mg biopsy sample) were 1.92 (2.03), 3.77 (8.98), 0.02 (0.04), and 0.01 (0.02) microg/g at 30 minutes and 2, 12, and 24 hours, respectively (median values, 1.12, 0.12, <0.05, and <0.05 microg/g). Thirteen subjects (6 in the azithromycin group and 7 in the moxifloxacin group) experienced 20 AEs, 11 of which were considered possibly related to study treatment, and 15 of which were ocular (most commonly conjunctival hemorrhage).
In this single-dose study of 2 currently available topical ocular antibiotics in healthy volunteers, therapeutic concentrations were achieved with both agents. Both treatments were well tolerated in the population studied. Clinical Trials Identification Number: NCT00564447.
The capacity for ketotifen to prevent mast-cell degranulation in vivo was studied in patients with physical urticarias. Patients were exposed to the appropriate stimulus to elicit their physical urticaria before and during ketotifen therapy. Histamine concentrations in plasma samples, obtained before and serially after the physical provocation, were determined by radioenzymatic thin-layer chromatography. Ketotifen therapy was associated with marked reductions in plasma histamine levels after stimulation and in clinical evidence of urticaria in each patient. A direct correlation of ketotifen therapy and a reduction in histamine release was confirmed in a patient with a cold-induced urticaria who was studied again after discontinuation and again after reinstitution of therapy. Although the mechanism of action is unknown, this report shows that ketotifen is capable of inhibiting cutaneous mast-cell degranulation and its accompanying symptoms. These findings suggest important therapeutic alternatives for patients with mast-cell-mediated diseases.
Zafirlukast is an orally active and selective cysteinyl leukotriene (cysLT) receptor antagonist. In humans, zafirlukast antagonized the effects of exogenously administered LTD4 and cysLTs released endogenously in response to physical and chemical stimuli. Zafirlukast antagonized LTD4-induced bronchoconstriction, with effects still evident 12 h after drug administration. In clinical models of asthma, zafirlukast inhibited bronchospasm after allergen or exercise challenge in patients with asthma. In multicenter trials in patients with chronic, stable asthma, zafirlukast reduced asthma symptoms, decreased as-needed beta-agonist use, and improved pulmonary function without increasing the number of adverse events. Zafirlukast also exhibited evidence of an anti-inflammatory effect in the lung in preliminary studies involving segmental antigen challenge. The results from these clinical trials demonstrate that zafirlukast is effective and safe for the prophylactic treatment of asthma. Calhoun WJ. Summary of clinical trials with zafirlukast.
Nitrate is abundant in our diet with particularly high levels in many vegetables. Ingested nitrate is concentrated in saliva and reduced to nitrite by bacteria in the oral cavity. We recently reported that application of nitrite-containing saliva to the gastric mucosa increases superficial blood flow and mucus generation via acid-catalyzed formation of bioactive nitrogen oxides including nitric oxide. Here we studied if dietary supplementation with nitrate would protect against gastric damage caused by a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug. Rats received sodium nitrate in the drinking water for 1 week in daily doses of 0.1 or 1 mmol kg(-1). Control rats received 1 mmol kg(-1) sodium chloride. Diclofenac (30 mg kg(-1)) was then given orally and the animals were examined 4 h later. In separate experiments we studied the effects of dietary nitrate on intragastric NO levels and mucus formation. Luminal levels of NO gas were greatly increased in nitrate-fed animals. The thickness of the mucus layer increased after nitrate supplementation and gene expression of MUC6 was upregulated in the gastric mucosa. Nitrate pretreatment dose dependently and potently reduced diclofenac-induced gastric lesions. Inflammatory activity was reduced in the rats receiving nitrate as indicated by lower mucosal myeloperoxidase activity and expression of inducible NO synthase. We conclude that dietary nitrate protects against diclofenac-induced gastric ulcers likely via enhanced nitrite-dependent intragastric NO formation and concomitant stimulation of mucus formation. Future studies will reveal if a diet rich in nitrate can offer an additional nutritional approach to preventing and treating peptic ulcer disease.
To evaluate the diagnostic value of a transient dilatation of the left ventricle during dipyridamole-thallium imaging (DTI) for detecting significant coronary artery disease (CAD) in patients with negative DTI results, 81 consecutive patients were studied. Twenty one patients (26%) had CAD and 60 patients had normal coronary anatomy (NCA). The initial/delayed ratio of the left ventricular dimension, which was measured as the distance between the 2 peaks of a count profile curve on a 45 degrees left anterior oblique planar image, was defined as the dilatation ratio (DR) of the left ventricle. Patients with CAD had a higher incidence of chest pain after dipyridamole infusion (35 vs 13%; p < 0.05), and ST depression during exercise testing (50 vs 25%; p < 0.05) than those with NCA. DR was significantly greater in CAD patients than in NCA patients (1.08 +/- 0.10 vs 0.97 +/- 0.03; p < 0.0001). DR was considered abnormal (> 1.03) when it was greater than the mean +2 standard deviations of the DR in NCA patients. Seventy-six percent of CAD patients had an abnormal DR. A stepwise discriminant analysis revealed that an abnormal DR alone had the same ability to predict CAD (sensitivity 76%, specificity 98%, chi-square 80.9, p < 0.0001) as the best combination of abnormal DR, chest pain during exercise testing, age and gender (sensitivity 76%, specificity 98%, chi-square 98.5, p < 0.0001). When abnormal DR was excluded from this analysis, the best combination of the variables showed a reduced ability to predict CAD (sensitivity 81%, specificity 77%, Wilks' Lambda 0.71, chi-square 26.7, p < 0.0001).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Uraemic toxins are considered to be emerging mortality risk factors in chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients. p-Cresol (a prototype protein-bound uraemic retention solute) has been shown to exert toxic effects in vitro. Recently, it has been demonstrated that p-cresol is present in plasma as its sulphate conjugate, p-cresylsulphate. The present study evaluated the distribution of free and total p-cresylsulphate and sought to determine whether these parameters were associated with vascular calcification, arterial stiffness and mortality risk in a cohort of CKD patients.
One hundred and thirty-nine patients (mean +/- SD age: 67 +/- 12; males: 60%) at different stages of CKD (8% at Stage 2, 26.5% at Stage 3, 26.5% at Stage 4, 7% at Stage 5 and 32% at Stage 5D) were enrolled in this study.
Baseline total and free p-cresylsulphate presented an inverse relationship with renal function and were significantly associated with vascular calcification. During the study period (mean follow-up period: 779 +/- 185 days), 38 patients died [including 22 from cardiovascular (CV) causes]. In crude survival analyses, free (but not total) p-cresylsulphate was shown to be a predictor of overall and CV death. Higher free p-cresylsulphate levels (>0.051 mg/100 mL; median) were associated with mortality independently of well-known predictors of survival such as age, vascular calcification, anaemia and inflammation.
Serum levels of free and total p-cresylsulphate (the main in vivo circulating metabolites of p-cresol) were elevated in later CKD stages. However, only free p-cresylsulphate seems to be a predictor of survival in CKD.
To examine serum B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) levels and BNP expression of protein and mRNA in the right ventricular myocardium in juvenile rats with right heart failure (RHF) and the effects of beta-adrenergic receptor blocker carvedilol on serum and myocardial BNP levels in order to investigate the role of BNP in the diagnosis and treatment of RHF.
Fifty-one four-week-old Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly assigned to 5 groups: RHF 1, RHF 2, carvedilol-treated RHF, control 1 and control 2. RHF was developed 4 weeks after an intraperitoneal injection of monocrotaline in the RHF 1, RHF 2 and carvedilol-treated RHF groups. The rats in the RHF 1 and the control 1 groups were sacrificed after the RHF event for observing pathological changes in the myocardium. After the RHF event, the carvedilol-treated group was given intragastric administration of carvedilol (3.5 mg/kg/d) for 2 weeks. The RHF 2 and the control 2 groups were given distilled water of equal dose instead. The rats were sacrificed 2 weeks after carvedilol or distilled water administration. Serum BNP levels were measured using ELISA. BNP protein and mRNA expression in the right ventricular myocardium were measured by immunohistochemistry and RT-PCR, respectively. Haemodynamics and some physiological indexes were measured.
Serum BNP levels and BNP protein and mRNA expression in the right ventricular myocardium were significantly higher in the RHF 1 group than those in the control 1 group (p<0.01). Serum BNP levels and BNP protein and mRNA expression in the right ventricular myocardium increased more significantly in the RHF 2 group. There was a positive correlation between serum BNP levels and myocardial BNP protein expression in the RHF group (r=0.698, p<0.01). Serum BNP levels and BNP protein and mRNA expression in the carvedilol-treated RHF group were significantly reduced when compared with the RHF 2 group (p<0.05). Carvedilol treatment also resulted in improved hemodynamics and relieved right ventricular hypertrophy.
BNP may serve an index for the diagnosis of RHF and the evaluation of severity in children with RHF. Carvedilol shows protections against RHF caused by pressure load.
Patients with acetaminophen-induced fulminant hepatic failure may have the capacity for recovery if sufficient liver cell mass remains to allow regeneration. We investigated the prognostic potential of the galactose elimination capacity (GEC) as a noninvasive measurement of functioning liver cell mass in severe acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity.
All patients admitted with acetaminophen poisoning during a 10-year period were studied retrospectively. A total of 220 patients who had at least one GEC performed were included in the study.
The GEC was lower in patients with than without hepatic encephalopathy (14.5 +/- 5.6 micromol/min/kg vs. 23.2 +/- 6.7 micromol/min/kg; P < 0.0001). Among patients with hepatic encephalopathy, the GEC was significantly higher in spontaneous survivors than in nonsurvivors (16.8 +/- 5.6 micromol/min/kg vs. 12.2 +/- 4.7 micromol/min/kg; P < 0.0001). In a logistic regression analysis, GEC was associated independently with mortality (odds ratio: 1.28 per 1 micromol/min/kg decrease in GEC; 95% confidence interval: 1.14-1.45). A threshold GEC of 16.5 micromol/min/kg to identify nonsurvivors had a sensitivity of 90%, a specificity of 72%, a positive predictive value of 49%, and a negative predictive value of 96%. None of 14 patients with hepatic encephalopathy and a GEC less than 10 micromol/min/kg survived.
The GEC was strongly associated with development of hepatic encephalopathy and death from acetaminophen-induced fulminant hepatic failure. The GEC was too unspecific to be used alone for identification of transplantation candidates, but it may be useful as a supplement to other selection criteria.
Inhalation anesthesia first with halothane followed by enflurane relieved a patient with status asthmaticus who was refractory to conventional therapy including mechanical ventilation. After 13 days of anesthesia while on mechanical ventilation and employing nondepolarizing muscle relaxants, significant neuromuscular impairment, manifested by tetraplegia and sensory disturbance, developed. Anesthesia was discontinued on day 14, and the patient was weaned from mechanical ventilation on day 16. Over the next two months, the neuromuscular impairment markedly improved. Halothane was associated with cardiac arrhythmias and hepatitis necessitating replacement by enflurane. Enflurane appeared to be as effective a treatment for refractory asthma as halothane. The most probable cause of the neuromuscular impairment in our patient was the long-term use of inhalation anesthetics or nondepolarizing muscle relaxants.
Perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) is an environmental contaminant that causes adverse developmental effects in laboratory animals. To investigate the low-dose effects of PFOA on offspring, timed-pregnant CD-1 mice were gavage dosed with PFOA for all or half of gestation. In the full-gestation study, mice were administered 0, 0.3, 1.0, and 3.0 mg PFOA/kg body weight (BW)/day from gestation days (GD) 1-17. In the late-gestation study, mice were administered 0, 0.01, 0.1, and 1.0 mg PFOA/kg BW/day from GD 10-17. Exposure to PFOA significantly (p < 0.05) increased offspring relative liver weights in all treatment groups in the full-gestation study and in the 1.0 mg PFOA/kg group in the late-gestation study. In both studies, the offspring of all PFOA-treated dams exhibited significantly stunted mammary epithelial growth as assessed by developmental scoring. At postnatal day 21, mammary glands from the 1.0 mg/kg GD 10-17 group had significantly less longitudinal epithelial growth and fewer terminal end buds compared with controls (p < 0.05). Evaluation of internal dosimetry in offspring revealed that PFOA concentrations remained elevated in liver and serum for up to 6 weeks and that brain concentrations were low and undetectable after 4 weeks. These data indicate that PFOA-induced effects on mammary tissue (1) occur at lower doses than effects on liver weight in CD-1 mice, an observation that may be strain specific, and (2) persist until 12 weeks of age following full-gestational exposure. Due to the low-dose sensitivity of mammary glands to PFOA in CD-1 mice, a no observable adverse effect level for mammary developmental delays was not identified in these studies.
In a total number of 1,400 internal biopsies within a year we found 186 (14%) cases of cholestasis. The most of them were caused by virus hepatitis (93), followed by alcoholic liver injury in all three stages (39) and drug induced cholestasis (19). The special bioptical problems of these diseases were discussed. Most important are adverse reactions to contraceptive, antirheumatic, antihypertensive and antikonvulsive agents.
Tacrine was used as a tool to examine whether block of inward rectifying potassium current (IK1) represents a mechanism for suppression of arrhythmias induced by ischaemia and reperfusion.
Isolated rat hearts (n = 10-12 per group) were subjected to 30 min left regional ischaemia followed by reperfusion with and without tacrine. Rat heart was used to permit delayed rectifier (IK) block to be disregarded in interpretation of results (rat ventricle is deficient in functional IK).
The incidence of ischaemia-induced ventricular fibrillation was reduced from 70% to 42%, 17% (p < 0.05), and 0% (p < 0.05) in hearts perfused with 0, 0.1, 1.0, and 10.0 microM tacrine. Likewise, the incidence of reperfusion induced ventricular fibrillation was reduced from 100% to 90%, 75%, and 50% (p < 0.05), respectively. Indirect evidence of repolarisation delay by tacrine was provided by QT widening; for example, 15 min after the onset of ischaemia, QT (at 100% repolarisation) was increased from 194(SEM 6) to 231(17), 235(13) (p < 0.05), and 341(24) ms (p < 0.05) by increasing concentrations of drug. QT interval measured in individual hearts during ischaemia correlated inversely with arrhythmia score (r2 = 0.392; p < 0.001). Tacrine had no effect on RR interval, coronary flow, recovery of flow during reperfusion, or occluded zone size. Tacrine caused bradycardia (significant at the 1.0 and 10.0 microM concentrations). In additional hearts (n = 12 per group), reversal of 10.0 microM tacrine-induced sinus bradycardia by left atrial pacing (5 Hz) significantly reduced tacrine induced QT widening (p < 0.05), and increased the incidence of ventricular fibrillation from 0% to 42% (although significant antiarrhythmic and QT widening effects were still present); 10.0 microM tacrine failed to reduce the incidence of reperfusion induced ventricular fibrillation in paced hearts (92% incidence v 100% in controls).
The novel antiarrhythmic effects of tacrine, a drug with established blocking action on IK, IK1, and slow inward current, appear to result from QT widening in the rat (dependent partly on IK1 blockade in the ventricles and partly on drug induced sinus bradycardia).
Adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is characterized by acute lung injury with a high mortality rate and yet its mechanism is poorly understood. Sepsis syndrome and acid aspiration are the most frequent causes of ARDS, leading to increased lung permeability, enhanced polymorphonuclear neutrophil (PMN) sequestration and respiratory failure. Using a murine model of acute lung injury induced by septic syndrome or acid aspiration, we investigated the role of cytosolic phospholipase A2 (cPLA2) in ARDS. We found that disruption of the gene encoding cPLA2 significantly reduced pulmonary edema, PMN sequestration and deterioration of gas exchange caused by lipopolysaccharide and zymosan administration. Acute lung injury induced by acid aspiration was similarly reduced in mice with a disrupted cpla2 gene. Our observations suggest that cPLA2 is a mediator of acute lung injury induced by sepsis syndrome or acid aspiration. Thus, the inhibition of cPLA2-initiated pathways may provide a therapeutic approach to acute lung injury, for which no pharmaceutical agents are currently effective.
As most patients undergoing pulmonary surgery by postero-lateral thoracotomy have decreased preoperative pulmonary function, efficient postoperative analgesia is mandatory. Nalbuphine, a new agonist-antagonist opioid analgesic, and nefopam were compared in a double blind trial involving 60 patients. Intravenous injections of 0.3 mg.kg-1 of either drug were started when the patient evaluated his pain as being above 60 mm on a visual scale graduated from 0 to 100 mm. Repeated injections were carried out at the same dose, at the patient's request, after a minimal interval of 3 h for nalbuphine, and 6 h for nefopam. Analgesia was assessed by the visual scale, and by the patient's verbal appraisal. The respiratory and cardiovascular repercussions were evaluated clinically, and by monitoring breathing rate, blood gases, systolic and diastolic blood pressures, heart rate, and consciousness. Nalbuphine provided a convenient analgesia to all patients whereas analgesia with nefopam was insufficient in 15 out of 30 patients. No significant respiratory depression with either drug occurred. Nefopam led to a 30% increase in heart rate for one hour (p less than 0.01). Whereas patients given nalbuphine were more drowsy, although easily aroused, (p less than 0.001), nefopam was responsible for adverse effects (sweating, nausea, tachycardia with pallor, vertigo, malaise) requiring the exclusion of 7 patients from the study. Nalbuphine, although not ideal, would therefore seem to be a better analgesic than nefopam in thoracotomy patients.
The effects of genistein (Gn), sodium azide (naz), and dexamethasone (dxm) on testicular cells TM3, TM4 and GC-1 spg were studied in vitro. First, a series of experiments were performed to assess the response of the cells to the exposure of Gn, naz, dxm, a combination of Gn with naz and Gn with dxm. Trypan blue exclusion assay was used to determine the percentage of viability, and LDH-cytotoxicity test was used to assess the degree of treatment-induced cytotoxicity on each cell type. A second series of experiments were performed to study cytomorphology and determine the type and percentage of treatment-induced cell death (apoptosis and necrosis) on each cell line, using fluorescent dye technique to detect apoptotic and necrotic cells, and tunnel assay to confirm apoptosis. The results from the data obtained demonstrated: i) that incubation of testis cells with each of the agents (Gn, dxm, naz) alone and in two combinations (Gn-dxm, and Gn-naz) induced significant testicular cell death; ii) that both genistein and dexamethasone mostly and significantly induced apoptotic cell death while sodium azide induced necrotic cell death; iii) that addition of dexamethasone to genistein demonstrated synergism in apoptosis on testis cells; and iv) that combination of naz with Gn demonstrated synergism in necrosis on testis cells even though Gn alone did not induce significant necrosis. It is concluded that the synergistic actions of genistein and dxm, and of genistein + sodium azide in induction of apoptosis and/or necrosis may be of clinical and pathophysiological research interest considering the chemopreventive and chemotherapeutic potential of genistein; and the clinico-pharmacological application of dexamethasone and sodium azide.
