Melatonin is produced in the dark by the pineal gland and is a key regulator of circadian and seasonal rhythms. A low melatonin level has been reported in individuals with autism spectrum disorders (ASD), but the underlying cause of this deficit was unknown. The ASMT gene, encoding the last enzyme of melatonin synthesis, is located on the pseudo-autosomal region 1 of the sex chromosomes, deleted in several individuals with ASD. In this study, we sequenced all ASMT exons and promoters in individuals with ASD (n=250) and compared the allelic frequencies with controls (n=255). Non-conservative variations of ASMT were identified, including a splicing mutation present in two families with ASD, but not in controls. Two polymorphisms located in the promoter (rs4446909 and rs5989681) were more frequent in ASD compared to controls (P=0.0006) and were associated with a dramatic decrease in ASMT transcripts in blood cell lines (P=2 x 10(-10)). Biochemical analyses performed on blood platelets and/or cultured cells revealed a highly significant decrease in ASMT activity (P=2 x 10(-12)) and melatonin level (P=3 x 10(-11)) in individuals with ASD. These results indicate that a low melatonin level, caused by a primary deficit in ASMT activity, is a risk factor for ASD. They also support ASMT as a susceptibility gene for ASD and highlight the crucial role of melatonin in human cognition and behavior.
Intraarterial noradrenaline-induced hypertensive chemotherapy (NA-IHC) was performed on eight patients with liver metastasis of gastric cancer (3 synchronous and 5 metachronous). Mitomycin C was injected via the indwelling catheter placed in the proper hepatic artery, when the mean systolic blood pressure rose to 50 percent above the level in the untreated state by intravenous administration of noradrenaline. As the result, the response rate was 62.5% (CR: 1, PR: 4, NC: 2, PD: 1) and the 50% survival period was 792 days. On the other hand, another hematological metastasis developed in two cases in which liver metastases were effectively controlled. These results indicated both the effectiveness and the limits of NA-IHC as loco-regional chemotherapy. Therefore, we concluded that not only NA-IHC but also another systemic chemotherapy was necessary to treat the patient with liver metastasis of gastric cancer.
Previous studies suggest that selective antagonists of specific subtypes of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChRs) may provide a novel approach for the treatment of certain central nervous system (CNS) disorders, including epileptic disorders, Parkinson's disease, and dystonia. Unfortunately, previously reported antagonists are not highly selective for specific mAChR subtypes, making it difficult to definitively establish the functional roles and therapeutic potential for individual subtypes of this receptor subfamily. The M(1) mAChR is of particular interest as a potential target for treatment of CNS disorders. We now report the discovery of a novel selective antagonist of M(1) mAChRs, termed VU0255035 [N-(3-oxo-3-(4-(pyridine-4-yl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-benzo[c][1,2,5]thiadiazole-4 sulfonamide]. Equilibrium radioligand binding and functional studies demonstrate a greater than 75-fold selectivity of VU0255035 for M(1) mAChRs relative to M(2)-M(5). Molecular pharmacology and mutagenesis studies indicate that VU0255035 is a competitive orthosteric antagonist of M(1) mAChRs, a surprising finding given the high level of M(1) mAChR selectivity relative to other orthosteric antagonists. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings demonstrate that VU0255035 inhibits potentiation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor currents by the muscarinic agonist carbachol in hippocampal pyramidal cells. VU0255035 has excellent brain penetration in vivo and is efficacious in reducing pilocarpine-induced seizures in mice. We were surprised to find that doses of VU0255035 that reduce pilocarpine-induced seizures do not induce deficits in contextual freezing, a measure of hippocampus-dependent learning that is disrupted by nonselective mAChR antagonists. Taken together, these data suggest that selective antagonists of M(1) mAChRs do not induce the severe cognitive deficits seen with nonselective mAChR antagonists and could provide a novel approach for the treatment certain of CNS disorders.
The subacute toxicity of a commercial polybrominated diphenyl ether (PBDE) preparation, Bromkal 70-5DE, was investigated. In addition to a vehicle control, the mixture was given orally to male and female Sprague-Dawley rats for 28 d at three dose levels; 2.5, 25 and 250 mg kg(-1) b.w.d(-1). The observed effects include increased hepatic EROD activity (from 2.5 mg kg(-1)d(-1)); increased liver weight (males), increased PROD activity and depletion of hepatic retinoids (from 25 mg kg(-1)d(-1)); and increased liver weight (females), marked histological changes in the liver and lungs, as well as increased serum parameters such as total protein, cholesterol and albumin (from 250 mg kg(-1)d(-1)). Chemical analysis of the PBDE mixture with gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GS/MS) showed impurities of polybrominated dibenzofurans and to a lesser extent dibenzodioxins, in total levels of about 7.0 microg g(-1) of Bromkal technical mixture. The animals were thereby exposed to an estimated dose of dioxin-like equivalents corresponding to 1.3-131 ng TEQ kg(-1) b.w.d(-1). It cannot be ruled out that this level of impurities can explain the hepatic EROD induction and hepatic retinoid depletion, which are considered typical markers of toxicity mediated via the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR).
Our study aimed at evaluating an effect of the selected nitrates and beta adrenoceptor blockers on platelet aggregation in patients (pts) with coronary artery disease (CAD). The study included 168 male patients (M), aged between 33 and 72 years (mean age 51 +/- 7). 61 M given isosorbide dinitrate were divided into three groups: in the group I and II an effect of the drug on the platelet aggregation following a single 10 mg (I) and 20 mg (II) dose has been evaluated; in group III an effect of the drug after a two-week treatment has been evaluated. 14 male patients (group IV) were given 5-mononitrate 40 mg daily for two weeks. 85 male patients, treated with propranolol have also been divided into three groups. In group V and group VII an effect of propranolol on platelet aggregation following a single dose of 40 mg and 80 mg has been evaluated respectively. In the group VII an outcome of a two-week propranolol therapy has been assessed. Eleven patients (group VIII) received nadolol in a dose of 40-80 mg daily for two weeks. Platelet aggregation induced by adenosine diphosphate (ADP) in concentration of 1 mM/ml and 5 mM/ml (groups I, II, III, V, VI, VII) and only of 1 microM/ml (groups IV, VIII) was evaluated with Born's method. In patients with CAD only isosorbide dinitrate inhibits platelet aggregation. This effect has been noted following a single dose as well as a two-week treatment. Other drugs (5-mononitrate, propranolol, nadolol) transiently increase platelet aggregation, but became either ineffective after two-week therapy (5-mononitrate, nadolol) or increase (propranolol) platelet aggregation. Tendency to inhibit (sorbonit) or to increase (propranolol) platelet aggregation has been more pronounced with higher concentration of aggregating factor.
IFL [irinotecan (CPT-11), 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), and folinic acid] is one of the treatments for metastatic colorectal cancer. We evaluated cytotoxic effects of a sequentially administered a combination of 5-FU with CPT-11 in human p53 mutant colon cancer. Sequential combination of 5-FU and CPT-11 in human colon cancer SW480 cells using a WST-8 colorimetric assay was studied. Cytotoxicity and cell cycle distribution for each drug were evaluated using an apoptosis assay and flow cytometry. Potential mechanisms of sequence-dependent cytotoxic effects were investigated using microarrays. Cytotoxicity of 5-FU (10, 100, 1000 microM) combined with subsequent use of CPT-11 (1 microM) was significantly greater than the reverse sequence of CPT-11 followed by 5-FU (p < 0.05). Following 24 hrs treatment with 5-FU (0.1-100 microM), no significant apoptosis was observed. In contrast, apoptosis was significantly induced after 24 hrs treatment with CPT-11 (1 and 10 microM). Flow cytometric analysis showed no significant difference in cell cycle distribution between different drug concentrations. We demonstrated up-regulation of 85 genes and down-regulation of 21 genes correlating with sequence-dependent cytotoxicities of 5-FU and CPT-11. The superiority of 5-FU-CPT-11 sequence was proven for p53 mutant colon cancer, SW480. Treatment with 5-FU followed by CPT-11 administration may be the optimal sequence for IFL treatment of metastatic colon cancers.
Evidence suggests that there may be differences in the incidence of drug-induced sexual dysfunction among the antihypertensive agents. This study assessed objective and subjective aspects of sexual dysfunction in hypertensive male patients in relation to two antihypertensive agents--prazosin and hydrochlorothiazide. A total of 12 hypertensive patients were evaluated in a crossover study utilizing a sleep laboratory to obtain polysomnographic evaluations of sleep patterns along with changes in nocturnal penile tumescence and buckling pressure. Objectively, no significant changes were observed between the two antihypertensive agents in relation to rapid eye movement-related sleep architecture, serum testosterone levels, or penile blood flow. Decrements in buckling pressure and subjective aspects of sexual dysfunction were greater during hydrochlorothiazide treatment than during prazosin treatment. Both drugs were effective in controlling blood pressure.
To compare the hemodynamic repercussions following a toxic dose of levobupivacaine and bupivacaine intravascularly injected in swines.
Large White pigs were anesthetized with thiopental, tracheal intubation was performed and mechanical ventilation was instituted. Hemodynamic variables were recorded with invasive pressure monitoring and pulmonary artery catheterization (Swan-Ganz catheter). After a 30-minute resting period, the animals were randomly divided into two groups in a double-blinded fashion and received a bolus injection of 4 mg/kg of either agent for intoxication. Hemodynamic results were then evaluated at 1, 5, 10, 15, 20 and 30 minutes.
Levobupivacaine had greater hemodynamic repercussions than racemic bupivacaine. These results disagree with those found when the levorotatory isomer of bupivacaine was used in humans, but are in agreement with recently reported findings in animals.
Levobupivacaine was shown to be more toxic in pigs than racemic bupivacaine when large doses are injected intravenously.
Adrenaline infusion to 8 rabbits led to remarkable dose-dependent hypokalemia; 2 of them died of ventricular arrhythmia (VA) with severe hypokalemia. In 6 rabbits with i.v. propranolol beforehand, no hypokalemia occurred after adrenaline infusion. Plasma catecholamines (CA) in 26 patients with AMI were greatly elevated at admission, 73% of relative hypokalemia (plasma potassium decreased to greater than or equal to 0.3 mmol/L) and a significant lowering of intraerythrocytic rate of Na/K were noted. These findings were inversely correlated with adrenaline. According to the multivariate analysis, both high level of plasma adrenaline and hypokalemia were responsible for VA in early AMI. The mechanism of CA-induced hypokalemia and its implications in AMI were discussed in detail.
Primary dysmenorrhea is a syndrome characterized by painful uterine contractility caused by a hypersecretion of endometrial prostaglandins; non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are the first choice for its treatment. However, in vivo and in vitro studies have demonstrated that myometrial cells are also targets of the relaxant effects of nitric oxide (NO). The aim of the present study was to determine the efficacy of glyceryl trinitrate (GTN), an NO donor, in the resolution of primary dysmenorrhea in comparison with diclofenac (DCF). A total of 24 patients with the diagnosis of severe primary dysmenorrhea were studied during two consecutive menstrual cycles. In an open, cross-over, controlled design, patients were randomized to receive either DCF per os or GTN patches the first days of menses, when menstrual cramps became unendurable. In the subsequent cycle the other treatment was used. Patients received up to 3 doses/day of 50 mg DCF or 2.5 mg/24 h transdermal GTN for the first 3 days of the cycle, according to their needs. The participants recorded menstrual symptoms and possible side-effects at different times (0, 30, 60, 120 minutes) after the first dose of medication on the first day of the cycle, with both drugs. The difference in pain intensity score (DPI) was the main outcome variable. Both treatments significantly reduced DPI by the 30th minute (GTN, -12.8 +/- 17.9; DCF, -18.9 +/- 16.6). However, DCF continued to be effective in reducing pelvic pain for two hours, whereas GTN scores remained more or less stable after 30 min and significantly higher than those for DFC (after one hour: GTN, -12.8 +/- 17.9; DFC, -18.9 +/- 16.6 and after two hours: GTN, -23.7 +/- 20.5; DFC, -59.7 +/- 17.9, p = 0.0001). Low back pain was also relieved by both drugs. Headache was significantly increased by GTN but not by DCF. Eight patients stopped using GTN because headache--attributed to its use--became intolerable. These findings indicate that GTN has a reduced efficacy and tolerability by comparison with DCF in the treatment of primary dysmenorrhea.
Of 38 patients referred with suspected cardiotoxicity after administration of antineoplastic drugs, 11 patients with signs of manifest or latent anthracycline cardiotoxicity were selected for heart catheterisation with endomyocardial biopsy. Ultrastructural abnormalities of the myocytes with myofibrillar loss and cytoplasmic vacuolation were present in most patients and these findings were more pronounced in biopsy specimens from the left ventricle. Surprisingly, light microscopy showed considerable fibrous thickening of the endocardium in 10 of 11 patients, primarily in the left ventricle. These morphological findings together with the echocardiographic and the haemodynamic data suggest that chronic anthracycline cardiotoxicity is a restrictive endomyocardial disease. The biochemical mechanisms responsible for endocardial fibrosis are unknown, but drug induced damage to the endocardium, possibly mediated via hormonal or humoral agents, may feature in the initial phase of the toxic process. The present observations contribute toward the understanding of the pathophysiology of human anthracycline cardiotoxicity.
The protective effect of Lygodium flexuosum extract in preventive and curative treatments of CCl(4) induced fibrosis was quantified. Hepatic fibrosis was induced in male Wistar rats by CCl(4) administration (150 microL/100 gm rat weight, oral) twice a week for 10 weeks. In preventive treatment daily doses of L. flexuosum n-hexane extract (200 mg/kg, p.o) were administered for 10 weeks. In curative treatment L. flexuosum extract (200 mg/kg, p.o) was given for 2 weeks after the establishment of fibrosis for 10 weeks. Treatment with the n-hexane extract (200 mg/kg) reduced the mRNA levels of proinflammatory cytokines, growth factors and other signaling molecules, which are involved in hepatic fibrosis. The expression levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-1beta, transforming growth factor-beta1, procollagen-I, procollagen-III and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1 were elevated during carbon tetrachloride administration and reduced the levels to normal by the treatment with the extract treatment. The increased levels of matrix metalloproteinase-13 in extract treated rats were indicative of the protective action of L. flexuosum n-hexane extract. In conclusion, L. flexuosum n-hexane extract functions as a potent fibrosuppresant, effectively reverses carbon tetrachloride-induced hepatic fibrosis in curative treatment and reduces the effects of ongoing toxic liver injury in preventive treatment by promoting extracellular matrix degradation in the fibrotic liver.
To ascertain the impact of intrauterine methamphetamine exposure on the overall health of newborn infants at Siriraj Hospital, Bangkok, Thailand, birth records of somatic growth parameters and neonatal withdrawal symptoms of 47 infants born to methamphetamine-abusing women during January 2001 to December 2001 were compared to 49 newborns whose mothers did not use methamphetamines during pregnancy. The data on somatic growth was analyzed using linear regression and multiple linear regression. The association between methamphetamine use and withdrawal symptoms was analyzed using the chi-square. Home visitation and maternal interview records were reviewed in order to assess for child-rearing attitude, and psychosocial parameters. Infants of methamphetamine-abusing mothers were found to have a significantly smaller gestational age-adjusted head circumference (regression coefficient = -1.458, p < 0.001) and birth weight (regression coefficient = -217.9, p < or = 0.001) measurements. Methamphetamine exposure was also associated with symptoms of agitation (5/47), vomiting (11/47) and tachypnea (12/47) when compared to the non-exposed group (p < 0r =0.001). Maternal interviews were conducted in 23 cases and showed that: 96% of the cases had inadequate prenatal care (<5 visits), 48% had at least one parent involved in prostitution, 39% of the mothers were unwilling to take their children home, and government or non-government support were provided in only 30% of the cases. In-utero methamphetamine exposure has been shown to adversely effect somatic growth of newborns and cause a variety of withdrawal-like symptoms. These infants are also psychosocially disadvantaged and are at greater risk for abuse and neglect.
A case report of transient blindness after lumbar epidural steroids is presented.
To report the diagnosis and treatment of a case of blindness after administration of lumbar epidural steroids.
Nine previous cases of blindness after lumbar epidural injection for back pain were identified. Retinal hemorrhages were identified on ophthalmologic examination in all cases.
The 1-year follow up evaluation of a 39-year-old male who sustained transient blindness after administration of lumbar epidural steroids is reported.
At 1 year, the patient had significant return of vision, but it did not improve back to baseline.
Transient blindness is a rare complication of lumbar epidural injection. The pathophysiology and prevention of this rare entity is reviewed.
A 31-year-old healthy man developed acute hepatitis after receiving atovaquone (250 mg) and proguanil (100 mg) for malaria prophylaxis daily for 25 days. Although atovaquone/proguanil is generally well-tolerated, this case highlights the hepatotoxic potential with considerable morbidity and should alert physicians to this harmful side effect.
Sporadic colorectal cancer develops as a multistep process during decades of latency. Multiple factors, in particular nutrition, influence progression. Both nutritional calcium and soy are known to reduce sporadic cancer incidence. Soy contains high levels of phytoestrogens. Among them genistein is recognized as an antioxidant and cell-cycle inhibitor. However, timing and length of consumption of genistein as well as gender- and colon site-specific activity may result in beneficial or detrimental effects. We therefore evaluated the effect in mice of a basic AIN76A diet containing 20% soy as main protein source fed for 1 or 2 generations. In another set of animals, normal calcium levels (0.5%) were replaced by low calcium (0.04%) with or without supplementation of genistein (0.04%). Expression of the vitamin D receptor, cyclooxygenase (COX)-2, proapoptotic Bak and antiapoptotic Bcl-2 protein, as well as estrogen receptor (ER)-alpha and ER-beta mRNA were evaluated. Results were identical whether soy was fed for 1 or 2 generations. Soy decreased Bak and increased COX-2 and ER-alpha expression site-specifically in female mice. Vitamin D receptor protein was reduced only in males. In animals fed 0.04% dietary calcium, COX-2 protein was increased mainly in females, but supplementation of genistein to the diet lowered COX-2 expression significantly in both genders. Our results suggest that genistein counteracts the induction of a marker of colonic premalignancy by low nutritional calcium in both genders. However, soy itself enhances COX-2 and reduces Bak, but only in females. This suggests detrimental activity of an unknown component of soy triggered by a high-estrogen background.
In rats, single intravenous doses of folic acid induce damage to renal tubular epithelium, deposition of folic acid in tubular lumens, increase in wet kidney weight, oliguria and interstitial connective tissue proliferation. Separation of the nephrotoxic and obstructive effects of folic acid was attempted by pretreatment with NH4Cl or NaHCO3. These effects of folic acid were unaltered by pretreatment with NH4Cl and there was, in addition, accumulation of eosinophilic droplets in papillary collecting duct epithelium. After pretreatment with NaHCO3, folic acid deposition is decreased or absent; there is a smaller increase in wet kidney weight; the rats are polyuric rather than oliguric; interstitial connective tissue proliferation is reduced; and no droplets form in papillary collecting ducts, but lesions are still present in proximal convoluted tubule epithelial cells. These findings indicate that folic acid has direct nephrotoxic effects independent of intraluminal folic acid deposition, and that damage to renal epithelium, unlike that induced by many nephrotoxins, occurs at several levels of the nephron.
Hypotension during regional anaesthesia for caesarean section remains a common clinical problem, particularly for spinal anaesthesia. The purpose of this review is to evaluate recent research in this area with a focus on English language papers from the past 1-2 years.
Risk factors for hypotension include increased sympathetic tone, increasing age, obesity, higher blocks and higher birthweight, but not multiple gestation. Methods aimed at countering effects of aortocaval compression do not reliably prevent hypotension. Intravenous crystalloid prehydration has poor efficacy, and focus has changed toward cohydration and use of colloids. Phenylephrine is established as a first-line vasopressor, although there are limited data from high-risk patients. Initial phenylephrine bolus dose requirement may be surprisingly large. Phenylephrine infusions can be conveniently titrated to maintain blood pressure and prevent maternal symptoms. Ephedrine crosses the placenta more than phenylephrine and direct fetal effects of ephedrine may explain associated depression of fetal pH and base excess.
Recent research supports decreased use of crystalloid prehydration and ephedrine and increased use of cohydration, colloids, smaller spinal doses and phenylephrine. Further research is required to investigate these techniques in high-risk patients and to evaluate novel monitoring techniques.
To compare the nephrotoxicity of iso-osmolar iodixanol with that of nonionic low-osmolar contrast media (CM) (LOCM) in randomized clinical trials.
This meta-analysis was conducted with a systematic search of MEDLINE, EMBASE, BIOSIS, Web of Science, ISI Web of Knowledge, Current Contents Medizin, Cochrane Library (until August 2007), trial registers, conference proceedings, and reference lists to identify studies and with requests from all manufacturers of CM for unidentified studies. Randomized controlled trials assessing serum creatinine levels before and after intravascular application of iodixanol or LOCM were included. The primary outcome measures were the incidence of contrast medium-induced nephropathy (CIN) and change in serum creatinine levels.
Twenty-five trials were included. Iodixanol did not significantly reduce the risk of CIN (relative risk [RR], 0.80; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.61, 1.04; weighted mean difference in serum creatinine increase, 0.01 mg/dL [0.88 mumol/L]; 95% CI: -0.01, 0.03). There was no significant risk reduction after intravenous administration of the CM (RR, 1.08; 95% CI: 0.62, 1.89); subgroup with preexisting renal insufficiency (RR, 1.07; 95% CI: 0.56, 2.02) or after intraarterial administration (RR, 0.68; 95% CI: 0.46, 1.01); subgroup with preexisting renal insufficiency (RR, 0.59; 95% CI: 0.33, 1.07). However, in patients with intraarterial administration and renal insufficiency, the risk of CIN was greater for iohexol than for iodixanol (RR, 0.38; 95% CI: 0.21, 0.68), whereas there was no difference between iodixanol and the other (noniohexol) LOCM (RR, 0.95; 95% CI: 0.50, 1.78).
Iodixanol is not associated with a significantly reduced risk of CIN compared with the LOCM pooled together. However, in patients with intraarterial administration and renal insufficiency, iodixanol is associated with a reduced risk of CIN compared with iohexol, whereas no significant difference between iodixanol and other LOCM could be found.
Prolyl oligopeptidase (POP) has been connected to memory and mood through regulation of the brain levels of its biologically active peptide substrates and phosphatidylinositol system. This is the first study in a radial-arm maze of the effects of a single dose of a novel potent prolyl oligopeptidase inhibitor, KYP-2047 (5 mg/kg, dissolved in 5% Tween 80), on memory and learning of scopolamine-treated (0.4 mg/kg, dissolved in saline) rats. Habituated (days 1 and 2) and trained (days 3-11) young (3 months) and old (8-9 months) male Wistar rats were given (i) saline + Tween, (ii) saline + KYP-2047, (iii) scopolamine + Tween or (iv) scopolamine + KYP-2047 30 min. prior to testing their memory. Food rewards located in four randomly chosen arms of the maze. The rat had 10 min. to find and eat the rewards. Time spent in the maze, visits to each arm and number of eaten rewards were measured. Old rats made generally more errors, spent more time and visited fewer arms per minute in the maze than young rats. The memory- and function-impairing effects of scopolamine were also seen more clearly in old than young rats. KYP-2047 had no or only a marginal effect on memory of either age group, but when given without scopolamine, it slightly increased the maze motility of young rats and decreased the motility of old rats. In a separate locomotor activity test, KYP-2047 enhanced the motility of young rats supporting a suggested role of POP in motor functions.
T-cadherin is an atypical cadherin and growing evidence has indicated that T-cadherin exerts tumor-suppressive effects on cancers of epithelial cell type and also causes positive effects on tumor angiogenesis. Human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a hypervascular tumor and T-cadherin has been shown to be overexpressed in intratumoral endothelial cells of HCCs. However, the expression status and functions of T-cadherin in hepatocytes or HCC cells remain unclear. Here, we demonstrated that T-cadherin was underexpressed in HCC cells (26.5%, 13/49 cases), but was frequently (77.6%, 38/49) overexpressed in intratumoral endothelial cells immunohistochemically. Semiquantitative RT-PCR analysis also showed that the T-cadherin gene was underexpressed in 7 of 11 HCC cell lines. Loss of heterozygosity analysis revealed that 32-38% of the 42 human HCC samples had allelic losses at this locus. Upon pharmacological treatment with demethylating agent 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine or histone deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin A, T-cadherin promoter hypermethylation and/or histone deacetylation was frequently observed in HCC samples and cell lines. Functionally, enforced expression of T-cadherin induced G(2)/M cell cycle arrest, reduced cell proliferation in low serum medium, suppressed anchorage-independent growth in soft agar and increased sensitivity to TNFalpha-mediated apoptosis in HCC cells. Intriguingly, we found that T-cadherin significantly suppressed the activity of c-Jun, a crucial oncoprotein constitutively activated in HCC cells. To conclude, T-cadherin was differentially expressed in human HCCs. The underexpression of T-cadherin in HCC cells suggests it may be another critical event in addition to T-cadherin-mediated angiogenesis during HCC development.
Tamoxifen has been used extensively as adjuvant therapy in the treatment of pre- and post-menopausal patients with breast cancer. One of its known complications is venous thromboembolism. However, arterial thrombosis has been reported rarely.
A 49-year-old patient with breast cancer had had a total mastectomy 3 years earlier. She was receiving tamoxifen therapy when she developed a sudden onset of pain and numbness of the left foot and calf. An arteriogram showed thrombosis of her tibial arteries.
This thrombosis was lysed successfully with urokinase therapy, and tamoxifen therapy was discontinued. At follow-up 4 months later, the patient had normal circulation to both legs.
Patients receiving tamoxifen should be monitored closely for the development of venous or arterial thromboembolism.
There is now compelling evidence of mitochondrial dysfunction in motor neuron disease (MND), but the molecular basis of these abnormalities is unknown. It is also unclear whether the observed mitochondrial dysfunction plays a central role in disease pathogenesis, and if so, whether its amelioration might present therapeutic opportunities. We adopted a candidate generation approach using proteomics to screen for changes in mitochondrial protein expression in a well-validated cell-culture model of superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) related familial MND (fMND). Changed proteins were identified by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectroscopy. Protein candidates included apoptotic regulators, anti-oxidants and components of the electron transport chain. Confirmatory Western blotting was performed, and validated protein expression changes were further investigated. Peroxiredoxin 3 (Prx3), a mitochondrial thioredoxin-dependent hydroperoxidase, is downregulated in the presence of mutant SOD1 in both our cell-culture model and in the spinal cord mitochondria of mutant SOD1 transgenic mice. We confirm the expression of Prx3 within the mitochondria of spinal motor neurons in mouse and humans by immunohistochemistry. Using quantitative real-time PCR (Q-PCR), we show that Prx3 is also downregulated in spinal motor neurons from patients with both sporadic (sMND) and SOD1-related fMND. In a disease characterized by oxidative stress, this represents a potentially important deficit in mitochondrial anti-oxidant defence. Recent evidence suggests that oxidative stress from aberrant copper chemistry may not play a major part in the pathogenesis of SOD1-related fMND. From the results of this study we propose disruption of mitochondrial anti-oxidant defence as an alternative mechanism whereby mutant SOD1 may generate oxidative stress within motor neurons. We further demonstrate that ebselen, an anti-oxidant drug already safely used in human studies and that acts as a Prx mimic, is able to ameliorate the toxicity of mutant SOD1 in our cell-culture model. We conclude by showing that ebselen is capable of inducing transcription of the anti-oxidant response element (ARE) and postulate that ebselen may act both by the transcriptional upregulation of anti-oxidant proteins, and directly as an anti-oxidant in its own right.
We recently demonstrated that pretreatment with N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine (DSP-4) exacerbates experimental parkinsonism induced by methamphetamine. The mechanism responsible for this effect remains to be elucidated. In this study, we investigated whether the exacerbation of chronic dopamine loss in DSP-4-pretreated animals is due to an impairment in the recovery of dopamine levels once the neurotoxic insult is generated or to an increased efficacy of the effects induced by methamphetamine. We administered different doses of methamphetamine either to DSP-4-pretreated or to intact Swiss-Webster mice and evaluated the methamphetamine-induced striatal dopamine loss at early and prolonged intervals. As a further step, we evaluated the striatal pharmacokinetics of methamphetamine, together with its early biochemical effects. We found that previous damage to norepinephrine terminals produced by DSP-4 did not modify the recovery of striatal dopamine levels occurring during several weeks after methamphetamine. By contrast, pretreatment with DSP-4 exacerbated early biochemical effects of methamphetamine, which were already detectable 1 h after methamphetamine administration. In addition, in norepinephrine-depleted animals, the clearance of striatal methamphetamine is prolonged, although the striatal concentration peak observed at 1 h is unmodified. These findings, together with the lack of a methamphetamine enhancement when DSP-4 was injected 12 h after methamphetamine administration, suggest that in norepinephrine-depleted animals, a more pronounced acute neuronal sensitivity to methamphetamine occurs.
Recombinant human erythropoietin (r-Hu-EPO) is known to be effective in untreated cancer patients. Here we assess the possibility that r-Hu-EPO may also prevent or reduce anemia in patients who receive cytotoxic chemotherapy.
Thirty-six patients with small-cell lung carcinoma (SCLC) were enrolled onto a three-arm, randomized trial to investigate the effect of r-Hu-EPO on hemoglobin (Hb) levels and RBC and platelet (Plt) transfusions during chemotherapy. Bone marrow progenitors were studied before and after treatment. Two groups of patients received r-Hu-EPO at a dose of either 150 IU/kg (group 150) or 300 IU/kg (group 300) three times per week for the duration of chemotherapy. A control group did not receive r-Hu-EPO (group O). A maximum of six cycles of a chemotherapy regimen that consisted of vincristine, ifosfamide, carboplatin, and etoposide (VICE) were given to all patients. Hematologic parameters were measured weekly, and RBC or Plt transfusions were given for Hb levels less than 9 g/dL and Plt counts less than 20 x 10(9)/L.
Hb levels decreased in all patients, but onset of anemia was delayed in groups that received r-Hu-EPO (P = .002). A total of 116 U RBC were transfused in group 0, 54 in group 150, and 52 in group 300 (P = .017). In addition, there was a nonsignificant trend toward higher Plt counts and fewer Plt transfusions in patients who received r-Hu-EPO.
r-Hu-EPO at a dose of either 150 or 300 IU/kg three times weekly delays the onset of anemia and reduces RBC transfusion requirements in patients who undergo intensive chemotherapy for SCLC. A possible effect of r-Hu-EPO on platelet numbers deserves further study.
Acute renal insufficiency is known to occur in patients who are taking ciprofloxacin, particularly the elderly. We report two young patients with cystic fibrosis who presented with acute renal insufficiency after 2-3 weeks of oral ciprofloxacin therapy. The incidence of this adverse effect in children and young adults who have cystic fibrosis is unknown. Multiple mechanisms for ciprofloxacin-induced nephrotoxicity have been proposed.
Until recently, the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) was limited to the cisplatin combinations, including a small number of cytotoxic drugs. More recently, combinations with taxanes and gemcitabine have slightly improved outcome. However, when the literature is revisited, it can be realized that older drugs such as nitrogen mustard have some degree of activity in NSCLC, traditionally considered a chemoresistant tumor. However, drugs that are mostly ineffective when used as single agents, such as 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), have significant activity when combined with cisplatin in the treatment of patients with NSCLC. 5-FU constitutes the backbone of chemotherapy for colorectal cancer patients. 5-FU is equally interesting because it permits investigation of thymidylate synthase (TS) levels as a genetic target for predicting response and survival. The assessment of TS levels and ERCC1 as a marker of cisplatin resistance is leading to customized chemotherapy. The possibility of discriminating cisplatin resistance is particularly attractive in choosing between cisplatin and non-cisplatin combinations in the treatment of NSCLC. We have reviewed phase I and II studies of pemetrexed in NSCLC. The response rate is approximately 20% with single-agent pemetrexed and approximately 40% in combination with cisplatin. This combination has mild to moderate toxicity. Other synergistic combinations that should be explored include pemetrexed with gemcitabine, CPT-11, docetaxel, carboplatin, or oxaliplatin. In the future, pharmacogenomically oriented chemotherapy trials should be undertaken based on the accumulated evidence that several genetic markers, such as ERCC1, beta-tubulin mutations, and loss of heterozygosity in the region of the enzyme ribonucleotide reductase, can predict resistance to cisplatin, taxanes, or gemcitabine, respectively. Mechanisms of resistance to pemetrexed need to be investigated, including the potential role of TS messenger RNA. In summary, pemetrexed has emerged as a promising new cytotoxic drug in the arsenal of chemotherapy treatments for NSCLC.
