Inorganic arsenicals are important environmental toxicants and carcinogens in humans. In mammals, including humans, inorganic arsenicals often undergo methylation, forming compounds such as dimethyarsinic acid (DMA). Recent evidence indicates DMA is a complete carcinogen in rodents while evidence for inorganic arsenicals as carcinogens in rodents remains equivocal. Thus, we studied the molecular mechanisms of in vitro cytolethality of DMA compared to that of the trivalent inorganic arsenical, sodium arsenite, using a rat liver epithelial cell line (TRL 1215). Arsenite was very cytotoxic in these cells (LC(50) = 35 microM after 48 h of exposure). With arsenite exposure, most dead cells showed histological and biochemical evidence of necrosis. Arsenite cytotoxicity increased markedly when cellular GSH was depleted with the glutathione synthase inhibitor, L-buthionine-[S,R]-sulfoximine (BSO). In contrast, DMA was nearly 3 orders of magnitude less cytotoxic (LC(50) = 1.5 mM) although evidence showed the predominating form of death was apoptosis. Surprisingly, GSH depletion actually decreased DMA-induced apoptosis. A glutathione scavenger, diethyl maleate (DEM), and a glutathione reductase inhibitor, carmustine, also prevented DMA-induced apoptosis. These data indicate that DMA requires intracellular GSH to induce apoptosis. Ethacrynic acid (EA), an inhibitor of glutathione S-transferase (GST) that catalyzes GSH-substrate conjugation, acivicin, an inhibitor of gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase (GGT) which catalyzes the initial breakdown of GSH-substrate conjugates, and aminooxyacetic acid (AOAA), an inhibitor of beta-lyase which catalyzes the final breakdown of GSH-substrate conjugates, all were effective in suppressing DMA-induced apoptosis. These findings indicate that DMA likely is conjugated in some form with GSH, and that it is this conjugate that induces apoptosis during subsequent metabolic reactions.
A fifty-four-year-old woman was admitted to the hospital for a sensation of tightness in the chest of one hour's duration. She had undergone surgery for breast cancer two years previously and had been taking 30 mg of tamoxifen and 1200 mg of medroxyprogesterone daily after surgery. Emergency coronary angiography on admission revealed thrombi in both the right coronary artery and the left anterior descending coronary artery. Tissue-type plasminogen activator was injected into both coronary arteries, resulting in diminution of thrombus size. Repeat coronary angiography on the next day disclosed no thrombus in either artery and no significant stenosis. Electrocardiographic and laboratory data indicated myocardial infarction. These findings strongly suggest that the combination hormone therapy altered the patient's blood coagulability and played an important role in the formation of the intracoronary thrombi and subsequent acute myocardial infarction.
1. The beta-adrenoceptor blocking and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)-releasing properties of capsinolol (N-[4-(2-hydroxy-3 (isopropylamino) propoxy)-3-methoxybenzyl]-nonanamide), derived from nonivamide, were investigated under in vivo and in vitro conditions. 2. Capsinolol (0.1, 0.5, 1.0 mg kg-1, i.v.), as well as (+/-)-propranolol, produced a dose-dependent bradycardia response and a temporary pressor action in urethane-anaesthetized normotensive Wistar rats. These cardiovascular effects were different from the vagus reflex and parasympathetic efferent effects shown by capsaicin (0.1 mg kg-1, i.v.) in the rat. 3. Capsinolol (1.0 mg kg-1) inhibited the tachycardia effects induced by (-)-isoprenaline, but had no blocking effect on the arterial pressor responses induced by (-)-phenylephrine. The findings suggest that capsinolol possesses beta-adrenoceptor blocking activity, but it has no alpha-adrenoceptor blocking activity. 4. In guinea-pig isolated tissues, capsinolol (10(-8) to 10(-6) M) antagonized (-)-isoprenaline-induced positive chronotropic and inotropic effects of the atria and tracheal relaxation responses in a concentration-dependent manner. The parallel shift to the right of the concentration-response curve of (-)-isoprenaline suggests capsinolol is a beta-adrenoceptor competitive antagonist. 5. Capsinolol (10(-5) to 10(-4) M) exhibited a positive cardiotonic effect that was not inhibited by (+/-)-propranolol and reserpine, but was inhibited by capsazepine (10(-6) M) and CGRP8-37 (10(-6) M). This effect was independent of intrinsic sympathomimetic effects. 6. An immunoassay of released CGRP from guinea-pig isolated perfused heart indicated that capsinolol increases the release of CGRP and thus produces positive cardiotonic effects. 7. In conclusion, capsinolol is a non-selective beta-adrenoceptor antagonist with capsaicin-like cardiotonic properties unrelated to traditional intrinsic sympathomimetic effects. It is suggested that capsinolol causes CGRP release from cardiac sensory neurones via a non-adrenergic mechanism and then activates CGRP receptors on cardiac muscle.
In order to evaluate the potentiating effect of cefuroxime on tobramycin nephrotoxicity 21 immunocompromised patients with suspected septicaemia were randomized to treatment with either tobramycin + cefuroxime or tobramycin + penicillin G. 51Chromium-EDTA clearance, serum creatinine, serum beta 2-microglobulin, urinary, alanine aminopeptidase, urinary N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase and urinary beta 2-microglobulin were measured during a nine day course of the antibiotic combinations. Enzymuria and a small but significant decrease of 51Chromium-EDTA clearance of equal magnitude in both treatment groups occurred. However the results cannot be extrapolated to other doses and treatment times than used in the study.
The effect of acute hypertension and hypotension on serum TSH concentration was studied in anesthetized male rats. I.v. infusions (10 and 30 min) of Na-nitroprusside and dihydralazine induced a profound hypotension, and angiotensin amide and noradrenaline increased blood pressure, but none of the treatments significantly modified serum TSH concentrations. Also clonidine and noradrenaline, when given i.p., caused hypertension, but again the increase of serum TSH levels was not consistent. When the whole material was analysed, there was a scarcely significant correlation between the change of blood pressure and the change of serum TSH level. It is inferred that the drugs affecting TSH secretion, do not exert their action solely by changing the blood pressure.
Use of iodinated contrast media (ICM) for angiography can result in contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN). Gadolinium-based contrast media (GCM) have been used in angiography with a goal to reduce the incidence of CIN. We performed a retrospective analysis involving 85 patients with renal insufficiency who underwent 97 carotid artery angiography and stenting (CAAS) procedures with a combination of GCM and ICM. The incidence of peri-procedural death, Q wave myocardial infarction (QWMI), stroke and CIN were recorded. Patients in GCM group had worse preprocedure renal function compared to ICM group. There were no peri-procedural deaths or QWMI in both groups. The incidence of stroke was 2.2% in GCM group and 0% in ICM group. The incidence of CIN were similar in GCM and ICM groups (8.5% vs. 10%, respectively, p NS). However, the predicted risk of CIN was 18.5% for GCM group and 10.4% for ICM group. Use of GCM and ICM combination for CAAS resulted in a 50% reduction in the incidence of predicted CIN risk compared to ICM.
Pyridostigmine bromide (PB) was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 2003 as a pretreatment in humans against the lethal effects of the irreversible nerve agent soman (GD). Organophosphate (OP) chemical warfare agents such as GD exert their toxic effects by inhibiting acetylcholinesterase (AChE) from terminating the action of acetylcholine at postsynaptic sites in cholinergic nerve terminals (including crucial peripheral muscle such as diaphragm). As part of the post-marketing approval of PB, the FDA required (under 21CFR314, the "two animal rule") the study of a non-human primate model (the common marmoset Callithrix jacchus jacchus) to demonstrate increased survival against lethal GD poisoning, and protection of physiological hemi-diaphragm function after PB pretreatment and subsequent GD exposure. Marmosets (male and female) were placed in the following experimental groups: (i) control (saline pretreatment only), (ii) low dose PB (12.5 microg/kg), or (iii) high dose (39.5 microg/kg) PB. Thirty minutes after the PB dose, animals were challenged with either saline (control) or soman (GD, 45 microg/kg), followed 1 min later by atropine (2mg/kg) and 2-PAM (25mg/kg). After a further 16 min, animals were euthanized and the complete diaphragm removed; the right hemi-diaphragm was frozen immediately at -80 degrees C, and the left hemi-diaphragm was placed in a tissue bath for 4h (to allow for decarbamylation to occur), then frozen. AChE activities were determined using the automated WRAIR cholinesterase assay. Blood samples were collected for AChE activities prior to PB, before GD challenge, and after sacrifice. RBC-AChE was inhibited by approximately 18% and 50% at the low and high doses of PB, respectively, compared to control (baseline) activity. In the absence of PB pretreatment, the inhibition of RBC-AChE by GD was 98%. The recovery of hemi-diaphragm AChE activity after the 4h wash period (decarbamylation) was approximately 8% and 17%, at the low and high PB doses, respectively, compared with the baseline (control) AChE activity prior to PB pretreatment or soman exposure. The results suggest that PB pretreatment protects a critical fraction of AChE activity in the marmoset diaphragm, which is sufficient to allow the animal to breathe despite exposure to a dose of soman that is lethal in unprotected animals.
Sixty patients with Parkinson's disease underwent sterotaxic surgery in Edinburgh between 1965 and 1967, and were examined every 2 years for a total follow-up period of 10 years. Although stereotaxic surgery had been extremely effective in treating tremor and rigidity, the other manifestations of Parkinson's disease were noted to progressively affect more patients at each follow-up examination. L-dopa therapy was instituted in 36 patients after 1968. The effect of L-dopa on bradykinesia was remarkable, but the long-term benefit on the other manifestations of Parkinson's disease was negligible. Furthermore in most cases L-dopa became progressively ineffective for bradykinesia after 3 to 5 years. L-dopa-induced tremor and involuntary movements were less frequently noted in limbs contralateral to the side of a previous stereotaxic procedure. It was concluded that in patients presenting with tremor and rigidity as the major problem in their parkinsonian syndrome, the most effective form of palliative therapy is stereotaxic surgery, and that L-dopa should be reserved for the management of bradykinesia.
Selective lesions of the dopamine (DA) neurons of the ventral tegmental area (VTA) were found to substantially delay the development of tolerance to morphine-induced catalepsy, in comparison with sham-operated controls receiving morphine. Lesioned subjects receiving vehicle injections showed no catalepsy. The data suggest that tolerance to morphine catalepsy requires intact VTA DA neurons. Furthermore, since the acute cataleptic response was intact in lesioned animals, the data suggest that the mechanisms involved in the cataleptic response to morphine are dissociable from those which bring about tolerance to that response.
To develop an approach for reducing time between emergency department (ED) admission and treatment in patients with acute ischemic stroke to meet the challenge of providing tissue plasminogen activator treatment within 180 minutes.
An observational study.
Forty trial-affiliated hospitals, including 30 community hospitals.
A total of 17,324 consecutive patients admitted to trial-affiliated hospital EDs within 24 hours of possible stroke, from January 1991 through October 1994.
Appraisal of the process of triage, evaluation, diagnosis, and treatment by means of total quality improvement techniques in each hospital. Staff participating in the process identified sources of variation and modifications by flow charting the process.
Time between ED admission and treatment with study medication.
Total quality improvement methods identified hospital-specific process improvements. Many improvements were administrative, requiring no additional resources. More than 50% of screened patients arrived too late to be treated. Only 1268 patients were admitted between 0 and 125 minutes from stroke onset with no other trial exclusion criteria; 48% were treated. Of 243 patients admitted between 126 and 170 minutes from stroke onset with no exclusion criteria, 4% were treated. Mean time from ED admission to treatment was similar in teaching and community hospitals.
Total quality improvement methods identified ED-specific sources of process variability and reduced time between ED admission and treatment. Therefore, these methods should be considered in developing and monitoring emergent stroke treatment protocols.
Naltrexone hydrochloride is the first medication approved in the United States for the treatment of alcohol dependence in almost 50 years. This study was designed to collect safety data in a setting that reflected the expected clinical use of naltrexone.
This was a 12-week, nonrandomized, open-label usage study conducted in 40 alcoholism treatment centers throughout the United States, including free-standing alcoholism treatment programs, university clinics, Veterans Administration hospitals, and office-based primary care practices. Eligible patients were assigned, at the investigators' discretion, to a naltrexone treatment group or to a reference group that did not receive study medication. At study entry, patients must have been abstinent from alcohol for 1 to 6 weeks and enrolled in a psychosocial treatment program for alcoholism. Patients often underrepresented in controlled clinical trials, including women and patients with comorbid medical and psychiatric illness, were eligible. Patients with polysubstance abuse or infection with the human immunodeficiency virus were not excluded.
Of 865 patients enrolled, 570 received naltrexone and 295 were in a reference group. The most common new-onset adverse clinical events in the naltrexone group were nausea (9.8%) and headache (6.6%). Naltrexone was discontinued in 15.0% of patients because of adverse events, most frequently nausea. The results of liver function tests in the naltrexone group were similar to those in the reference group. No death occurred during the study.
This is the largest study to date describing the safety of naltrexone in a heterogeneous population of persons with alcoholism. No new safety concerns were identified.
C.I. Acid Red 114 is one of five chemicals being evaluated in 2-year carcinogenicity and toxicity studies as part of the NTP's Benzidine Dye Initiative. This Initiative was designed to evaluate representative benzidine congeners, benzidine congener-derived dyes, and benzidine-derived dyes. C.I. Acid Red 114 was nominated for study because of the potential for human exposure during production of bisazobiphenyl dyes and because benzidine, a structurally related chemical, is a known human carcinogen. Toxicology and carcinogenesis studies were conducted by administering desalted, industrial grade C.I. Acid Red 114 in drinking water to groups of F344/N rats of each sex for 13 days, 13 weeks, 9 or 15 months, or 2 years. These studies were performed only in rats because studies of benzidine congeners were being performed in mice at the National Center for Toxicological Research (NCTR). Genetic toxicology studies were conducted in Salmonella typhimurium, Chinese hamster ovary cells, and Drosophila melanogaster. 13-Day Studies: Rats were exposed to C.I. Acid Red 114 in drinking water at doses of 0, 10,000, 20,000, or 30,000 ppm. All control and dosed rats survived except one male rat in the 20,000 ppm dose group. Final mean body weights in the three dosed groups were 94%, 83%, or 77% of controls for males and 92%, 88%, or 80% of controls for females. Water consumption declined with increased dose. Clinical findings included red stained fur, ears, and tail in all test animals. On gross necropsy, organs and tissues were also stained red. 13-Week Studies: C.I. Acid Red 114 was administered in drinking water at doses of 0, 600, 1,200, 2,500, 5,000, or 10,000 ppm. All control and dosed animals survived until the end of the study. Final mean body weights in the five dosed groups were 97%, 89%, 87%, 87%, or 85% of controls for males and 97%, 94%, 94%, 92%, or 89% of controls for females. Water consumption was decreased in dosed animals. As was seen in the 13-day studies, major organs and tissues from treated animals were stained red. Kidney toxicity characterized by regeneration and karyomegaly of tubule epithelial cells with chronic inflammation was observed in female rats at doses of 1,200 ppm or above. Treatment-related increases in relative liver weights and elevated liver enzyme levels were seen in males and females, centrilobular pallor in the liver was seen in all male dose groups. Because of these body weight differences, decreases in water consumption, and organ toxicity, the doses chosen for the 2-year studies were 70,150, and 300 ppm for males and 150, 300, and 600 for females. 2-Year Studies: Male rats received doses of 0, 70, 150, or 300 ppm of C.I. Acid Red 114, and female rats received 0, 150, 300, or 600 ppm. Seventy animals were in the control and high-dose groups, 45 in the low-dose groups, and 75 in the mid-dose groups. Ten animals were evaluated from the control and high-dose groups at 9 months, and ten animals from all dose groups were evaluated at 15 months. The average amount of compound consumed per day was 4, 8, or 20 mg/kg for males and 9, 20, or 70 mg/kg for females. Survival and Body Weights: Survival at 105 weeks for male rats receiving 0, 70, 150, or 300 ppm was 24/50, 15/35, 26/65, and 1/50; for females receiving 0, 150, or 300 ppm, survival was 36/50, 13/35, and 6/64. All female rats receiving 600 ppm died by week 89. The decreased survival in treated groups was due primarily to the development of chemical-related neoplasms. Of the surviving animals, the final mean body weights for males receiving 70 or 150 ppm were 94% and 90% of control and for females receiving 150 or 300 ppm, 99% and 84% of control. These weight differences began in the second year of the studies and were attributed in part to the development of neoplasms in the dosed groups. Histopathologic Effects in the 2-Year Studies: At 9 and 15 months, a few neoplasms were seen in the liver, lung, clitoral gland, skin, Zymbal's gland, oral cavity epithelium, and small and large intestine, and the number of neoplasms at these sites increased as gland, skin, Zymbal's gland, oral cavity epithelium, and small and large intestine, and the number of neoplasms at these sites increased as the studies progressed. At 2 years, there was a clear carcinogenic response in the skin, Zymbal's gland, and liver of male and female rats, and in the clitoral gland, oral cavity epithelium, small and large intestine, and lung in female rats. Treatment-related increases were also seen in the incidence in neoplasms of the oral cavity epithelium, adrenal gland, and lung of male rats, and in mononuclear cell leukemia and in neoplasms of the mammary gland and adrenal gland in female rats. The incidence of these neoplasms was generally lower, but was significant and considered to be marginally related to chemical treatment. The same neoplastic effects have been previously observed in some or all of the NTP studies with dimethoxybenzidine, dimethylbenzidine, or C.I. Direct Blue 15. Genetic Toxicology: In a standard preincubation protocol, C.I. Acid Red 114 was mutagenic in Salmonella typhimurium strain TA98 in the presence of induced hamster liver S9, and an equivocal response was noted in strain TA100 with hamster liver S9. However, no significant mutagenic activity was noted in strains TA1535 or TA1537 with or without S9 activation. In a modified S. typhimurium gene mutation test which employed reductive metabolism followed by oxidative metabolism with S9 liver enzymes, C.I. Acid Red 114 was strongly mutagenic in strain TA1538. C.I. Acid Red 114 did not induce sister chromatid exchanges or chromosomal aberrations in Chinese hamster ovary cells with or without S9 activation; reductive metabolism was not used in these cytogenetic tests. No increase in sex-linked recessive lethal mutations was observed in germ cells of male Drosophila melanogaster administered C.I. Acid Red 114 by feeding or injection. Conclusions: Under the conditions of these 2-year drinking water studies, there was clear evidence of carcinogenic activity of C.I. Acid Red 114 for male F344/N rats, as indicated by benign and malignant neoplasms of the skin, Zymbal's gland, and liver. Increased incidences of neoplasms of the oral cavity epithelium, adrenal gland, and lung may have been related to chemical administration. There was clear evidence of carcinogenic activity for female F344/N rats, as indicated by benign and malignant neoplasms of the skin, Zymbal's gland, clitoral gland, liver, oral cavity epithelium, small and large intestines, and lung. Increased incidences of mononuclear cell leukemia, mammary gland adenocarcinoma, and adrenal gland pheochromocytomas may have been related to chemical administration. Synonyms: 1,3-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 8-((3,3'-dimethyl-4'-((4-(((4-methylphenyl)sulfonyl)oxy)phenyl)azo)(1,1'-bipheny)-4-yl)azo)-7-hydroxy, disodium salt, Acid Leather Red BG, Acid Red 114, Amacid Milling Red PRS, Benzyl Fast Red BG, Benzyl Red BR, Cerven Kysela, C.I. 23635, Erionyl Red RS, Folan Red B, Kayanol Milling Red RS, Leather Fast Red B, Levanol Red GG, Midlon Red PRS, Milling Red B, Milling Red BB, Milling Red SWB, NCI C61096, Polar Red RS, Sandolan Red N-RS, Sella Fast Red RS, Sulphonol Fast Red R, Supranol Fast Red GG, Supranol Red PBX-CF, Supranol Red R, Telon Fast Red GG, Tertracid Milling Red B, Vondamol Fast Red RS
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is a common infectious pathogen during stem cell trans-plantation. We report a case of meningoencephalitis with multiple abscess formation caused by MRSA, which occurred in a 4-year-old boy soon after allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation. We successfully cured the infection with a combination of intravenous and intrathecal vancomycin.
To analyze fertility in male patients treated with various combinations of radiotherapy and chemotherapy, with or without alkylating agents, or with radiotherapy alone for Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) levels were measured in patients with early-stage upper-diaphragmatic disease enrolled in four European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) trials (H6-H9). Median follow-up after therapy was 32 months. Patients with FSH measurement at least 12 months after end of treatment (n = 355) were selected to assess post-treatment fertility. Patients with FSH measurement 0 to 9 months after therapy (n = 349) were selected to analyze fertility recovery; of these, patients with elevated FSH (> 10 U/L; n = 101) were followed until recovery. Factors predictive for therapy-related infertility were assessed by logistic regression.
The proportion of elevated FSH was 3% and 8% in patients treated with radiotherapy only or with nonalkylating chemotherapy (doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, dacarbazine [ABVD], epirubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, prednisone [EBVP]); it was 60% (P < .001) after chemotherapy containing alkylating agents (mechlorethamine, vincristine, procarbazine, prednisone [MOPP], MOPP/doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine [ABV], bleomycin, etoposide, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, procarbazine, prednisone [BEACOPP]). After a median time of 19 months, recovery of fertility occurred in 82% of patients treated without alkylating chemotherapy. This proportion was 30%, statistically (P < .001) lower in those treated with alkylating chemotherapy, and median time to recovery was 27 months. The post-treatment proportion of elevated FSH increased significantly (P < .001) with the dose of alkylating chemotherapy administered, and recovery was less frequent and slower after higher doses. Age more than 50 years and stage II disease also contributed to poor outcome.
Fertility can be secured after nonalkylating chemotherapy for Hodgkin's lymphoma. In contrast, alkylating chemotherapy has a dismal effect, even after a limited number of cycles.
The conversion of cholesterol into the more polar metabolites 27-hydroxycholesterol (27-OH) and cholestenoic acid by the cytochrome P450 sterol 27-hydroxylase is a cholesterol-removal mechanism used by almost all cells. Most of the cholestenoic acid present in the circulation originates from the lung, and it has been suggested that sterol 27-hydroxylase is of particular importance for cholesterol homeostasis in this organ. As an example of pulmonary cholesterol accumulation, a known disorder of surfactant homeostasis, pulmonary alveolar proteinosis (PAP), was studied. Analysis of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid from PAP patients revealed a significant accumulation of the cholesterol metabolites cholestenoic acid and 27-OH. This pattern was recapitulated in serum, with a significant increase in the levels of both cholestenoic acid (P=0.003) and 27-OH (P=0.017) in PAP patients compared with healthy controls. Analysis of PAP alveolar macrophages did not reveal a significant change in mRNA expression levels of either sterol 27-hydroxylase or the cholesterol-esterifying enzyme acyl-CoA:cholesterol acyltransferase-1. These results are consistent with the contention that substrate availability, rather than enzyme expression, is the key factor in regulating the production of cholestenoic acid by the lung and that serum cholestenoic acid may be a marker of pulmonary cholesterol homeostasis.
Systemic capillary leak syndrome (SCLS) is a rare disorder with a high mortality rate, characterized by rapidly developing edema, weight gain and hypotension, hemoconcentration and hypoproteinemia. This syndrome is caused by sudden, reversible capillary hyperpermeability with a rapid extravasation of plasma from the intravascular to the interstitial space. Even though SCLS has been suggested to be the pathogenic mechanism for the pulmonary toxicity of gemcitabine (GCB), a new deoxycytidine analogue with structural similarities to cytosine arabinoside, a direct correlation between GCB and SCLS has never been reported. We describe a case of repeated SCLS after GCB administration in a 51-year-old male with locally-advanced non-small-cell lung cancer treated with a combination of cisplatin and GCB. The detection of GCB-induced SCLS supports the hypothesis that SCLS could be the pathogenic way of GCB pulmonary toxicity. This finding can help to better understand and treat the potentially deadly GCB-related acute respiratory distress syndrome that is being recognized.
Collagen induced arthritis (CIA) is a model of chronic inflammatory synovitis with pannus, neovascularization, and joint destruction similar to rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Matrix metalloproteinases (MMP) are involved in degradation of the extracellular matrix and joint destruction in RA. c-fos and c-jun are protooncogenes whose products combine to form activating protein (AP-1), a regulatory protein that is required for cell proliferation and the transcription of a variety of genes, including MMP such as collagenase and stromelysin. Administration of vanadium compounds suppresses c-fos/c-jun expression and AP-1 activity, resulting in inhibition of MMP expression in response to factors such as interleukin 1 (IL-1). We evaluated whether a vanadium AP-1 inhibitor could reduce MMP expression and subsequent joint damage in CIA.
Vanadate [bis (maltolato) oxovanadium (IV) (BMOV; 10 mg/kg/day)] and the reducing agent N-acetyl cysteine (NAC; 100 mg/kg/day) were given subcutaneously daily in an attempt to suppress established CIA in rats. NAC in combination with vanadate appeared to increase the efficacy of c-fos/c-jun inhibition, while decreasing toxicity. Controls were given NAC alone. Clinical, radiographic, and histologic measures were evaluated as well as synovial MMP and IL-1a expression.
BMOV therapy, initiated on the day of onset of clinical arthritis, significantly reduced clinical arthritis within 2 days (p <0.05) compared to controls. Significance was maintained to the termination of the study on Day 18 post-arthritis onset (p < 0.005), with a maximum difference seen on Day 5 (p < 0.00001). Blinded radiographic scores at the completion of the protocols indicated less joint destruction in the experimental group compared to the control group (p < 0.005). Scanning and transmission electron microscopy confirmed the preservation of articular cartilage with therapy. In BMOV-treated rats, synovial mRNA expression of collagenase, stromelysin, and IL-la were reduced by 78%, 58%, and 85%, respectively, compared to controls.
This is the first study of vanadate as a potential antirheumatic agent. Further study of this AP-1 and MMP inhibitor may lead to new treatment options in RA.
To determine the influence of low-dose prednisolone on atherosclerosis, endothelial function, and risk factors for atherosclerosis in patients with early rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
At start of the first disease modifying antirheumatic drug, 67 patients with early, active RA were randomized to either 7.5 mg prednisolone daily (n = 34) or no prednisolone (n = 33). In the prednisolone group, 21 were treated for 2 years and 13 continuously. After a mean of 5 years intima-media thickness (IMT) and calculated intima-media area (cIMa) of the carotid arteries were determined by B-mode ultrasound. Endothelial function was determined by flow-mediated dilatation (FMD) of the brachial artery.
IMT [median (interquartile range) 0.675 mm (0.58-0.82) vs 0.673 mm (0.0.62-0.80)], cIMa [13.7 mm2 (11.45-20.37) vs 14.1 mm2 (12.34-17.38)], prevalence of atherosclerotic plaques (82.3% vs 81.9%), and endothelial function [FMD% (mean +/- SD) 3.88% +/- 2.8 vs 3.74% +/- 2.9] did not differ between patients treated with and those not treated with prednisolone. There were no differences in lumen diameter of carotid arteries, or levels of lipoproteins, glucose, and blood pressure. Patients treated for at least 4 years (and currently treated) with prednisolone had a trend to higher systolic blood pressure (157 +/- 29 mm Hg) compared with untreated patients (141 +/- 28 mm Hg; p = 0.06) and had higher cholesterol levels (5.6 mmol/L +/- 1.39 vs 4.9 +/- 28; p = 0.03). In the whole cohort, age and HDL were independently associated with IMT; age, HDL, and blood pressure with cIMa; and age and serum creatinine with presence of atherosclerotic plaques.
Low-dose prednisolone did not influence endothelial function and atherosclerosis in patients with RA. However, total cholesterol was higher in patients treated with prednisolone.
The effect of PAP 9704, a traditional prescription in Korea consisting of Polygala tenuifolia, Acorus gramineus, and Poria cocos at a ratio of 1:1:1 (dry weight), on methamphetamine (MA)-induced hyperlocomotion was examined in mice. The increased locomotor activity induced by MA (1 mg/kg/d, i.p. x 7) was significantly attenuated by co-administration with PAP 9704 (100 or 200 mg/kg/d, p.o. x 7) in a dose dependent manner. Consistently, it was found that the hyperlocomotor activity occurred in parallel with the expression of striatal fos-related antigen immunoreactivity. The adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonist, 1,3,7-trimethyl-8-(3-chlorostyryl)xanthine (0.5 or 1.0 mg/kg, i.p.), significantly reversed the pharmacological action of PAP 9704 in a dose related manner, but the adenosine A(1) receptor antagonist 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dimethylxanthine (0.5 or 1.0 mg/kg, i.p.) and the A(2B) receptor antagonist alloxazine (1.5 or 3.0 mg/kg, i.p.) did not significantly affect this pharmacological action. Our results suggest that PAP 9704 prevents MA-induced hyperlocomotion, at least in part, via the stimulation of the adenosine A(2A) receptor.
The purpose of this study was to assess the likelihood that variation in the promoter region of the solute carrier family 11 member 1 gene (SLC11A1) contributes to inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) susceptibility in the South African population. The study cohort included 102 IBD patients, 47 with Crohn's disease (CD) and 55 with ulcerative colitis, and 192 population-matched controls. Mutation analysis revealed two novel alleles for the 5'-(GT)n repeat polymorphism, t(gt)5ac(gt)5ac(gt)6ggcaga(g)6 (allele 8) and t(gt)5ac(gt)5ac(gt)8ggcaga(g)6 (allele 9), and one previously documented point mutation -237C-->T. A significantly decreased frequency of the -237C-->T promoter polymorphism was observed in the patient group with IBD (p<0.001) and CD (p<0.0006) compared with the population-matched control group. These findings may be related to previous in vitro studies, which demonstrated that the point mutation at nucleotide position -237 represents a functional polymorphism that affects regulation of the upstream 5'-(GT)n repeat polymorphism differentially upon iron loading. Our findings raise the possibility that iron dysregulation mediated by allelic effects of SLC11A1 may contribute to IBD susceptibility.
The first choice treatment for cutaneous Leishmaniasis is N-methyl glucamine: it has high toxicity, requires parenteral administration and cure is not always reached. Azythromycin showed in vitro action and controversial results in humans with the disease.
To verify if the association of N-methyl-glucamine - azythromycin is more effective than N-methyl-glucamine alone for the treatment of experimental Leishmaniasis.
Twenty-five C57BL/6 mice were inoculated with L. (L.) amazonensis strain and divided into two groups. One group was treated with 400 mgSbV/kg/day of N-methyl glucamine and 200mg/kg/day of azythromycin for 20 days and the other group received the same dose of N-methyl glucamine alone during the same period of time. Clinical and parasitological evaluations were submitted to statistical analyses.
There was no statistical difference in clinical analysis, in amastigotes investigation and in cultures. There were significant differences in cultures using limiting dilution, which showed lower efficacy of the association N-methyl glucamine -azythromycin.
N-methyl glucamine-azythromycin association was not more effective than N-methyl glucamine alone.
This study was designed to determine whether the subjective, behavioral or physiological effects of a stimulant drug in humans depend on whether subjects are tested under isolated or social conditions. Forty-two subjects were randomly assigned to either the Social (SOC) or Isolated (ISO) condition. SOC subjects participated in 4 h laboratory sessions in groups of 3 or 4, whereas ISO subjects participated in the sessions alone. All subjects participated in three sessions, during which they received capsules containing d-amphetamine (10 or 20 mg) or placebo, in mixed order under double blind conditions. Subjective, physiological and behavioral measures were obtained at regular intervals, d-amphetamine produced dose-related, prototypic stimulant effects on many measures, including self-reported mood states, behavioral indices and physiological measures. Most of these effects were unaffected by the setting in which subjects were tested (SOC vs ISO). However, body temperature was overall higher in the SOC group, and there was a trend for d-amphetamine to produce greater hyperthermic effects in the SOC group. In addition, 10 mg d-amphetamine increased heart rate in the SOC group but not in the ISO group. The results suggest that, like in laboratory animals, some of the effects of stimulants in humans are greater under aggregated conditions. However, unlike in the animal studies, this observed enhancement of the drug's effects under aggregated conditions was limited to physiological measures and did not apply to other subjective or behavioral measures.
