A 43-year-old man underwent abdominoperineal resection of a rectal adenocarcinoma, and left hepatic lobectomy for a single metastasis. He then received hepatic artery infusions of floxuridine. The tumor did not recur, but sclerosing cholangitis and liver failure developed which necessitated orthotopic liver transplantation. In the hilus of the native liver, obstructive arteriopathy and portal venopathy were found. These lesions probably had been caused by drug-induced intravascular thrombosis. Thus, the sclerosing cholangitis that develops in many patients after floxuridine infusion may be ischemic rather than toxic. The patient described here is well, 14 months after orthotopic liver transplantation. Therefore, in some cases of floxuridine-induced cholangitis, liver transplantation appears to be indicated despite a history of metastasizing carcinoma.
To study the role of arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) in regulating peritoneal invasive activity of ovarian carcinoma cells in vitro and in vivo.
The effects of As(2)O(3) on human ovarian cancer cell lines (3AO, SW626 and HO-8910PM) migration, invasion and adhesion with tumor cells and human peritoneal mesothelial cells (HPMC) were observed by means of cell migration test, cell invasion test and cell adhesion test. The effects of As(2)O(3) on MMP-2, MMP-9, TIMP-1 and TIMP-2 gene expressions and protein expressions of tumor cells were determined by RT-PCR and ELISA, respectively. In animal experiments, ovarian tumor cells were implanted into abdominal cavity of nude mice and then the nude mice were treated by intraperitoneal injection of different doses As(2)O(3). The foci on the surface of peritoneum were counted.
As(2)O(3) inhibited tumor cells migration, invasion and adhesion with HPMC in a dose-dependent manner, while the same treatment enhanced tumor cell-tumor cell interactions. As(2)O(3) inhibited mRNA and protein expressions of MMP-2, MMP-9 and TIMP-2 of tumor cells. In contrast, As(2)O(3) increased mRNA and protein expressions of TIMP-1. As(2)O(3) could reduce tumor cells peritoneal metastasis in nude mice.
As(2)O(3) inhibits in vitro and in vivo peritoneal invasive activity of ovarian carcinoma cells in a dose-dependent manner. Its anti-invasive activity may be the results of reduced cell motility, inhibited attachment of tumor cells to HPMC and enhanced tumor cell-tumor cell interaction, as well as down-regulation of MMP-2 and MMP-9 levels and up-regulation of TIMP-1 level.
Animal studies indicate that some phthalate metabolites may harm female reproductive function.
We assessed the associations between exposure to phthalate metabolites and pregnancy loss.
Using a previously established cohort of couples planning their first pregnancy, we analyzed four primary and two oxidized secondary phthalate metabolites in urine samples collected on day 10 after the first day of the last menstrual period before conception occurred (n = 128) and during the previous cycle (if any, n = 111). Subclinical embryonal loss was identified by repeated measurement of urinary human chorionic gonadotropin, and information on clinical spontaneous abortions was obtained by telephone interview with the mother.
Pregnancy loss (n = 48) was increased among women with urinary concentration of monoethylhexyl phthalate (MEHP) in the upper tertile in the conception sample compared with women in the lowest tertile [adjusted odds ratio (OR) = 2.9; 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.1, 7.6]. The corresponding OR for subclinical embryonal loss (n = 32) was 40.7 (95% CI: 4.5, 369.5).
The phthalate metabolite MEHP was associated with higher occurrence of pregnancy loss. Because this is the first human study to show this association and the sample size is small, the findings need to be corroborated in independent studies.
Diuretic therapy is frequently accompanied by undesirable biochemical changes and side-effects. Two multicenter trials compared the effects of captopril combined with a diuretic to the administration of either agent alone in mild-to-moderate hypertensives. In addition to blood pressure, effects on serum potassium, uric acid, glucose, and cholesterol were examined. The first study (Study A) was conducted on 210 such patients randomly assigned to receive: 1) hydrochlorothiazide (H) 15 mg three times daily (t.i.d.); 2) captopril (C) 25 mg t.i.d.; or 3) C + H for 6 weeks. The second study (Study B) involved 415 patients randomly assigned to receive: 1) C 25 mg twice daily (b.i.d.) + H 25 mg b.i.d.; 2) C 50 mg b.i.d. + H 25 mg b.i.d.; 3) C 50 mg b.i.d. + placebo b.i.d.; 4) placebo b.i.d. + H 25 mg b.i.d.; or 5) placebo b.i.d. + placebo b.i.d. for 6 weeks. In both Studies A and B, all patients except those receiving placebo only (Study B-5) had significant (p less than 0.05) blood pressure reductions. In Study A, the combination of C + H (A-3) produced a significantly greater (p less than 0.001) reduction in blood pressure than either agent alone. In Study B, both C + H groups (B-1, B-2) had a significantly greater (p less than 0.01) blood pressure reduction than that seen with C alone (B-3). In Study A, those treated with H alone (A-1) had a significant (p less than 0.05) reduction in serum potassium and increases in uric acid, glucose, and cholesterol when compared to C alone (A-2) where no changes in these parameters were observed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Under high dose treatment with sulfamethoxazole (SMX)/trimethoprim (TMP), hypersensitivity reactions occur with a high incidence. The mechanism of this adverse drug reaction is not fully understood. Several steps in the toxification pathway of SMX were investigated. The aim of our study was to investigate the reduction of sulfamethoxazole hydroxylamine (SMX-HA) in this toxification pathway, which can possibly be catalyzed by the mARC-containing N-reductive enzyme system. Western blot analyses of subcellular fractions of porcine tissue were performed with antibodies against mARC-1, mARC-2, cytochrome b5 type B, and NADH cytochrome b5 reductase. Incubations of porcine and human subcellular tissue fractions and of the heterologously expressed human components of the N-reductive enzyme system were carried out with SMX-HA. mARC-1 and mARC-2 knockdown was performed in HEK-293 cells. Kinetic parameters of the heterologously expressed human protein variants V96L, A165T, M187 K, C246S, D247H, and M268I of mARC-1 and G244S and C245W of mARC-2 and N-reductive activity of 2SF, D14G, K16E, and T22A of cytochrome b5 type B were analyzed. Western blot analyses were consistent with the hypothesis that the mARC-containing N-reductive enzyme system might be involved in the reduction of SMX-HA. In agreement with these results, highest reduction rates were found in mitochondrial subcellular fractions of porcine tissue and in the outer membrane vesicle (OMV) of human liver tissue. Knockdown studies in HEK-293 cells demonstrated that mARC-1 and mARC-2 were capable of reducing SMX-HA in cell metabolism. Investigations with the heterologously expressed human mARC-2 protein showed a higher catalytic efficiency toward SMX-HA than mARC-1, but none of the investigated human protein variants showed statistically significant differences of its N-reductive activity and was therefore likely to participate in the pathogenesis of hypersensitivity reaction under treatment with SMX.
X-linked nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (XNDI) is a severe kidney disease caused by inactivating mutations in the V2 vasopressin receptor (V2R) gene that result in the loss of renal urine-concentrating ability. At present,no specific pharmacological therapy has been developed for XNDI, primarily due to the lack of suitable animal models. To develop what we believe to be the first viable animal model of XNDI, we generated mice in which the V2R gene could be conditionally deleted during adulthood by administration of 4-OH-tamoxifen.Radioligand-binding studies confirmed the lack of V2R-binding sites in kidneys following 4-OH-tamoxifen treatment, and further analysis indicated that upon V2R deletion, adult mice displayed all characteristic symptoms of XNDI, including polyuria, polydipsia, and resistance to the antidiuretic actions of vasopressin. Gene expression analysis suggested that activation of renal EP4 PGE2 receptors might compensate for the lack of renal V2R activity in XNDI mice. Strikingly, both acute and chronic treatment of the mutant mice with a selective EP4 receptor agonist greatly reduced all major manifestations of XNDI, including changes in renal morphology.These physiological improvements were most likely due to a direct action on EP4 receptors expressed on collecting duct cells. These findings illustrate the usefulness of the newly generated V2R mutant mice for elucidating and testing new strategies for the potential treatment of humans with XNDI.
The aim of this retrospective study was to determine the worth of prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) for the diagnosis and therapy of erectile dysfunction using the study of documents, a questionnaire and a clinical control. In testing, 58.3% of 300 patients responded completely to PGE1. Complications were pain (13%) and prolonged erections of more than 3 h (5%). Sixty-four of 300 patients began continuous therapy. Forty-three of 64 patients were evaluated retrospectively (time 5/88-9/94). Nine of 43 primary patients and 16/34 secondary patients dropped out after a medium therapy of 1 year. The main reasons for the dropouts were pain and fear of complications related to the therapy. Complications in long-term therapy were pain (35.3%), prolonged erection (0.4%), and local fibrosis (5.9%). PGE1 is not a magic drug in erectile dysfunction. The advantage of fewer prolonged erections compared to papaverine/phentolamin is restricted by the high incidence of pain. The relative lack of acceptance of autoinjection therapy in long-term follow-up demonstrates its limited value in the therapy of erectile dysfunction.
In 24 patients with coronary heart disease (group 1) and in 16 control patients (group 2) dipyridamole test was performed in combination with two-dimensional echocardiography. The studies were aimed at the comparison of sensitivity, specificity and predictive values calculated during analysis of segmental contractility of the left ventricular wall and LVEDVI, LVESVI, SVI, CI and EF in relation to ecg examination. During analysis of changes in ST segment, dipyridamole test sensitivity was 0.37, specificity--0.94, predictive confirmatory value--0.90, and predictive excluding value--0.50. During analysis of LVEDVI, SVI and CI diagnostic value of the dipyridamole test did not change (p greater than 0.05). During analysis of LVESVI and EF dipyridamole test sensitivity increased to 0.75 and 0.83, respectively (p less than 0.05). Also during analysis of segmental contractility of the left ventricular wall sensitivity of the test increased to 0.75 (p less than 0.01), while its specificity and predictive value did not change (p greater than 0.05). Two-dimensional echocardiography augments diagnostic value of the dipyridamole test.
Isotretinoin has revolutionized the treatment of acne by improving the cosmetic outcome and decreasing the psychological damage. However, use of isotretinoin is associated with significant side-effects such as mucocutaneous involvement, dyslipidaemia and liver dysfunction, as indicated by increases in liver enzymes. The responsible enzyme for homocysteine metabolism, cystathionine-beta-synthase, might also be affected by isotretinoin-induced liver dysfunction, which leads to hyperhomocysteinaemia, an independent risk factor for thrombovascular diseases. The aim of this study was to evaluate homocysteine levels and the responsible vitamins for its metabolism in patients with moderate to severe acne vulgaris on isotretinoin treatment, before and after treatment. We found increased level of homocysteine in patients after 2 months of taking isotretinoin. Our findings suggest that isotretinoin may increase the risk of cardiovascular disorders by causing hyperhomocysteinaemia.
Benign enlargement of the prostate is a malady of older males, reaching an estimated prevalence of 90% in patients aged over 70 years. Many of these patients are treated with alpha blockers, which can lower blood pressure significantly. We report on a 64-year-old man who developed a right hemiparesis after taking one dose of doxazosin 4 mg for prostatic symptoms. A CT scan of the brain and carotid ultrasound studies were normal. He recovered most of his neurological function within a few days. Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring on doxazosin 2 mg revealed a striking sleep blood pressure reduction.
Dietary selenium has potent cancer prevention activity. Both low molecular weight selenocompounds and selenoproteins are implicated in this effect. Thioredoxin reductase 1 (TR1) is one of the major antioxidant and redox regulators in mammals that supports p53 function and other tumor suppressor activities. However, this selenium-containing oxidoreductase is also overexpressed in many malignant cells and has been proposed as a target for cancer therapy. To further assess the role of TR1 in the malignancy process, we used RNA interference technology to decrease its expression in mouse lung carcinoma (LLC1) cells. Stable transfection of LLC1 cells with a small interfering RNA construct that specifically targets TR1 removal manifested a reversal in the morphology and anchorage-independent growth properties of these cancer cells that made them similar to those of normal cells. The expression of at least two cancer-related protein mRNAs, Hgf and Opn1, were reduced dramatically in the TR1 knockdown cells. Mice injected with the TR1 knockdown showed a dramatic reduction in tumor progression and metastasis compared with those mice injected with the corresponding control vector. In addition, tumors that arose from injected TR1 knockdown cells lost the targeting construct, suggesting that TR1 is essential for tumor growth in mice. These observations provide direct evidence that the reduction of TR1 levels in malignant cells is antitumorigenic and suggest that the enzyme is a prime target for cancer therapy.
Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) has been used to document the incidence of non-obstructive thrombosis (NOT) after mechanical prosthetic mitral valve replacement (MVR). The postoperative occurrence and unpredictable evolution of NOT complicate its management. The study aim was to examine the safety and efficacy of prolonged, combined administration of heparin and vitamin K antagonists (VKA) recommended for this indication.
All patients who underwent mechanical prosthetic MVR between July 1999 and December 2004 at the authors' institution were systematically studied with TEE immediately after surgery. Patients who presented with > or = 5 mm NOT were treated with combined heparin and VKA until TEE-confirmed resolution of the thrombus.
Among 256 patients who underwent 263 MVRs (seven reinterventions), 47 (17.9%) presenting with > or = 5 mm NOT received combined heparin and VKA for between 7 and 115 days (median 17 days). No thromboembolic or hemorrhagic events or deaths were observed during this period of observation. Four patients were treated with danaparoid and VKA because of thrombocytopenia induced by heparin before the diagnosis of NOT. Over a mean follow up of 39 months, one patient died from cancer and another from the sequelae of a stroke. In total, there were five NOT recurrences, three of which were complicated by embolic events without sequelae within eight months, and one by a recurrent stroke. In addition, three patients without demonstrable NOT recurrence suffered transient ischemic attacks.
Among this small sample of patients, combined heparin and VKA was well tolerated and effective, and could prevent reoperation or thrombolysis. These observations may warrant further study in a larger patient population.
The goal of this study was to determine if the expression of the metallothionein (MT)-1/2 proteins might serve as a biomarker for the development of bladder cancer. A retrospective analysis of MT-1/2 staining was performed on 343 tissue sections from patients referred for the diagnosis of bladder cancer. The specimens were subdivided into six categories: benign, dysplastic, low-grade cancer, high-grade cancer with no evidence of invasion, high-grade cancer with evidence of invasion, and carcinoma in situ. There was no expression of MT-1/2 in benign lesions and low-grade cancers, a low incidence of expression in dysplastic lesions and high-grade cancers with no evidence of muscle invasion, and a significantly increased incidence of MT-1/2 in high-grade cancers that had invaded the underlying matrix. The expression of MT-1/2 varied in intensity from sample to sample and was focal in its expression. It was concluded from these findings that MT-1/2 may be a prognostic marker for cancers that are progressing to invade the underlying stroma of the bladder wall. The expression of MT-1/2 was also determined in a cell culture model of human urothelium that had been malignantly transformed by Cd2+ and As3+ and shown to be capable of tumor formation in nude mice. It was demonstrated that the expression of MT-1/2 in the tumor heterotransplants was similar to the pattern found in archival specimens of high-grade bladder cancers. The MT-1/2 staining in the heterotransplants was focal in pattern, varied in intensity, and highest in the less differentiated cells of the tumor. These findings indicate that the cell culture model may serve to help define the role of MT-1/2 expression in bladder cancer invasion.
Functional impairment of mitochondria and proteasomes and increased oxidative damage comprise the main pathological phenotypes of Parkinson disease (PD). Using an unbiased quantitative proteomic approach, we compared nigral mitochondrial proteins of PD patients with those from age-matched controls. 119 of 842 identified proteins displayed significant differences in their relative abundance (increase/decrease) between the two groups. We confirmed that one of these, mortalin (mthsp70/GRP75, a mitochondrial stress protein), is substantially decreased in PD brains as well as in a cellular model of PD. In addition, nine candidate mortalin-binding partners were identified as potential mediators of PD pathology. Manipulations of mortalin level in dopaminergic neurons resulted in significant changes in sensitivity to PD phenotypes via pathways involving mitochondrial and proteasomal function as well as oxidative stress.
Folate nephropathy was selected as a model to study renal mitochondrial response after tubular injury. 20 h after injection, 14C-leucine incorporation was suppressed to 20--30% of control, 14C-mannose incorporation was 63--78% greater than control while the activities of succinic dehydrogenase and monoamine oxidase were unaltered. By 40 h, 14C-leucine incorporation had been restored to control values. Also, at 20 h, ATPase activity sensitive to oligomycin inhibition had increased by 45--73%, whereas K+-stimulated ATPase activity was reduced in the experimental mitochondrial fractions. The results are discussed along with other studies of mitochondria in experimental renal disease.
Ten patients with priapism after self-administered intracavernous papaverine injection for erectile impotence had to be treated as emergencies between September 1985 and February 1988. In half the patients it was possible to achieve penile detumescence by puncture of the corpora cavernosa, injection of 2-5 mg metaraminol or both, but failed in the remainder, requiring the intracavernous injection of 10-30 mg metaraminol in 500 ml physiological saline. Surgical treatment was necessary in one case. Papaverine-induced priapism constitutes a urological emergency which, because of the danger of hypertensive crises, demands treatment in hospital.
Intranigral injection of muscimol induced hyperactivity in rats and antagonized haloperidol-induced catalepsy. Intranigral injection of gabaculine, an inhibitor of GABA transaminase, induced similar effects 5h after injection, when the nigral GABA content was increased 7-fold. On the other hand, injections of muscimol (30 ng) into the globus pallidus potentiated the cataleptic effect of haloperidol, and muscimol alone in high doses (100 and 200 ng) induced catalepsy. Gabaculine also induced catalepsy of medium intensity and potentiated the effect of haloperidol 24h after injection, when GABA was increased in the globus pallidus as well as in the substantia nigra. Injections of muscimol into either the globus pallidus or substantia nigra increased striatal HVA and enhanced haloperidol-induced elevation of HVA. Three benzodiazepines, nitrazepam, diazepam and chlordiazepoxide administered orally, potentiated the effect of muscimol (30 ng) injected into the globus pallidus and induced catalepsy. A similar effect was not obtained with phenobarbital. It is suggested that stimulation of GABA receptor or increase of GABA content in the sustantia nigra antagonize haloperidol-induced catalepsy by activation of nigral dopaminergic system, and that enhancement of pallidal GABA function induces catalepsy by non-dopaminergic mechanisms. Potentiation of haloperidol-induced catalepsy by benzodiazepines may be due to enhancement of GABA-ergic transmission within the globus pallidus.
Piceatannol is a phenolic stilbenoid and a metabolite of resveratrol which is found in red wine. Piceatannol (PIC) commonly exhibits anti-inflammatory, antiplatelet and antiproliferative activity. In the present study, the anti-allergic and anti-inflammatory mechanisms of PIC were investigated by examining the effects of PIC on pro‑inflammatory cytokine release and phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases (ERK, JNK and p38) in a human mast cell line. PIC dose-dependently inhibited compound 48/80-induced systemic anaphylaxis and immunoglobulin E-mediated local allergic reactions. PIC reduced the immunoglobulin E (IgE)-mediated local allergic reaction and attenuated histamine release from rat peritoneal mast cells. Histamine and β-hexosaminidase release was markedly decreased dose-dependently by PIC treatment in RBL-2H3 cells. PIC treatments of HMC-1 cells definitely reduced mRNA expression and the release of the pro‑inflammatory cytokines, tumor necrosis factor-α and interleukin-8. MAP kinase phosphorylation was also strongly decreased dose-dependently following PIC treatment. PIC regulated the production of cytokines and histamine in phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate plus A23187-stimulated mast cells. Thus, PIC may alleviate allergic inflammation and may be a useful therapeutic agent for allergic diseases.
Latent forms of long QT syndrome have been already reported. We describe one case of a 27 years old female patient who experienced an episode of cardiac arrest after several puffs of salbutamole. The malignant arrhythmia causing the cardiac arrest was torsade de pointes degenerated into ventricular fibrillation. The patient ECG showed a normal QTc basal interval and the correct diagnosis was made by contemporary recording of the ECG and MAP during orciprenalina infusion. After drug infusion, we have recorded a MAP lengthening and a dispersion of MAP duration between the right ventricular apex and the right ventricular outflow tract. These modifications were concomitant with the appearance of "humps" (probably related to the presence of early afterdepolarizations), a QT interval lengthening and morphologic changes of the T and U waves.
Amifostine, a chemo- and radioprotective agent developed as adjunctive therapy for malignancies, induces hypotension after approximately 20% of patient administrations. This study examines the molecular mechanisms underlying hypotension induced by amifostine. Amifostine and its metabolite, WR-1065, induced dose-dependent hypotension in anesthetized rats that was not blocked by N(G)-methyl L arginine (L-NAME), an NO synthase inhibitor. WR-1065 but not amifostine induced concentration-dependent relaxation of isolated rat aortic rings in an endothelium-independent fashion. Relaxation was not associated with increases in cGMP or cAMP and could not be blocked by L-NAME or indomethacin. Similarly, neither amifostine or WR-1065 activated adenylyl, particulate guanylyl, or soluble guanylyl cyclases. WR-1065 relaxed rat aortic rings precontracted with norepinepherine, suggesting alpha-adrenergic blocking activity. However, neither amifostine nor WR-1065 altered the ability of prazosin or phentolamine to bind to alpha-adrenergic receptors. Further, WR-1065 had no effect on receptor-mediated increases in intracellular calcium in BAL 17 murine B lymphocytes in vitro. Thus, hypotension after administration of amifostine is mediated by WR-1065 and appears to result from direct relaxation of vascular smooth muscle. Smooth muscle relaxation induced by WR-1065 is not related to production of nitric oxide, prostaglandins, or cyclic nucleotides; alpha-adrenergic receptor antagonism; or interference with receptor-dependent increases in intracellular calcium. Administration of ephedrine, an efficacious adrenergic agonist, attenuated hypotension induced by amifostine in anesthetized rats and may be useful in alleviating hypotension associated with amifostine administration in patients.
Over-expression of efflux transporter P-glycoprotein (PgP) encoded by ABCB1 gene has been implicated in poor responsive epilepsy. Several genetic variants have been shown to influence the expression levels of P-glycoprotein. The aim of the present study was to investigate the role of ABCB1 polymorphisms: C1236T, G2677T/A and C3435T in determining drug response to first line antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) namely phenobarbitone, phenytoin, carbamazepine and valproate in North Indian cohort of epilepsy patients. DNA samples were obtained from 392 consecutive epilepsy patients, out of which 228 had completed follow-up evaluation at 12 months. After attaining steady state of the AEDs in the first two months of study, 133 patients showed complete freedom from seizures (no-seizure group) and 95 patients continued to have seizures (recurrent-seizures group) in the remaining period of study. Comparison of "no-seizure" and "recurrent-seizures" groups revealed no significant differences in allelic, genotypic and haplotypic frequencies for all the studied variants. In conclusion, our finding disproves a general association between ABCB1 polymorphisms and drug response in epilepsy patients.
Sulfoxaflor (X11422208), a novel agricultural molecule, induced fetal effects (forelimb flexure, hindlimb rotation, and bent clavicle) and neonatal death in rats at high doses (≥ 400 ppm in diet); however, no such effects occurred in rabbit dietary studies despite achieving similar maternal and fetal plasma exposure levels. Mode-of-action (MoA) studies were conducted to test the hypothesis that the effects in rats had a single MoA induced by sulfoxaflor agonism on the fetal rat muscle nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR). The studies included cross-fostering and critical windows of exposure studies in rats, fetal ((α1)(2)β1γδ) and adult ((α1)(2)β1δε) rat and human muscle nAChR in vitro agonism experiments, and neonatal rat phrenic nerve-hemidiaphragm contracture studies. The weight of evidence from these studies supported a novel MoA where sulfoxaflor is an agonist to the fetal, but not adult, rat muscle nAChR and that prolonged agonism on this receptor in fetal/neonatal rats causes sustained striated muscle contracture resulting in concomitant reduction in muscle responsiveness to physiological nerve stimulation. Fetal effects were inducible with as little as 1 day of exposure at the end of gestation, but were rapidly reversible after birth, consistent with a pharmacological MoA. With respect to human relevance, sulfoxaflor was shown to have no agonism on human fetal or adult muscle nAChRs. Taken together, the data support the hypothesis that the developmental effects of sulfoxaflor in rats are mediated via sustained agonism on the fetal muscle nAChR during late fetal development and are considered not relevant to humans.
Breast cancer in men is rare--among the risk factors that have been identified are a family history of breast cancer and evidence of androgen insufficiency. We report a family in which two brothers who both developed breast cancer had clinical and endocrinological evidence of androgen resistance. Sequence analysis revealed a mutation in the androgen receptor gene on the X chromosome, within the region encoding the DNA binding domain. This is the first report of a germline mutation in a member of the steroid/thyroid hormone receptor superfamily associated with the development of cancer.
Galectin-3 (Gal-3) is a β-galactoside-binding lectin implicated in the regulation of macrophage activation and inflammatory mediator production. In the present studies, we analyzed the role of Gal-3 in liver inflammation and injury induced by acetaminophen (APAP). Treatment of wild-type (WT) mice with APAP (300 mg/kg, ip) resulted in centrilobular hepatic necrosis and increases in serum transaminases. This was associated with increased hepatic expression of Gal-3 messenger RNA and protein. Immunohistochemical analysis showed that Gal-3 was predominantly expressed by mononuclear cells infiltrating into necrotic areas. APAP-induced hepatotoxicity was reduced in Gal-3-deficient mice. This was most pronounced at 48-72 h post-APAP and correlated with decreases in APAP-induced expression of 24p3, a marker of inflammation and oxidative stress. These effects were not due to alterations in APAP metabolism or hepatic glutathione levels. The proinflammatory proteins, inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), interleukin (IL)-1β, macrophage inflammatory protein (MIP)-2, matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-9, and MIP-3α, as well as the Gal-3 receptor (CD98), were upregulated in livers of WT mice after APAP intoxication. Loss of Gal-3 resulted in a significant reduction in expression of iNOS, MMP-9, MIP-3α, and CD98, with no effects on IL-1β. Whereas APAP-induced increases in MIP-2 were augmented at 6 h in Gal-3(-/-) mice when compared with WT mice, at 48 and 72 h, they were suppressed. Tumor necrosis factor receptor-1 (TNFR1) was also upregulated after APAP, a response dependent on Gal-3. Moreover, exaggerated APAP hepatotoxicity in mice lacking TNFR1 was associated with increased Gal-3 expression. These data demonstrate that Gal-3 is important in promoting inflammation and injury in the liver following APAP intoxication.
Sixteen clinical centers in two countries have undertaken a prospective open angiography- and computed tomography scan-based safety and efficacy dose-rate finding study of recombinant (two-chain) tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) in acute thrombotic and thromboembolic stroke. Preliminary experience with 71 rt-PA treated patients in seven dose-rate groups has demonstrated both partial and complete recanalization, documented by angiography, although a dose response has not yet been achieved. Hemorrhagic infarction has been documented at all dose rates, and dose-rate independent cerebral hematomas have been observed. The study continues at higher dose rates while still remaining within the safety guidelines.
We have recently found that codeinone, an oxidation metabolite of codeine, induced apoptosis, characterized by internucleosomal DNA fragmentation and mitochondrial cytochrome c release in HL-60 human promyelocytic leukemic cell lines, most effectively among 10 opioids. These findings prompted us to investigate whether codeinone induces apoptosis in other human cancer cells and possible changes in mitochondrial enzyme. FACS analysis demonstrated that codeinone induced the production of ANNEXIN-positive apoptotic cells in three different human cancer cells (HL-60, MCF7, A549). The apoptotic cells were visualized by microscopical observation after staining with Hoechst (H)-33342. Fluorometric assay showed that codeinone time-dependently activated caspase 3 and caspase 9, but not caspase 8, suggesting the activation of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway via mitochondria. Western blot analysis demonstrated that codeinone enhanced the Pro-apoptotic Bax protein expression, but reduced the anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 protein expression. Codeinone did not significantly change the manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) activity nor its mRNA expression. This apoptosis-inducing activity, in conjunction with antinociceptive activity, further substantiated the antitumor potential of codeinone.
Seventy-seven patients who developed masseter muscle rigidity (MMR) after receiving succinylcholine to facilitate tracheal intubation were evaluated for malignant hyperthermia (MH) susceptibility by in vitro halothane and caffeine contracture tests. Thirty-nine patients were diagnosed as MH-susceptible. Neither age, sex, nor type of surgery or anesthesia distinguished MH-susceptible from nonsusceptible patients. Two susceptible and two nonsusceptible patients had evidence of a myopathy. Fifty-two patients had serum creatine phosphokinase (CPK) levels measured in the perioperative period. Although all values were above normal, CPK values equal to or greater than 20,000 IU within 24 hr of trismus (in the absence of myopathy) were observed in six of 30 patients diagnosed as MH-susceptible, but were found in none of the nonsusceptible patients. Considering the high percentage of patients exhibiting MMR that are indeed susceptible to MH (approximately 50%) compared to estimates of MH in the population as a whole (approximately 0.005%), MMR should be considered a presumptive sign of MH. Perioperative CPK values greater than 20,000 IU are highly suggestive of MH susceptibility. Patients exhibiting MMR should be evaluated for MH susceptibility and myopathies. Succinylcholine should be avoided for subsequent anesthetics in patients with a history of MMR.
