Withdrawal from chronic exposure to nicotine, the main addictive component of tobacco, produces distinctive symptoms in humans. The appearance of these symptoms is a major deterrent when people try to quit smoking. To study which type of nicotine receptor is relevant for the onset of the withdrawal syndrome, we used a mouse model of nicotine withdrawal. Wild-type mice and mice null for the beta4 (beta4-/-) or the beta2 (beta2-/-) nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subunits were implanted with osmotic minipumps delivering 24 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1) nicotine for 13 d. Subsequently, a single intraperitoneal injection of the nicotinic receptor antagonist mecamylamine induced behavioral symptoms of withdrawal measured as increased grooming, chewing, scratching, and shaking, plus the appearance of some unique behaviors such as jumping, leg tremors, and cage scratching. Mecamylamine injection triggered comparable withdrawal signs in wild-type and in beta2-/- mice, whereas the beta4-/- mice displayed significantly milder somatic symptoms. In addition, nicotine withdrawal produced hyperalgesia in wild-type but not beta4-/- mice. Finally, chronic nicotine produced an increase in epibatidine binding in several areas of the brain in both wild-type and in beta4-/- mice, but such receptor upregulation did not correlate with the severity of withdrawal signs. Our results demonstrate a major role for beta4-containing nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in the appearance of nicotine withdrawal symptoms. In contrast, the beta2 subunit does not seem to greatly influence this phenomenon. We also show that the upregulation of epibatidine binding sites attributable to chronic nicotine, an effect associated with beta2-containing receptors, is probably not related to the mechanisms underlying withdrawal.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is characterised by pain and tenderness not only over inflamed or damaged joints, but also over apparently normal tissues. Experimental models suggest that these features results from changes of sensitivity within both peripheral and central neurones, but direct evidence from human disease is lacking. At present, most clinical studies have evaluated overall pain experience rather than activity within components of the nociceptive pathway. Therefore, the aim of this study was to assess the use of a capsaicin-based technique to quantify changes of neuronal sensitivity in patients with RA. First 20 microliters of capsaicin in solution (0.03 mg/ml) was applied topically for 30 min to apparently normal skin on the forearm of control subjects and patients with RA. The subsequent development of mechanical hyperalgesia to pinprick stimuli was then measured at various time points using a 74.4-mN von Frey hair. The relationship between the area of hyperalgesia and a number of clinical measures was determined. Capsaicin-induced mechanical hyperalgesia was found to decline with age in normal subjects (r = 0.47, P < 0.01). The development of hypearlgesia had a similar time course in normal subjects and patients with RA. The maximum area of hyperalgesia, however, was substantially larger in 35 RA patients; 254.3 +/- 20.7 cm2, compared with 35 normal controls; 109 +/- 7.5 cm2 (P < 0.001). An association was apparent between hyperalgesic area and a composite score of joint tenderness (r = 0.47, P < 0.01), but not with overall pain score or a systemic marker of inflammation. These results provide evidence for enhanced sensitisation of a population of sensory fibres in RA. Peripheral sensory activity over the forearms of rheumatoid patients has previously been shown to be normal and the results suggest the presence of enhanced central mechanisms in this disorder. The correlation between capsaicin-induced hyperalgesia and joint tenderness in the RA patients implies that joint symptoms arise partially as a result of central, and not exclusively peripheral, factors. The study supports the use of capsaicin-based techniques to explore nociceptive mechanisms in clinical disorders characterised by chronic pain.
Adverse reactions such as urticaria, angioedema, asthma, and anaphylaxis are known to be associated with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents (NSAIDs). Celecoxib (Pfizer/Searle, Caguas, PR) is a new NSAID that differs in structure and mechanism of action of other similar drugs of this class.
Evaluation of a case of anaphylaxis to celecoxib (Celebrex).
This report describes a 55-year-old woman who experienced the acute onset of pruritus, urticaria, respiratory distress, and hypotension minutes after ingesting a celecoxib capsule. She had taken the drug a previous time for tendonitis without difficulty. Treatment with epinephrine, corticosteroids, and intravenous fluids was successful. An IgE mechanism could not be detected. She has avoided the drug and has had no further problems.
This is the first patient report of anaphylaxis attributable to celecoxib, a new NSAID. This suggests that physicians and other health care professionals should be aware of the potential serious side effects of this drug.
Research has found that among health care workers, dental personnel are especially likely to have reactions to glutaraldehyde and formaldehyde.
The authors conducted patch test evaluations with a voluntary cohort of randomly recruited, healthy dental hygienists, or DHs, and dental assistants, or DAs, and nondental professionals to determine the incidence of glutaraldehyde-induced and formaldehyde-induced allergic contact dermatitis, or ACD; the potential for coreactivity between glutaraldehyde and formaldehyde; and the correlation between training methods in safe handling of sterilizing solutions and the sensitivity to glutaraldehyde and formaldehyde among DHs and DAs.
The researchers enrolled 101 DHs and DAs and 51 nondental professionals in the study. All except one DH/DA subject were female. The dental subjects' mean age was 34.3 +/- standard deviation of 10.7 years; the nondental subjects', 33.8 +/- 11.0 years. DHs and DAs had worked in their profession for a mean of 11.0 +/- 9.3 years. Among the dental professionals, 80 (79.2 percent) had had a known exposure to cold sterilizing solutions, while the remainder were unable to provide a known history of exposure. Eleven (10.9 percent) dental professionals had clear reactions to glutaraldehyde, four (4.0 percent) were questionably allergic to glutaraldehyde, and two (2 percent) were definitively allergic to formaldehyde. One (2 percent) control subject had a reaction to glutaraldehyde, and one other (2 percent) had a reaction to formaldehyde. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL:
The authors found a statistically significant disparity in the rates of glutaraldehyde sensitivity among healthy DHs and DAs versus healthy control subjects (10.9 percent versus 2 percent reactively; P = .02). They found no evidence of cross-reactivity between glutaraldehyde and formaldehyde. The preponderance of reactions among the DHs and DAs suggests that their present safety practices are largely ineffective in protecting against sensitization to glutaraldehyde in sterilizing solutions.
The use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs has been suggested to have a chemopreventive effect against colon carcinoma, through the inhibition of cyclooxygenases 1 and 2, in patients with familial adenomatous polyposis and in animal models. Acarbose, an alpha-glycosidase inhibitor, may also be chemopreventive. In order to examine the effects of these drugs we employed APC gene knockout mice randomized into 3 groups, one for treatment with piroxicam (0.05% concentration in drinking water), one for acarbose (0.04% concentration in food) and another for the control. After 14 weeks of treatment, mice were killed for quantitation of gastric and intestinal adenomas. Tumor multiplicity in the whole gastrointestinal tract decreased from 33.89 +/- 13.07 tumors/mouse in the control group to 17.05 +/- 7 tumors/mouse in the piroxicam-treated group (P < 0.001). The decrease in the acarbose-treated group (29.68 +/- 12.86 tumors/mouse) was not significant (P < 0.05). The number of tumors > or = 3 mm in diameter was also quantified in all gastrointestinal segments. The number of such tumors in the piroxicam group was decreased to 0.56 +/- 1.2 tumors/mouse from the control value of 3.78 +/- 1.17 tumors/mouse (P < 0.001), while in the acarbose-treated group the number decreased to 2.36 +/- 1.7 tumors/mouse (P < 0.01). Thus, piroxicam decreases the size and number of gastrointestinal adenomas in APC 1309 knockout mice, while acarbose decreases only the size.
Zinc deficiency (ZD) increases the risk of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). In a rat model, chronic ZD induces an inflammatory gene signature that fuels ESCC development. microRNAs regulate gene expression and are aberrantly expressed in cancers. Here we investigated whether chronic ZD (23 weeks) also induces a protumorigenic microRNA signature. Using the nanoString technology, we evaluated microRNA profiles in ZD esophagus and six additional tissues (skin, lung, pancreas, liver, prostate and peripheral blood mononuclear cells [PBMC]). ZD caused overexpression of inflammation genes and altered microRNA expression across all tissues analyzed, predictive of disease development. Importantly, the inflammatory ZD esophagus had a distinct microRNA signature resembling human ESCC or tongue SCC miRNAomes with miR-31 and miR-21 as the top-up-regulated species. Circulating miR-31 was also the top-up-regulated species in PBMCs. In ZD esophagus and tongue, oncogenic miR-31 and miR-21 overexpression was accompanied by down-regulation of their respective tumor-suppressor targets PPP2R2A and PDCD4. Importantly, esophageal miR-31 and miR-21 levels were directly associated with the appearance of ESCC in ZD rats, as compared with their cancer-free Zn-sufficient or Zn-replenished counterparts. In situ hybridization analysis in rat and human tongue SCCs localized miR-31 to tumor cells and miR-21 to stromal cells. In regressing tongue SCCs from Zn-supplemented rats, miR-31 and miR-21 expression was concomitantly reduced, establishing their responsiveness to Zn therapy. A search for putative microRNA targets revealed a bias toward genes in inflammatory pathways. Our finding that ZD causes miR-31 and miR-21 dysregulation associated with inflammation provides insight into mechanisms whereby ZD promotes ESCC.
The aim of this study was to present a case of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE) after an intrathecal baclofen bolus test. The study was carried out at a tertiary care rehabilitation center in Italy, and it reports a case of a 65-year-old woman affected by primary lateral sclerosis, with lower limb spasticity, who underwent an intrathecal baclofen bolus trial. After a 100 microg baclofen test, she developed hypotension and oxygen desaturation lasting two days. A Doppler ultrasonography was positive for DVT, and echocardiography confirmed the diagnosis of PE. A Doppler ultrasonography performed before the test was negative. This is the first report in the literature of DVT and PE after an intrathecal baclofen bolus trial. Clinicians and patients should be informed that the intrathecal baclofen bolus trial procedure could be associated with rare but important risks such as DVT and PE, and they should be alert in recognizing potentially life-threatening complications.
Catatonia is a syndrome that encompasses multiple motor signs. It can be the only presenting clinical feature in a patient with underlying multiple neuropsychiatric syndromes. The authors present a case of amisulpiride-induced catatonia, further evaluation suggested neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) and showed the occurrence of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) and underlying brain pathology with marked frontoparietal atrophy and periventricular white matter hyperintensities. The pathological substrate of catatonia and its complex association with neuropsychiatric syndromes are discussed.
In conscious rat pups aged 2-3, 10-11, and 22-23 postnatal days, it has been shown that intraperitoneal administration of 0.5 % novocain at a dose of 25 mg/kg body mass leads to phasic changes of the level of spontaneous periodic motor activity--from increased at once after the administration to depression and subsequent restoration. They are accompanied by the cardiac rhythm fluctuations that change with age their direction on the background of an increased motor activity from brady--to tachycardia. All the changes are the most pronounced in newborns. At comparison of the results with the afferent impulsation level fluctuations recorded under the same conditions in the peripheral vagus segment, it is suggested that the revealed reactions are associated with changes of the interoceptive afferentation flow. The conclusion is made that at early stages of ontogenesis, interoception plays an important role in regulation of autorhythmical functions and that this role decreases with age.
Acute seizures and status epilepticus induced by pilocarpine lead to the expression of Fos-like immunoreactivity in several specific brain areas in a manner similar to that of other models of limbic seizures. Upon development of status epilepticus after systemic pilocarpine injection, animals develop a state where chronic spontaneous seizures recur. Assessment of Fos-like immunoreactivity after such spontaneous seizures or after status epilepticus reinduction reveals either lack of staining or a weak reaction in a few brain areas including the ventral tip of the dentate gyrus, prepiriform, lateral piriform and perirhinal cortices, and scattered locations throughout temporal neocortex. Our results suggest that status epilepticus induction may lead to a long-lasting state of Fos down-regulation.
The Aryl hydrocarbon Receptor or AhR, a ligand-activated transcription factor, is known to mediate the toxic and carcinogenic effects of various environmental pollutants such as 2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD). Recent studies in Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila melanogaster show that the orthologs of the AhR are expressed exclusively in certain types of neurons and are implicated in the development and the homeostasis of the central nervous system. While physiological roles of the AhR were demonstrated in the mammalian heart, liver and gametogenesis, its ontogenic expression and putative neural functions remain elusive. Here, we report that the constitutive absence of the AhR in adult mice (AhR-/-) leads to abnormal eye movements in the form of a spontaneous pendular horizontal nystagmus. To determine if the nystagmus is of vestibular, visual, or cerebellar origin, gaze stabilizing reflexes, namely vestibulo-ocular and optokinetic reflexes (VOR and OKR), were investigated. The OKR is less effective in the AhR-/- mice suggesting a deficit in the visuo-motor circuitry, while the VOR is mildly affected. Furthermore, the AhR is expressed in the retinal ganglion cells during the development, however electroretinograms revealed no impairment of retinal cell function. The structure of the cerebellum of the AhR-/- mice is normal which is compatible with the preserved VOR adaptation, a plastic process dependent on cerebellar integrity. Finally, intoxication with TCDD of control adults did not lead to any abnormality of the oculomotor control. These results demonstrate that the absence of the AhR leads to acquired central nervous system deficits in the adults. Given the many common features between both AhR mouse and human infantile nystagmus syndromes, the AhR-/- mice might give insights into the developmental mechanisms which lead to congenital eye disorders.
Heme oxygenase 1 (HO-1) can be induced by inflammatory mediators as an adaptive response. The objective of the present study was to determine the consequences of HO-1 modulation in the murine collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) model.
DBA/1J mice were treated with an inhibitor of HO-1, tin protoporphyrin IX (SnPP), or with an inducer of HO-1, cobalt protoporphyrin IX (CoPP), from day 22 to day 29 after CIA induction. The clinical evolution of disease was monitored visually. At the end of the experiment, joints were examined for histopathologic changes. Cytokine levels in paws were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Levels of HO-1, cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2), and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) were determined. Effects of treatments on the early phase of disease and after prophylactic administration were also assessed.
CoPP strongly induced HO-1, resulting in the inhibition of cartilage erosion accompanied by extensive fibrosis in the joint. Levels of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha), interleukin-2 (IL-2), and IL-10 were inhibited by CoPP, whereas levels of vascular endothelial growth factor were increased. Treatment with SnPP significantly reduced the severity of CIA, with inhibition of joint inflammation and cartilage destruction. The levels of PGE2, IL-1beta, and TNFalpha were also significantly reduced by SnPP treatment, which did not modify COX-2 protein expression. SnPP was more effective than CoPP in preventing the development of CIA (prophylactic administration).
HO-1 is induced during CIA. Although overexpression of this protein causes some beneficial effects, strategies aimed at HO-1 overexpression cannot slow the progression of the chronic inflammatory disease, whereas treatment with SnPP, which inhibits HO-1, exerts prophylactic and therapeutic effects.
Anabolic-androgenic steroids are synthetic derivatives of testosterone that some athletes have used to enhance muscle mass and improve their athletic performance. Ephedrine is a potent sympathomimetic agent that can lead to cardiomyopathy similar to that seen with catecholamine excess. Adverse cardiovascular events attributed to anabolic steroid and ephedra use, such as arrhythmias, myocardial infarction, cardiomyopathy, and sudden death, are rarely reported. Bodybuilders have used gamma-hydroxybutyrate, a potent secretagogue of growth hormone, to promote muscle development. Although dilated cardiomyopathy is a known complication of excess growth hormone levels, it has not been associated with use of gamma-hydroxybutyrate. A healthy 40-year-old man was admitted to our hospital for new-onset congestive heart failure and severe acute hepatitis that developed several months after he began using anabolic-androgenic steroids, ephedra, and gamma-hydroxybutyrate supplements. Analysis with an objective causality assessment scale revealed a probable adverse drug reaction between the patient's use of anabolic steroids, ephedra, and gamma-hydroxybutyrate and the development of his cardiomyopathy and acute liver injury.
Atrial fibrillation in young patients without structural heart disease is rare. Therefore, when the arrhythmia is present in this population, reversible causes must be identified and resolved. Thyroid disorders, illicit drug or stimulant use, and acute alcohol intoxication are among these causes. We report the case of a 30-year-old Caucasian man who came to the emergency department in atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response. His medical history was unremarkable, except for minor fractures of the fingers and foot. Thyroid-stimulating hormone, magnesium, and potassium levels were within normal limits, urine drug screen was negative, and alcohol use was denied. However, when the patient was questioned about use of herbal products and supplements, the use of creatine monohydrate was revealed. The patient was admitted to the hospital, anticoagulated with unfractionated heparin, and given intravenous diltiazem for rate control and intravenous amiodarone for rate and rhythm control. When discharged less than 24 hours later, he was receiving metoprolol and aspirin, with follow-up plans for echocardiography and nuclear imaging to assess perfusion. Exogenous creatine is used by athletes to theoretically improve exercise performance. Vegetarians may also take creatine to replace what they are not consuming from meat, fish, and other animal products. Previous anecdotal reports have linked creatine to the development of arrhythmia. Clinicians must be diligent when interviewing patients about their drug therapy histories and include questions about their use of herbal products and dietary supplements. In addition, it is important to report adverse effects associated with frequently consumed supplements and herbal products to the Food and Drug Administration and in the literature.
The ATP-binding-cassette (ABC) transporter multidrug resistance protein (MRP) 2 (ABCC2) forms a natural barrier and efflux system for various (conjugates of) drugs, other xenotoxins, and endogenous compounds. To obtain insight in the pharmacological and physiological functions of Mrp2, we generated Mrp2 knockout mice, which were viable and fertile but suffered from mild hyperbilirubinemia due to impaired excretion of bilirubin monoglucuronides into bile. The mice also had an 80-fold decreased biliary glutathione excretion and a 63% reduced bile flow. Levels of Mrp3 (Abcc3) in liver and Mrp4 (Abcc4) in kidney of Mrp2-/- mice were approximately 2-fold increased. After oral administration of the food-derived carcinogens [(14)C]PhIP (2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine) and [14C]IQ (2-amino-3-methylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline) plasma values were 1.9- and 1.7-fold higher in Mrp2-/- mice versus wild-type mice, respectively, demonstrating the role of Mrp2 in restricting exposure to these compounds. At a high dose of 50 mg/kg of the drug [3H]methotrexate, the plasma area under the curve for i.v. administration was 1.8-fold higher in Mrp2-/- mice (1345+/-207 versus 734+/-81 min.microg/ml). No clear plasma concentration difference arose at low dose (1 mg/kg). Subsequently, Mdr1a/b/Mrp2 knockout mice were generated. Their biliary excretion of doxorubicin after i.v. administration (5 mg/kg) was 54-fold decreased (0.32+/-0.13 versus 17.30+/-6.59 nmol/g liver in wild type), and a role for both Mdr1a/b and Mrp2 in this process was revealed. Our results demonstrate that the Mrp2-/- mouse provides a valuable tool for studies of the impact of Mrp2 on behavior of drugs and other toxins, especially when combined with other ABC transporter knockout mice.
Female SJL/N, A.SW, B10.S (H-2s), BALB/C, DBA/2 (H-2d), A.TL and B10. TL (H-2t1) mice were treated with sc injections of 1.0 mg CH3HgCl/kg body weight every third day for 4 weeks. Controls were given sterile, isotonic NaCl. CH3HgCl (MeHg) induced in SJL, A.SW and B10.S mice antinucleolar antibodies (ANoA) targeting the nucleolar 34-kDa protein fibrillarin. The susceptibility to develop ANoA in response to MeHg was linked to the mouse major histocompatibility complex (H-2), since H-2s but not H-2t1 mice sharing background (non-H-2) genes developed ANoA. However, the background genes decided the strength of the ANoA response in the susceptible H-2s mice, and the ANoA titer was in the order: A.SW > SJL > B10.S. Although MeHg as well as inorganic mercury induced ANoA, the two forms of mercury differed both quantitatively and qualitatively in their effect on the immune system. MeHg induced in H-2s mice a weaker general (polyclonal) and specific (ANoA) B-cell response than HgCl2, probably due to weaker activation of Th2 cells with lower IL-4 production, as indicated by the minimal increase in serum IgE. The A. TL strain with a susceptible genetic background, but a H-2 haplotype resistant to HgCl2, responded to MeHg with a modest polyclonal B-cell response dominated by Th1-associated Ig isotypes. H-2s mice treated with MeHg showed in contrast to HgCl2-treated mice no systemic immune-complex (IC) deposits, which may be due to the weaker immune activation after MeHg treatment. The increase in serum IgE concentration and ANoA titer 2-6 weeks after stopping treatment with MeHg is identical to reactions during the first 2-3 weeks of HgCl2 treatment. Therefore, demethylation of MeHg probably increased the concentration of inorganic mercury in the body sufficiently to reactivate the immune system. This reactivation indicated that genetically susceptible mice are not resistant to challenge with mercury, making them distinctly different from rats.
We report on a child with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and motor tics, who developed frequent penile erections during treatment with risperidone and atomoxetine. On discontinuation of risperidone, he recovered fully. Clinicians should be alert to the adverse effects of atypical antipsychotics, which are used to treat a wide variety of paediatric psychiatric disorders.
Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMZ) and pentamidine are both licensed for the treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP). However, their use is associated with various adverse side effects. In this prospective study, 26 AIDS patients with 32 episodes of PCP were treated with pentamidine (4 mg/kg/d). Each patient was treated for 12 to 21 days, depending on the rapidity of onset of the clinical response. During the 32 PCP episodes, hypoglycemia occurred in 16 instances, azotemia in 12, liver toxicity in 10, and leukopenia in 8. The occurrence of thrombopenia, leukopenia, and liver toxicity was not related to age, pentamidine levels, or other complications. However, patients who had hypoglycemia during pentamidine treatment had higher serum pentamidine levels than patients who did not have hypoglycemia (107 +/- 40 versus 70 +/- 26 ng/ml, p less than 0.004). In addition, we observed that patients with azotemia showed higher pentamidine levels during treatment (120 +/- 35 versus 64 +/- 22 ng/ml, p less than 0.001). In fact, 100% (11/11) of patients with serum pentamidine concentration greater than 100 ng/ml had fasting hypoglycemia and/or azotemia, while 33% (7/21) of those with pentamidine levels less than 100 ng/ml had these side effects (p less than 0.001). The relative risk of these complications with pentamidine levels greater than 100 ng/ml was 3 (95% confidence interval, 1.6 to 5.5). Fine-tuning the dose of pentamidine may eventually prove useful to avoid toxicity and optimize therapy.
Acute ischemic stroke patients eligible for tissue plasminogen activator and with less severe neurologic deficits, although still generally benefiting from therapy, may have a different risk-benefit profile than all eligible acute stroke patients. We address whether patients with a minor stroke should receive tissue plasminogen activator, analyze minor stroke syndromes in the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) rt-PA Stroke Study, and define what constitutes a "minor stroke."
The NINDS rt-PA Stroke Study included 624 patients with acute ischemic stroke within 180 minutes of symptom onset within a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. To explore the relationship among stroke severity, thrombolytic therapy, and stroke outcome, we defined minor strokes (5 specified definitions) based on the standardized data available at treatment decision, including National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale score. We studied prespecified clinical outcomes, including 3-month favorable outcome (global statistic) defined from a set of standardized clinical scales, dichotomized clinical outcome at 3 months (good=modified Rankin Scale < or =2, bad=modified Rankin Scale >2), and risk of symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage.
For each of the 5 definitions of minor stroke, adjusted odds ratios for treatment benefit were consistently 2.0 with the lower 95% confidence limit, ranging from 1.4 to 1.5, and the upper 95% confidence limit, ranging from 2.7 to 2.9. There were less frequent "bad" outcomes (modified Rankin Scale >2) after therapy with tissue plasminogen activator than placebo. Symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage within 36 hours of treatment had a frequency in the tissue plasminogen activator-treated subjects, ranging from 0% to 4%, depending on minor stroke definition.
Recognizing the limitations of post hoc subgroup analyses, we could not detect a difference in the beneficial effects of tissue plasminogen activator in patients with minor stroke syndromes compared to the overall treatment effects in the entire cohort. Our data suggest that the risk-benefit ratio for using tissue plasminogen activator in minor-stroke patients favors treatment in eligible patients.
Pyrrolizidine alkaloids (PAs) are probably the most common plant constituents that poison livestock, wildlife, and humans worldwide. Riddelliine is isolated from plants grown in the western United States and is a prototype of genotoxic PAs. Riddelliine was used to investigate the genotoxic effects of PAs via analysis of gene expression in the target tissue of rats in this study. Previously we observed that the mutant frequency in the liver of rats gavaged with riddelliine was 3-fold higher than that in the control group. Molecular analysis of the mutants indicated that there was a statistically significant difference between the mutational spectra from riddelliine-treated and control rats.
Riddelliine-induced gene expression profiles in livers of Big Blue transgenic rats were determined. The female rats were gavaged with riddelliine at a dose of 1 mg/kg body weight 5 days a week for 12 weeks. Rat whole genome microarray was used to perform genome-wide gene expression studies. When a cutoff value of a two-fold change and a P-value less than 0.01 were used as gene selection criteria, 919 genes were identified as differentially expressed in riddelliine-treated rats compared to the control animals. By analysis with the Ingenuity Pathway Analysis Network, we found that these significantly changed genes were mainly involved in cancer, cell death, tissue development, cellular movement, tissue morphology, cell-to-cell signaling and interaction, and cellular growth and proliferation. We further analyzed the genes involved in metabolism, injury of endothelial cells, liver abnormalities, and cancer development in detail.
The alterations in gene expression were directly related to the pathological outcomes reported previously. These results provided further insight into the mechanisms involved in toxicity and carcinogenesis after exposure to riddelliine, and permitted us to investigate the interaction of gene products inside the signaling networks.
Serial gated blood pool scintigraphic monitoring of cardiac function with both a nonimaging scintillation probe and a conventional gamma camera-computer imaging system was performed in 101 patients receiving doxorubicin hydrochloride (Adriamycin) chemotherapy. Comparison of probe- and camera-derived ejection fractions (n = 287) correlated significantly (r = 0.70, p less than 0.005) as did the interstudy (n = 183) change in ejection fraction (r = 0.76, p greater than 0.005). Significant discordance in probe- and camera-derived ejection fraction change occurred in 3 (1.6%) of 183 interstudy intervals. Average intrastudy variability of absolute probe-derived ejection fraction was 2.9%. This variability was unrelated to the level of cardiac function. Thirteen patients (13%) developed clinical cardiotoxicity, including four at cumulative Adriamycin levels less than 450 mg/m2. Mean absolute camera ejection fraction decline for these patients was 21% from baseline evaluation, and mean absolute probe ejection fraction decline was 22%. The minimal absolute ejection fraction decline was 11% for patients with clinical congestive heart failure. Eight asymptomatic patients had therapy terminated before the development of clinical cardiotoxicity after a mean decline in absolute camera ejection fraction of 19 +/- 4% (SD) and in probe ejection fraction of 19 +/- 9% into abnormal ranges (a decline in magnitude equivalent to that in patients developing congestive failure). None of these five asymptomatic patients available for clinical follow-up at 6 months after termination of Adriamycin therapy subsequently developed signs of ventricular dysfunction. The majority of patients (83%) studied at 450 mg/m2 cumulative dose levels did not have a 15% or greater decline from baseline into the abnormal range.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A combination of levodopa and a peripheral dopa-decarboxylase inhibitor, benzerazide (Ro 4-4602), was studied over a 75-month period of observation in 132 patients with Parkinson's disease. The combined therapeutic approach was without biological toxicity, was well tolerated by 95 percent of patients, and was highly effective: 72 percent of patients improved by more than 50 percent on a functional activity scale and the group as a whole improved on an objective battery by a mean of 46 percent. Neurologic side effects of abnormal involuntary movements, falls, and oscillations in performance were not improved over levodopa used alone. The combined therapy is to be preferred over the use of levodopa alone in the symptomatic management of Parkinson's disease.
A variety of pharmaceutical compounds causes hemolytic anemia as a significant adverse effect and this toxicity restricts the clinical utility of these drugs. In this study, we applied microarray technology to investigate hepatic gene expression changes associated with drug-induced hemolytic anemia and to identify potential biomarker genes for this hematotoxicity. We treated female Sprague-Dawley rats with two hemolytic anemia-inducing compounds: phenylhydrazine and phenacetin. Hepatic gene expression profiles were obtained using a whole-genome oligonucleotide microarray with pooled RNA samples from individual rats within each dose group and analyzed in comparison with hepatic histopathology, hematology, and blood chemistry data. We identified a small subset of genes that were commonly deregulated in all the severe hemolytic conditions, some of which were considered to be involved in hepatic events characteristic of hemolytic anemia, such as hemoglobin biosynthesis, heme metabolism, and phagocytosis. Among them, we selected six upregulated genes as putative biomarkers, and their expression changes from microarray measurements were confirmed by quantitative real-time PCR using RNAs from individual animals. They were Alas2, beta-glo, Eraf, Hmox1, Lgals3, and Rhced. Expression patterns of all these genes showed high negative and positive correlation against erythrocyte counts and total bilirubin levels in circulation, respectively, suggesting that these genes may be the potential biomarkers for hemolytic anemia. These findings indicate that drug-induced hemolytic anemia may be detected based on hepatic changes in the expression of a subset of genes that are mechanistically linked to the hematotoxicity.
Inflammation contributes to the pathogenesis of acute kidney injury (AKI). IL-33 is a proinflammatory cytokine, but its role in AKI is unknown. Here we observed increased protein expression of full-length IL-33 in the kidney following induction of AKI with cisplatin. To determine whether IL-33 promotes injury, we administered soluble ST2 (sST2), a fusion protein that neutralizes IL-33 activity by acting as a decoy receptor. Compared with cisplatin-induced AKI in untreated mice, mice treated with sST2 had fewer CD4 T cells infiltrate the kidney, lower serum creatinine, and reduced acute tubular necrosis (ATN) and apoptosis. In contrast, administration of recombinant IL-33 (rIL-33) exacerbated cisplatin-induced AKI, measured by an increase in CD4 T cell infiltration, serum creatinine, ATN, and apoptosis; this did not occur in CD4-deficient mice, suggesting that CD4 T cells mediate the injurious effect of IL-33. Wildtype mice that received cisplatin and rIL-33 also had higher levels of the proinflammatory chemokine CXCL1, which CD T cells produce, in the kidney compared with CD4-deficient mice. Mice deficient in the CXCL1 receptor also had lower serum creatinine, ATN, and apoptosis than wildtype mice following cisplatin-induced AKI. Taken together, IL-33 promotes AKI through CD4 T cell-mediated production of CXCL1. These data suggest that inhibiting IL-33 or CXCL1 may have therapeutic potential in AKI.
Piribedil, a dopamine agonist, was administered to 13 patients with long-standing Parkinson's disease whose major symptoms were not well controlled on levodopa, anticholinergics, alpha-methyldopa, amantadine, or a combination of these agents. Twelve of the 13 clearly benefited from the addition of Piribedil although side effects precluded long term use in two cases. Beneficial results were obtained by using a combination of Piribedil, levodopa, and anticholinergic drugs. Side effects (hallucinations, confusion, dyskinesias) were frequent, but were usually reversible by lowering the dosage of levodopa or the accompanying anticholinergic medication. The synergistic effect of Piribedil and other antiparkinsonian drugs emphasizes the need for careful titration of all available medications in difficult cases and demonstrates the usefulness of dopamine receptor stimulators when drugs acting presynaptically have failed.
This study is a complex investigation of alcohol-mediated changes in CYP2E1 mRNA and protein expression in the testes, as well as spermatogenesis indices and type I collagen amino acid contents, in male rats. Wistar albino male rats were divided into two groups: I--control (intact animals), II--experimental (chronic alcoholism, exposure to a 15% ethanol aqueous solution during 150 days). The destructive changes in the spermatogenic epithelium were accompanied by a decrease in sperm number and motility time. CYP2E1 mRNA and protein expression were elevated in the testes 3 and 1.4 times, respectively. Also, significantly lower contents of lysine, glutamic acid, serine, proline, alanine, valine, and phenylalanine residues accompanied by an increase of hydroxyproline, glycine, and threonine residue contents were detected in the skin type I collagen of the experimental group. Chronic ethanol consumption caused testicular failure along with an overexpression of CYP2E1 mRNA and protein in the testes as well as quantitative changes in type I collagen amino acid contents. The profound alcohol-mediated changes in collagen type I amino acid contents may have affected the spermatogenic epithelium state. The modulation of testicular cytochrome P450 2E1 mRNA and protein expression could change the functioning of this isozyme in target organs and take part in the mechanism of ethanol gonadotoxicity.
