Fluoxetine and its metabolite norfluoxetine are eliminated by oxidative metabolism via the CYP450 system and may inhibit the oxidative metabolism of other drugs to various degrees. A fluoxetine-warfarin interaction has been postulated, but is not well documented in the literature. The elimination of diazepam may also be inhibited by fluoxetine. An elderly man was prescribed these three drugs in combination and experienced such an interaction. He developed an elevated international normalized ratio (INR) and died from a cerebral hemorrhage. He also manifested drug delirium secondary to inhibited diazepam metabolism. In elderly patients receiving fluoxetine, lorazepam or oxazepam would be safer alternatives to diazepam since they are conjugated in the liver. Patients stabilized on warfarin should be monitored closely for changes in INR if fluoxetine is added or deleted.
In the Wobbler mouse, a mutation of the Vps54 protein increases oxidative stress in spinal motoneurons, associated to toxic levels of nitric oxide and hyperactivity of nitric oxide synthase (NOS). Progesterone neuroprotection has been reported for several CNS diseases, including the Wobbler mouse neurodegeneration. In the present study, we analyzed progesterone effects on mitochondrial-associated parameters of symptomatic Wobbler mice. The activities of mitochondrial respiratory chain complexes I, II-III and IV and protein levels of mitochondrial and cytosolic NOS were determined in cervical and lumbar cords from control, Wobbler and Wobbler mice receiving a progesterone implant for 18 days. We found a significant reduction of complex I and II-III activities in mitochondria and increased protein levels of mitochondrial, but not cytosolic nNOS, in the cervical cord of Wobbler mice. Progesterone treatment prevented the reduction of complex I in the cervical region and the increased level of mitochondrial nNOS. Wobbler motoneurons also showed accumulation of amyloid precursor protein immunoreactivity and decreased activity and immunostaining of MnSOD. Progesterone treatment avoided these abnormalities. Therefore, administration of progesterone to clinically afflicted Wobblers (i) prevented the abnormal increase of mitochondrial nNOS and normalized respiratory complex I; (ii) decreased amyloid precursor protein accumulation, a sign of axonal degeneration, and (iii) increased superoxide dismutation. Thus, progesterone neuroprotection decreases mitochondriopathy of Wobbler mouse cervical spinal cord.
The expression of serum and glucocorticoid-induced protein kinase in the renal cortex of diabetic rats was examined, and the function of signal transduction mediated by SGK1 in diabetic nephropathy and its modulatiqn by fluvastatin were also investigated. 24 male Wistar rats were randomly divided into normal control group (n = 8), diabetic nephropathy group (n = 8) and fluvastatin-treated diabetic nephropathy group (15 mg/kg/d, n = 8). The metabolic parameters were measured at the 8th week. The expression of transforming growth factor beta1 (TGF-beta1) and fibronectin (FN) was immunohistochemically examined. The expression of SGK1 was detected by RT-PCR and Western blot, and CTGF mRNA was assessed by RT-PCR. As compared to DN, blood glucose, 24-h urinary protein, Cer and kidney weight index were all decreased and the weight was increased obviously in group F. At the same time, mesangial cells and extracellular matrix proliferation were relieved significantly. The levels of cortex SGK1 mRNA and protein were up-regulated, and both TGF-beta1 and FN were down-regulated by fluvastatin. The mRNA of SGK1 was positively correlated with the CTGF, TGF-beta1 and FN. SGK1 expression is markedly up-regulated in the renal cortex of DN group and plays an important role in the development and progress of diabetic nephropathy by means of signal transduction. Fluvastatin suppressed the increased SGK1mRNA expression in renal cortex and postponed the development of diabetic nephropathy.
Levodopa-induced dyskinesia (LID) in patients with Parkinson disease (PD) mimics acute dystonic reactions induced by antipsychotic agents, possibly mediated by sigma-receptors; however, there are few reports in which the relationship between sigma-receptors and LID in advanced PD is investigated. The binding potential of cerebellar sigma-receptors before and after a pallidal surgery for dyskinesia in patients with advanced PD is assessed.
Six patients with advanced PD (male/female ratio 3:3, age 56.7 +/- 9.8 years) underwent stereotactic pallidal surgery (two posteroventral pallidotomy procedures and four deep brain stimulation of the globus pallidus internus, including one bilateral case). Clinical features of patients with PD were assessed using Hoehn and Yahr (H & Y) stages, the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS), and the Schwab and England Activities of Daily Life Scale (S & E). The LID was evaluated by LID severity score. The binding potential of cerebellar sigma-receptors was determined before and after the surgery by 11C-nemonapride positron emission tomoraphy, a specific radioligand for sigma-receptors in the cerebellum. All clinical scores, especially the LID severity score, were dramatically improved after the surgery (p < 0.05). Preoperatively, contralateral cerebellar binding potential was significantly elevated (p < 0.01), and it was reduced after the surgery, but it was still higher than that of healthy volunteers (p < 0.05). The ipsilateral cerebellar binding potential remained unchanged after the surgery. The level of binding potential did not correlate with H & Y stage, UPDRS, or S & E score, but a strong positive correlation was seen between the binding potential and the preoperative LID severity score when the patients were receiving medication (r = 0.893, p < 0.05).
Cerebellar sigma-receptors may potentially involve the genesis of LID in advanced PD.
Mutations in the genes encoding two proteins of the retinal rod phototransduction cascade, opsin and the beta subunit of rod cGMP phosphodiesterase, cause retinitis pigmentosa (RP) in some families. Here we report defects in a third member of this biochemical pathway in still other patients with this disease. We screened 94 unrelated patients with autosomal dominant RP and 173 unrelated patients with autosomal recessive RP for mutations in the gene encoding the alpha subunit of the rod cGMP-gated cation channel. Five mutant sequences cosegregated with disease among four unrelated families with autosomal recessive RP. Two of these were nonsense mutations early in the reading frame (Glu76End and Lys139End) and one was a deletion encompassing most if not all of the transcriptional unit; these three alleles would not be expected to encode a functional channel. The remaining two mutations were a missense mutation (Ser316Phe) and a frameshift [Arg654(1-bp del)] mutation truncating the last 32 aa in the C terminus. The latter two mutations were expressed in vitro and found to encode proteins that were predominantly retained inside the cell instead of being targeted to the plasma membrane. We conclude that the absence or paucity of functional cGMP-gated cation channels in the plasma membrane is deleterious to rod photoreceptors and is an uncommon cause of RP.
BMS-690514 ((3R,4R)-4-amino-1-((4-((3-methoxyphenyl)amino)pyrrolo[2,1-f][1,2,4] triazin-5-yl)methyl)-3-piperidinol) is an oral oncologic agent being developed for the treatment of patients with advanced nonsmall cell lung cancer and breast cancer. The compound is metabolized via multiple metabolic pathways, including P450-mediated oxidation at one of the carbons of its pyrrolotriazine group. Oxidation at this site results in the formation of two metabolites, M1 and M37. Mass spectrometric and NMR analysis revealed that M1 underwent an unusual structural change, where the pyrrolotriazine moiety rearranged to yield a hydroxypyridotriazine group. In contrast, the structure of the pyrrolotriazine moiety remained intact in M37. In vitro experiments with liver microsomes and deuterated or tritiated BMS-690514 containing the isotopic label on the carbon that underwent oxidation indicated that during the formation of M1, the isotope label was retained at the site of hydroxylation, while the label was lost during the formation of M37. On the basis of these results, a mechanism for the formation of M1 was proposed as follows: BMS-690514 was first oxidized by P450 enzymes either via epoxidation or an iron-oxo addition pathway to form a zwitterionic intermediate. This was followed by opening of the pyrrolotriazine ring to form an aldehyde intermediate, which could be partially trapped with methoxyamine. The aldehyde intermediate then reacted with the secondary amine of the methoxyaniline group in the molecule to form the pyridotriazine moiety of M1. This mechanism is consistent with the observed retention of the isotope label in M1. Metabolite M37 may be formed either via a common zwitterionic intermediate, shared with M1, or through a direct insertion pathway. In in vitro human liver microsome incubations, the abundance of M1 was higher than M37, suggesting that breaking of the carbon-nitrogen bond to generate the aldehyde intermediate, a process similar to N-dealkylation, was a preferred pathway.
(1) Some angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) reduce mortality in patients with heart failure (captopril, enalapril, ramipril and trandolapril), and in patients with recent myocardial infarction and heart failure or marked left ventricular dysfunction (captopril, ramipril and trandolapril). (2) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists, otherwise known as angiotensin receptor blockers, have haemodynamic effects similar to ACE inhibitors, but differ in their mechanism of action and certain adverse effects. (3) Five clinical trials have evaluated angiotensin II receptor antagonists (candesartan, losartan and valsartan) in terms of their effect on mortality and on the risk of clinical deterioration in patients with symptomatic heart failure, but without severe renal failure, hyperkalemia or hypotension. In these trials, candesartan and valsartan were used at much higher doses than those recommended for the treatment of arterial hypertension. (4) In patients with heart failure who were not taking an angiotensin II receptor antagonist or an ACE inhibitor at enrollment, no significant difference was found between losartan and captopril in terms of mortality or the risk of clinical deterioration. (5) In patients with heart failure who had stopped taking an ACE inhibitor because of adverse effects, candesartan had no effect on mortality as compared with placebo, but it did reduce the risk of clinical deterioration (3 fewer hospitalisations per year per 100 patients). However, candesartan was associated with adverse effects such as renal failure and hyperkalemia, especially in patients who had experienced these same adverse effects while taking an ACE inhibitor. (6) In patients with heart failure who were already taking an ACE inhibitor, adjunctive candesartan or valsartan treatment did not influence mortality in comparison to the addition of a placebo. Adding candesartan or valsartan reduced the risk of hospitalisation (between 1 and 3 fewer hospitalisations per year per 100 patients), but increased the risk of renal failure and hyperkalemia. (7) In patients with heart failure and incapacitating dyspnea despite ACE inhibitor + diuretic combination therapy, there are no trials comparing the addition of an angiotensin II receptor antagonist versus spironolactone. Adjunctive spironolactone therapy prevents 5 to 6 deaths per year per 100 patients in this setting. (8) In patients with heart failure who do not have markedly altered cardiac contractility, candesartan appears to have no clinical advantages over placebo. (9) In some of these trials, mortality was higher with angiotensin II receptor antagonist therapy than with placebo among patients who were already taking a betablocker. (10) Two trials have compared an angiotensin II receptor antagonist with an ACE inhibitor in patients with recent myocardial infarction who had heart failure or an altered left ventricular ejection fraction, but who did not have hypotension or severe renal failure. However, there are no placebo-controlled randomised trials assessing the effects of angiotensin II receptor antagonists on mortality. (11) In patients with recent myocardial infarction, these trials showed no difference in mortality between angiotensin II receptor antagonist treatment (losartan or valsartan) and captopril. They did not rule out the possibility that these angiotensin II receptor antagonists are moderately less effective than captopril. Adding valsartan to ongoing captopril therapy did not reduce mortality or morbidity as compared with placebo, but did increase the risk of adverse effects. (12) Overall, these trials confirm the advantage of angiotensin II receptor antagonists over ACE inhibitors with respect to some adverse effects (cough, skin rash, etc.). However, the two drug classes share certain serious adverse effects such as hyperkalemia, renal failure and hypotension. In one trial, angioedema was less frequent with angiotensin II receptor antagonist therapy (one less case per 500 patients).
To assess the accuracy of patient-kept diaries relative to electronic monitoring of compliance with isosorbide dinitrate prescribed 3 times/day for ischemic heart disease.
Unblinded, prospective, three-phase study.
Patients with coronary artery disease prescribed isosorbide dinitrate 3 times/day were asked to record the time of administration of each dose in a pocket diary while being monitored for compliance with a computerized Medication-Event Monitoring System (MEMS-4) vial that electronically recorded the date and time the vial was opened.
Sixty-eight stable outpatients with documented coronary artery disease who were prescribed isosorbide dinitrate 3 times/day were evaluated. Based on a prospectively chosen definition including a nitrate-free period, the mean (+/-SD) overall compliance rates were 71% (+/-30) versus 55% (+/-32) for the patient-kept diaries and the MEMS vials respectively (p = 0.001). The concordance between patient-kept diaries and MEMS data indicate that 67% of patients overestimate their compliance when using a self-recording tool. An average of 30% of diary entries were in error compared with the MEMS vial recordings.
Patient-kept diaries statistically overestimate actual compliance relative to that determined by MEMS devices. Given the prevalence of the use of diaries as the predominant tool on which researchers depend to document compliance with study drugs, our findings suggest that this practice should be reevaluated specifically when the time of the dose and documentation of administration are critical to qualifying the outcome of drug therapy. Such is the case with isosorbide dinitrate use in patients with ischemic heart disease. Furthermore, the overall poor compliance documented in this study suggests that the utility of isosorbide dinitrate prescribed 3 times/day be reevaluated as a clinically effective antianginal drug.
Paclitaxel is used in the adjuvant treatment of breast cancer. It induces disabling and potentially long-lasting sensory neuropathy. This study systematically and prospectively investigated sensory function, using clinical grading scales, quantitative sensory testing, and neurophysiological and nerve excitability studies in 28 patients with early-stage breast cancer. After administration of 529 ± 41 mg/m(2) paclitaxel, 71% of patients developed neuropathic symptoms by 6 weeks of treatment. Early and progressive increases in stimulus threshold (P < 0.05) and reduction in sensory amplitudes from 47.0 ± 3.3 μV to 42.4 ± 3.4 μV (P < 0.05) occurred by 4 weeks, with a further reduction by final treatment (33.7 ± 3.0 μV, P < 0.001). The majority of patients (63%) did not experience recovery of neuropathic symptoms at follow-up. Axonal disruption did not relate to membrane conductance dysfunction. We found that paclitaxel produces early sensory dysfunction and leads to persistent neuropathy. Importantly, significant axonal dysfunction within the first month of treatment predated symptom onset, suggesting a window for neuroprotective therapies.
We isolated and characterized the entire coding sequence of a human gene encoding a protein that interacts with RPGR, a protein that is absent or mutant in many cases of X-linked retinitis pigmentosa. The newly identified gene, called "RPGRIP1" for RPGR-interacting protein (MIM 605446), is located within 14q11, and it encodes a protein predicted to contain 1,259 amino acids. Previously published work showed that both proteins, RPGR and RPGRIP1, are present in the ciliary structure that connects the inner and outer segments of rod and cone photoreceptors. We surveyed 57 unrelated patients who had Leber congenital amaurosis for mutations in RPGRIP1 and found recessive mutations involving both RPGRIP1 alleles in 3 (6%) patients. The mutations all create premature termination codons and are likely to be null alleles. Patients with RPGRIP1 mutations have a degeneration of both rod and cone photoreceptors, and, early in life, they experience a severe loss of central acuity, which leads to nystagmus.
We present the first crystal structures of a human protein bound to analogs of cocaine and heroin. Human carboxylesterase 1 (hCE1) is a broad-spectrum bioscavenger that catalyzes the hydrolysis of heroin and cocaine, and the detoxification of organophosphate chemical weapons, such as sarin, soman and tabun. Crystal structures of the hCE1 glycoprotein in complex with the cocaine analog homatropine and the heroin analog naloxone provide explicit details about narcotic metabolism in humans. The hCE1 active site contains both specific and promiscuous compartments, which enable the enzyme to act on structurally distinct chemicals. A selective surface ligand-binding site regulates the trimer-hexamer equilibrium of hCE1 and allows each hCE1 monomer to bind two narcotic molecules simultaneously. The bioscavenger properties of hCE1 can likely be used to treat both narcotic overdose and chemical weapon exposure.
Zidovudine is an antiretroviral nucleoside analog reverse transcriptase inhibitor that induces mitochondrial myopathy by interfering with the replication of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). Because zidovudine inhibits thymidine kinases, the mechanism of mtDNA depletion may be related to an impairment of the de novo synthesis of pyrimidine nucleotides, which are required building blocks of mtDNA. This study was undertaken to determine whether mitochondrial myopathy is a class effect of antiretroviral nucleoside analogs, and whether the muscle disease can be prevented by treatment with uridine as a pyrimidine nucleotide precursor.
BALB/c mice were treated with zidovudine or zalcitabine. Some of the mice were cotreated with mitocnol, a dietary supplement with high uridine bioavailability. Mice hind limb muscles were examined after 10 weeks.
Zidovudine induced muscle fiber thinning, myocellular fat deposition, and abnormalities of mitochondrial ultrastructure. In mice treated with zidovudine, organelles contained low mtDNA copy numbers and reduced cytochrome c oxidase activity. The expression of the mtDNA-encoded cytochrome c oxidase I subunit, but not of nucleus-encoded mitochondrial proteins, was impaired. Zidovudine also increased the levels of myocellular reactive oxygen species and blood lactate. Uridine supplementation attenuated or normalized all pathologic abnormalities and had no intrinsic effects. Zalcitabine did not elicit muscle toxicity.
Our findings indicate that zidovudine, but not zalcitabine, induces mitochondrial myopathy, which is substantially antagonized by uridine supplementation. These results provide proof of the importance of pyrimidine pools in the pathogenesis of zidovudine myopathy. Since uridine supplementation is tolerated well by humans, this treatment strategy should be investigated in clinical trials.
Beginning October 1985, 111 men agreed to enter a prospective study of the side effects of low dose papaverine/phentolamine therapy. A total of 46 men dropped out, 30 during the initial phase. The percentage of men with painless nodules almost consistently doubled from one followup examination to the next: 8 per cent at 1 month, 17 per cent at 3 months, 32 per cent at 6 months and 57 per cent at 12 months. The average injection frequency of those with nodules was 2 1/2 times higher than those without nodules. Of the men 41 per cent required an increased dose of medications during followup, and 40 per cent of 50 men had at least 1 abnormality of liver function, most of these involving mild to moderate elevations of alkaline phosphatase and lactic dehydrogenase. Priapism was not encountered during self-injection but it did occur twice in 329 physician-administered injections. Careful regular monitoring of patients should continue as some patients enter the second year of treatment.
To examine the antianginal effects of felodipine, a new calcium antagonist, 8 patients with coronary artery disease and exertional angina pectoris were studied. Hemodynamic measurements were made at rest, during submaximal exercise and during angina-limited exercise before and 30 minutes after oral administration of 0.1 mg/kg of felodipine. Angina pectoris was always prevented after the drug was given and the exercise intensity was increased until recurrence of angina (5 patients) or exhaustion (3 patients). Hemodynamic data were also recorded at this higher exercise capacity. At rest and during submaximal exercise, felodipine increased heart rate and decreased arterial blood pressure and systemic vascular resistance. The prevention of angina pectoris was accompanied by lower mean pulmonary capillary wedge pressure, systemic vascular resistance and ST-segment depression; the pressure-rate product was unchanged. The 20% greater exercise capacity after felodipine was attended by a 20% increase in maximal cardiac output, a 17% increase in maximal heart rate and a 13% increase in maximal pressure-rate product; the maximal arterial blood pressure and ST-segment abnormalities were unchanged and the systemic vascular resistance was lower. The relation between ST-segment depression and the pressure-rate product during exercise was favorably influenced by felodipine. Thus, felodipine is an active antianginal drug; its major mechanism of action is to lower the systemic vascular resistance. The data also suggest that it improves coronary blood flow during exercise.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is a protein factor which has been found to play a significant role in both normal and pathological states. Its role as an angiogenic factor is well-established. More recently, VEGF has been shown to protect neurons from cell death both in vivo and in vitro. While VEGF's potential as a protective factor has been demonstrated in hypoxia-ischemia, in vitro excitotoxicity, and motor neuron degeneration, its role in seizure-induced cell loss has received little attention. A potential role in seizures is suggested by Newton et al.'s [Newton SS, Collier EF, Hunsberger J, Adams D, Terwilliger R, Selvanayagam E, Duman RS (2003) Gene profile of electroconvulsive seizures: Induction of neurotrophic and angiogenic factors. J Neurosci 23:10841-10851] finding that VEGF mRNA increases in areas of the brain that are susceptible to cell loss after electroconvulsive-shock induced seizures. Because a linear relationship does not always exist between expression of mRNA and protein, we investigated whether VEGF protein expression increased after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus. In addition, we administered exogenous VEGF in one experiment and blocked endogenous VEGF in another to determine whether VEGF exerts a neuroprotective effect against status epilepticus-induced cell loss in one vulnerable brain region, the rat hippocampus. Our data revealed that VEGF is dramatically up-regulated in neurons and glia in hippocampus, thalamus, amygdala, and neocortex 24 h after status epilepticus. VEGF induced significant preservation of hippocampal neurons, suggesting that VEGF may play a neuroprotective role following status epilepticus.
The goal of this investigation was to determine whether chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA)-induced apoptosis is prevented by ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) or tauroursodeoxycholic acid (TUDC) and to characterize the involvement of mitochondria in the process. Cultured human HepG2 cells were treated in a dose- and time-dependent protocol in order to establish a sufficiently low exposure to CDCA that causes apoptosis but not necrosis. Low-dose CDCA induced an S-phase block and G2 arrest of the cell cycle, as determined by flow cytometry. As a result, cell proliferation was inhibited. CDCA-induced apoptosis, as determined by fluorescence microscopy of Hoechst 33342-stained nuclei, was evident upon coincubation with TUDC. Additionally, after exposure to UDCA plus CDCA, the cell membrane was permeable to fluorescent dyes. Caspase-9-like activity, poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) cleavage, and extensive DNA fragmentation were detected in CDCA-exposed cells and in cells coincubated with TUDC, but not UDCA. CDCA caused a decrease in mitochondrial membrane potential and depletion of ATP, both of which were potentiated by UDCA but not TUDC. The results suggest that UDCA potentiates CDCA cytotoxicity, probably at the level of induction of the mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT). Consequently, as suggested by the lack of the main hallmarks of the apoptotic pathway, in the presence of UDCA, CDCA-induced apoptosis is not properly executed but degenerates into necrosis.
This study was performed to evaluate both the effects of pentobarbital on disruption of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) by hyperosmolar mannitol and the relationship between its effect on blood pressure and the integrity of the BBB. Under isoflurane anesthesia, rats in the control group were infused with 25% mannitol into the internal carotid artery before measuring the transfer coefficient (Ki) of 14C alpha-aminoisobutyric acid. Ten minutes before the administration of mannitol, rats received an infusion of pentobarbital: 20 mg/kg in the small-dose group and 50 mg/kg in the large-dose group. In another group of animals (hydralazine group), hydralazine was administered to maintain the mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) at 65 mm Hg during the experimental period. The MAP of the control group (113 +/- 14 mm Hg) was significantly higher (P < 0.002) than that of the small-dose pentobarbital group (78 +/- 13 mm Hg) or the large-dose pentobarbital group (68 +/- 14 mm Hg). In the control group, the Ki of the cortex ipsilateral to the mannitol injection was increased to 4.5 times that of the contralateral cortex (14.5 +/- 7.7 vs 3.2 +/- 0.6 microL x g(-1) x min(-1); P < 0.002). The Ki of the ipsilateral cortex of the small-dose pentobarbital group was 9.7 +/- 5.6 microL x g(-1) x min(-1). The Ki of the ipsilateral cortex of the large-dose pentobarbital group was 5.5 +/- 2.9 microL x g(-1) x min(-1), and lower (-9.0 microL x g(-1) x min(-1)) than that of the control animals (P < 0.05). There was no significant difference in the Ki of the contralateral cortex among any of the three groups of animals. At the same MAP, the Ki of the ipsilateral cortex of the large-dose pentobarbital group was lower (-4.3 microL x g(-1) x min(-1)) than that of the hydralazine group (9.8 +/- 4.6 microL x g(-1) x min(-1)) (P < 0.05). Pentobarbital attenuated the BBB disruption induced by hyperosmolar mannitol. This may be attributed, at least in part, to the blood pressure effect of pentobarbital.
When the blood-brain barrier (BBB) was disrupted by a hyperosmolar solution, pentobarbital attenuated the degree of leakage of the BBB. Systemic hypotension caused by pentobarbital played a significant role in decreasing the leakage. Our study suggests that when the BBB is disrupted, pentobarbital may be effective in protecting the BBB. Furthermore, systemic blood pressure plays an important role in determining the degree of disruption.
The aim of this study is to report the clinical outcome of a diabetic patient with optic nerve head neovascularization treated with an intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetonide. A 52-year-old patient presented with clinically significant diffuse macular edema and optic nerve head neovascularization due to proliferative diabetic retinopathy in her right eye. Despite grid laser photocoagulation in the macular region macular edema progressed and visual acuity declined. The patient received a single intravitreal injection of 4 mg triamcinolone acetonide with topical anesthesia. After injection of triamcinolone acetonide visual acuity increased and macular edema decreased. Furthermore optic nerve head neovascularization had markedly regressed. No complication was observed during follow-up period. Intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetonide may be useful for treatment of optic nerve head neovascularization in patients with proliferative diabetic retinopathy.
Leukoaraiosis is associated with microhemorrhages on T(2)*-weighted magnetic resonance imaging of the brain. Such hemorrhages have been postulated to be responsible for symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) after thrombolytic treatment. We examined the relationship between small-vessel ischemic disease and symptomatic ICH within the NINDS rt-PA Stroke Study.
Baseline CT scans from the NINDS rt-PA Stroke Study were re-evaluated retrospectively by blinded expert CT readers using the van Swieten Score (vSS) for leukoaraiosis. The scale examined the severity of white-matter changes on 3 serial CT slices and graded separately for the 2 distinct regions anterior and posterior to the central sulcus: 0 = no lesion, 1 = partly involving the white matter, and 2 = extending up to the cortex.
603 CT scans were interpreted. The risk of symptomatic ICH increased with higher vSS in both the placebo and treatment groups. The absolute risk of symptomatic hemorrhage was 7.9% in the rt-PA-treated cohort among patients with severe white-matter disease (vSS = 3-4) versus 2.9% receiving placebo. Among severe leukoaraiosis patients (vSS = 3-4), no differential treatment effect was seen with rt-PA patients achieving better outcomes than placebo, modified Rankin score 0-1 in 31.6% of rt-PA-treated versus 14.7% of placebo-treated patients.
The results from the present study do not support the concept that leukoaraiosis present on baseline noncontrast CT scanning is critical to thrombolysis decision making in the first 3 h from symptom onset. No clear leukoaraiosis threshold was identified below which no benefit or harm could be seen from intravenous rt-PA therapy.
Oxidative stress is the major etiopathological factor in adriamycin-induced cardiotoxicity. Relatively low amounts of endogenous antioxidant makes the heart vulnerable to oxidative stress-induced damage. Chronic oral administration of garlic has been reported to enhance the endogenous antioxidants of heart. We hypothesized that garlic-induced enhanced cardiac antioxidants may offer protection against acute adriamycin-induced cardiotoxicity.
Rats were either administered freshly prepared garlic homogenate (250 and 500 mg/kg daily, orally, for 30 days) or probucol (cumulative dose, 120 mg/kg body weight divided in 12, i.p. over a period of 30 days) or double distilled water (vehicle), followed by a single dose of adriamycin (30 mg/kg i.p.). In the adriamycin group, increased oxidative stress was evidenced by a significant increase in myocardial TBARS (thiobarbituric acid reactive substances) and decrease in myocardial SOD (superoxide dismutase), catalase and GPx (glutathione peroxidase) activity. Histopathological studies showed focal as well as subendocardial myocytolysis with infiltration of macrophages, lymphocytes and edema. Immunocytochemistry showed marked expression of TNF-alpha (tumor necrosis factor-alpha) in the myocardium. Increase in myocardial TBARS and decrease in endogenous antioxidants by adriamycin was prevented significantly in the garlic treated rat hearts, which was comparable to the probucol-treated group. Histopathological evidence of protection was also evident in both garlic-treated and probucol-treated groups. Probucol, 250 mg/kg and 500 mg/kg of garlic reduced adriamycin induced TNF-alpha expression in the myocardium and was associated with reduced myocyte injury.
It is concluded that chronic garlic administration prevents acute adriamycin-induced cardiotoxicity and decreases myocardial TNF-alpha expression.
We designed this double-blind study to evaluate the effect of adding small-dose ketamine in a multimodal regimen of postoperative patient-controlled epidural analgesia (PCEA). Ninety-one patients, ASA physical status I-III, undergoing major surgery, received a standardized general anesthesia and epidural catheterization in an appropriate intervertebral space after surgery. A PCEA device was programmed to deliver a regimen of morphine 0.02 mg/mL, bupivacaine 0.8 mg/mL, and epinephrine 4 microg/mL, with the addition of ketamine 0.4 mg/mL (ketamine, n = 45) or without (control, n = 46). The mean visual analog pain scale (VAS) scores during cough or movement for the first 3 days after surgery were higher in the control group than in the ketamine group (P < 0.05), whereas the mean VAS score at rest for the first 2 days were higher in the control group than in the ketamine group (P < 0.05). Furthermore, patients in the control group consumed more multimodal analgesics than patients in the ketamine group for the first 2 days (P < 0.05). The sedation scores and the incidence of side effects (pruritus, nausea, emesis, sleep deprivation, motor block, and respiration depression) were similar between the two groups. We conclude that adding ketamine 0.4 mg/mL in a multimodal PCEA regimen provides better postoperative pain relief and decreases consumption of analgesics.
Many studies have evaluated one or a combination of two analgesics for postoperative pain control, but few have examined a multimodal approach using three or four different epidural analgesics. This study demonstrates an additive analgesic effect when ketamine is added to a multimodal analgesic treatment.
Combinations of opioids and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonists enhance acute antinociception and reduce opioid tolerance in some animal experiments but have received little rigorous study in humans. To quantitatively assess the nature of the interaction of these two classes of drugs in producing analgesia and cognitive impairment, we compared i.v. infusions of ketamine, alfentanil, and ketamine-alfentanil combinations in 12 normal volunteers after an intradermal injection of capsaicin. Drug doses for a 70-kg subject in this six-session, randomized, double-blind, cross-over study were: ketamine 20 mg, ketamine 5 mg, alfentanil 2 mg, alfentanil 0.5 mg, ketamine 10 mg + alfentanil 1 mg, and ketamine 2.5 mg + alfentanil 0.25 mg, given over 35 min. Outcome measures were background pain, area and magnitude of hyperalgesia to pinprick, and cognitive performance on the Digit Symbol Substitution Test and the Perception Speed Test. The results demonstrated simple additivity for the effects of ketamine and alfentanil on pain, pinprick hyperalgesia, and cognitive impairment. We conclude that, at least in this experimental pain model, there is no clear advantage or disadvantage of a ketamine-alfentanil combination over equianalgesic doses of either component.
In a double-blind, controlled trial, we administered doses of an opioid analgesic (alfentanil), an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist (ketamine), or their combination to normal volunteers and found no advantage of the combination over a larger dose of either drug alone in relieving pain caused by painful chemical stimulation.
The objective of this study was to determine if total plasma and lipoprotein cholesterol (C) and triglyceride (TG) concentrations could predict the degree of nephrotoxicity caused by the antifungal agent amphotericin B (AmpB); and to use the average amount of potassium supplementation received daily as a indicator of nephrotoxicity in pediatric oncology patients.
Plasma samples from 18 patients (ages < 17 years) who were receiving AmpB due to suspected or confirmed fungal infection at British Columbia Children's Hospital were analyzed for lipid concentrations. The high density lipoprotein (HDL) fractions were separated by precipitation; total (TOT) plasma and fraction C and TG concentrations were measured by enzymatic colorimetric assays; and low density lipoprotein (LDL) C levels were determined by Friedewald's formula. Changes in serum creatinine levels from baseline and amounts of potassium supplementation were used as indicators of nephrotoxicity; both were obtained from patients' medical charts. Pearson correlation coefficients (r) were determined and considered significant if P < 0.05.
The total cumulative AmpB dose, adjusted for weight, does not seem to predict AmpB-induced nephrotoxicity. Positive but relatively weak correlations were found between total potassium supplementation and LDL C (r = 0.489, P < 0.02); and TOT C (r = 0.551, P < 0.01). In addition, a positive but relatively weak correlation between the average amount of potassium supplementation per day above baseline and HDL C (r = 0.407; P < 0.02) was observed.
Differences in total plasma and LDL cholesterol concentrations may be used as predictors of AmpB-induced nephrotoxicity in pediatric oncology patients.
The transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta)/Smad signaling pathway system plays a prominent role in the control of cell growth and extracellular matrix formation in the progression of liver fibrogenesis. Smad proteins can either positively or negatively regulate TGF-beta responses. In this study, the therapeutic effects of Chinese traditional compound decoction, JinSanE, and the changes of TGF-beta/Smad signaling pathway system in carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4))-induced rat experimental liver fibrosis were examined.
Seventy-two healthy Wistar rats were assigned to groups including normal control group, CCl(4) model group, JinSanE treatment group I and JinSanE treatment group II. Each group contained 18 rats. All groups, except the normal control group, received CCl(4) subcutaneous injection for 8 wk. Rats in JinSanE groups I and II were orally treated with JinSanE daily at the 1(st) and 5(th) wk, respectively, after exposure to CCl(4). The expression of TGF-beta1 and TGF-beta1 type II receptor (TRII) mRNA in the liver was determined by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, and the expression of TGF-beta1, Smad3 and Smad7 by immunohistochemistry. The liver histopathology was also examined by HE staining and observed under electron microscope. The activities of several serum fibrosis-associated enzymes, alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), the levels of serum hyaluronic acid (HA) were assayed.
Hepatic fibrosis caused by CCl(4) was significantly inhibited in the JinSanE-treated groups. The degrees of necrosis/degeneration and fibrosis scores were significantly lower in the JinSanE-treated groups than in the model control group. The expression of TGF-beta1, TRII and Smad3 was significantly higher in the model group than that in the JinSanE-treated groups, and the active/total TGF-beta1 ratio in the JinSanE groups was suppressed. Expression of TRII mRNA and Smad3 proteins showed a distribution pattern similar to that of TGF-beta1 with a direct correlation in terms of the degree of hepatic fibrosis. The amount of positive staining Smad7 cells was significantly less in the model group than in the JinSanE-treated groups and the normal group. The contents of ALT, AST and HA were significantly lower in the JinSanE-treated groups than those in the model group.
Traditional Chinese medicine, JinSanE, prevents the progression of hepatic damage and fibrosis through the inhibition of TGF-beta1, TRII and Smad3 signal proteins, and increases expression of Smad7 signal protein in vivo.
