Fifty-three patients with Crohn's disease were chosen for this study. They were divided into three groups: the first group (19 patients) was treated with metronidazole and had been receiving the drug for at least 1 year; the second group (13 patients) had previously had the same type of long-term treatment but had been off the drug for at least 3 months before entering the study; the third group (21 patients) had never received treatment with metronidazole. The maximum daily dose of metronidazole used was 800 mg. All patients were examined with a broad set of neurophysiologic investigations devised to reveal signs of peripheral neuropathy. No significant difference was found between the three groups. The conclusion was that a daily dose of metronidazole not exceeding 800 mg is well tolerated by patients with Crohn's disease with regard to objective signs of neurotoxicity. A few patients from all three groups showed a raised perception threshold for changes of temperature in the feet (as compared with the department's normal standard). The results of the test were almost identical in the three groups and thus not connected with the metronidazole treatment. During the study, patients were asked about subjective neurologic symptoms such as tingling and numbness. A few patients from all three groups reported such paresthesias from time to time, but they were of a transient nature, not perpetual, and, in patients taking metronidazole, not aggravated despite continuing treatment with unchanged dose.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
An integral membrane protein, Claudin 5 (CLDN5), is a critical component of endothelial tight junctions that control pericellular permeability. Breaching of endothelial barriers is a key event in the development of pulmonary edema during acute lung injury (ALI). A major irritant in smoke, acrolein can induce ALI possibly by altering CLDN5 expression. This study sought to determine the cell signaling mechanism controlling endothelial CLDN5 expression during ALI. To assess susceptibility, 12 mouse strains were exposed to acrolein (10 ppm, 24 h), and survival monitored. Histology, lavage protein, and CLDN5 transcripts were measured in the lung of the most sensitive and resistant strains. CLDN5 transcripts and phosphorylation status of forkhead box O1 (FOXO1) and catenin (cadherin-associated protein) beta 1 (CTNNB1) proteins were determined in control and acrolein-treated human endothelial cells. Mean survival time (MST) varied more than 2-fold among strains with the susceptible (BALB/cByJ) and resistant (129X1/SvJ) strains (MST, 17.3 ± 1.9 h vs. 41.4 ± 5.1 h, respectively). Histological analysis revealed earlier perivascular enlargement in the BALB/cByJ than in 129X1/SvJ mouse lung. Lung CLDN5 transcript and protein increased more in the resistant strain than in the susceptible strain. In human endothelial cells, 30 nM acrolein increased CLDN5 transcripts and increased p-FOXO1 protein levels. The phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor LY294002 diminished the acrolein-induced increased CLDN5 transcript. Acrolein (300 nM) decreased CLDN5 transcripts, which were accompanied by increased FOXO1 and CTNNB1. The phosphorylation status of these transcription factors was consistent with the observed CLDN5 alteration. Preservation of endothelial CLDN5 may be a novel clinical approach for ALI therapy.
Perfluorododecanoic acid (PFDoA) is a member of the perfluoroalkyl acid (PFAA) family and has broad applications and a wide distribution in the environment. Here, we used TiO(2)-based phosphopeptide enrichment coupled with LC-MS/MS analysis to identify phosphopeptides in rat livers that were influenced by PFDoA treatment. We identified a total of 1443 unique phosphopeptides from among 769 phosphoproteins identified in normal and PFDoA-treated rat livers, 849 unique phosphorylation sites were also identified. Of these sites, 143 were considered to be novel phosphorylation sites. Many phosphoproteins were found to be associated with hepatic injuries and diseases, such as hepatotoxicity, regeneration, fatty liver, neoplasms and carcinoma. Furthermore, 25 of the identified phosphoproteins were found to be related to glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK3), either directly or indirectly. Western blot and qPCR results suggested that chronic PFDoA exposure inhibited insulin signal pathways and that inhibition of GSK3 might contribute to the observed increases of lipid levels in the liver.
Theophylline is commonly used in the treatment of bronchospastic lung disease. In addition to gastrointestinal and cardiac dysfunction, hypokalaemia, lactic and ketoacidosis can complicate theophylline overdose. Clinicians frequently fail to identify theophylline's role when complications develop. A case of an 80-year-old man who developed profound metabolic disturbances while hospitalized is presented. The typical causes of these abnormalities were absent, theophylline levels were elevated, and the patient recovered after theophylline was held. Based on our case and review of the literature, we discuss the reasons why theophylline toxicity is under-recognized, and propose mechanisms for the rare metabolic abnormalities identified in this case. A high index of suspicion for theophylline toxicity should be maintained and it should be considered when unexplained acidosis or hypokalaemia occur.
Doxorubicin, a cardiotoxic antineoplastic, disrupts the cardiac-specific program of gene expression (Kurabayashi, M., Dutta, S., Jeyaseelan, R., and Kedes, L. (1995) Mol. Cell. Biol. 15, 6386-6397). We have now identified neonatal rat cardiomyocyte mRNAs rapidly sensitive to doxorubicin, or its congener daunomycin, including transcripts of nuclear genes encoding enzymes critical in production of energy in cardiomyocytes: ADP/ATP translocase, a heart- and muscle-specific isoform; Reiske iron-sulfur protein (RISP), a ubiquitously expressed electron transport chain component; and a muscle isozyme of phosphofructokinase. Loss of these mRNAs following doxorubicin or daunomycin is evident as early as 2 h and precedes significant reduction of intracellular ATP. ATP levels in control cardiomyocytes (17.9 +/- 2.9 nM/mg of protein) fall only after 14 h and reach residual levels of 10.4 +/- 0.9 nM (doxorubicin; p = <0.006) and 6.7 +/- 1.9 nM (daunomycin; p = <0. 001) by 24 h. Loss of mRNAs generating ATP was highly selective since mRNAs for other energy production enzymes, (cytochrome c, cytochrome b, and malate dehydrogenase), and genes important in glycolysis (pyruvate kinase and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase) were unaffected even at 24 and 48 h. The drugs had no effect on levels of ubiquitously expressed RISP mRNA in fibroblasts. These findings could link doxorubicin-induced damage to membranes and signaling pathways with 1) suppression of transcripts encoding myofibrillar proteins and proteins of energy production pathways and 2) depletion of intracellular ATP stores, myofibrillar degeneration, and related cardiotoxic effects.
Sustained attention is defined as the ability or capacity to remain focused on the occurrence of rare events over long periods of time. We describe here the development of a novel, operant-based attention task that can be learned by mice in 8-10 days. Mice were trained on a 2-choice visual discrimination task in an operant chamber, wherein the correct response on any given trial was a lever-press cued by a stimulus light. Upon reaching a criterion of greater than 80% correct responses, all subjects were tested in a mixed-trial attention paradigm combining four different stimulus durations within a single session (0.5, 1, 2, or 10 s). During attention testing, the percentage of correct responses decreased as a function of stimulus duration, indicating a performance decrement which parallels increasing attentional demand within the task. Pretreatment with the muscarinic-receptor antagonist scopolamine yielded a reliable, dose-dependent performance deficit whereas nicotine treatment improved the percentage of correct responses during trials with the greatest attentional demand. Moreover, medial prefrontal cortex lesions impaired attention performance without affecting acquisition or retention of the discrimination rule. These results underscore the utility of this task as a novel means of assessing attentional processes in mice in a relatively high-throughput manner.
Dogs, surgically implanted with a chronic gastric fistula, were chronically dosed with N-desmethyldiazepam (32 mg/kg/day) in four divided doses to attain N-desmethyldiazepam plasma levels comparable to those observed in dogs dependent on diazepam (60 mg/kg/day). The time course of N-desmethyldiazepam abstinence was studied, beginning not less than 2 weeks after stabilization levels had been achieved. The abstinence syndrome observed after abrupt discontinuation of N-desmethyldiazepam was similar to the diazepam abstinence syndrome but differed in several important aspects. In diazepam-dependent dogs, there was a short burst of tremor very early in withdrawal (approximately 1-2 hr after the last dose of diazepam) that was not seen in N-desmethyldiazepam-dependent dogs. Signs of abstinence such as tremor, hot foot walking and twitches and jerks were more frequently observed in N-desmethyldiazepam-dependent dogs than in diazepam-dependent dogs as were decreases in food and water intake and in body weight. The overall intensity of abstinence, as measured by the Diazepam Withdrawal Abstinence Scale, was greater in N-desmethyldiazepam-dependent dogs than in dogs dependent on either lorazepam or diazepam. Plasma levels of N-desmethyldiazepam and oxazepam were nearly equal in dogs dependent on diazepam or on N-desmethyldiazepam and were 4 to 10 times greater than the plasma levels of diazepam or lorazepam in diazepam- or lorazepam-dependent dogs, respectively. Furthermore, the plasma levels of N-desmethyldiazepam and oxazepam declined much more slowly than the levels of diazepam and lorazepam. These results suggest that physical dependence on diazepam is caused by the accumulation and actions of N-desmethyldiazepam.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We report a case of neonatal transient renal failure after maternal ingestion of diclofenac, paracetamol, and nimesulide during pregnancy. The baby girl was delivered at the 33 weeks gestation for complete absence of amniotic fluid. Acute renal failure was present. Urine output started 12 h after birth, increasing to polyuria on day 6, and then decreasing gradually to normal values. Serum creatinine normalized on day 6. Several cases of severe and sometimes irreversible renal problems have been described in neonates exposed to indomethacin, a non-selective cyclooxgenase (COX) inhibitor, during their fetal life. More recently, the use of nimesulide, a selective COX-2 inhibitor, as a tocolytic agent has been advocated. Although it is difficult to ascribe the observed side effects to one specific drug in our patient, using the Naranjo ADR probability scale, renal failure was probably related to nimesulide exposure. Paracetamol is considered safe at therapeutic doses, and there are no reports of prenatal diclofenac toxicity. However, recently there have been some reports of neonatal renal failure associated with maternal nimesulide consumption and probably modulated by genetic factors. Hence, cautious use of nimesulide during pregnancy must be advocated.
Five patients developed a mild to severe polyneuropathy while under treatment with perhexiline maleate, a drug used in long-term treatment of angina pectoris. Recovery took place within a few months after drug withdrawal. We performed qualitative and quantitative light and electron microscopical studies, including teased fiber preparations, in different patients; 16 to 90% of the fibers showed segmental demyelination, an unusual feature in drug-induced neuropathies, and 3 to 20% were undergoing wallerian degeneration. Severe loss of myelinated axons was noted in all 5 patients. In these patients clinical symptoms occurred only when a great number of fibers had already been lost and most of the surviving fibers showed demyelination.
We describe a boy with an unusual adverse reaction to dyphenylhydantoin (DH). This 12 years old boy developed a clinical picture of high fever, scarlatiniform rash, a hemorrhagic (purpuric) skin lesion, on his buttocks and neck, stomatitis and conjunctivitis, within two weeks after DH administration. Laboratory examinations were compatible with the diagnosis of disseminated intravascular coagulation. Cases similar to ours are reviewed and it is stressed that DH should be used cautiously as it is not a harmless drug.
P-glycoprotein, a product of the ATP-binding cassette B1 (ABCB1) gene, plays an important role in absorption and distribution of drugs. The brain entry of risperidone and 9-OH-risperidone is greatly limited by P-glycoprotein, which implies that the functional polymorphisms of ABCB1 in humans may be a factor contributing to the variability in response to risperidone. The present study was therefore designed to examine whether polymorphisms of the ABCB1 gene are related to therapeutic response. For this purpose, 130 Chinese schizophrenia patients undergoing risperidone treatment were recruited. Plasma drug concentrations were monitored and clinical symptoms were evaluated using the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS) before and 8 weeks after the treatment. Association tests between genotypes and percentage improvement in total BPRS scores were performed using analyses of variance. Our results show that genotyping C1236T may help to predict the efficacy of risperidone treatment on the basis that patients with the TT genotype showed greater improvement than those with other genotypes on the overall BPRS (F = 3.967, p = 0.021), while other polymorphisms, including rs13233308, G2677T/A and C3435T polymorphism, did not show any association with the response to risperidone. These results showed suggestive evidence that genetic variation in the ABCB1 gene may influence the individual response to risperidone.
Malignant hyperthermia (MH) may occur, when a genetically predisposed individual or pig (MHS) is exposed to triggering agents. The increase in free, ionized sarcoplasmic calcium inducing the vicious circle of MH is believed to result from calcium-induced release with volatile anaesthetics, and from depolarization-induced calcium release with succinylcholine (SCH). The administration of SCH to susceptible humans or pigs frequently produces an increase in masticatory muscle tone. This hitherto ill-defined phenomenon is referred to as "masseter spasm" (MS). We have attempted to elucidate the pathophysiology of MS in a porcine model. METHODS. After the protocol had been approved by the state authorities, 6 MHS pigs were investigated. The pigs were mixed breeds (German Landrace and Dutch Pietrain) and were 9 +/- 1 weeks old with an average body weight of 25.5 kg. Premedication consisted of intramuscular injection of azaperone, 7.5 mg.kg-1. Anaesthesia was induced with piritramide, 1.2 mg.kg-1, administered via a cannulated ear vein. Subsequent to laryngoscopic endotracheal intubation, neuromuscular blockade was achieved with 4 mg pancuronium. Ventilation was set at 12 breaths per minute and adjusted to maintain an end-tidal CO2 concentration of 4.7% by adapting the tidal volume (PhysioFlex). Anaesthesia was maintained with piritramide, 2.25 mg.kg-1.h-1, pancuronium, 0.4 mg.kg-1.h-1, and N2O (60% in O2). Instrumentation included an arterial line, a central venous line, and a fiberoptic pulmonary artery catheter (Oximetrix). Masticatory muscle tone (MMT) was assessed with an intermolar balloon, connected to a pressure transducer and calibrated to zero prior to SCH administration. As a reference variable for effects produced by SCH, intraocular pressure (IOP) was measured manometrically in the anterior chamber. After stabilization of haemodynamic variables, the neuromuscular blockade was allowed to wear off. After recovery of the evoked masseter electromyogram, a paralyzing dose of pancuronium was administered (0.5 mg.kg-1). When paralysis was complete, SCH was administered (1.5 mg.kg-1), followed a few minutes later by dantrolene infusion (5 mg.kg-1 over 10 min). RESULTS. The administration of SCH was followed by clinically unequivocal MH episodes in all pigs, indicated by an increase in oxygen uptake (VO2; PhysioFlex; Fig. 1) and end-tidal CO2 concentration and a decrease in oxygen saturation of mixed venous blood (svO2; Fig. 2). Despite complete neuromuscular blockade (monitored with EMG), SCH produced an increase in MMT in all pigs which was reversed by dantrolene (Fig. 3). The time course of MMT paralleled that of IOP, suggesting a similar underlying mechanism. DISCUSSION. Succinylcholine is a trigger of MH in susceptible individuals; onset of the syndrome may be associated with "masseter spasm". SCH increases extraocular muscle tone, probably by means of stimulating multiply innervated fibers; the resulting IOP increase is not prevented by competitive neuromuscular blockade. The existence of multiple innervated fibers has also been shown in muscle spindles in the deep layers of the masseter, with their stimulation resulting in elevation of the jaw. We speculate that the increases in MMT and IOP observed in this study reflect the same process, i.e. a motor response, initiated by SCH-induced stimulation of the intramyocellular contractile system of multiply innervated muscle fibers, that is independent of neuromuscular transmission. Triggering of MH with SCH despite complete neuromuscular blockage suggests a mechanism other than depolarization-induced calcium increase. And, for the semantics, according to neurological terminology MS should be referred to as contracture not as spasm.
We performed a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study to assess the effect of amantadine versus placebo on levodopa-induced dyskinesias in Parkinson's disease. We found a 24% reduction in the total dyskinesia score after amantadine administration (p = 0.004). This improvement was achieved without any influence on the severity of "on" period parkinsonism. The results confirm that amantadine reduces levodopa dyskinesias and support the hypothesis that dyskinesias can be reduced by blockade of excitatory pathways in the basal ganglia.
Vomiting after strabismus surgery is a major problem that remains as yet unsolved, especially in children. Droperidol and metoclopramide, both known as powerful antiemetic drugs, were compared in this study. METHODS. One hundred ASA class I and II children ranging from 3 to 10 years of age were studied in a double-blind, randomised fashion. They were assigned to three groups: group D (n = 33) received 0.075 mg/kg droperidol, group M (n = 33) 0.15 mg/kg metoclopramide, and group N (n = 34) 0.1 ml/kg NaCl i.v. upon arrival in the post-anaesthesia recovery room (PARR). After oral premedication with 0.4 mg/kg midazolam, anaesthesia was induced via a face mask by inhalation of halothane, nitrous oxide, and oxygen. Barbiturates, atropine, and succinylcholine were not used; 0.05 mg/kg vecuronium was given to facilitate intubation. Gastric contents were aspirated by a gastric tube at the end of the operation. Vomiting and retching were recorded for 24 h; recovery from anaesthesia was assessed by a modified Steward score. RESULTS. The three groups were comparable regarding age, body weight, duration of anaesthesia, number of repaired eye muscles, and occurrence of the oculocardiac reflex (OCR). During the first 24 h postoperatively 21/33 (64%) patients of group D vomited, 24/33 (73%) of group M, and 33/34 (97%) of group N. The differences between groups D and N and between M and N were significant (P less than 0.01); comparison of groups D and M showed no statistical significance. Droperidol was more effective in reducing severe vomiting. Of the group N children, 47% vomited more than 6 times in 24 h compared to 18% of group M and 0% of group D. Age, sex, duration of anaesthesia, number of repaired eye muscles, and occurrence of the OCR had no influence on postoperative vomiting. Despite being administered at the end of the operation, droperidol did not prolong the patients' stay in the PARR. The post-anaesthetic scores for group D children were only slightly lower compared to groups M and N. CONCLUSIONS. Droperidol (0.075 mg/kg) and metoclopramide (0.15 mg/kg) both reduce postoperative vomiting after strabismus surgery. Droperidol seems to be more effective in reducing severe vomiting. Postoperative sedation after droperidol was not a major problem in our experience.
In four patients, sensorimotor polyneuropathy developed during treatment with disulfiram. Each patient began to improve with the cessation of treatment. Clinical, electrophysiologic, and pathologic observations point to a potentially reversible and probably dose-related axonal polyneuropathy.
Data from two case-control studies that showed an association between in utero diethylstilbestrol (DES) exposure and clear cell vaginal cancer are evaluated. Neither study considered the cancer risk according to the reasons for prescribing DES and therefore cannot be used to infer any cause-and-effect relationship between DES exposure and vaginal cancer. Neither these studies nor any other studies have specifically evaluated the risk of clear cell cervical cancer to DES-exposed women. For DES-exposed women the risk of vaginal and cervical cancer is 0.5-2.0 cases per 1000 DES-exposed women; comparable data are not available for non-DES-exposed women.
High affinity, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) plasma membrane transporters (GATs) influence the availability of GABA, the main inhibitory neurotransmitter in the brain. Recent studies suggest a crucial role for GATs in maintaining levels of synaptic GABA in normal as well as abnormal (i.e., epileptic) adult brain. However, the role of GATs during development and specifically changes in their expression in response to developmental seizures are unknown. The present study examined GAT-1-immunolabeling in infant rats with two types of developmental seizures, one induced by corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) lasting about 2 h and the other by hyperthermia (a model of febrile seizures) lasting only 20 min. The number of GAT-1-immunoreactive (ir) neurons was increased in several forebrain regions 24 h after induction of seizures by CRH as compared to the control group. Increased numbers of detectable GAT-1-ir cell bodies were found in the hippocampal formation including the dentate gyrus and CA1, and in the neocortex, piriform cortex and amygdala. In contrast, hyperthermia-induced seizures did not cause significant changes in the number of detectable GAT-1-ir somata. The increase in GAT-1-ir somata in the CRH model and not in the hyperthermia model may reflect the difference in the duration of seizures. The brain regions where this increase occurs correlate with the occurrence of argyrophyllic neurons in the CRH model.
We investigated the role of two intracellular second messengers, extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK) and protein kinase C (PKC), in a model of persistent pain using intrathecal (i.t.) (R,S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG). Spontaneous nociceptive behaviours (SNBs), mechanical allodynia (von Frey thresholds) and heat hyperalgesia (plantar test latencies) induced by DHPG were measured in animals pretreated i.t. with membrane permeable inhibitors of ERK (PD 98059) and PKC (GF 109203X). Spinal administration of PD 98059 dose-dependently reduced SNBs, and attenuated both mechanical allodynia and heat hyperalgesia induced by DHPG. GF 109203X treatment also reduced SNBs and heat hyperalgesia, but did not affect mechanical allodynia induced by DHPG. Neither PD 98059, nor GF 109203X, altered mechanical or thermal thresholds in saline-injected control rats. These results suggest that both ERK and PKC are involved in persistent pain associated with the i.t. administration of DHPG.
The serotonin reuptake inhibitor zimelidine may cause flu-like symptoms and Guillain-Barre syndrome. Guillain-Barre syndrome has not been reported with the use of the structurally related serotonin reuptake inhibitor fluoxetine. Flu-like symptoms are described in the manufacturer's literature on fluoxetine but are absent from published studies. We describe a patient who developed flu-like symptoms, urticaria and angioedema 2 days after fluoxetine overdose. There were no neurologic sequelae. This case confirms that fluoxetine may be associated with flu-like symptoms and suggests that, because these symptoms occurred after overdose, they may be dose related. The additional findings in this patient suggestive of allergy, an unusual feature of drug overdose, are discussed.
Gender is a factor that influences susceptibility of individuals to drug-induced liver injury in experimental animals and humans. In this study, we investigated the mechanisms underlying resistance of female mice to acetaminophen (APAP)-induced hepatotoxicity. Overnight-fasted male and female CD-1 mice were administered APAP intraperitoneally. A minor increase in serum alanine aminotransferase levels was observed in female mice after APAP administration at a dose that causes severe hepatotoxicity in males. Hepatic glutathione (GSH) depleted rapidly in the both genders prior to development of hepatotoxicity, whereas its recovery was more rapid in female than in male mice. This was consistent with higher induction of hepatic glutamate-cysteine ligase (GCL) in females. Pretreatment of mice with L-buthionine sulfoximine (BSO), an inhibitor of GCL, exaggerated APAP hepatotoxicity only in female mice, resulting in much higher hepatotoxicity in female than in male mice. In addition, hepatic GSH was markedly depleted in BSO-pretreated female mice compared with male mice, which supports severe hepatotoxicity in BSO-pretreated females. APAP treatment highly induced multidrug resistance-associated protein 4 (Mrp4) only in female mice. The resulting high Mrp4 expression could thus contribute to decreased hepatic GSH levels via sinusoidal efflux when GCL is inhibited. In conclusion, resistance to APAP hepatotoxicity in female mice and its reversal by pretreatment with BSO could be attributed to sex differences in disposition of hepatic GSH, which may generally determine susceptibility to drug-induced liver injury.
(1) The aim of the present study was to investigate the causal relationship between peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) and endothelium-dependent relaxation in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats. (2) Acetylcholine (ACh)-induced endothelium-dependent relaxation was significantly weaker in diabetic rats than in age-matched controls. The decreased relaxation in diabetes was improved by the chronic administration of bezafibrate (30 mg kg-1, p.o., 4 weeks). (3) The expressions of the mRNAs for PPARalpha and PPARgamma were significantly decreased in STZ-induced diabetic rats (compared with the controls) and this decrease was restored partially, but not completely, by the chronic administration of bezafibrate. (4) Superoxide dismutase activity in the aorta was not significantly different between diabetic rats and bezafibrate-treated diabetic rats. (5) The expression of the mRNA for the p22phox subunit of NAD(P)H oxidase was significantly higher in diabetics than in controls, but it was lower in bezafibrate-treated diabetic rats than in nontreated diabetic rats. Although the expression of the mRNA for prepro ET-1 (ppET-1) was markedly increased in diabetic rats (compared with controls), this increase was prevented to a significant extent by the chronic administration of bezafibrate. (6) These results suggest that downregulations of PPARalpha and PPARgamma may lead to an increased expression of ppET-1 mRNA in diabetic states and this increment may trigger endothelial dysfunction.
Previous studies have reported that the repetition of running-bouncing and tonic-clonic seizures mediated by brainstem structures eventually elicits seizure activity in the forebrain. The purpose of the present study was to determine if the periaqueductal gray (PAG) region is a component of the neural network through which brainstem seizures elicit forebrain seizures. Bilateral microinjection of 40 nmol carbachol into the PAG region of rats induced arrested, staring behavior accompanied by epileptiform electrocorticogram (ECoG) afterdischarge recorded from the parietal cortex. In two animals limbic seizure activity similar to kindled amygdala seizures was also induced. The carbachol effect was dose-related as the 40 nmol dose induced a significantly greater duration of ECoG afterdischarge than a 20 nmol dose. The carbachol effect was mediated by muscarinic receptors as bilateral 50 nmol atropine microinjection 1 min prior to 40 nmol carbachol microinjection inhibited all seizure activity. Immunohistochemical detection of the proto-oncogene c-fos was used to verify that seizure activity was induced in forebrain regions. Rats with seizures induced by PAG carbachol microinjections exhibited dense c-fos-like immunoreactivity in the dentate gyrus but not the CA(1) or CA(3) regions, amygdala, piriform cortex, perirhinal cortex or hypothalamus. In addition, PAG microinjection of 10 nmol N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) induced wild-running convulsions while 400 pmol bicuculline induced clonic spasms, myoclonic activity or limbic seizures. These results indicate that stimulation of the PAG, a brainstem structure, is sufficient to induce forebrain seizures. Since the forebrain seizures were induced by a single carbachol administration, it is proposed that the PAG serves as a pathway for caudal-rostral seizure generalization.
Sodium perfluorohexanoate [NaPFHx, F(CF(2))(5)CO(2)Na, CAS#2923-26-4] was evaluated in acute, 90-day subchronic, one-generation reproduction, developmental and in vitro genetic toxicity studies. In the subchronic/one-generation reproduction study, four groups of young adult male and female Crl:CD(SD) rats were administered NaPFHx daily for approximately 90 days by gavage at dosages of 0, 20, 100, or 500 mg/kg. Selected groups of rats were evaluated after 1- and 3-month recovery periods. Rats selected for reproductive evaluations were dosed for approximately 70 days prior to cohabitation, through gestation and lactation, for a total of about 4 months. The subchronic toxicity no observed adverse effect level (NOAEL) was 20mg/(kg day), based on nasal lesions observed at 100 and 500 mg/(kg day). No effects were observed for neurobehavioral endpoints. NaPFHx was a moderate inducer of hepatic peroxisomal beta-oxidation with a no observed effect level (NOEL) of 20 (male rats) and 100mg/(kg day) (female rats). Elevated hepatic beta-oxidation levels were observed following 1-month recovery in male and female rats at 500 mg/(kg day). No NaPFHx-related effects were observed on any reproductive parameters. The P(1) adult rat NOAEL was 20mg/(kg day), based on reduced body weight parameters, whereas the NOAEL for reproductive toxicity was 100 mg/(kg day), based on effects limited to reduced F(1) pup weights. In the developmental study, female rats were dosed via gavage on gestation day (GD) 6-20 with the same doses of NaPFHx administered in the subchronic study. The maternal and developmental toxicity NOAEL was 100 mg/(kg day), based on maternal and fetal body weight effects at 500 mg/(kg day). NaPFHx is therefore concluded not to present a reproductive or developmental hazard. NaPFHx genotoxicity studies showed no mutations in the bacterial reverse mutation (Ames) assay or chromosome aberrations in human lymphocytes treated with NaPFHx in vitro. The lowest NOAEL from all of the studies was 20mg/(kg day) in the subchronic study based on nasal lesions. Benchmark doses (BMDL10) for nasal lesions were 13 and 21 mg/(kg day) for male and female rats, respectively. The relevance of the nasal lesions to humans is not known.
The effect of pravastatin, an inhibitor of ras p21 isoprenylation, on the gross type of colon tumors induced by azoxymethane was investigated in Wistar rats.
Rats received ten weekly subcutaneous injections of 7.4 mg/kg body weight of azoxymethane and intraperitoneal injections of 10 or 20 mg/kg body weight of pravastatin every other day until the end of the experiment at Week 45.
Administration of pravastatin at both dosages had no significant effect on the incidence of colon tumors but significantly increased the incidence of rats with adenomas only. In contrast to the elevated adenomas in control rats, flat adenomas were significantly more prevalent in rats given pravastatin. Pravastatin at both doses significantly decreased the labeling index, but not the apoptotic index, of elevated adenomas, whereas it significantly decreased the labeling index but increased the apoptotic index of flat adenomas. Administration of pravastatin at both dosages also significantly decreased the amounts of membrane-associated ras p21 in colon tumors.
These findings suggest that the ras oncogene may be closely related to the development of adenocarcinomas from adenomas and the development of elevated or polypoid tumors of the colon.
A total of 3,475 patients with rheumatoid arthritis have received auranofin (AF) during clinical trials in 27 countries. Over a 4-year period, treatment with AF was relatively well tolerated. Most reactions were mild, easily managed and occurred during the first few months of treatment. Gastrointestinal side effects were the most common problems reported with AF followed by mucocutaneous reactions. Less frequently observed were conjunctivitis, proteinuria and, rarely, thrombocytopenia. The percentage of patients withdrawn for adverse effects per patient-year was less with AF when compared to injectable gold (14 vs 40%). These results confirm previous reports of AF safety and improved tolerance versus parenteral gold.
Before and during a standardized course of trifluoperazine therapy, 18 schizophrenic patients underwent repeated examinations for extrapyramidal motor signs, clinical psychopathology, and urinary excretion of free and conjugated forms of dopamine and its metabolites. Patients excreting more free dopamine and metabolites, or showing less complete conjugation, before drug treatment, were much less likely than others to develop parkinsonian akinesia and rigidity during drug treatment. Neither catatonic rigidity nor akinesia before treatment was predictive of a parkinsonian response to trifluoperazine, but pretreatment tremor may have been. The severity of schizophrenic psychopathology was unrelated to dopamine excretion. This study of schizophrenic patients, and our previous research in Parkinson's disease, suggest that urinary dopamine excretion may reflect dopaminergic function of the extrapyramidal motor system in both conditions.
