Isolated pericardial effusion was detected in a fetus at 34 weeks of gestation. A male infant weighing 2,044 g was born by cesarean section because of a non-assuring fetal heart rate pattern at 35 weeks of gestation. Transient leukocytosis (36,100/microl) with 49% blast cells was seen in this neonate. The infant's karyotype was 47, XY + 21. The pericardial effusion disappeared after treatment with prednisolone at a dose of 2 mg/kg/day. Hypothyroidism was subsequently found. Thus, the subject patient with Down's syndrome developed isolated pericardial effusion, transient abnormal myelopoiesis (TAM), and hypothyroidism. Because more than 20% of the infants with TAM and Down's syndrome develop acute nonlymphocytic leukemia in early childhood, he is being closely observed.
Brimonidine and dorzolamide are intraocular pressure (IOP)-lowering medications most commonly used in second-line treatment of glaucoma and ocular hypertension.
An evidence-based review of comparative clinical trials of brimonidine and dorzolamide was undertaken to determine the relative efficacy and safety of these drugs in reducing IOP. Using the keywords 'brimonidine' and 'dorzolamide', all articles describing such trials from September 1966 to July 2007 were found in MEDLINE and EMBASE.
In all identified studies, brimonidine and dorzolamide were both found to provide significant IOP reduction from treated or untreated baseline levels. Results of eight trials reported to date indicate that brimonidine produced either a lower treated IOP or greater pressure reduction from baseline than dorzolamide at one or more measured timepoints, and provided comparable IOP lowering over all other measurements. Differences between the IOP reductions provided by brimonidine and dorzolamide were more pronounced when the medications were used adjunctively with other classes of drugs. Six other trials showed similar efficacy, and one additional monotherapy study showed lower IOP with dorzolamide treatment. Ocular burning was noted with dorzolamide more than any other adverse event with either drug. Trials ranged widely in duration of therapy and the time of day IOP measurements were taken, and many were too small for sufficient statistical power.
Brimonidine and dorzolamide are both efficacious and reasonably well tolerated. Possible overall distinctions in efficacy were obscured by differences in study designs and treatment regimens, but adjunctive therapy with brimonidine may reduce IOP as effectively or more effectively than adjunctive or fixed combination dorzolamide therapy. In certain patients with glaucoma and ocular hypertension brimonidine may be a better choice than dorzolamide for second-line treatment.
The rate hypothesis of psychoactive drug action holds that the faster a drug reaches the brain and starts to act, the greater its reinforcing effects and abuse liability. A previous human study using a single cocaine dose confirmed the rate hypothesis for subjective responses, but found no rate effect on cardiovascular responses. We evaluated the rate hypothesis in 17 experienced cocaine users (7 [all men] provided complete data; 6 participated in only 1-2 sessions) by administering IV cocaine at each of three doses (10, 25, 50 mg) and injection durations (10, 30, 60 s) in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, escalating dose design. Heart rate, blood pressure, and positive (e.g., rush, high) and negative (e.g., feel bad, anxious) subjective effects (100-mm visual analogue scales) were measured for 1h after dosing. Peak change from baseline, time to peak, and area under the time-response curve were evaluated with repeated measures mixed linear regression analyses, allowing use of data from all sessions for all subjects, including non-completers. Both dose (mg) and infusion rate (mg/s) significantly influenced most subjective and cardiovascular variables. Analysis of the interaction suggested that dose had a stronger impact than rate. Rate had a stronger influence on positive subjective effects than on negative subjective effects or cardiovascular variables. These findings provide support for the rate hypothesis as it applies to both subjective and cardiovascular effects of IV cocaine administration in humans.
Long-term treatment of breast cancer patients with tamoxifen has prompted concern over potential toxicity of this drug with chronic administration. Since tamoxifen has estrogenic action in the rat liver and estrogenic agents can increase hepatoma incidence in rats, tamoxifen and two non-isomerizable, fixed-ring analogs (FRT1 and FRT2) were evaluated as promoting agents in a two-stage model of hepatocarcinogenesis in female Fischer F344 rats. The rats were subjected to 70% partial hepatectomy and half of the animals were administered the initiating agent, diethylnitrosamine (DEN; 10 mg/kg body wt), while the other half were not initiated. Groups of initiated and uninitiated animals were allowed to recover for 2 weeks and were then administered tamoxifen or one of the fixed-ring analogs admixed into AIN-76A diet at 25, 100 or 250 mg/kg diet. After 6 months of anti-estrogen administration the rats were sacrificed and uterine weights, blood levels of anti-estrogen, and liver histopathology were assessed. Uterine weights were decreased 2- to 3-fold by each of the agents, consistent with an anti-estrogenic action in the rat. The serum levels in rats administered 250 mg anti-estrogen/kg diet for 6 months were 320+/-20 ng/ml for tamoxifen, 320+/-10 for FRT1 and 350+/-20 for FRT2. The liver levels after a 6 month administration of 250 mg anti-estrogen/kg diet were 13 870+/-860 ng/g for tamoxifen, 13 300 +/-860 for FRT1 and 26 900+/-1900 for FRT2. A dose-dependent increase in serum and liver level of each compound was noted when measured at the 6 month time period. The number and percentage of the liver occupied by altered hepatic foci (AHF) were determined by quantitative stereology. A dose-dependent increase above initiated controls was observed in the initiated, tamoxifen-treated rats. Both fixed-ring analogs also increased the number and size of AHF compared with initiated controls, but were less potent than tamoxifen, suggesting that tamoxifen has an intrinsic promoting action in the liver that is independent of its ability to isomerize to more potent estrogenic compounds. In addition, the fixed-ring analogs have a weaker promoting activity in the rat liver than does tamoxifen. This may be due to pharmacokinetic differences at the lower two doses, but it is independent of achieved serum level at the highest dose and hence may reflect differences in intrinsic activity of these compounds. Thus tamoxifen and the two fixed-ring analogs promote the development of rat hepatocarcinogenesis.
Many mechanisms of neurodegeneration have been implicated in Parkinson's disease, but which ones are most important and potential interactions among them are unclear. To provide a broader perspective on the parkinsonian neurodegenerative process, we have performed a global analysis of gene expression changes caused by chronic, low-level exposure of neuroblastoma cells to the mitochondrial complex I inhibitor and parkinsonian neurotoxin rotenone. Undifferentiated SK-N-MC human neuroblastoma cells were grown in the presence of rotenone (5 nM), and RNA was extracted at three different time points (baseline, 1 week, and 4 weeks) for labeling and hybridization to Affymetrix Human U133 Plus 2.0 GeneChips. Our results show that rotenone induces concerted alterations in gene expression that change over time. Particularly, alterations in transcripts related to DNA damage, energy metabolism, and protein metabolism are prominent during chronic complex I inhibition. These data suggest that early augmentation of capacity for energy production in response to mitochondrial inhibition might be deleterious to cellular function and survival. These experiments provide the first transcriptional analysis of a rotenone model of Parkinson's disease and insight into which mechanisms of neurodegeneration may be targeted for therapeutic intervention.
Familial Mediterranean fever (FMF) is an inherited inflammatory disease occurring mainly in Mediterranean and Middle Eastern populations. FMF is caused by mutations in the MEFV gene that encodes pyrin/marenostrin. Here, we report a Japanese female FMF patient with heterozygosity for the compound pyrin E148Q/M694I showing recurrent fever, serositis or delay in skin wound healing. Her father and elder sister were heterozygous for pyrin variant M694I alone and sometimes suffered from mild fever or delay in wound healing, but her mother was heterozygous for pyrin variant E148Q alone and had no symptoms. This suggested that the inheritance of FMF occurred not only in an autosomal recessive manner but also in an autosomal dominant manner in this Japanese family, and the severity of the disease differed among the family members in relation to the mutation. In the treatment of FMF, colchicine, reserpine or prazosin hydrochloride have been reported to prevent the attacks, but, in our patient such drugs were ineffective or caused side effects, and only the anti-allergic drug azelastine was of benefit in relieving the attacks.
In this prospective randomized study of initial chemotherapy for advanced measurable metastatic large bowel carcinoma, the response rate was 6/32 (19%) for FU + HU and 5/32 (16%) for MOF-Strep; the estimated median survival is 43 weeks for both treatments. Patients who received MOF-Strep experienced substantially greater vomiting and hematologic toxicity than patients who received FU + HU (p less than 0.001).
The synthesis and potent inhibitory activity of novel 3-(1H-imidazol- and triazol-1-yl)-2,2-dimethyl-3-(4-(naphthalen-2-ylamino)phenyl)propyl derivatives vs a MCF-7 CYP26A1 microsomal assay is described. This study focused on the effect of modifying the heme binding azole group and the flexible C3 chain on inhibitory activity and selectivity. The most promising inhibitor 2,2-dimethyl-3-[4-(naphthalen-2-ylamino)-phenyl]-3-[1,2,4]triazol-1-yl-propionic acid methyl ester (17) (IC(50) = 0.35 nM as compared with liarozole IC(50) = 540 nM and R116010 IC(50) = 10 nM) was evaluated for CYP selectivity and hepatic stability. Compounds with CYP26 inhibitory IC(50) values ≤50 nM enhanced the biological activity of exogenous ATRA, as evidenced by a 3.7-5.8-fold increase in CYP26A1 mRNA in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells as compared with ATRA alone. All compounds demonstrated an activity comparable with or better than R116010, and the induction correlated well with CYP26 inhibition data. These studies highlight the promising activity profile of this novel CYP26 inhibitor and suggest it as an appropriate candidate for future development.
Specific inhibitors of COX-2 have been associated with increased risk for cardiovascular complications. These agents reduce prostacyclin (PGI2) without affecting production of thromboxane (Tx) A2. While this abnormal pattern of eicosanoid generation has been implicated in the development of vascular disease associated with COX-2 inhibition, its role in the development of hypertension, the most common cardiovascular complication associated with COX-2 inhibition, is not known. We report here that mice lacking the receptor for PGI2 (IPKOs) develop salt-sensitive hypertension, cardiac hypertrophy, and severe cardiac fibrosis. Coincidental deletion of the TxA2 (TP) receptor does not prevent the development of hypertension, but cardiac hypertrophy is ameliorated and fibrosis is prevented in IPTP double knockouts (DKOs). Thus, deletion of the IP receptor removes a constraint revealing adverse cardiovascular consequences of TxA2. Our data suggest that adjuvant therapy that blocks unrestrained Tx actions might protect against end-organ damage without affecting blood pressure in patients taking COX-2 inhibitors.
Contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) is a common complication of cardiac catheterization, reported to result in a 15% incidence of acute renal failure. Convincing evidence supports the prophylactic use of prehydration and low volumes of contrast medium. Recently, the antioxidant acetylcysteine has been shown to have a potential preventive role. The aim of this study was to examine the hypothesis that acetylcysteine prevents CIN. Patients undergoing cardiac catheterization with a serum creatinine >/= 1.5 mg/dl were prospectively randomized to receive acetylcysteine or placebo. A total of five doses of acetylcysteine 600 mg b.i.d. or placebo was administered, commencing on the day of the procedure. All patients were prehydrated with 0.45% saline and during the catheterization a nonionic low-osmolality contrast medium was used. Serum creatinine and urea were measured at 24, 48, and 72 hr postprocedure. A total of 43 patients were studied. There was no significant difference between the groups in terms of baseline characteristics, including baseline renal function. No adverse events were experienced with acetylcysteine treatment. Serum creatinine levels at 48 and 72 hr remained largely unchanged in the acetylcysteine group but continued to rise at 48 and 72 hr in the placebo group. By 72 hr, the incidence of CIN, defined as a 25% increase in baseline creatinine, was significantly lower in the acetylcysteine arm compared to placebo (5% for acetylcysteine vs. 32% for placebo; P = 0.046). In patients with mild to moderate renal impairment undergoing cardiac catheterization, prophylactic treatment with oral acetylcysteine reduces the incidence of contrast-induced nephropathy.
Interleukin-6 (IL-6) is a pleiotropic cytokine that affects various functions, including tumor development. Although the importance of IL-6 in gastric cancer has been documented in experimental and clinical studies, the mechanism by which IL-6 promotes gastric cancer remains unclear. In this study, we investigated the role of IL-6 in the epithelial-stromal interaction in gastric tumorigenesis. Immunohistochemical analysis of human gastritis, gastric adenoma, and gastric cancer tissues revealed that IL-6 was frequently detected in the stroma. IL-6-positive cells in the stroma showed positive staining for the fibroblast marker α-smooth muscle actin, suggesting that stromal fibroblasts produce IL-6. We compared IL-6 knockout (IL-6(-/-)) mice with wild-type (WT) mice in a model of gastric tumorigenesis induced by the chemical carcinogen N-methyl-N-nitrosourea. The stromal fibroblasts expressed IL-6 in tumors from WT mice. Gastric tumorigenesis was attenuated in IL-6(-/-) mice, compared with WT mice. Impaired tumor development in IL-6(-/-) mice was correlated with the decreased activation of STAT3, a factor associated with gastric cancer cell proliferation. In vitro, when gastric cancer cell line was co-cultured with primary human gastric fibroblast, STAT3-related genes including COX-2 and iNOS were induced in gastric cancer cells and this response was attenuated with neutralizing anti-IL-6 receptor antibody. IL-6 production from fibroblasts was increased when fibroblasts were cultured in the presence of gastric cancer cell-conditioned media. IL-6 production from fibroblasts was suppressed by an interleukin-1 (IL-1) receptor antagonist and siRNA inhibition of IL-1α in the fibroblasts. IL-1α mRNA and protein were increased in fibroblast lysate, suggesting that cell-associated IL-1α in fibroblasts may be involved. Our results suggest the importance of IL-6 mediated stromal-epithelial cell interaction in gastric tumorigenesis.
Interaction between lithium+ and water balance was studied in nine patients suffering manic-depressive trouble. Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus with polyuria and polydipsia was induced by Li+ in one case only. No trouble was apparent in eight cases. However, the applied method of investigation by lacking, and next, excess of water, vasopressin and ADH tests, measurements of urinary osmolarity and clearances, showed up a trouble of concentration in four cases, improved by ADH. The Li+ frequently (50%) induces a trouble of urinary concentration, without polyuria; it is brought to light only by biological investigations. Its origin is double, nephrogenic, which is the most important, and central by a pituitary component. In the other hand, the change in water metabolism, studied by the same tests, showed us a decrease of the clearance Li+ after lacking of water (deshydratation), and an increase after water surcharge. That result is not concordant, chiefly in regards to the water surcharge, with former experiments. It appears that our method (division by horary periods for measurement of clearance, study of circadian cycle of urinary Li+) permits some observations more precise than global gathering and measurement of clearances. That method also allows to make evident a circadian cycle of renal clearance of Li+, according to, for some part, with the renal movement of water. That remark would also have some consequence on lithium-therapy practice.
We present 2 cases in which naloxone, the opioid antagonist, produced urinary urgency. The mechanism of action and possible therapeutic applications are discussed.
l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine methyl ester hydrochloride (l-DOPA) is the gold standard for symptomatic treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD), but long-term therapy is associated with the emergence of abnormal involuntary movements (AIMS) known as l-DOPA-induced dyskinesias (LID). The molecular changes underlying LID are not completely understood. Using the 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rat model of PD, we showed that l-DOPA elicits profound alterations in the activity of three LID molecular markers, namely DeltaFosB, dopamine, cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of 32 kDa (DARPP-32) and extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 (ERK1/2), as well as in phosphorylation levels of the cytoskeletal-associated protein tau. These modifications are triggered by protein kinase A (PKA) activation and intermittent stimulation of dopamine receptors as they are totally prevented by intrastriatal injections of Rp-cAMPS, a PKA inhibitor, or by continuous administration of l-DOPA via subcutaneous mini-pump. Importantly, Rp-cAMPS does not modulate the positive effect of l-DOPA on locomotor deficits and significantly attenuates the emergence of AIMS in 6-hydroxydopamine hydrobromide-lesioned rats. Even if decreased PKA signalling in the striatum may represent a clinical challenge, these data provide novel evidence that PKA activation, through modification of striatal signalling and alterations of cytoskeletal constituents, plays a key role in the manifestation of LID.
Very-Long-Chain Acyl-CoA Dehydrogenase deficiency (VLCADD) is an autosomal recessive disorder considered as one of the more common ss-oxidation defects, possibly associated with neonatal cardiomyopathy, infantile hepatic coma, or adult-onset myopathy. Numerous gene missense mutations have been described in these VLCADD phenotypes, but only few of them have been structurally and functionally analyzed, and the molecular basis of disease variability is still poorly understood. To address this question, we first analyzed fourteen disease-causing amino acid changes using the recently described crystal structure of VLCAD. The predicted effects varied from the replacement of amino acid residues lining the substrate binding cavity, involved in holoenzyme-FAD interactions or in enzyme dimerisation, predicted to have severe functional consequences, up to amino acid substitutions outside key enzyme domains or lying on near enzyme surface, with predicted milder consequences. These data were combined with functional analysis of residual fatty acid oxidation (FAO) and VLCAD protein levels in patient cells harboring these mutations, before and after pharmacological stimulation by bezafibrate. Mutations identified as detrimental to the protein structure in the 3-D model were generally associated to profound FAO and VLCAD protein deficiencies in the patient cells, however, some mutations affecting FAD binding or monomer-monomer interactions allowed a partial response to bezafibrate. On the other hand, bezafibrate restored near-normal FAO rates in some mutations predicted to have milder consequences on enzyme structure. Overall, combination of structural, biochemical, and pharmacological analysis allowed assessment of the relative severity of individual mutations, with possible applications for disease management and therapeutic approach.
To examine the literature regarding clinical pharmacokinetics, direct effects and adverse clinical outcomes associated with methamphetamine use.
Relevant literature was identified through a PubMed search. Additional literature was obtained from relevant books and monographs.
The mean elimination half-life for methamphetamine is approximately 10 hours, with considerable inter-individual variability in pharmacokinetics. Direct effects at low-to-moderate methamphetamine doses (5-30 mg) include arousal, positive mood, cardiac stimulation and acute improvement in cognitive domains such as attention and psychomotor coordination. At higher doses used typically by illicit users (> or =50 mg), methamphetamine can produce psychosis. Its hypertensive effect can produce a number of acute and chronic cardiovascular complications. Repeated use may induce neurotoxicity, associated with prolonged psychiatric symptoms, cognitive impairment and an increased risk of developing Parkinson's disease. Abrupt cessation of repeated methamphetamine use leads to a withdrawal syndrome consisting of depressed mood, anxiety and sleep disturbance. Acute withdrawal lasts typically for 7-10 days, and residual symptoms associated with neurotoxicity may persist for several months.
To report postsurgery angioedema resulting in malignant glaucoma. Interventional case report.
Three hours after uncomplicated cataract surgery on the right eye, a 61-year-old woman developed angioedema with swelling of the parapharyngeal tissue. Visual acuity deteriorated, and tonometry revealed an intraocular pressure of 60 mm Hg, with shallow anterior chambers, in both eyes.
Ultrasound showed choroidal effusion on both eyes. Intraocular pressure could only be controlled surgically by procedure to deepen the anterior chamber. The angioedema regressed after withdrawal of candesartan, an angiotensin II antagonist that the patient had taken for 1 year.
Angioedema without urticaria is well documented in patients receiving angiotensine-converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin II antagonists. Drug-related angioedema may lead to a choroidal effusion syndrome with malignant glaucoma. Surgical intervention may trigger angioedema. Most important in treatment is withdrawal from the implicated medication and control of intraocular pressure.
To study the protective effect of Galla chinensis apozema on adriamycin-induced nephropathy in rats and its mechanism.
40 Wistar rats were randomly divided into four groups: normal control group, model group, Galla chinensis apozema high dose group and Galla chinensis apozema low dose group. Adriamycin-induced nephropathy model was built by injecting adriamycin through the tail vein. The high and low dose groups of Galla chinensis apozema were given Galla chinensis apozema for 6 weeks, the other two groups were given normal saline in the same way. Then we observed the 24 h urine protein at each weekend, and determined blood biochemical indexes, SOD and MDA at the last weekend.
Galla chinensis decreased urine protein excretion, but increased total cholesterol and triglyceride in plasma, total protein and albumin in serum of model rats. Galla chinensis also decreased the serum levels of MDA but increased the activity of SOD.
Galla chinensis can protect against adriamycin-induced nephrototoxicity. Its mechanism possibly associated with the reduction of oxidative stress.
Metoclopramide (M.) is a neurolectic drug used with good results in digestive tracts disorders. Even in minimum doses Metoclopramide may cause side effects to children. The most frequent are: localized hypertonia, oculogyric fits, trismus, cervical, oral and lingual dyskinesias, tremors and agitations. Symptoms seem to be serious but it is sufficient to stop the cure that all signs fade away. Manufactures show three personal side-effects' remarks by M. and advise to administer the drug to children with more caution since they are very sensitive to the substance.
S-100 proteins (S100) are characterized by calcium-binding ability with two structural EF hands. Several S100 are expressed in cardiomyocytes and thought to play a crucial role in calcium signaling. To examine whether the expression of S100 is a response to detectable myocardial damage or regeneration, we investigated, immunohistochemically, the expression of S100A4 and S100A11 in the isoproterenol (ISP)-treated rat heart. Definite expression of S100A4 and S100A11 was demonstrated in normal cardiomyocytes, and their staining patterns were enhanced in the ISP-treated rat heart, suggesting the possible involvement of S1-A4 and S100A11 in ISP-induced myocardial damage.
To investigate the changes of apelin in plasma and myocardium of model rats and the protective mechanisms of Extracts of Ginkgo biloba leaves (EGb) on myocardial ischemia injury induced by isoproterenol.
The model of myocardial ischemia injury was induced by subcutaneous injection of high dose isoproterenol. ELISA (enzyme linked immunosorbent assay) was used to measure the apelin concentration in plasma and myocardium. Semi-Quantitative RT-PCR was used to measure the apelin mRNA level in myocardium. The pathomorphology changes of myocardium was observed with light microscope. EGb was administered for 7 weeks.
Compared with the normal control group, the apelin concentration in plasma and myocardium and the apelin mRNA level in myocardium significantly decreased in the model group (P < 0.01). Compared with the model group, the apelin concentration in plasma and myocardium and the apelin mRNA level in myocardium obviously increased in the EGb group (P < 0.01). Meanwhile, the NO content in serum also obviously increased and the pathological damage of myocardium was obviously improved.
The protective mechanisms of EGb on myocardial ischemia injury may be related to the elevation of apelin contents and apelin mRNA level.
The uptake of oxidized low density lipoprotein (oxLDL) via scavenger receptors transforms macrophages into foam cells, which are a hallmark of atherosclerosis. OxLDL markedly increases the expression of the CD36 scavenger receptor. Here, we investigated whether curcumin modulate CD36 expression in oxLDL-treated RAW 264.7 murine macrophages. Our results showed that curcumin dramatically inhibits CD36 expression and foam cell formation. Furthermore, oxLDL-induced expression and activity of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-γ), which is involved in CD36 expression, is also blocked in curcumin-treated cells. OxLDL activates the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling transduction pathway, and p38 MAPK is associated with oxLDL-induced CD36 and PPAR-γ expression. Overexpression of dominant negative p38 MAPK blocks oxLDL-induced CD36 and PPAR-γ expression. Furthermore, curcumin markedly inhibits p38 MAPK phosphorylation. Taken together, our results suggest that curcumin modulates oxLDL-induced CD36 expression and foam cell formation via the inhibition of p38 MAPK phosphorylation in RAW 264.7 murine macrophages.
The treatment with thalidomide is associated with an increased risk of thromboembolic events, in particular when it is combined with chemotherapy or dexamethasone. However, despite this well-documented prothrombotic effect, to our knowledge disseminated intravascular coagulation has never been reported in hematological or oncological patients treated with thalidomide. We report a case of disseminated intravascular coagulation in a patient treated with thalidomide and dexamethasone for advanced, heavily pretreated hormone-resistant prostate cancer in which a relationship with the treatment appears highly likely.
The chemical warfare agents sulfur mustard (SM) and nitrogen mustards (HN-1, HN-2, and HN-3) are highly reactive vesicants. The study was planned to investigate the protective efficacy of amifostine, DRDE-07 and their analogues, and few conventional antidotes (30 minutes pretreatment) against dermally applied SM and nitrogen mustards in preventing hematological and biochemical changes in mice. Mustard agents (1.0 median lethal dose [LD(50)]) induced a significant decrease in the body weight and spleen weight. A significant decrease in the white blood cell (WBC) count and an increase in serum transaminases and alkaline phosphatases (ALPs) were observed. A significant decrease in reduced (GSH) and oxidized glutathione (GSSG) and an increase in thiobarbituric acid reactive substances were also observed. All the mustard agents increased DNA fragmentation. The effects of SM were significantly ameliorated by DRDE-07 analogues, and with nitrogen mustards the protection was partial. Overall, DRDE-30 (propyl analogue) followed by DRDE-35 (butyl analogue) are favored as safer and better compounds.
Hypothetically, topiramate can improve drinking outcomes among alcohol-dependent individuals by reducing alcohol's reinforcing effects through facilitation of gamma-aminobutyric acid function and inhibition of glutaminergic pathways in the corticomesolimbic system.
To determine if topiramate is a safe and efficacious treatment for alcohol dependence.
Double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, 14-week trial of 371 men and women aged 18 to 65 years diagnosed with alcohol dependence, conducted between January 27, 2004, and August 4, 2006, at 17 US sites.
Up to 300 mg/d of topiramate (n = 183) or placebo (n = 188), along with a weekly compliance enhancement intervention.
Primary efficacy variable was self-reported percentage of heavy drinking days. Secondary outcomes included other self-reported drinking measures (percentage of days abstinent and drinks per drinking day) along with the laboratory measure of alcohol consumption (plasma gamma-glutamyltransferase).
Treating all dropouts as relapse to baseline, topiramate was more efficacious than placebo at reducing the percentage of heavy drinking days from baseline to week 14 (mean difference, 8.44%; 95% confidence interval, 3.07%-13.80%; P = .002). Prespecified mixed-model analysis also showed that topiramate compared with placebo decreased the percentage of heavy drinking days (mean difference, 16.19%; 95% confidence interval, 10.79%-21.60%; P < .001) and all other drinking outcomes (P < .001 for all comparisons). Adverse events that were more common with topiramate vs placebo, respectively, included paresthesia (50.8% vs 10.6%), taste perversion (23.0% vs 4.8%), anorexia (19.7% vs 6.9%), and difficulty with concentration (14.8% vs 3.2%).
Topiramate is a promising treatment for alcohol dependence.
clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00210925.
Equine metabolic syndrome (EMS) is a condition of obese horses characterized by insulin resistance, systemic inflammation, and an increased risk of laminitis. The pathogenesis of EMS is thought, in part, to be due to inflammatory proteins produced by adipose tissue. Reducing inflammation may decrease the incidence of laminitis in horses with EMS. Pioglitazone hydrochloride, a thiazolidinedione, has efficacy to reduce obesity associated inflammation in humans. Eight normal, adult, horses were administered 1mg/kg pioglitazone for 14 days, and eight horses served as controls. Physical examination and hematologic variables, transcript abundance of pro-inflammatory cytokines in skeletal muscle and adipose tissue, and circulating concentrations of the acute phase protein, serum amyloid A and pro-inflammatory cytokine, TNF-α were assessed prior to, and following, an LPS infusion (35 ng/kg). The objective was to determine if pre-treatment with pioglitazone would mitigate the development of inflammation and associated clinical markers of inflammation following LPS administration. Lipopolysaccharide administration induced systemic inflammation, as assessed by clinical and hematological aberrations, increased TNF-α, SAA and adipose tissue IL-6 mRNA abundance, however no mitigating effects of pioglitazone were detected. A longer treatment period or higher dose might be indicated for future experiments.
