To determine whether salt loading increases the sensitivity of the myocardium to fatal arrhythmias induced by norepinephrine, four groups of Sprague-Dawley rats were studied. Group I received both saline (0.9%) as drinking water and deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA) (0.5 mg/kg, 3 times) for 14 days (DOCA high salt group); group II received only 0.9% saline as drinking water (high salt group); group III received DOCA in the same dose regime, but tap water to drink (DOCA group); and group IV received tap water (control). Under pentobarbital anesthesia, norepinephrine was infused and electrocardiogram and blood pressure were monitored. The DOCA high salt group developed arrhythmias significantly (p less than 0.05) earlier than at lower norepinephrine doses. The dose at which 50% mortality occurred was 20 micrograms . kg-1 . min-1 in DOCA high salt group, 37 micrograms . kg -1 . min-1 in high salt group, 40 micrograms . kg-1 . min-1 in the control, and 44 micrograms . kg-1 . min-1 in the DOCA group. The cumulative dose of norepinephrine associated with 50% mortality was 160 micrograms/kg in the DOCA high salt group, 370 micrograms/kg in the high salt group, 530 micrograms/kg in the control group, and 600 micrograms/kg in the DOCA group. The blood pressure after sodium loading before norepinephrine infusion was similar in all three groups. The blood pressure response to norepinephrine was not significantly different between the four groups.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Irinotecan chloride (CPT-11) is a new semi-synthetic camptothecin analogue which has encouraging antitumor activity against various malignancies. The major and unique toxicity of CPT-11 is diarrhea. Cardiovascular toxicity is rare and has not been found in clinical trials performed in Japan except for a very few cases of insignificant tachycardiac arrhythmia. We report a case of a 69-year-old man with recurrent colon cancer who suffered from bradycardia induced by infusion of CPT-11. Other toxicities including hematological toxicity and diarrhea were mild. Pharmacokinetic analysis using a limited sampling model revealed that the occurrence of bradycardia did not correlate with the excess of drug exposure. Although all of the cholinergic actions reported in the literature were mild, cardiotoxicity may come to be a clinically significant problem. If the events were examined more thoroughly, the cholinergic effect may be discovered more frequently. To administer CPT-11 safely needs meticulous monitoring not only for hematological toxicity and diarrhea but also for other cholinergic actions including bradycardia.
Liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) are major causes of morbidity and mortality worldwide, without effective therapies. Our aim was to establish a novel approach for the diseases utilizing in-vivo gene therapy.
To achieve effective gene expression in vivo, we employed a well-established transfection method, hemagglutinating virus of Japan (HVJ)-liposome. Liver cirrhosis, characterized by parenchymal collapse, was induced by dimethylnitrosamine (DMN) in rats, leading to accumulation of fibrous tissue. Muscle-directed gene transfer of hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) was performed in this model. As an approach for HCC therapy, suicide gene therapy using ganciclovir (GCV) with transfer of the herpes thymidine kinase (HSVtk) gene was tested. Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) is highly expressed in many cases of HCC. To achieve specific gene expression of HSVtk in AFP-producing tumors, we employed the HSVtk gene driven by the AFP promoter (AFP-TK1), encapsulated in the HVJ-liposome. APF-producing HUH7 tumors in vivo were established in the livers of severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) mice, by the injection of HUH7 cells into the portal vein.
All cirrhotic rats died of liver dysfunction by 7 weeks after the initial injection of DMN. After repeated transfection with the HGF gene, increased concentrations of HGF in plasma and tyrosine phosphorylation of the c-Met/HGF receptor in the liver were detected, and the established massive hepatic fibrosis had almost totally disappeared and all cirrhotic rats survived. Repeated in-vivo transfection with AFP-TK1, using the HVJ-liposome, followed by GCV treatment, achieved abrogation of tumors in the liver, and improved survival.
Our data indicate that the gene therapy may hold promise for the treatment of patients with liver cirrhosis and HCC.
Female rats were subjected to a 70% partial hepatectomy and administered either diethylnitrosamine (10 mg/kg) or the solvent, trioctanoin. After a 2 day recovery from the surgery, the rats were placed on basal diet alone or containing phenobarbital (500 mg/kg diet), mestranol (0.2 mg/kg diet), tamoxifen (250 or 500 mg/kg diet) or toremifene (250, 500 or 750 mg/kg diet) for 6 or 18 months prior to killing. The liver and kidneys were prepared for pathological diagnoses. In addition, sections of liver from the 6 month killing were frozen and serially sectioned. The sections were stained for expression of the placental isozyme of glutathione S-transferase (GST), gamma glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT), canalicular ATPase (ATP) and glucose 6-phosphatase (G6P) and scored by quantitative stereology for number and volume fraction of liver occupied by altered hepatic foci (AHF) with alterations in these markers individually and combined (ANY). Each of the agents increased the volume fraction of liver occupied by AHF when the ANY category was used. Statistical increases in both the GGT-positive and G6P-deficient AHF populations were observed in the spontaneously as well as DEN-initiated groups treated with tamoxifen or toremifene. After 18 months of administration, the highest concentration of tamoxifen increased the incidence of malignant hepatic neoplasms in non-DEN-initiated rats. Toremifene, at the highest tested dose, increased the incidence of hepatocellular carcinomas in the DEN-initiated groups to a level one-third that observed with tamoxifen administration to DEN-initiated rats. Both tamoxifen and toremifene increased the incidence of hypernephromas in previously DEN-initiated rats. While both tamoxifen and toremifene are effective promoting agents for DEN-initiated lesions, tamoxifen is more potent than toremifene in the induction of rat hepatocarcinogenesis.
To evaluate efficacy, interactions and adherence to treatment in cocaine-dependent patients (according to DSM- IV criteria). Its impact on reducing/quitting both cocaine and especially benzodiazepines (BZP) is of a great concern.
Thirty-one patients with an average age of 35 years, mean methadone dose of 155 mg/day and an average staying time on MMP of 21 months started treatment with MTZ, 60 mg/day as a single dose. One patient had to take 90 mg/day. One patient was excluded because of poor performance in the methadone maintenance program (MMP). In the pre-treatment evaluation, 22% of the patients did not use BZP and 40% used only cocaine. Sixty three percent used cocaine in higher dose than 0.5 g/day. (Range: 0.5-2 g). Abusive alcohol drinkers or patients with severe organic or psychiatric impairment were discarded.
MTZ is well tolerated and its adverse effects are welcome in this kind of patients. Adherence to treatment was quite good for these reasons and because MTZ has a short latency time. No dose adjustments or interactions with other prescriptions (e.g., HAART), were shown. Hamilton-17, GCI, stress and craving scales were employed. Drug use was monitored with enzyme immune assay. At the end of the study, seven patients (23%) managed to quit cocaine. No BZP use was reported in 20 patients (80%).
MTZ has shown good results in ceasing street BZP abuse, as well as reducing cocaine abuse though in the minor abusers. Treatment adherence was quite good and no evidence of interactions with drug-related treatments was reported.
The loss or alteration of gap junctional intercellular communication (GJIC) has long been proposed to play an important role in the process of carcinogenesis. In this study we examined the expression of three gap junction proteins, connexins (Cx)26, 43 and 31.1, in mouse hyperplastic skin, papillomas and squamous cell carcinomas (SCC). Tumors were induced in SENCAR mice by either of two initiation/promotion protocols: 7,12-dimethylbenz-[a] anthracene (DMBA)/12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate (TPA) or DMBA/benzoyl-peroxide (BzPo). Keratinocytes in adult mouse skin expressed Cx31.1 and Cx43 but did not express Cx26. Skin hyperplasia induced by one topical application of TPA was accompanied by hyperexpression of both Cx26 and Cx43. In addition, TPA significantly inhibited the expression of Cx31.1. After repetitive application. Connexin 26 and Cx43 were hyperexpressed in most of the papillomas studied (20-40 weeks after initiation). However, in some late papillomas, immunostaining revealed a focal loss of Cx26. Immunostaining of mouse skin SCC revealed decreased Cx43 and Cx26 levels in 65% and 85% of cases respectively. The high levels of Cx26 and Cx43 mRNA in most of the SCC did not correlate with the decreased abundance or disappearance of Cx26 and Cx43 immunoreactive spots from tumor plasma membranes. Thus, the expression of these two connexins in SCC was impaired at the post-translation level. Cx31.1 expression was strongly inhibited during all stages of carcinogenesis. Taken together, our results suggest that three different connexin genes are differentially regulated during mouse skin carcinogenesis and the decrease of connexin expression may be an important marker of skin tumor expression.
Treatment of hypertension may prevent many of the complications attributable to blood pressure elevation, particularly those that are "pressure-related," such as stroke. However, the atherosclerotic complications of hypertension, e.g., coronary artery disease manifested as coronary morbidity and mortality, have not been reduced significantly with antihypertensive therapy. This disappointing outcome may reflect the adverse metabolic effects of the traditional therapies, diuretics and beta blockers, and their lack of specific vasoprotective properties. Increasing attention is thus being paid to the newer antihypertensive agents, which typically have fewer adverse effects and perhaps more physiologic mechanisms of antihypertensive action. Since calcium plays a key role in the genesis of atherosclerosis, calcium antagonists may positively affect the course of vascular disease. Investigators have observed that calcium antagonists display clear antiatherosclerotic properties in experimental as well as clinical studies. In one recently published clinical study, coronary artery disease was shown to develop more slowly, with a slower progression of individual stenoses, higher regression rate and less frequent occurrence of new lesions in patients treated chronically with verapamil compared to those receiving conventional therapies. Other similar investigations are currently under way to evaluate the antiatherogenic properties of calcium antagonists, including the Frankfurt Isoptin Progression Study (FIPS), the Multicenter Isradipine Diuretic Atherosclerosis Study (MIDAS), the International Nifedipine Trial on Atherosclerosis Coronary Therapy (INTACT), and the large-scale Montreal Heart Institute Study. Results of these studies, which use precise end points such as myocardial infarction, cerebral infarction and peripheral vascular disease, may revolutionize the treatment of hypertension by identifying therapeutic approaches that control both the pressure-related and atherosclerotic complications of the disease.
Dystonia is a movement disorder characterized by sustained muscle contractions, frequently causing twisting and repetitive movements or abnormal postures. Drug-induced dystonia may occur within minutes or hours of exposure to an inciting drug; it is seen with familial pattern and cannot be correlated with blood level of the drug.
Adriamycin-induced nephropathy (AIN) model in rats (mainlining 7.5 mg/kg avoirdupois adiramycine) was adopted to explore the effect of Shenfukang (SFK). The results showed that SFK could remarkably reduce the content of urine protein, cholesterol, creatinine and urinary nitrogen in serum, MDA in serum and renal cortex of AIN model rats. And SFK also could increase the content of album and golbulin in serum, the activities of SOD in serum and renal cortex of AIN model rats.
SFK played an important role on AIN.
Starting from November 2001, 260 newly diagnosed patients with Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL) were consecutively enrolled in parallel Italian and Danish prospective trials to evaluate the prognostic role of an early interim 2-[(18)F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) scan and the International Prognostic Score (IPS) in advanced HL, treated with conventional ABVD (doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine) therapy.
Most patients (n = 190) presented with advanced disease (stages IIB through IVB), whereas 70 presented in stage IIA with adverse prognostic factors. All but 11 patients were treated with standard ABVD therapy followed by consolidation radiotherapy in case of bulky presentation or residual tumor mass. Conventional radiologic staging was performed at baseline. FDG-PET scan was performed at baseline and after two courses of ABVD (PET-2). No treatment change was allowed on the basis of the PET-2 results.
After a median follow-up of 2.19 years (range, 0.32 to 5.18 years), 205 patients were in continued complete remission and two patients were in partial remission. Forty-three patients progressed during therapy or immediately after, whereas 10 patients relapsed. The 2-year progression-free survival for patients with positive PET-2 results was 12.8% and for patients with negative PET-2 results was 95.0% (P < .0001). In univariate analysis, the treatment outcome was significantly associated with PET-2 (P < .0001), stage IV (P < .0001), WBC more than 15,000 (P < .0001), lymphopenia (P < .001), IPS as a continuous variable (P < .0001), extranodal involvement (P < .0001), and bulky disease (P = .012). In multivariate analyses, only PET-2 turned out to be significant (P < .0001).
PET-2 overshadows the prognostic value of IPS and emerges as the single most important tool for planning of risk-adapted treatment in advanced HL.
The results of a clinical trial of sultamicillin, a novel mutual pro-drug combination of ampicillin and the beta-lactamase inhibitor sulbactam, in ampicillin-resistant urinary tract infections are reported. The majority of infections treated occurred in elderly geriatric in-patients. Two dosage schedules were investigated, both resulting in the same total daily dosage (1500 mg sultamicillin). These were 750 mg sultamicillin, 12-hourly (series I) and 500 mg sultamicillin, 8-hourly (series II), each administered orally for seven days. Short term cure rates (after exclusion of superinfections and reinfections) of 79.5% (series I) and 82% (series II) were obtained one week after therapy, falling to 69% and 50%, respectively, at three to six week follow up. Sultamicillin was well tolerated. Pharmacokinetic studies confirmed intestinal absorption of both constituents in young volunteers and in the elderly.
Thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA) is characterized clinically by hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, and renal failure. Cyclosporine (CyA)-associated TMA is a well-documented complication, but tacrolimus (TAC)-associated TMA is rare. We report the case of a renal transplant recipient who developed TMA in the early stage after renal transplantation with a high trough level of TAC. A 56-year-old female suffering from end-stage renal disease received a living renal graft from a blood-type-identical donor. She had developed hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia and acute renal failure 4 days after transplantation (6 days after TAC administration). She was diagnosed as having TMA without rejection by the clinical course and pathological findings. Renal function and hemolytic parameters improved by solely a decrease of the TAC trough level. When TAC-associated TMA develops in renal transplant recipients, we recommend a decrease of the TAC trough level before changing to CyA.
Subchronic oral toxicity of turmeric and ethanolic turmeric extract was studied in female Swiss mice and Wistar rats fed turmeric (0, 1 and 5%) and ethanolic turmeric extract (0, 0.05 and 0.25%) through diet for 14 and/or 90 days. The administration of a high dose of turmeric (5%) for longer duration (90 days) showed a significant reduction in body weight gain, alterations in absolute and/or relative liver weights, and hepatotoxicity i.e. focal necrosis or focal necrosis with regeneration both in mice and rats. In mice lower doses of turmeric i.e 0.2 or 1% for 14 days also showed hepatotoxicity and they were found to be more vulnerable to turmeric-induced hepatotoxicity than rats.
Oral lidocaine analogues, such as tocainide, recently have been introduced to treat cardiac arrhythmias. The side effects of tocainide are similar to those of lidocaine, but possible interactions with lidocaine have not been examined thoroughly. With the increased use of these agents, emergency physicians must decide the safety of concurrent administration of lidocaine for local anesthesia or arrhythmia management. Twelve dogs were assigned randomly to either a lidocaine (L) or a tocainide/lidocaine (TL) group. The L group received lidocaine at a dosage of 0.5 mg/kg/min until the animals seized. The TL group received both loading and maintenance doses of tocainide to obtain therapeutic steady-state tocainide levels prior to receiving lidocaine at a dosage of 0.5 mg/kg/min. Venous blood samples to measure drug levels were obtained at 20-minute intervals and at the time of seizures. The average duration of lidocaine administration required to induce seizures in the L group was 70.0 +/- 7.5 minutes, and in the TL group 29.0 +/- 7.0 minutes (P less than .05). In addition, the average serum lidocaine level at the time of seizures was 11.2 +/- 1.0 micrograms/mL in the L group and 6.2 +/- 1.7 micrograms/mL in the TL group (P less than .05). Our results show that in animals the presence of a therapeutic serum level of tocainide lowers the seizure threshold following the administration of lidocaine. These findings may have important implications for clinical care because they suggest that lidocaine should be used cautiously and in reduced dosage in patients already taking tocainide.
Acute effects of dietary 1,3-butanediol and tributyrin on concentrations of glucose, beta-hydroxybutyrate, and insulin in plasma were compared in lactating goats. In Experiment 1, glucose was decreased by intraruminal administration of 75 or 150 g of 1,3-butanediol or by 84 or 168 g of tributyrin. Tributyrin caused transient hyperglycemia immediately after administration. beta-Hydroxybutyrate was increased in a dose-dependent manner by tributyrin and increased independently of dose by 1,3-butanediol. Tributyrin, but not 1,3-butanediol. Tributyrin, but not 1,3-butanediol, caused large increases of insulin in plasma. In Experiment 2, 75 g of 1,3-butanediol or 84 g of tributyrin administered intraruminally decreased glucose, whereas 73 g of butyric acid (pH 5.6) increased glucose compared with water or 25.6 g of glycerol. All treatments produced transient hyperglycemia immediately after administration. Tributyrin, butyric acid, or 1,3-butanediol greatly increased beta-hydroxybutyrate compared with administration of water or glycerol. Concentrations of beta-hydroxybutyrate in both experiments increased more slowly for 1,3-butanediol than for tributyrin. Both 1,3-butanediol and tributyrin decreased glucose and increased beta-hydroxybutyrate. Because 1,3-butanediol does not stimulate increases of insulin in plasma, it may be more desirable than tributyrin for inducing metabolic changes characteristic of lactation ketosis.
To investigate new aspects of the relationship between sustained reduction of blood pressure and alteration of cardiovascular structure and function after cessation of early captopril treatment.
Spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) were given captopril 20 mg/kg per day (n = 13) or 100 mg/kg per day (n = 12) from the intra-uterine period to age 16 weeks and then the treatment was stopped. Age-matched untreated SHR (n = 16) and Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats (n = 17) served as controls. The experiments were carried out at 40 weeks.
Withdrawal of captopril treatment resulted in a rapid rebound of SBP to a level close to that of untreated SHR in the low-dose group, whereas a persistently lower SBP was maintained in the high-dose group. Both doses of captopril treatment completely prevented wall hypertrophy either of arteriolar resistance vessels or of muscular vessels. Captopril decreased left ventricular mass:body weight ratio dose-dependently. High-dose captopril improved the resting and stress systolic and diastolic function. Thoracic angiotensin converting enzyme levels were dose-dependently reduced by captopril treatment. The curves of perfusion pressure response to incremental doses of phenylephrine shifted to the right in both captopril treatment groups compared with those of the control SHR. Addition of L-NAME and L-arginine to the perfusate augmented or attenuated the vasoconstrictor activity in all of the rats, whereas high-dose captopril totally restored the abnormal hypersensitivity to L-NAME and caused less attenuation in response to L-arginine in the control SHR.
The persistent lower blood pressure caused by early captopril treatment was ascribed mainly to its sustained normalization of structure and function of resistance vessels, which may be partly mediated by the improvement of endothelial cell function. The persistent reduction of angiotensin converting enzyme activity in blood vessel wall attenuated left ventricular hypertrophy, and the improvement of cardiac systolic and diastolic function may also contribute to the sustained hypotensive effect.
Seizures induced by methohexitone have been reported in epileptic patients. An alcoholic patient without any previous history of epilepsy had grand mal-like seizures after being given an intravenous injection of 4 mg X kg-1 methohexitone. The respective parts played by high doses of methohexitone and chronic alcoholism in the induction of seizures are discussed.
Several studies have characterized drug-induced toxicity in liver and kidney. However, the majority of these studies have been performed with 'individual' organs in isolation. Separately, little is known about the role of whole blood as a surrogate tissue in drug-induced toxicity. Accordingly, we investigated the 'concurrent' response of liver, kidney and whole blood during a toxic assault. Rats were acutely treated with therapeutics (acetaminophen, rosiglitazone, fluconazole, isoniazid, cyclophosphamide, amphotericin B, gentamicin and cisplatin) reported for their liver and/or kidney toxicity. Changes in clinical chemistry parameters (e.g. AST, urea) and/or observed microscopic tissue damage confirmed induced hepatotoxicity and/or nephrotoxicity by all drugs. Drug-induced toxicity was not confined to an 'individual' organ. Not all drugs elicited significant alterations in phenotypic parameters of toxicity (e.g. ALT, creatinine). Accordingly, the transcriptional profile of the organs was studied using a toxicity panel of 30 genes derived from literature. Each of the test drugs generated specific gene expression patterns which were unique for all three organs. Hierarchical cluster analyses of purported hepatotoxicants and nephrotoxicants each led to characteristic 'fingerprints' (e.g. decrease in Cyp3a1 indicative of hepatotoxicity; increase in Spp1 and decrease in Gstp1 indicative of nephrotoxicity). In whole blood cells, a set of genes was derived which closely correlated with individual drug-induced concomitant changes in liver or kidney. Collectively, these data demonstrate drug-induced multi-organ toxicity. Furthermore, our findings underscore the importance of transcriptional profiling during inadequate phenotypic anchorage and suggest that whole blood may be judiciously used as a surrogate for drug-induced extra-hematological organ toxicity.
Nadolol, a new beta-adrenergic blocking agent, was administered orally in gradually increasing single daily doses to 13 hospitalized patients with essential hypertension. Maximal doses ranged from 200 to 480 mg/day. Blood pressure was reduced in nine patients and heart rate was decreased in 11 patients. The decrease in blood pressure was either partial or temporary in five of the nine patients who responded. Concomitant administration of the diuretic chlorthalidone decreased blood pressure in a previously unresponsive patient. Nadolol effectively inhibited isoproterenol-induced tachycardia and decreased cardiac output by 18 per cent. Plasma renin activity and plasma aldosterone concentration were not changed significantly by the treatment. Body weight was not altered significantly. Blood pressure response was independent of the pretreatment renin levels or the change in renin induced by nadolol; it was also independent of the changes in cardiac output and heart rate but was more pronounced in patients with milder baseline hypertension. The decline in serum concentration of nadolol was consistent with the drug's reported half-life of 12.2 hours. The results indicate that single daily doses of nadolol alone can reduce blood pressure significantly with minimal cardiodepressant effects and no important side effects. The effectiveness of nadolol may be enhanced by the addition of a diuretic.
To investigate whether, when angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are administered to young, genetically hypertension-prone animals, the demonstrated attenuation of blood pressure development and prevention of the structural changes usually observed in small arteries is attributable to the prevention of angiotensin II production.
We have treated spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) aged 4-20 weeks with either lisinopril (1 or 10 mg/kg) or the angiotensin II receptor antagonist D 8731 (1, 20 or 50 mg/kg).
Blood pressure was measured and structural parameters in small arteries from four vascular beds were examined using isometric myography.
At age 20 weeks lisinopril had attenuated blood pressure development and prevented cardiac hypertrophy (but not vascular hypertrophy) in a dose-dependent manner. The highest dose of lisinopril had reduced the blood pressure of the SHR to below that of the Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats and prevented most structural changes, but there was a slight reduction in body weight in those rats. Comparable blood pressure control with D 8731 was associated with similar structural parameters.
The prevention of hypertension-associated vascular structural alteration appears to be dependent upon the degree of blood pressure control.
In experiments on male rats the effects of adafenoxate (Adf), meclofenoxate (Mf), piracetam (Pc) and citicholine (CCh) on learning and memory were studied using the maze active avoidance method with punishment reinforcement. The drugs tested were administered twice daily for seven days at doses of 10 and 50 mg/kg body weight for Adf, Mf and CCh and only at a dose of 50 mg/kg body weight for Pc. The effects of these drugs on scopolamine-treated and scopolamine-untreated rats were also studied using the step-through method. Retention tests were given 24 h and 7 days after the end of the training session in the punishment-reinforcement active avoidance and 3 and 24 h after training in the passive avoidance situation. With the maze method statistically significant results about the favourable effects of the four drugs were obtained by most of the indices for learning and memory. However, the effects of the drugs tested were differently pronounced depending on the dose utilized. With the step-through method all four drugs prevented the scopolamine-induced amnesia. Comparing the present results with other data previously obtained about the effects of the drugs tested and of other nootropic drugs on brain biogenic monoamines, it is suggested that induced changes in biogenic monoamines are responsible for the similarities and the differences in the effects of nootropic drugs on learning and memory.
Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), a new immunosuppressant that selectively inhibits proliferation of T and B lymphocytes, may reduce the frequency and severity of acute graft rejection. Acute graft rejection is the leading cause of graft loss in cadaveric renal transplantation. The purpose of this randomized, double-blind, multicenter study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of MMF for the prevention of acute rejection episodes in adult patients during the first 6 months after renal transplantation. A total of 499 patients who were to receive a primary cadaveric renal allograft as their first transplant were randomized to receive MMF 1.0 g b.i.d. (MMF 2 g treatment group), MMF 1.5 g b.i.d. (MMF 3 g treatment group), or azathioprine 1-2 mg/kg/day. CsA, corticosteroids, and antithymocyte globulin (ATGAM) were administered as part of a quadruple sequential induction protocol. The primary efficacy endpoint was biopsy-proven rejection or treatment failure (defined as graft loss, death, or premature withdrawal from the study for any reason) during the first 6 months after transplant. All enrolled patients were included in the primary analyses of efficacy on the basis of intent to treat. The 495 patients who received study drug were included in the safety and secondary efficacy analyses. Biopsy-proven acute rejection episodes or treatment failure occurred in 47.6% of patients in the azathioprine group compared with 31.1% (P = 0.0015) and 31.3% (P = 0.0021) of patients in the MMF 2 g and 3 g treatment groups, respectively. Time to first biopsy-proven rejection episode or treatment failure was significantly longer for MMF 2 g versus azathioprine (P = 0.0036) and MMF 3 g versus azathioprine (P = 0.0006). First biopsy-proven rejection alone occurred in 38.0% of patients who received azathioprine compared with 19.8% and 17.5% of patients who received MMF 2 g and 3 g, respectively. Patients in the azathioprine group received a greater number of full courses of antirejection treatment as compared with the MMF 2 g and MMF 3 g groups (44.5%, 24.8%, and 21.1%, respectively). The use of antilymphocyte agents to treat rejection was greater in the azathioprine group (20.1%) compared with the MMF 2 g group (10.3%) and the MMF 3 g group (5.4%). At 6 months after transplant, graft and patient survival were similar in all 3 treatment groups.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used commonly to treat osteoarthritis in older patients.
to explore the understandings of risk that older-aged primary care patients have in the context of the use of oral NSAIDs to treat osteoarthritis.
semi-structured interviews were conducted with 15 patients who were recruited from four general practices located in Sydney, Australia. Patients were aged at least 65 years and were currently taking, or in the past 2 years had taken, an NSAID for osteoarthritis. Emergent themes were identified from the transcripts and were compared within and across transcripts to develop more abstract concepts.
patients demonstrated three key 'modes of disengagement' from medication-specific risk information, each of which could also be a mode of modulating a sense of danger and each of which would demand a unique clinical response. These were: 'transference of responsibility'-transferring the responsibility to their GP, 'general versus specific risk'-considering the risk of taking medicine in general as opposed to the specific risk of taking an NSAID, and 'personal immunity'-some patients with a long history of NSAID use without apparent toxicity believed they were, therefore, not at risk of future adverse effects, while a few patients believed they were immune to adverse effects of drugs in general.
there is a need for greater recognition of these 'modes of disengagement'/'hazard modulation' in order to attain a clinical response leading to safer, more effective and more ethical use of medicines.
Imipenem is an antibiotic used with cilastatin in the bone marrow transplant (BMT) setting. Cyclosporin A (CsA) is an immunosuppressive agent. Seizures can be seen with both imipenem/cilastatin and CsA. Our hypothesis for study was that CNS toxicity and seizures are increased by the concomitant administration of CsA and imipenem/cilastatin. Between December of 1989 and 1996, all of the 166 stem cell BMTs performed at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York were evaluated for this study. Three groups were studied: 77 patients received CsA alone (Group 1); 89 patients received imipenem/cilastatin, and of these, 45 received concomitant CsA (Group 2); and 44 patients who underwent autologous BMT received imipenem/cilastatin only (Group 3). We observed a total of 5 seizure episodes. There were no statistical differences in frequency between the groups. Adverse effects may be difficult to relate to a particular drug, especially for patients on multidrug regimens but the use of imipenem/cilastatin and CsA did not cause a significant rise in the frequency of seizures when compared to CsA alone.
As part of a study on the interaction between diuretics and renal prostaglandins, four healthy medical students receiving indomethacin for 8 days were also given triamterene for 3 days. Whereas renal function was initially normal in all four subjects, creatinine clearance decreased in two by 62% and 72% after concomitant administration of the two drugs, and was only restored to normal after 4 weeks. In control periods when triamterene or indomethacin was given alone renal function was preserved in all subjects. Urinary prostaglandin E2 was stimulated by triamterene and inhibited by indomethacin in all four subjects; both changes were more marked in the two sensitive subjects. Thus prostaglandin inhibition by indomethacin may unmask triamterene toxicity and contribute to the pathogenesis of the renal failure observed in sensitive subjects. As alternative therapy is readily available, avoidance of this potentially nephrotoxic association is recommended.
