To assess the genotoxicity of 14 chemical agents used as locally applied agents in dental practice, the ability of these agents to elicit chromosome aberrations was examined using Syrian hamster embryo (SHE) cells. Chromosome aberrations in SHE cells were induced by treatment with three of eight chemical agents used as endodontic medicaments, i.e. ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA), formocresol (a mixture of formalin and tricresol), and sodium arsenite. The other five chemical agents, i.e. chloramphenicol, p-chlorophenol, p-phenolsulfonic acid, sodium hypochlorite, and tetracycline hydrochloride exhibited a negative response for chromosome aberrations. Assessment of three dyes used for disclosing dental plaque showed chromosome aberrations induced by basic fuchsin but not by acid fuchsin and erythrosine B. Three local anesthetics, lidocaine hydrochloride, prilocaine hydrochloride, and procaine hydrochloride, were negative for chromosome aberrations. Among the ten chemical agents that exhibited a negative response in the assay, p-chlorophenol, sodium hypochlorite, and erythrosine B induced chromosome aberrations in SHE cells when treated in the presence of exogenous metabolic activation. The percentages of cells with polyploidy or endoreduplication were enhanced by formocresol, sodium arsenite, p-chlorophenol, p-phenolsulfonic acid, sodium hypochlorite, erythrosine B, prilocaine hydrochloride, and procaine hydrochloride in the absence or presence of exogenous metabolic activation. Our results indicate that the chemical agents that had a positive response in the present study are potentially genotoxic to mammalian cells.
Transient global amnesia (TGA) is defined as a selective, or almost selective, deficit of the memory that appears suddenly and lasts less than 24 hours. The aetiopathogenesis of this syndrome remains unknown and different theories have been put forward about its epileptic or ischemic origin, or the relationship that exists with the neuronal depression that is produced in migraine. A number of triggering factors have been described, including the taking of distinct pharmaceutical preparations.
We report the cases of two patients with a history of migraines who suffered TGA after taking ergotamine and dihydroergotamine, respectively, to treat an attack of migraine.
Given the vasoconstriction effect of these drugs, it was concluded that in both cases the main factor that triggered the TGA was the ingestion of ergots.
We investigated the role of angiotensin II in vascular and circulating inflammatory markers in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). IL-1beta, IL-6, and TNF-alpha aortic mRNA expression and plasma levels were measured in adult SHR untreated or treated with the angiotensin II receptor antagonist candesartan (2 mg.kg(-1).day(-1)) or antihypertensive triple therapy (TT; in mg.kg(-1).day(-1): 20 hydralazine + 7 type 1 hydrochlorothiazide + 0.15 reserpine) for 10 wk. Likewise, aortic expression of NF-kappaB p50 subunit precursor p105 and its inhibitor (IkappaB) were measured. Age-matched Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY) served as normotensive reference. High blood pressure levels were associated with increased (P < 0.05) aortic mRNA expression of IL-1beta, IL-6, and TNF-alpha. Hypertension was also accompanied by increased IL-1beta and IL-6 plasma levels. No differences were observed in circulating TNF-alpha levels between SHR and WKY. SHR presented elevated aortic mRNA expression of the transcription factor NF-kappaB and reduction in its inhibitor, IkappaB. Candesartan decreased (P < 0.05) blood pressure levels, aortic mRNA expression of IL-1beta, IL-6, and TNF-alpha, and (P < 0.05) IL-1beta and IL-6 plasma concentration. However, although arterial pressure decrease was comparable for the treatments, TT only partially reduced the increments in inflammatory markers. In fact, candesartan-treated rats showed significantly lower levels of circulating and vascular inflammatory markers than TT-treated animals. The treatments increased IkappaB mRNA expression similarly. However, only candesartan reduced NF-kappaB mRNA expression. In summary, 1) SHR presented a vascular inflammatory process; 2) angiotensin II, and increased hemodynamic forces associated with hypertension, seems to be involved in stimulation of inflammatory mediators through NF-kappaB system activation; and 3) reduction of inflammatory mediators produced by candesartan in SHR could be partially due to both downregulation of NF-kappaB and upregulation of IkappaB.
The effects of small doses of felodipine (10 mg twice daily) on blood pressure, renal function and sodium and water balance were studied in 11 patients with arterial hypertension. Felodipine significantly reduced systolic and diastolic blood pressure: most of the antihypertensive effect was already evident on day 1 of administration (-18/-11 mmHg) and only slightly increased during the subsequent week. Heart rate rose moderately only during day 1 of felodipine administration (+7 beats/min). Sodium excretion was increased during days 1 and 2, and no signs of water and electrolyte retention was observed in the week during which the balance study could be performed (Na, -135 +/- 65 mmol/7 days). At relatively low doses felodipine appears to be an effective antihypertensive agent, initially exerting some diuretic and natriuretic action and subsequently being devoid of a water- and sodium-retaining action.
Thiopurine S-methyltransferase (TPMT) is an enzyme that catalyzes the S-methylation of thiopurine drugs such as 6-mercaptopurine, 6-thioguanine, and azathioprine. TPMT activity exhibits an interindividual variability, mainly as a result of genetic polymorphism. Patients with intermediate or deficient TMPT activity are at risk for toxicity after receiving standard doses of thiopurine drugs. It has previously been reported that 3 variant alleles: TPMT*2, *3A, and *3C are responsible for over 95% cases of low enzyme activity. The purpose of this study was to explore the association between these polymorphisms and the occurrence of azathioprine adverse effects in 112 renal transplant recipients undergoing triple immunosuppressive therapy including azathioprine, cyclosporine, and prednisone. TPMT genetic polymorphism was determined using PCR-RFLP and allele-specific PCR methods. Azathioprine dose, leukocyte, erythrocyte, and platelet counts, graft rejection episodes, as well as cyclosporine levels were analyzed throughout the first year after organ transplantation. We found the frequency of leukopenia episodes (WBC < 4.0 x 10(9)/L) significantly higher in heterozygous patients (53.8%) compared with those with TPMT wild-type genotype (23.5%). One patient, who was a compound homozygote (3A/*3C), experienced severe azathioprine-related myelotoxicity each time after receiving the standard drug dose. Our results suggest that polymorphisms in TPMT gene may be responsible for approximately 12.5% of all leukopenia episodes in renal transplant recipients treated with azathioprine. Genotyping for the major TPMT variant alleles may be a valuable tool in preventing AZA toxicity and optimization of immunosuppressive therapy.
Nine human ovarian cancer cell lines that express wild-type (wt) or mutated p53 were used to evaluate the cytotoxicity induced by paclitaxel. The IC50 calculated in the five mutated p53-expressing cell lines was not different from the four wt p53-expressing cell lines. The introduction of wt p53, by using a temperature-sensitive mutant murine p53 or the human p53 under the control of a tetracycline-dependent promoter, did not change the cytotoxicity of paclitaxel as compared to mock-transfected cells. By using for each cell line the paclitaxel IC50, we found that these concentrations were sufficient to induce an increase in p53 levels in all of the four wt p53-expressing cells, whereas in the mutated p53-expressing cells, the levels were unaffected. This increase in p53 levels led to an increase in the mRNA and protein levels of p53 downstream genes (WAF1, GADD45, and bax). In none of the cell lines examined was paclitaxel able to induce apoptosis, evaluated by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated nick end labeling staining and filter binding assay at concentrations closed to the IC50. By increasing the concentration of paclitaxel in the filter binding assay, we could see fragmentation of DNA in the different cell lines. We conclude that the presence of p53 is not a determinant for the cytotoxicity induced by paclitaxel in human ovarian cancer cell lines. Differences in the activation of p53 downstream genes could be observed in wt versus mutated p53-expressing cells, but this does not account either for a differential induction of apoptosis or for a change in cytotoxicity induced by paclitaxel.
Acetaminophen-induced liver toxicity is the most frequent precipitating cause of acute liver failure and liver transplant, but contemporary medical practice has mainly focused on patient management after a liver injury has been induced. An integrative genetic, transcriptional, and two-dimensional NMR-based metabolomic analysis performed using multiple inbred mouse strains, along with knowledge-based filtering of these data, identified betaine-homocysteine methyltransferase 2 (Bhmt2) as a diet-dependent genetic factor that affected susceptibility to acetaminophen-induced liver toxicity in mice. Through an effect on methionine and glutathione biosynthesis, Bhmt2 could utilize its substrate (S-methylmethionine [SMM]) to confer protection against acetaminophen-induced injury in vivo. Since SMM is only synthesized in plants, Bhmt2 exerts its beneficial effect in a diet-dependent manner. Identification of Bhmt2 and the affected biosynthetic pathway demonstrates how a novel method of integrative genomic analysis in mice can provide a unique and clinically applicable approach to a major public health problem.
To assess the effects of cilostazol in inhibiting proliferation and enhancing apoptosis in synovial cells from patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
Synovial cell proliferation was measured by MTT assay. The expression of NF-kappaB, IkappaBalpha, Bcl-2, Bax, heme oxygenase 1 (HO-1), and Nrf2 was determined by Western blotting.
Cilostazol suppressed synovial cell proliferation by arresting the G(2)/M phases of the cell cycle, and this was reversed by KT5720, an inhibitor of protein kinase A. Cilostazol increased the number of TUNEL-positive cells, with increased cytochrome c release and apoptosis-inducing factor translocation as well as increased caspase 3 activation. Cilostazol (10 microM) and cobalt protoporphyrin IX (CoPP) increased HO-1 messenger RNA and protein expression. These effects were suppressed by zinc protoporphyrin IX (ZnPP), an HO-1 inhibitor. Cilostazol and CoPP significantly increased IkappaBalpha in the cytosol and decreased NF-kappaB p65 expression in the nucleus. Increased expression of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha), interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), and IL-6 induced by lipopolysaccharide was attenuated by cilostazol and CoPP, and this was reversed by ZnPP. In mice with collagen-induced arthritis treated with cilostazol (10 and 30 mg/kg/day), paw thickness was decreased with increased apoptotic cells in the joints. In synovial cells transfected with small interfering RNA (siRNA) targeting HO-1, cilostazol did not suppress expression of TNFalpha, IL-1beta, and IL-6, in contrast to findings with negative control cells. Cilostazol- and CoPP-induced HO-1 expression was diminished in cells transfected with Nrf2 siRNA.
Cilostazol suppressed proliferation of synovial cells from RA patients by enhancing apoptosis, and also inhibited cytokine production via mediation of cAMP-dependent protein kinase activation-coupled Nrf2-linked HO-1 expression.
Pleural fibrosis is a misunderstood disorder which can cause severe restrictive lung disease with high morbidity and even mortality. The condition can develop in response to a large variety of diseases and tissue injury, among them infectious disease, asbestos, drugs, and radiation therapy. There is no efficient treatment to reverse established pleural fibrosis. TGF-beta1 is suspected, even if not proven, as a key cytokine in this process. In this study, we used adenoviral gene transfer of TGF-beta1 to the pleural mesothelium in rats. We show that local and transient TGF-beta1 overexpression induces homogenous, prolonged, and progressive pleural fibrosis without pleurodesis, associated with severe impairment of pulmonary function. We further demonstrate that pleural fibrosis can expand into the lung parenchyma from the visceral layer, but not into the muscle from the parietal layer. We provide evidence that matrix accumulation and fibrosis within the parenchyma evolved through a process involving "mesothelial-fibroblastoid transformation" and suggest that the pleural mesothelial cell may be an important player involved in the development of the subpleural distribution pattern known to be a hallmark of pulmonary fibrosis. This new model of pleural fibrosis will allow us to better understand the mechanisms of progressive fibrogenesis, and to explore novel antifibrotic therapies in the pleural cavity.
To investigate the inhibitory effect of As(2)O(3) on angiogenesis of tumor and expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in tumor cells in vivo and in vitro.
The solid tumor model was formed in nude mice with the gastric cancer cell line SGC-7901. The animals were randomly divided into three groups. As(2)O(3) was injected into the arsenic-treated groups (2.5 mg/kg and 5 mg/kg) and the same volume of saline solution was injected into the control group. Microvessel density (MVD) and expression of VEGF were detected with immunofluorescence laser confocal technology. Further expression of VEGF protein and VEGF mRNA was measured with Western bloting and fluorescence quantitative RT- PCR in SGC-7901 cells treated with As(2)O(3).
In nude mice, after treatment with 5 mg/kg and 2.5 mg/kg As(2)O(3) respectively, about 50% and 30% tumor growth inhibition were observed correspondingly (P<0.05, P<0.05). Decrease in MVD appeared in As(2)O(3)-treated tumors compared with control group (P<0.001, P<0.001). MVD in tumors was significantly lower in 5 mg/kg group than in 2.5 mg/kg group (P<0.01). The fluorescence intensity levels of VEGF in tumor cells were significantly lowered in the arsenic-treated groups (P<0.01, P<0.01). The fluorescence intensity level of VEGF in 5 mg/kg group was lower than that in 2.5 mg/kg group (P<0.01). In vitro, the expression of VEGF protein decreased in dose- and time-dependent manner after the treatment with As(2)O(3), but in VEGF mRNA no significant difference was found between the control group and the treated groups.
As(2)O(3) can inhibit solid tumor growth by inhibiting the formation of new blood vessels. One of the mechanisms is that As(2)O(3) can inhibit VEGF protein expression.
To clarify the beneficial effects of cilnidipine, an L- and N-type calcium channel blocker, which were clinically observed against diastolic dysfunction in hypertrophied hearts of hypertensive patients, we investigated the effects of cilnidipine on cardiac remodeling and enhanced gene expression in stroke-prone, spontaneously hypertensive rats in comparison with that of captopril, a well-known angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, at threshold doses with little blood pressure lowering effect. The expression of type III collagen and beta/alpha-myosin heavy chain as well as transforming growth factor-beta, and basic fibroblast growth factor were suppressed by both treatments, indicating the prevention or amelioration of cardiac dysfunction. Such beneficial effects were much more intense with cilnidipine treatment than in captopril. These results indicate that Ca2+ is a key factor in the pathogenesis of cardiac remodeling in hypertension. One possible beneficial effect of cilnidipine in the prevention of cardiac dysfunction may be due to the decreased amount of growth factors such as transforming growth factor-beta and basic fibroblast growth factor via direct action for Ca2+ influx and also via inhibition of local renin-angiotensin system in the myocardium.
A gene for autosomal recessive parkinsonism, PARK2 (parkin), has recently been identified on chromosome 6q and shown to be mutated in Japanese and European families, mostly with early-onset parkinsonism. Here we present a large pedigree from South Tyrol (a region of northern Italy) with adult-onset, clinically typical tremor-dominant parkinsonism of apparently autosomal dominant inheritance. Haplotype analysis excluded linkage to the chromosome 2p, 4p, and 4q regions that harbor genes associated with autosomal dominant parkinsonism, but implicated the parkin locus on chromosome 6q. Compound heterozygous deletions in the parkin gene (one large and one truncating) were identified in 4 affected male siblings. The patients were clinically indistinguishable from most patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease. None of them displayed any of the clinical hallmarks described in patients with previously reported parkin mutations, including diurnal fluctuations, benefit from sleep, foot dystonia, hyperreflexia, and early susceptibility to levodopa-induced dyskinesias. Two affected female individuals carried one (truncating) of the two deletions in a heterozygous state with an apparently normal allele. We conclude that the phenotypic spectrum associated with mutations in the parkin gene is broader than previously reported, suggesting that this gene may be important in the etiology of the more frequent late-onset typical Parkinson's disease.
Vigabatrin is an anti-epileptic drug particularly useful for drug-resistant partial seizures and infantile spasms. Recently, vigabatrin-induced visual field constriction (VFC) and abnormal ocular electrophysiological studies were reported. In this study, we assessed visual fields, visual evoked potentials (VEPs), and electroretinography (ERG) in children treated with vigabatrin. Twenty-four visually asymptomatic children underwent a clinical ophthalmological examination, perimetry when appropriate, and VEP and ERG. Thirteen patients had at least one abnormal study. VFC was seen in 11 of 17 patients who had perimetry; 5 of 15 patients who underwent VEP testing and 4 of 11 who underwent ERG testing had abnormal examinations. For the most part, abnormal VEPs and ERGs were found in children who also had VFC. There was a consistent trend for longer treatment periods to correlate with VFC, abnormal ERGs, and VEPs. In summary, over half of the children treated with vigabatrin demonstrated VFC or abnormal ocular electrophysiological studies. Perimetry seemed to be the most sensitive modality for identifying vigabatrin toxicity. Abnormal ERGs and VEPs were primarily seen in children with VFC and may be useful in monitoring children who are not appropriate candidates for perimetry. Although the incidence of vigabatrin-induced VFC is worrisome, in the context of intractable seizures or infantile spasms, therapeutic benefits must be weighed against risks.
A 51-year-old male was transferred to our hospital just after traffic accident. On admission, the patient was comatose (Glasgow Coma Scale of 6) and showed a left hemiparesis with a left oculomotor nerve palsy. Computed tomography demonstrated a traumatic subarachnoid hemorrhage without mass lesion. Magnetic resonance imaging showed high intensity lesions on the left dorsolateral midbrain and the right cerebral peduncle. The distribution of lesions implied diffuse axonal injury involving dopaminergic systems such as the substantia nigra and the ventral tegmental area. After several months of conservative management, the patient showed no recovery and was diagnosed as persistent vegetable state. The administration of L-dopa was then started and the patient showed remarkable neurological improvement. Therefore the patient's neurological status was thought to be modified with primary brain stem injury and accompanying traumatic Parkinson's syndrome. It is important to understand "pseudo" persistent vegetative state in the management of patients showing prolonged consciousness disturbance. L-dopa should be considered as the drugs of pharmacological intervention for the patients of masked parkinsonism behind "pseudo" persistent vegetative state whose dopaminergic systems might have been damaged.
We used programmed ventricular stimulation to test intravenous bretylium tosylate in 10 consecutive patients with inducible sustained ventricular tachycardia (usually refractory to type I antiarrhythmic agents). These 10 patients had previously documented sustained ventricular tachycardia and/or ventricular fibrillation complicating stable heart disease. Following control inductions of sustained ventricular tachycardia, bretylium 10 mg/kg was infused over 30 minutes. Thirty minutes after this infusion, sustained ventricular tachycardia could be induced in 9 of the 10 patients (one of these nine patients also had bretylium-potentiated spontaneous ventricular tachycardia). Tachycardia induced in the nine patients after bretylium was similar to control tachycardia with respect to morphology and cycle length (333 +/- 16 msec after bretylium versus 330 +/- 16 msec during control). However, five of the nine patients tolerated induced tachycardia less well after bretylium (exacerbated hypotension). In one patient, ventricular tachycardia could not be induced after intravenous bretylium.
Although it is well known that dietary lipids affect the course of glomerulonephritis in rats and humans, the precise mechanisms involved have not been fully elucidated. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of different types of dietary lipids (fish oil and vegetable oil) on daunomycin (DM)-induced nephropathy in mice fed on soybean oil (SO) or cod liver oil (CLO). Urinary protein excretion, serum albumin, creatinine, total cholesterol, and TG were measured, and glomerular histological changes were evaluated. Antioxidant enzymes were also measured, along with the levels of lipid peroxide, GSH, thromboxane (Tx) B2, and 6-keto prostaglandin F1alpha in renal cortical tissue. Dietary CLO significantly reduced urinary albumin excretion and ameliorated the histological changes induced by DM. The increase of tissue lipid peroxide levels seen in SO-fed mice was suppressed in CLO-fed mice, whereas CLO-fed mice showed higher GSH levels than SO-fed mice throughout the experiment. In addition, renal tissue GSH peroxidase activity was significantly higher at 72 h after DM injection in CLO-DM mice than in SO-DM mice. Both renal cortical TxB2 and 6-keto PGF1alpha levels were significantly lower in CLO-DM mice than in SO-DM mice. These results suggest that inhibition of oxidative damage by dietary CLO played an important role in the prevention of DM nephropathy in this mouse model. The effect of CLO was closely associated with the inhibition of Tx synthesis.
We report an unusual thromboembolic event occurring during severe heparin-induced thrombocytopenia. A left intraventricular thrombus was diagnosed as the source of multiple arterial emboli, resulting in an initial cerebrovascular event and subsequent bilateral acute lower extremity ischemia requiring emergency surgery. No underlying heart disease was detected. Pathologic examination of the embolectomy specimen revealed fibrin platelet aggregates with rare white and red blood cells, consistent with a "white thrombus." We conclude that routine monitoring of platelet count should be performed in all patients receiving heparin to identify promptly individuals who have heparin-induced thrombocytopenia, and when thromboembolic complications occur in this setting, echocardiography is indicated to identify possible intracardiac sources for emboli, even in patients with previously known structurally intact hearts.
Pendred syndrome (PS) is an autosomal recessive disease that is characterized by congenital sensorineural hearing loss, goiter, and a partial iodine organification defect. In this study, we characterized the thyroid status and identified mutations in the SLC26A4 gene in Chinese subjects with PS. We evaluated 7 unrelated Chinese subjects who had PS. Biochemical analysis, formal audiogram, ultrasonography of the thyroid gland, perchlorate discharge test, computerized tomography scan of the vestibular aqueducts, and DNA sequence analysis of SLC26A4 were performed. Levels of thyroid hormones were essentially normal in all patients: 2 patients had goiters and/or elevated serum thyroglobulin levels, whereas 2 other patients had positive thyroid antibodies and a positive perchlorate discharge test. We identified SLC26A4 gene mutations in 6 of 7 probands and their affected relatives. The affected subjects in family I was compound heterozygous for 2 missense mutations: a mutation in exon 9 (1079C>T) that resulted in the replacement of alanine by valine at codon 360 (A360V) and a mutation in exon 19 (2168A>G) that resulted in the replacement of histidine by arginine at codon 723 (H723R). The affected subjects in families II and III all were homozygous for a mutation in intron 7. The probands IV and V were compound heterozygotes for the mutation in intron 7 and in exon 19, and the proband VI was compound heterozygous for the intron 7 mutation and a missense mutation in exon 12 (1343C>T) that resulted in the replacement of serine by leucine at codon 448 (S448L). One novel mutation was identified (A360V). We identified biallelic mutations in the SLC26A4 gene in 6 of 7 probands with PS in Taiwan, including a novel missense mutation. The mild thyroid dysfunction in these patients suggests that PS should be considered in all patients with congenital or early-onset hearing impairment.
Autism is a childhood-onset disorder of unknown, possibly of multiple aetiologies. The core symptoms of autism are abnormalities in social interaction, communication and behaviour. The involvement of neurotransmitters such as 5-HT has been suggested in neuropsychiatric disorders and particularly in autistic disorder. Increased platelet 5-HT levels were found in 40% of the autistic population, suggesting that hyperserotonaemia may be a pathologic factor in infantile autism. Therefore, it is of interest to assess the efficacy of cyproheptadine, a 5-HT2 antagonist in the treatment of autistic disorder. In this 8-week double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, we assessed the effects of cyproheptadine plus haloperidol in the treatment of autistic disorder.
Children between the ages 3 and 11 years (inclusive) with a DSM IV clinical diagnosis of autism and who were outpatients from a specialty clinic for children at Roozbeh Psychiatric Teaching Hospital were recruited. The children presented with a chief complaint of severely disruptive symptoms related to autistic disorder. Patients were randomly allocated to cyproheptadine + haloperidol (Group A) or haloperidol + placebo (Group B) for an 8-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. The dose of haloperidol and cyproheptadine was titrated up to 0.05 and 0.2 mg/kg/day respectively. Patients were assessed by a third-year resident of psychiatry at baseline and after 2, 4, 6 and 8 weeks of starting medication. The primary measure of the outcome was the Aberrant Behaviour Checklist-Community (ABC-C) and the secondary measure of the outcome was the Childhood Autism Rating Scale (relating to people and verbal communication). Side effects and extrapyramidal symptoms were systematically recorded throughout the study and were assessed using a checklist and the Extrapyramidal Symptoms Rating Scale, administered by a resident of psychiatry during weeks 1, 2, 4, 6 and 8.
The ABC-C and the Childhood Autism Rating Scale scores improved with cyproheptadine. The behaviour of the two treatments was not homogeneous across time (groups-by-time interaction, Greenhouse-Geisser correction; F = 7.30, d.f. = 1.68, P = 0.002; F = 8.21, d.f. = 1.19, P = 0.004 respectively). The difference between the two treatments was significant as indicated by the effect of group, and the between-subjects factor (F = 4.17, d.f. = 1, P = 0.048; F = 4.29, d.f. = 1, P = 0.045 respectively). No significant difference was observed between the two groups in terms of extrapyramidal symptoms (P = 0.23). The difference between the two groups in the frequency of side effects was not significant.
The results suggest that the combination of cyproheptadine with a conventional antipsychotic may be superior to conventional antipsychotic alone for children with autistic disorder. However the results need confirmation by a larger randomized controlled trial.
In utero, 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) exposure causes abnormal ventral, dorsolateral, and anterior prostate development in C57BL/6J mice. Androgens, mesenchymal-epithelial interactions, and growth factor expression all have roles in initiating and regulating development and growth of the prostate. Epidermal growth factor (EGF) and transforming growth factor alpha (TGF-alpha), both of which bind the EGF receptor (EGFR), are expressed in human and rodent developing prostate. This study examines the influence of null expression of EGF and/or TGF-alpha on prostatic bud development and on the ability of TCDD to inhibit prostatic budding. Growth factor knockout (-/-) and wild-type (WT) mice were exposed either to vehicle or to TCDD (0, 0.2, 1, 5, 10, 50, 100, or 150 microg/kg) on gestation day (GD) 12. The number of anterior, dorsal, and lateral prostatic buds (ADLB) and ventral buds (VB) were counted on GD 17.5. Control WT and EGF (-/-) fetuses had similar numbers of ADLB and VB. In control TGF-alpha (-/-) fetuses, the number of ADLBs was higher relative to the C57BL/6J. Control EGF + TGF-alpha (-/-) had poor bud outgrowth, especially in the ADL region. TCDD induced a dose-related decrease in bud formation in all strains with the formation of VBs being more sensitive than ADLBs. The severity of the response depended on growth factor expression, with the most severe effects on VBs in the EGF (-/-) and on ADLBs in the EGF + TGF-alpha (-/-) fetuses. TGF-alpha (-/-) and C57BL/6J fetuses responded to TCDD similarly. In conclusion, EGF and TGF-alpha expression are important for the formation of ADLBs and VBs, and expression of EGF and TGF-alpha affects the ability of TCDD to inhibit prostatic bud formation in a region-specific manner.
Early repolarization in the inferolateral leads has been recently recognized as a frequent syndrome associated with idiopathic ventricular fibrillation (VF). We report the case of a patient presenting dramatic changes in the ECG in association with recurrent VF in whom a novel genetic variant has been identified.
This young female (14 years) was resuscitated in 2001 following an episode of sudden death due to VF. All examinations including coronary angiogram with ergonovine injection, MRI, and flecainide or isoproterenol infusion were normal. The patient had multiple (>100) recurrences of VF unresponsive to beta-blockers, lidocaine/mexiletine, verapamil, and amiodarone. Recurrences of VF were associated with massive accentuation of the early repolarization pattern at times mimicking acute myocardial ischemia. Coronary angiography during an episode with 1.2 mV J/ST elevation was normal. Isoproterenol infusion acutely suppressed electrical storms, while quinidine eliminated all recurrences of VF and restored a normal ECG over a follow-up of 65 months. Genomic DNA sequencing of K(ATP) channel genes showed missense variant in exon 3 (NC_000012) of the KCNJ8 gene, a subunit of the K(ATP) channel, conferring predisposition to dramatic repolarization changes and ventricular vulnerability.
Experiments were conducted on dogs, cats and rats in which various disturbances of the cardiac rhythm were induced. Beta2-adrenoblocker alpheprol proved to produce a marked antiarrhythmic action. The preparation arrested the auricular arrhythmias caused by electric stimulation of the auricles or by aconitine application, eliminated the auricular arrhythmias resulting from occlusion of a branch of the coronary artery or oubaine intoxication, prevented lethal auricular fibrillation in rats after the calcium chloride intoxication. It is supposed that along with the beta-adrenoreceptor block the antiarrhythmic effect of alpheprol was also caused by quinidine-like action of the preparation.
Two cases of propylthiouracil-associated acute hepatitis, one case of fatal methimazole-associated hepatocellular necrosis and one case of propylthiouracil-associated lupus-like syndrome are described. The literature related to antithyroid drug side effects and the mechanisms for their occurrence are reviewed and the efficacy and complications of thyroidectomy and radioiodine compared to those of antithyroid drugs. It is concluded that in most circumstances 131I is the therapy of choice for hyperthyroidism.
To determine the effectiveness of diazepam pretreatment in preventing succinylcholine (SCh)-induced fasciculations and body pains, 587 patients were randomly allocated to six groups. Patients in Group I received no pretreatment and served as controls. Patients in Groups II and III were pretreated with 0.05 mg/kg of diazepam either 4-5 min (Group II) or 8-10 min (Group III) prior to SCh administration. Patients in Groups IV and V received 0.1 mg/kg of diazepam either 4-5 min (Group IV) or 8-10 min (Group V) prior to SCh administration, while patients in Group VI were pretreated with 0.05 mg/kg of d-tubocurarine (dTc) 4-5 min prior to SCh. The succinylcholine dosage was 1.0 mg/kg in Groups I through V and 1.5 mg/kg in Group VI. Fasciculations, intubation conditions and postoperative body pains were evaluated in all groups. Fasciculations were seen in 90% of patients in the control group and 15% in the dTc pretreatment group, while diazepam was ineffective in altering the frequency or intensity of fasciculations. Conditions for intubation were judged to be clinically adequate in all groups. Body pains were seen in 33% of patients in the control group and 28-36% in diazepam-pretreated groups and in only 8% of patients in the dTc pretreatment group. There was no statistically significant difference in the incidence of body pains by virtue of site of operation, age, sex, and inpatient/outpatient status. It is concluded that the problem of postoperative myalgia is significant and that dTc pretreatment is the effective method for prevention of fasciculations and postoperative myalgia. Diazepam pretreatment was ineffective for the prevention of fasciculations and myalgia.
Visceral glomerular epithelial cells (GEC) are crucial for glomerular permselectivity and structural integrity in the kidney. The current study addressed the role of cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 and its product prostaglandin (PG) E2 in GEC survival. We generated a subclone of cultured rat GEC, which overexpress COX-2 in an inducible manner. When COX-2 was induced, GEC survived better in serum-deprived conditions. Induction of COX-2 was correlated with increased PGE2 generation, increased activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase, decreased apoptosis, and increased cell proliferation. Rat GEC abundantly expressed the EP4 isoform of PGE2 receptor. Induction of COX-2 and addition of exogenous PGE2 both lead to decreased serum deprivation-induced apoptosis, which was accompanied by activation of the survival kinase Akt. Anti-apoptotic effect of COX-2 induction was reversed by the specific inhibitor of the EP4 receptor, L-161982. PGE2 also inhibited puromycin aminonucleoside-induced GEC apoptosis in vitro. Acute puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis (PAN) is a rat model of GEC injury and proteinuria. In rats with PAN, glomerular apoptosis, quantified as caspase-3 activity, as well as urinary protein excretion were significantly increased, compared with control rats. Administration of L-161982 in rats with PAN further exacerbated caspase-3 activation and proteinuria. Thus COX-2 and its product PGE2 may have anti-apoptotic/protective effect on GEC via the EP4 receptor of PGE2.
