Previous clinical studies with intravenous enoximone have used cumulative dosing to quantify enoximone's hemodynamic effects. The magnitude and duration of the hemodynamic effects of single intravenous doses of enoximone were evaluated in patients with congestive heart failure. Sixty patients, who were in New York Heart Association functional classes III and IV, received single intravenous doses of enoximone, either 0.25 (12 patients), 0.5 (13 patients), 1 (14 patients), 1.5 (10 patients) or 2 mg/kg (11 patients). Cardiac index was increased by 20% with the 0.25 mg/kg dose and by 48% and 42% with the 1.5 and 2 mg/kg doses, respectively. These increases were statistically significant (Student's paired t test with Bonferroni's correction, p less than 0.007) for 1 hour after 0.25 and 0.5 mg/kg, for 2 hours after 1 mg/kg and for 4 hours after 1.5 and 2 mg/kg. Enoximone also reduced pulmonary artery diastolic pressure by 19% with 0.25 mg/kg and by 29% with 2 mg/kg. The duration of effect varied from 1 hour with 0.25 mg/kg to 4 hours with 2 mg/kg. Enoximone produced no consistent or dose-related effects on heart rate or blood pressure. Eighteen adverse reactions were reported by 15 patients, of which 11 were minor and transient (vein pain, flushes, nausea). In 5 patients ventricular or supraventricular arrhythmias were observed, including nonsustained ventricular tachycardia and extrasystoles; 3 of these patients had evidence of arrhythmias before enoximone. Laboratory studies before and after treatment showed no drug-related effects. Dose-related effects on the magnitude and duration of hemodynamic responses to intravenous enoximone were evident within the dose range of 0.25 to 2 mg/kg.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Sildenafil is used in infants and children mainly for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension associated with congenital heart disease. Some side-effects of sildenafil are similar to the symptoms and signs of congestive heart failure in children. We present a case of a two-month-old infant with supracardiac total anomalous venous connection and pulmonary hypertension, who presented with severe sweating and tachycardia after institution of sildenafil therapy. He improved dramatically on discontinuation of the drug.
A case of male pseudohermaphroditism aged 48 years with systemic hypertension and hypokalaemic alkalosis is described. Results of metabolic studies point to a 17alpha-hydroxylase deficiency demonstrated by low cortisol (0-56 mg/24 h), high corticosterone (270 mg/24 h) and 11-deoxycorticosterone (5 mg/24 h) secretion rates. Adrenocorticotrophin and gonadotrophin levels were markedly raised but plasma androstenedione (3 ng/dl), testosterone (17 ng/dl), oestrone (3 ng/dl) and oestradiol(1-8 ng/dl) were all low. Plasma aldosterone levels and secretion rates in urine were low and were surprisingly unaffected by dexamethasone therapy although low renin levels rose with a marked return of the erect posture effect. Therapeutic levels of dexamethasone were, however, followed by incipient renal failure.
The effects of nifedipine on the death and proliferation of gingival fibroblasts were investigated to elucidate the mechanism of gingival overgrowth that is associated with chronic administration of Ca2+ channel blockers. The number of adhered viable and dead fibroblasts obtained from healthy human gingiva increased after confluence, whereas cell death was inhibited by nifedipine in a concentration-dependent manner. A similar inhibition was also observed in the presence of other calcium channel blockers, such as nicardipine, diltiazem, and verapamil. When gingival fibroblasts were co-cultured with RAW264 (macrophage-like) cells, lipopolysaccharide (LPS) caused the concentration-dependent death of fibroblasts. Nifedipine significantly inhibited the LPS-induced cell death. Although neither LPS nor N-ethyl-2-(1-ethyl-2-hydroxy-2-nitroso-hydrazino)-ethanamine, a nitric oxide donor, directly caused fibroblast death, 3-morpholino-sydnonimine (SIN-1), a peroxynitrite donor, induced fibroblast death, regardless of the presence of RAW cells. The cell death induced by SIN-1 was not affected by nifedipine treatment. LPS stimulation caused an increase in the immunoreactivity of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and in the nitrite concentration in the incubation medium of RAW cells. The induction of iNOS was completely prevented by the incubation with nifedipine. The inhibition by nifedipine of nitrite production in RAW cells was also observed after treatment with nicardipine, but not with either diltiazem or verapamil. Therefore, the inhibition by nifedipine of both adherence- and LPS-stimulated macrophage-induced death of fibroblasts may be the mechanism of gingival overgrowth seen during chronic treatment with Ca(2+) channel blockers.
We examined effects of a wide range of doses of three man-made estrogenic chemicals during fetal life on neurobehavioral changes during early postnatal life in mice. Pregnant mice were fed a 4-log range of o,p'DDT, methoxychlor (MXC), and the drug diethystilbestrol (DES) from gestation days 11 to 17. Offspring were examined for changes in postnatal growth and the development of neuromuscular reflexes. Fetal exposure to the estrogenic chemicals altered the number of live pups per litter, the sex ratio of the litters, the anogenital distance of male and female offspring at birth (a bioassay for fetal androgen action), and the body weight of offspring at birth and during the first 5 days of postnatal life. In most cases, however, the dose-response relationships were complex (non-monotonic), with effects at the highest dose examined being opposite to effects seen at lower doses. The two markers of neurobehavioral development, righting and cliff avoidance reflexes, were not sensitive indicators of prenatal estrogen exposure. Only maternal exposure to the lowest MXC dose produced an increase in reactivity in righting and cliff avoidance tests in offspring.
It is well established that lithium can cause morphologically visible damage to the kidneys of humans and animals. Although the clinical significance of its nephrotoxicity is debatable, it would be desirable to find a method to prevent lithium's effect on the kidneys. Toward this end, we have developed a novel method for producing nephrotoxicity that will be useful for research on prevention. A single, large, toxic dose of lithium chloride (LiCl) caused necrosis of the distal convoluted tubules, which was visible by light microscopy in 30 min, had fully developed in 1 h, and had disappeared by the next day. The lesions were seen after i.p. or i.v. injections of fasted rats of three different strains. Equivalent doses of NaCl, KCl, MgCl2 and combinations thereof had no such effect, nor did they inhibit nephrotoxicity when incorporated into the LiCl solution. However, relatively small doses of LiCl injected by any route 3 or 24 h beforehand prevented the nephrotoxicity. The mechanism of prevention is not known, but it does not involve reduction of lithium levels in the kidneys.
To observe the effect of resveratrol and propofol, used either alone or in combination, on hepatocyte apoptosis in rats with hepatic ischemia-reperfusion injury (HIRI).
A total of 144 male SD rats were randomized into 8 equal groups, including a sham-operated group and 7 HIRI (established using Pringle method) groups with pretreatments with normal saline, Tween80, propofol (10 or 20 mg·kg(-1)·h(-1)), or resveratrol (10 or 20 mg/kg), or both propofol and resveratrol 10 min before hepatic portal vein occlusion. At 1, 3 and 6 h after the reperfusion, 6 rats from each group were sacrificed for histopathological examination of the liver tissue, detection of hepatocyte apoptosis using TUNEL assay, and measurement of Bcl-2, Bax and caspase-3 protein expressions using immunohistochemistry.
Compared with normal saline and Tween80, propofol and resveratrol at different doses used alone or in combination all significantly alleviated the hepatic pathologies, lowered the apoptosis index (P<0.05), increased Bcl-2 expression (P<0.05), and reduced Bax and caspase-3 expressions in the liver tissues following HIRI (P<0.05). Compared with low doses of propofol and resveratrol used alone, their combination showed more obvious protective effects against hepatocyte apoptosis (P<0.05), but at higher doses, propofol and resveratrol either alone or in combination produced similar effects.
Propofol and resveratrol can suppress HIRI-induced hepatocyte apoptosis by up-regulating Bcl-2 and down-regulating Bax and caspase-3 expressions, and their combined use can reduce the effective doses of the drugs.
Peripheral and optic neuritis developed in a girl with hemoglobin SC disease, during long-term high-dose treatment of Salmonella osteomyelitis with chloramphenicol. Although the neurotoxicity of this antibiotic is well documented, the child's pain was initially considered to be a form of sickle-cell dactylitis.
Oguchi disease is a rare autosomal recessive form of congenital stationary night blindness with all other visual functions, including visual acuity, visual field, and colour vision being usually normal. A typical clinical feature of the disorder is a golden or gray-white discolouration of the fundus which disappears in the dark-adapted state and reappears shortly after the onset of light ('Mizuo phenomenon'; Fig. 1). The course of dark adaptation of rod photoreceptors is extremely retarded in Oguchi disease while that of cones appears to proceed normally. The locus for Oguchi disease was recently mapped between D2S172 and D2S345 on distal chromosome 2q by linkage analysis. Interestingly, the gene for arrestin, an intrinsic rod photoreceptor protein implicated in the recovery phase of light transduction, also maps to this region of chromosome 2q (refs 6, 7). Here we report that in five out of six unrelated Japanese patients with Oguchi disease, we have identified a homozygous deletion of nucleotide 1147 (1147delA) in codon 309 of the arrestin gene, predicting a shift in the reading frame and a premature termination of translation which may result in 'functional null alleles.'
Estrogen has been suggested to play a neuromodulatory and neuroprotective role on the brain dopamine system. We used aromatase knockout (ArKO) mice that lack a functional aromatase enzyme and are unable to convert testosterone into estrogen, and assessed prepulse inhibition of acoustic startle, locomotor hyperactivity to amphetamine treatment and rotarod performance. Mice were tested at either 1 month, 4-5 months or 12-18 months of age. In male, but not female ArKO mice, there was an age-related reduction of prepulse inhibition. The 12-18 months old male ArKO mice also showed significantly greater amphetamine-induced hyperactivity. Mice heterozygous for the mutation showed no deficits or were in-between wildtype mice and ArKO mice. We postulate that these data indicate a neuroprotective role of estrogen, particularly in male mice, on ageing of brain mechanisms involved in pre-pulse inhibition and locomotor activity regulation. It is likely that these brain mechanisms are or include dopaminergic activity.
Sixty-nine patients with chronic heart failure of moderate to advanced severity were treated with oral enoximone (mean dose 1.8 +/- 0.5 mg/kg every 6 to 8 hours) for an average of 35 weeks (range 1 to 129). Before long-term therapy in 56 patients, oral enoximone was shown to augment cardiac output by more than 30%. In 13 outpatients enoximone was initiated without hemodynamic monitoring. Within 12 weeks of therapy the majority of surviving patients were improved by at least 1 New York Heart Association functional class. In a subset of 30 patients who were able to perform reproducible treadmill exercise before entry, average maximal O2 uptake increased from 14.9 ml/kg/min at baseline to 17.6 ml/kg/min (p less than 0.05) at 2 to 4 weeks and remained increased at 17.4 ml/kg/min (p less than 0.05) at 12 weeks. Adverse gastrointestinal effects occurred in 11 patients and were generally mild. The 12 month survival rate was 44%; etiology of death was cardiogenic shock in 17 patients and 10 patients died suddenly while at home. Thus, improvements in symptoms and maximal VO2 were observed in many patients with moderate to severe heart failure during long-term therapy with enoximone. Controlled trials will be needed to establish the safety and efficacy of this promising new drug.
Pseudoachondroplasia (PSACH) is a well characterized dwarfing condition mapping to chromosome 19p12-13.1. Cartilage oligomeric matrix protein (COMP), a cartilage specific protein, maps to the same location within a contig that spans the PSACH locus. Using single strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) analysis and nucleotide sequencing we have identified COMP mutations in eight familial and isolated PSACH cases. All mutations involve either a single base-pair change or a three base-pair deletion in exon 17B. Six mutations delete or change a well conserved aspartic acid residue within the calcium-binding type 3 repeats. These results demonstrate that mutations in the COMP gene cause pseudochondroplasia.
Pseudoachondroplasia (PSACH) and multiple epiphyseal dysplasia (MED) are dominantly inherited chondrodysplasias characterized by short stature and early-onset osteoarthrosis. The disease genes in families with PSACH and MED have been localized to an 800 kilobase interval on the short arm of chromosome 19. Recently the gene for cartilage oligomeric matrix protein (COMP) was localized to chromosome 19p13.1. In three patients with these diseases, we identified COMP mutations in a region of the gene that encodes a Ca++ binding motif. Our data demonstrate that PSACH and some forms of MED are allelic and suggest an essential role for Ca++ binding in COMP structure and function.
A toxicology study of DENSPM was carried out in rats by multiple (once daily for 5 days) intravenous injection. Doses of 12.5, 25 and 50 mg DENSPM/kg were well tolerated. Infusion of 100 mg DENSPM resulted in distressing physical signs, including labored breathing, convulsive movements and acute death. There were no end-organ toxicities induced by this regimen as evaluated by serum chemistry and hematology examinations, and histopathologic exam of all major body organs. Transient hypotension was induced in rats and dogs by rapid infusion of DENSPM; the magnitude of this hypotension was decreased by slow infusion of DENSPM into dogs. Hypotension appears to be the dose-limiting toxicity of this agent when infused rapidly.
Changes in proline-specific peptidase activity in the frontal cortex and hippocampus were studied using the experimental model of retrograde amnesia in rats. In one group, the amnesia was produced by a single injection of M-cholinergic antagonist scopolamine and the other group received the maximal electroconvulsive stimulation (MES). The amnesic effect was evaluated in passive avoidance test. In the amnesia models under consideration, the activity of prolylendopeptidase was significantly increased in both frontal cortex and hippocampus. The activity of dipeptidyl peptidase IV was significantly decreased in the cortex, whereas in the hippocampus it remained unchanged. Pyracetam inhibited prolylendopeptidase in the cortex and hippocampus, whereas dipeptidyl peptidase IV activity remained unchanged.
Documented adverse reactions to anti-infective agents in patients of a home infusion company were studied to determine whether the prevalence of reactions was greater in patients receiving nafcillin or oxacillin than in those receiving other i.v. antiinfectives. Data on adverse drug reactions (ADRs) were obtained by reviewing the discharge summaries of all patients who received anti-infective therapy in 1990-1994 and the company's quarterly and annual ADR reports for that period. The occurrence of ADRs per total courses of therapy was calculated for groups of antiinfectives, as were intensity and causality. For ADRs to nafcillin and oxacillin, patient demographics and treatment information and outcomes were reviewed. A total of 2488 courses of anti-infective therapy were documented, and ADRs occurred in 10.9%. Nafcillin and oxacillin accounted for 105 courses, with an ADR rate of 31.4%; 99 patients received one of these drugs and 24 had ADRs, with rash and phlebitis the most common ADRs. Thirty-nine patients receiving nafcillin or oxacillin had documented infection with methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus. Seventy-five patients receiving nafcillin or oxacillin did not have an ADR; therapy was successful in 62 of these patients. Of the 24 patients with ADRs to nafcillin or oxacillin, 13 were switched to other i.v. anti-infectives, which were successful in 10 of them. Five patients were hospitalized because of ADRs to nafcillin or oxacillin. Most nafcillin or oxacillin ADRs that resulted in a therapy change or hospitalization occurred in the second or third week of therapy. Home care patients who received nafcillin or oxacillin therapy had a disproportionately high number of ADRs, compared with patients who received other anti-infective agents.
Temporary neurologic abnormalities were observed in one out of 23 patients undergoing chemotherapy with high-dose methotrexate (HD-MTX) for osteogenic sarcoma. This patient developed sequential symptoms including alternative hemiparesis, dysarthria and altered consciousness 5 days after the second course of HD-MTX (8 gm/m2 by 6 h continuous infusion) with leucovorin rescue. Laboratory evaluations disclosed normal electrolytes, hemograms and non-toxic serum MTX levels at the onset of the symptoms. Computed tomography of the brain was normal but electroencephalography showed focal theta and delta slow waves over the right temporal-parietal-occipital area. The neurological symptoms resolved completely within 72 h.
Twenty-three patients with advanced breast cancer were treated with the combination of mitoxantrone and doxorubicin. This study was conducted since there is incomplete cross-resistance between the two drugs, and since data in vitro suggested that mitoxantrone might decrease the cardiotoxicity of concurrently administered doxorubicin by decreasing doxorubicin-induced membrane lipid peroxidation. Of 20 patients who were evaluable for response, 10 (50%) responded. Myelosuppression was pronounced with mitoxantrone doses ranging from 6 to 10 mg/m2 and doxorubicin doses ranging from 30 to 50 mg/m2, but granulocytopenia-related infections were uncommon. Three of 14 patients who had repeated gated cardiac radionuclide scans had reductions in their ejection fractions of 26% or more at relatively small total cumulative doses of the drugs; one patient developed reversible congestive heart failure after having received high cumulative doses of the two drugs. Preliminary clinical data suggest that mitoxantrone does not protect patients from doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity. Other toxicity was generally mild.
A 5-year-old child with desmoplastic small round-cell tumor was treated with a protocol of very-high-dose, short-term chemotherapy, containing HD-CAV (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and mesna), ifosfamide, and etoposide. Two days after the initiation of ifosfamide, he exhibited new-onset lethal encephalopathy manifested by subacutely progressive cerebellar and then temporal and frontocortical degeneration leading to a vegetative state and eventually to death. A full work-up, including brain biopsy, was negative, excluding infections and metabolic or vascular causes. Ifosfamide is known to be capable of causing acute encephalopathy that can be severe but is generally reversible. This child showed a very atypical progressive, lethal course of ifosfamide toxicity. The possibility of this complication should be considered when high-dose ifosfamide treatment is planned for children.
Previous studies have demonstrated that angiotensin II stimulates expression of transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) in cultured renal cells. To investigate whether similar mechanisms are operative in vivo, glomerular TGF-beta mRNA expression was investigated in two-kidney, one-clip (2-K 1-C) hypertensive rats. Glomerular TGF-beta1 transcripts were elevated in the clipped kidney 6 d, but not 3 d, after surgery. Later, during the course of the disease (21 to 35 d), TGF-beta1 mRNA was upregulated in contralateral kidneys compared with sham-operated control kidneys. There was no difference in plasma TGF-beta1 levels between 2-K 1-C rats and controls. Treatment with the AT1 receptor antagonist losartan, as well as with triple therapy (hydralazine, reserpine, and hydrochlorothiazide), started 1 d after clipping, significantly reduced systolic BP in hypertensive rats at day 21 after clipping. Both treatments were equally effective in preventing the increase in glomerular TGF-beta1 mRNA and protein expression in the contralateral kidney at day 21. In a second set of experiments, interventional treatment with losartan or triple therapy, starting 14 d after surgery, was investigated. This treatment for 3 wk significantly reduced the increase in TGF-beta1 expression in the contralateral kidney. At day 35 after clipping, considerable glomerular damage and sclerosis were present, mainly in contralateral kidneys. Interventional treatment with losartan or triple therapy partly prevented this glomerular damage of the contralateral kidney. The data demonstrate that TGF-beta1 expression in the contralateral kidney in 2-K 1-C rats is regulated by the increase in systemic BP rather than by direct effects of angiotensin II.
The analgesic effect of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor blocker ketamine in 17 patients (13 females and four males, age 32-88 years) who had suffered neuropathic orofacial pain for time periods ranging from 6 months to 28 years was examined. The patients were given an i.m. test-dose of 0.4 mg/kg ketamine combined with 0.05 mg/kg midazolam. Four patients did not experience any analgesic effect of the i.m. test dose. The remaining 13 patients experienced an analgesic effect which lasted for less than 1 h (transient effect) in seven and for several hours (long-term effect) in six. One week later they were given 4 mg/kg ketamine to be taken orally in combination with a hypnotic drug for three consecutive nights. All patients who reported a long-term analgesic effect after i.m. ketamine also reported reduced pain intensity on days after taking ketamine at night. The findings of this open study are in accord with the results from a previous double-blind randomized investigation. In order to evaluate the role of age and pain duration for the analgesic effect of ketamine, we pooled the data from the two studies and performed a correlation analysis of 43 patients. We found a positive correlation between a long pain-history and lack of analgesic effect and also between a short pain-history and a long-term analgesic effect of low-dose ketamine. The apparent relationship between patient age and ketamine response was, however, not statistically significant. Further, patients with pain following a nerve lesion and patients without a known lesion of peripheral nerves were equally distributed between the three response groups. These results indicate that pain mechanisms are subject to alterations with time and that these alterations involve transition from NMDA to non-NMDA receptor mediated transmission in central pain pathways.
Cocaine addiction is characterized by an impaired ability to develop adaptive behaviors that can compete with cocaine seeking, implying a deficit in the ability to induce plasticity in cortico-accumbens circuitry crucial for regulating motivated behavior. We found that rats withdrawn from cocaine self-administration had a marked in vivo deficit in the ability to develop long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) in the nucleus accumbens core subregion after stimulation of the prefrontal cortex. N-acetylcysteine (NAC) treatment prevents relapse in animal models and craving in humans by activating cystine-glutamate exchange and thereby stimulating extrasynaptic metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR). NAC treatment of rats restored the ability to induce LTP and LTD by indirectly stimulating mGluR2/3 and mGluR5, respectively. Our findings show that cocaine self-administration induces metaplasticity that inhibits further induction of synaptic plasticity, and this impairment can be reversed by NAC, a drug that also prevents relapse.
We report characterization of a transgenic mouse that overexpresses constitutively active protein kinase Cepsilon in the heart and slowly develops a dilated cardiomyopathy with failure. The hemodynamic, mechanical, and biochemical properties of these hearts demonstrate a series of temporal events that mark the progression of the disease. In the 3-month transgenic (TG) animals, contractile properties and gene expression measurements are normal, but an increase in myofibrillar Ca2+ sensitivity and thin filament protein phosphorylation is noted. At 6 months, there is a decrease in the myofibrillar Ca2+ sensitivity, a significant increase in beta-myosin heavy chain mRNA and protein, normal cardiac function, but a blunted response to an inotropic challenge. The transition at 9 months is especially interesting because age-related changes appear to contribute to the decline in function seen in the TG heart. At this point, there is a decline in baseline function and maximum tension produced by the myofibrils, which is coincident with the onset of atrial myosin light chain isoform re-expression in the ventricles. In the 12-month TG mice, there is clear hemodynamic and geometric evidence of failure. Alterations in the composition of the myofibrils persist but the phosphorylation of myosin light chain 2v is dramatically different at this age compared with all others. We interpret these data to implicate the disruption of the myofibrillar proteins and their interactions in the propagation of dilated cardiac disease.
