1,3-Bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU) is the most commonly used chemotherapeutic agent in the treatment of human glioblastoma multiforme (GBM). However, BCNU chemotherapy fails due to subpopulations of intrinsic resistant-cells within the tumor mass. In our previous study, we dissociated BCNU-resistant cancer stem cells (CSCs) and observed the over-expression of multiple ion channel genes related to drug efflux. In the present study, we identified chloride intracellular channel 1 (CLIC1) in dissociated-BCNU-resistant CSCs using 2-DE and MALDI-TOF/MS analysis. To develop the specific target therapy of BCNU-resistant CSCs, we evaluated the drug-sensitivity of these CSCs using the chloride channel blocker, 4,4'-diisothiocyanostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid (DIDS). When combined with BCNU, DIDS synergistically increased the apoptotic events of BCNU-resistant CSCs in vitro and augmented BCNU sensitivity ex vivo. These findings suggest that CLIC1 is involved in the resistance of BCNU-resistant CSCs and BCNU/DIDS combined-therapy can provide valuable insight for promoting apoptosis or sensitizing glioblastomas to BCNU chemotherapy.
Our aim was to test the hypothesis that the vinca alkaloid vincristine could prevent doxorubicin-induced cardiomyocyte death and to identify the mechanisms involved. Adult mouse cardiac myocytes were incubated for 24 h with doxorubicin, with and without concurrent vincristine. Trypan blue exclusion showed that 50-60% of myocytes treated with doxorubicin alone survived. Concurrent vincristine treatment increased survival to 85%. Treatment with doxorubicin+vincristine activated the prosurvival signal Akt and diminished cytochrome C release. The PI3K/Akt inhibitor LY294002 and the MEK/ERK inhibitor PD98059 augmented doxorubicin cardiotoxicity and attenuated salvage during concurrent vincristine treatment, indicating that the mechanism of vincristine cardioprotection involves activation of specific survival signals. Vincristine retarded the onset of apoptosis in association with a delay in poly(ADP) ribose polymerase activation. Vincristine also exhibited greater protection than the antioxidant MPG. These novel findings may have clinical implications for the prevention of doxorubicin cardiomyopathy.
Within 60 minutes after treatment with low doses of IPR (5 mg/kg), relative specific activity of cardiolipin and sphingomyelin significantly increased in the heart. Other phospholipids of the heart were not significantly changed. Relative specific activity of cardiolipin increased much later in liver and salivary gland. Activity of CTP:PA cytidyl transferase increases 40% at 1 hour following treatment with IPR. No significant change was observed in the respiratory control ratio of heart mitochondria for 2 hours following injection with IPR; however, a significant decrease was observed 24 hours after IPR.
Following therapeutic intrathecal administration of cephaloridine to an 11-day-old premature infant with suspected meningitis, a generalized tonic convulsion was observed. Symptoms continued to subside over the next six hours, followed by postictal sleep. That convulsion and other symptoms were due to cephaloridine was confirmed when the second intrathecal administration produced the same symptom. Because of its possible damaging effect on CNS, it is strongly suggested that cephaloridine should not be administered directly into the cerebrospinal fluid space.
The mesolimbic dopaminergic system, especially the nucleus accumbens, has received attention for its involvement in the reinforcing and addictive properties of cocaine and other drugs of abuse. It is generally accepted that the ability of cocaine to inhibit the dopamine transporter (DAT) is directly related to its reinforcing actions. However, mice with a genetic deletion of the DAT (DAT-KO mice) still experience the rewarding effects of cocaine. These behavioral findings suggest that there is an alternate site for cocaine reinforcement. We demonstrate here that modulation of the serotonergic system in the ventral tegmental area, where the mesolimbic dopamine system originates, is a target of cocaine action. The ultimate effect of this serotonin mechanism in animal models with sustained elevations of dopamine may be a feed-forward enhancement of dopamine levels in the nucleus accumbens.
We describe the case of a paediatric kidney transplant patient who developed cyclosporin neurotoxicity on day 7 post-transplant. Consequently, her cyclosporin was stopped and she was commenced on rapamycin. Over the next 3 weeks her creatinine remained elevated and she had several episodes of biopsy proven rejection, despite increasing the initial dose of rapamycin by tenfold. Her whole blood rapamycin levels also remained well below the target range of 10-20 ng/ml. On day 38 post-transplant, the decision was made to add tacrolimus to her immunosuppression. At the same time, phenytoin, which had been commenced during her episode of cyclosporin neurotoxicity, was withdrawn. After this point her rapamycin blood levels rapidly increased to within the therapeutic range and she improved clinically. We propose that phenytoin, as a p450 cytochrome enzyme inducer, increased the metabolism of rapamycin in this patient and hence decreased the initial therapeutic effectiveness of this drug.
Both methadone- and buprenorphine-treated opioid-dependent patients frequently show cognitive deficits in attention, working memory, and verbal memory. However, no study has compared these patient groups with each other during early opioid substitution treatment (OST). Therefore, we investigated attention, working memory, and verbal memory of opioid-dependent patients within six weeks after the introduction of OST in a naturalistic setting and compared to those of healthy controls.
The sample included 16 methadone-, 17 buprenorphine/naloxone-treated patients, and 17 healthy controls matched for sex and age. In both groups buprenorphine was the main opioid of abuse during the recent month. Benzodiazepine codependence, recent use, and comedication were also common in both patient groups. Analysis of variance was used to study the overall group effect in each cognitive test. Pair-wise group comparisons were made, when appropriate
Methadone-treated patients, as a group, had significantly slower simple reaction time (RT) compared to buprenorphine/naloxone-treated patients. In Go/NoGo RT methadone patients were significantly slower than controls. Both patient groups were significantly debilitated compared to controls in working memory and verbal list learning. Only methadone patients were inferior to controls in story recall. In simple RT and delayed story recall buprenorphine/naloxone patients with current benzodiazepine medication (n = 13) were superior to methadone patients with current benzodiazepine medication (n = 13). When methadone patients were divided into two groups according to their mean dose, the patient group with a low dose (mean 40 mg, n = 8) showed significantly faster simple RT than the high dose group (mean 67 mg, n = 8).
Deficits in attention may only be present in methadone-treated early phase OST patients and may be dose-dependent. Working memory deficit is common in both patient groups. Verbal memory deficit may be more pronounced in methadone-treated patients than in buprenorphine/naloxone-treated patients. In sum, to preserve cognitive function in early OST, the use of buprenorphine/naloxone may be more preferable to methadone use of, at least if buprenorphine has been recently abused and when benzodiazepine comedication is used. Longitudinal studies are needed to investigate if the better performance of buprenorphine/naloxone-treated patients is a relatively permanent effect or reflects "only" transient opioid switching effect.
Theophylline, a drug frequently used to treat apnea of prematurity, has a prolonged half-life of 30 h in neonates. Severe overdoses of theophylline have an associated 10% mortality and significant morbidity. We describe a 1,220-g neonate who developed status epilepticus due to a theophylline overdose. Hemodialysis was instituted to increase elimination of theophylline. The patient tolerated the procedure without complication. The half-life of theophylline was 0.7 h during dialysis. No reported therapies used in neonates have achieved this magnitude of clearance. In fact, the clearance of theophylline in this neonate approached that obtained with hemoperfusion, the standard therapy for theophylline overdose in adult patients. This case demonstrates that hemodialysis is a safe and effective means of enhancing theophylline elimination for neonatal theophylline overdose.
Risperidone induced galactorrhea and hyperprolactinemia have been reported but its role in the growth of prolactinoma is not yet conclusive, due to extreme rarity of such cases. We describe a woman, suffering from Bipolar Disorder-manic episode, who exhibited prolactinoma while on risperidone therapy. The withdrawal of risperidone resulted in disappearance of prolactinoma though her prolactin level remained elevated along with persistent galactorrhea. The change to olanzapine therapy did not show much change in serum prolactin level and galactorrhea. Ultimately, only adding of bromocriptine resulted in disappearance of symptoms of prolactinemia and normal serum prolactin level was achieved and galactorrhea stopped. Further study is recommended to find out relationship between the growth of prolactinoma and risperidone.
A case of cardiotoxicity caused by 5-fluoro-uracil administration is described. The aetiological process is not clear, and it is possible that 5-fluoro-uracil has a vasoconstrictive effect on the coronary artery system.
Influence of parental alcohol/substance abuse on methadone maintenance therapy (MMT) outcome was examined in 164 DSM-III-R opioid dependent adults with no other current DSM Axis I disorder. Family history positive patients had more DSM-III-R opioid dependence symptoms and were more likely to be classified as severely dependent. However, when placed on identical daily doses of methadone (50 mg), they had lower rates of illicit opioid use but higher rates of cocaine use than family history negative patients. Both effects remained significant after adjusting for gender and race. These results suggest that common genetic factors may underlie both susceptibility to heroin dependence and response to therapeutic methadone treatment.
The therapeutic goal of treating benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) through early detection and effective therapy is to relieve the symptoms, improve patients' quality of life, decrease postvoid residual urine volume, and prevent the associated morbidity when the condition remains untreated. Alpha1-adrenoreceptor antagonists, e.g. doxazosin, terazosin, tamsulosin and alfuzosin, relax the bladder outlet to improve urinary flow, by reducing prostatic smooth muscle tone through the blockade of sympathetic adrenergic receptors. Doxazosin gastrointestinal therapeutic system (GITS) is a controlled-release formulation developed to enhance the pharmacokinetic profile of the drug while simultaneously minimizing possible adverse effects and reducing the need for dose titration. While both doxazosin standard and GITS are indicated for hypertension, they are also useful in the pharmacologically or naturally normotensive patient with BPH. In a cross-over trial comparing doxazosin GITS and tamsulosin, doxazosin gave a significantly greater improvement from baseline in symptoms. Results from recent trials (e.g. Medical Therapy of Prostatic Symptoms, MTOPS) showed that doxazosin was significantly more effective than the 5alpha-reductase inhibitor finasteride in relieving lower urinary tract symptoms, irrespective of prostate volume. The MTOPS trial showed clearly that over the long term, the combination of doxazosin and finasteride was more effective than either agent alone in significantly improving symptoms and reducing the clinical progression of BPH. Both doxazosin standard and GITS are well-tolerated, long-term therapies that are equally effective in younger and older men, and not associated with causing sexual dysfunction.
We genotyped individuals with primary biliary cirrhosis and unaffected controls for suggestive risk loci (genome-wide association P < 1 x 10(-4)) identified in a previous genome-wide association study. Combined analysis of the genome-wide association and replication datasets identified IRF5-TNPO3 (combined P = 8.66 x 10(-13)), 17q12-21 (combined P = 3.50 x 10(-13)) and MMEL1 (combined P = 3.15 x 10(-8)) as new primary biliary cirrhosis susceptibility loci. Fine-mapping studies showed that a single variant accounts for the IRF5-TNPO3 association. As these loci are implicated in other autoimmune conditions, these findings confirm genetic overlap among such diseases.
Oxcarbazepine (GP 47680, 10,11-dihydro-10-oxo-5H-dibenz[b,f]azepine- 5-carboxamide) is an antiepileptic drug registered worldwide by Novartis under the trade name Trileptal((R)). Trileptal((R))is approved as adjunctive therapy or monotherapy for the treatment of partial seizures in adults and in children. In the US, Trileptal((R)) is approved as adjunctive therapy in adults and in children >/=4 years of age and as monotherapy in adults and in children.Trileptal((R))is currently marketed as 150, 300 and 600mg film-coated tablets for oral administration. A 60 mg/mL (6%) oral suspension formulation has also been registered worldwide.Oxcarbazepine and its pharmacologically active metabolite, 10-monohydroxy derivative (MHD; 10,11-dihydro-10-hydro-carbamazepine; GP 47779) show potent antiepileptic activity in animal models comparable to that of carbamazepine (Tegretol((R))) and phenytoin. Oxcarbazepine and MHD have been shown to exert antiepileptic activity by blockade of voltage-dependent sodium channels in the brain.Oxcarbazepine is rapidly reduced by cytosolic enzymes in the liver to MHD, which is responsible for the pharmacological effect of the drug. This step is mediated by cytosolic arylketone reductases. MHD is eliminated by conjugation with glucuronic acid. Minor amounts (4% of the dose) are oxidised to the pharmacologically inactive dihydroxy derivative (DHD). The absorption of oxcarbazepine is complete. In plasma after a single oral administration of oxcarbazepine the mean apparent elimination half-life (t((1/2))) of MHD in adults was 8-9h. Food has no effect on the bioavailability of the highest strength of the final market image tablet (600mg). At steady state MHD displays predictable linear pharmacokinetics at doses ranging from 300 to 2400mg. In children with normal renal function, renal clearance of MHD is higher than in adults, with a corresponding reduction in the terminal t((1/2)) of MHD. Consequently, although no special dose recommendation is needed, an increase in the dose of oxcarbazepine may be necessary to achieve similar plasma levels to those in adults. In patients with moderate to severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 mL/min), the elimination t((1/2)) of MHD is prolonged with a corresponding 2-fold increase in area under the concentration-time curve. Therefore, a dose reduction of at least 50% and a prolongation of the titration period is necessary in these patients. Mild-to-moderate hepatic impairment does not affect the pharmacokinetics of MHD. Based on in vitro and in vivo findings and compared with antiepileptic drugs such as carbamazepine, phenytoin and phenobarbital, oxcarbazepine has a low propensity for drug-drug interactions. In vitro, MHD inhibits the cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2C19 (ki [inhibition constant] = 88 micromol/L). At oxcarbazepine doses above 1.2g, a 40% increase in the concentration of phenytoin and a 15% increase in phenobarbital levels were observed. Oxcarbazepine/MHD at high doses may slightly increase phenobarbital and phenytoin plasma concentrations. Therefore, when using high doses of oxcarbazepine an adjustment in the dose of phenytoin may be required. In vitro, MHD is only a weak inducer of uridine diphospate (UDP)-glucuronyltransferase (UDPGT) and therefore is unlikely to have an effect on drugs that are mainly eliminated by conjugation through the UDPGT enzymes (e.g. valproic acid and lamotrigine). Weak interactions between MHD and antiepileptic drugs that are strong inducers of CYP enzymes have been identified. Carbamazepine, phenobarbital and phenytoin have been shown to reduce MHD levels by 30-40% when coadministered with oxcarbazepine, with no decrease in efficacy. Oxcarbazepine decreases the plasma hormone levels (ethinylestradiol and levonorgestrel) of oral contraceptives and may therefore have the potential to cause oral contraception failure.
To quantify James Bond's consumption of alcohol as detailed in the series of novels by Ian Fleming.
Retrospective literature review.
The study authors' homes, in a comfy chair.
Commander James Bond, 007; Mr Ian Lancaster Fleming.
Weekly alcohol consumption by Commander Bond.
All 14 James Bond books were read by two of the authors. Contemporaneous notes were taken detailing every alcoholic drink taken. Predefined alcohol unit levels were used to calculate consumption. Days when Bond was unable to consume alcohol (such as through incarceration) were noted.
After exclusion of days when Bond was unable to drink, his weekly alcohol consumption was 92 units a week, over four times the recommended amount. His maximum daily consumption was 49.8 units. He had only 12.5 alcohol free days out of 87.5 days on which he was able to drink.
James Bond's level of alcohol intake puts him at high risk of multiple alcohol related diseases and an early death. The level of functioning as displayed in the books is inconsistent with the physical, mental, and indeed sexual functioning expected from someone drinking this much alcohol. We advise an immediate referral for further assessment and treatment, a reduction in alcohol consumption to safe levels, and suspect that the famous catchphrase "shaken, not stirred" could be because of alcohol induced tremor affecting his hands.
To clarify the effect of formaldehyde (FA) gas exposure on contact hypersensitivity (CHS), CHS reactions against 2,4,6-trinitrochlorobenzene (TNCB) was studied in BALB/c mice with a low dose of FA gas exposure. The TNCB-induced CHS reactions were slightly suppressed by the FA gas exposure immediately after sensitization, whereas they were significantly enhanced and prolonged in mice continuously exposed to FA gas before and after sensitization. We showed that exposure to FA gas enhanced the Th2 dominant responses in draining lymph node (LN) in early stage of CHS. In contrast, T cell subsets and their intracellular cytokine production in the draining LN were similar during the early stage of CHS by FA gas exposure during the sensitization phase. The percentage of CD8+ T cells was increased, and the percentage of CD4+CD25+ T cells was decreased in the FA gas-exposed group at 72 hr after elicitation. These results indicate that FA gas-exposed might influence regulatory T cells. Furthermore, in the chronic CHS model that was repetitively elicited with TNCB, more intensive and prolonged CHS reactions, and increased numbers of mast cells were found in the FA gas-exposed group at 4 hr after elicitation than in the control group, FA gas exposure may alter the intensity of allergic CHS.
Lumiracoxib is a selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor developed for the symptomatic treatment of osteoarthritis and acute pain. Concerns over hepatotoxicity have contributed to the withdrawal or non-approval of lumiracoxib in most major drug markets worldwide. We performed a case-control genome-wide association study on 41 lumiracoxib-treated patients with liver injury (cases) and 176 matched lumiracoxib-treated patients without liver injury (controls). Several SNPs from the MHC class II region showed strong evidence of association (the top SNP was rs9270986 with P = 2.8 x 10(-10)). These findings were replicated in an independent set of 98 lumiracoxib-treated cases and 405 matched lumiracoxib-treated controls (top SNP rs3129900, P = 4.4 x 10(-12)). Fine mapping identified a strong association to a common HLA haplotype (HLA-DRB1*1501-HLA-DQB1*0602-HLA-DRB5*0101-HLA-DQA1*0102, most significant allele P = 6.8 x 10(-25), allelic odds ratio = 5.0, 95% CI 3.6-7.0). These results offer the potential to improve the safety profile of lumiracoxib by identifying individuals at elevated risk for liver injury and excluding them from lumiracoxib treatment.
The cardiotoxicity of epirubicin (EPI) was evaluated clinically, radiologically, with ECG, and with multiple ECG-gated radionuclide determination of the left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) during rest in 135 patients with advanced breast cancer. The EPI doses were 60 mg/m2 on days 1 and 8 every 4 weeks or 45 mg/m2 plus vindesine 3 mg/m2 on the same schedule. The median cumulative dose of EPI was 500 mg/m2 (range, 47 to 1,563). Eight of the 135 patients developed congestive heart failure (CHF). Of 67 patients treated with EPI less than 500 mg/m2, none developed CHF. Among 48 patients treated with doses between 500 and 1,000 mg/m2, one had CHF (2%; 95% confidence limits, 0.1 to 11.1). Among 20 patients who received EPI from 1,000 to 1,563 mg/m2, seven developed CHF (35%; 95% confidence limits, 15.4 to 59.2). Four patients died due to cardiotoxicity. The risk of EPI cardiotoxicity at the present schedule is considerable at doses above 1,000 mg/m2. At doses between 500 and 1,000 mg/m2 the risk of CHF decreases, and at doses below 500 mg/m2, it is negligible. For all patients, the prevalence of CHF was 6% and the sensitivity of LVEF high (95%), mainly due to the low incidence of CHF. Among the 20 patients who received EPI at more than 1,000 mg/m2, the prevalence of CHF was 35% and the sensitivity only 64%. The specificity was maximally 62%. Our results suggest that LVEF is of no value as a predictor for CHF.
Pathogenesis of Budd-Chiari-syndrome, under treatment e.g. of malignant melanoma with DTIC (dacarbacin) is still unknown. In our investigations we could not find any hint for the hypothesis that Budd-Chiari-syndrome under DTIC is caused by hemostaseological impairment.
A reduced risk for Parkinson's disease (PD) among cigarette smokers has been observed consistently during the past 30 years. Recent evidence suggests that caffeine may also be protective. Findings are presented regarding associations of PD with smoking, caffeine intake, and alcohol consumption from a case-control study conducted in western Washington State in 1992-2000. Incident PD cases (n = 210) and controls (n = 347), frequency matched on gender and age were identified from enrollees of the Group Health Cooperative health maintenance organization. Exposure data were obtained by in-person questionnaires. Ever having smoked cigarettes was associated with a reduced risk of PD (odds ratio (OR) = 0.5, 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.4, 0.8). A stronger relation was found among current smokers (OR = 0.3, 95% CI: 0.1, 0.7) than among ex-smokers (OR = 0.6, 95% CI: 0.4, 0.9), and there was an inverse gradient with pack-years smoked (trend p < 0.001). No associations were detected for coffee consumption or total caffeine intake or for alcohol consumption. However, reduced risks were observed for consumption of 2 cups/day or more of tea (OR = 0.4, 95% CI: 0.2, 0.9) and two or more cola drinks/day (OR = 0.6, 95% CI: 0.3, 1.4). The associations for tea and cola drinks were not confounded by smoking or coffee consumption.
Chronic allograft nephropathy is the main cause of late graft loss and nonimmunological factors, including hypertension and proteinuria, the principal etiological factors. In this context, blockage of the renin-angiotensin system could be helpful. The aim of the present study was to review the renoprotective efficacy of losartan in a large group of renal transplant patients undergoing long-term follow-up.
A retrospective analysis of 276 renal transplant patients treated with losartan was performed. The indication for losartan was arterial hypertension in 163 patients, proteinuria in 37 patients and hypertension plus proteinuria in the remaining 76 patients. Clinical and biochemical parameters before starting losartan treatment (-6 months, -3 months and at baseline) and 3, 6, 9, 12, 18 and 24 months after the introduction of losartan were analyzed.
Arterial hypertension significantly decreased after the introduction of losartan (p = 0.000). Serum creatinine was significantly decreased by losartan therapy, and changes in the serum creatinine slope (1/sCr) before and after losartan were statistically significant. Proteinuria markedly decreased after the introduction of losartan. Clinical and biochemical tolerance of losartan was excellent in most patients and only 9 out of the 276 patients (3%) treated with losartan discontinued the drug because of an adverse event. During follow-up, only 3 patients required substitutive treatment with dialysis due to progressive deterioration of renal function in the context of chronic allograft nephropathy.
Losartan demonstrated high efficacy as a renoprotective agent in renal transplant patients and could be useful in the treatment and prevention of chronic allograft nephropathy.
African Americans have a disproportionate burden of hypertension and comorbid disease. Pharmacogenetic markers of blood pressure response have yet to be defined clearly. This study explores the association between G-protein-coupled receptor kinase type 4 (GRK4) variants and blood pressure response to metoprolol among African Americans with early hypertensive nephrosclerosis.
Participants from the African American Study of Kidney Disease and Hypertension (AASK) trial were genotyped at three GRK4 polymorphisms: R65L, A142V, and A486V. A Cox proportional hazards model, stratified by gender, was used to determine the relationship between GRK4 variants and time to reach a mean arterial pressure (MAP) of 107 mm Hg, adjusted for other predictors of blood pressure response. Potential interactions between the three polymorphisms were explored by analyzing the effects of gene haplotypes and by stratifying the analysis by neighboring sites.
The hazard ratio with 95% confidence interval by A142V among men randomized to a usual MAP (102-107 mm Hg) was 1.54 (1.11-2.44; P = 0.0009). The hazard ratio by A142V with R65/L65 or L65/L65 was 2.14 (1.35-3.39; P = 0.001). Haplotype analyses were consistent but inconclusive. There was no association between A142V and blood pressure response among women.
Results suggest a sex-specific relationship between GRK4 A142V and blood pressure response among African-American men with early hypertensive nephrosclerosis. Men with a GRK4 A142 were less responsive to metoprolol if they had a GRK4 L65 variant. The effect of GRK4 variants and blood pressure response to metoprolol should be studied in larger clinical trials.
Stress-induced regional myocardial ischemia in the presence of mild coronary stenosis was studied in five dogs 2-4 wk after implantation of pairs of ultrasonic crystals to measure left ventricular wall thickening (% delta WT) and subendocardial segmental shortening (% delta L). Isoproterenol (0.2 micrograms.kg-1.min-1) was infused before and after production of coronary stenosis, which produced no resting dysfunction. During isoproterenol infusion with coronary stenosis % delta WT and subendocardial % delta L were significantly decreased although blood flow was comparable to conditions at rest, indicating that the demand for blood flow exceeded supply. Linear regression analysis of mean transmural blood flow versus % delta WT during isoproterenol demonstrated that wall thickening was significantly related to changes in mean blood flow: y (percentage wall thickening) = 27.5 X (transmural blood flow) -8.2 (r = 0.83); likewise % delta L was significantly related to subendocardial blood flow during isoproterenol infusion: y (percentage shortening) = 17.1 X (subendocardial blood flow) -0.4 (r = 0.85). These results indicate that both regional % delta WT and % delta L sensitively reflect the adequacy of myocardial perfusion even during stress-induced changes in myocardial O2 demands and blood flow.
Acute ozone (O(3)) exposure results in greater inflammation and airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR) in obese versus lean mice.
We examined the hypothesis that these augmented responses to O(3) are the result of greater signaling through tumor necrosis factor receptor 2 (TNFR2) and/or interleukin (IL)-13.
We exposed lean wild-type (WT) and TNFR2-deficient (TNFR2(-/-)) mice, and obese Cpe(fat) and TNFR2-deficient Cpe(fat) mice (Cpe(fat)/TNFR2(-/-)), to O(3) (2 ppm for 3 hr) either with or without treatment with anti-IL-13 or left them unexposed.
O(3)-induced increases in baseline pulmonary mechanics, airway responsiveness, and cellular inflammation were greater in Cpe(fat) than in WT mice. In lean mice, TNFR2 deficiency ablated O(3)-induced AHR without affecting pulmonary inflammation; whereas in obese mice, TNFR2 deficiency augmented O(3)-induced AHR but reduced inflammatory cell recruitment. O(3) increased pulmonary expression of IL-13 in Cpe(fat) but not WT mice. Flow cytometry analysis of lung cells indicated greater IL-13-expressing CD(4+) cells in Cpe(fat) versus WT mice after O(3) exposure. In Cpe(fat) mice, anti-IL-13 treatment attenuated O(3)-induced increases in pulmonary mechanics and inflammatory cell recruitment, but did not affect AHR. These effects of anti-IL-13 treatment were not observed in Cpe(fat)/TNFR2(-/-) mice. There was no effect of anti-IL-13 treatment in WT mice.
Pulmonary responses to O(3) are not just greater, but qualitatively different, in obese versus lean mice. In particular, in obese mice, O(3) induces IL-13 and IL-13 synergizes with TNF via TNFR2 to exacerbate O(3)-induced changes in pulmonary mechanics and inflammatory cell recruitment but not AHR.
To assess the efficacy and adverse reactions of typical and atypical antipsychotics in the treatment of neuropsychiatric symptoms in dementia, and to examine the evidence for the cerebrovascular events warning for atypical antipsychotics.
Systematic review.
Using Medline, Cinahl, PsyclNFO, Embase and the Cochrane central register of controlled trials (1980-2005), double-blind randomized controlled trials with intention-to-treat analysis were selected, which evaluated efficacy and adverse reactions of antipsychotics in the treatment of neuropsychiatric symptoms in dementia. The studies underwent a standardised validity assessment.
After screening 950 studies, 14 studies on the effect of haloperidol, risperidone, olanzapine, quetiapine, tiapride, loxapine and perphenazine were selected. In 7 out of 10 studies, haloperidol, risperidone and olanzapine appeared to be more effective than placebo in the treatment of aggression and psychosis. Direct comparison between typical and atypical antipsychotics revealed no statistically significant difference. The most common adverse reactions were extrapyramidal symptoms and somnolence. These adverse reactions were less frequent with low-dose risperidone than with haloperidol or olanzapine, but risperidone and olanzapine were found to be associated with a higher risk of cerebrovascular events in two studies.
The efficacy of typical and atypical antipsychotics is comparable, but only low-dose risperidone seems to be associated with fewer (extrapyramidal) side effects. The adverse reactions are inadequately described in the published data and consequently the warning of an increased risk of mortality could not be confirmed.
