Acute experiments on mice were made to investigate the anticonvulsant activity of diazepam and its combination with nicotinamide in experimental seizures induced by corazol, picrotoxin, bicucullin and thiosemicarbazide. It was shown that diazepam (0.2-1.6 mg/kg) produced a dose-dependent anticonvulsant effect in all models under study. Nicotinamide (250 mg/kg) substantially reduced the animals' lethality and seizure manifestations induced by picrotoxin and completely protected some of the animals from the bicucullin-induced seizures. Nicotinamide (250 mg/kg) potentiated the anticonvulsant effect of diazepam in all the experimental seizures under study. Micotinamide had a more pronounced effect in respect of the protection of the animals from tonic seizures as compared with clonic ones. The data suggest that the mechanisms of the anticonvulsant action of nicotinamide are mediated via the GABA-benzodiazepine receptor complex.
Despite extensive investigations, the cause of liver injury in 14% of patients with acute liver failure remains unknown (indeterminate). In a pilot study using a novel assay, highly specific acetaminophen-cysteine adducts were detected in 7 of 36 indeterminate patients (19%). To extend these observations, sera from 110 subjects enrolled in the Acute Liver Failure Study Group registry with indeterminate acute liver failure were analyzed with a similar but more efficient and sensitive adduct assay. As positive controls, another 199 patients with known or presumed acetaminophen-induced liver failure were assessed for the presence and quantity of adducts. Clinical, laboratory, and outcome data were compared for the two groups. On the basis of previous data for known therapeutic exposures and acetaminophen overdoses, an adduct concentration ≥1.0 nmol/mL of serum indicated a definite acetaminophen overdose. Among the 110 indeterminate cases, 18% had assay values ≥1.0 with a median level of 9.2 nmol/mL; 94.5% of the positive controls (known acetaminophen cases) had values ≥1.0 nmol/mL. Regardless of the initial diagnosis, subjects with elevated adduct levels demonstrated the clinical profile and hyperacute biochemical injury pattern associated with acetaminophen overdose: a predominance of female gender, very high aminotransferase levels, and low bilirubin levels.
These data confirm and extend previous observations regarding the high (18%) prevalence of unrecognized or uncertain acetaminophen toxicity among subjects with indeterminate acute liver failure. N-Acetylcysteine use was limited in this group, presumably because of the lack of a specific diagnosis of acetaminophen toxicity.
Mannitol is an osmotic diuretic used in acute oliguric renal failure, acute cerebral edema, and acute glaucoma. It is metabolically inert and is excreted through the kidneys. So once renal function is impaired, mannitol accumulates and the movement of water into the intravascular space with resultant cellular dehydration. Two patients suffered reversible acute oliguric renal failure following mannitol infusion given as treatment for intracranial hypertension. Both patients experienced nausea and vomiting and became increasingly lethargic with edema of general body. Congestive heart failure occurred. Laboratory data showed severe dilutional hyponatremia with hyperosmolality. We successfully treated them with extracorporeal ultrafiltration method (ECUM) and hemodialysis (HD). Some discussions were presented about acute renal failure following mannitol infusion.
Exposure to the anticonvulsant drug valproic acid (VPA) in utero is associated with a 1-2% increase in neural tube defects (NTDs), however the molecular mechanisms by which VPA induces teratogenesis are unknown. Previous studies demonstrated that VPA, a direct inhibitor of histone deacetylase, can induce histone hyperacetylation and other epigenetic changes such as histone methylation and DNA demethylation. The objective of this study was to determine if maternal exposure to VPA in mice has the ability to cause these epigenetic alterations in the embryo and thus contribute to its mechanism of teratogenesis. Pregnant CD-1 mice (GD 9.0) were administered a teratogenic dose of VPA (400mg/kg, s.c.) and embryos extracted 1, 3, 6, and 24h after injection. To assess embryonic histone acetylation and histone methylation, Western blotting was performed on whole embryo homogenates, as well as immunohistochemical staining on embryonic sections. To measure DNA methylation changes, the cytosine extension assay was performed. Results demonstrated that a significant increase in histone acetylation that peaked 3h after VPA exposure was accompanied by an increase in histone methylation at histone H3 lysine 4 (H3K4) and a decrease in histone methylation at histone H3 lysine 9 (H3K9). Immunohistochemical staining revealed increased histone acetylation in the neuroepithelium, heart, and somites. A decrease in methylated histone H3K9 staining was observed in the neuroepithelium and somites, METHYLATED histone H3K4 staining was observed in the neuroepithelium. No significant differences in global or CpG island DNA methylation were observed in embryo homogenates. These results support the possibility that epigenetic modifications caused by VPA during early mouse organogenesis results in congenital malformations.
Transfusion-related acute lung injury (TRALI) is the leading cause of transfusion-associated mortality in the US. Previously, we established an immune-mediated TRALI mouse model, wherein mice with cognate antigen were challenged with MHC class I mAb. In this study, when mice housed in a rodent, specific pathogen-free barrier room were challenged with MHC I mAb, there was significant protection from TRALI compared with nonbarrier mice. Priming mice with LPS restored lung injury with mAb challenge. Using TLR4-deficient bone marrow chimeras, the priming phenotype was restricted to animals with WT hematopoietic cells, and depletion of either neutrophils or platelets was protective. Both neutrophils and platelets were sequestered in the lungs of mice with TRALI, and retention of platelets was neutrophil dependent. Interestingly, treatment with aspirin prevented lung injury and mortality, but blocking the P selectin or CD11b/CD18 pathways did not. These data suggest a 2-step mechanism of TRALI: priming of hematopoietic cells, followed by vascular deposition of activated neutrophils and platelets that then mediate the severe lung injury. Furthermore, our data offer an explanation for the increased incidence of TRALI in patients with immune priming conditions, and we suggest what we believe to be a novel therapeutic approach.
Topoisomerase II is a DNA-processing enzyme, and secondary acute myeloid leukemia has been associated with exposure to drugs that inhibit its action. Hence, prenatal exposure to chemicals that inhibit topoisomerase II could plausibly contribute to the incidence of childhood leukemia. The NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1) enzyme is involved in the metabolism of topoisomerase II-inhibiting chemicals. A functional polymorphism (C609T) associated with reduced activity has been identified on the NQO1 gene. To assess its role in the etiology of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia, the authors studied transmission of the variant T allele in the families (parents and grandparents) of 657 affected children in Québec, Canada (1980-2000). Log-linear models that stratified on parental or grandparental mating types were used. Prenatal exposure to potential topoisomerase II inhibitors such as benzene and maternal smoking was studied, as well as interactions between the variant and these exposures. The variant allele was transmitted to cases more frequently than expected (for one or two copies of the allele vs. none, relative risk = 1.39, 95% confidence interval: 1.07, 1.79). There was no evidence of a maternally mediated genetic effect on risk, based on a log-linear assessment of genetic symmetry between mothers and fathers, nor was there evidence of interaction between the studied maternal exposures and the child or maternal variant.
In a recent study we found that 4 weeks of human experimental forearm immobilization induced hypersensitivity to mechanical and cold stimuli and a higher skin temperature on the immobilized hand. Identical findings are reported in immobilization studies in rats where increased substance P signaling is suggested to play a central role. Capsaicin releases substance P from axon collaterals in the periphery initiating vasodilatation and plasma extravasation. The effect of immobilization on capsaicin-induced responses is, however, not known. Therefore, the present study examined the effect of experimental forearm immobilization on capsaicin-induced pain and flare responses in healthy subjects. Twenty-seven human volunteers were exposed to 4 weeks of scaphoid cast immobilization of the left forearm. Before and after immobilization, skin temperature and blood flow were measured at the thumbs of both hands during 5 min of rest. Subjects then received topical capsaicin (5%) randomly on the dorsum of the right and left hands. Time to sensory detection of capsaicin and pain onset was significantly increased on the immobilized left hand. Immobilization significantly reduced capsaicin-evoked pain, neurogenic flare area, and skin blood flow (perfusion units), and the reduced capsaicin-evoked pain was significantly correlated to an increase in peripheral skin temperature but not to skin blood flow. The correlation between reduced capsaicin-evoked pain and increased skin temperature suggests an increased substance P release while the delayed onset and diminished magnitude of capsaicin-induced pain may be due to reduced penetration of capsaicin into the epidermis.
A 92-year-old woman who suffered from dementia with psychotic feature was admitted to a psychiatric ward. She refused to eat or take any medications. After 0.5 mg i.v. injection haloperidol, prolongation of QTc interval occurred in the electrocardiogram. Therefore two sessions of electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) were performed carefully after informed consent was obtained by her family. Almost no psychotic symptoms were observed after the first ECT. No cognitive side-effects were observed during and after the two ECT sessions. This demonstrates that ECT can be used as an alternative treatment when elderly dementia patients with psychotic feature cannot tolerate medication.
Previous studies indicated that the enantiomers of thalidomide and its analogue EM12 exhibit differing teratogenic potencies. Unfortunately, these substances proved to be unstable and racemised considerably, so that the intrinsic teratogenic potencies of the pure enantiomers were difficult to elucidate. We have therefore studied the teratogenicity of the enantiomers of 2-n-propyl-4-pentenoic acid (4-en-VPA), a metabolite of the human and animal teratogen valproic acid (VPA). Both enantiomers were prepared via asymmetric synthesis using (R)- and (S)-1-amino-2-(methoxymethyl)pyrrolidine (RAMP: SAMP). The determination of the absolute configuration and of the optical purities is described. They were administered as single intraperitoneal injections during early organogenesis in the mouse (day 8 of gestation), a period shown to be highly susceptible to interference with neural tube closure by VPA. S-(-)-4-en-VPA was significantly more teratogenic (formation of exencephaly) and embryotoxic (incidence of embryolethality and fetal growth retardation) than R-(+)-4-en-VPA. The rate of neural tube defects (exencephaly) produced by the S-enantiomer was about 4 times higher than that produced by the R-enantiomer. The S-enantiomer of 4-en-VPA is the first analogue of VPA with higher teratogenic potency than the parent drug. Our results show that racemic mixtures may consist of enantiomers with greatly differing teratogenic potencies. These findings may lead to the development of clinically useful drug enantiomers with low teratogenic potencies, and assist in studies of molecular mechanisms in drug and chemical teratogenesis.
Cholestasis leads to liver cell death, fibrosis, cirrhosis, and eventually liver failure. Despite limited benefits, ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) is the only Food and Drug Administration-approved treatment for cholestatic disorders. Retinoic acid (RA) is a ligand for nuclear receptors that modulate bile salt homeostasis. RA also possesses immunomodulatory effects and is used to treat acute promyelocytic leukemia and inflammatory disorders such as psoriasis, acne, and rheumatoid arthritis. To test whether the supplementation of RA with UDCA is superior to UDCA alone for treating cholestasis, male Sprague-Dawley rats underwent common bile duct ligation (BDL) for 14 days and were treated with phosphate-buffered saline (PBS), UDCA, all-trans retinoic acid (atRA), or UDCA and atRA by gavage. Treatment with UDCA and atRA substantially improved animal growth rates, significantly reduced liver fibrosis and bile duct proliferation, and nearly eliminated liver necrosis after BDL. Reductions in the bile salt pool size and liver hydroxyproline content were also seen with treatment with atRA or atRA and UDCA versus PBS and UDCA. Furthermore, atRA and UDCA significantly reduced liver messenger RNA and/or protein expression of transforming growth factor β1 (Tgf-β1), collagen 1a1 (Col1A1), matrix metalloproteinase 2 (Mmp2), cytokeratin 19, α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA), cytochrome P450 7A1 (Cyp7a1), tumor necrosis factor α, and interleukin-β1. The molecular mechanisms of this treatment were also assessed in human hepatocytes, hepatic stellate cells, and LX-2 cells. atRA alone or in combination with UDCA greatly repressed CYP7A1 expression in human hepatocytes and significantly inhibited COL1A1, MMP2, and α-SMA expression and/or activity in primary human hepatic stellate cells and LX-2 cells. Furthermore, atRA reduced TGF-β1-induced Smad2 phosphorylation in LX-2 cells.
Our findings indicate that the addition of RA to UDCA reduces the bile salt pool size and liver fibrosis and might be an effective supplemental therapy with UDCA for cholestatic diseases.
It has been shown that coal dust exposure stimulates inflammatory response leading to increased release of cytokines from monocytes such as TNF-alpha and IL1. These released cytokines play the key role in the pathogenesis of pneumoconiosis including coal workers' pneumoconiosis. In this study, we investigated TNFA, IL1A, IL1B and IL1RA genes variations on basal, lipopolysaccharide and coal dust-induced cytokine release from blood monocytes of homozygous allele and minor variant allele carriers in Turkish coal workers and CWP patients. According to the genotyping results, TNFA -238 gene polymorphism was found as a risk factor in CWP development (OR=3.79) and to in vitro results; release of both TNF-alpha and IL1 cytokines from the monocytes in CWP patients was significantly increased compared to the healthy workers. Also, LPS and coal dust stimulated release of TNF-alpha, which was significantly higher in allele 2 carriers compared to subjects carrying allele 1 in both the groups. These data suggest that the coal dust-induced release of TNF-alpha from monocytes may be a useful biomarker of CWP.
Reserpine- and haloperidol-induced orofacial dyskinesia are putative animal models of tardive dyskinesia (TD) whose pathophysiology has been related to free radical generation and oxidative stress. In the present study, the authors induced orofacial dyskinesia by acute reserpine and subchronic haloperidol administration to rats. Reserpine injection (one dose of 1 mg/kg s.c.) every other day for 3 days caused a significant increase in vacuous chewing, tongue protrusion and duration of facial twitching, compared to the control. Haloperidol administration (one dose of 12 mg/kg once a week s.c.) for 4 weeks caused an increase in vacuous chewing, tongue protrusion and duration of facial twitching observed in four weekly evaluations. After the treatments and behavioral observation, glutamate uptake by segments of the brain was analyzed. A decreased glutamate uptake was observed in the subcortical parts of animals treated with reserpine and haloperidol, compared to the control. Importantly, a decrease in glutamate uptake correlates negatively with an increase in the incidence of orofacial diskinesia. These results indicate that early changes in glutamate transport may be related to the development of vacuous chewing movements in rats.
Nabumetone, 500 mg two nocte, was compared with naproxen, 250 mg two nocte and one mane, in the management of 24 patients with rheumatoid arthritis attending an outpatients clinic. Both drugs were generally well tolerated and were of comparable efficacy in the dose employed. Similar numbers incurred side effects while taking either drug, but severe side effects, requiring withdrawal from the trial in two cases, were restricted to those patients taking naproxen. As patients known to be intolerant to naproxen were excluded from the trial, the results could have been expected to favour naproxen in this respect. Nabumetone may have a useful role in the management of patients with poor tolerance of other anti-inflammatory drugs.
The authors evaluated the association of prenatal arsenic exposure with size at birth (birth weight, birth length, head and chest circumferences). This prospective cohort study, based on 1,578 mother-infant pairs, was conducted in Matlab, Bangladesh, in 2002-2003. Arsenic exposure was assessed by analysis of arsenic in urine collected at around gestational weeks 8 and 30. The association of arsenic exposure with size at birth was assessed by linear regression analyses. In analysis over the full range of exposure (6-978 microg/L), no dose-effect association was found with birth size. However, significant negative dose effects were found with birth weight and head and chest circumferences at a low level of arsenic exposure (<100 microg/L in urine). In this range of exposure, birth weight decreased by 1.68 (standard error (SE), 0.62) g for each 1-microg/L increase of arsenic in urine. For head and chest circumferences, the corresponding reductions were 0.05 (SE, 0.03) mm and 0.14 (SE, 0.03) mm per 1 microg/L, respectively. No further negative effects were shown at higher levels of arsenic exposure. The indicated negative effect on birth size at a low level of arsenic exposure warrants further investigation.
N-(Fluorodichloromethylthio)phthalimide (Fluor-folpet) has been widely used as an anti-mold and anti-bacterial agent. In this study, 28 days repeated-dose oral toxicity study of fluor-folpet was carried out in Slc:Wistar rats. An oral toxicity study for fluor-folpet, the twenty-eight days test, repeated-dose, oral administration, was performed as follows: Five week-old rats, male and female, 10 rats, each/group, were treated with intragastric administration of fluor-folpet with a dose of 0 (1% Sodium CMC, control), 20, 80 and 320 mg/kg, body weight. Recovery test, for 14 days after the last treatment, was examined for the control and the 320 mg/kg groups. The 320 mg/kg groups, both males and females, showed significantly reduced their body-weight gain compared with the control group. In the 320 mg/kg group, five out of 20 male rats and four out of 20 female rats died from dyspnea during the treatment period. In the female rats in the 320 mg/kg group, serum ChE level was decreased to 50% of control level and gamma-GT was increased in a dose-dependent manner, but these serum levels recovered after 14 days non-treatment period. No histopathological change, relating to the treatment, in liver was observed. Increased weight of the kidney and vacuolation in renal tubules were found in both sexes of 320 mg/kg group. Hyperkeratosis and hyperplasia of the stomach epithelium were observed at the dose more than 80 mg/kg in male, and more than 20 mg/kg in female. A supplemental study, repeated-dose, oral administration in rats carried out to examine the dyspnea revealed that severe acute toxic damages in epithelium of nasal cavity and meatus nasopharyngeus were induced by intragastric administration of fluor-folpet. Fluor-folpet is shown to be cytotoxic. In conclusion, the no-observed-effect level (NOEL) for fluor-folpet was not found under the experimental conditions employed in this repeated-dose toxicity study.
As inflammation emerges as a risk factor for prostate cancer (PCa), there is potential for chemoprevention by anti-inflammatory agents. Dietary phytochemicals have been shown to have chemopreventive properties which may include anti-inflammatory activities. In this study, we demonstrate a role for mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphatase-5 (MKP5) in mediating anti-inflammatory activities of the phytochemicals curcumin, resveratrol and [6]-gingerol. We utilized the cytokines tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha) and interleukin (IL)-1beta to increase p38-dependent nuclear factor kappa-B (NFkappaB) activation and expression of pro-inflammatory genes cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), IL-6 and IL-8 in normal prostatic epithelial cells. MKP5 over-expression decreased cytokine-induced NFkappaB activation, COX-2, IL-6 and IL-8 in normal prostatic epithelial cells, suggesting potent anti-inflammatory activity of MKP5. Pretreatment of cells with a p38 inhibitor mimicked the results observed with MKP5 over-expression, further implicating p38 inhibition as the main activity of MKP5. Curcumin, the phytochemical found in turmeric, up-regulated MKP5, subsequently decreasing cytokine-induced p38-dependent pro-inflammatory changes in normal prostatic epithelial cells. Resveratrol and [6]-gingerol, phytochemicals present in red wine and ginger, respectively, also up-regulated MKP5 in normal prostate epithelial cells. Moreover, we found that PCa cell lines DU 145, PC-3, LNCaP and LAPC-4 retained the ability to up-regulate MKP5 following curcumin, resveratrol and [6]-gingerol exposure, suggesting utility of these phytochemicals in PCa treatment. In summary, our findings show direct anti-inflammatory activity of MKP5 in prostate cells and suggest that up-regulation of MKP5 by phytochemicals may contribute to their chemopreventive actions by decreasing prostatic inflammation.
Recent investigations revealed microsatellite instability in colon cancers are associated with mutations of the transforming growth factor-beta receptor type II gene (TGF-beta RII) that encodes a transmembrane protein containing an intracellular serine/threonine kinase domain. Activation of TGF-beta receptor type I (RI) and RII by TGF-beta induces nuclear translocation of Smad proteins including Smad2 and Smad4 that have been originally identified as tumour suppressor genes. We have previously reported six cases with microsatellite instability in 32 oesophageal carcinomas. In this study, we analysed genetic mutations of TGF-beta RII, Smad2 and Smad4 in these oesophageal carcinoma tissues and established 16 cell lines. No genetic mutation was detected in any tissues or cell lines except one tissue sample of microsatellite stable oesophageal carcinoma, that is, a mis-sense mutation of glutamic acid to glutamine at codon 526 (E526Q) in the TGF-beta RII serine/threonine kinase domain. Interestingly, the mutant TGF-beta RII E526Q can completely inhibit TGF-beta-induction of nuclear translocation of Smad4 protein in oesophageal carcinoma cells. This mutation of TGF-beta RII that is not associated with microsatellite instability might make a dominant negative effect on TGF-beta signal transduction in oesophageal carcinoma.
To clarify whether bromodichloromethane (BDCM)-induced cholangiofibrosis progresses to cholangiocarcinoma, further morphological examinations were performed on the livers obtained from our previous experiment. The livers of Wistar rats fed diet containing 2200, 550, 140 or 0 ppm of microencapsulated BDCM up to 24 months were examined at months 6, 12, 18, and 24. The liver sections were stained with H-E, PAS and Azan, and were subjected to immunostaining using antiproliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) monoclonal antibody for determination of the PCNA labeling index of bile duct epithelia, as well as silver staining for nucleolar organizer regions (AgNORs). At month 6, the severity of hyperplasia of atypical bile duct epithelia in the 2200 ppm group was marked, their PCNA labeling index being highest (68.5). The number of bile ducts gradually decreased, and the severity of fibrosis became more marked, with prolongation of the treatment. The PCNA labeling index in hyperplastic bile ducts in this group also decreased to 31.5 at month 24. The number of AgNORs in the nuclei of bile duct epithelia in the 2200 ppm group was highest at month 6, but decreased thereafter. The present study suggests that the possibility of the progression from cholangiofibrosis to neoplastic lesions is extremelly low.
To describe the recurrent emergence of pathologic gambling (PG) during the sequential treatment of a patient with Juvenile Parkinson disease (PD) with different dopamine agonists.
Single case report.
A patient with Juvenile PD developed PG soon after beginning treatment with pergolide, a mixed D1/D2 dopamine agonist that is also supposed to exhibit D3 activity. This behavior remitted upon the discontinuation of the drug. A subsequent therapeutic trial with pramipexole, a dopamine agonist with preferential D3 dopamine receptor activity, resulted in the recurrence of PG. Remarkably, previous treatment with levodopa was not associated with this side effect.
These findings seem to confirm previous suggestions that dopaminergic hyperactivity plays an important role in the pathogenesis of PG. They further indicate that patients with PD may develop PG as a side effect of more than one dopamine agonist. There is still no consensus regarding the best strategy to deal with this potentially disturbing phenomenon.
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are recognized as persistent environmental pollutants that may cause adverse health problems. Despite extensive investigations of PCB in neural function, little is known about behavioral traits by PCB exposure and its neurochemical mechanism. Here, we report the behavioral study of a rat pup that was exposed to hydroxylated-PCB 106 (OH-PCB 106; 4-hydroxy-2',3,3',4',5'-pentachlorobiphenyl) through maternal milk. The different groups of mothers received via gavage corn oil vehicle, 0.5, 5, or 50 mg/kg body weight of OH-PCB 106 every second day from day 3 to 13 after delivery. The exposure did not affect the body weight of the dams or the physical development of the newborn pups in both sexes. Male rats exposed to OH-PCB 106 showed hyperactivity that was characterized by increased locomotor activity in novel environment and circadian period. Interestingly, OH-PCB 106-exposed rat pups displayed abnormally high levels of dopamine and D2 dopamine receptor (D2DR), but not D1DR and D5DR, in the striatum, an important center for the coordination of behavior. These findings indicate that OH-PCB 106 has a significant neurotoxic effect on rat behavior, which may be associated with increased D2DR mediated signals.
Naphyrone (naphthylpyrovalerone) is a cathinone derivative and recreational drug related to mephedrone.
We report a 31-year-old man who ingested a dose of naphyrone (100 mg), which produced acute sympathomimetic toxicity with restlessness, insomnia, anxiety, and hallucinations lasting for 2 days. Naphyrone was detected in the patient's plasma by gas chromatography with mass spectrometry at concentrations of 0.03 and 0.02 mg/L, 40 and 60 h after drug intake, respectively.
Based on the present case report and user web-reports, as well as on the chemical structure and pharmacological characteristics, naphyrone produces stimulant-like psychotropic effects and sympathomimetic toxicity.
Fenfluramine-derivative diet pills were withdrawn from the market in 1997 because of an association with valvular regurgitation, but subsequent estimates of the prevalence of this condition have varied widely. We systematically reviewed evidence regarding the prevalence of valvular disease after fenfluramine exposure.
We searched multiple databases with multiple search terms. Conference proceedings from 1997 onward were searched by index. Authors of eligible studies were contacted to identify unpublished works. Selection criteria were liberally determined. Ten of the identified 11 articles met these criteria. Reviewers assessed the studies' methodologic quality by use of a standard form to evaluate selection, attrition, performance, and detection bias. The studies were analyzed in 2 groups on the basis of length of exposure (<90 days or >90 days). The Mantel-Haenszel method was used to summarize data. Quantitative and qualitative tests for heterogeneity were performed. Tests for publication bias were also done.
Tests for heterogeneity were nonsignificant after removing 1 outlier trial. The pooled prevalence of valvular regurgitation meeting Food and Drug Administration criteria (at least mild aortic regurgitation or at least moderate mitral regurgitation) among patients treated for >90 days was 12.0% compared with 5.9% for the unexposed group (prevalence odds ratio 2.2, 95% CI 1.7-2.7). The combined analyses also identified a small but statistically significant increase in mitral regurgitation not previously identified by individual studies (exposed 3.5%, unexposed 1.8%, prevalence odds ratio 1.6, 95% CI 1.05-2.3). Among patients exposed for <90 days, a trend toward more regurgitation was not statistically significant by either combined Food and Drug Administration criteria (exposed 6.8%, unexposed 5.8%, prevalence odds ratio 1.4, 95% CI 0.8-2.4) or by individual valve.
These data indicate that fenfluramine-associated valvular regurgitation is less common than initially reported, but still present in 1 of 8 patients treated for >90 days.
Substance use disorders are familial, and genetic factors explain a substantial degree of their familial aggregation. Methamphetamine (MAP) abusers are commonly noted as having psychosis, depression and suicidal behavior. The goals of the present study were (i) to investigate relations of clinical correlates, such as gender, drug use behavior, psychiatric comorbidity and psychiatry family history, with suicidal behavior among Chinese MAP abusers; and (ii) to investigate whether there is an association between a polymorphism in the promotor region of the serotonin transporter gene (5-HTTLPR) and suicidal behavior among Chinese MAP abusers. A total of 439 MAP abusers from a hospital and detention center in Taipei were interviewed with the Diagnostic Interview for Genetic Study and the Family Interview for Genetic Study. The 5-HTTLPR polymorphism was compared between 94 MAP abusers with suicide attempts and 294 MAP abusers without suicide attempts, for whom DNA data were available. The results of the present study indicate that among MAP abusers in Taiwan, suicide attempts were significantly related to female gender, history of MAP-induced psychotic disorder, history of MAP-induced depressive disorder, and family history of psychotic disorders. Among suicide attempters, the attempters with moderate to severe lethality used higher MAP doses than those with minimal to mild lethality. In the present sample the triallelic 5-HTTLPR polymorphism (S, L(G), L(A)) was not associated with MAP-induced depressive disorder, MAP-induced psychotic disorder or suicidal behavior, but studies with larger sample sizes are warranted before excluding the role of the 5-HTTLPR polymorphisms in suicidal behavior among MAP abusers.
In end-stage renal disease patients with hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg), the risk of hepatic dysfunction after immunosuppression represents a large barrier in renal transplantation. Lamivudine is a potent inhibitor of hepatitis B virus (HBV) replication. We retrospectively investigated the outcome of HBsAg-positive renal transplantation recipients after lamivudine had become available.
From July 1994 to August 2000, seventeen HBsAg-positive patients (M:F=15:2) received renal allografts (13:4=living:cadaveric donors). Liver function tests at the time of transplantation were normal in all patients. Pre-transplant liver biopsies performed in 15 patients demonstrated minimal inflammatory histology, except in three patients showing pathological and clinical signs of active hepatitis. Lamivudine was started pre-operatively in these three subjects. Another seven patients were treated with lamivudine for post-operative hepatic dysfunction. The remaining seven patients did not develop hepatic dysfunction after transplantation.
Lamivudine was initially effective in decreasing serum HBV DNA titres, and in normalizing hepatic enzymes. Lamivudine was well tolerated without significant side effects for 35.5+/-8.9 months after initiation of treatment. HBV DNA became negative in nine patients but remained positive in one patient. Among the nine patients with initial negative conversion of HBV DNA, two developed transient positive conversion of HBV DNA and two demonstrated persistent positive conversion. Among the patients with normal liver histology in the pre-transplant period, 41.6% (5/12) developed liver pathology progression after immunosuppression. All 17 patients had functioning grafts, except for one patient who developed relapsed IgA nephropathy.
Our data showed relatively favourable outcomes in hepatitis B-positive renal transplant recipients receiving lamivudine treatment, even though two patients developed lamivudine resistance.
We report a case of cardiac arrest occurring during an infusion of 5-fluorouracil where electrocardiograms suggested coronary artery spasm as the underlying event. Treatment with vasodilators and diltiazem, proved effective. This clinical presentation of 5-fluorouracil cardiotoxicity has not previously been described.
Patients with cervical adenopathy of obscure etiology may present a diagnostic problem to the otolaryngologist. The hydantoin family of anticonvulsants is a rare cause of adenopathy that may range from histologically simple lymphoid hyperplasia to true lymphoma. Between these two extremes is a benign clinical entity with the histologic characteristics of lymphoma. A patient on diphenylhydantoin (Dilantin) therapy developed bilateral true vocal cord paralysis and cervical adenopathy. On pathological examination the lesion was interpreted first as malignant lymphoma and later as hydantoin-induced pseudolymphoma. He has now been followed for over two years. Hydantoin-induced adenopathy may vary clinically from a benign condition to a true lymphoma. The malignant form may present long after the anticonvulsant treatment is discontinued. A 10-fold increase in the expected incidence of malignant lymphoma in epileptic patients on hydantoin therapy has been reported; therefore, these patients required long-term follow-up. The otolaryngologist should be aware of this rare clinical entity as an unusual cause of cervical adenopathy associated with vocal cord paralysis.
