The effect of dosing frequency on zidovudine (ZDV) prophylaxis against simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infection was examined in long-tailed macaque monkeys (Macaca fascicularis). The results indicate that dosing frequency is extremely important for drug efficacy. The monkeys were divided into three groups based on dosing frequencies of 6-, 8-, or 12-h intervals. All were given a total daily dose of 100 mg/kg of ZDV. The drug was administered subcutaneously starting 24 h before SIV inoculation, and treatment continued for an additional 28 days. With the total daily dose held constant, ZDV was most therapeutic when administered at 12-h intervals, less effective at 8-h intervals, and least effective at 6-h intervals. These results indicate that early ZDV treatment based on infrequent but high dosages may increase the antiretroviral effect of the drug. These findings could serve as a model for ZDV chemoprophylaxis in humans. In cases involving accidental exposure to SIV or human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1 or HIV-2), immediate, high-dosage therapies may be most therapeutic.
Although oxidative stress is a cardinal feature of asthma, the roles of oxidant air pollutants and antioxidant genes heme oxygenase 1 (HMOX-1), catalase (CAT), and manganese superoxide dismutase (MNSOD) in asthma pathogenesis have yet to be determined.
We hypothesized that the functional polymorphisms of HMOX-1 ([GT](n) repeat), CAT (-262C>T -844C>T), and MNSOD (Ala-9Val) are associated with new-onset asthma, and the effects of these variants vary by exposure to ozone, a potent oxidant air pollutant.
We assessed this hypothesis in a population-based cohort of non-Hispanic (n = 1,125) and Hispanic white (n = 586) children who resided in 12 California communities and who were followed annually for 8 years to ascertain new-onset asthma.
Air pollutants were continuously measured in each of the study communities during the 8 years of study follow-up. HMOX-1 "short" alleles (<23 repeats) were associated with a reduced risk for new-onset asthma among non-Hispanic whites (hazard ratio [HR], 0.64; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.41-0.99). This protective effect was largest in children residing in low-ozone communities (HR, 0.48; 95% CI, 0.25-0.91) (interaction P value = 0.003). Little evidence for an association with HMOX-1 was observed among Hispanic children. In contrast, Hispanic children with a variant of the CAT-262 "T" allele (CT or TT) had an increased risk for asthma (HR, 1.78; P value = 0.01). The effects of these polymorphisms were not modified by personal smoking or secondhand-smoke exposure.
Functional promoter variants in CAT and HMOX-1 showed ethnicity-specific associations with new-onset asthma. Oxidant gene protection was restricted to children living in low-ozone communities.
Complex I is the first and largest enzyme in the respiratory chain and is located in the inner mitochondrial membrane. Complex I deficiency is the most commonly reported mitochondrial disorder presenting in childhood, but the molecular basis of most cases remains elusive. We describe a patient with complex I deficiency caused by mutation of the molecular chaperone FOXRED1. A combined homozygosity mapping and bioinformatics approach in a consanguineous Iranian-Jewish pedigree led to the identification of a homozygous mutation in FOXRED1 in a child who presented with infantile-onset encephalomyopathy. Silencing of FOXRED1 in human fibroblasts resulted in reduced complex I steady-state levels and activity, while lentiviral-mediated FOXRED1 transgene expression rescued complex I deficiency in the patient fibroblasts. This FAD-dependent oxidoreductase, which has never previously been associated with human disease, is now shown to be a complex I-specific molecular chaperone. The discovery of the c.1054C>T; p.R352W mutation in the FOXRED1 gene is a further contribution towards resolving the complex puzzle of the genetic basis of human mitochondrial disease.
Glypicans are a family of glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored, membrane-bound heparan sulfate (HS) proteoglycans. Their biological roles are only partly understood, although it is assumed that they modulate the activity of HS-binding growth factors. The involvement of glypicans in developmental morphogenesis and growth regulation has been highlighted by Drosophila mutants and by a human overgrowth syndrome with multiple malformations caused by glypican 3 mutations (Simpson-Golabi-Behmel syndrome). We now report that autosomal-recessive omodysplasia, a genetic condition characterized by short-limbed short stature, craniofacial dysmorphism, and variable developmental delay, maps to chromosome 13 (13q31.1-q32.2) and is caused by point mutations or by larger genomic rearrangements in glypican 6 (GPC6). All mutations cause truncation of the GPC6 protein and abolish both the HS-binding site and the GPI-bearing membrane-associated domain, and thus loss of function is predicted. Expression studies in microdissected mouse growth plate revealed expression of Gpc6 in proliferative chondrocytes. Thus, GPC6 seems to have a previously unsuspected role in endochondral ossification and skeletal growth, and its functional abrogation results in a short-limb phenotype.
Memory blockade is an essential component of the anesthetic state. However, postanesthesia memory deficits represent an undesirable and poorly understood adverse effect. Inhibitory α5 subunit-containing γ-aminobutyric acid subtype A receptors (α5GABAA) are known to play a critical role in memory processes and are highly sensitive to positive modulation by anesthetics. We postulated that inhibiting the activity of α5GABAA receptors during isoflurane anesthesia would prevent memory deficits in the early postanesthesia period.
Mice were pretreated with L-655,708, an α5GABAA receptor-selective inverse agonist, or vehicle. They were then exposed to isoflurane for 1 h (1.3%, or 1 minimum alveolar concentration, or air-oxygen control). Then, either 1 or 24 h later, mice were conditioned in fear-associated contextual and cued learning paradigms. In addition, the effect of L-655,708 on the immobilizing dose of isoflurane was studied. Motor coordination, sedation, anxiety, and the concentration of isoflurane in the brain at 5 min, 1 h, and 24 h after isoflurane were also examined.
Motor and sensory function recovered within minutes after termination of isoflurane administration. In contrast, a robust deficit in contextual fear memory persisted for at least 24 h. The α5GABAA receptor inverse agonist, L-655,708, completely prevented memory deficits without changing the immobilizing dose of isoflurane. Trace concentrations of isoflurane were measured in the brain 24 h after treatment.
Memory deficits occurred long after the sedative, analgesic, and anxiolytic effects of isoflurane subsided. L-655,708 prevented memory deficit, suggesting that an isoflurane interaction at α5GABAA receptors contributes to memory impairment during the early postanesthesia period.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate endothelium-dependent flow-mediated dilation (FMD) in the brachial artery and the plasma levels of endothelin-1 in postmenopausal women at risk for coronary artery disease before and after treatment with both estradiol and estradiol plus dydrogesterone.
Sixteen postmenopausal women (PMW) (mean age 58+/-9 years) with more than two risk factors for coronary artery disease, were randomized to receive either oral estradiol (2 mg) for 28 days or oral estradiol (2 mg) for 14 days and oral estradiol (2 mg) and dydrogesterone (10 mg) for 14 days, in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, single cross-over study. Patients were crossed-over the complementary treatment 7 days after completing the first treatment. The study of forearm blood flow and the measurement of plasma endothelin-1 levels was carried out before and after each treatment.
Estradiol significantly increased FMD as compared to baseline; the addition of dydrogesterone did not affect the effect of estradiol on FMD. Similarly reactive hyperemic flow increased after estradiol alone or in association with dydrogesterone compared to baseline. Plasma levels of endothelin-1 were significantly reduced by estradiol both when administered alone or in association with dydrogesterone.
Hormone replacement therapy with estradiol and dydrogesterone improves endothelial function and reduces plasma levels of endothelin-1 in PMW at risk for coronary artery disease.
The authors report a case of fatal Daunorubicin cardiotoxicity on initial phase of therapy for Acute Myeloblastic Leukemia at cumulative doses (225 mg/mq) considered still safe from the current literature. Despite the interruption of therapy and the interventions performed in support of cardiac functionality the patient came to exitus for heart failure 24 hours after the symptoms onset. This example represents a further confirmation of the utility of a steady monitoring with specific tests for the patients undergoing Daunorubicin therapy.
The thyroidal sodium iodide symporter (NIS) in combination with various radioactive isotopes has shown promise as a therapeutic gene in various tumor models. Therapy depends on adequate retention of the isotope in the tumor. We hypothesized that in the absence of iodide organification, isotope trapping is a dynamic process either due to slow efflux or re-uptake of the isotope by cells expressing NIS. Iodide efflux is slower in ARH-77 and K-562 cells expressing NIS compared to a thyroid cell line. Isotope retention half times varied linearly with the number of cells expressing NIS. With sufficient NIS expression, iodide efflux is a zero-order process. Efflux kinetics in the presence or absence of perchlorate also supports the hypothesis that iodide re-uptake occurs and contributes to the retention of the isotope in tumor cells. Iodide organification was insignificant. In vivo studies in tumors composed of mixed cell populations confirmed these observations.
High-dose human albumin (ALB) is robustly neuroprotective in rodent stroke models. A phase I dose-escalation study was conducted to assess the safety of ALB therapy in ischemic stroke. We analyzed the data for preliminary evidence of treatment efficacy.
Eighty-two subjects with acute ischemic stroke (NIH Stroke Scale [NIHSS] of 6 or above) received 25% ALB beginning within 16 hours of stroke onset. Six successive ALB dose tiers were assessed (range, 0.34 to 2.05 g/kg). Forty-two patients also received standard-of-care intravenous tissue plasminogen activator (tPA). Efficacy outcomes were determined at 3 months. We compared the highest three, putatively therapeutic ALB dose tiers (1.37 to 2.05 g/kg) with the lowest three, presumed subtherapeutic doses (0.34 to 1.03 g/kg) and with historical cohort data derived from the NINDS rt-PA Stroke Study.
After adjusting for the tPA effect, the probability of good outcome (defined as modified Rankin Scale 0 to 1 or NIH Stroke Scale 0 to 1 at 3 months) at the highest three ALB doses was 81% greater than in the lower dose-tiers (relative risk [RR], 1.81; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.11 to 2.94) and was 95% greater than in the comparable NINDS rt-PA Stroke Study cohort (RR, 1.95; 95% CI, 1.47 to 2.57). The tPA-treated subjects who received higher-dose ALB were three times more likely to achieve a good outcome than subjects receiving lower-dose ALB, suggesting a positive synergistic effect between ALB and tPA.
Our data suggest that high-dose ALB therapy may be neuroprotective after ischemic stroke. These results have led to a multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled efficacy trial of ALB in acute ischemic stroke-the ALIAS Phase III Trial.
Mercury is a toxic heavy metal that is an environmental and industrial pollutant throughout the world. Mercury exposure leads to many physiopathological injuries in mammals. However, the precise toxicological effects of mercury on pancreatic islets in vivo are still unclear. Here, we investigated whether mercuric compounds can induce dysfunction and damage in the pancreatic islets of mice, as well as the possible mechanisms involved in this process. Mice were treated with methyl mercuric chloride (MeHgCl, 2 mg/kg) and mercuric chloride (HgCl(2), 5 mg/kg) for more than 2 consecutive weeks. Our results showed that the blood glucose levels increased and plasma insulin secretions decreased in the mice as a consequence of their exposure. A significant number of TUNEL-positive cells were revealed in the islets of mice that were treated with mercury for 2 consecutive weeks, which was accompanied by changes in the expression of the mRNA of anti-apoptotic (Bcl-2, Mcl-1, and Mdm-2) and apoptotic (p53, caspase-3, and caspase-7) genes. Moreover, plasma malondialdehyde (MDA) levels increased significantly in the mice after treatment with mercuric compounds for 2 consecutive weeks, and the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the pancreatic islets also markedly increased. In addition, the mRNA expression of genes related to antioxidation, including Nrf2, GPx, and NQO1, were also significantly reduced in these islets. These results indicate that oxidative stress injuries that are induced by mercuric compounds can cause pancreatic islets dysfunction and apoptosis in vivo.
In view of the fact that increased resistance to drugs by malaria parasites in some parts of the world may lead to increasing use of a combination of primaquine with chloroquine for chemotherapy, studies were made on the severity of the haemolytic anaemia induced by 45 mg primaquine in American Negroes with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency. It was found that twice-weekly administration of primaquine induced more haemolysis than once-weekly administration, and that administration once weekly for 4 weeks and twice weekly thereafter resulted in a degree of anaemia falling between those produced by the other regimens. Anaemia was not induced in controls with no G6PD deficiency. One volunteer developed an intercurrent infection that was treated with salicylates; his haemolysis was markedly intensified, but whether by the infection, the salicylates or both could not be determined.In a conjoint study, the administration of six malaria-suppressive drugs had no detectable effect on the activities of several erythrocyte enzymes or on the levels of adenosine monophosphate, diphosphate or triphosphate.
Beta-endorphin is an endogenous opioid peptide, implicated in the behavioral effects of drugs of abuse. It is synthesized in the arcuate nucleus and secreted into the nucleus accumbens. In the present study, we examined the interaction between arcuate nucleus dopaminergic cells and accumbal beta-endorphin, during cocaine exposure. Using microdialysis, we found that blockade of arcuate dopamine-2 receptors with a selective antagonist significantly attenuated cocaine-induced increases of beta-endorphin levels in the nucleus accumbens. Moreover, rats chronically exposed to cocaine using the self-administration paradigm displayed extinction-like behavior following blockade of dopamine-2 receptors. These findings indicate that dopaminergic neurons in the arcuate nucleus may induce the secretion of beta-endorphin in the nucleus accumbens, and that they are implicated in the cocaine reward pathway.
The endogenous cannabinoid system has been noted for its therapeutic potential, as well as the psychoactivity of cannabinoids such as Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC). However, less is known about the psychoactivity of anandamide (AEA), an endocannabinoid ligand. Thus, the goals of this study were to establish AEA as a discriminative stimulus in transgenic mice lacking fatty acid amide hydrolase (i.e., FAAH -/- mice unable to rapidly metabolize AEA), evaluate whether THC or oleamide, a fatty acid amide, produced AEA-like responding, and assess for CB(1) mediation of AEA's discriminative stimulus. Mice readily discriminated between 6mg/kg AEA and vehicle in a two-lever drug discrimination task. AEA dose-dependently generalized to itself. THC elicited full AEA-like responding, whereas oleamide failed to substitute. The CB(1) antagonist rimonabant attenuated AEA- and THC-induced AEA-appropriate responding, demonstrating CB(1) mediation of AEA's discriminative stimulus. These findings suggest that, in the absence of FAAH, AEA produces intoxication comparable to THC, and consequently to marijuana.
The degree of albuminuria following hephroangiography with the ionic contrast medium Urografin, the non-ionic Amipaque and a recently synthesized non-ionic contrast medium with the code name C 29 was compared. Significantly less albuminuria was caused by C 29 than by the other two contrast media.
Accurate estimate of drug exposure plays an important role in studies of the neurobiology of drug dependence. The validity of self-reported drug use by subjects participating in such studies has not been well established. This study examined the relationship between self-reported drug use and biological markers in 18 non-treatment-seeking cocaine-dependent individuals participating in research on the effects of cocaine on the brain. A significant relationship was found between self-reported frequency of cocaine use and hair cocaine concentration. Frequency of alcohol use correlated significantly with plasma carbohydrate-deficient transferrin and aspartate aminotransferase levels. These results suggest that self-reported substance use in non-treatment seeking research subjects is generally valid.
Young infants are highly susceptible to systemic dissemination of enteric pathogens such as Salmonella typhimurium when compared with older individuals. The mechanisms underlying this differential susceptibility have not been defined clearly. To better understand this phenomenon, we examined the responses of adult mice and preweaned pups to oral infection by S. typhimurium. We found clear age-specific differences, namely, an attenuated intestinal inflammatory response and a higher systemic bacterial burden in the pups compared with the adults. To elucidate the molecular basis for these differences, we obtained a microarray-based profile of gene expression in the small intestines of uninfected adult and preweaned animals. The results indicated a striking age-dependent increase in the intestinal expression of a number of IFN-gamma-regulated genes involved in antimicrobial defense. This finding was confirmed by real-time quantitative PCR, which also demonstrated an age-dependent increase in intestinal expression of IFN-gamma. The developmental up-regulation of the IFN-gamma-regulated genes was dependent on both IFN-gamma and a normal commensal microflora, as indicated by experiments in IFN-gamma-knockout mice and germfree mice, respectively. However, the increase in expression of IFN-gamma itself was independent of the commensal flora. The functional importance of IFN-gamma in the immunological maturation of the intestine was confirmed by the observation that the response of adult IFN-gamma-knockout animals to S. typhimurium infection resembled that of the wild-type pups. Our findings thus reveal a novel role for IFN-gamma in the developmental regulation of antimicrobial responses in the intestine.
Bromate (BrO3(-)), a by-product of ozonation of drinking water, induces nephrotoxicity in male rats at much lower doses than in female rats. This difference appears to be related to the development of α-2u-globulin nephropathy in males. To determine sex-dependent changes in mRNA and protein expression in the renal cortex attributable to α-2u-globulin nephropathy, we performed microarray and immunohistochemical analyses in proximal renal tubules of male and female F344 rats treated with KBrO3 for 28 days. Particular attention was paid to molecular biomarkers of renal tubular injury. Microarray analysis of male and female rats treated with BrO3(-) at low doses (125 mg/L KBrO3) displayed marked sex-dependent changes in renal gene expression. The greatest differences were seen in genes encoding for cellular differentiation, apoptosis, ion transport, and cell proliferation. Differences by sex were especially prominent for the cell cycle checkpoint gene p21, the renal injury protein Kim-1, and the kidney injury and cancer biomarker protein osteopontin. Dose-related nephrotoxicity, assessed by hematoxylin and eosin staining, was greater in males compared to female rats, as was cellular proliferation, assessed by bromodeoxyuridine staining. The fraction of proximal renal cells with elevated 8-oxodeoxyguanosine (8-OH-dG) was only increased at the high dose and did not differ by sex. Dose-dependent increases in the expression of osteopontin were detected immunohistochemically only in male rats and were localized in proximal tubule cells. Similarly, BrO3(-) treatment increased clusterin and Kim-1 staining in the proximal tubules; however, staining for these proteins did not differ appreciably between males and females. These data demonstrate both qualitative and quantitative differences in the response of male versus female kidneys to BrO3(-)-treatment. These sex-dependent effects likely contribute to renal carcinogenesis of BrO3(-) in the male rat.
A 54-year-old male was observed driving erratically. The subject displayed both horizontal and vertical nystagmus and poor balance on field sobriety tests (FST's). Further observations included slow movements, breathing, and speech, extremely poor coordination, lack of convergence, and pupils with slow reaction to light. The subject related he was seeing roadway lines doubled and felt a hallucinogenic effect. Breath alcohol results were negative. Blood tests found zolpidem and fluoxetine in addition to hydrocodone at therapeutic levels. This case is presented as an example of hallucinogenic effects from the combination of zolpidem and serotonin reuptake inhibitors.
An endogenous ouabain-like substance (OLS) plays a critical role in the etiology of experimental models of human hypertension induced by a high salt diet. Early on, evidence for a role of this Na, K-ATPase inhibitor in blood pressure regulation was provided mainly by correlations of blood pressure with the levels of circulating Na, K-ATPase inhibitor. However, over the past decade, numerous studies have shown that endogenous Na pump inhibitors in the brain mediate salt-dependent hypertension in a variety of experimental models, including Dahl salt-sensitive (Dahl-S) and spontaneously hypertensive (SHR) rats on a high-salt diet. Other forms of hypertension that are known to be mediated by endogenous ouabain-like substances include steroid/salt- (e.g., DOCA-salt) and ACTH-induced hypertension. Even when exogenous ouabain is peripherally administered and/or the plasma ouabain/OLS level is increased in rats, the resulting hypertension is of CNS origin. After peripheral ouabain administration, ouabain levels increase in the plasma and the inhibitor subsequently accumulates in the brain. The ensuing hypertension is abolished by the intracerebroventricular (icv) administration of an anti-ouabain antibody (but not by the same antibody dose given iv), by discrete excitotoxic lesions in the brain or by ganglionic blockade, demonstrating that the response is neurally mediated. The pressor response to stimuli that increase the brain OLS (high salt diet, icv sodium) or to icv ouabain is abolished by icv losartan, demonstrating that the brain OLS activates the brain renin-angiotensin system (RAS) downstream. There are three isoforms of the catalytic alpha subunit of the Na, K-ATPase in the brain and cardiovascular system (alpha1, alpha2 and alpha3), but it is not known which brain isoform(s) mediate the hypertensive effects of circulating/CNS ouabain. Preliminary studies in gene-targeted mice suggest that the alpha2 isoform plays a critical role.
We report herein a patient with coronary artery disease that developed heparin-induced thrombocytopenia after coronary artery bypass graft with resulting thrombosis of multiple saphenous vein grafts and myocardial infarction after heparin exposure. The patient required lepirudin and a cardiac catheterization with placement of stents.
Puberty is a developmental process that is dependent upon activation of the hypothalamic gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) pulse generator. It is well established that the stress neuropeptide, corticotrophin-releasing factor (CRF), has a profound inhibitory action on GnRH pulse generator frequency. Although stress is known to affect the timing of puberty, the role of CRF is unknown. The present study aimed to test the hypothesis that CRF plays a critical role in the timing of puberty. On postnatal day (pnd) 28, female rat pups were chronically implanted with i.c.v. cannulae and received 14 days of administration of either CRF, CRF receptor antagonist (astressin-B) or artificial cerebrospinal fluid via an osmotic mini-pump. A separate group of rats served as nonsurgical controls. As a marker of puberty, rats were monitored for vaginal opening and first vaginal oestrus. Levels of CRF, CRF receptor types 1 and 2 (CRF-R1, CRF-R2) mRNA expression in micropunches of the medial preoptic area (mPOA), hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and arcuate nucleus (ARC) were determined across pubertal development; brain tissue was collected from a naive group of rats on pnd 14, 32, on the day of vaginal opening, and pnd 77 (Adult). Administration of CRF resulted in a delay in the onset of puberty, whereas astressin-B advanced pubertal onset. Additionally, CRF and CRF-R1 mRNA expression was reduced in the mPOA, but not ARC, at puberty. In the PVN, expression of CRF, but not CRF-R1 mRNA, was reduced at the time of puberty. These data support the hypothesis that CRF signalling may play an important role in modulating the timing of puberty in the rat.
A significant number of patients treated with anthracyclines develop cardiotoxicity (anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity [ACT]), mainly presenting as arrhythmias (acute ACT) or congestive heart failure (chronic ACT). There are no data on pharmacogenomic predictors of ACT.
We genotyped participants of the German non-Hodgkin lymphoma study (NHL-B) who were followed up for the development of heart failure for a median of >3 years. Single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were selected from 82 genes with conceivable relevance to ACT. Of 1697 patients, 55 developed acute and 54 developed chronic ACT (cumulative incidence of either form, 3.2%). We detected 5 significant associations with polymorphisms of the NAD(P)H oxidase and doxorubicin efflux transporters. Chronic ACT was associated with a variant of the NAD(P)H oxidase subunit NCF4 (rs1883112, -212A-->G; symbols with right-pointing arrows, as edited?' odds ratio [OR], 2.5; 95% CI, 1.3 to 5.0). Acute ACT was associated with the His72Tyr polymorphism in the p22phox subunit (rs4673; OR, 2.0; 95% CI, 1.0 to 3.9) and with the variant 7508T-->A (rs13058338; OR, 2.6; 95% CI, 1.3 to 5.1) of the RAC2 subunit of the same enzyme. In agreement with these results, mice deficient in NAD(P)H oxidase activity, unlike wild-type mice, were resistant to chronic doxorubicin treatment. In addition, acute ACT was associated with the Gly671Val variant of the doxorubicin efflux transporter multidrug resistance protein 1 (MRP1) (OR, 3.6; 95% CI, 1.6 to 8.4) and with the Val1188Glu-Cys1515Tyr (rs8187694-rs8187710) haplotype of the functionally similar MRP2 (OR, 2.3; 95% CI, 1.0 to 5.4). Polymorphisms in adrenergic receptors previously demonstrated to be predictive of heart failure were not associated with ACT.
Genetic variants in doxorubicin transport and free radical metabolism may modulate the individual risk to develop ACT.
Overexpression of the C-type natriuretic peptide, encoded by the NPPC gene in 2q37.1, was recently reported in a patient presenting an overgrowth phenotype and a balanced t(2;7)(q37.1;q21.3) translocation. We present clinical, cytogenetic, and molecular data from two additional patients carrying balanced translocations involving the same 2q37.1 chromosome band and chromosomes 8 and 13, respectively. The clinical phenotype of these patients is very similar to the first patient described. In addition to the overgrowth syndrome, there is evidence of generalized cartilage dysplasia. In these two new cases, we found overexpression of NPPC, confirming that this unusual overgrowth phenotype in humans is due to the overexpression of this gene. The involvement of three different chromosomes and a cluster of breakpoints around the NPPC gene suggests that the overexpression of this gene in translocation patients could be due to its separation from a negative regulatory element located on chromosome 2, which would constitute a previously undescribed mutational mechanism.
Thrombosis associated with a drop in the platelet count may occur in 33-50% of the patients who develop heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) during treatment with unfractionated heparin. We report the case of a 63-year-old man who was treated with unfractionated heparin following a non-ST segment elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI). He developed an acute ST segment elevation infarction (STEMI) on day 3 with an associated severe thrombocytopenia. He was successfully treated with percutaneous intervention and aspiration of coronary thrombus from the right coronary artery and the left circulflex artery, followed by an infusion a direct thrombin inhibitor lepirudin/bivalirudin. He made an excellent recovery.
