We examined the influence of CP 154,526, a selective antagonist of corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF)1 receptors, in the locomotor, sensitizing, discriminative stimulus and rewarding effects of cocaine, as well as on the cocaine-induced reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior in male Wistar rats. CP 154,526 in doses of 5, 10 and 20 mg/kg, which did not affect basal locomotor activity, dose-dependently reduced the hyperactivation evoked by cocaine. To assess the effects of CP 154,526 on the expression of cocaine sensitization, the rats were injected with either saline or cocaine (10 mg/kg) for 5 days, and were then challenged with cocaine (10 mg/kg) after pretreatment with saline or CP 154,526 on day 5 of withdrawal. The cocaine-induced hyperactivity in sensitized rats was reduced by CP 154,526 (10 and 20 mg/kg). In rats trained to discriminate cocaine (10 mg/kg) from saline, pretreatment with CP 154,526 (5-20 mg/kg) did not affect the cocaine (1.25-10 mg/kg)-induced discriminative stimulus effects. In a self-administration model, the rats were trained to self-administer cocaine (0.5 mg/kg/infusion) in the FR 5 schedule of reinforcement. Administration of CP 154,526 (10-20 mg/kg) did not alter the rewarding effects of cocaine, assessed as the number of active-lever presses and infusions; however, following a 10-day extinction phase, CP 154,526 (5-20 mg/kg) significantly decreased in a dose-dependent manner the cocaine (10 mg/kg) priming-induced reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior. The present study implies that CRF1 receptors control the expression of cocaine hyperactivation and sensitization as well as the cocaine-induced relapse behavior, but do not play any role in cocaine discrimination and self-administration. These findings may suggest that CRF1 receptor antagonists should be considered as possible medications in the treatment of cocaine addiction.
Moricizine was studied in 908 patients with ventricular arrhythmias. A proarrhythmia occurred in 29 (3.2%). When the severity of the proarrhythmia and the type of presenting ventricular arrhythmia were correlated, no proarrhythmic events occurred in patients who presented with benign ventricular arrhythmias. Four deaths were attributed to the proarrhythmic effects of moricizine. Of these, 3 occurred in patients presenting with lethal ventricular arrhythmias. A total of 15 serious proarrhythmic events occurred, all of which resolved without lethal consequence. The overall proarrhythmia incidence in the lethal and potentially lethal ventricular arrhythmia categories was not different (3.2 vs 3.7%, respectively). Thus, a proarrhythmia occurred in patients with more advanced structural heart disease, and occurred almost exclusively in patients who presented with potentially lethal or lethal ventricular arrhythmia. There was no relation between the dose of moricizine and the incidence of proarrhythmic events. Of the 29 proarrhythmic events, 26 occurred within 7 days (90%) of the initiation of moricizine therapy. Thus, moricizine appears to have a low proarrhythmic potential in the populations tested, including patients presenting with lethal ventricular arrhythmias. The implications of the Cardiac Arrhythmia Suppression Trial on such a data base analysis are discussed.
1. The oral administration of a benzothiazolinone derivative (benzoyl-6 dihydro-2,3 benzothiazole), S14080, caused dose-dependent antinociception in the rat paw pressure test, which represents a model of mechanical hyperalgesia. S14080 had no significant effect on the inflammatory oedema induced by carrageenin or on the tail flick test, nor did it possess a notable antipyretic effect. 2. Post-treatment with S14080 dose-dependently antagonized the hyperalgesia induced by prostaglandin E2, bradykinin, dopamine and by the hyperalgesic cytokines reported to be released by carrageenin (tumour necrosis factor alpha, interleukin-1 and interleukin-8). 3. The blockade of prostaglandin E2-induced paw hyperalgesia by oral pretreatment of the rats with S14080 was abolished by prior intraplantar administration of either naloxone or NorBNI which are non-specific and specific kappa opioid antagonists, respectively. 4. Adrenalectomy abolished the oral antinociceptive effect of S14080. 5. Five consecutive daily injections of S14080 did not produce tolerance such as that seen with the central antinociceptive action of morphine. 6. As with peripherally acting opiates, the antinociceptive activity of S14080 was abolished by the intraplantar injection of agents which inhibit either arginine synthetase (NG-monomethyl-L-arginine) or the activation of guanylate cyclase (methylene blue). 7. We conclude that S14080 is a new type of peripheral antinociceptive which, in rats, acts mainly by releasing an endogenous, opioid-like substance from the adrenal glands.
Gastrin is trophic for normal gastric and colonic mucosa. We examined the potential trophic effects of chronic gastrin administration on the growth of mouse colon adenocarcinoma (MC-26). Thirty-three mice bearing transplantable MC-26 colon cancers were treated with varying doses (125, 250, or 500 micrograms/kg/day) of pentagastrin. Significant increases in tumor weight and DNA content were observed. Fundic mucosal weight and DNA content in these mice showed a dose-related trophic response. The weight of control fundic mucosa was 10 mg and rose to 20, 45, and 65 mg with increasing doses of gastrin. The DNA content of control fundic mucosa was 155 micrograms and rose to 220, 340, and 480 micrograms as the dose of gastrin was increased. Pentagastrin stimulated growth of the MC-26 colon cancer, but the threshold for gastrin-stimulated tumor growth was different from that of normal mucosal growth. The hyperplastic response of the fundic mucosa was increased by increasing gastrin doses; whereas, colon cancer hyperplasia was maximal at the lowest dose tested (125 micrograms/kg/day) and did not increase further with increasing doses of hormone. Mice bearing gastrin-stimulated tumors died at a significantly greater rate than did mice with untreated tumors (80% of control mice and none of the treated mice were alive at day 55). The effects of gastrin treatment on the growth of MC-26 colon cancer persist after treatment is discontinued; mice with tumors that were treated with gastrin for either 7 or 14 days and in which the treatment was stopped were all dead by 35 or 28 days, respectively, after the end of treatment.
Addition of aprepitant, a neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist (NK1RA), to an ondansetron and dexamethasone regimen improves prevention of chemotherapy-induced nausea/vomiting (CINV), particularly during the delayed phase (DP; 25 to 120 hours). Therefore, recommended antiemetic regimens include multiple-day NK1RA administration. Preliminary data suggested that single-dose aprepitant before chemotherapy could provide CINV protection throughout the overall risk phase (OP; 0 to 120 hours). This study compared a 3-day oral aprepitant schedule to a regimen containing a single dose of the intravenous NK1RA fosaprepitant.
A randomized, double-blind, active-control design was used to test whether fosaprepitant is noninferior to aprepitant. Patients receiving cisplatin ≥ 70 mg/m(2) for the first time received ondansetron and dexamethasone with a standard aprepitant regimen (125 mg on day 1, 80 mg on day 2, 80 mg on day 3) or a single-dose fosaprepitant regimen (150 mg on day 1). The primary end point was complete response (CR; no vomiting, no rescue medication) during OP. Secondary end points were CR during DP and no vomiting during OP. Accrual of 1,113 evaluable patients per treatment arm was planned to confirm noninferiority with expected CR of 67.7% and noninferiority margin of minus 7 percentage points.
A total of 2,322 patients were randomly assigned, and 2,247 were evaluable for efficacy. Antiemetic protection with aprepitant and fosaprepitant was equivalent within predefined bounds for noninferiority. Both regimens were well tolerated, although more frequent infusion site pain/erythema/thrombophlebitis was seen with fosaprepitant relative to aprepitant (2.7% v 0.3%, respectively).
Given with ondansetron and dexamethasone, single-dose intravenous fosaprepitant (150 mg) was noninferior to standard 3-day oral aprepitant in preventing CINV during OP and DP.
The recent approval of tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) by the Food and Drug Administration has opened a new era in the management of acute coronary occlusions. Absolute contraindications are well established. A case of intracranial bleeding as a complication of thrombolytic therapy in an intravenous substance abuser is presented. This may represent a relative contraindication to thrombolytic therapy.
Methotrexate can influence the central nervous system through several metabolic toxic pathways. These effects can be categorized as immediate, acute to subacute, or chronic neurologic syndromes. The acute to subacute syndrome occurs frequently in acute lymphoblastic leukemia treatment protocols, generally manifesting with focal neurologic signs and changes seen on magnetic resonance imaging and single photon emission computed tomography. While in some patients the neurotoxicity is transient and benign and allows for continuation of chemotherapy, in others it can be quite severe and debilitating, leading to permanent neurologic deficits. The need to modify the treatment protocols when neurotoxicity appears is not fully established. It is also unknown whether the use of sufficient amounts of leucovorin can overcome the toxic effects of the drug.
We have developed a model of ischemic bowel necrosis in the rat by injecting synthetic platelet-activating factor into the mesenteric vascular bed. Our previous studies have shown that the development of ischemic necrosis was not due to thrombus formation, but to release of vasoconstricting mediators from the intestinal tissue, such as leukotriene C4. However the release of leukotriene C4 was transient and could not account for the prolonged intestinal vasoconstriction. In the present study, we show that (a) the release of norepinephrine from intestinal tissue was increased after injection of platelet-activating factor, and was responsible, at least in part, for the prolonged vasoconstriction; (b) in vivo treatment with reserpine abolished both the prolonged vasoconstriction and the release of norepinephrine from the perfused small intestine; (c) the release of norepinephrine was largely secondary to leukotriene C4 production and direct injection of leukotriene C4 caused catecholamine release; and (d) there was a concomitant release of epinephrine (of a lesser magnitude) after injection of platelet-activating factor.
The current therapy of uveal melanoma (UM) metastases remains inefficient, which warrants the development of new treatment modalities. For the first time we investigated the effects of retinoic acid (RA) on a panel of UM cell lines and found that RA induces morphological changes compatible with differentiation, suppresses proliferation and causes apoptosis in these cells. RA treatment resulted in an increase of p21, p27 and p53 protein levels and G1 arrest in UM cells, which correlated with significant down-modulation of surface Her2/neu proto-oncogene expression. In addition, RA-treated UM cells exhibited increased sensitivity to both MHC class I-restricted killing by cytotoxic T lymphocytes and NK cell-mediated lysis that were accompanied by more efficient conjugate formation between UM cells and killer lymphocytes. Taken together, our results implicate UM as a new target for treatment with retinoids and suggest that retinoids and T- or NK-cell based immunotherapy can have mutually enhancing effects in UM patients.
Thyroxine synthesis inhibitors produced augmentation in predisposition to catalepsy and a decrease of sexual motivation and acoustic startle reflex response in rat. Sensitivity of these behavioral alterations to antidepressants was unknown. Chronic treatment with prototypical antidepressant imipramine (15 mg/kg, 21 days) prevented manifestation of catalepsy expression and sexual motivation reduction in Wistar rats given propylthiouracil (50 mg/l, 28 days) but did not influence startle reflex amplitude. Behavioral recovery induced by imipramine did not attribute to alterations in locomotor activity in open-field test or body weight gain. 5-HT(2A)-receptor mRNA level in the frontal cortex was not changed either. Model of sexual motivation disturbance and catalepsy induced by propylthiouracil in rat seems to be prospective to study the role of thyroid dysfunctions in mechanisms of depression and antidepressant treatment.
The cathelicidin antimicrobial peptide (CAMP) gene is induced by 1α,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1α,25(OH)2 D3), lithocholic acid, curcumin, nicotinamide, and butyrate. Discovering additional small molecules that regulate its expression will identify new molecular mechanisms involved in CAMP regulation and increase understanding of how diet and nutrition can improve immune function.
We discovered that two stilbenoids, resveratrol and pterostilbene, induced CAMP promoter-luciferase expression. Synergistic activation was observed when either stilbenoid was combined with 1α,25(OH)2 D3. Both stilbenoids increased CAMP mRNA and protein levels in the monocyte cell line U937 and synergy was observed in both U937 and the keratinocyte cell line, HaCaT. Inhibition of resveratrol targets sirtuin-1, cyclic AMP production and the c-Jun N-terminal, phosphoinositide 3 and AMP-activated kinases did not block induction of CAMP by resveratrol or synergy with 1α,25(OH)2 D3. Nevertheless, inhibition of the extracellular signal regulated 1/2 and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinases, increased CAMP gene expression in combination with 1α,25(OH)2 D3 suggesting that inhibition of these kinases by resveratrol may explain, in part, its synergy with vitamin D.
Our findings demonstrate for the first time that stilbenoid compounds may have the potential to boost the innate immune response by increasing CAMP gene expression, particularly in combination with 1α,25(OH)2 D3.
Cancer cachexia is a debilitating syndrome of anorexia and loss of lean body mass that accompanies many malignancies. Ghrelin is an orexigenic hormone with a short half-life that has been shown to improve food intake and weight gain in human and animal subjects with cancer cachexia. We used a rat model of cancer cachexia and administered human ghrelin and a synthetic ghrelin analog BIM-28131 via continuous infusion using sc osmotic minipumps. Tumor-implanted rats receiving human ghrelin or BIM-28131 exhibited a significant increase in food consumption and weight gain vs. saline-treated animals. We used dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry scans to show that the increased weight was due to maintenance of lean mass vs. a loss of lean mass in saline-treated animals. Also, BIM-28131 significantly limited the loss of fat mass normally observed in tumor-implanted rats. We further performed real-time PCR analysis of the hypothalami and brainstems and found that ghrelin-treated animals exhibited a significant increase in expression of orexigenic peptides agouti-related peptide and neuropeptide Y in the hypothalamus and a significant decrease in the expression of IL-1 receptor-I transcript in the hypothalamus and brainstem. We conclude that ghrelin and a synthetic ghrelin receptor agonist improve weight gain and lean body mass retention via effects involving orexigenic neuropeptides and antiinflammatory changes.
Ninety-four patients undergoing elective outpatient third molar extraction were recruited into a double-blind, randomized, prospective trial comparing mivacurium (group M) with succinylcholine (Group S) for conditions for endotracheal intubation and the occurrence of postoperative myalgia. Anaesthesia was induced with fentanyl 1 microgram.kg-1 and propofol 2.5 micrograms.kg-1 in all patients. Group S patients were given gallamine 20 mg while group M patients were given mivacurium 0.2 mg.kg-1. Manual ventilation was commenced and anaesthesia maintained with nitrous oxide 70% and isoflurane 1 to 2% in oxygen. After two minutes, group S patients were given succinylcholine 1.5 mg.kg-1 and group M patients 0.9% saline. Nasotracheal intubation was performed 30 seconds later. Intubating conditions in group M were significantly better than those in group S (P < 0.001). The incidence of postoperative myalgia was 9.5% in group M and 26% in group S but this was not statistically significant (P = 0.09). We propose that mivacurium is a suitable neuromuscular blocker to use for endotracheal intubation in outpatient dental surgery.
Neurotoxic effects of ecstasy have been reported, although it remains unclear whether effects can be attributed to ecstasy, other recreational drugs or a combination of these.
To assess specific/independent neurotoxic effects of heavy ecstasy use and contributions of amphetamine, cocaine and cannabis as part of The Netherlands XTC Toxicity (NeXT) study.
Effects of ecstasy and other substances were assessed with (1)H-magnetic resonance spectroscopy, diffusion tensor imaging, perfusion weighted imaging and [(123)I]2beta-carbomethoxy-3beta-(4-iodophenyl)-tropane ([(123)I]beta-CIT) single photon emission computed tomography (serotonin transporters) in a sample (n=71) with broad variation in drug use, using multiple regression analyses.
Ecstasy showed specific effects in the thalamus with decreased [(123)I]beta-CIT binding, suggesting serotonergic axonal damage; decreased fractional anisotropy, suggesting axonal loss; and increased cerebral blood volume probably caused by serotonin depletion. Ecstasy had no effect on brain metabolites and apparent diffusion coefficients.
Converging evidence was found for a specific toxic effect of ecstasy on serotonergic axons in the thalamus.
Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMZ) is one of the most commonly used antibiotics. Although many of its adverse effects are well recognized, TMP-SMZ related hepatotoxicity is considered rare and is usually characterized by cholestasis or mixed hepatocellular-holestatic reactions. In this study, we describe the case of a previously healthy young man with acute fulminant liver failure caused by TMP-SMZ. The patient presented with complaints of 'flu-like' symptoms with myalgia and fever after taking TMP-SMZ for 7 d for otitis externa. The patient subsequently developed fever, worsening jaundice, and a rash on his neck and chest. Liver enzymes peaked on day 3 with alanine aminotransferase (ALT) 11,549, aspartate aminotransferase (AST) 23,289, alkaline phosphatase 245, and total bilirubin 10.3 mg/dL, with a conjugated bilirubin of 8.3 mg/dL, prothrombin time (PT) 60.5 s, partial normalized ratio (PTT) 49 s, and international normalized ratio (INR) 7.5. Of note, acetaminophen level on admission was undetectable. Serology for hepatitis A, B, C, cytomegalovirus, HIV, toxoplasmosis, and blood cultures were all negative. The patient developed hepatic encephalopathy with hallucination on day 4. Laboratory tests revealed a serum ammonia level of 190 U, serum creatinine kinase (CK) 10,466 (42 on admission), serum creatinine 8.2 mg/dL (1.2 on admission), and significant metabolic acidosis. Renal ultrasound was unremarkable. The patient was started on hemodialysis for acute renal failure. Meanwhile, liver transplantation assessment was also initiated. On day 8 post-admission (15 d after taking TMP-SMZ), the patient received a successful orthotopic liver transplant.
Nuclear factor-kappaB (NF kappaB) plays a pivotal role in cancer progression. In this study, we developed a decoy cis-element oligo-deoxyribonucleic acid against NF kappaB-binding site (NF kappaB-decoy), which effectively inhibits NF kappaB activity, and tested the effect of combined therapy comprising local transfection of NF kappaB-decoy into the liver and transportal injection of paclitaxel on cancer growth and metastasis using an orthotopic murine model of colon cancer liver metastasis. For NF kappaB-decoy transfection, we employed a novel approach using ultrasound exposure with an echocardiographic contrast agent, Optison. We examined the influence of NF kappaB-decoy transfer on susceptibility to paclitaxel in cancer cells and the mechanism involved using several in vitro analysis systems. We then studied the in vivo effect of combined NF kappaB-decoy transfer and paclitaxel in preventing cancer progression using a murine model of liver metastasis created by splenic injection of a human colon cancer cell line, HT29. In vitro experiments, including MTT-assay, fluorescence-activated cell sorter and cDNA array analysis, revealed that NF kappaB-decoy transfer significantly increased the susceptibility of cancer cells to paclitaxel, and that decreased expression of anti-apoptotic genes along with increased expression of genes relevant to the apoptosis-promotor may be involved. In vivo experiments showed that local transfection of NF kappaB-decoy into the liver followed by portal injection of paclitaxel effectively induced cancer cell apoptosis in the liver metastasis, and significantly prolonged animal survival compared to controls, without notable side effects. In conclusion, a combination of local NF kappaB-decoy transfer into the liver and transportal injection of paclitaxel may be a safe and effective new therapy for liver metastasis.
Fatal leucoencephalopathy is a rare calcineurin inhibitor-related complication, especially in kidney and liver transplant recipients. The only means of clinical management reported so far is the discontinuation or reduction in the calcineurin inhibitor. We herein report a case of a 37-yr-old male who developed leucoencephalopathy 12 wk after heart transplantation and recovered after stabilization of metabolism and arterial blood pressure. The findings in this case support the hypothesis that tacrolimus-associated neurotoxicity is severely increased by an impairment of the blood-brain barrier. Withdrawal of tacrolimus was not necessary while other causes of endothelial injury were treated successfully.
The authors studied the cardiovascular behaviour after injection of different amounts of xylocitin added with adrenalin (1:80 000) and noradrenalin (1:20 000), respectively. The evaluation of the blood-pressure values, pulse rates and electrocardiograms leads to the conclusion that noradrenalin produces considerable side effects at the above-mentioned concentration. The well-known headache phenomena caused by the addition of noradrenalin are analysed.
Chronic exposure to high level of inorganic arsenic in drinking water has been associated with Type 2 Diabetes (T2D). Most research has been ecological in nature and has focused on high levels of arsenic exposure with few studies directly measuring arsenic levels in drinking water as an index of arsenic exposure. The effect of low to moderate levels of arsenic exposure on diabetes risk is largely unknown thus our study is adding further knowledge over previous works.
This cross sectional study was conducted in 1004 consenting women and men from 1682 eligible participants yielding a participation rate of 60%. These participants are aged >30 years and were living in Bangladesh and had continuously consumed arsenic-contaminated drinking water for at least 6 months. T2D cases were diagnosed using glucometer following the new diagnostic criteria (Fasting Blood Glucose > 126 mg/dl) from the WHO guideline (WHO 2006), or a self-reported physician diagnosis of type 2 diabetes. Association between T2D and chronic arsenic exposure was estimated by multiple logistic regression with adjustment for age, sex, education, Body Mass Index (BMI) and family history of T2D.
A total of 1004 individuals participated in the study. The prevalence of T2D was 9% (95% CI 7-11%). After adjustment for diabetes risk factors, an increased risk of type 2 diabetes was observed for arsenic exposure over 50 μg/L with those in the highest category having almost double the risk of type 2 diabetes (OR=1.9 ; 95% CI 1.1-3.5). For most levels of arsenic exposure, the risk estimates are higher with longer exposure; a dose-response pattern was also observed.
These findings suggest an association between chronic arsenic exposure through drinking water and T2D. Risks are generally higher with longer duration of arsenic exposure. The risk of T2D is highest among those who were exposed to the highest concentration of arsenic for more than 10 years.
The flecainide infusion test has been proposed to screen candidates for hybrid pharmacological and ablation therapy. We report the long-term follow-up of 154 consecutive patients with paroxysmal or persistent atrial fibrillation (AF) who developed atrial flutter (AFL) during flecainide infusion (IC AFL), treated with inferior vena cava-tricuspid annulus isthmus catheter ablation and oral flecainide (hybrid therapy). Over a mean of 54.1 +/- 13.1 months 82 patients (53%) remained free of AF and AFL. Flecainide was discontinued because of adverse effects in 6 patients (4%). A history of persistent AF, and the documentation of >/=1 spontaneous AFL episode before the flecainide test were independent predictors of successful hybrid therapy. In patients with paroxysmal AF without documented spontaneous AFL, the long-term efficacy of hybrid therapy was 38.5% (P = 0.03). The flecainide infusion test reliably detects candidates for hybrid therapy. The efficacy of this therapy is maintained over the long-term with a high patient compliance.
Previous studies found that GBR 12909 can decrease cocaine-maintained responding at doses that do not affect food-maintained responding. In this study, the effects of GBR 12909 (0.3-3.0 mg/kg) were further examined by varying the response requirement and unit dose of cocaine. Rhesus monkeys earned food or cocaine under a multiple fixed-ratio (FR) schedule. The FR for food was always 30, but the FR for cocaine was varied from 10-130 and the unit dose was varied from 5.6-56.0 microg/kg per injection. Doses of GBR 12909 were tested in an ascending order, for 5 consecutive sessions each. GBR 12909 selectively decreased cocaine-maintained responding in all monkeys in at least 1 condition. These effects were enhanced with large response requirements and/or small unit doses. The results demonstrate that environmental variables can influence the selectivity of GBR 12909's effects and contribute to a growing debate concerning the evaluation of potential pharmacotherapies for drug abuse.
The ability of clonidine and dobutamine to correct bupivacaine-induced cardiac electrophysiologic and hemodynamic impairment was evaluated in an experimental electrophysiologic model on closed-chest dogs. Five groups (n = 6) of pentobarbital-anesthetized dogs were given atropine (0.2 mg/kg IV). Group 1 was given a saline solution; all other dogs were given bupivacaine (4 mg/kg IV) over a 10-s period. Group 2 was given only bupivacaine. Group 3 was given clonidine (0.01 mg/kg IV) over a 1-min period. Group 4 was given a dobutamine infusion at 5 micrograms.kg-1.min-1. Group 5 was given the combination of clonidine and dobutamine. Bupivacaine induced bradycardia, prolonged atrioventricular conduction time (PR interval), atrioventricular node conduction time (AH interval), His-Purkinje conduction time (HV interval), and QRS duration. Bupivacaine decreased left ventricular (LV) dP/dt max and increased LV end-diastolic pressure (LVEDP). Clonidine improved QRS duration and HV interval but enhanced AH interval, bradycardia, and hemodynamic depression induced by bupivacaine. Dobutamine infusion improved LV dP/dt max but did not modify bupivacaine-induced ventricular electrophysiologic impairment. The combination of clonidine and dobutamine corrected not only the electrophysiologic impairment induced by bupivacaine but also the hemodynamic depression. As the HV interval and the QRS duration could be correlated with ventricular conduction velocities, we conclude that (a) clonidine reversed the slowing of ventricular conduction velocities induced by bupivacaine, and (b) the combination of clonidine and dobutamine was able to correct the cardiac disturbances induced by bupivacaine in anesthetized dogs.
The growth factor heregulin-beta1 (HRG-beta1), which is expressed in breast cancer, activates the HER-2 signaling pathway through induction of heterodimeric complexes of HER-2 with HER-3 or HER-4. It has been shown in many studies that HRG-beta1 induces the tumorigenicity and metastasis of breast cancer cells. Matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) 9 is a key enzyme in the degradation of extracellular matrices, and its expression may be dysregulated in breast cancer invasion and metastasis. Resveratrol, a major component in grape, exhibited potential anticarcinogenic activities in both in vitro and in vivo studies. However, the inhibitory effect of resveratrol on HER-2-mediated expression of MMP-9 has not been demonstrated yet. In the present study, we investigated the anti-invasive mechanism of resveratrol in human breast cancer cells. Human breast cancer MCF-7 cells were exposed to resveratrol (2, 5 and 10 microM). The expression activity of MMP-9 was measured by zymogram analysis. Phosphorylated levels of HER-2 and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)/ERK were measured by Western blot analysis. Total actin was used as internal control for protein expression. HRG-beta1 induced the phosphorylation of HER-2/neu receptor and MMP-9 expression in human breast cancer MCF-7 cells. Resveratrol significantly inhibited HRG-beta1-mediated MMP-9 expression in human breast cancer cells. MEK inhibitor induced a marked reduction in MMP-9 expression, and it suggested that ERK1/2 cascade could play an important role in HRG-beta1-mediated MMP-9 expression. Furthermore, resveratrol significantly suppressed HRG-beta1-mediated phosphorylation of ERK1/2 and invasion of breast cancer cells. However, resveratrol had negligible effects on either HRG-beta1-mediated phosphorylation of HER-2 receptor or expression of the tissue inhibitor of MMP, tissue inhibitor metalloproteinase protein 1. Taken together, our results suggest that resveratrol inhibited MMP-9 expression in human breast cancer cells. The inhibitory effects of resveratrol on MMP-9 expression and invasion of breast cancer cells are, in part, associated with the down-regulation of the MAPK/ERK signaling pathway.
