Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) are thought to stimulate endothelial cell proliferation and induce angiogenesis in vivo. However. the precise mechanism responsible for VEGF and HGF release in patients with coronary artery disease is still unknown. We studied serum concentrations of VEGF and HGF in 20 patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI), 20 patients with stable angina pectoris (AP) who had reversible perfusion defects on stress myocardial scintigraphy, and 16 patients with old myocardial infarction (OMI) who had no reversible defects on stress myocardial scintigraphy. The control group consisted of 20 patients with atypical chest pain who had angiographically normal coronary arteries. Serum VEGF and HGF concentrations were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Both the serum VEGF and HGF concentrations in the early stage of myocardial infarction in the patients with AMI were higher than those in the patients with AP and with OMI, and control patients. The VEGF concentration in the patients with AP was higher than in the patients with OMI, whereas the HGF concentration did not differ in the patients with AP and OMI. The VEGF concentration in AMI patients who had had preinfarction angina on admission was higher than that of patients who had had no preinfarction angina, whereas the HGF concentration did not differ between the two groups of patients. These results suggest that the serum VEGF concentration may reflect myocardial ischemia to a greater degree than the serum HGF concentration.
On the basis of the occurrence of myopathy in a clofibric acid treated child with diabetes insipidus, three other children with the same diseases were examined in order to find indications for a myopathic side-effect of the drug. When the children were found to have increased creatine phosphokinase activity and EMG changes, two of the authors took clofibric acid themselves. In both test persons subclinical myopathy was produced. After stopping the drug, transitional hypertriglyceridaemia occurred. These side-effects should serve as a warning of an uncritical application of clofibric acid and its esters.
Contaminant related changes in behavioral, phase I and II metabolizing enzymes and pro-oxidant/antioxidant processes in the freshwater mussels Dreissena polymorpha exposed to metals and PCBs were assessed. Behavioral and biochemical responses including filtering rates, key phase I, II and antioxidant enzymes and levels of metallothioneins, glutathione, lipid peroxidation and DNA strand breaks were determined in digestive glands of mussels after being exposed to sublethal levels of mercury chloride, methyl mercury, cadmium and Aroclor 1260 during 5 days. In 7 out of 12 responses analyzed, mussels showed significant differences across treatments. Unusual properties of measured ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase (EROD) activities indicated that mussels lack an inducible CYP1A enzymatic activity. Despite of using similar exposure levels, inorganic and organic mercury showed different biomarker patterns of response with methyl mercury being more bio-available and unable to induce metallothionein proteins. Mussels exposed to Cd presented higher levels of metallothioneins and an enhanced metabolism of glutathione, whereas those exposed to Aroclor showed their antioxidant glutathione peroxidase related enzyme activities inhibited. Although there was evidence for increased lipid peroxidation under exposure to inorganic and organic mercury, only mussels exposed to Aroclor had significant greater levels than those in controls.
In contrast to the well-known activity profile in asthma, the precise efficacy and optimum dose schedules of long-acting beta(2)-agonists in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) are not clear.
In this study, we aimed to compare the onset and the duration of action of a single inhalation of formoterol and salmeterol in COPD patients having partially reversible airway obstruction.
In a double-blind, randomized, crossover and placebo-controlled study design, the respiratory functions of 22 patients (mean age 57.3+/-5.4 years) having mild to severe COPD (5 mild, 8 moderate and 9 severe) and partially reversible airway obstruction [mean baseline reversibility of forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV(1)) 19.3+/-3.1%] were evaluated after inhalation of 12 microg formoterol and 50 microg salmeterol.
Regarding the onset of bronchodilator action, the mean absolute increase of 0.20 liters in FEV(1) 10 min after inhalation of formoterol was significantly higher than baseline and that of placebo (0.04 liters), whereas that of salmeterol (0.11 liters) did not reach statistical significance. At 20 min, both formoterol (0.25 liters) and salmeterol (0.20 liters) produced a significant increase in FEV(1) compared with baseline and with that of placebo (0.04 liters). The peak bronchodilator effects occurring at 60 and 120 min following formoterol (0.39 liters) and salmeterol (0.40 liters) inhalation, respectively, were significantly higher than the corresponding levels of placebo (0.02 and -0.12 liters, respectively). Concerning the duration of action, the 12-hour values of both formoterol (0.25 liters) and salmeterol (0.22 liters) were significantly higher than that of placebo (-0.12 liters). The area under the curve values of FEV(1) of formoterol (3.5+/-1.3 l.h) and salmeterol (3.2+/-1.2 l x h) averaged over 12 h were comparable and higher than placebo values (1.2+/-0.5 l x h). After formoterol inhalation 2 patients experienced tremor and 1 had palpitation; 1 tremor and 1 headache attack were noted after salmeterol. For the pharmacologically predictable side effects, there was no difference between the drugs.
In conclusion, this study revealed that a single dose of 12 microg formoterol and 50 microg salmeterol provided comparable bronchodilation within 12 h and had tolerable side effects in patients with mild to severe COPD having partially reversible airway obstruction.
Tetramethylpyrazine (TMP) is suggested to have anti-inflammatory activity. The aim of this study was to determine the role of peroxisome proliferator activated receptor γ (PPAR-γ) signaling in the pharmacologic effect of TMP on oxazolone (OXZ)-induced colitis. TMP (80 mg/kg/day i.p.) was administered daily 48 h after intrarectal instillation of OXZ, with or without PPAR-γ inhibitor [bisphenol A diglycidyl ether (BADGE) 30 mg/kg] during the 4 days before sacrifice. The inflammatory response was assessed by the disease activity index, macroscopy, histology and myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity. Expression levels of PPAR-γ, NF-κB p65, COX-2, iNOS and TNF-α mRNA in colon mucosa were determined by FQ-PCR, levels of PPAR-γ and NF-κB p65 protein were analyzed by immunohistochemistry, and the total and phosphorylated levels of p38 MAPK were assessed by western blotting. TMP significantly attenuated the damage caused by OXZ and substantially reduced the rise in MPO activity, TNF-α, iNOS, NF-κB p65 and COX-2 expression, as well as the increase in PPAR-γ production; however, no changes in the activation of p38 MAPK were observed. Inhibition of PPAR-γ signaling aggravated inflammation of colon mucosa, and increased p38 phosphrylation. TMP counteracted the effect of inhibition of PPAR-γ. We suggest that the effect of TMP treatment in ulcerative colitis may be related to PPAR-γ signaling, but is independent of PPAR-γ.
Experimental evidence suggests an important role of serotonin in the process of learning and memory. The present study investigated the effect of 5HT3-receptor antagonist (ICS 205-930) on retrieval of a previously learned aversive habit in the mouse. The effect of ICS 205-930 on scopolamine (3 mg/kg) induced amnesia was also studied. ICS 205-930 (1, 10 & 100 micrograms/kg) produced a dose-dependent increase in latency to cross into the dark chamber. The scopolamine induced memory impairment was significantly attenuated by ICS 205-930 (10 micrograms/kg). These results suggest that memory deficits may be susceptible to attenuation with non-cholinergic treatments.
Cyclophosphamide (CY) cardiotoxicity may be a lethal complication of bone marrow transplantation. Previous echocardiographic studies have reported that left ventricular dysfunction due to CY occurs in over 50% of patients undergoing transplantation. To evaluate the cardiotoxicity of new dosing protocols that included twice-daily rather than once-daily CY, 44 bone marrow transplantation patients were prospectively evaluated with serial ECGs and echocardiograms. Twenty-six patients received a once-daily lower-dose protocol (mean total 87 +/- 11 mg/kg), and 18 patients received a twice-daily higher-dose (mean total 174 +/- 34 mg/kg) CY regimen. In the higher-dose CY group, significant reductions in summed ECG voltage (-20%) (P less than .01) and increases in left ventricular mass index (LVMI) (+10%) (P less than .05) were detected in the first week following therapy. These changes resolved by the third week following CY and were significantly greater than the changes noted in the lower-dose group. However, left ventricular ejection fraction (EF) did not change significantly in either group. Five patients developed clinical cardiotoxicity (four, pericarditis; one, congestive heart failure); four of the five patients were in the higher-dose group (P = .14). Only a prior history of congestive heart failure or a baseline EF less than 50% was an independent correlate of clinical cardiotoxicity (P less than .05). Thus, dose-dependent cardiotoxicity following the use of CY for bone marrow transplantation is evident as reversible decreases in ECG voltage and increases in left ventricular mass, possibly reflecting myocardial edema or hemorrhage. However, systolic dysfunction is much less common with these new twice-daily dosing regimens when compared with earlier studies of high-dose once-daily CY.
The larvicidal effects of 11 anthelmintics, 7 pesticides and 4 disinfectants were evaluated with infective larvae of Strongyloides papillosus (SPL) and Strongyloides venezuelensis (SVZ). The lethal concentrations against SPL and SVZ were found to be similar. Three chemicals (dichlorvos, levamisole and trichlorfon) showed highest larvicidal effects. The 50% lethal concentration (LC(50)) values for the three compounds against SPL larvae were 0.08, 0.24, and 0.59 ppm, respectively.
Animal studies and the original study comparing buspirone with diazepam and placebo indicated that sedative-hypnotic side effects and impairment in psychomotor function would be less with buspirone than with diazepam. This was borne out by the present double-blind study in which almost 700 patients received buspirone. Mean daily doses were buspirone, 20 mg; diazepam, 20 mg; and clorazepate, 24 mg. Sedation, lethargy, and depression were significantly less with buspirone than with diazepam or clorazepate and were comparable to placebo. There was no indication that other types of side effects would differ significantly from those seen with the benzodiazepines. Nervousness, headache, and dizziness were experienced more frequently with buspirone than with placebo.
To describe a case of milrinone-associated tachycardia that was successfully treated with two beta-blockers.
A 74-yr-old male patient underwent elective abdominal aortic aneurysm repair under combined epidural/general anaesthesia. He had a history of alcohol abuse, controlled hypertension and ischaemic heart disease. Postoperatively, the patient had persistent sinus tachycardia that was initially unsuccessfully treated with metoprolol. Subsequently, the patient's blood pressure and cardiac index decreased with an associated increase in pulmonary artery pressure. Analysis of the ST-segment revealed no evidence of myocardial ischaemia or infarction. These haemodynamic changes were treated with milrinone which exacerbated the baseline tachycardia without adverse blood pressure response. The subsequent administration of beta-blockers (esmolol and metoprolol) was successful in controlling the heart rate response to milrinone without adversely affecting the patient's haemodynamic profile.
This report demonstrates the efficacy of esmolol and metoprolol for the treatment of milrinone-associated tachycardia, without compromising the haemodynamic effects of milrinone.
The protein deacetylase, sirtuin 1 (SIRT1), involved in regulating hepatic insulin sensitivity, shows circadian oscillation and regulates the circadian clock. Recent studies show that circadian misalignment leads to insulin resistance (IR); however, the underlying mechanisms are largely unknown. Here, we show that CLOCK and brain and muscle ARNT-like protein 1 (BMAL1), two core circadian transcription factors, are correlated with hepatic insulin sensitivity. Knockdown of CLOCK or BMAL1 induces hepatic IR, whereas their ectopic expression attenuates hepatic IR. Moreover, circadian change of insulin sensitivity is impaired in Clock mutant, liver-specific Bmal1 knockout (KO) or Sirt1 KO mice, and CLOCK and BMAL1 are required for hepatic circadian expression of SIRT1. Further studies show that CLOCK/BMAL1 binds to the SIRT1 promoter to enhance its expression and regulates hepatic insulin sensitivity by SIRT1. In addition, constant darkness-induced circadian misalignment in mice decreases hepatic BMAL1 and SIRT1 levels and induces IR, which can be dramatically reversed by resveratrol.
These findings offer new insights for coordination of the circadian clock and metabolism in hepatocytes by circadian regulation of hepatic insulin sensitivity via CLOCK/BMAL1-dependent SIRT1 expression and provide a potential application of resveratrol for combating circadian misalignment-induced metabolic disorders.
Methylene diphenyl diisocyanate (MDI) is among the leading chemical causes of occupational asthma world-wide, however, the mechanisms of disease pathogenesis remain unclear. This study tests the hypothesis that glutathione (GSH) reacts with MDI to form quasi-stable conjugates, capable of mediating the formation of MDI-conjugated "self" protein antigens, which may participate in pathogenic inflammatory responses. To test this hypothesis, an occupationally relevant dose of MDI (0.1%w/v) was reacted with varying concentrations of GSH (10μM-10mM), and the reaction products were characterized with regard to mass/structure, and ability to carbamoylate human albumin, a major carrier protein for MDI in vivo. LC-MS/MS analysis of GSH-MDI reaction products identified products possessing the exact mass of previously described S-linked bis(GSH)-MDI and its partial hydrolysis product, as well as novel cyclized GSH-MDI structures. Upon co-incubation of GSH-MDI reaction products with human albumin, MDI was rapidly transferred to specific lysines of albumin, and the protein's native conformation/charge was altered, based on electrophoretic mobility. Three types of modification were observed, intra-molecular MDI cross-linking, addition of partially hydrolyzed MDI, and addition of "MDI-GSH", where MDI's 2nd NCO had reacted with GSH's "N-terminus". Importantly, human albumin carbamoylated by GSH-MDI was specifically recognized by serum IgG from MDI exposed workers, with binding dependent upon the starting GSH concentration, pH, and NaCl levels. Together, the data define a non-enzymatic, thiol-mediated transcarbamoylating mechanism by which GSH may promote immune responses to MDI exposure, and identify specific factors that might further modulate this process.
BIM-46187 (7-[2-amino-1-oxo-3-thio-propyl]-8-cyclohexylmethyl-2-phenyl-5,6,7,8-tetrahydro-imidazo-[1,2a]-pyrazine dimer, hydrochloride) is an inhibitor of the heterotrimeric G-protein complex signalling. Since many mediators of pain act through G-protein coupled receptors, the anti-hyperalgesic effects of BIM-46187 were assessed on experimental models of pain. In addition since opioids are widely used in pain management and act through specific G-protein-coupled receptors, the effects of BIM-46187 on the analgesic properties of morphine have also been investigated. BIM-46187 elicited a dose dependent analgesic effect in the models of carrageenan-induced hyperalgesia (0.1-1 mg/kg; i.v.) and chronic constriction injury (0.3-3 mg/kg; i.v.) in rats. BIM-46187, however, up to 10 mg/kg did not modify the paw oedema induced by carrageenan excluding an anti-inflammatory effect. In addition, at these doses, the compound was not sedative as shown by the lack of effect on the motor performance in the rotarod test. The combination of BIM-46187 and morphine (ratio 1/1) resulted in an unexpected synergistic effect in the model of carrageenan-induced hyperalgesia and in the chronic constriction injury model in rats when evaluated by isobolographic analysis. This synergy allowed a reduction of at least 20 fold in the dose of each compound. Conversely, the drug combination did not increase the side effects of morphine as assessed in the rotarod test. In conclusion, BIM-46187 elicits a potent anti-hyperalgesic effect and strongly synergizes with morphine. This work highlights the role of heterotrimeric G-protein complexes in pain and supports further investigations of the use of BIM-46187 alone, or in combination with low doses of morphine, in the management of pain.
The acute and chronic iv toxicity of 4'-epidoxorubicin, a new antitumor anthracycline antibiotic, was compared with doxorubicin. The LD50 of 4'-epidoxorubicin was 16.07 mg/kg in mice, 14.27 mg/kg in rats, and about 2 mg/kg in dogs; the LD50 of doxorubicin was 11.98 mg/kg in mice, 10.51 mg/kg in rats, and about 2.5 mg/kg in dogs. Rats and dogs were also dosed iv for 91 days (3 injections/week) with 4'-epidoxorubicin or doxorubicin at doses of 0.128, 0.32, and 0.8 mg/kg to rats and 0.064, 0.16, and 0.4 mg/kg to dogs. A comprehensive toxicological evaluation of the animals was carried out before, throughout, and at the end of the study. High-dose 4'-epidoxorubicin induced toxic clinical signs in dogs, and in both species caused loss of body weight, antiproliferative effects on blood-forming organs and testes, and degenerative lesions in kidneys and heart. The cardiac damage was moderate in rats and very mild in dogs; only three male rats died at this dose. The medium dose induced less pronounced changes and no heart lesions and the low dose was practically nontoxic. Doxorubicin showed similar antiproliferative activity, but more evident toxic effects, especially on the heart; many rats given the high dose died and some at the medium dose showed initial cardiac lesions. Thus 4'-epidoxorubicin appeared less toxic than doxorubicin; in particular cardiac damage was much less evident in animals chronically injected with the new drug.
In the present study, we examined the prophylaxis effect of crocin on experimental atherosclerosis and its possible mechanisms. The atherosclerosis formation was induced by hyperlipidamic diet in quails. At the 9th week, serum lipid, MDA and NO were measured, and HE staining was used to investigate the histopathological changes of aorta. Bovine aortic endothelial cells (EC) were obtained from the thoracic aorta of newborn calves. After incubation of the cells with Ox-LDL (50 mg x L(-1)) for 24 h, the activities of LDH, NO in culture media and activity of NOS in endothelial cells were measured, flow cytometer was used to determine the rate of endothelial cells apoptosis. Peritoneal macrophages were obtained from thioglycolate-injected mice. Cholesterol and free cholesterol in cells were assayed after incubation of the cells with Ox-LDL. Bovine aortic smooth muscle cells (SMC) were obtained from the thoracic aorta of newborn calf. Proliferation was induced by 100 microg x L(-1) Ox-LDL and antiproliferative effect of crocin on SMCs were observed. SMCs cycle phases were measured by flow cytometry. SMCs were loaded with Fluo-3/AM and [Ca2+]i was measured by Laser Scanning Confocal Microscope (LSCM). Crocin could reduce the level of serum TC, TG, LDL-C and inhibit the formation of aortic plaque. Crocin could reduce MDA and inhibit the descending of NO in serum. Compared with control, Ox-LDL group could increase the activity of LDH and decrease activity of NO in culture media and activity of NOS in endothelial cells, preincubated with crocin, the effects of Ox-LDL were inhibited. Crocin could decrease the EC apoptosis induced by Ox-LDL. Crocin concentration-dependently inhibited the TC and CE elevation induced by Ox-LDL in macrophages. Crocin could inhibit the proliferation of SMCs induced by Ox-LDL. In the presence or absence of extracellular Ca2+, crocin concentration-dependently inhibited the [Ca2+]i elevation induced by 120 mg x L(-1)Ox-LDL, In the absence of extracellular Ca2+, crocin could inhibit the [Ca2+]i elevation induced by CHCl3 in a concentration-dependent manner. The results indicated that crocin could inhibit the formation of atherosclerosis in quails. Crocin had protective effects on endothelial cells. Crocin could decrease CE in macrophages and uptake of Ox-LDL, inhibiting the formation of foam cell, which would promote the initiation and progression of atherosclerosis. Crocin could inhibit the [Ca2+]i elevation in smooth muscle cell, Ca2+ is an important second messenger that regulates a variety of cellular processes, including smooth muscle cell proliferation and gene expression . Crocin exerted antiatherosclerotic effects through decreasing the level of Ox-LDL that plays an important role in the initiation and progression of atherosclerosis.
Amisulpride, a benzamide derivative, is an antipsychotic drug with a pharmacological profile distinct from that of classical neuroleptics such as haloperidol and from that of another benzamide, remoxipride. In mice, amisulpride antagonized hypothermia induced by apomorphine, quinpirole or (+/-) 7-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)-tetralin, an effect involving D2/D3 receptors, at similar doses (ED50 approximately 2 mg/kg i.p.), which were much lower than doses that blocked apomorphine-induced climbing, an effect involving postsynaptic D2 and D1 receptor activation (ED50 = 21 mg/kg i.p.). Much higher doses (ED50 = 54 mg/kg i.p.) of amisulpride were needed to block grooming behavior observed after a short period in water, a D1 receptor-mediated behavior. In rats, amisulpride preferentially inhibited effects produced by low doses of apomorphine (hypomotility and yawning), related to stimulation of presynaptic D2/D3 dopamine autoreceptors (ED50 = 0.3 and 0.19 mg/kg i.p.). By contrast, amisulpride antagonized apomorphine-induced hypermotility, a postsynaptic dopamine receptor-mediated effect, at a much higher dose (ED50 = 30 mg/kg i.p.). Amisulpride (100 mg/kg i.p.) only partially inhibited apomorphine-induced stereotypies (gnawing) and had no effect on stereotypies induced by d-amphetamine. However, d-amphetamine-induced hyperactivity was antagonized by doses of amisulpride as low as 3 mg/kg i.p., which may indicate selectivity of this drug for limbic dopaminergic mechanisms. In addition, in contrast to haloperidol or remoxipride, which produced catalepsy at doses 2 or 3 times higher than those that antagonized stereotypies induced by apomorphine, amisulpride did not induce catalepsy up to a dose of 100 mg/kg i.p., which occupies 80% of striatal D2 receptors. This pharmacological profile of amisulpride, characterized by a preferential blockade of effects involving presynaptic mechanisms and limbic structures, may explain the clinical efficacy of this drug against both negative and positive symptoms of schizophrenia and its low propensity to produce extrapyramidal side effects.
Ozone is a highly toxic air pollutant and global health concern. Mechanisms of genetic susceptibility to ozone-induced lung inflammation are not completely understood. We hypothesized Notch3 and Notch4 are important determinants of susceptibility to ozone-induced lung inflammation.
Wild type (WT), Notch3 (Notch3(-/-)) and Notch4 (Notch4(-/-)) knockout mice were exposed to ozone (0.3 ppm) or filtered air for 6-72 hours.
Relative to air-exposed controls, ozone increased bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) protein, a marker of lung permeability, in all genotypes, but significantly greater concentrations were found in Notch4(-/-) compared to WT and Notch3(-/-). Significantly greater mean numbers of BALF neutrophils were found in Notch3(-/-) and Notch4(-/-) mice compared to WT mice after ozone. Expression of whole lung Tnf was significantly increased after ozone in Notch3(-/-) and Notch4(-/-) mice, and was significantly greater in Notch3(-/-) mice compared to WT. Statistical analyses of the transcriptome identified differentially expressed gene networks between WT and knockout mice basally and after ozone, and included Trim30, a member of the inflammasome pathway, and Traf6, an inflammatory signaling member.
These novel findings are consistent with Notch3 and Notch4 as susceptibility genes for ozone-induced lung injury, and suggest that Notch receptors protect against innate immune inflammation.
Stimulation of nitric oxide (NO) synthesis similar to the application of NO donors could be of benefit in liver fibrosis. Many authors believe that activation of NO synthesis by pharmacological agents is promising in the treatment of liver fibrosis. However, there is considerable controversy in understanding the role of NO in fibrogenesis and fibrolysis. The aims of our study were to evaluate the effects of L-arginine, as an NO metabolic precursor, and those of NO synthase (NOS) inhibitors, L-nitroarginine methyl ester (L-NAME) and aminoguanidine (AG) in rats with thioacetamide (TAA)-induced liver fibrosis reversal.
Male Wistar rats, 230-240 g, received TAA (200 mg kg(-1), intraperitoneally) twice a week for 3 months. Liver resolution was simulated by withdrawal of TAA administration. Thereafter the animals were subdivided into five groups and treated by intragastric intubation with: L-arginine (100 and 300 mg kg(-1)); L-NAME as an inhibitor of both constitutively expressed NOS (eNOS) and inducible NOS (iNOS) (20 mg kg(-1)), AG as a specific inhibitor of iNOS (100 mg kg(-1)) or placebo. The severity of liver fibrosis was assessed by morphometric evaluation of liver slides stained with Azan-Mallory, hydroxyproline (Hyp) determination and mRNA steady state levels of collagen I, transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1, metalloproteinases (MMP)-13, -14, tissue inhibitor of MMP (TIMP)-1 and plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI)-1 were quantified by real time PCR. The activities of serum marker enzyme, alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase and alkaline phosphatase, were measured.
TAA treatment during 3 months induced micronodular liver fibrosis with a pronounced deposition of collagen fibres. L-Arginine did not affect this deposition nor did it affect both relative and total liver hydroxyproline content. Both NOS inhibitors significantly increased the square of the liver connective tissue stained by Azan-Mallory and the above parameters characterizing liver hydroxyproline content. Both NOS inhibitors up-regulated procollagen alpha1 (I), MMP-13, TIMP-1 and PAI-1 mRNA expression. The AG effects were more pronounced. than those of L-NAME. AG treatment also increased mRNA expression of TGF-beta1 and PAI-1.
Both NOS inhibitors developed a clear pro-fibrotic effect in the liver. Aminoguanidine was more fibrotic than L-NAME. Our data suggest a significant anti-fibrotic role for iNOS rather than for eNOS. L-Arginine did not show any anti-fibrotic properties in the TAA-model used.
Using cultured normal human keratinocytes, we compared the activities of 1 alpha,24-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25(OH)2D3), a biologically active form, in inducing cell differentiation. Treatment with 10(-6) M of 1,24R(OH)2D3 and 1,25(OH)2D3 increased the number of involucrin positive cells (differentiated from 6.4% to 24.1% and 25.1%, respectively. These results indicate that 1,24R(OH)2D3 has an ability comparable to that of 1,25(OH)2D3 to induce cell differentiation in human keratinocytes. The clinical effectiveness of 1,24R(OH)2D3 for the treatment of psoriasis may be, in part, related to its direct effect on hyperproliferative keratinocytes.
Key safety parameters of sotalol were examined in 1,288 patients entered into recent controlled trials of ventricular (85% of patients) or supraventricular arrhythmias (15%). Most patients were middle-aged male Caucasians with significant heart disease. The most serious adverse event was proarrhythmia, occurring in 56 patients (4.3%). Of these, 27 had hemodynamic compromise due to malignant ventricular arrhythmias. Most had a history of sustained ventricular tachycardia, myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure (CHF) or cardiomyopathy, or a combination of these. The other 29 had nonsevere events; 38% continued taking sotalol. Proarrhythmia was manifested by torsades de pointes in 24 of the 56 patients. No universal causal relation was found with commonly associated factors such as bradycardia, hypokalemia and long QT interval. The mean QT and QTc at baseline within 1 week of a severe proarrhythmic event were greater than those of patients not having proarrhythmia. Nineteen patients (1%) discontinued therapy with sotalol because of drug-related CHF. Predisposing conditions included low initial baseline ejection fraction, history of CHF, cardiomyopathy or cardiomegaly, or both, male gender and age greater than 65 years. Heart failure usually occurred within 7 to 30 days of initiating therapy. The most common reason for premature discontinuation of the drug in patients treated for sustained ventricular tachycardia was ineffectiveness (39%), whereas adverse effects were the most common reasons among patients treated for complex ventricular ectopy (21%). Dyspnea and bradycardia were the most common cardiovascular effects, and fatigue, dizziness and asthenia the most common noncardiac, adverse effects. Although frequently reported, these adverse effects resulted in discontinuation of only 1 to 4% of the patients at risk.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The study investigated the effect of the oral H1-blocker terfenadine on allergen challenge in subjects with nasal allergy in comparison with the topical steroid, budesonide. A randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, crossover study with 3 experimental days was performed outside the pollen season. Seventeen nonsmokers with hay fever (symptoms, positive skin prick test, and RAST against timothy) were treated for 14 days before each experimental day, where the response to nasal challenge with four different concentrations of timothy was measured every 15 min for 6 h. The nasal cavity dimensions were measured by acoustic rhinometry and the olfactory function as the threshold for the sense of smell of butanol. Nasal symptoms were determined by questionnaires. Both terfenadine and budesonide dry powder had an effect on the hay fever symptoms during nasal pollen challenge. Terfenadine was more efficient than budesonide against histamine-mediated symptoms such as sneezing and itching. Budesonide increased nasal airway dimensions better than terfenadine (P < 0.01). A marked effect of budesonide was seen 1-2 h after challenge, suggesting an effect on "early late phase" reaction in the nose. In 7/17 subjects, a significant (P < 0.05) improvement of olfactory function after budesonide treatment was seen. In conclusion, topical steroid (budesonide) is superior to antihistamine (terfenadine) in treatment of nasal congestion in hay fever, especially for the postchallenge reaction, and may, in some cases, relieve the decreased sense of smell during pollen challenge.
Acute hepatotoxicity after administration of 10-1000 mg/kg methotrexate (MTX) to rats was studied by monitoring serum transaminases, liver morphology, and disposition kinetics of MTX and 7-hydroxy-methotrexate (7-OH-MTX). Half the control rats and rats administered 1000 mg/kg MTX, had their bile duct cannulated. One to 2 hr after administration of 1000 mg/kg MTX, 50% of MTX treated bile-drained rats (Ebc) developed cholestasis despite similar or larger initial bile flow rates than those which did not develop cholestasis (Ebn, controls). In Ebc animals, peak serum ASAT and ALAT levels were 6- and 4-fold higher than that of the control rats, and morphologically, prominent hepatocytic changes and grossly dilated bile canaliculi were found. Immediately prior to cholestasis, the Ebc animals reached biliary 7-OH-MTX levels (8.3 +/- 1.3 mM, mean +/- S.E.M.) which were equivalent to the threshold level for precipitation of 7-OH-MTX in rat bile in vitro, and 3-fold higher than the corresponding levels of 7-OH-MTX in the bile of Ebn rats. Ninety-five % of the drug in the precipitated material was 7-OH-MTX. Hence, 7-OH-MTX may play a role in acute MTX hepatotoxicity, a dose-limiting toxicity that may not be counteracted by leukovorin rescue.
The haemodynamic effects of intravenous metoprolol, over the dose-range 2.5--20 mg, were studied in 12 patients with coronary heart disease. The pharmacodynamic activity of the drug was confirmed by the suppression of exercise systolic pressure and tachycardia. There were statistically significant dose-response reductions in systolic and diastolic pressures, heart rate and cardiac output together with a dose-related increase in pulmonary wedge pressure. In patients with coronary heart disease intravenous metoprolol should probably not exceed the doses used in this study and should be administered with caution in patients with impairment of pumping function.
A single blind randomized parallel study designed to assess the anti-anginal efficacy of pindolol and nifedipine was carried out in 42 ambulatory coronary patients with stable angina pectoris. Drug efficacy was assessed in terms of (a) pain, (b) frequency of anginal episodes, (c) nitroglycerin consumption, (d) exercise tolerance and (e) ST-segment changes. The effect of these drugs on asymptomatic resting myocardial ischemia was also assessed by means of 24-h dynamic electrocardiography (DCG). All patients were checked at weekly intervals. At the end of a 4-wk placebo period, the patients were randomly assigned either to the pindolol or nifedipine group. The treatment lasted for 45 days. During the placebo period, ischemic ECG changes and symptoms of coronary insufficiency were detected in all patients. Furthermore, 12 out of 42 patients had asymptomatic myocardial ischemia at rest. One patient from each group was dropped because of tolerance. At the end of the 45-day study, pindolol and nifedipine were equi-effective on spontaneous and effort-related angina. There were, however, some differences: increased tolerance to exercise appeared earlier with pindolol: the pindolol group showed a slightly reduced while the nifedipine group showed a slightly increased heart rate. Furthermore, nifedipine reduced or eliminated asymptomatic myocardial ischemia in 6 out of 7 patients while only 1 out of 5 improved in the pindolol group.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is an immune-mediated condition associated with thrombocytopenia and thrombotic complications. The condition is increasingly recognized in hospitalized patients including severely injured trauma patients. Because these patients may eventually be considered for organ donation, management of the HIT screenpositive donor has become an important issue in transplant surgery. We describe the recent management of 2 liver allograft donors with relative thrombocytopenia and positive HIT antibody screens. In both cases, systemic anticoagulation at the organ recovery operation was accomplished with argatroban, a synthetic thrombin inhibitor. This management strategy resulted in successful transplants for 7 recipients (1 heart, 2 liver, 4 kidney). Neither of the liver recipients demonstrated signs or symptoms of HIT, and neither had any postoperative thrombotic complications. Based on this experience, a treatment algorithm for managing HIT-positive donors is proposed. In addition, the pathophysiology of HIT and various testing modalities for the disorder are discussed.
The antiepileptic activity of GABA-mimetics (phenibut, sodium valproate and aminooxyacetic acid/AOAA/) was studied in experiments on the model of hippocampal penicillin-induced epilepsy in rats. The effects of the drugs were studied in experiments with a mirror epileptogenic focus which forms in the hippocampus contralateral to the penicillin-damaged hippocampus. All the drugs suppressed the activity of the epileptogenic focus after injections in the focus region. At systemic administration of the drugs the antiepileptic activity was found only with sodium valproate and AOAA. Phenibut enhanced the antiepileptic effect of sodium valproate and the toxic effects of AOAA at parenteral administration.
