Animal models represent a very useful tool for the study of depressive-like behavior and for the evaluation of the therapeutic efficacy of antidepressants. Nevertheless, gene expression patterns of these different animal models and whether genes classically associated with human major depression are present in these genetic profiles remain unknown. Gene expression was evaluated in three animal models of depression: acute treatment with reserpine, olfactory bulbectomy and chronic treatment with corticosterone. Gene expression analysis was carried out using the Affymetrix GeneChip technology. The results were evaluated using the GeneChip Operating software (Gcos 1.3) and analyzed with the GeneSpring GX v7.3 bioinformatics software (Agilent) and dChip 2005 software. Expression changes were validated with quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) assays. Many transcripts were differentially expressed in the cortex of depressed-like animals in each model. Gene ontology analysis showed that significant gene changes were clustered primarily into functional neurochemical pathways associated with apoptosis and neuronal differentiation. When expression profiles were compared among the three models, the number of transcripts differentially expressed decreased and only two transcripts (complement component 3 and fatty acid-binding protein 7) were differentially expressed in common. Both genes were validated with RT-PCR. Moreover, five (Htr2a, Ntrk3, Crhr1, Ntrk2 and Crh) of the genes classically related to human major depression were differentially expressed in at least one of these models. The different animal models of depression share relevant characteristics although gene expression patterns are different among them. Moreover, some of the classical genes related to human major depression are differentially expressed in these models.
Lead is a known nephrotoxic element. In this study, primary cultures of rat proximal tubular (rPT) cells were treated with different concentrations of lead acetate (0.25, 0.5 and 1 microM) to investigate its cytotoxic mechanism. A progressive loss in cell viability together with a significant increase in the number of apoptotic and necrotic cells and lactate dehydrogenase release were seen in the experiment. Simultaneously, elevation of reactive oxygen species levels and intracellular [Ca(2+)]i, depletion of mitochondrial membrane potential and intracellular glutathione were revealed during the lead exposure. In addition, apoptotic morphological changes induced by lead exposure in rPT cells were demonstrated by Hoechst 33258 staining. The apoptosis was markedly prevented by N-acetyl-L-cysteine, while the necrosis was not affected. Moreover, catalase and superoxide dismutase activities in the living cells rose significantly. In conclusion, exposure of rPT cells to low-concentration lead led to cell death, mediated by an apoptotic and a necrotic mechanism. The apoptotic death induced by oxidative stress was the chief mechanism. Meanwhile, a group of cells survived lead action, mediated by their ability to activate antioxidant defense systems.
A case of a 52-year-old white woman who developed hemolytic anemia and thrombocytopenia after receiving D-penicillamine is presented. Although there appears to be a causative relationship, it cannot be documented at this time. No other case of hemolysis has been suggested in patients treated with penicillamine. Since penicillamine is being used more frequently and in an ever-growing list of conditions, it is advisable to be alert to the possibility of hemolytic anemia as another of the complications of therapy.
Rheumatoid arthritis is a common autoimmune disease characterized by chronic inflammation. We report a meta-analysis of genome-wide association studies (GWAS) in a Japanese population including 4,074 individuals with rheumatoid arthritis (cases) and 16,891 controls, followed by a replication in 5,277 rheumatoid arthritis cases and 21,684 controls. Our study identified nine loci newly associated with rheumatoid arthritis at a threshold of P < 5.0 × 10(-8), including B3GNT2, ANXA3, CSF2, CD83, NFKBIE, ARID5B, PDE2A-ARAP1, PLD4 and PTPN2. ANXA3 was also associated with susceptibility to systemic lupus erythematosus (P = 0.0040), and B3GNT2 and ARID5B were associated with Graves' disease (P = 3.5 × 10(-4) and 2.9 × 10(-4), respectively). We conducted a multi-ancestry comparative analysis with a previous meta-analysis in individuals of European descent (5,539 rheumatoid arthritis cases and 20,169 controls). This provided evidence of shared genetic risks of rheumatoid arthritis between the populations.
Multidrug resistance represents one of the most important factors that may lead to a therapeutic failure in some patients affected by malignancies. One of the best known mechanisms is linked to the genic amplification or the overproduction of a membrane glycoprotein, GP170, that is the product of the gene MDR1. The existence of drugs (calcium blockers, cyclosporine, tamoxifen, reserpine, quinidine) able to bind themselves to gp170 and to paralyze its activity in vitro is well known. We studied 20 pediatric patients (median age 9 years) affected by acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), osteosarcoma, neuroblastoma and medulloblastoma, in advanced stage of disease. We employed in all cases the association of cytostatics with verapamil (50-70 mg/m2 i.v.) and cyclosporine (5-8 mg/kg i.v.) with different infusion schedules. In leukemias we administered vincristine (1.5 mg/m2), and daunomycin (40 mg/m2), in solid tumors VP16 (150 mg/m2) and adriamycin (60 mg/m2). Seventy-two therapeutic courses were performed: 39 in ALL, 16 in osteosarcoma, 16 in neuroblastoma and 1 in medulloblastoma. On the whole 5 complete remissions were achieved in ALL patients and 1 in an osteosarcoma patient. We did not observe a significant myelosuppression during treatment, therefore few infectious complications occurred; furthermore electrocardiographic changes have been mild and promptly resolved after temporary discontinuation of verapamil infusion. Our data suggest a synergy of verapamil and cyclosporine in the inhibition of multidrug resistance induced by gp170, without the occurrence of heavy toxicity. The results obtained in ALL patients are encouraging., especially in view of a possible subsequent bone marrow transplantation, while in solid tumors they are not as satisfying.
A 55-year-old woman with rheumatoid arthritis in overlap with polymyositis received sulfasalazine for control of synovitis. Cholestatic jaundice, fever, urticaria and agranulocytosis developed after 20 days of treatment and culminated in fatal adult respiratory distress syndrome secondary to Legionella pneumophila. The increasing use of sulfasalazine in the therapy of rheumatoid arthritis mandates that the clinician be aware of this idiosyncratic drug reaction.
Second- and third-generation cephalosporins have been associated with immune-mediated hemolytic reactions. This report discusses two patients who developed clinically significant extravascular hemolysis while receiving the third-generation cephalosporin ceftizoxime (Ceftizox). This is believed to be the first time hemolysis has been described in patients receiving this drug.
Immunologic workup of drug-dependent antibodies was performed on blood samples using drug-coated and immune complex methodologies. Antibody classes and titers were analyzed.
Both the patients' sera contained anti-ceftizoxime that reacted with red cells only when ceftizoxime was added to the sera ("immune complex" method). The patients recovered without complications following discontinuation of the drug. Each patient had IgM and IgG drug-dependent antibodies. The drug-induced antibodies from each patient cross-reacted with cefotaxime, which is structurally similar to ceftizoxime, but cross-reacted either weakly or not at all with ceftriaxone, which has a more complex side chain.
This report describes the first cases of immune hemolytic anemia associated with ceftizoxime. In drug-induced hemolytic reactions, prompt recognition and discontinuation of the drug may be important factors in reducing the chance of serious sequelae.
Our previous publication has stressed the benefits of losartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker, on the permeability of blood-brain barrier (BBB) and blood pressure during L-NAME-induced hypertension. This study reports the impacts of anti-hypertensive treatment by losartan on the brain endothelial barrier function and the arterial blood pressure, during acute hypertension episode, in experimentally diabetic hypertensive rats. Systolic blood pressure measurements were taken with tail cuff method before and during administration of L-NAME (0.5 mg/ml). We induced diabetes by using alloxan (50 mg/kg, i.p). Losartan (3 mg/kg, i.v) was given to rats following the L-NAME treatment. Acute hypertensive vascular injury was induced by epinephrine (40 microg/kg). The BBB disruption was quantified according to the extravasation of the Evans blue (EB) dye. L-NAME induced a significant increase in arterial blood pressure on day 14 in normoglycemic and hyperglycemic rats (p < 0.05). Losartan significantly reduced the increased blood pressure in hypertensive and diabetic hypertensive rats (p < 0.01). Epinephrine-induced acute hypertension in diabetic hypertensive rats increased the content of EB dye dramatically in cerebellum and diencephalon (p < 0.01) and slightly in both cerebral cortex (p < 0.05). Losartan treatment reduced the increased BBB permeability to EB dye in the brain regions of diabetic hypertensive rats treated with epinephrine (p < 0.05). This study indicates that, in diabetic hypertensive rats, epinephrine administration leads to an increase in microvascular-EB-albumin efflux to brain, however losartan treatment significantly attenuates this protein's transport to brain tissue.
Signal transducers and activators of transcription 3 (STAT3) signaling is persistently activated in many types of cancer cells, and represents a valid target for anticancer drug design. However, few reports have described the constitutive activation of STAT3 in human sarcoma cells. In this study, we demonstrate that the STAT3 signaling pathway is constitutively activated in human rhabodomyosarcoma cells (RH28, RH30, and RD2). We also investigated the inhibitory effects of two newly developed small molecules, LLL12 and FLLL32, on the STAT3 signaling pathway in human rhabodomyosarcoma cells. Both LLL12 and FLLL32 downregulated STAT3 constitutively and interleukin-6 (IL-6) stimulated phosphorylated STAT3 (p-STAT3). The inhibition of STAT3 via LLL12 and FLLL32 was confirmed by the inhibition of STAT3 DNA binding activity. The downstream targets of STAT3, cyclin D1, Bcl-xL, and survivin were also downregulated by LLL12 and FLLL 32 at both messenger RNA and protein levels. The potency of LLL12 and FLLL32 to inhibit proliferation/viability in human rhabodomyosarcoma cells (RH28, RH30, and RD2) was higher than that of the 5 previously reported Janus kinase 2 (JAK2)/STAT3 inhibitors (LLL3, WP1066, Stattic, S3I-201, and AG490) and curcumin. Thus, in this study, we investigated the inhibitory effects of two STAT3 inhibitors, LLL12 and FLLL32, on the STAT3 signaling pathway in human rhabodomyosarcoma cells; we also demonstrated their higher potency in inhibiting proliferation on human rhabodomyosarcoma cells as compared to other five JAK2/STAT3 inhibitors and curcumin.
Quinine causes reversible hearing loss, closely related to the quinine plasma concentration. The effects of quinine on psychoacoustic tuning curves, stapedius reflex thresholds and evoked otoacoustic emissions were studied in healthy volunteers. The tuning curves became shallower, whereas reflex thresholds were unaffected. The shift in the emission thresholds paralleled that of the pure-tone thresholds. There were also qualitative changes in the emissions: 1) the exponent of the stimulus-response function changed from 0.34 to 0.56; 2) decay time shortened; 3) the power spectrum shifted towards lower frequencies. The results are discussed in relation to various aspects of cochlear performance and are suggested to depend on an outer hair cell dysfunction.
A 28-year-old woman died of irreversible ventricular fibrillation after administration of succinylcholine because of post partum curettage. Afterwards it became known she had undiagnosed myotonic dystrophy. She also had metabolic acidosis because of haemorrhagic hypovolaemia resulting in a probably elevated serum K+ concentration preoperatively. Succinylcholine given to patients with myotonic dystrophy may lead to life threatening hyperkalaemia and cardiac arrest. Therapy should be aimed at immediate lowering of serum K+ concentration with calcium, sodium bicarbonate and hyperventilation.
Continued smoking causes tumor progression and resistance to therapy in lung cancer. Carcinogens possess the ability to block apoptosis, and thus may induce development of cancers and resistance to therapy. Tobacco carcinogens have been studied widely; however, little is known about the agents that inhibit apoptosis, such as nicotine. We determine whether mitochondrial signaling mediates antiapoptotic effects of nicotine in lung cancer. A549 cells were exposed to nicotine (1 muM) followed by cisplatin (35 muM) plus etoposide (20 muM) for 24 hours. We found that nicotine prevented chemotherapy-induced apoptosis, improved cell survival, and caused modest increases in DNA synthesis. Inhibition of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and Akt prevented the antiapoptotic effects of nicotine and decreased chemotherapy-induced apoptosis. Small interfering RNA MAPK kinase-1 blocked antiapoptotic effects of nicotine, whereas small interfering RNA MAPK kinase-2 blocked chemotherapy-induced apoptosis. Nicotine prevented chemotherapy-induced reduction in mitochondrial membrane potential and caspase-9 activation. Antiapoptotic effects of nicotine were blocked by mitochondrial anion channel inhibitor, 4,4'diisothiocyanatostilbene-2,2'disulfonic acid. Chemotherapy enhanced translocation of proapoptotic Bax to the mitochondria, whereas nicotine blocked these effects. Nicotine up-regulated Akt-mediated antiapoptotic X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein and phosphorylated proapoptotic Bcl2-antagonist of cell death. The A549-rho0 cells, which lack mitochondrial DNA, demonstrated partial resistance to chemotherapy-induced apoptosis, but blocked the antiapoptotic effects of nicotine. Accordingly, we provide evidence that nicotine modulates mitochondrial signaling and inhibits chemotherapy-induced apoptosis in lung cancer. The mitochondrial regulation of nicotine imposes an important mechanism that can critically impair the treatment of lung cancer, because many cancer-therapeutic agents induce apoptosis via the mitochondrial death pathway. Strategies aimed at understanding nicotine-mediated signaling may facilitate the development of improved therapies in lung cancer.
Poor prognosis in ovarian clear cell carcinoma is associated with the expression of a defined set of proteins including osteopontin (OPN) and integrin. Statins, a family of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl CoA reductase inhibitors, are currently being investigated for the treatment and prevention of cancer. In this study, we investigated the effects of simvastatin on ovarian clear cell carcinoma (OCCC) cells in vitro and in vivo and elucidated the mechanism of drug action. Changes in OPN gene expression were determined by real-time RT-PCR, and an MTT assay was performed to determine effects on cell proliferation. Finally, a xenograft tumor model was constructed to evaluate the effects of simvastatin on cell proliferation and apoptosis in vivo. According to our experimental results, OPN is an important protein in OCCC. Simvastatin inhibited OCCC cell proliferation, and the inhibition rate was approximately 40% to 50% after treatment with 10 µM simvastatin for 48 h. In the xenograft studies, simvastatin treatment resulted in a significant growth inhibition. Furthermore, the mice treated with simvastatin survived significantly longer compared to the control groups. In conclusion, simvastatin has anticancer effects in vitro and in vivo. Further confirmation of the anticancer effects of statins in future studies will increase the scope for OCCC treatment.
Our previous studies indicated that zinc oxide nanoparticles (ZnO NPs) have adjuvant properties to a known allergen ovalbumin (OVA) in Balb/c mice. Therefore, in this study, we focused on the mechanisms involved in adjuvant responses induced by ZnO NPs. The eosinophil counts in the Peyers' patches of intestine and ICAM-1, Cox2 protein expressions were enhanced in the ZnO NPs/OVA group. Following screening of toll-like receptors (TLRs), TLR 2, 4 and 6 were found to be increased. Accordingly, we found that downstream proteins of TLRs such as myeloid differentiation primary response protein-88 (MyD88), IL-1 receptor associated kinase 1 (IRAK 1), and TNFR-associated factor 6 (TRAF 6) were also found to be enhanced in the ZnO NPs/OVA-induced group. These inflammatory responses underlined the critical roles of TLRs in the inflammatory response. ZnO NPs increased the mRNA levels of inflammatory cytokine IL-1β and protein expression of several mediators, including Cox2, PGE2, MMP-9 and finally caspase 1 in macrophages. Another pathway for adjuvant effect is Src which was found to be significantly affected by the activation of p-Lyn, p-Syk, IP3, p-PLC-γ and cAMP. Ca(2+) influx was significantly increased as well in the ZnO NPs/OVA group. These findings demonstrated the differential role of TLRs in regulation of the ZnO NPs-induced adjuvant responses causing the inflammation. We therefore, conclude that ZnO NPs have significant adjuvant effect via following Src kinase and TLRs signaling that ascribed to inflammatory responses due to recruitment and activation of adhesion molecules and inflammatory cells. The adjuvant property of ZnO NPs may help in planning strategies for its therapeutic use.
Structural and functional changes in the surface membranes of hepatocytes play a pivotal role in the induction and reversion of some forms of drug-induced cholestasis. To elucidate the mechanism by which S-adenosyl-L-methionine (SAMe) leads to a partial reversion of bile flow impairment caused by ethinyl estradiol (EE), female Sprague-Dawley rats were given oral doses of EE (5 mg per kg per day, for 3 days) with and without simultaneous administration of SAMe (25 mg per kg, 3 times per day, for 3 days). Na+,K+-ATPase activity and membrane microviscosity as measured by fluorescent polarization were assayed in isolated liver plasma membranes (LPMs). SAMe administration to normal and EE-treated rats resulted in a marked increase in Na+,K+-ATPase activity and LPM fluidity. EE alone did not cause any change in the physicochemical properties of the LPMs. Hepatic Mg2+-ATPase and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase activities were not affected by SAMe alone but increased when SAMe was given together with EE. These data indicate that the interaction of in vivo administered SAMe with hepatocyte plasmalemma and its effect on lipid fluidity and enzymes of the LPMs showed a high specificity and an inverse relationship between Na+,K+-ATPase activity and fluorescence polarization values. Furthermore, modulation of hepatic Na+,K+-ATPase was associated with SAMe-induced protection against bile flow impairment due to EE; however, it was not the causative factor for EE-induced cholestasis under the experimental conditions. These findings suggest that changes in surface membrane structure and function might account in part for the reversal by SAMe of EE-induced impairment of bile secretory function.
It is important that before treatment is initiated, the precise diagnosis of brain tumor has been made and fits with the clinical, radiographic, and histologic findings. With low-grade gliomas, maximal surgical resection should be attempted. We delay radiation therapy unless the patient has significant neurologic symptoms that could be alleviated by treatment. Patients with glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) and anaplastic astrocytoma should undergo maximum surgical resection, postoperative radiation therapy, and adjuvant chemotherapy with bischloroethylnitrosourea (BCNU) or intensive procarbazine, chloroethylcyclohexylnitrosourea (CCNU), and vincristine (PCV) therapy, respectively. Patients with anaplastic oligodendroglioma (AO) and mixed anaplastic oligodendroglioma-astrocytoma (AOA) should undergo maximal surgical resection, postoperative radiation therapy, and intensive adjuvant PCV therapy. Meningiomas are usually managed with surgery alone; radiation therapy is used if the meningioma is malignant or recurs. Tamoxifen or hydroxyurea may be useful for recurrent meningiomas. Patients with primary central nervous system (CNS) lymphoma undergo biopsy; surgical resection of the tumor is not necessary. We treat immunocompetent patients with multimethod therapy. Patients with AIDS and primary CNS lymphoma receive radiation alone. Because the prognosis for primary CNS lymphomas has not changed significantly in the past 20 years, patients with these tumors should be enrolled in clinical trials if possible. Novel approaches, such as targeting angiogenesis, using signal transduction or invasion, or employing genes affecting growth control, are being pursued.
Acetaminophen (APAP) induced a concentration-dependent (0-30 mM) cytotoxic effect in human HepG2 hepatoma cells which was significantly increased when intracellular reduced glutathione (GSH) content was decreased. The cytotoxic effect of APAP (0-30 mM) was significantly lower in a day 3-treated compared to day 1-treated HepG2 cells. A 3-day preincubation of HepG2 cells with 5 microM 3-methylcholanthrene (3MC), 50 microM rifampicin (RFP) or 1 mM isoniazid (INH) significantly increased 15-30 mM APAP cytotoxicity, of about 15-20% for INH and RFP and 35-50% for 3MC. The cytotoxicity of 10 mM APAP was also increased (about 20%) by a 3-day preincubation with INH but was not affected by 3MC and RFP. INH induced a concentration-dependent (0-40 mM) cytotoxic effect in day-1 treated HepG2 cells and not significantly affected by decreases in intracellular GSH concentrations. INH was not cytotoxic in day 3-treated HepG2 cells. A 3-day preincubation of HepG2 cells with 50 mM RFP or 1 mM INH significantly increased 10-40 mM INH cytotoxicity, respectively of about 10% and 10-25%. A 3-day preincubation with 3MC did not modify the cytotoxic effect of INH at these concentrations. This is to our knowledge the first report of increases by INH and RFP of APAP of INH cytotoxicity in vitro in hepatocellular cells of human origin. It is in accordance with clinical observations of severe hepatotoxicity associated with APAP or INH usage in patients receiving multiple drug therapy (INH, RFP) for tuberculosis or in alcoholics.
Quinine-induced acute renal failure attributed to the hemolytic-uremic syndrome has been infrequently reported. A case of acute renal failure due to acute interstitial nephritis associated with ingestion of quinine and the subsequent response to steroid therapy is described.
Following multiple myocardial infarctions, a patient was treated with the calcium channel-blocking agent nifedipine. Within three months he had proteinuria of up to 460 mg/24 hours. Renal biopsy showed an immune complex glomerulonephritis. The presence of microfibrils was associated with the capillary basement membrane and mesangial changes.
Diets enriched in the (n-3) PUFAs, docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), and their precursor alpha-linolenic acid (ALA), were evaluated for efficacy in ameliorating the development of IgA nephropathy (IgAN) induced in mice by the mycotoxin deoxynivalenol (DON). The effects of DON were compared in mice that were fed for 18 wk with AIN-93G diets containing 1) 10 g/kg corn oil plus 60 g/kg oleic acid (control); 2) 10 g/kg corn oil plus 35 g/kg oleic acid and 25 g/kg DHA-enriched fish oil (DHA); 3) 10 g/kg corn oil plus 33 g/kg oleic acid and 27 g/kg EPA-enriched fish oil (EPA); and 4) 10 g/kg corn oil plus 37 g/kg oleic acid and 23 g/kg DHA + EPA (1:1) enriched fish oil (DHA + EPA). The DHA, EPA and DHA + EPA diets attenuated induction by dietary DON (10 mg/kg) of serum IgA and IgA immune complexes, kidney mesangial IgA deposition, and ex vivo IgA secretion by spleen cells. Consumption of the DHA + EPA diet for 8 wk significantly abrogated the DON-induced gene expression of interleukin (IL)-6, a requisite cytokine for DON-induced IgA nephropathy, in spleen and Peyer's patches. Finally, incorporation of ALA-containing flaxseed oil up to 60 g/kg in the AIN-93G diet did not affect DON-induced IgA dysregulation in mice. Taken together, both DHA and EPA, but not ALA, ameliorated the early stages of IgAN, and these effects might be related to a reduced capacity for IL-6 production.
There is little reported of the safety and efficacy of high-dose intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (alteplase) in combination with heparin anticoagulation in patients presenting with acute ischemic stroke.
Thirty-two patients with severe hemispheric stroke syndrome caused by angiographically proven middle cerebral artery and/or intracranial internal carotid artery occlusion were treated with 100 mg alteplase by intravenous infusion over 90 minutes within a mean +/- SD of 226 +/- 68 minutes after symptom onset. Recanalization was assessed by digital subtraction angiography in all patients immediately after treatment and by transcranial Doppler monitoring (n = 30) and/or a third angiogram (n = 5) 12-24 hours later.
Complete or partial reperfusion was observed in 11 patients (34%) 90 minutes after the initiation of alteplase infusion and in 17 patients (53%) within 12-24 hours. Hemorrhagic infarction without clinical deterioration was detected by follow-up computed tomography in nine patients (28%). Fatal parenchymal hemorrhage occurred in three patients (9%) with huge middle cerebral artery infarcts. Serious hemorrhage from the puncture site occurred in two patients (6%). Good clinical outcome correlated with reperfusion (p less than 0.05) and the presence of grade 2 collateral blood flow (p less than 0.01).
When 100 mg of recombinant tissue plasminogen activator was given within the first 6 hours of acute stroke together with heparin the incidence of deleterious hemorrhage was less than 10%. Reperfusion and effective collateral blood flow seem to be two important factors associated with a small infarct volume and good clinical outcome.
Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) in the brain is expressed constitutively and also increased in pathological conditions such as seizure, cerebral ischemia, and inflammation. This study examined the role of COX-2 in kainic acid-induced seizure and in the following neuronal death by using selective inhibitors. Systemic kainate injection (50 mg/kg; i.p.) in mice evoked seizure within 15 min and led to 29% mortality within 2 h. TUNEL-positive neuronal death peaked at 3 days after injection and was prominent in CA(3a) regions of the hippocampus. NS-398 or celecoxib (10 mg/kg, COX-2 selective inhibitor) and indomethacin (5 mg/kg, nonselective inhibitor) exaggerated kainic acid-induced seizure activity and mortality. COX-2 selective inhibitors induced the seizure at earlier onset and more severe mortality within the first hour than indomethacin and aspirin. NS-398 also aggravated kainic acid-induced TUNEL positive neuronal death and decreased Cresyl violet stained viable neurons, and extended lesions to CA(1) and CA(3b). Kainic acid increased the levels of PGD(2), PGF(2a) and PG E(2) in the hippocampus immediately after injection. Indomethacin attenuated the production of basal and kainic acid-induced prostaglandins. In contrast, NS-398 failed to reduce until the first 30 min after kainic acid injection, during which the animals were severely seizured. It has been challenged the endogenous PGs might have anticonvulsant properties. Thus, COX-2 selective inhibitor, including nonselective inhibitor such as indomethacin, aggravated kainic acid-induced seizure activity and the following hippocampal neuronal death even with variable prostaglandin levels.
Alternative developmental toxicity assays are urgently needed to reduce animal use in regulatory developmental toxicology. We previously designed an in vitro murine neural embryonic stem cell test (ESTn) as a model for neurodevelopmental toxicity testing (Theunissen et al., 2010). Toxicogenomic approaches have been suggested for incorporation into the ESTn to further increase predictivity and to provide mechanistic insights. Therefore, in this study, using a transcriptomic approach, we investigated the concentration-dependent effects of three known (neuro) developmental toxicants, two triazoles, cyproconazole (CYP) and hexaconazole (HEX), and the anticonvulsant valproic acid (VPA). Compound effects on gene expression during neural differentiation and corresponding regulated gene ontology (GO) terms were identified after 24 h of exposure in relation to morphological changes on day 11 of culture. Concentration-dependent responses on individual gene expression and on biological processes were determined for each compound, providing information on mechanism and concentration-response characteristics. All compounds caused enrichment of the embryonic development process. CYP and VPA but not HEX significantly enriched the neuron development process. Furthermore, specific responses for triazole compounds and VPA were observed within the GO-term sterol metabolic process. The incorporation of transcriptomics in the ESTn was shown to enable detection of effects, which precede morphological changes and provide a more sensitive measure of concentration-dependent effects as compared with classical morphological assessments. Furthermore, mechanistic insight can be instrumental in the extrapolation of effects in the ESTn to human hazard assessment.
